2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Round 14
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  Arthur Toscanini said of her, "a voice like hers is heard only once in a hundred years."  She began performing in public in 1914, and performed solo in productions of Messiah and Elijah.  She originally was her own accompanist, but she eventually was accompanied by Franz Rupp.  The performance she is most famous for was arranged by then-First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, who had recently left the dAR.  For ten points, the DAR wouldn't let what singer perform at Constitution Hall because she was black?
ANSWER:  Marian Anderson

2. His real name is Caius Martius, but after winning a battle at a Volscian city he receives his titular name.  Despite his being hailed as a hero, he is still submissive to the will of his mother.  Unfortunately, he doesn't have the gift of the tongue his friend Menenius has, and it leads to his downfall at the hands of the commoners he despises.  For ten points, name this titular Roman general.
ANSWER:  Coriolanus

3.  It increases the amount of water in metabolic waste by opening an apical chloride ion channel.  Discovered by Earl Sutherland, this molecule indirectly stimulates gluconeogenesis due to its activating effect on protein kinase A.  Usually resulting from the action of a specific phosphodiesterase, for 10 points, name this important second-messenger protein produced from ATP by the enzyme adenylyl cyclase.
ANSWER: cyclic Adenosine MonoPhosphate [do NOT accept AMP, but do accept cyclic adenylic acid or adenosine 3,5,-cyclic monophosphate or adenosine 3,5,-cyclic phosphate or adenosine 3,5-monophosphate]

4.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  State as ordered pairs the x-intercepts of the equation x?+4x-5=0.
ANSWER:  (-5,0) (1,0) (must have both, do not prompt, can be in either order)

5.  This country secured its independence after the 1819 victory at Boyac‡, and after a constitution was signed in 1858 it was known as Granadina.  Later known as the United States of Granada, it was made a republic with a conservative constitution in 1885, but the country was torn apart in 1899 by civil war.  This helped the US in its efforts against, for ten points, name this country which used to own Panama with its captial at Bogot‡.
ANSWER:  Colombia

6.  Some of the most famous members of this movement include the poet Countie Cullen, author of "Heritage", and the novelist Nella Larsen, author of Quicksand.  Founded by Claude McKay, it began in the early 1900s, and flourished in the 1920s.  For ten points, name the movement most associated with Langston Hughes.
ANSWER:  Harlem Renaissance (also acceptable:  New Negro Movement, New Negro Renaissance, and Negro Renaissance)

7.  In physics, it can mean the place where a second-order phase transition takes place, and in math, it denotes a point where the derivative of a function is infinite or equal to zero.  For 10 points, give the common name describing all of these points, which can also indicate the specific temperature and pressure on a phase diagram where liquid and gaseous phases are indistinguishable.
ANSWER: critical point(s)

8.  It is retrieved in order to keep the Knight's line true, and is later tempered and then upgraded by someone who doesn't quite have the figure of a regular fairy.  When one's character is at full health, it is able to shoot beams from its tip.  For ten points, name this weapon of evil's bane that is found in most versions of the Legend of Zelda.
ANSWER:  The Master Sword (prompt on level 2 sword)

9.  Col. John Fitzgerald wrote about the soldiers fighting in this battle, "It will be a terrible night for those who have no shoes. Some of them have tied only rags about their feet: others are barefoot, but I have not heard a man complain."  Washington had ordered a pre-dawn attack, but due to the weather, this did not happen, but since the Hessians were hung over after much revelry the night before, the Continental Army won anyway.  For ten points, identify this battle fought on Dec. 26, 1776 paired with the Battle of Princeton.
ANSWER:  Battle of Trenton
10.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Write in standard form the complex number Ã8[cos(-¹/3) + i sin (-¹/3)] [radical 8 times the quantity cosine negative pi over 3 plus i sin negative pi over 3].
ANSWER:  Ã2 - Ã6 i [radical 2 minus radical six i, terms must be in this order or it is wrong]

11.  It has been purported that the Freemasons have these on their graves because they worship Osiris.  urrently there are only thirty of them that are over 30 meters tall, and the two most famous examples can be found in New York and Washington D.C.  For ten points give the general term for a tall monolith with a point at the top, such as Cleopatra's needle or the Washington Monument.
ANSWER:  obelisk

12.  This scientist's theory of partons was the beginning of quark theory, and he served as the youngest group head in the Manhattan project. This man's seminal lectures on physics were delivered while he was at Caltech and he derived the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics while at MIT and Princeton. For ten points, identify the American theoretical physicist who shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physics for the theory of quantum electrodynamics and who is known for his namesake diagrams.
ANSWER: Richard Phillips Feynman

13.  His uncle, in order to help him out, introduces him to an Advocate, but he angers his uncle by visiting with the Advocate's nurse, Leni.  He is supposed to show an important client around the Cathedral, but he never shows, and the priest ends up telling him a fable.  He last words, "like a dog", are uttered before two executioners brutally murder him.  For ten points, identify the main character with a one letter last name in The Trial by Franz Kafka.
ANSWER:  Joseph K

14.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Convert the Roman numeral MMMDCLXXXVI to Arabic numbers.
ANSWER:  3686

15.  It has been governed by the CSU since 1957, and on November 1, Edmund Stoiber chose to remain minister-president of it.  The Romans called it Bayuwaren [bigh-you-vair-en], a precursor to its modern name.  In 1815 the Rhenish Palatinate was added to it, and remained independent until 1866.  For ten points, name this region that can claim Pope Benedict XVI as its native son and has its capital at Munich.
ANSWER:  Free State of Bavaria (accept Bayern)

16.  Called a billabong in Australia, one was formed in Tennessee due to the New Madrid Earthquakes of 1811-12.  The largest in North America is Chicot, located in Arkansas, and it is formed when a meander is cut off from the river that forms it.  For ten points, name this horseshoe-shaped lake found in the title of a work by Walter Clark.
ANSWER:  ox-bow lake

17.  She appears in John Gower's Tale of Florent, where she is a feminine version of "The Frog Prince".  Her answer to the question "What do women want" involves being closer to God than men and being dominant over them, which occurred in her tale.  For ten points, identify the woman whose Tale involves a woman who had five different husbands.
ANSWER:  The Wife of Bath

18.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Find all critical points of the equation y=x3-12x.
ANSWER:  (2,-16) (2,-16) (0,0)

19.  The daughter of King Agenor and Telephassa, she was given three gifts by her lover:  Talos, a man made of bronze; Laelaps, a hunting dog, and a javelin that never missed.  She and her husband were the subject of three different paintings with the same title by Veronese, Titian, and Boucher, and she gave birth to three sons: Minos, Rhadamanthys, [rad-uh-MAN-this] and Sarpedon.  For ten points, name this first queen of Crete who was seduced by Zeus in the form of a bull.
ANSWER:  Europa

20.  Article 40 states that "To no one will we sell, to no one will we refuse or delay, right or justice," and the concessions made by the king are outlined in the "Articles of the Barons".  It established the precedent that the powers of the king could be limited by a written grant, and it was followed over 450 years later by the English Bill of Rights.  For ten points, identify this document signed at Runymede in 1215 by King John.
ANSWER:  Magna Carta

