2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Replacement/Tiebreaker
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

Their namesake reduced the number of dependent variables from twenty to six; the use of potential functions can reduce that number to four. They consist of the displacement current-modified Ampere's law, Faraday's law of induction, and Gauss's laws for the electric and magnetic fields. For ten points, identify this set of four fundamental equations from electromagnetism.
ANSWER: Maxwell's equations

He has made cameos on several shows, including a Man in Black on an episode of "X-Files" as well as Arthur Martin in "Vega$" and he supplied the voice to the Agency Tape Recorder in the movie Spy Hard.  He first began a series of hosting gigs on "Music Hop", later hosting such game shows as "The Wizard of Odds" and "The $128,000" question before hosting the show that has made him famous.  For ten points, name the man who hosts the show where your answer is in the form of a question?
ANSWER:  Alex Trebek

According to legend, it, along with its children, was the first to come to the side of Zeus in his fight against the Titans.  Some say that it bubbled with fire, and to drink of it brought instant death.  The only man to cross it without payment was Hercules, and only due to a glance aimed at Charon.  For ten points, name this river that Achilles was mostly dipped in that all the Olympian gods swore their most solemn oaths by.
Answer:  Styx (sticks)

In Germany it is called "Schelmenroman" [shell-men-roman], and in English it is known as a "novel of roguery".  Coming from the Spanish word for "to attack with one's tongue", works such as Amadis de Gaula and History of the Life of Buscon are written in this style.  For ten points, name this type of novel whose most famous examples are Pamela and Moll Flanders.
ANSWER:  picaresque

In the beginning, the two main characters take a trip across Europe, paid for my Mr. Eisman.  The main character learns that diamonds can be imitated, and she uses this to her advantage.  Subtitled The Illuminating Diary of a Professional Lady, at the end, Lorelei ends up marrying Henry Spafford.  For ten points, name this novel by Anita Loos which served as the inspiration for a famous movie starring Marilyn Monroe.
ANSWER:  Gentlemen Prefer Blondes

Born with the name Tafari Makonnen, he was crowned 111th emperor in the succession of King Solomon in 1930.  He took a name meaning "Might of the Trinity", and strove to unite his country through focus power away from the many rases (RAZ-es) and towards a central government.  Appalled at the lack of action by the League of Nations, he was forced into exile in 1936 after his country was invaded.  For ten points, name this Ethiopian emperor.
Answer:  Haile Selassie

Under it, governors and judges appointed by Congress would rule a territory until it contained 5,000 free male inhabitants of voting age.  When the population reached 60,000, a constitution would be submitted to Congress and, upon its approval, the state would enter the Union.  Though now geographically incorrect, for ten points, what legislation established policy for incorporating newly-obtained land?
ANSWER:  Northwest Ordinance of 1787

Calculation:  20 seconds.  Solve for x: 4x(2x-2) = 128. 
Answer:  x = 3

Calculation:  Simplify the following complex equation:  .
ANSWER:  -3/13 + 11i/13 (negative three over thirteen plus eleven i over 13)

Ships lost at this battle include the Akagi, Hiryu, and Soryu.  Admiral Nimitz took a large risk deploying her along with Enterprise and Hornet away from Pearl Harbor. They were joined by the Yorktown, which was present in the battle less than a week after returning to port with heavy damage from the Battle of Coral Sea.  For ten points, identify this June 4 - 6, 1942 Battle in which the American Navy sunk or heavily damaged four Japanese carriers and which shares its name with the second largest airport in Chicago.

Answer:  Battle of Midway

Even before its adoption nationwide, a similar ban was effective in sixty five percent of the country.  One major supporter of it was the Women's Christian Temperance Union.  This became the law of the land on January 29, 1919, but did not stop the forthcoming "Roaring Twenties".  The major components of this amendment were later clarified by the Volstead Act.  For ten points, identify this Amendment to the U.S. Constitution the started the prohibition era.

Answer:  18th Amendment (Accept Volstead Act until "land")

Version 2.03 of these systems took advantage of the protected mode of the Intel 386 processors. Bob, the interface replacement for these was designed with novice computer users in mind and was a major flop. New features of the version currently in development include "Flip", improved protection from viruses, and the ability for UI elements to be transparent. NT was the first 32-bit version of, for 10 points, what series of operating systems that has included 3.11 for workgroups, and most recently XP?
Answer:	Windows

His novel To Have and Have Not features the character Harry Morgan, and he worked as a journalist for the Toronto Star, several years after publishing his novel A Moveable Feast.  His book of short stories called Men Without Women centers on the adventures of his recurring character Nick Adams, but he may be better known for works like Death in the Afternoon, which focuses on bullfighting.  For 10 points, name this American author of For Whom the Bell Tolls and The Sun Also Rises.
Answer:	Ernest Hemingway

This painting was inspired by the artist's view of a cottage he saw in Eldon, Iowa.  Several plants can be seen on a porch in the background, while the foreground features one individual wearing a brooch and staring to the right of the viewer, while the other is a representation of the artist's dentist and holds a pitchfork in his right hand.  With a title inspired by  the upper window designed to resemble a medieval pointed arch, for 10 points, name this masterpiece by Grant Wood.
Answer:	American Gothic

Born in a cave on Mount Cyllene in Arcadia, this deity rescued Io from the giant Argus and kept watch over her at the behest of Hera.  His liaison with Dryope resulted in the god Pan, and he possessed winged sandals and a caduceus to help in his usual endeavor, which was bringing dreams to people and souls of the dead to the underworld.  Born as a result of Zeus' affair with Maia at the dead of night, for 10 points, name this Greek messenger god, whose Roman equivalent was Mercury.
Answer:	Hermes

