2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Round 4
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  He called Eisenhower's presidency "a dime store New Deal", and as a Senator from Arizona voted against the censure of McCarthy as well as Lyndon Johnson's Anti-Poverty Act.  Considered the father of modern-day conservatism, his publication Conscience of a Conservative established his leadership of the right wing.  For ten points, identify the man whose chemical last name is AuH2O, the loser in the 1964 presidential election.
ANSWER:  Barry Goldwater

2.  Based on a poem by Henri Cazalis, the titular action is represented by a solo violin tuned to G-D-A-E flat.  Another motif featured is that of a xylophone representing rattling bones.  Although not popular at first, Franz Liszt and Vladimir Horowitz turned it into piano arrangements.  It also shares its name with a book by Stephen King and an album by Iron Maiden.  For ten points, name this "Dance of Death" composed by Saint-Seans.
ANSWER:  Danse Macabre (prompt on Dance of Death)

3.  At the beginning, two young Englishwomen travel to the titular location and one gets engaged to a British magistrate who is the son of the other.  At the same time, a young Muslim doctor is frustrated at the treatment he receives from his British boss.  The doctor is later accused of rape by Adela Quested, who later recants under oath.  For ten points, Dr. Aziz is found in what novel by E.M. Forster?
ANSWER:  A Passage to India

4.  In the 1950's and 60's, the National Science Foundation wanted to drill to try to find it, but Congress wouldn't supply the funding.  It is actually exposed in Gros Morne National Park in Newfoundland, but it makes its presence known during earthquakes, as it is where seismic waves change velocity.  For ten points, name this layer of the earth named after a Croatian seismologist that is the boundary between the crust and upper mantle.
ANSWER:  Mohorovicic discontinuity (accept mantle until Croatian)

5.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Paul has 1 green shirt, 5 red shirts, and 9 striped shirts. He randomly draws one out of his drawer. What are the odds for the shirt not being striped?
ANSWER:  2:3 (two to three)

6.  He, along with Robert Edmond Jones and Kenneth Macgowan, formed a "Triumvirate" that ran the Experimental Theater.  He adapted an ancient Greek play to 19th century England in Mourning Becomes Electra, but in his most famous work the youngest member of the Tyrone family is sent to a sanitarium while drugs wreck his mother and booze consumes his brother.  For ten points, name the playwright who penned Long Day's Journey into Night, the only man to win four Pulizter Prizes for drama.
ANSWER:  Eugene O'Neill

7.  When her brother, Susanoo, ravaged the earth, she retreated into a cave, and the world was plunged into darkness as her name means "she who shines in heavens".  Born from the left eye of Izanagi and the ruler of the High Celestial Plain, she is considered to be the ancestor of Emperor Jimmu, hence all Japanese emperors are considered to be divine.  For ten points, name this Japanese sun goddess and the central figure in the Shinto pantheon.
ANSWER:  Amaterasu (accept Tensho Daijan)

8.  It utilizes the action of five different kinase enzymes to engage in substrate-level phosphorylation.  Also known as the Embden-Meyerhoff mechanism, it ends with the creation of two molecules of pyruvate and two ATP molecules, and it is reversed in a process known as gluconeogenesis.  For 10 points, name this biochemical pathway that serves to break down glucose.
ANSWER:  glycolysis

9.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  If $2500 were put into a savings account with 4% interest compounded once a year, how much would be in the account after two years?
ANSWER:  $2704

10.  It was the site of the May Fourth Movement of 1919 as well as protests after the death of Zhou Enlai.  Here you can see the Monument to the People's Heroes, Great Hall of the People, Mao Zedong Memorial Hall and the national flag raising ceremony.  It is most famous for an incident which featured a sculpture titled "The Goddess of Democracy" created by students.  For ten points, name the site captured in "The Unarmed Rebel", a photo of a single unarmed man in front of a line of tanks.
ANSWER:  Tiananmen Square

11.  Taking the path integral of this equation yields the mechanical work on a body in terms of its mass and position in an inertial frame. This physical principle was originally stated in terms of the first fluxion of momentum, and its time-integrated version defines the impulse as the time integral of the force on a body. For ten points, identify the law from physics that is conventionally stated as F = ma and that is credited to the British inventor of the calculus.
ANSWER: Newton's second law

12.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  If a polygon has n sides, how many diagonals can be drawn from a given vertex to another vertex of the same polygon?
ANSWER:  n-3

13.  Its outside is pearly pink at dawn and opaque by moonlight.  It has five main elements:  the Darwaza or main gateway, the Bageecha or garden, the Masjid or mosque, the Naqqar Khana or rest house, and the Rauza or mausoleum.  The four towers at the corners are 40-meter minarets and are far enough so that if they collapse, the central mausoleum would not collapse.  For ten points, name the building that houses Mumtaz, the wife of Shah Jahan.
ANSWER:  Taj Mahal

14.  One of the comedic subplots in this play is the conspiracy to make Olivia's head steward think that she wants to marry him.  Their plans lead her to think him mad, and he ends up locked in a dungeon.  Meanwhile, she falls in love with Cesario, who is really Viola.  At the end, the Duke Orsino marries Viola, and Olivia marries Viola's long-lost twin, Sebastian.  For ten points, name this Shakespearean play subtitled What You Will.
ANSWER:  Twelfth Night

15.  This arid region is the transition from the hot Sonoran Desert to the cooler and higher Great Basin.  On the northwestern boundary it extends from the Sierra Nevada range to the Colorado Plateau in the east; it abuts the San Gabriel-San Bernardino mountains in the southwest.  It hosts about 200 endemic plant species, but its most famous is the Joshua tree found at higher elevations.  For ten points, name this desert found in the Southwest United States.
ANSWER:  Mojave Desert

16.  Their biggest hit was the unofficial theme song of the team that won the 1983 America's Cup  Their debut album, Business as Usual, set the record for the most weeks at number one for a debut.  Their second album, Cargo, featured such hits as "Dr. Heckyll and Mr. Jive" and "Overkill", but neither of these touched the success of their two biggest singles. For ten points, what band is most famous for the hits "Who Can it Be Now?" and "Down Under"?
ANSWER:  Men at Work

17.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  In terms of x, find the inverse of the function y=Ã(2x-3) [y equals the square root of the quantity 2 x minus 3].
ANSWER:  y= (x2+3)/2

18.  The main character of this novel is slightly based on Goethe [gr-tuh], who fell in love with a teenager when he was 74 and on vacation.  While in the titular location, the main character falls in love with 14-year-old Tadzio, a Polish boy staying in the same hotel.  Eventually cholera wipes out the entire town, but Tadzio escapes.  For ten points, name this novel, the most famous work by Thomas Mann [mahn].
ANSWER:  Death in Venice

19.  Daniel Bernoulli derived it in his text on hydrodynamics, and this law was also shown by the French physicist Edme Mariotte.  Derived from three years of experimenting with an air pump, it can be used to understand the mechanical functioning of the diaphragm in the human body.  Derivable from the ideal gas equation by holding temperature and moles of gas constant, for 10 points, name this gas law stating that the pressure of a gas is inversely proportional to its volume, named for an English physicist.
ANSWER: Boyle's Law [accept Mariotte's Law before mentioned]

20.  It began at the house of John Wright, and it was the brainchild of Robert Catesby.  A Yorkshire mercenary posed as "John Johnson", a servant, in order to help out in it.  On the evening of October 26, a Lord Monteagle received a letter from his brother-in-law, Francis Tresham, warning him not to go to Parliament on November 5.  This led to the exposure of, for ten points, what plan to kill King James I which made Guy Fawkes infamous?
ANSWER:  Gunpowder Plot
