2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Replacements/Tiebreaks Part Deux
Questions by Sudheer Potru, and Thomas Phillips, and Micah Hodosh

Ships lost at this battle include the Akagi, Hiryu, and Soryu.  Admiral Nimitz took a large risk deploying her along with Enterprise and Hornet away from Pearl Harbor. They were joined by the Yorktown, which was present in the battle less than a week after returning to port with heavy damage from the Battle of Coral Sea.  For ten points, identify this June 4 - 6, 1942 Battle in which the American Navy sunk or heavily damaged four Japanese carriers and which shares its name with the second largest airport in Chicago.

Answer:  Battle of Midway

Even before its adoption nationwide, a similar ban was effective in sixty five percent of the country.  One major supporter of it was the Women's Christian Temperance Union.  This became the law of the land on January 29, 1919, but did not stop the forthcoming "Roaring Twenties".  The major components of this amendment were later clarified by the Volstead Act.  For ten points, identify this Amendment to the U.S. Constitution the started the prohibition era.

Answer:  18th Amendment (Accept Volstead Act until "land")

Version 2.03 of these systems took advantage of the protected mode of the Intel 386 processors. Bob, the interface replacement for these was designed with novice computer users in mind and was a major flop. New features of the version currently in development include "Flip", improved protection from viruses, and the ability for UI elements to be transparent. NT was the first 32-bit version of, for 10 points, what series of operating systems that has included 3.11 for workgroups, and most recently XP?
Answer:	Windows

His novel To Have and Have Not features the character Harry Morgan, and he worked as a journalist for the Toronto Star, several years after publishing his novel A Moveable Feast.  His book of short stories called Men Without Women centers on the adventures of his recurring character Nick Adams, but he may be better known for works like Death in the Afternoon, which focuses on bullfighting.  For 10 points, name this American author of For Whom the Bell Tolls and The Sun Also Rises.
Answer:	Ernest Hemingway

This painting was inspired by the artist's view of a cottage he saw in Eldon, Iowa.  Several plants can be seen on a porch in the background, while the foreground features one individual wearing a brooch and staring to the right of the viewer, while the other is a representation of the artist's dentist and holds a pitchfork in his right hand.  With a title inspired by  the upper window designed to resemble a medieval pointed arch, for 10 points, name this masterpiece by Grant Wood.
Answer:	American Gothic

Born in a cave on Mount Cyllene in Arcadia, this deity rescued Io from the giant Argus and kept watch over her at the behest of Hera.  His liaison with Dryope resulted in the god Pan, and he possessed winged sandals and a caduceus to help in his usual endeavor, which was bringing dreams to people and souls of the dead to the underworld.  Born as a result of Zeus' affair with Maia at the dead of night, for 10 points, name this Greek messenger god, whose Roman equivalent was Mercury.
Answer:	Hermes


