UIUC ABT High School Solo 2006 Round 9
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Calculate 2 to the sixth plus 3 cubed minus 5 to the fourth
ANSWER:  -534

2.  This compound reacts with malonic esters to give barbituric acids, and it was first isolated by Rouelle in 1773.  Resulting indirectly from the transamination of oxaloacetate, intermediates in its formation include citrulline and ornithine.  Also known as carbamide, it finds use as a highly concentrated fertilizer and feed supplement, and is produced from ammonia in the liver.  For 10 points, name this nitrogenous compound first synthesized by Friedrich Wohler, the major component of uric acid.
ANSWER: urea [accept carbamide before mentioned]

3.  In this religion, Faravahar is depicted as the human soul before and after death.  The time-god, Zurvan, is the son of the chief god, Ahura Mazda. Its holy book is the Avesta, and it is believed that it had a large impact on Judaism and Christianity due to Persia's connections to the Roman Empire.  For ten points, name this religion founded by Zarathustra [ZAW-ruh-thoo-struh].
ANSWER:  Zoroastrianism (accept Mazdaism before it is read)

4.  Archibald Prentice wrote in 1851 that manufacturers opposed it because they thought "it would raise the wages of labor, and thus prevent their competition with the manufacturers of other countries."  The first was passed in 1804, and the price of the namesake good dropped from 126 shillings to 65 shillings in three years after the end of the Napoleonic War.  For ten points, name this set of laws that was aimed to protect wheat imports as well as maize.
ANSWER:  Corn Laws

5.  This title has been parodied in works by both Dylan Thomas and Joseph Heller.  An early draft of it was entitled Stephen Hero, but that was abandoned in 1905.  In it, the main character questions and rebels against his Irish Catholic upbringing and ends up moving to Paris.  For ten points, name this James Joyce novel, the other novel besides Ulysses featuring Stephen Daedalus.
ANSWER:  A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man

6.  Its gravitational version is a change in the frequency of a photon to lower energy as it climbs out of a gravitational field. Represented by the letter z, it is calculated in the equation z equals v over c (z=v/c), where v is the velocity and c is the speed of light.  It can be defined as a Doppler shift from any source moving away from the observer.  For ten points, name this phenomenon that is used to explain the Big Bang and expansion of the universe.
ANSWER:  redshift

7.  This artist enjoyed success early on, winning the League's William Merritt Chase still-life prize for her oil painting Dead Rabbit with Copper Pot.  After that she got tired of art, but later began doing a series of charcoal drawings that have been called the most innovative of the time.  She later painted flowers that represented natural forms in abstract terms, and later moved to the southwest with her husband Alfred Stieglitz.  For ten points, name the artist of scenes in the southwest whose most famous work features a cow skull.
ANSWER:  Georgia O'Keeffe

8.  Born in the Ukraine, David Ben-Gurion described this future leader as "the only man in the cabinet".  Upon arriving in the Soviet Union as the Israeli ambassador, this politician was mobbed by the Jewish Russians suffering under Stalin.  This figure had worked as Foreign Minister from 1956 to 1965 before becoming Prime Minister.  For ten points, name this Israeli Socialist female Prime Minister.
ANSWER:  Golda Meir

9.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  To the nearest whole number, find the area of a triangle whose three sides measure 5, 7, and 10.
ANSWER:  16

10.  Taking place in northern Alabama, in the beginning the main character's hands are tied behind his back at the titular location.  The thirty-five year old man on the bridge was the target of a set-up by a Union soldier dressed as a Confederate.  He attempted to halt the Northern advance by burning down a bridge, but was caught.  For ten points, what short story by Ambrose Bierce  revolves around the hanging and imaginary escape of Peyton Farquhar [far-KWAR]?
ANSWER:  An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge

11.  There is much controversy surrounding this song, but it is agreed that the lyrics were written by Banjo Paterson while Christina Macpherson put it to the tune of the Scottish song "Thou Bonnie Wood of Craigielea".  The song features a hobo who snatches a sheep, gets caught by the sheep's owner and a policeman, and instead of doing the titular action with the two, the hobo drowns himself under the coolabah tree.  For ten points, name this song, Australia's unofficial national anthem.
ANSWER:  Waltzing Matilda

12.  Their largest camp was at Anacostia Flats, which housed about 10,000.  On July 28, 1932, after they were told to get off government property, the police ended up firing on them, killing two.  Learning of the shooting, the President brought in General MacArthur, who chased them back to their camp and burned it to the ground.  For ten points, name this veterans' group who just wanted their due pay 13 years early.
ANSWER:  Bonus Army (accept Bonus Expeditionary Force/BEF)

13.  This scientist related his own work to that of Gibbs' efforts in thermodynamics, and thus created his theory of binary states.  The work of Kamerlingh-Onnes and Dewar is built largely on his law of corresponding states, but he may be better known for introducing an equation involving factors a and b that attempted to correct the ideal gas law, and for the categorization of London, dipole-dipole, and hydrogen bonding interactions.  For 10 points, name this Dutch chemist, famous for an equation of state and his namesake intermolecular forces.
ANSWER:	Johannes Diderik van der Waals

14. Lord Angelo  wants to rid the city of unlawful sexual activity, but when Isabella begs of him to let Claudio go, he agrees to only if she will sleep with him.  She hatches a plan with Angelo's former lover, Mariana, and all goes well, except for the pardon.  The Duke, who has been impersonating a friar, returns and proposes to Isabella after Angelo is exposed.  For ten points, this is the plot of what Shakespearean play?
ANSWER:  Measure for Measure

15.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Besides the origin, give the ordered pair of a relative minimum of the function y=x3/3 + x2 [one-third x cubed plus x squared].
ANSWER:  (-2, 4/3)

16.  First detected by Reines and Cowan in 1956, these were initially postulated to explain beta decay, since a general two-body reaction cannot conserve both momentum and energy. The oscillations of these leptons cannot be explained by the standard model, but were detected by the Super Kamiokande detector; this indicates that they are massive. For ten points, name these subatomic particles which Fermi called the "little neutrals."
ANSWER: neutrinos (or ?'s)

17.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  If f of x is (x-5)? [x minus five quantity cubed] and g of x is x?-7x+1[x squared minus seven x plus one], find g of f of 7.
ANSWER:  9

18.  In his one season as an assistant at Western Kentucky, the Hilltoppers won the Ohio Valley Conference and advanced to the NCAA Tournament.  He was an assistant coach for the USA Team at the World University Games in 1989 and head court coach for the Pan American team trials in 1991.  In his 18 years at Purdue, the Boilermakers won six Big Ten titles and played in 14 NCAA tournaments before he became the head coach of Southern Illinois.  For ten points, name this man who often dons an orange blazer during games.
ANSWER:  Bruce Weber

19.  This sovereign parliamentary democracy declared peace with Germany in 1958, since it was left out of the Treaty of Versailles.  It should come as no surprise since it isn't important enough to have had its own currency before adopting the euro and for some reason every French President has been an official co-prince of it.  For ten points, name this small principality sandwiched by Spain and France.
ANSWER:  Andorra

20.  Her husband, Ernest, owns a wine shop in Saint Antoine, and her brother and brother-in-law were killed by Marquis St. Evremonde.  Symbolizing how the oppressed have become the oppressor, she wants to see the Darnay and Manette families wiped out.  For ten points, name this character in A Tale of Two Cities who knits a "register" of names of people she has condemned to die.
ANSWER:  Madame Defarge (prompt on Defarge)
