2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Championship Round 1
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  The eldest of the children of Angrboda and Loki, the gods feared him so much that Tyr was the only god who would willingly take care of it.  After he had grown, the gods attempted to render him harmless, but he broke the strongest chains as if they were cobwebs.  Eventually, Gleipnir was used to bind him, and at Ragnarok, he will devour Odin, and Vidar will kill him in response.  For ten points, name this Norse wolf.
ANSWER:  Fenris (accept Fenrir or Fenriswolf)

2.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  X varies directly with y and inversely with z.  When x=12, y=16 and z=72.  What is x when y=36 and z=45?
Answer:  10/3 (accept 3 1/3)

3.  He was the hero at ‚anakkale, forcing the Allied Powers to admit that it was impassable, and then he defeated them again at Anafartalar.  After the end of WWI and the War of Independence, he headed the Grand National Assembly as well as the Kuva-yi Milliye, a military force which fought against the forces that divided up the Ottoman Empire.  For ten points, name the "father of the Turks" and first President of Turkey.
Answer:  Kemal Ataturk (accept Mustafa Kemal)

4.  The marriage of his friend Maud Gonne led him to write the poem "No Second Troy".  Besides poetry, he penned two plays, Cathleen Ni Houlihan and The Land of Heart's Desire, but he is more famous for poetry, including the line "Things fall apart, the center cannot hold".  For ten points, name the Irish poet of "The Second Coming" and "Easter, 1916".
Answer:  William Butler Yeats

5.  His namesake isochore relates the equilibrium constant to temperature, while his magnum opus Studies in Chemical Dynamics described new methods for finding orders of reactions and introduced the concept of chemical affinity.  Also the formulator of an equation relating osmotic pressure to membrane potential and temperature, for 10 points, name this Dutch winner of the first Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
ANSWER: Jacobus Henricus van't Hoff

6.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  A circle with diameter 6 forms the base of a cone. In terms of altitude, what is the volume of this cone?
Answer:  3¹ times the altitude (accept similar)

7.  Occurring in 1832, it was the result of disputes over treaties going back to 1804.  The return of Sac and Fox Indians sparked panic, and Governor Reynolds called up the militia.  The namesake figure escaped to the Winnebagos after losing, but ended up spending a year in prison.  For ten points, identify this war, the last resistance in the Old Northwest, which shares its name with a professional hockey team.
Answer:  Black Hawk War

8.  There are over 20 of them, but they are usually narrowed down to 8.  They include altruism, undoing, idealization, and compensation.  First developed by Freud, they are an integral part of psychoanalytic theory.   For ten points, name these unconscious reactions to stressors, of which the most well-known are regression, projection, and reaction formation.
Answer:  defense mechanisms

9.  The central figure is wearing all black while the man on his right is dressed in all white.  On the left is a man in all red, and in the lower right hand corner, a partial of a drum is pictured.  The general theme of it is of a group of men awaiting the command to fall in line, and their disorder can be seen with the large amount of pikes in the air at various angles.  For ten points, name this painting by Rembrandt.
Answer: The Night Watch (accept Sketch of the painting from the Great Hall of Cleveniers Doelen, in which the young Heer van Purmerlandt, as captain, orders his lieutenant, the Heer van Vlaerderdingen, to march the company out)

10.  Colonel Curtiss, a scar-faced murder suspect, makes an enormous error in personal diplomacy when he refers to him as simply "a detective."  This man replies, "I am THE detective, Mr. Curtiss."  He finds that Curtiss plunged a blade through a peephole in a trunk, killing the man inside in The Mystery of the Spanish Chest.  As Curtiss is hauled away, he curses the detective, "that bloody little Belgian!"  For ten points, name the fictional detective created by Agatha Christie.
Answer:  Hercule Poirot

11.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  To the nearest tenth, find the square root of 7.31.
Answer:  2.7

12.  Newton considered this four-word concept to be the manifestation of the divine in physics, though current theories understand it as the exchange of force-mediating bosons. For ten points, identify this four word phrase; an ad hoc explanation for the fact that the Sun can influence the motion of bodies with which it is in no apparent contact.
Answer: action at a distance

13.  The plan for this city is known as "Light's Vision", and it was largely puritan until Don Dunstan introduced cultural reforms, even though it is still known as the "city of churches".  Located between Mt. Lofty and Gulf St. Vincent, it lies on the Torrens River and was named for a consort of King William IV.  For ten points, name this capital of South Australia.
Answer:  Adelaide

14.  The lyrics for their songs were written by two French musicians, Jacques Morali and Henry Bolobo.  They first achieved notoriety when people protested using taxpayer money for music videos, since the US Navy was going to shoot the video for "In the Navy" and use it as part of a promotional campaign.  Their most famous song became a worldwide smash hit and was remade in Japan as "Young Man".  For ten points, name the group made up of a cowboy, biker, soldier, Indian, policeman, and construction worker.
Answer:  The Village People

15.  She starts out high-spirited and saucy, but the death of her child and being abandoned by her husband Connie helps her mature into a mysterious woman.  She gives birth to a stillborn child, and at the end suckles a hungry grown man.  For ten points, name this oldest daughter of Ma and Pa Joad in The Grapes of Wrath.
Answer:  Rose of Sharon (prompt on Rose)

16.  A branched result of this test is characteristic of Nocardia, and iodine is generally used as a mordant in it.  A 0.1% basic fuchsin solution or a small amount of safranin can be used to confirm the result, while decolorizers such as ethanol and acetone are used to dissolve the lipid layer of the wall and enhance results.  Ultimately, however, its confirmation is whether or not the sample maintains the crystal violet complex or not.  For 10 points, name this test for peptidoglycan in bacterial cell walls, named for its Danish creator.
ANSWER: Gram stain

17.  His gift for oration is seen in three different lights:  he is cold and menacing to the dauphin's messenger; uplifting in his St. Crispin's Day speech; terrifying in his speech to the Governor of Harfleur.  He is sad that he cannot "sleep the untroubled sleep of the common man"; this is because he is no common man.  For ten points, name this Shakespearean titular monarch.
Answer:  Henry V

18.     The losing side at this battle was led by Abd-er Rahman, who died along with a vast majority of his troops.  After Rahman was killed, the Moors retreated back across the Pyrenees, never to invade France again, even though they occupied Spain for a long time.  For ten points, name this October 10, 732 battle won by Charles Martel.
Answer:  Battle of Tours

19.  It was part of the ballet "Gayane", and invokes a whirling war dance.  It was played while plate spinners were performing on The Ed Sullivan Show, leading to its popularization and adaptations by Woody Herman and Dave Edmunds.  Also a favorite piece of Liberace, it shares its name with a malfunction of an F-86 and a performance involving a certain type of sword.  For ten points, name the quick-paced Khachaturian work.
Answer:  Sabre Dance

20.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Evaluate the indefinite integral of the equation y=tan2x sec2x.
Answer:  (tan3x)/3 + a constant [accept C for a constant, without the constant it is wrong]


