2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Round 11
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  This play opens with Dionysus carrying the lion skin and club of Hercules.  As he rows over the Acherusian Lake, he hears the title characters greeting him.  He attempts to bring back Euripides in the manner of Hercules, but fails miserably.  While he is down there, he judges a contest between Aeschylus and Euripides, and he awards the contest to Aeschylus.  For ten points, identify this Aristophanes play in which the titular animals go "Brekekekex, ko-ax, ko-ax".
ANSWER:  The Frogs

2.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Find the solutions for the following equation:  108y? - 75y=0 [108 y cubed minus 75 y equals 0].
ANSWER:  0, 5/6, -5/6 (must have all three, do not prompt)

3.  It is typically pitched in B flat, but larger bands include an E flat soprano version.  Its role in a brass band is comparable to that of a violin in an orchestra, and it can "cut through" other instruments since it is the highest-pitched of the brass instruments.  James Shepherd and Herbert Clarke are considered to be the two best players of this instrument, but some include the famous trumpeter Wynton Marsalis.  For ten points name this smaller version of the trumpet.
ANSWER:  cornet

4.  At this battle, the only American company to wear uniforms was Captain William Wood's "Kentucky Rifles".  After General Castrillon [CAS-tree-yon] was killed, his troops retreated, screaming "Me no Alamo!" and  "Me no Goliad!".  For ten points, identify this battle of the Texan War for Indpendence which led to the capture of Santa Anna.
ANSWER:  Battle of San Jacinto

5.  It assumes that the orientation of reactants must allow formation of the products, and that the collision must involve enough energy to produce the reaction.  Including z, the collision frequency, and p, the steric factor, it also involves temperature and the rate constant, whose natural logarithm is proportional to the activation energy.  For 10 points, name this equation of chemical kinetics, named for its Swedish formulator.
ANSWER: Arrhenius equation

6.  It begins with a man in a nursing home, reading a story to a woman. The story is about two young lovers, who meet one day at a carnival. Although the two are falling in love, her parents forbid the relationship and move her away.  After waiting for any sign from him from years, she moves on and meets Lon and becomes engaged.  Based on a novel by Nicholas Sparks, for ten points, identify the 2004 movie starring Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams.
ANSWER:  The Notebook

7.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Use the mean value theorem to find c for the equation y=Ã(x-2) [y equals the square root of quantity x minus 2] where a=2 and b=6.
ANSWER:  3

8.  Regulated by a specific acetyltransferase, its second step is catalyzed by a simple aconitase, while its first step is performed by a synthase.  Producing two carbon dioxide molecules, its third product can produce glutamate, and formation of intermediates such as succinate and malate requires formation of NADH molecules.  Often preceded by the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, for 10 points, name this pathway which produces 2 ATP molecules and begins with the reaction of oxaloacetate and acetyl-CoA, named for a German biochemist.
ANSWER: Krebs cycle or citric acid cycle or TriCarboxylic Acid cycle

9.  This work, which features three chapters entitled "The Book of Machines", discusses the possibility of machines being conscious, and this led to the application of the author's name to a Jihad in Dune.  Its "Musical Banks" chapter is an attack on religious hypocrisy, and the book itself is an attack on Victorian society, which is why the author created the titular fictional place.  For ten points, name this work by Samuel Butler whose title is an anagram of "nowhere".
ANSWER:  Erewhon

10.  This finance minister under the dictator General Antonio Carmona succeeded him in 1932.  In 1933, he drew up a constitution similar to those of Germany and Italy, and he ruled under it for 35 years.  During his reign, he stressed the 3 F's-Fado for nostalgia, Football for glory and Fatima for religion.  For ten points, identify this former Portuguese dictator.
ANSWER:  Antonio Salazar

11.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Assuming all angles are in degrees, find the exact solution to the following equation:  sin42cos12-cos42sin12 [sine 42 cosine 12 minus cosine 42 sin 12].
ANSWER: 1/2

12.  The regulations of it can be divided into two groups: regulations on worship and ritual duties; and regulations of juridical and political nature.  The science of it is called "fiqh" [feek], which is studied by students as well as the ulama.  Most commonly seen in Sudan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Libya, for ten points, name the law system also called Islamic law.
ANSWER:  Sharia (accept Islamic law, prompt after Islamic)

13.  This equation may be stated in a very abbreviated way by equating the Hamiltonian operator operating on an unknown function to a constant times that function. First published in 1926, this equation won its formulator and namesake the 1933 Nobel Prize in Physics. For ten points, identify the equation whose unknown is the wave function; the fundamental equation of quantum mechanics.
ANSWER: non-relativistic Schršdinger wave equation

14.  Currently led by President Bingu wa Mutharika, the Great Rift Valley traverses this country from north to south.  It is bordered by Tanzania to the north and Zambia on the north-west and its namesake lake is also known as Lake Nyasa [ni-ASS-a], which contains over 400 species of cichlid fish.  For ten points, name this nation with capital at Lilongwe.
ANSWER:  Malawi

15.  He has several people murdered, including his older brother Clarence, and after King Edward IV dies, he becomes Lord Protector.  In his attempt to become king, he has Edward's sons killed, and the Earl of Richmond emerges as a challenger.  The night before he is killed in battle, he sees the ghosts of those who kill him, and they tell him that he will die the next day, which he does.  For ten points, name this titular king who cries, "A horse, A horse, my kingdom for a horse".
ANSWER:  Richard III

16.  Louis J. Calder bought her first paintings, and shortly after that her works were on display  at the Gallerie Saint-Etienne in New York City.  In 1941 she received the New York state prize for The Old Oaken Bucket, and late in life did an illustration of Twas the Night Before Christmas.  For ten points, name this folk artist whose real name is Anna Mary Robertson.
ANSWER:  Grandma Moses (accept Anna Mary Robertson on early buzz)

17. Calculation:  20 seconds.  Convert the base 10 number 194 to hexadecimal.
ANSWER:  C2

18.  George Sorensen in Ken Kesey's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest suffers from this disorder.  Its most common version is called "pure-o", and is commonly treated with behavioral or cognitive therapy, specifically "Exposure and Ritual Prevention", along with drugs such as Paxil, Zoloft and Zyprexa.  For ten points, name this disorder that is both beneficial and detrimental to Adrian Monk, abbreviated OCD.
ANSWER: Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (prompt on OCD)

19.  An American writer living in Paris, he is antagonized by the main characters since he still holds on to the ideals of love and fair play.  Because he didn't fight in World War I, he is often the victim of Jake Barnes' jokes.  For ten points, name this Jewish former boxing champ from Princeton mentioned in the first line of The Sun Also Rises.
ANSWER:  Robert Cohn

20.  His father, King Fouad, died when he was underage, so a regency council was formed until his powers were transferred to him on July 29, 1937.  He earned the nickname "The Thief of Cairo" for pilfering objects such as a ceremonial sword from the Shah of Iran and a priceless pocketwatch from Churchill.  Losing what popularity he had through widespread corruption and for not doing a good job during the Arab-Israeli War in 1948, for ten points, name this Egyptian king deposed by Meguib and Nasser in 1953.
ANSWER:  King Farouk I
