2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Round 12
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  The French one began when Louis Blanc called for universal suffrage.  This inspired those in the German states to propose a unified Germany and in Italy Pope Pius IX ended up fleeing, and Mazzini's subsequent attempt to unify Italy failed.  In March, there were riots in Austria that led to the ousting of Metternich.  For ten points, give the general name for these events which occurred in the year Zachary Taylor was elected President.
ANSWER:  Revolution(s) of 1848 (prompt on 1848)

2.  A gravimetric analysis can take advantage of this phenomenon, whose extent is generally calculated by using the molar solubility product.  Arising from Le Chatelier's principle, a well-known example of it is the repression of ionization that occurs upon the addition of table salt to silver chloride, which will result in precipitation.  For 10 points, name this chemical effect in which the reaction of two compounds with a namesake similar species results in a reduced solubility of one or both of them.
ANSWER:	common ion effect

3.  If for some reason you are in the Lightning Ball Room, the Cave of Size, or the Shrine of the Silver Monkey, you must be a contestant on this show.  Hosted by Kirk Fogg, the other main character was voiced by Dee Baker and was an omnipotent talking stone head.  In the endgame, contestants had three minutes to retrieve the artifact and exit the titular location while trying to avoid those dreaded guards.  For ten points, name the Nickelodeon game show in which you will find Olmec and a Mayan ruin.
ANSWER:  (Legends of) The Hidden Temple

4.  He wrote a series of poems under the pseudonym Webster Ford for Reedy's Mirror which would become part of his most famous work.  He also wrote several poems set on the Illinois prairies, such as Starved Rock and Toward the Gulf, but he is best known for a work containing 244 epitaphs.  For ten points, identify the author of Spoon River Anthology.
ANSWER:  Edgar Lee Masters

5.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Giving your answer in scientific notation, compute (1.00?10-3)Ö(2.50?10-3).
ANSWER:  4 x 10-1 [4 times 10 to the negative one]

6.  Established in 1587 and later abolished by Pope John Paul II in 1983, the person in this post was to hold a skeptical view of actions and miracles performed by people who are up for canonization or beatification.  Nowadays this namesake technique is used by debaters to find holes in arguments by taking the opposing side.  For ten points, name this position which is the same name as a 1997 movie starring Keanu Reeves and Al Pacino.
ANSWER:  Devil's Advocate (accept Promoter of the Faith, Promoter Fidei, or Advocatus Diaboli on an early buzz)

7.  The Eiderkanal was built across it, as it divides the North and Baltic Sea.  Consisting of flat areas and peat bogs, control of it has been fought over for hundreds of years, especially the southern area known as Schleswig-Holstein.  For ten points, name this peninsula, the site of the largest WWI naval battle and home of Denmark.
ANSWER:  Jutland

8.  This quantity can sometimes be determined by Steiner's theorem, which is also known as the parallel axis theorem. The constant of proportionality in the rotational analogue of Newton's second law, this physical quantity has dimensions of mass area per unit time. For ten points, identify the property of an extended, massive body generally symbolized I ["capital I"]; the rotational analog of mass.
ANSWER: moment of inertia (prompt on "I")

9.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Differentiate the equation y=ln (x+1)1/2 [the natural log of the quantity x plus 1 raised to the one-half power]
ANSWER:  1/(2x+2) (accept 1/2(1/(x+1)))

10.  The most horrific crime in this play is the rape and disfigurement of the titular character's daughter during the hunt, leaving her mute.  The titular character banishes his only surviving son for trying to free his captive brothers.  He successfully advocates for Saturnius to be the new emperor, which leads to the destruction of his family.  For ten points, name this Senecan hero.
ANSWER:  Titus Andronicus

11.    Hoping to die in battle, his death was brought on by a car accident on the outskirts of Manheim which paralyzed him.  He fought against the Bonus Army, which included the man who saved his life at Meuse Argonne.  One of the most famous generals of WWII, on December 8, 1944, he commanded the group that would liberate the Buchenwald concentration camp.  For ten points, name this American general, the subject of a 1970 movie starring George C. Scott.
ANSWER:  George S. Patton, Jr.

12.  Differentiable from amylose due to the orientation of its connections, this compound is highly soluble in such solvents as NMNO and cadoxen, and it has been theorized that water molecules align its chains through hydrogen-bond bridging.  Each of its residues is oriented 180 degrees relative to the next, and its beta-1-4-glycosidic linkages can only be broken by a select few microorganisms.  The most abundant organic compound on Earth, for 10 points, name this strong structural polymer that comprises the majority of the plant cell walls.
ANSWER: cellulose [accept "cellobiose" before cadoxen]

13.  He was one of the original members of the Society of Experimental Philosophy, but nepotism changed his career.  His uncle got him the job of designing the Pembroke College Chapel at Cambridge, and from there he got the job designing the Sheldonian Theatre.  After making a reputation, he ended up being responsible for Tom Tower at Christ's Church, Oxford, the library at Trinity College, and the Royal Hospital at Chelsea along with his most famous work.  For ten points, who drew the plans for rebuilding St. Paul's Cathedral after the Great Fire of 1666?
ANSWER:  Sir Christopher Wren

14.  He published the poem "Pauline:  A Fragment of a Confession" anonymously, but its sales tanked.  After marrying another famous poet, he wrote some of his more famous poems such as "Dramatis Personae" and "Men and Women".  For ten points, name this poet, author of the quote "God's in his heaven, all's right with the world" in "Pippa Passes" and husband of Elizabeth Barrett.
ANSWER:  Robert Browning (prompt on Browning)

15.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Find the solution to the following equation:  (5-2)?-2*6+9 (read as:  five minus two quantity cubed minus two times six plus nine).
ANSWER:  24

16.  He pioneered the use of weather balloons to track air masses, and his lectures were printed in the textbook The Thermodynamics of the Atmosphere.  He publicly advocated his most famous theory in 1912, and he published it in The Origins of Continents and Oceans.  For ten points, name the German scientist who first proposed the theory of continental drift.
ANSWER:  Alfred Wegener [VA-gunner]

17.  This character appears in a symphony by Liszt and Berlioz composed a "Damnation of" him.  Born in the province of Weimar (vigh-mar), he became the most famous astronomer in the land, and bequeathed his possessions to Christoph Wagner (vag-ner).  Shortly after midnight on the last day of the 24th year of his contract, his students saw his corpse on a pile of manure.  For ten points, name the man who sold his soul to Mephistopheles, the subject of a work by Goethe (Gur-tuh).
ANSWER:  Faust

18.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  An arc along the unit circle begins at (1,0) and is 4¹/3 units long.  If the end of the arc is in Quadrant III, what are the coordinates of the endpoint?
ANSWER:  (-1/2, -Ã3/2) [negative one-half, negative root three over two]

19.  As Minister of National Education, he supported segregated universities, but after being elected President, he lifted the ban on the African National Congress.  As President, he opened the way for the drafting of a new constitution based on the idea of one person, one vote.  After stepping down as President, he became vice president under Nelson Mandela.  For ten points, name this South African president who ended apartheid.
ANSWER:  Frederik Willem (F.W) de Klerk

20.  The incompleteness of Contrapunctus 14, the quadruple at the end, in this work is not due to the death of the composer, but rather due to the lack of effort in publishing after the composer's death.  The canons in this work are featured at the end, and each movement employs the same d-minor subject.  It is often rated above the Goldberg Variations as its composer's greatest monothematic cycle as it is manifested in thematic transformations.  For ten points, name this work by J.S. Bach that is not a painting or sculpture.
ANSWER:  The Art of Fugue
