2006 UIUC ABT High School Solo Round 6
Questions by Donald Taylor, Sudheer Potru, Mike Sorice

1.  The son of Farbauti and Laufey, he can assume many different shapes.  Even though he is married to Sigyn, he has a mistress, Angrboda.  He was later chained up to three large boulders, and a venomous snake was placed above his head.  Whenever the venom touched his skin, his twists in pain cause earthquakes.  For ten points, name this Norse god who tricked Hodur into killing Balder.
ANSWER:  Loki

2.  It is a muddy estuary of the second longest river in South America, and is the widest in the world.  Juan Diaz de Solis was the first European to sight it, and during World War II the German heavy cruiser Admiral Graf Spee was scuttled here.  Serving as an estuary for the Paran‡ [par-uh-NAH] and Uruguay Rivers, for ten points, name this "silver river".
ANSWER:  Rio de la Plata (accept River Plate until Silver)

3.  Comprised of a group of large cells within a firm connective tissue sheath, the length of its presence can vary in some organisms.  Embryonically, it forms during gastrulation between the hypoblast and the epiblast from mesodermal cells, and it is later incorporated as the centers of the nuclei pulposi, or the intervertebral discs.  Incompressible and crucial to nervous system development, for 10 points, name this longitudinal rod-like structural element present in all members of the phylum Chordata.
ANSWER: notochord (prompt on spinal cord)

4.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Convert the following binary number to base 10:  10111010 [read each 1 and 0 individually].
ANSWER:  186

5.  He is the son of a lower-ranking woman, but he was accepted into the court, where he became a master of speech, manners, poetry, and music.  While writing poetry to women who weren't interested in him, he had three affairs with women outside of the court, but at the end an older woman ends up fawning over him.  For ten points, identify the title character of an 11th century novel by Lady Murasaki.
ANSWER:  (The Tale of) Genji

6.  It began on March 9 when a bill was passed that declared a four-day bank holiday.  Exactly one week later, a farm relief bill was passed.  Several federal agencies were later created, some of which still can be seen today.  In all, 15 major laws were passed, 15 messages to Congress were given, and 10 speeches were given in, for ten points, what period marking the beginning of FDR's presidency?
ANSWER:  Hundred Days (accept knowledgeable similar)

7.  On August 23, 2004, it, along with "Madonna", was stolen, and on February 13, 2006 the robbers were brought to trial.  A part of The Frieze of Life , the three figures in it are on a bridge, and the central figure is performing the titular action with his hands over his ears.  For ten points, name this most famous painting of Edvard Munch [moonk].
ANSWER:  The Scream

8.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Find the slope of the line perpendicular to the line that travels through (2,3) and (0,6).
ANSWER:  2/3

9.  Over the years, this hobgoblin has taken the form of animals, including an eagle, horse and donkey.  In a 1785 painting by William Blake, he looks like Pan from Greek mythology, and in a 1841 painting by Richard Dadd, he looks like an innocent child.  His most famous appearance, however, is in a play in which he "frights the maidens of the villagery, skims milk, and sometimes labors in the quern."  For ten points, name this fairy in A Midsummer Night's Dream who also goes by the name Robin Goodfellow.
ANSWER:  Puck (accept Robin Goodfellow on early buzz)

10.  The kinetic temperature is the product of the absolute temperature with this, while the average energy of an atom in a monatomic perfect gas is three halves the temperature of the gas times this constant. It is equal to the ideal gas constant divided by Avogadro's number, and is symbolized k. For ten points, identify this physical constant numerically equal in SI units to about 1.38*10-23 J/K ["one point three eight times ten to the minus twenty-three Joules per Kelvin"].
ANSWER: Boltzmann's constant (prompt on "k" or "kB")


11. The second movement, Funeral March,is based on the somber dirges played after grand funerals for revolutionary heroes.  The third movement is a light Scherzo and Trio.  It was allegedly dedicated to Napoleon, but the composer was angered by Napoleon crowning himself emperor.  For ten points, give the name for Beethoven's 3rd symphony.
ANSWER:  Eroica Symphony (accept Beethoven's 3rd on early buzz)

12.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  The three sides of a triangle have lengths 13, 25, and x.  Give the possible values for x.
ANSWER:  12 < x < 38 (accept "x is between 12 and 38" or similar, do not accept "less than or equal to")

13.  This literary technique was first used by Edouard Dujardin in Les Laurier's sont coupes and the term itself was coined by William James in Principles of Psychology.  It is a technique that records the multifarious thoughts and feelings of a character without regard to logical argument or narrative sequence.  For ten points, identify this literary technique used by writers such as Virginia Woolf, James Joyce, and William Faulkner.
ANSWER:  stream of consciousness

14.  Article II states that the contracting parties will refrain from any agitation or propaganda against the Government or the public and military institutions of the other party.  Representatives at the negotiations for this included Count Ottokar Czernin for Austria-Hungary as well as others from Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire.  For ten points, name this treaty that signaled Russia's pullout of WWI.
ANSWER:  Peace Treaty of Brest-Litovsk

15.  Within a span of three months, four earthquakes with a magnitude of 7.0 or higher occurred here, with aftershocks going on for years.  Some were felt as far away as Quebec, and damage was reported as far away as Washington, D.C., not to mention that they rang church bells in Boston.  For ten points, give the collective name for these earthquakes of 1811-1812 named for the fault in the Mississippi River Valley.
ANSWER:  New Madrid earthquakes

16.  Calculation:  20 seconds.  Find the average value of the function y=3x2-2x over the interval [1,4].
ANSWER:  16

17.  People mentioned that are passed over include Oprah Winfrey, Madonna and Mariah Carey.  The blacks win the lottery, and according to one commentator, they'll probably still complain.  The Jews pick Lenny Kravitz,but he couldn't make it.  There is a controversy when the whites pick Colin Powell, but it is resolved when the whites also get Condi Rice.  The biggest surprise is when the last pick, made by the Asians, is the entire Wu-Tang Clan.  For ten points, name this Dave Chappelle [shu-PELL] in which various ethnic groups get together to decide what groups get different celebrities.
Answer:  Racial Draft

18.  In one of his early works, he teamed up with his sister Trix for a parody entitled Echoes by Two Writers.  He is better known for his poetry, such as a poem in which the one-word title is the first word in every line.  For ten points, name the author of the poems "If" and "Gunga Din", as well the stories "Rikki-tikki-tavi" and the two Jungle Books.
ANSWER:  Rudyard Kipling

19.  After joining the Indian National Congress, he served as general secretary of the All India Congress Committee and was elected Congressional President three times.  He was arrested on many occasions, and while in prison he wrote letters published as "Letters from a Father to his Daughter", the titular daughter being Indira Gandhi.  For ten points, name this first President of India.
ANSWER: Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru

20.  This compound's presence results in a proton-NMR shift of approximately 6.5 to 7.5 parts per million, and all of its pi electrons are delocalized.  Originally discovered by Michael Faraday in whale oil, it can undergo nitration or sulfonation in an electrophilic substitution, and hydrogenation of it with nickel can reduce it to cyclohexane.  With a structure famously deduced in a dream by Friedrich Kekule [KAY-koo-lay], for 10 points, name this simplest aromatic compound with chemical formula C-6-H-6.
ANSWER: benzene

