ACF Fall 2005Packet by UCLA1. During this period, a councilor named Wang An-shih promulgated fiscal reforms that benefitted the poor. It was constantly beset by the Jurchen, and was forced to re-establish itself in the south at Hangchow after the Jurchen took their capital of Kaifeng. This period saw a literary resurgence, as such novels as All Men Are Brothers were written, as well as a revival of Confucian philosophy through thinkers such as Chu Hsi. Its first ruler, Chao K'uang-yin, established it in the 960s. FTP, name this Chinese dynasty which succeeded the Tang and which was finally ended in 1279 when the Mongols conquered China and set up the Yuan dynasty.ANSWER: the Sung dynasty2. The Beckmann differential thermometer is based on this principle, whose namesake was memorialized in a speech by van't Hoff in 1902. A mixture of ethanol and water will positively deviate from it, while a mixture of trichloromethane and ethoxyethane will result in a negative deviation. It serves as one of the theoretical bases for fractional distillation, and solutions that obey it are said to be ideal. FTP, name this law which can be stated as P equals X times P-sub-zero, indicating that the vapor pressure of a solution is lowered by the addition of solutes to a solvent.ANSWER: Raoult's Law3. A 1947 study by George Stigler analyzed this type of situation and called into question the curve primarily associated with this entity. That hypothesis was introduced in 1939 by Paul Sweezy in a paper about demand under this condition, which suggests that any participant in one of these envisions two different demand schedules for its output. Edward Chamberlin proposed a model to understand these situations, which was a revision of the solution outlined by the French economost Antoine Cournot. FTP, name this market situation in economics in which there are a few non-collusive, independent sellers.ANSWER: oligopoly4. The main female character of this novel is sleeping with Bump Bailey until he sets up a practical joke whereby she ends up in bed with this novelÅfs protagonist. Later, that female character dates a bookie named Gus Sands, but after the protagonist gets a Mercedes she agrees to go out with him, though she causes an accident when she insists on driving without the lights on. At the end of the novel, Memo Paris tries to shoot the protagonist after visiting him with Judge Goodwill Banner, who owns the Knights. FTP, name this 1952 novel which features Roy Hobbs, a star baseball player, and which was written by Bernard Malamud.ANSWER: The Natural5. He loved to work with wood, as seen in woodcuts like Be in Love and You Will Be Happy and a wooden sculpture of the Birth of Venus, while his Still Life with Ham represents his flirtation with Divisionism. During his time in Le Pouldo he worked with the Dutch painter Jacob Meyer de Haan, after which he went to Paris, where he produced controversial canvases such as The Loss of Virginity. It was earlier, though, while staying with Emile Bernard at Pont-Aven, that he produced one of his better known works, a painting of a contest between god and man set in front of a blood red background, and The Yellow Christ while at Arles with Vincent van Gogh. FTP name this painter of Vision After the Sermon: Jacob Wrestling the Angel, who later in life went to Tahiti.ANSWER: Paul Gauguin6. It binds close to M2 alpha helices with aspartate residues that repel negative charges, at alpha-gamma and alpha-delta junctions of an alpha-2-beta-gamma-delta pentamer. Botulin acts by blocking its release, while atropine does so by blocking its receptors, and the disease known as myasthenia gravis occurs when the body produces antibodies against its receptors. The first neurotransmitter to be identified, it is also the only one broken down by its namesake esterase. FTP, name this compound that binds to both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors, crucial for acting in neuromuscular junctions to generate muscle contractions.ANSWER: acetylcholine7. Here, Samuel Tillman read about tender mercies and Ansel Bascom spoke about the property bill. Initiated at Richard Hunt's tea-table at Waterloo, it took place in a Wesleyan church, and led to unanimous passage of all but the 9th resolution, which narrowly passed thanks in part to Frederick Douglass's insistence. Organized by Mary Ann McClintock as well as two leaders excluded from the World Anti-Slavery Convention in London in 1840, it met to pass a document substituting "all men" for "King George," titled the Declaration of Sentiments. FTP, Lucretia Coffin Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton launched what women's rights convention that took place in New York?ANSWER: Seneca Falls convention8. The sequel to this book points out the similarity of its author's views to those of Carveth Read and Francis Howe Johnson in its preface, and includes essays on "the existence of Julius Caesar" and "the tigers in India." That sequel concludes with a "dialogue" which discusses such questions as whether there is a truth even in cases in which it shall never be known. That book, The Meaning of Truth, appeared in 1909, two years after this book appeared. This book includes a contrast between "tender" and "tough" types of religion in its last chapter, and features chapters on "the one and the many" and on "the present dilemma in philosophy." FTP, name this work which argues that the true is the "good in the way of belief," a work subtitled "a new name for some old ways of thinking" which shares its name with an American philosophical school and was written by William James.ANSWER: Pragmatism9. Stage directions in one of this man's dramas instruct the title character, an aging monarch, to stand up and fall over repeatedly "in the manner of a tragic Punch and Judy show." The title character of that play, Exit the King, is Berenger, which is also the name of the protagonist of this man's play set in the Radiant City, The Killer. Most of this man's plays have barebones sets and few characters, such as one set in a circular room in a circular tower that houses the plays three characters, the Old Man, the Old Woman, and the Orator,and another whose sole characters are the professor, the pupil, and the maid. The Chairs and The Lesson are less known, however, than two other plays, one whose title character "always wears her hair in the same style" and another most of whose characters transform into the title kind of creature. FTP name this absurdist playwright of The Bald Soprano and The Rhinoceros.ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco10. Instead of employing the Debye-Hull-Scherrer powder method, its namesakes relied on an array of atomic planes. Its namesakes built a vacuum apparatus and employed a hot filament, an accelerating electrode, and an arc-mounted Faraday box. A leak in the vacuum led its namesakes to heat the target, resulting in crystallized nickel, which gave startling results. A plot of collector current against beam energy was explained by constructive interference, and the results in general could be derived by combining Bragg's equation with the de Broglie wavelength for electrons. FTP name this experiment named for two physicists, which proved that electrons diffract.ANSWER: Davisson-Germer experiment11. Kurt Schwertsik wrote a "Shrunken" one of these that is under six minutes long for the Eve of the New Millenium concert in Salzburg. Both Alan Hovhaness' 49th one and Krysztof Penderecki's second one are known as "Christmas," and Olivier Messaien only wrote one, called Turangalia. Stravinsky wrote a notable one in C, while Shostakovich's second one, "To October," is in one long movement. "Song of the Night" is the appellation of the seventh of Mahler's, and Tchaikovsky wrote ones named "Manfred," "Winter Dreams" and "Pathetique." FTP name this genre of composition, notable examples of which are Mozart's "Jupiter" one and the fifth one of Beethoven.ANSWER: the Symphony12. The position for this battle was chosen for proximity to Carystus and Eretria, and one side hoped that Rhamnus to the north would serve as a rallying point for Hippias. The losers sailed around Cape Sounion afterwards, after issuign a shower of arrows from troops recently arrived out of Euboea. The victors were forced to run to their targets, and their flanks were reinforced to trap the enemy in a circle. Leading to defeat of Datis and Artaphernes (ar tuh FURR neez), it saw the Athenians and Plataeans overwhelm the Persians before the cavalry could participate. FTP, name this victory for Miltiades at the plains of Attica, mythically associated with the runner Phidippides.ANSWER: Marathon13. Applied to Fourier analysis, this technique minimizes the norm of a function and its Fourier series approximation. Trend analysis is an application of this method, whose general model involves writing the predictions as the sum of the observations matrix times the parameters, plus an error vector. The solution is a set of parameters for a curve assuming the observation matrix is fixed, and the predictions have a Gaussian distribution. Weighted and multiple regression varieties generalize this curve-fitting technique. FTP name this technique which minimizes the magnitude of residuals about a line, a namesake type of fitting.ANSWER: least-squares14. At one point in this novel, while stranded in the north midland moors, the protagonist adopts the surname Elliot after meeting St. John Rivers and his sisters Mary and Diana. The protagonist is initially in the charge of Mrs. Reed, who sends the protagonist to Lowood School after she becomes ill and is nursed back to health by Bessie Leaven. At Lowood she is well-liked by Mrs. Temple, who helps her secure a teaching job, but instead she decides to become a governess working under Mrs. Fairfax. Her only pupil as a governess is an abandoned daughter of a French dancer, Adele Varens, who is the ward of the tenant of Thornfield. Her time at Thornfield ends when she sees a crazy woman rip her bridal veil and finds out that the woman is Bertha Mason, Mr. Rochester's wife. FTP name this book by Charlotte Bronte.ANSWER: Jane Eyre15. He once kicked Yama to death, making everyone immortal for a time. He also beheaded his father-in-law Daksha, then gave him a goat's head. At the request of Bhagiratha, he agreed to break the fall of the goddess Ganga with his hair. His wife once saved him by strangling him after he caught the secretions of the serpent Vasuki during the churning of the oceans, turning his throat blue. Cursed by the sage Bhrigu to be worshipped in the form of the phallic lingam, FTP name this father of Ganesha and husband of Parvati, often called the destroyer.ANSWER: Shiva; or Siva16. Elbridge Durbrow filled in for the vacationing Thomas K. Finletter to summon NATO following this event. In an address a day afterwards, the president gave the "four simple propositions" of June 2nd and noted that retaliation "is being given as I speak to you." Wayne Morse and Ernest Gruening were the only ones to vote against its namesake bill, which was justified by citing the SEATO Treaty and attacks on the Maddox, which was assisted by the C. Turner Joy. FTP, name this incident that led to a resolution authorizing Lyndon Johnson to begin air war against North Vietnam, named for the body of water in which it took place.ANSWER: Gulf of Tonkin incident17. An overriding one is found in the tetralogy of Fallot, and coarctation of it is common in females with Turner syndrome. Patients with Marfan syndrome may develop aneurysms in its sinuses of Valsalva or suffer from incompetence of it. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve hooks around its arch, next to the ligamentum arteriosum, before it descends with the azygos vein and thoracic duct, through an opening in the diaphragm and next to the inferior vena cava. Major branches of it include the brachiocephalic artery, the celiac artery, and the right and left coronary arteries. FTP identify this major artery in the human body, into which the left ventricle of the heart pumps blood.ANSWER: aorta18. Its eastern area contains Wickham Heights, which rises in Mount Usborne, while its western area is dominated by Hornby Mountains. John Strong named it for a viscount, while Sebald Van Weert called it the Sebalds. Southeast of the Jason islands, it is divided in half by Grantham Sound, and has a lighthouse at Cape Pembroke on its East Island next to Stanley, which was held for 10 weeks by a foreign power in the early 80s. Northwest of South Sandwich Islands and northeast of Tierra del Fuego is, FTP, what this set of islands, a self-governing British dependency invaded by Argentina in 1982?ANSWER: Falkland islands; or islas Malvinas19. They include the 4-million year old anamensis and the bahrelghazali of Chad. They had curved feet and hands and ate only fruits and vegetation with their small canines and large molars. A family of them were found by Maurice Taieb, and the robustus species may have had the skills to make stone tools. Aethiopicus were found in Lake Turkana, while boisei were originally called Zinjanthropus and nicknamed "Nutcracker Man" by Mary Leakey. FTP Donald Johanson discovered the afarensis Lucy and Raymond Dart found its descendant africanus, both species of what extinct hominid primates?ANSWER: Australopithecines; accept Australopithecus20. At one point in this movie, Tappy Tibbons walks into the living room with his 1-900-976-JUICE ad, while audiences on the tube yell "feed me, Sara, feed me, Sara." The anti-black warfare launched by Sal the Geep forces Tyrone and Harry to ask Marion for money, and Marion gets it by sleeping with the obnoxious Arnold. Harry pawns off Sara Goldfarb's TV set repeatedly, until his schemes catch up with him, and he gets his blood-stained arm sawed off, while his mom gets addicted to diet pills. FTP name this 2000 film starring Ellen Burstyn and Jennifer Connelly, based on a Hugh Selby novel and made by Darren Aronofsky, which explores why drugs are bad, mmmkay.ANSWER: Requiem for a Dream21. In the original production of this ballet, the title character had a solo mad scene at the end of act 1, but in modern productions that scene is omitted. The title role was created by the French poet Theophile Gautier for Carolotta Grisi, although it was out of the repertoire until Daighilev brought it back in 1910. In act 1, the title character falls in love with a prince after he comes to town with his family disguised as a peasant, but he is fought by Hilarion, a hunter that loves the title character. The title character dies at the end of act 1, and in act 2 she becomes one of the Willies, who try to kill her lover Albrecht to avenge her death, but her love for him saves his life. FTP name this romantic ballet set to the music of Adolph Adam.ANSWER: Giselle22. He posits that his followers are distinguished by belief in the maxim "to thyself be enough." He receives a half-penny for tobacco at the end of the play, when he announces that his daughter has married Trond of the Valfjeld. Earlier, he orders that his "Sunday tail" with an orange bow be given to a certain suppliant and proposes cutting that man's eyes in order to change his understanding of beauty. He laments the decline in numbers of his three-headed and two-headed followers when the protagonist encounters him after dallying with his daughter, the "Woman in Green." FTP, name this ruler of the Dovre trolls who parleys with Peer Gynt while lording over his hall.ANSWER: The Mountain King [or Dovregubben; accept Old Man of the Dovre or similar answers before "Dovre" is read; accept King of the Trolls or similar answers before "trolls" is read]23. Only two of them appear outside of their group scene, one being Waltraute, who performs "Hore mit Sinn" later in the story. They are derided as "ill-mannered" and "born of the bond of a dissolute love" by their father's wife, who dislikes the presence of the offspring of Erda. Another prominent one is ordered to defend the marriage of Hunding and performs "War es so schmählich" after being disowned near their namesake rock for intervening on behalf of Siegfried. All wear the costume featuring an eight-petalled shield boss and bird-winged helmet. FTP, Bruennhilde is one of what title figures of the second opera in Wagner's Ring cycle, who lend their name to an oft-heard "ride?"ANSWER: Valkyries
1. It was paired with the "philosophy of mind" in the most important book by American philoospher Wilfrid Sellars. FTPE:[10] Name this philosophical concept, which holds that knowledge is derived from experience.ANSWER: empiricism[10] One of the major 20th-century statements of the empiricist position was this British thinker's 1936 book Language, Truth, and Logic.ANSWER: Alfred James Ayer[10] The critique of empiricism offered in Sellars's book parallels that made in the essay "Two Dogmas of Empiricism," which was written by this longtime professor at Harvard.ANSWER: Willard van Orman Quine2. His one-act opera The Tender Land premired in 1954. FTPE:[10] Name this American composer, who also wrote music for such films as Our Town and The Red Pony.ANSWER: Aaron Copland[10] In this 1938 Aaron Copland ballet, the title character kills the men who killed his mother, setting him off on a career as an outlaw.ANSWER: Billy the Kid[10] Copland wrote this 1944 ballet, which is set around a marriage in Pennsylvania, for Martha Graham.ANSWER: Appalachian Spring3. Answer the following about transmembrane proteins, FTPE.[10] Glycophorin A, the representative single-pass transmembrane protein with an alpha helix that forms coiled dimers, is a protein in these objects, also called red blood cells.ANSWER: erythrocytes[10] Integral proteins include G-protein coupled receptors, bacteriorhodopsin, and tetrameric voltage-gated ion channels that allow this ion to diffuse out of the cell during an action potential.ANSWER: potassium or K+[10] The antibiotic gramicidin A is an example of a channel forming type of these organic molecules which form transmembrane channels through which selected ions can diffuse through in either direction.ANSWER: ionophores4. Identify these early English colonists in America, FTPE.[10] He organized a 1585 settlement on Roanoke Island that mysteriously vanished, and he was later beheaded for treason after falling out of favor by seducing one of Queen Elizabeth's maids of honor.ANSWER: Sir Walter Raleigh[10] Raleigh's half brother, he promoted the first English colony at Newfoundland, which collapsed after his death at sea in 1583.ANSWER: Sir Humphrey Gilbert[10] He kept the Jamestown settlement intact by keeping gold-digging colonists in line, and was supposedly saved from his Indian captors by the maiden Pocahontas.ANSWER: John Smith5. In the 77th of them, we learn that the protagonist "would be prepared to live in a world of Fall / for ever" and that he's "making ready to move on." FTPE:[10] Name this collection of poems, the second group of which is called His Toy, His Dream, His Rest.ANSWER: The Dream Songs[10] This American poet wrote the Dream Songs.ANSWER: John Berryman[10] This character, who enjoys numerous imaginary conversations with Mr. Bones, is the central figure of the Dream Songs. ANSWER: Henry6. She sings "L'amour est un oiseau rebelle" and infuriates her onetime lover by appearing on the arm of Escamillio. For 10 points:[10] Name this title character of an opera by Bizet.ANSWER: Carmen[10] Carmen is stabbed to death by this colonel, who had earlier rescued her from Zuniga.ANSWER: Don José[10] The chorus announces that "love awaits you" in this song, which enumerates the joys of Escamillo's profession.ANSWER: Toréador song or "Votre toast" or "Your toast" [prompt on Bullfighter song]7. The protagonist is the author of such works as Marvels of the Universe and an oratorio called Apocalypse. [10] Name this novel about a composer who dies near his birthplace in Thuringia in 1940.ANSWER: Doctor Faustus[10] This author of Buddenbrooks wrote Doctor Faustus.ANSWER: Thomas Mann[10] This composer, who sells his soul to the devil in return for 20 years of greatness, is the main character of the novel.ANSWER: Adrian Leverkühn8. Answer the following about the planet Jupiter. FTPE.[10] This probe launched by Atlantis in 1989 plunged into Jupiter's atmosphere in 2003. It discovered the first moon orbiting an asteroid, and made the only direct observation of the impact of comet Shoemaker-Levy 9.ANSWER: Galileo[10] This Italian astronomer's data on the orbits of the Galilean moons were used by his assistant Ole Römer to calculate the speed of light. He lends his name to a gap in Saturn's rings.ANSWER: Gian or Giovanni Domenico or Jean-Dominique Cassini[10] The Galileo probe studied the cryptovolcanoes of this moon, the only moon known to have its own magnetic field.ANSWER: Ganymede9. He believed only in God and people, and aspired to write historical novels. FTPE:[10] Head of a short lived republic before being ousted by the French army, name this leader of Risorgimento called "chief of the assassins" by Cavour.ANSWER: Giuseppe Mazzini[10] Failure of revolts led by the Carbonari caused Mazzini to found this educational and insurrectional society in 1831 that led several failed conspiracies against existing governments before being absorbed into Italian National Committee.ANSWER: Young Italy; or Giovine Italia[10] Founders of Esperia, the brothers by this name sailed to Calabria to liberate Naples, but betrayed by Pietro Boccheciampe, they were executed at Cosenza. Mazzini showed that their letters were intercepted by British home secretary James Graham.ANSWER: Attilio and Emilio Bandiera10. Name these rivers of Southeast Asia FTPE.[10] Formed from the Mali and Nmai rivers, it flows south and branches near Yangon, emptying into the Andaman sea, and is the major river of Myanmar.ANSWER: Irrawaddy[10] Originating in Qinghai, it flows through Yunnan, forms the border between Laos and Thailand, crosses Cambodia, and empties into South China Sea near Ho Chi Minh.ANSWER: Mekong[10] Rising in the Sierra Madre mountains of the Philippines, it flows north into the Babuyan channel of the South China sea and is the longest river on Luzon.ANSWER: Cagayan11. Here's an ACF question that doubles as current events and trash-sports. FTPE:[10] This Texas Rangers pitcher is getting a 20 game suspension for punching out the equipment of a Dallas cameraman-reporter. He showed up at the MLB all-star game anyways, and got into a verbal confrontation when he faced misdemeanors charges.ANSWER: Kenny Rogers[10] This runningback claims that he is no longer smoking marijuana, and is making a return to the NFL despite making the minimum this year. Chances are, after his 4 game suspension, he's not likely to replace Ronnie Brown as starter.ANSWER: Ricky Williams[10] The Los Angeles Lakers packaged Caron Butler and Chucky Atkins to trade for this Washington Wizards forward-center, a former number one pick who never got going.ANSWER: Kwame Brown12. It was originally called the Pennsylvania Fiscal Agency until it was bought by Thomas C. Durant and others, when it started buying Union Pacific stock. FTPE:[10] Name this company that charged 94 million for a $44 million construction and bribed several politicians in a Grant administration railroad scandal.ANSWER: Credit Mobilier[10] This congressman from Massachusetts tried to stave off an investigation by letting fellow congressmen purchase Credit Mobilier stocks cheaply.ANSWER: Oakes Ames[10] This Vice-President under Grant's first term was the highest-ranking figure brought down by the bribery charges, leading to his replacement by Henry Wilson on Grant's re-election ticket.ANSWER: Schuyler Colfax13. Name these things from electromagnetism, FTPE.[10] This law states that the potential drop across an element equals the current flowing through the element times the element's resistance.ANSWER: Ohm's law[10] This law relates the magnetic field around a loop to the current passing through the loop. It is equivalent to the Biot-Savart law.ANSWER: Ampere's law[10] This gauge consists of setting the divergence of the vector potential to zero.ANSWER: Coulomb gauge14. Answer the following about Roman occupation of Britain. FTPE:[10] When her husband Prasutagus died, the Romans tortured this queen of the Iceni despite her willingness to cooperate, so she gathered an army to destroy Colchester and Saint Albans before being defeated by Suetonius Paulinus at Fenny Stratford.ANSWER: Boudicca[10] As governor of Britannia, this Roman general subdued the Caledonians and Ordovices, winning the battle of Mons Graupius in Scotland. Father-in-law of Tacitus, he was recalled by Domitian, but not before he circumnavigated Britain.ANSWER: Gnaeus Julius Agricola[10] During this Spanish emperor's reign, a 73 mile wall from Solway Firth to the mouth of the Tyne River was built delineating the extent of Roman advance in Britain.ANSWER: Hadrian15. They have large chemical shifts in NMR because their pi electrons rotate to induce a local magnetic field supporting the external field. FTPE:[10] Name these compounds also known as olefins, produced by elimination reactions and containing a carbon-carbon double bond.ANSWER: alkenes[10] This method for naming alkene diastereomers begins by applying R-S rules to find the two higher priority groups on each side of the double bond, then designating the trans isomer the German for opposite, and the cis isomer the German for together.ANSWER: E-Z designation or Entgegen-Zusammen system[10] Alkenes are often made by dehydration of these compounds with acid at high temperatures. E2 uses primary types while E1 carbocation rearrangement proceeds with secondary and tertiary types.ANSWER: alcohols16. This party was created by Lucien Bouchard after the failure of the Meech Lake Accords. For 10 points each:[10] Name this federal-level party which seeks to advance the interests of a certain group of French speakers in Canada.ANSWER: Bloc Québécois [accept Quebec Bloc because bilingualism is mandatory; do not accept "Parti Québécois"][10] Occurring under the premiership of Jean Lesage, this transformation from 1960 to 1966 ended the "les années noires" period by promoting the modernization and urbanization of Quebec.ANSWER: the Quiet Revolution or Révolution Tranquille[10] In 1970, Pierre Trudeau declared martial law in Quebec response to the October Crisis, in which British Trade Commissioner James Cross was kidnapped and provincial Labour Minister Pierre Laporte was murdered by this terrorist group.ANSWER: Front de Libération du Québec [or Quebec Liberation Front]17. This man's works include the collection Phantasmagoria and Other Poems and the novel Sylvie and Bruno. FTPE:[10] Name this British author, whose best-known work resulted from a boat trip taken with the children of H. G. Liddell.ANSWER: Lewis Carroll or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson[10] Such characters as the Mock Turtle and the March Hare appear in this 1865 work by Lewis Carroll.ANSWER: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (grudgingly accept Alice in Wonderland)[10] This mock-heroic poem by Carroll includes the revelation that the title figure is in fact a Boojum.ANSWER: The Hunting of the Snark18. It results when two superconductors are separated by a thin layer, such as an oxide, and exists in AC and DC forms. For ten points each:[10] Identify this effect, in which a current flows across a barrier between the superconductors.ANSWER: Josephson effect[10] The current developed in the Josephson effect relies on this quantum process, in which a wavefunction makes its way through a potential energy barrier in defiance of the predictions of classical mechanics.ANSWER: quantum tunneling[10] The Josephson effect is the operational principle behind this device, typically formed from a ring with two Josephson junctions threaded by a magnetic flux loop.ANSWER: Superconducting Quantum Interference Device19. This founder of the English Review wrote a tetralogy about Christopher Tietjens. FTPE:[10] Name this English author of Some Do Not and A Man Could Stand Up.ANSWER: Ford Madox Ford[10] Those novels appear in this series of books by Ford Madox Ford, in which Tietjens fights in World War I.ANSWER: Parade's End[10] In addition to Parade's End, Ford is best known for this 1915 novel in which the narrator learns that Captain Ashburnham, the title military figure, has been sleeping with his wife.ANSWER: The Good Soldier20. Answer these questions about the Presidential election of 1884.[10] That election was won by this Democrat, who survived truthful Republican allegations that he had fathered an illegitimate child.ANSWER: Grover Cleveland[10] Cleveland beat this Republican from Maine, a so-called "continental liar" whose nomination had caused a group known as the "mugwumps" to defect from the Republican party.ANSWER: James G. Blaine[10] Running a distant third to Cleveland and Blaine was John St. John, the nominee of this political party.ANSWER: Prohibition party21. Stuff from fluid dynamics, FTPE.[10] This principle states that the buoyant force on an object in a fluid equals the weight of the displaced fluid.ANSWER: Archimedes's principle[10] This principle states that the pressure is constant throughout a static fluid.ANSWER: Pascal's principle or law[10] These fundamental equations can be derived by considering momentum conservation for a flow. For fluids with 0 viscosity, they reduce to the Euler equations of fluid flow.ANSWER: Navier-Stokes equations