2005 ACF FallPacket by Michigan X1. This god's eyes were the sun and the moon, and thus at the new moon he was blind. This caused problems at a battle where he started indiscriminately cutting off people's heads without knowing whose side they were on. This god's four sons were depicted on the lids of canopic jars, protecting the viscera after mummification. In one form, he was associated with the horizon, and syncretized with Ra as Ra-Harakhte. He engaged in a protracted struggle to avenge his father against his uncle, the evil god Set. FTP, name this Egyptian god of war often depicted as the falcon-headed son of Isis and Osiris.ANSWER: Horus or Heru2. Confederate General Longstreet did this after the war, which, along with his pro-Reconstruction politics, made enemies of many former comrades. Edward Gibbon was dissuaded from doing it as a young man, and since 1701 British monarchs have been prohibited by law from doing it. About 150,000 Americans do it every year, usually going through a process abbreviated RCIA. When Charles Kingsley criticized a prominent English figure for doing it, the response was the autobiography Apologia Pro Vita Sua. Knute Rockne, Queen Christina of Sweden and Cardinal Newman all committed, FTP, what action that generally involves ceasing to be a Protestant?ANSWER: becoming a Catholic or converting to Catholicism or other clear equivalents3. In a 1981 recording of this work, Christopher Hogwood replaced the lost second movement with a similar one written by the work's composer and his pupil, Thomas Atwood, while a recording by Nimbus exists with a transplanted Minuet from the composer's Piano Sonata in B flat. The second movement is an andante romanze in C major, which contrasts to the more lyrical third movement, a minuet and trio in G major. The first and most famous movement is in Sonata-allegro form and begins with the so-called "Rocket Theme." FTP name this Serenade for Strings in G major, 525 in the Köchel [KERR-kuhl] numbering system used to classify works of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.ANSWER: Eine Kleine Nachtmusik or A Little Night Music4. His son Hilary wrote about him in the memoir Last Stands. Some of his best-known works were originally published in Reedy's Mirror under the pseudonym Webster Ford. His collections of poetry include The Serpent in the Wilderness and Starved Rock, while his longer works include the dramatic poem Jack Kelso and the novel Skeeters Kirby. He wrote about the 16th president in the unpleasant Lincoln the Man, but is better known for a work which features 245 characters from a small town in Illinois. FTP, name this author of a collection of poetic epitaphs about the inhabitants of Spoon River.ANSWER: Edgar Lee Masters5. In the isentropic response of an isotropic material, the fractional change in this quantity is typically less than one percent. In solids, the square of this quantity plus four thirds eta over the density gives the speed of sound in that medium, while in liquids the addition of eta is omitted. The difference between heat capacity at constant pressure and heat capacity at constant volume is inversely proportional to its isothermal form, while for a gas, its adiabatic form is given by the adiabatic index times the pressure. Derivable from the trace of the strain tensor, for ten points, identify this elastic constant which is proportional to the change in pressure over the change in volume and is the inverse of compressibility.ANSWER: bulk modulus6. This party's vice-presidential candidates included George Julian and Charles Francis Adams. Nearly a third of supporters in its best year came from New York State, which prevented that state from going Democratic. Many of its backers were New York Democrats who quarreled with the Hunkers and started this party at a convention in Buffalo. Its slogan combined its eponymous concept with "labor," "speech" and "men" under the same one-syllable adjective. It helped Zachary Taylor beat Lewis Cass in the 1848 election by swinging votes to Martin Van Buren under the banner of, FTP, what third party founded in 1848, the precursor to the Republicans, that favored excluding slavery from new states?ANSWER: Free-Soil Party7. During his lifetime, this man withdrew essays he had written on "impudence and modesty" and "the immortality of the soul," while allowing such essays as "Of the Dignity or Meanness of Human Nature" and "Of the Populousness of Ancient Nations" to remain in print. Better known are such essays as "Of Superstition and Enthusiasm" and "Of the Standard of Taste," which appear in his Essays Moral, Political, and Literary. In his autobiographical "My Own Life" he describes his "retreat in France," which was spent at Reims and La Fleche, where he composed his first major work, a book whose three parts consider the understanding, the passions, and the morals. That book "fell dead-born from the press," according to this man, though he had more success with later works like An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. FTP, name this British thinker who wrote A Treatise of Human Nature.ANSWER: David Hume8. The lead singer of this band has written a book called Adult Head, and he, along with his band's drummer Kevin Coomer and bassist John Stirratt, used to be in a band with Jay Farrar of Son Volt. Their 2003 EP More Like the Moon is probably their least known effort. They scored a minor hit with "Box Full of Letters" from 1995's A.M. and gained critical acclaim from a 1998 collaboration with Billy Bragg. They are the subjects of the Sam Jones film documentary I am Trying to Break Your Heart, and the book Learning How to Die. The album Summerteeth emerged in 1999, but the 2002 album Yankee Hotel Foxtrot is widely considered their best effort to date. Their most recent effort was 2004's A Ghost is Born. FTP, name this Jeff-Tweedy-led alternative country band. ANSWER: Wilco9. At one point in this novel a woman is comforted by hearing her husband recite "The Charge of the Light Brigade." At another stage of the work, the slicing of a fish's flesh to provide bait creates a metaphor for the cruelness of the world. Mrs. McNab appears to restore an abandoned house and young James loves cutting pictures out of the Army-Navy catalogue. Minta Doyle marries Paul Rayley, and Prue dies from complications related to childbirth. William Bankes is a botanist on the Isle of Skye who never does marry Lily Briscoe. FTP, name this work about the Ramsey family, some of whom eventually journey to the title location in this novel by Virginia Woolf.ANSWER: To The Lighthouse10. Deposits of this rock can be commercially important as raw material for pyrolysis if they contain enough of the bituminous material kerogen. The "Bright Angel" stratum of the Grand Canyon consists of the non oil-bearing variety of this rock, which typically forms in quiescent marine environments from deposits of mud and silt. This most abundant type of sedimentary rock is often found associated with layers of limestone and sandstone, and can metamorphose to produce slate. FTP, name this rock which forms a deposit full of fossils in Yoho Park, British Columbia, named for nearby Mt. Burgess.ANSWER: shale (accept "oil shale" before "Bright Angel" is read)11. The death of Philibert de Chalon and subsequent rise of René joined the two branches of this house. The man known oddly as King William I of this dynasty ruled from 1815 to 1844 and his reign was chiefly notable for the revolt and secession of the newly acquired southern half of his kingdom. Previous members had been princes of its namesake city as well as staathalters. An earlier William was murdered in 1584, sixteen years into his country's war for independence from Spain, while another William became king of England in 1688 by marrying Mary II. FTP, name this family which long ruled in the Netherlands.ANSWER: The House of Orange-Nassau12. This man's woodcuts include a procession of ten blocks known as The Triumph of Christ and the enormous Crossing of the Red Sea, and his woodcut of St. Jerome is one of the first examples of chiaroscuro. He was commissioned by Mary, Queen of Hungary, to paint a series of four mythological portraits known as the Furias which resembled his earlier ceiling frescoes for the Santo Spirito in his hometown. One of his first commissions was for the two altarpieces of St. Maria Gloriosa dei Frari, one of which is known as the Pesaro Madonna. While in Ferrara he painted mythological works such as Bacchas and Ariadne, while he later traveled to Urbino and did a portrait of a reclining nude. Perhaps best known for a painting done in honor of a 1514 wedding, FTP name this Venetian painter of Venus of Urbino and Sacred and Profane LoveANSWER: Titian or Tiziano Vecellio (accept either)13. After his friend Henry Thrale died, this man was outraged when Thrale's widow Hester married an Italian music teacher named Piozzi. In that same year, 1781, a collection of 52 lives of British poets written by this man was published. Earlier, this man had written a life of his friend Richard Savage, as well as two long poems inspired by works of Juvenal, "London" and "The Vanity of Human Wishes." In 1759, he was supposedly so desperate to pay for his mother's funeral that in two weeks he wrote a novel about a prince of Abysinnia, Rasselas. FTP, name this man who compiled a famous Dictionary of the English Language, a lexicographer and author whose life was written about by his friend James Boswell.ANSWER: Samuel Johnson14. The inferior angle of this bone is formed by the union of the vertebral and axillary borders and has a dorsal surface that provides attachment to the teres major and the latissimus dorsi. A ridge between the inferior and medial angles provides a point of attachment for the serratus anterior. Its posterior surface contains a projection that joins a forward-pointing hook called the acromion, while a projection off the lateral angle is known as the coracoid process. Near the base of the coracoid process lies the glenoid cavity, and the insertion of the lower trapezius muscle lies over a smooth, triangular area of the bone. FTP, name this bone connecting the humerus to the clavicle, commonly known as the shoulder blade.ANSWER: scapula15. Their reign is typically divided into two periods, the earlier Bahri and the later Burji. The latter period is also known as the Circassian, and their first leader of that period was Barquq, who made advancement in the state dependent on race rather than skill. Under Barsbay they conquered Cyprus, but in 1516 and 1517 they lost their independence, though they were able to infiltrate the Ottoman ruling class when the rule against warriors' sons becoming warriors was repealed. Following the death of Salih Ayyub, they revolted and secured their empire when Qutuz won a decisive victory in 1260 at the Spring of Goliath. Most famously led by Baybars, FTP, identify this group which took its name from the Arabic for "slave," and which ruled Egypt until their last remnants were massacred at the Al-Azab gate in 1811.ANSWER: Mamluks or Mamelukes16. Walter Nicholls joined this group after being persecuted for his statements about margarine. Its distinct character is considered to have begun with Frank Knight and Jacob Viner, as well as the "Mathematical Trio" of Lange, Schultz and Douglas who imitated work done at Lausanne. Mathematically, they prefer results-oriented partial equilibrium analysis to more math-dependent general equilibrium. George Stigler is the lesser-known cofounder of its second iteration and the creator of search theory, while this group also invented human capital theory and transaction cost theory, under Ronald Coase. FTP, Milton Friedman is one of eight economics Nobel prize winners from what school, associated in ideological terms with neoclassicism and in physical terms with the actual economics department of its Midwestern university?ANSWER: Chicago school of economics [more or less indistinguishable from the actual University of Chicago Department of Economics, so you can accept that]17. Ingham proved it using Ramanujan's identity, and it is equivalent to the statement that the limit as x goes to infinity of theta of x over x or psi of x over x is one, where theta and psi are the Chebyshev functions. Hadamard's proof depends on the fact that the quantity one plus cosine theta squared is greater than or equal to zero, and follows from the fact that the Riemann zeta function has no roots of the form one plus i times t, where i is the square root of minus one. FTP, name this theorem which gives x over natural log x as an approximation to the number of non-composite integers less than or equal to x, which takes its name from those non-compposite integers.ANSWER: prime number theorem18. The tenth section of this work notes that "dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give off a foul odor" and that the "heart of the wise inclines to the right, but the heart of a fool to the left." The whole work is spoken in the first person until the end, when a third-person narrator says that the moral of the work is "Fear God and keep his commandments, for that is the whole duty of man." The narrator had tried both learning and hedonism and found them equally pointless, as he explains with such aphorisms as "the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong" and that "that which is done is that which shall be done, and there is no new thing under the sun." King Solomon of Israel is the supposed author of, FTP, what meditation on futility that follows Proverbs in the Old Testament and includes verses about there being a time for every purpose under heaven?ANSWER: Ecclesiastes or The Book of the Preacher or Qoheleth21. Their terms could receive the prorogatio, extending them for a year, and the prefix "pro" appended to this title identifies the governor of a Senatorial province. Cambacères [kahm-ba-SEHR] and Lebrun were two of the three men who held it during the five years when it was an executive office in Republican France. Under the Empire, twelve or more men a year could hold it, mostly on a "suffect" rather than "ordinary" basis. Caesar in 59 BC and Marius consecutively from 104 to 100 had the year named in their honor as holders of, FTP, what principal executive magistracy of the Roman Republic, held by two persons at one time?ANSWER: consul22. An opera of this name by Ferruccio Busoni shares the same basic plot as the more famous one, although it includes a part for Truffaldino as chief eunuch. The chorus of peasants is very prominent in the better-known version, in which they sing "Gira la Cote" in the first act. Toward the beginning of Act Two, courtiers sing about their country estates in "Ho una casa nell'Honan," then lament the need to prepare simultaneously for weddings and funerals. Act One ends with "A, Per l'ultima volta!" in which the peasants attempt to warn the protagonist, who rings a gong three times. The protagonist is then asked three riddles after the title character sings "In Questa Reggia," and having solved them, in Act Three he sings the triumphant "Nessun Dorma" in defiance of the title character. FTP name this opera about Calaf and a Chinese princess, the last opera by Puccini.ANSWER: Turandot23. This author asked "wouldn't it be simpler if the government simply dissolved the people and elected another?" in "The Solution" and followed up a major success with the sub-par Happy End. He worked on the Hollywood screenplay for Hangmen Also Die, while other works include the poetry collection Hauspostille. He achieved some popularity with The Measures Taken and Drums in the Night, but he had even more success with works like Saint Joan of the Stockyards, The Good Person of Setzuan and The Caucasian Chalk Circle. Known for a notable collaboration with Kurt Weill and for Mother Courage and Her Children, FTP name this German father of Epic Theater and author of The Threepenny Opera. ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht24. This element can be prepared commercially by reducing its pentoxide with calcium or its pentachloride with magnesium. Used extensively in the steel industry, it has good structural strength and a low fission neutron cross-section, making it useful in nuclear applications. Its atomic mass is about 51 grams per mole, and its common oxidation states are plus-2, plus-3, plus-4, and plus-5. It is often alloyed with titanium, its neighbor on the periodic table. Discovered by Nils Stenstrom, FTP, name this transition metal with atomic number 23, whose symbol is the fifth-to-last letter of the alphabet.ANSWER: vanadium
1. Name these sacred cities from various world religions, FTPE:[10] This north Indian city has been the site of religious violence because it is both the legendary birthplace of Rama and site of now-destroyed 16th-Century mosque.ANSWER: Ayodhya[10] This Arab city derives its holiness from being the destination of Mohammed's Hejirah, the journey he made after being driven out of Mecca.ANSWER: Medina[10] The Aztecs never actually lived in this city built by the Toltecs, but used its Pyramids of the Sun and Moon and Avenue of the Dead for religious ceremonies.ANSWER: Teotihuacan [TAY-oh-TEE-wah-KAN]2. Answer the following related questions FTPE.[10] This term is given to a chemical system where the rate of the forward reaction is equal to the rate of the reverse reaction.ANSWER: chemical equilibrium[10] This law first proposed by Waage and Guldberg gives the value for the equilibrium constant, K, as the product concentrations raised to the power of their stoichiometric factors, divided by the reactant concentrations raised to the power of their stoichiometric factors.ANSWER: law of mass action[10] An example of this is the decreased solubility of silver chloride in a solution containing a high concentration of sodium chloride; in this example, chloride acts as the namesake species.ANSWER: common ion effect3. He wrote about a "gold-feathered bird" who "Sings in the palm, without human meaning, / Without human feeling, a foreign song" in one of his last poems, "Of Mere Being." FTPE:[10] That poem gave its title to the book The Palm at the End of the Mind, which is a collection of writings by this American poet of "Sunday Morning."ANSWER: Wallace Stevens[10] This Wallace Stevens poem begins by asking for a "roller of big cigars" who is to "whip / In kitchen cups concupiscent curds," and states "Let be be finale of seem."ANSWER: "The Emperor of Ice-Cream"[10] The title object of this poem by Stevens is placed "upon a hill" in Tennessee, and proceeds to take "dominion everywhere."ANSWER: "Anecdote of the Jar"4. Name these participants in acts of mass slaughter for 10 points each.[10] In 415 BC, Athens killed all the men of this neutral island city-state. Thucydides composed a noted debate in which the Athenians try to talk the city into surrendering.ANSWER: Melos[10] This English fanatic is chiefly remembered in Ireland as the man who killed thousands of people at Drogheda [DROY-duh] and Wexford during a campaign there in 1649.ANSWER: Oliver Cromwell [prompt on Cromwell][10] This lieutenant was sentenced to life imprisonment for his role at the 1968 My Lai massacre, but President Nixon ordered him released, and he ultimately served three and a half years of house arrest.ANSWER: Lieutenant William Calley5. Eric Kwartler once remarked that the 2005 Chicago Open didn't have many economics questions. In his honor, name these things, FTPE:[10] This curve graphs percentage of income against percentage of households and provides a graphical representation of income distribution. It deals with observed income distributions, comparing them to states of perfect income equality. ANSWER: Lorenz Curve[10] An allocation of resources has achieved this state when, given a set of allocations and a set of individuals, there are no further movements from one alternative allocation to another that can make at least one individual better off without making any other individual worse off.ANSWER: Pareto Efficiency [or Pareto Optimality][10] This is a metaphor used to portray the conflict between individual interests and the overall good in a system without assigned stakes. Originated by Garrett Hardin in his 1968 Science magazine article of the same name, it involves a bunch of livestock farmers and some plots of land. ANSWER: the tragedy of the commons [exact answer required]6. Give these terms associated with fungi, FTPE.[10] These are delicate filaments that can either form a loose network or a tightly packed mass called pseudoparenchyma, which is seen in the fruiting body of mushrooms.ANSWER: hyphae[10] This is the loose network of feeding hyphae and reproductive hyphae that can produce sporangia or gametangia.ANSWER: mycelium[10] Consisting of beta-1-4-acetyl-glucosamine linkages, this strong substance makes up the cell walls of fungi, along with the exoskeletons of many insects.ANSWER: chitin7. Name these painters FTPE: [10] This Northern Renaissance painter did some portraits of the wives of Henry VIII and members of his court, but he is more famous for The Ambassadors and a Darmstadt Madonna. ANSWER: Hans Holbein the Younger[10] A French classical painter who spent most of his working life in Rome, he painted Death of Germanicus as well as Adoration of the Golden Calf and The Judgment of Solomon. ANSWER: Nicolas Poussin[10] A rival of Poussin, this man is known for works like The Judgment of Paris and Landscape with Marriage of Isaac and Rebekah. ANSWER: Claude Lorraine (accept either name)8. Answer these questions about some Asian authors and their works, FTPE: [10] This Indian-American writer's most recent book is The Namesake, though she is better known for her Pulitzer Prize-winning short story collection Interpreter of Maladies.ANSWER: Jhumpa Lahiri[10] This Indian author of An Equal Music recently released Two Lives, a double biography of his aunt and uncle, though he is best known for A Suitable Boy.ANSWER: Vikram Seth[10] Enough Indiam-American writers! This earliest of the Four Classics of Chinese Literature was written by Luo Guanzhong and covers the decline of the Han Dynasty, including the Yellow Turban Rebellion. ANSWER: Romance of the Three Kingdoms or San-kuo chih yen-i9. Name these tools of the Inquisition for 10 points each. [10] The Inquisition often put on these public ceremonies at which people it had condemned repented of their sins before execution. Its name is Spanish for "Act of Faith."ANSWER: auto da fè[10] The Inquisition was renamed twice in the Twentieth Century, and now survives as this Vatican agency or "congregation" that until recently was headed by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger.ANSWER: The Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith[10] The bulk of the priests involved in the Inquisition were from this order, established to convert the Albigensians, which included Albertus Magnus and Thomas Aquinas among its members.ANSWER: Dominicans [prompt on Black Friars; accept Order of Friars Preachers; prompt on Order of Preachers] 10. His sacred works include such oratorios as St. Paul and 1846's Elijah. FTPE:[10] Name this German composer, whose trip to Scotland produced the overture Fingal's Cave.ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy[10] At the tender age of 17, Mendelssohn composed a notable overture for the incidental music to this Shakespeare comedy.ANSWER: A Midsummer Night's Dream[10] Mendelssohn's fifth and final symphony was a D major work that is better known by this nickname.ANSWER: the Reformation Symphony11. Name these knights of the Round Table, FTPE:[10] This surly son of Sir Ector was Arthur's foster brother.ANSWER: Sir Kay[10] This man and his brother Gaheris killed King Pellinore, avenging their father, King Lot. In one story, he accepts the beheading challenge of the Green Knight.ANSWER: Sir Gawain[10] This brother of Gawain took the lead in exposing the scandal of Lancelot and Guinevere. He was supported by the malcontent Mordred until Lancelot killed him.ANSWER: Sir Agravain12. Name these things associated with magnitude scales, FTPE.[10] The absolute magnitude of a star is defined as the apparent magnitude the star would have at a distance of 10 times this unit, which is approximately equal to 3.26 light-years.ANSWER: parsecs or parallax-arcseconds[10] The stellar magnitude system inspired this logarithmic magnitude scale which looks at the largest horizontal displacement on a seismometer as a measure of earthquake energy.ANSWER: Richter scale[10] At one point, the magnitudes measured through the standard UBV filters were normalized so that this star had a reference value of 0 in all bands. It is the brightest star in the constellation Lyra.ANSWER: Vega (prompt on alpha Lyrae)13. The title character of this novel is put under the care of Mrs. Mann as a child, and later is cared for by the kindly Mr. Brownlow. FTPE:[10] Name this novel subtitled "The Parish Boy's Progress," which was first published in book form in 1838.ANSWER: Oliver Twist[10] After Oliver Twist runs away from the workhouse he meets Jack Dawkins, who goes by this two-word moniker, and is taken to Fagin's headquarters in the slums.ANSWER: the Artful Dodger[10] Oliver is shot while going with this burglar to rob a house. Later, this man murders Nancy after she betrays the gang, and in the confusion that follows he accidentally hangs himself.ANSWER: Bill Sikes (accept either name)14. Name these twentieth-century U.S. Secretaries of State, FTPE:[10] This man, more famous as proponent of Free Silver and opponent of evolution, resigned from Woodrow Wilson's cabinet in protest at Wilson's moves toward entering World War I.ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan[10] This Truman appointee and target of McCarthy attacks wrote the autobiography Present at the Creation.ANSWER: Dean Acheson[10] Acheson succeeded this former General Motors executive who served from 1944 t o 1945. An early proponent of the United Nations, he was the first U.S. ambassador to that body.ANSWER: Edward Stettinius15. A 1989 report by the Population Crisis Committee declared that this was the unhappiest country on Earth. FTPE:[10] The efforts of the FRELIMO organization were responsible for the June 25, 1975 independence of what African country?ANSWER: Republic of Mozambique or Republica de Moçambique [10] Much of the unhappiness of Mozambique was centered in this city, the nation's capital.ANSWER: Maputo[10] In 1984, Mozambique concluded the Nkomati Accord with this South African Premier who was known as "the old crocodile."ANSWER: Pieter Willem Botha16. Name these Greek tragedies, FTPE:[10] This late Euripides play features Agave tearing apart her son Pentheus, who had previously attempted to imprison the newly arrived god Dionysus.ANSWER: Bacchae or The Bacchants[10] The title warrior of this Sophocles play is tricked by Athena into believing that some nearby sheep are Greek kings, and he kills and tortures a bunch of them. He later kills himself by falling on the sword that Hector gave him. ANSWER: Ajax [10] This Aeschylus play features a speech by a ghost, who tells his former queen Atossa about the Battle of Plataea and other problems for the title group.ANSWER: The Persians17. It can be quantified by the difference between the ordinary and extraordinary index of refraction. For ten points each:[10] Identify this property of certain anisotropic crystals, which involves having different indeces of refraction depending on the direction of light propagation in the crystal.ANSWER: birefringence or double refraction[10] To exhibit birefringence, a crystal must be of this type. These types of crystals have two equal axes and one that is different from the other two and gives rise to the extraordinary index.ANSWER: uniaxial[10] Birefringence may be induced via the Kerr effect, in which case the change in the index of refraction is proportional to the square of the magnitude of this quantity.ANSWER: electric field18. He responded to Walter Lippmann's Public Opinion in his book The Public and Its Problems, which argued that we shouldn't turn America over to a cadre of experts. FTPE:[10] Name this 20th-century philosopher, whose books include Human Nature and Conduct and The Quest for Certainty.ANSWER: John Dewey[10] Dewey was fond of this philosophical term, which is paired with "nature" in a major 1925 book and with "art" in a book which features illustrations drawn from the Barnes collection.ANSWER: experience[10] Dewey is associated with this epistemological view, which holds that concepts are functional devices used in our interactions with the world. In general, this kind of view asserts that theories are convenient devices for moving from observations to predictions.ANSWER: instrumentalism19. Mona, Vieques, and Culebra islands are administered as part of it, and its second most populated city is Ponce (PON say). For 10 points each:[10] Name this most populated non-state territory of the United States.ANSWER: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico [or Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico][10] The Department of Agriculture maintains the hemisphere's largest collection of tropical plants in this western port city. A hotbed of leftist activism, its center is the Columbus Plaza, and it contains Puerto Rico's only zoo.ANSWER: Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria de Mayagüez[10] On the north coast of the island is this city, whose namesake river powers Dos Bocas and Caonillas dams. The city itself hosts a powerful radio telescope at its namesake observatory.ANSWER: Arecibo20. This author of Among My Books became the first editor of the Atlantic Monthly in 1857. FTPE:[10] Name this American author, whose works include the Biglow Papers and "The Vision of Sir Launfal."ANSWER: James Russell Lowell[10] In 1855, Lowell succeeded this author of "The Courtship of Miles Standish" as professor of modern languages at Harvard.ANSWER: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow[10] Lowell's most enduring poem may be this 1848 satire, in which Apollo and an American writer assess such contemporary authors as Cooper and Bryant.ANSWER: A Fable for Critics21. Give the numbers of these Louises of France for 10 points each. Note that you will receive actual information about their accomplishments instead of just a list of regnal dates, because this tournament doesn't suck.[10] This leader of the Seventh Crusade died on the later Tunisian crusade and became the only French king to be canonized.ANSWER: Louis the Ninth[10] This "well-beloved" king predicted "After me, the deluge" and took counsel from such mistresses as Vintimille and Pompadour.ANSWER: Louis the Fifteenth[10] The last Louis, he promulgated the Charte Constitutionnelle after returning from exile under Napoleon and worked with prime minister Élie Decazes to oppose the ultras.ANSWER: Louis the Eighteenth22. Name these afflictions for 10 points each.[10] This sexual disorder is defined by love of rubbing a clothed or naked body against another person to achieve sexual gratification.ANSWER: frotteurism[10] Social inhibition, feelings of inadequacy, and extreme sensitivity to negative evaluation characterize this personality disorder. The sufferer thinks of himself as socially inept and personally unappealing, and he steers clear social interaction so he won't be ridiculed or humiliated.ANSWER: avoidant personality disorder[10] Alcohol consumption can lead to this syndrome involving severe amnesia and damage to mamillary bodies and certain brain areas due to thiamine deficiency. ANSWER: Korsakoff's synrome [do not accept Wernicke-Korsakoff]23. Developed independently by William Kelly in the United States, it worked by blowing air into molten iron, oxidizing impurities into slag and keeping the mixture hot. For ten points each:[10] Identify this first method of mass-producing steel.ANSWER: Bessemer process[10] One drawback of the Bessemer process is that small quantities of this element remain in the metal.ANSWER: nitrogen[10] This current method of making steel is also known as the Linz-Donawitz process. It takes its name from the 99% pure gas that is blown through the steel instead of ambient air.ANSWER: basic oxygen process24. Name the following about Rococo architecture, FTPE:[10] The most famous German example of the style is probably this palace with a French name in Potsdam built for Frederick the Great from 1745-47.ANSWER: Sans-Souci[10] Many Italian proponents of rococo were followers of this Italian-Swiss architect whose buildings in Rome include the churches San Carlo of the Four Fountains and Sant'Ivo alla Sapienza.ANSWER: Francesco Borromini[10] Rococo is a late outgrowth of what more generalized movement whose practicioners included Bernini in architecture and Vivaldi and Corelli in music?ANSWER: baroque