ACF Fall 2005Packet by Leo Wolpert1. Two tensors giving the material and nominal stresses are named for Piola and this man, who demonstrated that current moves through conductors at the speed of light. Green's second identity applied to an integral taken over an aperture results in an integral expression of central importance in scalar diffraction theory named for this man and Fresnel. He explained the Fraunhofer by stating that cold, tenuous gases produce absorption patterns that match the emission patterns they would produce if heated. He co-discovered cesium and rubidium using the technique of emission spectroscopy he developed with his partner Bunsen. FTP, name this physicist who enunciated his namesake junction and loop rules of circuit analysis.ANSWER: Gustav Robert Kirchhoff2. At the end of Chapter 27, "Of Crimes, Excuses, and Extenuations," the author compares various crimes against "private men," noting that mutilation of a limb is worse than spoiling a man of his goods. Chapter 16 considers "persons, authors, and things personated," and children, fools, and madmen cannot be authors of their own actions. Chapter 9 offers a table which divides up the "several subjects of knowledge," while other chapters in the first part, "Of Man," deal with sense, imagination, and speech. The fourth and final part considers the "kingdom of darkness," while a commonwealth is the subject of the middle books. FTP, name this book which posits a "war of all against all" in the state of nature, where life is "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short," a work written by Thomas Hobbes.ANSWER: Leviathan, or the Matter, Form, and Power of a Commonwealth Ecclesiastical and Civil3. He used the pseudonym Shubel Morgan when he returned to the state where he had earlier commanded a company in the Wakarusa War. He was frequently assisted by Gerrit Smith, who donated land in North Elba, New York where this man settled his family. After his death, he was compared to Orsini in a famous speech delivered at Cooper Union. He was executed after Governor Wise refused to have him evaluated for insanity, though his actions in the 1850s which gave him the nickname "Old Osawatomie" following a massacre at Potawatomi Creek suggest that he may have been mad. FTP, name this man whose army was put down by a company led by Robert E. Lee after they seized the armory at Harper's Ferry.ANSWER: John Brown4. English author David Garnett claimed this man taught him to sail using a laundry hamper with sails made of sheets. He defended his homeland in the essay "The Crime of Partition," and his ethnicity is shared by the peasant Yanko Goorall, the protagonist of his short story "Amy Foster." Other short stories of his include interactions between whites and "natives," such as "An Outpost of Progress" and "The Lagoon." Despite forays into drama such as Laughing Anne and One More Day, he is best known for novels, such as the story of Heyst and Lena, Victory, the tale of Captain Anthony and Flora, Chance, and the story of Mr. Verloc, The Secret Agent. FTP, name this Polish-born creator of the character Marlow, the author of novels like Nostromo, Lord Jim, and Heart of Darkness.ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Jósef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]5. One of the characters in this novel is finishing a degree in chemistry at USC, and writes a dissertation on "The Problem of Colloids in the Reduction of Low-Grade Gold Ores." Another character once spent a week at Lake Arrowhead with her future step-daughter's mother, who caught pneumonia there. In the final chapter, two of the main characters find themselves together on a ship off the coast of Mexico, and discover from the ship's paper that Nino and Lola were married after they left California. The novel is told in the form of a confession demanded by Mr. Keyes, who also works at General Fidelity with Walter Huff. FTP, name this novel in which Mr. Nirdlinger is murdered and his body thrown on a railroad track to collect on special kind of insurance, a work by James M. Cain.ANSWER: Double Indemnity6. The Kucherov reaction uses it to hydrate acetylenic hydrocarbons in the presence of a boron trifluoride catalyst, and the Jacobsen rearrangement of polymethylbenzenes also makes use of it. With diphenylamine and acetic acid, it helps comprise the Dische reagent, and its reaction with zinc oxide causes the pigment zinc yellow to have that color. Originally produced by burning a certain element with potassium nitrate, one innovative way to manufacture it includes the brainchild of Peregrine Phillips, the contact process. Also known as oil of vitriol, for 10 points name this strong acid found in car batteries with chemical formula H-2-S-O-4.ANSWER: sulfuric acid [or H2SO4 or (oil of) vitriol before mentioned]7. He ordered a woman named Cornificia to be killed after she was caught weeping for this man's dead brother, and the same punishment was given to this man's wife, Publia Flavia Plautilla. This man gained popularity when he marched on foot while touring the German borders with his soldiers, and after a victory over the Agri Decumates he was given the title "Germanicus Maximus." While he was fighting the Parthians in the east, a conspiracy against his life was assembled, and he was killed while preparing to defecate by Julius Martialis, after which the commander of the Praetorian Guard, Macrinus, took power. FTP, name this Roman emperor who was born Lucius Septimius Bassianus, who murdered his brother Geta in 211 to become sole ruler after they succeeded Septimius Severus.ANSWER: Caracalla8. He remarked upon the sin of sloth in the essay "Nearer, My Couch, to Thee" and expounded upon technology in "Is it OK to Be a Luddite?" In one of his short stories, Cleanth Siegel induces Irving Loon to go on a shooting spree by uttering the word "Windigo," and another short story by this man follows Nathan "Lardass" Levine. These stories, "Mortality and Mercy in Vienna" and "The Small Rain," can be found in his 1984 collection Slow Learner, which also features the story "Entropy." The female ninja DL Chastain helps Prairie Wheeler on a quest to find her mother in Vineland, while Reverend Wicks Cherrycoke narrates the story of an astronomer and a surveyor in Mason and Dixon. Best known for characters like Oedipa Maas and Tyrone Slothrop, his most well-known work opens "a screaming comes across the sky." FTP, name this reclusive author of V, The Crying of Lot 49, and Gravity's Rainbow.ANSWER: Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr.9. It suppresses plasma membrane permeability in sufferers of renal Fanconi syndrome, thus reducing nephrotoxicity, and a point mutation in a gene for its receptors causes hereditary hyperplexia. Substitution of it by aspartate in the protein COL2A1 causes cataracts and retinal detachment, and William Stein discovered that potassium trioxalatochromate could be used to identify this precursor of creatine. A co-agonist of glutamate, it is the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the spinal cord, and many molecules of it can be found in collagen helices. For 10 points, name this nonpolar and optically inactive amino acid, which owes its small size to having only a hydrogen atom as its side chain. ANSWER: glycine [or amino acetic acid, aminoethanolic acid, and prompt on "G" or "Gly"]10. One of their great leaders was Winrode of Kniprode. Another was Hermann of Salza, who came to the aid of Conrad of Masowia and established their power in Prussia. Their fortunes declined after Witold of Lithuania and Ladislav of Poland defeated an army led by Ulrich von Jungingen at a battle in Grunwald. The Golden Bull of Rimini in 1226 gave them all lands taken from the Prussians. FTP, name this group which was known as the Order of St. Mary of the Germans when it was founded at Acre in 1190, and which was crippled by a 1410 defeat at Tannenberg.ANSWER: Teutonic Knights11. In Boas' "Laguna Myth," the "co'hona" of Acoma mythology is identified as one of these creatures. Yanomamo mythology tells of a pregnant woman being killed by one of these creatures after urinating on him. The fourth house of Xibalba is guarded by these creatures, and men crossed with them are depicted on the façade of the Olmec temple at La Venta. The Mayans called them Balam, and a horde of them devoured a race of giants at the behest of Tezcatlipoca, who often disguised himself as one. FTP identify this species of big cat native to Central America, the namesake of a luxury car company.ANSWER: Jaguars12. He wrote about how the wedding night of Serafina and Annibale Pistacchio is marred by Enrico's use of the titular object in The Night Bell. He wrote about the title character's love for the count of Chalais, who is killed in a duel by a man who had previously killed the nephew of Richelieu, in Maria di Rohan. In his greatest comic opera, the title character has a fake marriage with Sofronia, who is really Norina in disguise, after which Doctor Malatesta makes things right. He first gained fame with 1830's Anna Bolena, and went on to write operas about Robert Devereux and Lucrezia Borgia. FTP, name this Italian composer of Lucia di Lammemoor, Don Pasquale, and The Daughter of the Regiment.ANSWER: Gaetano Donizetti13. He participates in a 12-year feud after being offended by the sound of singing. His killer boasts of having killed nicors at night, and wears armor fashioned by Wayland the smith. He is immune to ordinary swords, but he is beheaded with the sword of the giants after the death of his mother. He is described as an "etin," a "march-riever," and an "unhallowed wight" in the epic poem in which he appears. He sustains a mortal injury during a wrestling match which shakes the walls of Heorot. FTP, name this descendant of Cain who dies after his arm is wrenched off by Beowulf.ANSWER: Grendel14. It was the subject of a book entitled The Never-Ending Wrong, which appeared 50 years later. It was also the subject of a "critical analysis for lawyers and laymen" by Felix Frankfurter, which concluded that members of the Joe Morelli gang along with Celestino Madeiros were responsible. Frankfurter suggested that those men were responsible for the deaths of Frederick Parmenter and Alessandro Berardelli, who were at a shoe factory in South Braintree that was robbed in 1920. Seven years later, a commission led by Harvard's President Lowell supported the court's finding, and two men were electrocuted. FTP, name this case in which two Italian anarchists were executed even though they had alibis.ANSWER: the Sacco-Vanzetti case or the executions of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti (accept equivalents)15. In 1995, Kazuaki Kuroda raised concerns about the most popular method of measuring this quantity, and in that same year German scientists used a mercury bath to get a surprisingly different value for it. It is replaced by a scalar field determined by the distribution of the universe's mass-energy in Brans-Dicke theory. It is combined with the speed of light and Planck's constant in equations that give the Planck time, length, and mass. First measured with a torsion balance by Henry Cavendish, FTP name this constant of proportionality found in an inverse-square law posited by Sir Isaac Newton, which represents the intrinsic strength of the weakest fundamental force.ANSWER: universal gravitational constant [or (upper-case) G]16. One of his colleagues is outraged upon realizing that this man shares his love of Nike Shox shoes, and he asks another friend for a 5000 dollar loan he doesn't need for a used motorcycle. He willingly breaks his pinky with a paperweight in an attempt to win a bet with his boss, whose home he enters unlawfully in search of mold. His nemesis is Edward Vogler, a billionaire donor that consistently tries to get him fired. His wife, a constitutional lawyer, left him due to his refusal of a course of medical treatment for an infarction in his thigh, a condition that caused his vicodin addiction and need for a cane. FTP name this head of diagnostic medicine at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital, played by Hugh Laurie on a Fox show bearing his name.ANSWER: Gregory House, M.D.17. In a letter to the Reverend Samuel Occom, this figure strongly condemned slavery, comparing ministers who held slaves to the Ancient Egyptians. This author also wrote of a desire to "surpass the wind, and leave the rolling universe behind," implying that the titular figure has "pinions" in the poem "On Imagination." Imagination is further glorified in a poem addressed to the painter Scipio Moorhead, but this poet took on a more overtly political tone in poems like "On the Death of Mr. Snider Murder'd by Richardson" and "To his Excellency General Washington." In a better known work, this poet asks "Christians" to remember that Africans can "join the angelic train," though her conversion to Christianity did not spare her a life of poverty and bondage in Boston. FTP name this poet who wrote the collection Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral, and also wrote of her own experiences in "On Being Brought from Africa to America."ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley18. Some groups break these up into 30 equal parts known as "juz," in which one of them is assigned to each day of the lunar month. About a quarter of them are preceded by "fawatih," or detached letters whose purpose is obscure. The first and most important of them is the "fatiha," or "opening," which is used as a devotional prayer. Traditionally, each begins with either the word "Madaniya" or "Makkiyah," indicating its city of origin. The ninth is the only one which does not begin with the "basmala," but each of them consists of numbered "ayas" in prose. FTP, name this collection of 114 writings, which are revelations disclosed by Allah to Muhammad and constitute the chapters of the Qur'an.ANSWER: suras19. Members of this group of framework minerals include the two-phase intermixture perthite and microcline. Like halite and the pyroxenes, they exhibit two cleavages separated by about 90 degrees. One of the two major subgroups of these aluminosilicate minerals forms a continuous solid solution series with endmembers anorthite and albite, corresponding to calcium and sodium cations, respectively. Granite commonly contains large quantities of these minerals, which have a Mohs hardness of 6. FTP, name this group of minerals which includes orthoclase and plagioclase.ANSWER: feldspars20. He took his first important post after his older half-brother Yilma died. He was named heir to the throne after a man named Iyasu converted to Islam, after which Iyasu's aunt was named Empress Zauditu. When his country was invaded by a European power, he made his headquarters at Desse, but after losing a battle at Maychew he was forced to flee. He was restored to power by the British in 1941, and would later be temporarily ousted by a 1960 coup before finally being deposed in 1974 led by the Dergue. FTPE, name this cousin of Menelik II who in 1930 became emperor of Ethiopia.ANSWER: Haile Selassie I (accept Lij Tafari Makonnen)21. He aroused controversy by depicting a chamber pot and a pair of slippers in a painting which shows a woman with her legs crossed removing a red sock, The Toilet. An old woman offers Joseph a bowl of eggs in his Adoration of the Shepherds, while an ugly child holding a statuette and a pail looks at her grandmother in his The Feast of Saint Nicholas. A lute hangs behind the bed on which the title character's head rests while a doctor takes her pulse in his The Sick Lady, while the artist included a self-portrait as a man playing the bagpipes in a 1668 work, The Merry Family. 	ANSWER: Jan Steen22. Much of the basis for it was first postulated by Gorter and Grendel, although their work was later modified by Danielli, Davson, and Robertson. Caveolae and certain kinds of "rafts" belie its name, as these are more cohesive regions unable to diffuse as freely. A central point of it is that proteins can move laterally, and it divides proteins into the categories of integral and peripheral, or intrinsic and extrinsic. Proposed by Singer and Nicolson in 1972, it describes the matrix and two-dimensional solvent nature of the phospholipid bilayer. FTP, name this currently-accepted model of the cell membrane, named for the liquid-like movement of the lipids within it. ANSWER: fluid mosaic model
1. Name these figures from the French Revolution, FTPE:[10] He assumed the pseudonym "Father Duchesne" as a satirical journalist representing the sans-culottes, but in 1794 he and 17 of his followers were executed after trying to drum up a populist rebellion.ANSWER: Jacques Hébert[10] This lawyer was known as the "Incorruptible" before he introduced the Reign of Terror, and like Hébert he was executed in 1794.ANSWER: Maximilien Robespierre[10] This founder of the newspaper The Friend of the People was a leader of the Mountain before being stabbed in his bathtub.ANSWER: Jean Paul Marat2. Answer the following related to protein structure, FTPE.[10] The secondary structure of an amino acid usually takes the form of a beta-sheet or this right-handed object which makes a turn for every 3.6 amino acids.ANSWER: alpha helix (prompt on "helix")[10] An alpha helix has a phi value of negative 57 degrees and a psi value of -47 degrees. This relationship can be drawn on this kind of plot, which incorporates both dihedral and torsion angles.ANSWER: Ramachandran diagram[10] This imino [eye-MEE-no] acid's inclusion in a polypeptide often results in kinks in either the alpha helix or the beta-pleated sheet.ANSWER: proline3. Answer these questions about the life and work of British author Thomas Love Peacock, FTPE:[10] Peacock married Jane Gryffydh, who is featured in this poet's "Letter to Maria Gisborne," and this poet of "Adonais" wrote his "Defense of Poetry" in response to Peacock's "Four Ages of Poetry."ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley[10] Shelley is satirized as Scythrop Glowry in Peacock's novel Nightmare Abbey, in which this poet of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Beppo is portrayed as Mr. Cypress.ANSWER: George Gordon, Lord Byron[10] This man wrote the sonnet sequence Modern Love about his marriage with Peacock's oldest daughter. His other works include the novel The Egoist.ANSWER: George Meredith4. This lucky god spent lots of time working with the sexy, panther skin-clad librarian goddess Seshat. FTPE:[10] Name this ibis-headed Egyptian god of wisdom who invented language.ANSWER: Thoth or Djeheuty[10] Thoth mediated between Horus and this god, Horus's uncle.ANSWER: Seth[10] In one story, Thoth has to ask 1,077 times to persuade this god's Eye to return. His Eye was sometimes identified as Sekhmet or Hathor, and was credited with protecting him from Apep.ANSWER: Ra5. On July 10, 1754, it approved a Plan of Union created by its best-known delegate. FTPE:[10] Name this meeting, which called for a union of the colonies to be headed by a President General and a Grand Council.ANSWER: the Albany Congress (accept alternatives for "Congress")[10] This Pennsylvanian created the Plan of Union that was approved at the Albany Congress. At the time, he was serving as Postmaster General for the colonies.ANSWER: Benjamin Franklin[10] The Plan of Union agreed upon at the Congress excluded Georgia and this northern colony from the union.ANSWER: Nova Scotia6. Pulsations in these objects are governed by the kappa mechanism. FTPE:[10] Name these pulsating stars whose period-luminosity relationship, discovered by Henrietta Leavitt, allows them to be used as standard candles.ANSWER: classical Cepheid variables[10] The kappa mechanism involves changes in the opacity of the atmosphere of Cepheids due to changes in the ionization state of this element. The nuclei of its most common isotope are fused in old, high-mass stars in the triple alpha process.ANSWER: helium-4[10] Most of the Cepheid variables studied by Henrietta Leavitt were found in the smaller of this pair of irregular satellite galaxies visible in the Southern Hemisphere.ANSWER: Magellanic Clouds7. He was the leading portrait painter in Florence in the 1540s, and his subjects included Lorenzo Lenzi, a "man with a lute," and Andria Doria as Neptune. FTP each:[10] Name this artist, a student of Pontormo who also painted the Holy Family with Saint John.ANSWER: Agnolo Bronzino[10] In 1539, Bronzino became court artist to this powerful duke. His portraits of his patron show him "in armor," "at age 36," and "as Orpheus."ANSWER: Cosimo de Medici[10] Bronzino is best known for this allegorical painting, which he finished around 1545. One of the title figures grasps the breast of one of the other title figures, while a third of the title figures holds his arm over them.ANSWER: Venus, Cupid, Folly and Time8. Name these ancient schools of philosophy, FTPE:[10] Followers of the school located here, which was headed by Theophrastus following the death of Aristotle, were also known as Peripatetics.ANSWER: the Lyceum[10] Leadership of this school was assumed by Speusippus after his uncle's death in 347 BC, while its later leaders include Xenocrates and Polemon.ANSWER: the Academy[10] This philosophical movement was centered in a "Garden" outside the walls of Athens. Its early leaders include its namesake founder and a group of his colleagues known as "the Men," who included Hermarchus.ANSWER: Epicureanism9. Name these blood vessels for 10 points each.[10] Formed from the left and right brachiocephalic veins, deoxygenated blood passes through this short vessel into the right atrium of the heart.ANSWER: superior vena cava (prompt on "vena cava")[10] These two arteries are the major arteries of the head and neck. They are felt when taking a pulse from the neck.ANSWER: carotid arteries[10] These are the only veins which carry oxygenated blood to the heart.ANSWER: pulmonary veins10. It was disrupted by the Rebellion of the Three Feudatories, which caused problems for a ruler named Kangxi. FTPE:[10] Name this Chinese dynasty, which took power in 1644.ANSWER: the Qing or Ching or Manchu[10] This rebellion against the Manchu broke out in 1796. It was led by the namesake society, which thought the Buddha was coming soon.ANSWER: the White Lotus Rebellion[10] This boy emperor was the last ruler of the Qing Dynasty, and under the name Kang Teh he would become the first ruler of the Japanese puppet state Manchukuo.ANSWER: P'u-yi or Puyi or Henry Puyi11. At the opening of Act 3, scene 5, the title character quotes The Odyssey, the prophet Ezekiel, and Merslakow's History of Russian Literature in defense of his uncertainty. FTP each:[10] Name this "tragedy in three acts" from 1887, whose title character is a man named Adolf.ANSWER: The Father[10] This gloomy Swedish dramatist wrote The Father.ANSWER: August Strindberg[10] The Father revolves around the battle of wits between Captain Adolf and this woman, his wife, over the fate of their daughter Bertha. The Captain loses the battle.ANSWER: Laura12. He advanced a theory of "autonomous art" in such works as Aesthetic Theory, while he wrote about the "ontological need" in his 1966 book Negative Dialectics. FTPE:[10] Name this German thinker, who may be better-known for a collaboration with Max Horkheimer.ANSWER: Theodor Adorno[10] The major work by Adorno and Horkheimer is a 1944 book which offers a "dialectic" of this concept. This term names an 18th-century intellectual movement associated with such thinkers as Voltaire.ANSWER: enlightenment[10] Adorno and Horkheimer were both members of this school, which was founded in its namesake German city in 1929 and whose later members include Jurgen Habermas.ANSWER: Frankfurt School13. This Hohenstaufen ruler succeeded his uncle Conrad III in 1152. FTPE:[10] Name this Holy Roman Emperor, who lost a major battle at Legnano in 1176.ANSWER: Frederick I or Frederick Barbarossa[10] At Legnano, Frederick Barbarossa was defeated by this league of northern Italian cities. As its name suggests, it was located in a region of Italy whose major modern city is Milan.ANSWER: the Lombard League (prompt on "Lombardy")[10] Frederick Barbarossa led the Third Crusade against this Sultan who founded the Ayyubid Dynasty.ANSWER: Saladin or Salah al-Din Yusuf ibn Ayyub14. Answer these questions about an N-body approximation algorithm, the Barnes-Hut algorithm, for 10 points each.[10] The Barnes-Hut algorithm utilizes this type of data structure, in which any two vertices are connected by exactly one path. Examples of them include the AVL and "binary search" varieties.ANSWER: trees[10] Given n inputs, the Barnes-Hut algorithm runs in this big-O time complexity, which is equal to the average case time complexity of Quickstort or n objects.ANSWER: O(n log n) ["big oh of n (times the) logarithm of n)[10] This method of simulation, in which a large number of random samples are used to approximate solutions, can also be used to solve the n-body problem.ANSWER: Monte Carlo15. Name these female Trojans, or allies of the Trojans, FTPE.[10] This daughter of Priam was given the gift of prophecy by Apollo, but when she refused to sleep with him, he made it so no one ever believed her predictions. ANSWER: Cassandra[10] This wife of Priam was the mother of Cassandra, Hector, and Paris. According to some stories, she turned into a female dog after the fall of Troy.ANSWER: Hecuba or Hecabe[10] This leader of the Amazons was killed by Achilles, who fell in love with her as she died. Thersites then accused Achilles of necrophilia.ANSWER: Penthesilea16. Name these fundamental constants of physics, for ten points each:[10] The square of this quantity appears as the proportionality constant in Einstein's mass-energy equivalence equation. It is approximately equal to 300 million meters per second.ANSWER: speed of light in vacuum (prompt on c)[10] Action is quantized in units of this constant, or this constant over 2 pi. The energy of a photon is given by this constant times the photon's frequency.ANSWER: Planck's constant (prompt on h, do not accept h-bar)[10] This constant is equal to Faraday's constant over Avogadro's number. Its value was measured in the Millikan oil-drop experiment.ANSWER: electron charge or fundamental charge17. Answer these questions about the Spanish-American War, FTPE:[10] On May 1, 1898, an American fleet led by George Dewey scored a major victory at this battle, where a Spanish fleet lying outside Cavite Point was destroyed.ANSWER: Manila Bay[10] Exactly two months after Manila Bay, American troops fought battles at El Caney and at this other site in Cuba, where the Rough Riders seized the heights above Santiago.ANSWER: San Juan Hill[10] In December, the Spaniards threw in the towel and negotiated this peace treaty ending the war. It ceded Manila and Cuba to the U.S.ANSWER: the Treaty of Paris18. Subtitled "Natural and Social History of a family under the Second Empire," the first book in the series appeared in 1871. FTP each:[10] Name this sequence of twenty novels, which includes The Dream and The Earth.ANSWER: the Rougon-Macquart cycle[10] This French author of Germinal wrote the Rougon-Macquart novels.ANSWER: Emile Zola[10] This novel, which centers on the murder of President Grandmourin by the Roubauds aboard a train, is the seventeenth of the Rougon-Macquart novels.ANSWER: La Bête Humaine (or: The Human Beast)19. He essentially stopped composing in 1931, and for the next 26 years before his death mostly revised earlier works, like the Andante festivo. FTP each:[10] Name this composer, who burned the manuscript of his Eighth Symphony during his so-called "silence from Jarvenpaa."ANSWER: Jean Sibelius[10] The slow movement of this 1901 Sibelius work depicts the land of death from the Kalevala, while its last movement depicts the title character's return to his home districts.ANSWER: the Lemminkainen Suite[10] This composition in D minor premiered in 1904, but after it was criticized by Karl Flodin Sibelius released a revised version, which was first performed in 1905 with Karel Halir as the soloist.ANSWER: the Violin Concerto in D minor20. Answer the following about a form of spectroscopy, FTPE.[10] Based on the vibrational frequencies of certain atoms, in this type of spectroscopy a beam of monochromatic light is passed through a sample and its level of absorption is noted in terms of inverse centimeters.ANSWER: infrared[10] On an IR spectrum, a sharp peak of medium strength around 1650 to 1750 inverse centimeters corresponds to this functional group.ANSWER: carbonyl group[10] .A broad and very strong peak of around 3200-3300 inverse centimeters corresponds to this functional group, found in alcohols and carboxylic acids.ANSWER: hydroxyl (do not accept "alcohol")21. The title character settles down after marrying the divorced countess Elixabeth. FTP each: [10] Name this 1891 novel, which was written by an author who ten years later published a story collection about the Ingmar family.ANSWER: Gösta Berlings Saga[10] This Swedsh author, the first woman to win the Nobel Prize for literature, wrote Gösta Berlings Saga and Jerusalem.ANSWER: Selma Lagerlöf[10] Lagerlöf's other novels includes a two volume work about this boy, who has wonderful adventures in Sweden with the help of his faithful goose.ANSWER: Nils