Auspicious Incident (Extra) Packet #151. Their namesake movement took on a different form in the early 20th-century with the formation, in 1918, of the Traditionalist Party.  Despite the nomination of Francis Xavier of Bourbon-Parma, its line died out in 1936.  They grew out of paramilitary Royalist Volunteers and the clerical apostolico movement, but only became political upon the issuance of the Pragmatic Sanction of Ferdinand VII.  Thus, they invoked the Salic Law to forbid the accession of Isabella.  FTP, name this group that fought namesake wars in the 1830s and 1840s in Spain.	Answer: Carlists2. The subdivisions of its two parts were accompanied by more extensive programs describing the metaphorical musical content of each movement.  Originally conceived as a tone poem, the composer kept the designations of "The Human Comedy" and "From the Days of Youth," for its two divisions.  Loosely based on a Jean Paul novel that gives this work its nickname, its current form does not contain the original "Blumine" second movement.  FTP, name this symphony in D major by Gustav Mahler, commonly referred to as "Titan."	Answer: Mahler's First Symphony in D major (do not need Mahler after his name is mentioned; accept early buzz of Titan)3. In Wordsworth's "Scorn Not the Sonnet," this writer uses scorn to sooth "an exile's grief."  His Filodemo was a morality play, while his King Seleucas and The Two Amphitryons were adaptations of Plutarch and Plautus.  In the 19th-century Wilhelm Storck established the authenticity of most of the poems in this man's first edition of Rimas as well as his native lyrics, including motos, redondilhas, and cancoes.  He's best-known for a work dedicated to King Sebastian in 10 cantos of ottava rima and which was published in 1572.  FTP, name this writer who chronicled Vasco da Gama's journey in the national epic of Portugal, The Lusiads.	Answer: Luis Vaz de Camoes4. It is composed of three main sections, one of which, the scala vestibuli is connected to another by the helicotrema.  The first two sections are filled with a fluid called perilymph, while the scala media contains endolymph.  The organ of Corti lies on the inside of the scala media, and this is where the stereocilia come into contact with the tectorial membrane.  FTP, name this sensory organ that converts sound energy into nerve impulses and which lies in the ear and is shaped like a snail.       Answer: cochlea5. When the horses of Teyrnon disappeared, this hero caught the thief cut his arm off. The foals were found outside the stable, as was his son who had been missing for seven years. Earlier, this lord had hunted a strange pack of white hounds with red ears that belonged to the King of the Underworld, who punished him by switching places with him for one year. After he proved his worthiness by refusing to sleep with the Queen, he slew Hafgan, thus insuring his friendship with Arawn. The owner of a magic cauldron, he outfoxed his rival Gwawl and married the golden daughter of Heyfedd the Old, who bore him the son Pryderi. FTP identify this King of Dyfed, a Welsh mythological figure, perhaps best known for romancing Rhiannon.       Answer: Pwyll6. Its namesake Preservation Act of 2000 was passed to ensure that its records were properly maintained.  George Bentley wrote the definitive history of it, while Eric Foner championed the now widely accepted notion that it was largely ineffective.  W.E.B. Dubois, in his namesake essay about it, criticizes the corruptness of its ten commissioners and the excessive kindness of its first leader, Oliver Otis Howard.  Established under the aegis of the War Department in 1865, FTP, name this agency that oversaw all aspects of refugees and emancipated slaves in Reconstruction states.	Answer: Freedmen's Bureau or Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands7.In the introductory lines of its fourth part, the author claims to "traverse the distant haunts of the Pierides, never trodden before by the foot of man."  In its first section, the author denies gravity, by offering the example of a thrown dart that will not fall down.  The final section, after continuing the explanation of thunder, lightning, and earthquakes, gives a vivid description of the plague of Athens.  Books three and five are preceded by eulogies to Epicurus, while the first two books outline the laws of Democritus' atomic theory.  FTP, name this first century BC didactic poem by Lucretius.	Answer: De rerum natura or On the Nature of Things8. Its title character's ambivalence is represented by a medallion that he wears.  On one side is a symbol of his being property of the state, from his time as a slave in the mines; and the other side contains a religious symbol he is initially unwilling to confront.  His struggle climaxes with his taking up a brand to help burn Rome, and in this short novel's final scene, he is crucified along with Peter and other Christians.  Inspired by a scene from Matthew, Chapter 27, Verses 17 through 21, it led to its author's 1951 Nobel.  FTP, name this Par Lagerkvist novel about the titular thief who is spared at the expense of Jesus' life.       Answer: Barabbas9. In this system, the number of members of each group can be one of four numbers, the lowest being 1 and the highest being 27.  Also known as the SU-3, one of the two people to propose it was physicist Yuval Ne'eman.  It was validated in 1964, as the discovery of the heavy omega-minus particle completed one of its groups, and the physical basis for it was established when Murray Gell-Mann proposed the concept of quarks.  FTP, identify this classification system of subatomic particles that takes its name from a Buddhist doctrine.       Answer:	Eightfold Way  (accept early SU-3, do not accept "Eightfold Path")10. This movie features one of Harrison Ford's rare bad guy roles, as the chief assistant to a powerful executive played by Robert Duvall.  Frederic Forrest and Cindy Williams play a couple who seem to be afraid for their lives, which are presumably being threatened by Duvall's character, who is Williams' jealous husband.  John Cazale plays the cynical assistant of the main character, a surveillance expert played by Gene Hackman.  FTP, name this 1974suspense film directed by Francis Ford Coppola.       Answer: The Conversation11. The early history of this island is that of the Srivijaya kingdom, who ruled until the rise of the Majapahit kingdom, which fell to the Portuguese in the 16th century. Ethnic groups include the Achinese in the northwest, the Batak in the area near Lake Toba, and the largest group, the Minangkabau, in the Padang Highlands. Principal cities include Medan and Patembang, and the Barisan Mountains reach heights of 12,000 feet at Mount Kerinci. FTP, identify this island of the Greater Sunda chain, separated from Malay by the Strait of Malacca and from Java by the Sunda Strait, the second-largest island of Indonesia.       Answer: Sumatra12. In its third stanza the poet uses the noun "pern," relating to a weaver's spool, as a verb.  Its title location is explained by the poet in his A Vision to be "an exemplar of a civilization that had achieved 'Unity of Being.'"  The poet asks the "sages standing in God's holy fire" to be "the singing-masters of" his soul; and concludes by saying that he will "set upon a golden bough to sing / To lords and ladies of" the title locale "Of what is past, or passing, or to come."  It claims that "An aged man is but a paltry thing," and begins "That is no country for old men."  FTP, name this William Butler Yeats poem about the possibility of traveling to the ideal title city.	Answer: "Sailing to Byzantium"13. After graduating from Columbia law school, he would return to teach there in 1899, and eleven years later he would become dean of the law school.  This led to Coolidge's appointment of him as attorney general, a post he used to reorganize the FBI in the wake of its poor reputation from the Teapot Dome scandal.  The next year, he became an associate justice and, along with Holmes and Brandeis, became known as one of the "three great dissenters."  FTP, name this man who, in 1941, succeeded Charles Evans Hughes as Supreme Court chief justice.	Answer: Harlan Fiske Stone14. In his most famous work, he explains his debts to the neo-Kantians Octave Hamelin and Charles Renouvier.  Henri Bergson often told the story that "When we told him the facts were in contradiction with his theories," he would reply, "the facts are wrong."  He outlined the difference between naturism, totemism, and animism in his attempt to explain the most primitive religion known to man, and dismissed defined religion scientifically according to his stated The Rules of the Sociologic Method.  FTP, name this author of The Division of Labor in Society, The Elementary Forms of Religious Life, and Suicide.	Answer: Emile Durkheim15. The integral formulation for this function was worked out by Schlafli in the mid-18th century.  In modern applications, it shows up most often in the integration of distribution functions since its integrand involves a power law and an exponential.  FTP, name this function, also known as Euler's integral of the second kind and the means by which one can calculate fractional factorials.Answer:	Gamma function  (accept Euler's Integral of the Second Kind on early buzz)16. In the final section one of this work's central characters has committed to going to Cape Town aboard the Londonderry.  In Act II we meet the title character's future spouse, thanks to the Simeon Winthrop coming to the rescue.  In Act II, we meet Marthy Owen, the companion of a man who says "Skoal" before he drinks, speaks with a heavy Swedish accent, and who is the father of the title character.  We learn that the title character was living with relatives in Minnesota and briefly worked as a prostitute, much to the chagrin of Mat Burke.  FTP, name this Eugene O'Neill play about the titular daughter of Chris Christopherson.	Answer: Anna Christie17. Kees van Dongen was a member of this movement, though his subjects were often parodies of uppercrust society.  Othon Friesz was an early convert to it, and later members included Charles Camoin, Jean Puy, and Henry Manguin.  Albert Marquet was a participant and a fellow student of its founder, who initiated this movement with his Woman With a Hat.  Raoul Dufy brought ornamentation to it, unlike the more traditional works of Andre Derain and Maurice Vlaminck.  FTP, name this art movement named by Louis Vauxcelles in 1905 after he observed the vivid colors in an Henri Matisse painting.	Answer: Fauvism or Fauves18. He began the tradition of singing Kume songs to inspire his soldiers.  His historical significance was only given native credence in 1890 when the government erected a prayer site at his supposed burial site of Unebi.  After leading his people over Ikoma, he led his Hyuga clansmen into complete subjugation of the Yamato country.  Supposedly a descendant of Ninigi, he was only given his ruling name of Tenno posthumously.  FTP, name this descendant of Amaterasu, the semi-legendary first emperor of Japan.	Answer: Jimmu Tenno (prompt on "Tenno")19. At this novel's end the protagonist tries to reach into the fire to grab the incriminating evidence he just tossed, but it is too late.  The action quickens during a performance of Don Giovanni when two men, one of whom is Stanislas Kapp, agree to a duel as a result of conflict over the greedy Noemie Nioche.  Shortly afterwards, the title character learns that Lord Deepmeere is intended for his love and then employs Mrs. Bread in the hopes of blackmailing the Bellegardes into compliance.  However, Claire de Cintre retires to a convent instead of marrying Christopher Newman in, FTP, what Henry James novel?	Answer: The American20. It emits a crackling sound when bent, and when vaporized at its relatively low boiling point, the vapor is a deep yellow color and monatomic. Discovered by Friedrich Stromeyer in a sample of zinc carbonate during an experiment on its pharmaceutical properties, most of the industrial samples are collected from the fumes leaving lead blast furnaces. Its sulfide is used in the production of yellow paint, and in the electroplating of steel to prevent corrosion. Often used in its elemental form in battery anodes, this is, FTP, what element, most often associated with the control rods of a nuclear reactor? 	Answer: Cadmium Bonuses:1. Name these thinkers who revived or established the reputations of more famous men, FTP each:A. The famous first chapter of this man's The Historical Novel revived the reputation of Sir Walter Scott and largely established the foundation for modern Scott criticism, which is chiefly focused on historicism in Scott's novels.	Answer: Gyorgy LukacsB. Although this philosopher's rep. was not revived by Heidegger's dissertation on him, he did write some exciting works like his commentaries on Aristotle's Categories and his Quodlibetales Questions.	Answer: Duns ScotusC. This author of The Structure of Social Action introduced Max Weber to the American public, translating The Protestant Ethic into English in 1930.	Answer: Talcott Parsons2. Name these stories from Dubliners, FTP each:A. In this first story in the collection, a young boy must deal with death for the first time when his friend, Father Flynn, dies of a stroke.	Answer: "The Sisters"B. It is only after the Morkan's Christmas dance that Gabriel Conroy learns the tale of young Michael Furey from his wife Greta in this work.	Answer: "The Dead"C. Mrs. Kearney's arguments with Hoppy Holohan over payment for a piano concert provide the climax of this tale.	Answer: "A Mother"3. Answer the following about aluminum, FTP each:A. In this process, bauxite ore is washed with a solution of sodium hydroxide, which forms a precipitate of aluminum hydroxide. Then the hydroxide is heated to form alumina.       Answer: Bayer processB. Next, in this process, the alumina is electrolyzed and carbon dioxide appears at the anode, while liquid aluminum appears at the cathode.    Answer: Hall-Heroult processC. In the Hall-Heroult process, the alumina created from the Bayer process is first dissolved in a carbon-lined bath containing this mineral in its molten form.Answer: cryolite4. Name these things related to an organization, FTP each:A. Established in 1914, this group of German socialists was led by such figures as Karl Liebnecht, Rosa Luxemburg, Clara Zetkin, and Franz Mehring.	Answer: Spartacus League or Spartacusbund or SpartacistsB. In the beginning of 1919 the Spartacists started a rebellion that was quickly crushed when this new chancellor of Germany called in the army and the Freikorps.	Answer: Friedrich EbertC. Frederich Ebert had been appointed chancellor by this man, his predecessor.  This man freed Liebnecht and Luxemburg when he granted an amnesty to all political prisoners in 1918.	Answer: Max von Baden5. Identify these mountains of North America, FTPE:(10) Located in Yancey County about 20 miles west of Asheville, this peak in the Black Mountains chain is the highest east of the Mississippi River.       Answer: Mt. Mitchell(10) This mountain located in the White River National Forest, a member of the Sawatch Range, is the highest peak in Colorado and in the American portion of the Rocky Mountains.       Answer: Mt. Elbert(10) This was the first peak to be included in the Catskill Forest Preserve and at 4,180 feet is the highest mountain in the Catskills.       Answer: Slide Mountain6. Name these Honore de Balzac novels, FTP each:A. It begins with a brief discussion of the rise of the small-minded printer Sechard before introducing the protagonist, Lucien Chardou, who becomes the best friend of Sechard's son, David.  Lucien's rise and fall in Paris is the primary focus of this best of Balzac's novels.	Answer: Lost IllusionsB. Lucien Chardou's tale is continued in this sequel to Lost Illusions, though the true central figure is Lucien's "mentor," Father Carlos Herrera.  You might know Herrera better as Vautrin, the Cheat-Death of Pere Goriot.	Answer: A Harlot High and Low or Splendors and Miseries or Splendeures et Miseres Des CourtisanesC. Its fantastic beginning is the sexual blackmail proposed by Crevel to gain revenge on Baron Hulot, who slept with Crevel's mistress.  The title character is an ugly and jealous relative of Baroness Hulot.	Answer: Cousine Bette7. Name these wives of Muhammad, FTP each:A. His first wife was this wealthy widow, approximately fifteen years older than him.  While she lived he practiced monogamy.	Answer: Khadija B. Muhammad was the subject of scandal when he married this woman, who had been married to his adopted son Zayd.  Zayd divorced her to make the way clear for Muhammad.	Answer: ZaynabC. She was Muhammad's third wife, his youngest, probably his favorite, and the daughter of Abu Bakr.	Answer: A'isha8. Name these things about particular effect from optics:A. For 5 points, This effect occurs when light waves interfere with themselves after colliding or being deflected by objects.	Answer: diffractionB. For 5 points for one and 15 for both, Name the two types of diffraction.  One involves coherent plane waves upon obstruction by an object, and the other relates plane waves as they emanate from a source.	Answer: Fraunhoffer and Fresnel diffractionC. For 10 points, This curve quantitatively defines Fresnel diffraction by plotting the solutions to the Fresnel integrals.	Answer: Cornu Spiral 9. Name these things relating to Bela Bartok works, FTP each:A. His only opera was this one based on an old French legend about the title figure and his method for choosing wives.	Answer: Duke Bluebeard's CastleB. The first 66 pieces of this set of 153 progressive pieces for piano are dedicated to Bartok's son, Peter.	Answer: MikrokosmosC. The Miraculous Mandarin is Bartok's most famous foray into this musical form.	Answer: ballet10. Name these things from the French wars of Religion in the 16th-century, FTP each:A. The first three civil wars were ended in 1570 with the signing of this agreement, which gave the Protestants new liberties and the wardenship of four cities, including La Rochelle.	Answer: Treaty of Saint-GermainB. The final civil war was this one waged from 1585 to 1589 and named for the number of participants involved.	Answer: War of the Three Henrys (accept variants as long as it has these two words)C. Other than Henry III and Henry IV, name the third Henry in the War of the Three Henrys.	Answer: Henri, duc de Guise or Henri de Guise11. Name these characters from the Aeneid:A. For 5 points, This queen of Carthage kills herself upon Aeneas' departure.	Answer: DidoB. For 5 points, This leader of the Rutuli is Aeneas' main foil in the epic and a suitor of Lavinia.	Answer: TurnusC. For 10 points, This queen of Italy and wife of Latinus would prefer that Lavinia marry Turnus.	Answer: AmataD. For 10 points, The murder of this son of Evander at Turnus' hands causes Aeneas to fly into a rage.	Answer: Pallas12. Identify the following relating to egg maturation, FTP each:A. This is the fluid-filled cavity that surrounds and protects the developing egg cell in the ovary of a mammal.  It arises from many antral varieties of its own kind.Answer: Graafian follicle (prompt on "follicle" or "ovarian follicle")B. This is the yellowish mass of tissue that forms in the cavity of a Graafian follicle after the release of the egg cell from the ovary.Answer: corpus luteumC. In vertebrates the ovarian follicle is surrounded by this sheath composed of concentric stromal cell layers termed the externa and interna.	Answer: theca13. Name these Restoration plays, FTP each:A. John Dryden is skewered as Bayes, who has authored a new play, and flops around planning its performance in this very amusing comedy by George Villiers, Second Duke of Buckingham.	Answer: The RehearsalB. Aimwell finally gets Dorinda and Archer nets a rich divorcee in this late Restoration comedy by George Farquhar.	Answer: The Beaux' StratagemC. John Dryden made several changes in this adaptation of a Shakespearean work.  He set the action solely in Alexandria, cut out Enobarbus entirely, and greatly expanded Ventidius' role.	Answer: All for Love14. Name these related painters, FTP each:A. The most celebrated of a family of three generations of a family of painters from Dordrecht, this man's masterful landscapes include 1660's The Maas at Dordrecht.	Answer: Aelbert Cuyp [KIPE] (prompt on just last name)B. Thomas Gainsborough was a big fan of this landscapist, who happened to work as a wine gauger with the Amsterdam customs service.  His major work is 1689's The Avenue at Middelharnis.	Answer: Meindert HobbemaC. Meindert Hobbema was the only notable pupil of this greatest Dutch landscapist, whose best-known painting is The Jewish Cemetery.	Answer: Jacob van Ruisdael15. Name the primeval gods of these religions, FTP each:A. This Mayan deity has a name meaning "feathered serpent," and sure enough the Aztecs merged him with Quetzalcoatl.  He governed the four elements, created the Mayan race, and was the god of reincarnation as well.	Answer: Kukulcan or KukumatzB. This Yoruba deity is the ruler of the sky and father of the gods.  In other related traditions he is referred to as Ogus or Yansan.  He is the father of Obatala and is not to be confused with Olodumare, who is actually more of a creative force.	Answer: OlorunC. This primeval god of Norse myth was created from the salt blocks of Ginnungagap as Audhumla licked them.  He is the grandfather of Ve, Vili, and Odin.	Answer: Buri16. Name these men from the era of Justinian, FTP each:A. In his Buildings this one-time secretary of Belisarius panegyrizes Justinian, yet in his Secret History he paints a wholly unfavorable portrait of the emperor.	Answer: ProcopiusB. This pagan scholar headed the commission that drew up the majority of the Codex, Digest, and Institutes, which constitute three-quarters of the Corpus Juris Civilis, Justinian's famed law code.	Answer: TribonianC. Justinian was greatly troubled by this Ostrogoth king, who twice recaptured Rome before finally being crushed by Narses at Taginae, where he was left dead on the field.	Answer: Totila17. Name these things related to Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, FTP each:A. NMR uses giant magnets to align isotopes of elements in one direction.  These atoms flip their alignment when they absorb from this segment of the electromagnetic spectrum.  	Answer: radioB. How much energy is absorbed by different types of energies causes this change in an NMR spectrum to the left.	Answer: chemical shiftC. Other atoms directly bonded to the atom under study can also affect energy absorption levels, causing the number of peaks to increase around a single area.  Name this phenomenon.	Answer: spin-spin splitting18. Name these 20th-century linguists, FTP each:A. This author of Preliminaries to Speech Analysis was the primary founder of the structuralist Prague School of linguistics.	Answer: Roman JakobsonB. This founder of transformational-generative grammar set out his theories in 1957's Syntactic Structures.	Answer: Noam ChomskyC. Chomsky studied under this structuralist at the University of Pennsylvania.  His primary work is related in 1951's Methods in Structural Linguistics.	Answer: Zellig S. Harris19. Identify the following about the Watergate Scandal, FTPE:1.This powerful White House Chief of Staff under Nixon resigned under the pressure of the scandal on April 30, 1973.       Answer: H.R. Haldeman2.This relatively obscure Presidential aide made one of the most important revelations of the entire Senate investigation when he revealed in July of 1973 that Nixon had tape-recorded his meetings in the White House.       Answer: Alexander Butterfield3.One of the first solid pieces of evidence linking the Watergate breakin to the administration was the fact that a check to the burglars had been made out to this man, the head of Nixon's Midwest election campaign in 1968.       Answer: Kenneth Dahlberg20. Name these things relating to experimental novels, FTP each:A. This Vikram Seth work is written entirely in sonnets and maintains a surprisingly fluid plot.	Answer: The Golden GateB. Frederic Jameson wrote a mildly interesting article on "The Experimental Novels of . . ." this author, best known for his dreary New Grub Street.	Answer: George GissingC. James Branch Cabell and H.L. Mencken were champions of this member of the Southern Renaissance, whose feminism is expressed in her experimental novels The Hard-Boiled Virgin and Dead Lovers Are Faithful Lovers.	Answer: Frances Newman