1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Berkeley A - Mike Usher1. This generalization of the Condorcet paradox can be avoided by using the quantitative measurement of utility proposed by Alfred Marshall or by employing a dictator. It states that, under assumptions about transitivity, range, independence of irrelevant alternatives, and unanimity, there is no social welfare function which transforms individual preferences into group preferences. For 10 points, name this theorem proven by a co-winner of the 1972 Nobel Prize in Economics.	Answer: Arrow Impossibility Theorem2. This man lived in the United States for two years shortly after serving as a teacher in Switzerland, having deserted his position as lieutenant general in his country's war with Austria. 37 years later, he gained power due to opposition to his predecessor's repression of insurgence, but he would later use such measures himself, and this together with his inability to win over the proletariat led to his abdication and retirement to England, where he died in 1850. For 10 points, name this "citizen king" of France from 1830 to 1848.	Answer: Louis-Philippe3. Influenced by Neoplatonism and most heavily by Aristotle, this philosopher argued that in God alone existence and essence coincide. His later works include the Book of Salvation and the Book of Directives and Remarks, and his Canon of Medicine was the greatest medical authority for several centuries. For 10 points, name this author of the Book of Healing, who heavily influenced Averroes and is considered the most influential of the medieval Muslim philosophers.	Answer: Avicenna (Accept Abu 'Ali Al-Husayn Ibn 'Abd Allah Ibn Sina)4. This novel is noted for its anticipation of certain Freudian ideas in its treatment of its nameless narrator, who admits at the work's start that he is a sick and spiteful man. In the novel's second part, the protagonist tries to get thrown out of a bar, challenges a man named Zverkov to a duel, and rapes the prostitute Liza, while the first part consists of an affirmation of free will and a tirade against the idea of a utopian society. For 10 points, name this short novel by Fyodor Dostoevski.	Answer: Notes From The Underground (or Zapiski Iz Podpolya or Letters From The Underworl4.)5. Alfred Knudson became the first to correctly identify one of these when he implicated the RB gene in a certain disease of the eye. Others include APC, which is related to familial adenomatous polyposis, as well as BRCA 1, BRCA 2, and most importantly p53, all of which, in their unmutated form, work by inducing apoptosis or otherwise controlling cell growth. For 10 points, identify these appropriately named genes which suppress the formation of tumors.	Answer: Tumor Suppressor Genes (Accept Anti-Oncogenes; Do Not Accept Or Prompt On "Oncogenes.")6. This psychoanalyst's "phallocentric obscurantism" has inspired a set of trading cards called "Kid A in Alphabet Land." Known for eccentric methods in his own practice, he was influenced by the Dada movement and his main achievement was the reinterpretation of Freud's work in terms of structural linguistics. For 10 points, name this man who helped introduce psychoanalysis into France in the 1930s, best known for his 1966 work, Écrits.	Answer: Jacques Lacan7. During the reign of Empress Zauditu, this man served as regent and became the first ruler of his country to visit Rome, Paris, and London, having earned his country's admission to the League of Nations the previous year. Born Tafari Makonnen, his father was an advisor to Menelik II, and he served as Emperor from 1941 to 1975, during which time he helped establish the Organization of African Unity. For 10 points, name this man most famous for his resistance to Italy's occupation of Ethiopia.	Answer: Haile Selassie8. Lowlights of this baseball player's career included being caught sleeping in right field during a game in the Baker Bowl and losing two fly balls in the sun in the same inning of a game in the 1929 World Series. His best seasons came while playing for a manager named Joe McCarthy, but his career was checkered by his reputation as "a low-ball hitter and high ball drinker." For 10 points, name this Cubs outfielder most famous for his 1930 season, when he had 56 home runs and a major-league record 190 RBI.	Answer: Lewis Robert "Hack" Wilson9. The average depth of the northern part of this body of water is only about 15 feet, while the southern part is dominated by a depression extending as far down as 3600 feet. It contains 50 small islands, measures 750 miles north to south and 200 miles east to west, and its major ports include Bandar-e Anzali, Aqtau, Turkmenbashy, and Baku. For 10 points, name this sea fed by the Terek, Ural, and Volga Rivers, which is the largest inland sea in the world and the namesake of a C.S. Lewis character.	Answer: Caspian Sea10. This event resulted in murder convictions for eight people, of whom one committed suicide, three were eventually pardoned by John Altgeld, and four, including August Spies, were hanged. It was intended to be only a mass meeting to protest the previous day's police brutality at a strike at the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company. For 10 points, name this 1886 confrontation between policemen and labor protesters which took place in a square in Chicago.	Answer: Haymarket Square Riot11. This geologic period was named by Charles Lapworth for an ancient tribe which lived near the border of England and Wales, and is divided into three epochs of 27, 20, and 20 million years. During it, Laurentia and Baltica moved closer together, decreasing the size of Iapetus Sea; graptolites evolved, filling the void created by mass mortality among trilobites; and land plants first appeared. For 10 points, name this period which started 505 million years ago and followed the Cambrian.	Answer: Ordovician Period12. This work, which uses the 11th note as its unit, was originally conceived of as a symphonic pagan ritual to be called Great Sacrifice. Its dissonant harmonies and metric imbalances caused such an uproar at its debut at the Théâtre de Champs Élysées that the dancers couldn't hear the orchestra, so the rhythm had to be shouted out and mimed from the wings by its choreographer, Vaslav Nijinsky. For 10 points, name this ballet first performed in 1913 and composed by Igor Stravinsky.	Answer: Le Sacre Du Printemps (The Rite Of Spring)13. Its 44 chapter titles include "Four Skinny Trees," "Bums in the Attic," "The Earl of Tennessee," "Sally," and "A House of My Own." The climactic scene occurs in the chapter, "Monkey Garden," in which Tito's friend, having stolen Sally's keys, demands a kiss from her, and the protagonist, Esperanza Cordero, cannot persuade Tito's mother to do anything about it. For 10 points, name this novel about a girl growing up in a poor Latino area of Chicago, by Sandra Cisneros.	Answer: The House On Mango Street14. Though experimental chemists had long taken this principle for granted, Claude Berthollet disputed Joseph-Louis Proust's evidence for it, gathered from work on iron oxides in 1797. Gay-Lussac showed that it also held for volumes of gases, and Avogadro was largely responsible for its interpretation in terms of atomic theory. For 10 points, name this law associated with Dalton which states that the ratio of the weights of the elements in a compound can be expressed in terms of small whole numbers.	Answer: Law Of Multiple Proportions (Accept "Definite," "Constant," Or "Simple Multiple" In Place Of "Multiple.")15. This painter attacked contemporary artistic taste in his tract, "Masquerades and Operas," four years before his first dated work, a portrayal of a scene from John Gay's "The Beggar's Opera." A year before the death of his idol, James Thornhill, he gained attention with his 1733 canvas, "Southwark Fair." For 10 points, name this painter of "Marriage à la Mode" whose most famous series inspired a libretto by W.H. Auden for a Stravinsky opera and was entitled "A Rake's Progress."	Answer: William Hogarth16. This armed conflict was preceded by internal conflict in one of the participating countries between the Ba'th and 'Alawite factions, and by terrorist activity from the al-Fatah. With Egyptian and Iraqi troops in Jordan, Israel started the war by launching a preemptive strike, overrunning the Sinai, the West Bank, and the Golan Heights and destroying much of Nasser's air force. For 10 points, identify this appropriately-named war which took place from June 5 to June 10, 1967.	Answer: Six-Day War17. In this device, an absorber layer is sandwiched between two junction-forming layers, creating an electric field at the top of the absorber layer. At the top of the device lies a layer of silicon dioxide or titanium dioxide which prevents reflection, and the light that passes through this layer is converted into electrical energy by the photovoltaic effect. For 10 points, name this device, which has powered satellites and cars and is most often seen in calculators.	Answer: Solar Cell18. Under a slightly different name, it was founded in 1951 as a political branch of an organization called the RSS, and in the early 1970s it agitated for anti-poverty measures. It contributed substantially to the coalition which gained power in 1989, and later gained popularity with its plan to build a temple on the site of a demolished 16th century mosque in Ayodhya. For 10 points, name this party led by Atal Vajpayee which currently has a plurality in the Indian Parliament.	Answer: Bharatiya Janata Party (Accept Bjp Or Indian People's Party)19. Like the author who created him, this working-class stonemason initially aspires to become a priest. The schoolmaster Phillotson wins the character's cousin's hand in marriage after the character is deserted by his wife, Arabella Donn, but the cousin (Sue Bridehea4. leaves her marriage and has children out of wedlock with him. For 10 points, name this protagonist of the last novel of Thomas Hardy, who shares his first name with the patron saint of lost causes.	Answer: Jude Fawley (Accept Jude The Obscure)20. In any number of dimensions, this mathematical object is useful in representing phase space trajectories for certain Hamiltonian systems. Any point on one of these has two Villarceau circles passing through it, and it may be classified as "spindle," "horn," or "ring" depending on the relationship between its radii. For 10 points, name this surface of genus 1 whose volume is given by Pappus' theorem, whose name sounds like a sign of the Zodiac, and which looks like a donut.	Answer: Torus (Prompt On Early Buzz Of "Donut")21. This film follows its protagonist's descents into subterranean nightclubs, an ancient crypt, and a prostitute's basement, as well as his ascents into a choir loft and up the dome of St. Peter's Cathedral. The famous opening scene shows a statue of Christ carried above Rome by a helicopter. For 10 points, name this 1960 film, one of whose characters is based on recently deceased photographer Tazio Secchiaroli, which introduced the term "Paparazzi" and was directed by Frederico Fellini.	Answer: La Dolce Vita (The Sweet Life)22. This is the weak derivative of the Heaviside function, and even before the work of Laurent Schwarz and Mikio Sato put it on a firm foundation, physicists had been using this generalized function incessantly, undeterred by the opposition of John von Neumann. As a potential in the Schrödinger equation, it allows for exactly one bound state, and it also represents the charge density of a point charge. For 10 points, name this function, viewed as an infinite spike, first used in 1925 by Paul Dirac.	Answer: Dirac Delta Function23. This religion explains the apparent inequality in the world by postulating a process of rebirth which will eventually result in all created beings becoming godlike. Some of its adherents claim that its doctrines were espoused by Plato, Jesus, and Plotinus, but its founder is typically held to be either Paracelsus, a 16th Century alchemist, or Christian Rosenkreuz. For 10 points, name this mystical Christian religion whose symbol consists of a cross and a rose.	Answer: Rosicrucianism24. While working as a psychiatrist in the 1950s, the plight of this man's patients led him to believe that some neuroses are socially generated and to become a propagandist for the FLN. Sartre, seeing his opposition to the "abstract assumption of universality," admired him and wrote the preface for his most famous work, which urged colonized people to achieve a collective catharsis through violence against their opressors. For 10 points, name this Martinique-born author of Black Skin, White Masks and The Wretched of the Earth.	Answer: Frantz Fanon25. This city, located at the mouth of the Menderes River, was involved in the founding of over 60 Greek colonies and remained a major commercial center as late as the reign of Trajan. At its height in the sixth century BC, it was ruled by such tyrants as Thrasybulus and Histiaeus, was for a time controlled by Lydia, and was the greatest Greek city of Anatolia, thanks largely to the work of its writers and philosophers. For 10 points, name this hometown of Hecataues, Anaximenes, Anaximander, and Thales.	Answer: Miletus
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Berkeley A - Mike Usher1. Given a river, identify every national capital which lies on its shores, for the stated number of points. The answer may be "none."1. (5) Tagus			Answer: Lisbon, Madrid2. (5) Congo			Answer: Kinshasha, Brazzaville3. (10) Rhine			Answer: None4. (10) Niger			Answer: Bamako, Niamey2. Identify both parents of the following Greek deities, for five points per answer1. (5,5) Cronus			Answer: Uranus, Gaia2. (5,5) Persephone		Answer: Zeus, Demeter3. (5,5) Leto			Answer: Coeus, Phoebe3. Identify the following Greek sculptors, for ten points each:1. (10) The artistic director of construction of the Parthenon, who also sculpted other works on the Acropolis such as Athena Promachos and Athena Parthenos.	Answer: Phidias2. (10) The head of the school at Argos and Sciyon who sculpted over 1500 works in bronze, including "Apoxyomenos," as well as numerous statues of Alexander the Great.	Answer: Lysippus3. (10) The greatest 4th Century B.C. Greek architect, whose works include "Aphrodite of Cnidus" and "Hermes Carrying the Infant Dionysus," and who is known for the gracefulness of his figures.       Answer: Praxiteles4. Identify the cities which hosted the following international conferences, for ten points each:1. (10) The first part of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, held in July 1973, which led to a set of accords named for the city and signed by 35 countries which called for international respect for human rights and for post-World War II boundaries.	Answer: Helsinki2. (10) The October 1986 summit meeting between Reagan and Gorbachev which might have led to a sweeping disarmament agreement but for Reagan's refusal to end the SDI program.	Answer: Reykjavik3. (10) The June 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (or Earth Summit) which led to treaties calling for protection of endangered species and reduction in emission of greenhouse gases.	Answer: Rio de Janeiro5. Identify the following societies whose feelings were probably deeply hurt when they were referred to as "barbarians," for ten points each:1. (10) The society which formed an empire north of the Black Sea during the 3rd century and which later, under Theodoric the Great, established a kingdom in Italy.	Answer: Ostrogoth (prompt on "Goth")2. (10) The group which devastated Gaul and settled in Spain in the early 5th century, and later that century established a North African empire and sacked Rome in 455. The name of a region in southern Spain is derived from their name.	Answer: Vandal3. (10) The seminomadic group from Manchuria which took over Northern China from the Sung Dynasty and ruled as the Chin Dynasty until being defeated by Genghis Khan.	Answer: Juchen or Ruzhen6. Identify the following plays of Aristophanes, for ten points each:1. (10) The earliest extant work of Aristophanes, set during the Pelopponesian War, in which an Athenian named Dicaeopolis makes a private peace treaty with Sparta..	Answer: The Acharnians (Acharneis)2. (10) The play in which the women of Athens take over the Acropolis and the city treasury and declare a sex strike until the men of the city make peace.	Answer: Lysistrata3. (10) The play in which Dionysus, concerned about the poor state of Athenian tragedy after the death of Euripides, goes to Hades intending to bring Euripides back to the land of the living, but as a result of a competition brings back Aeschylus instead.       Answer: The Frogs (Batrachoi)7. Identify the following events of Andrew Jackson's presidency, for ten points each:1. (10) Jackson's 1836 executive order requiring that all payment for the purchase of government lands be made in gold or silver.	Answer: Specie Circular2. (10) The 1830 act which allowed the president to grant Native American tribes unsettled western prairie lands in exchange for desirable territory within state borders.	Answer: Indian Removal Act3. (10) The war which began in 1835 and resulted from the government's attempt to use the Indian Removal Act to force a certain tribe to abandon a reservation that had been established for it north of Lake Okeechobee.	Answer: Second Seminole War8. Identify the following techniques of analytical chemistry, for ten points each:1. (10) The identification of chemical substances by the sorting of gaseous ions in an electric or magnetic field. It was developed partly by J.J. Thomson and led to the discovery of isotopes in 1919.	Answer: Mass Spectrometry (Or Mass Spectography)2. (10) The technique of separating the chemicals in a sample by using a moving inert gas stream through a tube packed with a finely divided solid. Its many uses include the purification of compounds, and the determination of the amount of various gases dissolved in the blood.	Answer: Gas Chromatography3. (10) The method of determining the quantity of a substance based on the amount of electricity involved in carrying out a chemical change.	Answer: Coulometry9. Answer the following about the early history of digital computers, for the stated number of points:1. (5,5) Charles Babbage designed two important computing machines, one of which was based on the method of finite differences and built in 1822, and the other of which would have been the first automatic digital computer but was never completed. For five points each, name them.	Answer: Difference Engine; Analytical Engine2. (10) Name the German friend of Johannes Kepler who invented the first mechanical calculator in the 1620s, the records of which were lost during the Thirty Years' War.	Answer: Wilhelm Schickard3. (10) Name the famous Frenchman who invented an adding machine which used dial wheels and gears in 1642.	Answer: Blaise Pascal10. Answer the following about incest, for ten points each:1. (10) Identify the 19th century Finnish anthropologist who argued that incest taboos are a consequence of the innate desire to avoid sex with close family members.	Answer: Edward Westermarck2. (10) Identify the theory derived from the work of structuralists such as Claude Levi-Strauss and Louis Dumont which holds that a primary purpose of the incest taboo is to encourage links between distinct groups through marriage.	Answer: Alliance theory3. (10) In many Melanesian societies, marriage to one's father's sister's child or one's mother's brother's son or daughter is strongly encouraged, while marriage to any other cousin is considered incest. Give the term for one's mother's brother's or father's sister's child.	Answer: Cross-cousin (prompt on "cousin")11. Answer the following about thermodynamics, for ten points each:1. (10) Give the term for the average distance a gas molecule travels between collisions with other molecules.	Answer: Mean Free Path2. (10) Identify the constant which appears in virtually every equation in thermodynamics, including that which relates the entropy of a macroscopic state to the logarithm of the number of microscopic ways that state can be realized.	Answer: Boltzmann constant3. (10) Give the Boltzmann constant in Joules per degree Kelvin to one significant figure.       Answer: 1*10-23 Joules per degree Kelvin (more precisely 1.380662*10-23 J/K. Accolades but no bonus points if extra sig figs)12. Identify the following characters from King Lear, for the stated number of points:1. (5) Lear's good daughter	Answer: Cordelia2. (5) The father of Edgar and Edmund, whose story in many respects parallels that of Lear.	Answer: Gloucester3. (10) Regan's husband.	Answer: Duke of Cornwall4. (10) The beggar as whom Edgar disguises himself after being spurned by Gloucester.	Answer: Poor Tom13. Identify the following relating to meteorite impacts with the earth, for ten points each:1. (10) The 1908 aerial explosion which flattened about 500,000 acres of pine forest in central Siberia, featured in an X-Files episode.	Answer: Tunguska event (accept reasonable variations on "event")2. (10) The term, derived from the Greek words for "star" and "wound," for the remains of an ancient meteorite-impact, usually in the form of a circular scar of deformed bedrock. Ghana's Ashanti Crater and South Africa's Vredefort Ring are examples.	Answer: Astrobleme3. (10) The term for a small glassy object believed to have been formed from the melting of terrestrial rocks that were vaporized by meteorite impacts.	Answer: Tektite14. Answer the following about colonial Australia, for ten points each:1. (10) Name the first British colony in Australia.	Answer: New South Wales2. (10) Name the famous admiral, better known for events on a certain ship in 1787, who served as governor of New South Wales from 1805 until 1808, when he was deposed by officers of the New South Wales Corps.	Answer: William Bligh3. (10) Name the 1808 rebellion that led to Bligh's removal.       Answer: Rum Rebellion15. Identify the following Russian mathematicians important in the development of probability theory, for fifteen points each:1. (15) The teacher of Andrei Markov who lent his name to an inequality which says that for any number b the probability of a random variable deviating from the mean by more than b is at most the variance of the variable divided by b squared. He is also known for work on the prime number theorem.	Answer: Pafnuty Lvovich Chebyshev (accept slight variations in the last nam5.2. (15) The mathematician who provided the first axiomatic description of probability in terms of measure theory in 1929 and also did work on stochastic processes and turbulence.	Answer: Andrei Nikolayevich Kolmogorov16. Answer the following about the Great Schism in the Roman Catholic Church, for the stated number of points:1. (5,5) Name the decades in which it began and ended.	Answer: 1370s, 1410s2. (10) Name the city in which the papacy had been located for 68 years preceding the Schism, and in which several antipopes were elected during the Schism.	Answer: Avignon3. (10) Name either the pope elected in Rome or the antipope elected in Avignon in 1378, starting the Schism.	Answer: Urban VI (Bartolomeo Prignano) or Clement VII (Robert of Geneva)17. Name the composers from works on a 10-5 basis:1st 10 pts: My Country, From my Life1st 5 pts: The Brandenburgers in Bohemia, The Bartered Bride	Answer: Bedrich Smetana2nd 10 pts: Chout (or The Fool), The Prodigal Son, score to the movie Alexander Nevsky2nd 5 pts: the ballet Romeo and Juliet, Peter and the Wolf	Answer: Sergei Prokofiev3rd 10 pts: The Cloak, Gianni Schicchi3rd 5 pts: La Bohéme, The Girl of the Golden West       Answer: Giacomo Puccini18. Answer the following about intelligence tests, for the stated number of points:1. (5) Name the widely used intelligence test developed in 1916 by Lewis Terman as an adaptation of of a test previously developed by two Frenchmen.	Answer: Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale2. (15) Name the test, developed around 1905, from which Terman adapted the Stanford-Binet test.	Answer: Binet-Simon intelligence test3. (10) Name the man who developed an Adult Intelligence Scale in 1955 and an Intelligence Scale for Children in 1949, both of which are also widely used.	Answer: David Weschler19. Identify the following works of Søren Kierkegaard, for ten points each:1. (10) His 1843 work, published under the name Johannes de Silentio, which uses the story of Abraham and Isaac to explore the paradoxical nature of faith and which discusses the "teleological suspension of the ethical."	Answer: Fear And Trembling (Frygt Og Baeven)2. (10) His 1848 work, published under the name Anti-Climacus, which deals with despair (to which the title is a referenc5. and recommends Christianity as a cure for despair.       Answer: The Sickness Unto Death (Sygdommen Til Døden)3. (10) His 1846 work, published under the name Johannes Climacus, which was mainly an attack on Hegelianism and whose full title indicates that it is a sequel to the previously-published Philosophical Frangments. You need only give the first three words of the title.       Answer: Concluding Unscientific Postscript To The Philosophical Fragments. A Mimic-Pathetic-Dialectic Composition, An Existential Contribution (Afsluttende Uvidenskabelig Efterskrift...) 20. Answer the following about a certain quantity in economics, for ten points each:1. (10) Name the numerical coefficient which shows the effect of a change in national investment on the total national income and is determined by dividing the change in income by the change in investment.	Answer: Multiplier2. (10) Name the economist who brought the multiplier into common use by proposing to use it as a means of determining the increase in government spending needed to compensate for a shortage of private investment in order to achieve full employment.	Answer: John Maynard Keynes3. (10) To the nearest tenth, what is the approximate current value of the multiplier?	Answer: 1.421. Identify the following works of Truman Capote, for ten points each:1. (10) His 1951 novel about an orphaned boy and two old ladies who take up residence in a tree house.	Answer: Grass Harp2. (10) The 1965 novel with which Capote claimed to invent the "nonfiction novel," which tells the true story of the murder of a Kansas farm family.	Answer: In Cold Blood3. (10) The work which Capote considered his greatest achievement, part of which appeared in serial form in Esquire magazine in 1975 and which led Capote's celebrity friends to ostracize him due to its thinly-veiled, harsh portrayals of them.       Answer: Answered Prayers22. Answer the following about this year's Tour de France, for ten points each:1. (10) In what country did it start?						Answer: Republic of Ireland2. (10) Who won?							Answer: Marco Pantani3. (10) Name the American who finished third.				Answer: Bobby Julich23. Identify the following branches of biology, for the stated number of points:1. (5) The study of reptiles							Answer: Herpetology2. (5) The study of fungi							Answer: Mycology3. (10) The study of congenital malformations in plants and animals		Answer: Teratology4. (10) The study of animal behavior					Answer: Ethology24. Identify the chairs of the following Congressional committees, for the stated number of points:1. (5) Senate Foreign Relations						Answer: Jesse Helms2. (5) House Judiciary							Answer: Henry W. Hyde3. (10) Senate Judiciary							Answer: Orrin Hatch4. (10) House Ways and Means						Answer: Bill Archer25. Identify the following German poets, for ten points each:1. (10) The short lived and very influential Romantic poet of the late 18th century whose works include Hymns of the Night, written upon the death of his 16-year old fiance, and the mythical romance Heinrich von Ofterdingen.	Answer: Novalis (pseudonym of Baron Friedrich Leopold von Hardenburg)2. (10) The controversial poet who died in 1856 and whose most famous collection is the 1827 Buch der Lieder (Book of Songs).	Answer: (Christian Johann) Heinrich Heine3. (10) The noted scholar and translator of Shakespeare whose poetic works included Gedichte, Ion, and Poetische Werke, all published between 1800 and 1811.	Answer: August Wilhelm von Schlegel