1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Jason Hong and Nakaue's Woodbridge Warriors - Jeffrey Tam and David Weinreich1. The first true one, the Ann McKim, was built in Baltimore in 1832. They were characterized by great length in proportion to beam and an enormous area of sail. They were developed out of the need for faster ships to connect the East and West coasts of the US by way of Cape Horn and to carry on the lucrative trade with China. For 10 points, identify this class of ship, the fastest merchant sailing vessel ever built, which ruled the seas until the development of steam-powered vessels. 	Answer: Clippers2. It involved approximately 80,000 men and 35 women moving west, covering 6000 miles across elevn provinces at an average of seventeen miles a day, in spite of crossing numerous rivers and mountains. It began as an attempt to avoid constant attacks by warlord armies and the Guomindang. In order to avoid total defeat by Chiang Kai-Shek's Nationalist forces, Mao Zedong and his communist Chinese forces retreated in 1934 to bases in Shanxi. For 10 points, this historical journey is known as what?	Answer: Long March3. In 1941 this man resigned as director of the American Red Cross blood bank program to protest its policy of segregating blood donations. He was awarded the Spingarn medal in 1944, and he died in 1950 in a North Carolina hospital where he was taken after a car crash, and, contrary to some legends which sprung up, received excellent care. For 10 points, identify this black surgeon and medical researcher who made an immense contribution to modern medicine when he established that blood plasma could replace whole blood in transfusions.        Answer: Charles Richard Drew4. It rejected a proposal of secession, passed resolutions declaring the rights of states to nullify federal laws and was attended by twenty-six delegates representing five states. Its near treasonous actions led to the destruction of the Federalist party and its decisions were rendered moot by the Treaty of Ghent. For 10 points, identify this secret meeting conducted from December 1814 to January 1815. 	Answer: Hartford Convention5. Its isotope 60 is an important radioactive tracer and cancer treatment agent. Oxidation states II and III are used to give a brilliant blue color in glass, tiles, and pottery. Present in the minerals smaltite and erythrite, it is usually alloyed for use in such things as stainless steels, turbine blades, and cutting tools. For 10 points, what is this light-grey transition element with atomic number 27 and symbol Co?	Answer: Cobalt6. Later in his reign, he successfully suppressed a rebellion by the pretender Perkin Warbeck. As earl of Richmond and the principal representative of the Lancastrian claim to the throne, his wedding with Elizabeth, the daughter of Edward IV, marked the end of the Wars of the Roses. For 10 points, who is this person who overthrew Richard III in 1485 at the battle of Bosworth Field, thus becoming the first Tudor king?       Answer: Henry VII7. A religious movement called Pai marire, or "goodness and peace", which combined elements of Christianity, cannibalism, and their own religion, prolonged their conflict with the British. When Sir George Grey was brought back as governor, he allowed the confiscation of three million acres of their land even though settler farming had almost ceased on North Island. For 10 points, who are these native Polynesians living in New Zealand?       Answer: Maori8. It began as a shipping line under the control of the Iwasaki family. It bought the Nagasaki shipyards from the government in 1884, and a year later merged with its greatest competitor to form the NYK, or the Japan Shipping Company. Although it focused primarily on shipping, shipbuilding, and insurance, in 1880 it even formed its own bank. After WWI, it diversified into heavy industry, engineering, and chemicals. For 10 points, what is this Japanese conglomerate that produces electronics, automotive equipment, communications equipment, among many other things?	Answer: Mitsubishi9. The grandson of an Irish Catholic immigrant, this man was born in Boston in 1888. Educated at Harvard, he became a multimillionaire in the 1920s and the next decade he was a strong supporter of Roosevelt and the New Deal, being rewarded with minor administrative posts and the ambassadorship to Britain from 1938- 40. For 10 points, identify this husband of Rose Fitzgerald and father of John, Edward, and Robert Kennedy.        Answer: Joseph Patrick Kennedy (or Joe Kennedy)10. It consists of a purine linked to a D-Ribose. The D-Ribose component bears three groups of a compound linearly linked together by covalent bonds. Approximately 30.6 kilojoules per mole of energy can be generated by removing each of these three groups, which is used to bring about such biological processes as muscle contraction, active transport of ions across cell membranes, and the synthesis of biomolecules. For 10 points, what is this nucleotide that is of fundamental importance as a carrier of chemical energy in all living organisms?	Answer: ATP (or Adenosine Triphosphate)11. It reflected the author's avowed purpose in writing the novel "to report on a generation that was destroyed by the War - even when it escaped the shells." A nineteen-year-old recruit is stripped of humanity and identity. In one cataclysmic encounter, he stabs a French soldier and then tries to enter the dead man's consciousness to share his pain. For 10 points, what is this novel about the German Paul Baumer, published in 1928 by Erich Maria Remarque?	Answer: All Quiet on the Western Front12. It is estimated that there could be one occurrence in the Milky Way every 30 years, although only six have actually been observed in the last 1000 years. While it lasts, it dominates the whole galaxy in which it lies, and it takes several years to fade. For 10 points, what is this increase in energy by a factor of 10 billion, taking place when a star has burnt up all its available nuclear fuel and the core collapses catastrophically?	Answer: Supernova (not Nova)13. His shrine was plundered by Henry VIII, and his name erased from the English church calendar. An English prelate, he defended the rights of the Church without compromise against the lay interference of Henry II for many years, until 1170 when four of the king's knights murdered him in his own church. For 10 points, name this Archbishop of Canterbury whose martyrdom instantly established him as one of the great Christian heroes. 	       Answer: Thomas a Becket (or St. Thomas)14. Opposite the title page of the first edition of On the Origin of Species by Charles Darwin, there are two quotes, one by W. Whewell and one taken from this Enlightenment thinker's Advancement of Learning. He served as solicitor general and attorney general under James I, and was appointed lord chancellor in 1618. While performing his legal duties, he also published works on the philosophy of science and tried unsuccessfully to persuade the king to finance institutions for scientific inquiry. For 10 points, who is this English philosopher and author of such works as The Advancement of Learning and Novum Organum?	Answer: Sir Francis Bacon15. Although he has been called the "laureate of violence", his concern is less with violence than with those who are caught up in it and must suffer from it. Mythological motifs and rural disintegration are common in his poetry, which include the collections Death of a Naturalist, Door into the Dark, and Wintering Out. For 10 points, who is this Irish poet and writer cited as Ireland's best poet since Yeats, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature in 1995?	Answer: Seamus Heaney16. A row may be presented in its original or "prime" form, in retrograde, inversion, or retrograde inversion, and may be transposed so as to start on any pitch. In freer technique, segments of the row may be repeated, superimposed, or sounded as a single vertical chord. For 10 points, what is this technique developed independently by Josef Hauer and Arnold Schoenberg, used as a compositional method in which all 12 chromatic pitches within an octave are treated as equal?	Answer: Twelve-Note or Twelve-Tone Technique17. The sequence X sub N divided by N tends to P where the random variables X sub N have common mean P. For 10 points, what is this theorem first proven by jakob Bernoulli that implies that the relative frequency of an event of probability P goes to P as the number of trials tends to infinity?	Answer: Law of Large Numbers18. It begins with a three-way emotional standoff and develops it through the autumn and winter of one year. At the center is Conrad, who always lived in his big brother's shadow, who tried to commit suicide after his brother died, and who has just returned from a psychiatric hospital. The father is an attorney who has always taken the love of his family for granted. The mother is a perfectly groomed, cheerful homemaker whom everyone loves. The movie begins just as everything is falling apart. For 10 points, what is this 1980 movie starring Timothy Hutton, Donald Sutherland, and Mary Tyler Moore, directed by Robert Redford?	Answer: Ordinary People19. During the 1930's, he served as an aide to General Douglas MacArthur, then Army Chief of Staff. Best known for his administrative skills, he would later rise to prominence as Supreme Allied Commander in Europe during World War II and subsequently serve as the 34th President of the United States. For 10 points, name him. 	Answer: Dwight David Eisenhower20. At age ninety-six, she stood at her window in Frederick, Maryland, and said to Stonewall Jackson: "Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, \ But spare your country's flag". For 10 points, who is this person in a poem by John Greenleaf Whittier?	Answer: Barbara Frietchie21. This summer, Intel unveiled its new computer microprocessor for personal computer. Because it lacked a secondary cache, its 266 mHz chip price was competitive with other major brands like AMD and Cyrix. For 10 points, name this chip, a synonym for speed. 	Answer: CELERON22. Perhaps one of the most famous political treatises written in American history was written by James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and John Jay in defense of the newly drafted Constitution. For 10 points, name this work, comprising of some 80+ essays. 	Answer: THE FEDERALIST23. Standard economics is divided between microeconomics and macroeconomics, the latter dealing with national income and employment. John Maynard Keynes authored a book in 1935 which forms the basis of macroeconomics. For 10 points, name this work. 	Answer: THE GENERAL THEORY OF EMPLOYMENT, INTEREST, AND MONEY24. While Citizen Kane is generally acknowledged by film critics as the greatest American film in the last fifty years, this sentimental favorite starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman about lost love in North Africa is generally more widely seen. For 10 points, name this 1942 film. 	Answer: CASABLANCA25. Last of the four original Doctors of the Church, this pope is known as "the Great" for his piety, conviction, and his strong administrative ability in light of the Lombard invasions of Italy occurring at the time; he also sent St. Augustine to England in 597 to convert the pagans at Canterbury, thereby establishing the center of the English Church at Canterbury. For 10 points, name this pope. 	Answer: GREGORY I (or St. Gregory)26. This structure in the city of Rome was named after the "colossal" statue located next to it.	Answer: The COLISEUM 27. The biosphere is a description of the earth realm where life exists. Anther term describes entire solid earth realm and is composed of mineral matter. For 10 points, name this layer which stretches 100 km below the earth and half its mass is concentrated in the lower 5.6 km. 	Answer: LITHOSPHERE28. The primary electronic elements used in the first computers were vacuum tubes. For 10 points, what were the primary electronic elements in the next generation of computers? 	Answer: TRANSISTORS29. William Faulkner wrote 20 novels in his lifetime, using stream-of-consciousness capture the mood in his novels, which were often pessimistic about the South. His novels centered on an imaginary county in Mississippi, better known in real life as Jefferson County. For 10 points, name this imaginary county.	Answer: YOKNOWPATAWPHA COUNTY30. This New York based eclectic pop rock duo's most popular album was released in 1990, and was named Flood. They use all kinds of instruments, from the accordion to the tuba. 	Answer: THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS31. In 1997, guerilla forces led by Francis Kabila overthrew the forces of a dictator and gained control of the government of Zaire. They then changed the name of Zaire to its original name, Congo. For 10 points, name the dictator who was overthrown. 	Answer: MOBUTU Sese Seko32. Living during the Baroque Period, he wrote more than thirty bassoon concerti. This Italian composer was also a priest and wrote more than 45 operas. For 10 points, name this composer, whose opus 8 concertos, named The Four Seasons, are his most famous works. 	Answer: Antonio Vivaldi33. Immanual Kant's rational philosophy and his books which described these philosophies would have a great impact upon the leaders of the French Revolution, including its most famous leader, who ironically used Kantian reason to justify unreason during the Reign of Terror. For 10 points, name this leader.	Answer: Maximillien ROBESPIERRE34. This Christian Saint is commonly credited with being the first to translate both the Old and New Testaments of the Bible into Latin.	Answer: JEROME
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Jason Hong and Nakaue's Woodbridge Warriors - Jeffrey Tam and David Weinreich1. Identify the nations with which the U.S. signed the following treaties for 5 points each. 1. Pinckney Treaty, 1795			Answer: Spain2. Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, 1850		Answer: Great Britain 3. Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, 1848	Answer: Mexico4. Adams-Onis Treaty, 1819		Answer: Spain 5. Webster-Ashburton, 1842		Answer: Great Britain6. Treaty of Kanagawa, 1858		Answer: Japan2. Name that saint, ten points each.1. One of the fathers of the Western Church, he translated the Latin version of the Bible known as the Vulgate. For five, name him.	Answer: Saint Jerome2. A devoted Jew and a bitter persecutor of the early Christians, on his way to Damascus he was stopped by a vision of Jesus. Temporarily blinded, upon recovery he converted to Christianity.	Answer: Saint Paul3. For fifteen, this Christian Saint is commonly credited with first bringing Christianity to Britain and served as the first Archbishop of Canterbury.	Answer: Saint Augustine of Canterbury3. Of the original eight inflectional cases which are thought to have existed in the original Indo-European language group, name three for 10 points each.       Possible Answers: Nominative, Vocative, Genitive, Dative, Accusative, Ablative, Instrumental, Locative4. Identify these Hindu deities. 1. For 5 points, identify the member of the Hindu triad of Supreme deities who had many incarnations and was the preserver. 	Answer: Vishnu2. For 10 points, identify this god of amorous affairs that was the eight incarnation of Vishnu. 	Answer: Krishna 3. For an additional 15 points, she is the goddess of knowledge. With Durga and Laxmi, she forms the female trinity of Hindu gods.	Answer: Saraswati 5. Answer the following three questions on Roman architecture for 10 points each:1. This Roman Emperor began construction of the Coliseum in 80 A.D.	Answer: Vespasian2. The palace of what former emperor, named the "Domus Aurea", previously lay on the Coliseum's site?	Answer: Nero3. In addition to the Coliseum, what other even larger stadium existed in Rome, mainly used for chariot racing?	Answer: The Circus Maximus6. Identify the following terms from freshman chemistry for five points each:1. A process or reaction that absorbs heat						Answer: Endothermic2. A type of chemical bond formed by the sharing of valence electrons			Answer: Covalent3. Term describing an object that is not superimposable on its mirror image		Answer: Chiral4. A positively charged ion							Answer: Cation5. A method of volumetric analysis in which a volume of one reagent is added to a known volume of another reagent slowly from a burette until an end point is reached							Answer: Titration6. A large molecule formed by the repetitive combination of many smaller molecules	Answer: Polymer7. Identify the following ancient West African empires for ten points apiece:1. Dominating West Africa in the 13th and 14th centuries, this empire was located near gold mines; it's greatest king, Mansa Musa, gained fame throughout Europe and the Middle East when he made his pilgrimage to Mecca with hundreds of camels laden with gold. 	Answer: Mali Empire2. A medieval West African state existing in the 5th century AD to about 1100, it was ruled by the Soninke people and was described in detail by Arab travelers like al-Bakri as a center of the gold trade. 	Answer: Kingdom of Ghana3. Its height in the 15th and 15th centuries, this Islamic empire on the Niger River co-existed with the Mali Empire and made Timbuktu a thriving cultural center after years of decline; in 1591, the empire was lost to Moroccan forces with European firearms. 	Answer: Songhai8. The following questions are about American History around the time of the Civil War for ten points apiece:1. For ten, when John Brown and fellow radical abolitionists took over the federal armory at Harper's Ferry, this colonel was sent to put down the revolt. 	Answer: Robert E. Lee2. For five, this adept Secretary of State under Abraham Lincoln successfully kept European nations like Britain out of the Civil War.	Answer: William Henry Seward 3. For fifteen, the Civil War was started at Fort Sumter, where Confederates bombarded and caused the surrender of the federal garrison. Name the commander of the federal garrison at Fort Sumter at the time. 	Answer: Major Robert Anderson9. For 5 points each, answer the following questions about Malaysia and Indonesia. 1. Identify the island parts of which are occupied by both Malaysia and Indonesia. 	Answer: Borneo 2. For ten, name either of the two eastern states of Malaysia on the island Borneo.	Answer: Sarawak or Sabah3. Is the Malaysian capital Kuala Lampur located on the mainland or on the island portion of Malaysia? 	Answer: mainland 4. What large Indonesian island lies across the Strait of Mallaca from mainland Malaysia? 	Answer: Sumatra 5. On what island is the Indonesian capital of Djakarta? 	Answer: Java 10. We have all heard at various times questions regarding the shifting of the earth's celestial axes that change the earth's orientation to the heavens. Let's see how well you remember these terms associated with these shifts. 1. First, for 10 points, what do astronomers call the motion first noted by Hipparchus that rotates the pole star every 26,000 years/ 	Answer: precession of the equinoxes 2. This lesser motion is the slight wobbling motion of the earth's axis that is superimposed on the precession of the equinoxes. It is caused by the difference in gravitational attraction between the sun and the moon and has a period of 18.6 years. For 20 points, identify this motion. 	Answer: nutation11. Identify the following scientific terms that start with the letters "ca" for 15 points each. 1. In geology, it is a huge basin in the summit of a volcano that is much lager than an ordinary volcanic crater. Notable examples are Crater Lake and Mauna Loa. 	Answer: caldera 2. In construction, it is a flexural member which projects from a rigid support for the purpose of carrying a given force. The beam transmits the force to the support by means of internal flexural and shear stresses. 	Answer: cantilever 12. Answer the following questions about the University of California for ten points apiece1. This UC was founded as a branch of the original University of California.	Answer: UCLA (or University Of California Los Angeles)2. The smallest UC this university is located near the ocean in a small community. 	Answer: UC SANTA CRUZ (Or University Of California Santa Cruz)3. This UC contains Scripps Institute, a world-renowned institute for oceanography. 	Answer: UCSD (or University Of California San Diego or UC San Diego)13. The following questions are about pivotal but obscure figures in European History for ten points apiece:1. While not the cause of World War I, this man's assassination of Archduke Ferdinand of Austria in 1914 set off the powder keg. For five, name him.	Answer: Gavrillo Principe2. This English king was the last Saxon king of England, to be beaten by William the Conqueror in 1066, starting the long line of Norman and French influence in England. For ten, name him.	Answer: Harold3. King of Poland between 1674 and 1696, he led an army to Vienna and relieved the siege of the capital of the Austrian Empire from the Ottoman Turks by beating the Turks at the Battle of Kahlenberg in 1683. For fifteen, name him.	Answer: John III Sobieski14. Answer these questions about J. D. Salinger's works for ten points apiece:1. Who was the hero of his most famous work, The Catcher in the Rye?	Answer: Holden Caulfield2. Who was Holden's girlfriend's name?	Answer: Sally Hayes (Accept either Sally or Hayes, but not Jane Gallagher)3. Salinger published a series of four short stories, including Franny and Zooey, all about one family. What is this family's name?	Answer: The Glass family 15. 20. 30-20-10-5 Identify this American. 1. As a result of his investigation of corrupt insurance practices in New York in 1905, he was elected governor of that state in 1906. 2. In 1910, he was appointed by President Taft to the Supreme Court and held that post for six years. 3. He served as Secretary of State under Harding and Coolidge. 4. In 1930, President Hoover appointed him Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. 	Answer: Charles Evans Hughes16. For 10 points each, identify these diseases of the thyroid gland. 1. It is the general term for the enlargement of the thyroid gland, usually from a deficiency of iodine. 	Answer: Goiter 2. Also called hyperthyroidism, it is the type of goiter caused by an oversecretion of thyroxin. 	Answer: Exophthalmic Goiter or Grave's disease 3. It is the condition resulting from lack of thyroid secretion in fetal life or in infancy. 	Answer: Cretinism17. Answer the following questions about Recent Russian history for ten points apiece.1. When he came to power, he pledged to rid the USSR of Stalinist policies. But only two years after the Cuban Missile Crisis, he was deposed of his premiership. For 10 points, name this charismatic but tough Soviet leader. 	Answer: Nikita Khruschev2. During the 1930's, Soviet leader Josef Stalin sent political and social opponents to concentration camps in Siberia. The harsh conditions caused millions to die. What's the name of these Soviet forced labor camps?	Answer: Gulag3. Charged for treason for his political writings, this world-famous author of such works as The Gulag Archipelago was imprisoned during the 1930's and 1940's, deported in 1974, before finally being allowed to his homeland in 1994.	Answer: Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitzyn18. Identify the following literary detectives for ten points each.1. A Paris gentleman of leisure who uses analysis for his own amusement to help the police solve crimes, he was featured in The Purloined Letter and The Murders in the Rue Morgue.	Answer: Auguste Dupin2. He is a hardboiled private detective that works in the seamy underworld of Los Angeles from the 1930s to the 1950s, and was the protagonist in such novels as Farewell My Lovely, The lady in the Lake, and The Long Good-Bye.	Answer: Philip Marlowe3. An English detective, she has always lived in St. Mary Mead, a snug English village. A natural busybody, she is skilled at problem solving and has an unsentimental understanding of human nature.	Answer: Miss Jane Marple19. 30-20-10 Name the Philosopher.1. Born in 1844, his father was a Lutheran minister who died when he was five, and thus he became heavily influenced by his sister and mother.2. As a professor of classics at Basel, Switzerland, he argued his well-known theory of the Apollonian-Dionysian dichotomy in perhaps his most famous work.3. His idea of the superficiality of morals and of the need for us to develop a "master morality" mentality are described in works as Beyond Good and Evil and On the Genealogy of Morals. 	Answer: Friedrich Nietzsche20. Name the author of the following three works in the Structuralist camp, for 10 points each:1. The Raw and the Cooked, The Elementary Structures of Kinship	Answer: Claude Levi-Strauss2. Desire and Language, Revolution in Poetic Language, Polylogue	Answer: Julia Kristeva3. The Pleasure of the Text, Writing Degree Zero, Elements of Semiology	Answer: Roland Barthes21. Answer the following related geology questions for ten points apiece:1. A circular cavity ground out of bedrock by running water is called what?	Answer: Pothole (not sinkhole)2. A yazoo stream flows through what?	Answer: Backswamp3. The name of a rapid rise of coastal water that accompanies the arrival of a cyclone is called what?	Answer: Storm Surge22. (30-20-10) This 30-20-10 asks you to name this film:1. This was Richard Attenborough's directorial debut. 2. This war film had an all-star cast, including Sean Connery, Gene Hackman, James Caan, Robert Redford, Anthony Hopkins, Laurence Olivier, Michael Caine, among others.3. Based on a book by Cornelius Ryan, this four-hour long film is about Operation Market Garden, a botched attempt to make an end-run around the German front to try to end World War II by Christmas 1944. 23. Answer a 30-20-10 question on the Roman periodThis battle eliminated a deadly rival of the Roman Republic.This battle was the conclusive battle of a long and drawn out war during which the Roman Republic had lost many battles but had managed to hold their capital Rome.  1. a result of Scipio Africanus the Elder defeating Hannibal Barca at this battle in 202 B3. Carthage ceased to be a threat to the expansion of the Romans. 	Answer: BATTLE OF ZAMA25. For 10 points each, answer the following questions on physics:1. What are the four underlying equations in electromagnetic theory called?	Answer: Maxwell's Equations. 2. Isotopes have a different number of what?	Answer: NEUTRONS3. When an atomic nucleus emits a beta particle, one of its neutrons disintegrates into three particles. Name all three of these particles. 	Answer: PROTON, ELECTRON, ANTI-NEUTRINO26. For 10 points each, answer the following questions on computer technology:1. This was the first personal computer built. 	Answer: ALTAIR 88002. Apple unveiled this model with a massive advertising campaign in 1984, but lackluster sales the first year partly caused Steve Jobs being forced out as CEO. 	Answer: MACINTOSH3. Before Windows, this was Microsoft's main product; it served the same function as Windows because it was also an operating system for personal computers.	Answer: MS-DOS 27. Answer the following questions about Peter Tchaikovsky for ten points apiece:1. At the age of 28, Tchaikovsky wrote his first opera, called what?	Answer: THE VOYEVODA2. In 1866, this composer-pianist and brother of one of Tchaikovsky's teachers obtained for him the post of teacher of harmony at the Moscow Conservatory.	Answer: Nicolas RUBENSTEIN3. Tchaikovsky's last work, also know as Pathetique, was played at St. Petersburg in 1893 for the first time, nine days before Tchaikovsky's death. Name this work.	Answer: SYMPHONY NO. 6 IN B MINOR28. (30-20-10) The following is a 30-20-10 on economics:1. The founder of this school of economics is Francois Quesnay. 2. Quesnay's work attempts to trace income flows through the economy.3. The school that he founded in the 18th century was a fervent advocate of laissez-faire or free trade.	Answer: PHYSIOCRACY29. Please answer the following questions about Shakespeare's plays for 10 points each.1. In Hamlet, which German university does Hamlet attend?	Answer: WITTENBERG2. In Henry V Hal leads the English army in defeat of the French force on what Saint's Day?	Answer: SAINT CRISPAN'S DAY3. Who is the daughter of the dunce of Milan, Prospero in the Tempest?	Answer: MIRANDA