Berkeley Late Spring Tournament-I Know Kung Fu (2004)The Glanton Gang (Noah Kaplan, Eric Kwartler, Matt Nance, Chris Romero)1. In the titular game characters wear special collars that explode if a rule is broken. Beginning with 42 contestants, by the end of the day only 3 are left. Tendo is the first to die at the hands of Akamatsu. Chigusa dies in Sugimura's arms from gunshot wounds inflicted by Mitsuko, who is later shot by Kiriyama. Adapted by director Kinji Fukasaku from a book by Koushun Takami, for 10 points name this movie in which ninth grade students are taken to an island and forced to fight to the death in the eponymous event. Answer: Battle Royale or Batoru rowaiaru2. This state can be represented by a Jones vector where one component is 1 over root 2 and the other is plus or minus i over root 2. Individual photons are in this state due to their unit spin, and optically active molecules show differential absorption of the left- and right-handed subtypes. Passing linear polarized light through a quarter-wave plate produces, FTP, this polarization state in which the electric field vector rotates with constant amplitude about the propagation axis.	Ans: circular polarization3. The tallest peak of this mountainous region is Mount Mrav and today it is connected via the Lachin corridor to the nation that dominates it. Though its parliament declared independence in 1991, fighting over this region whose cities include Shushi and Stepanakert only ended with the 1994 Bishkek Protocol. With a name meaning "Mountainous Black Garden," for 10 points-name this Caucasian enclave, the source of conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia. Answer: Nagorno-Karabakh or Artsakh4. This American writer was inspired by a performance of Euripides' Medea to write a divorce themed novel whose characters include Bartley Hubbard and Marcia Gaylord. After beginning his career with works such as Their Wedding Journey and The Lady of the Aroostook, a later novel centers on Jacob Dryfoos' magazine Every Other Week and the decision of Basil March to move his family to New York. For 10 points, name this Atlantic Monthly editor and author of A Modern Instance, A Hazard of New Fortunes, and The Rise of Silas Lapham.Answer: William Dean Howells5. The case Olmstead vs. US was precipitated when authorities from the Bureau of Internal Revenue used a wiretap in a prosecution of a defendant under this congressional act. Ten years after its passing, its penalties were increased by the Jones Act. It became obsolete when its companion piece of legislation was repealed by a 1933 amendment. Sponsored by its Minnesotan namesake, and drafted by Wayne Wheeler, legislative lawyer of the Anti-Saloon League, --for 10 points-name this act passed in 1919 as the enforcement mechanism for the 18th amendment.Answer: Volstead Act or National Prohibition Act of 19196. The line "Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and dies" in the third stanza of this poem alludes to the poet's brother Tom who died of consumption. Influenced by Wordworth's "Solitary Reaper," the poet alludes to the Biblical Ruth who might have heard the titular creature's song which "Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam/ Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn." Beginning "My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains/ My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk," for 10 points - name this poem whose titular bird was "not born for death," a work by John Keats.Answer: Ode to a Nightingale7. This process always begins with the creation of three sets: white, gray, and black. This technique was first used by John McCarthy as part of Lisp. One controversial method involves searching for cells in which a counter has been zeroed and is referred to as reference counting, while a second is the more straightforward mark and sweep. Employed in Smalltalk, Java, and C++, FTP name this programming language system of automatic memory management. Answer: Garbage Collection8. Four years after he became sole emperor by defeating the usurper Eugenius, this Spaniard quashed a rebellion led by Magnus Maximus. In response to his 390 A.D. massacre of Thessalonian rebels, St. Ambrose banned him from the church of Milan, until he publicly repented. Succeeded by his sons Arcadius and Honorius, --for 10 points-name this last ruler of a united Roman Empire.Answer: Theodosius I the Great or Flavius Theodosius9. Alvin Gouldner's Anti-Minotaur argues that this man did not believe that sociology was capable of simple objectivity. While working as a professor of macroeconomics at the University of Freiburg, he focused on the German stock exchange in his first book, Die Börse. In his best-known work he used the term 'elective affinity' for a hypothesized connection between the ethos of free market economies with the teachings of Christianity. For 10 points -- name this author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. Answer: Max Weber10. Depicted on the obverse side of the twenty-cent Italian Euro coin, this sculpture was completed one year after its creator attacked "the blind and foolish imitation of formulas inherited from the past." Held by the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the creator replaced straight lines with his so-called "lines of force." Depicting what appears to be a figure walking against a wind, this bronze owes its form to the Winged Victory. For 10 points-- name this sculpture by Umberto Boccioni. Answer: Unique Forms of Continuity in Space or Forme uniche della continuità nello spazio11. During the brewing of beer, maltose is produced when two sugars at a time are broken off the starch chain by the beta variety of this saccharidase. Although plants possess two varieties of it, animals possess only one, and increased production of it, in the form of ptyalin, can be a sign of mumps. First purified in 1835 by Persoz and Payen, --for 10 points - name this enzyme responsible for the breakdown of long-chain carbohydrates, present in human saliva. Answer: Amylase12. A thought experiment known as the original position is at the center of this treatise. People in the original position are concerned with primary goods, whose equitable distribution is theoretically assured by adherence to the difference principle. The actors, who are deprived of information concerning the morally irrelevant characteristics of the citizens they represent, are therefore free to act in a manner that manifests the titular concept. Centering on the so-called veil of ignorance --for 10 points-- name this work concerning societal fairness, written by John Rawls. Answer: A Theory of Justice 13. In the 1983 case INS v. Chadha, the Supreme Court struck down this law's section 5.c that allowed for a legislative veto. Passed under the leadership of Speaker Carl Albert and Pro tempore James Eastland, it was aimed at upholding powers enumerated in section 8 of article I of the constitution. The only request that followed the standard of its section 4 was made in response to the Mayaguez incident, declaring "circumstances indicated introduction of Americans into imminent hostility." For 10 point name-- this 1973 joint resolution which sets at 60 days the limit for American military involvement without congressional approval. Answer: War Powers Act or Resolution14. The second movement of this orchestral work, its composer's opus 46, is for strings alone and represents the death of the protagonist's mother, Ase. The third movement is an exotic mazurka arranged for strings and triangle, known as Anitra's dance. The first movement actually corresponds to the protagonist's journey to Africa, and not the typically evoked Scandinavian sunrise. Morning Mood and In the Hall of the Mountain King come from, for 10 points-what suite by Edvard Grieg?Answer: Peer Gynt, Suite No. 115. This quantity is negative for the noble gases, beryllium and magnesium because they do not form stable anions. The periodic trends of this quantity mostly parallel those of ionization energy, but are shifted one unit lower in atomic number, and in the electronegativity scale developed by Mulliken, electronegativity is defined to be proportional to the average of this quantity and the ionization energy. Chlorine has the highest value of, FTP, what chemical property, the energy released when a neutral atom acquires an electron?Answer: electron affinity16. As a 19-year old this player, known for his hickory bat Black Betsy, left his minor-league team to be with his 15-year old wife. During his first full season with the Cleveland Naps, he became the only rookie to ever bat .400 (four hundred) and Babe Ruth claimed to modeled his hitting stance on him. Most famous for a world series in which he had 5 outfield assists and batted .375 (three seventy five), --for 10 points-name this baseball player whose nickname resulted from foot blisters, the most infamous of the Black Sox. Answer: Shoeless Joe Jackson17. A children's song celebrates the Saint Bénezet bridge of this city, which served as the titular backdrop for a set of five novels by Lawerence Durrell. Petrarch condemned its corruption, and it was removed it from a position of continental prominence through the influence of Catherine of Siena. It was purchased in 1348 from Queen Joanna I of Sicily, and under the influence of Phillip the Fair, Clement V elected to make it his capital in 1309. Currently it is a part of the Vaucluse département, on the left bank of the Rhône. FTP name this city that for 78 years in the 14th century was home to the Papacy. Answer: Avignon18. Set in Argos, this classical drama features a speaking role for Pylades, who returns with the protagonist at the play's opening. The protagonist leaves a lock of his hair at his father's tomb; the hair is recognized by the protagonist's sister, and her companions tell him that his mother has dreamed of being bitten by a serpent while breastfeeding. At the play's close the Furies appear to punish the protagonist for matricide. Featuring the deaths of Aegisthus and Clytemnestra, FTP name this second play in Aeschylus's Oresteia, whose title refers to the chorus of slave women women sent to Agamemnon's tomb to pour offerings.Answer: Libation Bearers or Choephoroi19. In Judaism this book is known as 'Ekhah' and is read to commemorate the Tisha B'Av. According to tradition it was written in a cavern outside the Damascus gate following Nebuchadnezzar's destruction of Jerusalem. Its chapters parallel the 28th chapter of Deuteronomy and its fifth chapter is different from its previous four whose original Hebrew was written as acrostics. Followed by either Baruch or Ezekiel, for 10 points, name this sorrowful poetic book attributed to Jeremiah. Answer: Lamentations of Jeremiah20. Signed on the isle of Pheasants in the Bidassoa River, this treaty was precipitated by an Anglo-French victory at the Battle of the Dunes. The conflict that it settled began following a Catholic victory at Nördlingen and French assistance to Catalonian rebels. By its final terms France gained Luxembourg and Flanders. In exchange for a dowry that was never paid, Maria Theresa was forced to renounce her claim to the Spanish throne because her husband-to-be was Louis XIV. For 10 points-- name this 1659 treaty which takes its name from the agreed-upon mountainous border between its two parties. Answer: Treaty of the Pyrenees
1. FTPE, answer the following about the Glanton Gang, everyone's favorite scalp hunting posse: 10) The Glanton Gang was featured in this 1985 Cormac McCarthy novel.Answer: Blood Meridian: or the Evening Redness in the West10) McCarthy portrays this man, Glanton's second-in-command , as a Satanic figure.Answer: "Judge" Holden10) The real Glanton got his start as an army scout for Colonel Fannin and narrowly escaped being killed with many of Fannin's men at this Texas massacre. Answer: Goliad2. FTPE, answer the following about goddesses who appear in Wagner operas:10) This opera opens in Venus's garden. Venus disappears as the title character calls out to the Virgin Mary.Answer: Tannhauser10) Freia is carried off by Fafner and Fasolt in Scene two of this first Ring cycle component. Answer: Das or The Rhinegold10) This goddess, the mother of Brunhilde, has brief cameos in both Siegfried and Das Rheingold. Answer: Erda3. Name the following about Hundred Years War battles FTPE.10) In this 1340 battle Edward III attacked the French fleet under Admiral Quierat.Answer: Battle of Sluys10) On St. Crispin's Day 1415, Henry V decisively defeated Charles VI at this site. Answer: Battle of Agincourt10) One source of knowledge about the hundred years war is this chronicler from Valenciennes. Answer: Jean Froissart4. FTPE, answer the following about a linguist: 10) A chemical engineer who graduated from MIT, John Carroll collected this man's linguistics work in Language, Thought, and Reality. Answer: Benjamin Lee Whorf10) In this famous article Whorf offered a linguistic interpretation of fire prevention. Answer: Blazing Icicles10) Whorf's most famous theory of linguistic relativity was formulated partially through work with this Native American Culture. Answer: Hopi 5. Answer the following about superficially-related art stuff FTPE. 10) Paul Gaugin completed a self-portrait of himself in front on this work which features three nuns at the base of a cross.Answer: Yellow Christ or Christ jaune10) Franz Marc's Yellow Cow is representative of this movement he helped found. Answer: Der Blaue Reiter or The Blue Rider10) The Yellow Book was a periodical by this Avant-Garde artist. Answer: Aubrey Beardsley6. FTPE, name the following adjectives used to describe matrices with the given properties:10) Over the complex numbers, a self-adjoint matrix, i.e. one equal to its conjugate transpose.Answer: Hermitian (do not prompt or accept Symmetric)10) Over the complex numbers, a matrix whose conjugate transpose, aka its Hermitian adjoint, is equal to its inverseAnswer: Unitary (do not prompt or accept Orthogonal)5;5) If you work over the real numbers, and replace "conjugate transpose" with "transpose" above, what two classes of matrices do you get, for 5 points each?Answer: Symmetric and Orthogonal 7. Answer the following about a pair of satires, FTPE.10) The title of this work is derived from an old custom used by seamen to divert a whale's attention. Its centers on three brothers: Peter, Martin, and Jack who are given coats by their father and told not to alter them. Answer: Tale of a Tub 10) This work's namesake event begins with the conflict of a spider and a bee, who represent the moderns and ancients respectively. Answer: Battle of the Books10) In 1704 this Irishman published Tale of a Tub and Battle of the Books together. Answer: Jonathan Swift8. Answer the following about a custom, FTPE. 10) Employed in ancient Hebrew society, this is the name given to the practice of the marriage between a dead man's widow and his brother. Answer: Levirate10) One slight deviation on the levirate custom, in which the sibling requirement is lessened, is referred to as Junior Levirate and was studied among the Nuer people of Sudan by this British anthropologist. Answer: Edward Evans-Pritchard 10) One relatively modern example of Levirate from history is this English king who married his brother Arthur's fiancé, Catherine of Aragon. Answer: Henry VIII9. Answer the following about the Catholic Tradition of the Rosary FTSNOP. 5) For five points, the Rosary is dedicated to this heavenly intercessor. Answer: Blessed Virgin Mary (accept equivalents) OR Our Lady of Fatima (Prompt: Our Lady of the Rosary) 5/15) Five for one, fifteen for both. The Rosary consists of decades of Hail Mary's along with a mystery and these two prayers. Answer: Gloria Patri (Glory Be) & Lord's Prayer (Our Father)10) According to legend, the rosary was given to this 13th century man and he was told to preach it for the good of souls. He was the founder of a mendicant order of preachers whose later members included Thomas Aquinas and Johann Tetzel. Answer: Dominic (founder of the Dominican order) 10. Answer the following on leaders who resigned in fall 2003 FTPE.10) On December 12th, this Canadian Prime Minister resigned and Paul Martin was sworn in to replace him. Answer: Jean Chrétien10) On November 23rd, this longtime Georgian president resigned in the Rose Revolution; Mikhail Saakashvili was elected in January to replace him. Answer: Eduard Shevardnadze 10) On October 17th, Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada, president of this South American nation resigned. Vice President Carlos Mesa was sworn in to replace him. Answer: Bolivia11. Name the following concerning gamespot.com's worst of 2003 FTPE.10) This Monolith RPG for the playstation 2 was awarded 'Most Pretentious Game'; its plot begins with the discovery of Zohar-an. Answer: Xenosaga Episode I: Der Wille zur Macht ("will to power")10) This Tecmo game for XBox was named 'Most Embarrasing Game'; this mature rated 'sports' game allowed the player to buy bikinis for the characters.Answer: Dead or Alive Xtreme Beach Volleyball10) This first-person shooter for the PC was named Overall Worst Game; it is based on a 2003 Civil War movie. Answer: Gods and Generals12. Name the following about works of existentialism FTPE. 10) This Sartre work published in 1943 is subtitled A Phenomenological Essay on Ontology. Answer: Being and Nothingness or L'Etre et le Néant10) The Phenomenology of Perception was written by this author who coined the term "existentialism."Answer: Maurice Merleau-Ponty10) Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Jean Paul Sartre along with Simone de Beauvoir founded this existentialist periodical. Answer: Les Temps Modernes or The Modern Times13 Given a brief description, identify the Canterbury Tale, FTPE.10) Nicholas and Alison hide their affair from Allison's husband by telling him an apocalyptic flood is on the way.Answer: Miller's Tale10) Three men embark on a quest to kill Death. Instead, they find a huge pile of gold and greedily kill each.Answer: Pardoner's Tale10) A knight enlists the aid of a witch to answer the age-old question: What do women want? Answer: Wife of Bath's Tale14 Name these curves from economics FTPE:10) Named for a proponent of Reaganomics, it shows the relationship between tax rates and tax revenues.Answer: Laffer Curve10) The area under this concave curve divided by the area under the 45-degree line equals the gini coefficient. It measures income inequality.Answer: Lorenz Curve10) This curve models the delayed effects of currency devaluation on the balance of trade. It is named for the shape it most often takes.Answer: J Curve15. FTPE, identify the following composers associated with Camille Moke Pleyel.10) Camille was briefly engaged to this composer of Les Troyens and Harold in Italy.Answer: Hector Berlioz10) His Opus 9 Nocturnes are dedicated to Pleyel. He must have been a ladies man 'cause he is also known to have had an affair with author Georges Sand. Answer: Frederic Chopin10) Rumored to have used Chopin's apartment to conduct his affair with Pleyel, his works include the Rakoczy March and Mephisto Waltz. Answer: Franz Lizst 16. Name these points from chemistry FTPE10) In a phase diagram, this is the point at which the gas-liquid coexistence curve terminates. Above it there is a single fluid phase.Answer: critical point10) This point is the temperature at which a ferromagnetic substance loses its magnetism and becomes paramagnetic.Answer: Curie point10) This is the temperature at which the vapor above a volatile liquid forms a combustible mixture with air. Answer: Flash point 17. Answer the following about a 1738 treaty that allowed the ascension of Augustus III FTPE.10) Name this treaty that ended the War of Polish Succession. Answer: Treaty of Vienna 10) One provision of the treaty was confirmation of this 1713 decree by Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI. Answer: Pragmatic Sanction of 171310) In compensation for a lost claim to the throne, the treaty gave this northern French duchy to the former king. Answer: Lorraine18.Given a strait name the large island it separates from a continental landmass, FTPE.10) Strait of Malacca				Answer: Sumatra 10) TorresAnswer: New Guinea10) Bass				Answer: Tasmania19. FTPE, answer the following about the Norse creation myth: 10) This home of desolation was the first of the Norse realms. Its residents include Sinmore and her consort Surt. Answer: Muspellheim10) This primordial giant was born out of the melting ice of Niflheim when it came in contact with the hot air from Muspell. Answer: Ymir 10) After killing Ymir, Odin and his brothers used Ymir's eyebrow to form this world inhabited by mankind.Answer: Midgard20. FTPE, answer the following about igneous rocks: 10) An extrusive rock, this fine-grained dense rock is the predominate constituent of the crustal portions of oceanic tectonic plates. Answer: Basalt 10) This dark, coarse-grained rock is the intrusive equivalent to basalt. Answer: Gabbro10) This mineral is an orthosilicate of magnesium and is a constituent of both basalt and gabbro. The transparent type is used as a gemstone and is often called peridot.Answer: Olivine 