1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Berkeley W and Georgia Tech - Jim Dendy, Jason King, Jason Hong1. After an unhappy childhood, he took refuge with his mother, Nandia, at the court of Dingiswayo, where he rose to become a military commander. When Dingiswayo was murdered by the Ndwandwe, a rival clan, he assumed the throne and in that position reorganized his kingdom. For 10 points, identify this early 19th century African warrior and king of the Zulus. 	Answer: Shaka or Chaka2. One of the several mythological characters which bore this name was at the center of Sophocles' now lost Aletes. Another was the mother by Zeus of Dardanus and yet another was the mother of the harpies and Iris. For 10 points, identify this common name from Greek mythology, the most famous of which was the daughter of Agamemmnon and Clytemnestra who saved her brother Orestes by sending him away with the family tutor after the murder of her father. 	Answer: Electra3. It derives its name from the wood pulp product from which it is derived and the Greek word for "transparent." It may be coated with polyvinylidene chloride to lower its gas and moisture transmission or with polyethylene for meat packaging. For 10 points what is this transparent film used in food preservation that can be bought under the trade name "Saran Wrap"?	Answer: cellophane4. You would find on its coast the points where the Nelson and Churchill rivers drain into Hudson Bay. It contains Southern Indian Lake and the eastern half of Reindeer Lake, which it shares with Saskatchewan. For 10 points, identify this Canadian province tucked between Saskatchewan and Ontario. 	Answer: Manitoba5. His father's new wife made sexual advances toward him, which he repulsed, and so she falsely accused him of rape. His father then cursed him, Poseidon sent a frightening sea monster, and he was thrown from his chariot and killed before his father learned that Phaedra had lied. For 10 points, identify this son of Theseus. 	Answer: Hippolytus6. These are caused by the addition of methyl groups to the 5-carbon of cytosine of the DNA for one of the X chromosomes. Without this occurring, the cell would not survive, since two functioning X chromosomes are lethal. For 10 points, what are these inactive X chromosomes called?	Answer: Barr Bodies7. The decision was based on the sixth amendment and was one of several cases in the 1960s that extended the constitutional protections of the rights of the accused. The plaintiff was not permitted to consult with a lawyer upon his arrest for murder and was convicted on the basis of his interrogation by police without a lawyer present. For 10 points, identify this landmark 1964 Supreme Court decision. 	Answer: Escobedo v. Illinois8. The quantum version of this effect is so accurate that it is the basis of an atomic method for determining the unit of resistance. When a current-carrying conductor or semiconductor is placed in a transverse magnetic field, a transverse potential difference is set up across the conductor in the direction mutually perpendicular to the directions of the magnetic field and the current flow as determined by a right hand rule. For 10 points, what is this voltage caused by the charges of the current moving to the surface of the conductor?	Answer: Hall Effect9. After their conversion to Christianity, their king Angus MacFergus ruled all of Scotland for a period in the 8th century. They were originally called Caledonians by the Romans but were later given their more common name because of their custom of painting the skin. For 10 points, identify these early inhabitants of Scotland. 	Answer: Picts10. It was inspired by a tragic shipwreck in a calm sea only a few miles off the coast of Anglesey and the author's nephew, Edward Philips tells us that his uncle was a close friend of the drowned victim. For 10 points, identify this contribution to the memorial volume for Edward King by English poet John Milton. 	Answer: Lycidas11. After his education at Princeton and the Sorbonne, he became a lawyer. During WWII he advocated a world governmental organization, and in 1945 advised at the Charter Conference of the UN, thereafter becoming US delegate to the General Assembly. For 10 points, identify this man who from 1953-59 was the US secretary of state. 	Answer: John Foster Dulles12. This man became Professor of natural philosophy at the University of Glasgow in 1846. He designed several kinds of electrometers, and carried out fundamental research into thermodynamics, helped to develop the law of conservation of energy, and investigated hydrodynamics, particularly wave motion and vortex motion. For 10 points, identify this British scientist born William Thomson, for whom a temperature scale is named.	Answer: Lord Kelvin13. He joined the Communist party in 1939, fought against the Nazis, and rose to become First Secretary in the Party. As First Secretary, he introduced a series of far-reaching economic and political reforms, including abolition of censorship and increased freedom of speech, leading to Soviet occupation in 1968 and his replacement in 1969 by Husak. For 10 points, identify this man who in 1989 following a popular uprising, was elected chairman of the parliament of Czechoslovakia. 	Answer: Alexander Dubcek14. He studied under Benjamin West in London and began to copy his teacher's grand style in historical paintings. In 1831 he founded a gallery at Yale and placed much of his work in it. In 1816 he secured a commission from Congress to decorate the Capitol. For 10 points, identify this painter of The Death of General Montgomery at Quebec, Resignation of Washington, Signing of the Declaration of Independence. 	Answer: John Trumbull15. An unsophisticated, innocent man, he is caught up in a breach of promise suit brought against him by Mrs. Bardell. When he refuses to pay damages, he is put into Fleet Prison, accompanied by Sam Weller. When released he retires to a house outside London with Weller and Weller's bride, who acts as housekeeper, after dissolving his club. For 10 points, identify this Dickens character. 	Answer: Samuel Pickwick16. Thomas Dartmouth Rice, known as the "father of American minstrelsy," gave a solo performance in blackface, dancing and singing this song in 1828. Rice is said to have taken the tune from an elderly black that worked near the Louisville Theatre in KY. For 10 points, identify this hit song whose title came to be a synonym for blacks.        Answer: Jim Crow17. It is a formal system consisting of a set, two distinguished elements (usually denoted 0 and 1), and two binary operations on the set (usually referred to as addition and multiplication). The set is a commutative group under addition, a commutative group under multiplication once 0 is removed, and multiplication distributes over addition. For 10 points, what is this theoretical construction that includes rational numbers?	Answer: Field18. At this place, located on the sacred slopes of Rano Raraku, you could find Tongariki, one of the greatest religious monuments of early Polynesian culture. Archeologists at last are making progress in recovering the history of Rapa Nui, which is the local culture's name for the island, the people themselves and their indigenous language. For 10 points, identify this island on which you could find moais (MOY-eyes), large gray monoliths of heads in upright positions.	Answer: Easter Island19. Kate Croy is in love with the English journalist Merton Densher, but will not marry him until he is financially secure. When she discovers that her friend Milly Theale, an American heiress, has not long to live, she tells Densher to take an interest in Milly, who promptly falls in love with him. Before her death, Milly learns of Kate and Densher's true relationship, but she nevertheless leaves Densher her money. When the legacy in the form of a check arrives, Densher is anxious to refuse it, but Kate demands that he accept the money or promise that he is not in love with Milly's memory. He cannot do so, and their romance ends. For 10 points, identify this novel, made into an opera by Douglas Moore, written by Henry James. 	Answer: The Wings of the Dove20. Scandal of adultery ruined his career. Born in Wicklow in 1846, he graduated from Cambridge and was elected to Commons in 1875. He united the Home Rule Party and made it powerful by blocking legislation until Irish demands were met. He visited the US in 1879 and raised money for the Land League and after 6 months in jail, returned to Commons and almost got Irish home rule. For 10 points, who was this "uncrowned king of Ireland" whose 1889 affair with the wife of Capt. William O'Shea ended his career?        Answer: Charles Parnell21. It features a narrator, who describes the action that is centered on the courtship and marriage of George Gibbs and Emily Webb, who dies in childbirth. For 10 points, what is this play set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire, perhaps the best known by Thornton Wilder. 	Answer: Our Town
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Berkeley D and Georgia Tech - Jim Dendy, Jason King, Jason Hong1. Identify these ecumenical Councils, ten points each:1. It was convened by Pope Pius IX, and enunciated the dogma of papal infallibility, ending when Italian troops seized Rome for the new kingdom of Italy.	Answer: Vatican I2. This council ended the Great Schism, accepting Gregory XII resignation and electing Martin V as pope	Answer: Constance3. Convened by Pope Paul II to combat the Protestant Reformation, it touched all aspects of religious life and set the pattern of modern Catholicism	Answer: Trent2. Given characters of an opera, name that opera for 10 points, or five points if given the composer .1st 10 pts: Herodias, Narraboth, Herod1st 5 pts: Richard Strauss       Answer: Salome2nd 10 pts: Escamillo, Don Jose2nd 5 pts: Alexandre Bizet	Answer: Carmen3rd 10 pts: Pinkerton, Suzuki3rd 5 pts: Giacomo Puccini	Answer: Madame Butterfly3. Identify these works by Robert Louis Stevenson from characters, ten points each1. Mr. Enfield, Mr. Utterson, Dr. Lanyon, and Poole			Answer: The Strange Case of Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde2. Squire Trelawney, Dr. Livesey, Billy Bones			Answer: Treasure Island3. Ebenezer, Alan Breck, David Balfour				Answer: Kidnapped4. Identify the following space satellites given the objective for ten points each.1. The 1992 US and European Space Agency satellite to study the north and south poles of the sun		Answer: Ulysses2. The 1986 European Space Agency mission to study Halley's comet					Answer: Giotto3. The 1990 American probe named for an explorer to map Venus with radar				Answer: Magellan5. Identify the country that owns the following islands for 10 pts each:1. Guadeloupe and New Caledonia.									Answer: France2. Stewart island and South island.									Answer: New Zealand3. King William island, Banks island, and Southhampton island.					Answer: Canada6. Identify the following person 30-20-10:1. He was president of the United Arab Republic from 1958 to 1961.2. He led a coup to overthrow King Farouk in 1952, then ousted General Naguib to become prime minister of Egypt in 1954. 3. He was elected the first president of Egypt in 1956 and has a lake in southern Egypt named after him.	Answer: Gamal Nasser7. Given works, identify the writer on a 30-20-10 basis.1. "Ode to Spring", "Ode on a Distance Prospect of Eton College", and "The Bard"2. "The Fatal Sisters" and "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes"3. "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"       Answer: Thomas Gray8. Identify the following chemical processes for 15 pts each:1. This process involves oxidizing ammonia in three steps to produce nitric acid.	Answer: Ostwald process2. It is a mining technique in which sulfur is recovered from underground deposits by melting it with superheated steam and then forcing it to the surface with compressed air.	Answer: Frasch process9. Identify the art movement given some artists, five points each:1. John Sloan, George Bellows, Maurice Prendergast	Answer: Ashcan (or The Eight)2. Frederick Church, George Inness, Albert Bierstadt	Answer: Hudson River3. Georges Braque, Raoul Dufy, Andre Derain	Answer: Fauvism (prompt for more on Expressionism)4. Giacomo Balla, Umberto Boccioni	Answer: Futurism5. Piet Mondrian, Theo von Doesburg	Answer: De Stijl6. Jean Miro, Rene Magritte, Max Ernst	Answer: Surrealism10. Identify these multi-headed monsters that you might see in the Hercules: The Legendary Journeys1. A child of Typhon and Echidna, this three-headed monster was born with three heads. It was conceived as having a serpent's tail and a mane of serpents, and it was one of Hercules' labors	Answer: Cerberus2. This nine-headed dragon was born with nine heads. Living in a lake near Argolis, it was defeated by Hercules	Answer: Lernean Hydra3. A granddaughter of Uranus and Rhea, she had the head of a lion, dog and mare. A sinister goddess, she attended Persephone and dealt with ghosts and witchcraft	Answer: Hecate11. 30-20-10 Name the author from works1. On the Morning of Christ's Nativity, Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce, Of Education2. Areopagitica, Comus3. L'Allegro, Samson Agonistes, Il Pensoroso	Answer: John Milton12. Four governors of New York have been elected as President of the United States. First, for five points each, name any two.	Answer: Martin van Buren, Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin Roosevelt2. However, seven New York governors have lost as candidates for President on a major ticket. Name any four for five points each. You have fifteen seconds.	Answer: George Clinton, DeWitt Clinton, Horatio Seymour, Samuel Tilden, Al Smith, Charles Hughes, Thomas Dewey13. Identify the following concepts dealing with particle physics ten points each:1. It is a statistical method of handling certain subatomic particles that have integral spin, such as the photon	Answer: Bose-Einstein statistics2. Postulated by Albert Einstein to explain the photoelectric effect, it carries the electromagnetic force between charged particles	Answer: Photon3. Weak force interactions do not conserve this property, which states that the laws of physics hold equally true for both right-handed and left-handed coordinate systems.	Answer: Parity14. Identify the religious group or sect from works they consider scripture. You'll get ten points after the first work, five if you need a second.1st 10 pts: Gathas1st 5 pts: Zend Avesta	Answer: Zoroastrianism2nd 10 pts: Lun yü 2nd 5 pts: I Ching or Classic of Changes	Answer: Confucianism3rd 10 pts: Puranas3rd 5 pts: Mahabharata       Answer: Hinduism15. Identify these WWII Pacific theatre battles:1. Taking place June 3 - 6, 1942, it was the first decisive US naval victory, relieving the threat to Hawaii and resulted in all four of Japan's aircraft carriers involved sunk.       Answer: Midway2. Taking place May 4-8, 1942, it blocked Japan's push southeast toward Australia, and it was a complete air battle without a single ship firing at another.       Answer: Coral Sea3. The US and Japanese met off the coast of the Philippines in this October 1944 battle.       Answer: Leyte Gulf16. Answer the following about Newtonian physics, ten points each.1. This law states that the acceleration of an object is proportional to the force acting on it and inversely proportional to the mass of the object       Answer: Newton's Second Law2. This term is a useful concept when a large and variable force acts for a short time, as in an impact. By Newton's second law it equals the change in of momentum produced by the force. It also equals the integral of a force over an interval of time. 	Answer: impulse3. The concept of force as presented in Newtonian mechanics gives rise to the need to specify the velocity of a body and its rate of change against some reference. Newton postulated the existence of this concept against which the motion of the body in space is to be measured.	Answer: Absolute Space17. Identify these terms from economics, ten points each.1. Named after an Italian sociologist and economist, this term is defined as the efficiency of a market that is unable to produce more than the same level of inputs without reducing the output of another product.	Answer: Pareto Efficiency2. Named for a British economist, this charts the significant relationship between the percentage change in money wages and the rate of unemployment. Its main implication is that low inflation and low unemployment are incompatible, and so governments have to choose the best combination of both.	Answer: Phillips Curve3. Named for an American economist, it shows the tax rate at which government tax revenue is maximized, after which it declines. It illustrates the relationship between average tax-rates and total tax revenue.	Answer: Laffer Curve18. What Charles did what? Identify the following monarchs, including number and country.1. For 10 points, his mother instigated the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre	Answer: Charles IX of France2. For 10 points, he returned to England after the death of Cromwell	Answer: Charles II of England4. For 10 points, he was known as the "fair" and was the last Capetian King	Answer: Charles IV of France19. Identify these works by Swedish writer August Strindberg, 15 points each.1. A long one-act play described by the author as a naturalistic tragedy, the title character is the daughter of a count brought up by her mother to hate men. She commits suicide, unable to live with her internal conflict after seducing a footman.	Answer: Miss Julie2. This play presents the love-hate relationship between husband and wife. Alice has been virtually imprisoned by her husband of twenty-five years, Edgar. The plot revolves around Edgar's attempt to maintain domination in the face of increasing sickness, as well as Alice's attempts at retaliatory torture.	Answer: The Dance of Death20. Identify the novel given its original title for 15 pts each, a character for 10 pts each, or the author for 5 pts each. There will be 2 parts.1. 15 pts: Tenderness10 pts: Oliver Mellors 5 pts: D.H. Lawrence	Answer: Lady Chatterley's Lover2. 15 pts: Incident at West Egg10 pts: Tom Buchanan5 pts: F. Scott Fitzgerald	Answer: The Great Gatsby21. Give the Latin names of these constellations given the English translation and a prominent star found in it, 5 points eachBull, contains the star Aldebaran		Answer: TaurusSwan, contains the star Deneb		Answer: CygnusHarp, contains the star Vega		Answer: LyraLittle Dog, contains the star Procyon	Answer: Canis MinorHerdsman, contains the star Arcturus	Answer: BootesEagle, contains the star Altair		Answer: Aquilae