2001 Berkeley WIT IX PacketBy UC Irvine (Willie Chen, Doug Hill, Thomas Bushnell, and Nathan Benedict, and Ian Nieves)Tossups1. He devised a syllable system consisting of modified Roman letters and Hindu numerals.  For instance, a looped W sounds "ya," (*) the number 4 sounds "se," and a flowery V sounds "quo."  He was an blacksmith in early 19th-century Arkansas.  Dealings with literate business people and politicians convinced him of the power of the written word.  His early success with a self -invented accounting notation inspired him to devise a writing system for his people's language.  FTP, name this Cherokee who single-handedly taught his people to read and write.	Answer: Sequoyah (accept: "George Guess")2. Until the original copyright expires in 2010, royalties must be paid to the publisher for public performance of this song.  Written in the key of F major, it was first published in 1893 as (*) "Good Morning to All."  When the lyrics were changed and the song was republished in 1935, it has become one of the most frequently performed songs of all time, heard by over 70% of Americans at least once a year.  FTP, name this song penned by Mildred and Patty Hill, which is usually followed by someone blowing out candles on a cake.	Answer: "Happy Birthday to You"
3. He was the god of vegetation until he died at the hands of his brother.  Because his sister (*) Nephtys did not have a child, he pitied her and agreed to sleep with her.  In the 2001 movie The Mummy Returns, his spear is used to kill the Scorpion King.  Brother of Set and Nephtys-FTP-who was this Egyptian god of the dead, father of Horus the Younger and husband of Isis?	Answer: Osiris 4. In the 1931 book, Monetary Equilibrium, he made a distinction between ex ante (planned) and ex post (realized) savings and investment. (*) For three years, he conducted research on the social and economics problems of African-Americans.  He presented his findings and his theory of cumulative causation-that poverty breeds poverty-in An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy.  A major theorist of international relations, he specialized in policies in developing third-world nations.  A member of the Stockholm school of economics-FTP-identify this Swedish economist and sociologist, awarded the Nobel Prize for Economics in 1974 along with Friedrich Hayek.	Answer: Gunnar Myrdal5. His early works contain bold fantasy, merciless invective, and lewd humor, as played out in considerable parts by the mime, chorus, and burlesque.  His early works also contain violent satire that ridiculed the democratic war leaders. (*) Later, he satirized contemporary issues such as the new learning of Socrates and the power of women.  Known for the use of wit and puns, he often used prominent choruses in his plays, which actually became their titles: The Wasps, The Birds, and The Frogs.  With only 11 of his 40 plays surviving-FTP-who was this Greek comedic playwright of The Clouds and Lysistrata?	Answer: Aristophanes 6. Methods used to produce this art form include oil, tempera, and encaustic painting.  Artists who have painted them include Cimabue, Giotto, Masaccio, and Ghirlandaio.  In 1949, José Clemente Orozco (*) painted a series of them for the Palace of Government in Guadalajara.  Diego Rivera also painted many of them, including one for the Rockefeller Center in New York, which was painted over because it portrayed Lenin.  FTP, name these artworks, usually of fresco, which decorate vaults, ceilings, and-most importantly-walls.	Answer: murals7. Strengthened by a pillar called linea aspera, this long and slender bone of the human body is attached to a ball-and-socket joint at the acetabulum.  At either side of the lower end lie two large things called condyles. (*) Internally, it shows the development of bone arcs called trabeculae, which are efficiently arranged to transmit pressure and resist stress up to 2,500 pounds.  This bone contains a prominence that provides attachment for the gluteus medius and minimus muscles.  FTP, identify this bone, also known as thighbone.	Answer: femur (prompt on "thighbone" before mentioned)8. She is associated with a water-flowing vase and willow branches, which signify her passage toward Enlightenment. (*) This influential deity has had several incarnations and is known by several names, including Ancient Buddha of the South Sea.  In her most noted incarnation, she was the third princess of her kingdom, but she gave up a life of luxury in search of Enlightenment.  She met her divine master at age 16 and passed away at age 19, yet she is frequently depicted carrying a child in her arms.  She is the "Buddha of Compassion," often depicted as sitting on a lotus flower. Worshipped by millions of families in Southeast Asia and around the world-FTP-name this Bodhisattva.	Answer: Kwan-Yin Bodhisattva 	(accept "Gwan-Shi-Yin Pusah," but prompt on "Buddha of Compassion")9. It revolves around the Sun in 4.6 terrestrial years and has a diameter estimated at about 440 miles.  It was first discovered on January 1, 1801 at the Palermo Observatory by (*) Giuseppe Piazzi.  After Piazzi's observations ended, Franz von Zach continued observing this asteroid, using orbit calculations by Carl Friedrich Gauss.  It was the largest known asteroid in the solar system and the first to be discovered.  FTP, name this asteroid, named after the Roman goddess of agriculture.	Answer: Ceres10. This literary term was coined in the 1940s by Cuban novelist Alejo Carpentier.  While some scholars believe it has existed in many cultures for ages, others believe it began in the wake of postcolonial literature, which must make sense of both the (*) reality of the conquerors and the reality of the conquered.  It can be seen in such novels as Aura and Love in the Time of Cholera.  Writers who write in this style include Jorge Amado, Carlos Fuentes, and Isabel Allende.  FTP, name this chiefly Latin-American narrative strategy, characterized by the matter-of-fact inclusion of fantastic or mythical elements into seemingly realistic fiction.	Answer: magic realism11. A boa once "swallowed" this island after being accidentally introduced there, endangering the local animal species.  Liberation Day came on July 21, 1944, to this home of the (*) Chamorro people, whose words of greeting are "Hafa Adai!"  The Spanish maintained control of this Micronesian island for 333 years, but ceded it to the United States following the 1898 Spanish American War.  The largest island in the Marianas, FTP, name this American territory in the Pacific with the capital at Hagatna [uh-GA-nya].	Answer: Guam (accept "Guahan," which is the Chamorro name)12. Growing up, he loved hockey, basketball, and surfing, but he would become a professional player in another sport.  After graduating from Carlsbad High School, he attended UC Irvine for three years before transferring to Arizona State. (*)  Aside from appearing in an episode of Sabrina the Teenage Witch, he also plays tennis at Pam Shriver's fundraiser for children in need.  This baseball player is the number-two all-time leader in leadoff homeruns behind Rickey Henderson.  In 2000, he batted .288 with 18 homeruns, which is a far cry from a mammoth 50 that he hit in 1996.  He also once had the most unsightly sideburns in baseball.  FTP, name this left-handed outfielder of the Baltimore Orioles.	Answer: Brady Anderson13. In addition to positing the name for the element iodine, this scientist proved that prussic acid contained only hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen-but not oxygen, as it was previously thought. (*) His research into the thermal expansion of gases made it possible for Lord Kelvin to devise a new temperature scale.  In 1804, he and Jean-Baptiste Biot studied the variation of the Earth's magnetic intensity by riding in a hydrogen-filled balloon to a height of 13,000 feet.  One of the founders of modern meteorology-FTP-who was this French scientist, most famous for his eponymous law of combining volumes?	Answer: Joseph-Louis Guy-Lussac (accept : Gay-Lussac)14. He rarely wrote outside his primary instrument, but he did compose a cello sonata late in his short life.  He wrote in several traditional forms, including a barcarolle, a berceuse, a fantasie, and 2 concertos. (*) However, he also expanded the usual genres by writing 4 ballades, 4 scherzos, 3 sonatas, 4 impromptus, and lots of preludes, waltzes, études, and nocturnes.  FTP, name this Romantic composer, whose heroic nationalistic dances of mazurkas and polonaises paid tribute to his native Poland.	Answer: Frédérick Chopin 15. This city lies at the confluence of the Red and Assiniboine Rivers, 40 miles south-southwest of a large lake with the same name.  Its name is derived from Cree Indian words for "muddy water."  It has been home to Fort Rouge, Fort Gibraltar, Fort Garry, and the Red River Settlement of Scottish colonists.  Hometown of the "Guess Who"-FTP-what is this Canadian city, formerly the home of the Jets and capital of Manitoba?       Answer: Winnipeg16. This play has such a complicated premise, The Norton Anthology of English Literature added a preface just to explain what is going on before the play begins!  Sir Wilfull Witwoud is the half-brother of Witwoud and nephew of Lady Wishfort. (*) Lady Wishfort despises Mirabell because he had falsely pretended to love her.  Mirabell, a "reformed rake," is in love with Mrs. Millamant.  And then there is Lady Wishfort's daughter, who is married to Fainall, who used to be friends with Mirabell and is in love with Marwood, who actually prefers Mirabell over Fainall.  Confused?  FTP, name this gleefully vicious Restoration comedy of manners, the masterful final work of William Congreve.	Answer: The Way of the World 17. It originally consisted of a narrow strip of alluvial soil on each side of the river Tigris.  This ancient kingdom was once ruled by a man who defeated the Egyptians at Eltekeh in 701 BCE and fought both the Chaldeans and the Elamites at Halulina in 691 BCE. (*) Earlier, this kingdom was led by a man who subdued the Babylonians, destroyed Samaria, and defeated a coalition of enemies at Raphia in 720.  Known to have adopted the Sumerian cuneiform script-FTP-name this ancient kingdom with capital at Ninevah, ruled by Sennacherib and Sargon.	Answer: Assyria 18. The Vince Guaraldi Trio provided the music for this Emmy and Peabody Award-winning special, originally broadcast on the night of (*) December 9, 1965.  When its title character asks about the true meaning of its title holiday, a spotlight turns onto his best friend who reads a passage from Saint Luke.  FTP, name this first animated special starring the characters of Charles M. Schulz.	Answer: A Charlie Brown Christmas19. This speech contains the quote, "Two thousand years ago, the proudest boast was 'civis Romanus sum.' (*) Today, in the world of freedom, what is this proudest boast?"  In it, the speaker advised that anyone who failed to "understand the great issue between the free world and the Communist world" should come to the city where this speech was given.  The speech is called "Remarks in the Ruldoph Wilde Platz," but it is better remembered by its last four words.  FTP, what was this speech delivered by President John F. Kennedy in West Berlin on June 26, 1963?	Answer: "Ich bin ein Berliner" 	(prompt on "Remarks in the Rudolph Wilde Platz" before mentioned)20. The first half of this poem has a theme of ascent, as "the frail, illegal fire balloons" float toward "the kite sticks of the Southern Cross." (*) The second half of the poem has the theme of descent, as "another big one fell," which starts a forest fire.  Animals then dash out of the thickets, including an owl, a baby rabbit, and the title animal-described as "rose-flecked, head down, tail down."  This poem was dedicated to Robert Lowell, who replied with the poem "Skunk Hour."  FTP, name this 1957 poem concerning artifice, set in Rio de Janerio and written by Elizabeth Bishop.	Answer: "The Armadillo"21. He turned to Plato's distinction in the Sophist between icastic and fantastic imitation.  In his two defenses of (*) Dante, this philosopher tackled such issues as the differences between Plato and Aristotle, the "credible impossible" and the "incredible possible," and truth and falsehood in poetry.  His 1587 defense might have been written by Tuccio del Corno.  His more authenticated 1572 defense is titled Discorso in difeso della Commedia del divino poeta Dante.  FTP, name this 16th-century Italian philosopher, best known for investigating the notion of the "idol."	Answer: Jacopo Mazzoni 22. He was succeeded circa 1223 BCE by Merneptah (*) after a reign of about 57 years, during which he fought an inconclusive war against the Hittites, and engaged in a building campaign, beautifying Thebes and covering his country with statues of himself.  FTP, name this 19th dynasty monarch who is often portrayed as the Pharaoh of the Oppression.	Answer: Rameses II or Rameses the Great  (Note: Rameses = Ramses)23. Intended by the penal code to be administered impartially, its services most often fell upon poor minorities and political dissidents. (*) It was built to serve an egalitarian revolution, but it instead saw its greatest use under the Nazis.  This device backfired in all the objectives promoted by its creator, a namesake French doctor.  Conceived to replace brutal, degrading public executions with private, dignified death, it instead became the centerpiece of mass executions celebrated by bloodthirsty mobs.  Designed to eliminate suffering, its victims often lived momentarily beyond their decapitation.  FTP, name this innovation of the French Revolution which killed with an oblique falling blade.	Answer: guillotine24. In her 1981 essay, "Feminist Criticism in the Wilderness," she showed doubts about a "playful pluralism" and posed questions about how to "rescue the feminine form its stereotypical associations with inferiority."  In her seminal 1977 work, she coined the term (*) "gynocritics" for female biographical criticism and labeled female readership as "feminist critique."  Her ultimate goal is to separate feminist literary criticism from a history of male-dominant theory and terminology.  FTP, name this foremost feminist critic of the modern era, the author of A Literature of Their Own: British Women Novelists from Brontë to Lessing.	Answer: Elaine Showalter 25. The proof for this astounding characteristic of prime numbers was given by Euclid in fifth century BCE. (*) In the proof, Euclid presents the set of all the existing primes.  Next, he calculates the product of all the primes.  Finally, he adds one to the product.  FTP, what does this sum prove about prime numbers?	Answer: Their are an infinite number of primes
2001 Berkeley WIT IX PacketBy UC Irvine (Willie Chen, with a contribution from Thomas Bushnell)Bonuses1. It's time to play "one of these mammals is not like the other."  For each list of mammals, identify the one that is taxonomically most remote from the others.  For example, if I gave you "horse, zebra, elephant," you would answer "elephant" because horses and zebras are both perissodactyls and elephants are proboscids.  For 10 points each:A. lemur, marmoset, lemming       Answer: lemming (lemurs and marmosets are primates, lemmings are rodents)B. mole, vole, tenrec       Answer: vole (moles and tenrecs are insectivora, voles are rodents)C. tree shrew, forest shrew, hedgehog	Answer: tree shrew (forest shrews and hedgehogs are insectivora, tree shrews are 	scandentia)2. We've all read Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, right?  It's time to dig deeply into thy memory.  For 10 points each, given a quotation from that great book, identify the character who said it:A. "Oh, do, it ain't a bit of trouble to us, not a bit in the world.  You must stay.  It's a long, dusty three mile, and we can't let you walk.  And besides, I've already told 'em to put on another plate, when I see you coming; so you mustn't disappoint us.  Come right in, and make yourself at home."	Answer: Aunt Sally B. "Well, dat's all right, den.  I doan' mine one er two kings, but dat's enough.  Dis one's powerful drunk, en de duke ain' much better."	Answer: Jim C. "No he hain't, it's all there, yet-six thousand dollars and more; and your pap hain't ever been back since.  Hadn't when I come away, anyhow."	Answer: Tom Sawyer3. Name this man on a 30-20-10 basis:A. Composer John Adams made fun of this man in the opera Nixon in China.  During the third act, he leaves the stage to go to the bathroom and never comes back.  In real life, he attended Harvard and wrote the thesis: A World Restored: Metternich, Castlereagh, and the Restoration of Peace, 1812.B. Born to Jewish parents in Furth, Germany, he later worked as an interpreter for the Eighty-fourth Infantry Division.  He also helped to rebuild the cities of Krefeld and Hesse.  By 1946, he was training American intelligence agents at the European Command Intelligence School at Oberammergau.C. Author of Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy, this former National Security Adviser and Secretary of State received a Nobel Peace Prize, which he later returned in 1975.	Answer: Dr. Henry Kissinger 4. On a 5-5-10-10 basis, answer the following questions about the labors of Hercules:A. One of his easiest tasks was to kidnap what three-headed canine from Hades?	Answer: Cerberus B. Another one of his tasks was to fetch the girdle of Queen Hippolyta.  Hippolyta headed what tribe of woman warriors?	Answer: the AmazonsC. Hercules was also asked to clean whose stables?	Answer: King Augeas (prompt on "the Augean stables")D. Hercules was also asked to capture what animals from the monster Geryon?	Answer: oxen (accept cows, or equivalents)5. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the geographical features in India:A. First, all or nothing, name the three longest rivers of India.	Answers: Indus, Ganges, and Brahmaputra B. Next, identify the location of the controversial project, which will create the largest combined hydroelectric irrigation scheme in the world.	Answer: Narmada ValleyC. Finally, identify the peninsula south of the Narmada River, which forms a plateau between Western and Eastern Ghats mountain ranges.	Answer: Deccan Peninsula 6. Identify these organic compounds on a 5-5-10-10 basis:A.. Also known as ethanoic acid, this simple fatty acid with chemical formula CH3COOH is found in vinegar.	Answer: acetic acid B. With a chemical formula C2H5OH, it is colorless liquid with a pleasant odor is found in beer, wine, cider, spirits, and other alcoholic drinks.	Answer: ethanol or ethyl alcohol C. This colorless inflammable gas is produced by mixing calcium carbide and water.  Discovered by Edmund Davy in 1836, it was used in early gas lamps.  Name this compound with an empirical formula C2H2.	Answer: acetylene or ethyne (pronounced Eth - Thine)D. Obtained chemically by the direct oxidation of benzaldehyde, it occurs naturally in some resins and essential oils as hippuric acid.  With an empirical formula C7H6O2, it is a white crystalline solid, sparingly soluble in water.  Its most common application is as food preservative.	Answer: benzoic acid 7. For 10 points each, name these key political figures in 17th-century France:A. Chief minister of France from 1624, he aimed to make the monarchy absolute.  He crushed opposition by the nobility and wrecked the political power of the Huguenots.  This Cardinal supported the Swedish King Gustavus Adolphus and brought France into the Thirty Years' War.       Answer: Armand Jean du Plessis de RichelieuB. Succeeding Richelieu as chief minister of France in 1642, he attacked the power of the nobility, which led to the Fronde.  Briefly exiled, this Cardinal later established an alliance with Oliver Cromwell during the British Protectorate.       Answer: Jules MazarinC. Succeeding Mazarin as chief minister of France in 1665, he served under Louis XIV.  He repaid the national debt and established trade with India and America.  A champion of mercantilism, he set up colonies in Louisiana, Guyana, and Madagascar.	Answer: Jean-Baptiste Colbert 8. Name these early scholars who examined the human mind for 10 points each:A. This American educational psychologist experimented with cats and dogs in a "puzzle box."  He concluded that learning was improved when it achieved a satisfactory result.  Consequently, he thought that students were encouraged by good results, not by a desire to correct errors.	Answer: E(dward) L(ee) Thorndike B. This British scientist studied the inheritance of physical and mental attributes in humans with the aim of improving the human species.  Father of "eugenics," he was credited for finding that no two person share the same set of fingerprints.	Answer: Francis Galton C. This Austrian psychologist saw the "will to power" as more influential in accounting for human behavior than sexual drive.  The concepts of inferiority complex and overcompensation originated with him.  He wrote Understanding Human Nature in 1927.	Answer: Alfred Adler 9. Are you up on your Japanese history?  For 10 points each, answer the following questions:A. In 710, the Yamato kings established a permanent capital for the first time.  They modeled it after the Chinese capital.  Name that city.	Answer: Nara B. In 794, the court moved to Heian, where the Heian dynasty flourished.  What modern-day city is Heian located, becoming the second permanent capital of Japan?	Answer: Kyoto C. This family dominated the Heian period.  It drew great wealth from provincial estates and created a metropolitan culture of extreme refinement.  It also saw lots of Chinese influence.  Name this family that dominated Japan from 9th to 11th centuries.	Answer: Fujiwara 10. The writer of this bonus is deeply pained and full of sorrow because he is about to indulge in a bonus related to the Poetry of Sensibility.  For 10 tearful points each, identify the following British writers from that heartfelt period:A. Perhaps the best known of the Sensibility Poets, he was a professor at Cambridge and wrote two Pindaric odes late in his life: The Bard and The Progress of Poesy.  However, he is better known for writing "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes" and "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."	Answer: Thomas Gray B. A religious fanatic, he would kneel down everywhere to pray, even on London sidewalks.  The public found him to be a nuisance and locked him up for seven years inside a hospital, then a madhouse.  During his confinement, he wrote Jubilate Agno, or Rejoice in the Lamb, parts of which were later set to music by Benjamin Britten.	Answer: Christopher Smart C. This Irish-born Sensibility Poet wrote "The Deserted Village" and "The Traveler, or A Prospect of Society."  A part-time doctor and an usher at a school, he also wrote the plays She Stoops to Conquer and The Good-Natured Man and the novel The Vicar of Wakefield.	Answer: Oliver Goldsmith 11. Given a list of works, name these famous choreographers for 10 points each:A. Acrobats of God, Alcestis, Clytemnestra and Appalachian Spring	Answer: Martha Graham B. Ondine, Cinderella, Symphonic Variations, and Birthday Offering	Answer: Frederick Ashton C. Acis et Galatée, The Dying Swan, Les Sylphides, The Firebird, and Petrouchka 	Answer: Michel Fokine or Mikhail Mikhailovich Fokin12. This is a matching bonus-pencil and paper may be helpful.  Please write down the following five inventors: John Napier, William Oughtred, Wilhelm Schickard, Gottfrid Leibniz, and Joseph-Marie Jacquard.  For 5 points each, and a 5-point bonus for all correct, who created:A) The automatic loom controlled by punch cards?		Answer: Jacquard B) The slide rule?						Answer: OughtredC) Logarithms?						Answer: NapierD) The Stepped Reckoner model calculator?			Answer: LeibnizE) The mechanical calculating machine?			Answer: Schickard 13. How well do you know your American Constitution?  On a 5-5-10-10 basis, answer these questions:A. Article II, section 2 declares that this man is "Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States."  F5P, who is this man?	Answer: the President B. Article III, section 3 defines this criminal act as that which is "against the United States" and "shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort."  F5P, what is this crime?	Answer: treason C. Article IV, section 2 states: "A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demand . . . be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime."  FTP, what one-word legal term sums this all up?	Answer: extradition (accept different forms of the same word)D. Article I, section 5 declares that "a Majority of each [house] shall constitute a   (blank)   to do Business."  FTP, fill in the blank with the word that means the minimum number of house members required to hold a session.	Answer: Quorum 14. Name these South American botanicals for 15 points each:A. Extracted from the bark and juices of various South American trees and plants, this black, resinous poison was originally used by hunters in the Amazons to paralyze prey.  It was applied on arrowheads.  Later on, it was used as a muscle relaxant during surgery.	Answer: curare B. Peruvian Indians introduced the bark of this tree to French missionaries circa 1630.  A derivative of this tree, quinine was not discovered until 1820.  Name that South American tree.	Answer: cinchona tree15. Given an alcoholic beverage from around the world, identify its country of production for 5 points each:A) McNally's Ale				Answer: Canada B) De Koninck					Answer: Belgium C) Hofbräu					Answer: Germany D) Aass Pilsner				Answer: Norway E) Victorian Bitter				Answer: Australia F) Tsingtao Beer				Answer: China 16. On a 5-10-15 basis, answer the following questions about the history of Costa Rica:A. Before becoming part of United Provinces of Central America in 1821, Costa Rica was under the Spanish colonial control.  It belonged to what Kingdom immediately south of modern-day Mexico?	Answer: Kingdom of GuatemalaB. After a brief civil war in 1948, José Figueres Ferrer led the National Liberation forces to rule the country and thereby abolished the Costa Rican army.  FTP, by what name is Figueres better known?	Answer: Don Pepé C. This Costa Rican president won the 1987 Nobel Peace Prize for his Central American peace plan.  He promoted the settlement of civil strife in Nicaragua and El Salvador.  F15P, name him.	Answer: Oscar Arias Sánchez17. Last year, the writer of this bonus took a course in phonology and loved it.  So, here is a bonus on some basic principles of phonology for 10 points each:A. This process usually involves the insertion of a weak vowel between phonemes, but consonants can be inserted "out of the blue" as well.  For example, in the word length, a small K is inserted between ng and th.  Name this phonological process.	Answer: epenthesis B. This process can be explained with a cyclic approach.  It states that, in a string of three or more vowels, the middle ones tend to be affected by the relative strengths or weaknesses of the vowels surrounding them.  Name this phonological process.	Answer: vowel harmony C. This process simply means one or more phonemes are removed from normal to rapid speech.  For example, excuse me in rapid speech becomes 'scuse me.  Name this phonological process.	Answer: deletion 18. 30-20-10.  Identify the religious text by its components:A. Book of Helaman, Book of Alma, and Book of EtherB. Book of Jarom, Book of Enos, and Book of OmniC. Book of Moroni; Book of Jacob; and the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Books of Nephi	Answer: The Book of Mormon 19. For 15 points each, identify these forms of musical performance from around the world:A. Named after a royal country house where it was first developed, this witty and satirical Spanish musical theater form combines song, dance, and speech.  Originated in the 17th century and championed by playwright Calderón, it was revived in the 20th century by Frederico Moreno Tórroba.	Answer: zarzuela B. Originally court music with Hindustan influences, this musical performance of Indonesia withdrew under Dutch colonial administration to rural communities.  It is played as an accompaniment to ceremonial occasions, dancing, and puppet theater.  There are Javanese and Balinese styles, but its most famous aspect is the use of tuned gongs, metallophones, cymbals, and a variety of exotic percussion and wind instruments.	Answer: gamelan 20. Identify this important 20th-century woman on a 30-20-10 basis:A. While studying in Cambridge, she wrote her doctorate dissertation on "The Ethics of Love and Marriage in Shakespeare's Early Comedies."  She later published articles in Rolling Stone and a British counterculture magazine named Oz.  However, it was an article she contributed to a pornographic magazine that caused much controversy among his collegiate colleagues.B. A champion of free speech, she testified at several obscenity trials and then vowed never to return to her native country as long as the conservative Liberal Country Party held power.  In addition to editing a set of unpublished poems by Aphra Behn, she wrote the 1991 book, The Change, in which she discussed the effect of menopause on women.C. This feminist critic wrote Sex and Destiny: The Politics of Human Fertility and The Obstacle Race.  However, this Australian woman is best remembered for her influential 1970 book, The Female Eunuch.	Answer: Germaine Greer21. Name this object, 30-20-10.A. The name of this object originated in the 1920s.  Students at Yale would yell a certain word as they hurled this object, which originated from a bakery in Bridgeport, Connecticut.B. In 1958, the Wham-O company adopted a new spelling for this object and marketed it as "Pluto Platters" and "Flyin' Saucers."C. Today, variations in playing this object include Golf, Guts, and Ultimate.  Of course, many people still prefer to play it with their pet dogs dashing across the park and making spectacular catches.	Answer: Frisbee22. Name these Chinese philosophers for 10 points each:A. Although he lived 100 years after the great teacher, he perpetuated and propagated the Confucian principles and, as a moralist, believed that all men were innately good.  Born circa 372 BCE in Shantung province, he moved many times when he was young as his mother sought to find him a suitable environment in which to grow up.	Answer: Mencius or Mengzi B. He was one of the Five Great Philosophers of the post-Confucian period whose writings survived to modern day.  In his namesake treatise, he took the opposite extreme of Mencius' argument and declared that all men are born evil.  He believed that children should receive stern, moralistic discipline in order to correct their evil inclinations.	Answer: Hsuenzi (not to be confused with "Zhuangzi")C. He was not really a philosopher like Mencius or Hsuenzi, but he certainly upheld Mao Zedong's wayward philosophy as a foreign minister and a member of the Chinese Communist Party.  He restored orderly progress after the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution, and was the architect of the Four Modernization programs in 1975.  He was Chinese prime minister from 1949 until his death in 1976.	Answer: Chou [dzow]En-lai23. Name these specific layers of the atmosphere for 15 points each:A. Now called the E Layer, it contains the lower regions of the ionosphere, which refract radio waves, allowing their reception around the surface of the Earth.  It approaches the Earth by day and recedes from it at night.	Answer: Kennelly-Heaviside LayerB. Named after an English physicist, this is a band containing ionized gases in the Earth's upper atmosphere, above the E Layer.  It can act as a reflector of radio signals, although its ionic composition varies with the sunspot cycle.	Answer: (Edward) Appleton Layer24. For 15 points each, name these short stories by modern women writers from Africa:A. Subtitled "A Story of Ancient Tribal Migration," this short story is a romanticized history of the Botalaote tribe.  In a curt footnote, author Bessie Head writes: "Some historical data was given to me by the old men of the tribe, but it was unreliable as their memories had tended to fail them."  F15P, name this short story that tells the history of why the Talaote people were expelled from the Kingdom of Monemapee.	Answer: "The Deep River"B. The opening short story in the collection No Sweetness Here, it gives a quick glimpse into a college classroom in post-colonial Ghana.  The main character Sissie is a professor.  She notices that all the girls in the class are wearing wigs, but she makes a conscious decision not to wear one.  F15P, name this short story by Ama Ata Aidoo.	Answer: "Everything Counts"25. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the Roman poet Catullus:A. Catullus was born to a wealthy family in this city, where "the bard" later cast "two gentlemen."  This city is the site of the Castelvecchio and one of the largest Roman amphitheaters in the world.	Answer: Verona B. According to some scholars, Catullus-instead of Sappho-may have coined the term for female homosexuality, which occurred when he wrote lyrics addressed to this woman.	Answer: Lesbia C. The real-life Lesbia, she was the object of Catullus' affection, but their love affair turned sour.  She was the wife of Roman Consul Metellus.  Who was she?	Answer: Clodia 