1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Stanford A - Adam Kemezis, Elliot Mandel, Jesse Molesworth, and Noah Rosenberg1. First synthesized independently in the lab of K. C. Nicolaou in December 1993 and in the lab of R. A. Holton in January 1994, this compound has been the subject of intense study ever since it was first identified as an agent against ovarian and breast cancer. Name this chemical, first discovered in the bark of the Pacific yew tree, Taxus brevifolia.	Answer: Taxol2. It was composed at the request of the mayor of Strasbourg, P.F. Dietrich, for a marching song for troops during the war against Austria. Although immediately popular, it was banned thrice - in 1799, 1815, and 1853. The author and composer, Rouget de Lisle, was not a professional musician but a captain of the engineers. For ten points, name this song, initially entitled The War Song of the Army of the Rhine, which serves as the French national anthem.	Answer: La Marseillaise3. His interests ranged from superstrong magnets that he built while assistant director of the Cavendish laboratory to ball lightning, which he studied while banished to his country house after a disagreement with Stalin. He won a Nobel Prize in Physics at age 84, 70 years after his former teacher, Ernest Rutherford, got his in chemistry. For ten points, name this Russian experimental physicist that worked in low temperature physics, the discoverer of superfluidity.	Answer: Peter Leonidovich Kapitsa4. It contains the largest natural lake located on any island in the world, Nettilling Lake, which straddles the Arctic Circle. It is named for a navigator who searched for the Northwest Passage and later worked for the East India Company. For ten points, name this fifth-largest island in the world, separated from Greenland by its namesake bay.	Answer: Baffin Island5. It lies about a mile to the northwest of St. Ewold's and several miles west of Puddingdale. Its notable inhabitants include Dr. Fillgrave, an attorney named Finney, its bishop, Dr. Proudie, and Mr. Harding, the warden of a charitable home. Its creator based it partly on Salisbury, and like Salisbury it is primarily a cathedral city. For ten points, name this city, whose towers gave the name to the second of the Barsetshire novels by Anthony Trollope.	Answer: Barchester6. The leader of an indigenous rebellion against the Spanish, in 1781 he was captured and killed in the city of Cuzco. In 1984, a leftist terrorist group named after him attacked the U.S. Embassy in Lima, and in 1996 the group attacked the residence of the Japanese Ambassador to Peru. For ten points, identify this man, the namesake of slain rapper Shakur.	Answer: Tupac Amaru II (prompt on Amaru, not on Tupac)7. Purple petals, axial flowers, inflated pods, green pods, round seeds, yellow seeds and long stems in garden pea plants all exhibit this pattern of inheritance, first identified by Gregor Mendel in 1866. For ten points, name this type, also shared by the diseases achondroplasia and Huntington's chorea in human beings, but not by ataxia telangiectosa or sickle-cell anemia.	Answer: Dominant (accept Dominance)8. His trademarks include the powder-blue Peugeot he drives and the bowls of chili he orders in fancy restaurants. He has faced off against villains played by William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, Mickey Spillane and Johnny Cash, but he never appears on the screen until viewers have already seen the murderer commit the crime. For ten points, name the cigar-chewing, trench coated TV detective made famous by Peter Falk.	Answer: Lieutenant Columbo9. An old man and his young friend sit down by the banks of the River Ilissus, where the younger one recounts a speech he heard the orator Lysias give in which he tried to prove that it was better for a boy to submit to a man who did not love him than one who did. The older man then takes him up on this and they discourse on the nature of love and knowledge, and the older man, Socrates, makes a famous analogy of the soul as a charioteer. For ten points, name this Platonic dialogue named after the younger man, also acharacter in the Symposium, whose name sounds like the sister of Ariadne and a masterpiece by Racine.	Answer: Phaedrus10. He wrote a preface to Jomo Kenyatta's "Facing Mount Kenya" in 1938, 30 years after he obtained a doctorate from Jagiellonian University, with highest honors in philosophy, and with physics and mathematics as subsidiaries. His works include "Scientific Theory of Culture" and "Argonauts of the Western Pacific," based on his stay in the Trobriand Islands. For ten points, name this Polish and British anthropologist, founder of social anthropology.	Answer: Bronislaw Malinowski11. Sections of it are set in Michoacan, Mexico; Leadville, S.D. and Grass Valley, Calif, and in each case the action centers around the mines in the area. The narrator is a retired historian with a drinking problem and an amputated leg who researches the history of his pioneer grandparents. For ten points, name this novel that won a 1972 Pulitzer Prize for Wallace Stegner, which takes its title from a geometric phenomenon found in mines.	Answer: Angle of Repose12. He is the unlikely hero of an erotic poem by Pushkin about revelations he gives to Daniel. Although the Koran mentions hisname only three times, his importance in Islam is considerable, as various epithets in the Koran are believed to refer to him. Sept. 29 marks the feast of, For ten points, what messenger sent to Zechariah to announce the birth of John the Baptist.	Answer: Gabriel13. "If I spill - my life, it ain't worth a nickel." "And how much is your soul worth if you don't?" The movie from which this exchange is taken featured Leif Erickson as Glover, Lee J. Cobb as Johnny Friendly, and Karl Malden as Father Barry.  For ten points, name this 1954 tale of labor union corruption directed by Elia Kazan, whose most famous line, spoken by Marlon Brando, is "I coulda been a contender."	Answer: On the Waterfront14. It was begun by a mostly Protestant government concerned about the loyalty of a Catholic minority and the 1870 proclamation of Papal Infallibility. Its most severe expression was in the 1875 May Laws, and previous measures had included the dissolution of the Jesuit order in Germany. For ten points, what German word meaning "culture struggle" refers to Bismarck's measures against German Catholics.	Answer: Kulturkampf (prompt on Culture Struggle before it's used)15. He finished second in his class at West Point, but graduated in 1829 without a single demerit. He led the troops that ended John Brown's revolt at Harper's Ferry. After Joseph Johnston was wounded at Seven Pines, he took command of what he renamed the Army of Northern Virginia. For ten points, name the man who would command that army until he surrendered it at Appomattox.	Answer: Robert E. Lee16. Judge Lyapkin-Tyapkin has read five or six books, so he considers himself to be something of a liberal. Osip is much more intelligent than his master, Hlestakov, who is a rather simple-minded bureaucrat from St. Petersburg. These comments for the actors are included in a play about the expected arrival of an important official in a provincial town. For ten points, name this comedy by Gogol.	Answer: The Inspector General17. He was born in New York and his father was Spanish, but he went with his mother to Ireland, where he was a math teacher when he was imprisoned after the 1916 Easter Rising. He sought to repudiate the 1921 truce that gave Ireland only partial independence. For ten points, name the man who gained power in Ireland in 1932 and, with brief gaps, held it until 1973.	Answer: Eamon de Valera18. "A boundary function of a homeomorphism is continuous on the complement of a countable set." was the theorem of analysis he proved in his doctoral thesis, completed under Allen Shields at the University of Michigan in 1967. He is arguably one of the most famous mathematicians in the world. For ten points, name this man, less known for his mathematics than for his acts of violence perpetrated through the mail from 1978 until his capture in a Montana cabin in April of 1996.	Answer: Theodore Kaczynski19. The Chicago Tribune was able to survive wartime paper shortages because it owned its own mills and forests. Henry Clay Frick owned the mines that produced the coking coal to make the steel in his mills. Ford's River Rouge plant was legendary for being able to turn raw iron ore into automobiles at one site. These are all examples of, For ten points, what form of industrial behavior which involves controlling every stage in the manufacturing process of a given product.	Answer: Vertical integration20. Consisting of a series of wheels labeled with letters around their perimeters, the oldest known cipher device in existence closely matches a description found in the writings of the man who is believed to have invented it for use by the fledgling American military. Identify the Virginian statesman and scientist whose cipher wheel was probably used during the Revolutionary War.       Answer: Thomas Jefferson21. The title of one of his major works mimics one of Nietzche's replacing the concepts of Good and Evil with Freedom and Dignity. Another of his works sounds like the sequel to a book by Thoreau. He taught pigeons to play ping-pong. His work drew on the work of Pavlov and Bertrand Russel, and follows in a line of thought established by John B. Watson. For ten points, name this apostle of behaviorism whose approach was based on reinforcement by reward.	Answer: Burrhus Frederic Skinner22. Cold water from Antarctic regions flows northward along the western coast of South America, past Chile and Peru towards the equator along this ocean current in the Pacific. For ten points, what current is named for the Prussian naturalist, botanist, zoologist, and cartographer who studied the biology and geology of the South American continent in the early 19th century.	Answer: Humboldt current23. He is now related by marriage to Askar Akayev, president of the neighboring Kyrgyzstan. He has been president of his own country since 1991, when he received 98 percent of the vote in an election in which he was the only candidate. This former high-ranking member of the Communist Party has the power to call referenda, dismiss parliament, and suggest constitutional amendments. For ten points, identify this president of Kazakstan, re-elected in 1995 with 95% of the vote.	Answer: Nursultan Nazarbayev24. The three young Roman soldiers on the left have their right hands stretched forward toward the middle-aged man standing in the center with three swords raised above him. The austerity of the painting style and the solemnity of the moment depicted represented a clear break from Rococo style. For ten points, name this Neoclassical canvas that portrays three brothers offering their lives to their father to assure Rome's victory in the war against Alba, painted by David.	Answer: The Oath of the Horatii25. Although Leif Ericson is believed to be the first Viking to found a settlement in North America, Ericson was not the first Viking to actually see North America. That distinction belongs to this man, who was blown off course during a voyage from Iceland to Greenland in 986. Identify this Norseman, who told Ericson of having sighted a new land to the west of Greenland.	Answer: Bjarni Herjolfsson
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Stanford A - Adam Kemezis, Elliot Mandel, Jesse Molesworth, and Noah Rosenberg1. Identify the following efforts to write the Great African Novel in English, given plot descriptions and the authors, none of whom is a native African, for the stated number of points.1. For five points, Marlow describes Kurtz' discovery of his own evil nature on a jungle expedition, by Joseph Conrad.	Answer: Heart of Darkness2. For ten, an autobiographical account of a Danish aristocrat's life on a Kenyan coffee plantation, written under a pseudonym by Karen Blixen.	Answer: Out of Africa3. For fifteen, an Indian expatriate attempts to settle down in a small town amid the violence and corruption of a newly independent African nation, by V. S. Naipaul.	Answer: A Bend in the River2. Name the following series of artworks, given descriptions for 15 points or for 5 points if you need the artist.1st 15 points - Its eight engravings have titles such as "Young Heir," "Marries an Old Maid" and "Scene in Bedlam."1st 5 points - William Hogarth	Answer: Rake's Progress2nd 15 points - Painted in 1836, it shows in five canvases a great city growing out of a primitive landscape, flourishing, becoming decadent and finally being destroyed in fire.2nd 5 points - Thomas Cole	Answer: The Course of Empire3. Identify the following pioneers of computing for ten points each.1. This theoretical physicist from the University of Iowa is generally credited with building the first special purpose electronic computer between 1939 and 1942. His computer, called ABC, included electronic logic circuits and capacitors to store binary data.	Answer: John V. Atanasoff2. Name either of the two men in charge of the ENIAC project at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering at Penn.	Answer: John Mauchly or John Presper Eckert3. This great twentieth-century Hungarian-born mathematician made a contribution to computing as well with his highly influential 1946 report on stored-program computers, which suggested that data and programs could reside side-by-side in computer memory.	Answer: John Von Neumann4. Given the year of battle from Roman history and who beat whom, name them battle, For ten points each.1. Constantine beats Maxentius in AD 312	Answer: Milvian Bridge2. Caesar finishes off Vercingetorix in 52 BC	Answer: Alesia3. Crassus is routed by the Parthians in 53 BC	Answer: Carrhae5. Answer the following questions about Humphrey Bogart1. For five points each, name the first two movies in which Bogey starred opposite Lauren Bacall, the first of which involves resistance activities in Martinique during World War II, and the second of which is based on a Dashiel Hammet novel.	Answer: "To Have and to Have Not" and "The Big Sleep"2. Bogey had a few regular supporting cast members. For ten points, name the man who played Joel Cairo in "The Big Sleep" and Ugarte in "Casablanca."	Answer: Peter Lorre3. And, for ten points, name the man who played Gutman in "The Big Sleep" and Ferrari, the owner of the Blue Parrot, in "Casablanca.	Answer: Sydney Greenstreet6. Identify the following elements given a description of organic reactions which involve them, for ten points each.1. The alkali metal whose permanganate salt reacts with hydrocarbon groups attached to benzene rings, creating carboxylic acids.	Answer: Potassium2. The alkaline-earth metal present in Grignard reagents, which react with aldehydes and ketones to produce alcohols.	Answer: Magnesium3. The metalloid present in reagents that create anti-Markovnikov alcohols from olefins, the study of which won Herbert C. Brown a share of the 1979 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.	Answer: Boron7. Answer the following relating to prime numbers For ten points each.1. Identify the theorem that states that for any positive integer A and any prime number P, the number A to the P, minus A, is divisible by P.	Answer: Fermat's Little Theorem2. Although the number 341 is not a prime number, it has the property that 2 to the 341, minus 2, is divisible by 341. Give the name for all numbers that are not prime but which have this property.	Answer: Pseudoprime numbers3. The number 561 is not prime, and it has the property that A to the 561, minus A, is divisible by 561, for any positive integer A. Give the name for numbers that are not prime but which have this property.	Answer: Absolute pseudoprime numbers (accept Carmichael numbers)8. Name the man from clues 30-20-101. His second wife was a Greek schoolgirl named Sophia Engastromenos, whom he found through a marriage broker.2. He made a fortune in indigo trading and had no training in the field in which he made his mark. The professionals claim this led to the physical destruction of his most important discovery near the village of Hissarlik.3. Probably they claim that because they're jealous that he was able to follow internal evidence in Greek texts to find Mycenae and Troy.	Answer: Heinrich Schliemann9. Identify this explorer 30-20-10.1. Born in 1681, he died of scurvy during his second voyage in 1741 on an island that now bears his name. His gravesite was discovered in 1991.2. After enlisting in the Russian navy in 1703, he only once returned to his native Denmark.3. In 1728, he showed that Asia and North America are indeed two separate continents, separated by a narrow strait also named for him.	Answer: Vitus Bering10. Identify what forces the following spin one-half particles obey according to the Standard Model, for ten points each. You may omit gravity, but you must list all other forces to which a given particle is subject.1. Bottom quark	Answer: Strong, Weak, and Electromagnetic2. Muon	Answer: Electromagnetic, and Weak3. Tau neutrino	Answer: Weak11. Everyone needs a friend up there. Given a thing and the reason its patron saint is associated with it, name the saint for ten points each.1. One of the thieves who was crucified with Jesus, he repented and is thus the patron saint of criminals and convicts.	Answer: Saint Dimas2. Although she was too ill to leave her bed on Christmas, she miraculously heard the sound of a Mass being performed miles away and is thus the patron saint of television	Answer: Saint Clare of Assisi3. Because he arranged for the burial and entombement of Jesus, he is the patron saint of funeral directors and moriticians	Answer: Saint Joseph of Arimathea12. Identify the following philosophers for ten points each based on the reference to them in the song sung by Monty Python's Bruces, or for five points each if you need something they actually wrote. (HINT: The song rhymes)1st 10 -  "____ , of his own free will, on a half a pint of shandy was particularly ill."1st 5 - On Liberty	Answer: John Stuart Mill2nd 10 -  "_____ was a real piss ant."2nd 5 - Critique of Pure Reason	Answer: Immanuel Kant3rd 10 -  "There's nothing ______ couldn't teach ya 'bout the raising of the wrist."3rd 5 - Ecce Homo	Answer: Friedrich Nietzche13. Identify the year 30-20-10.1. Four hundred unarmed demonstrators are shot by British soldiers at Amritsar, India.2. Eight members of the Chicago White Sox conspire with gamblers to throw the World Series.3. The Versailles conference ends and Prohibition in the United States is ratified.	Answer: 1919141. For the stated number of points, given a country, name its head of government in 1961.1. For five, India	Answer: Jawaharlal Nehru2. For five, Yugoslavia	Answer: Josip Tito3. For ten, Burma	Answer: U Nu4. For a final ten points, all of those statesmen met in 1961 in Belgrade to found what neutralist organization	Answer: The Nonaligned Movement.15. Identify the following basic concepts of linguistics for fifteen points each based on definitions.1. The smallest unit of language that carries information about function or meaning. The word "books" contains two, "book" and the pluralizing "s."	Answer: Morphemes2. A property of communication in which the system conveys meaning through a set of fixed relationships among signs, referents and meanings.	Answer: Semanticity16. Identify the following rivers, which form the boundaries between pairs of states, for ten points each.1. It separates Illinois and Indiana before flowing into the Ohio River.	Answer: Wabash2. It separates Wisconsin and Minnesota before flowing into the Mississippi River.	Answer: St. Croix3. It flows along the Alabama-Georgia border before terminating at Lake Seminole.	Answer: Chattahoochee17. Identify these scientists whose work led to the discovery of the structure of DNA by Watson and Crick, for ten points each.1. The X-ray crystallography pioneer who also directed the Cavendish Laboratory, where Watson and Crick worked.	Answer: William L. Bragg2. The crystallographer whose contributions, including the discovery of an alternate form of DNA, were never fully recognized; she died in 1957, five years before Watson and Crick were awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine.	Answer: Rosalind Franklin3. The American scientist whose studies of the DNA molecule showed that adenine and thymine were always present in the same frequency, as were cytosine and guanine.	Answer: Erwin Chargaff18. Name the author from works 30-20-101. "Memoirs of an Egotist," "Racine and Shakespeare"2. "The Charterhouse of Parma," "Lamiel"3. "The Red and the Black"	Answer: Stendhal (accept Marie-Henri Beyle)19. Classify each of the following minerals as inosilicate, nesosilicate, sorosilicate, cyclosilicate, phyllosilicate, or tectosilicate, for five points each.1. Oligoclase			Answer: Tectosilicate2. Biotite			Answer: Phyllosilicate3. Tourmaline			Answer: Cyclosilicate4. Beryl				Answer: Cyclosilicate5. Hornblende			Answer: Inosilicate6. Lepidolite			Answer: Phyllosilicate20. It is now time for Elliot's classic tournament entry. In this bonus, you will have to identify famous people born on this date (Oct. 16), for the stated number of points.1. For five, the founder of the Histadrut and Mapai parties in the Palestine, and after Israeli independence, Israel's first Prime Minister.	Answer: David Ben-Gurion (accept David Green)2. For ten, the German poet, playwright and novelist who was a member of Group 47 and wrote "The Tin Drum."	Answer: Gunter Grass3. For fifteen, the Scottish king who succeeded his father, James I, to the throne in 1437, at the age of 6, settled his dispute with the nobility by personally stabbing Earl William of Douglas and died fighting the English in 1460.	Answer: James II21. Answer the following relating to impeachment, for the stated number of points.1. Given that at the time this question was written that President Clinton has not been impeached, name the only president ever to have been impeached.	Answer: Andrew Johnson2. Name the year in which the impeachment took place.	Answer: 18683. Name the rookie Senator from Kansas featured in Profiles in Courage, whose vote prevented Andrew Johnson from being ousted.	Answer: Edmund Ross22. Identify the following characters from Ayn Rand's "The Fountainhead" from brief descriptions for ten points each.1. Roark's former classmate, this first husband of Dominique Francon lends his name to the first part of the book.	Answer: Peter Keating2. The name of this art critic is given to the second part of the work; his niece, who symbolizes the altruistic social worker, is deserted by Keating for Dominique.	Answer: Ellsworth Toohey3. The third part of the novel bears the name of this newspaper editor, who may have been based on William Randolph Hearst.	Answer: Gale Wynand23. Given a small-coin denomination, name the primary currency of which it represents a fraction for ten points each. For example, if the question were "cents," the answer would be "dollar." You get five points if you need the name of the country.1st 10 points - Fils1st 5 points - Jordan	Answer: Jordanian Dinar2nd 10 points - Satang2nd 5 points - Thailand	Answer: Baht3rd 10 points - Kuru3rd 5 points - Turkey	Answer: Turkish Lira24. Given the name of a composer, say how many piano concertos are conventionally ascribed to him. Only generically titled, numbered concertos count. Works for piano and orchestra such as "Rhapsody in Blue" don't. Five points each, five extra for all five.1. Beethoven	Answer: 52. Rachmaninoff	Answer: 43. Schubert	Answer: None4. Grieg	Answer: 15. Mozart	Answer: 2725. Identify the following country based on historical clues, 30-20-10.1. Its Presidents during the twentieth century included Augusto Leguia y Salcedo, Manuel Prado, and Fernando Belaunde Terry.2. It was briefly united with Bolivia between 1836 and 1839 by General Andres Santa Cruz, until the confederation was broken up by a military defeat at the hands of Chile.1. Francisco Pizarro became the first European to land here in 1527.	Answer: Peru