1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Berkeley Gold - Casey Cook, Selene Koo, Alex Fabrikant, and Franz Chang1. A physician by training, his poetry was described by Marianne Moore as being written in "plain American which cats and dogs can read." Besides being a poet, he also wrote The Great American Novel. For 10 points, name this author of "Pictures from Brueghel" and "The Red Wheelbarrow".	Answer: William Carlos Williams2. The cause of this genetic disorder was first documented by Lejeune in 1959, but instances of it were first documented by a British physician after whom it is named. Physical characteristics of patients with this disease include decreased muscle tone, epicanthal folds over the eyes, and a flattened nose. For 10 points, name this disorder commonly caused by trisomy-21.	Answer: Down Syndrome (prompt on mongoloidism and early buzz of trisomy-21)3. According to its creator, the purpose was "to cause justice to prevail in the land, to destroy the wicked and the evil, that the strong may not oppress the weak.." This code of laws may have been the source of the Hebrew doctrine of "an eye for an eye." In 282 clauses, it details punishments for certain crimes: for example, a thief could have his finger or hand cut off. For 10 points, name this code written in about 1700 2.3. by a famous Babylonian king.	Answer: Code of Hammurabi4. Born in Germany in 1749, this author made substantial contributions to biology and the history and philosophy of science before turning to literature. One of the first to write in the genre of literary Romanticism, he published "Elective Affinities", "West-Eastern Divan", "Roman Elegies", "Wilhelm Meister's Travels", and "The Sorrows of Young Werther" before publishing his famous two-part masterpiece in 1832. For 10 points -- name this author of Faust.	Answer: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe5. While it was discovered in 1898, and subsequently used in the production of electron tubes and stroboscopic lights, it was not until 1962 that the first compound containing this element was synthesized. For 10 points, name this "foreign" element which disproved the theory that the noble gases are incapable of forming compounds.	Answer: Xenon (accept Xe)6. Unlike the three synoptics, this book of the Bible refers to the birth of Jesus as Word becoming flesh. Its contents include the description of 7 miracles, such as that of the wedding of Cana, when water turned into wine. For 10 points, name this Gospel thought to have been written by the Beloved Disciple.	Answer: The Gospel of John7. This principle is commonly used to show how the various consonant sounds changed through time in different languages. For example, the "bh" sound in Sanskrit corresponds to the "f" sound in Latin and the "b" sound in the Germanic languages. For 10 points, name this "law" formulated by and named after a collector of fairy tales.	Answer: Grimm's Law8. In 1773, this man claimed to be the Peter the third, the heir to the Russian throne thought to be dead, and challenged Catherine the Great's power. He proclaimed the abolition of serfdom and marched to Moscow with an army of 30,000, but was eventually defeated by Catherine's forces and beheaded. For 10 points, name this man whose rebellion caused Catherine to strip the serfs of the few rights they had.	Answer: Yemelian Ivanovich Pugachev9. "Wake the child up with a record, play it again at breakfast" and again and again and maybe the child will learn to play by himself. He declared that "teaching music is not my main purpose, I want to make good citizens, noble human beings." Yet his education of thousands of very young children in the skills to play the violin are his lasting legacy, his program reaches nearly half a million children at any one time. For 10 points, name this man, son of a violin maker in Nagoya Japan and founder of the Talent Education Institute.	Answer: Shinichi Suzuki10. Nike's very first spokesman, he set the American record for the two-mile run in high school before becoming a member of the University of Oregon track team. In 1972, he narrowly missed an Olympic medal, finishing fourth in the 5,000 meters. For 10 points, name this athlete who died tragically in an automobile accident in 1975 and is the subject of the upcoming movie Without Limits.	Answer: Steve Prefontaine
11. He patented over 700 inventions, including the telephone repeater, fluorescent lights, and the induction motor. The namesake of the unit equivalent to 10,000 Gauss, for 10 points, name this Croatian immigrant inventor and rival to Thomas Edison who is most famous for his development and backing of alternating currents for power transmission.	Answer: Nikola Tesla12. "I would never do crack; I would never do a drug named after a part of my own ass." is a favorite saying of this New York-based comedian. He has recorded albums such as No Cure for Cancer and Lock 'N Load. For 10 points name Wag the Dog's Fad King who has recently appeared in IBM commercials.	Answer: Denis Leary13. They are caused by "magnetic bottles" in the atmosphere. Discovered in 1958, they were named in honor of the designer of the Explorer I which was used to discover them. For 10 points, what is the name given to these areas of high concentration of charged particles trapped in the Earth's magnetic field?	Answer: Van Allen belts14. Born in 1876, he inherited a rich tradition during his brief apprenticeship with Auguste Rodin. He soon surpassed his teacher, and evolved a style of his own, focusing mainly on the pure essence of shape and curve, which served as inspiration to generations of 20th-century sculptors. However, For 10 points, name the Romanian who sculpted Sleeping Muse, Bird in Space, and The Kiss.	Answer: Constantin Brancusi15. His career as a writer began at the age of 16, and didn't end until his death in 1998, 68 years later. His works, largely dealing with Mexico's social and political problems, won him the prestigious Miguel Cervantes Prize in 1982, the T.S.Eliot Award in 1987, and the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1990. For 10 points, name this author of the essay "The Labyrinth of Solitude" and the poem "Sun Stone."	Answer: Octavio Paz16. Tests such as Dirichlet's test and Dini's test give conditions guaranteeing convergence of the series to the function. It is used to represent or approximate a single-valued periodic function by choosing appropriate constants. For 10 points, what is this infinite trigonometric series named after a French analyst and physicist?	Answer: Fourier Series17. Passed in 1917, they resulted in United States Supreme Court case "Abrams v. United States" where Holmes describes his "Clear and Present Danger" Theory. These laws outlawed utterances detrimental to war effort, and the postmaster was permitted to exclude seditious material from mails. For 10 points what are these laws upheld by "Schenck v. United States" in 1919. 	Answer: Espionage and Sedition Acts18. Born in 1505 at Haddington, East Lothian, Scotland, he wrote "First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women", earning the enmity of Elizabeth, even though it was aimed at the Catholic women. He promoted Scottish education, and also wrote "History of the Reformation in Scotland". For 10 points -- who is this Scottish reformer and founder of Presbyterianism? 	Answer: John Knox19. Mahathir Mohammed called them the "highwaymen of the global economy". They are blamed for the destruction of the European Exchange Rate mechanism in 1992, the Mexico peso crash in 1994, the collapse of East Asia's currencies in 1997, and Russia's in 1998. Based in offshore unregulated banking centers, it is a collective investment vehicle which does things like combining the individually risky activities of borrowing and selling some securities while buying other securities with borrowed money in order (in theory) to reduce overall risk. For 10 points -- name this economic instrument whose managers include the famous George Soros.	Answer: Hedge funds.20. Formed by the confluence of the Lewes and Pelly rivers, this river is the only source of transportation for many people who live along its banks. Site of a major gold rush and minor border disputes during the late 1800's, this river freezes over completely every October and thaws every May. For 10 points name this third longest river in North America which empties into the Bering Sea.	Answer: Yukon River21. Passed over Wilson's veto, it defined an intoxicating beverage to mean any beverage with more than five parts per thousand alcohol. For 10 points what law enacted the 18th amendment of Prohibition? 	Answer: Volstead Act
22. A Swiss-American auto racer, in 1910 at the age of 32, he teamed up with the former head of General Motors, Billy Durant, to found an auto company. It first produced cars in New York, now it produces them everywhere. The company, which bears his name, enabled Durant to take over General Motors. FTP Who is this man, whose car was popular primarily because it came in a color other than black? 	Answer: Louis Chevrolet23. Eugene O'Neill wrote "All God's Chillun Got Wings", but she wrote "All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes." Carson McCullers wrote "The Heart is a Lonely Hunter," but she wrote "The Heart of a Woman." For 10 points -- who is this American writer from Arkansas whose most famous work is "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings"? 	Answer: Maya Angelou24. The 17th is 1597. The 13th is 233. As they increase, they become almost exactly proportional to the powers of the golden ratio. For 10 points, name this set of numbers, whose applications range from pineapples to rabbits, which was first described by Leonardo of Pisa and named in his honor.	Answer: Fibonacci numbers
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Berkeley Gold - Casey Cook, Selene Koo, Alex Fabrikant, and Franz Chang1. Identify these short stories in which the Devil is an important character from a description for 15 points, 5 if you need the author, 1st 15 pts: A young Puritan walks in the woods at night and meets the Devil, a stranger in the likeness of his grandfather, holding a black staff shaped like a snake.1st 5: pts: Author: Nathaniel Hawthorne	Answer: Young Goodman Brown2nd 15 pts: A farmer sells his soul to the devil and the great orator must win it back.2nd 5 pts: Author: Stephen Vincent Benet	Answer: The Devil and Daniel Webster2. For the stated number of points, given the function, identify the cell organelle which accomplishes that function.1. The "control center" for the cell	Answer: nucleus2. Packages materials in the cell for export	Answer: Golgi apparatus (or Golgi body, Golgi complex)3. Contain enzymes used to digest food particles and damaged organelles	Answer: lysosome3. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the Punic Wars, a series of 3 wars between Rome and Carthage.1. Carthage conquered which island in the year 264 2.3., leading to the First Punic War?	Answer: Messana or Messina2. In which battle in the year 207 2.3. was Hannibal's brother Hasdrubal defeated?	Answer: Metaurus River. 3. Which Roman statesman included the slogan "Carthage must be destroyed" in nearly everything he said, thus agitating for the beginning of the Third Punic War?	Answer: Cato the Elder4. 30-20-10, Name the psychologist from clues.	1. (30) In 1954, he originated the concept of programmed instruction, in which children were taught by being presented a series of ordered, discrete bits of information.2. (20) Born in the year 1904, he asserted that free will was an illusion in his book Beyond Freedom and Dignity.3. (10) He is famous for his studies on operant conditioning, especially with rats and pigeons.	Answer: Burris Frederic (B. F.) Skinner5. How well do you know your characters on The Late Show with David Letterman, name the following for the stated number of points?1. For 5 points name Dave's band director.	Answer: Paul Schafer2. For 10 points name the stage manager who gives prizes in "know your current events," predicts "what they would have had for dinner if they were alive today," and occasionally shoots coffee out of his ears.	Answer: Biff Henderson or Biff3. For 15 points name the owner of the Hello Deli who sometimes goes out and harasses New Yorkers with Dave.	Answer: Rupert Jee or Rupert6. Their direct ancestor was magnetrons, giant tubes that drive radar sets. While first invented in 1945, they were at first too bulky to come into common use, and it wasn't until 1967 that Amana began marketing these as household products. 1. For 10 points, name this appliance, found in 83% of U.S. kitchens in 1997.	Answer: Microwave oven2. For 20 points, name the American engineer who invented the microwave oven.	Answer: Percy Le Baron Spencer7. 30-20-10 Name the author from his works.1. (30) The Prisoner of the Caucasus and The Robber Brothers2. (20) The Captain's Daughter and The Bronze Horseman3. (10) Eugene Onegin	Answer: Aleksandr Pushkin8. Given these familiar laws from chemistry, give their names for 10 points each.1. Volume is directly proportional to absolute temperature.	Answer: Charles' Law2. The electric potential of a cell is directly proportional to the log of the reaction position.	Answer: Nernst Equation3. The negative log of the reaction rate is directly proportional to the activation energy and inversely to the absolute temperature.	Answer: Arrhenius' Equation9. Answer the following about the Thirty Years War.1. For five points, name the treaty the ended the war.	Answer: Peace of Westfalia2. For ten, name the 1620 battle near Prauge where the Hapsburgs under Tilly defeated the Bohemians.	Answer: battle of White Mountain3. For fifteen, name the city whose 1631 siege by Tilly's forces led to the creation of movements to create international laws on war crimes.	Answer: Magdeburg10. For 10 points each, given a river, name the river it empties into:1. Snake					Answer: Columbia2. Yellowstone				Answer: Missouri3. Allegheny				Answer: Ohio11. Everybody light your Cigars! It's time for a bonus about the Ken Starr Report.1. For 5 points, name Clinton's friend and lawyer whom Starr alleges found Monica Lewinsky a job in exchange for her silence.	Answer: Vernon Jordan2. For 10 points, name the foreign dignitary whom Clinton kept waiting while having an intimate encounter with Monica Lewinsky.	Answer: Yitzak Rabin3. For 15 points, name the work of literature quoted by Lewinsky in the Washington Post personal ad.	Answer: Romeo and Juliet12. How well do you know your geek? Name this computer geek, 30-20-10.1. This recipient of the first-ever Computer Science "Man-of-the-Year" Award in 1969 was widely recognized for the development of the first compiler, A-O2. She was one of the first women to receive a PhD in Mathematics from Yale in 19343. She was also a Rear Admiral in the U.S. Navy	Answer: Grace Murray Hopper13. Doctors of the Church, were eminent teachers of Christian doctrine, proclaimed by a pope for their contribution to doctrine and understanding of the faith. For 5 points each, with a 10 point bonus for all four, what four men were in 1298 named the original Doctors of the Church?	Answer: Saint Ambrose, Saint Augustine of Hippo, Saint Jerome, Pope Gregory I14. 30-20-10, Name the pro football team.1. Archie Manning led them to success in the 60's and 70's2. A perennial loser in the 90's, their one bright spot has been the play of All-Pro offensive lineman William Roaf.3. They play their home games in the Superdome.	Answer: New Orleans or Saints15. Answer these questions about the late Southern campaign of the United States Revolutionary War for 10 points each:1. After Cornwallis chased General Nathaniel Greene from Camden the previous August, Greene divided his army, sending Daniel Morgan with 1000 men in a diversionary move. Cornwallis sent Tarleton after Morgan, but was trounced at this January 1781 South Carolina battle	Answer: Cowpens 2. Fought on March 15, 1781 five miles west of Greensboro, North Carolina, Cornwallis's exhausted veterans were outnumbered by Greene's Continentals, but they fought hard at this turning point battle?	Answer: Guilford Courthouse3. Though Greene didn't defeat Cornwallis at Guilford Courthouse, but he inflicted enough damage that Cornwallis marched to Wilmington, North Carolina and then to here, his final stand in the Colonies, leaving the South to the Americans 	Answer: Yorktown16. Precisely four elements on the periodic table have been discovered to posess ferromagnetic properties at standard conditions. For five points each, name them. You will receive an extra 5 for all 4, and yet another 5 for naming them in order of increasing atomic number.	Answer: Iron, Cobalt, Nickel, Gadolinium [in that order] (accept chemical symbols: Fe, Co, Ni, Gd)17. 30-20-10 Name this novelist:1. His famous quotes include "People create stories create people; or rather stories create people create stories," and "When suffering knocks at your door and you say there is no seat for him, he tells you not to worry because he has brought his own stool."2. He wrote "Christmas at Biafra," Anthills of the Savannah, and Arrow of God3. He received the 1959 Margaret Wrong Memorial Prize for his most famous novel, Things Fall Apart	Answer: Albert Chinualumogu (Chinua) Achebe18. Perhaps the most hideous spelling problem in the history of Western art is the similarity between Manet and Monet. However, these were not the only artists with "Man" or "Mon" in their names. For 10 points each, name these other artists:1. This prominent German Expressionist is perhaps most famous for his 9 triptychs depicting scenes related to religion and ancient mythology.	Answer: Max Beckmann2. This precursor of Pop Art is best remembered for designing Saturday Evening Post covers for several decades.	Answer: Norman Rockwell3. His paintings, mostly created in the late 1910s and early 1920s, were three decades ahead of their time in their minimalist use of straight lines and primary colors.	Answer: Pieter Cornelis Mondrian19. The Italian town of Cremona dominated the market in violin making for hundreds of years. Identify these masters for 10 points each:1. Living from 1644-1737, his most expensive violin, the "Kretuzer" recently sold at auction for $1.56 million. Others include the "Lady Blunt"	Answer: Antonio Stradivari2. Living from 1698-1744, his violins are in the same elite class as those by Stradivari, but are more expensive because they are fewer.There are only 50 known examples in the world. There is one named the Paganini [blank], and since 1954 it has been played every year by the winner of the International Violin Contest in Genoa.	Answer: Giuseppe Guarneri Del Gesu3. Living form 1596-1684, he was a teacher of Antonio Stradavari.	Answer: Nicolo Amati20. For the stated number of points, name the major scripture of the following religions (e.g. Christianity-Bible)1. Judaism			Answer: Torah (or Old Testament + Talmud)2. Zoroastrianism			Answer: Zend Avesta3. Sikhism			Answer: Adi Granth21. 30-20-10 Identify this American author from his works. 1. Yvernell, A Tale of Feudal France and Moran of the Lady Letty. 2. Vandover and the Brute and the unfinished The Wolf. 3. The Pit and The Octopus 	Answer: Frank Norris