1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Jason Hong and UC Irvine - Willie Chen, John Gose, Andy Eiser, and Bill Waddle1. During a Christmas season nearly a century ago, a bar girl named Rachel received this ghastly gift from this person, perhaps due to his suffering from Meniere's syndrome. Largely self taught, in his paintaings of Provencal, one can see the influence of Jean Francois Millet and the impressionists. His style eventually evolved to bold, slashing strokes in thick impasto. For 10 points, name this Dutch painter of Potato Eaters and Starry Night.	Answer: Vincent van Gogh2. His name is used to describe a difficult or uncomfortable situation, and is derived from a mythological innkeeper who tortured his customers. He would strap his customers to a bed: if the customer were too short, he would stretch the customer to fit the length of the bed, and if the customer were too tall, he would chop off what's necessary. For 10 points, who is this Greek mythological figure slain by Thesesus?       Answer: Procrustes3. The East India Company set up a special department in 1835 to wipe them out. They were difficult to catch, as they were patronized by rich landlords with whom they shared their booty. For 10 points, who are these Indian thieves and assassins and members of a religious group, who posed as travelers and befriended their victims before strangling them with a scarf?	Answer: Thugs (or Thuggee)4. It is not a direct stimulant; instead, it blocks the action of another chemical, naturally present in the human body, that has a calming effect on the activity of cells, especially those in the brain and spinal cord. It is of a class of chemicals called methylxanthines that temporarily occupy the same cell receptors as adenosine, a chemical produced by the body's energy metabolism. It enters the brain very rapidly and stays active for several hours, but its effects drop off more quickly than those of some other stimulants. For 10 points, what is this substance found in cocoa, tea, and coffee?	Answer: Caffeine5. The 1754 book, The Gentleman and the Cabinet Makers Director, by English furniture maker Thomas Chippendale, deals with cabinets made in this artistic period of the mid-eighteenth century. Artwork in this period is characterized by an aristocratic, playful tone, fanciful curved form, and elaborate ornament. For 10 points, identify this late style of baroque art, architecture, and interior decorating whose proponents include Boucher and Fragonard.	Answer: Rococo6. In the New Zealand film, Heavenly Creatures, this actress played a lesbian Catholic schoolgirl that falls in love with a classmateand plots to kill her lover's mother. Her other roles include Sue Bridehead in Jude, Marianne Dashwood in Sense and Sensibility, and Ophelia in Hamlet. A recent 1997 film won her an Oscar nomination for best leading actress. For 10 points, identify this actress who played "a rich girl falling for a poor boy."	Answer: Kate Winslet7. The plot climaxes with the murder of Horatio, the son of the marshal of Spain, Hieronimo. It is a revenge tragedy in the popular Senecan style, dealing with the political intrigue between the Spanish and Portuguese. For 10 points, identify this work by the English dramatist Thomas Kyd that prepred the way for William Shakespeare's psychological study of Hamlet.	Answer: The Spanish Tragedy (or Hieronimo if before the name)8. It is based on two premises: first, that the laws of nature are the same in all inertial frames of reference, and second, that the velocity of light is the same in all such frames. Giving a unified account of the laws of mechanics and electromagnetism, it rejects the Newtonian concepts of absolute space and time. For 10 points, what is this theory that led to the concept of the equivalence of mass and energy?	Answer: Theory of Special Relativity (prompt on relativity, it is not General Relativity)9. The influence of jazz is reflected in his works Ragtime and Ebony Concerto. His career included notable collaborations with George Balanchine in Apollon Musagete; Pablo Picasso and Leonid Massine in Pulcinella; and Jean Cocteau in Oedipus Rex. For 10 points, name this composer catapulted into the musical limelight with his collaboration with Serge Diaghilev and the Ballets Russe in the Firebird and Petrushka.	Answer: Igor Stravinsky10. It was once known as Philadelphia (in honor of Ptolemy II Philadelphus) when it was taken over and enlarged by the Hellenistic rulers of Egypt in 300 B.C. and later the Romans in 30 B.C. The site of the city is believed to have been inhabited as early as 3500 B.C. By 1300 B.C. it had become the leading city of the Ammonites, an ancient Semitic people who lived east of the Jordan River. For 10 points, identify this city, the capital city of Jordan.	Answer: Amman11. An episode of "The Simpsons" parodied this 1960s psychological experiment performed at Yale University. Volunteers are invited to a scientific laboratory under the pretense of participating in a study about the effects of punishment on learning. They are instructed by an experimenter to administer an electric shock of increasing intensity every time a 'learner', strapped into an electric chair, makes a mistake. For 10 points, identify this experiment named for the experimenter and author of Obedience to Authority.	Answer: Stanley Milgram experiment12. The novel arose out of the author's visit to Mexico, after he had been commissioned to report on religious persecution there. Set in the violent context of a new revolutionary republic, the Church is outlawed and priests are banned. It traces one lapsed priest, guilty of drunkenness and lechery, who rediscovers the integrity of his original commitment and is determined to perform his duties until physically prevented by authorities. For 10 points, what is this novel published in 1940 by Graham Greene?       Answer: The Power and the Glory13. It began with the breakup of Pangea into Gondwana and Laurasia, and ended 180 million years later with the separation of South America from Africa, and the separation of India, Africa, and Antarctica from one another. In this era, the first mammals and birds came about, as well as the first flowering plants. For 10 points, what is this era of dinosaurs, consisting of the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous periods?	Answer: Mesozoic Era14. After a massacre of 100 children, the French staged a military coup in this former colony and reinstalled David Dacko as itsleader. In 1976, it was declared an empire by its president-for-life, self-proclaimed emperor Jean-Belel Bokassa. For 10 points, what is this landlocked African country with the capital at Bangui?	Answer: Central African Republic15. After suffering defeat at Methven in 1306, he took refuge on the coast of Ireland, was outlawed, and was excommunicated by the pope. After the death of Edward I and Edward II's accession to the throne, he returned to Scotland, and in a series of engagements, wrested most of Scotland from the English. For 10 points, identify this Scottish national hero and King of Scotland from 1306-1329.	Answer: Robert the Bruce16. In the Egyptian section of the Berlin Museum, people can find a limestone bust of this famous queen. She was the aunt of King Tut and the sister-wife of King Amenhotep IV. For 10 points, who was she?       Answer: Queen Nefertiti17. This derogatory name labels people who try to be independent of their political leaders and believe their ideas are better than the ideas of their leaders. In the 1884 election, some Republicans voted for the Democrat Grover Cleveland and deprived Blaine of a Republican victory. Those Republicans were slapped with this derogatory name. For 10 points, what is this odd-sounding name?	Answer: Mugwumps18. In 1972, at the age of thirty-six, he became the youngest man ever elected to the baseball Hall of Fame. Retiring in 1966 because of an arthritic elbow condition, he became the first in the major leagues to pitch four no-hit games. For 10 points, name this recipient of three Cy Young awards who led the Dodgers to four National league pennants and three World Series championships.	Answer: Sandy Koufax19. When girlfriend Marie asks the title character to marry him, he says it doesn't make any difference, and that they could get married if she wanted. His friend Raymond beats his girlfriend, who is in turn attacked by her brother. The title character goes on to kill the attacker, and when questioned why he did it, blames the heat of the sun for his actions. For 10 points, identify this work by Albert Camus that inspired a song by The Cure.	Answer: The Stranger (or L'Etranger)20. This measure was named after a French engineer, and was first used to measure the speed of telegraph transmissions. It represents one electronic state change per second, and it was a widely used measure until someone realized that a single state change can involve more than a single bit of data. For 10 points, name this term for data transmission speed now replaced by the more accurate term bits per second.	Answer: Baud21. An English professor at the University of Southern California, he wrote fiction that has appeared in major American magazines. His 1993 novel, The Road to Wellville, was made into a movie starring Anthony Hopkins. For 10 points, identify this author of such works as The Tortilla Curtain, Without a Hero, and Greasy Lake and Other Stories.	Answer: T. Coraghessan BOYLE22. He is a former thief and criminal genius who has turned detective. Created by Maurice LeBlanc, he is perhaps the only literary creation to rival Sherlock Holmes, this fictional French master thief maintained a love-hate relationship with Holmes in several mystery novels, including a showdown in which both he and Holmes supposedly perished in a waterfall. For 10 points, identify this French master thief whose name is also used in several anime by Hayao Miyazaki.	Answer: Arsenne LUPIN23. Thirty-eight miles in diameter, the official "Zone of Alienation" includes the site of a disastrous accident that occurred in 1986. For 10 points, identify this nuclear power facility whose explosion has caused thousands of deaths from prolonged radiation exposure in Russia.       Answer: CHERNOBYL24. Though blessed with a long life, he witnessed the deaths of his wife and children. He based his teachings on the Five Classics: Book of Changes, Book of History, Book of Odes, Book of Rites, and Spring and Autumn. Like his contemporariesBuddha Gautama and Socrateshe never wrote down his teachings; instead, his students compiled his teachings in Luen-Yu, also known as Analects. For 10 points, who was he?       Answer: CONFUCIUS accept: Kong-Tze, Master KONG, or Kong-Fu-Tze25. An X-ray crystallographer, Rosalind Franklin passed away before she could have shared a Nobel Prize with her colleagues. The data she produced helped determine the structure of, For 10 points, what molecule along with her collaborators Maurice Wilkins, James Watson, and Francis Crick?	Answer: DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid26. The name of this surgical instrument has become a verb, meaning to remove a disk of bone from the skull. This instrument is in the shape of a cylindrical saw and its used in brain surgery. What is it?	Answer: TREPANaccept: trephine27. Steve Bellis, owner of this company, said, "People need help with their words of encouragement." He was defending the criticismagainst his companys new line of condolence cards for suicide. For 10 points, what company does Steve Bellis own?	Answer: HALLMARK Cards28. Invented in 1745, it is surrounded by a layer of metal foil and contains a similar layer inside it. A loose chain hanging insidecreates contact with the inner foil surface. For 10 points, name this early form of an electric capacitor, named for the city in which it was invented.	Answer: LEYDEN JAR29. This rocky island teems with wolves, moose, and many kinds of birds. It even has 31 different kinds of orchid. However, parts ofthe island are infested with mosquitoes and black flies. Now a National Park, this island has been hailed as the Great Lakes "rugged little paradise." For 10 points, name this 45-mile-long island in Lake Superior.	Answer: ISLE ROYALE30. It normally consists of sintered glass disks saturated with an ionic solution like potassium chloride, but a piece of wet cloth will do the trick! Its purpose is to prevent the mixing of contents of the two electrolyte solutions making up an electrochemical cell. For 10 points, what is this object, essential in electrochemistry for completing the circuit between the anode and the cathode?	Answer: SALT BRIDGE31. In the recent Monica Lewinsky scandal, this public figure of the justice system shows disapproval of Clintons actions. Even though he won the conviction of Timothy McVeigh, this Illinois prosecutor was snubbed of a federal judgeship by Illinois senior senator, Carol Moseley-Braun, in March, 1998. For 10 points, who is he?	Answer: Joseph HARTZLER32. In this Restoration comedy, the strong-headed heroines reflect the playwrights feminist attitude. In one scene, Angellicathreatens Willmore with a pistol. By the end of the play, Willmore marries Hellena and Belvile marries Florina. For 10 points, identify this play written by the Surinam-born English author Aphra Behn [BEN].	Answer: The ROVER33. This English verb is synonymous with "to hypnotize." It was derived from the name of a famous Austrian physician who used the power of suggestion to cure ailments of his patients. For 10 points, what is this verb?	Answer: MESMERIZE34. Pencils and paper may be necessary: Consider an isosceles trapezoid with an area of two radical three meters squared. The shorter base is one meter long; two of the four angles measure 120 degrees each. For 10 points, calculate the perimeter of the trapezoid in terms of meters. You have 40 seconds: good luck!       Answer: 8 meters
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Jason Hong and UC Irvine - Willie Chen, John Gose, Andy Eiser, and Bill Waddle1. Before microscopes became popular, many scientists believed that microorganisms arise from lifeless matter such as beef broth. For fifteen points each, answer the following questions about the theory of spontaneous generation:1. Chronologically, this Italian physician was the first to demonstrate that fly maggots do not arise from decaying meat if the meat has been covered to prevent the entry of flies.	Answer: Francesco Redi2. This Frenchman disproved the theory of spontaneous generation by devising a series of swan-necked flasks containing broth; one story tells that he openly drank the stale broth to the amazement of fellow scientists. 	Answer: Louis Pasteur2. Identify these Chinese dynasties, for ten points each:1. Following the Sui dynasty, it was marked by territorial expansion, suppression of Buddhism, and great sculptors, painters, and poets. Poets in this period also produced the representative "300 poems." 	Answer: Tang [tong]2. A number of Chinese people today are proud to be descendants of this dynasty; therefore, they call themselves the people of this dynasty. This dynasty was divided into West and East periods.	Answer: Han3. The most notorious tyrant to rule China reigned in this dynasty, in which he executed many people and buried their bodies in the initial creation of the modern Great Wall of China.	Answer: Chin (not Tsin)3. Name the artist from the following pairs of works for 10 points each; 5 points when given the nationality and style:1st 10 pts: "Posters at Trouville" and "Riders in the Forest" 1st 5 pts: French, Fauvism	Answer: Raoul Dufy2nd 10 pts: "The Fifer" and "The Guitarist" 2nd 5 pts: French, Impressionism	Answer: Edouard Manet (not Monet)3rd 10 pts: "Man at the Crossroads" and "Creations" 3rd 5 pts: Mexican, Muralist	Answer: Diego Rivera4. Identify these events preceding the War of Northern Aggression, ten points each.1. John Brown, his sons, and antislavery followers were accused of the murder of five pro-slavery settlers in this massacre named after a nearby creek	Answer: Pottawatomie Massacre2. In October of 1857, a convention submitted to the US Congress a state constitution which called for the admission of Kansas to the Union as a slave state. For 10 points, name this proposal which was rejected in a referendum.	Answer: LeCompton Constitution3. He sponsored the Kansas-Nebraska Act, which included his ideas on popular sovereignty. For 10 points, name this Illinois Democrat	Answer: Stephen Douglas5. Answer the following questions about economics:1. This economic theory states that government should "fine tune" the economy by manipulating spending and taxation on a regular basis. The government can end depressions by increasing spending. What is this theory?	Answer: Keynesian Economics2. The satisfaction of consuming a product decreases with each additional unit consumed. This law of economics explains why your tenth Big Mac does not taste as great as your ninth.	Answer: Diminishing Marginal Utility3. This term applies when the increase of prices exceeds the rate of 50% per month. It is a condition when money practically loses all of its value, and barter becomes the method of business. What is this economics term?	Answer: Hyperinflation6. Given a quote, identify the author and work from which it is taken.1. "Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord; \ He is trampling out the vintage where the Grapes of Wrath are stored"       Answer: Battle Hymn of the American Republic, by Julia Ward Howe2. "Far from the Madding Crowd's ignoble strife \ Their sober wishes never learned to stray"       Answer: Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard, by Thomas Gray3. "How beauteous mankind is! O Brave New World \ That has such people in't"       Answer: The Tempest, by William Shakespeare7. Identify the following movies in which actor Ben Stiller stars: 5, 10, 15.1. In this sleeper 1998 summer hit, Ben has a little too much hair gel for co-star Cameron Diaz. He also has a problem with his zipper. For five, name it.	Answer: There's Something About Mary2. In this 1998 dark comedy, Ben talks too much while having sex. He cheats on his wife and his wife cheats on him with another woman. For ten, name it.	Answer: Your Friends And Neighbors3. In this 1996 screwball comedy, Ben goes across the nation in search of his biological parents, only to discover that they are acid druggies living in New Mexico. For fifteen, name it.	Answer: Flirting With Disaster8. Answer the following about the human eye for ten points each.1. It is in this small area near the optic axis, approximately 1.5 mm in diameter, are cell bodies and neural fibers drawn aside to allow photoreceptive surfaces direct exposure to light. This area has the densest packing of medium and long wavelength cones.	Answer: Fovea2. This is a tough covering that protects the interior from damage and helps to maintain the eye's shape.	Answer: Sclera3. While the lens provides fine focus for targets around 20 feet to about 4 inches, it is this structure that provides about two-thirds of the eye's refractive power.	Answer: Cornea9. Answer the following questions about famous people of Armenian descent:1. He authored such books as My Name is Aram and The Human Comedy.	Answer: William Saroyan2. He composed the ballet "Spartacus" and the famous "Sabre Dance."	Answer: Aram Khachaturian3. This billionaire owns about 15% of the Chrysler Corporation.	Answer: Kirk Kerkorian10. Answer the following astronomy questions for ten points each:1. This planet in our solar system is shrouded by a bright, irregularly-shaped cloud known as the "Scooter." Other features include the Small Dark Spot and the Great Dark Spot.	Answer: Neptune2. This Galilean satellite of Jupiter is the largest moon in our solar system.	Answer: Ganymede3. These massively-dense stars can weigh up to three times as much as the sun, but have diameters of only six to nineteen miles. What are they?	Answer: Neutron stars11. 30-20-10. Name this ancient city:1. Lying on a great seismic site, this area next to the Kairatos was inhabited since Neolithic times, as early as 6,000 BCE.2. 3,000 clay tablets inscribed in Linear A or Linear B were discovered by Sir Arthur Evans in this island city's excavations.3. This ancient city lies on the island of Crete. It gives us much insight into the Minoan civilization.	Answer: Knossos [NAW-sis]12. In the 1970's Uganda's Idi Amin recieved a lot of attention thus overshadowing the other African leaders of his day. For 15 points each, identify these African leaders who have too long dwelt in the shadow of Idi Amin. 1. This Ugandan leader became Prime Minister in 1962, but in 1965 staged a revolution to make himself president. He was ousted by Amin in 1971, but returned to power in 1979 when Amin fled to Libya. 	Answer: Milton Obote 2. Upon the independence of Tanganyika in 1961, he became its Prime Minister. Instrumental in uniting Zanzibar with Tanganyika to form Tanzania in 1964, he became the 1st President of the Republic. 	Answer: Juilius Kambarage Nyerere 13. Lets see how much you know about US military ranks, for ten points each:1. In the US Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps, this is the rank right below the Major General.	Answer: Brigadier General2. In the US Navy, this is the rank right above the Captain.	Answer: Commodore3. In the US Marine Corps, this is the rank right above the Staff Sergeant.	Answer: Gunnery Sergeant14. Give the chemical formula for the following compounds 10 seconds for each answer1. Cadmium oxalate					Answer: CdC2O42. Lead iodide						Answer: PbI23. Silver sulfide						Answer: Ag2S15. Answer the following questions about Australia:1. What is its highest peak?				Answer: Mount Kosciusco2. What is its lowest point on land?				Answer: Lake Eyre3. What is its largest city by population on the west coast?	Answer: Perth16. Name the playwright: 30-20-101. His first play, A Walk on the Water, was revised as Enter a Free Man. Another of his earliest plays is M Is for Moon among Other Things. 2. He came to England in 1946 and replaced his last name Straussler with his stepfather's last name. Other plays include Jumpers and Travesties.3. This Czech-born English writer frequently uses plays by other playwrights as launching pads for his own works, such as when he borrowed two minor characters from a Shakespearean tragedy. 	Answer: Tom Stoppard17. Identify the philosopher who penned the following works:1. This Greek of the Eleatic school wrote "The Way of Truth" and "The Way of Seeming"	Answer: Parmenides2. "Questions Concerning Technology," in which he introduced the idea of enframing. Other works include On the Way to Language, and Discourse on Thinking.	Answer: Martin Heidegger3. He refutes rationalism and insisted that neither substance nor causal activity could be verified, in such works as "Treatise on Human Knowledge", A Treatise of Human Nature, and An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.	Answer: David Hume18. Lets see how much you remember about the Presidential Election of 1920.1. For five, who received 919,799 votes while confined in a federal prison in Atlanta?	Answer: Eugene V. Debs2. Warren Harding's platform was a "return to [blank]". For ten, name it.	Answer: Normalcy (note that it is misspelled)3. Representing Ohio in the US House of Representatives, he was Governor of Ohio when nominated as presidential candidate by the Democratic party. For fifteen, name him.	Answer: James Cox19. Name the modern women authors of the following novels:1. The Bean Tree and Animal Dreams	Answer: Barbara Kingsolver2. Corregidora and The Healing	Answer: Gayl Jones3. Jazz and The Bluest Eyee	Answer: Toni Morrison20. Given the composer and number of a symphony, give it's nickname for five points each:1. Beethoven's Third				Answer: Eroica2. Dvorak's Ninth					Answer: New World Symphony3. Mahler's Eigth					Answer: Symphony of a Thousand4. Tchaikovsky's First				Answer: Winter Dreams5. Vaughn William's Seventh			Answer: Sinfonia Antarctica6. Shostakovich's Seventh				Answer: Leningrad21. Answer the following questions on European foreign affairs: 10-201. This office is usually accredited to the foreign minister, not the head of state. It is the lowest rank recognized by the ViennaConvention on Diplomatic Relations.	Answer: Charge Daffaires2. This is a representative of the Vatican who is accredited as an ambassador.	Answer: Nuncio22. Name that term in geometry: 30-20-101. This term describes any foci of consecutive, parallel lines in Euclidean space.2. This term is better known as a special type of foci where all the consecutive, parallel lines are parallel to and equidistant from a singular line.3. Its also something found in your car.	Answer: Cylinder23. Provide the nickname for the following piano etudes by Frederic Chopin:1. Etude in C-Minor, Opus 10-12	Answer: Revolutionary2. Etude in A-Minor, Opus 25-11	Answer: Winterwind3. Etude in C-sharp-Minor, Opus 10-4	Answer: Torrent24. Answer the following questions about HPLC, or high-performance liquid chromatography, for 10 points each:1. What is the process in which dissolved gases are swept out of a solvent by bubbles of an inert, insoluble gas?	Answer: Sparging2. What type of an elution is one in which the composition of the solvent remains constant?	Answer: Isocratic elution3. In what type of an elution does the composition of the solvent change continuously or change in several steps?	Answer: Gradient elution25. Name this famous rock: 30-20-101. This eruptive rock is also called "Blue Ground."2. This rock provides the bulk of the worlds diamonds. 3. This rock is named after the South African city of Kimberly.	Answer: Kimberlite26. Identify the following objects of fear, for ten points each:1. astraphobia						Answer: Lightning2. arachnophobia						Answer: Spiders3. iatrophobia						Answer: Doctors27. Answer the following questions about Mexican writers: 10-201. This modern Mexican author criticized the Mexican Revolution in many of his works, including the collection of short stories, El llano en llamas, and the popular novel, Pedro Pramo. Who was he?	Answer: Juan Rulfo2. This modern Mexican author is renowned for his concise and lucid style, as evident in such short novels as The Battles in the Desert, The Distant Wind, and Medusas Blood and Other Marginal Stories. Who is he?	Answer: Jos Emilio Pacheco28. Answer the following questions about anthropologists, Margaret Mead:1. What is the title of her 1928 book?	Answer: Coming Of Age In Samoa2. What word would she shout while holding onto her cherry-wood stick?	Answer: "Fiddlesticks!"3. Identify her daughter, who wrote a biography of Margaret Mead entitled With a Daughters Eye.	Answer: Mary Catherine Bateson29. Here are some not-so-general-knowledge questions:1. What are those plastic things at the end of your shoelaces called?	Answer: Aglets2. When dissolved in water, an amino acid such as glycine undergoes a kind of internal acid/base reaction to produce what type of species that bears both a positive and a negative charge? For example, NH3+CH2COO-	Answer: Zwitterion3. This Chinese musical instrument looks like a tiny banjo with two strings, played with a bow much like a cello. Only in the last forty years did this instrument became known in the western world, including several appearances with symphony orchestras as the solo instrument, such as the Yellow River Concerto." Name this instrument.	Answer: Ur-Hu