1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by UPenn A1. As early as the 13th century, it was used as a medicine in Europe. This term refers to the unsweetened, distilled spirit derived from the juice of grapes. When made from other fruits, it has the name of the fruit attached to it, such as apple or cherry. Notable types of the grape version include Marc, Armagnac, and Cognac. For 10 points, name this type of liquor.	Answer: Brandy2. This was an ancient Greek city of Anatolia, situated on the Gulf of Kos near the modern town of Bodrum, Turkey. Founded by Greeks possibly in the 11th century BC, the city came under Persian domination around 540 BC. Later in the Persian Wars , it joined the Delian League. The city enjoyed its greatest prosperity under Mausolus, a Persian satrap who achieved virtual independence in the 4th century BC. For 10 points, name this city, home to the temple erected in Mausolus's honor, one of the seven wonders of the world.	Answer: Halicarnassus3. Born during the consulate of Pompey and Crassus, he was seven when Catiline fell at the head of his revolutionary army. His first works claim to be in the tradition of Theocritus, but they echo and evoke many other Greek and Latin poets, notably Callimachus. For 10 points can you name this poet, author of the Eclogues, the Georgics and the Aeneid.	Answer: Virgil4. This is also called Joruri, for its musical style. It is a serious art intended for an adult audience. In it's time, it ofetn competed with Kabuki for the same urban audience. Each complex puppet is operated by three puppeteers while a chanter sings and speaks the text of the play to the accompaniment of shamisen music. Puppets are three-quarters life size and are exceptionally realistic, with movable fingers, eyes, and mouth. For 10 points, give the popular name for Japan's classical puppet theater.	Answer: Bunraku5. This concept is important, because it allows chemists to determine heat data for reactions by indirect means when the direct method cannot be accurately employed. An important principle of thermochemistry, the law states that in a chemical reaction, the heat evolved or absorbed is the same whether the reaction occurs in a single step or proceeds through an alternate pathway taking several steps. For 10 points, name the law, named for it's German discoverer.	Answer: Hess's Law6. Jeff Goldblum has invited you to join a party. No, its not a success party for the movie "Holy Man". In this party, you won't be wearing the same colour as you have in the past. This time you're going to think differently, because to join the party, you simply need to become one of hundreds of thousands of purchasers of a flashy new product. For 10 points identify this product which doesn't come in beige, which was released on August 15th by Apple Computers.	Answer: iMac7. These are prehistoric structures built of massive stones, usually for religious or funerary purposes. Four principal types can be distinguished: standing stones, row alignments, stone circles, and burial chambers. Most of them occur in Europe and date from the Late Neolithic Period and Early Bronze Age. Burial chambers are also known in India dating from the 1st millennium BC and in Japan dating from early historic times. Standing stones have been erected even more recently by peoples in West Africa and by certain tribal groups of the northeast Indian state of Assam. For 10 points, name this category of monument, whose name is derived from the Greek words for "Large" and "Stone."	Answer: Megalith8. A preliminary encounter in the North Sea between the battle-cruiser squadrons of the British admiral David Beatty and the German Franz von Hipper was followed by a full-scale battle between the two main fleets, the British under Admiral Sir John Jellicoe and the German under Admiral Reinhard Scheer. Although the battle was strategically indecisive, the Germans displayed greater tactical skill and suffered lighter losses. On the other hand, the German high fleet did not leave port again for the duration of the war. For 10 points, name this battle, lasting from May 31 to June 1, 1916, the only major naval engagement in World War I.	Answer: The battle of Jutland9. They make up about half of the protein in human serum, where their main functions are to maintain normal water balance between blood and tissues by osmotic mechanisms and to serve as transport proteins for less soluble substances that can bind to them, such as amino acids. Their detection in the urine is an indication of some types of kidney dysfunction. For 10 points, name this protein that is both soluble in water and half-salt solution, as opposed to globulin, which is only soluble in dilute salt solutions. 	Answer: Albumins10. Born in New Hampshire in 1942, he now lives in Toronto and Vermont, where he coached youth wrestling in addition to penning best selling novels. While his most recent work ventured all the way to Bombay, this author's characters often find themselves situated in the city of Vienna or a New England countryside. His perhaps most famous work was used as the basis for a film starring Jodie Foster, John Lithgow, and Robin Williams as the title character. For 10 points, identify this American author of The Cider House Rules, The 158-Pound Marriage, and The World According to Garp. 	Answer: John Irving11. The Ouse River, which flows through the area, is embanked to prevent flooding. The area is about 115 km long and 55 km wide. It is a large area of reclaimed marshland in eastern England, located primarily in southern Lincolnshire. Reclaimed gradually between the 17th and 19th centuries from unproductive marshes, it contains some of the best agricultural land in England, producing grains, potatoes, and sugar beets. For 10 points, name this area, formerly all marsh and swampland.	Answer: The Fens12. Inspired by the writings of Galileo, this Italian thinker wrote a treatise on mechanics called De Motu ("Concerning Movement"), which impressed the aging Galileo. In 1641 he was invited to Florence, where he served the elderly astronomer as secretary and assistant eventually being appointed to succeed him as professor of mathematics at the Florentine Academy. Following a suggestion by Galileo, be became the first person to create a sustained vacuum using a dish full of mercury and a glass tube, For 10 points, identify this physicist, the inventor of the barometer. 	Answer: Evangelista Torricelli13. The selfish and unfaithful waitress Mildred Rogers humiliates, betrays, and abandons the London medical student Philip Carey. Acutely sensitive of his club foot, Philip enters a relationship with Sally Athelney, whose possible pregnancy forces him to examine his life. For 10 points, what is this semiautobiographical work by Somerset Maughm?       Answer: Of Human Bondage14. In 1740 he was appointed harpsichordist to Frederick II. His compositions include religious music, symphonies, concerti, organ sonatas, chamber music and songs. He influenced Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven. He gained fame for his 'Essay on the True Art of Playing Keyboard Instruments". For 10 points name this composer of the Hamburg Symphonies, the second son of the composer of Brandenburg Concertos.	Answer: Carl Phillip Emanuel Bach15. Located at 175 Fifth Avenue, New York City, erected in 1901-02 by Daniel Hudson Burnham and Company, it was the tallest building in the world at the time. Its robust articulation and classicizing details, which first appeared in Burnham's work in the late 1890s, contrast with his cagelike, terra-cotta-sheathed Reliance Building in Chicago. The unique, triangular floor plan of the building was demanded by the wedge-shaped site on which it stands. For 10 points, name this 20 story New York landmark, celebrated in countless Subway Sub Shops all across our great nation.	Answer: The Flatiron Building16. Educated at Lancing College, Sussex, and at Hertford College, Oxford, he devoted himself to solitary observant travel and to the writing of novels after short periods as an art student and schoolmaster. Usually derived from firsthand experience, his pre-World War II novels, including Decline and Fall and Vile Bodies are highly satirical in nature. For 10 points, name this British author of Black Mischief, A Handful of Dust, and The Brideshead Revisited. 	Answer: Evelyn Waugh17. It originated in a time when nations commonly kept both gold and silver coins in circulation. If the nominal values of the coins were different from their actual values, the coins that were worth more tended to be hoarded or melted down for their metallic content, and thus disappeared from circulation. Although the "law" is named for an English banker and merchant, he did not invent it. For 10 points, name this law, which states that "Bad money drives out good."	Answer: Gresham's Law18. Men with this condition have an uncontrollable, excessive craving for sex that drives them to engage in promiscuous behavior, much like Nymphomania in females. Individuals consumed with such sexual desire may not show discrimination in their choice of men, women, children, or animals as sex partners. Emotional concerns revolving around doubts of masculinity or sexual adequacy may underlie this condition. For 10 points, name this disorder, who's name stems from the sexually promiscuous goat-men in Greek Mythology.	Answer: Satyriasis19. He openly condemned the Peasants' Revolt in Germany, even though his attacks on the greed of the princes and pleas for the poor undoubtedly inspired the peasants. He appealed to the German princes to reform the church and to cast off their allegiance to the pope in his work Address to the Christian Nobility of the German Nation. These events all occurred after he witnessed a monk named Tetzel selling indulgences in the area near Wittenberg. For 10 points, who is this person who, in 1517, tacked to the door of the Wittenberg castle church his ninety-five theses?       Answer: Martin Luther20. Its efficiency can be measured by just using the temperature range through which it works, rather than the properties of the working substances. Consisting of an isothermal expansion, an adiabatic expansion, an isothermal compression, and an adiabatic compression, it is named for the physicist that discovered its principles in 1824. For 10 points, what is this most efficient of reversible heat engines?	Answer: Carnot Engine21. Congress has 535 members. Out of these 535 men and women, all but one share something in common, membership in either the Democratic or Republican parties. For 10 points, name this former Mayor of Burlington, and the only man who currently represents Vermont in the House, and is the House's only independent (although really a socialist.)	Answer: Bernard Sanders22. America has yet to have a female President, and the UK has only had one female Prime Minister. However, those wacky Canadians have had a female prime minister, if only for a very short time. For 10 points, name this lucky Canadian gal who broke through the sex barrier and served as Prime Minister for less than a year, bridging the gap between Mulroney and Chretien. 	Answer: Kim Campbell23. It founded over 60 colonies on the shores of the Black Sea. In the 7th Century BC it fought Lydia. It later came under Persian control, under which it remained until the Ionian revolt. For 10 points identify this city, located in modern day Turkey, best known for ancient residents Hecataeus, Anaximenes, Anaximander and Thales.	Answer: Miletus24. This is the name given by U.S. geologists and geographers to a dry lakebed in a desert region. They occupy the lowest portions (generally 2 to 5% of the area) of closed drainage basins in desert regions. They are drainage sumps, almost level vegetation-free flats of clay, salt, or both. The basin may be large or small (several hundred km to less than 1 km/0.6 mi across) and with or without fringing mountains. For 10 points, name this geological term, from the Spanish for "Beach."	Answer: Playas25. Unlike many like it, it is free to everyone. It has become a symbol of the "techie" and caters small businesses and individuals. Its motto is a penguin and it comes in many varieties, including Slackware and RedHat. For 10 points identify this operating system, a Unix variant created by Linus Torvalds.	Answer: Linux26. Originally a dependency of Allada, this state of the Fon people became an independent kingdom under Agaja. It conquered a tract of coast, taking the commercial center of Ouida in 1721, but unable to overrun the kingdom of Porto-Novo, which became its main rival. It was later attacked by the Oyo kingdom from the northeast in what is today Nigeria, and was forced to pay tribute beginning in 1730. For ten points, name this kingdom which reached its height under kings Gezo and Glele for the whole of the nineteenth century, which eventually became the source of a previous name for the present-day nation of Benin. 	Answer: Dahomey27. With the recent news on the Clinton affair, one cannot help but recall prior impeachment troubles. Andrew Johnson is the only President to of course actually be impeached, and sit in the Senate for trial. Johnson survived conviction by just one vote. For 10 points, name the Senator from Nebraska who cast the deciding vote in Johnson's favor.	Answer: Ross
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by UPenn A1. Name the Chemistry measurement term from clues, 10 points each.1. The lowest temperature at which the vapor of the substance can form an explosive mixture with air.	Answer: Flash Point2. The pressure exerted by the gas when it is in equilibrium with the liquid state.	Answer: Vapor Pressure3. This is a measurement of componds such as solder, where the melting temperature of the compound is lower than either of its two components.	Answer: Eutectic Point2. Name the Ancient people from clues, for 15 points each.1. They were nomadic tribespeople who inhabited a part of northern Arabia to the east of Palestine. Biblical tradition holds that Moses married a daughter of the Midianite priest Jethro, thus they may have influenced the Hebrew religion at a formative stage. Later, they made successful raids on the Israelites newly settled in Canaan, until they were stopped by Gideon's dramatic victory.	Answer: Midianites2. They were an ancient people who were driven out of the Crimea in southern Russia by the Scythians in the 8th century BC. They migrated into Anatolia, destroying the kingdom of Phrygia, and invading Lydia in the 7th century BC. They suffered a major defeat by the Scythians around 630 BC, and little is known of their ultimate fate.	Answer: The Cimmerians3. Given the description, name the term from Labor-Management Relations, for 10 points each.1. Unions imposing rules or limitations on employers that result in their retaining or hiring "redundant" workers or that arbitrarily lengthen the period of time in which work is performed.	Answer: Featherbedding2. The closing of a place of business by management in order to prevent employees from working and thus to pressure a labor union into settling a dispute in management's favor.	Answer: Lockout3. These are state laws that prohibit union-management agreements requiring a worker to join a union in order to obtain or hold a job. Most of these laws prohibit the Closed Shop or the Union Shop	Answer: Right-To-Work laws4. Name these people, associated with Aeneas, for the stated number of points.1. First, for five points each name his parents:       Answer: Aphrodite and Anchises2. Now for five points, name his son, the founder of Alba Longa:       Answer: Ascanius or Iulus3. Finally, for fifteen points name the Rutuli leader opposed Aeneas' arrival in Italy who was killed near the end of the Aenead:       Answer: Turnus5. Given a brief synopsis of a Jane Austen novel, provide the title of the book, for ten points each.1. Catherine Morland, the protagonist of this novel, is an innocent abroad who gains worldly wisdom at the title location of this novel, where she learns not to interpret the world through her reading of Gothic thrillers. 	Answer: Northanger Abbey2. Published in 1814, this Austen novel is centered around Fanny Price, a self-effacing and unregarded cousin cared for by the Bertrams who struggles to gain complete acceptance into their family. 	Answer: Mansfield Park3. Austen's last novel, it tells the story of a second chance, the reawakening of love betwen Anne Elliot and Captain Frederick Wentworth, whom seven years earlier she had been swayed from marrying. 	Answer: Persuasion6. Name the subatomic particle from a brief description, ten points each.1. A negatively charged lepton, this paticle has a half-integral spin and a mass nearly 207 times larger than that of an electron. 	Answer: Muon2. This particle is the largest of the leptons, with a mass 3,700 times larger than that of an electron. 	Answer: Tau3. The lightest of the mesons, this subatomic particle is chiefly responsible for the strong interactions between the protons and neutrons in atomic nuclei. 	Answer: Pion (accept Pi meson)7. Identify the paintings on a 15-5 basis.1st 15 pts: It was originally called Militia Company of Captain Frans Banning Cocq1st 5 pts: Created by Rembrandt, it is the most famous of his paintings commemorating groups of the volunteer militia enlisted to defend Amsterdam.	Answer: the Night Watch2nd 15 pts: The survivors shown in this painting returned to France to tell a horrifying tale of exposure and starvation, avoided only by cannibalism2nd 5 pts: A black man waves a rag in the direction of the rescue ship, faintly visible on the horizon in this painting by Theodore Gericault       Answer: The Raft of the Medusa8. Shakespeare has kindly provided us with many famous comic characters. Identify these three on a 5, 10, 15 basis. 1. For 5 points, identify the usurping duke's clown in As You Like It, who finds happiness in the end with Audrey, a country wench. 	Answer: Touchstone 2. He is the constable of Much Ado About Nothing who stumbles upon the truth of Don John's plot to discredit Hero. For 10 points, name him. 	Answer: Dogberry 3. He is Olivia's silly suitor in Twelfth Night who is soundly thrashed by Sebastian whom he mistakes for Cesario. 	Answer: Sir Andrew Auguecheek 9. The War of the Spanish Succession resulted over the objections of Britain, Prussia, Austria and the Netherlands to the French proclamation of a new king. Answer the following questions about the change in the throne for 5 points each. 1. For five, identify the ruling house of Spain that died out in 1700. 				Answer: Hapsburg 2. For ten, identify the last Hapsburg king of Spain. 						Answer: Charles II 3. For five, what was the name of the 1713 treaty that ended the war of Spanish Succession?	Answer: Treaty of Utrecht 4. For ten, identify the man who was recognized as king by the Treaty of Utrecht.  		Answer: Philip V 10. Given a description, name the specific type of wind, For 10 points each.1. This is the warm, dry westerly wind that blows down the slopes of the Andes into Argentina. Air dries as it passes up the slopes in Chile, and the moisture is precipitated as snow.	Answer: Zonda2. From the Arabic shoruq, or "from the east", this is a warm, humid, southerly wind of the Mediterranean Sea.	Answer: Sirocco3. It is a warm, dry, westerly wind that occurs on the eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains, primarily in winter. A type of Foehn, or katabatic wind, it is made up of warm Pacific air that has lost some of its moisture over the western slopes.	Answer: Chinook11. For 5 points each, name the four stages of child development, according to Piaget. You have fifteen seconds.	Answer: Sensorimotor, Preoperational, Concrete Operational, Formal OperationalPiaget also developed a concept which describes a voluntary act or reflex that generates its own repetition, sometimes without apparent motive or reward. Primary ones are centered on the infant's own body. Secondary ones involve stereotyped manipulations of objects. Tertiary ones are concerned with repetition with variations from cycle to cycle. For 10 points, what is this concept?	Answer: Circular Reaction12. Everyone knows Charles de Gaulle helped found the fifth Republic. However, four Presidents of the French Fifth Republic followed deGaulle. Name one for 5, two for 10, three for 20, and all four for 30 points. You have fifteen seconds.	Answer: Georges Pompidou, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, Francois Mitterand, Jacques Chirac13. Adam Beberg founded a service designed to link individual machines from across the Internet in order to solve large calculation problems in their spare time.1. First, For 10 points what name this service:       Answer: distributed.net (distributed dot net)2. Now, For 10 points name the current distributed.net project, in which the network of machines is proving that the government limits encryption to an insecure level.       Answer: RSA Secret Key Challenge (Accept: rc5-64 which is more specific)3. Finally, there is a similar effort called "GIMPS", which attempts to use mass calculating power to discover very large examples of a certain type of number. For 10 points name it.       Answer: Mersenne prime14. Many of our famous forefathers signed our Constitution, but there are three who refused to sign it. For 10 points each, name each one given clues.1. One of the Virginia Dynasty, Thomas Jefferson was a relative of his family. A governor of Virginia, he served as Attorney General in Washington's first cabinet before replacing Jefferson when Jefferson resigned as secretary of state.       Answer: Edmund Randolph2. Author of the Virginia Declaration of Rights, which served as a model for the Declaration of Independence. Although he is closely linked with constitutionalism, he refused to sign the Constitution because it lacked a Bill of Rights and that the Federal Judiciary was too powerful.       Answer: George Mason3. Before serving as James Madison's vice president, he was governor of Massachusetts infamously known for redistributing Essex County in time for a state senatorial election in order to ensure a Jeffersonian Democratic-Republican majority in the state legislature.       Answer: Elbridge Gerry15. Identify these cellular structures, ten points each.1. Consisting of a type of RNA and protein, usually there are many of these small spherical bodies attached to the endoplasmic reticulum or free in the cytoplasm. 	Answer: Ribosome2. They vary greatly in shape, size, and number, but are typically oval or sausage shaped and bounded by two membranes, the inner one being folded into finger-like projections called cristae. They are the site of the Krebs cycle and electron transport chain.	Answer: Mitochondria3. A cylindrical structure, they are not normally found in plant cells but are commonly present in pairs in animal cells. During cell division they move to opposite sides of the nucleus to form the ends of the spindle. The spindle fibers develop from them.	Answer: Centrioles (not Centrisomes)16. Place the following events in Irish history in correct chronological order: Act of Union with Great Britain, Catholic Emancipation Act, Easter Rebellion, Great Potato Famine, and the Battle of the Boyne. Five points each, plus five for all correct.	Answer: Boyne (1690), Act of Union (1801), Emancipation (1829), Potato Famine (1845-49), and Easter Rebllion (1916)17. 30-20-10 Identify this American writer from pairs of his works. 1. The Prodigal Parents and Cass Timberlane 2. Ann Vickers and Hike and the Aeroplane 3. Our Mr. Wrenn and It Can't Happen Here 	Answer: Sinclair Lewis18. Answer the following about Post WWI Europe, ten points each.1. The Germans were forced to pay 132 billion gold marks or 6.6 billion British pounds. In this publication by Keynes, he claimed that reparations would put an intolerable strain on the German economy and that this would make impossible the economic recovery of Europe as a whole.	Answer: The Economic Consequences of the Peace2. The Germans were unwilling and unable to meet the payment of reparations following the Treaty of Versailles. This led to massive inflation and economic collapse. A commission was setup to consider how to balance and stabilize the German budget, leading this plan on reparations named for the American banker that headed the commission.	Answer: Dawes Plan3. The Dawes Plan had a marked effect on the German economy, but by 1929 the German economy was again having problems, so a new commission under another banker was set up to reconsider reparations. The plan, also named for the head of the commission, suggested reducing reparations by three-quarters and planned payments out to 1988.	Answer: Young Plan19. Given a city in the United States, name the river that flows through it, ten points each.1. Denver, Colorado			Answer: North Platte River (prompt on: Platte)2. Jacksonville, Florida		 	Answer: Saint John's River3. Phoenix, Arizona		 	Answer: Salt River20. Identify these classics of Chinese literature, ten points each. 1. One of the Chinese Five Classics, it is the oldest collection of Chinese poetry, and was probably compiled during the Chou dynasty. Tradition attributes the arrangement to Confucius, and it provided a pattern for much Chinese verse.	Answer: Book of Odes2. Written by Lo Kuan-chung, it takes place after the fall of the Han dynasty and before China was reunited. It is a vast historical novel depicting endless episodes of intrigue and war by generals and kings during the period.	Answer: Romance of the Three Kingdoms3. An autobiographical novel written by Cao (tsao) Zahn, it depicts the decline in the fortunes of the large Jia family, and includes 30 main characters and more than 400 minor ones.	Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber (or Story of the Stone)21. Given the clue, name the Electrical Component, for 10 points each.1. It opposes any change in an electrical current. Also known as a coil or choke, it is composed of a coil of wire wound around a supporting core that may be magnetic or nonmagnetic.	Answer: Inductor2. Also called a variable resistor, is generally used to control the flow of electricity through an electric circuit. It commonly takes the form of a tightly wound wire coil over which a contact is moved.	Answer: Rheostat3. An electrical component that consists of two conductors separated by an insulator.	Answer: Capacitor22. Do you know your US Senators? Given a State, Name both of its senators, 5 points apiece.1. OHIO 		Answer: Mike DeWine, John Glenn2. WISCONSIN 		Answer: Russell Feingold, Herb Kohl3. ALASKA 		Answer: Ted Stevens, Frank Murkowski23. 30-20-10, name the treaty, pact, or alliance30: The first of three to bear this name, it was formed on Aug. 2, 1718 by Austria, France, Britain, and the Dutch Republic to oppose Spain after the Spanish king Phillip V seized Sardinia and Sicily.20: The last one was established in 1834 when Britain and France went to the aid of Isabella II of Spain and Maria II of Portugal, monarchs facing challenges from more conservative claimants to their thrones. The alliance defeated the pretenders in both countries.10: The second was formed toward the end of the Napoleonic Wars on Mach 9th, 1814, by Britain, Prussia, Austria, and Russia, each of which pledged not to conclude a separate peace with Napoleon.	Answer: QUATRUPLE ALLIANCE24. 30-20-10 name the composer:30-He wrote the symphonic poem "Le Rouet d'Omphale" and "Danse Macabre"20-This Frenchman's 3rd Symphony, known as "Organ", was dedicated to Liszt.10-He wrote the opera "Samson et Dalilia"       Answer: Charles-Camille Saint-Saens25. In Plato's Republic, Socrates describes the results of a man who has lived his life in the shadows being introduced to the light, and 1. His subsequent return to the shadows. First F5P, give the name of this example, used to illustrate different levels of awareness.       Answer: The Allegory of the Cave2. For 10 points, in what book of The Republic will you find the Allegory of the Cave?       Answer: Book VII3. Finally for fifteen points, to whom does Socrates present the Allegory?       Answer: Glaucon26. Given the primitive hominid, tell in which country it was first discovered, for 10 points each.1. Lantian Man				Answer: CHINA2. Neanderthal				Answer: GERMANY3. Australopithecus boisei, A.K.A. "Lucy."	Answer: TANZANIA27. Identify the movie from quotes, 30-20-10.1. "Well, my daddy once caught a bullet with his bare hands."2. "Don't you ever touch a Black Man's Radio!"3. "50 million dollars! Who do you think you kidnapped, Chelsea Clinton?"	Answer: RUSH HOUR28. Answer the following questions about ancient Cambodia for the stated number of points.1. For five, it was built under Suryavarman II, its temple covers an area of 1,500 by 1,300 m and is surrounded by a vast moat 180 m wide.	Answer: Ankor Wat2. For ten, Ankor was the capital city of what ancient people?	Answer: the Khmer3. Following the sack of Angkor by the Chams in 1177, Angkor Wat was abandoned. In the early 13th century Jayavarman VII established a new capital and sacred precinct. The four gateways into the city bear huge masks of its new patron, the Buddhist deity Lokesvara, Lord of the Universe.	Answer: Angkor Thom