1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Berkeley Ultraviolet - Nam Nguyen, Sunil K. Aggarwal, Ziv, Clint1. Born in Karevo in 1839, his father wanted him to join to the military and so he entered the Imperial Guards Cadet School in 1852. Later, he became associated with the Russian Mighty Five. His best known opera was Boris Gudonov. For 10 points, name this composer of the Symphonic Poem "Night on Bald Mountain".	Answer: Modest Mussorgsky2. Famous for making Maine an almost mythological place, he grew up in the state and spends most of his time between Portland and Bangor. His characters Red and Andy Dufresne helped earn a nomination for an Academy Award for the adaptation of his novella the Shawshank Rebellion. For 10 points, name this creator of Carrie	Answer: Stephen King3. Constructed between 1100 and 1600, its ruins cover 1779 acres in three main structures, the Hill Complex, the Great Enclosure, and the Valley Ruins. Its rulers most likely regulated the gold trade in this city named for the Shona term meaning "House of Stone". Its rise and fall are not well understood, but at its peak, artifacts from China and Syria were regularly imported. For 10 points what is this archeological site found between the Zambezi and Limpopo Rivers in the south central part of the African country that has taken its name.	Answer: Great Zimbabwe4. A close friend of Michelangelo as well as a painter, he was one of the well known names in the Italian renaissance. He is important in his own right as the architect of the Palazzo Vecchio. For 10 points, name this author of the "Lives of the Artists."	Answer: Giorgio Vasari5. Located in the constellation of Taurus, it is an intense source of radio emission, and synchrotron radiation causes a yellow glow around it. Located about 6500 light years away, it was first discovered in 1731 by the English astronomer John Bevis and independently by Charles Messier, who designated it M1. For 10 points, what is this remnant of a supernova noted by Chinese astronomers in 1054, that resembles a crustacean?	Answer: Crab Nebula6. He first appears in Sinclair Lewis's 1922 novel Babbit. Their family theatre again appears in Arrowsmith. He is mentioned in Ann Vickers, and is retired to Italy in the 1951 World So Wide. For 10 points, name this Sinclair Lewis title character, a businessman from a 1929 novel.	Answer: Samuel Dodsworth7. Built at Birkenhead, England, this ship captured or destroyed more than 60 U.S. ships before the U.S. warship Kearsarge sank it in 1864. This reign of destruction resulted in a series of requests for indemnity made by the United States upon Britain to compensate for damages inflicted on U.S. property by this Confederate steamship. For 10 points - name this ship which led to Britain paying the United States damages of $15.5 million when finally settled twenty years later in 1885.	Answer: Alabama (Claims)8. In 1903 he received the Pushkin Prize of the Russian Academy for his translations of American and English poets. His literary reputation rests mainly on his realistic tales, short stories, and novels, which describe the bleakness of life in Russian provinces. His works include the short story "The Gentleman from San Francisco," (1916) and the novels The Village (1910) and Mitya's Love (1925). For 10 points name the first Russian to be awarded the Nobel Prize in literature in 1933.	Answer: Bunin, Ivan Alekseyevich (1870-1953)9. An example is "brunch" combining lunch and breakfast. Introduced and very frequently used by Lewis Carroll in "Through the Looking Glass", with words such as slithy and mimsy, they have been picked up by James Joyce in "Finnegan's Wake". For 10 points -- what is defined as a completely new word combining parts of two or more words, expressing a combination of the meaning of its parts? 	Answer: Portmanteau Word10. First awarded in 1936, it is made of gold and shows the head of Archimedes and the quotation "Transire suum pectus mundoque potiri" (Rise above oneself and grasp the world). The reverse side bears the inscription: "Congregati ex toto orbe mathematici ob scripta insignia tribuere" For 10 points -- what is the unofficial name for the "International Medal for Outstanding Discoveries in Mathematics" named for the Canadian mathematician who organized the International Congress of Mathematicians in 1924 in Toronto given, along with 15,000 Canadian dollars, to a mathematician no older than 40.	Answer: Fields Medal11. Designed by planner Lucio Costa and architect Oscar Niemeyer, here space was scientifically organized according to function rather than any aesthetic value or market forces. Addresses are denoted by phrases like: southern individual habitation sector, group K, lot 8. Now home 1.8 million people, over 3 times its intended population -- for 10 points -- what is this city to which President Juscelino Kubitschek moved Brazil's capital?	Answer: Brasilia12. It opened July 14, 1955, and since then, has only closed once when college kids from Berkeley, in protest of the Vietnam War, took over Tom Sawyer Island. Just prior to its opening, the ABC Television network ran a television of the same name to promote this amusement park and its corporate sponsor, this 30 years before they merged. For 10 points, name this Anaheim California site.	Answer: Disneyland13. Living from 356-323 BC, he aimed to control the Greek cities of Asia Minor. He defeated Darius III at Issus. He expanded eastward, and again defeated Darius III in 331 at Gaugmela. For 10 points, name this son of Phillip of Macedon.	Answer: Alexander the Great14. Born in 1872, this German theoretical physicist was an active contributor to the quantum mechanics frenzy during the early 20th century. This famous physicist key contribution to quantum mechanics was the probabilistic interpretation of the Schrodinger wave equation For 10 points -- who in 1954 scientist was honored with the Nobel Prize in Physics, who he shared with W. Bothe.	Answer: Max Born15. On May 29, 1932, a group of 1000 former serviceman arrived in Washington, DC to protest their financial neglect by the U.S. government. By mid June, groups of veterans arrived from every section of the country, swelling their number to nearly 17,000. Camped in the open or in unused buildings near the Capitol, they vowed to stay until Congress authorized immediate cash in full for payment they were rightly due. A bill authorizing the payment was passed by the House on June 15, but was killed in the Senate two days later. To deal with the problem, the government provided money for the protestors to return home, but about 2000 refused the offer and stayed on. For 10 points, name this group of rag-tag veterans protesting unpaid bonus certificates that were finally driven out on July 28 by federal troops led by General Douglas MacArthur.	Answer: The Bonus Army16. The first "wild" variety appeared at the University of Delaware, when snippets dubbed the "Brain" appeared. "Concept", the first Macro one in the wild infected Microsoft Word documents in late 1995. For 10 points, what are these programs with replication code as well as whatever payload the programmer intends to put on?	Answer: Viruses17. In 1955, it became the first protein whose amino-acid sequence was fully determined. A protein hormone, it is secreted by the Beta cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. For 10 points, what is this substance that promotes the uptake of glucose by body cells and controls the concentration of glucose in the blood?	Answer: Insulin18. Visited only by Mariner 10, it has the fewest flybys of any terrestrial body. This planet has a radius of 2 thousand kilometers but is twice as dense as the moon. Its rotation takes 176 days and it has the highest daytime temperatures in the solar system. For 10 points -- name this planet, the closest to the sun.	Answer: Mercury19. Murphy's Law says that anything that can go wrong will go wrong, and Catch 22 is you have to be crazy to do something, and if you are crazy, we can't let you do it. For 10 points, what similar gripe says "my desires are repugnant to my morals," and was put forth in 1969 Philip Roth novel of the same name? 	Answer: Portnoy's Complaint20. At a 1930 meeting the inventor of these compounds inhaled their vapors and then blew out a candle, showing they were neither toxic nor flammable. Yet in 1974 Mario Molina and Sherwood Rowland showed that these compounds were destroying the ozone layer. Banned by the 1997 Montreal Protocol on Substances that Destroy the Ozone Layer -- for 10 points -- name these compounds often used in refrigerants and aerosols?	Answer: Chloro-Fluoro Carbons (accept CFCs)21. He was born about 254 BC in Sarsina, Umbria. Little is known about this Roman's life except that he wrote plays in the Greek style, at least 40, perhaps as many as 200, of which 20 survive. For 10 points, whose surviving comic operas include: "Stichus", "Pseudolus", "Captivi", "Trinummus", "Asimaria", "Casina", "Amphitruo", "Rudens", "Arulularia", "Menachimi", and "Persa"?	Answer: Plautus22. Kes (pronounced CASE), Kada (pronounced CUDDA), Kanga (pronounced CUNGA) Kirpan, and Kacha. Laid out by Guru Gobind Singh in the 17th century, these form the five cardinal physical attributes by which a Sikh man was identified. For 10 points, by what name is the community of believers who follow these 5 K's known as?	Answer: Khalsa23. The destruction of a great Mongolian Empire by the 552 revolt of its Turkish vassals led to a westward flight of this vanquished people. They moved to the Russian steppes, where the Byzantine emperor Justinian paid them to subjugate those pesky Huns and Slavs. Their empire peaked at the end of the 6th century when it reached from the Volga to the Danube. For 10 points, what group was responsible for the southward migration of the Serbs and Croats before being weakened by internal dissent and destroyed by a combined Frankish and Bulgarian attack in 796.	Answer: Avars or Juan-juan24. Because her mother claimed she was good looking, she was to be sacrificed to a sea beast. Fortunately, she was rescued by Perseus. For 10 points, who has been immortalized as a "W" shaped constellation that one can see in the summer months?	Answer: Andromeda25. Between March 21, 1843, and March 21, 1844, the world was certainly going to end. As a result of some sketchy calculations from some vague verses in Chapter 8 of Daniel, this New England farmer was convinced that Christ would return to earth sometime between these dates. Joining forces in 1839 with Joshua V. Hines, together they organized a massive Millennial movement that gained wide popularity in nineteenth century America. Of course, Mar. 21 1844 came and went. A new date, October 22, 1844 quickly became popular among the followers. For 10 points, name either the charismatic figure who began this movement or the movement itself that quickly died on October 23, 1844.	Answer: Joseph Miller Or Millerism
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Berkeley Ultraviolet - Nam Nguyen, Sunil K. Aggarwal, Ziv, Clint1. In addition to being a township in New Jersey and god of the seas, Neptune is a rather large body orbiting our sun. Answer the following questions about the planet Neptune. 1. For 5 points each, name the two known moons of Neptune. 	Answer: Triton and Nereid 2. For 10 points, identify the French mathematician and astronomer who from perturbations observed in the orbit of Uranus calculated the orbit and position of Neptune in 1846. 	Answer: Urban Jean Joseph Leverier 3. For a final 10 points, identify the German astronomer who found Neptune within 1 degree of the position predicted by Leverier. 	Answer: Johann Gottfried Galle2. Although CS Lewis is most known for The Screwtape Letters, he is also well known for his series of childrens stories. We've all heard of The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, but can you name the others? For 5 points each, for a total of 30 points, name six of the remaining titles in the Narnian Chronicles.	Answer: Prince Caspian, A Horse and His Boy, The Silver Chair, The Last Battle, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, The Magician's Nephew3. Let's take a trip down tongue twister lane. For 5 points each, name capitals of the following countries. 1. Ethiopia			Answer: Addis Ababa2. Burkina Faso			Answer: Ouagadougou3. Chad				Answer: Ndjemena4. Turkmenistan			Answer: Ashkhabad5. Tajikistan			Answer: Dushanbe6. Slovak Republic		Answer: Bratislava4. The Bronte sisters were important in mid 19th century Britain. Given a work, name the sister who wrote it for 5 points and her pseudonym for another 5.1. Wuthering Heights		Answer: Emily Bronte, Eton Bell2. Jane Eyre			Answer: Charlotte Bronte, Currer Bell3. Agnes Grey			Answer: Anne Bronte, Acton Bell5. Name the Italian art term from clues for 10 points each1. It is used for applying paint so that it produces shadows and gives a painting a raised surface		Answer: Impasto2. It is the use of light and dark, as applied to Caravaggio and Rembrandt				Answer: Chiaroscuro3.The use of egg whites to create paints, typically for frescoes						Answer: Tempera6. For 10 points each, answer the following questions about organic chemistry.1. Of the following carboxylic acids, which is most acidic? Bromoacetic acid, chloroacetic acid, or iodoacetic acid?	Answer: chloroacetic acid2. Given the number of pi electrons in a cyclic carbon system, choose which is aromatic according to the Huckel rule: 8 electrons, 12 electrons, 14 electrons	Answer: 14 electrons3. The reaction of a Grignard (GRIN-yard) reagent with an ester results in a primary alcohol, secondary alcohol, tertiary alcohol, alkene, or aldehyde?	Answer: tertiary alcohol7. Rank these countries in order from most to least soccer World Cup wins since 1954, for 5 points for each in correct position and an additional five for all correct: West Germany, France, Italy, Brazil, Argentina	Answer: Brazil (4), West Germany (3), Argentina (2), Italy and France (tie at 1, either order acceptable)8. A multipart Civil War bonus, for 10 points each:1. At what battle, fought April 6-7 1862 did Albert Sidney Johnston die? 			Answer: Shiloh2. Who was the Union General at Shiloh? 	Answer: Ulysses S. Grant3. Who succeeded Johnston after Shiloh? 	Answer: Braxton Bragg9. Let's see how well you remember your calculus. For 10 points each, what function of x do the following Maclurin series converge to? Each series is an infinite sum from n = 0 to n = infinity.	xn1.	--- (READ "x to the n over n factorial")							Answer: ex	n!	(-1)n x2n2.	--------- (READ: "negative 1 to the n, times x to the 2n, all over 2n factorial")			Answer: cos x 	(2n)!	(-1)n x2n+13.	--------- (READ: "negative 1 to the n, times x to the 2n+1, all over 2n+1 factorial")		Answer: sin x 	(2n+1)!10. Here's a question about Quentin Tarantino's classic Pulp Fiction. Each part is worth 10 points:1. Referring to his father's prized possession, a gold watch, this character played by Bruce Willis emphatically declares, "Bedside table! On the Kangaroo!"	Answer: Butch2. What Bible verse does spiritually-inclined Joules, played by Sammuel Jackson, continually recite?	Answer: Eziekiel 25:173. This is the name of the poor rapist whose chopper was stolen by Butch, one of his near-victims who escaped certain doom. His fate is ultimately left in the hands of a disgruntled Mr. Wallace.	Answer: Zed (Zed's dead, baby. Zed's dead.)11. Oddly enough, algebraic combinations of certain physical constants lead to other physical constants that we are familiar with. Given a mathematical relationship between constants, name the physical constant that it equals for 10 points each.1. Plank's constant divided by 2 pi	Answer: Dirac's factor2.Avogadro's number times Boltzmann's constant:	Answer: the Ideal Gas Constant3. Now for five points each, name the most accurately and least accurately measured physical constants? One of the constants came out the work of Newton, and the other came from explanations of the curious atomic spectrum of the hydrogen atom proposed by scientists early in this century.	Answer: Rydberg Constant (Most Accurate) And The Universal Gravitational Constant (Least Accurate)12. Who created the following detectives (or detective like characters) 5 points each, 5 for all five.1. Miss Marple			Answer:	Agatha Christie2. Father Brown			Answer:	G.K. Chesterton3. V.I. Warshawsky		Answer:	Anna Piretsky4. Perry Mason			Answer:	Earle Stanley Gardner5. Sam Spade			Answer:	Dashiell Hammett13. Name these Greek plays by Euripedes for 15 points each1. It relates the fate of the family of Priam at the fall of Troy. Priam and Hector are dead, and their widows, Hecuba and Andromache, as well as the mad Cassandra, are to be slaves. Hector's sister Polyxena is sacrificed to the ghost of Achilles, while Hector's son Astyanax is thrown from the walls of Troy to end the royal line.	Answer: The Trojan Women2. Admetus, with the aid of Apollo, cajoles the Fates into postponing their sentence if someone dies in his place. That someone is his wife, the title character of this 438 BC play.	Answer: Alcestis14. Deputy Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke helped negotiate the Bosnia Peace Treaty, signed on November 21, 1995 in Dayton Ohio, which has lasted almost three years. Identify the following individuals who were party to the agreement for 10 points each.1. the Bosnian President		Answer:	Alija Izetbegovic2. the Croatian President		Answer:	Franjo Tudjman3. the Serbian President		Answer:	Slobodan Milosevic15. Identify these archeological sites for 15 points each.1. This place in New Mexico is the oldest undisputed site of human artifacts in the Americas from about 11,000 years.	Answer: Clovis2. This settlement in Chile predates Clovis by 1500 years and was discovered in 1979, but has only recently been accepted by a majority of archeologists. This find implies that there were humans perhaps as long ago as 40,000 years ago because of the timing of ice bridges.	Answer: Monte Verde16. Identify these House Speakers from a description on a 10-5 basis each1st 10 pts: Born in Tennessee, he grew up in Texas and was elected to the House twenty-four times, a record. 1st 5 pts: Nicknamed "Mr. Sam", he served as Speaker from 1940-61, with two exceptions	Answer:	Sam Rayburn2nd 10 pts: He was the last Speaker on the Rules Committee and perhaps the strongest. 2nd 5 pts: Known as Uncle Joe, what man served from 1903-11? 	Answer:	Joe Cannon3rd 10 pts: As Speaker, this Maine Republican instituted procedural changes that helped ensure majority control in Congress. 3rd 5 pts: What Speaker from 1889 to 1891 and 1895 to 1899, earned the nickname "Czar"? 	Answer:	Thomas Brackett Reed17. Identify the derivative given a description1. The right but not the obligation to buy or sell a stock or some other asset at a given price on or before a certain date	Answer: Option2. An Obligation to buy an asset at a set price and time	Answer: Forward or Future3. It allows companies to exchange cash flows, for instance floating interest rates for fixed rate payments	Answer: Swaps18. Martha Washington was honored in 1902 by becoming the first First Lady to be pictured on a stamp. Identify the following first ladies who have also appeared on stamps. 1. Appearing on stamps of 1963 and 1984, this first lady served as a delegate to the United Nations. 	Answer: Eleanor Roosevelt2. She appeared in 1985 and wrote in a letter to her husband, "In the new code of laws which I suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I desire you would remember the ladies." 	Answer: Abigail Adams3. She appeared in 1980 and is noted for her rescue of a portrait of George Washington from the White House during the War of 1812. 	Answer: Dolly Madison19. 30-20-10 Identify this American author. 1. Life Among the Savages, and Raising Demons are autobiographical sketches that tell of life with her husband, Stanley Edgar Hyman, in a small Vermont town. 2. Many of her stories and novels deal with the fantastic and the terrifying and include The Haunting of Hill House, and We Have Always Lived in the Castle. 3. Her most famous work is a short story that deals with ritualized murder in a small American town, The Lottery.	Answer: Shirley Jackson20. Identify the South American nation in which you would find these large cities: 1. Arequipo		Answer: Peru 2. Guayaquil		Answer: Ecuador 3. Belo Horizonte		Answer: Brazil 4. Tucuman		Answer: Argentina 5. Medellin		Answer: Colombia 6. Maracaibo		Answer: Venezuela 21. Given the capitol of a modern-day African country, give former name of the country as a European colony. Each part will give you 15 points:1. Harare					Answer: Southern Rhodesia (Rhodesia NOT accepted)2. Lusaka					Answer: Northern Rhodesia22. So you think you know your classics huh? Well, forget about Homer, let's see how well you know your classical orders. For 5 points each and 5 for all five, name four of the five classical orders.	Answer: Tuscan, Ionic, Doric, Corinthian, Composite