1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlTossups by Berkeley Blue - Katie Kindberg, Shawn Haghighi, Dan McGee, and Sam Lipson1. He acted in such films as "Dave," "Nixon," and "Wall Street," but this man is better known as a director. One of his films is a satire dealing with the media "hype" over a pair of serial killers; another features a government conspiracy to cover up a famous murder. For 10 points, name this director of such films as "Born on the Fourth of July."	Answer: Oliver Stone2. His mastery of etching was never disputed even by bitter critics of his paintings, and he hoped to recoup from his monetary losses in this way. He had a reputation as a mordant wit, well able to keep up with his friend Oscar Wilde. The influence of Fatin-Latour and Courbet is visible in his early paintings, such as Au Piano. He liked to emphasize the aesthetic nature of his pictures in conscious reaction against the domination of the subject in Victorian painting, reflected in the titles of his paintings. For 10 points, who is this American painter of Symphony in White, Arrangement in Gra and Black No. 1, and Nocturne in Black and Gold?	Answer: James Whistler3. Believing Freud's view of psychology was too male-oriented, she counteracted the idea of "penis envy" with a theory of "womb envy," which said that men actually envied women because they could not bear children. She also developed a theory of 'basic anxiety,' designed to explain neuroses without Freud's insistence on childhood sexual conflicts. For 10 points, name this neo-Freudian psychologist, one of Anna Freud's counterparts. 	Answer: Karen Horney4. Having failed to qualify physically for military service in WWII, he worked in a Tokyo factory and after the war studied law at the University of Tokyo. His highly acclaimed first novel is a partly autobiographical work that describes with stylistic brilliance a homosexual who must mask his sexual orientation. Kris Kristofferson starred in the 1976 movie made from his book, The Sailor Who Fell From Grace with the Sea. For 10 points, what author finished his last novel The Sea of Fertility in 1970, whereupon committing suicide?	Answer: Yukio Mishima5. It occurs rarely in the population at large and its symptoms include blindness, deafness, and a "cherry red" spot in the back of the eye. Caused by a build up of ganglioside GM2 due to a defect in hexosaminidase A activity, this disease's prognosis is death before the age of 5. For 10 points, what disease is caused by a genetic defect which, without genetic counseling, would occur in 1 out of every 3600 Ashkenazic Jew births.	Answer: Tay-Sachs disease6. "Incest, it's the best. Put your father to the test." This man must have been QUITE the drinker to have gotten so wasted two nights in a row that he didn't notice when either of his two daughters had sex with him. For 10 points, name this man who may have had good reason to drink considering his wife had just been turned to a pillar of salt.	Answer: Lot7. Businessmen, politicians, educators, and linguists worldwide have come to agree that English is a universal language...though it's not the only one. One man-made hybrid language is spoken by seven to twelve million people worldwide and so is the most popular of the artificial languages. For 10 points, name this language launched in 1877 by Dr. Zamenhof.	Answer: Esperanto8. A unit of mass named for him is the mass of a particle whose Compton wavelength is equal to a length also named for him. The unit of length named after him is the scale at which a classical description of gravity ceases to be valid, and quantum mechanics must be taken into account. A radiation law named for him gives the distribution of energy radiated by a black body. For 10 points, who is this German physicist that won the 1918 Nobel Prize in Physics for introducing the concept of small discrete packets of energy known as quanta?	Answer: Max Planck9. They included Geoffrey Rudel, Peire Vidal, Guiraut de Bornelh, Huilhelm de Cabestan, and the most famous ones, Bertran de Born and Bernard de Ventadour. Singing of ancient kings and heroes who had made themselves better men for the sake of their wives, in the High Middle Ages, they introduced the idea of courtly love to Southern France. In the thirteenth century, Pope Innocent III himself began writing poems in the style of -- for 10 points -- what group of poet entertainers?	Answer: The Troubadours10. He is said to have been born from a golden egg and in turn to have created the earth and all things on it. Associated with the Vedic creator god Prajapati, he eventually assumed Prajapati's identity. With the rise of sectarian worship, however, he was gradually eclipsed by Vishnu and Shiva. For 10 points, who is this major god of Hinduism whose name sounds like a member of aristocratic New England families?	Answer: Brahma11. This land, settled by the Svear people in the sixth century BC, can attribute much of its neutrality to its relative isolation on the European continent. It has fought in no wars for over 200 years, which many inhabitants believe explains its relative social and economic prosperity. For 10 points, name this victor in the Thirty Years' War against the Hapsburgs and loser to Peter the Great in the Great Northern War.	Answer: Sweden12. States of a particle may be produced by standing waves along this theoretical object. Combining them with supersymmetry leads to a unified field theory of the fundamental interactions, including a quantum theory of gravitational interaction. For 10 points, what are these things believed to be one-dimensional objects that replace the idea of a point-like elementary particle by a line or loop?	Answer: Strings (not Superstrings)13. Officially called the Serviceman's Readjustment Act, it provided for college or vocational education for returning veterans as well as one year unemployment compensation and loans for homes and businesses. For 10 points what is this boon to veterans? 	Answer: G. I. Bill of Rights14. Found in Section 89 of the Book of Mormon and known as the Doctrine and Covenants, this common principle declares it a sin to drink, smoke, do drugs, drink tea or coffee. For 10 points name this principle which Paul McCartney suggests that Mother Mary speaks in the Beatle's song Let It Be.	Answer: word(s) of wisdom15. During the Italian retreat after the Battle of Caporetto, an American lieutenant deserts his post in the Italian ambulance service and flees with his love to Switzerland. There, however, she and her baby die during childbirth. For 10 points, what is this novel about Frederick Henry and Catherine Barkley, written by Ernest Hemingway?	Answer: A Farewell to Arms16. In 1897, Felix Hoffman created it as a treatment for his father's arthritis. At the time, salicylates were the standard drug for the treatment of arthritis; however, the treatment was very harsh and irritating to the stomach. Hoffman, setting out to create a less-irritating medicine for his father, synthesized an analgesic known as acetylsalicylic acid. For 10 points, what substance extracted from willow bark did he create for the Bayer company?	Answer: Aspirin17. Born in 1868, this man became a well known composer but public interest declined and he spent his last days in a New York mental hospital. In 1976 he received a special Pulitzer citation for his contribution to American music, and a stylistic revival in the 1970s resulted in his music being featured in the movie The Sting. For 10 points, identify this composer best known for his Maple Leaf Rag.        Answer: Scott Joplin18. Its central concept it that of the "Uncarved Block"---the eternal, creative reality which is the source and the end of all things. First introduced to China in AD 184, this religious practice stood for the ideals of individual freedom and spontaneity, laissez-faire government and social primitivism, self-transformation, and mystical experience. In a sense, it was the antithesis of another religion being practiced at the time. For 10 points -- Name this religion whose central text is the "Classic of the Way and Its Power".	Answer: Taoism19. The English agreed to withdraw from their fur trading posts in the Northwest Territory, settle boundary disputes, and pay American shopowners for ships they had seized. The treaty failed to solve the problem of British impressment of American sailors, and was especially unpopular among the Democratic-Republicans. For 10 points, identify this treaty negotiated by the Chief Justice. 	Answer: Jay's Treaty20. The protagonist and novel's namesake is a New England farmer married to Zenobia, a whining and domineering hypochondriac. He falls in love with Zenobia's young cousin Mattie Silver, they try to attempt suicide but fail and are crippled and remain more than ever in Zenobia's power. For 10 points name this Edith Wharton novel so described.	Answer: Ethan Frome21. His grand project, the "Instauratio Magna" or the Renewal of the Science, was unfinished, but he had written enough that he was called "The First Modern Mind", and "The Father of Inductive Reasoning". For 10 points -- what philosopher living between 1561 and 1626 finished the part entitled "Novum Organum"? 	Answer: Francis Bacon22. Born in Odense, he was the son of a cobbler and washerwoman. His "A Poet's Day Dreams" was dedicated to Dickens, with whom he stayed in 1853. Elizabeth Browning's last poem was written for him in 1861. For 10 points, who penned "The Red Shoes", "The Snow Queen", "The Little Mermaid", "The Emperor's New Clothes", and "The Ugly Duckling"? 	Answer: Hans Christian Andersen23. Developed in the 1940's and 50's, this interdisciplinary field aimed to answer the questions of the nature of the mind. It's philosophers, psychologists, linguists, computer scientists, neurobiologists, and anthropologists have merged knowledge of many studies to explore concepts such as "artificial intelligence," historical conceptions of the mind, rationality, imagination, language processing, and machine thinking. Name this field, for which a scientific society was established in 1979.	Answer: Cognitive Sciences24. In J.R.R. Tolkiens the Lord of the Rings there were many rings. For a quick 10 points name the number of rings given to mortal men doomed to die.	Answer: 925. This French artist was all but forgotten after his 1650 death, but he has since been rediscovered. Known for his exaggerated use of light and shadow; several of his most famous paintings feature candle flames, and all have Christian themes. For 10 points, name this French painter of such works as "The Penitent Madeline" and "St. Joseph the Carpenter."	Answer: Georges de La Tour26. Pencil and paper may be necessary: Suppose you have a metal disc of diameter 1 meter, out of which you cut a hole of diameter 0.5 meters. If this metal has a coefficient of linear expansion of "One times ten to the negative sixth", and you heat it so that the new outer diameter is 1.001 meters, for 10 points, what is the new diameter of the hole?	Answer: 0.5005 meters27. While on his way to steal the cattle of Geryon, the associated God felt the need to commemorate the journey by splitting a mountain. Sometimes associated with the Strait of Gibraltar, For 10 points name this mythological passage including Scylla and Charybdis?	Answer: Pillars of Hercules (Heracles)28. While in high school he created one of the first computers. Later he became a theoretical physicist, for which he was honored with the Lucasian chair. For 10 points name the author of A Brief History of Time who is perhaps the most famous living sufferer of ALS.	Answer: Stephen Hawking29. For a quick 10 points, to what value does "the Taylor series of 'one' over 'n' factorial" converge?	Answer: e or 2.71828 ... .30. Sociology and psychology meet in interpretation of personality development. The most famous theory linking the two fields says that people develop by watching and imitating others, modeling their behavior patterns on those around them. For 10 points, what field did psychologist Albert Bandura pioneer?	Answer: social learning31. In a famous 1980 challenge, he bet Paul Ehrlich of population bomb fame that 10 years later the price of raw materials would fall, in other words that any scarcity would promote the use of new supplies or alternatives. He won. For 10 points -- name this recently deceased optimistic economist who has published valuable policy sourcebooks including "The Ultimate Resource" and "The State of Humanity".	Answer: Julian Lincoln Simon
1998 Western Invitational Tournament VI - The Buzz-erkeley BowlBonuses by Berkeley Blue - Katie Kindberg, Shawn Haghighi, Dan McGee, and Sam Lipson1. Identify the order to which the following insects belong. 1. Grasshoppers, Katydids and Walking Sticks 		Answer: orthoptera 2. Termites 						Answer: isoptera 3. True flies, such as the house fly, gnats and mosquitos. 	Answer: diptera 2. Name the landscape architects from clues for 15 points each:1. He wrote the 1841 "Treatise on the Theory and Practice of Landscape Gardening" and designed the Washington Mall, a design replaced early in the twentieth century	Answer: Andrew Jackson Downing2. Name either of the two landscape architects created New York's Central Park and the Illinois suburb of Riverside	Answer: Frederick Law Olmstead and Calvert Vaux 3. Many plays are translated onto film. for 10 points each, name the actor or actress who played the given role in the ORIGINAL film made from these plays. 1. Stanley in A Streetcar Named Desire			Answer: Marlon Brando2. Jackie O. in The House of Yes				Answer: Parker Posey3. Sterling in Jeffrey					Answer: Patrick Stewart4. Yes, it's time for Name that Heresy. Saint Augustine was involved in fighting many of the heresies around in his time, identify these for 10 points each:1. A Persian dualistic philosophy then widely current in the Western Roman empire, ironically, St. Augustine was a brief adherent of it.	Answer: Manichaeism2. This sect that held the sacraments invalid unless administered by sinless ecclesiastics. 	Answer: Donatists or Donatism3. They denied the doctrine of original sin.	Answer: Pelagians5. In the 1997-98 College Football Season, most of the Bowl games had corporate sponsors who affixed their name to the game. For instance, the Citrus Bowl was the CompUSA Florida Citrus Bowl. For 10 points each, who sponsored these:1. Sugar Bowl						Answer: Nokia2. Fiesta Bowl						Answer: Tostitos3. Orange Bowl						Answer: FedEx (accept Federal Express or FDX)6. In the book of Job, God gives leave for Satan to torture and attempt to cause Job to blaspheme god. 1. For 5 points each, name the three men who stand over Job as he is suffering and discuss the nature of suffering.	Answer: Eliphaz, Bildad, Zophar2. For 15 points, name Job's friend who was angry at Job because he thought himself right against God and was also angry at his three friends for not replying back to Job	Answer: Elihu7. For 10 points each name the class of organic chemical that corresponds with the functional group.1. Oxygen double bonded to a carbon			Answer: Ketones2. Sulfur bonded to Hydrogen				Answer: Thiols3. Sulfur and two oxygens					Answer: Sulfones8. 30-20-10 Identify this musician. 1. His output includes thirty-eight operas, nearly all of which are (thankfully) lost. A tourist information book on Venice from 1713 mentions that he and his father are the best violinists in town. 2. Nicknamed "Il Preto Rosso", or "the Red Haired Priest", his compositions include the operas "Ottone in Villa" and "Feraspe" the oratorio "Judith", and the church music "Gloria"3. He composed over four hundred concertos for various instruments, but is best known for his piece The Four Seasons.	Answer: Antonio Vivaldi9. An asteroid strike was believed to have caused the extinction of the dinosaurs.1. For 10 points name the telltale element which is found in a thin layer of the earth's crust that was left by that asteroid, an element whose name is now given to a global satellite telephone system.	Answer: Iridium2. For 10 points each name the two scientists who discovered this layer	Answer: Luis Alvarez, John Sepkowski Jr.10. For 10 points each identify the Norse deities from clues. 1. The collective name for the maidens who would visit newborns to determine their future.	Answer: The Norns2. The god of fire who fathered the monsters prophesied to kill Odin and Thor.	Answer: Loki3. This god lived in Thruthhein and was married to Sif. He once drank an entire ocean.	Answer: Thor11. Identify the following about the history and process of science1. The concept of paradigms and paradigm shifts was introduced by this American historian and philosopher in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. For five, name him.	Answer: Thomas Kuhn2. This 20th century philosophy developed from the Vienna Circle, and emphasized questions of language and meaning and the role of logical relations like entailment. For ten, name it.	Answer: Logical Positivism3. A professor of logic and scientific method at the London School of Economics, this Austrian born British philosopher formulated and gave an answer to how we can distinguish between science and pseudoscience. He believed that truth could be uncovered and established only after being subject to logical refutation, or falsification.       Answer: Karl Popper12. Proteinases are classified by the most prominent functional or reactive group in the active site. For 5 points each and an extra 10 for getting all four, name the 4 families of proteinases, named after the nature of the most prominent functional group in their active site.	Answer: Serine, Cysteine, Aspartic, and Metallo.14. We all know that with the explosion of the 'information age' Internet security and hacking are becoming major concerns, but do we know our acronyms? For 5 points each, identify what each of the following security/hacking related acronyms stand for:1. A.C.L.		Answer: Access Control List2. D.E.S.		Answer: Data Encryption Standard3. D.O.S.		Answer: Denial Of Service4. P.G.P.		Answer: Pretty Good Privacy5. P.K.C.		Answer: Public Key Certificate6. S.S.L.			Answer: Secured Socket Layer15. The Depression was a tumultuous period in American history, identify these people for 10 points each.1. His plan for old age pensions in the United States during the depression claimed to have 5,000,000 followers. Passage of the Social Security Act and its later embellishments accomplished this plan's goals.	Answer: Francis Townsend2. This spellbinding hate-monger from Louisiana in the 1930's took the mantle of Huey P. Long after 1935.	Answer: Rev. Gerald L.K. Smith3. This pastor at the Shrine of the Little Flower, in addition to founding the National Union for Social Justice was a demagaugic Radio Minister? 	Answer: Father Charles Edward Coughlin16. For 10 points each answer the following questions about Isaac Asimov's Foundation series.1. The location of the second foundation was at stars end, give its real location?	Answer: Trantor2. Name the robot who guides Seldon's early discoveries in psychohistory during the prequels.	Answer: R. Daneel Olivaw or Demerzel3. When Asimov wrote the first two books in the foundation series what was its original published form?	Answer: Short stories in a magazine (accept equivalents)17. Given the title of a painting, name the artist (10 points each)1. Ceci n'est pas une pipe (This is not a pipe)			Answer: René Magritte2. View of Delft							Answer: Jan Vermeer3. The Odalisque							Answer: Ingres18. Identify the Canadian province or territory in which you would find the following bodies of water. 1. Great Slave Lake 						Answer: Northwest Territories 2. Great Bear Lake 						Answer: Northwest Territories 3. Lake Athabasca 						Answer: Saskatchewan 4. Lake Winnipeg 						Answer: Manitoba 5. Peace River 							Answer: Alberta or British Columbia 6. Lake Superior							Answer: Ontario19. It stretches along most of the East Coast. In North Carolina and Virginia, it parallels the Blue Ridge Parkway. 1. For 10 points, first, name this mountain path, a favorite of hikers. 	Answer: The Appalachian Trail2. Next, for 10 points each, name the states which contain the northern and southern endpoints of the Appalachian Trail. 	Answer: Maine and Georgia 20. Hooke's law tells us that within the elastic limit the ratio of strain to stress is constant. That constant is called an elastic modulus, of which there are several types. For 15 points each, identify these two elastic moduli. 1. It is used in the case of hydrostatic compression, that is, when the compressing force is always perpindicular to the surface upon which it acts. It is designated B and is computed from the change in pressure over the fractional change in volume. 	Answer: Bulk modulus 2. This elastic modulus is used in the case of longitudinal deformation, or simple stretching or compressing. It is designated Y and is the computed from the change in longitudinal stress over the fractional change in length of the object under stress. 	Answer: Young's Modulus21. 30-20-10: Name the Day1. (30) It is the Pagan's New Year's Day.2. (20) On it's eve, the doors between the worlds are more open so Pagans celebrate by remembering those who have died both recently and in the past.3. (10) The Catholic Church perverted this holiday's eve by turning it into a night of Ghoulish costumes and stupid pranks.	Answer: November 1st or Day After Halloween (not Halloween or All Hallow's Eve)22. Identify the band 30-20-101. One set of lyrics includes the lines:"I don't want a pizza, I don't want a piece of \ peanut brittle, I don't want a pear. \ I don't want a bagel I don't want a bean I wouldn't like \ a bag of beef or a beer or a \ cup of chowder, corn, cake or creamed cauliflower cause I'm \ waiting for the dinner bell to do the bell thing \dinner bell dinner bell ring"2. Another song is Particle Man3. They are best known for"Birdhouse in Your Soul,"	Answer: They Might Be Giants23. Identify the city from clues 30-20-10:1. (30) The monorail developed for this cities 1963 World's Fair may form the nucleus of a new transit system.2. (20) Its suburbs include Bellevue and Redmond3. (10) Companies headquartered in the metropolitan area include Nordstrom, Boeing, Starbucks, Recreational Equipment Inc., and Microsoft	Answer: Seattle24. Pencil and Paper Strongly Suggested. Welcome to The Radius of Death ... for 15 points each solve the following calculations.1. Consider a rocket launcher set into the ground. You and your not-too-bright friend are standing right next to it in order to pull the trigger. It's barrel makes an angle of "Theta" degrees with the horizontal. Take the acceleration due to gravity to be a constant "g" in meters per second squared. The shell comes out of the muzzle with a speed of "V" meters per second, and when it hits the earth again it explodes killing everything in a circle of radius "R" in meters. After pulling the trigger, you run but your not-too-bright friend does not. If your friend is killed by the blast, what is the shortest distance "D" you would need to run in order to stay alive? Leave your answer in terms of "Theta", "V", "g" -- "the acceleration due to gravity" and "R" the "Radius of Death." You have 30 seconds.	Answer: D=R- ((V^2)/g)*(sin(2*Theta)) OR (V squared over g multiplied by sin of two theta)       accept D=R-((2*(V^2)/g)*(sin(Theta))*(cos(Theta))) [Give the answer to the first part]2. If V = 100 meters per second, g = 10 meters per second squared, R = 1200 meters, and Theta = 45 degrees, what is D, you have 15 seconds?	Answer: 200 meters