Berkeley's WIT 7: Packet by Princeton (Steve Lawrie, Barbara Stole, and lutrissd Kelly), courtesy of MIT Beaver Bonspicl
Tossups
1.	Born in New Jersey, but politically prominent in New York, this man was mayor of Buffalo and
Governor of New York before running for President. The first and only president to get married in the
White House, he married 21 year old Frances Folsom in June 1886. FTP. name this man. who after losing
his second race to Benjamin Harrison, became the only president to serve two non-consecutive terms when
reelected in 1892.
Answer: Crover Cleveland
2.	Occupied by the Apache. Comanche and Kiowa tribes in Pre-Columbian times, this flat, featureless
tableland was first explored by Europeans during the 1540 expedition of Francisco Vasque/. de Coronado.
Coronado is also responsible for the area's name, thought to derive from the Spanish practice of planting
slakes in order to create a trail and to tether horses. FTP, name this region of the Southern High Plains of
Texas and New Mexico.
Answer: Llano Estacado or Staked Plains
4.	The titular heroine is loved by the noble Prince Albrecht. who disguises himself as a peasant to woo her
and pledges undying love. However. Albrecht is eventually exposed and it is revealed that he is promised to
another woman, after which the heroine goes mad and dies. In the second act Albrecht is menaced by Wilis.
the spirits of young women who have been betrayed in love and then died before marriage. Albrecht is
saved by the intercession of the heroines ghost, but must lose her again as morning comes. FTP. name thi>
ballet composed by Adolphe Charles Adam.
Answer: Giselle
5.	Bela Lugosi died during production and was replaced by a chiropractor who hid his face behind a cape.
In it. aliens attempted to take over the earth by raising the dead. However, they only manage to resurrect 3
people, and their ship is destroyed during their retreat. Not very interesting, which is why it is probably the
worst movie of all time. FTP. identify this bomb, a travesty unleashed on the public by Ed Wood.
Answer: Plan 9 from Outer Space or Grave Robbers from Outer Space
6.	Its name derived from Greek words meaning "ox hunger." sufferers of this condition are at risk for
gastrointestinal disorders, dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, dental problems resulting from degraded
tooth enamel, gum disease, decreased or absent menstruation and, in severe cases, pancreatitis or heart
problems. FTP. name this psychological disorder experienced by an estimated 2-39f of young women.
characterized by bouts of food binges alternated with vomiting, exercise, or laxative purges.
Answer: Bulimia Nervosa
7.	This son of Etrugul. the leader of the Kayi tribe of the Oguz Turks, was given the land in between the
Black Sea and the Mediterranean Sea after his father and the Sultan of Rum conquered it. In 1324 he
helped his son and successor. Ohran. defeat Bursa, a Byzantine stronghold. FTP. name this man. who.
living from 1249 to 1326, practiced religious tolerance as the founder of the Ottoman Empire.
Answer: Osman I (or OthmanJ)
8.	On October 1. 1871. this man was arrested for cohabiting with a sixteen-year-old girl. Father of 56
children and husband to 27 wives, this native of Vermont was a carpenter and a joiner b> trade and later

	became one of twelve apostles. He also served as governor of the Utah territory. FTP. name this man. the
second leader of the Church of Latter Day Saints. Answer: Brigham Young
9.	It is said that this anthropologist's three "mistresses" were Marxism, psychoanalysis and geology. His
classic studies of North and South American Indian tribes led him to apply a philosophy that stressed the
study of relationships instead of isolated, material things to intercullural investigations of kinship relations
and mythology, and to condemn European depredations against American Indians. FTP, name this Belgian
whose works include Tristes Tropiques and Structural Anthropology.
Answer: Claude Levi-Strauss
10.	The alpha form of these cytokines have been used to combat hepatitis B and C. as well as Kaposi's
sarcoma. Originally thought of as a possible wonder drug, its flu-like side effects, as well as the decrease
in blood cell production it caused, nixed that idea. However, it is an important part of the natural immune
system. FTP. identify this class of molecules, named for their abilities to hinder viral reproduction.
Answer: Interferons
12.	He tried to avoid the bitterness towards the provincial premiers which characterized his predecosors.
negotiating accords with Newfoundland and Alberta to end the crisis over the federal energy program, and
his term was marked by the Meech Lake Accord and the Canada-U.S. free trade agreement. FTP. identify
this man. who followed Garry Trudeau and John Turner into the office of Prime Minister of Canada.
Answer: Brian Mulronev
13.	On the Concept of Number: Psychological Analyses earned him a lecturer position at the Universitv o\
Halle in 1887. and it already showed his transition from mathematics to the psychological source for the
basic concepts of mathematics. After studying the British Empiricists, he developed an analysis method
which he then presented in Logical Investigations. FTP, name the philosopher who termed that method
"phenomenological."
Answer: Edmund Husserl
14.	This law only applies to solutions whose activity coefficients are equal to one. and the fact that there
are many solutions to which it does not apply makes the technique of fractional distillation possible. The
law was discovered shortly after its discoverer found, in 1886, that the freezing point of a solution is
lowered in proportion to the amount of solute dissolved. FTP. identify this law which states that the partial
pressure of a component of a mixture is proportional to its mole fraction, named for the Frenchman who
enunciated it.
Answer: Raoult's Law
15.	This work is in five parts. The Yasna contains the Gathas. religious songs and hymns which forms its
religious core. The Visp-rat contains homages to various spiritual leaders, while the Vendidad contains
mostly religious and civil laws. The majority of it was destroyed when Alexander the Great invaded Persia.
FTP, identify this religious text, the sacred book of Zoroastianism.
Answer: Zend-Avesta
16.	First, the narrator delivers a brilliant attack on the belief that it is possible to design a Utopian society
based on the laws of society and human nature. In the second part, he recalls incidents from his past that
show him behaving according to sheer spite. The author thus makes it clear that the man's irrationalist
solution is no better than the rationalists' systems. This describes, FTP. what early work by Dostoievsky?
Answer: Notes From the Underground (or Letters from the Underworld or Zapiski iz Podpolya)

1H i

17. Euler proved that every even one must be the product of a power of 2 with a Mersenne prime; whether there are any odd ones remains unknown. All numbers which are not described by this term are classified as "abundant" or "deficient" based on the nature of the number's divisors. FTP. identify this type of number, of which four, namely 8128, 496, 28. and 6, were known to the ancients. Answer: Perfect numbers

19.	His real power with sculpture was first realized in two marble statues. "St. Mark" and "St. George."
Known for improving on medieval art by treating the human body as a functional organism, although he
used marble for many sculptures of martyrs, his two most famous works, including an equestrian statue of
Gattemelata. are in bronze. FTP. identify this sculptor most famous for the first large-scale, free-standing
nude: "David".
Answer: Donatello (or Donnato di Niccolo di Betti Bardi)
20.	It nearly bankrupted Ufa Studios, requiring 37,633 performers, including 1.000 men with shaved heads
for the Tower of Babel scene alone. In it. the citizens of the surface are contrasted with the slaves who
work underground, operating the machines that maintain the city above. Only the scientist Roiwang
understands both worlds. FTP. identify this film, in which Freder Frederson finds love in Maria, a classic
by Fritz Lang.
Answer: Metropolis
21.	He was on a British ship in 1731 when the Spanish boarded it. pillaged it. and set it adrift. Seven years
later, he presented to a committee of the House of Commons an extremely graphic example of Spanish
brutality which was enough to set off the members of Parliament opposed to Robert Walpole and led the
country into war. FTP. identify this man. who lent more than just his name to a war which merged into the
War of Austrian Succession.
Answer: Captain Robert Jenkins (as in, the War of Jenkins' Ear)

Bonus Questions
1.	30-20-10. Name the city.
a) (30) Located on the Tigris and Khawsar rivers, this now-abandoned city was first settled around MUX) B.C.E. By the 2nd and 3rd milienia B.C., it had become a center for the worship of several gods, including Ishtar.
b) (20) In the 7th century B.C., this city, which had been made a capital by Sennacherib, was captured and razed by the armies of the Babylonians. Its fall had been prophesied by Nahum.
c) (10) Paired with the ancient city of Tyre, this capital of Assyria is referred to in Rudyard Kipling's poem "Recessional", as a symbol of faded imperial glory.
Answer: Nineveh
2.	Identify the following terms from photography. FTP each.
a)	This is a variable-size opening in the lens of a camera, much like the iris in the eye. The numbers on the
ring used for adjustment are called F-stop numbers.
Answer: Aperture
b)	This device is much like a slide projector. It has a light source, a place for holding a negative, and a lens
that projects the image of the negative down onto the baseboard. It is used in the printing process.
Answer: Enlarger
c)	This layer of film, underneath the scratch resistant coating, is where the silver halide crystals and light
sensitive dyes are located, suspended in gelatin. It is where the negative is formed on the film.
Answer: Emulsion
3.	Okay, so you can spell Apu's last name and pinpoint every occasion on which Homer says "D'oh!" But
how much do you know about the show within The Simpsons'? For ten points apiece, give the title of the
Itchy and Scratchy episode from a description of its plot.
a)	Scratchy pays Itchy the $5 fee to "Volcano Bungee Jump." Itchy slashes open Scratchys stomach, yanks
out one end of his intestine, and pushes him into the volcano, using the intestine as a bungee cord. Scratchy
stops just short of the lava, but Itchy pours gasoline into the other end of his intestine and Scratchy erupts in
flames.
Answer: Whv Do Fools Fall In Lava?
b)	Itchy works as a soda jerk. Scratchy sits at the counter and tries to order, but Iichv grabs him and shoves
him into a milkshake cup. Itchy puts Scratchy through the blender and pours his bloody, liquefied body into
a tall, old-fashioned soda glass.
       Answer: Sundae Bloodv Sundae O Scratchy is piloting a spaceship, and Itchy pops out of his stomach a la Alien. Scratchy is thrown into space, and is sawed in half on Saturn's spinning rings. Itchy chases Scratchy "s top half in a pod. and uses a robotic claw to rip off Scratchys helmet. Scratchys head expands, the claw pops it and the splatter of head tissue on the pod's windshield spells "The End".
Answer: Star Trek: The Next Laceration
4.	Although it's been more than a year since former Chilean dictator Auguslo Pinochet Ugarte was arrested
in the United Kingdom on a Spanish warrant, the extradition process continues to drag on. For ten points
apiece, identify these figures from the Pinochet case.
a)	In October of 1999, this British figure gave a speech strongly supporting Pinochei. saying that he was on
trial "for defeating communism" and that the charges against him were a product of "revenge by the left.
not justice for the victim".
Answer: Lady Margaret Hilda Thatcher
b)	This flamboyant Spanish judge, who issued the arrest order against Pinochei. had originally focused his
judicial attention on abuses of power by the Argentine government. However, he was persuaded to lend his
considerable prestige to the prosecution of Pinochet after his colleague. Judge Manuel Garcia-Castellon.
uncovered significant evidence linking Pinochet to Chilean human-rights violations.
Answer: Judge Baltasar Garzon
c)	The Metropolitan Magistrate in London who ruled in October of 1999 that the 35 charges of torture and
conspiracy brought against Pinochet were legally valid and must be addressed in Spain, helping to clear the
way for Pinochet's extradition.

Answer: Ronald D. Bartle
5.	Given one member of a famous trio from Greek mythology, name the other two. for 5 points per answer
a)	Medusa
Answer: Stheno, Eurvalc (the Gorgons)
b)	Atropos
Answer: Lachesis (or Lathesis). Clotho (the Fates)
c)	Aglaea
Answer: Euphrosvne. Thalia (the Graces)
6.	During the French Revolution, the Constitution of the Year III. which the National Convention had voted
into effect, placed the executive power in the hands of a small group of people.
a)	For ten points, name this group.
Answer: The Directory, or Directoire
b)	While the Directory was the executive branch, the Corps Legislatifwas the legislative branch. The
Corps Legislatifwas itself broken into two chambers. For 10 points each, name them.
       Answer:: Council Of Ancients, or Conseil Pes Amiens: Council Of Five Hundred, or Conseil De Cinq-Cents
7.	Identify the following mathematical terms beginning with "d". for 10 points each.
a)	The portion under the radical in the quadratic formula.
Answer: Discriminant
b)	One of the three famous geometrical constructions which the Greeks were unable to peform with ruler
and compass was this construction, involving a cube.
Answer: Duplication of the cube or doubling the cube (accept duplicate, double, etc.)
c)	A parabola is defined as the set of points equidistant from the focus and this line.
Answer: Directrix
8.	In 1926. this man was stopped by U.S. customs for bringing in what was thought to be some industrial
part he was clandestinely introducing to the U.S.
a)	For 15 points, who was this man. who was really going to Brummer Gallery in New York?
Answer: Constantin Brancusi
b)	For 10 points, what copper sculpture by Brancusi was so abstract that customs refused to believe it was
sculpture?
Answer: Bird in Spare
c)	For five points. Brancusi is also famous for this work, in which the vertical figures of two entwined
adolescents form a closed volume with symmetrical lines.
Answer: The Kiss
9.	Identify these regal biology terms, for the stated number of points.
a)	For 10 points, this theory states that man must continually evolve if only to stay in the same place
relative to his neighbors.
Answer: Red Queen hypothesis
b)	For 5 points, this species is mimicked by the viceroy butterfly because it tastes very bad to its predators.
Answer: Monarch butterfly
c)	For 15 points, this term describes any of about 90 species of birds making up the family Alcedinidae
(order Coraciiformes).
Answer: Kingfisher
10.	Identify the following postulated subatomic particles by description, for ten points each.
a)	This particle could exist only at speeds above that of light, at which point its mass would be real and
positive. Upon losing energy, it would accelerate: the faster it traveled, the less energy it would have.
Answer: Tachyon
b)	This as-yet undiscovered particle, analagous to the photon, is believed to carry the gravitational field.
Answer: Graviton

c) It binds quarks within the protons and neutrons of stable matter as well as within heavier, short-lived particles created at high energies. Answer: Gluon
11.	Identify the Jane Austen novels given a character, for 10 points each.
a)	Edmund Bertram
Answer: MansfieUI Park
b)	Catherine Morland
Answer: Northern eer Abbey
c)	Captain Frederick Wentworth
Answer: Persuasion
12.	This battle took place at a site identified by the Roman historian Livy as Naraggara.
a)	For 10 points, what 202 BC battle was given its current name by Cornelius Nepos about 150 years later?
Answer: Zama
b)	For 10 points, all or nothing, name the two opposing generals in that battle.
Answer: Hannibal and Scipio Africanus Major
c)	For a final ten points, this prince's Numidian cavalry were integral in Scipio Africanus" victory. Name
him.
Answer Prince Masinissa
13.	Identify the following Apocryphal Biblical works from a description, for ten points each.
a)	It relates how a pious Jew exiled to Nineveh observed the precepts of Hebrew Law by giving alms and
by burying the dead. In spite of his good works, he was struck blind.
Answer: Book of Tobit or Book of Tobias
b)	This addition to the book of Daniel relates how Daniel was forced into a den of lions, which he was
allowed to leave seven days later because he was unharmed.
Answer: The History of the Destruction of Bel and the Dragon
c)	Based on the traditional motif of the triumph of righteousness over sin. the story has two concurrent
themes, of an innocent woman falsely accused of adultery, and of a wise judge.
Answer: History of Susanna
14.	The Meiji restoration began with a statement of principle by the emperor Meiji. FTP each:
a)	For 10 points, what was this oath called?
Answer: Charter Oath, or the Imperial Oath Of Five Articles
b)	In what year was the oath taken?
Answer::   186S
c)	During the Meiji restoration the name of Japan's capital was changed to Tokyo. What was its previous
name?
Answer: Edo
15.	30-20-10. Name the poet from lines:
a) (30) "Here a little child 1 stand,/ Heaving up my either hand;/ Cold as paddocks though they be./ Here I lift them up to thee./ For a benison to fall/ On our meat and on us all. Amen."
b) (20) "Whenas in silks my Julia goes./Then, then, methinks. how sweetly flows/ That liquefaction of her clothes./ Next, when I cast mine eyes and see/ That brave vibration each way free./ Oh. how that glittering taketh me!"
c) (10) "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may./ Old time is still a-flying;/ And this same flower that smiles today./ Tomorrow will be dying."
Answer: Robert Herrick
16.	Identify these Aristophanes works from a brief description, for 10 points each.
a) In this play, the instruction at Socrates' Thinkery, which consists of making a wrong argument sound right, enables Strepsiades' son to defend the beating of his own father. Answer: The Clouds (Nenhelai)

b)	In this work, the war-weary farmer Trygaeus flies to heaven on a monstrous dung beetle to find the
titular goddess, only to discover that the God of War has buried her in a pit.
Answer: The Peace (Eirene)
c)	Philocleon's son. Bdelycleon, arranges for his father to hold a "court" at home; but. since the first "case"
is that of the house dog accused of cheese theft, Philocleon is finally cured of his passion for the law courts
and instead becomes a boastful and uproarious drunkard.
Answer: The Wasps (Sphekes)
17.	Name the sociologist from works for fifteen points. If you need a more famous work, you will receive
five points.
a)	(15) The Theory of Business Enterprise (1904), The Instinct of Workmanship (1914)
(5) The Theory of the Leisure Class (1899)
Answer: Thorstein Veblen
b)	(15) The Elementary Forms of Religious Life (1915)
(5)Suicide (\%91)
Answer: Einile Durkheim
19.	Unlike most diaries, this work is not in chronological order, but is divided into headings like "Amusing
Things" and "Vexatious Things". For 10 points each.
a)	What is this Japanese book of reminiscences and impressions?
Answer: The Pillow Book, or Makura No Soshi
b)	This work is from what period of Japanese history, which lasted from 784 to I 185?
Answer: Heian period
c)	The Pillow Book was the diary of what court lady?
Answer: Sei Shonacon
20.	Give the capitals of the following African nations. FFP each.
a) Botswana	Answer: Gaborone
b)Mali	Answer: Bamako
c) Namibia	Answer: Windhoek
d) Sudan		Answer: Khartoum
e) Lesotho	Answer: Maseru
f) Zambia	Answer: Lusaka
