Berkeley's WIT 7: Packet by Carleton (Kaly Beebe, Andrew Eppig, Shane Ewert, Andy Felton, Cheryl Klein, Gabe Lyon, Ted Salk, Kelly Tolle), courtesy of Minnesota Deep Bench
Tossups
1. This sea has two main island groups: the Kizil or Princes group in the northeast, and another group near the city of Erdek off the Kapidagi peninsula. The latter group bears deposits of marble which give the sea, formerly known as Propontis, its current name. For 10 points-identify this Turkish sea with outlets at the Dardanelles and the Bosporus.
Answer: Sea of Marmara or Marmara Dinizi
2.	Two were cousins and two were sisters-in-law; two were ladies-in-waiting to their predecessors, and one
was the sister of his first love. Two were foreigners, both of whom he divorced; the cousins, he executed.
Three bore him children, none of whom were raised by their mothers. For 10 points, name this group of six
characters in a Renaissance soap opera -- three Catherines, two Anncs, and one Jane.
Answer: wives of Henry VIII (accept equivalents)
3.	When McClellan refused to move from Harrison's Landing, Virginia, Lincoln put Henry Halleck in
charge of the Union army. The Northern troops were divided, and James Longstreet and Stonewall Jackson
defeated those who fought under John Pope. Lee then arrived with 30,000 troops, while McClellan was
late as usual. For 10 points, identify this Confederate victory that set the stage for Antietam and took place
in August 1862, a little more than a year after a previous battle at the same site.
Answer: Second Battle of Bull Run or Second Battle of Manassas
4.	He cofounded the Saturday Review of Literature and edited both the work of his wife Elinor Wylie and
The Oxford Anthology of American Literature. His verse autobiography "The Dust Which Is God" won a
1942 Pulitzer Prize, but his brother, author of the short story, 'The Devil and Daniel Webster," is a better
known author.   For 10 points, name this man known well to quiz bowl question writers as the original
editor of The Reader's Encyclopedia.
Answer: William (Rose) Ben6t
5.	These people's mythology credits Obatala with the creation of humankind, though the god was drunk
when he created handicapped people. The people also claim descent from the god Shango, who is similar to
St. Barbara in the system of Santeria. Members of the Epa cult wear masks four feet tall, while another cult
centers around twins, who are unusually predominant in this group. For 10 points, identify this Nigerian
tribe, of which author Wole Soyinka is a member.
Answer: Yoruba
6. Formed by the substitution of magnesium for some of the calcium in limestone, it composes most of a namesake mountain range in Northern Italy - but contrary to what you might think, in its pure form it is most commonly white, grey, or brown instead of black. For 10 points, name this type of carbonate rock, whose name sounds the same as a 1975 blaxpoitation flick starring Rudy Ray Moore. Answer: Dolomite
7.	This man's earliest novels, such as The Mystic Masseur and The Suffrage of Elvira, are set in his native
Caribbean. Area of Darkness is about India, as is 1990's India: A Million Mutinies Now. Paul Theroux
wrote of his friendship with this man in the 1998 Sir Vidia's Shadow. For 10 points, name this Trinidadian-
born author of A House for Mr. Biswas and A Bend in a River.
Answer: V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad) Naipaul
8.	It gave its name to a Gary Numan album and Janet Jackson song. Not to be confused with the libido or
id, this mental faculty urges obedience to the libido and is perhaps the most primal instinct. It functions in
the realm of wishing, and must be conquered by the Superego for a person to function in a civilization,
because people must defer immediate gratification. For 10 points-identify this instinct Freud went
beyond to describe the reality principle.
Answer: pleasure principle

9.	It first appeared in mathematical literature in 1501, when Charles Bouvelles described it in connection
with the squaring of the circle. Galileo suggested its use as an arch for bridges, and Christian Huygens
introduced it into the construction of pendulum clocks when he posed it as the solution to the tautochrone
problem. For 10 points, identify the curve, also the solution to the brachistochrone problem, which is traced
out by the motion of a fixed point on the circumference of a circle rolling along a straight line.
Answer: cycloid
10.	Thomas Edison was born 60 miles west of this city, which became the first in the world to use electric
lighting in a public place. In 1784, George Washington predicted that "where the Cuyahoga River flows
into Lake Erie shall arise a community of vast commercial importance." For 10 points, name this city, the
setting of Howard the Duck and home of Case Western Reserve University.
Answer: Cleveland
11.	She never danced in the corps de ballet, premiering instead in a pas de trois in "La Fille Mai Gardee"
when she was 18. She felt it was bad taste to do more than two pirouettes, and yet her fame was so great
that an Australian meringue dessert is named in her honor. For 10 points, name this prima ballerina of
Diaghilev's Ballet Russe, most famous for her 1905 solo "The Dying Swan."
Answer: Anna Pavlova
12.0.26 nanometers wide and weighing 3.06 x 10 to the -23 grams, surprisingly it can cause first-degree burns. Originally thought to be an element, a 1783 paper showed it to be a compound, and its molecular formula was published in 1804. For 10 points, name this odorless, tasteless substance formed in addition to salt in neutralization reactions, commonly found in all three states of matter and sometimes called dihydrogen monoxide. Answer: water
13.	Much of her writing focused on individual women's lives: her memoir of her mother was entitled A
Very Easy Dream, and she published a four-volume autobiography well before her death in 1986. Her
novel The Mandarins fictionalizes her experience of post-World War II Paris intellectual society. For 10
points, name this lifelong companion of Jean-Paul Sartre, whose most famous work on women is The
Second Sex.
Answer: Simone de Beauvoir
14.	A financial prospectus of this kind indicates that the company is still undergoing review by the SEC. A
Lord Peter Wimsey mystery featured five of them in its title, and when Two-Face tried to get rid of Harvey,
he left two of these for Batman to find. For 10 points, identify this expression for a misleading problem or
clue, derived from the English animal-lover's practice of dragging a smelly fish through the woods to throw
hounds off the scent during fox hunts.
Answer: red herring
15.	Her father Friedrich trained her to be a concert pianist from an early age. She made her first public
appearance in Leipzig at age nine, then toured Europe and earned the praise of Goethe, Mendelssohn,
Chopin and Paganini. For 10 points, name the German pianist who continued to perform, compose and
teach throughout her life, although she curbed her concert performances while raising eight children with
her husband Robert
Answer: Clara Wieck Schumann (accept either last name)
16.	P'tah was the patron god of this city, and ruins of his temple as well as two huge statues of Ramses II
stand nearby. Menes built it near the head of the Nile Delta around 3100 BC, just as the Upper and Lower
Kingdoms became unified and needed a capital. For 10 points, identify this ancient city which preceded
Thebes as capital of Egypt.
Answer: Memphis

17.	Trent Lott has expressed concerns that this region will fall under the influence of China after Hutchison
Whampoa, a Hong Kong-based firm, outbid American-owned Bechtel for rights to operate two strategic
ports. While Lott's concerns are generally considered overblown, U. S. power will certainly diminish after
this region returns to the country that surrounds it at noon December 31. For 10 points, name this Central
American waterway.
Answer: Panama Canal Zone
18.	Its propagation is confined within a cone, and its intensity is proportional to the square of frequency.
First discovered in 1926 by Mallet, its namesake studied it in detail in the mid-1930s, and in 1937,1. M.
Frank and Igor Tamm provided a theoretical explanation of it. FTP, name this form of radiation which
appears as a bluish white glow near nuclear reactors, created when a charged particle in a transparent
medium moves faster than the speed of light in that medium.
Answer: Cerenkov Radiation or Cerenkov Effect or Cerenkov Light
19.	Founded in October 1966, J. Edgar Hoover once referred to this organization as the "greatest threat to
the internal security of the United States." Its symbol had previously been used by the Lowndes County
Freedom Organization in its fight for voting rights. With over 2000 members at its height, its long time
chief of staff was David Hilliard, and its chairman was Bobby Seale. For 10 points, name this activist
group founded by Huey Newton.
Answer: The Black Panthers
20.	From the Aramaic meaning "holy," this type of prayer glorifies God and asks for him to quickly
establish his kingdom on Earth. In early days, it was only recited at the end of rabbinical scriptural
exposition. Today, half of one is recited at the end of the Sabbath-Torah reading in a synagogue, while a
longer form is recited after study of the Talmud. For 10 points, name this prayer, which most often forms
part of a Jewish funeral service, whose name the title of a poem in which Allen Ginsburg mourns the death
of his mother.
Answer: Kaddish
21.	First identified on March 26,1999, it is believed to be named for a topless dancer in Florida. At its peak
it affected over 300 organizations including Lockheed, Boeing, and the Marine Corps. Not bad for a
Microsoft Word macro from New Jersey. For 10 points, name this virus which experienced exponential
growth throughout spring 1999.
Answer: Melissa virus

Bonus Questions
1.30-20-10 Identify the painting.
a) (30) Columbus, Ohio artist James Mason recently recreated this painting as a topiary sculpture, using Japanese yew trees to shape the 54 necessary figures.
b) (20) Stephen Sondheim won a 1984 Pulitzer Prize for his musical based upon this painting, which focused on the relationship between the artist and his model, the cutely-named Dot.
c) (10) This 1886 painting by Georges Seurat depicts people from all classes of society enjoying a sunny weekend day.
Answer: Sunday Afternoon on the Island of la Grande Jatte or Un Dimanche a la Grande Jatte
2.	Given a description of a job in the Roman bureaucracy, identify the job title for 10 points each.
a) (10) A holder of this office assisted the consul in specialized financial matters.
       Answer: quaestor b). (10) His basic function was judicial, but this official also possessed "imperium" and served as a general.
       Answer: praetor c) (10) Every five years, this official listed the members of the citizen body and the amount of their property liable to taxation. The position was the ultimate prize of a Roman political career.
Answer: censor
3.	FTP each, identify these parts of fungi.
a)	(10) The equivalent of a plant's seed, fungi can release these microscopic reproductive units by the
billions or even trillions.
Answer: spores
b)	(10) While mushrooms and other fruiting bodies may be the most prominent parts of a fungus, the main
body that fills the substrate and collects nutrients is called this.
Answer: mycelium (accept mycelia)
c)	(10) Mycelia are made of numerous cellular strands called what?
Answer: hvphae (accept hvpha)
4.	For 10 points each, given a description of a cult from classical mythology, name its central figure.
a)	(10) The priests of his cult preached moderation; their advice was exemplified in the famous sayings
"Know thyself and "Nothing in excess."
Answer: Apollo
b)	(10) His female devotees cavorted by night, ate raw flesh, and were reputed to tear to pieces any creature
they came across.
Answer: Dionysus
c)	(10) This goddess' cult was centered around the Eleusinian Mysteries, which commemorated the
abduction of her daughter Persephone by Hades.
Answer: Demeter
5.	30-20-10 Name the geographic site.
a) (30) Its construction involved the dry-joining of "ashlar," large blocks of stone fitted entirely without mortar, as each stone was swung in slings against its neighbor until the surfaces were ground to a perfect fit.
b) (20) The Urubamba River is visible 1,600 feet below this construction, which contains over 5 square miles of terrace and more than 3,000 steps.
c) (10) The legendary last stronghold of the Incas, it was discovered by Hiram Bingham in 1911.
Answer: Machu Picchu
6.	For 10 points each, name the sports prodigy.
a) (10) He became the first pro basketball player to skip collegiate ball when he joined the ABA's Utah Stars in 1974. During his 18-year NBA career, he won three league MVP awards with the Houston Rockets and the Philadelphia 76ers.
Answer: Moses Malone

b)	(10) She won the first pro tennis event she entered in 1977, and was only 16 when she beat Chris Evert
in the 1979 U. S. Open.
Answer: Tracy Austin
c)	(10) On June 10,1944, this 15-year-old lefty hurler for the Reds gave up five runs in two-thirds of an
inning against the St Louis Cardinals. Instantly dumped, he went back to high school and didn't return to
the majors until 1952.
Answer: Joe Nuxhall
7.	Identify the following neurotransmitters for 10 points each.
a)	(10) High levels of this neurotransmitter can cause narcolepsy, low levels can cause Parkinson's disease,
and normal levels can trigger schizophrenia in those sensitive to it
Answer: dopamine
b)	(10) This neurotransmitter is released by platelets to constrict blood vessels and active clotting; Prozac
blocks its reabsorption into neurons in order to combat depression and obsessive-compulsive disorders.
Answer: serotonin
c)	(10) The most widely used neurotransmitter in the body, it is particularly important in the stimulation of
muscle tissue.
Answer: acetylcholine
8.	For ten points each-identify the titular subjects given their descriptions in Nathaniel Hawthorne short
stories.
a)	(10) "Its shape bore not a little similarity to the human hand, though of the smallest pygmy size... [It]
was the bond by which an angelic spirit kept itself in union with a mortal frame."
Answer: The Birthmark
b)	(10) "It seemed to consist of two folds of crape, which entirely concealed his features, except the mouth
and chin, but probably did not intercept his sight, further than to give a darkened aspect to all living and
inanimate things."
Answer: The Minister's Black Veil
c)	(10) "[It looked] much more like a sort of mechanical demon that would hurry us to the infernal regions
than a laudable contrivance for smoothing our way to the Celestial City."
Answer: The Celestial Railroad
9.	Identify the following figures from the Russian Revolution for ten points each.
a)	(10) He headed the provisional government from March to July of 1917.
Answer. Prince Georgi Yevgenyevich Lvov
b)	(10) His government succeeded that of Lvov's, in which he had served as both minister of justice and
war minister.
Answer. Aleksandr Feodorovich Kerenskv
c)	(10) This Bolshevik wrote a laudatory history of the Revolution, but then titled a later work The
Revolution Betrayed: What Is the Soviet Union and Where Is It Going?
Answer. Leon Trotskv
10.	Name the 18th-century British author from a physical description by another writer for 15 points, or for
five points if you need the name of a work by the author.
a)	(15) Edward Malone described him as "about four feet six high; very humpbacked and deformed; he
wore a black coat; and according to the fashion of that time, had on a little sword."
(5) "The Rape of the Lock"
Answer: Alexander Pope
b)	(15) Fanny Burney wrote "He is, indeed, very ill-favoured; is tall and stout; but stoops terribly; he is
almost bent double... We perfectly languished to hear him talk."
(5) "Dictionary of the English Language" Answer: Samuel Johnson
11.	Answer the following questions about nuclear processes in stars for 10 points each.



a)	After hearing a conference concerning the problem of determining which nuclear processes stars use to
produce energy, this physicist vowed to solve the problem on the train back to Cornell University ее and did
so with seconds to spare. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1967 for his efforts.
Answer: Hans Albrecht Bethe (BAY-ta)
b)	The first nuclear process cycle which Bethe described is known by this name and is used within massive
stars, where the central temperature rises above 20 million Kelvin.
Answer: carbon cycle or carbon-nitropen-oxvpen cycle or CNO cycle
c)	In the 1940s, Bethe and his colleague Charles Critchfield described this simpler nuclear cycle, which is
how our own sun produces its energy.
Answer: proton-proton cvcle
12. Given a modern musical, name the composer of the classical opera from which it derives for 10 points each.
a)	(10) Rent
Answer: Giacomo Puccini (opera is La Boheme)
b)	(10) Miss Saigon
       Answer: Giacomo Puccini (yes, again; opera is Madame Butterfly) c)(10) Aida
Answer: Giuseppe Verdi (an Elton John musical based on the opera of the same name)
13.30-20-10, name the guy who died in the 1980s.
a) (30) He was born in Kumrovec, (then part of Austria-Hungary). After being released from prison in 1934, this man went to Moscow, worked for the Comintern and changed his name.
b) (20) He became secretary general of his country's Communist party in 1937, president of the nation in 19S3, and remained dictator until his death in 1980.
c) (10) Memories of Stalin's purges inspired this man originally known as Josip Broz, to keep Yugoslavia the only non-Soviet Bloc Communist nation in Eastern Europe.
Answer: Marshal Josip Broz Tito (prompt on Josip Broz)
14.	A strange alliance is developing in an East African country, where the President has named a former
opposition leader and bitter enemy as the new head of the civil service and secretary to the Cabinet, the
second highest position in the government. Answer these questions about the situation on FTP each.
a)	(10) In what country, whose second largest city is Mombassa and which contains Lake Turkana, did this
take place?
Answer: Kenya
b)	(10) What conservationist and former anthropologist is the new secretary to the cabinet?
Answer: Richard Leakey
c)	(10) Name the President appointed Leakey?
Answer: Daniel arap Moi
15.	Answer the following questions about the third rock from the sun FTP each:
a)	(10) Who composed The Song of the Earth!
Answer: Gustav Mahler
b)	(10) Who wrote The Earthsea Quartet!
Answer: Ursula K. le Guin
c)	(10) Who wrote the colonial analysis The Wretched of the Earth!
Answer: Franz Fanon
16.	For 10 points each-identify the ancient school of philosophy.
a)	(10) Parmenides founded this school, which taught that the world is an unchanging whole and that unity
is truth. They opposed the Milesian school and drew their name from the city where they lived.
Answer: Eleatic School
b)	(10) Since the only thing one can truly affect is the state of one's mind, these thinkers, among them
Zeno of Citium, steadfastly ignored adverse outside conditions while rationally designating and studying
the three parts of philosophy: logic, physics, and ethics.
Answer: Stoicism

c) (10) While the Stoics taught in the city, this school was founded in a garden. It dedicated itself to the art of living well, focusing on the practical consequences of actions. Answer: Epicureanism
17.	Identify these prominent 18th-century African Americans for ten points each.
a)	(10) Acclaimed as the first martyr of the American Revolution, this sailor was the first of five men to die
in the Boston Massacre.
Answer: Crispus Attacks
b)	(10) Born free in Maryland in 1731, he published an almanac in 1792 and helped survey the
Washington, D.C. area.
Answer: Benjamin Banneker
c)	(10) During the Revolutionary War, this man, working under Lafayette, posed as an escaped slave
willing to spy for Cornwallis, and deceived Cornwallis regarding American strategy leading up to
Yorktown. He was later emancipated for his service.
Answer: James Armistead Lafayette
18.	For 5 points each - identify the country in which each of the following rivers has its source:
a)	(5) Darling
Answer: Australia
b)	(5) Madeira
       Answer: Bolivia c)(5) Marne
Answer: France
d)	(5) Mekong
Answer: People's Republic of China
e)	(5) Shoshone
       Answer: United States 0 (5) Orange
Answer: Lesotho
19.	Poor Professor Higgins! Eliza's run out on him, and now he has no one to play phonetics with. Give
your articulators a workout and PRODUCE the correct phonemes from descriptions and maybe Professor
Higgins will give you a chocolate, or at least 10 points each.
a)	voiced bilabial nasal stop
Answer: [m]
b)	voiceless labiodental nonnasal fricative
Answer: [f]
c)	voiced velar nonnasal stop
Answer: [g] (must say a hard g, ie. "guh"; "jee" is not acceptable)
20.	Answer the following questions about rocks for ten points each:
a)	(10) What type of igneous rock is formed when magma cools at the surface?
Answer: extrusive
b)	(10) What word is used to describe a glassy looking igneous rock with no visible grain?
Answer: vitreous
c)	(10) Some types of this laminar mudstone (a sedimentary rock) contain oil.
Answer: shale
