Theme Packet with Toss-Ups by Jon C. Pennington with Help on Bonuses by Seth Teitler1. The Prince of Orange was shot in the left shoulder and knocked off his horse, which proved to be a blessing in disguise, because his military incompetence already led him to waste two battalions.  Picton went to battle wearing the clothes he wore at the duchess of Rochester's party,* while Blucher provided Wellington crucial support on the flank.  FTP, identify this 1815 battle at which Napoleon abdicated a second time.Waterloo 2. Anthony Burgess called it "the only true "close-ended" novel ever written.  No character exists after the final page..."  While stranded in Australia, Dwight Towers goes on a submarine mission to witness the effects of* radioactive fallout that have already wiped out the Northern Hemisphere.  FTP, name this Nevil Shute novel about the aftermath of nuclear war.On the Beach3. Emir Faisal and T.E. Lawrence spark an Arab revolt against the Ottoman Turks.  The U.S. Marines occupy the Dominican Republic.  Lord Kitchener drowns when his* cruiser sinks near the Orkney Islands.  General Pershing chases Pancho Villa into Mexico, FTP, in what year that also saw the Easter Rebellion and the re-election of Woodrow Wilson?       19164. A valet with paralyzed eyelids leads a pacifist journalist to a room without windows or mirrors* in this play.  Other characters include Estelle, a socialite who murdered her illegitimate child, and Inez, a working-class lesbian, who both discover that "Hell is other people."  FTP, name this inescapable play by Jean-Paul Sartre.  No Exit (also accept Huis Clos)5. Measured in milligrams per kilogram, it is 29,700 for sucrose, but only 24 for sarin nerve gas.  Based on a test that the OECD began phasing out last year,* animal rights activists argue that the age and health of animals administered the chemical makes this measurement too error-prone.  FTP, identify this measurement of toxicity based on the dose needed to kill half a group of animals.LD50 (or Lethal Dose 50%; prompt on lethal dose)6. Rodolpho Lassparri loves Rosa Castaldi, but she prefers Riccardo Baroni, because Lasspari was cruel to his valet, Tomasso, for trying on one of his costumes.  Fiorello then decides to manage Baroni's career, which leads to contract negotiations over a "sanity* clause" inserted by Otis B. Driftwood.  FTP, name this 1935 Marx Brothers film known for its hilarious "stateroom scene." A Night at the Opera7. When operating at full load, its efficiency can only be reduced by hysteresis or eddy current.  Consisting of a magnetically permeable core and* two induction coils, the ratio of primary to secondary voltage equals the number of turns in the primary coil divided by the turns in the secondary coil.  FTP, identify this device that can change from one voltage to another, without changing frequency.  transformer8. It is named after the pungent smell of its tetroxide, which is used in fingerprint detection.*  Used in hardening platinum, it is used to ensure that fountain pens and phonograph needles have a fine point.  The heaviest of all elements, FTP, identify this metal with atomic number 76 and chemical symbol Os.  osmium 9. When John Wilson asked about who created her, she replied that she was plucked from a rose bush near a prison door.  This led Governor Bellingham to order her removal from* her mother so she could be placed in a more Christian home, but Reverend Dimmesdale intervened without revealing his own paternity.  FTP, name this illegitimate daughter of Hester Prynne in Hawthorne's the Scarlet Letter.Pearl10. This organism from species brevifolia can be classified as an oversized yucca plant. Explorer John C. Fremont proclaimed it was worst thing he had ever seen in the vegetable kingdom,* while the friends of country rocker Gram Parsons stole his corpse so that he could be cremated next to one.  FTP, identify this desert "tree," the namesake of a national park in southern California. the Joshua tree11. Bankers from Augsburg paid Nikolaus Federmann to find it, but Federmann temporarily gave up the search after meeting Jimenez de Quesada* in the Andes in 1535.  The inspiration for Sir Walter Raleigh's explorations in Guyana, it was based on a story about a tribe anointing its leaders with gold dust.  FTP, name this mythical South American city of gold.El Dorado12. Approximately 250 miles long, this journey began when two tribes in Yathrib provided sanctuary* for a religious leader persecuted by merchants who benefited from pagan pilgrimages to their city.  Yathrib was then renamed "the city of the Prophet" and the leader recaptured the city he abandoned eight years later.  FTP, name this Islamic term for Muhammad's journey from Mecca to Medina in 622 AD.hejira (or hegira)  13. He is a graduate of Durham University who enlisted Tommy Stubbins as his apprentice.  He has campaigned against bullfighting, vaccinated* monkeys in Africa, and acquitted a man of murder by eliciting testimony from a dog.  A resident of Puddleby-on-the-Marsh created by Hugh Lofting, FTP, identify this medical man who can "talk to the animals."Doctor (John) Dolittle 14. According to a 1966 article by Hellman and Blackman, bedwetting, cruelty to animals, and this impulse control disorder make up a "homicidal triad"* useful in predicting future violent offenders.  According to the DSM-IV, it should not be diagnosed in persons with financial or political motives, but only those who get aroused by the act.  FTP, name this psychological disorder that compels people to start fires.pyromania (prompt on setting fires, arson, or equivalent) 15. A teaching assistant in sociology at Northwestern.  The founder of the Radical Science Information Service.  The co-founders of the Youth International Party.  A Christian Socialist who headed the National Committee to End the* War in Vietnam.  The other** three were Rennie Davis, Tom Hayden, and Bobby Seale.  FTP, name this octet charged with disrupting the 1968 Democratic National Convention.The Chicago 8  (accept Chicago 7 until **)16. It is the first book in a tetralogy that includes The Naked Man, From Honey to Ashes, and The Origin of* Table Manners.  The author stated that he viewed dichotomies such as "the fresh and the decayed, the moistened and the burned" as conceptual tools for elaborating abstract ideas.  A structuralist work about the relation of nature to culture, FTP name this book by Claude Levi-Strauss with a culinary title.The Raw and the Cooked17. Due to natural processes described by Henry's Law, a rapid decrease in water* pressure produces aeroembolisms stemming from insoluble bubbles of nitrogen gas.  Also known as Caisson's disease, this condition may cause joint pain or induce heart attacks.  FTP, name this problem that plagues scuba divers.the bends (also accept decompression syndrome; accept Caisson's disease on early buzz; prompt on nitrogen narcosis) 18. In classical rhetoric, it may refer to a deliberate interruption used to divert attention from a weak argument.  Another rhetorical device with this name is used in John Donne's "Death Be Not Proud"* and Juliet's "Wherefore art thou, Romeo?" speech.  FTP, name this speech addressed to objects, abstractions, or absent people that shares its name with a punctuation mark.apostrophe19. Warning: two answers required.  They both lack self-sustaining magnetic fields and they both have atmospheres with 95% carbon dioxide*, although the thickness of their atmospheres is extremely different.  Planet #1 is the brightest in the solar system, while Planet #2 has exactly two moons.  FTP, name these two planets closest to the Earth.Venus and Mars (accept in reverse order)    20. An immigrant from Scotland, he founded a barrel-making shop in Dundee, Illinois that became a stop on the Underground Railroad.  Appointed county sheriff in 1846,* he got a job directing espionage behind Confederate lines after foiling an assassination attempt against Abraham Lincoln.  Known for infiltrating the Molly Maguires, FTP, name this founder of the first national private detective agency.Allan Pinkerton 21. Levi served as attorney general from 1801 to 1804.  Elmo was the first actor to play Tarzan on film.  Benjamin became Secretary of War months after receiving a sword* from Cornwallis at Yorktown.  Robert was a president of the Pullman Company on the scene at three presidential assassinations.  FTP, what is the last name they all share with the 16th president?Lincoln  22. A dubious etymology suggests that its name is Latin for "the island of apples."  In 1191, monks in Glastonbury* claimed to have found it after all the surrounding water had dried up.  Presided over by nine maidens led by Morgan Le Fay, FTP, name this mythical place where King Arthur sustains his immortality by lying on a golden bed.Avalon 23. In its sixth chapter, a prophet worries that he has uncircumcised lips, while in Chapter 33, God reveals his backside to one of his believers.  It not only inspired the title of Robert* Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land, but the verse "thou shalt not suffer a witch to live" triggered the Salem witch trials.  FTP, name this second book of the Bible.Exodus24. A tributary of the Ohio that flows through Mammoth Cave National Park, then terminates at Evansville, Indiana.  A New England waterway that flows through Windham County, Vermont on the eastern slope of its* namesake mountains.  A river in suburban Seattle associated with a serial killer.  FTP, identify the colorful name these three rivers share.Green River25. It's not the Rite of Spring, but it did cause a riot in 1917 with a score that included pistols, car horns, and typewriters.*  Jean Cocteau came up with the plot, which included acrobats and a "Chinese conjurer," while Pablo Picasso designed the costumes and sets.  FTP, name this ballet by Erik Satie.  Parade[Moderator's Note: all the toss-ups are album titles: Waterloo by ABBA; On the Beach by Neil Young; 1916 by Motorhead; No Exit by Blondie; LD50 by Mudvayne; A Night At the Opera by Queen; Transformer by Lou Reed; Osmium by Parliament; Pearl by Janis Joplin; the Joshua Tree by U2; Eldorado by Electric Light Orchestra; Hejira by Joni Mitchell; Doolittle by the Pixies; Pyromania by Def Leppard; Chicago VII or Chicago VIII by Chicago; the Raw and the Cooked by the Fine Young Cannibals; The Bends by Radiohead; apostrophe by Frank Zappa; Venus & Mars by Paul McCartney & Wings; Pinkerton by Weezer; Lincoln by They Might Be Giants; Avalon by Roxy Music; Exodus by Bob Marley & the Wailers; Green River by Creedence Clearwater Revival; Parade by Prince]Bonuses1. Name the following people who had to apologize to the Pope FTPE:(10) This Holy Roman Emperor stood outside in the snow at the Castle of Canossa in 1077 in order to apologize to Gregory VII for being on the wrong side of the investiture controversy.Henry IV(10) This Austrian leader of the right-wing Freedom Party privately apologized to Pope John Paul II for saying that he agreed with the economic policies of Hitler's Nazi regime.Jeorg Haider(10) The hosts of Access Springfield called this celebrity a "class act," because he apologized to the Pope and offered to pay for the broken windshield.Burt Reynolds(Chemistry)2. Identify the following terms associated with acid-base chemistry, 5-10-15.5) This number is the negative logarithm of the concentration of hydronium ions in solution, and determines how acidic or basic the solution is.	Ans: pH10) Usually produced by mixing a weak acid with its conjugate weak base, this type of solution maintains a nearly constant pH despite the addition of small amounts of acid or base.	Ans: buffer15) This equation is a useful guide to predicting the pH value for a buffer solution.	Ans:  Henderson-Hasselbach equation(Non-North American History 1492 C.E. - 1945)3. Name these treaty that ended asian wars, FTPE.10) This 1905 treaty signed in New Hampshire ended the Russo-Japanese war.	Ans: Treaty of Portsmouth10) Together with the British Supplementary Treaty of the Bogue, this 1842 treaty ended the First Opium War.	Ans: Treaty of Nanking or Nanjing10) This 1895 treaty ended the First Sino-Japanese War.	Ans: Treaty of Shimonoseki(Literature in the English Language (not American))4. Identify the following associated with an English literary magazine FTPE.10) One of the first literary magazines, it succeeded the Tatler and was succeeded by the Guardian. It ran daily between March 1, 1711, and December 6, 1712.       Ans: The Spectator10) This man began the Tatler under the pseudonym Isaac Bickerstaff, and was one of the joint publishers of the Spectator.       Ans: Richard Steele10) He was Steele's partner in publishing the Spectator, and had joined Steele in writing the Tatler. He revived the Spectator for a time in 1714.       Ans: Joseph Addison5. Answer the following questions about the swastika before it became associated with the Nazis FTPE:(10) The swastika is the attribute of Suparsha, the seventh prophet of salvation, in this religion founded by Mahavira.Jainism(10) This is the name given to a swastika design common during the Byzantine empire.  It is given this name, because it resembles four rotations of the third letter of the Greek alphabet united in the shape of a cross.gammadion(10) The Nazi swastika is counter-clockwise, otherwise known as widdershins.  What is the term used to refer to a swastika that is rotated clockwise?deosil (pronounced jay-shill, but be lenient with pronunciation)  (Art, Architecture)6. Identify these art movements from clues, 15-5.15) It took its name from the French word for "shell-work."5) Watteau, Boucher, and Fragonard were all associated with this elegant, frivolous, and artificial 18th century movement.       Ans: Rococo15) The name comes from the Portuguese word for an irregularly shaped pearl.5) Poussin, Caravaggio, Vel‡zquez, and Vermeer were all associated with this movement, which built off the Renaissance tradition of naturalism.	Ans: Baroque (Engineering)7. Identify the following concepts from continuum mechanics FTPE.10) The circulation around a loop is equal to the flux of this vector through a surface spanning the loop. This vector quantity is the curl of the velocity field, making it twice the local angular velocity.	Ans: vorticity10) This counterpart to bulk viscosity is sometimes simply called the viscosity of the fluid. The kinematic viscosity is equal to this quantity divided by the density.	Ans: shear viscosity10) The differential form of this statement is that the partial derivative of density with respect to time, plus the divergence of the product of density and velocity, is zero.	Ans: mass conservation  (or conservation of mass)8. Identify the following composers who provided strange instructions to musicians FTPE:(10) For the premiere of his Farewell Symphony, he had his musicians leave the stage one by one, until the final soloist blew out a candle at the conclusion of the performance.Franz Joseph Haydn(10) This mystically oriented Russian composer, who wrote the Poem of Ecstasy, wanted to have an organ built that would emit different colored lights that correspond to different keys on the keyboard.Alexander Scriabin(10) This modernist German composer and electronic music pioneer required musicians to fast for three days before performing one of his compositions.  His works include Hymnen, Kontakte, Momente, and Mikrophonie.Karleinz Stockhausen9. Since the coronation of Edward II, every English monarch has been crowned on a Coronation Chair with the Stone of Scone (skoon) underneath the seat, with three notable exceptions.  Identify these exceptions given clues FTPE:(10) This teenage monarch never sat on the Coronation Chair, because he spent most of his reign locked in the Tower of London, where he was allegedly murdered by his uncle Richard III.Edward V(10) She could not sit on the Stone of Scone during her coronation, because her husband was occupying the Coronation Chair.Mary II (prompt on Mary)(10) Since his reign lasted only 8 months in 1936, he had already abdicated before he could sit in the Coronation Chair.Edward VIII(trash)10. Many pop/rock songs are in 4/4 time, but some are written in much stranger time signatures. Identify the following about songs with strange time signatures FTSNOP.5) This Pink Floyd song, track 5 on the album Dark Side of the Moon, has 7 beats per measure. The singer thinks he needs a Lear jet, and that he'll buy a football team.	Ans: Money5) This Peter Gabriel song also has 7 beats per measure, and includes the lyrics "My heart going boom boom boom/'Son,' he said 'Grab your things,/I've come to take you home.'"	Ans: Salisbury Hill10) This Beatles song, track 6 on the Yellow Submarine album, drops one beat every second measure through most of the song. According to the lyrics, it's easy to learn how to play the game.	Ans: All You Need Is Love10) Appearing on the fourth Led Zeppelin album, this song is written in 5/8 time. The drums are, appropriately, played with two drumsticks in each hand.	Ans: Four Sticks11. Identify the following authors who have incorporated Jesus Christ into literary works FTPE:(10) This Greek author wrote the Last Temptation of Christ, which served as the basis for a controversial Martin Scorsese film.Nikos Kazantzakis(10) This Nobel Prize winner wrote the Gospel According to Jesus Christ.Jose Saramago(10) This gay American novelist wrote Live from Golgotha with the intention of creating a Christian equivalent to the Satanic Verses.  In the book, NBC-TV goes back in time so that they can film the crucifixion of Jesus as a stunt to boost their ratings.Gore Vidal(Math)12. Answer the following questions on Cauchy sequences. 10) According to the Cauchy criterion, a necessary and sufficient condition for this property of a sequence is that the sequence be a Cauchy sequence. Thus the harmonic series cannot be a Cauchy sequence.	Ans: convergence10) Compact metric spaces and Euclidean spaces are examples of this sort of space, in which every Cauchy sequence converges to a point in the space.	Ans: complete10) This complete field can be constructed as an extension of the rationals using equivalence classes of Cauchy sequences.	Ans: real numbers or R13. Identify the following homosexual gunrunners for 15 PE:(15) This Symbolist poet who had a violent affair with a married man wrote Illuminations and A Season in Hell.  After renouncing poetry at age 20, he became a coffee trader in Africa and a gunrunner for the Abyssinians.Arthur Rimbaud(15)This ringleader of the Easter Rebellion was captured by the British with a shipment of German guns.  Before the British executed him, they released his private diary, which detailed hundreds of anonymous homosexual encounters, to discredit him.Roger Casement(Biology)14. Identify the following molecules important in living structures FTPE.10) This structural polysaccharide of an amino sugar is found in many fungi and in the exoskeletons of all arthropods.	Ans: chitin10) This protein group serves to waterproof the skin of reptiles, and is the major protein component of hair, wool, nails, horn, hoofs, and the quills of feathers	Ans: keratin10) Perhaps the most abundant protein group in the animal kingdom, it forms fibers with great elastic strength, and is present in skin, ligaments, tendons, bone and cartilage.	Ans: collagen15. Identify the play based on clues, 30-20-10-5.(30) The full name of the title character is Asa Trenchard.(20) The character Lord Dundreary was almost a male version of Mrs. Malaprop who said ridiculous things like "birds of a feather gather no moss."(10) At the play's most famous performance, the characters were overshadowed by an out-of-work Shakespearean actor who jumped on stage shouting "Sic semper tyrannis!"(5) It is play the Abraham Lincoln was watching when he was assassinated.Our American Cousin16. Identify the following Roman emperors based on items that they might have had on their "to-do" list FTPE:(10) Number 1, try to kill cousin Alexander Severus; Number 2, commit more sodomy; Number 3, establish worship of my sun god as the official state religion.Heliogabalus (also accept Elagabalus or Marcus Aurelius Antoninus)(10) Number 1, install pet horse Incitatus as a priest and consul; Number 2, erect pagan statue of self in Jewish temple;Caligula (or Caius Caesar Germanicus)(10) Number 1, reabsorb Judea and Thrace into empire; Number 2, kill unfaithful wife Messalina;Claudius I  (or Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus)17. Answer the following questions about guys who share the name Holofernes (hall-uh-fern-izz) FTPE:(10) The death of the general Holofernes who invaded Bethulia is depicted in this apocryphal book of the Bible, named after the young woman who murdered him in his tent while he was asleep.Judith(10) Tubal Holofernes was the tutor of this oversized literary character who needed five years to learn how to say his ABC's backward.Gargantua(10) Holofernes was the name of the pedantic schoolmaster who encouraged three princes to give up chasing women for the scholastic life in this alliteratively titled Shakespeare play.Love's Labours Lost (film)18. Identify the following Hitchcock films from plot summaries FTPE.10) Lina begins asking questions about her husband Johnny, such as "what does he do for a living?", and "why is he interested in untraceable poisons?" Slowly she grows to believe he may have murdered his friend Beaky and may be plotting to kill her.	Ans: Suspicion10) Inspired by the Leopold and Loeb murder story, this film centers on two college students who strangle a fellow student, then invite guests over for dinner, using a chest containing the body as a buffet table.	Ans: Rope10) Former tennis pro Tony Wendice concocts a brilliant plan to have an old college acquaintance murder his wife. But his wife kills the attacker, and when he calls home to confirm the murder, his wife answers.	Ans: Dial M for Murder (European History)19. Identify the following terms related to witches FTPE.10) An assembly of thirteen witches working together on magic or ceremonies.	Ans: coven10) Named for a sainted English missionary in Germany in the 8th century CE, it falls on one of her feast days, on the eve of May Day or Beltane, and was believed by medieval Christians to be the occasion of a witches' sabbath.	Ans: Walpurgisnacht or Walpurgis night10) This work, "Hammer for Witches," established such fantasies as the incubus and succubus, the initiation of magicians, the black art, and the counter-charms of the church.	Ans: Malleus Maleficarum20. Answer the following questions about scandals in social science and cultural studies FTPE:(10) This physicist from NYU wrote an article, "Transgressing the Boundaries: the Transformative Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity," that was a parody of academic jargon.  Even though the article asserted that gravity didn't exist, he successfully tricked the cultural studies journal, Social Text, into printing the article.Alan Sokal(10) Derek Freeman argued that this first book by Margaret Mead was completely bogus, because it was based on the accounts of two girls who were playing a practical joke on the anthropologist.Coming of Age in Samoa(10) This co-discoverer of the transistor became a notoriously underqualified social science professor at Stanford who attracted controversy for proposing that anybody with an IQ less than 100 should be paid money to undergo voluntary sterilization.William Bradford Shockley  (Myth)21. F15PE, identify the following Celtic deities.15) Referred to as "The Shining One," he is the Gaulish/Celtic god of light, and has charge of the welfare of sheep and cattle. His wife is goddess Belisama, and his festival is celebrated on May 1.	Ans: Belenus or Belenos15) His wife is the Morrigan, and he possesses an enormous club, with one end of which he can kill nine men, and with the other end restore them to life. The leader of the Tuatha DŽ Danann, he is the Irish-Celtic god of the earth and treaties, and ruler over life and death.	Ans: The Dagda(Astronomy)22. Identify the following important female astronomers F15PE 15) With her collaborator John Huchra, she has been measuring redshifts for thousands of galaxies. With this data they were able to construct a pioneering 3-dimensional map of the large-scale structure of the universe, and they discovered the "Great Wall" structure.	Ans: Margaret Geller15) Her research on the rotation of spiral galaxies showed that as little as 10% of the mass of the universe may be visible matter. Her work provided important support for theoretical predictions of the existence of dark matter.	Ans: Vera Rubin23. Identify the following football players influenced by the counterculture of the late 60s and early 70s FTPE:(10) He was a linebacker for the St. Louis Cardinals in 1969 who quit a promising career so that he could write Out of Their League, which criticized the NFL for racism and exploiting its athletes.Dave Meggyesy(10) This running back for the Green Bay Packers and the San Francisco 49ers who retired in 1972 became the first professional football player to voluntarily reveal his homosexuality in a 1975 interview.  He recently resurfaced to criticize Reggie White for making homophobic remarks.David Kopay(10) This member of the LA Rams "Fearsome Foursome" released an album of socially conscious music in 1964 entitled Soul City.  In 1973, he published the book Needlepoint for Men.Roosevelt "Rosey" Grier24. Answer the following questions about guys named John Adams FTPE:(10) John Adams was the last of the original mutineers from the HMS Bounty to inhabit this island.Pitcairn Island(10) Another John Adams independently discovered this heavenly body in 1847 after attempting to explain unusual perturbations in a planet's orbit.Neptune(10) Yet another John Adams wrote this opera that includes singing roles for Henry Kissinger and Mao Tse-Tung.Nixon in China