Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rutgers (Jason Keller)Tossups1.  After defeat at Basking Ridge, Charles Lee's forces fled to join the main forces just in time.  Baron von Donop was in charge of the opposing forces, some of whom were posted at the Black Horse Tavern and Mansfield Square, with three regiments at the battle site.  Refusing orders to build fortifications, Colonel Rall would be seriously wounded for his mistake, and since Dechow decided not to send out a morning patrol, the Hessians had no knowledge that Washington, Greene and Sullivan's men were able to ferry across the Delaware.  For 10 points, name this morale-boosting victory in the American Revolution, which took place shortly before Princeton.Answer: Battle of Trenton2.  In 1862, a magnitude 11 earthquake caused part of an area known as the White Steppe to sink into it, and also formed its Proval Bay.  Home to Mount Zhima on the island of Olkhon, this lake, which is close to the Barguzinsky and Khmar-Daban Ranges, is also the home of a namesake species of seal and a local delicacy, the omul fish.  Receiving such rivers as the Uda, Barguzin, and Selenga, it is drained by the Angara River and located just east of Irkutsk.  For 10 points, name this Siberian lake noted for its clarity, the deepest freshwater lake in the world.Answer: Lake Baikal3.  The symmetric type is being investigated from a quantum perspective as it seems to violate the duet rule and has been observed in formic acid at high pressures.  Found in thiosalycilic acid, urea, and ammonia, this phenomenon is also associated with the tertiary structure of proteins, and the double helix structure of DNA is largely due to this interaction between base pairs.  Responsible for water's liquid state at room temperature and abnormally high boiling point, for 10 points, name these intermolecular forces which usually involve the attraction of a highly electronegative atom of one molecule to a namesake atom of another.Answer: hydrogen bonds4.  Compositions of the 1920s and player pianos serve as the inspiration for his Century Rolls.  Walt Whitman's words are used in his The Wound-Dresser, and Schiller is referenced in his Naïve and Sentimental Music, whose last movement employs an original method of modal transposition known as the earbox technique.  Also noted for the 9/11 commemorative "On the Transmigration of Souls," for 10 points, name this composer, who used the poetry of Donne and Dickinson as a backdrop for his Harmonium, and also wrote the music for the historically-based opera Nixon in China.Answer: John Coolidge Adams5.  In the first chapter, the narrator outlines the concept of dignity as he believes it is outlined by the Hayes Society, recounting how his father stood up to two people who were disparaging his former employer, John Silver.  At the time, he is in Salisbury taking in the beauty of the English countryside, on a short vacation because Mr. Farraday, his new boss is returning to the United States for a few weeks. A retrospective of the actions of the recently deceased Lord Darlington and a meeting with Miss Kenton, who had left the narrator 20 years earlier, follow in, for 10 points, what 1989 novel centering on the butler Stevens, which earned the Booker Prize for Kazuo Ishiguro.Answer: The Remains of the Day6.  The Peace of Crepy caused France to withdraw support of it, and though it initially managed to reinstall Ulrich as Duke of Wurtemberg and later took Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, it began to lose its power when one of its founders was indicted as a bigamist.  Its army of 10,000 infantry and 2,000 knights was eventually engaged by a force led by Maurice of Albertine Saxony, whom its members called "The Traitor from Meissen," which started a short civil war.  Created by Philip I of Hesse and Elector John Frederick of Saxony, for 10 points, name this alliance of German Protestant states, which was crushed at Muhlberg by Charles V in 1547.Answer: Schmalkaldic League7.  This equation has been used to calculate the pressure a bandage applies to a wound, the electrostatic potential of an object in a space without charge, and the temperature gradient of a thin metal plate.  Numerical solutions can be found iteratively using the method of finite differences.  Rarely solved analytically, this special case of the Helmholtz differential equation and Poisson's equation, is satisfied by harmonic functions.  For 10 points, name this equation, written as del-square f equals zero, named for a French mathematician.Answer: Laplace's Equation8.  In a moment of irony in which he lacks inspiration, he writes a poem asking his friend Cornificius to write him a poem.  He is also noted for his laments on his brother and Quintillia, the wife of his friend Calvus, an opponent of Cicero, whom he calls "the worst poet of all" in another verse.  He is not a big fan of Julius Caesar, either, whom he condemns for his handling of Britain and Gaul, or the engineer Mamurra; he later calls them both fellators.  Known for writing erotic poetry concerning his boyfriend Juventius, for 10 points, name this Roman, who additionally addressed some of his poems to Lesbia.Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus9.  In the Norteño genre, a twelve-stringed guitar normally accompanies a fusion of the Mexican corrido and this type of music.  Other variants include a honky version, normally seen in the Chicago area, which is noted for featuring only a single clarinet and a single trumpet, and the Slovenian style, which features a quicker beat and a piano, and is sometimes called the Cleveland style.  For 10 points, name this type of music which normally accompanies a dance in 2/4 time and features an accordion, which has been famously performed by Frankie Yankovic and Lawrence Welk.Answer: polka(And a-one and a-two!)10.  Its second volume includes the story of a child who memorizes the first ten lines of the catechism of the Bishop Balle, which is used by its author to illustrate the importance of duty.  That volume takes the form of letters to one of the writers of the first, who engages in a system of "crop rotation" for entertainment.  Also included in the first volume is the story of a love affair between Cordelia and Johannes, "The Diary of a Seducer."  With parts written by Johannes, a man named A, Judge Vilhelm and Victor Eremita, for 10 points, name this 1843 philosophical work which illustrates the choice between leading an aesthetic life and an ethical one, by Soren Kierkegaard.Answer: Enten-eller or Either/Or11.  Sarah Brightman, during her One Night in Eden tour, stood at the top of a staircase wearing a 30-foot-long dress while performing this song, and though it is supposed to be performed by a man, Aretha Franklin performed a memorable version on very short notice at the 1998 Grammys.  It has become a common tune in soccer; it accompanies Jesminder's goal in Bend It Like Beckham, and became the anthem of the 1990 World Cup in Italy after becoming popular for its crescendo finale, which includes three repetitions of the word "Vincero!"  For 10 points, what is this aria from Turandot popularized by Luciano Pavarotti?Answer: Nessun Dorma12.  The main character is first introduced at the age of nine as a spoiled brat who rides around on a white pony in his family's industrial complex, which was started by his grandfather, a retired major.  Later in life at a Christmas party, the boy points out his uncle George, a Congressman, and claims that everyone should know him, but as time progresses, things get worse for the only son of Isabel Minifer, and eventually his family name is removed from Tenth Street and the part of town in which he grew up, and young George is forced to find work to survive.  Such is the fall of the title family in, for 10 points, what Pulitzer Prize-winning Booth Tarkington novel?Answer: The Magnificent Ambersons13.  In this religion, one may have his questions answered by throwing four pieces of coconut shells, and then blowing on them to impart ashe; initiates will always be answered yes or no.  Among its beliefs is the residence of a guardian angel, an eleda, within the head of its initiates, which must be communicated with through the Ebo.  Initiation also includes the invocation of Osain, the god of herbs and healing, and the selection of a novice as a child of Yemayá, Changó, Elegguá, or any of the other orishas.  For 10 points, identify this religion, similar to voodoo, which combines elements of Yoruba and Roman Catholic tradition, and is noted for its animal sacrifices. Answer: Santería14.  Some of his early one-act plays, including Laurette and Colin and Colette, were intended for private staging.  Among his offerings to the public were the libretto about a general of Hormuz who would become king for the Salieri opera Tarare, and an account of a young innocent noblewoman, Eugénie.  He is better-known for characters which may have initially formed in part in his play Le Sacritan and a four-part series explaining his legal issues with Judge Goezman, and later appeared in a trilogy of plays ended by La Mére coupable.  For 10 points, name this French playwright of The Barber of Seville and The Marriage of Figaro.Answer: Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais15.  Among its influential thinkers were Wang Anshi, who proposed a modern-style tax reform which high government officials claimed was against the way of Two Emperors, and the philosopher Zhu Xi, whose ideas were later incorporated into civil service exams.  Despite a stagnant economy, it was noted for a large increase in its output of iron, and gunpowder, cannons, and flamethrowers were developed in a period which some have called the Chinese industrial revolution, but it was eventually overtaken with a loss to Kublai Khan at Xiangyang.  For 10 points, name this dynasty, which followed the T'ang and was conquered by the Mongols in 1279.Answer: Sung or Song Dynasty16.  On the big screen, this actress played Lisa, a lesbian whose girlfriend wants to have a baby for her barren sister, in 1999's Chutney Popcorn.  Also appearing in I Shot Andy Warhol, and Robocop 3, she is better known for her work with NBC.  She appeared as Jackie Kennedy in the miniseries "Jackie, Ethel, Joan: The Women of Camelot" and has had her two most known character cross over to episodes of Homicide and Las Vegas.  For 10 points, name this actress, best known for her roles as Claire Kincaid on Law and Order and the title M.E. on Crossing Jordan.Answer: Jill Hennessy17.  The current shortage in capacity of commercial space launch vehicles has been likened to this situation.  Though Keynesians believed that the Phillips curve made it impossible because a rise in unemployment lowers demand for goods and services, it occurred in the 1970s and was believed to be caused by the abandonment of the gold standard and the Arabian oil embargo.  For 10 points, give this term, used to apply to a period of high inflation coupled with high unemployment.Answer: stagflation18.  The second was a cousin of Anne Neville, a prime suspect in the disappearance of the Princes in the Tower, and a grandson of the first, Humphrey Stafford, who supported the Lancastrians in the Wars of the Roses and died in the Battle of Northampton.  Another was a member of the Cabal, and his father, George Villiers was given this title in 1623, though he later became unpopular for his failed expedition in Cádiz.  For 10 points, name this title, perhaps most famously held by John Sheffield, whose townhouse built in 1707 grew into the present-day residence of the Royal Family.Answer: Duke of Buckingham19.  A 2005 study found that nasally administered doses of this hormone fosters trust, while a recent experiment at Japan's Tohoku University found that mice with an inability to process it acted more aggressively and were more likely to neglect their young.  Massages have also been found to increase its production; in reaction to stress, the adrenal glands release catecholamines, which inhibit its function.  Structurally similar to vasopressin, for 10 points, name this hormone, which is known to cause contractions of smooth muscle to aid in lactation and birth.Answer: oxytocin (NOT oxycontin)20.  One legend says that he lost his eyes playing a game with the birds, who replace them with new ones made of yellow pine gum.  Another claims that he tied a branch to his tail and set fire to it in order to attract game for hunters.  The Chumash have a story of how he nearly burned up the Earth when the Sun let him handle his torch, while the Navajo credit him with placing the unnamed stars in the sky, and the Crow believe that he formed man the first man from a pile of mud.  For 10 points, name this trickster god of Native Americans of the Plains, West and Southwest.Answer: Coyote21.  In a system, the work done to create a surface is proportional to the change in this quantity.  In a canonical ensemble it is preferred to its isobaric counterpart as it is proportional to the natural logarithm of the system's partition function and the temperature of the system.  Equal to the maximum amount of work a system can do at constant volume, for 10 points, name this state function given by the difference between a system's internal energy and a produce of its temperature and entropy.Answer: Helmholtz free energy or work function22.  Juliet purchases a print of this painting in Alice Munro's Runaway only to find it hidden in the attic later.  At the top, a man carries a scythe near a church, while a woman seems to be dancing on a roof of a house, both of which are upside down.  Part of the sky can be seen on a cow's right cheek, and under it, a milkmaid is tending to another cow, while a green man wearing a beaded cross on the right holds a plant. For 10 points, name this 1911 painting by Marc Chagall. Answer: I and the Village23.  A member of the War Reparations Board in the wake of the Versailles Peace Conference, this close friend of Thomas Dewey was appointed to replace Robert Wagner in Congress in 1949.  The next year, he served as a delegate to the U.N. General Assembly, and wrote a criticism of the policy of containment, proposing a policy of "liberation" to replace it in 1950's War or Peace.  Better known for a policy which he claimed was "the ability to get on the verge without getting into war," for 10 points, name this Secretary of State under Eisenhower, known for executing a policy of brinkmanship, whose name graces Washington DC's international airport.Answer: John Foster Dulles24.  An alloy of this element with tin has been suggested as a replacement for water to cool microchips, while some research in dentistry is focused on replacing mercury in dental amalgams with it.  Used in an alloy to stabilize plutonium in nuclear weapons, and its 67-isotope has a high affinity for tumor cells and white blood cells, and is used in a namesake scan for lymphoma.  The lightest metal at temperatures just above room temperature that exists as a liquid, for 10 points, name this metalloid with atomic number thirty-one, which is most commonly found in a semiconductor with arsenic.Answer: gallium25.  The "funneling" that took place is explained in Malcolm Gladwell's The Tipping Point as dependent upon a few major connectors.  Mathematician Duncan Watts recently expanded it to cover 60,000 participants in 166 countries, with only about three percent of E-mail chains actually reaching their targets, while the original experiment asked 96 people to find an acquaintance who would know how to get a parcel to a person in Boston.  For 10 points, name this experiment in social networking performed by Stanley Milgram, which showed that on average, any two Americans are six degrees of separation apart from one another.Answer: small world experiment (prompt on Milgram experiment until Milgram is mentioned)
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rutgers (Jason Keller)Bonuses1.  Since most of you would probably not like to hear a bonus that puts the tournament director on ice, put up with these questions about figure skaters instead for 10 points each.(10) This younger sibling of a former Yale student fought her way to a sixth-place finish in her first senior national championship last year, and she posted a competitive score in winning bronze at the World Junior Championships.Answer: Emily Hughes(10) She has opted to skate in the Cup of China after skipping the ISU Grand Prix series in the past few years.  In January, she will attempt to win her tenth national championship and in February, she will go for an Olympic gold to add to the silver and bronze she received in 1998 and 2002 respectively.Answer: Michelle Kwan(10) Five feet, two inches of pure concentrated evil, this world silver medalist of 2004 and 2005 may be the best American hope for a gold medal in Torino even though she has never won a national championship.Answer: Sasha Cohen2.  Name these mythological figures who had children by Zeus, for 10 points each.(10) Her fashioning of a helmet caused Zeus great headaches, as he had swallowed this first wife, fearing that her daughter on the way, Athena, would give birth to a god more powerful than him.Answer: Metis(10) Best known for being blindfolded and holding a pair of scales, this goddess of justice mothered the goddesses of the Seasons and the Fates by Zeus.Answer: Themis(10) Among the children that Zeus had with this goddess were Hebe and Ares.Answer: Hera3.  I don't have a test on colonial South African conflicts coming up, but here's a bonus on it anyway.  Answer these questions for 10 points each.(10) Stemming from border disputes involving Transvaal, Natal, and a native territory, it began in 1879 after natives refused to submit to High Commissioner Henry Bartle Frere's demands to bring its army and governance under greater colonial control.Answer: Anglo-Zulu War (10) Baron Chelmsford's decision to leave camp and not return allowed the Zulu an initial success, as they overwhelmed a British camp guarded by South Wales Borders and Natal natives in this January 22 battle.Answer: Battle of Isandlwana (10) This Zulu king, whose power posed a threat to the High Commisioner's, led the troops to victory at Isandlwana, but was later caught in his capital, Ulundi and exiled to London.Answer: Cetshwayo4.  Name these Shakespeare characters from deaths for the stated number of points.(10) For ten points, he is caught eavesdropping in Gertrude's bedroom and is stabbed to death by Hamlet.Answer: Polonius(5,5) For five points each, Titus Andronicus probably carves these two sons of Tamora up so they are suitable to be served in a meat pie.Answer: Chiron and Demetrius(10) For a final ten, revealing that she is not wicked but is good, she reveals how Cassio came into possession of Desdemona's handkerchief, but then gets stabbed by her husband Iago.Answer: Emilia5.  30-20-10, name the person.(30) A dabbler in sonnets, some of which may have been published with a given surname Stanhope, "Reprieve," which talks of a fifteen-year age difference between lovers, and "For the Hour after Love," which extols sleep after a woman's kiss, are among this academic's poems.(20)  Editor of the Journal of American Folk-lore during the 1930s, this anthropologist is also responsible for the 1934 article "Anthropology and the Abnormal" and 1940's Race: Science and Politics.(10) She is most famous for writing Zuni Mythology, The Chrysanthemum and the Sword, and Patterns of Culture.Answer: Ruth Fulton Benedict6.  Name these Latin American boom authors who are neither Guillermo Cabrera Infante nor Guillermo Cabrera Infante for 10 points each.(10) Among this ex-presidential candidate's works are a fictional account of the dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo, The Feast of the Goat, and the autobiographically-based La casa verde and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa(10) He urges the people of the United States to regain control of the country and use its power for the greater good in 2004's Contra Bush, but is better know for El gringo viejo and La muerte de Artemio Cruz.Answer: Carlos Fuentes(10) The Obscene Bird of the Night and Coronación are among this Chilean author's most noted works.Answer: José Donoso7.  Answer these questions relating to graph theory for 10 points each.(10) For a graph, this is a subset of vertices such that no two vertices share a common edge.  It can also be thought of as the complement of a vertex cover.Answer: independent set (10) If a positional game can be represented as a graph, this subset of vertices, which is both independent and absorbing, represents all losing positions in a standard game.  In another setting, this term can be used in place of null space.Answer: kernel(10) Finding an independent set, a vertex cover, or a Hamiltonian cycle in a graph, are all problems that fall into this complexity class, the set of "hardest" problems that can be verified nondeterministically in polynomial time.Answer: NP-complete8. "No rays from the holy heaven come down" to this place in which the "shrines and palaces and towers... resemble nothing that is hours."  For 10 points each...(10) Name this location, in which "Death has reared himself a throne" in an 1831 poem.Answer: The City in the Sea(10) Name the poet of the "The City in the Sea" as well as "To Helen" and "The Raven."Answer: Edgar Allan Poe(10) The title figure of this Poe poem, a maiden living in a kingdom by the sea, is killed by a cold wind from the heavens, whose residents are jealous of her love for the speaker.Answer: Annabel Lee9.  From lyrics, name these somehow-related musical groups on a 10-5 basis.(10) "This is no place special.  I don't know why I came.  If someone has a minute, won't you explain?"(5) "It must have been love but it's over now... It's where the water flows.  It's where the wind blows."Answer: Roxette(10) "I look in the mirror and what do I see?  You're the same kind of person; you're like me, and I can't run away I'm so attracted to you..."(5) "No one's gonna drag you up to get into the light where you belong...But where do you belong?"Answer: Ace of Base(10) "Oh, I think you're standing on my left foot.  It's hurting, but that's OK, 'cause I'm in your way..."(5) "Love me, love me... Say that you love me!"Answer: The Cardigans10.  He pulled Russia out of the Seven Years' War and attempted to force the Orthodox Church to adopt Lutheran principles.  For 10 points each...(10) Name this czar who ruled for six months in 1762.Answer: Peter III Fyodorovitch(10) Name the wife of Peter III who established the Free Economic Society a few years after becoming czarina upon his death.Answer: Catherine the Great or Catherine II(10) A man claiming to be Peter III led this Cossack uprising in which the rebels took Kazan before being quashed by Peter Panin's forces.  It took Catherine almost a year to regard the rebellion as a threat to her power.Answer: Pugachev rebellion11.  A child's death from meningitis prompts him to write music that attempts to "take away" from Beethoven's "Ode to Joy," and the premiere of these arrangements on his farm ends when he dies after striking the first chord.  For 10 points each...(10) Name this composer, who makes a pact with the devil not to love anyone for 24 years in exchange for musical creativity.Answer: Adrian Leverkuhn (accept either)(10) Adrian Leverkuhn is the protagonist of this Thomas Mann novel.Answer: Doktor Faustus(10) Doktor Faustus is narrated by this schoolmaster and friend of Leverkuhn.Answer: Serenus Zeitblom (accept either)12.  For 10 points each, linguistics a-go-go!  (10) Migration to southeastern England after the Black Death may be responsible for this quickness of this transition in pronunciations from Middle English to Modern English.Answer: Great Vowel Shift(10) The two high vowels of Middle English became these sounds, a smooth transition between two vowel sounds which may be perceived as a single unit.Answer: diphthong(10) This Anglicist and co-founder of the IPA published Growth and Structure of the English Language in 1905, and was responsible for coining the term "Great Vowel Shift."Answer: (Jens) Otto (Harry) Jespersen13.  Name these related probability concepts for 10 points each.(10) This discrete probability distribution represents the probability that it will take a given number of Bernoulli trials to record the first success.Answer: geometric distribution(10) For a geometric distribution with parameter p, this value, a probability-weighted mean of a random variable, is 1/p.Answer: expectation(10) In this paradox, a game in which a coin is tossed pays 2n dollars if heads comes up on the nth flip, and regardless of the number of losses that have occurred, the expected payoff gives a player reason to bet a finite amount of money.Answer: Saint Petersburg paradox 14.  Y super gracias a Goya!  Name this stuff for 10 points each.(10) Unlike Peter Paul Rubens depiction, this Black Painting portrays a crude act of cannibalism, with an unidentifiable cadaver as one the title figures.Answer: Saturno devorando a su hijo or Saturn Devouring His Son (or His Children)(10) Goya was the court painter to this monarch, and in a famous group portrait, he and his family are quite grotesque looking.Answer: Charles IV(10) Goya painted a comic depiction of a scene from this epic in which the title character's mouth is held open by a blind old man who wants to make sure that he has eaten the supper he has been given.Answer: Lazarillo de Tormes15.  Answer these related questions for 10 points each.(10) First gaining fame for the capture of Jugurtha, this general was also on hand for Quintus Lutatius Catulus's victory over the Cimbri at Vercella in 101 BCE.Answer: Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix(10) The capture of Aeclanum during this rebellion, in which Rome's neighbor states rose up demanding Roman citizenship, brought Sulla to the fore and resulted in his first election as consul in 88 BCE.Answer: Social War(10) Though noted for the success of Crassus on the right in driving back the Samnites and Senate forces, Sulla was installed as dictator in 82 the day after his victory in this battle on the outskirts of Rome.Answer: Battle of the Colline Gate16.  Jewish holidays, 10 points each.(10) Occurring five days after Yom Kippur, this thanksgiving for the fruit harvest is also known as the Festival of Booths.Answer: Sukkot(10) This seventh day of Sukkot traditionally features the beating of the willow branch and is considered the final day of the sealing of judgment for the new year.Answer: Hoshana Rabbah(10) Reform Jews that observe it may celebrate it at the same time as Simchat Torah.  Literally meaning "eighth day of assembly," traditions at this end to Sukkot include extra prayers for rain.Answer: Shemini Atzeret17.  Answer these related biology questions for 10 points each.(10) Commonly used in applying PCR to RNA, this enzyme, which aids in the transfer of genetic information from RNA to DNA, can also be used to create cDNA libraries from mRNA.Answer: reverse transcriptase(10) These viruses invade a host cell and create DNA copies of viral RNA in a process mediated by reverse transcriptase.  Examples include feline leukemia and HIV.Answer: retroviruses(10) This genome of this sexually transmitted disease, whose virion is known as the Dane particle, encodes a DNA polymerase which acts as a reverse transcriptase in the latter stages of viral reproduction, making it one of the few viruses to use reverse transcription that is not a retrovirus.Answer: hepatitis B18.  Stuff about Melanesia, for 10 points each.(10) The Trobriand Islands and the autonomous territory of Bougainville are among the holdings of this nation, which shares its western border with Indonesia.Answer: Papua New Guinea(10) Thanks in part to the intervention of Papua New Guinea, this nation retained its largest island, Espiritu Santo in the early 1980s.  Other major islands include Efate, on which its capital, Port Vila, lies.Answer: Vanuatu(10) Vanuatu claims the Matthew and Hunter islands, as does France, who believe that the islands ought to be a part of this overseas department, whose lands include the Loyalty Islands, which lie just east of the mainland on Grande Terre.Answer: New Caledonia19. Answer these related questions for 10 points each.(10) According to special relativity, these particles will have imaginary rest mass if their energy and momentum are real-valued.  Its speed increases as its energy decreases.Answer: tachyons(10) Tachyons may violate this principle of particle physics, as their interactions with matter may be observed in different orders in different frames of reference, blurring the distinction between future and past events.Answer: causality(10) A particle faster than the speed of light, classified as a tachyon even though it had real rest mass, was supposedly observed in 1973 in this type of electromagnetic radiation.Answer: cosmic rays20.  Answer these related questions for 10 points each(10) Including the example of a waiter in a café to illustrate the concept of "bad faith," this 1943 work proposes that a human being is both an object or "en-soi" and consciousness, or "pour-soi."Answer: L'Etre et le Neant or Being and Nothingness (10) This author of Reason and Revolution: Hegel and the Rise of Social Theory and Eros and Civilizaton is also known for criticizing the idea of "free choice" present in Being and Nothingness.Answer: Herbert Marcuse(10) In this 1964 work, Marcuse argues that an "advanced industrial society" creates false needs, which will result in the title entity, with man losing his capacity to think critically or hold an opposing viewpoint.Answer: One-Dimensional Man21.  Among this faction's political successes were the election of Silas Wright as governor in 1844.  For 10 points each...(10) Name this group of radical New York Democrats, who supported the Wilmot Proviso and opposed the reforms of William H. Seward in the aftermath of the Panic of 1837.Answer: Barnburners(10) The Barnburners were opposed by this faction that was itself split between "hards" and "softs."  Named for the desires of its members to hold political office, its ranks included William Marcy.Answer: Hunkers(10) The nomination of Lewis Cass for the presidency in 1848 caused Barnburners to bolt from the Democratic party and support this recently-founded party, which ran Martin van Buren.Answer: Free Soil Party22.  Name the architects of these New York City landmarks, 5-5-10-10.( ) With Philip C. Johnson, the Seagram BuildingAnswer: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe( ) Carnegie Hall TowerAnswer: Cesar Pelli( ) Chrysler BuildingAnswer: William van Allen( ) Flatiron BuildingAnswer: Daniel Burnham23.  J.S. Bach works, for 10 points each.(10) Antonio Caldara's Magnificat and a work of Palestrina influenced Bach's writing of this four-part work.  CPE Bach was the first to perform its Gloria section. Answer: Mass in B Minor (BWV 232)(10) It consists of three parts: a trio sonata for violin, flute, and continuo, a three-part and six-part ricercar, and ten canons on a theme provided by Frederick the Great.Answer: Das Musikalische Opfer or The Musical Offering(10) Bookended by the choruses "Herr, unser Herrscher" and "Ruht wohl," this work, noted for its palindromic structure, this work, composed in 1723, underwent many changes, including the removal and readdition of segments borrowed from the Gospel of Matthew.  Arvo Pärt also completed one in 1982.Answer: Johannes-Passion or St. John Passion24.  Identify these organic reactions which involve alcohols for 5 for one, 20 for two, 30 for all three.( ) Yeast produce carbon dioxide and ethanol from glucose and water in this biological process.Answer: fermentation (Hence the 5 for one part.)( ) In this reaction, a primary or secondary alcohol may be oxidized in the presence of a sulfuric acid and chromium(VI) oxide reagent to form an aldehyde or ketone.  This can be used to distinguish tertiary alcohols, which do not undergo this reaction, from primary and secondary alcohols.Answer: Jones oxidation( ) In a sulfuric acid catalyst, a carboxylic acid and an alcohol are refluxed, yielding water and a namesake compound.Answer: Fischer esterification25. Say "EH!" for these Canadian Prime Ministers, 10 points each, eh?(10) This "savior of the world" introduced universal health care, bilingualism, and the Maple Leaf flag during his tenure and won a Nobel Peace Prize for mediating the Suez Canal crisis.Answer: Lester Bowles Pearson(10) Under this leader, Canada joined NATO.  Domestically, his administration oversaw the construction of the St. Lawrence Seaway and the Trans-Canada Highway.Answer: Louis St. Laurent(10) Though the Canadian Bill of Rights was signed during his term, this Progressive Conservative was probably best remembered for his refusal to allow the purchase of nuclear weapons and for canceling plans for the design and construction of the Avro Arrow.Answer: John George Diefenbaker