Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Harding College (Jason Loy and David Ashley), Williams B, and Yale (Mike Wehrman)1. It was written to fulfill a contract with the publisher Stellovsky, and the author barely met his November 1866 deadline. The General anxiously awaits the death of his aunt Antonida Tarasevitcheva, whose fortune would allow him to pay his debt to the Marquis de Grieux. The Marquis is loved by Polina, who uses the titular character's infatuation for her for financial gain. Dictated in less than a month to Anna Snitkina, the author's future wife, FTP, name this Dostoyevsky novel featuring Alexey Ivanovitch, who becomes addicted to roulette.A: The Gambler2.  His sister Anne Phillips' miscarriage inspired his "On the Death of a Fair Infant Dying of a Cough", and was expelled from Cambridge for starting a fist fight with a tutor. A staunch supporter of the Commonwealth, his Eikonklastes and Defensio were publicly burned, and he wrote his The Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce after his first wife, Mary Powell, left him. T.S. Eliot described him as "withered by book learning", a quality described in his Il Penseroso. FTP, name this author of an elegy of Edward King entitled Lycidas, a masque entitled Comus, Samson Agonistes, and an account "of Man's first disobedience, Paradise Lost.A: John Milton 3.  Electrons in the atoms of the insulator are displaced by the charged particle, and emit photons upon their return to ground state. Named for a 1958 Nobel winner, it is known as the Smith-Purcell effect when it occurs with no minimum particle velocity.  It is produced when a charged particle passes through an insulator at a speed greater than that of light in that medium FTP, name this radiation that is responsible for the characteristic blue glow of nuclear reactors.Answer: Cherenkov radiation or Cerenkov radiation (also accept Cherenkov effect)4.  In contrast to the rest of the Eastern state in which it was located, this region had a wild, frontier-like quality to it. Perhaps this was one reason it was so susceptible to religious fanaticism; besides the more conventional Pentecostals and Shakers, the area also gave rise to the séance-obsessed Spiritualists and the Millerites, who preached that Jesus would return on October 23, 1844. For 10 points, name this rural region of western New York, most famous for giving rise to Mormonism and the women's suffrage movement.Answer: Burned-Over District5.  They were originally a merchant family from the Quraysh tribe around Mecca.  Its rulers included Abd-al-Malik, who built the Dome of the Rock. After adding the Maghreb, Transoxiana, and Spain to its territory, challenges to its authority arose including the slighted non-Arab mawali; Ibn-Zubayr, an anti-caliph; and a civil war during the brief reign of Marwan I. Founded by Mu'awiyah, FTP, name this Damascus-based caliphate in power from 660 to 749 that was replaced by the Abbasid caliphate.A: Umayyad Caliphate or Umayyad Dynasty6.  Vasari considered this man's Saint Peter Martyr altarpiece his greatest work. He received commissions from both Isabella d'Este of Mantua and Alfonso, Duke of Ferrara, for whom he painted Worship of Venus and Bacchus and Ariadne. Also patronized by Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and Philip II of Spain, his late paintings, including Ecce Homo, were drastically different from his early work, which closely resembled that of Cariani and Giorgione. FTP, name this Venetian surnamed Vecellio who painted Sacred and Profane Love, Noli me tangere, and Venus of Urbino.A: Titian (accept Tiziano Vecellio on early buzz)7.  It is possible that she is mentioned in Genesis 1:2 because of the similarity between her name and the Hebrew word for "the deep". Called the Ummu-Hubur who created all things, she is a personification of chaos and saltwater and the owner of the Tablets of Destiny, which she gave to her son Kingu, who became her lover after the death of Apsu. The mother of Lachmu and Lachamu, she was killed by either her grandson Anu or Ea's son Marduk. FTP, name this Babylonian dragon goddess.A: Tiamat8.  Officially ended by the Enabling Act, it was antagonized by the rightist Harzburg Front, which was led by the DNVP. Highlights include the Kapp Putsch, the assassinations of Rathenau and Erzberger, and extreme political instability, as evidenced by twenty-one cabinets and eight general elections in fourteen years. With key figures including foreign affairs minister Gustav Streseman and Reichskanzelers Heinrich Bruning and Friedrich Ebert, FTP, name this German republic in existence from 1919 to 1933. A: Weimar Republic9.  Its president believes that this nation lacks a national identity-so he has set out to rebuild it in his own image. Gigantic statues and portraits of him and his mother grace every street of its capital city; the largest is atop the Neutrality Arch. This president, Saparmurat Niyazov recently announced plans to build a vast ice palace for himself in the middle of his nation's Kara Kum Desert. For 10 points, name this nation with capital at Ashgabat led by an insane, insane man.Answer: Turkmenistan10.  It takes the form of a 38-story bronze-colored slab set back from the street by a wide plaza containing sculptures and two reflecting pools. Deemed "the country's most copied office building," this skyscraper was so influential that the New York City zoning laws were revised to make other buildings like it possible. FTP, name this famous building on Park Avenue in Midtown Manhattan designed by architects Philip Johnson and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.Answer: the Seagram Building  (also accept Seagram's, since that is the name of the company)11.  This practice shares its name with a type of geological formation found in the deserts of the Southwest. In this belief system, amulets consisting of small sacks of charms are known as mojos Centered around the influence of supernatural forces on its believers' everyday lives, it draws heavily on Native American folklore, but is mostly based on traditional African practices, and its name may derive from a more established quasi-religion. FTP, name this folk religion of the southern United States.Answer: hoodoo (prompt on "conjuration" or equivalents)12.  First discovered in 1844, it is the nitrogenous compound found in spider excretions. The biological precursor of pteridins, folic acid, and riboflavin, its official name is 2-amino-6-hydroxupurine. It also accounts for the iridescence of fish scales and shininess of many amphibians.  Forming a base pair with cytosine in DNA, FTP, name this purine that gets its name from a type of excrement.A: Guanine13.  A member of the Arpad dynasty and son of the chieftain Geza, the cross on his famous crown is crooked, suggesting it was not meant to be placed atop the crown but hang sideways.  This object of his was given to the US army to be kept out of Soviet hands and kept in Fort Knox until 1978.  Originally it was a gift of pope Sylvester II who crowned him the first king of his nation on Christmas Day 1000. Known for preventing German conquest of his state, FTP name this national hero and first king of Hungary.Answer:  Saint Stephen I of Hungary or Istvan 14.  Consisting of a support medium and two glass plates, this method of separating molecules is often associated with the isolation of integral membrane proteins.  It utilizes an electrical field to separate charged molecules, with the rate of separation determined by not only the charge of the molecule, but also its size.   The medium may consist of paper, cellulose acetate, starch, but most often consists of a gel such as agarose or polyacrylamide.  For ten points, name this technique often used with SDS detergent as PAGE.A: Electrophoresis15.  Its largest is Itu Aba, and another is known as Storm Island, and the only permanent inhabitants there are turtles and sea birds. This group of over 100 small islands and reefs is surrounded by deposits of oil and natural gas, as well as by some of the richest fishing grounds in the South China Sea. They are variously occupied by the militaries of no less than five nations; all or part of the group is claimed by China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, and the Philippines. FTP, name this politically disputed group of islands.Answer: the Spratly Islands16.  A renowned debater, the Venetian printer Aldus Manutius the Younger introduced him to local Italian humanists, though his popularity led to his downfall, as he was probably slain by the Mantuan prince Vincenzo Gonzaga.  Thomas Urquhart's 1652 painting The Discovery of a Most Exquisite Jewel shows the esteem his countrymen had for him long after his death, and this theme was explored in a play about him by J.M. Barrie.  FTP name this "admirable" Scottish man of letters.Answer:  James Crichton17.His "coordinates", hyperbolic cosine a + r hyperbolic sine a, correspond to his eponymous model of a three-dimensional metric space of the hyperbolic variety, and along with Cauchy, developed the epsilon-delta method of representing infinitesimals. His approximation theorem states that if a function f is continuous on the interval [a,b], then there is a sequence of polynomials converging uniformly to f. The first to prove that the complex numbers are the commutative algebraic extension of the real numbers and the first to discover a non-differentiable continuous function, FTP, name this "father of analysis". A: Karl Weierstrass18.  Though the only experience he had in war was as a journalist, most famously in the Spanish-American War, he wrote many war stories such as The Little Regiment and the poetry collection War is Kind.  He died in Germany of tuberculosis and malaria in 1900, three years after he was mistakenly reported as drowned in the sinking of the Commodore.  The poetry collection The Black Riders was published in 1895, the same year as his most famous war novel. For 10 points, name this author of The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky and The Red Badge of Courage.Answer: Stephen Crane19. His Relation, published in 1611, details the affairs of his colony, and his deputy Samuel Argall's tyranny caused him to sail back to the New World, though he died en route in 1618.  In 1610 he was appointed governor and Captain General of Virginia for life, and he arrived at Jamestown just in time to intercept angry and fed up colonists heading back to Britain.  He then constructed forts and rebuilt the colony.  The namesake of an Indian tribe also known as the Lenape, FTP name this man also the namesake of a bay, river, and a state with only three counties.Answer: Thomas West, 12th Baron de la Warr or Delaware20.  John Goodricke discovered the first one in 1784, and their period luminosity was described by Henrietta Leavitt in 1912.  They come in varieties of both Type I and Type II, with Type I oscillating in the primary mode while Type II oscillates in the first overtone. Their absolute magnitude can easily be found, as it is in direct relation to their period. FTP, name these stars that have regular intervals of brightness, and whose prototype star is delta Cephei.Answer: Cepheid Variables
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Harding College (Jason Loy and David Ashley), Williams B, and Yale (Mike Wehrman)Bonuses1.  Located in St. Petersburg, this company is descended from the Russian Imperial Ballet.  Its name was changed during the Soviet era, now is back to its original name.  FTPE give:A.  The current name of this ballet company which derives from the theater in which it is in residence.Answer:  Maryinsky or Mariinsky BalletB.  The Mariinsky went by this name during the days of the Soviet Union.Answer:  Kirov Ballet C.  After many of the performers left for the West, he was the premier danseur of the Kirov until 1961 and was artistic director until 1970.  His famous partners included Galina Ulanova, and Natalya Dudinskaya, whom he married.  He was fired when on tour in Britain the Kirov's most famous ballerina defected.  Name either one for ten points.Answer:  Konstantin Sergeyev or Natalya Makarova2.  Answer the following questions about George Orwell's nonfictional works for 10 points each.A.  Published in 1933, this was Orwell's first book, a personal account of his life in poverty in the two title cities. Answer: Down and Out in Paris and LondonB.  In this short essay, a narrative set during his time as an Imperial Policeman in southeast Asia, Orwell caustically noted that "when the white man turns tyrant it is his own freedom that he destroys." Answer: Shooting an ElephantC.  This 1938 work, another personal account, alternates between descriptions of Orwell's life in Barcelona and his journalistic coverage of the Spanish Civil War. Answer: Homage to Catalonia3.  Answer these related questions for ten points each.A.  This 1989 movie stars Shelley Long as a housewife in the midst of divorce proceedings taking over a Wilderness Girl troop, of which her daughter Hannah, played by Jenny Lewis, is a member.  The district leader, Velda tries to sabotage the unorthodox outings of the group.Answer: Troop Beverly Hills B.  This Nickelodeon series set at a summer camp concerned the schemes of Donkeylips, Bobby Budnick, and others against their hapless counselor Kevin "Ug" Lee.Answer:  Salute Your ShortsC.  Blake Sennett, who portrayed Pinsky in Salute Your Shorts, and Jenny Lewis are the two chief members of this rock band whose most recent album, More Adventurous, features the songs "Portions for Foxes," and "It's a Hit."Answer:  Rilo Kiley4.  Answer the following questions, for 10 points each, about the three unifiers of premodern Japan.A.  The first of the three unifiers, he slaughtered the Ikko Buddhist sect in 1574. Answer: Oda NobunagaB. He is known for two invasions of Korea and the "Sword Hunt" in 1588. Answer:  Toyotomi HideyoshiC. He consolidated his rule as the first Tokugawa shogun after his victory at Sekigahara in 1600. - Answer: Tokugawa Ieyasu5.  Given a modern-day European region, give the ancient Roman name of the region roughly equivalent to it for 10 points.A.  Ireland Answer:  HiberniaB.  Portugal Answer:  LusitaniaC. WalesAnswer: Cambria6.  Name the largest newspaper in terms of circulation for each of these US cities for 10 points each.A.  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Answer: Philadelphia InquirerB.  Hartford, Connecticut Answer: Hartford CourantC.  Cleveland, Ohio Answer:  Cleveland Plain Dealer7.  For 10 points each, name the following branches of the science of linguistics.A.  Scientists in this branch seek to create an inventory of all the component sounds of a language.Answer: phoneticsB.  A logical extension of phonetics, this branch analyzes the relationships between the sounds of a language and how they affect each other when found in close proximity. Answer: phonologyC.  The next step up from phonology, this branch of linguistics investigates the way groups of these phonemes are arranged to form words. Answer: morphology8.  Name these American plays, FTPE. A.  In this O'Neill work Larry Slade manages retain his sanity despite keeping company with Don Parritt and Hickey, whose long awaited arrival at the tavern leads to both Hickey and Parritt committing suicide.Answer: The Iceman ComethB.  Set in WWI-era France, this Maxwell Anderson work features a love triangle among Captain Flagg, First Sergeant Squirt, and Charmaine de la Cognac.Answer: What Price Glory?C.  This Odets drama is about the downfall of Joe Bonaparte, a gifted violinist who becomes corrupted by viciousness and greed when he chooses instead to become a prizefighter.Answer: Golden Boy9.  Identify the following about U.S.-Japanese relations, FTPE. A.  This 1854 treaty, negotiated by Matthew Perry, opened the ports of Shimoda and Hakodate to U.S. trade.Answer: Treaty of KanagawaB.  Two agreements of this name in 1900 and 1907 limited Japanese immigration to the United States.Answer:  Gentlemen's AgreementsC.  Modified by ex parte Endo, this 1944 Supreme Court case declared the constitutionality of Japanese relocation.Answer:  Korematsu v. United States10.  Identify the following from metallurgy, FTPE. A.This is the portion of an ore with no commercial value.Answer: Gangue (also accept matrix)B.  In this process, a sulfide ore is dried by exposure to an abundant flow of air and then converted into an oxide.Answer: RoastingC.  This is the hydrometallurgic process of extracting a metal from an ore by forming a complex ion.Answer: Leaching11.  Answer the following concerning hidden Jewish texts that are not the Dead Sea Scrolls.A.  This is the term from the Hebrew for "burial" that pertains to a "cemetery" for worn-out religious books and papers that aren't allowed to be thrown away or burned.Answer:  GenizaB.  The most famous geniza was found in 1864 by Jacob Saphir the synagogue of Fustat located in this Middle Eastern city.Answer:  CairoC.  Perhaps the most famous discovery made in the Cairo Geniza was a Hebrew version of this apocryphal book by a man known as Jesus, the son of the title figure, of which only Latin or Greek versions had been known.  In Catholic circles its name means "churchly."Answer:  Sirach or Ecclesiasticus or The Wisdom of Jesus Son of Sirach12.  Identify the following psychologists, FTPE.A.  This Frenchman believed that all language is related to loss or absence and reinterpreted Freud's Oedipus complex, rechristening the father "The Law". His concept of "The Other" explains the false concept of the self.Answer: Jacques LacanB.  A colleague of Hermann von Helmholtz, this German developer of introspective research headed the Leipzig Institute for Experimental Psychology is often called the "Father of Psychology".Answer: Wilhelm WundtC.  Known for saying "If you truly want to understand something, try to change it," this German-American developer of field theory and the concept of genidentity wrote A Dynamic Theory of Personality and argued against the psychoanalytic school that human behavior is a function of both the person and his environment.Answer: Kurt Lewin13.  Answer the following about a figure of the French Enlightenment.A.  He was the chief editor of the period's masterwork L'enyclopedie, or Encyclopedia.Answer:  Denis DiderotB.  Diderot enlisted this mathematician as co-editor of the Encyclopedia, who served as editor of the math and science articles.Answer: Jean Le Rond D'Alembert (do not accept "Samuel D'Alembert")C.  Goethe published this novel in German before it was published in French after Diderot's death.  It concerns the conversations held by "Moi," or Diderot, and the young, headstrong relative of a French composer.Answer:  Rameau's Nephew or Le Neveu de Rameau14.  Answer these related physics questions, FTPE.A.  This is a gas of free charged particles. Its existence was predicted by Faraday, who called it radiant matter.A: plasmaB.  Plasma was named by this British physicist who generated plasma in his namesake gas discharge tubes.A: William CrookesC.  Crookes developed this instrument in which alpha particles bombarded a zinc sulfide screen so they could be observed through a simple microscope.A: spinthariscope15.  Identify these ancient comedic playwrights, FTPE.a. The author of Hecyra and Phormio, his Andria was the basis of Thornton Wilder's The Woman of Andros. A: Terenceb. Terence borrowed heavily from this Greek comedian, author of The Woman of Samos, The Shield, and Dyscolus, which featured Knemon the misanthrope. A: Menanderc. His Aulalaria or Pot of Gold  was the basis of Girardoux's Amphitryon 38 and Cole Porter's Out of this World.A: Plautus16.  Answer the following concerning the geography of southwestern Africa. a. Lying between the two Congos and formerly known as Portuguese Congo, it considers itself independent although it is currently occupied by Angola. It has its capital at Tchiowa.A: Cabindab. This Namibian port city was returned to Namibia in 1994 after being part of South Africa's Cape Province.A: Walvis Bayc. This country contains the cities of Francistown and Ghanzi, as well as the Okavango Swamps and most of the Kalahari Desert.A: Botswana 17.  Name these animals from their common symbols in Native American myth, 5-10-15.A. It is seen as a bad omen and has a reputation as the quintessential trickster. Answer: CoyoteB.  This animal is considered a protector and carrier of prayers, visions, and spirits. Answer: EagleC.  This animal symbolizes fertility, long life, and perseverance, and is sometimes thought to defy death. Answer: Turtle18.  Identify the following from French history, FTPE. a. Led by Guillaume Karle, this 1358 peasant rebellion was quelled with his beheading at the hands of Charles II of Navarre.A: Jacquerieb. The successor of Charles VII, his attempts to curb the power of the nobles' caused the founding of the League of the Public Weal. He fought alongside against Edward IV during the Wars of the Roses. A: Louis XIc. Vincent Auriol and Rene Coty were the only presidents of this short-lived post WWII Republic.A: Fourth Republic19.  The dance suite was the most common genre of orchestral music in the Baroque period. Given a few characteristics, name the Baroque dance form for the stated number of points.A.  For five, a fast dance in 6/4 or 6/8 time with lively, uneven rhythms, derived from a popular Irish folk dance. Its name, like the dance, is a snooty, Frenchified version of the original.Answer: gigue or giga (do not accept jig)B.  For another five, the only Baroque dance form to survive into the Classical period, commonly used as the third movement of symphonies.Answer: minuet (also accept menuet or menuetto)C.  For ten, a slow, stately Spanish dance in 3/4 time, often with secondary accents on the second beat, attacked as a "lascivious love dance" by writers such as Cervantes .Answer: sarabandeD.  Also for 10, a 4/4 German dance in moderate tempo, characterized by its flowing motion and its 16th-note upbeat. Answer: allemande20. Identify these "hard to find" novels.A.  This James Hilton work concerns Hugh Conway who winds up in Shangri-La, a utopian community in Tibet.Answer: Lost HorizonB.  This novel written by Heinrich Böll reflects the feelings of the title character who was falsely accused by a tabloid as being involved in terrorist activities along with her lover.Answer:  The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum or Die verlorene Ehre der Katharina BlumC.  A work by Willa Cather, in this novel Niel Herbert adores the title character Marian Forrester but leaves her behind to go live in Boston.Answer:  The Lost Lady 30-20-10: Name the scientific concept.30 points: This law is sometimes cited as a manifestation of a technological singularity-the point at which technological progress will accelerate beyond our capacity to understand it.20 points: This is its original wording, published in 1965 in Electronics magazine: "The complexity for minimum component cost has increased at roughly a factor of two per year. Certainly over the short term this rate can be expected to continue, if not increase."10 points: This rule of exponential growth in technology is now used as a benchmark by nearly all manufacturers of computer hardware.Answer: Moore's Law