Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Mike Wehrman)
Tossups



1.  In 1976 he had three or more hits in six consecutive games, setting a Major League record, and won the first of his three batting titles.  More famously, perhaps, was an event the next year against the Yankees when he slid into third base and popped up and started whaling on Graig Nettles.  His team, though, lost three consecutive ALCS to the Yankees from 1976-8, before sweeping them in 1980, the same year that he won the AL MVP after hitting .390, the highest full-season average since 1941.  FTP, name this pine-tar-loving, Hall of Fame third and first baseman of the Kansas City Royals.
Answer:  George Brett

2.  It appeared six years after its author's death as an expanded edition called Several Poems Compiled with a Great Variety of Wit.  A theme of this work is the number four, with poems entitled "Four Seasons," "Four Constitutions," "Four Monarchies," and "Four Ages of Man," though its best known work "Contemplations," appeared in only the later edition in 1678, as well as the work "On the Burning of Her Home."  First published without the author's knowledge in London in 1650, it was the first volume of poems written in North America.  FTP, name this collection by Anne Bradstreet.
Answer:  The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America

3.  The name's the same: a German city in the Pfalz Forest near the French border that is the namesake of a luxury convertible-top carriage popular in the 18th century.  Lev was a Soviet physicist who won a 1962 Nobel Prize for his explanation of helium's superfluidity.  Jon was a Rolling Stone writer who became enamored with the work of Bruce Springsteen, becoming his manager and producing several of his albums.  Martin is an actor first famous for his role in the TV series Mission: Impossible.  He also is known for his portrayal of Prof. Petrovsky in Rounders and won the 1994 Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role as Bela Lugosi in Ed Wood.  FTP, give the common name.
Answer: Landau

4.  It has two holes known as mental foramen in its center.  On either side of it is an ascending portion known as the ramus.  On the top of each ramus is a coronoid process, to which the temporalis muscle attaches. At the upper back of each ramus is a chondyle that forms a movable joint with the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. The masseter muscle does much in bringing its alveolar margin into near contact with the alveolar margin of maxilla, enabling chewing to occur.  FTP name this lower jaw bone in humans.
Answer:  Mandible (prompt on early "jaw" or "lower jaw")

5.  On a very special 2-hour episode of Blossom where Blossom runs off to Paris, he played the part of Louie, and he starred as Gene in the Alfred Molina CBS vehicle Ladies Man.  Better-known TV work includes his roles as the voices of Buck Strickland and Bill Dauterive on King of the Hill.  He and Gary Cole both had roles in Dodgeball five years after Cole played his boss in a previous movie.  This film also involved his not getting a piece of cake, the moving of his office to Storage Room B, the confiscation of his beloved red Swingline stapler, and his eventual act of arson.  FTP name this character actor who played Jimmy James in News Radio as well as Milton in Office Space.
Answer: Stephen Root

6.  In the early medieval church, a type of "Lent," or period of fasting, named for him led up to the season of Advent from his feast day on November 11.  Born in what is now Hungary, he was a follower of Hilary of Poitiers before founding his own monastery at Marmoutier.  A famous story involving him took place outside the gates of Amiens, when he cut his cloak in half, giving part of it to a beggar.  This was noted in Sulpicius Severus' hagiographical work, and Gregory, his 6th-century successor as bishop, chronicled other miracles.  FTP name this 4th-century saint who became the bishop of Tours.
Answer:  St. Martin of Tours

7.  Its developer taught at the University of Grenoble, and substances that conform to it are known as "ideal." It was discovered around 1886 when its namesake discovered that the freezing point of a solution is lowered in proportion to the amount of non-electrolytic substance dissolved in it, and it made it possible to determine the weights of dissolved substances.  FTP name this law that states that the vapor pressure of each component of a solution will be equal to the vapor pressure of the pure substance times the mole fraction in the solution.
Answer:  Raoult's Law

8.  A painting of his studio by Henri Fantin-LaTour was mocked in a caricature known as Jesus Painting Among His Disciples. He traveled to Holland and painted an 1873 homage to the work of Franz Hals entitled Le Bon Bock, or The Good Pint. Edgar Degas bought and reassembled the four surviving segments of his cut-up Execution of Maximilian. His The Fifer was rejected by the Salon in Paris in 1866, though this was nothing unusual, as the so-called "Salon des Refusés" had exhibited his most famous work.  FTP name this French painter adored by the Impressionists, known for Olympia and Luncheon on the Grass.
Answer:  Edouard Manet

9.  A law graduate of Cumberland University, he served as a congressman from Tennessee from 1907 until 1933, when he was appointed to his most famous post, and during his time in Congress he authored the first federal income tax bill.  In 1943 he was the US representative at the Moscow Conference, after which he praised Stalin, and he also made numerous agreements with Vichy France, though DeGaulle later negated them.  FDR called him the "Father of the United Nations," and in 1945 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. FTP name this longtime Secretary of State under FDR.
Answer:  Cordell Hull

10.  One of his better works is an 1827 essay in black humor purporting to be a lecture at the Society of Connoisseurs in Murder, entitled On Murder Considered One of the Fine Arts, and he grew estranged from Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Southey after publishing Recollections of the Lakes and the Lake Poets.  The author of the Gothic novel Klosterheim, many of his works were for The London Magazine, which published his article "On the Knocking at the Gate in Macbeth" as well as his most famous work about his drugged-out destitution in London.  FTP name this essayist and critic who wrote Confessions of an English Opium Eater.
Answer:  Thomas De Quincey

11. Located along the Euphrates River between Aleppo and Baghdad, it was the site of two major finds in 1921.  The first dates from the early third century and contains wall paintings of several events from the Old Testament, unusual because of a commandment barring the use of graven images in synagogues.  The second structure found at this site is a 3rd-century Christian one and is also known for its paintings in the baptistery of a domus ecclesiae, or house church, which are now mostly in the Yale University Art Gallery.  FTP name this archeological site in Syria, a former multi-religious Roman frontier town containing the remains of the oldest preserved Christian church.
Answer:  Dura-Europos (-as) or Doura-Europos (now Qalat es Salihiye)

12.  His response to atrocities in Bulgaria led him to found a Socialist League in 1884.  Two years later in a work modeled on medieval dream visions, he went back to the time of the 1381 Peasants Revolt to speak with a dissenting priest entitled A Dream of John Ball, which was a forerunner of another socialist work entitled News From Nowhere. However, he is probably better known as an artisan.  These artistic projects took root in his home known as the Red House, and he designed furniture and stained glass as well as famous patterns for fabrics, tapestries, and wallpaper.  Often identified with the Pre-Raphaelites, FTP name this figure who saw high art as being enslaved by capitalism, a major figure in the Arts and Crafts movement.
Answer: William Morris

13.  It forms salts with most metals, and these are mostly water-soluble, though the salt formed with chromium is a notable exception.  It can be produced industrially by hydrating ethyne and then oxidizing the resulting aldehyde. Its pure form, known as the "glacial" variety was proven by Pierre Adet to be the same kind found naturally in oxidized ethyl alcohol.  FTP name this compound also known as ethanoic acid, with chemical formula CH3-COOH, which is found in vinegar.
Answer:  Acetic acid (accept early ethanoic acid)

14.  The protagonist falls in love with John Thornton despite their immensely different views, though she at first spurns his proposal of marriage.  This protagonist, Margaret Hale, moves to the bleak industrial town of Milton Northern, modeled after Manchester, where she supports a group of mill workers against the factory owner Thornton.  The author reflected the influence of Charlotte Bronte in her portrayal of Margaret as a tough and confident heroine.  FTP name this novel contrasting the two namesake regions of Britain, an 1855 work by Elizabeth Gaskell.
Answer:  North and South

15.  He mobilized opposition to the crazy doctrines of biologist T.D. Lysenko, and along with Igor Tamm proposed a way to confine hot ionized plasma with torus-shaped magnetic fields as a way to control thermonuclear fusion, the tokamak reactor.  In 1968 he published the tract "Progress, Coexistence, and Intellectual Freedom," which called for nuclear arms reductions and criticized the repression of Soviet dissidents.  FTP name this scientist who developed the Soviet hydrogen bomb, who won the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize for his stance against nuclear buildup.
Answer: Andrei Sakharov

16.  The area took form after the draining of the Collect Pond, though the land was refilled shoddily, creating swampy, pest-filled conditions.  It was marked by the intersection of Cross, Anthony, Little Water, Orange, and Mulberry Streets, which formed an intersection ironically named Paradise Square.  It was most populated after the Potato Famine, when waves of Irish immigrants moved in, but it was razed in 1880 because of its terrible conditions and replaced with city buildings, forcing many residents into the Lower East Side.  Fostering groups such as the Plug Uglies and the Dead Rabbits, FTP name this notoriously crime-ridden Manhattan neighborhood chronicled by Martin Scorsese in Gangs of New York.
Answer:  the Five Points

17.  Once wanting to be a priest, he joined the Army in 1846 to fight against the US, and went to law school at the behest of Benito Juarez.  However, he soon became dissatisfied with Juarez, protesting his re-election and then leading a revolt against new president Sebastian Lerdo de Tejada, which failed.  When he was in office, he encouraged foreign investment, though this led to much wealth being sent outside the country.  He served two terms in office, the second covering 26 years but was forced to resign in 1911 after a military coup in favor of Francisco Madero.  FTP name this longtime Mexican dictator.
Answer: Porfirio Diaz 

18.  Franz blows a kiss to the title character, which angers his fiancée Swanhilda, who ends up going into the title character's house to see what's up.  She and her friends are shocked to learn the identity of Franz's new love.  The title character's creator attempts to drug Franz and put his life spirit inside the creation, but is foiled when Swanhilda puts on the doll's clothes so that she can rescue Franz.  Based on a story by ETA Hoffman called The Sandman, FTP name this 1870 ballet written by Leo Delibes whose title character is a mechanical automaton.
Answer:  Coppelia

19.  He was taken to Brittany after Vortigern became king and killed Constans his older brother.  Merlin sent him to Ireland to retrieve the Giants' Ring, which was taken apart by Merlin, and inside of which he was buried many years later. After seeing a dragon-shaped meteor in the sky, he defeated his enemies and was crowned king. All of these events appear in Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain.  Better known is the time when, in the guise of Gorlois, he visited that man's wife Igraine at Tintagel, fathering an even more famous king.  FTP name this father of King Arthur.
Answer:  Uther or Uter or Uther Pendragon

20.  The most important rites in their religion involved the sacrificing of a bear.  The men of the culture grew long beards and mustaches, and women tattooed their upper lips to resemble mustaches.  Adherents to the prehistoric Jomon culture, fewer than 25,000 people are still considered part of this group, and its language is nearly extinct.  Generally calling themselves Utari, some reside in the Kuril Islands and on Sakhalin, though mostly they were confined to Hokkaido due encroachment and assimilation with the Japanese.  FTP name this indigenous people of Japan.
Answer:  Ainu (prompt on Utari)



Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Mike Wehrman)
Bonuses 

1.  Answer the following related questions on 18th century art and its study for ten points each.
A.  This German writer's interest in ancient Greek art was instrumental in kindling Neo-Classical and Romantic thinkers' passion for the classical ideal.  Such works as his 1764 History of Ancient Art are famous for both their passionate descriptions and systematic studies.
Answer:  Johann Joachim Winckelmann
B.  This Swiss-born painter made her international reputation with a 1764 portrait of Winckelmann, and other works include Leonardo Da Vinci Dying in the Arms of Francis I. A founding member of the Royal Academy, she was also known for her interior paintings in homes designed by architect Robert Adam.
Answer:  Angelica Kauffmann
C.  In England, this portraitist and Royal Academy member championed Kauffmann's work and had his portrait painted by her.  His own works include Garrick between Tragedy and Comedy and Lady Caroline Scott as Winter.  His rival Gainsborough remarked, "Damn him, how various he is!"
Answer:  Sir Joshua Reynolds 

2.  Not everybody loves Ray Liotta.  FTPE answer the following about his on and off-screen work.
A.  One of Ray's finest performances was in this 1995 film co-starring Danny Glover, in which a US Army unit must find a new sacred elephant for a village whose previous one was killed by the North Vietnamese.
Answer:  Operation: Dumbo Drop
B.  This movie's most memorable scene is perhaps of a post-lobatomic Ray eating his own brain as Clarice Starling looks on.
Answer:  Hannibal
C.  Perhaps because part of his brain was missing, Liotta was linked romantically to this tiny, annoying blonde perhaps best known for her Broadway musical roles of Sally Brown and Glinda the Good Witch.  She also has a recurring role as Annabeth Schott on the West Wing because she's rumored to be sleeping with Aaron Sorkin.
Answer:  Kristin Chenoweth

3.  Answer the following related literary questions for ten points each.
A.  This early Thomas Hardy novel, written in 1872, concerns the peddler Dick Dewey and his rivalry with Farmer Shiner and Parson Maybold for the hand of Fancy Day.
Answer:  Under the Greenwood Tree: or, The Mellstock Quire
B.  Under the Greenwood Tree takes its name from a song sung by Amiens and Jaques in Act 2 of this Shakespeare play.
Answer:  As You Like It
C.  Hardy wasn't too successful with any of his novels, including Under the Greenwood Tree, prior to the publishing of this 1874 novel concerning Gabriel Oak and Bathsheba Everdene.
Answer:  Far from the Madding Crowd

4.  He lost at the battle at Pltava in 1719 and is the subject of a Byron poem, a Liszt etude, and a Delacroix painting, among other works.  Answer the following about a Cossack leader and his name for ten points apiece.
A.  He aligned his forces with the Swedes under Charles XII against Peter the Great in an attempt to remove Ukraine from Russian control.
Answer:  Ivan Mazeppa
B.  Mazeppa was the title character in an 1883 opera by this Russian composer, who adapted it from a Pushkin poem shortly after he had great success by turning another Pushkin work into an opera.
Answer:  Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky (Eugene Onegin is the other work)
C.  An aging stripper in this musical with lyrics by Stephen Sondheim is also named Mazeppa.  Ethel Merman and more recently Bernadette Peters played Mama Rose in its Broadway runs.
Answer:  Gypsy 

5.  Identify these structures of the pancreas for ten points each.
A.  These cells of the pancreas produce digestive enzymes, and their name comes from the Latin for "grape," since they form bundles shaped like bunches of grapes.
Answer:  Acinar cells
B.  For ten points, name either of the two ducts that connect the pancreas to the duodenum in humans, enabling the flow of digestive enzymes.
Answer:  Duct of Wirsung or the Duct of Santorini
C.  Located between clusters of acinar cells, these clusters named for a 17th-century German scientist produce the hormones insulin and glucagon.
Answer:  Islets (or Islands) of Langerhans

6.  When you become a Doors fan, "Love Her Madly" will be the only song you won't like!  Name these other Doors songs for ten points each.
A.  The Doors' first single, it failed to catch on like their second, "Light My Fire," though it is still one of their more famous tracks.  Leading off the band's self-titled debut album, it opens, "You know the day destroys the night/ Night divides the day."
Answer:  Break on Through (to the Other Side)
B.  "There's blood in the streets in the town of New Haven" according to this Morrison Hotel song, a reference to a Doors show here, which was broken up by police and featured Morrison's arrest for lewd behavior.
Answer:  Peace Frog
C.  This song from Waiting for the Sun is first played acoustically and then repeated electrically.  Jim speaks of "Andalusia with fields full of grain," longing to see it "again and again."
Answer: Spanish Caravan

7. Know your Egyptologists for ten points each.
A. This British archeologist's most famous discovery came in 1922 when he unearthed the tomb of Tutankhamen.
Answer:  Sir Howard Carter
B.  Carter called this early 19th-century Italian "one of the most remarkable men in the whole history of Egyptology."  He was a former circus strongman who took everything from scarabs to obelisks back with him to London. He found the tomb of Seti I, excavated the pyramid of Chephron, and defaced Ramses II's throne in Thebes.
Answer: Giovanni Battista Belzoni
C.  As entertaining as Belzoni was, Carter fortunately modeled his methods after this archeologist.  He was one of the first to carefully excavate sites, not just look for treasure, and to make accurate and systematic reports of his findings.  He excavated the tomb of Amenemhet II, and in 1926 started digging in Palestine.
Answer: Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie

8. With John Roberts recently confirmed as Chief Justice and Harriet Miers' recent withdrawal, let's run through another contentious nomination process from the 1980s for the stated number of points.
A. For 10 points, this Nixon-appointed justice resigned in 1987.  From Virginia, he gained his reputation as a centrist and is perhaps best known for his opinion in the 1978 Bakke decision which stated that race could be a factor in admissions decisions but that racial quotas were unconstitutional.
Answer:  Lewis F. Powell
B.  For five, Reagan at first nominated this judge to succeed Powell.  He was controversial because of his role as Solicitor General during the Watergate scandal and his belief that a "right to privacy" did not exist in the Constitution. His nomination was defeated in the Senate, 58-42.
Answer:  Robert Bork
C.  For 10, after the Bork debacle, Reagan attempted to nominate this jurist, currently the chief judge on the DC circuit Court of Appeals.  He withdrew his nomination when it came to light that he had smoked quite a bit of marijuana, even as a Harvard law professor.
Answer:  Douglas H. Ginsburg
D.  For 5, finally Reagan nominated this man who still serves on the Supreme Court. He was approved 97-0 by the Senate in 1988.  Since then he has been a fairly moderate swing vote, authoring such decisions as that of Roper v. Simmons striking down executions of felons who committed their crimes while juveniles.
Answer:  Anthony Kennedy

9. Answer the following about a "war" and its potential comeback for ten points each.
A.  From 1838-39 lumberjacks and settlers from the US and Canada were uncertain of the boundary between Maine and New Brunswick, and this caused them to start fightin' and swearin'.  Name this conflict that mainly featured bands of armed men arresting each other.
Answer: Aroostook War
B.  Even President Martin Van Buren couldn't reach a permanent settlement on the border dispute.  This would have to wait until this 1842 treaty defined the boundary.
Answer:  Webster-Ashburton Treaty
C.  This current Canadian Prime Minister is threatening to go Aroostook on Condoleezza Rice if the US doesn't respect a controversial NAFTA ruling regarding the importation of subsidized Canadian softwood lumber.  
Answer:  Paul Martin

10. Identify these athletes sometimes considered the greatest at their individual endeavors for ten points each.
A.  After losing to him in the finals of this year's US Open, Andre Agassi declared that this Swiss tennis player with six Grand Slam titles already under his belt was the best he ever played against.
Answer:  Roger Federer
B.  Actor and tennis fan Christopher Plummer compared Federer to this Spanish bullfighter, who was so talented and graceful, he made the sport seem dull to many.  This changed, however, when he was killed in the ring by the bull Islero in 1947.
Answer: Manolete or Manuel Rodriguez Sanchez
C.  While Lance Armstrong won seven consecutive Tours de France, this Belgian holds the record for the most days with the yellow jersey and is also the only rider to win the Overall, Sprint, and Climbing titles.  He won the Tour five times and might have won a sixth in 1975 had not a rabid French fan punched him during a stage, breaking his ribs.
Answer:  Eddy Merckx

11. Answer the following related questions regarding a common stomach problem for the stated number of points.
A.  For five, this is the name for a lesion that occurs in the stomach or duodenum's mucosal lining when it becomes less resistant to acidic gastric juices.
Answer:  peptic ulcer
B.  For an additional five, it has been determined that an infection with this bacterium is a major cause of peptic ulcers.
Answer: Helicobacter pylori or H. pylori
C. For 10 points, long-term use of this class of analgesic drugs, particularly in treatment of rheumatoid and osteoarthritis, has also been linked to peptic ulcers.  They include ibuprofen, naproxen, and many Cox-2 inhibitors.
Answer:  Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs or NSAIDs
D.  For 10, along with antibiotics, this type of drug that suppresses gastric acid secretion is a common treatment for ulcers. With names such as omeprazole, or Prilosec, and lansoprazole, or Prevacid, they inhibit an enzyme that exchanges acid for potassium ions.  They also treat similar disorders such as acid reflux.
Answer:  Proton Pump Inhibitors or PPIs

12.  Identify this stuff that might cause psychological problems for ten points each.
A.  The drinking of this green-colored liqueur made from wormwood was popular in the early though its supposed psychoactive properties led to its ban in most European countries in the early 20th century.   
Answer:  Absinthe
B.  Benjamin Franklin invented a version of this musical instrument played while rubbing the rims of different sized glass bowls with wet fingers.  Supposedly playing this instrument caused excessive neural stimulation, leading to all sorts of psychiatric problems.
Answer:  the Glass harmonica or Glass armonica
C.  As confirmed by an episode of Gomer Pyle, USMC, eating this dish can cause a person to have extremely vivid dreams and nightmares.  The dish is composed of a liquid mixture of cheese, butter and milk or beer put on toast and then grilled.
Answer:  Welsh rabbit or Welsh rarebit

13. Identify these works, each of which is less famous than its counterpart, for ten points each.
A.  Tennyson praises the "gallant three hundred" of this work who fought the "thousands of Russians, thousands of horsemen" and who galloped "up the hill, up the hill" to victory.
Answer:  The Charge of the Heavy Brigade at Balaclava
B.  This painting depicts the people of Madrid fighting against Egyptian Mameluke soldiers in the service of Napoleon.  Because of this fierce resistance, many of Madrid's citizens would be executed, as portrayed in a companion work.
Answer:  the Second of May, 1808
C.  This 1599 Ben Jonson play was an unsuccessful sequel to his first.  It follows Fungoso, Sogliardo, and Sir Fastidious Brisk, one-dimensional characters whose attributes are dictated by their balance of fluids.
Answer:  Every Man out of His Humour
 
14. Answer the following about a fossil site for ten points apiece.
A. Located in Hancock Park in Los Angeles, this area of asphalt springs and pools entrapped many species of animals during prehistoric time periods.
Answer:  (Rancho) La Brea Tar Pits
B.  The most numerous fossils found in the La Brea Tar Pits belong to this now-extinct species of wolf.  Living during the Pleistocene Epoch, it was slightly larger and probably stupider than a modern wolf.  It also shares its name with a Grateful Dead song from Workingman's Dead.
Answer:  Dire Wolf or Canis diris
C.  Also found in the Tar Pits are many examples of this genus of saber-toothed cat, the state fossil of California.
Answer:  Smilodon 

15. Identify these cities of southern France for ten points each.
A.  This ancient city on the Rhone was the home of the 5th and 6th century bishop and sermonizer Caesarius.  Also the setting of many Van Gogh paintings including his Yellow Room and The Night Café, part of the movie Ronin was also filmed here, with a memorable scene in its Roman amphitheatre.
Answer:  Arles
B. Just north of Arles on the Rhone is this city, famous for its medieval Palace of the Popes, their home for much of the 14th century.
Answer: Avignon
C. This largest French seaport on the Mediterranean is known for the old Chateau d'If prison island in its harbor, where the fictional Edmond Dantes was incarcerated.
Answer: Marseille or Marseilles

16. Name these New Testament women for the stated number of points.
A.  For ten, this wife of Zachariah and "kinswoman" of Mary was thought to be too old and barren to have children, though the angel Gabriel appeared to them, saying she would bear a son.  That son was John the Baptist.
Answer:  Elizabeth
B. For five points each, Lazarus was the brother of these two sisters.  A famous passage in Luke concerns a visit to their house when one sister sat at Christ's feet listening to his teachings, leaving the other to do all the household work. It is often seen as a parable of the active vs. contemplative life.
Answer:  Mary and Martha
C. For ten, she and her husband Aquila were tentmakers.  Acts notes that Paul stayed with them in Corinth and they then accompanied him to Ephesus.  She and Aquila also receive greetings in Romans and II Timothy and supposedly "risked their necks" in order to save Paul.
Answer: Priscilla or Prisca

17. Name these Berlin landmarks for the stated number of points.  
A.  For five, the US embassy in Berlin recently moved back to its old location near this structure, an 18th-century gateway, the last of Berlin's city gates, topped with four horses pulling a chariot.
Answer:  Brandenburg Gate or Brandenburger Tor
 B.  For another five, near the Brandenburg gate is this governmental building, the subject of a Hitler plot.  Recently it has been topped with a glass dome, and Christo wrapped it in fabric.
Answer:  the Reichstag
C. For ten, leading away from the Brandenburg gate into the heart of the city is this avenue, so named because it was once lined with its namesake shady trees.
Answer:  Unter den Linden
D.  For another ten, this museum is one of the greatest holders of classical antiquities in the world, with several enormous structures housed inside including the Ishtar Gate of Babylon, Miletus's market gate, and an altar from the city in Asia minor which gives the museum its name.
Answer:  the Pergamon Museum  

18. Name the authors of the following books more famous for being old movies for ten points each.
A. Double Endemnity and The Postman Always Rings Twice
Answer:  James M. Cain
B.  Jamaica Inn and Rebecca
Answer:  Daphne Du Maurier
C.  Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes
Answer:  Anita Loos

19. Name these post-medieval Catholic saints for ten points each.
A.  This friend of Francis de Sales and namesake of a Chicago University founded a community of priests in France in 1625 devoted to living communally and serving rural communities, sometimes known as the Lazarists.  He also founded the Sisters of Charity.
Answer:  St. Vincent de Paul  (the Lazarists are usually called Vincentians)
B. This woman converted to Catholicism after becoming a widow at age 28 in 1802.  Soon after she founded the American Sisters of Charity, basing them on the rule of Vincent de Paul. Also the namesake of a university, she was the first woman born in America to become a saint.
Answer: St. Elizabeth Ann Seton
C.  Born in Italy, she was considered too short to become a nun.  In 1887 she received papal approval for her Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and decided to help Italian immigrants in the US.  Now buried in her namesake high school in New York City, she was the first woman in America to be canonized.
Answer:  St. Frances Xavier Cabrini

20. Answer the following about mineral ores for the stated number of points.
A.  For 10, when an ore is found, some of it is desired or valuable material, and some of it is this, the leftover, unwanted portion.
Answer:  Gangue or Gang
B.  For five, though it may sound tasty, this sulfide is quite harmful if eaten.  It is the chief ore of mercury.
Answer:  Cinnabar
C.  For five, this black ore of crystalline uranium oxide was the source of the discovery of three elements: uranium, radium, and polonium.
Answer:  Pitchblende
D.  For ten, this ore composed of lead sulfide is often associated with metallic silver, leading it to be mined for both lead and silver content.
Answer:  Galena



