Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Michael Bilow, Laura Gehring, Alex Mohapatra, Ben Colman, Brett Lazer, Peter Rebeiro, Andrew Uzzell, and Michael Wehrman)
Tossups

1. He signed his works by crossing his first initial, A, with the first letter of his last name. 1950's Numbered One to Seven is a series of sheet-metal forms suspended like planets.  His Constellations series, installed during World War II, were motionless, unlike the installations of his Universes, completed during the 1930's. He befriended many avant-garde artists, including Joan Mir— and Marcel Duchamp, who gave the name to this man's most famous contribution to art. FTP, name this set designer and sculptor of Mountains and Clouds and La Spirale, the inventor of the mobile.
ANSWER: Alexander Calder

2. He encouraged the construction of the Palacio del Buen Retiro in Madrid. Known as the Planet King, he was unable to free himself from the influence of ministers like Olivares, and carried on his predecessors' disastrous efforts to hold onto the Dutch Netherlands. Although the decay that occurred under his rule had been set in motion by his grandfather, it became manifest once the house of Braganza, led by John IV, took over the throne of Portugal. FTP, name this patron of Vel‡zquez and Calder—n, the king of Spain from 1621-1665.
ANSWER: Philip IV of Spain

3.  The scars on her back are shaped like a chokecherry tree. Her husband Halle went insane after a graphic episode in which Schoolteacher's sons abused her. At the beginning of part 2, she symbolically breaks water upon seeing a tall woman walk past her. This tall woman is actually the ghost of her daughter, whom she murdered. She is based on events from the life of Margaret Garner, and degenerates from mother to child over the course of the novel as her daughter Denver becomes more independent. FTP, name this main character of Toni Morrison's Beloved.
ANSWER: Sethe (Seth-thuh)

4.  A 1971 comic written at the behest of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare was the first to break the Comics Code's ban on the depiction of drug use. He became a high school teacher after graduating from Empire State University with a graduate degree in biochemistry. Martin Blank, Mac Gargan, Flint Marko, Max Dillon, Adrian Toomes, Alistair Smythe, Dr. Curt Connors, Eddie Brock, Cletus Kasady, Dr. Otto Octavius, and Norman Osborn are, FTP, the real names of villains associated with which Marvel hero?
ANSWER: Spider-man (accept Peter Parker)

5. This story opens with John Openshaw braving inclement weather not long after being told to "put the papers on the sundial". The plot revolves around the apparent suicides of John's uncle and father after each man received a mysterious letter in the mail. It is one of the few cases in which the main character actually fails in his attempt to solve the mystery, as Openshaw is killed, and the American murderers are lost at sea. FTP, name this Sherlock Holmes short story in which the detective fails to deduce the true meaning of the message "KKK" and the titular fruity objects in time.
ANSWER: The Five Orange Pips

6. Its parent organization lost the 1995 case Religious Technology Center v. Arnaldo Lerma, et al. Its founder practiced the occultist rites of Alistair Crowley. It evaluates people based on the tone scale, originally a tool used by auditors. According to it, people are operating thetans whose souls have been aberrated by past memories and must be healed by the use of Dianetics. It was established in 1951 as an alternative to psychotherapy. FTP, name this religion created by L. Ron Hubbard that combines past lives, free counseling, and the ARC triangle.
ANSWER: Scientology (accept "Church of Scientology" )

7. He wrote a screenplay for a Beatles movie, but it was rejected because by page 25 the Beatles had committed adultery, committed murder, dressed in drag, landed in prison, seduced the niece of a priest, and blown up a war memorial. His most successful play, originally titled Funeral Games, was initially so poorly received that he went to Tangiers in 1965 for 80 days of pot and sex. At age 34, he was bludgeoned to death by his lover Kenneth Haliwell. FTP, name this 1960's British playwright, author of such works as Loot, The Erpingham Camp, and Entertaining Mr. Sloane.
ANSWER: Joe Orton

8 After spending some of his formative years in Venezuela, he attended Baylor University, but was expelled Baylor for excessive drinking.  One of his nicknames originated during his days at Albo Pest Control.  His playboy reputation later earned him the nickname "Hot Tub", but he sobered up in 1985, his first year in Congress. He pioneered the infamous "K Street Project" and "catch and release" program for House voting. FTP, name this politician recently indicted on charges of conspiracy to violate Texas election laws in 2002, the former House Majority Leader.
ANSWER: Thomas Dale "Tom" DeLay (prompt on "The Hammer" or "The Exterminator")

9.  Chapters 81-99 of De Bello Civili, book 3, detail its events. It began on August 9, with the River Enipeus preventing either army from flanking the other to the south. Titus Labienus's cavalry charge failed, as six cohorts of enemy reserves drove his forces back onto Mount Dogandzis. Domitius Calvinus's heavy infantry then charged, and Pompey's forces broke and ran. It followed the Battle of Dyrrhacium by mere weeks, and saw the end of Pompey's war against Caesar. FTP, name this 48 B.C. battle, immortalized by a namesake epic poem of Lucan. 
ANSWER: The Battle of Pharsalus

10. In The Market for Lemons, George Akerloff noted that it causes a decline in the average value of a commodity, and could even drive the market to the point of non-existence. Akerloff, Spence, and Stiglitz won the 2001 Nobel Prize for analyzing it, though it was first described in 1963 by Kenneth Arrow. According to Freakonomics, the Internet has resulted in declines in its occurrence. It is the cause of adverse selection among insurance buyers, as well as the principal-agent problem. FTP, name this situation in economics, in which one party to a transaction has more or better information than the other.
Answer: information asymmetry (accept equivalents containing underlined words)

11. By the time he was 18, he had his own studio, and he became a full member of the Royal academy when he was only 27. Although known for his oils, he was also a watercolor landscape painter, as exemplified by works such as "Colour Beginning". Brilliant sunlight almost overpowers the ruined buildings in 1817's "Decline of the Carthaginian Empire", complementing the serene light that shines on Sychaeus's tomb in 1815's "Dido building Carthage". FTP, name this English painter, the creator of such proto-impressionist works as "The Grand Canal", "Rain, Steam and Speed."
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner

12.  In adult primates, their most active compartment is found in the SVZ, and they undergo tangential migration along anteroposterior-oriented channels of glial cells, commonly called the RMS, or rostral migratory stream. Eventually reaching the distal tip of the OB, they shift from tangential to radial movement, spreading to more superficial layers where they terminally differentiate into granule and periglomerular types. These are, FTP, what cells, more properly designated as a sub-class of proliferating migratory neuroblasts that fuel the genesis of neurons in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb throughout adulthood?
ANSWER: neural stem cells (prompt on "neuroblast" before it's mentioned, prompt on "stem cells," do not accept "adult stem cells")

13. During his namesake episode, a fake commercial appears, advertising t-shirts that profess either love or hate for this character. He causes the U.S. government and a major corporation (which turns out to be run by aliens) to face off over the issue of a genetically modified version of himself. Initially the government has trouble locating this character, although it should not be too difficult, just mention baseball practice or waterskiing, and he will appear to remind you to bring a certain item. FTP, name this South Park character who only wants to get high. 
ANSWER: Towelie

14. Following core helium-burning, the hydrogen shell initially produces most of their energy, but eventually dumps enough ash onto the underlying helium shell to produce a thermal pulse, increasing the mass of the carbon/oxygen core and causing luminosity and size to gradually increase over time, despite overall cooling. Carbon dredged up from the core can create a "wind" that leads to the ejection of their envelopes, producing planetary nebulae. FTP, identify these stars, so named because they move to the right above the red giant region and parallel to the horizontal giant branch on a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram.
ANSWER: Asymptotic Giant Branch stars

15. It caused the Scissors Crisis, which was named for a graph showing the trade imbalance between rural producers and state-controlled industry. It enacted a food tax called the Prodnalog, which was replaced in 1923 by a direct agricultural tax. The 1928 Grain Crisis prompted Stalin to abandon it in favor of central economic control. Deciding that world revolution was not imminent in 1921, Lenin switched the Soviet economy from War Communism to this program. FTP, identify this Soviet decree that restored limited private ownership during the 1920's.
ANSWER: New Economic Policy

16. His name comes from the Sanskrit word for "cheek". He is the son of the apsara Punjisthala, who became the female varana Anjana due to a curse. Shortly after his birth, he mistook the sun for a piece of fruit and ate it. Indra struck him with a thunderbolt, and because of his wounds, his father, the wind god Vayu, withdrew air from the world, forcing Indra to remove the thunderbolt. FTP, name this Hindu deity with the head of a monkey who helped Rama rescue Rama's wife Sida Devi from Ravana in the Ramayana.
ANSWER: Hanuman or Anjaneya

17. It begins with an action potential at the axon of an efferent neuron, leading to neurotransmitter release across the synapse. Nicotinic receptors are engaged, resulting in a new action potential along the target cell membrane. Transverse tubules transmit the action potential across the sarcoplasmic reticulum, leading to calcium release. Calcium binds troponin, which slides tropomyosin into a conformation that enables myosin heads to bind actin and "walk" toward the Z lines in an ATPase cycle. FTP, name this process, during which sarcomere length shortens to perform mechanical work. 
Answer: muscle contraction (accept: muscle twitch)

18. At constant volume, it is proportional to the product of the Boltzmann constant and the natural logarithm of the equilibrium constant. A change in a system at constant temperature and volume is spontaneous if it corresponds to a decrease in this value, which also equals the maximum work accompanying a given process. FTP, name this thermodynamic quantity, the difference of the internal energy and the product of temperature and entropy. 
Answer: Helmholtz free energy (accept: Helmholtz function) 

19. The shark attacks that provided the inspiration for Jaws occurred along the Jersey Shore. Henri Dutilleux was born. The Boston Red Sox beat the Brooklyn Robins in the World Series four games to one. Ernst Mach and Richard Dedekind died. Joyce wrote A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Gustav Holst composed The Planets. Louis Brandeis was sworn in as Chief Justice. Claude Monet painted "Water Lilies". On November 7, Woodrow Wilson defeated Charles Hughes in the U. S. presidential election. FTP, give this year in which the Battle of Verdun began and the Easter Day Uprising occurred.
Answer: 1916 

20.  He espoused Carlyle's "Great Man" theory of history in "Great Men and their Environment", an Atlantic Monthly article published ten years before his most famous work. He first gained prominence for an 1892 abridgement of that work, which was nearly 1000 pages long. His unabridged book contains chapters on "The Consciousness of Self", "Will", and "The Stream of Thought". FTP, this book, The Principles of Psychology, combining psychology, physiology, and philosophy, was written by what Harvard psychologist and pragmatist?
ANSWER: William James (prompt on partial answer)





Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Michael Bilow, Laura Gehring, Alex Mohapatra, Ben Colman, Brett Lazer, Peter Rebeiro, Andrew Uzzell, and Michael Wehrman)
Bonuses


1.  FTPE, answer these questions about someone whose recordings made it into space.
[10] He had an annoying habit of humming during recordings. Name this Canadian, most famous for his vivid musical imagination, and his earth-shattering recordings of Bach.
ANSWER: Glenn Gould
[10] Gould was most famous for a recording of this collection of pieces, written in 1741, every third of which is a canon.
ANSWER: The Goldberg Variations
[10] Bach composed the Goldberg Variations while he was Cantor of the Thomaskirche in this former East German city.
ANSWER: Leipzig

2.  Answer these questions about the Thirty Years' War FTPE.
[10] Name the first major battle of the Thirty Years' War, in 1620. It was a major victory for the Holy Roman Empire, which was lead by Emperor Ferdinand II.
ANSWER: The Battle of White Mountain
[10] Ferdinand II later employed this Bohemian nobleman who and his large army to fight off the Danish king Christian IV.
ANSWER: Albrecht von Wallenstein
[10] In November of 1632 Wallenstein was forced out of Saxony when lost to Gustavus Adolphus and his forces at this battle, though Adolphus was killed.
Answer:  Battle of LŸtzen 

3.  Answer these questions about the 1995 winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature.
[10] This Irishman, the author of works such as The Spirit Level, The Death of a Naturalist, and Field Work, won the 1995 award.
ANSWER: Seamus Heaney
[10] Heaney's 1999 translation of this Old English epic poem won widespread acclaim.
ANSWER: Beowulf
[10] Heaney edited two anthologies of his essays, The Rattle Bag and The School Bag, with this former Poet Laureate of England better known for The Birthday Letters.
ANSWER: Ted Hughes

4.  FTPE, answer these questions about innate immune system.
[10] These myeloid cells circulate in the blood before differentiating in tissues, where they engulf and lyse any foreign particles that engage their cell surface receptors.
Answer: macrophages (accept: monocytes)
[10] These signaling proteins are expressed in a, b, and g isoforms and act in an autocrine and paracrine manner to induce cellular antiviral defense mechanisms.
Answer: interferons  
[10] This family of proteins is activated through a proteolytic cascade resulting in products that function in opsonization, lysis of pathogens, and inflammation.
Answer: complement proteins

5. 5-10-15, answer these questions about Grandpa Simpson's favorite organ: the kidney.
[5] Name the fundamental structural unit of the kidney. It consists of a glomerulus surrounded by a Bowman's capsule.
Answer: nephron
[10] Name this hormone that regulates blood pressure by controlling Na+ retention in the distal convoluted tubule.
Answer: aldosterone
[15] Name these organs found in arthropods that function like primitive kidneys, releasing waste in the form of solid nitrogen.
Answer: Malphigian tubules

6. Identify these members of the Harlem Renaissance from works, FTPE.
[10] His poem "Yet Do I Marvel" considers the mysterious ways of God, while "Incident" describes a trip to Baltimore ruined by a racial epithet.
ANSWER: Countee Cullen
[10] His 1928 novel Home to Harlem contained frank depictions of Harlem's street life, and he published the autobiographical A Long Way from Home in 1937.
ANSWER: Claude McKay
[10] Her 1924 novel There is Confusion and 1929 novel Plum Bun: A Novel Without a Moral both depict light-skinned African Americans who pass for white people.
ANSWER: Jessie Redmon Fauset

7. FTPE, answer the following about fad items that, like the undead, always seem to rise again.
[10] Craven Walker created this fad item that relies heavily on the principle of density as a function of temperature to achieve a truly groovy effect.
ANSWER: Lava Lamp
[10] I can only assume that people give these things as gifts, as I can't imagine spending money just to clip some grass, even if you can shave it off of shapes ranging from a ram to a frog.
ANSWER: Chia pets
[10] This hippie fashion statement may have come from shibori, a process originating in Japan around the 18th century that generally requires more labor-intensive resist techniques than a handful of rubber bands.
ANSWER: Tie-dye

8. Answer these questions about a work of medieval forgery FTPE.
[10] This treatise, allegedly written in 324 A.D., gave authority over all of the church patriarchs, the city of Rome, and all of Western Europe to the Pope.
ANSWER: Donation of Constantine or Constitutum Donatio Constantini
[10] The Donation was supposedly granted to this Pope, whose feast day is New Year's Eve.  His reign also oversaw the Council of Nicaea, and he purportedly cured Constantine of leprosy.
ANSWER: Pope Sylvester I
[10] In an essay published in 1440, this Italian humanist used textual analysis to prove that the Donation could not have been written by Constantine.
ANSWER: Lorenzo Valla

9.  Name the following volcanoes or volcanic features FTPE.
[10] This volcano experienced a massive Plinian eruption on Philippine Independence Day in 1991, but because of good warning systems, evacuations saved over 20,000 lives.
ANSWER: Mount Pinatubo
[10] The collapse following the 5,677 B.C. eruption of Mount Mazama created this geographic feature in the Northwest U.S.
ANSWER: Crater Lake
[10] This Mexican volcano sprung up in a farmer's field in Mexico in 1943 and grew to be over 9,000 feet tall when the eruptions ended in 1952.
ANSWER: Paricutin

10.  Answer the following questions about Indie bands that the question author recently saw in concert.
[10] Silent Alarm, the latest album by this British band whose lead singer is Kele Okereke, include the songs "Banquet" and "Helicopter".
ANSWER: Bloc Party
[10] This band from Portland, Oregon, whose latest album is Picaresque, is known for its "story songs" such as "16 Military Wives" and "The Legionnaire's Lament".
ANSWER: The Decemberists
[10] This Vancouver supergroup includes members of Destroyer and Immaculate Machine. They recently released their third album, Twin Cinema.
ANSWER: The New Pornographers

11. Answer the following about Bacon's Rebellion, FTPE.
[10] Bacon's Rebellion pitted the forces of Nathaniel Bacon against this governor, cousin of Bacon by marriage and veteran of the English Civil War.
ANSWER: Sir William Berkeley
[10] Popular sympathy for Bacon's cause allowed Bacon to be elected to this legislative assembly.
ANSWER:  House of Burgesses
[10] On July 30, 1676, after his supporters had taken over Jamestown, Bacon issued this document, essentially a condemnation of Berkeley's trade policies.
ANSWER:  Declaration of the People of Virginia

12. Answer these questions about the work of psychologist Alfred Adler FTPE.
[10] Adler developed this school of psychology, which is based on the belief that the psychological structure of the personality is indivisible.
ANSWER: individual psychology
[10] Adler set out many of his theories in this 1912 book, which argued that the unconscious self desired to convert inferiority to superiority.
ANSWER: †ber den nervšsen Charakter or The Neurotic Constitution
[10] Adler argued that, in a male-dominated society, this caused men to cover up effeminate traits and women to seek superiority by traditionally feminine means.
ANSWER: Masculine protest

13.  Given a brief description, name the following important structures from human fecundation, FTPE:
[10] This is the translucent, elastic, noncellular layer surrounding the ovum that must be penetrated by the sperm before fertilization
ANSWER: zona pellucida
[10] This is the membrane-bound compartment at the tip of the head of the sperm which contains hyaluronidase, necessary for digesting the zona pellucida.
ANSWER: acrosome or acrosomal process
[10] This is the term for the diploid cell generated from the union of the haploid gametes.
ANSWER: zygote 

14.  FTPE, answer the following questions about what happens to people to people who try to marry the daughter of Thor.
[10] The suitor of one of Thor's daughters, he was turned to stone after being tricked into discussing his proposal until dawn broke. 
ANSWER: Alvis
[10] Name this daughter of Thor and Sif who was engaged to Alvis.
ANSWER: Thrud
[10] What type of creature was Alvis?
ANSWER: dwarf

15.  Supernovae are generally divided into Type II, which contain hydrogen lines in their absorption spectra, and Type I, which do not. Type I is subdivided into "a", "b", and "c" subtypes. FTPE:
[10] Differentiation among Types Ia, Ib, and Ic involves absorption lines of this element. Type Ia contains strong absorption lines, while Types Ib and Ic lack it completely:
ANSWER: silicon
[10] Types Ib, Ic, and II result from this phenomenon, as opposed to the runaway thermonuclear reaction that causes Type Ia.
ANSWER: core-collapse
[10] Type Ia supernovae occur in closed binary systems in which this type of star accretes matter from its giant or supergiant companion, leading to runaway carbon-oxygen fusion.
ANSWER: white dwarf

16. Name these John Donne poems from lines FTPE.
[10] "Love is a growing, or full constant light;/ And his first minute, after noon, is night"
ANSWER: Lecture upon the Shadow
[10] "Teach me to hear mermaids singing/ Or to keep off envy's stinging/ And find/ What wind/ Serves to advance an honest mind."
ANSWER: Song: Go Catch a Falling Star
[10] "Though I must go, endure not yet/ A breach, but an expansion,/ Like gold to aery thinness beat."
ANSWER: A Valediction: forbidding Mourning

17. Identify these terms from morphology FTPE.
[10] This unit of morphological analysis is a set of words that the same in syntactic category and semantic value, such as stand, stands, standing, and stood in English.
ANSWER: lexeme
[10] This type of morphological rule refers to the addition of morphemes that convey grammatical information to a given lexeme.
ANSWER: inflectional rule
[10] This type of word-formation rule creates new lexemes from old ones, often by changing their syntactic categories through the addition of namesake affixes.
ANSWER: derivational rule

18. Identify the Roman based on the Greek to whom he was compared in Plutarch's Parallel Lives.
[5] This man was compared to Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Caesar
[5] This man was compared to Demosthenes.
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero
[10] This man was compared to Demetrius the Besieger, king of Macedon.
ANSWER: Marc Antony or Marcus Antonius
[10] This man was compared to Alcibiades.
ANSWER: Gaius Marcius Coriolanus (Do not accept Pericles, Prince of Tyre)

19. Name the creator of each of the following works with a common theme given the work's title and the year of its creation FTPE:
[10] "Self Portrait between Clock and Bed", 1940-1942.
ANSWER: Edvard Munch
[10] "The Black Clock", 1869-1871.
ANSWER: Paul CŽzanne
[10] "Clock Explosion", 1954.
ANSWER: Salvador Dali

20. Just before King David's death, he told Solomon to kill off three rebellious men. Identify them and their killer FTSNOP.
[15] Solomon's hit-man, he was one of David's mighty men, and was renowned for killing a lion in a pit and slaying a giant Egyptian in battle.
ANSWER: Benaiah son of Jehoiada
[5] Benaiah killed this man, Solomon's elder half-brother, when he tried to seize power for himself by taking control of the royal harem.
ANSWER: Adonijah
[5] David's chief general and the murderer of Abner, Benaiah slew him at the horns of the altar after he supported Adonijah's attempts to take the throne.
ANSWER: Joab
[5] This son of Gera cursed David during Absalom's rebellion, but David forgave him. Solomon required him to stay in Jerusalem, and had him killed when he failed to do so.
ANSWER: Shimei the Benjamite


Identify certain of the Federalist Papers FTPE.
[10] Written by Madison, it argued that a powerful union was necessary to guard against factions whose efforts were "adverse to the rights of other citizens".
ANSWER: Federalist No. 10
[10] Also written by Madison, it discussed the need for a separation of powers among branches of government, as well as for checks and balances.
ANSWER: Federalist No. 51
[10] Written by Hamilton, this penultimate paper argued that there was no need to protect rights that the government had no power to restrict, making a Bill of Rights unnecessary.
ANSWER: Federalist No. 84

Five points for 4, 10 for five, 15 for six, and 20 for all seven, name the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. 
ANSWERS: Great Pyramid of Giza, Hanging Gardens of Babylon, Statue of Zeus at Olympia, Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, Colossus of Rhodes, Lighthouse of Alexandria
[10] give the name given to this group of structures that includes the Empire State Building, the Chunnel, the Panama Canal, the Itiapu Dam, the CN Tower, the North Sea Protection Works, and the Golden Gate Bridge.
ANSWER: The Seven Wonders of the Modern World

Name the following H.G. Wells works FTPE.
[10] This work was viewed as an indictment of the actions of European colonists, as well as the mindset that Europeans were more qualified to rule than natives based on their technological and consequent overall superiority.
ANSWER: War of the Worlds
[10] This book seems to condemn capitalism by depicting the dangers that may evolve from the extreme separation of the working and leisure classes.
ANSWER: The Time Machine
[10] This novel addresses ideas of society and human nature while exploring Darwinism and eugenics. This is not surprising considering that the scientific society of the day was engulfed by debates on animal vivisection.
ANSWER: The Island of Doctor Moreau
