Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by University of Texas at Austin (Eric Kwartler, Matthew Nance, Josh Freiman, Josh Garber, Nitin Udpa and Justin Hillburn) Tossups 1. One story about him tells that he planted a Cyprus tree that grew for millennia. His name first occurs in a fragment of Xanthus, and according to Pliny he laughed on the day of his birth. He gained his most important follower in the land of Kavi Vishtapsa after curing the King's favorite horse from a deforming ailment, while his first converts were his cousin Maidh yoimangha and his wife Hvovi. The little that is known for sure about his life comes from the Gathas, while mythical accounts can be found in the Zend Avesta. FTP name this man, the founder of a namesake Persian religion. ANSWER: Zarathustra or Zoroaster orZartosht 2. The author of this play outlines the progression of Greco-Roman comedy from Aristotle to Terence in its dedication, which is addressed to Ralph, Earl of Montague. The protagonist disguises his servant Waitwell as his uncle, "Sir Rowland," and tells Petulant in act 1 that any son Sir Rowland had could disinherit the protagonist. He attempts to marry Sir Rowland to Lady Wishfort, whose niece the protagonist loves. In act five Fainall demands the estates of Lady Wishfort and his wife in exchange for not charging his wife with adultery, and in return for helping her escape Lady Wishfort offers Mirabell Millamant's hand in marriage. FTP name this play, the masterpiece of William Congreve. Answer: The Way of the World	3. The third movement, whose name comes from the Polish for "cattle,"depicts an oxcart lumbering along a street. The fourth movement, sometimes called "Two Jews: Rich and Poor," is more often referred to by the men's names: "Samuel Goldenberg and Schmuyle."Other movements include "Tuilleries" and "The Old Castle." Each movement except the last is preceded by the "Promenade" theme, which is first heard in four-four time in "The Great Gate of Kiev." FTP, name this composition by Modest Mussorgsky inspired by some Victor Hartmann paintings. 	Answer: Pictures at an Exhibition or Kartinkis vistavski4. Part III of this document ends with a reference to Thomas Mann's Buddenbrooks, in which the author suggests some good might come of police power. It begins with an explication of Marxist-Leninist philosophy as of 1916, and continues to explain where it went wrong because of Stalin and his followers. In Part II, the author claims that the U.S. policy toward the Soviet Union must be "firm and vigilant containment." FTP, name this anonymously signed document written by George Kennan, which appeared in 1947 as the article "The Sources of Soviet Conduct." 	Answer: Long Telegram (prompt on "X Article," accept "The Sources of Soviet Conduct" before it is mentioned) 5. According to the author's appendix, this character unwisely moves to Paris in 1940, and is last seen in a photograph with a Nazi staff general. She is married twice, once in 1920 to a film producer and once in 1910 to the rich Indianan Herbert Head, although she loses her virginity to Dalton Ames. Her brother Jason blackmails her to see her daughter, who is named Quentin after the brother who committed suicide because of her promiscuity. FTP, name this female protagonist of William Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury. 	Answer: Caddy or Candace Compson 6. Nernst's original statement of the third law of thermodynamics involved this quantity rather than entropy. Chemical Potential is the derivative of this quantity with respect to particle number, and it can be calculated by multiplying a system's negative temperature by Boltzmann's constant and the natural log of the partition function. It can be defined as the Internal Energy minus the product of the absolute temperature and the final entropy, and for a constant temperature process it gives all the reversible work that can be done in the system. FTP name this type of Free Energy, named for a German physicist 	Answer: Helmholtz Free Energy7. The 1979 sequel to this film, promising "more laughs, more music," was alternately titled Purple Haze. The producer for this film was so enrage d when Universal Studios rep Ned Tannen called the movie "unreleasable" after its premiere in San Francisco that he offered to buy it and release it himself. Universal eventually relented as long as the director made a few modifications (which he put back in the film in its 1978 re-release), including one scene where Terry the Toad yammers at a used car salesman, saying, "For God's sake, leave me alone!" The plot focuses on the adventures of Steve and Curt, two college-bound teenagers, played by Ron Howard and Richard Dreyfuss. FTP, name this 1973 film produced by Francis Ford Coppola and directed by George Lucas that posed the question, "Where were you in '62?" Answer: American Graffiti 8. The night before this battle commenced a Scionian named Scyllias defected and traveled 80 furlongs to inform the defenders of the destruction of 400 ships by a storm off of squid's cape. This news caused the Sparta n commander to lead a direct charge against the fleet anchored at Aphetae, where he captured 30 ships. The next day 53 ships from Attica under Themistocles sank an entire Cilician fleet, and 200 more Persian ships were destroyed by a storm, but on the third day the Persians encircled the Athenians around the namesake cape, and the battle ended in a draw. FTP name this battle that occurred simultaneously with Thermopylae, a precursor to the battle of Salamis.       Answer: Artemisium9.The quartz variety of this rock is derived from magma that was oversaturated with silica, while the essexite type results from parent magma with a silica deficiency. Although its economic value to humans is rather small as a whole, the nickel, chromium, and platinum associated with it and other mafic and ultramafic rocks is rather significant. Named by Christian Leopold von Buch, a German geologist, its name comes from an Italian town in Tuscany. FTP, name this mafic intrusive igneous rock, chemically equivalent to basalt.        Answer: Gabbro 10. In this story, the ringing of church bells indicates Father Angel's disapproval of a film. After incorrectly guessing a roulette result, the protagonist is caught with clandestine literature and meets the man who murdered his son Agustin nine months before at a cock fight. The protagonist raises another cock in hopes of selling it to Sabas for nine hundred pesos, to tie him over until his pension check arrives. FTP, name this Gabriel Garcia Marquez novella in which the title figure returns empty-handed from the post office every Friday. 	Answer: No One Writes to the Colonel or El Coronel no tiene quien le escriba 11.It is known for its distinctive black, wooden, grass-roofed churches that were all built during a twenty-year period from 1830-1850, though the oldest remaining church built there, the parish church of St. Olav, was probably built sometime during the 12th century. Shortly after 1000, it came under the control of Norwegian kings, including King Sverre, who grew up there. Later, it fell under Danish control, and only gained independence in 1948. FTP, name this archipelago shaped roughly like an arrowhead, about halfway between Norway and Iceland.	Answer: Faroe Islands12. At the end of season one of the show Joan of Arcadia, the namesake protagonist is diagnosed with this disorder, sufferers of which often have elaborate hallucinations. There is currently a controversy over the existence of a chronic form of this disease, which was first diagnosed in 1977 when arthritis was observed in a group of children. Characterized by facial nerve palsy and erythema migrans, it is caused by the spirochete bacteria Borrelia Burgdorferi. FTP name this disease, most commonly resulting from the bite of a deer tick.        Answer: Lyme Disease (do not accept Lyme's Disease)13.His son was left on the doorstep of Teirnyon Twryv Vliant, who named the boy Gwri Wallt Euryn. He gained the epithet Chieftain of Annwyn after killing Havgan at the behest of a great ruler, whose Kingdom he ruled for a year. While sitting atop the mound Gorsedd Arberth, he first caught sight of his future wife, whom he eventually won by tricking Gwawl into jumping into a bottomless bag at the palace of Heveydd Hen. FTP name this son of Dyved, father o f Pryderi and husband of Rhiannon, a hero of the Mabinogion.        Answer: Pwyll14. He was the last son of Alars, progenitor of the second colony of Eternals of Titan, and Sui-Sab, the last survivor of the original settlement of Eternals on Titan. Born with grey skin and a massive body he became a morose child obsessed with death. Upon reaching adulthood he dropped a nuclear device on his home planet killing thousands of people including his mother. After declaring himself ruler of Titan he set his sights on Earth . FTP Name this Marvel Comics villain who promised to kill half of the universe's population using the Infinity Gauntlet to win the heart of Lady Death, but was defeated by the combined forces of universe's greatest heroes.	Answer: Thanos15. No known manuscript of this man's first story, "The Sacrifice," is known to exist. He wrote the children's book In Desert and Wilderness  about Africa in the year of the Mahdi's rebellion. Inspired by the works of Sir Walter Scott and Alexander Dumas, he created a trilogy of historical novels that included The Deluge, Pan Michael and With Fire and Sword. He wrote The Teutonic Knights about the medieval history of his native country, but he is more famous for a novel set in ancient Rome. FTP name this Polish author of Quo Vadis?       Answer :Henryk Sienkiewicz16.The title character of this work compares his companion to a torpedo fish, which causes doubt in all it touches. A tirade against the Sophists is offered by Antynus, who believes they are corrupt for taking money. Although the work's initial question is whether virtue can be taught, its most frequently cited passage contains Socrates' views on the innateness of knowledge. FTP, name this middle Platonic dialogue in which a slave boy learns the Pythagorean Theorem. 	Answer: Meno17.Hicks showed through indifference analysis that it is correlated to the income effect in an economic situation that causes a distortion in relative prices,even in the presence of perfectly inelastic demand. The Marshallian type is zero when demand or supply is perfectly inelastic, and it only occurs in markets that are not Pareto optimal. When caused by taxation its value can be calculated by squaring the value of the tax, but normally it is caused by externalities or monopoly pricing. FTP name this economic concept, defined as the loss to all members of society caused by imperfect competition.       Answer: Deadweight Loss18.While he was exiled in London in 1823, this man wrote his autobiography: a "Statement of Some of the Principal Events" in his public life. He gained renown by defeating the liberal priest Morelos y Pavón while under the command of Viceroy Apodaca.  In a move known as "El abrazo de Acatempan," he joined rebel leader Vicente Guerrero and published the Plan de Igualo, calling for a unified, independent Mexico. FTP, name this Mexican emperor who was overthrown in 1823 by Santa Anna, and executed upon his return in 1824. 	Answer: Agustín Cosme Damián de Iturbide y Arámburu or Agustin I19. According to its author, this poem was inspired by Jane Stith Stanard, the author's neighbor in Richmond. In the third stanza, the narrator sees an "agate lamp" in the hand of his love, and he ends the poem by comparing her to "Psyche, from the regions which / Are Holy Land!" The title figure's beauty is "Like those Nicean barks of yore," and her "Naiad airs" brought the poet " To the glory that was Greece / And the grandeur that was Rome." FTP, name this Edgar Allan Poe poem addressed to a beautiful mythical woman. 	Answer: "To Helen"20. The villain in this opera is thought to be a thinly veiled parody of music critic Eduard Hanslick. In Act II, that villain is attacked by David, who thinks the villain is serenading his lover Magdalene. The action begins as Veit Pogner proposes a contest in which his daughter Eva will marry one of the title figures, among whom the principal competitors are Sixtus Beckmesser, Hans Sachs, and Walther von Stolzing, who wins the contest with the song "Morgenlich." FTP, name this Wagner opera about some kickass vocalists from a certain German city.	Answer: Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg or The Mastersingers of Nuremberg (prompt on partial title) 21. The man standing in the back of the left panel is either Ezekiel or Isaiah, although hewers the insignia of a messenger of the city of Mechlen, in which the work's patrons, the Ingelbrechtz family, were based. A snuffed candle sits next to an open book on a round table in the center, while a miniscule Christ flies through the window in the left wall. Quasi-Hebrew characters can be seen on a vase containing lilies, which are symbolic of the purity of the work's primary subject. FTP name this altarpiece now located in the Cloisters in New York depicting the annunciation, the most famous work of Robert Campin. Answer: Merode Altarpiece22. Mentored by Max Wertheimer, this social psychologist explored gestalt, relation-oriented approaches to perception, association, learning, and metaphor during his stay at Columbia. He was later appointed as faculty at Swarthmore where he spent 19 years working with a group of psychologists that included Wolfgang Kohler. He studied phenomena such as prestige suggestion which shows how people's reaction to a quote is largely dependent on  to whom it is attributed and was an advocate of impression formation. His most famous experiment however involved 10 person groups, all but 1 of which were conspirators, who were shown cards and asked to match a line with comparison. FTP name this Polish social psychologist who illustrated that people where most likely to conform to majority opinion.	Answer: Solomon Asch23.Among other accomplishments, this man discovered that color photographs could be formed using red, green, and blue filters. His work on color blindness won him the Rumford Medal. He has a 15-meter astronomical telescope named after him. He is better known for a set of four equations that express the basic laws of electricity and magnetism. FTP, identify this man who, in a thought experiment, proposed a demon to illustrate the Second La w of Thermodynamics. 	Answer: James Clerk Maxwell24.Born in Plymouth, Vermont, in 1872,this man soon moved to Massachusetts to take up a profession in law. A Boston police strike was one of the more significant events that occurred during his time as governor of Massachusetts. The first vice president to attend cabinet meetings, he died of heart failure at the age of 61 in Northampton. In between, his presidency oversaw such plans as the Dawes Plan for Reparations and the Kellogg-Briand Pact. FTP, identify this man who ascended to the presidency in 1923, well known for his reticence. 	Answer: Calvin Coolidge25. His father was suffering from mental illness and there were widespread rumors that he was the result of an affair between his mother and some unnamed lover. After his father signed away his birthright to Richard, Duke of York, he went on the run through Scotland, Wales, and France with his mother Margaret. Later he and his mother allied with the Warwicks, and he was married off to Anne Neville. When Richard Neville of Warwick died at the Battle of Barnet, he had to lead his forces against the Yorkists at Tewkesbury. FTP, name this prince who became the only Prince of Wales to die in battle.        Answer: Edward of Westminster
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by University of Texas at Austin (Eric Kwartler, Matthew Nance, Josh Freiman, Josh Garber, Nitin Udpa and Justin Hillburn) Bonuses1.Many of Puccini's operas feature a female title character. Identify these examples, FTPE: A.(10) The title character names her child Dolore, or "Trouble," and hopes that by committing suicide she will allow him a bright future in America with his father, Lieutenant Pinkerton. 	Answer: Madame Butterfly or Madama ButterflyB. (10) The title character, the tavern owner known as Minnie, succeeds in saving the thief Ramirez from being hanged by Sheriff Jack Rance. 	Answer: The Girl of the Golden West or La Fanciulla del WestC. (10) The title character, Magda, attempts to leave her Parisian boyfriend Rambaldo,with the poet Prunier acting as her confidante. At the end of the opera, she harshly rejects her secret boyfriend Ruggero. 	Answer:La Rondine 2.Name these poetic works of William Shakespeare FTPE:A. (10) The title characters of this poem represent love and constancy, respectively, and are said to have "fled in a mutual flame." 	Answer: "The Phoenix and theTurtle"B.(10)This Sonnet claims that "Love is not love which alters when it alteration finds," and calls love "an ever-fixed mark, that lookson tempests and is never shaken." 	Answer: Sonnet 116 or "Let me not to the marriage of true minds"C. (10) The title act of this poem is committed by Sextus Tarquinus, who is enchanted with the beauty of Collatinus' wife. 	Answer: "The Rape of Lucrece"3. Name these terms in the American political system FTPE: A. (10) This elected party assistant helps with congressional head-counting, originally earning the appellation from a fox-hunting term for someone who keeps the dogs from straying in the chase. 	Answer: WhipB. (10) This congressional rule originated in 1919 when Woodrow Wilson urged the Senate to shut off a filibuster against the Treaty of Versailles. 	Answer: ClotureC. (10) The only time the Senate has to abide by this requisite for appending legislation to a bills is after cloture has been voted on and or when appropriations bills is being heard. The rules for this relevance to a bill prevent "riders" and "pork." 	Answer: Germaneness 4. Founded in 802 AD, it ruled Cambodia until its downfall at the hands of the Ayuthaya empire. FTPEA. (10) Name this empire famous for temples like Angkor Wat 	Answer: KhmerB. (10) What Khmer King constructed Angkor Wat? He ruled from 1113-1150. 	Answer: Suryavarman IIC. (10) This temple complex, legendarily surrounded by a moat inhabited by fierce crocodiles, was built by Jayarvarman VII. The temple Bayon is at its center. 	Answer: Angkor Thom5. Name these Rabbis FTPE A. (10) He gave Simon bar Kochba, the man he thought to be the Messiah, his name. This rabbi of the 2nd century AD is also credited with inventing the modern form of Mishnaic dispute. 	Answer: Rabbi Akiva or RavAkibaB. (10) This Rabbi famously almost froze on the roof of a Synagogue while attempting to listen in on Torah classes through a skylight. Originally from Babylon, he is sometimes credited with first positing the Golden rule and is now namesake of the largest worldwide Jewish organization on college campuses.	Answer: Rabbi (Rav)Hillel the ElderC. (10) This 4th-century Rabbi reestablished the academy at Sura, and was the primary redactor of the Babylonian Talmud, which he revised twice over a 60 year period. 	Answer:Rabbi Ashi or Rav Ashi or Rashi6. Name these characters from the works of Thomas Mann FTPE: A. (10) He participates in a séance with Dr. Krokowski and is in love with Claudia Cauchat. The title of his novel refers to the location of Haus Berghof, where he stays for 7 years.        Answer: Hans Castorp B. (10) He is the acclaimed author of Maia and the Abject, and is captivated by the Polish youth Tadzio in the titular Italian city. 	Answer Gustav von AschenbachC.(10) This title character of a Thomas Mann novella loves Lisaweta but can't forget his childhood friends Hans Hansen and Ingeborg Holm.	Answer: Tonio Kröger7.Identify these conflicts with the Native Americans from the colonial American period, FTPE: A. (10)This 1637 conflict, partly triggered by the death of fur tradesman John Stone, resulted in the "Mystic Massacre" and the near annihilation of the namesake tribe. 	Answer: Pequot War B. (10) The bloodiest of the Indian Wars, this 1675-1676 conflict was led by Metacomet, the sachem of the Wompanoag Indians in Massachusetts. It was crushed with the help of the Mohicans. 	Answer: King Philip'sWar C. (10) This 1711-1715 conflict in North Carolina saw British, Dutch, and German settlers teaming up against the namesake Iroquois tribe. It was settled by the Peace of Barnwell, after which many of the rebels were sold into slavery. 	Answer: Tuscarora War 8.Name these concert overtures, FTPE: A. (10) This 1879 Brahms overture, written after the University of Breslau conferred on him an honorary degree, contains aseries of student songs. 	Answer:Academic Festival Overture or Akademische FestouvertüreB. (10)Described as a "fantasy overture," this 1870 Tchaikovsky piece about two lovers begins with a quiet chorale of clarinets and bassoons.	Answer: Romeo and Juliet C. (10) This 1802 Beethoven overture was written for a Heinrich von Collin play in which a general is banished from Rome. 	Answer: Coriolan Overture or Coriolanus Overture9. FTPE, name the law or equation best summarized by the following: A. (10) The line integral of the magnetic field strength along a closed path equals the current flow through the surface enclosed by the path. 	Answer: Ampere's LawB. (10) These are quantitative statements on the splitting of intensity between the reflected and transmitted ray under reflection, as a function of the state of polarization of light. These follow from Maxwell's equations of electrodynamics. 	Answer: Fresnel's Formulas (for the intensity of light) C.(10) Heat flow proceeds along the steepest decrease of temperature 	Answer: Fourier's Law 10.Identify these modern adaptations of Aeschylus's Oresteia, FTPE: A. (10)This Jean-Paul Sartre play keeps many of the same plot elements, but makes Zeus the god of death and the titular creatures, who terrorize Orestes after he kills Clytemnestra. 	Answer:The Flies or Les Mouches B. (10) In this Eugene O'Neill play, Christine Mannon poisons her husband Ezra after he returns from the Civil War. O'Neill puts a twist on the story by having Orin, the Orestes figure, commit suicide. 	Answer: Mourning Becomes ElectraC. (10) In this T.S. Eliot verse drama, the deeply disturbed Harry Piper conspires with his youngest sister Agatha to murder his mother, Lady Monchensey. 	Answer: The Family Reunion 11. Answer these questions about suicide FTPE:A. (10) Suicide, the third work by what French sociologist, categorized suicide into four types.	Answer: Emile DurkheimB. (5,5) Name any two of the four types of suicide all of which are based on the degrees of imbalance of two social forces: social integration and moralregulation.	Answer: Egoistic, Altruistic, Fatalistic, or Anomic (accept variations of the words)C. (10) J. B. Douglas released what 1976 work criticizing Durkheim on the grounds that he did not pay enough attention to how suicide statistics are collected?	Answer:  The Social Meaning of Suicide12. Name these French sculptors FTPE A. The sculptures of this man, more famous as a painter, include "Omphale" and a series of bronze conquerors including "Napoleon Entering Cairo," "Tamerlane" and "Frederick the Great." 	Answer: Jean-Leon GeromeB. This man is known for his busts of the great thinkers of his time including Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Denis Diderot and Voltaire. He also executed busts of Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin and a famous statue of George Washington. 	Answer: Jean-Antoine HoudonC. This man's bronze works include "The Poet and Love," "The Genius and Pity" and "The sculptor and his Muse," but he is more well known for his depiction of scenes from Dante's Inferno. 	Answer: Auguste Rodin13. Participants of this event included Benjamin Tasker, Roger Wolcott, and a famous philosopher and scientist from Pennsylvania. FTPE: A. (10) Identify this meeting in 1754, whose objectives included developing a "plan of union" against France. 	Answer: Albany CongressB. (10) This governor of Massachusetts helped draft the Albany Plan with Benjamin Franklin. A deep Loyalist, his insistence on a shipment of tea landing in Boston Harbor led to the Boston Tea Party. 	Answer: Thomas HutchinsonC. (10) This man, as the host state's governor, was Chairman of the Albany Congress. 	Answer: William DeLancey14. Identify these "Essays" from early modern philosophy, FTPE: A. (10) This essay by John Locke critiques the notion of innate ideas. Book II features distinctions between simple and complex ideas, and primary and secondary qualities. 	Answer: An Essay Concerning Human Understanding B. (10) In this essay, George Berkeley performs an overhaul of contemporary notions of optics. He suggests that the perception of space is not beholden toexperience. 	Answer: An Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision C. (10)This 1785 Thomas Reid essay develops the idea of "social acts" inwhich humans use language non-descriptively or "non-propositionally." 	Answer:An Essay on the Intellectual Powers of Man 15. Meeting of the Minds: FTPE, name these universities based on their description: A. (10) Founded under the auspices of Charles Beard, Thorstein Veblen, and John Dewey, this school opened its doors in 1919, housing exiles like Hannah Arendt, Max Wertheimer and Claude Levi Strauss. 	Answer: New School University or New School for Social ResearchB. (10) It was founded in 1386 at the behest of Ruprecht I, Count Palatinate for studies in philosophy, theology, jurisprudence, and medicine. It was home at various times to George Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Max Weber, and Karl Jaspers. 	Answer: Ruprecht Karls University of HeidelbergC. (10) Famous alumni of this university in a basketball-crazed city include such revolutionary thinkers as Dante, Thomas Becket, and Copernicus.  Gratian, compiler of the canon law collection the Decretum also taught law here at this oldest European university. 	Answer: University of Bologna16. Name these methods of linear time sorting methods FTPE: A. (10)First successfully programmed by Howard Seward in 1954, this sort is amore elaborate version of the bin sort in which items are sorted by unique "keys," which can be integers or strings. Its efficiency is Big O(n times k), where k is the average key length. 	Answer: Radix SortB. (10) This sort works by adding up the number of times each value appears in the set, putting these values in a second array, and running a second pass that puts the sorted items in a third array. Its efficiency is Big O (n plus k), where k is the greatest value in the set. 	Answer: Counting Sort C. (10) With efficiency Big Theta (n), this sort works by separating the data into a series of namesake structures, sorting those structures, and then merging them. It is a generalized form of the pigeonhole sort, and is often used in the second step of the radix sort. 	Answer: Bucket Sort17. Identify these beasts from Greek myth, FTPE: A. (10) This giant creature was sent by Artemis to terrorize King Oeneus. Atalanta and Meleager were members of the hunting party that slew it. 	Answer: Calydonian BoarB. (10) Hecale swore to make a sacrifice to Zeus if Theseus could capture this beast, and dropped dead after he succeeded. In some legends, this beast is combined with a similar creature from Crete. 	Answer: Marathonian Bull C. (10) Heracles'third labor was to capture this creature, with hoofs of bronze and antlers of gold. Heracles offered it as a gift to Eurystheus, who was unable to catch it because of its speed. 	Answer: Cerynian Hind or Hind of Ceryneia18. Identify these stories from Melville's Piazza Tales, FTPE: A. (10) In this story, narrated by the title character's employer, a copyist attempts to squat in his office but is sent to prison and dies. 	Answer: "Bartleby the Scrivener"B. (10) In this story, the titular salesman who pawns the titular objects during thunderstorms is rejected from the anonymous narrator's cabin with the claim," In thunder as in sunshine, I stand at ease in the hands of my God. False negotiator, away!" 	Answer: "The Lightning-Rod Man"C. (10) This story features a slave revolt aboard the San Dominick, led by Babo. The title character is forced to tell a false story to Amasa Delano, the captain of a whaling ship. 	Answer: "Benito Cereno"19. Answer the following about a certain author and his works, FTPE: A. (10) This novel chronicles the marital friction and oncoming divorce between Kaname and Misako.Kaname is entranced by his father-in-law's mistress, O-hisa, into rejecting Westernization and embracing traditional values. 	Answer: Some PreferNettles or Tade Kuu Mushi B. (10) Name the Japanese author of Some Prefer Nettles, whose other works include "The Tattooist" and Diary of an Old Man, and who has a literary prize named after him. 	Answer: Junichiro Tanizaki (accepts names in reverse order) C. (10) The title figures in this Tanizaki novel are the business-minded Tsuruko, the rebellious Taeko, the intelligent Suchiko, and the flippant Yukiko, for whom the others try to find a husband. 	Answer: The Makioka Sisters or Sasameyuki20. FTPE, identify the processes in which: A. (10) An ether is produced by a nucleophilic substitution of halides with alkoxides. 	Answer: Williamson SynthesisB. (10) Aldehydes or ketones are reduced to alkanes; this is run under strongly basic conditions. 	Answer: Wolff-Kishner ReductionC. (10) A primary or secondary alcohol is oxidized to produce an aldehyde or ketone (using a reagent like sulfuric acid) 	Answer: Jones Oxidation21.30-20-10 Name the film. 30 -The director of the film, George Stevens, agreed to take no upfront salary but rather only a percentage of the profits; he would prove rather lucky, as the movie was the highest grossing Warner Brothers film in history until Superman in 1978. 20 -The lead character in the film was based on Texas oilman Glenn McCarthy, an Irish immigrant who built the Shamrock Hotel in Houston, Texas. 10 -James Dean died in a car crash before this film, based on an Edna Ferber novel, was finished. This led to actor Nick Adams providing the voice for unfinished scenes involving Jett Rink, Dean's character. Answer: Giant22.Answer these questions about an American Scientist of the early 20th Century, FTPE:A. (10) Name the scientist who established a solid academic reputation for his biology tests and research in taxonomy and evolution as a professor of zoology in at Indiana University before conducting his name sake studies on human sexuality.	Answer: Alfred KinseyB. (10) Name either of the Kinsey Studies coauthors/cointerviewers.	Answer: Wardell Pomerstoy or Paul GebhardC. (10) Name the actor who played Kinsey in a recent movie.	Answer: Liam Neeson23. Coalitions of the Willing -FTPE, identify these items relating to Coalitions during the Napoleonic Wars: A. (10) When Napoleon escaped from Elba in 1815, this coalition was scrapped together for one last triumph over the diminutive Corsican        Answer: Seventh CoalitionB. (10) This coalition ended when Napoleon strategically disengaged at Austerlitz in 1805, later toppling Austria and Russia when reinforcements arrived.        Answer: Third CoalitionC. (10) Name this treaty signed between France and Austria that pulled Austria out of the Third Coalition and also effectively ended the Holy Roman Empire        Answer:Treaty of Pressburg or Peace of Pressburg 24.FTPE, name these surface features of Venus. This is the only feature on Venus not named for a real or mythological female, a mountain range roughly two kilometers higher than Mount Everest. It is named after a Scottish physicist. Answer:Maxwell Montes (accept Maxwell Mountains or Maxwell Mounts or equivalents)About the size of Australia, this northern continent-like highland is named for the Akkadian counterpart to the Sumerian goddess Inanna. Answer: Ishtar TerraThis highland, the southern counterpart to Ishtar Terra, is named for the goddess whose cult was located on the island of Cythera. Answer:Aphrodite Terra25. FTPE, name these minerals. Similar to the pairing of diamonds and graphite, this mineral is paired with the mineral marcasite. When struck against steel, it produces sparks, which may have to do with its name. Answer: PyriteSome types of this often overlooked mineral include rime, clathrate hydrate, pancake, and hexagonal. Answer: IceCrystals of this mineral are found in the human brain and are thought to be responsible for magneto-reception, the ability to sense the polarity or the inclination of the earth's magnetic field. Answer: Magnetite