Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rutgers-Newark (Shah Ali, Cecilia Arias, Richard Emanuel, Bryan Orak, Andrew Verdon)TOSSUPS1.  It is also known as Amonton's Law after another namesake who discovered it in 1702, but it is generally named after the "father of colloid chemistry". The apparatus used to determine it was a cylindrical container with a tube bent in a right angle that opened to the atmosphere. A lesser-used variation of this law replaces density with molar mass but it, too, contains the "enrichment factor." The inverse square-root relationship is a consequence of the Maxwell distribution. It can be stated as, "the kinetic energy of two samples of different gases at the same temperature is identical." FTP, what is this law that describes the rate of effusion of gases?Answer: Graham's law of effusion2.  Quinitillian praised it in his Institutio Oratoria for its distortion and novelty, and he ascribes to the sculptor a certain "softness." The small knobs on the forehead were used to fit a device implanted during the making of the copy. Copies of it in the British museum and the Vatican show the head incorrectly tilted ninety degrees compared to the original bronze, which is lost. The only marble copy to get the head in the correct position is located in Rome's Italian National Museum. FTP, identify this 5th century B.C.E. sculpture that shows the titular athlete at the height of his backswing, the most famous work of Myron. Answer: Diskobolos or the Discus-Thrower3.  In 1988 he received both the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the National Medal of Science. His lesser-known works include Money Mischief: Episodes in Monetary History and Price Theory. In 1980 he developed the PBS television series "Free to Choose". He coined the phrase "miracle of Chile," but critics lambasted his economic policies, which were enacted by Pinochet. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1976 for his work in the fields of consumption analysis, monetary history and theory. FTP, name this Chicago economist better known as the father of monetarism. Answer: Milton Friedman4.  He once told Jay Leno that he wanted to get a tattoo "right on my ass" and said to Bob Dole, "We're the new liberals of the Republican party. Can you imagine that?" It is, however, very easy to imagine him as a liberal Republican, for he once said that the Republican party has been taken over by "a bunch of kooks," a euphemism for the religious right. He unseated Democratic Senate Majority leader Ernst W. McFarland in 1952. He defeated Nelson Rockefeller for the Republican Nomination to be president. FTP name this Arizona senator and 1964 presidential hopeful who lost the election to Lyndon Johnson.Answer: Barry Goldwater5.  In college he played for Louisville, and he was first drafted by the Pittsburgh Steelers, who released him.  At the 1958 championship game vs. the New York Giants, with 90 seconds on the clock, he completed four passes to bring his team to the 20-yard line. They tied the game on a field goal, after which he set up an 80-yard drive for the winning touchdown. His career finished with the San Diego Chargers and lasted 18 years and consisted of two MVPs and 10 Pro Bowls. For ten points, name this Baltimore Colts quarterback who lost to Namath's Jets in Super Bowl III.Answer: Johnny Unitas6.  The USDA banned supplements of this amino acid in 1990 because they thought it caused eosinophilia-mylgia. Its molecular formula is C11H12N2O2, its isoelectric point is 5.38, and its pKas are 2.38 and 9.39. It is considered a natural sedative, and helps the body to produce the B-vitamin niacin, which, in turn, helps the body to produce serotonin. FTP, identify this amino acid that has an indole functional ring, with symbol W, and which you probably ate some of during Thanksgiving. Answer: Tryptophan7.  Two answers required: they will escape the fate of the cosmos brought about by the battle at Ragnarok by hiding in Hodmimir's Forest, since this is the only place where Surt's sword cannot do harm.  Here they'll sleep through the destruction, only to awaken and find the world green and full of life once more. They will survive on morningdew and will begin their task of repopulating the earth. FTP, name these two humans of Norse mythology whose names translate to life and eager for life, respectively.Answer: Lif and Liftrasir (any order)8.  The valley in the background, purported by some art historians to be Easthampton, Long Island, creates a sheltering environment. The sense of community is echoed through the tiny adults at the left of the canvas that wave to the central figures. There are several studies for this painting, two of which show only one tumbling figure on the left. It might have resulted from nostalgia for the "little red schoolhouses," one of which is prominently placed in the background. FTP identify this painting that depicts the mid-day frolicking of young schoolboys by Winslow Homer. Answer: Snap the Whip9.  This city is a host of four universities and a number of scientific institutes, including the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Onderstepoort Veterinary Research Institute. Close to it is the suburb of Burgers Park, including Melrose House, a fascinating museum which warrants a full mornings visit. Burgers Park has many villas built from the wealth acquired from the boom on the Witwatersrand gold field during the 1880s and 1890s. For ten points name this administrative capital of South Africa that's not Cape Town or Bloemfontein.Answer: Pretoria10.  You could say that it all started when the protagonist saw his mother having sex with another man while his father lay dying, but you wouldn't be completely correct. His physical unattractiveness and stuttering don't help either. The various interpretations and misinterpretations of koans are used to undercut the philosophy, whereas Kashiwagi represents a nihilistic way of life that attracts the protagonist. Mizoguchi's obsession with the titular object starts when his father takes him to it at a young age and he even sees it when having sex. FTP, name this novel inspired by the contemporary arson of the titular house of worship, by Yukio Mishima. Answer: Temple of the Golden Pavilion (accept Kinkakuji)11.  In 1996, results by Recami allowed them to have mass. In 1973, using a large collection of particle detectors, Crough and Clay identified in an unrepeated experiment a putative superliminal particle in an air shower. According to Maiorino and Rodrigues, a time paradox would result if they could be sent to the past under the assumption that the principle of special relativity was a law because they seem to violate causality. This is because theoretically, when they lose energy they gain speed conversely when they gain energy they slow down. FTP, identify this theoretical particle that can travel faster than light, named from Greek for "speedy."Answer: Tachyon12.  It was composed in 1896. In this piece, the sunrise is depicted through a Nature motif of irreducible simplicity. Proclaimed "solemnly" by four trumpets against the background of a deep, slowly throbbing C in octaves on the organ and the lowest instruments of the orchestra, this motif evokes a sense of infinite space, of a nascent universe waiting to be peopled. FTP, name this work of classical music, written by Richard Strauss, which marked wrestler Ric Flair's entrance into the ring and became the opening theme song to 2001: A Space Odyssey.Answer: Thus Spake Zarathustra (accept Also Sprach Zarathustra)13.  Mrs. Thrale-Piozzi grudgingly gave him a 20 out of 20 for charm, even though they had a mutual hatred for each other. However, he couldn't always charm his way into a woman's pants: over a period of 30 years he contracted "Senor Gonorrhea" a record 17 times. He was a star-fucker and, not coincidentally, met his most famous idol in his friend Davies' bookshop in 1763, where he apologized for his Scottish heritage because the "star" hated Scots. He went on tour with him, accounts of which are published in Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. However, he is most famous for, FTP, writing the beloved biography Life of Johnson. Answer: James Boswell14.  He has a namesake municipality in Venezuela, whose flag may also depict him. He helped found the national university at Santiago in 1843, which he later became the first president of. His interest in science stemmed from relations with Alexander Humboldt, but he is better known for the epic poem Silvas Americanas and Principios de derecho internacional. FTP, identify this Venezeuelan-born scholar, humanist, and poet best whose most famous works include A Georgic of the Tropics and Gramatica de la lengua castellana. Answer: Andres Bello15.  Thanks to a Jewish quota, this psychologist was able to study at the First State Moscow University from 1913-1917. Although his interest was literature and art, he is well known for his work in the field of developmental psychology. Particularly, he argued that the cognitive skills and understanding processes of children are not determined by innate factors, but rather, are a product of social interactions within the culture that the child grows up in.  FTP, name this psychologist, who's "zone of proximal development" is an important part of his theory.Answer: Lev Vygotsky16.  The author eliminated it from the "New York Editions" of his collected works because he did not like it. The plot thickens at the engagement party of Marian and Arthur, where Arthur's cousin is introduced to the protagonist, who is very fond of knitting. Other instances of actions occurring outside the central residence are the meeting between Aunt Lavinia and Mrs. Montgomery's brother at the lewd Oyster Bar and Mrs. Montgomery's admission of her brother's prodigality at her house. The Alps are the site of turning point between Dr. Sloper and his daughter, whereat the latter resolves to marry Morris against his wishes. However, the majority of action, FTP, takes place at the titular New York neighborhood in this Henry James novel.Answer: Washington Square17.  Upon Bill Clinton calling him in1999 to urge him to sign a peace pact he boasted, "What rebel leader gets called by the president of the United States? I only got that call because I fought in the bush for so many years." He received military training from the British army and was closely intertwined with Charles Taylor. He marched into Sierra Leone in March 1991, where his group specialized in hacking off limbs, raping, and pillaging the population during the decade-long civil war. FTP, name this rebel leader who led the RUF to kill over 50,000 people during the civil war in Sierra Leone. Answer: Foday Sankoh18. The now-extinct giant ground sloth once called this place home, and it was here early Welsh settlers named the animals they saw pen-gwins. Magellan was the first European to reach this wasteland, and Dutch explorers later gave names such as Island of Desolation, Anxious Point, and Port Famine as a reminder to the foreboding nature of the locale. Its name in Spanish literally means "big feet," and FTP, name this steppe that lies to the east of the Andes in Chile and Argentina. Answer: Patagonia19.  Because he worked so hard, he went blind in one eye.  His work first garnered the attention of Johann Bernoulli and his sons, and he succeeded Bernoulli as chair of the mathematics department in St. Petersburg.  His work included the study of the zeta equation, which he found zeta of 2 is pi^2/6. Also, he published his full theory of complex numbers in 1751 and found that in his work entitled, Introductio in analysin infiniorum that the natural log of negative one is pi times i. FTP, name this Swiss mathematician considered to be the greatest of all time.Answer: Leonhard Euler20.  As a reporter in South Africa the Boers kidnapped him. He was a member of the conservative party, but left it to join the liberal party in order to support free trade; however, he would later return to the Conservative party. During the First World War he was First Lord of the Admiralty, but had to resign when thousands of deaths resulted from his failed plans to invade Gallipoli and to knock out the Ottoman Empire from the war. FTP name this British Prime Minister who would lead England during most of the Second World War.Answer: Winston ChurchillBorn in 1479, in a village in Spain said to bear his name, he traveled to the Americas in 1514, where he had his first taste of conquest in Panama.  Here he befriended Francisco Pizarro, with whom he'd travel further south to conquer Peru and earn himself riches. In 1534, he obtained the governorship of New Toledo, but being the ambitious person he was, he decided to gather slaves and soldiers and travel further down south, where he encountered not only hostile natives, but also harsh weather. FTP, name this man credited with the discovery of Chile, also known as "El Adelantado."	Answer: Diego de Almagro (accept El Adelantado before mentioned)It originated as an offshoot of Indian Buddhism in the fifth and sixth centuries C.E. Padmasambhava and Shantarakshita then introduced it into Tibet in the 8th century, where it is still practiced today. Revolving around the tantras, its defining feature is a quicker path to enlightenment. FTP, identify this subsect of Mahayana Buddhism,, sometimes called Lamaism, that is considered the third major school of the religion. Answer: Vajrayana Buddhism (do not accept Mahayana) After defeating his rival Maxentius at the Battle of Milvian Bridge he was declared senior Augustus. His current reputation was promulgated by Lactanius and Eusebius and gained ground in the succeeding generations. He became sole emperor after he had Licinius strangled in 324. He changed the name of the city now named for him to Nea Roma. He called the First Counsil of Nicea and, together with co-emperor Licinius, issued the Edict of Milan. FTP identify this Roman emperor who made Christianity legal. Answer: Constantine the Great or Constantine I (full name: Flavius Valerius Constantinus)Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rutgers-Newark (Shah Ali, Cecilia Arias, Richard Emanuel, Bryan Orak, Andrew Verdon)BONUSES1.  Answer the following related to an organic chemistry functional group FTSNOP:5) These molecules are derivatives of benzeneAnswer: aromatic compounds5) Aromaticity in a molecule can be determined by consulting this set of rulesAnswer: Huckel's rules10) This is the common name of aminobenzeneAnswer: aniline10) Alkylation of aromatic compounds can be performed with this reaction, which uses a Lewis acid catalyst.Answer: Friedel-Crafts alkylation2.  Answer the following about an artist FTPE.10) This German Expressionist's works include 1909's Girl under a Japanese Parasol and 1910's Self-portrait with Model. Answer: Ernst Ludwig Kirchner10) Kirchner founded this early 20th century vanguard art group in Dresden with other former-architecture students. It was influenced by the art of Oceanic and African peoples. Emil Nolde joined it for a short time. Answer: The Bridge (accept Die Brucke)10) This Kirchner painting depicts three abstractly drawn figures standing next to each other against a yellow background. Two are dressed in brown while one is dressed in blue. Answer: Berlin Street Scene 3.  Identify the following regarding the Western film genre FTPE:10) This 1952 film revolves around Marshall Will Kane. Recurring images include those of clocks and the railroad tracks. Answer: High Noon10) He was the director of High Noon, after which he also directed A Nun's Story and A Man for All Seasons. Answer: Fred Zinnemann10) High Noon introduced to Hollywood this actress who later, to Hitchcock's woe, became the Princess of Monaco.Answer: Grace Kelly4.  Economists may be dull and boring, but on occasion they do win things. Name the following Nobel Prize-winning economists FTPE.10) This MIT economist emphasized teaching students macroeconomics before microeconomics, authored Foundations of Economic Analysis, and was the first American to win the Noble prize in economics.Answer: Paul Samuelson10) Author of Collective Choice and Social Welfare, his greatest work was with regards to welfare economics. He won the Noble prize in economics in 1998.  Answer: Amartaya Sen10) This University of Chicago economist emphasized that when bargaining is costless and property rights can be assigned without difficulty, the amount of an externality generating activity will not depend on who is assigned the property rights..Answer: Ronald Coase5.  Answer the following about the political history of the Democratic Republic of the Congo FTP. (10) This Belgian king commissioned Henry Stanley to explore the Congo further and make treaties with the chiefs there. He later made a fortune off ivory, rubber, and the slave trade. Answer: King Leopold II(10) This man seized power after a coup in 1965 until he was overthrown in a 1991 coup.  He also Africanized names in his country, calling it Zaire and changing his own name as well.Answer:  Mobutu Sese-Seko Koko Ngbendu Wa Za Banga or Joseph Mobutu(10) He took power after the assassination of his father, Laurent, who overthrew Sese-Seko. This current president who took power in 2001 has promised elections in 6 months. He has done little to stop the outbreak of violence in Bukavu, though. Answer: Joseph Kabila 6.  Answer the following about a certain literary style for FTP. (10) Introduced by Alejo Carpentier in The Kingdom of This World, this style was utilized by Borges and Marquez, and is considered an "amalgamation between fantasy and reality." Answer: magic realism(10) In this work, Marquez describes Bayardo san Roman returning Angela Vicario to her family because she is not a virgin, and the brutal murder of Santiago Nasar as the culprit. Answer: Chronicle of a Death Foretold or Cronica de una muerte anunciada(10) This Nigerian-born writer's The Famished Road garnered the Booker Prize for fiction in 1991 - in it he uses the theme of magic realism to tell the story of Azaro, a child of the spirits that chooses to remain in the world of reality. Answer: Ben Okri7.Hindu gods based on description, FTP. (10) This goddess is Vishnu's wife and is usually depicted on a sitting on a lotus. She is the goddess of wealth, fortune, beauty, and pleasure. Answer: Lakshmi(10) In the Ramayana, this monkey god helped build a bridge so Prince Rama can rescue his wife Sita from the island of Lanka. He is revered for his great athletic prowess and strength. Answer: Hanuman(10) His importance was great at one time, but as Hinduism evolved he took on less and less a role and became either Vishnu or Brahma. He is the reason why Hindus face their fires one way and is aptly known as the god of fire. Answer Agni 8.  I hope you like A.E. Housman, cuz otherwise this'll be a shit-ass bonus FTPE. 10) This Housman poem contains the lines, "I heard a wise man say/ 'give pounds and crowns and guineas/ but not your heart away'."Answer: When I was one and twenty10) In this Housman poem the narrator reproaches his friend for eating and drinking too fast his victuals and beer.Answer: Terence, this is stupid stuff10) When I was one and twenty and Terence, this is stupid stuff can be both found in this collection of verse by Housman. Answer: A Shropshire Lad9.  Name these terms related to acoustics, FTPE. 10) This is the precise level at which a sound just becomes audible, often abbreviated ATH.	Answer: Absolute threshold of hearing10) This is the arithmetic mean of sound absorption coefficients measured at the fundamental frequencies. A 0 represents perfect reflection while a 1 represents perfect absorption.	Answer: Noise Reduction Coefficient10) This is the result of various delayed and attenuated sound waves reaching your ear at different times, and should not be confused with echo.	Answer: Reverberation10.  Name these famous South American wars, FTPE.10) From 1932 to 1935, this war was fought between Bolivia and Paraguay in order to gain control of the Chaco Boreal, an area rumored to contain a wealth of petroleum and also providing access to the Pacific Ocean.	Answer: Chaco War (accept War of the Gran Chaco)10) It began with a dispute over a desert, but ultimately became a dispute over some coastal areas.  This war was fought from 1884 to 1879 and forced Bolivia into the landlocked state that it is today.	Answer: War of the Pacific10) Brazil helps Uruguay, and Paraguay starts a war with Brazil. Argentina forms an alliance with Brazil and Uruguay and together they declare war on Paraguay. Name this war.	Answer: War of the Triple Alliance11.  Answer the following about a dramatist and his works FTPE:10) Written into an opera by Debussy in 1902, this play features a triangle involving a man in love with his sister-in-law. Answer: Pelleas and Melisande (or Pelleas et Melisande)10) This Belgian playwright wrote Pelleas and Melisande.Answer: Maurice Maeterlinck 10) This Maeterlinck play inspired Humperdinck. It reads like a fairy tale and features two children on a quest for happiness.Answer: The Blue Bird (or L'Oiseau Bleu)12.  Answer the following about a certain biological pathway. (10) It consists of 10 steps and enzymes in it in include phosphglucoisomerase and pyruvate kinase. It uses 2 ATP and generates 4 ATP. Answer: Glycolysis(10) - Under anaerobic conditions pyruvate is converted to lactate by this enzyme. Answer: lactate dehydrogenase(10) - This is the intermediate that is converted to pyruvate - it comes about as a result of the dehydration product of 2-phosphoglycerate.Answer: Phosphoenolpyruvate 13.  Identify the following about a play FTPE:10) A new off-Broadway rendition of this Ibsen play about a woman bored with her marriage was directed by Ivor van Hove at the New York Theater CompanyAnswer: Hedda Gabbler 10) This scholar and husband of Hedda's is usually portrayed as dry and dull and is shown working ponderously on his opus. Answer: George or Jorgen Tesman10) This judge gets to put his hand on Hedda's mouth while slamming her head against the wall several times in van Hove's interpretation. Perhaps that's the contemporary method of blackmailing. Answer: Judge Brack14. Answer the following about the geography of the 51st state FTSNOP. 5) This is the smallest province in Canada.Answer: Prince Edward Island or PEI5) What large body of water lies between Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, Nunavut, and theNorthwest Territories?Answer: Hudson Bay10) This town whose name means "place of fish" was formerly known as Frobisher Bay. It's the capital of the kinda new territory of Nunavut.Answer: Iqaluit10) The Canadian west coast is home to this tallest and longest living species of tree in Canada, whose scientific name is Pseudotsuga menziesii?Answer: Douglass Fir  15.  Answer these questions about Aztec Mythology FTSNOP5)Feathery and serpenty, those crazy Aztecs mistook Hernan Cortez for him.Answer:  Quetzacoatl5) His father was a ball of feathers, and because his sister killed his mother, he killed his sister and threw her head into the sky to become the moon.Answer: Huitzilopochtli (wheat-seel-o-pokt-li)10) - Known as the goddess of hearth and volcanic fires, she was turned into a dog for eating paprika on fasting day.Answer: Chantico10) - Souls of those who were struck by lightning, women who died giving birth, and fallen warriors were the only ones who didn't go into this lowest layer of the underworld.	Answer: Mictlan16.  Name these dead senators FTSNOP.10) During the debate over the Compromise of 1850 this New York Senator and future secretary of State appealed to a "Higher Law" than the constitution.A: William H. Seward5) This Democratic senator from the great state of Nebraska ran thrice for the presidency, became secretary of state for Woodrow Wilson, and uttered, "You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold." A: William Jennings Bryan5)  One of Texas's first two senators, he was also the governor of both Texas and Tennessee.Answer:  Sam Houston10) Known as Mr. Republican, he opposed much of the New Deal, and failed to win the Republican Nomination in 1952 to Dwight D. Eisenhower. Name this senator from Ohio.A: Robert Taft17. Name these reactions named after the people who discovered them from organic chemistry FTP each. (10) This reaction involves such intermediates as betaines, ylides, and triphenylphosphine. The actual reaction is a method for the synthesis of alkenes from aldehydes and ketones using compounds called phosphonium ylides. Answer: Wittig reaction(10) This process of forming an ester is done by refluxing a carboxylic acid and an alcohol in the presence of an acid catalyst, commonly H2SO4 or HCl. Answer: Fischer esterification (prompt on esterification)(10) This is the treatment of a cyclic ketone, beta-ketoester, or beta-diketone with an alpha-beta unsaturated ketone. These two reactants undergo a Michael reaction followed by an intramolecular aldol and dehydration to yield a cyclohexone ring.  Answer: Robinson annulation18.  Answer the following about prime numbers FTPE.10) Two consecutive odd prime numbers are called this.Answer: Twin primes10) This is the term for two integers when their greatest common divisor is 1.Answer: Relatively prime10) To test whether a number is prime, one has to divide integers starting at 2 into that number up until this number to find whether or not the remainder is 0. Answer: Square root of the number 19.  Answer these questions about the rock group known as Seether FTPE.10) What country was Seether assembled in?Answer: South Africa10) What was the name of their first single that was on the album Disclaimer, released in August 2002?Answer: Fine Again10) Who did Seether collaborate with in their latest single entitled "Broken"? She has released a solo album Use Me. Answer: Amy Lee 20.  Answer these questions about a psychologist and his work, FTPE. 10) Working in the fields of cognition and education, this psychologist is well known for his theory of multiple intelligences.	Answer: Howard Gardner10) This is one of the nine intelligences that is most commonly tested in aptitude tests, and refers to the ability of a person to problem-solve fluently, detect patterns, and think logically.	Answer: Logico-mathematical intelligence10) Published in 1983, this is the book that introduced the theory of multiple intelligences.	Answer: Frames of MindAnswer the following about classical music FTPE.10) Constanze Weber was married to what famous 18th century composer?Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart10) How old was Mozart when he wrote his first symphony?Answer: 1010) What major work was left unfinished at Mozart's death?Answer: RequiemDuring the Napoleonic Wars there were many great military leaders; however, a few stand out among the rest FTSNOP.5) He defeated many of Napoleon's finest Marshals in Spain, but his greatest victory came against the French Emperor himself at Waterloo.A: Duke of Wellington10) This British admiral defeated a combined French and Spanish Fleet at Trafalgar.A: Horatio Nelson15) Except when he bowed to public pressure and engaged the French at Borodino, this Russian general employed the successful strategy of refusing to fight Napoleon and as Commander of Chief of all Russian forces would lead them to victoryA: Mikhail KutuzovEurope has always had great statesmen. FTSNOP identify the following who are above the rest.5) He was a great diplomat and statesmen who greatest achievement was the unification of Germany, name this man who obtained the moniker of "Iron Chancellor".A: Otto Von Bismarck 15) He was the Prime Minister of Piedmont and prevented Giuseppe Garibaldi from attacking Rome after helping Sicily successfully revolt against Naples. Name this man who was instrumental in helping Victor Emmanuel become king of a unified Italy.A: Camillio di Cavour 10) This self defrocked former bishop and foreign minister of Napoleon would defect to the Russians because of his disgust over Napoleon's actions after the battle of Tilsit.A: Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Pe'rigord. 