Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Mike Wehrman, Peter Rebeiro, Ben Colman, Andrew Uzzell, Brett Lazer)
Tossups

1. His so-called "100 days" fresco is in the Cancellaria in Rome portrays scenes from the life of Pope Paul III. He also painted several frescos in the interior of the Palazzo Vecchio and designed an office building which became the Uffizi Gallery, which includes a namesake corridor featuring self-portraits of famous artists throughout history. However, he is better known for his writing, specifically a work commissioned by Cardinal Farnese to "catalogue...artists and their works, listed in chronological order". FTP, name this early art historian, author of The Lives of the Artists.
ANSWER: Giorgio Vasari

2. They are given by the generating function 1 minus the square root of the quantity 1 minus four X, all over 2 X. Euler found that they give the number of ways of dividing a polygon with n plus 2 sides into n triangles, and they are also equal to the number of paths along the edges of an N by N grid that do not cross the main diagonal, explaining their relationship to the center column of Pascal's Triangle. The formula for the Nth one is one over N plus 1 times 2 N choose N. FTP, name this sequence of numbers that begins 1, 2, 5, 14...
ANSWER: Catalan numbers

3. A letter written by Clara Schumann complimented the skill of the transition into the C-minor recapitulation of the allegro, and its scherzos may have been modeled on Robert Schumann's Rhenish Symphony. First performed in 1876, it took 14 years to complete. Its composer said of comparisons with the work of an earlier German composer, "You have no idea how it feels to have the footsteps of a giant tramping behind you." Its finale contains an homage to the finale of that man's last symphony, as well as the "Fate" motif from that composer's 5th. FTP, name this symphony that is often called "Beethoven's Tenth".
ANSWER: Brahms's Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68

4. A leading proponent of deism, he wrote the treatise Reason the only Oracle of Man, and his younger brother Ira founded his state's university. However, he is better known as a military figure. During his most famous raid, he demanded surrender by yelling, "Come out of there you goddamn old rat"as
opposed to the more well known, but most likely apocryphal "Surrender in the name of the Great Jehovah and the Continental Congress." FTP name this revolutionary war figure who was captured by the British while trying to take Montreal, and who, along with Benedict Arnold and his Green Mountain Boys
captured Fort Ticonderoga.
        Answer: Ethan Allen

5.  The head of the college, Cyril Fielding, is one of few white people not annoyed with Mrs. Moore.  Her son, the magistrate Ronny, is supposed to marry the protagonist, who is in her care.  However, on a visit to the Marabar caves, the protagonist suffers a strange psychic experience and falsely believes Fielding's friend sexually assaulted her.  The accused, an Indian doctor, thinks kicking the British out of his country is the only solution.  Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of impropriety in, FTP, what novel by E.M. Forster?
Answer: A Passage to India   

6. The Ten Regular Attendants, a group of eunuchs, used their court influence to enrich themselves. Zhang Jiao and his brothers revered the god Huang-lao, ironically calling their beliefs "The Way of Supreme Peace". The empress's half-brother He Jin defeated the rebels in Henan in 185, but by late in 188, the rebels, followers of Tai Ping Dao, threatened Luoyang, the capital city. The next year, Zhang Rang, the leader of the Ten Regular Attendants, beheaded He Jin, but the warlord Cao Cao put down the revolt in 192. FTP, identify this Chinese revolt that was named after an article of clothing.
ANSWER: Yellow Turban Rebellion or Yellow Scarves Rebellion

7.  Five years later, the main characters have moved on to other occupations because of a restraining order, but when an old client returns with new problems, Peter convinces them to reunite.  Harris Yulin makes an appearance as an ornery judge, and according to Louis's passionate defense of his employers "...one time, I turned into a dog, and they helped me."  Hilarity ensues as a resurgence of supernatural activity strikes New York City, and Dana's baby is attacked by "psychomagnotheric" slime.  Featuring Wilhelm von Homburg as the former ruler of Carpathia and Peter Macnicol as the eccentric Janosz Poha, this is, FTP, what Ivan Reitman film that saw the return of Ray, Egon, and Slimer?
Answer: Ghostbusters II 

8. He studied in Geneva and received his MD from the University of Pennsylvania.  He cultivated friendships with Ezra Pound, James Joyce, Wallace Stevens, and Charles Demuth who was to paint an iconic image which contains both this man's name and the Great Figure from his poem.  His famous works include a series of poems about the paintings of Breughel, a poem with the lines, "I saw the figure 5 In Gold On a Red Firetruck," and perhaps his most famous work, a poem only 16 words in total, The Red Wheelbarrow. FTP, name this poet who lived near Paterson, New Jersey. 
Answer: William Carlos Williams. 

9.  St. George's Caye (pronounced KEY) in this nation was settled in 1650, and a 1798 British victory here over a small Spanish fleet is celebrated on September 10. Though granted full independence in 1981, this country still recognizes Queen Elizabeth II as sovereign. Tourism provides much of this nation's GDP, especially from divers who come to view the Barrier Reef along its only coastline. FTP, name this Central American nation with capital at Belmopan, formerly British Honduras. 
Answer: Belize

10. One of its first discoverers, Nissim Calderon, incorrectly hypothesized that cyclobutanes form complexes with metals such as ruthenium or molybdenum. In 1971, two French scientists found that metal carbenes react with the namesake compounds to form metallocyclobutane intermediates that then break apart. In it, statistical redistribution of alkylidenes follows alkene double bond cleavage. FTP, name this organic synthesis that redistributes alkenic bonds, for which Chauvin, Grubbs, and Schrock won the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
ANSWER: Olefin metathesis or alkene metathesis or transalkylidenation

11.  He relates two memories, or "spots of time" which remain with him to his old age, both of which are visions of the English moorland, in his verse autobiography Prelude. After attending Cambridge, he spent time in Revolutionary France, but soon returned to England when he ran out of money. Author of "The Lucy Poems" and "The Excursion" FTP name this poet, who became Poet Laureate in 1843 after the death of Robert Southey, and who collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.
	Answer: William Wordsworth

12.  According to Genesis 11, Abraham's father Terah settled here after leaving Ur. Its site at the intersection of the Nineveh-Carchemish highway and the road from Damascus contributed to its strategic value, which is perhaps why Surena fought there. Surena's outnumbered cataphracts made effective use of the feinting Parthian shot, and even their opponents' large scuta could not save Publius, the son of the wealthy Roman general, from getting arrowed and having his head put on a pike. FTP, name this 53 B.C. battle in which Parthian cavalry crushed Roman legions and Crassus was killed.
ANSWER: Carrhae (accept Harran)

13. He began his public career at the Council of Basel in 1421, though he lost in his defense of Count Ulrich of Manderscheid. Later, he represented Eugene IV at the Diets of Mainz and Nuremberg as papal legate, and as cardinal, he preached two Jubilee indulgences of Nicholas V, as well as calling for the reunification of the Hussites with the Church. A longtime rival of Sigismund, Archduke of Austria, he was seen as a powerful reformer. FTP, what man is sometimes called the first "modern" philosopher because of works such as De Docte Ignorantia, and also presaged the Copernican model of the universe?
Answer: Nicholas of Cusa or Nicola de Cusa or Nikolaus Krebs

14.  Major obstacles include decoherence, which violates their unitary character. Reasonable large-scale candidates include electrons of helium atoms and fullerene-based ESR. They can solve problems of complexity class BQP, corresponding to the classical BPP. IBM researchers created a seven-qubit model that ran factorization algorithms faster than classical methods currently allow. Though a classical device with infinite memory could be just as good, FTP, name this device that uses the spin states of particles and principles like superposition and entanglement to operate on data.
ANSWER: quantum computer (accept equivalent forms)

15. The absence of the trade winds leads to the warmer surface waters of the western Pacific flowing toward the eastern Pacific where they evaporate easily, which in turn causes heavier rainfall in the East Pacific and decreased rainfall in the West Pacific. The collapse of fishing industries in the East Pacific during it can be explained by the rapid influx of warm surface waters from the West Pacific, killing off fish populations in large numbers due to thermal shock.  These describe, FTP, what meteorological phenomenon often blamed for climatic natural disasters in 1982-1983, possibly caused by the Southern Oscillation or ENSO?
Answer: El Nino

16. Born in Possagno to a family of stone cutters, legend has it that at age twelve he molded a lion out of butter. He designed a marble pyramid as a mausoleum for Titian in Venice, where his own heart is now interred. In addition to the many models of classical subjects he made as a student, he sculpted busts of modern subjects such as Paolina Borghese, Napoleon, and George Washington. FTP, name this Italian Neoclassical sculpture, known for such works as Cupid and Psyche and The Three Graces.
ANSWER: Antonio Canova

17. Representing a prescriptive theory, modern constructions typically incorporate aspects of Kantian non-consequentialism, including the categorical imperative, the principle of ends, and the principle of autonomy, as well as Millsian consequentialist ideas of utility, including the principle of least harm and the righteousness of acts based on rules versus the value of their outcome. In addition, formulations with Rawlsian principles, including liberty, opportunity, and distributive justice, are the basis of many social-contract theories. FTP, what term can be used to describe a collection of principles which dictate actions that produce the outcome of what ought to be?
Answer: normative ethics (do not prompt on "ethics")

18. There are only two American painters in this collection, James Whistler and Gilbert Stuart. It contains outstanding examples of old master works, such as the controversial Polish Rider which is thought to be by Rembrandt, as well as three Vermeers which are not allowed to be loaned out for exhibitions. Built as a residence in 1913, six years before its owner's death, it was designed with the intention of eventually becoming a museum. FTP name this museum located at 1 East 70th St. in New York City, the former mansion of a Pittsburgh steel industrialist, a visit to which is kinda like hanging out in a really rich guy's house. 
Answer: The Frick Collection

19. The similarity between the name of one of its characters and the Genesis term for the primordial ocean lead some to believe that it formed the basis for Genesis. Besides Tablet V, it is almost complete, first discovered at the library of Ashurbanipal in Nineveh. Mummu was shut out of the picture after his planned rebellion with Apsu is discovered by Ea. Later, Kingu becomes the most powerful of the gods, and is destroyed in order to create the men who populate the world made out of Tiamat's corpse. FTP, name this Babylonian creation epic that describes the supremacy of Marduk.
ANSWER: Enuma Elish

20.  Publications he founded include Taller (tie-AIR), a literary journal which began in 1938, and Plural and Vuelta, started in 1971 and 1976, respectively, both of which were dedicated to art and politics. He served as his country's ambassador to France from 1945 to 1962, and to India from 1962 to 1968, but he resigned in protest to the Tlatelolco Massacre. He published his first collection of poems Luna Silvestre, at age 19. FTP name this author, winner of the 1990 Nobel Prize in Literature, who is most well known for his study of Mexican identity, The Labyrinth of Solitude.
        Answer: Octavio Paz



Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Mike Wehrman, Peter Rebeiro, Ben Colman, Andrew Uzzell, Brett Lazer)
Bonuses

1.  Answer the following about a record producer for the stated number of points.
A.  For 10, this bearded svengali founded Def Jam records in 1984 in his NYU dorm room along with Russell Simmons.
Answer:  Rick Rubin
B.  For five, although Rubin originally was a hip-hop producer he oversaw the production of this music legend's four albums on American Records, in which he covered such songs as Soundgarden's "Rusty Cage" and Nine Inch Nails's "Hurt."
Answer: Johnny Cash
C. For five, Rubin was also the overseer of this album, the first by the Beastie Boys, featuring the group's first hit, "Fight for Your Right."
Answer:  License to Ill
D.  For 10, just as he revitalized the career of Johnny Cash, Rubin might reinvigorate the career of this artist, also an NYU dropout, with his album 12 Songs  due in November. On it, he plays guitar himself, something he hasn't done since 1967's Kentucky Woman album, and songs include "Oh, Mary" and "Delirious."
Answer:  Neil Diamond

2. Identify these theorems from electromagnetism 5-5-10-10
[5] This erroneously named force, which is technically determined by Kirchhoff's laws, is the measure of the electrical energy of a source.
ANSWER: electromotive force
[5] This law states that the integral of the induced electric field is equal to the opposite of  the change in magnetic field with respect to the change in time.
ANSWER: Faraday's Law of Induction
[10] This law, derived from Faraday's Law, states that the induced electromagnetic flux in an electric current will oppose the change in magnetic flux.
ANSWER: Lenz's Law (pronounced "Lents")
[10] The results of moving magnetic fields intersecting with conductors, the circulating flow of electrons creates electromagnets that oppose the motion of the external field.
ANSWER: Eddy currents

3. Name these Missouri cities for ten points each.
A.  This fast-growing city in the near the center of the state is home to the flagship campus of the University of Missouri.
Answer:  Columbia
B. Located about 50 miles north of Kansas City along the Missouri River, it was the eastern terminus of the Pony Express.
Answer: St. Joseph
C. This town in the state's Boot-heel with a population of just over 3,000 people is noteworthy because of its namesake fault line and violent earthquakes in 1811-12.
Answer: New Madrid (MAD-rid)

4. Identify these major academic journals for ten points each.
A.  This periodical with current articles devoted to "Childhood Growth and Coronary Events in Adulthood" and "MicroRNA Signatures and Prognosis in CLL" was once known as The Boston Medical and Surgical Journal.
Answer: New England Journal of Medicine
B.  This journal published at Oxford has traditionally been a mouthpiece of English-speaking Marxist historians. Concentrating both on recent and older history, its recent articles include "The Agrarian Problem in the Fourteenth Century" and "Popular Literacy in a Tropical Democracy: Costa Rica 1850-1900."
Answer:  Past and Present
C.  There is a debate whether or not Charles Homer Haskins and the other founders of the Medieval Academy of America knew the modern parlance of this journal's name, which is Latin for "mirror." Despite the gynecological connotation, it is still America's premier journal for Medieval Studies.
Answer:  Speculum

5. Name these now-retired baseball players given descriptions of their appearances on Seinfeld, for ten points each.
A.  He eats a donut with a knife and fork, which puzzles George.  Also, George takes him on a wild highway chase following a man who supposedly flipped him off, instead of taking him to the PBS pledge drive, at which he is supposed to appear.
Answer:  Danny Tartabull
B.  Kramer promised a sick boy that this Yankee would hit two homeruns for him if he gave Kramer back an autographed birthday card.  Since one of his homeruns was ruled a triple and an error, Kramer tells him he has to catch a fly ball in his hat.
Answer:  Paul O'Neill
C. This one-time love interest of Elaine supposedly spit on Newman and Kramer after Newman said, "Nice game, pretty boy," following a tough loss to the Phillies in which he committed a crucial error.
Answer: Keith Hernandez

6. Answer these questions about a scandalous period of Church history FTPE.
[10] This 10th-century period, which included the reigns of Popes Sergius III and John X, was marked by the domination of the papacy by powerful women (and possibly prostitutes) such as Marozia.
ANSWER: The Pornocracy or Rule of the Harlots
[10] After the pornocracy, this group of popes: Benedict VIII, John XIX, and Benedict IX, who were two brothers and a nephew, took power in the early 11th century.  They took their name from Theophylact, a rival of Marioza's Crescenti clan, who was the count of a city outside Rome.
ANSWER: Tusculans or Tusculani
[10] The Tusculans were decried by this eleventh century papal reform movement taking its name from the papal moniker of the monk Hildebrand.
ANSWER: Gregorian Reform

7. Answer these questions about the work of politician/anthropologist (or was he an anthropologist/politician?) Jomo Kenyatta FTPE.
[10] While studying at the London School of Economics, Jomo Kenyatta wrote this 1938 ethnographic work about an ethnic group of his native land.
ANSWER: Facing Mount Kenya
[10] Facing Mount Kenya described the culture and government of this ethnic group of central Kenya, Kenyatta's own.
ANSWER: Kikuyu or Gikuyu
[10] This Polish anthropologist, Kenyatta's mentor at the London School of Economics as well as the author of Argonauts of the Western Pacific, wrote the introduction to Facing Mount Kenya.
ANSWER: Bronislav Malinowski

8. Name these American presidents from pre-presidential exploits for ten points each.
A. He enlisted as a volunteer and ended up being voted the captain of his company during the Black Hawk War, but joked that he had plenty of trouble with mosquitoes but saw no "live, fighting Indians" during the conflict.
Answer:  Abraham Lincoln
B.  As governor of Massachusetts, his greatest feat may have been his ending of the 1919 Boston police strike with his calling out the state militia to restore order.
Answer: (John) Calvin Coolidge
C.  He was the only future US president to serve as president of a labor union.
Answer: Ronald Reagan (Screen Actors Guild, 1947-52)

9. Without looking, answer these questions about your lower leg for the stated number of points.  
A. Five for one, 10 for both, these are the two bones in your lower leg.
Answer: Tibia and Fibula
B. For ten, the tibia and fibula articulate with this bone to form the ankle joint.
Answer: Talus
C.  Five for one 10 for both, name the two muscles in the lower leg that join together to attach to your Achilles tendon.
Answer: Soleus and Gastrocnemius

10. "Of course you'd say that! You have the brainpan of a stagecoach tilter!" Identify these key concepts from pseudoscience FTPE.
[10] The alchemist Geber showed that powder from this substance would aid transmutation of one metal to another, allowing the creation of an elixir of youth.
ANSWER: Philosopher's stone
[10] In this subfield of numerology, developed by Chaldean and Greek pseudoscientists, a person's fate and future are determined by letters from his or her name, such as the heart number, which is calculated using vowels.
ANSWER: Arithmancy
[10] This type of divination is often used to find Leylines between Celtic monuments, as well as to find underground water using divining rods.
ANSWER: dowsing

11. Given a quote and the character who spoke the line, name the movie, FTPE, you'll get 5 if you need a more recognizable quote
A) Ishmael, "I didn't want to be the one to tell him, but with those narrow hips, that girl couldn't have more than 6 or 7 children!" 

For Five, Ernie McCracken, " Believe me, as a bowler, I know that right about now, your bladder feels like an overstuffed vacuum cleaner bag and your butt is kinda like an about-to-explode bratwurst." 
Answer: Kingpin
B) Marilyn Manson, "I wouldn't say a single word to them, I would listen to what they have to say and that's what no one did." 

For Five, Michael Moore "Mrs Hughes welcomed her students for another day of school. And out in a little town in Colorado, two boys went bowling at 6 in the morning. Yes, it was a typical day in the United States of America."
Answer: Bowling for Columbine 
C) Dr. Berger, "A little advice about feelings kiddo; don't expect it to always tickle." 

For Five, Conrad "Con" Jarrett, "Oh, well we don't have to go bowling if you'd rather not. How funny are ya?" 
Answer: Ordinary People

12. Beginning in the late 1970's, the advances in recombinant DNA technology made patenting new life forms a serious concern.  FTPE:
A) This was the term for an animal with chimaeric DNA, coined in 1980 by Yale biologist Frank Ruddle, whose experimental technique led to the successful engineering of new lifeforms 
Answer: transgenic
B) Ananda Chakrabarty genetically manipulated this blue-green bacteria with 4 unique plasmids so that it could digest petroleum by-products, winning the first patent on an organism in 1980
Answer: pseudomonas
C) Philip Leder used transgenic techniques to insert the MYC gene into the genome of this creation of his at Harvard; it was initially used for breast-cancer research and won the first patent on a mammal in 1988.
Answer: oncomouse

13. Answer the following about a Dickens novel for ten points each.
A. This work is Dickens' indictment of Utilitarianism, which is represented by a family whose chief concern is "Facts".
	Answer: Hard Times
B. This is the name of the fact-loving family. The daughter, Louisa, is forced into a loveless marriage to industrialist Josiah Bounderby, and the son, Tom, falls into a life of crime.
	Answer: Gradgrind
C. This character, meant to represent fancy, fact's opposite, is a runaway from the circus, and after being adopted by the Gradgrinds, she eventually succeeds in changing the stalwart patriarch Thomas. 
	Answer: Cecilia "Sissy" Jupe

14. Name the following works by John Ruskin
A. This five-volume work deals with such diverse issues as beauty; imagination; modern, medieval, and classical landscapes; and the relation of the aesthetic and the spiritual. In the end Ruskin concludes that J.M.W. Turner is the best landscape painter ever.
	Answer: Modern Painters
B. This work is divided into sections dealing with Sacrifice, Truth, Power, Memory, Beauty, Obedience, and Life. In it Ruskin considers the problems of human labor, ornamentation, and the significance of color.
	Answer: The Seven Lamps of Architecture
C. In this work's introduction, "The Quarry", Ruskin derides Titian for being "irreligious", and then proceeds to extol the virtues of the Gothic style developed in the title city.
	Answer: The Stones of Venice

15. Answer the following about "The Whites" FTPE.
A. The Whites were a group of architects in the 1970's who opposed postmodernism, instead embracing the modernist philosophy of this architect of the Villa Savoye and Notre Dame de Haut in Ronchamps.
Answer: Le Corbusier (accept Charles Edouard Jeanneret)
B. Although a member of the Whites, he later bolted, creating postmodern works such as the Public Services Building in Portland, Oregon, and several theme hotels in Disneyworld.
Answer: Michael Graves
C. This member of the Whites has included in his houses such elements as an inaccessible void, a stairway on the ceiling, and a column that doesn't touch the ground. He recently designed a Holocaust Memorial in Berlin.
Answer: Peter Eisenman

16. Answer the following about the woman whom Moby said he would marry had she not died of lupus in 1964, FTPE,
a) Name this Catholic woman born in Georgia in 1925, who studied at the Iowa Writer's Workshop, wrote the novel Wise Blood, and many famous short stories. 
Answer: Mary Flannery O'Connor. 
b) Name this Flannery O'Connor short story, in which the grandmother's cat causes a car accident, leading to a deadly run-in with The Misfit. 
Answer: A Good Man is Hard to Find
c) This novel, the second and last written by Flannery O'Connor, takes its title from Matthew 11:12, includes a number of characters with the surname Tarwater. 
Answer: The Violent Bear it Away. 

17. Identify these terms from topological graph theory FTPE.
[10] This puzzle asks whether it is possible to connect three houses to water, gas, and electricity companies without any line or pipe crossing over another.
ANSWER: Three cottage problem or three utilities problem (accept close equivalents)
[10] This theorem states that a graph is planar if and only if it does not contain the complete graph on five vertices or the on six vertices, three of which connect to each of the other three as a subgraph.
ANSWER: Kuratowski's theorem (accept Robertson-Seymour theorem, which is a generalization)
[10] This is the minimum n such that a graph can be drawn without crossing itself on an orientable surface with n handles or a non-orientable one with n cross-caps. Its value is 0 for the plane and 1 for the torus.
ANSWER: genus

18. Name the following dead photographers. 
[10] This American woman, who died in 1971, produced famous images of odd individuals, including one of Eddy Carmel, a "Jewish Giant".
Answer: Diane Arbus
[10] This French photographer and notorious recluse who died in 2004 is famous for his rapid snap-shot technique. 
Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson
[10] This American photographer, best known for his celebrity portraits and fashion photography, such as his psychedelic 1967 Beatles portraits, died in 2004 while on assignment for The New Yorker.
Answer: Richard Avedon

19. Name the following Chinese provinces that you might recognize from the menu of a Chinese restaurant. 
a) With capital at Chengdu and situated and China's western hinterlands, food from this country is hot, sour, sweet, and salty. 
Answer: Sichuan or Szechuan Province
b) This southern inland province with capital at Changsha is often considered China's culinary capital, with food that is cooked for long periods of time, often spicier than Sichuan food. 
Answer: Hunan Province. 
c) This Autonomous Region in the North of China has capital at Hohhot has a cuisine that is almost entirely composed of meat and dairy products. 
Answer: Inner Mongolia. 

20. Answer questions about a 50-poem national epic written in a weird 8-syllable meter FTPE.
[10] Elias Lonnrot, a 19th-century physician, compiled this Finnish national epic from oral traditions. It partially inspired Wordsworth's Song of Hiawatha and Tolkien's Silmarillion.
ANSWER: Kalevala or Land of Kaleva
[10] The son of Ilmatar, this shaman with the power to sing magical songs is the primary hero of the Kalevala. In poem 50, his infant son by Marjatta forces him to leave Kalevala.
ANSWER: Vainamoinen
[10] This handsome but arrogant god of magic possesses the sampo, an artifact bringing good luck. In poem 15, his mother rescues his corpse from the river of death.
ANSWER: Lemminkainen

Identify this stuff from Islam FTPE
 [10] This festival marks the end of Ramadan; in fact fasting is forbidden on this day. In 2005, it will take place on about November 4.
ANSWER: Eid al-Fitr
[10] This four-day festival, often characterized by a concerted effort of charitable giving, follows the end of the Hajj.
ANSWER: Eid al-Adha (prompt on partial answer)
[10] Unlike the Hajj, this minor pilgrimage to Mecca can take place at any time of the year.
ANSWER: Umrah

Identify the following works short listed for the 2005 Man Booker Prize, FTPE
[10] This novel, by Julian Barnes, is named for its two main characters, one of whom is Arthur Conan Doyle.
Answer: George and Arthur 
[10] This novel, written by Zadie Smith, follows the families of Howard Belsey and Monty Kipps, both Rembrandt scholars. 
Answer: On Beauty
[10] This novel, written by Kazuo Ishiguro, tracks cloned students raised to donate their organs for transplants.
Answer: Never Let Me Go

