Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Columbia (Dan Boylan, Lily Wang, Jared Kushner, Isaac Stone Fish) TOSSUPS1.  He kept both serfs and slaves, but freed them on at least three separate occasions. He drafted many serfs for his armies and armed them with scythes because he lacked guns. His military successes included the battle of Raclawice, and the defense of Warsaw, as well as the blockade of Charleston during the American Revolution. Napoleon sought his help for war against Russia, but he refused to participate, since Napoleon would not promise independence for Poland. For ten points, name this Polish military hero, the namesake of Australia's highest mountain.  ANSWER: Tadeusz (Thaddeus) Kosciuszko2.  In probability, the term refers to a nested sequence of sigma algebras, which is typically constructed as the support of a random process. In acoustics, it refers to the process by which the transmission of undesirable frequencies is prevented, using devices of the "low-pass", "high-pass" and "band-pass" types. In physiology, it refers to the process in mammals by which primary urine is formed, and is followed by reabsorption and secretion. For ten points, name this process which also occurs through a piece of paper in a coffee machine. ANSWER: filtration 3.  One character, who resents being told to "eat his eggs" and sometimes calls himself "Flaming Spear", was recently played by Sean "Puffy" Combs. He wants to invest his father's life insurance money in a liquor store, while his sister wants to use it on her medical school tuition. Mr. Linder offers a bribe, which they reject, to keep them from using the money to buy a house in Clybourne Park, an all-white neighborhood. Taking its title from "Harlem", a poem by Langston Hughes, this is, for ten points, what play about the Younger family and their dreams, written by Lorraine Hansberry?ANSWER: A Raisin in the Sun4.  The son of an admiral who attempted to wrest Hispaniola from the Spanish and captured Jamaica, he was expelled from Oxford in 1662 for rejecting Anglicanism. While imprisoned in the Tower of London, he wrote his best-known book, No Cross, No Crown. Thanks to a sizable debt owed to his father by King Charles II, he was able to secure a large piece of land for himself and his followers, which was then inhabited by the Lenni Lenape tribe as well as land known as East and West New Jersey. For ten points, name this founder of Philadelphia and of his eponymous Commonwealth.ANSWER: William Penn5.  Proposed by a Scottish economist, it is based on the fact that if the poor rely heavily on basic commodities like bread or potatoes, when prices are low they might still have some disposable income for purchases of other items.  As bread or corn prices rise, these other purchases are no longer possible, thereby forcing the poor to concentrate all their purchasing power on the bread or corn. For ten points, name the economic paradox which states that demand for a commodity increases as its price rises.ANSWER: Giffen's paradox6.  Portraits of Biblical figures such as Daniel, Jonah, and Joel appear around the central panels. Triangular panels border these, including scenes of Judith and Holofernes, David and Goliath and The Hanging of Haman.  However, the most famous panel in this work is of a figure surrounded by angels inspiring life in the panel's title character.  For ten points, name this Renaissance work, completed over three years in the Vatican Palace and featuring the Creation of Adam by Michelangelo.ANSWER: Ceiling of the Sistine Chapel (or equivalent answers)7. Subclasses include the spectroscopic, astrometric and visual. A more specific type of this phenomenon is the eclipsing variable star, of which Algol is an example.  They account for the only stars besides the Sun for which mass can be calculated, thanks to their distinctive patterns of movement, which are influenced by gravitational attraction. Examples include Procyon and Sirius. Alpha Centauri behaves like one of these, because its third component is relatively small. For ten points, name these systems of two stars orbiting around a baricenter. ANSWER: binary star systems  8.  As assistant Senate majority leader, he helped garner bipartisan support for both the Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty and the Civil Rights Act. Before his initial 1948 election to the Senate, he helped unify the Farmer-Labor and Democratic parties in his home state. In the Johnson administration, he was involved with the Peace Corps, but also supported the U.S. presence in Vietnam. For ten points, what then-vice president and Metrodome namesake ran as the Democratic presidential nominee in 1968?  ANSWER: Hubert Horatio Humphrey9.Reflecting upon 20th century society, its states, "This is the dead land/This is cactus land/Here the stone images are raised." Another part of this poem reads, "The eyes are not here/There are no eyes here," and also more eyes with, "Eyes I dare not meet in dreams/In death's dream kingdom/These do not appear. The speaker of the poem, also the title, laments, "Our dried voices, when/We whisper together/Are quiet and meaningless. Subtitled "A Penny for the Old Guy, for ten points, name this T.S. Eliot poem written in 1925, famous for ending with, "This is the way the world ends/Not with a bang but a whimper."ANSWER: The Hollow Men10.  Born in Acragas, Sicily around 492 BC, he supposedly dressed ostentatiously in flowing purple robes and a gold diadem.  He supported democracy even though he was a member of the aristocracy.  He wrote his philosophy in verse, and the surviving poem, addressed to his lover Pausinius, outlines the two motive forces of the world, love and strife, as well as the four elements of earth, air, fire, and water.  For ten points, name this pre-Socratic philosopher, possibly best known for allegedly throwing himself into a crater of Mt. Etna in order to prove his divinity.ANSWER: Empedocles11.  Its early proponents include Michael Servetus in Switzerland, who was burned at the stake for his anti-trinitarian views; Faustus Socinus in Poland; and, most notably, John Biddle in England.  Originally a scripturally oriented movement, it became a religion of reason under the leadership of James Martineau in England and Ralph Waldo Emerson and Theodore Parker in the US.  It has no formal doctrines or creeds, and its practice incorporates even pagan practices like celebrating the solstices. For ten points, identify this sect of Christianity, whose name refers to its adherents' belief that God exists only in one person, which in the US has merged with Universalism.ANSWER: Unitarianism12.  Born in Williamsburg, Massachusetts, he attended Wesleyan and Harvard, and received his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1898.  His great contributions to educational psychology were the methods he devised to test and measure children's intelligence and their ability to learn.  In his most famous experiment, he incarcerated hungry cats and timed them as they attempted to escape to obtain food.  For ten points, name this psychologist, who invented the "puzzle box" to study animal learning.ANSWER: Edward Lee Thorndike13.  Local residents annually celebrate this mountain with the Pang Lhabsol festival. The Cham festival is also practiced nearby. Its western summit is known as Yalung Kang, and its name has been translated as "Five treasuries of the Great Snow. The Zemu, Talung and Yalung glaciers sit in three of the quadrants formed by this cross-shaped mountain. To respect the religious feelings of the locals, the first party to climb the mountain, led by Charles Evans, stopped short of the summit. Located in Sikkim province and 28,169 feet high, for ten points name this tallest mountain in India and the third-tallest in the world. ANSWER: Kanchenjunga or Khanchendzonga or Kinchinjunga (also accept Kumbhkaran Lungur)14.  An ashtray, an abusive policeman, and Patty Paiwonski's underwear are among the objects made to disappear by the title character. Legally considered humanity's biggest landowner under the Larkin Decision, he is rescued from the corrupt Secretary General Douglas by a reporter, Ben Caxton, and placed in the care of Jubal Harshaw. Through his Church of All Worlds, he tries to help peopleovercome suffering after he starts to "grok" his fellow humans. For ten points, name this novel about a prohpet from Mars named Mike Smith, written by Robert Heinlein.  ANSWER: Stranger in a Strange Land15.  It changed its name from PURSC in 1962, and did not hold its first congress until ten years later. Atits most recent party congress, the fifth, held in 1997, an increase in tourism was called for. Its predecessor organization initially opposed its current leader, but later merged with his 26th of July Movement as well as with Faure Chomon's Revolutionary Directorate. Its current Second Secretary is the current First Secretary's brother Raul. For ten points, name this party that came to power after Batista's overthrow, led by Fidel Castro. ANSWER: Communist Party of Cuba (accept English equivalents, also PCC or PartidoComunista de Cuba)16.  In the heart there are two types: the intraatrial and the intraventriclar. The intraatrial variety closes at birth.  Congenital Heart Disease is described as a hole in the intraventricular variety. Other body parts describedby this term include a part of the brain thought to inhibit certain responses, the membrane dividing the anus from the vagina, and the partition of the scrotum. For ten points, give this anatomical term which also names the bone separating the two nostrils.  ANSWER: septum17.  In the introduction of this work, the author writes that he will not dedicate his book with praise of some ruler, as greedy authors normally do when "they ought to criticize him for having every despicable characteristic." It outlines Roman history, compares and contrasts Rome with 16th century Italy,and analyzes the foundations and practice of republican government. It was written at the same time as the author's more famous work on autocracy. For ten points, name this book by Nicolo Machiavelli whose full title mentions some lost volumes of an ancient historian.ANSWER: Discourses on the First Ten Books of Livy (or Discorsi sopra la prima deca di Tito Livio) 18.  In a graph of this type, every induced subgraph has its clique number equal to its chromatic number. A set of this type consists entirely of limit points. A group of this type is equal to its commutator. By a recent result of Kevin Hare, an odd number of this type has at least 47 prime factors. Euler provedthat an even number of this type has the form P plus one choose two, where P is a Mersenne prime. Describing the integers 8128, 28 and 6, this is, for ten points, what adjective describing a number equal to the sum of its factors?ANSWER: perfect 19.  Marzelline loves her father's errand boy. Pizarro is set on killing that errand boy's master, one of the inmates in his prison. When the minister of state Don Fernando intervenes, all the condemned prisoners are freed, including the aforementioned nobleman Florestan. He is reunited with his wife Leonore, who finally sheds her disguise as the titular errand boy in, FTP, which opera, the only one by the composer of the Appassionata and Moonlight sonatas?ANSWER: Fidelio20.  In Welsh, he is known as Peredur and his sister is known as Dindrane.  Lancelot took this teenage thief in, and after he exhibited the virtues of a knight, he was invited to join the Round Table.  He later married Lady Blanchefleur and became the King of Cartomek after healing the Fisher King.  For ten points, name this knight, sometimes known as the son of King Pellinore, who killed the Red Knight and found the Holy Grail, a deed usurped in later legends by Sir Galahad.ANSWER: PercivalHoney throws up a lot and isn't the sharpest tool in the box.  Nick, her husband, married her because she was pregnant, but it was a false pregnancy.  Martha, probably alcoholic, seduces Nick, a man half her age, just to spite her husband George.  George, a history professor with a wasted academic career, kills his son, who is just a figment of his and Martha's imagination.  FTP, name this play, the most famous work of Edward Albee.ANSWER: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?Some of the chapters of this book include "On Tolerance" and "Opening Trunks, or a Protest Against Civilization." In this book, a prince learns from a butcher's actions how to take care of his life, cripples state proudly how good it is to be useless, and man's rising up against the inevitability of death is compared to a praying mantis try to stop an incoming carriage. Perhaps the most famous passage is the author's description of when he dreamt he was a butterfly, and when he woke up, didn't know if he were a man dreaming of being a butterfly, or a butterfly dreaming of being a man. For ten points, name this famous self-titled work of Daoist Chinese philosophy. ANSWER: the ZhuangzhiThe first and last names are the same: One was an athlete who won the gold for the 3000m steeplechase in the 1980 Moscow Olympics, only to die in a car crash a year later. The more famous holder of this name was born in Krakow in 1884, but moved around a lot, most notably studying the Trobriand Islands in his book, "Argonauts of the Western Pacific. For ten points, name this Polish anthropologist and founder of functionalism. ANSWER: Bronislaw MalinowskiIn her most famous novel, the protagonist has terrible luck with men.  Her first husband is physically abusive.  Her second husband isolated her from the world while he was the big man of Eatonville. Her third husband truly loved her, but he was bitten by a rabid dog during a hurricane, goes crazy, and dies.  For ten points, name the creator of Janie Crawford, the protagonist of Their Eyes Were Watching God.ANSWER: Zora Neale Hurston
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Columbia (Dan Boylan, Lily Wang, Jared Kushner, Isaac Stone Fish) BONUSES1.  Answer these questions about the Spanish-American War for ten points each:[10] The immediate origins of the war can be traced back to this 1894 tariff, which crippled the economy of Cuba with restrictions on sugar imports.ANSWER: Wilson-Gorman Tariff[10] This is the 1898 treaty that ended the war, liberated Cuba, and gave Puerto Rico, Guam and the Philippines to the U.S.ANSWER: Treaty of Paris[10] In this 1901 series of cases, the Supreme Court ruled that American law did not necessarily apply to colonies, thus denying U.S. citizenship to inhabitants of the newly gained territories. ANSWER: Insular cases2.  Identify the following about All Quiet on the Western Front, for the stated number of points:[5] Who wrote All Quiet on the Western Front?ANSWER: Erich Maria Remarque[10] Name the protagonist of All Quiet on the Western Front, a sensitive young dope who loses his soul to the brutality of trench warfare, and eventually is killed.ANSWER: Paul Baumer (accept either name)[5] In the 1979 TV movie, this actor who won an Oscar for Marty but also played Manny the Doorman in the dreadful Jonathan Silverman sitcom The Single Guy, portrayed Baumer's friend Stanislaus "Kat" Katczinsky, who dies in battle.ANSWER:  Ernest Borgnine[10] This pompous windbag of a teacher filled Paul's head with foolish patriotic ideals during high school. Late in the war, even he is drafted, and he makes for a pathetic sight in uniform.  ANSWER: Kantorek3.  Two Viktors, but only one winner. Answer the following about Ukrainian elections for ten points each:[10] This opposition leader, supported in Kiev and the western parts of Ukraine, claims that massive ballot fraud cost him the election. Outgoing president Leonid Kuchma supports his call for a new vote. ANSWER: Viktor Yuschenko[10] This president-elect, supported in the pro-Russian eastern half of Ukraine, has offered Yuschenko his current job as prime minister of Ukraine.ANSWER: Viktor Yanukovych[10] Name the eastern province that is planning a referendum on its own autonomy, or its identically-named chief city, an industrial center previously named Stalino and originally named Yuzovka. ANSWER: Donetsk (Note: Yuzovka was named in honor of John Hughes, the British industrialistwho founded a steelworks there)4.  Identify these Manhattan art museums from descriptions, for ten points each:[10] Located on four acres overlooking the Hudson River in Fort Tryon Park, it incorporates elements from the five medieval French monasteries for which it is namedANSWER: The Cloisters[10] This collection of Western European masterpieces is housed in a mansion on East 70th Street built by the coke and steel industrialist for whom the collection is named.ANSWER: The Frick Collection[10] Currently at 945 Madison Avenue after two relocations, this museum for 20th and 21st century American art was designed by Marcel Breuer and is now being renovated by Renzo Piano.ANSWER: The Whitney Museum of American Art5.  Can you dig it? Answer the following about someone who comes through ten times out of ten. [5+5] For five points each, who plays John Shaft in the original 1971 release of Shaft, and who plays him in the 2000 remake?ANSWER: Richard Roundtree and Samuel L. Jackson[10] In the 1971 version, Shaft says "don't let your mouth get your ass into trouble" to a high-strung member of a militant group named for this man, the first prime minister of an independent Congo.ANSWER: Patrice Lumumba[10] Ok, enough academic content for now. For ten points, name either of the two Shaft sequelsproduced in the 1970's.ANSWER: Shaft's Big Score or Shaft in Africa  6.  Answer the following about rings, of neither the Wagnerian nor the algebraic persuasion, for ten points each.[10] This ether is frequently used as a solvent in chemical reactions as it is inert, polar and insoluble in water. It has five members.  ANSWER: Tetrahydrofuran (or oxacyclopentane)[10] A benzene ring with a methyl substituent-that is a C-H-3 group-is known by what common name?ANSWER: Toluene[10] A diene and a dienophile can be used to make ringed compounds in what reaction?ANSWER: Diels-Alder reaction7.  Identify the following Tom Wolfe books from brief plot descriptions, for ten points each:[10] Wolfe describes a drug-soaked cross-country road trip to the World's Fair in New York with Ken Kesey and his Merry Pranksters. ANSWER: The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test[10] Millionaire and self-proclaimed "Master of the Universe" Sherman McCoy falls from grace after running over a black youth in his car. ANSWER: The Bonfire of the Vanities[10] In his latest novel, the title character is a bright but inexperienced rural Southern girl who encounters rampant alcoholism and sexual depravity at her elite private college. ANSWER: I am Charlotte Simmons8.  Answer the following questions from general chemistry, for ten points each:[10]  Name the amount of energy needed for the reactants to reach the transition state, which appears as a hump on a reaction coordinate diagram.ANSWER: activation energy[10] These properties of system only rely on the initial and final states of that system. Notable examples include volume, pressure, enthalpy, entropy and free energyANSWER: state functions[10] What law, forumlated in 1811, states that the volume of a gas at constant temperature and pressure is directly proportional to the number of moles of the gas?ANSWER: Avogadro's Law9.  Answer the following about the Flavian dynasty, for ten points each:[10] A successful general who treated the Senate with respect, he restored stability to the throne and order to the Empire after the chaos of Nero's reign and the Year of Four Emperors.ANSWER: Vespasian[10] This son of Vespasian gave gifts and military donatives upon his accession, treated the Senate well, and administered disaster relief after Mt. Vesuvius' eruption and the burning of RomeANSWER: Titus[10] This younger brother of Titus lacked Titus's education, experience, and political savvy. The army remained loyal to him, but he often clashed with the Senate.  Generally hated, the inscriptions on all statues of him were removed after his death.ANSWER: Domitian10.  Identify the John Donne poems from lines for ten points each:[10] It suck'd me first, and now sucks thee.ANSWER: The Flea[10] So let us melt, and make no noise, / No tear-floods, nor sigh-tempests moveANSWER: A Valediction Forbidding Mourning[10] Thou'rt slave to Fate, chance, kings and desperate men. ANSWER: Death Be Not Proud, or Holy Sonnet 10, or Divine Meditation 1011.  Name these works of Michael Foucault for ten points each:[10] This is a history of the modern penal system.  He also says something about Bentham's "Panopticon"ANSWER: Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison[10] This work begins by describing end of leprosy in Europe, then focuses on the construction of one of the title concepts as a replacement for the disease.  He also says something about the "Ship of Fools"ANSWER: Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason or L'Histoire de la Folie[10]  This work is neither history nor as pornographic as one might hope. He rambles about the "repressive hypothesis", the "juridico-discursive" conception of power, and homosexuality.ANSWER: The History of Sexuality: An Introduction (or Vol.1)12.  Answer these questions about a historical trip to Mecca, for ten points each:[10] What grandson of Sundiata and builder of the Great Mosque of Timbuktu led a caravan of 60,000men out of Mali on a pilgrimage in 1324?ANSWER: Mansa Musa[10] What capital city of Mali did the caravan depart from?ANSWER: Niani[10] In Cairo, Musa spent gold so freely that the market was flooded and took years to recover. He also visited Sultan Al-Malik an-Nasir, of what then-ruling Egyptian dynasty:ANSWER: the Mamluk or Mamelukes13.  Answer the following about psychological tests, for ten points each. [10] One well-known test is this one developed by Henry Murray, in which the subject is presented with a black-and-white picture and asked to tell a story about it.ANSWER: Thematic Apperception Test[10] The TAT and the Rorschach inkblot tests are both examples of what kind of psychological test, in which ambiguous stimuli cause the subjects to reveal aspects of their own personalities?ANSWER: projective tests[10] Tests from this class can be of the "controlled" or of the "free" type. The important data are typically the word given by the subject in response to a stimulus and the time taken to respond.ANSWER: association tests  14.  Answer the following questions related to respiration, for the stated number of points:[10] For ten points, name the chemical secreted by Type II alveolar cells that increase pulmonary compliance and prevent alveolar collapse by disrupting hydrogen bonding in the moist sacs. ANSWER: Pulmonary surfactant[10] Give the term for the volume of air that is inhaled and exhaled during normal breathing, which is typically about 500 milliliters.ANSWER: Tidal volume[5,5] For five points each, after unbinding oxygen, hemoglobin is most likely to bind what to ubiquitous compound and what ubiquitous ion, as stated by the Haldane effect?ANSWER: C-O-2 (or carbon dioxide) and H+ (or "H - plus", or "protons", or "Hydrogen ions"; prompt on "Hydrogen")15.  Name these U.S. Secretaries of State, for ten points each:[10] He advised Wilson to skip the Versailles conference and to delay forming the League of Nations. After he led several Cabinet meetings while Wilson was ill, Wilson asked him to resign. ANSWER: Robert Lansing[10] He recovered after being stabbed in the throat on the night Lincoln was assassinated, and is probably best known for buying Alaska while serving under Johnson in 1867. ANSWER: William Henry Seward[10] This secretary of state opposed diplomatic recognition of China and supported U.S. involvement inVietnam when he served under Kennedy and the other JohnsonANSWER: Dean Rusk16.  Name the following Supreme Court cases, for ten points each:[10] A certain southern state sued to recover bonds distributed by the Confederate government in a manner illegal under federal law. The Court ruled in their favor, since the state never legally left the U.S. Incidentally, the state's lawyer managed to keep the entire claim for himself. ANSWER: Texas v. White[10] States also lack the right to alter the obligations of contracts, according to this decision, in which the plaintiffs, a board of trustees, were famously represented by Daniel Webster.ANSWER: Dartmouth College v. Woodward or the "Dartmouth College Case"[10] This ruling held that states had the right to prohibit slavery, but territories did not, overturning the Missouri Compromise. It also held that black people had no rights at all. ANSWER: the Dred Scott decision or Dred Scott v. San(d)ford17.  Answer the following relating to complex analysis, for ten points each:[10] For complex-valued functions, this adjective means the same thing as"holomorphic". In general,it means that a function can be written as a convergent power series. ANSWER: analytic[10] This theorem states that if a complex-analytic function takes only real values, it must take the same value everywhere. ANSWER: Liouville's Theorem[10] Liouville's theorem can be used to prove this other theorem, which states that a polynomial of with complex coefficients has at least one root. ANSWER: The Fundamental Theorem of Algebra18.  Identify these components of Baroque opera, for ten points each.[10] The free declamation of a single vocal line with a simple instrumental accompaniment for support.  The melody imitates speech patterns.ANSWER: recitative or monody[10] An elaborate solo vocal piece, usually accompanied by the orchestra.ANSWER: aria[10] Between a recitative and an aria, this is a short vocal solo having the melodic style but not the form of an aria.ANSWER: arioso19.  Name these physical effects, for ten points each:[10] A spectral line splits into several components of slightly different frequency when the light sourceis placed in a magnetic field. ANSWER: Zeeman effect[10] A spectral line splits when the radiating molecules are subjected to a strong electric field. ANSWER: Stark effect[10] After a beam of light travels through a medium, a small portion of the light emerges with a differentwavelength, due to collisions between photons and the molecules of the medium. ANSWER: Raman effect20. [30] For five points each, name any six of the seven holy sacraments of the Catholic Church:ANSWERS: baptism, confession (or penance or reconciliation), Eucharist (or Communion), Confirmation, Matrimony (or marriage), Holy Orders (or Ordination), Extreme Unction (or Anointing of the Sick) Identify the plays from characters, for ten points each:[10] Herod Antipas; Herodias, queen of Judaea; Jokanaan, a version of John the BaptistANSWER: Salome[10] Garcin; Inez; Estelle; Valet, Sartre's version of the DevilANSWER: No Exit[10] The Father, the Step-Daughter, the Mother, the Son, the Boy, and the ChildANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an AuthorName these 20th century authors from their most famous works, 10-5. 10: Death of a Naturalist, Door Into the Dark5: The Nobel Prize winning translation of Beowulf ANSWER: Seamus Heaney10: The Wild Duck, When We Dead Awaken, 5: Peer Gynt, Hedda Gabler ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen 10: With Fire and Sword, Portrait of America5: Quo Vadis?ANSWER: Henryk Sienkiewicz Name these jazz trumpet players, for ten points each:[10] He collaborated with Charlie Parker in pioneering the rapid-fire, harmonically complicated style of bebop. His compositions include "Salt Peanuts" and "Night in Tunisia".ANSWER: John Birks "Dizzy" Gillespie[10] This technical virtuoso is best remembered for recordings he made with drummer Max Roach from 1954-56, and was hugely influential on jazz music even though he died in a car accident at age 25.ANSWER: Clifford Brown[10] Known for a melodic, highly inflected style, he colloborated with the orchestral arranger Gil Evans on "Sketches of Spain" and "Porgy and Bess", and also pioneered jazz-rock fusion with "Bitches Brew".ANSWER: Miles DavisIdentify these figures from traditional American myth for ten points each:[10] Raised by coyotes after falling from a wagon as a baby, he invented the lasso, rode a cyclone, used a rattlesnake as a whip, and dated a girl called Slue-Foot Sue.ANSWER: Pecos Bill[10] On the night of April 29, 1900, he may have martyred himself heroically to save his crew. A conflicting version of the tale holds that he was "driving a train, high on cocaine" and failed to watch his speed.ANSWER: Casey Jones[10] Speaking of railroad men, this hard-working former slave died after hammering out a victory over a steam-powered steel driver that threatened to take his job on the C&O Railroad line. ANSWER: John Henry