Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Lynn Endicott (Univ. of Arkansas) and Josh Hill and Andy Wehrman (both formerly of UofA)TOSSUPS1.  Since its inception of this position in 1937, there have been ten men who filled this post.  The second was John Costello.  The first was Eamon de Valera, who served a second and third time.  The name of this office probably comes from Irish Gaelic for "leader" or "chief."  For ten points, name this position, currently filled by Fianna Fáil party member Bertie Ahern, the Irish equivalent of Prime Minister. Answer: Taoiseach (pronounced 'tee-shoch,' but be lenient on pronunciation) or (the plural) Taoisigh, or formally An Taoiseach[Prompt on Prime Minister before mention]2.  While working for the NFL Network in Glasgow in April, he was inducted into to the Scottish Claymores Hall of Fame, where he led the team in touchdown receptions and the led the league in kick-off return yardage in 2001.  Returning to the NFL, he made the Pro Bowl in 2002 and 2003, and is coming off a season where he tied the NFL record for consecutive games with a kick-off return touchdown.  FTP name this wide receiver and kick return specialist for the Kansas City Chiefs.       Answer: Dante Hall3.  On paper the battle couldn't have been more one-sided.  The British were led by no fewer than four experienced generals including Henry Clinton, John Burgoyne and William Howe.  The Colonial officers were disorganized, especially after Joseph Warren was killed, and William Prescott and Israel Putnam couldn't even agree where to set up fortifications, though their goal was to keep the British troops from leaving Boston.  FTP name this June 17, 1775 battle, a moral victory for the Americans, which saw most of its fighting on Breed's Hill.       Answer: Battle of Bunker Hill (accept early, pretentious Breed's Hill)4.  The title location is a foreboding Gothic structure which the author describes as a place "without kindness, never meant to be lived in...." Luke, an aristocrat; Theodora, the doctor's assistant, and Eleanor Vance are invited to the title estate by Dr. John Montague to study the paranormal, which begins this classic haunted house tale.  FTP name this 1959 novel by Shirley Jackson which was adapted into two 1999 movies.	Answer: The Haunting of Hill House (both The Haunting and House on Haunted Hill were based on it)5.  Along with Lowell, Massachusetts, it is one of only two US cities recognized as a national historic landmark.  Though it had a population of over 100,000 in the 1920's, today Silver Bow County, which also contains the nearby town of Anaconda, has only 34,000 people.  It is also home to Berkeley Pit, the largest Superfund Cleanup Site in the United States, a remnant of the town's mining past.  FTP name this former boom town in southwest Montana, once called "the richest hill in the United States."	Answer: Butte, Montana6.  Nearly fifty years after it was painted, French philosopher Michel Foucault used it for the title of a book in which he argued that within Modernity, people are falsely positioned within an established system of seeing that links reality with visual representation.  The painting shows this contradiction as well, with the painter's assertion that the depicted object is only but an image-not the true form of the object.  Painted in 1926 and properly titled The Treason of Images, name this work by Rene Magritte which would look like an ad for a tobacco store, if not for the writing underneath.	Answer: Ceci n'est pas un pipe ( accept This is not a pipe or The Treason (or Betrayal) of Images on an early buzz)7.  Because of its great acoustics, kiosks dispensing complimentary cough drops have recently been added to cut down on crowd noise.  The main auditorium, designed by Yasuhisa Toyota of Nagata Acoustics, features billowing Douglas fur and cedar ceilings resulting in the enhanced acoustics, but the real story is the exterior.  Taking 16 years and 274 million dollars to complete, its stainless steel curves crown the revitalized Bunker Hill district of downtown Los Angeles.  FTP, name this distinctive concert hall designed by architect Frank Gehry.	Answer: Walt Disney Concert Hall8.  Written and produced in 1935, its first performance at the Civic Repertory Theatre in Manhattan saw the audience cheering on the actors' lines especially the concluding cry for the characters to strike.  Its author, a member of the communist party since 1934 drew liberally from Marx and Engels, with regard to his romanticism of workers.  Inspired by a similar strike in New York at the time, the play consists of seven vignettes dealing with disgruntled taxi drivers and their leader, the title character who never appears but is later found shot and dead.  FTP name this play by Clifford Odets.	Answer: Waiting for Lefty9.  The cumulative compound type combines the detrimental features of the shunt and series types to produce a near-constant terminal voltage regardless of load current.  Its stationary parts are called the stator, and its rotating parts are called the armature, or rotor.  It produces ac current by nature; a commutator is used to produce dc current.  For ten points, identify this machine that changes mechanical energy into electrical energy.	Answer:  dc generator (accept dynamo or alternator)10.  Based on the Treaty of Versailles as well as the Hague Convention of 1899, Britain reserved the right to waive it if its enemies disregarded it, and It was ratified by most major powers except the Japan and the U.S., even though the U.S. first proposed in 1922 at the Washington Disarmament Conference.  It was originally meant to keep Germany from manufacturing and exporting poisonous gases, and Poland suggested the additional banning of bacteriological weapons in, for ten points, this 1925 protocol signed in a city known for its peace agreements.	Answer:  Geneva Protocol11.  Though it is unreactive when incorporated into proteins, in its free state it is involved in the synthesis of glutathione as well as serine, heme, and purines.  Lacking d- and l-stereoisomers, it is the only one of its type that is optically inactive.  Defects of its metabolism are uncommon, as the body can make it from other substances, and its isolation from gelatin made the first isolated amino acid.  For ten points, name this compound with hydrogen as a side chain, the simplest amino acid.	Answer:  glycine 12.  In this novel, the central couple's youngest son is born on Christmas Day during the couple's first winter in their new home.  It takes a traveling minister to cure the madness and suicidal thoughts of Beret, who is not sure why she let her husband, Per Hansa, talk her into leaving Norway for the Dakota Territory.  For ten points, name this novel, the first volume of a trilogy that includes Peder Victorious and Their Father's God, written by Ole Rolvaag. 	Answer:  Giants in the Earth:  A Saga of the Prairie13.  One guards the town of Cantlin and must be put to sleep using the fairy flute in the role-playing game Dragon Warrior.  In legend, it caused frequent destruction because, like a computer, it could only do exactly what it was told.  Its name means "fetus," and the most famous one was that of Prague created by Rabbi Judah Low.  For ten points, name this servant made of clay which helped protect oppressed Jews.	Answer:  golem14.  After King John refused to recognize Stephen Langton as Archbishop of Canterbury, this man, born Lotario di Segni, made King John declare England a fief of the Holy See.  He also excommunicated Otto IV in favor of Frederick II.  His greatest failure attacked Christians in the Byzantine Empire and on the island of Zara.  For ten points, name this pope who called the Fourth Lateran Council, the Albigensian Crusade, and the failed Fourth Crusade.	Answer:  Innocent III15.  A landscape with purple hills sits on the floor in front of blank picture frames. Two sculptures sit on stools at the right, and in the foreground is a table with a brandybowl, an ashtray, and blue crayons. Near the top is a sailor in a dark blue shirt, and a blonde girl lies in magentas at the upper left. FTP, name this seemingly monochromatic work of Henri Matisse.	Answer: The Red Studio (L'Atelier rouge)16.  Ermanno Wolf-Ferrari's opera Sly, two installments of the "Hallmark Hall of Fame," a 1964 "Armstrong Circle Theatre" production, a film directed by D. W. Griffith, the ABC series "Moonlighting," and the movies Daring Youth and Ten Things I Hate About You are all adaptations of, for ten points, what Shakespeare play also remade as the Broadway musical Kiss Me, Kate?	Answer:  The Taming of the Shrew17.  This process involves the bond dissociation energy of the constituents, as well as electron affinity and enthalpy of sublimation.  Based on Hess's Law, it involves five steps, including atomization and ionization of the metal and nonmetal, as well as formation of an ionic solid.  It uses the standard enthalpy of formation to calculate the lattice energy of an ionic crystalline solid.  FTP, identify this cycle partly named for the first person to synthesize ammonia.	Answer:  Born-Haber cycle18.  A police officer dies in this movie while issuing a speeding citation to a car traveling from Marseilles to Paris.  One-third of this movie is shot in the hotel room of an American girl, whom the main character tries to seduce and convince to run away with him to Italy.  When Patricia turns him in to the police, the main character waits for the police, but Michel is shot when a friend tosses him a gun.  Starring Jean-Paul Belmondo, FTP, what is this 1960 New Wave film directed by Jean-Luc Godard?	Answer:  Breathless (A bout de souffle)19.  The axillary type becomes a bud, and the intercalary type is found in grasses.   One secondary type produces waterproofing, while another differentiates into schlerenchyma, parenchyma, xylem, and phloem.  This cambium is different from yet another type that lengthens stems and roots.  FTP, name this plant tissue characterized by cell division and growth, which includes the apical type.	Answer:  meristem20.  Prominent in the Liberty Party and, later, the Free-Soil Party, he was once known as the "attorney general for fugitive slaves." He failed three times to gain major party nominations for President, though he did succeed in becoming governor of Ohio in 1855. He resigned as Lincoln's Secretary of the Treasury only to be appointed to another office six months later, when Roger Taney died. FTP, name this man appointed Chief Justice in 1864.	Answer: Salmon Portland ChaseRepeat21.  One paragraph in this work features seven instances of the word "adumbration," and five pages are devoted to a bee landing on a chrysanthemum.  Kazu tries to revive her husband's political career, and Kashiwagi has a clubfoot.  The principal character stutters severely and eventually becomes obsessed with a structure in Kyoto, where he serves as a Zen acolyte.  Mizoguchi burns the title structure in, FTP, this novel by Yukio Mishima.	Answer:  The Temple of the Golden Pavilion (accept Kinkakuji)Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Lynn Endicott (Univ. of Arkansas) and Josh Hill and Andy Wehrman (both formerly of UofA)BONI1. Name these art works from short descriptions FTPEa) The dimly lit sign above the establishment reads "Phillies, only 5¢."Answer: Nighthawks [by Edward Hopper]b) The titular nude man holds a cross to ward off a procession of five elephants with excruciatingly elongated legs and a white stallion about to trample him.Answer:  The Temptation of Saint Anthony or La Tentacion de San Antonio [by Salvador Dalí]c) A businessman in a dark suit stands in front of a stone wall and blue background, arms at his side.  He wears a bowler, and a green apple floats in front of his face. Answer:  The Son of Man or Le Fils de l'Homme [by René Magritte]2.  Identify these non-fiction works by Cambridge neurologist Oliver Sacks for 10 points each.A. (10) This 1990 book spawn a movie starring Robin Williams and dealt with the bittersweet treatment of Parkinson's patients with the super-drug L-Dopa.	Answer: AwakeningsB. (10) A collection of clinical tales and essays about bizarre neurological diseases, the title essay is about a man with a very strange visual disorder.	Answer: The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a HatC. (10) Sack's 2002 book, it is the story of how he came to love science and of his relationship with his uncle, a light bulb manufacturer.	Answer: Uncle Tungsten3.  The year 2004 has been a good year for women winning the Nobel Prize. Name these recent female receipients of the Nobel prize in various categories FTPE. a) The 2004 receipient of the Nobel Peace Prize is this Kenyan ecologist, the first African woman to win the prize since its inception in 1901.  Many Kenyans call her simply "The Tree Woman" for her involvement in the late 1970s Green Belt movement to halt deforestation. Answer: Wangari Maathaib) The 2004 Literature prize went to this female Austrian author, who according to the Swedish Academy was chosen "for her musical flow of voices and countervoices in novels and plays that with extraordinary linguisic zeal reveal the absurdity of societies clichés and their subjugating power."Answer: Elfriede Jelinekc) Jelinek was the first woman to win the Nobel for Literature since this Polish woman won it in 1996. She wrote such collections of poetry as People on a Bridge and Miracle Fair and prose collections such as Nonrequired Readings. Answer:  Wislawa Szymborska4.  Name the current leader of the following countries FTPE.a) This current Prime Minister of Turkey has been in office for almost two years and after attempting to overhaul the Turkish penal codes, he recently spoke with the European Parliament to progress a Turkish bid into the EU.Answer: Recep Tayyip Erdoganb) This former Indonesian General recently defeated the incumbent President Megawati Sudkarnoputri.  He served as her chief security minister during her administration.Answer: Susilo Bambang Yudhoyonoc) This Communist party leader in China became the outright leader in China in September 2004 when Jiang Zemin resigned his control of the army.Answer: Hu Jintao5.  Identify the Broadway musical of George Gershwin given songs FTP each.a)  "Boy!  What Love Has Done to Me," "Sam and Delilah," "I Got Rhythm."  From 1930.	Answer:  Girl Crazyb)  "Wintergreen for President," "Posterity Is Just Around the Corner," "Trumpeter, Blow Your Horn."  From 1931.	Answer:  Of Thee I Singc)  "It Ain't Necessarily So," "The Buzzard Song," "Summertime."  From 1935.	Answer:  Porgy and Bess6.  Name these various laws from various disciplines FTPE.a) This law from the business stated by an English historian in 1955 states, "Work expands to fill the time available for its completion."Answer: Parkinson's lawb) This law states that in rankings of various sorts, for example populations of cities and frequencies of English words in documents, each successive place is approximately one over the place number times the first place value.Answer: Zipf's lawc) This law often used biology states that many animals tend to evolve to larger and larger sizes--in prey to be a better match for a predator in size and in predators to more easily subdue prey. Answer: Cope's law7.  Name these rather depressing poems from lines FTP or after the author is given for five points. a) For 10: "What is the city over the mountains/Cracks and reforms and bursts in the violet air/Jerusalem Athens Alexandria/Vienna London/ Unreal"For 5: T. S. EliotAnswer: "The Waste Land"b) For 10: "An aged man is but a paltry thing,/A tattered coat upon a stick..."For 5: W. B. Yeats		   Answer: "Sailing to Byzantium"c) For 10: "Black milk of the morning we drink you in the evening/we drink you in the afternoon we drink you in the morning we drink you at night" [Moderator: Read, "The orginal text for this poem was in German."]For 5: Paul CelanAnswer: "Death Fugue" or "Todesfuge"8.  Identify the following about a battle called Kadikoi by Russian historians FTP each.a)  This is the more common name of the 1854 Crimean War battle Kadikoi.  	Answer:  Balaklavab)  Alfred, Lord Tennyson wrote this poem about the Battle of Balaklava.  	Answer:  "Charge of the Light Brigade"c)  This earl and namesake of a type of sweater led the British troops in the disastrous Charge of the Light Brigade.  	Answer:  James Burdenell, earl of Cardigan9.  Identify the following plant hormones FTP each.a)  Produced in mature leaves, this acid inhibits growth in developing leaves and germinating seeds during the winter, contributing to the plant's dormancy.  	Answer:  abscisic acidb)  This olefin hormone encourages the ripening and dropping of leaves and fruits from trees.  	Answer:  ethylene or ethenec)  These hormones induce plant cells to undergo mitosis, encouraging increased growth in roots and stems.  They also enhance flowering and germination.  	Answer:  cytokinins10.  Answer the following about Aristophanes's The Birds FTP each.a)  Name the land that The Birds is set in.         Answer:  Nephelococcygia (accept Cloud-Cuckoo-Lown or CloudCukooLand)b)  Name the two main characters in The Birds, companions who search for the mythical human-turned-bird Hoopoe.         Answer:  Euelpides and Pithetaerus11.  Given a list of Civil War battles, identify the present-day state it took place in for ten points each.a)  Cynthiana, Perryville	Answer:  Kentuckyb)  Booneville, Liberty, Wilson's Creek.	Answer:  Missouric)  Jenkins' Ferry, Cane Hill, Pea Ridge.	Answer:  Arkansas12.  Identify these volcanic terms for the stated number of points.A. (5 each) Give the Hawaiian terms for the two main types of lava; translated as "rope lava" and "a painful surface to walk on."Answer:  Pahoehoe and AaB. (10) French for glowing cloud, it's a blazing cloud of superheated gases that erupt from a volcano, first described at Mt. Pelee.	Answer: Nuée ArdenteC. (10)  Deriving their name from a Swiss-American geologist, they are isolated submarine volcanic mountains with flat summits more than 200 meters below sea level.	Answer: guyot(s) (after Henri Guyot)13.  Answer the following about the Wars of the Roses for the stated number of points.a)  (5 each)  The wars were fought between these two noble houses of England.  	Answers:  Lancaster and Yorkb)  (10)  The duke of Somerset was killed, leaving Queen Margaret of Anjou at the head of the defeated royal party, after this battle, usually taken as the first of the Wars of the Roses.  	Answer:  St. Albansc)  (10)  Richard, duke of York, was killed in this 1460 battle, in which the Yorkists were defeated by an army raised by Queen Margaret.  	Answer:  Wakefield14.  Identify the following philosophers linked to or influenced by existentialism FTP each.a)  Though he rejected the association, this author of Being and Time is generally regarded as the founder of existentialism.  	Answer:  Martin Heideggerb)  This French philosopher published numerous articles on existentialism, some collected in Dramatic Personages.  He also wrote the psycho-historical study Love in the Western World.  	Answer:  Denis de Rougemontc)  Greatly influenced by the existentialism of Kierkegaard and by Hasidism, this Jewish philosopher evolved his own theology in his book I and Thou.  	Answer:  Martin Buber15.  FTP each, answer the following about Indian geography.a)  This large plateau lies between the Western and Eastern Ghats in central India.  	Answer:  Deccan Plateaub)  This mountain range lies in northern India between the Indus and Yarkant Rivers and contains the second highest mountain in the world.  	Answer:  Karakoramc)  Also called the Great Indian Desert, this expanse of land lies in northwestern India just east of the Indus river valley.  	Answer:  Thar Desert16.  Answer the following questions about the work of a certain arbiter of taste FTP each.a)  The fragments of this work that survive relate the wanderings of a dissolute trio in the posh Bay of Naples area.  	Answer:  Satyriconb)  Name Nero's "arbiter of taste" who wrote Satyricon.  	Answer:  Gaius Petronius Arbiterc)  Name the nouveau riche freedman who throws a banquet that is the basis of the longest and best known fragment.  	Answer:  Trimalchio17.  FTP each, answer the following about August Strindberg works.a)  His most frequently performed play, it takes place on Midsummer Night in a manor-house kitchen. 	Answer:  Miss Julie (Froken Julie)b)  His most famous chamber play, its three parts anticipated Surrealism with its dreamlike apparent haphazardness and nightmarish grotesqueries.  	Answer:  The Ghost Sonata  (Spoksonaten)  (accept The Spook Sonata)c)  This Strindberg tragedy illustrates the author's idea of the battle of the sexes within a torturous marriage where the wife causes her husband to doubt that his child really is his.  	Answer:  The Father (Fadren)18.  This year's Nobel Prize in Chemistry was given to three individuals for their research on a crucial protein in the pathways for protein breakdown. FTPE:a) Name the protein studied, so named because it is present in almost every known living being.Answer: Ubiquitinb) Name any two of the three scientists who split the prize, two from the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel, and the other from University of California, Irvine.Answer: Aaron Ciechanover, Avram Hershko and Irwin A. Rose19.  His works include The Hawk in the Rain and Wolfwatching, as well as translations of Ovid and Aeschylus.  FTP each:a)  Name this British Poet Laureate from 1984 to 1998.  	Answer:  Ted Hughesb)  Ted Hughes married this American poet and author of The Bell Jar.  	Answer:  Sylvia Plathc)  Just before his death in 1998, Hughes released this volume about his relationship with Sylvia Plath.  	Answer:  Birthday Letters20.  Manufacturing processes, FTP each.a)  In this process, which uses three pipes, sulfur is melted with superheated water and forced to the surface of the earth.	Answer:  Frasch processb)  In this process, molten table salt is electrolyzed in the namesake cell to commercially produce sodium.	Answer:  Downs processc)  An iron tank lined with carbon serves as the cathode, and large blocks of carbon serve as the anode in this process, which produces molten aluminum at the bottom of the tank.	Answer:  Hall-Heroult processRepeat, somewhat21.  Name these famous folks all of whose first names are 'Yann' for fifteen points each.a) This author born in Spain in 1963 is the author of Life of Pi, a novel about a hyper-spiritual young man from Pondicherry, India, named Piscine Patel and his eventful voyage across the Pacific with Richard Parker.Answer: Yann Martelb) This contemporary French composer wrote the score for the 2001 French film Amélie as well as the score to the 2004 German film Good Bye, Lenin!.Answer: Yann Tiersen(not a repeat)22.  FTP each, name the following -isms in art and architecture from people associated with the movement.a)  André Breton, Salvador Dali.  	Answer:  surrealismb)  Jackson Pollock, William de Kooning.  	Answer:  abstract expressionismc)  Louis Henry Sullivan, Walter Gropius.  	Answer:  functionalism