Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Andrew Uzzell, Ben Colman, Brett Lazer, and Peter Rebeiro)
Tossups


1.  When used with "dentis", it refers to the constricted region of union between the crown and roots of a tooth, and with "cornus dorsalis medullae", it refers to the slim portion of gray matter between the base and head of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord. In describing a neuron, it refers simply to the axon prior to myelination, though it can really refer to any elongated constriction in the body of a cell or organ, most often, interchangeably with "collum". Also naming the uppermost vertebrae is, FTP, this Latin word for "neck", most commonly associated with the narrow portion between the isthmus and ostium of the uterus.
Answer: cervix (or cervical, before "neck")

2.  Its House sponsor lost the 1896 Democratic Presidential nomination to William Jennings Bryan. It was passed in response to a bill also known as the "Crime of '73", and its Senate sponsor, an Iowa Republican, added the minimum transaction of $2 million per month, which the Treasury never exceeded. Coming five years after the Fourth Coinage Act, this compromise between silver- and gold-standard forces ordered the treasury department to make silver bullion into coinage. FTP, name this 1878 currency act, named for a Missouri representative and an Iowa senator, that was replaced by the Sherman Silver Purchase Act.
ANSWER: Bland-Allison Act

3.  First published in 2004 in Italian, the English edition was translated by Geoffrey Brock, and its author has claimed that this book will be his final novel. The main character loses his long-term memory in an accident, and spends the novel trying to recall his past. FTP, identify this novel which follows Yambo, a Milanese rare-books dealer who finds one of Shakespeare's First Folios, written by Umberto Eco and named for an Italian cartoon character. 
ANSWER: The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana (or La Misteriosa Fiamma Della Regina Loana). 

4. Originally hung in Katherine Dreier's window before being purchased by the Philadelphia Museum of Art, this 8 foot tall work borrows a figure from an earlier work by the artist. The chocolate grinder on the bottom half is thought to be an image of masturbation. Made from oil, varnish, lead foil, lead wire, and dust that collected on it while it was in the artist's studio, this is, FTP, what work on glass by Marcel Duchamp?
ANSWER: Large Glass, Bride Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, Even (accept either Large Glass, or Bride Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, or both)

5.  This work is actually the second about the titular figure written by the author, but the earlier one, about a trip to the Hebrides, published in 1786, is somewhat more limited in scope. Though the author only knew the subject from 1763-1784, he extended this work back to 1709, the subject's birth year. It is largely due to this work that the wit and writings of its subject, the author of A Dictionary of the English Language, were preserved. FTP, name this obsessively encyclopedic work, often considered the foundational English biography, written by James Boswell.
ANSWER: Boswell's The Life of Samuel Johnson

6.  Reid sharply criticized its apparent justification of hypocrisy and Epicurean tendencies, in contrast with Burke's words of praise. It rejected its author's mentor, Hutcheson's belief in a special "sixth sense" in favor of a more psychological view based on Hume's "experimental method". It argued that innate sympathy was the basis for natural laws, balancing self-interest with social order. It formed the philosophical basis for the "Wealth of Nations". FTP, name this 1759 work by Adam Smith.
ANSWER: The Theory of Moral Sentiments

7. The film Medium Cool contains several minutes of footage shot during it. It kept events of its kind away from the city in which it occurred until 1996. Senator Ribicoff's speech nominating McGovern included a denunciation of "Gestapo tactics". Humphrey's huge lead in delegates at the outset gave McCarthy no chance of winning the nomination, despite furious parliamentary maneuvering on the part of Humphrey's opponents. FTP, name this political convention, characterized by riots, which took place in Chicago during the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: 1968 Democratic National Convention

8.  Originally named Ma Sanbao, and rumored to be over seven feet tall, he studied at Nanjing Taixue, the Imperial Central College. Above his tomb the words "Allah is great" are inscribed, and the steps leading to his tomb are divided into four sections of seven steps each, representing his seven voyages, including Calicut, Ceylon, and Malacca, though probably not America, no matter what Gavin Menzies says. FTP, name this eunuch who sailed throughout the Indian Ocean on a 400 foot long "treasure ship" under the Ming Dynasty.
Answer: Zheng He (accept: Cheng Ho)

9.  Caused by an autosomal abnormality, and with an occurrence of between 1 in 20,000 and 1 in 50,000 live births, affected newborns are of low birth weight, have microcephaly, downward-sloping palpebral fissures, and strabismus. Varying degrees of syndactyly and heart defects often occur, and many afflicted persons survive into adulthood but are very disabled. FTP, name this syndrome involving the deletion of the "p" arm of chromosome 5, and characterized in infants by high-pitched mewling, closely resembling the calls of a kitten.
Answer: Cri Du Chat (or Cry of the Cat)

10. In his best year, he went 9-8 with a 2.26 ERA for Amarillo of the Giants organization. He managed the Class A Corpus Christi Sea Gulls for two years, then moved to the Kinston Eagles of the Carolina League in 1978. He first coached in the majors in 1985 under his mentor, Johnny Sain, but spent the late 80's at Triple-A Richmond. Sain taught him the unusual methods that turned around the careers of Jaret Wright and Mike Hampton. FTP, name this former Braves and current Orioles pitching coach who is famous for rocking back and forth on camera.
ANSWER: Leo Mazzone

11. One of the oldest examples of it is the Kamiuta. Its works can be categorized as "God plays", "Warrior plays", and "Demon plays". It features Hayashikata, Wakikata, and Shitekata, the latter of which provides the chorus, the lead, and the lead's sidekick. Other notable examples of the form include Izutsu and Sekidera Komachi, both of which are categorized as "Woman Plays". Its stage is bare except for a pine tree, in contrast with its lavish costumes. FTP, name this chanted form of Japanese drama notable for its use of distinctive masks.
ANSWER: Noh

12. Some researchers claim that acidic or heated liquids can cause its products to leak endocrine disruptors. The original product line of this company, a subsidiary of Sybron International, included Petri dishes, graduated cylinders, and test tubes. Current products include the "All-Terrain" and a series of back-carried water bladders. Its most famous product is made of Lexan, though other parts are made of less durable plastics. FTP, name this company which produces a famous line of unbreakable 1-liter water bottles.
ANSWER: Nalgene, or Nalge Nunc Incorporated

13. Though initially worshipped as a single entity in the guise of the Supreme Being, only two of its constituents have any sizeable following today. Since all life arises from the earth, requires water to survive, and is destroyed by fire, the commonly accepted belief is that it represents basic elements in the member-deities' symbolic capacities, and according to the Puranas, it originated from the "Adishakti", or primordial divine power. Originally embodied by Mitra, Aryaman, and Varuna, this is, FTP, what tripartite being or group of Hindu deities composed of Brahma the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Shiva the Destroyer? 
Answer: The Trimurti (prompt on Brahman up to "Supreme Being")

14 Daniel Rutherford discovered nitrogen experimentally in 1772, and explained his results using this, which was consumed by the residue mixture of nitrogen and carbon dioxide. In the 17th century, J. J. Becher developed the theory of its use, which was popularized by Georg Stahl, who claimed that the rusting of metal liberated it, though later experiments showed that metals sometimes gained weight, undermining his explanation. FTP, this now obsolete theory required that flammable materials contain what substance, which was proved not to exist when Antoine Lavoisier discovered that oxygen was required for combustion?
Answer: phlogiston theory

15. He spent two years at Tynemouth on the North Sea in the early 1880s, a period of great creativity, but may have led him to paint bleak works such as The Fox Hunt. His Prisoners the Front stemmed from a sketch he made while covering the Civil War for Harper's Weekly. He first gained recognition in 1876 for his painting Snap the Whip, but you probably know this artist better from The Life Line, The Fog Warning, Breezing Up, and The Gulf Stream. FTP, name this American painter known for his seascapes. 
ANSWER: Winslow Homer

16. It was originally intended for a ballet with set and costumes designed by Salvador Dali. Its second movement is based on Schiller's translation of Gozzi's Turandotte, while the other three are all based on piano duets, including the allegro's use of Hungarian gypsy melodies. The 25-note scherzo theme is introduced by a solo flute before undergoing variations in the full orchestra that climax in a jazzy fugue. The languid andantino third movement gives way to a rousing march driven by a pounding two-bar melody. FTP, name this Paul Hindemith piece, based on the work of a German Romantic composer. 
ANSWER: Symphonic Metamorphosis of Themes by Carl Maria von Weber (be lenient with prepositions if anyone gives the full title)

17. They starred in the popular 1962 children's movie "The Two who Stole the Moon". They became known for their strike activity in the 1980's, and are now better known for their center-right views. The younger was a member of the Sejm during the 1990's, while the elder was Lech Walesa's right-hand man. Jaroslaw's Law and Justice Party won the parliamentary election, but Jaroslaw has said that he wouldn't become prime minister unless Donald Tusk beats Lech, currently the mayor of Warsaw, in the Presidential runoff, which Lech proceeded to do. FTP, give the surname of these Polish politicians who are identical twins.
ANSWER: Lech and Jaroslaw Kaczynski

18. He rejected Keynesianism, perhaps because Keynes's work often overshadowed his own. A student of Bohm-Bawerk and von Wieser, he himself was not part of the Austrian school. While teaching in Ukraine, he wrote 1911's Theory of Economic Development. His views on corporations may have influenced Galbraith's The New Industrial State. His best-known work asserts that socialism will replace capitalism when intellectuals grow hostile to entrepreneurship, and described capitalism as "creative destruction". FTP, name this Austrian economist, author of Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy.
ANSWER: Joseph Alois Schumpeter

19. In relating the stress tensor "sigma" and the infinitesimal strain tensor "epsilon", it utilizes "E" by postulating a strain energy density with 21 independent coefficients. For homogeneous isotropic materials, it can be expressed using "E" in terms of Lame coefficients, which are given by a characteristic relation between Young's modulus and Poisson's ratio. FTP, what is this law that uses the elasticity tensor to describe the "restoring force" and explains how a spring system will resist extension or compression?
Answer: Hooke's Law

20.  Two large wells, sometimes called cenotes, at the site lent the location its name.  Early buildings there are built in the Puuc style,and Edward Herbert Thompson purchased the entire area and dredged the cenotes, or wells, finding many skeletons.  It contains such buildings as, the "Nunnery," the "House of the Dark Writing," and the "Snail," which is known for its circular tower used for stargazing, and its most famous feature is probably the tlachtli court, the largest ball court known. About 90 miles from Uxmal, FTP name this site on the Yucatan Peninsula, a ruined Mayan city.
Answer:  Chichen Itza






Yale University
Bulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005
Edited by Mike Wehrman
Packet by Yale (Andrew Uzzell, Ben Colman, Brett Lazer, and Peter Rebeiro)
Bonuses

1.  Answer the following about a play based on real events FTPE.
[10] Timberlake Wertenbaker's play Our Country's Good deals with the first prisoners shipped to this British penal colony.
Answer: Australia
[10] Once in Australia, one of the British officers organizes the prisoners into a theatre company, which puts on a production of The Recruiting Officer, written by this Irish playwright who also wrote The Twin Rivals and The Beaux' Stratagem.
Answer: George Farquhar
[10] Our Country's Good is based on a novel called The Playmaker by this Australian author of Schindler's Ark, later turned into Schindler's List.
Answer: Thomas Keneally 

2.  In 1928, a German chemist and his student discovered a reaction that is of enormous use in synthetic organic chemistry. FTPE:
[10] Name this reaction, characterized by the addition of a conjugated diene to a dienophile, most often an alkene or alkyne, to form a cyclic compound.
Answer: Diels-Alder reaction
[10] In what conformation must the conjugated diene be for the required bond rearrangement in the reaction to be possible?
Answer: s-cis form (do not accept or prompt on "cis")
[10] In the simplest Diels-Alder reaction, s-cis 1,3-butadiene adds to ethene to produce this molecule.
Answer: cyclohexene (or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzene, or benzenetetrahydride, or hexanaphthylene)

3. Name the following Dutch Baroque painters.
[10] The Polish Rider is now thought to be the work of apprentices of this Dutch master, creator of such works as Belshezzar's Feast and The Jewish Bride.
Answer: Rembrandt van Rijn
[10] Among his works are St. Adrian's Company, a military company group portrait much like Rembrandt's Night Watch, and 1624's The Laughing Cavalier
Answer: Frans Hals
[10] Perhaps the greatest of the Dutch Baroque landscape painters he is known for views of distant cities and seascapes, such as View of Haarlem with Bleaching Grounds.
Answer: Jacob von Ruisdael 

4.  Answer these questions from Greek myth FTSNOP.
[5] This princess, whose name means "ruler of men", was chained naked to a rock to be devoured by the sea-monster Cetus.
ANSWER: Andromeda
[10] Andromeda was exposed to the monster because this woman, her mother, claimed herself to be equal in beauty to the Nereids.
ANSWER: Cassiopeia
[5] This offspring of Danae and the Golden Shower slew the gorgon before coming to rescue Andromeda, whom he then married as his reward.
ANSWER: Perseus
[10] Andromeda was supposed to be married to this nobleman, who quarreled with Perseus at the wedding and was turned to stone by the sight of the gorgon's head.
ANSWER: Phineus

5. Answer these questions about the opera Porgy and Bess for the stated number of points.
[5] This American composed it.
Answer:  George Gerswin
[5] The opera is based on the 1925 novel Porgy, written by this man who was also the co-librettist of Ira Gershwin.
ANSWER: DuBose Heyward
[10] This lowlife stevedore, Bess's girlfriend at the opening of the Opera, murders Robbins in Act I, Scene 1. Porgy stabs and kills him during a fight in Act III, scene 1.
ANSWER: Crown
[10] When Porgy is locked up for contempt of court during the investigation of Crown's murder, this drug dealer gives Bess cocaine and persuades her to run away with him to New York.
ANSWER: Sportin' Life

6. Identify these terms from the board game Go FTPE.
[10] This is the term for an empty space adjacent to a group of stones. Filling in all such spaces belonging to an opponent's group captures the group.
ANSWER: Liberty
[10] Japanese for "hit", it refers to when a group of stones has only one liberty and is thus in danger of being captured.
ANSWER: Atari
[10] This rule prevents players from making moves that would recreate the previous board situation. It occurs when a stone has just been captured, and the capturing stone is left with only one liberty.
ANSWER: Ko

7. Answer the following questions about a group of German cultural theorists who moved to California just before WWII, FTPE.
[10] This group of Neo-Marxist social and cultural theorists emerged from the Institute for Social Research in Germany in 1930 and were named for the city where the institute was located.
Answer: Frankfurt School
[10] This thinker and major figure of the Frankfurt School wrote influential tracts on jazz, as well as the now famous line, "Writing poetry after Auschwitz is Barbaric." 
Answer: Theodor Adorno
[10] This book, written by Adorno and Max Horkheimer, includes the influential idea of Mass Culture.
Answer: Dialectic of Enlightenment (or Dialektik der Aufklärung)

8. Given a brief description, name the liturgical garment used in the Roman Catholic Mass, FTPE:  
[10] A white linen vestment reaching nearly to the ground and secured around the waist by a cincture, it is distinguished as the basic vestment from a surplice by its close-fitting sleeves. It gets its name from its white color.
Answer: alb
[10] In Latin, the "casula planeta" or "poenula", it is the principal Mass vestment, covering all the rest; it is typically decorated according to the liturgical season, and was derived in medieval times from a cope with the front edges sewn together.
Answer: chasuble
[10] Though not technically a "vestis sacra", it is often grouped with the biretta since it is worn beneath one. The skull-cap worn by ecclesiastics, the pope's is white, the cardinals' red, and the bishops' violet. 
Answer: zucchetto (or pileolus, submitrale, subbiretum, calotte, or berettino)

9. It was first put forward by Friedrich Max Müller in the 19th century as an explanation of linguistic origins, but was used by his contemporaries to advance the idea of Colonial European superiority. FTPE: 
[10] What theory explained the similarities between Latin and Sanskrit by positing the supplanting of the autochthonous people in Northern India by the namesake group?
Answer: Aryan Invasion
[10] The term "Aryan" was the designation for this historic group whose descendants are called "Parsees" in India; they are now thought to have migrated to India, rather than invading, though it is not known if they carried Indo-European languages with them.
Answer: Indo-Iranians, or Persians (do not accept "Iranians", as it is not historically equivalent)
[10] This is the name of the group that was supposedly displaced to the south of the sub-continent by the Aryans; their namesake languages include Tamil, Kannada, and Malayalam.
Answer: Dravidians

10.  Name these Supreme Court cases FTPE.
[10] This 1935 case dealt with shipping regulations involving chickens, even unhealthy ones, earning it the nickname "The Sick Chicken Case". It overturned the National Industrial Recovery Act. 
Answer: Schechter Poultry Corp. v United States
[10] This 1964 case involving a Chicago felon stated that an accused person should have an attorney present at questioning by police.
Answer:  Escobedo v. Illinois
[10] With President Bush appointing new Supreme Court justices, Democrats are worried about a justice that might favor overturning this 1973 case which established a woman's constitutional right to an abortion.
Answer: Roe v. Wade

11. Initially developed by Hoffman La-Roche, they were considered a major break-through in targeted antiretrovirals after more than a decade of research in the field. FTPE:
[10] Name this class of antiretroviral drugs, members of which attack a retrovirus during cleavage of polypeptides into HIV proteins by the namesake enzyme.
Answer: protease inhibitors or PIs 
[10] What human retrovirus, existing in 2 characteristic types, is the primary target of protease inhibitors in clinical practice and causes an acquired syndrome when sufferers manifest coinfections?
Answer: HIV (or Human Immunodeficiency Virus)
[10] One serious side-effect of treatment with protease inhibitors is this metabolic disorder in which the mean serum cholesterol, triglyceride, or lipoprotein levels are increased.
ANSWER: hyperlipidemia 

12.  Answer these questions about European unification during the second half of the 20th century FTPE.
[10] A 1951 treaty established this brainchild of economist Jean Monnet, an agreement among Western European nations to pool strategic resources to prevent a European war.
ANSWER: European Coal and Steel Community
[10] Also known as the Common Market, the 1957 Treaty of Rome created this organization. Its members established common agricultural prices and later abolished internal tariffs.
ANSWER: European Economy Community (do NOT accept European Community)
[10] This 1992 treaty forged closer political and monetary ties among the members of the European Community, leading to the creation of the Euro.
ANSWER: Maastricht Treaty or Treaty on European Union

13.  Answer the following about the 2006 Spring Fashion lines, as released in New York's Fall Fashion week. 
[10] This clothing line, released by a Gwen Stefani, combines punk with prep, as well as repetition of its four letter name.
Answer: L.A.M.B.
[10] This line, designed by duo Richie Rich and Traver Rains, is marked by gaudy sequins, faux fur, and garish colors. 
Answer: Heatherette
[10] This design team, formed in 2002 by Lazaro Hernandez and Jack McCollough, was one of the best received of the season. 
Answer: Proenza Schouler 

14.  Name some treaties in which the United States was involved FTPE:
[10] This 1819 treaty fixed the border of Texas at the Sabine River, extended Louisiana to the Rocky Mountains, and gave Spanish Florida to the United States.
ANSWER: Adams-Onis Treaty or Treaty of Amity, Settlement, and Limits Between the United States of America and His Catholic Majesty or Transcontinental Treaty of 1819 (prompt on Florida Treaty)
 [10] Negotiated by Commodore Perry and the representatives of the shogun, this 1854 agreement forced Japan to open its ports to American shipping.
ANSWER: Convention of Kanagawa
[10] This 1903 treaty negotiated by the U.S. Secretary of State and a French businessman allowed the U.S. to take over the construction of the Panama Canal.
ANSWER: Hay-Bunau Varilla Treaty

15. With the exceptions of I and II, they originate in the brainstem, but their nuclei reside laterally and medially in the pons, midbrain, and brainstem. FTPE:
[10] What is the name given to these nerves, referring to the fact that their efferent fibers do not lie along the spinal cord, but are primarily internal to the head?
Answer: cranial nerves
[10] The decussation of Cranial Nerve II, at this point, the axons of ganglions from the lateral visual field enter the contralateral tract; it is so named because the axons form a characteristic "X" shape.
Answer: optic chiasm
[10] Comprised of three fascicles dorsal to the optic chiasm, the Gudden, Meynert, and Ganser, it is likely a series of decussations.
ANSWER: supraoptic commissure

16.  Answer the following about Dante's Purgatorio
[10] The only time Dante's name is spoken in the whole of the Divine Comedy occurs in Canto XXX of Purgatorio, and is the first word spoken by this woman.
Answer: Beatrice
[10] In Canto XXVII of Purgatorio we hear the farewell speech of Dante's guide through Inferno and Purgatorio, although he does not leave the poem until Canto XXX.
Answer: Virgil
[10] The top of the mountain of Purgatory is this biblical location.
Answer: The Garden of Eden

17.  Name the early hominid from details of its discovery, FTPE
[10] Nicknamed the Tuang Child by Raymond Dart, 1924, South Africa
Answer: Australopithecus Africanus 
[10] 1974, Donald Johanson, at Hadar in Ethiopia.
Answer: Australopithecus Afarensis (do not accept "Lucy"). 
[10] 2001, Meave Leakey, at Lake Turkana. Its Latin name means "flat faced man of Kenya."
Answer: Kenyanthropus Platyops

18. Councils were convened by the gathering of bishops and representatives of the Church under papal auspices to formulate positions intended to bind or influence members everywhere. 5-5-10-10:
A. This term, derived from the Greek meaning the "whole inhabited world", is used to describe a proper Council of the Church, though after the Protestant Reformation, it became impossible for Western Christians to convoke them because of the lack of papal authority.
Answer: Ecumenical Councils 
B. Held in 325 AD, and generally considered the first Church Council, it confronted the controversy of Arianism regarding the nature of the Trinity by establishing its namesake creed, which stated that God the Father and God the Son were consubstantial and coeternal.
Answer: Council of Nicaea
C. Held from 1414 to 1418, it enforced Conciliarism, the idea that a Church Council is ultimately above the pope, and ended the Western Schism with the election of Martin V. It also condemned the heresies of Wyclif and Hus.
Answer: Council of Constance
D. Convened in Rome in December of 1869 and lasting until October of 1870, it continued to define Roman Catholicism against the rest of ecumenical Christendom, and decreed that, when speaking on matters of morality or faith ex cathedra, the pope is infallible.
Answer: Vatican I or First Vatican Council

19.  Answer these related art questions for ten points each.
A. This house, designed in 1924 by J.J.P. Oud and Gerrit Rietveld, and located in Utrecht, features open space created by intersecting planes, which can be subdivided by a series of sliding panels.
Answer: Schroeder House
B. The Schroeder House is the best-known example of architecture to come from this Dutch modern art movement.
Answer: De Stijl (accept: Neoplasticism)
C. This most famous De Stijl artist is the creator of such works as Composition with Lines and Broadway Boogie Woogie.
Answer: Piet Mondrian

20.  Answer the following about early American Captivity narratives, FTPE.
[10] In 1675, this woman was captured from Lancaster, Massachusetts, along with two of her children.
Answer: Mary Rowlandson 
[10] Name the narrative written by Rowlandson. 
Answer: The Narrative of the Captivity and Release of Mrs. Mary Rowlandson, or The Sovereignty and Goodness of God
[10] Rowlandson was captured during this colonial conflict with the Wampanoags that began in 1675.
Answer: King Phillip's War or Metacomet's War

