Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by The New School (Nathan Freeburg)1. He briefly studied piano with Ricardo Vines, but was otherwise untaught in composition.  He demonstrated his interest in vaudeville with a work where a baritone continuously chants a "Madagascan" word, the Rapsodie Negre.  He wrote a ballet about slutty girls for Diaghilev, Les Biches, and another ballet based on La Fontaine, Model Animals.  However, it is for religious works such as his Mass in G, Stabat Mater, and Gloria that he is best known, culminating with an opera about nuns in the French Revolution.  FTP, name this member of Les Six and composer of the Breasts of Tiresias and the Dialogues of the Carmelites.ANSWER: Francis Poulenc2.  George Charpak's most noted accomplishment took place here.  Besides the invention of multi-wire proportional chambers, the discovery of the neutral current interaction of neutrinos was made in its Gargamelle Chamber and W and Z bonsons were first demonstrated in one of its experiments.  Felix Bloch was its first Director-General, while the resolution authorizing its existence was put forward at an UNESCO conference by Isidore Rabi,  and Louis de Broglie first proposed its creation.  FTP, name this research laboratory, the site of the first proton collider as well as the 27-kilometre Large Electron-Positron Collider Ring, located in Switzerland.ANSWER:  CERN or the European Organization for Nuclear Research or _Organisation Européenne pour la Recherche Nucléaire_ [its official name] or _Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire_ [its initial name]3.  When this river flows past Magnitogorsk it serves a water reservoir that supplies the area's metallurgical industry.  It may have once been a tributary of the Volga on the Kirghiz Steppe but today it ends at Atyrau, on the Caspian Sea.  Lying in western Russia and Kazakhstan, it is the third longest river of Europe.  FTP, name this river that cuts the city of Chelyabinsk into European and Asian halves and which lent its name to a mountain range.ANSWER:  Ural River4.  This novel was to be originally entitled Tenderness but it has always been published under its current title.  An attempt to resolve matters is undertaken by the protagonist's sister, Hilda, who persuades the artist Duncan Forbes to announce that he is the father.  The affair with the Irish playwright, Michaelis, still troubles but the real complications ensue when the ex-wife, Bertha, reappears and claims her husband.  Set at Wragby Hall, the ancestral home of the wheel-chair bound Clifford, FTP, name this novel which describes an affair with the gamekeeper, Mellors.ANSWER:  Lady Chatterly's Lover5.  At one site of this event two obelisks can be seen at the Garden on the Ramparts marking where a couple piles of dung once were located.  Although it almost occurred for a third time during the Velvet Revolution in 1989, the first such event took place at the New Town Hall on Charles Square in 1419 when seven anti-Hussite town councilors were impaled on pikes.  At the second and most famous such event the victims were Wilhelm Slavata and Jaroslav Martinicz, although they managed to survive.  FTP, name these events, of which the one in 1618 touched off the Thirty Years War involving the throwing of people out windows.ANSWER:  Defenestrations of Prague6.  Also known as the F Region, the lower density of gases here results in fewer collisions between ions and electrons.  Lying next to the E Region or Kennelly-Heaviside Region, it was found by varying the frequency of the BBC transmitter at Bournemouth at night and realizing that radio waves still must be bouncing off something.  FTP, name this region of the ionosphere, named after the British scientist who discovered it.ANSWER:  Appleton Layer7.  At the beginning of each chapter is a quote which is usually false, although attributed to a real author.  Although the plot concerning the secret royalist mission to England is never resolved, intrigue also surrounds the exiled Count Altamira.  An amusing plot-line revolves around Prince Korsakoff who provides a series of fake love-letters to be sent to any woman and which help our protagonist beat out Croisenois for the love of Mathilde, the daughter of his patron, the Marquis de La Mole.  Eventually it all ends tragically when the spurned Madame Renal is wounded by Julien Sorel, resulting in his execution.  FTP, name this Stendahl novel.ANSWER:  The Red and the Black or The Scarlet and Black or Le Rouge et Le Noir8.  According to his letters to his sister, it was Heinrich von Kleist's favorite painting.  Now in Dresden, it is especially significant for the way the papal tiara on top of the balustrade connects the real and imaginary spaces.  Framed by curtains open to either side, the main figures stand on some clouds with two putti at the base-one with his hand on his chin.  On the right is St. Barbara while on the left is an early pope and the patron saint of Julius's family, who looks up at the Mary and Child.  FTP, name this Raphael painting named for St. Sixtus I.ANSWER:  The Sistine Madonna or Virgin, Child and Saints Sixtus and Barbara9.  Visitors to this country can still see the Set Panys or Chest of the 7 Locks, where all of its important documents were once stored.  Its national holiday is Our Lady of Meritxell Day, commemorating September 8, 1278.  Most of its immigrants are draw by the lack of income taxes and 80% of the GDP is provided by 9 million tourists a year.  Divided into 7 parishes, its head of government is the President of the Executive Council, who is selected by the General Council of the Valleys.  With the formal heads of state being the Spanish Bishop of Urgell and the French President, FTP, name this Catalan speaking principality.ANSWER:  Prinicipality of Andorra or Principat d'Andorra10.  Their journal was known as Iskra and their clear break occurred after the Prague Convention when they retained control of the Social Democratic Labor Party.  Finally crushed after the Kronstadt Uprising, they were led by Julius Martov.  After the April Theses were published by Lenin, this group lost such members as Leon Trotsky to their more strident opposition.  Tolerant of dissent, FTP, name these relatively moderate Russian socialists, split from the Bolsheviks.ANSWER: Mensheviks11.  The first copy of a miniature leather-bound score of this work was given to the composer's friend, the conducter Hans Richter.  Although it could be one of the composer's celebrated fictional "japes," arguments for the origination of the counterpoint include the Prague Symphony, Rule Britannia and Auld Lang Syne.  Lesser known portions include "G.R.S.", "B.G.N.", "W.N." and "Dorabella", but the most well-known part is the oft-excerpted "Nimrod".  FTP, name this Elgar work based on a dog and 14 of his friends.ANSWER:  Enigma Variations or Variations on an Original Theme or Opus 3612.  The loser at this battle attempted to justify his actions via a correspondence with General Washington.  To avoid the Raritan River, the victor had chosen a circuitous route to Sandy Hook from Philadelphia and had encamped at the village of Freehold.  After the arrival of General Wayne' s reinforcements, Lafayette was replaced in command and General Clinton's rear was engaged.  Leading to the court-martial of General Lee, FTP, identify this New Jersey battle which featured the exploits of Molly Pitcher. ANSWER: Battle of Monmouth13.  Located underneath the peak el-Qurn, use of this site was interrupted by the Amarna interregnum.  There are over 1,000 examples of Greco-Roman graffiti on KV 9 at this location.  Historical accounts of include those of Diodorus Siculus and Strabo who visited it in the 1st century B.C.E. while some of its occupants were moved to a site near Deir al-Bahri to evade plundering.  Prominent during the New Kingdom, it is on the opposite bank of the Nile from Thebes.  FTP, name this location where the namesake Egyptians were buried.ANSWER:  Valley of the Kings or Biban el-Muluk or Wadyein14.  It was formed by the Self-Denying Ordinance, which forced aristocratic members to resign their commissions.  Constituted as a force of 22,000 men, its members wore red uniforms and its inceptor took command of the cavalry who were nicknamed "Ironsides" by Prince Rupert.  Proving the validity of their egalitarian system by winning at Naseby, they were known for their piety as well.  Led by Sir Thomas Fairfax, name this Parliamentary army of Oliver Cromwell during the English Civil War.ANSWER: New Model Army15.  When preparing to use this approach, it is important to remember that in the case of completely independent variances, the minimization of correlated residuals is probably more appropriate.  In polynomials, this method's parabola variant uses the equation y equals a plus bx plus cx squared while the straight line variant uses y equal a plus bx to create a best-fitting curve.  Famously used to track the orbit of Ceres, FTP, name this method first devised by Legendre to solve overdetermined linear equations but most identified with Gauss.ANSWER:  Method of Least Squares16.  In actuality the son of an innkeeper, many believed that he was the bastard child of Emperor Henry VII.  By virtue of his eloquence, Clement VI sent him from Avignon to a post in Rome where on May 20, 1347 he announced a new constitution.  Overthrown by the barons, with the assistance of admirers such as Petrarch, he returned to Rome in triumph only to be killed by the populace and dragged through the streets.  Having taken the title of Tribune, FTP, name this Italian nationalist who attempted to revive the Roman Empire and who was the subject of a Wagner opera.ANSWER: Rienzi or Cola Di Rienzo 17.  It was directly formed from the three administrative districts of Ajloun, Balqua and Karak.  Containing portions of the older kingdom of Hijaz, the ruler of that territory became this country's first ruler and soon after lost the rest of his domain to Ibn Saud.  Major J.B. Glubb was brought in to establish a professional military force, which became the famed Arab Legion of Emir Abdullah.  In May of 1946, Abdullah became King and the name of the country was correspondingly changed.  FTP, name this Hashemite possession, now the country of Jordan.ANSWER: Transjordan  [Do not accept "Jordan"; that's ruled out by the first sentence].18.  In some accounts, anyone who looks at the moon on this deity's birthday is presumed a thief.  He rides a mouse and carries four magical weapons in his four hands, and is known as the "Lord of Categories," or "Ganapati.  This brother of Skanda is also known as "Vighnaharta", the destroyer of obstacles and is the son of Parvati and Shiva.  FTP, name this elephant-headed god.ANSWER:  Ganesha19.In early Islam, this doctrine was denied by the Mutazilites.  Adherents of this doctrine in Christianity are normally divided into infra- and supralapsarian camps.  After its denial by Pelagius, it was affirmed by Augustine and the later Protestant form was famously denied by the Dutch followers of Arminius.  Most commonly associated with John Calvin, FTP, name this theological concept in which some are fated to heaven.    ANSWER:  Predestination or Qadr 20.  Its roots were found in the political actions and writings of Oruno Lara, the Nardal sisters, Rene Maran, Lenis Blanche, and Kojo Houeno, while its title was first used in the poem, "Notebook of a Return to My Native Land."  Associated with the journal Tropiques, it was attacked by radical nationalists as well as Fanon and Soyinka. Actually begun by Paris émigrés like Leon Damas, Aime Cesaire and Leopold Senghor, FTP, name this African political and cultural movement.ANSWER:  NegritudeTheir last leader became the first Duke of Courland, which had been one of their two domains.  They joined forces with their rivals after their defeat at Siauliai and they subjugated the Ests and Letts.  Founded in 1202 by Bishop Albert and known as the "Brothers of the Sword", they were eventually disbanded by Ivan IV although they had earlier lost at Lake Peipus along with their Teutonic brethren.  FTP, name these Knights who conquered the land of the Livs.ANSWER: _Livonian_ Knights [Accept _Brothers of the Sword_ before its mentioned].Its pretext was that one side could not stand a certain figure's constant chattering about gold.  The prolix offender was bound and pierced three times with spears.  After each execution, she was resurrected.  As Gullveig's compatriots continually won battles, eventually the other side sued for peace and both sides spat in a bowl from which Kvasir was born.  FTP, name this Norse war between two groups of deities.ANSWER:  War between the _Aseir and Vanir_  [do not accept Ragnarok]Pinturicchio, Piero di Cosimo, della Gatta, Rosselli, Signorelli, Ghirlandaio, Perugino and Botticelli all took part in painting the Quattrocento frescoes on its walls.  The original architect was Baccio Pontelli and its construction was supervised by Giovannino de' Dolci.  With additional art being commissioned by Paul III and Julius II, Michaelangelo spent a total of ten years working here.  FTP, name this chapel commissioned by Pope Sixtus IV.ANSWER:  _Sistine_ Chapel or _Palatine_ Chapel The Werl Altarpiece was once attributed to him although that identification is doubted today.  His earliest extant work is The Entombment which shows only hints of more mature works like The Virgin and Child Before a Firescreen.  His The Marriage of the Virgin is in the Prado and he is placed with Van Eyck in precipitating the shift from the International Gothic style.  His best known-work is The Merode Altarpiece but is identification with Rogier van der Weyden is questioned today.  FTP, name this 15th century master who may have been Robert Campin and who's sobriquet refers to a place he never lived in.ANSWER:  The _Master of Flemalle_ [Accept "Master of Merode" before that piece is mentioned and prompt on "Robert Campin"]Once the deputy organist to Kerll at the Imperial Chapel, he originally studied under Heinrich Schwemmer.  His son, Hieronymus became an accomplished musican in his own right, but this composer's better known student was Johann Christoph Bach.  Court organist at both Stuttgart and Nuremberg, his best known works include the motet Praise the Lord as well as the Hexachordum Apollonis arias and the Six Suites for Two Violins.  Also known for his Magnificat Fugues, FTP, name this Lutheran baroque composer of Canon in D.ANSWER:  Johann Pachelbel Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by The New School (Nathan Freeburg)1. Fluid Dynamics, 10 points each.A.  Identify this term for a smooth flowing fluid-i.e. non-turbulent.ANSWER:  Laminar FlowB.  This equation can be used to calculate the flow rate for laminar, non-pulsatile fluid flow through a uniform straight pipe.ANSWER:  Poiseuille's EquationC.  One can compute Reynold's Number by multiplying the upstream velocity of the fluid times the frontal height of the obstacle in the fluid divided by what property of the fluid?ANSWER:  Kinematic Viscosity2.  African empires, 10 points each.A.  It reach its greatest extent under Askia Muhammed I, but Sunni Ali was probably its greatest ruler.ANSWER:  SonghaiB.  This slave-trading, gold producing empire primarily in Ghana was founded when Osei Tutu led Kumasi against the Denkyira.  Its rulers sat on the Golden Stool.ANSWER:  Ashanti or AsanteC.  Its greatest rulers included Mai Dunama Dibbalemi and Idris Alawma.  It eventually fell to the combined power of the Hausa States in the 19th century.ANSWER:  Kanem-Bornu3.  In parts of Wisconsin they're known as "bubblers" but to the rest of the world they're "fountains."  10 points each.A.  This fountain in the Piazza Navona was designed by Bernini and he may have sculpted the figures of the horse, palm tree and lion himself.  The obelisk in the center from which the pigeons poop was added later.ANSWER:  The Fountain of the Four Rivers or Fontana Piazza NavonaB.  Supposedly, if you toss a coin over your shoulder into this fountain, you will return to Rome someday.  It contains an Arch of Triumph with several niches-of which the center one contains the famed Neptune on a chariot drawn by seahorses.  It was begun by Bernini, continued by Pietro da Cortona and completed by Nicola Salvi.ANSWER:  The Trevi Fountain or Fontana di TreviC.  The Trevi Fountain at midday is one section of this composition by Ottorino Respighi.ANSWER:  The Fountains of Rome or Fontane di Roma4.  Identify the philandering Brits, 10 points each, none of whom is Prince Charles.A.  This mathematician posed what is now known as Kepler's Conjecture but is perhaps better known for his History of the World and various naval explorations.  He incurred Queen Elizabeth's wrath by getting it on with and eventually secretly marrying her maid of honor, Bessy Throckmorton.  Oh, his head was chopped off.ANSWER:  Sir Walter RaleighB.  This Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister during the US Civil War was caught by Queen Victoria doing the dirty with one of her ladies in waiting.  She was pissed and they didn't really get along after that.ANSWER:  Viscount Palmerston or Henry John TempleC.  He was caught nailing one of his best friends' wife, Kitty O'Shea, but still laid the seeds for Irish independence.  There's some really bad poetry concerning him in the story "Ivy Day in the Committee Room."ANSWER:  Charles Stewart Parnell5.  Name these movies starring Barbra Streisand for ten points each.A.  She tied Katherine Hepburn for The Lion in Winter, winning the 1968 Best Actress Oscar.  She portrayed Jewish vaudeville comedienne Fanny Brice.Answer: Funny GirlB. Also starring Mandy Patinkin, Barbra directed this 1983 musical and played the title role of a girl who disguises herself as a boy so she can attend rabbinical school.Answer: YentlC.  Barbra plays Katie, who loves Hubbell, played by Robert Redford, but they drift apart because of opposing political views. It is perhaps best known for the title song, written by Marvin Hamlisch.Answer:  The Way We Were (enthusiastically accept "The Way We Wuh") 6.  Plate tectonics, for the stated number of pointsA.  For ten, the basis for the study of geologic plates was provided by this German who studied the plant "Glossopteris" and proposed that there was once just one super-continent, Pangaea, thus theorizing continental drift.  No one believed him.  ANSWER:  Alfred L. WegenerB.  Later, a South African geologist, Alexander du Toit, proposed two super-continents, one northern and one southern.  Name them for five points each.ANSWER:  Laurasia and GondwanalandC.  For another ten, the San Andreas fault system is an example of this type of boundary.  Two plates move laterally past each other and thus the oceanic crust is neither created nor destroyed.ANSWER:  Conservative or Transform Margin7.  Kraut plays, 10 points each, 5 if you need the name of the author.10:  This semi-autobiographical play centered around an 1844 revolt in Silesia.  The drama inspired a famous series of prints by Kathe Kollwitz.  The evil factory owner DreiBiger is contrasted with the impoverished textile workers, Ansorge and Backer.5:  Gerhart HauptmannANSWER:  The Weavers or Die Weber10:  A recently published translation of this drama features illustrations by Maurice Sendak.  An attack on Winckelmann's classicism, it has no acts but rather 24 consecutive scenes.  The titular Amazon queen kills Achilles and tears his teeth with her flesh along with lots of other cool erotic imagery.5:  Heinrich von KleistANSWER:  Penthesilea10:  Published in two parts, it's technically a play.  In the last scene, Mephistopheles gets distracted by the cute butts of some boy angels.  5:  Johann Wolfgang von GoetheANSWER:  Faust8.  Stuff about the hydrogen spectrum, FTSNOP.5:  Its value for hydrogen is 109,737.3 cm-1 although it can be used in the measurement of any spectrum.  Identify this constant.ANSWER:  Rydberg Constant5:  This name is given to the series of spectral lines where the initial quantum number of the electron orbits equals 2.ANSWER:  Balmer Series  10:  This name is given to the series of spectral lines where the initial quantum number of the electron orbits equals 1.ANSWER:  Lyman Series  10:  This name is given to the series of spectral lines where the initial quantum number of the electron orbits equals 5.ANSWER:  Pfund Series  9.  Dudes associated with early operas, 10 points each.A.  Although today Jacopo Peri's Dafne is usually considered to have been the first opera, certainly this composer of Orfeo was the first to achieve any sort of permanence as an operatic composer.ANSWER: Claudo  MonteverdiB.  His son was considered by some of his contemporaries to have been demon-possessed, so great was his harpsichord virtuosity; however, this composer was known as the founder of the Neopolitan opera.ANSWER:  Alessandro ScarlattiC.  The first German composer of operas, he was known for his Passions, the Symphonie Sacrae and the Small Sacred Concertos.ANSWER:  Heinrich Schutz10. Art movements or styles, 10 points each.A.  Caravaggio founded this school of extreme chiaroscurism which emphasized dark colours combined with shafts of light.ANSWER:  Tenebrism or TenebrisoB.  Italian for "smoky", this school centered around soft transitions in tone within paintings.  Leonardo da Vinci was a master of this technique.ANSWER:  SfumatoC.  Originally known as the Brotherhood of St. Luke, they lived in an abandoned monastery of the Order of St. Isidore and were influenced by Friedrich Schlegel's aesthetic theories.  Germans living in Italy during the early 19th century, their ranks included Franz Pforr, Friedrich Overbeck, and Peter Cornelius.ANSWER:  Nazarenes11. Stuff about an American poem, 10 points each.A.  This poem includes quotations from the art criticisms of Vasaria and Sydney Freedberg and a rumination on the captivity of the soul.  It also discusses affirmations that do not affirm anything and dreams that reveal nothing, the nature of vitality in the city, and concludes with "cold pockets Of remembrance, whispers out of time."ANSWER:  Self-Portrait in a Convex MirrorB.  This author of Girls on the Run, Houseboat Days, April Galleons and Shadow Train wrote Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.ANSWER:  John AshberryC.  The poem's reflections are accomplished through an encounter with the titular painting by which mannerist painter?ANSWER: Parmigianino or Girolamo Francesco Mazzola or Parmigiano12.  We all learned about the birds and the bees on the back of the bus, so here's stuff on hormones, 10 points each.A.  This class of hormones can induce apoptosis.ANSWER:  GlucocorticoidsB.  Produced in the placenta, this hormone appears in the urine after a missed menstrual period and is the basis for several pregnancy tests.ANSWER:  HCG or _Human Chorionic GonadotropinC.  In men, this hormone produces spermatogenesis in the testes while in women it increases the weight of the ovaries.  It sounds like it has something to do with hair.ANSWER:  FSH or Follicle Stimulating Hormone13.  Philosophical terms, 10 points each.A.  Literally Greek for "mind", it was used extensively by Anaxagoras in the sense of a determining presence and was later modified by Plotinus.ANSWER:  NousB.  Literally meaning "endeavor", Hobbes used it define all bodies as being in motion and resisting a change to a different state.  Common in medieval philosophy, Leibniz used the term extensively during his early career.ANSWER:  ConatusC.  Leibniz modified the conatus and replaced it with this term which dated back to the Pythagoreans and comes from the Greek for "one." He used it to define substance as independent action and thus the universe was made up of acting substances.ANSWER:  Monads14.  Answer the following concerning the German practice of publishing volumes entitled, Table Talk.  10 points each.A.  The most famous and first Table Talk is undoubtedly that of this man who's throwing dishes at the devil and the like is recorded therein.ANSWER:  Martin LutherB.  Luther's Table Talk was first translated into English by this Victorian critic who also wrote his own Table Talk, subtitled "Essays on Men and Manners."ANSWER:  William HazlittC.  While it's not exactly table talk, it did take place by one.  Mike Myers played this leather-pant-wearing Jewish host of Coffee Talk, who was based on his real-life mother-in-law. She filled in for Paul Baldwin and thought Barbra Streisand was "like buttah."Answer:  Linda Richman15. Comparative law stuff, 10 points each.A.  What is the general term for non-common law systems which are principally based in the Corpus Juris Civilis, i.e. Roman law?ANSWER:  Civilian or Civil LawB.  This Civilian country in Eastern Europe also unofficially still holds to its old tribal law known as the Lek.ANSWER:  Republic of Albania or Republika e ShqiperiseC.  This predominantly Muslim country is also Civilian as it literally copied, translated and adopted the Swiss Code during the 1920's and 30's.ANSWER:  Republic of Turkey or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti    [apparently they picked Switzerland because Kemal Ataturk's lawyer buddy had gone to law school there]16.  Identify these artists, ten points each.A.  This artist's name comes from three panels in Frankfurt-am-Main believed to have come from an abbey near Liege.  It is believed that he was either Robert Campin or possibly his student, Roger Van der Weyden.ANSWER:  The Master of FlemalleB.  Along with the Master of Flemalle, this dude and his brother founded the Flemish School.  He collaborated with his brother Jan on the Ghent Altarpiece while solo works attributed to him include a diptych of the Crucifixion and Last Judgment.ANSWER:  Hubert van EyckC.  This other altarpiece maker was the court painter to the Archbishops of Mainz, but is best known for an inspirational work for an infirmary in Colmar, France.  Name this painter of the Isenheim Altarpiece.Answer: Matthias Grünewald or Mathis Gothardt17.  Name the American scientist from some of his more works for ten points each.A. The Eightfold Way and The Quark and the Jaguar.Answer: Murray Gell-MannB.  How to Live Longer and Feel Better and Cancer and Vitamin CAnswer:  Linus PaulingC. Lectures on Physics and QED: The Strange Theory of Light and MatterAnswer: Richard Feynman18. Classical chicks, 10 points each.A.  She led the Iceni after her husband, Prasutagus, died, and she led a revolt against Roman occupation in 61 A.D.  She failed.ANSWER:  BoadicceaB.  Queen of Palmyra, she led a revolt and was defeated in 272 A.D.  Aurelian took her to Rome and gave her a villa.  She then married a senator.ANSWER:  ZenobiaC.  This hooker became Pericles' mistress and may have written some of his speeches and according to Aristophanes, may have influenced some of his policies.ANSWER:  Aspasia19.  Answer the following about a guy who writes stuff, 10 points each.A.  His more disturbing works include In Between the Sheets and The Cement Garden, while The Child in Time and Enduring Love made his fame.  Name this British novelist.ANSWER:  Ian McEwanB.  Ian McEwan won the 1998 Booker Prize for this novel, a dark comedy about the composer Clive Linley and the newspaper editor Vernon Halliday and their suicide pact at Molly Lane's funeral.ANSWER:  AmsterdamC.  McEwan's second most recent novel was about Briony Tallis' false claim of rape and the ensuing aftermath.  It contains a notable account of the Dunkirk sealift.ANSWER:  Atonement20. Identify the failed dramatist, 30,20,10.30:  He was the benefactor of Leonard Marande who dedicated the skeptical argument in his Judgement des Actions Humaines to this man, who was forced to hide at the priory of Coussay after the assassination of Concini, before succeeding Luynes to his most famous post.20:  He apparently lied to the pope about his age of 21 in order to become bishop of Lucon in 1607.  He showed political aspirations by representing the clergy of Poitou in the States General of 1614.10:  The founder of the Academie Francaise, he was Louis XIII's councilor and appointed Mazarin to succeed him as the royal minister.ANSWER:  Cardinal Armand-Jean du Plessis, Duke de Richelieu[He also wrote some crappy plays that tanked.] 