Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Brown (Jerry Vinokurov)Tossups1.  According to the historian Manetho, this man's reign lasted 62 years and he was killed by a hippopotamus. The Heb-Sed festival is believed to have its origins in this man's most famous accomplishment, and in some Greek myths, Busiris, a son of Poseidon, was considered his successor. The temple of Seti I in Abydos depicts Seti and his son, Ramses II, making offerings to the cartouches of 76 of their predecessors, beginning with this man, and the object possibly depicting his most famous achievement was discovered in 1894 by James Quibell. Probably the same person as Aha, FTP, identify this man, who may or may not be the same as Narmer, and who is generally considered the first Egyptian pharaoh.Answer: Menes (accept Narmer before it is mentioned; there is some question as to whether they are the same or whether Narmer is his successor.)2.  The Sunayev-Zeldovich distortion in the cosmic microwave background comes about as a result of the inverse form of this effect. It is the main mechanism of absorption for gamma rays in the 100 KeV to 10 MeV range and in radiation therapy, this interaction dominates over the photoelectric effect and pair production. It is target-independent, and its results can be differentiated from classical theory by observing an extra peak on the graph of wavelength versus intensity, with the difference equal to h-bar over quantity m-sub-e times c times quantity one minus cosine theta. Derivable from the conservation of momentum and energy, FTP, identify this effect that results when photons scattered off electrons undergo a shift in wavelength named for the man who received the 1927 Nobel Prize in physics for its discovery.       Answer: Compton effect3. He comes up with a plan so ingenious, it's a Swiss fucking watch. He informs a coffee shop waitress that the Supreme Court has roundly rejected prior restraints, and he defends his religious practices by saying that he converted when he married Cynthia, citing three thousand years of beautiful tradition from Moses to Sandy Koufax. He explains that the preferred nomenclature is not "chinaman," it's "Asian-American," and he also tells Smokey that this isn't 'Nam, it's bowling, and there are rules. He's told that Kraut a thousand times that he doesn't roll on Shabbos, and he's not wrong, he's just an asshole. Everything's a fucking travesty, and also about Vietnam, with, FTP, what John Goodman character who frequently tells Donny to shut the fuck up, the Dude's friend in The Big Lebowski?       Answer: Walter Sobchak (accept either name)4. One of the people currently contesting the election in Nimba county in this country is a man by the name of General Peanut Butter, whose slogan is, "Let him butter your bread." His opponent in the race is Prince Johnson, who is responsible for the death of one of the country's previous rulers. The wife of the country's last president is running for the Bong County seat with the slogan, "We have to forgive and move on," while Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, a former World Bank economist, has pledged to emulate Nelson Mandela and only serve one term. However, the most prominent candidate in this country is currently a former A.C. Milan forward, George Weah [way-UH] who leads the Congress for Democratic Change. All these races are currently being contested in, FTP, what African country, previously ruled over by Charles Taylor with capital at Monrovia?Answer: Liberia5. In the optic form of this condition, sufferers fail to identify objects presented to them, but can frequently do better when presented with objects that can be touched. Left-handers with mixed dominance recover more readily from this condition, and one form of it, called conduction, affects the supramarginal gyrus and the angular gyrus. A more famous version of this condition may be accompanied by buccofacial apraxia, which involves the inability to perform skilled movements with the face, as well as dyslexia, and results from damage to the frontal lobe. Another famous form results from damage to the parietal lobe, leading to patients who speak gibberish sentences. FTP, identify these common disorders that typically results in the inability to use language, of which the two best-known types are Wernicke's and Broca's.       Answer: aphasia6.  It begins with the admonition that "The proud ones do not last long, but vanish like a spring night's dream." The roots of this work lie in the Hogen and Heiji rebellions, which served as source material for a companion work, and among the historic episodes detailed is the battle of Dan-no-Ura. Divided into three main sections, the main characters of each are, respectively, the prideful Kiyomori, the general Yoshinaka, and the samurai Yoshitsune, who is eventually overthrown by his brother Yoritomo, after which Yoritomo becomes the first shogun. Chronicling the decline of the Taira clan during the Genpei War, FTP, identify this 14th-century classic of Japanese literature which also details the rise of the Minamoto clan.Answer: The Tale of the Heike (or Heike monogatari)7.  The second movement of this work, the composer's Opus 60, was subtitled "Memories," while the third was called, "My native field." The second movement becomes melancholy with the introduction of the oboe, which is then joined by strings, clarinet, and brass, but this work is more famous for a repeated rhythm on the snare drum in the vein of Bolero, which is meant to symbolize a march. Its final movement, subtitled "Victory," was finished on December 27th, 1941, and its first performance was held in Kuybishev, on March 5, 1942. Dedicated to the city beseiged by the Wehrmacht for 900 days, FTP, identify this musical work by Dimitri Shostakovich.       Answer: Shostakovich's 7th Symphony or Leningrad Symphony8. This man eventually defeated Lancaster at the Battle of Boroughbridge and had him executed, which coincided with his adoption of Hugh le Despenser as his new favorite. Following his victory he repealed the Ordinances, which had demanded a reduction in his power and the banishment of his then-favourite Piers Gaveston, who was executed by the opposition barons. In 1314, he lost the Battle of Bannockburn to Robert the Bruce, but it was his dependence on the Despensers which aroused the ire of his queen Isabella, who with her lover Roger Mortimer deposed this man in favor of his son in 1327. The subject of a tragedy by Christopher Marlowe, FTP, identify this English king, the successor to Edward Longshanks.       Answer: Edward II (or Edward of Caernarvon)9. The man typically credited with the modern incarnation of this movement, George Henseley, died from participating in it in 1955. All current groups practicing it also forbid the wearing of jewelry and the cutting of hair for women, and the scriptural basis for this practice is found in Mark 16:18, which lists the signs that "follow them that believe," including the casting out of devils, the laying on of hands, and the speaking in tongues. It is practiced in the US mostly in Appalachia, and when Homer invites Moe to join his religion, Moe declines, claiming that he was born and will die a practitioner of this, while looking at his bandaged hands. FTP, identify this Pentecostal practice of grabbing certain reptiles, which is based on the line in Mark, "They shall take up serpents."       Answer: snake handling (or serpent handling before "serpents" are mentioned; accept snake handler)10. This man's day job as an army doctor resulted in his dissertation, On Cranial Nerves, and led to his appointment as a lecturer in the natural sciences in Zurich the year before his death. One work of his ridicules the rule of the aristocracy through the personages of King Peter of Popo and the crown prince's jester, Valerio, and he also wrote The Hessian Messenger. Better known is a play that chronicles the regrets of a central figure of the French revolution just before he is executed. Best known for a play about a soldier who kills his wife that was turned into an opera by Alban Berg, FTP, identify this German author of Danton's Death and Woyzeck.Answer: Karl Georg Büchner11. By the machinations of Kaikeyi, the titular character of this work is banished for fourteen years, and it features the slaying in the forest of Khar and 14,000 of his warriors, and the trickery of Mareech causes the title character's brother to abandon his post. The crime at the center of this work is accomplished by the antagonist disguised as a sanyasi, and the great eagle Jatayu is unable to help. After two failed rescue attempts, the titular character prays to the sun and uses a Brahma-missile to destroy his enemy. Composed by Valmiki, FTP, identify this Indian epic whose titular character uses the help of Lakshmana and Hanuman to rescue his wife Sita from the demon Ravanna.       Answer: the Ramayana12. It can occur in vitro at room temperature and atmospheric pressure in certain acidic media by the reduction of certaing complexes of molybdenum and tungsten by Grignard reagents. The molecule responsible for this process differs between species, but two proteins are typically involved, a smaller one with an Fe4S4 cluster and a larger one which is an alpha-2-beta-2 tetramer and has two molybdenum atoms, about 30 iron atoms, and about 30 labile sulfide ions. The most important species that perform this action are the mutualistic species of Rhizobium which live in the root nodules of various legumes, and organisms which perform it are called diazotrophs. Chemically performed by the Haber cycle, FTP, identify this process, in which a namesake enzyme helps convert atmospheric N2 into ammonia.       Answer: nitrogen fixation (accept logical equivalents, i.e. fixing nitrogen)13. Besides his most famous work, this man wrote only one other novel, which was subtitled "A Story of London under the Hohenzollerns," and in which he railed against racial mixing with Jews. A foreign correspondent in the Balkans for the Westminster Gazette, he authored such collections as "Reginald" and "The Chronicles of Clovis." His insight into the lives of children can be seen in such short stories as "Sredni Vashtar," but he is better known for a work featuring the ironic reconciliation of two enemies trapped under a tree just before they are devoured by wolves called "The Interlopers." Best known for his novel about Francesca and her son Comus, FTP, identify this author of "The Unbearable Bassington," whose real name was Hector Hugh Munro.       Answer: Saki (or early Hector Hugh Munro)14. Among the things that enraged them was the spending of several thousand pounds on a statue of William Pitt and the large expense account given to Christopher Gadsden. They were particularly incensed by the conduct of Edmund Fanning, and their movement first gained strength in Anson, Granville, and Orange counties. Hermon Husband was their unofficial leader, and they were led at the Battle of Alemance Creek by John Hunter, while another soldier, Benjamin Morill, was executed for his involvement with this group. Arising in opposition to colonial governor William Tryon, FTP, identify this back-country North Carolina group which gave its name to a brief 1771 war.Answer: the Regulators15.  He incorporated the castrato Giovanni Velluti in his early opera Il Crociato in Egitto, which was one of the last with parts written for the male soprano. A more famous work recounts the attempts of the son of Bertha and Bertram to woo Isabelle after his exile to Sicily, while another work, not performed until after his death in 1864, features a duel between Don Pedro and Vasco da Gama. However, he is best known for a work set in 1571 which ends with the killings on St. Bartholomew's Day. Richard Wagner's Judaism in Music was an attack on, FTP, what composer of such operas as Robert le Diable, Les Africaine, and Les Huguenots?       Answer: Giacomo Meyerbeer (or Yakov Liebmann Beer)16. In Bernardo Strozzi's version, the person performing the titular action stands on the far right, while the light illuminates the titular character, whose assistants ignore the action being depicted. A better-known version by Hendrik Terbrugghen clusters all the participants in the center, and both his and Strozzi's versions were conscious imitations of the most famous version of this painting. That version contains a single source of light, the upper-right-hand window, and depicts a bearded man being pointed out in a crowd of people counting money. FTP, give the shared titles of all these paintings, which depict Jesus summoning a tax collector and future Gospel author, of which Caravaggio's version is most famous.       Answer: The Calling of St. Matthew17. In the fourth-to-last stanza, the author mentions "a commercial photograph [that] shows Hiroshima boiling." In the second, he recalls how "my nose crawled like a snail on glass/ my hand tingled/ to burst the bubbles," and later describes how "a girdle of orange girders... braces the Statehouse," which faces, "St. Gauden's shaking... relief." The poet remarks that the "Colonel is as lean as a compass-needle," and that "at the dedication/ William James could amost hear the bronze Negroes breathe." First published in Life Studies and dedicated to the leader of a black regiment, Robert Gould Shaw, FTP, identify this Robert Lowell poem whose titular subjects are Northern soldiers fallen during the Civil War.       Answer: For the Union Dead18. Its last leader was Baron Wrangel, and Carl Mannerheim commanded a similarly named force during the Finnish Civil War. The Cossacks who were part of it were responsible for the death of about 100,000 Jews during pogroms in Ukraine, and it lost its first commander, Lavr Kornilov in the battle for Yekaterinodar. Paul Miliukov was its politcal consultant, and it achieved moderate success in the battles for Kiev and Orel, before being defeated at Orel under the leadership of Denikin.. Actually a disparate collection of royalist forces, FTP, identify this general term given to the military wing of the counter-revolution during the Russian Civil War, famously opposed by the Red Army.Answer: the White army or White Guard19. Both the Kittel and the Errera graphs provide a counterexample to the Kempe algorithm, which attempts to prove it. A more general version of it is called the Heawood conjecture, giving the upper bound for objects of genus g known as the chromatic number, and reduces to this theorem for spaces of genus zero. Also known as Guthrie's problem, Arthur Cayley first addressed it in 1879, and recently, Bejamin Werner and Georges Gunthier produced a proof of it in the Coq [coke?] proof assistant. The final proof made, controversial because it involved explicitly checking computer-generated configurations, was by Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken, FTP, identify this theorem which states that a certain number of colors suffices to color any map so that no two neighboring regions have the same color.Answer: four-color theorem20. One of its parts noted that "We are serfs of the system." One of its accusations was that "the effects of the system," placed "burdens are exclusively on one side and... benefits on the other." Its conclusion looked forward to a March 4th revolution that would "bring in an eminent citizen," and it makes a distinction between Government and Sovereignty, claiming that "the powers of the General Government are particularly enumerated and specifically delegated; and all powers not expressly delegated... are reserved expressly to the States or the people," in support of its main position. Written anonymously to protest the Tariff of Abominations, FTP, identify this document written anonymously by John C. Calhoun which promoted the doctrine of nullification.Answer: South Carolina Exposition and ProtestAt one point in this work, the titular character observes a photograph of himself, under which is written his name and  the designation, "Ty. Lieut. R.N.V.R., C. of E." This discovery follows the recollection of a conversation the title character had with Nathaniel, during which he says, "We're showing emotion, Nat. We're being un-English." The titular character gives his surroundings such names as the Dwarf, the Red Lion, Prospect Cliff, and High Street, and just before dying yells out, "I shit on your heaven." The title character is finally discovered by Mr. Campbell and Mr. Davidson, who determine, incorrectly, that he didn't suffer before he died. Concerned with the tale of the solve survivor of a torpedoed ship, FTP, identify this novel whose title character is the sailor Christopher, written by William Golding.       Answer: Pincher MartinIn Inuit folklore, some of them were known as angakoq [an-ga-coke], while those known as ilistsok were able to command tupilaks, which usually appeared in the form of seals. In the Sami tradition, they were known as noaide [no-EYE-de], and the greatest of them was the pilijarve [pee-lee-YAR-ve] noaide, or Wood-rotter, who could freeze ships in place, stick people to the moon, and cause a basta, or illness. The Sioux called them yuwipi, while in Finnish folklore, they were known as tietäjä [tee-ey-ta-ya], meaning "knower," and could serve as judges, spokesmen, or entertainers, in addition to protecting the community. The English word for them also means, "one who knows," and they usually posess supernatural powers, including the power to heal and to communicate with the world beyond. FTP, identify this term, which typically refers to the spiritual leader of a tribal community.       Answer: shamansIt begins with the example of a shopping list consisting of five red apples, and continues on to consider two laborers who use blocks, pillars, slabs, and beams. In a later section, the author writes that "the sentence, 'Excalibur has a sharp blade,' made sense even when Excalibur was broken in pieces," and states that, "the demonstrative 'this' can never be without a bearer." In section 71, the author asks whether it is, "always an advantage to replace an indistinct picture by a sharp one?" in contrast with the quote by Augustine which begins this work, and which claims that language presents a picture of reality. Most famous for classifying games as a family and presenting the concept of language games, FTP, identify this posthumously published work which conceives of philosophy as therapy, a collection of writings by Ludwig Wittgenstein.       Answer: Philosophical Investigations (or Philosophische Untersuchungen)He studied the reward system employed in the scientific community in two papers on "The Matthew Effect in Science," in the second of which he claimed that private property in science was established by making its substance freely available. A student of Talcott Parsons, he studied people affected by the Great Depression in, "Social Structure and Anomie," and developed a classification of anomic deviance into conformist, innovator, ritualist, retreatist, and rebel categories. In a 1936 article he coined the term "unintended consequences," but he is better known for a work in which he addressed the theories of the middle range and coined the term, "self-fulfilling prophecy." The first sociologist to receive the National Medal of Science, FTP, identify this father of the 1997 Economics Nobel winner of the same name, best known for Social Theory and Social Structure.       Answer: Robert King Merton       
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Brown (Jerry Vinokurov)Bonuses1.  His name means "glory" and he is the god of justice and dueling. FTPE:1. After the giantess Skadi divorced Njord, she married this god, whose particular skills were skiing and archery.	Answer: Ull or Ullr2. Skadi was the daughter of Thiazzi, who met his death in a bonfire after kidnapping this goddess, whose magic apples kept the Aesir immortal.	Answer: Idun3. This god, who had his origins in a skald of the 9th century, is the husband of Idun and the god of poetry.	Answer: Bragi2.  He created the first free-standing nude since antiquity and the equestrian statue of Erasmo da Narmi, better known as "Gattamelata." FTPE:1. Identify this early-Renaissance sculptor.	Answer: Donatello ( or Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi)2. In 1415, Donatello completed the statues of St. Mark and St. George for the exterior niches of this Florentine church.	Answer: Or San Michele3. In 1416, Donatello began work on statues for the exterior niches of the campanile of Or San Michele. This is the most famous of these statues, which takes its alternate name from the pumpkin-like appearance of the bald head of the figure depicted.	Answer: Zuccone or the Prophet3.  In a Magnetic Fields song, he claims that we are nothing without love. FTPE:1. Identify this Swiss linguist, whose only work published during his lifetime was, "Memoir on the Original System of Vowels in the Indo-European Languages."	Answer: Ferdinand de Saussure2. Saussure is more famous for this work, actually a set of lecture notes collected by his students Charles Bally and Albert Sechehaye.	Answer: Course in General Linguistics or Cours de linguistique general3. Saussure's structural approach to linguistics served as the basis for the work of this school of linguistics, which was represented by Nikolay Trubetskoy and Roman Jakobson and was based in a Central European city.	Answer: Prague School4.  Among his less-known works are Don Quixote Charging at Windmills and a depiction of the massacre at Rue Transnonain. FTPE:1. Identify this French artist, better known for his caricatures.	Answer: Honore-Victorine Daumier2. Daumier is perhaps best known for this work, which shows a young mother and an elderly woman riding in the titular conveyance.	Answer: The Third-Class Carriage or Troisseme Classe3. Daumier frequently ran afoul of this man, whom he portrayed as Gargantua swallowing bags of money extorted from the people, and who abdicated during the revolution of 1848.	Answer: Louis-Philippe, Duke d'Orleans5. Known as the "glass houses," they were built between 1948 and 1951. FTPE:1. Identify this pair of Chicago buildings on their namesake street which are at right angles to each other and situated on the waterfront.	Answer: Lake Shore Drive Apartments2. This German-born exponent of the international style and director of the School of Architecture at Chicago's Armour Institute designed the Lake Shore Drive buildings.	Answer: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe (or Maria Ludwig Michael Mies)3. Constructed in 1958 and comissioned by Phyllis Lambert, this New York City skyscraper is considered the pinnacle of Mies' work.	Answer: Seagram Building6.  Answer some questions about games that the writer of this packet has been playing instead of doing useful things like writing questions or homework, FTPE.1. It took me about 10 hours to complete this sequel to a famous 1998 game by Valve Software, which features, among other things, a gravity gun and the use of a gland you can squeeze to make insects do the bidding of Gordon Freeman.	Answer: Half-Life 22. This game, released just two weeks ago, features you as a super-soldier who is charged with tracking down the telepath Paxton Fettel and comprises endless shootouts in abandoned buildings.	Answer: First Encounter Assault Recon3. Well, this game isn't out yet, but you can bet that when it does come out, I'll devote my life to it. New features include a correction to the combat that makes it impossible for spearmen to kill tanks, as well as the elimination of pollution cleanup and city riots.	Answer: Civilization IV7.  When it is continuous, it is typically written "dx by dt equals r times x times quantity one minus x" where r is a constant. FTPE.1. Identify this equation, sometimes used to model population growth.	Answer: logistic equation or map2. The parameter r in the logistic equation represents the maximum possible population growth and is sometimes called by the name of this early economist who said that population grew geometrically.	Answer: Thomas Malthus (or the Malthusian parameter)3. A variation on the logistic equation, the Lotka-Volterra coupled differential equations describe this ecological relationship.	Answer: predator-prey or parasite-host8.  It burned around 750 C.E. after which it was abandoned. FTSNOPE.1. (10) Identify this ancient city about 30 miles northeast of Mexico City, whose name means "City of the Gods" in Nahuatl [na-WAT-ell].	Answer: Teotihuacan (pronounce phoenetically)2. (5 each) These two gigantic structures, built partly out of the volcanic rock tezontle, measure 140 and 216 feet in height and are some of the largest of their kind in the Western Hemisphere. They are dedicated to celestial bodies.	Answer: Pyramid of the Sun and Pyramid of the Moon3. (10) Capped on the north end by the Pyramid of the Moon, and with the Pyramid of the Sun on its east and the Citadel with the Temple of Quetzcoatl on its south, this road runs through Teotihuacan and points directly at the mountain of Cerro Gordo.	Answer: Street of the Dead or Avenue of the Dead or Calle de los Muertos9.  Comprising Chris Ballew on vocals and bass, Dave Dederer on drums, and Jason Finn on guitar, they released their latest album, Love Everybody, in 2004. FTPE.1. Identify this Seattle-based band, that first hit it big with a song about millions of peaches that were for you and me, and which had an awesome video with ninjas in it.	Answer: Presidents of the United States of America2. Their last release for Columbia records, Pure Frosting, contains a song about digging one's toes into the Pacific sand, and a chorus which claims that everything is rocking out of control when they hit this country.	Answer: Japan (accept: is the answer Japan?)3. This cover by the Presidents of a song by the Buggles made it onto the sound track for The Wedding Singer and talks about how they took the credit for your second symphony.	Answer: Video Killed the Radio Star10.  It was finally carried out by Robert Bork after William Ruckelshaus refused to do it. FTPE:1. Identify this firing of the special prosecutor Archibald Cox, who had subpoenaed Nixon's tapes relating to Watergate.	Answer: the Saturday Night Massacre2. This attorney general resigned rather than fire Cox.	Answer: Elliot Lee Richardson3. The smoking gun was found after this special prosecutor, whom Nixon had promised not to fire without Congressional consent, subpoenaed the remaining 64 tapes.	Answer: Leon Jaworski11. All of them can be expressed as combinations of boosts, rotations, spatial translations, and time translations. FTPE:1. Identify these basic mathematical operations of special relativity.	Answer: Lorentz transformations2. Under this metric used in special relativity, the interval is Lorentz-invariant.	Answer: Minkowski metric3. Lorentz transformations in a Minkowski space form this algebraic structure, whose axioms include identity, closure, associativity, and inverse under an operation called addition.	Answer: group12. It was the site of an 86 B.C.E. victory of Sulla over Mithradates IV of Pontus, but it's best known for a 338 B.C.E. battle. FTPE:1. Identify this site, a fortified town on Mt. Petrarchus, which in 338 B.C.E. saw the defeat of Thebes and Athens by Macedon.	Answer: Chaeronea2. This man whose son became even more famous led the Macedonian armies against the combined forces of Thebes and Athens at Chaeronea.	Answer: Philip II of Macedon3. After the victory at Chaeronea, Philip organized this confederation, which took its name from this Peloponesian city, which hosted the inaugural meeting of the confederation and was one of only three cities with a Macedonian garrison.	Answer: the League of Corinth (or the Corinthian League)13. Together with The Robber Brothers and The Fountain of Bakchisaray [back-CHEE-sa-rye], it formed the poet's so-called southern cycle. FTPE:1. Identify this narrative poem which recounts the fatal love of a girl for the titular character, a captive officer.	Answer: The Prisoner of the Caucasus or Kavazkiy plennik2. Identify the poet of The Prisoner of the Caucasus, who wrote that poem while living in exile for his political poems and his membership in the Green Lamp society.	Answer: Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin3. Based on Nikolay Karamzin's History of the Russian Government, Pushkin wrote this drama. Mussorgsky based a famous opera of the same name on this work.	Answer: Boris Godunov14. Compounds exhibiting it don't rotate the plane of polarized light unless they also happen to be chiral, and it typically arises from double bonds or rings. FTPE:1. Identify this type of isomerism.	Answer: cis-trans isomerism2. Cis-trans isomers are a subset of this type of isomer, which is in contrast to enantiomers.	Answer: diastereomers3. Conversion of enantiomers to diastereomers can be used to separate these mixtures of two different kinds of enantiomers.	Answer: racemic mixtures or racemates15. It begins with the narrator's recollection of how, when mumps broke out in his family, his sister Franny was moved into the room he shared with his brother. FTPE:1. Identify this short novella, at the end of which the narrator reads the last entry in his brother's diary that talks about how he called Muriel and asked her to get married.	Answer: Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters2. This is the elder brother in question, who is first introduced in Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters.	Answer: Seymour Glass (prompt on just "Glass")3. Seymour Glass shoots himself in this work, the best-known short story by J.D. Salinger and the first in the collection Nine Stories.	Answer: A Perfect Day for Bananafish 16. It was founded by Max Wetheimer and was experimentally supported by the phi-phenomenon. FTPE.1. Identify this early 20th century school of psychology, which emphasized the notion that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.	Answer: gestalt2. This central tenet of gestalt psychology stated that the neural and perceptual organization of any set of stimuli forms as good a whole as possible.	Answer: pragnanz3. This man conducted psychological experiments with Wetheimer and Wolfgang Kohler and his major work, The Growth of the Mind, applied gestalt theory to child development. He also introduced gestalt to American psychologists in an article titled "Perception: An Introduction to Gestalt Theory."	Answer: Kurt Koffka17. It began as a pietistic movement against orthodoxy; in fact, it takes its name from the Hebrew word for "pious." FTPE:1. Identify this religious movement that began among the Jews of 18th century Poland.	Answer: Hasidism (or the Hasidic movement)2. Although Dov Baer was the actual founder of the Hasidic movement, it took its inspiration from this man, whose Hebrew nickname translates as "Master of the Good Name."	Answer: Israel ben Eliezer or Ba'al Shem Tov3. This is the term for a Hasidic leader. Meaning "righteous one," it denotes someone posessing a spark from heaven.	Answer: tzadiq (tsa-deek)18.  His early fiction was collected in Airman's Oddyssey, but he is best known for an allegorical 1943 work written while visiting the United States. FTPE:1. Identify this French author of The Little Prince.	Answer: Antoine de Saint-Exupery2. This book won Saint-Exupery the 1931 Prix Femina and concerns the attempts of Riviere to ensure that the time air transport wins by day is not lost in the subsequent hours.	Answer: Night Flight or Vol de Nuit3. Saint-Exupery's first book, this 1928 work concerns a routine delivery from France to North Africa.	Answer: Southern Mail or Courier Sud19. After defeating Amir Husayn, his brother-in-law, he declared himself the sovereign of the Chagatai line and restorer of the Mongol Empire. FTPE:1. Identify this man, the last great Mongolian conqueror, whose famous nickname originated as a derisive put-down by his Persian enemies.	Answer: Timur the Lame or Tamerlane or Tamburlane or Timur Lenk2. Timur issued his proclamation at this city, which he then made the capital of his empire. It is located in modern-day Uzbekistan.	Answer: Samarkand3. In 1402, near Ankara, Timur defeated this Ottoman sultan, who had come into conflict with him by annexing Turkmen emirates in Anatolia.	Answer: Bayezid I or Bayezid Yildrim or Bayezid the Thunderbolt20.  It is split into a continuous and a discontinuous branch and has temperature on the vertical axis. FTPE:1. Identify this diagram which shows the temperatures at which certain rocks form on both branches.	Answer: Bowen's reaction series2. The continuous branch of the Bowen series contains these types of minerals, which continuously react with the surrounding liquid to form a more albitic phase as temperature decreases.	Answer: plagioclases3. One way that basaltic magma can transform into rocks lower in the series is through this process, in which early-formed minerals are removed from the liquid through gravity, leaving only unreacted liquid.	Answer: fractional crystalizationThere are 14 unique ones in three dimensions, and they are obtained by translating a point by a set of basis vectors. FTPE:1. Identify these basic configurations of regular crystals.	Answer: Bravais lattices2. This is the general term for the lattice which admits a body-centered, base-centered, face-centered, and simple arrangements. It differs from the cubic lattice in the fact that its three dimensions are of different lengths.	Answer: orthorhombic3. The momentum-space representation of the Wigner-Seitz primitive cell yields this area for crystals. Periodic solutions to the Bloch equation are completely described by their behaviour in a single one of these.	Answer: Brillouin zoneHe chronicled his travels on Corfu and Rhodes in Prospero's Cell and Reflections on a Marine Venus. FTPE:1. Identify this British writer, brother of well-known zoologist Gerald and the creator of such characters as Nessim and Pursewarden.	Answer: Lawrence Durrell2. Durrell is best known as the author of this series of four books centering on a certain Egyptian city.	Answer: the Alexandria Quartet3. This aspiring writer is the central character of the Alexandria Quartet and narrates its first book, Justine.	Answer: DarleyIt followed French losses at Saint-Quentin and Gravelines. FTPE:1. Identify this 1559 peace treaty between France and Spain.	Answer: Peace of Cateau Cambresis2. This French king signed the Peace of Cateau Cambresis, but died during the tournament held to celebrate the treaty when a splinter from a lance pierced his eye and brain.	Answer: Henry II3. Cateau Cambresis brought an end to this conflict, the last in the series of Italian Wars fought between Spain and France which takes its name from the dynasties involved.	Answer: Hapsburg-Valois wars (grudgingly accept reversed answer)Hesperus or Phosphorus? Answer these questions that pertain to the evening star and the morning star, FTPE.1. This book by Gottlob Frege explained how the phrases "the evening star" and "the morning star" could refer to the same object and yet have different meanings.	Answer: On Sense and Reference2. In his most famous work, Naming and Necessity, this man also took up the issue of the morning and evening stars, claiming that the fact that they refer to the same object, Venus, is a necessary synthetic truth.	Answer: Saul Kripke3. This is the term Kripke devised, which picks out the same object in all possible worlds in which that thing exists. An example is a proper name or a type of natural substance such as water.	Answer: rigid designator