Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rochester C and DTossups: 1. His first success was 1922's Drums in the Night. The rise of Nazism in his native Germany led him to seek exile throughout Europe and eventually the United States, during which he wrote some of his most famous works and the screenplay to Hangmen Also Die. When he returned to Germany, East German guards excluded him from a Berlin reception in honor of his career, one that employed his theory of "Epic Theater" which encouraged a critical view of the events onstage. For 10 points, name this poet, stage director, and author of The Threepenny Opera. Answer: Bertolt Brecht2.  It's the state Moe Szyslak's 1973 Liquor License comes from, and it was the location of the longest professional game of baseball recorded, 33 innings, played in 1981. Home to the first three Gravity Games, its natives include Meredith Viera, Mena Suvari, and Harry Anderson. It is also home to the National Tennis Hall of Fame, and the setting of an NBC drama starring Melina Kanakaredes.  For ten points, what is this state that is featured in most Farelly Brothers films and is home to the Griffin Family of Family Guy?Answer: Rhode Island and Providence Plantations3.  In 1914, it was discovered by Henry Hallet Dale, and Otto Loewi later confirmed its function and significance. It is found, among other places, in the nucleus basalis, and it is in short supply in those suffering from Alzheimer's. Nicotine and muscarine increase the activity of its receptors, while atropine and scopolamine block these same receptors. For ten points, name this neurotransmitter at many neural synapses and at the motor end plate in human muscles.Answer: Acetylcholine  (prompt on ACh) 4. It was first published in the collection "In Country Sleep" in 1952. A villanelle with only two different rhymes, it refers to several different groups of men, including wise men, wild men, good men, and, in the last stanza, the poet's own father, who was dying. For 10 points, name this Dylan Thomas poem which contains the famous line, "Rage, rage, against the dying of the light." Answer: Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night 5. Eugen Bleuler was the head of the Bugholzli Clinic when he came there in 1900, and was deeply influential on his work.  His interests in the occult, alchemy, and mysticism permeate his works, and he created the technique known as Word Association. The writer of such texts as Aion and Psychological Types, for 10 points, name this Swiss psychologist best known for his work on psychological types and archetypes such as the shadow and the persona.Answer:  Carl Jung6.  Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov choreographed the original, while Matthew Bourne directed and choreographed a version that appeared on Broadway during the late 1990s featuring an all-male cast.  A single dancer usually plays the two lead parts, the twins Odette and Odile, the former of whom falls in love with Prince Siegfried.  First performed at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow in 1877, at the end of the work, Von Rothbert dies and his spell is broken, resulting in Odette's turning back into a human. For 10 points, name this Tchaikovsky ballet.Answer: Swan Lake 7.  Editorials in its Oct. 27th issue are devoted to the importance of sleep, and asking the EPA to issue specific information on potential health hazards in New Orleans in the wake of Hurrican Katrina. Founded by Sir Joseph Norman Lockyer, this journal was first published on November 4, 1869.  Unique for its inclusion of a wide range of scientific fields, it is considered by many to be the foremost scientific journal.  For 10 points name this international weekly journal of science that has seen its share of notable publications, including Watson and Crick's "A Structure for Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid" on February 28, 1953. Answer: Nature8.  Seen as a commentary of fading tradition as it is attacked by Westernization and militarization, it takes place during a war, as the third youngest title character is hesitant to marry, and her impatient younger sibling has affairs with several unsavory men. Written during the end of World War II and shortly thereafter, the title characters also engage in blossom viewing and practicing traditional dance, all while clinging to their name and fading glory. The four main characters of this novel were based on the author's wife, Matsuko, and her siblings.  For ten points, identify this novel by Junichiro Tanizaki whose title characters are Tsuruko, Sachiko, Yukiko, and Taeko.Answer: The Makioka Sisters (accept Sasameyuki or Light Snow)9.  Born in Metz in Lorraine, he saw combat in the Franco-Prussian War with the French infantry, and his city turned into a German one, which he vowed to avenge. In the First World War, he helped to prevent the advance of Germans at the Second Battle of Marne and eventually accepting their surrender. He also accepted the title of Marshal of Poland for his advice during the Polish-Bolshevik War of 1920. For 10 points, name this Marshal of France who died in 1929.Answer: Marshal Ferdinand Foch10.  Despite only recording 29 songs in his lifetime, this man was chosen by Rolling Stone magazine as the fifth greatest guitarist of all time. Considered by Eric Clapton to be "the most important blues musician who ever lived," some say his talent is the result of a transaction with the devil, receiving his talents in exchange for his soul, as a legend often told by Son House suggests. For 10 points, name this Delta blues guitarist and singer of "Travelin' Riverside Blues," Love in Vain," and Crossroad Blues."Answer: Robert Leroy Johnson (Prompt on Johnson)11.  95% of the world's Oriental White stork population lives in the valley and flood lands of this river. Early peoples setting along this river include those of the Tungus and Manchu tribes. Often ice-coated from November to May, and the 1689 Treaty of Nerchinsk gave it to China, only to see it back in Russian hands 169 years later via the Treaty of Aaigun. Formed by the connection of the Argun and Shilka rivers and flowing some 2700 miles to the Tartar Strait, for ten points name this longest undammed river in the world, forming part of the Eastern border between China and Russia and sixth longest river overall.Answer: Amur River (accept H?ilóng Ji?ng, Black Dragon River (prompt on Black River), Khara-Muren, or Sahaliyan Ula)12.  Born on March 12, 1922, in Lowell, Massachusetts, he was the son of Quebec natives. The death of his brother Gerard at an early age later prompted him to write the book Visions of Gerard. His first novel, The Town and the City, was published in 1950, but it is his second novel, published in 1957, which is best known and features Dean Moriarty. For 10 points name this author of On the Road and prominent member of the Beat generation. Answer: Jack (Jean-Louis) Kerouac13.  This goddess, who had the power of prophecy, chose not to tell what she knew, and Orion's Belt is sometimes known as her distaff.  One of only two to be allowed to sit in the high seat of Hildskajlf, her one regret is not telling mistletoe to not harm her loser son Balder. For 10 points, name this queen of the Aesir and wife of Odin who in practice often was conflated with Freya.Answer: Frigg or Frigga14. He became acquainted with John and Charles Wesley during their days at Oxford, and he is now buried under the Old South Presbyterian Church in Newburyport, Massachusetts. One of the leaders of the Methodist movement, he established Bethesda Orphanage in Georgia the 18th Century. Known for his itinerant preaching throughout the American colonies, FTP name this man, one of the fathers of Evangelicalism and a major figure in the Great Awakening.Answer: George Whitefield 15. Its so-called "Vulgate Text" is the 1835 Cairo edition.  Antoine Galland popularized this work in Europe with his 1717 translation of it into French, though Richard Burton's translation is probably the most famous.  Based on the eighth century Hazâr Afsâna, a central figure is King Shahryar. For 10 points, name this medieval Middle-Eastern book in which Scheherazade spins tales in order to save herself from execution. Answer: The Book of One Thousand and One Nights or 1001 Arabian Nights  or The Book of a Thousand Nights and a Night16. He served as an official during the Warring States Period in the State of Qi from 319 -312 BCE/. He argued that it was acceptable for people to overthrow or even kill a ruler who ignored people's needs and ruled harshly. He also argued for the infinite goodness of an individual, believing that humans are born with and innate moral sense and that society's influence caused bad character. Name this philosopher whose namesake book is considered one of four books that form the core of orthodox Confucian thinking, the second most famous Confucian.Answer: Mencius or Meng Zi or Meng Ke17. Dead at the age of 36 because of a bleeding gone awry, this mathematician and associate of Augustus De Morgan stated, "the Analytical engine weaves algebraic patterns just as the Jacquard loom weaves flowers and leaves." To counteract dangerous romantic tendencies inherited from her father, she received heavy instruction in mathematics and is best known for her work in that field with Charles Babbage and the Difference Engine.  She is often cited as the first programmer and her contributions to computer science are honored by a programming language that bears her name. FTP name this daughter of Anne Milbanke and Lord Byron.Answer: Augusta Ada Byron Countess of Lovelace (A.K.A. Ada Lovelace or Ada King)18.  Three ships of the United States Navy have born this name, which comes from a river that is formed from the junction of the Pemigewasset and Winnipesaukee rivers in New Hampshire. The first was launced in 1798, and sold by the Navy in 1801, after which it sailed under the name Monticello. The third was a fleet oiler obtained by the Navy in 1941, and sailed in both the Antlactic and the Pacific. For 10 points, give this name that also belonged to the ship captured by the Confederate Army and turned into the ironclad CSS Virgina. Answer: USS Merrimack 19.  Considered a complement of the even skipped gene, it is expressed in certain bands of nuclei to create interstripe regions with fourteen stripes.  In an early stage, it causes an embryo looked like a belted bean and is considered to be a secondary pair-rule gene in Drosophila.  For 10 points, name this fly gene which translates to "too few segments" in Japanese,  also known as Fushi Tarazu.Answer:  FTZ  (or early Fushi Tarazu)20. The first part of this 1927 novel details the day to day life of a family in Post World War I Scotland. The rather cold patriarch Mr. Ramsay is based on the author's father, Sir Leslie Stephen.  In the second part, three members of the family die in less than eight pages. The third part details some remaining members of the family taking a long-promised trip, and discusses the meaning of life. For 10 points, name this stream-of-consciousness novel by Virginia Woolf.Answer: To the Lighthouse This Czech born playwright  has won three Tony Awards but he is probably best known for his work as a screenwriter.  His film credits include scripts for Enigma, Brazil, and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.  For 10 points name this man who received an Oscar for his screenplay for 1998's Shakespeare in Love.Answer: Tom StoppardOriginally calling for a demarcation line along a circle passing 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands, its creation followed a papal bull issued by Pope Alexander VI.  Despite the fact that the New World at that point was largely unexplored and highly controversial, it granted the Portuguese rights to new lands in Africa and India.  The Spaniards were given most of South America, but Brazil went to the Portuguese.  For 10 points, name this 1494 treaty which divided the New World between Spain and Portugal and was later expanded upon by the Treaty of Zaragoza in 1529.Answer: Treaty of TordesillasA curve most commonly expressed with parametric equations in terms of theta and a constant, it is found using the method of calculus of variations.  The time of traveling to the lowest point along this path is equal for every starting position.  It is derived when finding the quickest path between two points in a gravitational field.  For 10 points, name this shape produced when tracing one point on the rim of a rolling wheel.Answer: BrachistochroneA jihad against oppressors, called for by Usman dan Fodio, began the war from which this empire, of which dan Fodio was the founder, got its name. Known for its military prowess and scholarship, early nineteenth-century expansion included some of Yorubaland and a later assimilation with Hausaland, with Hausa becoming the official language. Unable to expand southward into the jungle or East into the kingdom of Kanem-Bornu, dan Fodio's son Muhammed Bello moved the capital to Sokoto when he became sultan. Lasting until 1903 when it was split between France and Britain, for ten points identify this Islamic empire once stretching from present-day Burkina Faso to Cameroon, at its time the largest in Africa.Answer: Fulani Empire (accept Sokoto Caliphate)First proposed in 1956 by the psychologist Leon Festinger, it relates to states of oppositions amongst feelings, beliefs, emotions, or values. Festinger theorized that a mind in conflict will seek to attain psychological consonance by integrating new thoughts or beliefs, or by modifying previously held beliefs. For 10 points, name this condition which is related to the hypothesis of cognitive consistency. Answer: cognitive dissonance (prompt on "dissonance") 
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rochester C and DBonuses:1. For 10 points each, given a brief synopsis, name the work by Franz Kafka. 	A. Gregor Samsa awakes one morning to find himself transformed into a monstrous vermin. His family shuts him in his room, but provides him with food and water. Gregor eventually dies, and his family is overjoyed when they find his corpse. 	Answer: The Metamorphosis or Die Verwandlung	B. An explorer witnesses the justice dispensed in a in another culture. In this culture, the condemned is placed in an elaborate torture device which inscribes the command he disobeyed upon his back. At the end, the officer who is in charge of maintenance for the device places himself in it and is killed.        Answer: In the Penal Colony or In der Strafkolonie	C.  A performer who once drew massive crowds is now reduced to living in a cage in a circus, where the crowds pass him by. His act is to starve himself for long periods of time. When he dies, he is replaced by a panther.        Answer: A Hunger Artist or A Fasting Artist or Ein Hungerkünstler2.  Identify these people who aren't from Ireland 5, 5, 10, 10.       A) Though his father was born in Ireland, this man was born in Chile and became the country's first leader until he was overthrown by a conservative coup.       Answer: Bernardo O'Higgins Riquelme       B) This American hosted Nickelodeon game shows such as Guts and Global Guts and has been in ESPN commercials as "The Rick," but now plays Jimmy Hughes on CBS's Yes Dear.       Answer: Mike O'Malley       C) This American economist and director of the Thoreau institute has held fellowships at Yale and has frequently touted free-market solutions to urban renewal and environmental issues. He wrote the book Reforming the Forest Service.       Answer: Randal O'Toole	D)  Played by Lana Wood, this Bond Girl runs into 007 while he is playing craps in the Whyte House in Diamonds are Forever. She dies when the creepy Mr. Wint and Mr. Kidd drown her in Tiffany Case's pool.Answer:  Plenty O'Toole3.  The "Central Dogma" of biology as outlined by Francis Crick in 1957 holds that DNA is transcribed to RNA which is then translated into proteins.  For 10 points each, identify these components involved in this process:       A.  This short-lived RNA molecule is transcribed from DNA and serves as the template for protein production.       Answer: mRNA or messenger RNA       B.  This type of RNA contains a codon complementary to a three base pair sequence present on mRNA.  Its function is to bring the proper amino acid to the nascent peptide chain.       Answer: tRNA or transfer RNA       C.  This organelle is a conglomeration of RNA and protein that serves as the site of translation.       Answer: ribosome4.  Identify these Stephen Sondheim works for ten points each.A.  Produced in 1979 it originally starred Angela Lansbury as Mrs. Lovett, and Len Cariou was the title maniac.  Patti Lupone is slated to fill the Mrs. Lovett role in the new, minimalist Broadway version.Answer:  Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street B.  Bernadette Peters played Dot in the original 1984 Broadway run, with a manic Mandy Patinkin playing the title French painter.Answer: Sunday in the Park with GeorgeC. Michael Cerveris won a Tony in 2004 for his portrayal of John Wilkes Booth in the original Broadway production of this  work, which had its New York debut 13 years earlier at Playwrights' Horizons.Answer:  Assassins5. Name these US coins no longer in circulation for ten points apiece.A.  The Bland-Allison act of 1878 made this silver dollar a reality.  Produced from 1878-1904, it is named for its designer.  There's a Liberty head on the front and an eagle on the back.Answer:  Morgan DollarB.Produced from 1916-45 these ten cent pieces had the same reverse as today's dimes but a Roman god on the obverse.Answer: Mercury dimesC. These fifty-cent pieces from 1948 to 1963 were named for the founding father appearing on their obverse. Answer:  Franklin Half Dollars6.  For 10 points each, answer these questions about Otto von Bismarck	A. Name one of the two countries to which Bismarck served as Prussia's ambassador	Answer: Russia or France	B. In 1870, Bismarck released this, an inflammatory version of a conversation between King Wilhelm and the French ambassador. It was intended to provoke France into declaring war on Prussia	Answer: Ems Dispatch	C. As Chancellor of Germany, Bismark started this movement as an attack on the Catholic Church, which he believed wielded to much authority in the Southern German states. 	Answer: Kulturkampf 7.  For 10 points each, name these sons of Israel A) This son of Jacob, who slept with his father's concubine, has a name that means "look, a son" in Hebrew. The oldest and wisest, he rationally suggested that they not kill Joseph, just sell him into slavery.Answer: ReubenB)This son, whose name means "praise" in Hebrew, slept with his daughter-in-law Tamar after failing to keep his promise to marry her to his youngest son. He volunteered to take Benjamin's place in prison. Answer: JudahC. This son, whose name means "one who hears" in Hebrew, was thrown into prison by Joseph until the other brothers could return with Benjamin. Along with Levi, he destroyed a town in revenge for his sister's defilement. Answer: Simeon 8.  For 10 points each, name these architects from the turn of the turn of the 20th Century:       A. This American of the Prairie School worked with Dankmar Adler to design the Auditorium Building in Chicago and the Wainwright Building in St. Louis.Answer: Louis Henry Sullivan       B. This Austrian Art Nouveau architect is best known for such works as the Kirche am Steinhof, or Church of St. Leopold in Vienna and the Karlsplatz Metropolitan Railway Station.Answer: Otto Koloman Wagner       C.  Another Art Nouveau architect, this Scotsman was responsible for the Hill House in Helensburgh and the Glasgow Herald Building.Answer: Charles Rennie Mackintosh9.  For 10 points each, answer these questions on the United States Presidential Election of 1848:       A.  Despite not voting in the election, nor any other election beforehand and refusing to be sworn in on the customary Sunday, this Whig won the election of 1848.       Answer: Zachary Taylor       B.  Despite being Brigadier general in the War of 1812, governor of Michigan territory, Secretary of War under Andrew Jackson, and ambassador to France, this Democrat lost the election of 1848.       Answer: Lewis Cass       C. Some historians attribute Cass' loss of the election to the creation of this party, formed around the Wilmot Proviso, which named former president Martin Van Buren as its presidential nominee.       Answer: Free-Soil Party10.  Identify the following moons of Jupiter for 10 points each:       A. Discovered in 1610 by Galileo, this is the largest moon in the solar system, and one of the few known to have magnetic fields.       Answer: Ganymede        B. This moon is covered by a layer of ice under which may be an ocean of liquid water.  The moon is said to have an internal heating source.       Answer: Europa       C. Features on this moon are named after sun and fire gods of different cultures, such as Ra, Prometheus, Pele, Loki, etc.       Answer: Io11. Answer these questions on the September 2005 election in Germany, for ten points each.        A) What leader of the CDU/CSU eventually became Germany's first female Chancellor after three weeks of negotiating toward a Grand Coalition?       Answer: Angela Merkel       B) The CDU/CSU formed the grand coalition with what party of former Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder?       Answer: Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands or Social Democrats       C) As part of the agreement, the Social Democrats received how many of the 15 Cabinet seats in Merkel's government?       Answer: 812.  For 10 points each, given an opera, name the composer A) ElektraAnswer: Richard Strauss	B) The Nose	Answer: Dmitri Shostakovich	C) The Sleepwaker (La Sonnambula)	Answer: Vicenzo Bellini13.  Answer the following regarding the methods of calculating the GDP for 10 points each:       A. This approach measures economic activity by summing up the total value of all final goods and services produced in a given year.  It is equivalent to finding the value added to products during production.       Answer: Product Approach       B.This approach sums up the wages earned by workers, capital bought by firms, profits owned by owners, taxes collected by the government, and interest.       Answer: Income Approach       C. An alternative to the GDP is this similar measure that excludes products produced but not sold.       Answer:  Aggregate expenditure14.  For the stated number of points, answer these questions about the novel Things Fall Apart	A) For five,this author wrote Things Fall Apart	Answer: Chinua AchebeB) For another five, this Igbo tribesman is the main character.Answer:  Okonkwo	C) For another five, the title Things Fall Apart comes from this Yeats poem, which notes that "the falcon cannot hear the falconer"	Answer: "The Second Coming"	D) Ten for one, fifteen for both, these two white characters symbolize colonialism.  The first is rather fair and kind to those in Okonkwo's village, but the second, his replacement, is overzealous and vengeful.Answer:  Mr. Brown and Reverend Smith15. Answer these questions on Mendelian Genetics for 10 pts each	A. This describes a gene that affects more than one phenotype	Answer: Pleiotropic	B. This is the interaction between two or more genes to control a single phenotype	Answer: Epistasis	C. This is when two different alleles for a genetic trait are both expressed.	Answer: Codominance16.  Given a monarch and the years in which he or she reigned, identify the nation (which may no longer exist) over which he or she ruled, for 10 points each.       A. King Frederick William IV - 1840 to 1861.       Answer: Prussia       B. Queen Juliana - 1948 to 1980.       Answer: Kingdom of the Netherlands       C. Manuel II - 1908-10       Answer: Portugal17. For 10 points each, give the philosophical termA) From the Greek words for knowledge and word/speech, this type of question deals with nature, origin, and scope of knowledge.Answer: EpistemologyB. From the Greek words for after/beyond and nature, this is the study of first principles and being. It has three parts: Ontology, Theology, and Universal science.Answer: MetaphysicsC. This branch of theology is concerned with studying events taking place in the last days of the world.Answer: Eschatology18.   Given a Greek god or goddess, name his or her parents for 5 points each.A) HebeAnswer: Zeus and HeraB) ClioAnswer: Zeus and Mnemosyne C) TritonAnswer: Poseidon and Amphitrite19.  30-20-10-5: Name the author:	A. Known for unrealistic female characters, he was married four times to such women as Elizabeth Hadley and Pauline Pfeiffer.	B. A one-time correspondent for the Kansas City Star, his first publication was in 1923 with Three Stories and Ten Poems.	C. More successful collections included In Our Time, which introduced Nick Adams	D. He wrote A Farewell to Arms and The Sun Also Rises.	Answer: Ernest Hemingway20. Amino acids are the building blocks from which proteins are constructed. Given the one or three letter abbreviation for one of the 20 standard amino acids identify the amino acid.  5 points for each correct answer plus a bonus 5 for getting all of them correct.        A. R       Answer: arginine       B. D       Answer: aspartic acid (aka: aspartate)       C. M       Answer: methionine       D. Val       Answer: valine       E. Leu       Answer: leucineextras Answer these questions about the explosive TNT for the stated number of points	A) For 5 points, what does TNT stand for?	Answer: trinitrotoluene	B) For 10 points, give the chemical formula for TNT	Answer: C6H2(NO2)3CH3	 C) For 15 points, TNT was first made by this German	Answer: Joseph WilbrandAnswer these questions about the Bronte sisters: 	A. Due to the stigma about female authors, the Bronte sisters were forced to publish their works under pseudonyms all with the last name Bell. For 5 and 5, name one Bronte sister pseudonym, and the sister to whom it belonged.	Answer:   Acton, Anne or Currer, Charlotte or Ellis, Emily	B. This Bronte sister outlived her two sisters, who both subcumbed to tuberculosis. Answer: Charlotte Bronte	C. While accepting a teaching position far from home, this Bronte sister longed for the moors she grew up on. Her most famous work also describes life on the moorsfor its main characters, Heathcliff and Catherine. 	Answer: Emily Bronte Identify these economic curves for 15 points each.       A. This curve named after a British economist shows the inverse relationship between inflation and unemployment. It lost support after the phenomenon of stagflation, however, because it could not explain it.       Answer: Phillips Curve       B. This curve shows how changes in the real wage lead to changes in the number of hours worked. Increasing the wage too much in an attempt to get more hours worked, however, leads to workers valuing their time off more than the wages themselves, giving this curve its strange name.       Answer: Backward Bending Supply Curve of Labor (prompt on Labor Curve or Supply Curve)       For 10 point each, answer these questions about Polish history	A) This dynasty ruled Poland from its beginnings as an independent state until 1370 	Answer: the Piast dynasty	B) The Union of Lublin, signed in 1569, combined Poland and this neigboring country into a single state 	Answer: Lithuania	C) The Polish Constitution of May 3rd, Europe's first modern constitution and the world's second (after the US Constitution) was established in this year	Answer: 1791Communism has had its share of proponents.  For the stated number of points, name the communist thinker or thinkers from the clues given.       A.  For 5 points name the author of the Communist Manifesto who is commonly credited with the creation of the modern conception of communism.        Answer: Karl Marx       B. For 10 points name this Communist leader whose theoretical contributions to communism include the April Theses and the essay State and Revolution.         Answer: Vladimir Ilyich Lenin       C.  For 15 points identify this communist leader who unlike Marx and Lenin stressed the power of the rural peasantry as a revolutionary force rather than the urban proletariat. His political teachings were collected in The Little Red Book.Answer:  Mao Zedong