Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanQuestions by Rochester B (Jeff Ballerini, Max Chen, Zachary Feder, and Benjamin Schmitt, and Zachary Feder)Tossups1.  When it was launched in 1944 it was intended to serve as a cargo ship for the US Army. However it was reclassified in 1966 as an Auxiliary General Environmental Research ship under the auspices of the Navy and the NSA. It is the only commissioned warship currently held by a foreign power, and it is a major tourist attraction in Pyongyang. For ten points name this ship captured by the North Koreans in 1968Answer: USS Pueblo2. He was born in 1935 in Tacoma, Washington, though he moved to San Francisco in the late 1950s where he stayed until his death. Although he was not a beat poet himself, he was heavily influenced by them, and in 1967 he became the Poet-in-Residence at California Institute of Technology. During the 1970s wrote stories for Rolling Stone and novels such as Sombrero Fallout became immensely popular in Japan, and he killed himself in 1984. For ten points name this author of The Revenge of the Lawn, The Abortion, and Trout Fishing in America.Answer: Richard Brautigan3.  One title character tries to poison the other with a potion but the maiden's handmaid Brangaene replaces it with a love potion, causing the two figures to fall in love. This relationship comes to an end when Melot exposes the pair to King Mark while in flagrante delicto. The title knight is injured by Melot and is whisked to Brittany where he dies upon the arrival of the maiden in which she in turn dies. FTP stretching the limits of tonality, what is the name of this opera by Richard Wagner?	Answer: Tristan und Isolde or Tristan and Isolde4.  Multiple rearrangements of the central molecule yield high energy stored in phosphate bonds. Initially, the reactant enters the cell and is phosphorylated by the enzyme hexokinase. In the last reaction, glucose has been oxidized to two molecules of pyruvate. FTP, name this chemical process in the cytoplasm that prepares products for the citric acid cycle.Answer: Glycolysis5.  Erich Falkenhayn, the commander of the German forces, ordered the attack on this town in hopes that the French defense of the town that would result in such carnage that it would force France out of the war. The battle was the longest of World War I, but it made a hero of Marshal Petain.  Lasting until November 1916 and costing each side about 500,000 dead., FTP what is the name of the fortified town that held such an important place in the French historical imagination?	Answer: Verdun6.  This creature was a sign of storms, shipwrecks, and natural disasters, particularly volcanoes. In Medieval Christian art, it appears as a symbol of satanic forces. In a famous tale, it devastated the areas of Caria and Lycia and was one of the offspring of Typhon and Echidna.  Some say it had the body of a goat, the hindquarters of a snake or dragon and the head of a lion, though others say she had heads of both the goat and lion, with a snake for a tail.. It was finally defeated by Bellerophon with the help of Pegasus. FTP what is the name of this creature of Greek mythology?Answer: Chimera7. It was first proposed by Dr. Alfred Tomatis in a 1991 book dealing with its benefit for disabled children. It is currently under trademark by Don Campbell, who writes of its "transformational in health, education, and well-being." Among Campbell's other claims that is that it can reduce depression and help treat autism. It was brought to popular attention when Zell Miller, then governor of Georgia allocated $105,000 to provide all every infant with a tape or CD of classical music. For ten points what is the name of this phenomenon named after the composer of Eine kleine NachtmusikAnswer: The Mozart Effect8. The assassination of his mother's advisor Concino Concini helped him assume more independence, and during his reign he modernized the port of Le Havre and had the Luxembourg palace decorated by Poussin.  He rose to the throne at age 9 after his father Henry IV was assassinated in 1610 and married in 1615 but didn't have a son until 1638 with his wife Anne of Austria. With the help of his advisor Cardinal Richelieu he increased the power of the monarch and organized the development and administration of New France. FTP who is this French monarch that was the father of Louis XIV?	Answer: Louis XIII9. St. Symeon Stylites and St. Antony were extreme practitioners of this, marked in Christian iconography with the wearing of a hair-shirt. It derives its name from the Greek word for "practice" or "exercise." This philosophy is practiced by many religions, Siddhartha Gautama's renouncing of his wife, son, and property was another example. Practiced by Zeno and his Stoics, what is this philosophy whose followers remove themselves from worldly pleasures.Answer: Asceticism10. The muddying of her underwear in the stream foreshadows her later promiscuity, and she represents the object of obsession for all of her three brothers. Although she is disowned, the reader feels as if she has escaped into an environment better suited for her, as she is the only one to escape the tragic world of the Compson family.. FTP, name this major character from Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury.Answer: Caddy Compson (accept Candace Compson)11. He was born in London in 1793, lived in Africa, and eventually immigrated to the United States with 40,000 dollars. He abolished the Republican and Democratic parties and printed his own currency which was accepted in San Francisco.  For ten points, name this self-declared "emperor" of the United States, later used by Mark Twain as an inspiration for "The King" in "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn"?Answer: Emperor Norton I (also accept Joshua Abraham Norton)12.  In 1998 he signed an exclusive contract with Virgin Classics as soloist and director of the Europa Galante, an ensemble which he founded in 1990.  His first album with this group won the Premio Cini, Venice and a "Choc" de la Musique, and his later recording of Vivaldi's "Concerti con molti instrumenti" received nominations for a 2004 Grammy Award, while his "Four Seasons" became disc of the year in Canada, Sweden, France, Spain and Finland.  For ten points, name this baroque violin soloist, who has collaborated also with orchestras including the Halle Opera Orchestra and the European Baroque Orchestra.       Answer: Fabio Biondi13. Works of his include Radiative Transfer and The Mathematical Theory of Black Holes, and a NASA "great observatory" operated currently by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics is named for him. A namesake physical equal to 1.44 solar masses describes the maximum mass of a white dwarf. The nephew of C.V. Raman and winner of the 1983 Nobel Prize for physics for studies important to the structure and evolution of stars, FTP name  this astrophysicist born in Lahore, in what is now Pakistan. Answer: Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar 14.  He was educated at the Academy of Art in Dusseldorf, putting himself through school by working as a tombstone cutter and a jazz musician. He joined the Luftwaffe at age 16 soon became an American prisoner of war. Upon his release in 1946 he planned on parlaying his experience as a stonecutter into a sculpting career. Instead he turned to writing, with such works as The Citizen and his Vote and My Century. For ten points name this Nobel prizewinning author of The Flounder, Cat and Mouse, and The Tin DrumAnswer: Günter Grass15.  Freddie Mercury was born into a family on Zanzibar practicing this religion, and it has approximately 2.6 million followers today.  Gujarat in India is also a major location of practice, where followers are known as Parsis. A dualistic faith somewhat similar to Manichaeism, its outlook is more positive. Angra Mainyu is portrayed in the Zend Avesta as the evil opposite of the Ahura Mazda. For ten points, name this ancient monotheistic religion founded by the Persian sage Zarathustra.      Answer: Zoroastrianism   16.  The smallest in this phylum are nearly microscopic free-living species, while some can be over 20 meters long. Although they undergo triploblastic development, they are acoelomates. Turbellarians are free-living, while others such as flukes are parasites. They are often called worms colloquially, but it does not describe its true taxonomy. FTP, name this phylum, also known as flatworms, of which the tapeworm is a notorious memberAnswer: Platyhelminthes17. He is credited with popularizing the term "bandwagoning," and is rather controversial in that he sees the proliferation of nuclear weapons as a route to more security. His first book, written in 1954 is still a widely used text. This text presents three "images" on which the interactions of states are modeled, hence its title Man, the State, and War. For ten points name this Columbia professor and author of Theories of International Politics, and one of the founders of structural realism in International Relations.Answer: Kenneth Waltz18.  Slobodan Milosevic's wife Mira Markovic was known as the Balkan version of this woman, and the historical one lived in the 11th century. Katerina Izmaylova is compared to her in a Leskov short story.  Constantly questioning her husband's manhood she moves from ferocity to insanity as the work goes on.  She plots the death of Duncan and wishes she were not a woman so she would be able to kill him herself and is reduced to sleepwalking through the castle desperately trying to wash away an invisible bloodstain. FTP, name this Shakespearean character whose most famous line is "Out, damned spot!"Answer: Lady Macbeth19. Once activated by DNA damage, it functions as an activator for several genes. It often activates one gene whose product halts the cell cycle. Known as the "guardian angel of the genome," this is named for the 53,000-dalton molecular weight of its protein product. FTP, name this oncogene that also activates "suicide" genes when DNA damage is irreparable.Answer: P53 or TP53 Gene20. The older section first inhabited by "forest dwelling" Slavs is strangely known as the New Town, while the newer German settled area is called the Old Town.  The Margraves of Meissen made it their capital in the 13th century, and it was thoroughly remodeled in Baroque fashion in the 17th and 18th centuries earning it the nickname "Florence on the Elbe." Containing the Zwinger and Semper Art Galleries, POW Kurt Vonnegut was famously present during its fire-bombing in 1945.  FTP name this city of the former East Germany.Answer: DresdenExtrasIt was replaced as the final movement of the its composer's Opus 130 String Quartet after audiences complained that it was "too dark" and critics complained that it was "too incomprehensible." However, modern string quartets still frequently use it in their renditions. A transcription of it for piano was recently discovered at the Palmer Theological Library. For ten points name this work, originally part of Beethoven's 13th String QuartetAnswer: Grosse FuguePlanned landing sites for this mission include Siziwang in Inner Mongolia and also the initial launch site, located at Jiquan.  Its commander is Fei Junlong and flight engineeris Nie Haisheng, and although neither have experienced spaceflight before, they will make over 62 orbits of Earth with goals including the study of physical reactions to weightlessness.  For ten points, name this spacecraft, which launched on October 12th 2005, becomes the second recorded manned spaceflight attempted by the People's Republic of China.     Answer: Shenzhou 6  He played in college for American University. Nicknamed "Special K" he was drafted by the LA Lakers with the 5th pick of the 1971 NBA Draft. He is one of the two people written about in a 2002 book by John Feinstein. This book, entitled "The Punch," recounts the December 1977 fight where this man displaced Rudy Tomjanovich's skullAnswer: Kermit WashingtonIn the mid eighteenth century Baroque music was becoming out of fashion. During the transition between Baroque and Classic music many composers created their own style of music. Pre-eminent among these composers was CPE Bach, son of the famous Johann Sebastian Bach who created a style that emphasized emotional involvement and whose music included short phrases and rapidly changing dynamics. FTP what is the name of this type of music?	Answer: Empfindsamkeit or Empfindsamer stil
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway-Oct 29, 2005Edited by Mike WehrmanQuestions by Rochester B (Jeff Ballerini, Max Chen, Zachary Feder, and Benjamin Schmitt, and Zachary Feder)Bonuses1.  Everyone loves questions about the Age of Exploration. Answer these questions FTPE.1. The Treaty of Torsedillas was signed by which two countries?Answer: Portugal and Spain2. In what year was the treaty signed?	Answer: 14943. Because of the meridian's location, it allowed the Portuguese to colonize South America along with the Spanish, thanks to this explorer blown off course in 1500 attempting to sail around the Cape of Good HopeAnswer: Pedro Alvares Cabral2.  Name these related Simpsons items for ten points each.A. Homer is outraged at having to pay this $5 tax.  However, he does, through specious reasoning, see that it is effective, as he hasn't seen any of the tax's targets around.Answer:  Bear Patrol tax or Bear taxB.  Homer declares, "Let the bears pay the bear tax.  I pay the Homer tax."  However, he is mistaken as the "Homer tax" is actually this tax.Answer:  Homeowner taxC.  Mayor Quimby declares to the director of the Radioactive Man movie, that the town has declared a tax on this item.  When the director protests that he doesn't wear this piece of clothing, Quimby states the tax is "for not wearing" said article.Answer: Puffy Directing Pants3.  Identify these later Shakespeare plays from descriptions for ten points each.A. Characters in this play also known as All Is True include Cranmer and Thomas Cromwell.  Firing a cannon during a performance in 1613 caused the Globe to burn down.Answer: Henry VIII B. This Shakespeare work is lost, perhaps due to the Globe Theater fire caused by Henry VIII.  Co-written with John Fletcher, sometimes it is thought to be the same as The Second Maiden's Tragedy, or it may have been based on parts of Don Quixote.Answer: Cardenio C.  This play also co-written with John Fletcher is essentially the same as Chaucer's Knight's Tale, featuring the characters Palamon and Arcite.Answer: The Two Noble Kinsmen4. Identify the following knife cuts from descriptions FTPE.1. This cut, commonly used for carrots, is also known as the "matchstick cut." Food cut in this manner measures 1/8" wide 1/8" deep and 2" longAnswer: julienne2. This football-shaped cut has seven identical sides. It is often used for potatoes, and has a knife named for it.Answer: tourné3. If literally translated from French it means "made of rags." It is used on herbs or leafy greens. Items are usually rolled into a cigar-like shape to increase the efficiency of this cutAnswer: chiffonade5. Given the specialized function, give the lobe of the brain thatcontrols it, FTPE.1. SpeechAnswer: Frontal Lobe2. SmellAnswer: Temporal Lobe3. VisionAnswer: Occipital Lobe6.  Given characters from a Jane Austen novel, provide the novel, for ten points each.A.  Elizabeth Bennet, Fitzwilliam Darcy, and Charles Bingley.Answer: Pride and PrejudiceB.  Fanny Price, Sir Thomas Bertram, and Rushworth.Answer: Mansfield ParkC.  Catherine Morland, Henry Tilney, and Isabella Thorpe.Answer: Northanger Abbey7. For ten points each, name these places or features located in upstate New York.A.  Lake Seneca and Lake Cayuga are two of these 11 narrow bodies of water formed by glaciation.Answer:  Finger LakesB.  This city north of Albany is known for its racetrack and for being home of the Horse Racing Hall of Fame. Its Performing Arts Center is the traditional summer retreat for the New York City Ballet and Philadelphia Symphony, and it has a bunch of geothermal activity. Answer:  Saratoga SpringsC.  This depressing location on the southern tip of Lake Cayuga is the home of Cornell University.Answer:  Ithaca8.  Given a description of an Aeschylus play provide the title FTPE1. Orestes exacts vengeance for Agamemnon's death upon his murderers.Answer: The Libation Bearers2. The title character is bound to a rock to be punished for giving fire to human beings. Kratus, a servant of Zeus, states that this title character must learn to like Zeus's rule.Answer: Prometheus Bound3. Clytemnestra stands over the corpses of her husband and Cassandra and declares that she has killed him to avenge Iphigenia, who was sacrificed to the god Artemis to obtain afavorable wind for the Greek fleet.Answer: Agamemnon9. The Medicis were a major power in Renaissance Italy. Answer these questions about the family and their history FTP each1. Though the Medici family gained their influence from banking under Giovanni, it was under what patriarch in the 1430s that the family became the governing force in Florence?Answer: Cosimo2. Cosimo hired what architect to finish the church Santa Maria del Fiore?Answer: Filippo Brunelleschi 3. This member of the family was in power during the Pazzi conspiracy in 1478 and was the father of Giovanni, who became Leo X.  He opened a sculpture school in his garden, which attracted a young Michelangelo. Answer: Lorenzo "the Magnificent"10.  Name these landmark 1st Amendment Cases FTPEA. In this 1962 case it was decided that prayer in public schools was in violation of the Establishment Clause.Answer: Engel v. VitaleB. In this 1971 case, the court found that taxes could not be used to pay for teacher salaries, textbooks and instructional materials at nonpublic schools. It gave rise to an eponymous "test" guiding government legislation on religion.Answer: Lemon v. KurtzmanC. This 1875 case had the Court decide that the right to Freedom of Assembly "was not intended to limit the powers of the State governments in respect to their own citizens," in effect disregarding the 14th Amendment. Most now see the decision as flawed and racially motivated Answer: United States v. Cruikshank11. This one's for all you Baroque people out there. Test your knowledge with these queries about J.S. Bach FTP each1. During his tenure at Cöthen, Bach wrote a set of pieces dedicated to a German potentate. Its orchestration included trumpets, flutes, violin, oboe and continuo with the fifth in the set featuring an extended solo for harpsichord, a landmark in the composition of music. What is the name given to this set of pieces?Answer: Brandenburg Concertos2. After his visit to Frederick the Great in 1747, Bach composed a set of fugues and canons that were based on a theme that Frederick wrote. What was the name of this late work of J.S. Bach?Answer: A Musical Offering or Musikalische Opfer3. With libretto by Christian Henrici, this Bach work concerns the conflict between Schlendrian and his daughter Lieschen, who isn't allowed to marry until she kicks her nasty caffeine habit.Answer: Coffee Cantata or Kaffe-Kantate 12. In 1938, Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassman showed that Uranium could be split to yield energy. FTPE:[10] uranium-238 decays to thorium-234 by this radioactive process, the first step in the main branch of its decay chain.Answer: alpha-decay or alpha-particle emission.[10] Alpha decay was one of the first processes found to exhibit this effect, in which a particle can transition through potential energy states that are forbidden by classical electromagnetism.Answer: quantum tunneling[10] In the namesake junction, two superconductors are separated by a thin insulator, and current flow occurs by Cooper pairs undergoing quantum tunneling according to this effect.Answer: Josephson effect13.  Answer these questions about the plays of Anton Chekhov FTPE1. This play concerns the Prozorov family, whose humdrum life becomes more exciting when the Imperial Army comes to town.  But then it gets sad.Answer: Three Sisters or Tri sestry2. One of Chekhov's shorter plays, it has also been translated as The Brute: A Joke in One Act. A farce, in it the stubborn widow Elena refuses to honor her dead husband's wishes and marry the title character, her landlord, the loud, boorish Smirnov.Answer: The Bear or Medved3. Even though it might rescue her from financial ruin, Lyubov refuses to sell the eponymous locale, believing that it separates her from the middle class. By the end of the play it is bought by Lopakhin, a man whose ancestors had been her family's servants. Answer: The Cherry Orchard or Vishnovy sad14.  From its brightest star, identify the constellation for five points each.A.  RigelAnswer: OrionB.  ArcturusAnswer:  BoötesC.  RegulusAnswer: LeoD. DenebAnswer: CygnusE. AltairAnswer: AquilaF. PolluxAnswer: Gemini15. Answer these questions about everybody's favorite prime minister, Benjamin Disraeli for ten points each1. Disraeli confirmed this additional title upon Queen Victoria in 1876.Answer:  Empress of India2. What was the name of Disraeli's perennial Liberal opponent who was defeated in 1873 by the Conservatives?Answer: William Gladstone3.  Disraeli was elevated to the House of Lords in 1876 by Queen Victoria with this new title, and he took up residence at Hughenden, where he was Viscount Hughenden of Hughenden.Answer: Earl of Beaconsfield16. Answer these questions about Game Theory for ten points each.A. This is a set of strategies with the where no player can benefit by changing his strategy so long as the other players keep their strategies unchanged Answer: Nash Equilibrium B.  Born in Hungary, he is sometimes known as the "father of game theory" and is known for his Minimax theorem, which says that there's no point in playing many two-person games.Answer: John von NeumannC. This other Hungarian shared the 1994 Nobel with Nash and Reinhard Selten.  An ethics scholar, he modified the Nash equilibrium by introducing the predictability of rivals' potential actions.Answer: John Harsanyi17. Then answer these questions about Japanese history for ten points each  1. Also known as the Warring States period, this era of disunity was ended in the 1560s when the Imagawa domain disintegrated. Answer: the Sengoku period2. In 1560, this man defeated and killed Imagawa, and he unified most of Japan.  After committing suicide, his top general Toyotomi Hideyoshi raced to be his successor.Answer: Oda Nobunaga3. He became Hideyoshi's chief rival, and eventually won out, becoming shogun in 1603.Answer: Tokugawa Ieyasu18.  Identify the man 30-20-1030: He purchased a seat in parliament, and in 1810 authored the tract The High Price of Bullion which went against the use of banknotes.20: The son of Sephardic Jewish immigrants, he explored comparative advantage, and the effects of population on rent in his most famous  work.10: The author of Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, he is most famous for his Iron Law of Wages which states that wages for menial laborers can never rise above the sustenance levelAnswer: David Ricardo19.  Think you're a pessimist? Guess the answers to these questions about that famous downer Arthur Schopenhauer for ten points each1. According to the philosopher, the world is driven by what unconscious force?	Answer: the Will2. The Will is seen as inner desire that precedes and cannot be examined by reason or thought. It is seen as the source of all distress and torment in life, for people cannot control this force. What is the only escape that Schopenhauer recommends?	Answer: Renunciation of the Will (accept synonyms-negation, denial, etc.)3. Schopenhauer had many disputes with this other philosopher who disagreed with the idea that the man who suffers and toils by himself is doing it the right way.  He had a more optimistic approach involving cooperation of the state and the community.Answer: George Friedrich Wilhelm Hegel20.  I will provide a description of a cloud formation - you provide the cloud's name FTPE1 These are low, layerd clouds that hover a few hundred feet above ground; often the source of drizzle.   Answer: Stratus  2.  Vertically developing clouds; called thunderheads and contain large amounts of moisture and often include hail.   Answer: Cumulonimbus 3. High cloud; generally the highest clouds, forming 'mare's tails' at altitudes between 20,000 and 40,000 feet.    Answer: CirrusFTPE, given the acronym describing an imaging device used in high energy density physics, give the full name of that device:1. CCDAnswer: Charged Coupled Device2. CIDAnswer: Charged Injection Device3. TIMAnswer: Ten Inch ManipulatorFrom the period given, name the era FTPE.1. NeogeneAnswer: Cenozoic2. SilurianAnswer: Paleozoic3. JurassicAnswer: MesozoicGiven the names of four historical naval ships involved in a battle, name the corresponding confrontation, for ten points each:1. Indefatigable, Black Prince, Wiesbaden, Luetzow.      Answer: The Battle of Jutland2. Minerve, Raven, Oriente, Mexicano.     Answer: The Battle of Cape St. Vincent3. Yang Wei, Hashidate, Yoshino, Fuso.     Answer: The Battle of Yalu RiverFor ten points each, given a set of three artworks, name the artist who created that work:1. The Invisible World; The Treason of Images; Personal Values.Answer: Rene Magritte2. Fountain; The Bride Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, Even; The Green Box.Answer: Marcel Duchamp3. St. Jerome in his Study; Adam and Eve; Knight, Death, and the DevilAnswer: Albrecht Duerer Given an composer, provide the the name of his Eighth Symphony 5: SchubertAnswer: Unfinished10: MahlerAnswer: Symphony of a Thousand15: ShostakovichAnswer: StalingradIdentify these gods from Chinese mythology FTPE1. He is the god of Fire and rules over the Southern Hemisphere. He is often depicted riding a tiger Answer: Zhu Rhong2. He is the son of Zhu Rhong. He is shown with nine heads and the body of a snake. He is blamed for the Great FloodsAnswer: Gong Gong3. She is the creator of life, said to have made the world from yellow clayAnswer: NüwaFor ten points each, name these things from African Mythology1. The chief god Ajok, once known for resurrection, became angry with the reactions of his people to this practice and therefore made death permanent.Answer: Lotuko 2. With chief god of rain and fertility Chiuta, this form of African mythology originated from an ethnic group living in Malawi.3. Answer: Tumbuka This system of mythology includes Nyame the omnipotent sky god, and Asase Yaa, his wife and the earth goddess of fertility.Answer: Ashanti  