Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Yale (Mike Wehrman)1.  He was buried near the then-incomplete monastery of Sts. Peter and Paul, which was later named for him.  Once prior of St. Andrew's monastery on the Caelian Hill in Rome, among his 39 companions were Mellitus, Justus, and Paulinus, and he was consecrated archbishop by Vigilius in Arles.  King Ethelbert, whose Frankish wife Bertha was Christian, beseeched Pope Gregory the Great to send a group of missionaries to convert his kingdom.  In response, Gregory sent, FTP which monk, who, in 597 founded the Church at Canterbury, bringing Christianity to southern England?Answer: St. Augustine (or Austin) of Canterbury2.  After seeing it, Britney Spears was so moved by it, she decided to reflect on her life and write a "Letter of Truth," which she posted on her website.  Original cast members included Joel Grey, Kristin Chenoweth, and Idina Menzel, who won a Tony for her portrayal of Elphaba (El-fuh-ba).  With music and lyrics by Stephen Schwartz and such songs as "Popular" and "Defying Gravity," the story revolves around two young women, Glinda and Elphaba, better known as the Witch of the North and the Witch of the West.  Purporting to tell the real story of life in Oz before Dorothy came, FTP name this Broadway musical based on a novel by Gregory Maguire.Answer:  Wicked3.  Like many, when the Nazis closed Bauhaus, he left Germany for America in 1933.  Philip Johnson advised him to form the arts curriculum at Black Mountain College in North Carolina, and he became chair of Yale's Art Department in 1950.  Series of his include plastic engravings known as Transformations of a Scheme and his most famous sequence which in 1971 became part of the first exhibit at the Metropolitan Museum of Art devoted to a living artist.  This series restricted its forms to a single shape, with several of different sizes and colors superimposed on one another.  FTP name this artist famous for his Homage to the Square.Answer: Josef Albers4.  Monuments considered part of it include the Meriwether Lewis National Monument, Ackia Battlefield, and the Napier Mine and Metal Ford in Tennessee.  Also along its 450-mile long route are the Emerald and Bynum ceremonial mounds.  After the War of 1812, its importance declined due to increases in steam travel, but it was once the most important road in the Old Southwest.  Following an old Indian trail to Nashville from the city which gives it its name, FTP name this road, now a National Parkway that begins in Mississippi.Answer:  Natchez Trace Parkway5.  Some salamanders have one, but snakes and turtles don't.  In birds and bats, a ridge-like keel is developed to aid in muscle attachment for flight.  It consists of three major parts, the roughly trapezoidal manubrium, which connects to the meso-portion.  Rather elongated and flat in humans, the third part consists mainly of a small, usually cartilaginous, but very pointy xiphoid process.  FTP name this bone that provides support for the clavicles and ribs located in the center of the chest.Answer:  Sternum (prompt on "breastbone")6.  The Dreamer searches for the characters Do-well, Do-bet and Do-best, who are allegories for Christian life and understanding.  Divided into chapters called Passus, or steps, there are three major texts of the work, known as A,B, and C, with B being the most commonly read by modern readers.  In the work's second part known as the vita, the title character appears to lead followers on a search for Truth, though he disappears for a while only to come back as the Good Samaritan and risen Christ.  He first appears toiling on his half-acre.  Written and revised from the 1360s to the 80s by its author, this is what Middle English dream vision written by William Langland?Answer:  Piers Plowman or the Vision of Piers the Ploughman7.  The "Normal" type is the one most commonly used. The other major variety of it was named after George Bond, who published a paper comparing the Sun, Moon, and Jupiter, and it measures radiation.  Vesta's normal value is .35, while Ceres' is .09.  Snow's normal value is nearly 1.0, while charcoal's is about .04.  Ranging from 0, or total absorption, to 1, or total reflection, for ten points, what is this term referring to the fraction of light reflected by an object?Answer:  Albedo8.  An opera based on this work was composed by Harry Somers.  The narrator's young daughter Klara has her sand castle kicked over by an Italian boy and takes off her bathing suit walking into the surf to clean off.  However, locals are scandalized, as she has broken the beach rules.  Later, the narrator's family watches a show in their hotel, where the two title characters, one a waiter, and the other on stage, come into conflict.  The performer hypnotizes the waiter into thinking he is his secret love, getting him to kiss him.  Embarrassed, the waiter pulls out a gun and shoots Cipolla, in FTP what novella allegorizing fascism by Thomas Mann?Answer:  Mario and the Magician or Mario und der Zauberer 9.  His time spent in the concentration camps of Buchenwald and Dachau led him to write an article on people's adaptation to extreme stress in concentration camp life called "Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations."  Claiming to have a doctorate from the University of Vienna, he taught at the University of Chicago, where he became head of the Shankman School, the home of children with extreme emotional problems such as autism, writing such works as Love is Not Enough and Truants of Life.   His 1976 book stressed the importance of fairy tales, especially their violence, in a child's development, entitled The Uses of Enchantment.  FTP name this Austrian-American psychologist.Answer:  Bruno Bettelheim 10.  The Lackewanna Railroad dubbed itself the "Road" of this material, and its production ceased in the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre area after the 1959 Knox flood of the Susquehanna River. Almost all of it is found in eastern Pennsylvania, and it makes up less than two percent of reserves in the US.  Jesse Fell first burned it as a fuel in 1908, difficult since it has the lowest amount of volatile matter of any other type of its substance, though it produces the greatest amount of heat by weight.  Consisting of over 90% carbon content, this is FTP what type of coal, the most highly metamorphosed type?Answer:  Anthracite (do not accept early "Coal", prompt on "Hard Coal")11.  Coming from a family of fishermen, he attempted to achieve a coup in his native region in 1834 and was condemned to death in absentia. Until 1848 he lived in exile in South America, where he served as a naval captain for Rio Grande del Sul, which was trying to break away from Brazil. During his defense of Montevideo as head of the Uruguayan navy, he came to the attention of Alexandre Dumas who popularized him in Europe, and Abraham Lincoln would eventually offer him a generalship for the Union during the Civil War.   Back in Europe, he offered his services to Pius IX, but eventually his army conquered Sicily and Naples.  FTP name this military leader of the Risorgimento who commanded the Red Shirts.Answer: Giuseppe Garibaldi 12.  The treaty of Anagni ended the war caused by and named for it, and through the 1302 Peace of Caltabellotta, Frederick III began a period of Spanish rule.  It was precipitated by Peter III of Aragon's conspiring to unseat the French king Charles I as ruler of the region.  A riot broke out prematurely when townspeople killed some French soldiers inside the Church of Santo Spirito on Easter Monday.  The rising escalated and over 2000 French settlers were killed in Palermo.  FTP this describes what 1282 massacre of the French in Sicily named for the liturgical hour in which it began?Answer:  Sicilian Vespers13.  The title character is manipulated by his wife Sophie because he once beat her in a drunken rage, forcing her to use a wheelchair.  Because of this and because of a war injury, the protagonist, a great poker dealer, numbs his pain with morphine and heroin.  At the end of the novel Francis Majcinek (May-see-nek), better known as Frankie Machine kills his dealer and hangs himself in a rundown hotel.  FTP this describes what 1950 National Book Award-winning novel by Nelson Algren that gets its name from Frankie's drugged appendage?Answer:  The Man With the Golden Arm 14.  The son of a glazier, he went to London to learn English, but got interested in radioactivity after studying under William Ramsay.  After serving as a chemical weapons specialist in WWI, he and his famous research partner were among the first to isolate protactinium-231.  Fritz Strassman joined his team, and after his previous partner fled because of the Nazis, they were forced to send their findings to Otto Frisch, her nephew.   Later, in 1966 he co-won the Enrico Fermi Award with Strassman and his aforementioned partner Lise Meitner.  FTP name this German scientist who won the 1944 Nobel Prize in chemistry for his discovery of nuclear fission.Answer:  Otto Hahn 15. As a publisher's reader, he encouraged the work of George Gissing and Thomas Hardy, and his first prose work was an 1855 fantasy The Shaving of Shagpat: An Arabian Entertainment, which confused most readers.  Originally a poet with such collections as Modern Love, Oscar Wilde referred to him as a "Prose Browning."  Over the next few years he published two of his more famous novels Evan Harrington and the semi-autobiographical The Ordeal of Richard Feveral.  FTP name this Victorian novelist of Diana of the Crossways probably best known for The Egoist.Answer:  George Meredith16.  In 1919 the house of the instigator was damaged by a bomb set off in Washington, DC.  This instigator, a Pennsylvanian known as the "Fighting Quaker," imprisoned elected Wisconsin Representative Victor Berger, and by the end of the year Alexander Berkman and Emma Goldman, among others, were forcibly placed on the Buford, a ship bound for the Soviet Union.  Claiming to enforce the Espionage Act of 1917 and the Sedition Act of 1918, they sought to round up and root out suspected communist and leftist dissidents.  FTP name these campaigns against leftist radicals named after Wilson's attorney general, who led them.Answer:  Palmer Raids (after A[lexander] Mitchell Palmer)17.  His three sons were Locrine, Albanact, and Camber, and according to a Welsh legend he led a group of settlers to his namesake island around 1300 BC.  Medieval poets using his name in titles of their works include Wace and Layamon, who based theirs on Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain.  He was purportedly a grandson of Aeneas who led a band of Trojans to the isle of Albion, which was then named after him.  FTP name this legendary founder of Britain who shares one form of his name with a famous Roman conspirator.Answer:  Brutus or Brut or the Brute18.  The center of this city was laid out by the British in 1852 in blocks 800 by 860 feet and is known as the Cantonment.  It was originally founded by King Alaungpaya in the 1750s after a series of wars, and its name means "end of strife." North of the center is the Royal Lake Kandawgyi as is its airport at Mingaladon.  The Shwe Dagon Pagoda is its main pilgrimage site, situated on a hill above the city, which lies along the Hliang branch of the Irrawaddy River.  FTP name this city, the largest city and capital of Myanmar.Answer:  Yangon or Rangoon19.  This painting was intended to adorn the tomb of Pope Julius II, and its upper corners are painted like drapes that could cover the rest of the picture.  However, it is currently housed in the Semper Gallery in Dresden.  Floating on the clouds are four figures, including St. Barbara, Mary, baby Jesus, and the patron saint of Julius' family, who lends his name to the work.  At the bottom, looking up at the scene, are two bored-looking cherubs, often featured by themselves on cheesy posters and lame t-shirts. FTP name this Raphael work named for its portrayal of Mary and Pope Sixtus I.Answer:  Sistine Madonna20.  Rather than be burned at the stake he agreed to convert to Christianity and die by strangulation with a garrote.  To obtain his release he offered a room full of gold, though the priest Vicente de Valverde still ordered his execution.  The 13th of his dynasty, he was the favorite son of Huayna Capac, and had recently proved victorious in a bloody civil war against his older half-brother Huascar, winning a great battle in 1532 near Cuzco.  FTP, name this ruler deposed by Francisco Pizarro, the last emperor of the Incas.Answer:  Atahualpa
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Yale (Mike Wehrman)Bonuses1.  Identify the artists of these ubiquitous but oft-overlooked masterpieces for ten points each.A. This painter created the famous WWI-era "I Want You for the US Army" poster featuring Uncle Sam, derived from a 1914 British poster featuring Lord Kitchener.Answer:  James Montgomery FlaggB.  This American artist, who died in 1934, is famous for his paintings of canines in human situations, and most famous motif consists of dogs playing poker, as exemplified by Pinched With Four Aces.Answer: C(assius) M(arcellus) CoolidgeC.  The most famous portrait painter of George Washington, one of his portraits graces the one dollar bill.Answer:  Gilbert Stuart2.  For ten points each, answer the following about people in the pre-presidential life and career of our first president.A.  After his father died, George became the ward of this oldest half-brother of his, who built Mount Vernon.  George went with him to Barbados as a teenager and caught smallpox there.Answer: Lawrence Washington (prompt on "The Uncle of Our Country")B.  This English nobleman, the namesake of a northern Virginia county, asked George to help survey his 5,000,000 acres.Answer:  Lord FairfaxC.  In the French and Indian War, Washington served under this British General, who died in the campaign to capture Fort Duquesne in 1755.Answer: Edward Braddock3,  Answer the following concerning an institute of higher education for ten points each.A.  This historically black college founded in 1882 has produced such graduates as Ron Johnson, Clair Hanks, and Heathcliff Huxtable.Answer:  Hillman CollegeB.  This spin-off of The Cosby Show originally followed Denise Huxtable through her freshman year at Hillman, but when she dropped out, the show focused on other students such as Dwayne Wayne and Whitley Gilbert.Answer:  A Different WorldC.  Cliff's father convinced Denise to go to Hillman partly because of the dynamism of this renowned, longtime president of the college.  In a later episode Cliff presided over a ceremony celebrating his retirement.Answer:  Zachariah J. Haynes4.  Answer the following concerning the works of William Makepeace Thackeray for the stated number of points.A.  For 10, in some of his earlier writings, Thackeray used this surname for The Paris Sketch-Book and an 1841 work centering around his cousin Samuel "and the Great Hogarty Diamond."Answer:  Mr. Michael Angelo TitmarshB.  For 5, this novel, Thackeray's most celebrated is subtitled "A Novel Without a Hero."Answer:  Vanity FairC.  For 5, the subtitle is mainly due because the main character is this female, portrayed by Reese Witherspoon in a recent movie.Answer:  Becky Sharp (accept either underlined portion)D.  For 10, this Thackeray work is a semiautobiographical account of Arthur, the title character, and "His Fortunes and Misfortunes, His Friends and His Greatest Enemy."Answer:  Pendennis or The History of Pendennis5.  Answer the following related questions from organic chemistry for ten points each.A.  In 1869 he noted that when hydrogen halides are added to an unsymmetrical alkene, the hydrogen attaches to the carbon with more hydrogens attached, while the halogen attaches to the one with fewer.Answer:  Vladimir Vasilyevich MarkovnikovB.  This type of addition is considered to be anti-Markovnikov since the B-R group adds to the least hindered carbon.Answer:  HydroborationC.  Hydroboration is a common method of creating stereo-selective varieties of this type of compound, completed when peroxide is added.Answer:  alcohols6.  Name these medieval female authors who were also nuns for ten points each.A.  This 12th-century German mystic wrote such works as Scivias, which consisted of various visions she had, and Symphonia armonie celestium revelationum, a collection of her lyric poetry set to liturgical music.Answer:  Hildegard of (or von) BingenB.  This 10th-century nun is considered the first female German poet.  She is best known for six Christian comedies roughly based on Terence, of which Gallicanus, concerning a suitor of one of Constantine's daughters, is perhaps her most famous.Answer:  Hroswitha of Gandersheim or Hrosvita or RoswithaC.  This fourth-century Galician nun's Itinerarium, variously translated as Journey or Travels, is one of the earliest extant examples of Latin writing by a nun, describing her trip to the Holy Land around AD 385 in a rough, late Latin style.Answer:  Egeria or Etheria7.  Identify these European explorers of the South Pacific for ten points each.A.  This French naval officer led the first French expedition to circumnavigate the world from 1766-69, and on his journey claimed Tahiti for France, and the largest of the Solomon Islands is now named for him.Answer:  Louis-Antoine de BougainvilleB. A contemporary of Bougainville, this Englishman took three voyages to the Pacific and charted much of Australia, New Zealand, the Antarctic, and discovered the Sandwich Islands.Answer:  James CookC.  In the 1640s this Dutchman sought to determine whether an eastward journey from Indonesia to Chile was practical, discovering Tonga, Fiji, New Zealand, and an island he named Van Diemen's Land along the way.Answer:  Abel Janszoon Tasman8.  Identify these monuments of Gothic architecture in France for ten points each.A.  This church now in the Paris suburbs, was once the burial site for French kings.  Around 1140 its abbot, Suger helped rebuild the church into what is considered the first example of Gothic architecture.Answer:  Abbey of St. DenisB.  This Gothic cathedral's 485-foot high cast-iron spire was completed in 1876.  The cathedral, begun around 1200 is a hodgepodge of various Gothic styles but is probably most famous for being the subject of several Monet canvases.Answer:  Rouen CathedralC.  Its northwest spire, completed in 1429, is 466 feet tall, making this cathedral the tallest building in Europe for over 400 years, though its southwest twin tower was never built.  During WWII Hitler wanted to convert this church into a monument for unknown German war dead.Answer:  Strasbourg Cathedral or Nortre Dame du Strasbourg9.  Its name is taken from a 1932 essay written by its founder, who was often put in insane asylums.  For 10 points each, name:A.  This system of theater in which the spectator should be inundated with feelings by removing the barrier of the stage and producing primitive spectacles involving groans, incantations, strange lighting effects, and oversized puppets in an attempt to restore the power of drama.Answer:  Theater of Cruelty or Théâtre de la cruautéB.  This French actor, playwright, and essayist founded the Theater of Cruelty.Answer:  Antonin ArtaudC.  Of Artaud's plays, only this one, a colossal failure, was ever produced to illustrate his theories.  It is based on a story by Stendhal and a Shelley play, and it details the bloody story of the titular sadistic and incestuous 16th-century Roman family.Answer:  Les Cenci or The Cenci10.  Know your Egyptian pyramids for the stated number of points.A.  For five points each, name the three pharaohs for whom the pyramids at Giza were designed as mausoleums.Answer:  Khufu or Cheops; Khafre or Chephron; and Menkaure or MycerinusB.  For an additional five, the first pyramid built was the stepped one at Saqqara designed by the architect-priest Imhotep for this pharaoh of the 3rd dynasty.Answer:  Zoser or DjoserC. For 10, this pharaoh, the first ruler of the 4th dynasty and father of Khufu, is known for his so-called "bent" pyramid, which was altered midway through the building process so it wouldn't collapse.Answer:  Snefru or Snofru11.  Identify these old-school historians for ten points each.A.  This German whose History of the Popes was completed in 1839, was known for his scientific approach to historical study, attempting not to judge the past but to show how "it really was."  So meticulous was he with his sources it was thought that he would travel great distances to verify a comma.Answer:  Leopold von RankeB.  This medievalist co-founded the Annales School with Lucien Febvre in 1929.  His most famous book is probably Feudal Society, though his The Historian's Craft is often read by undergraduates.Answer:  Marc BlochC.  This 19th-century British economic historian who shares his name with his nephew, also a famous historian, died at the age of 31 in 1883.  However, he is known for coining the term "Industrial Revolution" and his campaign for better housing conditions for the poor in London.Answer:  Arnold Toynbee 12.  After learning about Giovanni Schiaparelli's discovery of "canals" on Mars he decided to devote his life to studying the red planet.  FTPE nameA.  This American astronomer whose siblings chose more literary pursuits.Answer: Percival LowellB.  After careful consideration, Lowell chose a site in this northern Arizona city as the home of his private observatory.Answer:  FlagstaffC.  Perhaps the most famous discovery by an astronomer at the Lowell Observatory was that of the planet Pluto, discovered by this man.Answer: Clyde Tombaugh13.  Answer the following concerning an underappreciated actor for ten points apiece.A.  This actor portrayed Willy Loman in the Broadway debut of  Death of a Salesman, and Arthur Miller is said to have written the part specifically for him.  Though the play won a ton of Tony awards in 1949, he didn't win for best actor, losing to Rex Harrison from Anne of the Thousand Days.Answer:  Lee J. CobbB.  This man directed Cobb in Death of a Salesman, winning a Tony as best director, though he would later receive fame for directing such films as Viva Zapata! and On the Waterfront, in which Cobb played Johnny Friendly.Answer:  Elia KazanC. Perhaps one of Cobb's most memorable film roles was as the unnamed Juror #3 in this 1957 work set in a New York jury room.  It starred Henry Fonda and was based on a Reginald Rose drama.Answer:  12 Angry Men14.  Identify these African cities from their colonial names for ten points each.  You will receive five points if you need an additional clue.A.  For 10, Leopoldville.For 5, it is the capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.Answer:  KinshasaB.  For 10, Lourenço MarquesFor 5, it's the capital of Mozambique.Answer:  MaputoC.  For 10, Port NatalFor 5, it is the largest city of the KwaZulu/Natal province.  Located on the Indian Ocean, it is South Africa's chief seaport.Answer:  Durban15.  Name some guys prominent in the French Revolution for ten points each.A.  This man, whose death was the subject of a Büchner drama, was the first head of the Committee of Public Safety but his more moderate stance and opposition to Robespierre led to his execution in August 1794.Answer:  Georges DantonB.  This man, a spokesman for the sans-coulottes under the pseudonym la Père Duchesne (Du-shen), encouraged the Jacobins to institute some of their most radical reforms.  His execution, encouraged by Danton, cost the Jacobins their most radical support.Answer: Jacques-René HébertC.  This priest led the Enragés, who advocated strict democratic reform, denouncing hoarders and war profiteers.  Blamed for the Soap Riots in Paris, his ideas were taken over by left-wing Jacobins under Hébert.Answer:  Jacques Roux16.  Answer the following related questions concerning Russian philosophical thinkers for ten points each.A.  His involvement with the Petrashevsky Circle got him arrested in1849, and as he was about to be executed by firing squad, it was called off at the last moment to be a psychological punishment, causing psychological torment to be a theme in several of his novels.Answer:  Fyodor DostoyevskyB.  Some of this Russian literary theorist and philosopher's most famous works were on Dostoyevsky, including 1929's Problems of Dostoyevsky's Poetics.  He is also known for his theory of "dialogics" as exemplified in 1975's The Dialogic Imagination.Answer:  Mikhail BakhtinC.  Some of Bakhtin's other works attacked the Russian Formalists' philosophy.  In America between the wars, many of the teachings of the Formalists, such as an opposition to bringing in historical or biographical data of the author when interpreting his work, were keystones of this school of criticism, whose name comes from a John Crowe Ransom tract.Answer:  New Criticism17.  Name these veins of the human body for ten points apiece.A.  Oxygen-poor blood flows through this vein from the stomach, spleen, pancreas, gall bladder, and intestines to the liver so that old blood cells and impurities can be removed.Answer:  Portal veinB.  In a healthy human, this is the only vein system that transports oxygenated blood to the heart.Answer:  Pulmonary veinC. This vein drains blood from your pelvic walls, genitals, and buttocks and flows into the inferior vena cava.Answer:  internal iliac vein or common iliac vein18.  Answer these related questions about a 14th century Italian figure popular in the 19th century for ten points each.A.  This Wagner opera set in Rome details the life of "the Last of the Tribunes" who briefly subdued the warring factions of the city, only to be torn to pieces at the end of the opera.Answer:  Rienzi: The Last of the Tribunes (or Der Letzte der Tribunen)B.  Wagner based his Rienzi on a novel by this writer of The Last Days of Pompeii, more famous today for beginning his novel Paul Clifford with the line, "It was a dark and stormy night."Answer:  Edward Bulwer-LyttonC.  This Pre-Raphaelite perhaps best known for his portrait of Christ entitled Light of the World, painted a depiction of Rienzi vowing to avenge his slain brother, who lies in his arms, after he is killed in a fight between the Colonna and Orsini factions.Answer:  William Holman Hunt19.  Identify these figures from the Acts of the Apostles for the stated number of points.A.  For five, this man is stoned to death at the end of Chapter 7, making him the first Christian martyr.Answer:  St. StephenB.  For another five, this man was chosen over Joseph, also called Barsabbus or Justus, to replace Judas Iscariot as the 12th disciple.Answer:  MatthiasC.  For 10, this apostle converts an Ethiopian eunuch on the road from Jerusalem to Gaza in chapter 8 before he was snatched up by the Holy Spirit and taken to Azotus, near Caesarea.Answer:  PhilipD.  For 10, this woman from Thrace, a dealer in purple cloth was converted after hearing Paul and Barnabas speak to a group of women.  She then demanded that the two missionaries stay at her home.Answer:  Lydia20.  Name these American novels dealing with racism for ten points each.A.  In this Chester Himes novel with a title taken from a nursery rhyme, Bob Jones, a black factory worker, is fed up with his white coworkers, especially a woman who first insults him then entices him.Answer:  If He Hollers Let Him GoB.  In this Helen Hunt Jackson novel, the title character, who is half-Indian, falls in love with the Indian Alessandro, who dies as a result of harassment by white settlers.Answer:  RamonaC.  A major portion of this work deals with the rape trial of Tom Robinson.Answer:  To Kill a Mockingbird