Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Rutgers "Hroswitha A-Go-Go!"Tossups1.  In 1995, hydroxyurea began being used to treat symptoms of this disease, though the drug has been implicated in leukemia.  Attacks associated with the disease, often called crises, fall into three categories; aplastic, caused by infections reducing red blood production, hemolytic, caused by red blood cells being destroyed, and painful, caused by malformed red blood cells blocking blood vessels.  Caused by a point mutation of valine for glutamic acid, FTP, name this disease that results in the namesake shaped red blood cells.	Answer:  sickle-cell anemia2.  It was occasioned by the Order of June, 1643, which in turn had been preceded by many acts causing lesser restrictions at the hands of the largely Presbyterian parliament. The name of the work is taken from a work of Isocrates, also a written speech. It does not seem to have had much effect at the time, licensing laws having maintained their hold under the Restoration government through 1694, but it is still widely read. FTP, name this most famous of Milton's prose pieces, a speech against censorship which asserts that all things being fair, truth will always show itself greater than falsehood.	Answer: The Areopagitica 3.  Chapter 15 includes a man who is stoned for gathering sticks on the Sabbath.  The previous two chapters tell of a spying expedition undertaken by twelve men, who come upon the brook of Eshcol and return with grapes, figs and pomegranates, and tell of the thriving land to which the Lord has led them.  Also including the deaths of Aaron and Miriam, and Moses' bringing forth water by striking a rock, FTP, name this book of the Bible, named because it is the book in which the Jews of the Exodus are counted.	Answer: Book of Numbers (accept Bamidbar or In the Wilderness)	4.  Seymour Papert used his work in cognition in developing the Logo programming language.  Originally a zoologist noted for his study on mollusks living in Lake Geneva, he shifted to psychology, arguing that people developed and adapted conceptual models to understand new information, which he termed "schemas."  More noted for his work on adolescents, epitomized in 1936's The Origin of Intelligence in Children, FTP, name this Swiss psychologist, known for his four stages of cognitive development.	Answer: Jean Piaget5.  It dealt with Jean Petit's defense of the murder of the Duke of Orleans, condemning him, but not sentencing him It was nearly compromised when John XXIII promised to resign, but then fled to Schaffhausen, but the council did not collapse; instead, Emperor Sigismund took the lead and voted to depose John, later deciding to install Martin V in his place.  FTP, name this ecumenical council which condemned and executed Jan Hus, but more notably ended the Great Western Schism, held from 1414-18 on the German side of a Swiss lake.	Answer: Council of Constance6.  Sri Lanka still celebrates the visit of his daughter Sanghamitra as an envoy.  Among his best-known decrees are a rule protecting bats, bulls, ants, squirrels and deer, and a record of his attempts to spread Buddhism to Macedonia, Syria, and Egypt, which are found in his Rock and Pillar Edicts.  Creator of the Lion Capital, a statue of three lions which serves as India's national emblem, FTP, name this first emperor to unify the Indian subcontinent, the grandson of Chandragupta, considered the greatest Mauryan emperor. Answer: Asoka I7.  A time delay associated with this effect, first discovered by Johann Solder in 1804, can be used to predict Hubble's constant.  In the weak form, the effect will only distort the image into a disk, while the strong version will cause the image to split into two identical objects.  FTP, name this phenomenon confirmed by Eddington's 1919 expedition in which light is bent around a massive object, a prediction of general relativity.	Answer: gravitational lensing8.  The Marriage of Figaro serves as a basis for part of its overture, which borrows from a line delivered by Basilio in "Cosa sento!" which contains the title.  Beginning in a coffee house in which Alfonso laughs at two of the leads for trusting in their fiancées. To prove so he brings news of the men's departure in "Vorrei dir" to Fiordiligi and Dorabella.  Guglielmo and Ferrando disguise themselves in Albanians, and Alfonso is eventually proven right, but all is forgiven at the end of FTP, what Mozart opera?       Answer: Cosi fan tutte or All Women are Like That (accept equivalents, but hope for the Italian)9.  Her father's last postcard read only, "Hello! Goodbye!"  She dropped out of Republican's business school after only a few lessons, and her mother is upset by the loss of the fifty dollar tuition.  Her brother arranges a "gentleman caller" for her, mostly at her mother's request, the same man she had a crush on in high school.  Jim breaks her heart, however, by revealing that he has a fiancee after having kissed her.  FTP, name this sister of Tom and daughter of Amanda, the keeper of The Glass Menagerie.       Answer: Laura Wingfield (prompt on: Blue Roses)10.  One man of this name founded his nation's bobsled team in 1986 and has captained it in every Olympics since.  The third-largest city in Saskatchewan bears it, is known as the "Gateway to the North," and is named for a son of Edward VII.  Another man of this name was best known for organizing the Great Exhibition of 1851 and being cousin and consort of Queen Victoria.  FTP, give this common name, also shared by a brand of pipe tobacco sold by John Middleton, Inc., which you'd better let out if you happen to have it in a can.       Answer: Prince Albert (Long notes to moderator: Prompt on "Albert" before "Saskatchewan."  Afterwards, it really has to be Prince Albert, especially at the end.  If they don't get to the end, feel free to respond with a "Do you have Prince Albert in a can?  Well, you'd better let him out!  Hahahahaha!")11.  Cannon smoke obscures the background of this painting, while dead bodies and a kneeling man in a blue shirt can be seen in the foreground.  A factory worker wields a sword on the left and a bum holds two pistols on the right, while a man in a top-hat, who may be Fréderic Villot or the painter, appears next to the title character.  She stands bare-breasted in the center wearing a Phrygian-style hat, carrying a rifle in her right hand and a tricolor in her left in, FTP, what 1830 depicition of the Trois Glorieuses by Eugene Delacroix?	Answer: 28 July: Liberty Leading the People or Liberty on (or "at") the Barricades or La liberté Guidant le Peuple12.  An indirect result of it was the installation of Francis T. Nicholls as governor of Louisiana.  James Garfield noted that the aggrieved parties mostly wanted quiet, and thus Republicans spent weeks negotiating to end a filibuster, conceding that a Democrat would be given a Cabinet position, and that soldiers remaining in readmitted states would be removed, thus ending Reconstruction.  FTP, name this informal set of agreements which resulted in Rutherford B. Hayes' victory in the election that occurred the year before.	Answer: Compromise of 1877 or the Southern Compromise13.  Among the hardest problems of this class determining whether the maximum flow of a network is odd, and finding the value of a logic circuit with no variable gates.  Finding an algorithm which approximates the Euclidean traveling salesman problem by a factor of less than two would put it in this class, as would finding a 1-approximation algorithm for any NP-complete problem.  FTP, linear programming, determining primality, and sorting are all in what class of problems which can be solved deterministically in polynomial time?	Answer: P14.  In one section, a friend of the author receives a piece of seaweed wrapped in paper from her and remarks that he is not interested in her poetry, while the author describes constant walking in the hallway outside her apartment and her living arrangements in another.  Beginning by comparing seasons with times of day, it is organized into three sections: a group of lists, accounts of daily life, and musings on beauty and other themes.  FTP, name this Japanese work originally written around 1000 CE, the diary of Sei Shonagon's life as a lady-in-waiting to the Emperor's escort.       Answer: Makura no soshi or The Pillow Book of Sei Shonagon15.  Bob is a British weightlifter who just missed out on making the 1997 World's Strongest Man final.  Amanda is a six-foot-one swimmer, and was a member of the silver-medal-winning 4 x 100-meter freestyle at the 2004 Olympics.  Johnny has won the Trophee Eric Bompard and the NHK trophy, and is the defending U.S. national men's figure skating champion.  FTP, give the surname these athletes share with Mike, the left-handed Canadian who won golf's Masters in 2003.	Answer: Weir16.  You can find the city of Townsville in this state, approximately 600 miles east of Mount Isa, a mining community which is the largest city in the world by area.  It also lays claim to the Channel Country, a series of dried up creeks and rivers which is really cattle country, and to the Hinchinbrook Island and Whitsunday Islands National Parks.  FTP, name this state whose coasts lie on the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Pacific Ocean, and whose major cities include Cairns, Gold Coast and Brisbane	Answer: Queensland17.  Line eight extols individualism, as each person is concerned with "what belongs to [him or] her, and to none else."  The young wife at work and the mother partake in the title action, as do the mason "as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work," and the carpenter "as he measures his plank or beam."  Expressing the poet's positive view of his diverse individualistic country, FTP, what is this poem about the "varied carols" of the fellow citizens of Walt Whitman?	Answer: "I Hear America Singing"18.  In a West Indian story, he saves his mother by telling her to call him Chechebunda, rather than use his real name.  Other stories associated with him include "Why Toad Croaks" and "Why Woodpecker Bores Wood."  He is better known in Africa, for bringing rain to stop forest fires, showing man how to sow grain, and creating the first man, influencing his father, the sky god Nyame, to breathe life into it.  FTP, name this Ashanti trickster god, nicknamed "the spider."           Answer: Anansi19.  The differential equation of this name is y double prime minus 2 x times y prime plus lambda times y is equal to 0.  Solving it leads to the polynomials of the same name which occur in solving the quantum harmonic oscillator.  Operators of this kind appear frequently in quantum mechanics as they are equal to their complex conjugate and will always yield real eigenvalues and orthogonal eigenfunctions.  FTP, give the name these constructs share with matrices equal to the complex conjugate of their transpose.  	Answer: Hermitian (accept word forms)20.  The rebel leader of this battle thought that the opposing troops would be hung over as it was their general's birthday.  Thus, he decided to march toward Nairn the night before the major conflict, but only got as far as Knockanbuie before turning back.  Lord George Murray warned that the battle site would favor the artillery of the Duke of Cumberland, but the leader insisted on a Highlanders' charge, which was soundly beaten.  FTP, name this last major land battle on the British mainland, fought in April 16, 1745 which foiled Bonny Prince Charlie's attempt to take the English throne.	Answer: Battle of Culloden Moor21.  Imre Lakatos attempted to compromise the work of Thomas Kuhn with this concept.  Proposed to overcome the problem of induction, the criterion of demarcation proposed by Popper claims that theories are scientific if and only if they have this property.  FTP, name this concept of philosophy, which is the ability to perform an experiment or make an observation which will contradict a prior assertion.	Answer: falsifiability (accept equivalents)22.  A version of this reaction uses diatomic oxygen, which will form a six-membered peroxide.  In the more traditional version, kinetics favor the endo product over the exo product.  This reaction proceeds by a concerted mechanism in which one reactant contributes four electrons and the other contributes two, with a net breakage of two pi bonds and the formation of two sigma bonds.  Because oxygen is electron donating, furan can act like a diene, while ethene is the simplest dienophile.  FTP, give this cycloaddition reaction, named for the two chemists that shared the 1950 Nobel Prize for its discovery.	Answer: Diels-Alder Reaction23.  He is the subject of the Festival of Muharram and the day of Aashurah.  On that day in 680, he led an Iraqi insurrection against the caliph Yazid, claiming that he was the rightful caliph as the son of Ali, but he was decapitated in Karbala.  FTP, name this son of Muhammad's daughter Fatima, whose death started the Sunni-Shi'a schism, and shares his name with a former king of Jordan.	     Answer: Husayn ibn Ali ibn Ben Talib (Hussein)24.  First proposed by Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky in 1993, it was originally developed in phonology, but has since been applied to other subfields of linguistics.  The concept posits a set of constraints innate to the human mind which are ranked in a set hierarchy in each language.  To acquire a language is to determine in which order the constraints are ranked.  Constraints may be violated minimally, in accordance with the hierarchy. FTP, name this theory, an extension of Chomsky's generative grammar.	Answer: optimality theory25.  The turning radius of a 1927 Citroen determined the size of its ground floor, so that the owner's wife did not have to drive in reverse gear. Like the main house, the gardener's hut has a green base and a white upper level supported by pilotis (pih-LAH-tees). The overwhelming feel is horizontal, even to horizontal bars in the windows. From the lower roof garden, one can see through the living room into the backyard, onto both of the ramps between floors, into the study, through to the spiral staircase, and up to the deck for sunbathing. FTP, name this 1929 work by Le Corbusier, a country home in Poissy, France.	Answer: Villa Savoye or Les Heures Claires
Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by  Rutgers "Hroswitha A-Go-Go!"Bonuses1.  Name these sorta related things, FTP each.A. (10) The derivative of the Heaviside step function, this type of function evaluates to zero everywhere, except for a single point, at which its value is infinity.	Answer: Dirac delta functionB. (10) This function obeys the identity f-of-x-plus-1 equal x times f-of-x.  In other words, it generalizes the definition of a factorial to real and complex numbers.	Answer: gamma functionC. (10) Applying this function to an integer n gives the smallest integer z for which m-to-the-z is congruent to one modulo n for all integers m that are coprime with n.	Answer: Carmichael lambda function (accept either)2.  Since this tournament is named Bulldogs over Broadway, name these musicals currently running on Broadway from songs FTP each.A. (10) "Hot Honey Rag", "Roxie", "Cell Block Tango"       Answer: ChicagoB. (10) "Big, Blonde and Beautiful", "Good Morning Baltimore", "It Takes Two"       Answer: HairsprayC. (10) "Take Me or Leave Me" "What You Own", "I'll Cover You"       Answer: Rent 3.  Name these John Keats poems from lines FTP each.A. (10) "O latest born and loveliest vision far / Of all Olympus' faded hierarchy! / Fairer than Ph{oe}be's sapphire-region'd star, / Or Vesper, amorous glow-worm of the sky..."	Answer: Ode to PsycheB. (10) "Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on..."	Answer: Ode on a Grecian UrnC. (10) "Ah, what can ail thee, wretched wight, / So haggard and so woe-begone? / The squirrel's granary is full, / And the harvest's done."	Answer: La Belle Dame Sans Merci 4.  Name these entities associated with the Reagan administration, FTP each.A. (10) Renamed GPALS after being scaled back, this Reagan plan to use space systems to prevent a nuclear attack was dubbed "Star Wars" by critics who felt it was straight out of a sci-fi movie.	Answer: Strategic Defense Initiative or SDIB. (10) Reagan vetoed a 1987 bill to codify this FCC regulation, which had required media outlets to reasonably present conflicting views on issues of public importance.	Answer: "Fairness Doctrine"C. (10) Though this group formed by Reagan recommended that more federal attention be paid to AIDS and HIV, the president ignored their findings.	Answer: Watkins Commission5. Answer these questions on famous figures in that bastard sister of modern art, modern dance, FTP each.A. (10) Her choreography incorporated themes from classical mythology and Freudian and Jungian psychology, but she is best known for choreographing Copland's Appalachian Spring.	Answer: Martha GrahamB. (10) This student of Graham founded the American Dance Theater and is known for incorporating elements of jazz, modern, and African dance.	Answer: Alvin AileyC. (10) Responisble for Cutting Up, a program for a 1991 tour with Mikhail Baryshnikov, her energetic choreography can currently be seen in Movin' Out.	Answer: Twyla Tharp  6.  Name these electromagnetic temperatures, FTP each.A. (10) This is the highest temperature at which a material can exhibit superconductivity.  The name is also given to the highest temperature at which a compound can be liquefied.	Answer: critical point or temperatureB. (10) This is the highest temperature at which a material can exhibit ferromagnetism.	Answer: Curie PointC. (10) This is the highest temperature at which a material can exhibit antiferromagnetism.	Answer: Neel Point7.  His refusal to reinstate the Constitution of 1812 resulted in revolt and his capture, but he was reinstated as King by the French after triumphing at Trocadero.  FTP each...A. (10) Name this ruler.	Answer: Fernando VII or Ferdinand VIIB. (10) Fernando VII's wife Maria Cristina persuaded him to change the rules for the line of succession, resulting in these conflicts between supporters of Fernando's new heiress Isabel II and his brother.	Answer: Carlist Wars or Guerras CarlistasC. (10) Fernando VII was the last monarch to establish this institution, originally created in 1487 to establish a "cleanliness of blood" in Spain by persecuting non-Catholics.	Answer: Spanish Inquisition8.  OK, so we all know that Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs culminates in self-actualization. But what about the steps along the way? Answer questions about the ladder's lower rungs, FTP each.(10) These needs include both feelings of having mastered a task and become competent, and the recognition one gains from others.	Answer: esteem needs(10) These needs can be physical and psychological and include the desire for stability and consistency. They are threatened by abuse, violence, war, and the like.	Answer: safety needs(10) This is the most basic level of need, including air, water, food, sex, and sleep. Thus, it is the first step in Maslow's Hierarchy.	Answer: physiological needs9.  Name these Euripides plays from plot descriptions FTP each.A. (10) Women worship of a new god, and when King Pentheus tries to infiltrate their ceremonies, he is killed by his own mother.	Answer: The BacchaeB. (10) The Queen of Thessaly is taken by Thanatos instead of her husband.  Heracles wins her back, but she does not come to life until Admetus sees the pain his deeds have caused.	Answer: AlcestisC. (10) In the prologue, the title character prays to Artemis but refuses to acknowledge Aphrodite, who resolves to punish him by making his stepmother fall in love with him.	Answer: Hippolytus10.  Show that you didn't forget Poland by naming these rivers FTP each.A. (10) The isles of Wolin and Uznam are found beyond the mouth of this river, which with the Neisse, forms most of the border between Poland and Germany.	Answer: Oder River (or Odra)B. (10) Beginning as a Little White and Little Black branch in the Beskid range, Krakow, Warsaw, and Gdansk are situated on the banks of this longest Polish river.	Answer: Vistula River (or Wisla)C. (10) Castle Mountain overlooks this river, which passes through the Podlaski gorge, and is connected to the Dnieper by a namesake canal. 	Answer: Western Bug River (or Boh)11.  Name these Confucian classics FTP each.A. (10) Evolved from the Tortoise Oracle, this text interprets images made by 64 configurations of hexagrams, and is often used as a tool for divination.       Answer: I ching or Yijing or Book of ChangesB. (10) Mencius attributes this work to Confucius partly because of its language, which incensed generals and government officials, but it currently exists as a year-by-year chronicle of the state of Lu during a namesake period of the Chou dynasty.       Answer: Ch'un ch'iu or Lin Jing or The Spring and Autumn AnnalsC. (10) Concubines are justified in this work, which also outlines rules of etiquette for interviews, and describes the ceremonies of capping, marriage, and funerals.       Answer: Li chi or Book of Rites or Records of Ritual12.  Name these battles of the American Revolution FTP each.A. (10) Taking place on the day after Christmas, 1776, Colonel Johann Rall was unprepared for Washington's troops, who crossed the Delaware and took the Hessian garrison.	Answer: Battle of TrentonB. (10) General Howe moved 88 ships into Gravesend Bay, and a force of 22,000 Brits and Hessians overwhelmed the Continental Army in this August 27, 1776 battle, forcing Washington to flee to Manhattan.	Answer: Battle of Brooklyn or Battle of Long IslandC. (10) The last battle of the Revolution in the North was this engagement in which the armies of Washington and Charles Lee fought to a draw against the forces of Henry Clinton. 	Answer: Battle of Monmouth Court House13.  Name these Rembrandt paintings FTP each.A. (10) In this oil on canvas, one of the title characters looks weakened and is falling over, the title character in the foreground holds a long lock of his hair.	Answer: Samson Betrayed By DelilahB. (10) Seven men look on in various degrees of interest as the title figure uses a forceps to manipulate the tendons and muscle of the arm of the corpse in the center.	Answer: The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes TulpC. (10) A woman can be seen in the darkness in the background, cleaning blood of the floor, while the title figure's head lays in the foreground on the right, but the painting is dominated by the title figure's body, whose innards and organs have been removed.	Answer: The Slaughtered Ox14.  Answer the following about an element, FTP each.A. (10)	 The most reactive halogen, it was the first compound seen to react with noble gases and its haloacid can etch glass.	Answer: fluorineB. (10) Fluorine gas is commonly produced by the electrolysis of a molten mixture of hydrogen fluoride and the fluoride of this alkali metal.	Answer: potassiumC. (10) Combining antimony pentafluoride with fluorosulfonic acid gives this superacid with pKa of -20, which got its name from its uncanny ability to dissolve wax.	Answer: Magic acid15.  Name the author from works, 30-20-10.(30) Jacques (1834), Lucrezia Floriani (1846), Francia (1872)(20) Horace (1842), La Petite Fadette (1849), Elle et Lui (He and She, 1859) (10) Valentine (1832), Indiana (1832), Lélia (1833)	Answer: George Sand or Amandine-Aurore-Lucile Dupin16. .  Name these Division I-A football schools with surprisingly good seasons from a description FTP each.A. (10) This WAC school's only losses came at the expense of Arizona State and Boise State, and has more wins this year under coach Mike Price then it had in the past three seasons combined.	Answer: UTEP or University of Texas-El Paso (NO PROMPTS ON "TEXAS.")B. (10) Alex Smith leads this Mountain West team at quarterback.  It is looking to hang on to the first BCS berth for a team from a non-BCS conference.	Answer: University of UtahC. (10) A 36-17 win at West Virginia put this school in the driver's seat for its first Big East championship and a BCS berth, however, last week it got blown out by Syracuse, ending its BCS hopes.  Next season, it moves to the ACC.Answer: Boston College17.  Answer these related questions FTP each.A. (10) These organelles, which can occupy up to 25% of a cell, are considered the cell's powerhouse.	Answer: mitochondria B. (10) Found on the cristae of the mitochondria, this enzyme is responsible for the addition of a phosphate group to ADP.	Answer: ATP synthaseC. (10) Aided by ATP synthase, 34 of the 38 ATP molecules produced in cellular respiration are produces in this last stage of its metabolic pathway.	Answer: oxidative phosphorylation18. German World War II generals, FTP each.A. (10) Named Hitler's successor late in the war, he was responsible for coordinating Operation Drumbeat and leading German U-Boats in the Battle of the Atlantic.	Answer: Karl DönitzB. (10) Commander of the Second Panzer group in Operation Barbarossa, he also served as commander of the 19th Army Corps, during the invasions of Poland and France, but is better known for Achtung Panzer!, a book on tank warfare.	Answer: Heinz GuderianC. (10) In 1940, he was given command of the seventh Panzer Division, which became known as the "Ghost Division," but he was better known for leading the Germans at El Alamein.	Answer: Erwin Rommel 19.  Name these short stories from descriptions FTP each.A. (10) One of title characters walks despondently through Buenos Aires, feeling that he is giving away to the other, who reads his mail and appears in biographical dictionaries.  The author notes at the end that he can't determine which of the two wrote it.	Answer: Borges y yo or Borges and meB. (10) This title structure of a Borges short story is composed of hexagonal rooms, with four walls of shelves the sizes of bookcases which cover the universe.	Answer: La biblioteca de Babel or The Library of BabelC. (10) Red Scharlach commits a series of crimes not to find a secret name, but to entrap and kill detective Eric Lonnrot, who arrested his brother three years earlier.	Answer: La muerte y la brújula or Death and the Compass20.  Given a brief description, name these parts of the brain, FTP each.A. (10) This thick band of neural fibers separates the two hemispheres, and allows for near instant communication between each half of the brain.	Answer: corpus callosumB. (10) Usually located in the left frontal lobe, this region is involved with speech production.  Damage to it causes a namesake aphasia in which a person can understand language, but cannot produce it.	Answer: Broca's areaC. (10) Part of the limbic system, this pair of almond-shaped organs is located in the medial temporal lobe and is responsible for emotions, particularly strong negative emotions such as fear and anger.	Answer: amygdala21.  Ah, the dreaded taxonomy bonus.  Given an organism, give its order, 5-10-20-30.A. (5) Humans	Answer: PrimatesB. (5) Sharks	Answer: ChondrichthyesC. (5/10) Giant Squid	Answer: TeuthidaD. (5/10) Wasps	Answer: Hymenoptera22.  Identify these symphonies FTP each.A. (10) "The Explorers" is the fourth and final movement of this choral symphony by Ralph Vaughan Williams, which is based on the work of Walt Whitman	Answer: Symphony Number 1 or Sea SymphonyB. (10) Adapted as a sextet for clarinet, piano, and string quartet, this 1933 Aaron Copland Symphony consists of movements marked "Incisivo", "Espressivo", and "Preciso e ritmico" and is noted for its lack of percussion, trombones, and tuba.	Answer: Symphony Number 2 or Short SymphonyC. (10) Partly influenced by the Silesian Uprisings of World War II, this symphony of three slow movements focusing on a solo soprano is the most famous work of Henryk Gorecki.	Answer: Symphony Number 3 or Symphony of Sorrowful Songs23. Name these concepts from Buddhism, FTP each.A. (10) Compactly, they are "Life is suffering", "Suffering is due to attachment ", "Attachment can be overcome" and "There is a path for accomplishing this."	Answer: The Four Noble TruthsB. (10) The Brahma Vihara and the Four Solaces are presented in this discussion between Buddha and the namesake group of skeptics who are trying to differentiate between good and evil teachers and teachings.	Answer: Kalama SuttaC. (10) The Buddhist community, dharma, and the Buddha together form this cornerstone concept of Buddhism.	Answer: Three jewels or triple gem or three treasures24.  Name these sun gods FTP each.A. (10) The patron of the city of Tenochtitlán, he was represented as a hummingbird and was the Aztecs' sun god as well as their god of war.	Answer: HuitzilipochtliB. (10) The father of Itzamna, this Mayan sun god often took the form of a firebird	Answer: Kinich AhauC. (10) The father of Manco Capac and Mama Oello, he was considered the common ancestor of all Incas.	Answer: Inti25.  FTP each, it's 19th century autobiographies!  HOORAY 19th CENTURY AUTOBIOGRAPHIES! A. (10) Harriet Wilson wrote this work about her ill-treatment in the north while growing up among a white family.  Its title comes from her nickname among them.	Answer: Our Nig or Sketches from the Life of a Free BlackB. (10) In this work, Harriet Jacobs describes her escape from her master's sexual advances bye living in her grandmother's shed for seven years before going to the North.	Answer: Incidents in the Life of a Slave GirlC. (10) This novel was published anonymously as though true in 1912, but only gained fame when James Weldon Johnson claimed it as his in 1927.       Answer: The Autobiography of an Ex-Coloured Man