Yale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Brandeis A (Amy Padva and Dan Passner) and Arkansas & Friends (Lynn Endicott, Josh Hill, Andy Wehrman, and Mike Wehrman) 1.  Among the forced reforms members of its army instituted were a solar calendar, an emphasis on the bible, and an abolishment of private property and class distinctions. At their height, their army reached over one million, each dressed in a red jacket with blue pants. Led by a mystic named Hong Xiuquan who misinterpreted the Bible and claimed to be Jesus's little brother, they captured Nanjing, and slaughtered tens of thousands of civilians there, before making it their capital. Beginning in the Guangdong Province in 1851, FTP, name this Chinese rebellion that ended in 1864.  Answer: Taipeng Rebellion2.  Though this term was first prominently mentioned in a 1948 publication of the same name, its concept had been previously defined by Ampere as the science of government.  Warren McCullough believed it was an experimental epistemology concerned with the communication between the observer and his environment, and Stafford Beer defined it as the science of effective organization.  From the Greek word for "steersman", FTP, what term is generally defined as the science of communication and control in animal and machine, coined by Norbert Wiener?	Answer:  cybernetics3.  A licensed junior barrister, his doctoral dissertation related to the History of Medieval Business Organizations, which preceeded his completion, at the age of 27, of a comprehensive Roman Agrarian History. Later in life, he was a consultant to the Treaty of Versailles and helped draft the Weimar constitution. Author of the essay, "Politics as a Vocation," The Religion of China and The City, name, FTP this socioeconomist, whose lasting contribution lies in his thesis about religion and the advancement of the modern economy, The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.Answer: Max Weber4.  The title figure has her right hand lightly upon her breast, while three of the five faces to the right are directed towards the viewer, one with a look of sadness, one of vapidity and one of mischief. The title figure's right heel rests upon two ornate pillows one red and one a dark blue. The lush pink drapery that dominates the background is illustrative of its era  Phallic imagery abounds on the edge in the background as a draped servant unwraps a scroll while standing next to an inexplicable and totally disproportionate white column. Showing a baby Jesus pale and almost lifeless with distented, bloated torso and elongated fingers, FTP name this work of Parmagianino named for an odd bodily feature.Answer: Madonna with (the) Long Neck or Madonna of the Long Neck or Madonna dal Collo Lungo5.  He was drafted in the 44th round of the 1991 Amateur draft by the New York Mets as an outfielder, but began pitching shortly thereafter, making his debut in 1995.  Arm injuries, tuberculosis, and a broken wrist suffered while punching a garbage can stalled his career, but after a trade to Oakland in 1999 for the forgettable Billy Taylor he re-established himself as a closer. In 2000 he saved 33 games and made the American League All Star team, though he is best remembered that season for throwing two pitches, the game-tying and walk-off homeruns, in a 3-2 loss to the Yankees in August. Name this current closer for the St. Louis Cardinals.Answer: Jason Isringhausen6.  This compound is a liquid at room temperature but freezes at 55 degrees Fahrenheit. Medicinally, it is found in the forms of pills, sprays, and patches, and it works by dilating the blood veins and relaxing smooth muscle in arteries, reducing pressure in the heart and vessels and lowering the heart muscles' demand for oxygen. Because its administration can lower blood pressure, men taking Viagra should not use this drug. Name this compound whose ability to relieve chest pain associated with angina was first noted by workers in a munitions factory. Answer: Nitroglycerine7.  In Spring 1867, this company voted to increase capital stock by 50%, pushing it to $2,500,000. Formed by Thomas Durant, they were given rights to build nearly 1100 km of the Transcontinental railroad, with much of the costs being subsidized by the government. Henry McComb sent letters to the New York Sun, indicating that this company, represented by Oakes Ames, had allowed Congressmen to purchase shares of stock at face value, and that the government contacts had nearly bankrupted the Union Pacific. FTP name this late 19th century American company whose namesake scandal also damaged Henry Wilson, James Patterson, and Vice President Schuyler Colfax.Answer: Credit Mobilier of America8.  In May of 1901 its composer announced to his friend Dora that he had "a tune that will knock 'em flat."  The tune had begun as the trio section of the composer's March in D major.  The D major march became the first in a series of five marches which take their collective title from Act 3 of Shakespeare's Othello.  It was first played at a university when Yale conferred an honorary degree on its composer in 1905, and the tradition was taken up by Princeton, Chicago, and virtually every other university within the next two decades.  FTP Name this work by Edward Elgar, oft heard at American graduation ceremonies.	Answer: Pomp and Circumstance9.  The Three-Petaled Flower mistakenly believes that Earth has few humans, all of whom are characterized by their wandering. The public's reaction to the Turkish astronomer's garish dress reveals the ignorance inherent in xenophobia. The title character spends his time keeping baobabs, which represent the danger of indifference, from overrunning his home. On his travels he encounters a drunkard, a businessman, and a intensely devoted lamplighter. FTP, name this novel, whose title character resides on Asteroid B-612, a work by Antoine de Saint-Exupary.Answer: The Little Prince or Le Petit Prince10.  In this religion, St. Peter is identified with Elegua, the heavenly gatekeeper and Saint Barbara with Shango. Bone structures are used in the process of divination to locate the source of a subject's problem. The subject of the Supreme Court case Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. City of Hialeah, they have often come under fire for their emphasis on animal sacrifice in worship, which is commonly the slaughtering of chickens. Believing in the orishas, FTP, name this hybrid of Christianity and Yoruba beliefs, that takes its most commonly known name from the translation of "Way of the Saints"Answer: Santeria or Regla de Ocha (prompt on Lukumi since it's in the question)11.  As well as being a doctor in the Vendée, was a journalist in his early career, founding the magazines La Justice, L'Aurore, and L'Homme Libre.  He resigned as mayor and deputy of Paris when he couldn't resolve the Paris Commune insurrection.  A mountain named for him in the Canadian Rockies is the location of Tiger Glacier, in honor of one of his nicknames.  After a heated argument, he is said to have told David Lloyd George that he wouldn't apologize until there is peace in Ireland.  Name this statesman also called the Father of Victory, prime minister of France during World War I.	Answer:  Georges Clemenceau12.  When this work's title character becomes enamored for the work's narrator, dislike is aroused in the neighborhood, especially in Eliza Millward.  Much of this story is told through the title character's diary and through her letters to her second husband, the narrator, Gilbert Markham.  Her first husband is the drunkard Arthur Huntington, perhaps modeled after the author's brother Branwell.  The title character is known only as Helen Graham in, FTP, this novel by Anne Bronte.	Answer:  The Tenant of Wildfell Hall13. Treating carboxylic acid with diazomethane can form the methyl type via a carboxylate anion. They can be formed without a catalyst when an alcohol reacts with an acid halide, which is attracted to even weak nucleophiles. They are often formed by reacting a carboxylic acid and an alcohol. When an alcohol reacts with an acetic anhydride, the compound is formed in equal amounts to acetic acid. Name these compounds, with general formula R-C-O-O-R' (read: R prime), used in over a thousand synthetic and natural food flavorings.Answer: Esters14.  He was chosen by lot to serve as Neptune's priest, and was sacrificing a bull at the time of his death. Antiphas and Thymbraeus a.k.a. Melanthus were his sons, and he is sometimes said to be the brother of Aeneas's father Anchises.  A famous sculpture of him is thought to have been the work of Agesander, Athenodorus, and Polydorus of Rhodes.   He questioned whether the horse was really a peaceful gesture, and paid for his suspicion by being crushed to death, along with his two sons, by two serpents who come from Tenedos. FTP, name this Trojan who feared Greeks bearing gifts.Answer: Laocoon (Ley-ah-coh-on)15.  He was born in 1901 in a suburb of Portland Oregon and received a PhD in chemistry from Caltech in 1925 based on research he made on crystalline structure of various molecules. After lending much insight into the nature of chemical bonds, he tackled hydrogen bonding in hemoglobin and other proteins, discovering the alpha-helix. His work on deciphering the structure of structure of DNA was hampered by his inability to travel to Kings College in London because he was repeatedly denied a passport due to communist witch-hunts, though he was allowed to travel to Sweden in 1954 to accept the Nobel Prize in chemistry. Name this chemist, who also won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962 for advocating a Nuclear Test Ban treaty and loved Vitamin C.Answer: Linus Pauling16.  Among its applications is the belief that humans do not have an innate tendency towards good or evil, and that economics often determine morality First mentioned in literature to describe the article Messenger of Europe by Alexander Pushkin, Nazhdin saw it as skeptical.   Chernyshevsky's What is to Be Done represented a positive response to the negative press this philosophy, and in general it refers to the meaninglessness of life. Associated with Dada in art, Nietzsche in philosophy and Turgenev's Fathers and Sons, FTPE, name this philosophy that takes its name from the Latin for "nothing."Answer: Nihilism or Nihilist or Nigilizm17.  This story captured the developing American culture of merging cultures and a desire for wealth at all costs. One title character appears in the form of Old Scratch, who wears a red sash and carries and ax. The other is so greedy he will not accept wealth because he would have to share it with his wife. Initially published in the series of "Money Diggers" stories in Tales of a Traveler, it is narrated by the fictional Gentleman Geoffrey Crayon, who retells the tale based on the German Faust legend. Name this short story, initially published with a series of "Money Diggers" stories in the 1824 collection Tales of a Traveler by Washington Irving.Answer: The Devil and Tom Walker  18.  In his lifetime, he conducted the London Symphony, the Israel Philharmonic, the Boston Pops, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.  He was nominated for an unprecedented seventy-two Grammy awards, winning twenty times, and he also won four Oscars and the Golden Globe Award.  His earliest score was for the TV show Peter Gunn. FTP, name this composer, conductor, and arranger, who wrote songs and scores for movies such as The Glass Menagerie, Breakfast at Tiffany's, and The Pink Panther.	Answer:  Henry Mancini19.  Ironically, their legal troubles were worsened on by the Civil Rights Act, which made crossing state lines to incite a riot a federal offense.  The defendants and their lawyers were cited for contempt of court 159 times by Judge Julius Hoffman, though these convictions were eventually overturned. Defense witness included Country Joe MacDonald, Judy Collins, and Norman Mailer, who testified that "Left-wingers are incapable of conspiracy because they're all egomaniacs." Their ranks shrank by one when Bobby Seale was given his own trial. Name this group which included Rennie Davis, Tom Hayden, and Abbie Hoffman, who were all acquitted of conspiracy and incitingriots at the 1968 Democratic National Convention.Answer: Chicago Seven (accept Chicago Eight, even after 'Bobby Seale').20.  Like the roof of the mouth, it has a uvula, and its main region is known as the fundus.  It narrows to form a region known as the trigone.  It expands thanks to the distention of the detrusor muscle, and it is controlled by the micturition reflex.  In human males, the vas deferens connects into the tube leading away from it. With the urethra connecting it to the outside world, name this organ that can contain up to a quart of urine in desperate situations.Answer:  urinary bladderIn his later years, he wrote several unsuccessful plays, including The Feeble Sex and The Candidate. A relentless perfectionist, he spent decades refining his Memoirs of a Mad Man, which detailed the passionate chasing of a MILF, which became the basis for Novembre and Le Education Sentimentale. His Temptation of Saint Anthony shows influence of Spinoza and Spencer, while his most famous work was translated into English by Gerard Manley Hopkins, and this author likely wouldn't take a shining to quizbowlers as evidenced by his bumbling "booksmart" title heroes, Bouvard and Pecuchet. FTP, name this French novelist and dramatist who told of adultery and suicide in Madame Bovary.Answer: Gustave FlaubertYale UniversityBulldogs over Broadway--December 4, 2004Edited by Mike WehrmanPacket by Brandeis A (Amy Padva and Dan Passner) and Arkansas & Friends (Lynn Endicott, Josh Hill, Andy Wehrman, and Mike Wehrman) 1.  Identify these modern supreme court cases from clues for ten points eacha.In a judgement handed down in 1978 in this case, quotas in college admissions were barred, but affirmative action was ruled constitutional, leading to both sides trying to claim the ruling as a victory for themselves.Answer: Regents of the University of California v. Bakkeb. This 1986 case upheld a ruling on the constitutionality of a Georgia sodomy law, which was overturned in 2003. The defendant's home was entered on a erroneous arrest warrant.Answer: Bowers v. Hardwickc. This 1988 case came about when Larry Flynt published a less than savory false ad, about a Christian leader committing incest in an outhouse with his mother. This was determined to not be libel and is viewed as a major modern victory for free speech.Answer: Hustler Magazine v. Falwell2.  You may never have heard of her, but NYU professor Eda Lou Walton was a driving force in American Literature in the first half of the 20th century. FTPE,a.First, Walton was influential in introducing American audiences to this author of Finnegan's Wake.Answer: James Joyceb. Walton and a colleague introduced this American poet to heterosexual sex, and he reacted by vomiting on her. You, however may know him from "The Bridge."Answer: Hart Cranec. Walton started a torrid affair with this writer when he was 20 and she 33. He based the character of Edith Wells in his Mercy of a Rude Stream series on her, and dedicated his most famous work, Call it Sleep, to her.Answer: Henry Roth3.  First discovered in 1866, it affects about one in every thousand live births in equal population distribution and was formerly called mongolism for the epicanthal folds it causes.  FTP each:a)  Name this congenital disorder characterized by low muscle tone, flat facial features, and sometimes severe mental retardation.  	Answer:  Down's Syndrome (accept trisomy 21)b)  Down's Syndrome is caused by a triplication, or trisomy, of this smallest human chromosome.  	Answer:  Chromosome 21c)  In 1959, this French scientist first discovered that Down's Syndrome was caused by an extra chromosome, later identified as Chromosome 21.  	Answer:  Jerome LeJeune4.  Identify these monasteries prominent in the Middle Ages for ten points each.A.  Named after a disciple of the Irish missionary St. Columbanus, this Swiss monastery's library was famous in the Carolingian period.  Its most well known possession is its namesake "plan" which is a diagram of the ideal monastery as envisioned by the 816 Synod of Aachen.Answer: St. Gall or Sankt GallenB.  This Benedictine abbey near Macon in Burgundy was the richest monastery in Europe in the 11th century.  Its main church of St. Peter, mostly destroyed in the early 19th century was once the largest in Europe.Answer:  ClunyC.  Major monasteries of the 20 located on this Greek peninsula also known as the "Holy Mountain" are the Great Lavra and Pantokrator.  Even today, only males are allowed to visit, and female animals are also technically outlawed.Answer:  Mount Athos5.  Identify the following leaders of the western campaigns in the Mexican War FTPE.a) He left Fort Leavenworth with 2,000 volunteer Missouri troops and took Santa Fe without firing a shot on August 18, 1846.Answer: Stephen Watts Kearnyb) After Kearny set out for California a month later, he met this famous guide in Socorro, New Mexico who told him that the conquest of California was virtually complete.      Answer: Kit Carsonc) American settlers in California had already revoleted bfore the news of the war had reached them , and had formed the Bear Flag Republic under this future Republican Presidential candidate.      Answer: John C. Fremont6.  Oh well, a never was there ever a Greek comedian as clever as Magical Aristophanes. Works from clues, ten points each.a. It satirizes the litigiousness of the Athenians represented by the old man Philocleon, who loves serving on juries.  His son Bdelycleon arranges a case for him to hear-the family dog is accused of stealing cheese.Answer:  The Waspsb. Strepsiades is depressed because his son Phiedippides loves the horses and won't get a job, leaving Strepsiades to talk to Socrates at the Thinkery. Socrates explains that the true gods are the title objects.Answer: The Clouds or Nephelaic. Athens is getting its military schwerve on with Sparta and embargoing Megara. A veteran named Dicaeopolis is tired and wants peace. Peace, child bartering and Athens-bashing ensue.Answer: The Acharnians7.  Answer these questions about recent Indian Prime Ministers FTPE. a) This second most recent Indian PM was in office from March 1998 until May of 2004, when the current one took overAnswer: Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayeeb) The fourteenth and current Indian Prime Minster is this man.Answer: Dr. Manmohan Singhc) All other Prime Ministers to date have been Hindu, but Dr. Singh is of this faith.  Answer: Sikh or Sikhism8.  Give these literary Alices the stated number of points.a)  For five points--This is the last name of the Alice for whom Gertrude Stein wrote an autobiography that was really mainly about Stein herself. 	  Answer: Alice B. Toklasb)  For another points--This Alice is the author of The Color Purple.	  Answer: Alice Walkerc)  For ten points--This Alice is the author of The Wind Done Gone, a modern re-interpretation of  Margaret Mitchell's Gone with the Wind from the perspective of Cynara, the half-sister of Scarlet.	  Answer: Alice Randalld)  For another 10, she is the title character of a Pulitzer Prize-winning Booth Tarkington novel.	  Answer:  Alice Adams9.  Given a description of a glacial formation, identify the formation for ten points each.a)  This is the four-letter term for accumulations of unsorted, unstratified mixtures of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders.  It is the usual composition of a moraine.	Answer:  tillb)  These formations are formed by glacial till.  Their blunt ends point in the direction of the glacial flow.  They can be said to resemble an upside-down spoon or an egg.	Answer:  drumlinc)  This is the five-letter term for a sinuous ridge of sedimentary material, typically sand or gravel, deposited by streams that cut channels under or through glacial ice.	Answer:  esker10.  Generic Norse Mythology bonus. FTPEa.Odin threw this goddess to her current places of dominion in the underworld. Like Lenny Kravitz she is half black, and she resides in the Eliudnir. Answer: Helb. Destroyed at Rangarok, this crossing is guarded by Heimdall and is composed of rainbow. Answer: Bifrost bridge, or Asbru Bridgec. With a name derived from the word "best," this son of Odin is the god of poetry. That his mother was Frigg is a modern creation.Answer: Bragi11.  Name these masterworks of early cinema FTPE.a.A major influence on the art of Giacometti, this Fritz Lang work took several years to make, ballooned over budget, and was edited down to a third of its initial length. You may best know it for the image of Rotwang's frankensteinian creation, and the love between Freder and Maria.Answer: Metropolisb. Telling the story of Jack Robin/ Jakie Rabinowitz, it was among the first to use such camera techniques as ghosting, though it was not truly the first "talkie."Answer: The Jazz Singerc. Subtitled "Love's Struggle Through the Ages," this D.W. Griffith film examines the effect of the title institution on four different eras.Answer: Intolerance12.  Identify these rabbis from clues for ten each.	1. This 12th century court physician in Cordoba who authored The Guide to the Perplexed, the Mishneh Torah and postulated 13 Principles of Faith.Answer: Rambam or Rabbi (Rabbeinu) Moses ben Maimon or Maimonides 2. Another 12th century Spaniard, his biblical commentary, the Sefer Ha-Yashar is second only to that of Rashi. He was immortalized in the title of a Robert Browning poem.Answer: Rabbi Abraham ibn Ezra or Abraham ben Ezra3. Taking his name from his location in Lithuania, this 18th century scholar slept 2 hours a night, and his rulings are of central importance to modern Orthodoxy. He viciously attacked the Baal Shem Tov, believing Chassidism to not be Judaism.Answer: The Vilna Gaon or Rav Elijah ben Solomon13.  Answer the following about Carl Jung on a 5-10-15 basis.a) (5)  Jung was a student of, and later broke from, this founder of psychoanalysis.  	Answer:  Sigmund Freudb) (10)  Jung was one of the first to formulate the idea of this existence from which dreams and other archetypal symbols arise.  	Answer:  collective unconscious (prompt on unconscious)c) (15)  This 1951 Jung work, whose title contains four letters, contains Jung's concern about the relationship between psychology, alchemy, and religion.  	Answer:  Aion14.  Identify these things having to do with the Pulitzer Prize in history and the Civil War FTPE.1.First, Carl Sandburg won in 1940 for his comprehensive biography of this man, who you may know of from such events as the Cooper Union debate and his feud with McClellan.Answer: Abraham Lincoln2. Name any of the three authors behind the award winning titles The Impending Crisis and Battlecry of Freedom.Answer: David Potter , Donald Fehrenbacher , James McPherson3. Lastly, C. Vann Woodward won for his diaries of this woman, a wife of a southern slaveholder, who was internally torn on the issue of slavery.Answer: Mary Chestnut15.  An object is thrown from ground level upwards at an angle ? (theta) with respect to the ground and with an initial velocity of V. FTPE, state (in terms of V and ? where appropriate)A: The initial horizontal velocity Answer: Cos ? · V (cosine theta times V)B: The final horizontal velocityAnswer: Cos ? · V (cosine theta times V)C: The initial vertical velocityAnswer: Sin ? · V (sine theta time V)16.  . Identify the composers from works on a 10-5 basisa.  For 10:The Bells and  AlekoFor 5: Isle of the Dead and Rhapsody on a theme of PaganiniAnswer: Sergei Rachmaninoffb. For 10:Octet for Strings and Songs Without WordsFor 5: Overture to A Midsummer Night's Dream and  Hebrides OvertureAnswer: Felix Mendelssohnc.  For 10, his Third Symphony a.k.a. The Camp Meeting, and The Unanswered QuestionFor 5, Central Park in the Dark and Three Places in New EnglandAnswer:  Charles Ives17.  Identify the following about the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood FTPEa. Elizabeth Sidall was the model for this masterwork of J. E. Millais, for which she sat in a bathtub daily. The title drowned Shakespearean character is gripping flowers in her right hand.Answer: Opheliab. Sidall's death from a laudanum overdose sunk D. G. Rossetti into a depression and led him to paint this work with a title reminiscent of Dante Alighieri. In it, a golden column of sunset is atop the title figure's head and a sundial lies to her left.Answer: Beata Beatrixc. While the PRB was attacked by such figures as Charles Dickens, this author of Modern Painters was a staunch defender of their work.Answer:  John Ruskin18.  Answer the following about the Kennedys FTSNOP.a)  For five, JFK was rumored to have had an affair with this actress and one-time wife of Joe DiMaggio.	Answer:  Marilyn Monroeb)  For another five, Ted Kennedy was involved in a car accident on this island off the Massachusetts coast, in which a passenger died.	Answer:  Chappaquiddick Islandc) For 10, this is the name of the woman Teddy was driving, whose disappearance wasn't immediately reported.Answer:  Mary Jo Kopechned)  For 10, originally, John was not slated to be the family politician.  That distinction was to have gone to this eldest Kennedy brother who died when his plane blew up during a dangerous European mission.	Answer:  Joseph (Joe) Kennedy (accept either)19.  FTPE, say whether the follow statements are true for skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, both, or nether.A: Are multinucleated and cannot divide after differentiation. Answer: SkeletalB: Adjacent cells are joined by intercalated disks which hold cells together and attached them to myofibrilsAnswer: Neither (cardiac)C: Calcium ions bind to calmodulin, precipitating enzymic reactions which causes contraction.Answer: Smooth20.  Identify the following nations of the Windward Islands of the Caribbean for 10 points each.A.(10)  An overseas department of France, it was the birthplace of Napoleon's wife, Josephine.	Answer: MartiniqueB.(10)  It was disputed territory for much of the 18th century until it was finally ceded to Britain in the 1783 treaty of Paris.  It became independent in 1979, with its capital and largest city at Kingstown.	Answer: St. Vincent and the GrenadinesC.(10) Columbus named this island Concepcion in 1498, but passing Spanish sailors gave it its current name, finding its lush green hills reminiscent of their home in Andalusia.	Answer: GrenadaFTPE, name the functional group with the more downfield chemical shift in 1H NMR (H-1 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy) relative to tetra-methyl-silaneA: Methyl group or primary alcoholPrimary alcoholB: Aldehyde or methyl keytoneMethyl keytoneC: Fluorinated alkyl chloride or methyl esterMethyl esterIf you like Nathaniel Hawthorne, I truly pity you. Name these Hawthorne romances FTPE.a.Inspired by a chance discovery in a Custom House, it tells the tale of Hester Prynne and her illegitimate daughter, Arthur Dimmesdale and the vengeful Chillingworth.The Scarlet Letterb. Inspired by Hawthrone's time at Brook Farm, and his ensuing disillusionment, this book tells of the reform minded Hollingsworth, the voyeuristic narrator Miles Coverdale and Zenobia, the feminist who proved that good girls are drawn to bad boys.The Blithedale Romancec. Set in Italy and inspired by a work of Praxiteles, this novel is largely allegorical, with Miriam and Donatello representing Adam and Eve.The Marble Faun4. W.B. Yeats poems from lines, FTPEa.Every discoloration of the stone/ Every accidental crack or dent/Seems a water-course or an avalanche.Lapis Lazulib. That woman's days were spent/In ignorant good-will/Her nights in argument/Until her voice grew shrill.Easter, 1916c. An aged man is but a paltry thing/ A tattered coat upon a stick, unless/ Soul clap its hands and sing,Sailing to Byzantium