1998 Terrapin InvitationalRound 6Tossups by Penn A and B1. The son of a failed vicar, this Keble College alum has had many tragic loves. First, Jane Porter, daughter of his Oxford tutor died an untimely death. There was also Bobbie, a lovely member of the WAAF who spurned him for a bomber pilot, and Kathy Trelawney, a hippie who talked herself into a drug conviction. However, his most tragic love was undoubtedly his long marrage to She Who Must be Obeyed. FTP, name this Old Bailey hack.Answer: Horace Rumpole (accept Rumpole of the Bailey)2. Due to this potential conflict, Congress allocated $10 million to raise an army of 50,000 men, a staggering sum for 1839.  When Canadian lumberjacks began to build a road for lumbering operations, state legislators appointed Rufus McIntire land agent, with authority to eject the Canadians.  McIntire was then arrested by the Canadians in February, and ten thousand Maine troops were sent into the disputed region.  For ten points, identify the brief war, settled by a Webster-Ashburton Treaty boundary commission.Answer:  Aroostook War3. Basically, the main cause of this disease is the failure of factor VIII to stimulate the activation factor X in the intrinsic pathway.  In one of the earliest recorded accounts of this condition, John Otto wrote that the males are subject to this strange affliction, while females are exempt, transmitting it to their male children.  FTP, name this disease, transmitted to the royal families of Prussia, Spain, and Russia by Queen Victoria, where blood clotting fails.Answer: hemophilia4. Born in 1901 in Kharkov, Ukraine, he emigrated to the US in 1922, and received a Ph.D. from Columbia in 1926. A year later, he moved on to the National Bureau of Economic Research, where he did important research on economic time series, US national income, and describing cyclical variations in growth rates. FTP, name this winner of the 1971 Nobel Prize, known for his inverted U curve describing the relation between rising national income and inequality, and for an eponymous cycle of economic growth.Answer: Simon Kuznets (kooz-nets)5. Her only novel, published under the name Pierre Andrezel, describes in allegorical terms the plight of her native country during the German occupation in World War II. Her first book of stories, Seven Gothic Tales, dealt with the world of the supernatural, as did most of her later fiction such as Winter's Tales. Born in Rungsted, she married her cousin in 1914 and wrote all of her major works after divorcing him and returning to her native Denmark in 1931, although many were inspired by her life on a coffee plantation in British East Africa. FTP name this author, actually named Karen Blixen, who wrote the sketches ofAfrican life contained in Shadows on the Grass, the novel The Angelic Avengers, and Out of Africa.Answer: Isak Dinesen6. Taking advantage of the revolutionary crisis precipitated by the English victory over France at Poitiers, the common people sought revenge on their oppressors, particularly the nobility.  Late in May 1358 near Beauvais, a minor clash occurred between some peasants and soldiers.  After several castles were sacked and burned, Royalist forces under Charles II of Navarre crushed the uprising on June 10, killing about 7000.  For ten points, name this French peasant revolt during the Hundred Years War, derived from a collective name given to the French peasantry by the nobles.Answer:  The Jacquerie7. Developed by William Sealy Gosset, his employer, Guinness Brewing Company, would not let him publish it under his own name. The null hypothesis can state that there is no significant difference between an observed sample mean and the population mean, or between two different sample means. Often used to construct confidence intervals, FTP, name this statistical test whose test statistic is denoted "t."Answer: Student's t test or distribution [accept t test on early buzz]8.  While working as a busboy in Washington D.C., this poet put three of his poems beside Vachel Lindsay's plate. Lindsay was thrilled, and the resulting publicity got this man a scholarship to Lincoln University. While there, he published two books, including The Weary Blues, a poetry collection. FTP, name this leading figure of the Harlem Renaissance, perhaps best known for A Pictorial History of the Negro in America.       Answer: Langston Hughes9. General A.S Johnston seized the initiative and attacked General U.S. Grant before reinforcements could arrive in a battle fought in woods and peach orchards by inexperienced troops.  Johnston was mortally wounded on the first afternoon, and the battle ended the next day with the Union army doing little more than reoccupying the camp it had lost the day before.  FTP, name this 1862 battle fought around a church near Pittsburg Landing, in southwestern Tennessee, which resulted in a victory for the North and inlarge casualties for both sides.Answer: The Battle of Shiloh (accept Pittsburg Landing early)10. A precocious child born in San Francisco in February 1902, he broke his nose in the 1906 earthquake. He decided to become a concert pianist in 1925 but changed his mind after meeting Paul Strand.  Four years after he received the Presidential Medal of Freedom he died, and a mountain was named for him at the site that had been the subject of his best-known works.  He had started visiting that place in 1916 and had returned every year of his life, showing clearly the changes of hour and season.  His photographs were crisp and often emphasized contrast in black and white.  For ten points name this photographer of Yosemite National Park.Answer:  Ansel Adams11. He said that it was just snow melting on his face, but many observers thought that this Senator was crying when trying to defend his wife from allegations made in the Manchester Union Leader.  This image of weakness proved to be fatal to his 1972 bid for the Democratic nomination for President.  FTP identify this longtime Senator from Maine and running mate of Hubert Humphrey, who ended his career in government by serving as Jimmy Carter's final Secretary of State.Answer: Edmund Sixtus Muskie12. He received his doctorate in 1873 for his treatise "On the Continuity of the Liquid and Gaseous State," which was recognized to have major significance in the study of fluids. Assuming that gas particles have a finite volume, and that there are attractive forces between them, he derived a more exact form of the ideal gas law, as well as the law of corresponding states. A professor at the University of Amsterdam, FTP, name this physicist for whom a type of weak bond is name.Answer: Johannes Diderik  van der Waals13. Its source is the Valdai Hills and it flows nearly 1400 miles through western Russia, ending at the Black Sea, and through cities such as Smolensk and Khorson. Major tributaries include the Desna, Vorskla, and Pripet rivers. FTP, name this fourth longest river in Europe, behind the Volga, Danube, and Ural, which flows through the Ukrainian capital of Kiev.Answer: Dnieper (nye-per)14. After joining his nation's army in 1918, he was trained by the U.S. Marines then occupying the island. This training came in useful in 1930 when he led a coup against President Horacio Vasquez.  Twenty-eight years later, his son made headlines by revealing his fling with actress Kim Novak the same week her film Vertigo opened   FTP name the long-standing dictator who was assassinated by partisans outside of San Cristobal in 1961, ending his rule of the Dominican Republic.Answer: Gen Rafael Trujillo15. This instrument has prominent solos in Ralph Vaughan Williams's Flos Campi and Four Hymns. At the end of Carl Orff's Play for the End of Time, a quartet of these instruments intones a canon, and Paul Hindemith was a skilled player of the "da gamba" form. Usually notated on the alto clef, in some countries this instrument is referred to as the alto. FTP, name this string instrument, about one-seventh larger than the violin and tuned a fifth lower.Answer: viola16. His life ended in 1973 as a result of a tragic suicide, but before then, he was one of America's foremost playwrights. His works dealt specifically with the frustrations and absurdities of Midwestern life and included Good Luck, Miss Wyckoff and Picnic, for which he won the 1953 Pulitzer Prize in drama. FTP, name this man, best known for Come Back, Little Sheba.Answer: William Inge17. This man, born in 1743, set the stage for the methods used in modern field archaeology, earning him the unofficial title of "the Original Anthropologist". He is credited with the first systematic anthropological dig, the excavation of Native American burial mounds near the Rivanna River.  Though he wrote up his complete findings in his Notes on the State of Virginia, he is best known for another written work. For ten points, name this man, the primary author of the Declaration of Independence.Answer: Thomas Jefferson18. One hundred years after Secondo Pia took the first official photographs of it, this object was removed from public view in June 1998. Carbon dating of the fiber itself suggests a date of 1532, the same year in which it is supposed to have miraculously survived a fire in which the French church that housed it was destroyed, but pollen grains taken from it do indicate a Middle Eastern origin. The earliest known reference to it appears in a letter by the Bishop of Saragosa written during the seventh century.  It disappeared a few times, but has stayed in sight since the fire, and became Church property in the late 1980's. For ten points, name this 14 by 3-foot piece of linen, claimed to be the burial cloth of Jesus Christ.Answer:  The Shroud of Turin19. These devices are nonlinear circuit elements.  They have two terminals and are generally composed of silicon doped with impurities.  If the impurities have five donor electrons, it will be an n-type one of these.  If it has three donor electrons, it will be a p-type.  Ideally, they allow current to flow only in one direction, and can be used to rectify alternating current signals.  For ten points, name these devices, some of which are light-emitting.Ans:  diode (do not accept LED as an answer, they are only one kind of diode)20. The author of over 60 works, including novels, poems, criticism, and travel books, he edited both the English Review and the Transatlantic Review. He was friends with Hardy and Joyce and although not in their class as literary craftsmen, he did write such notable works as The Fifth Queen and No More Parades, and collaborated with Conrad on The Inheritors. FTP, name this author of The Good Soldier, grandson of Ford Madox Brown.Answer: Ford Madox Ford21. Buried in a pyramid in Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari in Venice, this son and grandson of stonemasons went to work for sculptor Giuseppe Bernardi at age eleven in 1768.  He set up his own studio in 1775 and created a few minor sculptures such as Daedelus and Icarus. He got his big break, however, with the tomb of  Pope Clement XIV in 1783. FTP identify this Italian born neo-classical sculptor who is best known for Cupid and Psyche, his heroic sculpture of Napoleon, and a depiction of Pauline Bonaparte Borghese as Venus.Answer: Antonio Canova22. They were first described in 1815 by Nathaniel Bowditch, who discovered them through the motion of a pendulum in two dimensions. Today, stable ones can be obtained on an oscilloscope using two sinusoidal waves with frequencies that are in whole number ratios, and they can be plotted by such formulas y = sin 7t, x = sin 5t. FTP, identify these curves named for a French mathematician.Answer: Lissajous curves or figures
1998 Terrapin InvitationalRound 6Bonuses by Penn A and B1. 30-20-10 identify the American:30.  He became a plumber's apprentice in 1910 and a union member five years later.  In 1922, he was elected business agent for Local 463 of the Plumbers Union.20.  By 1934, he had become president of the New York State Federation of Labor.  President Roosevelt then appointed him to the newly formed National Defense Labor Board, where he fought againstCongressional attempts to make the War an excuse for limiting labor rights.10.  In November 1952 he was elected president of the A.F.L.  He immediately sought a merger with Walter Reuther and the C.I.O., achieving it in 1955.Answer:  (William) George Meany2. Answer the following about an American civil rights leader FTP each.1. He cofounded the National Negro Committee, which later became the NAACP, and wrote The Souls ofBlack Folk.Answer: WEB DuBois2. From 1910 to 1932 DuBois edited this NAACP magazine.Answer: Crisis3. When DuBois became a professor at Atlanta University in 1932, this assistant editor took over the Crisis. She was also the editor of The Brownies Book and the author of Plum Bun.Answer: Jessie Fauset3. Identify these terms related to mass wasting FTP each.1. This is the term for the accumulations of blocks from rockfalls, which slowly accumulate along the base of a cliff.Answer: talus2. A very slow deformation of regolith, this downhill movement of soil or debris is the slowest unconsolidated mass movement, with a rate of about 1 to 10 millimeters per year.Answer: creep3. Only occurring in cold regions, the freezing and thawing of surface layers causes water to accumulate and ooze downhill in this type of movement.Answer: solifluction4. Identify the following from prehistoric art, neither of which is Lascaux, for fifteen points each.1. The prehistoric paintings in this Spanish cave were discovered in 1868, put the bison on the ceiling were not discovered for another eleven years.Answer: Altamira2. The oldest sculpture known to man was unearthed in the Black Forest region of Germany.  It is commonly thought to be a sculpture of a fertility goddess and named after the town it was found near.Answer: Venus of Willendorf5. After the Death of Louis the Pious in 840, his three sons battled for control of the Carolingian Empire.10. First, FFPE, in what year and in what city, did the three sons of Louis the Pious sign a treaty partitioning the lands of Charlemagne?Answers: 843, Verdun20. Now, FFPE, plus a bonus five for all three, name the three sons of Louis the Pious who met at Verdun in 843.Answers: Louis II or Louis the German, Lothair I, and Charles II or Charles the Bald6. Given works, name the British dramatist FTP each1.'Tis Pity She's a Whore, Love's SacrificeAnswer: John Ford2.Summer's Last Will and Testament, The Unforunate TravellerAnswer: Thomas Nashe3. A Trick to Catch the Old One, The Roaring GirlAnswer: Thomas Middleton7. Identify these people important in the study of intelligence testing FTP each.1. Director of physiological psychology at the Sorbonne, he developed tests along with Theodore Simon that measured the relative intelligence amongst deprived children.Answer: Alfred Binet2. This German proposed the use of a ratio measure called the intelligence quotient.Answer: William Stern3. In 1958, this man introduced his Adult Intelligence Test, which is divided into verbal and performance subtests.Answer: David Wechsler8. Identify these types of differential equations, for ten points each..1. A differential equation involving a function of a single variable.Answer:  ordinary2. An ordinary differential equation in which dy/dx can be written as a function of y over x.Answer: homogeneous3. An ordinary differential equation where all terms are an nth order polynomial in x times the nth derivative of x, and the sum of all such terms is zero.Answer: homogeneous[Note: this is not a mistake. They *are* both homogeneous.]9. Identify the Revolutionary War Battles FTPE1. Fought on January 2, 1777, the Continental Army under Washington defeated three British regiments and then proceeded to Morristown for the winter.Answer: Princeton2. A British force under Howe attacked 20,000 isolated American troops and defeated them on August 27, 1776.  Howe then elected to lay siege, and the Americans escaped to Manhattan.Answer: Long Island3. In late 1775 a group of Continentals under Benedict Arnold and Richard Montgomery invaded Canada, but met with utter defeat here on December 31.  Montgomery was killed in the action and many of the 1,600 colonials were captured.Answer: Quebec10. In Plato's Republic, Socrates describes the results of a man who has lived his life in the shadows being introduced to the light, and his subsequent return to the shadows.1. FTP, give the name of this example, used to illustrate different levels of awareness.Answer: The Allegory of the Cave2. In what book of the Republic will you find the Allegory of the Cave?Answer: Book VII3. For a final ten points, to whom does Socrates present the Allegory?Answer: Glaucon11. Given the reagents, name the organic chemistry reaction, 10 points each.1. Addition of reagents to unsymmetric alkenes.Answer: Markovnikov addition2. Decarboxylation of the silver salt of a carboxylic acid by bromine or iodine.Answer: Hunsdiecker or Borodin reaction3. Self-condensation of two molecules of an aldehyde.Answer: aldol condensation12. 30-20-10: Name the director from films.30. Que Viva Mexico, Old and New20. Strike, October10. Battleship PotemkinAnswer: Sergei Eisenstein13. FTPE, answer the following questions concerning Charlemagne1. The name of the king of the Franks prior to Charlemagne, who was also his father.Answer: Pepin III or Pepin the Short 2.  The brother of Charlemgne, who ruled half of the Frankish kingdom from 768 until his sudden death in 771.Answer: Carloman3. The pope who took refuge in the kingdom of Chalemagne from 799-800, who later anointed Charlemagne king of the Holy Roman Empire in 800.Answer: Pope Leo III14. Identify these works written by British expatriates in Florence, 5-10-15.5. Shelley wrote this lyrical drama, the follow-up to an Aeschylus tragedy, in a palazzo near the modern Santa Maria Novella train station.Answer: Prometheus Unbound10. George Eliot lived in a palazzo on Via Tornabuoni, which now houses the Gucci boutique, when she wrote this historical novel about a young Florentine woman influenced by Savonarola.Answer: Romola15. Elizabeth Barrett Browning wrote this long narrative work, purportedly the autobiographical verses of a poetess, in Florence.Answer: Aurora Leigh15. Ten points each, identify these works of Hector Berlioz.1. This Berlioz comic opera is based on Shakespeare's Much Ado About Nothing.Answer: Béatrice et Bénédict or Beatrice and Benedict2. This rarely-performed recessional for this work calls for a dozen harps.Answer: Te Deum3. This festive overture is derived from his opera Benvenuto Cellini.Answer: Roman Carnival16. Identify these cell components, for the stated number of points.5. These are the basic contractile units of skeletal muscle cells.Answer: sarcomeres5. These "false feet" are used by eukaryotes in cell motility.Answer: pseudopods or pseudopodia10. These cellular compartments are used to detoxify cells, metabolize very large fatty acids, and contain catalase.Answer: peroxisomes [not lysosomes]10. These special channels are designed for the movement of water only.Answer: aquaporins17. Given a Pulitzer Prize winning play, name the author FTP each. If  you need a more famous play, you'll only get 5.1. 10. The Piano Lesson      5. FencesAnswer: August Wilson2. 10. There Shall Be No Night      5. Abe Lincoln in IllinoisAnswer: Robert Sherwood3. 10. Talley's Folly      5. The Hot l BaltimoreAnswer: Lanford Wilson18. Name these people, associated with Aeneas, for the stated number of points.10. First, F5PE name his parents.Answer: Aphrodite or Venus and Anchises5. Now F5P name his son, the founder of Alba Longa.Answer: Ascanius or Iulus15. Finally, F15P name the Rutuli leader opposed Aeneas' arrival in Italy who was killed near the end of the Aenead.Answer: Turnus19. Answer these questions about the K-T boundary, for the stated number of points.5. All or nothing, the K-T boundary separates which two geological periods?Answers: Cretaceous and Tertiary10. Name the scientist who first discovered the boundary.Answer: Walter Alvarez10. In what country did Alvarez first discover the K-T boundary in a stratigraphic sequence?Answer: Gubbio, Italy5. Alvarez found abnormally high concentrations of this element, suggesting an asteroid as the cause of the extinction of the dinosaurs.Answer: Iridium20. Identify the following 20th century East Asian leaders on a 5-10-15 basis.5. First, for five, he became leader of North Korea in 1948 and ruled it with an iron fist until his death in 1994.Answer: Kim Il Sung10. Now, for ten, identify Kim's rival in South Korea, President of the Republic of Korea from 1948-1960.Answer: Syngman Rhee 5. Identify the South Vietnamese premier assassinated on November 2, 1963.Answer: Ngo Dinh Diem.10. For a final ten points, identify the ruler whom Diem deposed in 1955.Answer: Bao Dai 21. Identify the author from works 30-20-10.30. Fantastic Fables, Black Beetles In Amber20. Skepticism and Dissent, Can Such Things Be?10. Cobwebs from an Empty Skull, Devil's DictionaryAnswer: Ambrose Bierce