1998 Terrapin InvitationalPlayoff Round 1Tossups by Seth Kendall1. After the death of his father, Redmond is sent to live with his uncle Brady, where he soon gains a reputation as a bully and falls in love with his uncle's daughter Nora. Mistakenly thinking he has killed a man in a duel over her, he flees Ireland to the continent, where he contrives to marry a rich widow and become a landed gentleman and Member of Parliament before the widow's son, Lord Bullington, has him arrested. Such are the exploits of what unysmpathetic character, who assumes a new name, that of the title, in a work by William Thackeray?Answer: Barry Lyndon2. Initially designed as an excise on imported goods as a protective measure for domestic manufacturing, many historians hold that the provisions which also taxed imported raw materials were intentionally added by Pro-Jacksonian congressmen in an effort to produce a package so odious both to the North and the South that it would be defeated and cause embarrassment to John Quincy Adams. Instead it was passed, and proved so despised in the South that in reaction to it the South Carolina Exposition and Protest was drawn up. For 10 points name this 1828 tariff which Calhoun urged South Carolina to "nullify".Answer: Tariff of Abominations (accept Tariff of 1828 early on)3. In 1895, this man became director of the Physical Institute at the University of Strasbourg, where he began research on electricity which led to his invention of a type of electrometer named for him. Four years later, he invented the sparkless antenna for a wireless telegraph, vastly improving its range, but he is perhaps better known for inventing another device which produced a narrow stream of electrons, guided by means of alternating voltage, that could trace patterns on a fluorescent screen. FTP, name this man who shared the 1909 Nobel Prize in physics, the inventor of the cathode-ray oscilloscope.Answer: Karl Ferdinand Braun4. From the Greek for "drinking together", the word was originally used to describe a part of public banquets after the meal was eaten when the men of Athens would drink wine to intoxication while listening to poetry and watching games. Such occasions were also opportune for philosophic discussions, and from these came a new word applied to a dialogue on a specific subject such as ideal love, the assets most prized by men, and drunkenness, the topics of works with this title by Plato, Xenophon, and Aristotle, respectively. FTP, give this word, commonly used now to describeany conference on a specific subject. Answer: symposium5. This play's protagonist involves herself in several promiscuous relationships because her father had forbidden her to marry her one true love, Gordon Shaw, who died in World War I without spending one night with her. Eventually shedecides to marry Sam Evans, but because he has a history of insanity in his family she bears the son of another man, Edmund Darrell, with whom she has an ongoing affair. This is, for 10 points, a summary of Nina Leeds' affairs in what unusually named play by Eugene O'Neill?Answer: Strange Interlude6. Ignited by the repression of the Council of Blood this war broke out in 1568, and after a series of reverses success came in 1576, when the mercenary armies of William the Silent and the sea power of the Beggars managed to capture much of Holland and Zealand. After William's assassination in 1588 defeat seemed imminent, but the respite allowed by the Twelve Year's Truce allowed the rebels to fortify the Dutch frontier, and fear of the Franco-Dutch alliance led to peace in 1648. FTP name this conflict, which led to Dutch independence from Spain.Answer: Eighty Years' War7. Consisting of about twenty species from the family Sphyraenidae, these fish are mostly found in tropical regions, though some inhabit more temperate areas. Ranging from about 4-6 feet in length, they have long slender bodies, two dorsal fins, long pointed jaws, and feed on other fish such as mullets, grunts, and anchovies. For 10 points, name thesecarnivorous fish which strike at anything that gleams and whose name is used as the title of a song by Heart.Answer: Barracuda 8. The highest peak of this landlocked European nation is Gerlach Peak, located in the High Tatras range of the Carpathians. Its rivers include the Hornad, Hron, and Vah, and well as the Danube, which forms its boundary with Hungary, and the Morava, on which its capital is situated. For 10 points name this nation also bordered by Poland, Austria, the Ukraine, and the Czech Republic, to which it had been politically united until 1989, with capital at Bratislava.Answer: Slovakia9. After receiving training from the a portrait painter named Stein and spending two years at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, this artist began painting landscapes, which so caught the interest of John Trumbull that he acted as his patron. His works include landscapes such as The Ox-Bow, and classically-themed works such as The Architect's Dream and the series The Course of Empire. For 10 points, name this artist, a founder of the Hudson River School and painter of The Voyage of Life series.Answer: Thomas Cole10. Many translations of the work were made, notably by King Alfred the Great and by Geoffrey Chaucer.  Although written by a non-Christian, it contained so many elements of Christian ethics that it was highly regarded in Europe during medieval times.  In it, a personified Philosophy explains to the author how earthly fortune is mutable and that happiness can only be attained by virtue, by being like God.  For ten points, name the philosophical work written by Boethius while in the prison of Theodoric.Answer:  The Consolation of Philosophy or De Consolatione Philosophiae11. Though loved by his neighbor Laetitia Dale, this title character chooses to become engaged first to Constantia Durham, who runs away with the the soldier Harry Oxford, and then to Clara Middleton, who chooses to marry his cousin Vernon Whitford. Defeated, he courts Laetitia, and though she is no longer interested in him she consents to marry him if he will fund his relative Crossjay's entrance to the Marines. Such are the adventures of self-centred Willoughby Patterne in what novel by George Meredith?Answer: The Egoist (accept Sir Willoughby Patterne early)12. A descendant of the princess of Powys, this man had, ironically, once served in the army of Henry Bolingbroke, who personally loathed him, before the latter overthrew Richard II. In 1404, a war with his neighbor Lord Grey of Ruthlin and Henry's support of Grey set off a rebellion in Wales, which he led, conquering most of the country and proclaiming himself Prince of Wales until the military setbacks he suffered at the hands of Henry V in 1410 broke his power. FTP, name this Welsh rebel who makes a guest appearance as a supporter of Hotspur in Shakespeare's Henry the IV, Part 1.Answer: Owain Glyn Dwr or Owen Glendower13. Among the dominant lifeforms that flourished in this epoch were the marine foraminiferans, protozoans similar to amoebas but bearing a complex, often calcareous test, as well as the largest land mammal of all time, the Baluchitherium. Divided into two ages, the Rupelian and the Chattian, other noteworthy events include the evolution of the first mastodon and the earliest apelike form, the Parapithecus, but otherwise "few recent forms" came into being, hence its name. For 10 points name this epoch of the Tertiary period lasting from 36.6 to 23.7 million years ago, which followed the Eocene and precedes the Miocene.Answer:  Oligocene14. The deity which bore this name sprung from the churning of the sea of milk and was a manifestation of the moon cursed by Daksha to periodically wane but recover his strength, whose most famous exploit was the seduction of the goddess Tara which resulted in the god Buddha. The name is probably better known for what it identified in the Vedic period, a liquid distilled from the ephedra vulgaris and consumed only by Brahmans. For 10 points give the shared name of the god and the hallucinogenic drink from which Indra derived his power.Answer: Soma15. In 1760 its author went to Breslau as secretary to General Tauentzien, the military governor of Silesia. Hestudied philosophy and aesthetics in the Breslau libraries, and the result was this treatise. It states that paintingis bound to observe spatial proximity, whereas the essence of poetry lies not in description but in the representation of the transitory, of movement; in it the author takes issue with the contemporary art historian Johann Winckelmann, who had claimed that art criticism and literary criticism were based on the same principles. FTP what is this 1766 essay by Gotthold Lessing in which the titular Hellenistic statue is used as a central example?Answer: Laocoon; or, On the Limits of Painting and Poetry, or Laokoon: oder ber die Grenzen der Malerei und Poesie16. In 278 B.C. this people moved down from their homes in central Europe and attacked the city-states of Macedonia and Pergamum before settling down in Asia Minor and establishing the state of Galatia. They are, however, more famous for their conflicts with Rome, which they sacked in 386 B.C. before being driven off by Marcus Furius Camillus. For 10 points name this barbarian people finally subjugated by Julius Caesar in 51 B.C.Answer: Gauls17. This element was first discovered in 1808 by Sir Humphrey Davy and independently by Jacques Thenard and Louis Guy-Lussac, who gave it its name, which is derived from the Arabic word for "white". The first and lightest of the Group III A elements, its ability to dissolve metallic oxides has led to its use as soldering fluxes, and its high boiling point has made it ideal for use in cooking ware. For 10 points name this element, atomic number 5, whose most famous use is as a detergent.Answer: Boron18. From the Latin for "loosened", this type of construction is essentially a clause, usually employing a noun and a participle, which is syntactically independent of the main clause. It takes a variety of cases in Indo-European languages, expressing itself through the Dative in Sanskrit, through the Genitive and less commonly the Accusative in Greek, and,perhaps most famously, through the ablative in Latin. Having heard these clues, for 10 points name this grammatical structure expressed by the Nominative in English and in no way related to vodka.Answer: absolute (accept ablative absolute before "cases")19. In 1922 a mysterious opera singer named Emilia Marty comes to Prague, where she becomes involved with a 100 year-old property dispute about which she seems to know a great deal. After revealing the whereabouts of ancientdocuments which would restore the property to its rightful owner, she is cornered into revealing that she was there 100 years ago at the beginning of the dispute, and that in fact she is over 300 years old, made immortal by a potion giver to her by her father, a Greek court physician to Rudolf II. This is, for 10 points, the plot of what opera, one of the most famous of Leos Janacek?Answer: The Makropoulous Affair or The Makropoulous Case20. Relieved by McClellan in 1861, this man was relegated to defensive work in Washington, where he raised a corps during the Peninsular campaign in time to take part in the defeat at Second Manassas, moving on to command the Department of the Pacific until his death in 1885. After graduating from West Point in 1838, he served as aide-de-camp to General John Wool during the Mexican War, and in 1861 he was tapped by Winfield Scott to lead the Army of the Potomac against Richmond, resulting in a defeat from which his career never recovered. For 10 points name this man, stopped cold by P.G.T. Beauregard at the First Battle of Manassas.Answer: Irvin McDowell21. The daughter of a miserly merchant from the town of Saumur, her life is changed when her cousin Charles, whose impoverished father has just committed suicide, comes to stay. She falls in love with him, and gives him her private treasure of gold coins to recoup his fortunes in the West Indies, but the end he betrays her and she ends up alone and as miserly as her father. Such is a description of, FTP, what title character of an 1833 novel by Honore de Balzac?Answer: Eugenie Grandet22. Evidence suggests that this city flourished in Greece around 1,500 to 1,400 B.C. before its destruction at the hands of the barbarian Dorians in the 13th century. Founded, according to legend, by the hero Perseus, it figured prominently in the Iliad as the chief city in the Greek alliance against Troy, and although it was above ground, it remained unexcavated until it was rediscovered in 1896 by Heinrich Schliemann. For 10 points name this ancient city, home in mythology to Agamemnon, Orestes, and Electra.Answer: Mycenae23. Some legends tell that, like Peter, this saint was ordered crucified upside down in Armenia, whose patron saint he became. Others describe how he took the gospel to India, where he was martyred by being flayed alive, and it is from this that he became the patron saint of tanners. FTP identify this apostle, also known as Nathanael, on whose feast day ahorrible massacre of Huguenots took place in 1572.Answer: Saint Bartholemew24. .  In 1641 this man traveled to Florence to become the personal secretary of Galileo for the last three months of his life and to take his place as professor of mathematics at the Florentine academy. During his lifetime he was famous for his calculations of cycloids and his work on fluid mechanics, including his equation v=^é2gh (v equals the square root of two g h), but he is now remembered for his being the first to produce an artificial vacuum. For 10 points name this Italian scientist, the inventor of the barometer.Answer: Evangelista Torricelli25. Under the patronage of Cardinal Francesco del Monte in Rome this man painted such early works as The  Young Bacchus and The  Music Party before a commission to decorate the altar of the the Contarelli Chapel in 1597 which resulted in his Calling of Saint Matthew series. After killing a man over a disputed tennis score in 1606, he was forced to leave Rome and his career was essentially ruined, but as a fugitive in Malta he painted one of his most famous works in 1608. For 10 points name this man, born Michelangelo Merisi, who decorated a church in Viletta with his Beheading of St. John the Baptist.Answer: CaravaggioOne, created by songwriters Tony Iommi and Geezer Butler, is  an android whose time-travelling efforts to save the human race go unappreciated, causing him to become a killing machine. Quite a contrast is the creation of Stan Lee, a millionaire and superhero who uses technology to restore a damaged heart and to fight crime. For 10 points give thecommon name of a famous Black Sabbath song and the armor-wearing alter-ego of Tony Stark.Answer: Iron Man
1998 Terrapin Invitational Playoff Round 1Bonuses by Seth Kendall1. Answer the following film-related questions for the stated number of points.10.  The films in which this actor has appeared include Captains Courageous, The Devil Doll, Mark of the Vampire, and several "Dr. Kildare" films.Answer: Lionel Barrymore5.  This actress has appeared in such pictures as The Benny Goodman Story, From Here To Eternity, They Were Expendable, and The Picture of Dorian Gray.Answer: Donna Reed5.  This actor has starred in such films as The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence, Rear Window, Vertigo, and The Spirit of St. Louis.Answer: James Stewart5.  This man has directed such films as Arsenic and Old Lace, It Happened One Night, Lost Horizon, and You Can't Take it With You.Answer: Frank Capra5. For a final five points, name the 1946 film featuring the acting talents of Lionel Barrymore, Donna Reed, and Jimmy Stewart , which was directed by Frank Capra.Answer: It's a Wonderful Life2.  On September 24, 1869, Secretary of the Treasury Abel Corbin released some of the Federal Reserves of gold to end the crisis caused by two wealthy speculators who had sought to corner the gold market and managed to drive the price up $13.50 per ounce.10. For 10 points, what was the name given to this day, which ended the immediate panic but proved catastrophic for the fortunes and business of many.Answer: Black Friday20. For 10 points each, name the conspirators who brought about Black Friday.Answer: James Fisk, Jay Gould 3. Identify the playwright from works, 30-20-10.30. Lone Canoe, A Life in the Theater20.  American Buffalo, Oleanna10.  Glengarry Glen RossAnswer: David Mamet4. Securing the Isthmus of Panama to build a canal took a lot of diplomatic effort by the United States.5.  First, for five points, what American Secretary of State ended up negotiating three treaties, with Britain, Colombia, and Panama respectively?Answer:  John Hay5.  Second, for five points, what 1901 treaty, co-signed by Hay and a British ambassador, gave the United States exclusive rights to build a Central American canal?Answer:  Hay-Pauncefote Treaty10.  Third, for ten points, what 1903 treaty would have given the United States a 99-year lease on a six-mile strip of land, but was rejected by the Colombian Senate?Answer:  Hay-Herran Treaty10.  Last, for ten points, what French engineer led a Panamanian revolt against Colombia in 1903, declaring Panama's independence in order to ensure the canal would be built there and not in Nicaragua?Answer:  Philippe Bunau-Varilla5. Identify the following mathematical constructs from clues, 15 points each.1. From the Greek for "shell form", this form was studied and named by the Greek minor mathematician Nicomedes in 200 BC in relation to the problem of duplication of the cube. It has a Cartesian equation of quantity x minus b squared times x squared plus y squared minus a squared x squared equals zero, with x = b as an asymptote, and it was used in the construction of ancient buildings with the vertical section of columns taking this shape.Answer: conchoid2. It can be defined either as the locus of the focus of a parabola rolling along a straight line, the evolute of the tractrix, and the locus of the mid-point of the vertical line segment between the curves e to the x and e to the minus x. It is best defined, however, as the shape of a perfectly flexible chain suspended by its ends and acted on by gravity, hence the name given to it by Huygens, which is from the Latin for "chain".Answer: catenary6. Answer the following questions from Greek mythology for the stated number of points.10. Twin sons of Poseidon, these two boys grew at a rate of nine feet per year and were only nine years old when they started making trouble for the gods, including an attempted storming of Olympus. For five points each, name these two juvenile delinquents.Answers: Otus and Ephialtes10. Otus and Ephialtes tried to storm Olympus by piling these two mountains on top of each other to create a mountain equal in height to the abode of the gods. For an additional five points each, name these two mountains.Answer: Pelion and Ossa5. Repelled from this invasion, Otus and Ephialtes attempted other mischief, such as capturing this god and shutting him in a bronze jar for over a year. Name the unfortunate god for five points.Answer: Ares5. Otus and Ephialtes were immune from any weapons thrown at them by the gods, and were finally killed when this god caused a stag to run between them and they shot each other aiming for it. For a final five points name this god, who devised the stratagem in retaliation for the attempted rape of his sister Artemis.Answer: Apollo7. This bonus will test your knowledge of the plays of the rare Ben Jonson. Identify the Jonson play from a brief description, 10 points each.1.  Jonson first broke into the big time with this play, a comedy of misunderstanding in which a clever servant named Brainworm plays off the prominent character traits of his dullard employers while helping his employer's son, Young Kno'well.Answer: Every Man in His Humour2. In retaliation of the unflattering portayal of him in John Marston's Histriomastix, Jonson published this play, in which Marston is clearly the model for the title character who, as his name implies, is a writer of mediocre verses.Answer: The Poetaster3. Jonson followed up the resounding successes of Volpone and The Alchemist with this play, in which Morose, a lover of peace and quiet, marries what he believes to be a taciturn lady, who turns out to be neither.Answer: Epicoene, or the Silent Woman8. Artistic talent sometimes runs in families. On a 5-10-15 basis, give the surnames of these artistic brothers.5. Pol, Hennequin, and Herman illustrated the Tres Riches Heures du Duc de Berry, completed in 1416.Answer: Limbourg10. James and Robert were successful architects in the neoclassical and rococo styles. London's leading interiordecorators of the later eighteenth century, they often worked in collaboration with Angelica Kaufmann.Answer: Adam15. Antoine and Mathieu were successful painters but less famous than their brother Louis, who paintedPeasant Family around 1640.Answer: Le Nain9. Identify the following concerning the planet Pluto for the stated number of points.10. FTP, Identify the recently deceased astronomer who discovered the planet in 1930.Answer: Clyde Tombaugh5. The elliptical orbit of Pluto makes it such that every 248 years it falls into the orbit of this planet. Name it for five points.Answer: Neptune5. Because of this, it was long thought that Pluto had originally been a breakaway satellite of Neptune, until it was discovered that Neptune itself had a satellite. Name this moon of Pluto for five points.Answer: Charon (KAR-en)10. For a final ten points, identify the astronomer at the U.S. Naval Observatory who discovered Charon in 1978.Answers: James W. Christy10. Identify the nation from clues, 30-20-10.30. Among the geographical features of this nation is a Staten Island, a Colorado River, and a region called Mesopotamia.20.  Other features of this country include the Gran Chaco to the north, the Pampas in the middle, and Patagonia to the south, as well as partial ownership of Tierra del Fuego.10. The Uraguay river empties into the Rio de la Plata near the capital of this nation, Buenos Aires.Answer: Argentina11.  Identify the Russian composers of the following ballets on a 5-10-15 basis.5. Gayane and SpartacusAnswer: Aram Il'yich Khachaturian10. Raymonda and The SeasonsAnswer: Alexander Konstantinovich Glazunov15. The Bronze Horseman and The Red PoppyAnswer: Reyngol'd Moritsevich Gliere12. Identify the following economic terms from descriptions, 10 points each.1. Named for the financial agent of Queen Elizabeth I who best described it, this economic maxim states that if two coins have the same face value but are made from metals of unequal value, the cheaper will tend to drive the other out of circulation;  i.e. "bad money drives out good."Answer: Gresham's Law2. This law states that if one input in the production of a commodity is increased while all other inputs are held fixed, a point will eventually be reached at which additions of the input yield progressively smaller increases in output.Answer: Law of Diminishing Returns3. This theory, developed at the end of the 19th century by a number of writers including John Bates Clark and Philip Henry Wicksteed, argues argued that a business firm would be willing to pay a productive agent only what he adds to the firm's well-being or utility.Answer: Marginal Productivity Theory13. Identify the following twentieth century American authors from works on a 10-5 basis.1. 10. Noon Wine,  Flowering Judas      5. Pale Horse, Pale Rider, Ship Of FoolsAnswer: Katherine Anne Porter2. 10. Clock Without Hands, The Square Root of Wonderful      5. The Member of the WeddingAnswer: Carson McCullers3. 10. Lucy Gayheart, My Mortal Enemy      5. My AntoniaAnswer: Willa Cather14. Considering the amount of mischief liquor has caused in American History, one might almost consider Prohibition a good idea. Given a description of various alcohol-related trouble in US History, name it on a 5-10-15 point basis.5.   In 1794 Washington had to deal with this civil insurrection in Pennsylvania and Western Virginia, which was quickly put down by soldiers led by Alexander Hamilton and Richard Henry Lee.Answer: Whisky Rebellion10.  In 1875 Secretary of the Treasury Benjamin Bristow uncovered this plot by distillers and tax collectors to defraud the government of excise taxes, whose conspirators included President U.S. Grant's personal secretary Orville Babcock.Answer: Whisky Ring15. In the 1884 election James G. Blaine may have lost the election when the Reverend Samuel D. Burchard cost him the Irish Catholic vote in New York by referring to the Democratic party as the party of these three things at a meeting of Protestant Ministers.Answer: Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion15.  Identify the following colorful elements from clues on a 10-5 point basis.1. 10.  In 1803, this element was discovered in a block of crude platinum ore by William Wollaston, who named the element from the brilliant red color of its chlorine salts.      5. Because it is not corroded or tarnished by the atmosphere at room temperature, this element is frequently electroplated onto metal objects and polished to give permanent, attractive surfaces for jewelry and other decorative articles. Its atomic number is 45.Answer: rhodium2. 10. Though known to the ancients, this element was first isolated by Albertus Magnus in 1250. Its name is derived from the Greek for "yellow orpiment", a dye which was named for it.      5. Now known principally for its toxicity, its atomic number is 33.Answer: arsenic3. 10. Discovered spectroscopically by Bunsen and Kirchhoff in 1860 in mineral water from Durkheim, it was named for the brilliant blue lines it gives in spectroscopy.     5.  Strongly photoelectric, it is used extensively in photoelectric cells and in television cameras to form the electronic image, and it has been proposed for use in plasma propulsion engines for deep-space exploration. it is most famous for its use in atomic clocks, and its atomic number is 55.Answer: cesium16. Identify the religious figure, 30-20-10.30. In one variant of his legend, he was a pirate and dealer in the black market who became converted to Christianity after surviving being thrown into the Mediterranean. In most versions, he was a prince of Cappadocia who was tortured horribly for seven days before being beheaded, but not before his request that all who prayed in his name have their prayers answered.20.  He is patron saint of farmers, the word from which his name derives in Greek, cavalrymen, boy scouts, and archers, as well as the countries Portugal and Germany.10. Also the Patron Saint of England, his most famous exploit is the slaying of a dragon.Answer: St. George17. Name these literary works based on tales from the Decameron, 5-10-15.5. This Shakespearean play's episode of the caskets, in which Portia chooses her husband, was ripped off fromBoccaccio.Answer: The Merchant of Venice10. This Canterbury Tale tells the story of Patient Griselda, which had earlier appeared on the tenth day of theDecameron.Answer: Clerk's Tale15. This John Keats poem adapts Boccaccio's tale of the title character who retrieves her lovers severed headand plants it in a flowerpot.Answer: Isabella, or the Pot of Basil18.  In late August of 1914 the Germans and Russians fought in a battle on the same site as a 1410 climactic rout of the Teutonic Knights. In this battle, however, the Russians were completely routed, with 100,000 prisoners taken. Answer the following questions about this battle, 10 points each.1. Name the battle.Answer: Tannenburg 2. Name the Russian general, whose remorse at the loss at Tannenburg drove him to suicide.Answer: Alexander Samsonov3. Name the German marshal who defeated Samsonov at Tannenburg.Answer: Paul von Hindenburg19. Identify the common scientific surname an a 30-20-10 basis.30.  Jeremias was a German chemist renowned for developing stoichiometry as a branch of Chemistry, while Hieronymous Theodor co-discovered indium in 186320.  Burton was an American physicist largely responsible for the Stanford Positron-Electron Accelerating Ring and won the 1976 Nobel Prize in Physics with Samuel Ting for the discovery of the J/psi particle.10. Charles was an American seismologist who invented the scale of determining earthquake magnitude that is named for him.Answer: Richter20. Answer the following questions about the world's most famous shipwreck, the Titanic, for the stated number of points.1. For five points, identify the year in which the Titanic sank. Answer: 19122. For an additional five points, name the shipping firm which owned the Titanic.Answer: White Star Line3. White Star Line was owned in part by this American tycoon, who did not long survive the disaster. For an additional 5 points name this man, a banker and founder of the U.S. Steel Corporation bought from Andrew Carnegie.Answer: John Pierpont Morgan4. The Titanic was not the only disaster for the White Star Line. For 10 points name this sister ship of the Titanic and the Olympic,, which serve as a hospital ship during World War I until she exploded and sank in the Aegean Sea on November 21, 1916 with a loss of thirty lives.Answer: BritannicIn the late Sixties the superhero team the Avengers came upon a man floating on the Ocean and, when they brought him into their submarine, they were astonished to find that he was a soldier named Steve Rogers frozen in suspended animation since the 1940's, who then revived. Answer the following questions about him for the stated number of points.1. For 5 points: the Avengers then learned that Rogers was in actuality this superhero, who ined their team and in time came to lead it. Identify him.answer: Captain America2. For 10 points: Captain America came to be frozen in through the machinations of this aristocratic Nazi scientist and supercriminal, known for his crimson hood which had become permanently affixed to his face. Name this adversary of Captain America, who would later die in battle with him. answer: Baron Heinrich von Zemo3. For 15 points: Killed in the trap set by Baron Zemo was this hero, a mascot in the regiment of Steve Rogers who discovered Cap's secret identity and became his partner. Identify him.Answer: Bucky (Barnes)Geography bonus? Damned strait! Name the following damned straits from descriptions, 10 points each.1. This small strait, about 20 miles long and 10 miles long, separates the British Isles from mainland Europe.answer: Strait of Dover2. This large strait, an arm of the Indian Ocean,  is about 500 miles long and 30 to 200 miles wide. It separates the island of Sumatra from the Malay Peninsula.answer: Malacca Strait3. A winding passage of 350 miles in length and 2 to 20 miles in width, this strait separates mailand South America and Tierra del Fuego and connects the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.answer: Strait of MagellanGiven a brief list or works, identify the French authors who wrote them, 10 points each; if you more works, you'll only get five points.1. 10 pts: The Gods Are Athirst, The Crime of Sylvester Bonhard 5 pts: Thais, Penguin IslandAnswer: Anatole France2. 10 pts: A Sentimental Education, Salammbo 5 pts: Madame BovaryAnswer: Gustave Flaubert3. 10 pts: Racine et Shakespeare, Armance, De lamour5 pts: La Chartreuse de Parme, Le Rouge et le NoirAnswer: Stendhal (Beyle)This bonus will test your knowledge of the early trailblazers of medical science. Name the following scientists from clues, 15 points each.1. Active during the first decades of the first century AD, this Roman collected the works of the Hippocratics On Medicine, whose Latin terminology introduced in the work was universally adopted by Renaissancephysicians when the work was reprinted in the fifteenth century.Answer: Aulus Cornelius Celsus2. Considered second only to Hippocrates of Cos in his importance to the development of medicine, this first century scientist and court physician to Marcus Aurelius is noted for his intensive use of experimentation: dissection, though prohibition on human dissection led to his propagation of many anatomical errors. Famous also for his erroneous "spirit" or "humor" theory, his text On the Natural Faculties was the pre-eminent medical textbook until the advent of Vesalius.Answer: Galen of PergamumAs every academic competitor now knows, for the sciences it is always appropriate to know thy Greek. But for the social sciences it is occasionally neccesary to know thy German. Given a translation of a german word which might appear in a sociological or psycholoigcal paradigm, name it, 10 points each.1. "configuration"answer: gestalt-2. "spirit of the age"answer: zeitgeist3. "world-view"answer: weltanschauung(Yes, I do know how lame this is, but hey, it's bonus 25, so cut me some slack)						Seth Kendall The James Bond films are noteworthy for many things: the gadgets, the villains, and of course the women who are seduced by 007 only to wind up dead in the next frame. Many of them, however, are also notable for the theme songs. Given the title of a Bond picture, name the popular artist or group responsible for the song, 5 points each.1. The Living DaylightsAnswer: A-ha!2. GoldeneyeAnswer: Tina Turner3. You Only Live TwiceAnswer: Nancy Sinatra4. Live and Let DieAnswer: Wings (accept Paul McCartney)5. For Your Eyes OnlyAnswer: Sheena Easton6. A View to a KillAnswer: Duran Duran 