Perpetual Motion VITossups by Pittsburgh Quiz Bowl Mafia (Kidder/Steinhauser/McElroy)1.  The illiterate daughter of a blacksmith, her unhappy marriage to  another blacksmith probably influenced her later doctrinal insistence on  celibacy.  At 22 she joined a radical offshoot of the Society of Friends,  which preached the second coming of Christ and underwent fits of agitation  when they felt the Holy Spirit descend upon them.  FTP, name this woman,  who in 1774 brought the Shaker movement to America.Answer:  Mother Ann Lee2. It can be solved by finding the solution to the differential equation y plus y times y prime squared equals k squared, where k is dependent on the lower point. A forerunner of the calculus of variations, correct solutions to this problem were found by Newton, Liebniz, Jakob Bernoulli,  and his brother Johann, who posed it in 1696 as a challenge to the mathematicians of his day. For 10 points, name this problem which searches for the curve along which a particle will slide without friction in the minimum time from one given point P to another Q, with Q being lower but not directly beneath P. Answer:	the brachistochrone problem3. Told in flashback by Peachey Carnehan, who had barely escaped with his life, it is the story of two friends who travel in the footsteps of Alexander the Great. Carnehan and Daniel Dravot end up in Kafristan, where Dravot sets himself up as a god-king.  The pair are later betrayed, exposed as frauds, and subjected to torture for their misdeeds.  For 10 points, what is this short story by Rudyard Kipling, published in "The Phantom Rickshaw"?Answer:	The Man Who Would Be King4. In 1871, he was forced out of his chairmanship of the Senate Foriegn Relations Committee due to Grant's fury over his refusal to support the annexation of the Dominican Republic. At first an ally of Andrew Johnson, his advise to Edwin Stanton to "Stick" helped force Johnson's impeachment trial.  For 10 points--name this Massachusetts Senator, who in 1856, got the stick, on the Senate floor thanks to a cane-wielding Preston Brooks.Answer:	Charles Sumner5. A survivor of the Nazi concentration camps, this psychologist drew from his experience to publish the influential study Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations. His 1950 Love is Not Enough describes his work with emotionally disturbed children in his Orthogenic School, and his Children of the Dream is about communal childbearing in the kibbutz. FTP, who is this Austrian-American psychologist who discussed the psychosocial importance of fairy tales in The Uses of Enchantment?Answer: Bruno Bettelheim6. This narrative poem records a chance meeting between a rustic beauty and the wealthy judge.  She laid aside her rake and gave him a drink from the spring. Each married someone of more suitable station in life but was tormented by regretful illusions.  Containing the line, 'For of all sad words of tongue and pen, the saddest are these: "it might have been,"' for 10 points, name this poem by the Quaker poet John Greenleaf Whittier.Answer:	Maud Muller7. Exposure of complex ethers to atmospheric oxygen will produce a small amount of this type of compound, which may explode on heating.  Due to this instability, only very dilute quantities are commercially sold.  A popular bleaching agent, the hydrogenated form is the most common type of this chemical, which, for 10 points, derives its volatility from the oxygen-oxygen single bond.Answer:	peroxide8.  Shortly after release from the German army, he was chosen to oversee 30 other architects when the German Werkbund decided to build a full-scale architectural exhibition in Stuttgart.  He would later design the German Pavilion for the 1929 International Exposition in Barcelona and the Tugendhat House.  However, he is most famous for works after emigrating to the United States where he became director of the School of Architecture at Chicago's Armour Institute. There he designed Chicago's Lake Point and Harbor Point towers and the Seagram Building in New York City. FTP identify this leader of the international style best known for his maxim that "less is more."Answer:  Ludwig Mies van der Rohe9. The first was produced in 1963, but the first to achieve dual-temperature settings was in 1984.  Beginning as roughly L-shaped, its evolution has gone from there to cubical, then a block with a narrow rectangular tube passing through, to a shape today, resembling a toaster oven. For 10 points, identify this common object of childhood, whose heating element has gone from two 60-watt lamps to a single 100-watt, allowing better production of very small cakes.Answer:	Easy-Bake Oven10. Most of the structure was built under Herod the Great, who desired both a safe fortress and a luxurious resort in one place.  After Herod's death, it became the home of a Roman garrison, but the garrison was soon attacked and routed out by a troop of rebel Zealots.  The Zealots held the mountaintop fortress for almost two years in the face of a full siege, but eventually committed mass suicide, immortalizing, for 10 points, what Israeli national shrine?Answer:	Masada11. Though he never completed his novel, The Wolf, which dealt with a European famine and would have completed his projected Trilogy of the Wheat, his trilogy could be considered completed by 1903's A Deal in Wheat, and Other Stories of the New and Old World.  Also in 1903, he published The Pit, a more romantic business struggle set in Chicago's grain market.  For 10 points, name this author who detailed the relation between farmers and railroads in 1901's The Octopus.Answer: Benjamin Franklin Norris12. No major battles occurred, it began seven years after the namesake incident, and it was later merged into the War of Austrian Succession. Dissatisfaction with the Treaty of Utrecht and increasing Spanish commerce seems to have been the real cause for England to declare war.  Parliament used that first incident for propaganda, and, for 10 points, a British smuggler's body part became world famous as the start of what war that lasted from 1739 to 1748?Answer:	War of Jenkins' Ear13. Its teachings combine elements of Egyptian Hermetism, Gnosticism, Jewish Cabalism, and other occult beliefs.  Many scholars believe it developed in Germany after the publication of two seventeenth century pamphlets, which record a journey to the Orient made by a man who founded the movement in order to impart the secret wisdom he gained.  For ten points, identify this international fraternal order devoted to the pursuit of esoteric wisdom, which derives its name from a certain flower and a Christian symbol.Answer:  Rosicrucians or Rosicrucianism14. This scientist provided the endowment for Brafferton Hall, which became the first permanent Indian school in the American Colonies, despite the fact he never visited the continent. His 1666 Origin of Forms and Qualities elaborated on his corpuscular "mechanial philosophy," which he had first described five years earlier in his Sceptical Chymist. FTP, name this scientist, whose experiments with air pumps led to his discovery of the law that the pressure and volume of gas are inversely proportional?Answer:	Robert Boyle15. Before his involvement in the 1963 March on Washington, he proposed such a march to protest discrimination in hiring practices, forcing Roosevelt to establish the Fair Employment Practices Committee.  With Chandler Owen, he established The Messenger magazine, and used this as a forum in attempting to unionize the Pullman Company.  For 10 points, name this African-American labor leader who established the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.Answer:	A(sa) Philip Randolph16. One often-told tale is of his violent death in a gunfight in the Rocky Mountains.  Born probably at Fort Pitt around 1770, he first appears in tales written in the 1820s.  For ten points, who is this semi-legendary American folk hero, described as both a scout known for his marksmanship and a brawling keelboatman, a self-proclaimed half man, half alligator, and half snapping turtle who worked on the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers?Answer:  Mike Fink17. He taught Italian literature at the Normal College for Women in Rome from 1897 to 1921, when his growing reputation as a writer enabled him to devote himself entirely to a literary career.  He wrote the short story "La Giara" as well as novels The Outcast and Il Fu Mattia Pascal, but is better known for his plays, which express the duality between mask and reality, and  the confusion and suffering of the human condition.  For ten points, identify the playwright who introduced the concept of the "theatre within a theatre" in his Six Characters in Search of an Author.Answer:  Luigi Pirandello18. The leaders included John Macarthur, Major George Johnston, and other members of the New South Wales Corps.  Based primarily on personal antagonisms, its name came from the governor's attempt to eliminate a particular commodity's use as a currency; the governor was imprisoned for two years and sent back to England, but he was exonerated and the mutineers were found guilty at the subsequent inquiry.  For 10 points, name this 1808 Australian uprising, which overthrew territorial governor William Bligh.Answer: Rum Rebellion19. "If the whole world was mine,/from the sea to the Rhine,/I would give it all up/if the Queen of England/would but lie in my arms" That verse was written by a group of goliards, and is a reflection of the theme of sex found throughout the larger collection.  In that poetry collection we also find the exuberance of the drinking song, gambling and gluttony, and the stoic litany to Lady Luck, Fortune Imperatrix Mundi.  For 10 points, name this collection of poems in Latin and Middle High German which had 25 of its verses set to music by composer Carl Orff?Answer:	Carmina Burana20. A fairly simple one can resemble a Wheatstone Bridge, except with diodes replacing the resistors, and a short wire replacing the current source, while only one diode is really needed, as long as you don't mind it working only half the time.  A capacitor in series with one also helps improve efficiency by leveling out the voltage, as long as RC is larger than the frequency of the circuit.  For 10 points, name this electrical device in both half-wave and full-wave varieties that converts alternating current to direct.Answer:	rectifier21.  This physiologist published papers on the control of respiration, and a book on diabetes in 1913. While on holiday in 1921, two colleagues involved in research in his department discovered a pancreatic extract which could lower sugar levels in dogs whose pancreases had been removed, and he asked the chemist Collip to work on purifying the extract. FTP, who is this physiologist who divided his share of the 1923 Nobel Prize with Collip, which he had co-won with Banting for the discovery of insulin?Answer: John James Rickard Macleod22.  Following his deposition, occurring while he visited Beijing, he went into exile in Guinea, where Sekou Tour\'e made him co-head of state, a suitable position, given his Pan-African stance.  For 10 points-- name this one-time Secretary General of the United Gold Coast Convention, who in 1957 became the first Prime Minister of an independent Ghana.Answer:	Kwame Nkrumah23.  Developed around 432BC, and named for a Babylonian astronomer, its chief benefit was that it did not require wandering years, as it used intercalation to keep the seasons from roaming.  For 10 points--name this 19-year plan of inserting months to allow a lunar basis for year calculation, a version of which is used to adjust the Jewish calendar.answer:	Metonic cycle24.  Its interval now stands near an average of 81 minutes, up five minutes from the 1980s, and nearly eleven minutes from when it was first determined. Its actual interval depends on the duration of the previous eruption, usually about four minutes, which manages to spout nearly 10,000 gallons of water at a height of 60 feet.  For 10 points- name this geyser, the most popular one in Yellowstone Park.Answer:	Old Faithful25.  Like Chicago, this city's nickname is also "the windy city."  It was founded by Edward Gibbon Wakefield in 1840, but Maoris were the first to live in the area.  Home to a massive wooden government building known popularly as "the beehive", For 10 points, name this city on the Cook Strait, the capital of New Zealand.answer:	Wellington26.  It began from the Junto Club, a society for mutual improvement which became influential through sponsoring the first colonial public library, and opposing slavery.  Organized in 1743, its first president was Thomas Hopkinson, today it is better known for is membership, including 100 Nobel Laureates, and its collection, including an original copy of the Declaration of Independence and Lewis and Clark's journals.  For 10 points--name this Philadelphia-based society which aided many causes under the leadership of second and third presidents, Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson.answer:	American Philosophical Society27.  He died in 395 BC, attempting an unsuccessful siege of the Boeotian city of Haliastus.  Better known for his naval expertise, he commanded the fleet that defeated Athens at the battle of Aegospotami.  For 10 points, name this Spartan whose taking of Athens in 404 BC ended the Peloponnesian War.answer:	Lysander28.  Though he was an engineer by trade, he attended the Ecole de Beaux-Arts in Paris.  Painting was his passion and hobby, and he befriended the impressionist movement, helping to fund some of the major impressionist exhibits.  His 500 or so works are now being re-evaluated as a mix of impressionist themes in a realist style.  For 10 points-who is this French painter, best known for "Paris, Rainy Day" and "The Floor Scrapers"?answer:	Gustave Caillebotte29.  In his 1801 letter to Elias Shipman and others of New Haven, he wrote "If a due participation of office is a matter of right, how are vacancies to be obtained? Those by death are few; by resignation, none"  although he is usually quoted as "Few die and none resign."  For 10 points- name this Founding Father from Virginia who wrote in his Notes on Virginia, "Indeed, I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just."answer:	Thomas Jefferson
1998 Terrapin InvitationalRound 3Bonuses by Pittsburgh Quiz Bowl Mafia (Kidder/Steinhauser/McElroy)1. I know what you're thinking. Was that tossup for fifteen points, or for ten? Well, to tell you the truth, in all this excitement, I've kinda lost track myself. But being as this is a packet for BYU Perpetual Motion, and would blow your head clean off, you've got to ask yourself one question: Do I feel lucky? Well, do ya punk?5. What movie did I just mangle the quote from?Answer:	Dirty HarryNow, for the stated number of points, name the movie from the quote.10. "A man's got to know his limitations."Answer:	Magnum Force5.  "Go ahead, make my day."Answer:	Sudden Impact10. "You forgot to read your fortune cookie. It says, 'You're shit out of luck.'"Answer:	The Dead Pool2. Answer the following about Fascism in Europe, but not in Germany, for 10 points each:1. The Rexist Party founded in this country by Léon Degrelle, grew out of hard-right Roman-Catholic parties, and lost all support when it began collaborations with Nazi occupiers.Answer:	Belgium2. Initially an anti-communist movement, the Lapuan Movement, declared illegal in this nation in 1932, began as a group of Lutheran pietist farmers in the town of Lapua.Answer:	Finland3. This leader of the British Union of Fascists had earlier resigned from the Labour party to found the pseudo-fascist New Party in 1931.Answer:	Sir Oswald Ernald Mosley3. Given the value and the normal symbol, identify the physical constants for 10 points each:1. 1.38 * 10 ^ -23 Joules per Kelvin, "little k"Answer:	Boltzmann Constant (do not accept Stefan-Boltzmann constant)2. 1.26 * 10 ^ -6 Henry per meter, "mu sub-naught"Answer:	permeability of free space (do not accept: permittivity of free space)3. 2.43 * 10 ^ -12 meters, "lambda-e"Answer:	Electron Compton wavelength4. For 15 points each, identify these somewhat-less-obscure-than-you-think saints from descriptions.1. Also known as Eloi, and sworn upon by the Prioress of the Canterbury Tales, he was the chief counselor of Dagobert I, having gained great wealth as a goldsmith.  Founder of a great monastery at Noyon, after death this 'apostle of Flanders' became the patron saint of metalworkers and blacksmiths. The title hospital of a 1980's medical drama is named for him.Answer:	St. Eligius (as in St. Elsewhere)2. Believed to be the son of a Sicilian senator, his working of miracles aroused the notice of the island's governor, Valerian, who attempted to force him to recant.  Martyred under Diocletian, a surprise given he had once 'cured' Diocletian's son of demonic possession.Answer:	St. Vitus5. Between 1845 and 1848, Ralph Waldo Emerson created a series of six lectures about great men which in 1850 he collected into the biographical sketches Representative Men. Yeah, you guessed it, identify them based on their descriptions FTP each.1. The philosopherAnswer: Plato2. The MysticAnswer: Emanuel Swedenborg3. The WriterAnswer: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe6. Say you have a 55-gallon drum of urine.  You're looking for a new and exciting thing to do with it.  For 10 points each:1. You could reenact the discovery of this element by Hennig Brand in 1669, who needed a 55-gallon drum of urine to detect the small amounts of it in some proteins.Answer:	phosphorus or P2. You could create another kind of bottled water and name it for this former Prime Minister of India, who attributed his long life to drinking some of his own every morning.Answer:	Morarji Ranchhodji Desai3. You could create an art forgery, as this artist used celebrity urinations on copper to oxidize the copper into an artful wall hanging.Answer:	Andy Warhol or Andrew Warhola7. Identify the opera by Mozart from characters for 10 points each:1. Ilia, A Trojan Princess; Electra, A Greek Princess; The High Priest of Neptune.Answer:	Ideomeneo, King of Crete or Ideomeneo, Ré di Creta2. Belmonte, A Spanish Nobleman, Blonde, Constanze's English Made, The Pasha Selim.Answer:	The Abduction from the Seraglio, or the Abduction from the Harem or	Die Entführung aus dem Serail3. Sextus, in love with Vitellia, Publius, commander of the Praetorian Guard.Answer:	The Clemency of Titus, or La Clemenza di Tito8. Given a war or conflict, name the treaty or peace that ended that conflict for 10 points each.1. War of the League of AugsburgAnswer:	Peace of Ryswick2. King George's WarAnswer:	Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle3. Russo-Turkish Wars, 1829Answer:	Treaty of Adrianople9.  Born in 1794, the occasion of his seventieth birthday brought his fellow poets to celebrate his life.  For 10 points each--1. Who is this poet of "A Forest Hymn" and "To A Waterfowl."Answer:	William Cullen Bryant2. This poet, diplomat, and critic wrote "On Board the '76" for the occasion.Answer:	James Russell Lowell3. This poet/physician composed many birthday poems including "For Whittiers Seventieth Birthday" and "Bryant's Seventieth Birthday."Answer:	Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.  (do not accept Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.)10. It is the integral of x from zero to infinity of x to the n minus one times e to the negative x.  For 10 points each:1. What is this function in terms of n?Answer:	Gamma or factorial function2. The gamma function evaluated at one-half, and squared is equal to what value?Answer:	pi or 3.14159...3. Related to the Gamma function is the function of two variables m and n defined such that the function is equal to gamma of m times gamma of n over gamma of the quantity m plus n. What is that function called?Answer:	Beta function11. Identify these linguistic theorists for 10 points each.1. Having emigrated from Switzerland to America, he was inspired by Boas to work with American Indian languages.  In his incredibly generically titled book Language he expressed his theory that language was a social phenomenon which must be dealt with within its social context.Answer:	Edward Sapir2. Having begun as a chemical engineer at MIT, he worked with Mayan writings before becoming Sapir's student.  Together they arrived at their 'linguistic relativity principle' which states that different grammars arrive at different views of the world.Answer:	Benjamin Lee Whorf3. He began his groundbreaking work at 21 with his "Memoir on the primitive system of vowels in Indo-European Languages".  Among the distinctions of his belief that language was a system of signs were his distinctions of form versus substance and signifier versus signified, all of which was collected by his students in the posthumous Course in General Linguistics.Answer:	Ferdinand de Saussure12. Answer the following about the Mamelukes for 10 points each:1. In 1250, the Mamelukes came to power in Egypt by overthrowing this sultanate's power.Answer:	the Ayyabids2. The Ayyabid dynasty had been established in Egypt by this leader in the 1170's.Answer:	Saladin or Salah Al-Din Al-Ayyubi3. The final end of Mameluke power came when this viceroy of Egypt ordered their massacre in 1811.Answer:	Muhammad 'Ali13. Identify these Napoleonic battles for 10 points each:1. This October 14, 1806 battle ended with the utter smashing of Frederick II's Prussians.Answer:	Jena2. This June 14, 1800 battle in Northern Italy allowed Napoleon to reestablish the Cisalpine Republic by defeating Austria.Answer:	Marengo3. This June 1807 battle fought between Russia and French troops in Prussia forced the Russians to sue for peace, which came a month later under the treaty of Tilsit.Answer:	Friedland14. In 1933, one of the great astronomical fakeries occurred when a star was slated to open the World's Fair.  For 10 points each:1. Name this city where light that was supposed to have started 40 years earlier, was to switch on lights to open the fair, but required human assistance.  40 years was important as 40 years earlier, this city also had hosted a World's Fair.Answer:	Chicago, Illinois2. Name the star found later to only be 35 light years away from earth, locatable by following the arc of the Big Dipper.Answer:	Arcturus3. Name the constellation in which Arcturus is located.Answer:	Boötes15. 30-20-10, name the man.30.  Following his retirement from active duty, he led an unsuccessful UN mission to resolve the Kashmir dispute.20.  As captain of the USS Augusta he met President Roosevelt, who was so impressed that he later promoted him over 28 senior officers to the position in which he gained fame.10.  The US Navy commemorated his coordination of the Pacific Fleet by naming a class of supercarriers for him.Answer:	Chester W. Nimitz16. Derived from a Turkish word for a harem girl, it is a pointing in which a female figure lies nude and reclining.  One example is Goya's Naked Maja.  For 10 points each:1. What is the term for this type of painting composition?Answer:	Odalisque2. Name the artist who painted, 1814's La Grande Odalisque.Answer:	Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres3. Name the 1863 odalisque painting which shocked crowds and critics at the 1865 Salon.Answer:	Olympia by Edouard Manet17. Between the Pacific Plate and the Plates that make up North and South America, three geologic plates can be found.  For 5 points each, and a bonus 5 for all three-- name these three plates, one west of Washington and British Columbia, one west of Central America and one west of South America.Answer:	Juan de Fuca Plate, Cocos Plate, Nazca Plate  (North to South)2. For 10 points--name the small plate just south of the tip of South America, and running eastward, which sounds like it should be located in the North Sea.Answer:	Scotia Plate18. For the stated number of points, identify the following from the Epic of Gilgamesh.5.  Gilgamesh's loyal friend, originally sent by the gods to fight him.Answer:	Enkidu10. An analogue of Noah, having survived a great flood that destroyed all things, this ancient man held the secret of life.Answer:	Utnapishtim15. Name either Gilgamesh's earthly father, or Goddess mother.Answer:	Lugalbanda (father) or Ninsun (mother)19. For 10 points each, identify these works by Thomas Mann.1. An allegory of the rise and fall of fascism is this short story in which one title character, a waiter, kills the other title character after being entranced.Answer:	Mario and the Magician2. A fictional tale of the reuniting of Goethe with his sweetheart Charlotte Buff, after Goethe becomes established, Mann uses this fictional account to explore Goethe's personalityAnswer:	The Beloved Returns or Lotte in Weimar3. The subtitle describes it accurately: "The Life of the German Composer Adrian Leverkuhn as Told by a Friend."Answer:	Doktor Faustus20. Typically forming ring structures bound at the -CH= group, they are pyrrole pigments in which the nuclei are arranged so as to conjugate the double bond.1. What are these biochemical structures, examples of which are hemoglobin, vitamin B12, and chlorophyll?Answer:	porphyrins2. For 5 points each, and a bonus 5 for all three, name, in order, the metal ion at the center of hemoglobin, vitamin B12, and chlorophyll.Answers: Iron or Fe,  Cobalt or Co, Magnesium or Mg	21.  Identify these poetic forms named for writers for 15 points each, or for 5 points if you need information about the author after whom its named.1. 15. A six line stanza consisting of rhyme scheme a-a-a-b-a-b with the a lines having a 4 foot pattern to the b lines' two.     5. Named for the Scottish poet of  "The Cotters Saturday Night" and "A Red Red Rose" who used them frequently.Answer: Burns Stanza2. 15. Consisting of nine lines of iambic meter, the first eight octosyllabic and the last an alexandrine, with rhyme scheme a-b-a-b-b-c-b-c-c, used in Adonais and Childe Harold's Pilgrimage     5. Its creator devised it for use in The Faerie Queene.Answer: Spenserian Stanza22.  For 10 points each-- identify these three places in New England.1. The New Hampshire city which was home to the treaty signing which ended the Russo Japanese War.Answer:	Portsmouth2. Another town in New Hampshire is this place where the 1944 conference agreed to the creation of the IMF and the World Bank.Answer:	Breton Woods3. This Connecticut city is the home of the U. S. Coast Guard Academy.Answer:	New London23.  CNN's retraction of its story claiming that American troops used nerve gas in Laos, more attention has been focused on media errors.  Answer the following questions about recent media messups on a 5-10-15 basis.1. CNN's piece detailed allegations about what covert operation of the Vietnam War?Answer:	Operation Tailwind2. The Cincinnati Enquirer retracted a story about what produce company, saying that their reporter had stolen voice mail messages?  They have agreed to $10 million in damages.Answer:	Chiquita Banana3. Columnist Stephen Glass was fired from what magazine after fabricating over 20 stories, such as one about the Church of George Herbert Walker Christ?Answer:	The New Republic24.  Name the larger classical work where we find these well known short pieces-For 5 points each, with a 5 point bonus for all correct.1. Borodin's "Polovtsian Dances"Answer:	Prince Igor2. de Falla's "Ritual Fire Dance"Answer:	El Amor Brujo (also accept Love the Magician)3. Grieg's "In the Hall of the Mountain King"Answer:	Peer Gynt4. Beethoven's "Turkish March"Answer:	The Ruins of Athens5. Rimsky-Korsakov's "March of the Nobles" (a.k.a., the "Inside Washington" theme)Answer:	Mlada suite25.  Given a type of animal, name the term for a group of these animals, for the stated number of points.  For example, if I say "whales," you would say "pod."1.	(5)kangaroosanswer:	troop2.	(5)oystersanswer:	bed3.	(10)owlsanswer:	parliament4.	(10)toadsanswer:	knot ("army" is for frogs)26.  For 10 points each-- identify the American authors who traveled the following literary byways.1. Main-Travelled RoadsAnswer:	Hannibal Hamlin Garland2. Blue HighwaysAnswer:	William Least Heat Moon3. Street SceneAnswer:	Elmer Rice27.  Answer the following about moments of inertia. Assuming you have a uniform sphere whose mass is 1 and radius is 1.  For 10 points each:1. If you rotate it about its center, what is the moment of inertia?Answer:	2/5 or 0.4 [I=(2/5)MR^2, for a sphere]2. If you rotate the sphere about a point on its surface, what is the moment of inertia?Answer:	7/5 or 1.4 or 1 2/5[Parallel axis theorem,  Ia=Ib+MRb^2, radiusb=1 (on surface) 1+2/5=7/53. Suppose, instead of being a sphere, you have a spherical shell, of the same mass and size.  What is its moment of intertia?Answer:	2/3 or 0.6666... [for a spherical shell, I=(2/3)MR^2]28.  Answer the following about the geography of Antarctica-For 10 points each.1.	The coldest ground temperature ever recorded was at this Russian research station in 1983 - 129 degrees Fahrenheit below zero.answer:	Vostok2.	Near the Ross Ice Shelf sits this highest peak of the Transantarctic Mountains and the highest point on the continent.answer:	Mount Markham3.	Australia claims most territory in this Antarctic "Land," which also shares its name with an Australian state.answer:	Victoria Land29.  Nowadays no one ever would think of rejecting a seat on the Supreme Court having already gone through the torturous nomination process, but these three men did.  Identify them for ten points each.1.  Nominated by Madison in 1811, he spurned the judicial, but led the executive branch, and then took a seat in the legislative branch.Answer:	John Quincy Adams (don't prompt on John Adams)2. A powerful former New York Senator, who supported Chester Alan Arthur's vice presidency, in 1882, Arthur nominated him for the court.  He refused, possibly due to his staunch support of political patronage, a controversial issue after Garfield's death.Answer:	Roscoe Conkling3. Already an associate justice, he was nominated by George Washington to become chief justice in 1796.  Though he served unofficially as chief justice for a week, he then turned down the position, citing ill health.Answer:	William Cushing30.  Given the quote from a Sherlock Holmes story, tell to whom the pronoun is referring, For the stated number of points.5. He is the Napoleon of crime.Answer:	Professor Moriarty10. To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman.Answer:	Irene Adler  (accept first or last name)15. All other men are specialists, but his specialism is omniscience.Answer:	Mycroft Holmes