PM VIToss-ups by USC1.	They come in varieties called arcolects, mesolects, and basilects, which vary in the extent to which they resemble their original language. Most of them exist between the Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn, and by the fact that they have actual native speakers, they are distinguished from pidgin languages. FTP, identify this type of language whose name has become synonymous with cultural inter-mixing.ANSWER: creole 2.	He confirmed Bertil Lindblad's theory that the Milky Way rotates on its own plane around the center of the galaxy through direct observations of star velocities. After obtaining a professorship at Leiden, he used radio astronomy to determine the Sun's distance from the center of the galaxy, a discovery that led to his work on comets. FTP name this Dutchman who discovered a region from which comets originate, a cloud that is now named for him.ANSWER: Jan _Oort_3.	Its site was chosen in 1909 and two years later a worldwide design competition was announced for it. Construction based on American architect Walter Burley Griffin's plans began in 1913, and after aninterruption for World War I, it was completed by 1927 on the site of an old squatter's settlement. FTP name this city scattered through a park which replaced Melbourne as Australia's national capital.ANSWER: Canberra (prompt on: Australian Capital Territory)4.	Studies on animals seem to indicate that the locus ceruleus in this part of the brain is responsible for the motor inhibition that occurs during REM sleep. It serves as a major point of intersection between the spinal cord and the higher brain levels, between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, and between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. FTP name this part of the brain which combines with the medulla to form the hindbrain.ANSWER: pons5.	Born in Maslennikovo, Russia in 1937.  One of her favorite hobbies was parachuting, making more than 125 jumps before she volunteered for space flight training school.  Within 2 years of Yuri Gargarin's historic flight, she was aboard Vostok 6.  FTP, name this female cosmonaut, the first woman in space.ANSWER:  Valentina _Tereshkova_6.	English translations of its book titles include The Scatterers, The Ant, The Poets, and The Kneeling. Tradition holds, however, that an English translation is not sacred, as only the original language version is considered to recreate the eternal heavenly original, and that the original language version was revealed by the angel Gabriel. FTP, name this most important book of Islam.ANSWER:  the _Koran_, or _Qur'an_7.	A year he after graduating from Cambridge in 1791, Annette Vallon bore him a son, but he didn't marry until 1802, when he and Mary Hutchinson settled down with his sister Dorothy in Grasmere Valley. This poet, a lifelong friend of Samuel Coleridge, was made Poet Laureate of England in 1843. FTP name this author of Michael and Tintern Abbey.ANSWER: William _Wordsworth_8.	Formed by the confluence of the Nmai and Mali, this 1,350-mile long river is entirely contained within one country before flowing into the Gulf of Martaban, and its name is believed to derive from the Sanskrit word for "elephant river". FTP name this waterway that flows through Minbu, Magwe, Kabwet, and Mandalay--but not Yangon--as it meanders its way through Myanmar.ANSWER: _Irriwaddy_ River9.	This 1991 film was a surprise Best Picture to many Hollywood insiders.  It received a total of 6 nominations - none of which included acting, directing, or writing.  This is understandable, considering that no humans appear on screen.  FTP, name this Disney movie - the first animated movie to be named a Best Picture nominee.ANSWER:  _Beauty and the Beast_10.	Ed Witten was working on one branch when he theorized that there are ten dimensions of space and one of time. In 1995 the M-theory was developed to reconcile the five separate branches of this theory of quantum physics.   FTP name this theory concerning one-dimensional, undulating components ofmatter.ANSWER: _superstring_ theory11.	Although canon of proportion is usually talked about in conjunction with Egyptian art, this Greek sculptor created his own canon.  Based on a rigorous knowledge of anatomy and proportions between parts of the human body, this man created a famous statue that served as a prototype for Michelangelo's "David".  FTP, name this creator of "Doryphorus".ANSWER: Polykleitos12.	'Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever' is how this popular song attibuted to King David ends. FTP, give the number for this Psalm which begins 'The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.'ANSWER:  _23_rd13.	His work was originally published as an article entitled "Deterministic Nonperiodic Flow" that was read by few. That paper outlined his theory that apparently insignificant changes in initial conditions create great long-term differences, an effect that turned up in his computer simulation of weather patterns and which he named the butterfly effect. FTP name this meteorologist, now considered the founding father of Chaos theory.ANSWER: Edward _Lorenz_14.	Recognized as a math prodigy by the age of nine, this mystery writer toured the country and held 40 different jobs before settling on writing and creating the second-longest mystery series by one author, behind only Sherlock Holmes. FTP, name this creator of Archie Goodwin and Nero Wolfe.ANSWER: Rex _Stout_15.	This 1976 film garnered 2 Academy Award nominations - one for Best Actress and the other for Best Supporting Actress; but neither nominee won.  This film also starred the pre-_Saturday Night Fever_ John Travolta in a minor role as one the the title character's tormentors.  FTP, name this horror film that made the line "They're all going to laugh at you" and pig's blood famous.ANSWER:  _Carrie_16.	Born Lula C. Smith on Feb. 19, 1917 in Columbus, Georgia, in 1934 she went to New York City and took creative writing at Columbia University. By the age of 23, her first novel created a frenzy all over the U.S. Eventually, she would suffer many strokes and illnesses, all the while writing more novels set in the South.  FTP, name this author of The Member of the Wedding and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.ANSWER:  Carson _McCullers_17.	The Dutch first settled there in 1631, were overtaken by the Swedes, and re-established themselves in 1655. The English seized it in 1664 and administered it as part of New York until 1682 when it was ceded to William Penn. Penn allowed it to establish its own assembly in 1704, but it did not take its eventual name until 1776. FTP name this area whose tiebraking vote for independence was cast by Caesar Rodney, an event commemorated on a new quarter celebrating this first state.ANSWER: Delaware18.	He died in exile in Fullerton, California, in 1985, ten years after being ousted. Moving through the French civil service ranks from 1937 to 1955, he became his nation's army chief of staff and in 1960 its army commander in chief. He served as premier twice in the late '60s, and in March of 1970 overthrew Prince Norodom Sihanouk in a U.S.-sponsored coup.  FTP name this man, overthrown himself by the Khmer Rouge, the palindromic president from 1970-75 of Cambodia.ANSWER: Lon _Nol_19.	His body may or may not have been found by monks in the swamp after he was killed by either the Turks or his half-brother. Regardless, his  death effectively ended his third reign of terror in Romania--not just the home region of the character inspired by him. FTP name this man who inspired a  Transylvanian vampire legend.ANSWER: _Vlad Tepes_ (accept: _Vlad Dracula_, _Vlad III_, or _Vlad_ Tsepes)20.	As the Browns' holder in 1994 he scored the first two-point conversion in NFL history. After Timm Rosenbach was injured in 1991 he started 11 games at quarterback for the Cardinals, and though he has played in every one of his team's games over the past 5 seasons, he has thrown only three passes. FTP name this former Colt, Brown, Cardinal, and Patriot, now with the Jets, whose skills as a passer are far exceeded by his punting ability.ANSWER: Tom _Tupa_21.	The Dance theatre that bears his name was started in 1958 in New York City, but his start came under Lester Horton in 1949.  His company has performed works by Horton, Pearl Primus, and Katherine Dunham in tours across the globe.  FTP, name this dance pioneer who's mostly black dance company's signature piece is called "Revelations".ANSWER: Alvin _Ailey_22.	In the 1996 election, Hart's Location opened its polls at midnight for the first time since 1964. This allowed it to compete with Dixville Notch for the first presidential vote. FTP, name this state where these two tiny towns are traditionally the first in the country to vote, appropriate since by state law it also holds the nation's first primary.ANSWER: _New Hampshire_23.	Max Brod went against his dying wishes and published his work anyway.  Whether Brod should be "In The Penal Colony" for his actions is just another "Common Confusion". FTP, name the short-lived Czech author, more well known for his bug story, "The Metamorphosis".ANSWER: Franz _Kafka_24.	Many people know that Madonna's daughter Lourdes is named after a French recovery spring town, but fewer know that this man convinced her to go to Lourdes.  This Indian rediscovered ayurvedic (ah-your-vade-ic) medicine, was a spiritual advisor to the Beatles, and now runs a namesake universityin Fairfield, Iowa.  FTP, name this inventor of transcendental meditation.ANSWER: _Maharishi_ Mahesh Yogi25.	It opened its newest store in Kuwait on February 10 but has been around since 1972. Its name originally comes from Moby Dick and its logo tempted unwary sailors of Greek myth. FTP, name this Seattle-based company from which you could buy a venti caramel macchiato, a grande tiazzi or a tall Frappuccino.ANSWER:  _Starbucks'_ Coffee
PM VIBonuses by USC1.	The recent annual California Republican Party Convention was seen by many potential Presidential candidates as a leaping off point for next year's campaign. Given a current or former political office held by a potential candidate who spoke at that convention, identify them for the stated number of points.a. F5P, former vice-president of the U.S.ANSWER: Dan _Quayle_b. F5P, current Arizona senatorANSWER: John _McCain_c. FTP, former Tennessee governorANSWER: Lamar _Alexander_d. FTP, current New Hampshire senatorANSWER: Bob _Smith_2.	It's not whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game that counts, or in this case, who made it.  Name the manufacturer of the following games, each one on the GAMES Magazine, Games Hall of Fame.a. For 5 points, MonopolyANSWER: Parker Brothersb. For 10 points, ScrabbleANSWER: Selchow and Righterc. For 15 points, AcquireANSWER: Avalon Hill (accept: 3M)3.	Identify the following Scandinavian islands or island groups FTP each.a. Granted semi-autonomy 1948, this 18-island archipelago lies halfway between Norway and Iceland, has an ongoing territorial dispute with the Shetlands, and has a population of 45,000.ANSWER: _Faroe_ Islands (accept: _Foroyar_ or _Faeroerne_)b. Located 25 miles off the coast of Sweden, this autonomous commune is technically part of Finland. Its population is approximately 25,000 and its major city is Mariehamn.ANSWER: _Aland_  (accept: _Ahvenanmaa_)c. Separated from Sweden by a 20-mile strait, this island contains 40 percent of Denmark's population including the cities of Helsingor and Copenhagen.ANSWER: _Zealand_ (accept: _Sjelland_)4.	Identify the author from works, 30-20-10-5.30: The novel Coming Up For Air, and the essay Such, Such Were the Joys20: Novels A Clergyman's Daughter and Keep The Aspidistra Flying10: Story Shooting An Elephant and memoir Homage to Catalonia5: Novels Animal Farm and 1984ANSWER: George _Orwell_ (accept: Eric _Blair_)5.	Identify the playwright from titles given, 30-20-10.30  The Mutilated, Battle of Ages20  Camino Real, Summer in Smoke10  The Rose Tattoo, The Glass MenagerieANSWER: Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" _Williams_6.	30-20-10 identify this American.30: In 1871 this person became the leader of the American branch of Karl Marx's International Workingmen's Association, and in 1872 became the first publisher of the Communist Manifesto in English.20: With the help of friend Cornelius Vanderbilt she and her sister Tennessee Claflin became the first female Wall Street stockbrokers, and they also published a journal advocating free love.10: She is best remembered for her 1872 bid for the presidency of the United States under the Equal Rights Party banner.ANSWER: Victoria _Woodhull_7.	It's time for a question on everybody's favorite aromatic compound, benzene! FTP each, identify these pivotal figures in the understanding of benzene.a. This German chemist in 1865 proposed a structure for benzene consisting of alternating single and double bonds. Although not completely correct, his structure is still often used to describe benzene.ANSWER: August _Kekule_b. This Englishman, more famous for his work with electricity and magnetism, discovered and isolated benzene.ANSWER: Michael _Faraday_c. This quantum mechanist in 1931 explained why the pi orbitals in benzene overlap to form an aromatic compound and set a criteria on the number of pi electrons a compound must have to be aromatic.ANSWER: Erich _Huckel_8.	FTP each identify these former tennis stars who have gone on to greater fame as tennis announcers.a. This CBS play-by-play man won five Grand Slam titles and until Michael Chang's 1989 victory he had been the last American to win the French Open, doing so in 1954 and 1955.ANSWER: Tony _Trabert_b. This woman has joined John McEnroe in the booth on CBS, as well as working for USA and ESPN, but she previously joined McEnroe as 1977 French Open mixed doubles champions.  McEnroe was critical of her being able to call men's tennis.ANSWER: Mary _Carillo_c. This former U.S. tennis star and US Open finalist worked for USA and CBS before dying of accidental carbon monoxide poisoning in the early '90s.ANSWER: Vitas _Geralitus_9.	He spent more than 25 years at one company and was one of the first broadcasters to criticize Senator McCarthy. Just after he graduated from college, he interviewed Albert Einstein in one of the first shows he  helped produce, and in later years ended his show with "Good-bye and good luck." FTP each:a. Name this founder and host of "Person to Person" and "See it Now", and the broadcast company he worked for from 1935-1961.ANSWER:  Edward R. _Murrow_ and _Columbia_ Broadcasting System (accept:_CBS_)b. Name the federal agency that President Kennedy appointed Murrow to head in 1961.ANSWER: _U_nited _S_tates _Information Agency_10.	For the stated number of points, name these works by everyone's favorite 18th-century French satirist, Voltaire.a. F5P, also titled "Optimism", this work features the characters Pangloss, Cunegonde, and a woman with one buttock.ANSWER: Candideb. FTP, written in 1747, it featured Semire, Azora, Setoe, Almona, Cador, and Orcan, along with the title character, and it was Voltaire's first philosophical story.ANSWER: Zadigc. F15P, this short story tells of Mesrour, a happy but disadvantaged servant and how he saves the life of Princess Melinade and falls in love with her, only to lose her again.ANSWER: The _One-Eyed Porter_11.	FTP identify these features of glaciers.a. This is the bowl-shaped bedrock depression at the upper end of a glacier.ANSWER: cirqueb. This is a ridge or pile of rock debris left by glacial action that marks the edge of the glacier.ANSWER: morainec. It is a jagged, knifelike ridge formed by the intersection of two cirque walls from.ANSWER: arete12.	You don't hear much about the Portuguese nowadays, but in their time they really got around. Of course, their time was the late 15th century. Answer these questions about Portuguese exploration at that time, for the stated number of points.a. F5P, the best known Portuguese explorer is probably this man, whose 1498 voyage showed Europeans the first sea route to India.ANSWER: _Vasco de Gama_b. FTP, this man accompanied de Gama on the first leg of his journey,  appropriate since he had cleared the path to India with his 1488 trip around the Cape of Good Hope.ANSWER: Bartholomeu _Dias_ (or _Diaz_)c. Exaggerated accounts of Dias and de Gama's exploits are the highlights of the Portuguese national epic, completed in 1572. F15P name either this epic poem or its author.ANSWER: The _Lusiades_  OR  Luis de _Camoes_ (acc: _Camoens_)13.	Ovid's Metamorphoses details many transformations. For the stated number of points, name the character given a description of their transformation.a. For 5 points each, they were the original Romeo and Juliet. Forbidden to marry, they pledged their love anyway. He killed himself when he thought a wolf had eaten her, and she did the same upon discovery of his body. Their blood stained the mulberry tree and changed its berries from white to red.ANSWER: Thisbe and Pyramusb. FTP, she was changed into a laurel when she could not escape from Phoebus.ANSWER:  Daphnec. FTP, Afraid that Juno would discover their indiscretion, Zeus changed her into a cow. Unfortunately, Juno caught on and gave the cow to Argus so she could not be turned back into her human form.ANSWER: Io14.	Identify these geographical features of New England for the stated number of points.a. For 5, this Massachusettes peninsula is named for an Atlantic fish that is prevalent off of its shores.ANSWER: Cape _Cod_b. The longest river in New England, this body of water makes up the entirety of the New Hampshire/Vermont border then passes through two more New England states on its way to the ocean.ANSWER: _Connecticut_ Riverc. For 15, rising in northwest Maine, this river forms the boundary with Canada for 80 miles before flowing into New Brunswick and eventually into the Bay of Fundy.ANSWER: _St. John_ River15.	30-20-10.  Name the state based on these parks or forests.30: Ginkgo Petrified Forest State Park, Steptoe Butte State Park20: For 20- Lake Wenatchee State Park, Olympic National Forest10: For 10- Mt. Rainier National ParkANSWER:  Washington16.	He took advantage of the Panic of 1873 to buy up extensive coal deposits in the Pittsburgh area to supply the steel industry with coke. FTP each:a. First, name this industrialist, bought out by Andrew Carnegie in 1889, allowing Carnegie to consolidate his steel empire.ANSWER: Henry Clay _Frick_b. Frick's hardline tactics with workers have been blamed in large part for a bloody 1892 strike in what Pennsylvania steel town.ANSWER: Homesteadc. During this strike, Frick was stabbed in an assassination attempt by what anarchist, the longtime companion of Emma Goldman.ANSWER: Alexander _Berkman_17.	How well do you remember the first lines from your favorite novels?Identify the works for 10 points each.a. "I went back to Devon School not long ago, and found it looking oddly newer than when I was a student there fifteen years before"ANSWER: A _Separate Peace_b. "It was a pleasure to burn"ANSWER: Fahrenheit 451c. "We are five miles behind the front"ANSWER: All Quiet on the Western Front18.	Name the artist 30-20-10.30: In 1912, at the age of 13, this surrealist painter's mother committed suicide, which he used as inspiration for many subsequent works.20: Those works included "The Elusive Woman" and "Deep Waters."10: This Belgian is remembered for paintings containing surprising juxtapositions in works such as "Carte Blanche", and "Time Transfixed."ANSWER: Rene _Magritte_19.	Name the director from Films 30-20-1030: Aventure Malgache, Jamaica Inn20: Torn Curtain, Suspicion10: Rope, The BirdsANSWER: Alfred _Hitchcock_20.	Identify these Canadian prime ministers FTP each.a. This Conservative held 6 and 13-year terms, the first beginning in 1867 with the Dominion Act, making him Canada's first prime minister.ANSWER: Sir John _MacDonald_b. Taking office in 1873, he was Canada's first Liberal prime minister with the fall of MacDonald's government.ANSWER: Arthur _Mackenzie_c. He dominated the post like no other, taking over in 1921 and in the course of his three stints, this Liberal held the prime ministership for a total of 23 years.ANSWER: William Lyon Mackenzie _King_21.	Identify the composer given some works, FTP each.a. Nabucco, Don CarloANSWER: Giuseppe _Verdi_b. Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun, Clair de LuneANSWER: Claude _Debussy_c. L'Arlensienne, Les Pecheurs de PerlesANSWER: Georges _Bizet_22.	ALD is a sex-linked neural disease characterized by a breakdown in the myelin sheath.a. F15P, give the one-word expanded name for this disease.ANSWER: adrenoleukodystrophyb. ALD cannot be cured, but it can be diagnosed through an intrauterine test abbreviated CVS. F5P each expand the acronym CVS.ANSWER: chorionic villus sampling23.	Stephen Toulmine developed the model used for most contemporary academic forensics events. The Toulmine model of communications has six steps;  identify them for 5 points each.ANSWER: claim     warrant     grounds (accept: data)     backing     rebuttal     qualifiersThe conversion of energy is an important field of physics. Identify these energy conversion fundamentals on a 5-10-15 basis.a. The most famous theory of heat engines is basically a restatement of the second law of thermodynamics.  For five points, name the scientist who stated that the efficiency of a heat engine depends only on the hottest and coldest part of the engine and that 100% efficiency is impossible.ANSWER: Sadi _Carnot_b. When a crystal is subjected to vibration it produces a voltage, and when a voltage is applied to a crystal it vibrates. For ten points, name the effect that causes this behavior.ANSWER: _Piezoelectric_ effectc. A favorite among overclockers, this device is solid-state heat pump that relies on an 1834 discovery to get a computer chip very cold. For fifteen points, name it.ANSWER: _Peliter_ element