CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley BToss-Up Questions1. His wife's insanity prompted his first novel, 1901's L'Esclusa. (*) Another successful novel was Il fu Mattia Pascal, though he is more famous for his dramas.  One trilogy of these works, written in his native Sicilian dialect, include the works La Nuova Colonia, Lazzarro, and I Giganti della Montagna, which rewarded him with the 1934 Nobel literature prize.  FTP, identify this creator of such dramas as Enrico IV and Six Characters in Search of an Author.       Answer: Luigi Pirandello2. In the absorption of light, this phenomenon is exhibited by Fraunhofer lines.  The magnetic type produces fine and hyperfine structure in atomic spectra.  The cyclotron type (*) occurs when a magnetic field is adjusted so that a charged particle's frequency of revolution is equal to the frequency of radiation.  FTP, identify this condition also used by Linus Pauling to explain what occurs when more than one reasonable molecular structure is possible.       Answer:  resonance3. The original stated that anyone who accepted a title of nobility without the consent of Congress ceased to be a citizen of the United States.  Virginia approved it in March 1819. (*) Although never repealed, this enactment disappears from the records in the 1870s.  The more familiar one only affected two states that had not already dealt with its main issue in their state constitutions.  FTP, name this Amendment which abolished slavery.	Answer: Thirteenth Amendment4. Meaning "work of the people" or "public duty" in Greek, it originally corresponded to the official services of the Jewish temple.  Versions of it in the Orthodox Church include the one of Saint Basil (*) and more famously the one of Saint John Chrysostom, which has, among other things, a reenactment of the Last Supper.  FTP, name this church service usually celebrated on Sunday, the equivalent of the Roman Catholic Mass.       Answer: Divine Liturgy (prompt on Mass early)5. A student of Rimsky-Korsakov and Bruch, this composer taught composition at Rome's Saint Cecilia Conservatory. (*) His final opera Lucrezia was completed by his wife Elsa; he wrote seven other operas including Sleeping Beauty, The Sunken Bell, and Belfagor.  FTP, identify this Italian composer better known for orchestral works such as the Botticelli Triptych, Ancient Airs and Dances and Fountains of Rome.Answer:  Ottorino Respighi6. He did most of his writing in London's Newgate prison.  His most famous work was written as eight separate romances, though William Caxton, (*) upon publication, changed the title and combined them into one story.  His landmark work was published in 1485.  FTP, name this 15th century English author from Newbold Revell whose original work's title was changed to Morte d'Arthur.       Answer: Sir Thomas Malory7. This group of molecules can be cleaved to form two alcohol molecules by lithium aluminum hydride or catalytic hydrogenation. (*) They cause a solution of potassium iodide to turn brown, and a solution with sodium dichromate and acid to turn blue.  Often a product of the autooxidation of ethers in air, FTP, identify this group of molecules containing a weak oxygen-oxygen bond.Answer:  peroxides8. Historian Lord Bryce said that this document "codified anarchy and called it a constitution."  Among its provisions were ensuring the rights to coin gold and silver for the King of Bohemia and the right of the Archbishop of Mainz (*) to administer the oath once the other six electors arrived.  FTP, name this 1356 document issued by Emperor Charles IV that gave provisions for the election of the Holy Roman Emperor.       Answer: Golden Bull9. Some of the assumptions in this model are that resources are fully utilized and capital and labor are mobile between sectors within a country but are not mobile across countries.  The basis for input/output (*) analysis This model seeks to get at why some countries produce some goods cheaper than others through attributing comparative advantage to factor endowments.  FTP, identify this model of international trade named after two Swedish economists.       Answer: Hecksher-Ohlin-Samuelson model10. He received a recent Grammy nomination for his song "Lovesick Blues" on the album Timeless, a tribute to Hank Williams.  Also nominated for Best Rock Album, Male Rock Vocal, this former lead singer of Whiskey Town began his (*) solo career releasing the album Heartbreaker in 2000.  FTP, name this alt-country musician whose recent album Gold contains the hit "New York, New York."       Answer: Ryan Adams11. Entertainment is provided by seashell radios and wall mounted television sets.  When Captain Beatty realizes (*) that the main character is seeking a forbidden form of entertainment Beatty orders him to burn his house down.  FTP, name this Ray Bradbury novel that follows fireman Guy Montag in a society where books must be burned.       Answer: Fahrenheit 45112. First found in mushrooms by Henri Braconnot in 1811, this substance has been used as a pesticide against pathogenic roundworms and as a binder of metal ions in wastewater treatment.  A polymer of the sugar (*) N-acetylglucosamine, FTP, identify this second most abundant polysaccharide in nature, found in the cell walls of fungi and the exoskeletons of crustaceans.        Answer:  chitin13. Engine 18, Engine 72, and Hook and Ladder 20 had to stop short of their destination to avoid running over bodies.  It occurred at 4:40 PM on Saturday March 25, (*) 1911 at the eleven year old Asch building.  Supervisors had looked the exits, and the drop ladder had never been installed on the fire escape.  FTP, name this workplace inferno named for the garments produced in the building.       Answer: Triangle Shirtwaist Building fire14. These dialogues were made "to Demonstrate the Reality and Perfection of Human Knowledge The Incorporeal Nature of the Soul and the Immediate Providence of a Deity In Opposition to Skeptics and Atheists.  The author's claim in this work was similar to his Principles of Human Knowledge. (*) FTP, name this work of George Berkeley consisting of several dialogues between two mythological figures.       Answer: Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous15. He was a pupil of Chardin and was the 1752 winner of the Prix de Rome.  In 1765 he became a member of the Academy after having painted Coroesus Sacrificing himself to Save Callirhoe.  He soon abandoned the gallery in favor of more privately commissioned work in the (*) Rococo Style such as The Pasha and The Bathers.  FTP, name this painter famous for the Progress of Love and The Swing.       Answer: Jean-Honoré Fragonard16. The largest part of the father's inheritance is given to the eldest daughter Angustinas, (*) making her the most eligible for marriage although she is forty years old, ugly, and thin as a stick.  The grandmother, Maria Josefa, is locked in her room but wishes to marry a man from the seashore and have babies.  Five daughters are trapped by their mother for eight years in, FTP, what title locale in a 1936 play by Federico Garcia Lorca?Answer:  The House of Bernarda Alba or La casa de Bernarda Alba17. Debye assumed a continuous distribution of states proportional to the square of frequency up to the Debye frequency, deriving a model for this quantity that accounted for the interdependency of molecular vibrations. (*) This provided an improvement on Einstein's theory at very low temperatures.  FTP, identify this thermodynamic quantity determined by Dulong and Petit to have a classical limit of 25 joules per mole Kelvin.Answer:  molar heat capacity of a solid18. Both Senators from Nevada were elected as members of a party by this name in the 1890s.  Five other western senators were listed as this type (*) of republican in the same decade.  In 1896 they joined the Populists, and the Democrats in endorsing William Jennings Bryan for President.  FTP, name this party that advocated the free coinage of its namesake metal.	Answer: Silver Party19. These creatures can become boggarts if greatly offended, but usually they are content to bring luck to a house (*) and wear scruffy clothes of a particular color.  Creatures of this type will work for a family, but only if left alone and rewarded with a bowl of milk.  FTP, identify this mythical creature of the British Isles that shares his name with a delicious chocolate dessert.       Answer: brownie20. Sarah Jane Olson, a member of this group, is being tried for trying to blow up a police car in L.A. in 1975.  Three more members, Emily Harris, Bill Harris, and Mike Botin (*) were arrested for their part in a bank robbery that led to the death of Myrna Opsahl.  The most famous member of this group was waiting in the get-away car after being kidnapped from her Berkeley apartment and brainwashed into sympathy.  FTP, name this group known for abducting Patricia Hearst.       Answer: Simbionese Liberation Army21. The hero of this play is called an intruder, a splinter in the flesh, and a poacher in the lord's forest.  Despite his feelings of estrangement from the hometown that he has not seen in 16 years, he feels compelled to free it from its terrible curse, the creatures of the play's title. (*)  This existentialist play features such characters as Creon and Antigone.  FTP, identify this re-enactment of the Oresteia by Jean Paul Sartre.       Answer: The Flies or Les mouches22. This celestial object with an aphelion of 19 AU and perihelion of 8.5 AU was discovered in 1977 by astronomer Charles Kowal.  Originally given minor planet number 2060, (*) it has a diameter of about 200 kilometers and has an observable coma.  FTP, identify this largest of the centaur objects that orbits mainly between Saturn and Uranus, named for the centaur who tutored Achilles and Hercules.       Answer: 95/P or 2060 Chiron23. Tradition states that this man learned philosophy from Leo the Mathematician and Patriarch Photios while visiting Constantinople around the year 842.  A skilled linguist, (*) Byzantine Emperor Michael III sent him on a mission to Khan Rotislav of Moravia to do the work for which he is famous.  FTP, name this missionary who, along with brother Methodius, translated the divine liturgy into Church Slavonic and whose name the Russian Alphabet takes.       Answer: Saint Cyril24. His nickname, the Singing Fisherman, comes from his days working as a fisherman in Alaska.  His wife, Billie Jean Jones Williams, was the widow of Hank (*) Williams.  He was killed by a drunk driver after a 1960 concert in Austin Texas.  FTP, name this Honky Tonk man who recorded "Sink the Bismarck," "North to Alaska," and "The Battle of New Orleans."	Answer: Johnny Horton
CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley BBonus Questions1. Given a World Series champion and a year name the manager of that squad FTPE.a) Los Angeles Dodgers, 1988    Answer: Tommy Lasordab) Detroit Tigers, 1984    Answer: George "Sparky" Andersonc) New York Mets, 1969    Answer: Gil Hodges2. Identify these Abstract Expressionists FTPE.a) This artist specialized in monochromatic fields with one or more lines, or "zips", running through them.    Answer: Barnett Newmanb) His Homage to Matisse is typical of his work.  Among his best known works is his Subterranean Fantasy.    Answer: Mark Rothkoc) This Turkish Armenian painter was influenced by Cubism and Surrealism.  He is well known for the Garden in Sochi series.    Answer: Arshile Gorky3. Name the Graham Greene work given characters FTPE.a) Holly Martins, Anna Schmidt, Harry Lime    Answer: The Third Manb) Maurice Bendrix, Sarah Miles    Answer: The End of the Affairc) Hale, Ida, Pinkie    Answer: Brighton Rock4. Answer the following concerning the Borgias FTPE.a) Authoring the Treaty of Tordesillas, which established the 1494 Line of Demarcation, was Pope Alexander VI who had what given name?Answer: Rodrigo Borgiab) The model for Machiavelli's The Prince, name this Borgia who, besides committing incest and murder threw his rape victims in the Tiber.Answer: Cesare Borgiac) Finally, name this daughter of Rodrigo Borgia who questionably had an affair with her father. She is immortalized in a Gaetano Donizetti Opera.Answer: Lucrezia Borgia5. You drink a can of diet soda flavored with Nutrasweet.  FTPE, identify the following.a) Identify the type of bond that links the two amino acids in Nutrasweet together.Answer:  peptide bond or amide linkageb) A hydrogen atom at the C-terminus of the peptide is replaced by a methyl group, changing the original functional group to which other group?Answer:  esterc) In a few hours, you excrete the excess Nutrasweet as this nitrogenous waste product in your urine.Answer:  urea6. Name the Jewish holiday given its date or dates FTPE.a) 1 - 2 Tishri    Answer: Rosh Hashanahb) 25 Kislev - 3 Tevet    Answer: Chanukahc) 15-23 Tishri    Answer: Sukkot7. Name the character given an actress from the British sitcom "Absolutely Fabulous" FTPE.a) Jennifer Jane Saunders    Answer: Edwina 'Eddy' Margaret Rose Monsoon    b) Joanna Lamond Lumley Answer: Eurydice Colette Clytemnestra Dido Bathsheba Rabelais Patricia 'Patsy' Cocteau Stonec) Jane Horrocks    Answer: Bubble8. Given the first speaker, identify the Shakespeare play FTPE.a) Earl of Kent    Answer: King Learb) Roderigo    Answer: Othello, Moor of Venicec) Orsino, Duke of Illyria    Answer: Twelfth Night9. Answer the following concerning the Amritsar Massacre of 1919 FTPE.a) The massacre was a response to riots over which pieces of legislation?Answer: Rowlatt Actsb) Which British General who gave no warning about firing on the crowd led the massacre?Answer: R.E.H. Dyerc) The massacre occurred in what enclosed, high-walled park being used for a Hindu Festival?Answer: Jallianwallah Bagh10. Answer the following questions about fluid flow around an object FTPE.a) For irrotational and incompressible flow, the velocity potential can be solved using this equation, whose solutions are harmonic functions.    Answer:  Laplace's equationb) For Laplace's equation to hold, this dimensionless number, the ratio of inertial to viscous forces, must be large.    Answer:  Reynolds number or Rec) When al the above conditions hold, there is no drag on the object; identify the name given to this result.    Answer:  D'Alembert's paradox11. Answer these questions about writers whose work inspired Claude Debussy FTPE.a) His poem L'Apres-midi d'un faune inspired an orchestral work.    Answer: Stephane Mallarmeb) Debussy's only completed opera, Pelleas et Melisande, is based on this man's drama.    Answer: Maurice Maeterlinckc) One of his planned but uncompleted works was an opera based on this author's The Fall of the House of Usher.    Answer: Edgar Allan Poe12. Answer these questions about the semi-mythic birth of the Roman Republic FTPE.a) He was the son of Tarquinius Superbus who raped Lucretia, providing a pretext for his father's overthrow.    Answer: Sextusb) Superbus turned to this fellow Etruscan for aid in reclaiming his throne.    Answer: Lars Porsennac) Name either the Roman who single-handedly defended the Tiber bridge against the Etruscans, or the hero who sacrificed his hand in a fire to prove how determined Rome was to defend itself.    Answer: Horatius or Mucius Scaevola13. Identify these characters from The Grapes of Wrath FTPE.a) This protagonist is on parole from McAlester Prison.  He returns home to find his family kicked off their farm.    Answer: Tom Joadb) Tom meets up with this former preacher who then accompanies the family to California.    Answer: Jim Casyc) Tom's brother, he converts the family car into a truck to seat over ten people.  He spends his free time chasing after pretty migrant girls.    Answer: Al Joad14. Answer the following questions about the life of Woodrow Wilson FTPE.a) He is the only President to earn a Ph.D., he got one in Political Science from this University.    Answer: Johns Hopkins Universityb) In 1912 he campaigned on this program that was quite similar to Teddy Roosevelt's New Nationalism.    Answer: New Freedomc) Wilson's unofficial advisor through much of his presidency, Wilson blamed this man for bungling peace negations in Paris while he was away.    Answer: Edward House15. Identify the following related to nitrogen fixation FTPE.a) In the process of nitrogen fixation, molecular nitrogen is reduced to this form of inorganic nitrogen.Answer:  ammonia (accept ammonium)b) Bacterial nitrogenases, which fix nitrogen, generally have an oxygen-sensitive cofactor containing iron and this Group 6 element with an atomic number of 42.Answer:  molybdenum or Moc) This genus of gram-negative bacilli fix nitrogen in nodules on the roots of legumes such as pea plants.Answer:  Rhizobium16. Answer the following surrounding certain religious texts FTSNOP.a) A goatherd at Nag Hammadi discovered several of these types of books. The text of these books claim they contain secret teachings of Jesus Christ.Answer: Gnostic Gospels or Booksb) Identify the movie concerning the discovery and supposed cover up of the Gnostic Gospels was made in 1999 staring Gabriel Byrne as a Father Andrew Kiernan along with Patricia Arquette.Answer: Stigmatac) The movie Stigmata referred to a specific Gnostic Gospel, name it, the one supposedly written by the one of the twelve apostles who did missionary work in India.Answer: Gospel according to Thomas17. Identify the bands from the Steely Dan songs the covered on the Me, Myself and Irene movie soundtrack FTPE.  If you need more popular songs by the band you'll receive five.a) (10 points) "Do it Again"(5 points) "Walkin' on the Sun"    Answer: Smashmouthb) (10 points) "Bodhisattva"(5 points) "Jump, Jive and Wail"Answer: The Brian Setzer Orchestrac) (10 points) "Any Major Dude"(5 points) "Outtasite (Outta Mind)"Answer: Wilco18. Identify the following people featured in an author's preface to a book FTSNOP.a) (5 points) Charlotte Bronte praised this author's Vanity Fair in the preface to the second edition of Jane Eyre, raising rumors that she had had an affair with him.Answer:  William Makepeace Thackerayb) (10 points) Spenser described the intention and meaning of The Faerie Queene in his prefatory letter to this poet and organizer of the failed Roanoke expedition.Answer:  Sir Walter Raleighc) (15 points) Sir Walter Scott dedicated the preface of Ivanhoe to this fictitious pedantic doctor.Answer:  Doctor Jonas Dryasdust19. Identify the U.S. Vice President from a description FTSNOP.a) (5 points) This man was the only two term VP to be elected to the presidency twice in his own right.    Answer: Richard M Nixonb) (10 points) This man was the second to be appointed to the post without having been elected.    Answer: Nelson Rockefellerc) (15 points) This VP was in Cuba at the time of his inauguration.  He fell ill and died shortly after returning to the US.    Answer: William King20. Identify the following concepts related to magnetic materials FTSNOP.a) (5 points) This type of magnetism occurs when a substance maintains a net magnetic moment even in the absence of an external magnetic field.Answer:  ferromagnetismb) (5 points) This curve describes the magnetization of a sample as an applied magnetic field is varied.Answer:  hysteresis loop or curvec) (10 points) This point, the magnetization of a sample in the absence of an applied magnetic field, indicates the permanent magnetization of the substance.Answer:  remanent magnetizationd) (10 points) The re-orientation of local magnetization domains in a magnetic sample causes this type of magnetic noise to be heard.Answer:  Barkhausen noise21. Name the author from works, 30-20-10.a) (30 points) Beauty and Sadness, The Lakeb) (20 points) The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter, The Master of Goc) (10 points) Snow Country, Thousand Cranes    Answer: Yasunari Kawabata22. Given a country or civilization name its medieval evangelizer FTSNOP.a) (5 points) IrelandAnswer: Saint Patrickb) (10 points) "The Germans"Answer: Saint Bonifacec) (15 points) SpainAnswer: Saint James the Greater23. Identify the following concepts related to chemical kinetics FTPE.a) A reaction proceeds through a series of these steps that directly involve the collisions of atoms or molecules.Answer:  elementary reactionb) This approximation, in which the concentration of intermediate molecules is assumed to remain constant, is often used to derive rate laws from elementary steps.Answer:  steady-state approximationc) This winner of the 1903 Nobel Prize in Chemistry suggested that rate constants vary exponentially with the inverse of temperature.Answer:  Svante August Arrhenius24. Name the dead political thinker from works F15PE.a) Black Skin, White Masks; The Wretched of the Earth    Answer: Frantz Fanonb) Blackface, White Noise: Jewish Immigrants in the Hollywood Melting Pot; Fathers and Children: Andrew Jackson and the Subjugation of the American Indian; 'Ronald Reagan,' the Movie, and Other Episodes in Political Demonology    Answer: Michael Rogin141