CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by UC IrvineToss-Up Questions1. This play features one of the most famous choruses in all Greek drama, the Chorus of Theban Elders.  The title character is betrothed to Haemon, (*) who attempts to defend her illicit actions against his father and ends up dying.  A guard is set to watch over the corpse of the title character's brother so she cannot bury him as by Creon's edict.  FTP, identify this Greek drama about the title character and her burial of Polynieces.	Answer: Antigone 2. A student of Ernest Rutherford, he devoted his career to studying the structure of atoms.  He concluded that the atomic number is equal to the (*) charge on the nucleus; thus, his version of the periodic table was arranged by atomic number instead of atomic mass.  FTP, identify this English physicist, whose life was cut short in the Gallipoli campaign of World War I.	Answer: Henry Moseley3. Publication of this document caused a sensation among antislavery forces in the U.S., though it was repudiated by the government.  The result of the diplomatic blunders of U.S. minister to Spain (*) Pierre Soulé, it was drawn up in its namesake Belgian city by John Mason and James Buchanan.  Resulting in a scandal with the Spanish government, FTP, identify this 1854 manifesto that urged Spain to sell Cuba to the U.S.	Answer: Ostend Manifesto4. This concept refers to a "bandwidth of competence that learners can navigate with aid from a supportive context, including the assistance of others." (*) It implies that a person's capability to learn has no upper boundary and what one learns with the aid of others today can be done independently tomorrow.  FTP, identify this theory of developmental and educational psychology advanced by Russian scientist Lev Vygotsky.	Answer: Zone of Proximal Development5. After a trip to Africa, he used a Tunisian folk song in his Fantasy for Piano and Orchestra, subtitled L'Africa. (*) Another of his works is the symphonic poem Omphale's Spinning Wheel.  The teacher of Gabriel Fauré, FTP, identify this French composer of the opera Samson and Dalila and the orchestral works Danse macabre and Carnival of Animals.	Answer: Camille Saint-Saëns6. This two-word literary term has been replaced by "personification" and "anthropomorphism." (*) Originally a derogatory term, it shows its creator's fixation on truth being the primary criterion of art.  Coined in 1856 by John Ruskin "to signify any description of inanimate natural objects that ascribes to them human capabilities, sensations, and emotions," FTP, identify this type of sad sad fallacy.	Answer: pathetic fallacy7. This class of drugs can suppress appetite, increase heart rate, and heighten blood pressure.  In large doses, it can produce a euphoric sensation.  It was prescribed to treat Attention Deficit (*) Hyperactive Disorders among children.  It is still used to alleviate depression, but its chronic use can result in paranoid psychosis.  Stimulating the central nervous system, FTP, identify this class of drugs including benzedrine, dexedrine, and methedrine.	Answer: amphetamines  8. After being pursued for a year, he finally surrendered in Montana.  Amidst rumors that he was planning an escape, he was stabbed to death by an American soldier. (*) He inherited his father's name after proving his bravery as a young Oglala Sioux.  He joined Sitting Bull's encampment at Little Bighorn.  Along with Chief Gall of the Hunkpapa Sioux, he decimated General Custer's troops.  FTP, name this man who refused to resettle his people to a reservation in the Black Hills.	Answer: Crazy Horse 9. When a person lies, this principle is violated because, if everyone lied, truth would have no meaning (*) and no one would believe anyone.  The whole point of a lie is that everyone thinks that the person is telling the truth; thus lying is contradictory.  FTP, identify this principle of moral law found in The Metaphysics of Morals and forwarded by Immanuel Kant.	Answer: categorical imperative 10. Modeled in the Appalachian folk tradition, these toys were made when their creator experimented with soft sculpture and yarn hair.  He promoted them at craft fairs and sold the rights to Coleco. (*) These toys always came with fake papers from a Cleveland, Georgia hospital, claiming that the child has "adopted" the toy.  FTP, name these chubby toy babies created by Xavier Roberts.	Answer: Cabbage Patch Kids11. The first poem ends with a famous couplet: "Biting my trewand pen, beating myself for spite, / 'Fool,' said my Muse to me, 'look in thy heart and write.'" (*) Representing the stages of a relationship, the male title character declares that he uses no trite phrases when speaking of his love for a star.  Famous for the use of conceits, FTP, identify this cycle of sonnets by Sir Philip Sidney.	Answer: Astrophil and Stella12. Also known as the 4+2 cycloaddition, this reaction occurs in one step with a cyclic flow of electrons.  One component is always a conjugated diene and the other is usually an alkene with unsaturated electronegative substituents.  FTP, identify this reaction that generates two carbon-carbon double bonds used to form complex ring systems       Answer: Diels-Alder reaction13. Preceded by several treaties and signatories, this was the key signing that enabled Germany to enter the League of Nations. (*) However, Hitler denounced it and broke its provisions when the Nazis demilitarized the Rhineland in 1936.  The agreement guaranteed the post-World War I borders of the Rhineland, Germany, Belgium, and France.  FTP, what was this pact, signed among European powers on October 16, 1925 at its namesake city in Switzerland?	Answer: Locarno Pact14. His incredible vision allowed him to see thousands of li away and probe the disguises of demons.  His extraordinary hearing picked up everything that came through the wind.  A master of transformation, (*) this trickster god accidentally swallowed Wang Mu-yiang's peaches of immortality.  Always hungry, he was the first disciple of the Tang priest in Journey to the West.  FTP, name this Chinese folk deity, whose weapon was a long, magical stick.	Answer: Monkey King or Sün Wu-kong 15. His outfit was a snazzy three-piece suit.  His head was shaved bald.  His standard greeting was a gruff "Who loves ya, baby?" (*) From 1973 to 1978, he walked the streets of Manhattan as a detective for the NYPD, showing his idiosyncratic penchant for the grit rather than glamour.  FTP, who is this lieutenant on CBS, his most visible prop a lollipop, played by Telly Savalas?	Answer: Lt. Theo Kojak16. Among its many characters are Stanislovas, who shirks his responsibilities from fear of frostbite, and Tommy Hinds, who gives a job to the main character after he becomes a (*) socialist.  A representation of capitalism, Phil Connor, ends up raping Ona Lukoszaite, who is the main character's wife.  FTP, identify this novel centering on Jurgis Rudkus that exposed shit in the meatpacking industry.	Answer: The Jungle17. This physical law indirectly led to the discovery of the Kuiper Belt.  To apply it, neglect Mercury and assign 0.3 astronomical units to Venus. (*) Then, to find the orbital radius of any planet, take the orbital radius of the one next closest to the sun, double it, and add 0.4 astronomical units.  It works for all planets, except for the one missing between Mars and Jupiter.  FTP, name this law that expresses the regularity of the planets' distances from the sun.	Answer: Titius-Bode's law18. One of its advisors was Nnamdi Azikiwe, who later went on to become the first president of its parent country. (*) Its existence was brought about by the declaration of independence of the Eastern Region, a heavily-populated Igbo region.  Led by Lt. Col. Odumegwu Ojukwu, this region declared independence in May 1967.  FTP, identify this short-lived breakaway republic from Nigeria.	Answer: Biafra19. According to it, it had always existed and resides in heaven surrounded by palm trees and written in divine script.  Some historians believe parts of this book were written during the Medinan (*) period, while the rest was written between 622 and 632 CE. (*) Divided into 114 suras, this work explains that the way of salvation is through the prophets Moses, Christ, and then the final prophet, Mohammed.  FTP, name this central scripture of Islam.	Answer: Koran or Qu'ran20. Its name is also the name of the system in which it lies.  Harboring a tremendous underground cache of lumni-spice, the pirate Raskar was chased from here by a dragon-slug.  Home to creatures such as ice worms, some of its better known residents include wampa and tauntauns.  It was the establishment of Echo Base by the Rebellion that put this icy planet on the map.  FTP, identify this frozen world featured at the start of The Empire Strikes Back.	Answer: Hoth21. This work is a collection of seven independent short stories.  These stories feature such characters as Rider and his wife Mannie, as well as the twins Amodeus and Theophilus.  Some of the stories in this collection include The Old People and Pantaloon in Black, as well as the first story Was, and The Bear.  Primarily about the McCaslin family, FTP, identify this collection of short stories by Faulkner whose title might have been what Zipporah said in heat.	Answer: Go Down, Moses22. In statistics, the binomial probability distribution with equal probability of success and failure can be obtained by plotting the numbers from this array (*) at equal distances along a horizontal axis.  The sequence 1, 7, 21, 35, 35, 21, 7, and 1 represent its eighth row.  It is calculated by adding the two numbers directly above.  FTP, what is this mathematical paradigm, invented by a 17th-century French philosopher and mathematician?	Answer: Pascal's triangle23. After partaking in the storming of Tuileries Palace in 1792 and overthrowing the monarchy, he was arrested for helping the radicals ousting the moderate Girondists from the National Convention. (*) When the Jacobins took control, he became more extreme and helped usher in the Reign of Terror.  However, he lost favor from Danton and Robespierre and in 1794 he was guillotined.  FTP, identify this French journalist and revolutionary, leader of the Sans-culottes.	Answer: Jacques Rene Hebert24. The principal subjects are usually set in a corner or in the background.  Human figures in strained poses are purposely elongated and distorted, (*) showing much emphasis on muscles.  An insistent style for neurotic artist, this term was coined in the 20th century to describe the artistic movement of late 17th-century Italy.  Applied to such masters as Michelangelo and Tintoretto, FTP, identify this artistic style that was a reaction against Renaissance.	Answer: Mannerism 
CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by UC IrvineBonus Questions1. Given three baseball players, identify the one position all three played as starters FTPE.a) Alfredo Griffin, José Offerman, Cal Ripken, Jr.	Answer: short stopb) Jeff Cirillo, Howard Johnson, Troy Glaus       Answer: third base       c) Darren Daulton, Craig Biggio, Rick Dempsey	Answer: catcher2. Identify the following from Welsh mythology FTPE.a) She is the Welsh mother goddess, usually portrayed stirring a cauldron, which contains simmering herbs that grant wisdom to the drinker.       Answer: Ceridwen       b) This famous bard is the son of Ceridwen.	Answer: Taliesinc) The stories of Taliesin can be found in what authoritative collection of Welsh myths?       Answer: The Mabinogion3. Name these multicultural works of literature FTPE.a) In this book by Ina R. Friedman, a young girl tells how her parents, an American sailor and a Japanese schoolgirl, met for the first time.	Answer: How My Parents Learned to Eatb) This play by Alfred Uhry tells the story of an elderly Southern Jewish woman and her budding friendship with her black chauffeur, Hoke Coleburn.	Answer: Driving Miss Daisyc) In this short novel by Mexican writer José Emilio Pacheco, the narrator recalls how he grew up in a racially-mixed city speaking Spanglish and falling in love with his best friend's mother.	Answer: The Battles in the Desert or Las batallas en el desierto4. Name these things in your head FTPE.a) This cone-shaped gland is attached to the posterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain.  It produces melatonin.	Answer: pineal bodyb) This enlarged portion of the upper spinal cord contains centers for the control of respiration, heartbeat rate and strength, and blood pressure.	Answer: medulla oblongatac) This area of the brain controls comprehension of spoken and written words.  Aphasia caused by damage to this area results in incomprehensible verbal fluency.	Answer: Wernicke's area5. Name the explorer, 30-20-10.a) (30 points) His wife Josephine accompanied him on several expeditions.  At a shelter in Bowdoin Bay, his wife gave birth to a child.  He served in the US Navy, which refused to fund his expeditions.b) (20 points) On another expedition, he got severe frostbite and had eight toes amputated.  From Greenland, he brought back a 1,000-pound meteorite.  In 1909, he was promoted to rear admiral.c) (10 points) Along with Matthew Hanson and a team of Eskimos, he became the first man to reach the North Pole.	Answer: Robert Peary6. Name these Spanish artists FPTE.a) This Spanish Baroque artist's son, Juan, was also a famous painter.  This man created such works as The Vision of St. Anthony of Padua and Saint Francis of Assisi in His Tomb.	Answer: Francisco de Zurbaranb) This modern painter and graphic artist was a proponent of Abstract Art.  He painted Catalan Landscape (1923) and Dog Barking at the Moon (1926).	Answer: Joan Miróc) This 17th-century painter's career was overshadowed by Diego Velasquez, but he did paint Women at the Window, The Flight into Egypt, and Grape and Melon Eaters.       Answer: (Bartólome) Estaban Murillo7. Identify the following about the history of Judaism FTPE.a) 586 BCE marked the start of the Babylonian captivity and this movement of dispersal of the Jewish people, whose exile lasted until 538 BCE.	Answer: Jewish Diasporab) In the middle ages after the rise of Islam, Judaism evolved into two distinct strains, one centering in Spain and the other in France and Germany.  Name them FFPE.	Answer: Sephardim and Ashkenazimc) In 18th-century Germany, this movement led to the rise of Reform and Conservative Judaism.	Answer: Jewish enlightenment or Haskala8. Try these related literary questions FTPE.a) Subtitled "A Letter," this 1915 English-language poem opens with the line: "While my hair was still cut straight across my forehead / I played about the front gate, pulling flowers."	Answer: The River-merchant's Wifeb) Name the American poet of The River-merchant's Wife, who also penned the poems Portrait d'une Femme and The Cantos.	Answer: Ezra Poundc) Pound actually translated The River-merchant's Wife from a poem by this Chinese poet of the T'ang Dynasty, whose Japanese name was Rihaku.  Give the full name of this Chinese poet.	Answer: Li Po or Li Bai9. Consider the first ten straight chain alkanes and identify the following FTPE.a) Which has the lowest boiling point?       Answer: methaneb) Which has the highest melting point?       Answer: decane       c) FFPE, which two give 3 peaks in carbon NMR?       Answers: pentane and hexane10. Identify the following from Greek history FTPE.a) Following the Greek victory in the Persian wars, what city-state, with the strongest fleet in the eastern Mediterranean, was headed by Pericles from 461 to 429 BCE?	Answer: Athens or the Athenian Empireb) In 478 BCE, 200 Greek city-states joined what maritime alliance based in Athens?	Answer: Delian Leaguec) Greek opposition to the power of Athens began to form around Sparta.  What series of conflicts subsequently broke out in 431 BCE?	Answer: Peloponnesian Wars11. Identify these works of philosophy FTPE.a) This work by Descartes reflects on the Mediator, a narrator figure who cannot doubt its own existence due to the fact that it thinks.	Answer: Meditations on First Philosophyb) This work by Kierkegaard discusses the general malaise and despair that people feel due to a lack of synthesis between physical and spiritual elements.Answer: The Sickness Unto Deathc) This landmark of empiricism by Hume discusses the relationship of ideas and matters of fact.	Answer: An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding12. Answer these questions on Star Trek: Deep Space Nine FTPE.a) What officer aboard Deep Space Nine used to be a terrorist?	Answer: Major Kirab) Name the chief of security whose special power is shape-shifting.	Answer: Odoc) What is the name of a person's "energy aura"?	Answer: pagh13. Identify the American short story F15PE, or FTPE if you need another clue.a) (15 points) "I've gotten a lot of interesting things," he said.  "One time I got a woman's glass eye this way.  And you needn't to think you'll catch me because Pointer ain't really my name."(10 points) This bitingly funny story by Flannery O'Connor centers around Joy Hopewell, who changes her name to Hulga, falls for a phony Bible salesman, and has her prosthetic leg stolen by him.	Answer: Good Country Peopleb) (15 points) "But I had my eyes closed.  I thought I'd keep them that way for a little longer.  I thought it was something I ought to do."(10 points) This Raymond Carver story centers around the narrator's attempt to help a blind man understand and draw the titular edifice of worship.	Answer: Cathedral14. Name these metamorphic rocks FTPE.a) This layered rock is metamorphosed shale.	Answer: slateb) More metamorphosed than slate, its crystals can grow quite large in thin layers so that the whole rock is banded.  Mica is a prime example.	Answer: schistc) It is metamorphosed from granite, conglomerate, or other kinds of rocks.  It has wide bands, usually of quartz.  It also has a complacent name.	Answer: gneiss15. Answer the following questions about the election of 1848 FTPE.a) The Democratic party split, leading to the election of General Zachary Taylor.  Taylor represented what political party?	Answer: Whig Partyb) The Democrats split over the issue of slavery.  The antislavery faction earned what nickname because they threatened to destroy the Democratic platform with a conflagration?	Answer: Barnburnersc) The more conservative and loyal faction of Democrats earned what weird nickname?	Answer: Hunkers16. Identify these sociologists FTPE.a) He studied the bases of social order and the effects of industrialization on traditional social and moral order in The Rules of Sociological Method.  He also wrote a book about suicides.	Answer: Emile Durkheimb) This American urban planner studied the adverse effect of technology on contemporary society in The Culture of Cities and The City in History.	Answer: Lewis Mumfordc) In his 1988 article, "Black Spectatorship," this African-American social critic analyzed the problems of identification and resistance in cinema and in contemporary American pop culture.	Answer: Manthia Diawara17. Given first names, identify the famous Jazz performers FTPE.a) Ellis, Wynton, and Branford	Answer: Marsalisb) Tommy and Jimmy	Answer: Dorseyc) Johnny and Baby	Answer: Dodds18. Identify these characters from Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbord FTPE.a) When Nathan Radley fires his gun, the children run away, but this character's pants get caught in the gate.  When he returns to fetch his pants, it's been folded and roughly sewn up.	Answer: Jemb) This mean old lady sits on her front porch and yells at the children as they pass by.  A morphine addict, she dies by the end of Part One.	Answer: Mrs. Dubosec) This relative of the Finch family introduces the idea of "Fine Folks" to Scout.  Old-fashioned and proper, she tells the neighborhood children what to do and what not to do.	Answer: Aunt Alexandra 19. Identify these early quantum physicists FTPE.a) In 1900, this German discovered that radiation consists of discrete units of energy, which he termed "quanta."Answer: Max Planckb) He developed the idea of complementarity and the first quantum mechanical model of the hydrogen atom.Answer: Niels Bohrc) This man's uncertainty principle... yadda yadda yadda.Answer: Werner von Heisenberg20. Identify the following about the history of the Toltecs FTPE.a) This high priest of Quetzalcoatl supposedly substituted the sacrifice of flowers and fruits for ritual human sacrifice.  However, he and his followers were defeated and exiled to the Yucatán around 987.	Answer: Topiltzinb) Topiltzin made human sacrifices to this Toltec god of war, whose priests eventually defeated Topiltzin.  Identify this god, the chief opponent of Quetzalcoatl.	Answer: Tezcatlipocac) The ousting of Topiltzin led to the Toltec conquest of this city, where the Toltec military aristocracy merged with local Mayan elite.  Identify this city in northern Yucatán, whose chief deity was Quetzalcoatl.	Answer: Chichén Itzá21. Name the directors of the following films FTPE.a) Breaking the Waves, The Idiots, and Dancer in the Dark       Answer: Lars von Trierb) Willow, Cocoon, A Beautiful Mind       Answer: Ron Howardc) Arlington Road, The Mothman Prophecies       Answer: Mark Pellington22. Identify the play, 30-20-10.a) (30 points) In Act II, Scene iii, the title character has already given birth to a son, but the ominous calculation of the child's nativity pits together Mars and the Dragon, two sinister signs that, when combined, signal "a violent death."b) (20 points) In Act IV, Scene i, the evil Ferdinand gives a dead man's severed hand to the title character and claims it is the hand of Antonio Bologna, her steward and lover.c) (10 points) This 1623 tragedy by John Webster features the heroic Daniel de Bosola, who redeems himself by killing both Ferdinand and the Cardinal before dying of his wounds.	Answer: The Duchess of Malfi23. Identify these points in orbits FTPE.a) This is the point in the orbit of the satellite at which it is closest to the planet.       Answer: perigee       b) This is the point in the orbit of the planet at which it is closest to the sun.	Answer: perihelionc) This is the point in the orbit of the satellite at which it is farthest from the planet.	Answer: apogee24. Answer the following questions about the origin of the Safavids FTPE.a) Following the collapse of the Timurids in the late 15th century, the Safavids eventually took control of this empire and ruled until 1753.  Name the empire.	Answer: Iranb) The Safavid conquest of Iran was headed by this small band of fanatical Shiite Sufis.  Name this group from northwestern Iran, named for its colorful headgear.	Answer: Red Turbans or Qizilbashc) Identify the leader of the Red Turbans, a self-proclaimed messiah, whose troops were defeated by the Ottoman army at the 1514 battle of Chaldiran.	Answer: Ismail (accept variants like "Ishmael")2