CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley CToss-Up Questions1. It was designed by a French architect who was brought by its namesake to Mississippi, (*) and it was built by a squad of French negro slaves.  Located north of Jefferson in Yoknapatawpha County, FTP, identify this residence named for the title character of William Faulkner's Absalom! Absalom!       Answer: Sutpen's Hundred2. The Kerr type is an exact solution of the Einstein field equations that is the metric outside a spinning sphere; (*) the Kerr-Newman type is rotating and charged; an eternal one is massless and is held together by the nonlinearity of its gravitational field; and the Schwarzschild type has zero charge and zero angular momentum.  FTP, identify this strongest gravitational body in the universe.       Answer: black holes3. Graduating last in his class at West Point, (*) he distinguished himself at Chapultepec during the Mexican-American War.  Upon Virginia's secession from the Union, he joined the Confederacy as a brigadier general and participated in the peninsular campaign.  FTP, name this general who led the charge up Cemetery Hill that ultimately led his men to defeat at Gettysburg.       Answer: George Edward Pickett4. Originally an emigrant from Ur, a major test of his faith was the basis for Kierkegaard's meditations in (*) Fear and Trembling.  Having agreed with God that all future generations of male offspring would be circumcised, FTP, who was this patriarch who was promised Canaan in return, the husband of Sarah and father of Ishmael and Isaac?Answer: Abraham5. Taking over twenty years to create, most of the artist's other famous works were designed for inclusion in this one. (*) Inspired by Dante's Inferno and commissioned for a building that was never built, it contains the sculptures Adam and Eve and The Three Shades.  FTP, identify this monumental work of August Rodin which also contains the sculptures The Kiss and The Thinker.       Answer: Gates of Hell6. The affair at the center of this novel is based on the parties of Sara and Gerald Murphy in southern France.  Tommy Barban (*) succeeds in seducing the protagonist's wife, but only after she learns of his affair with starlet Rosemary Hoyt.  Nicole then leaves her husband Dick Diver.  FTP, identify this fourth novel of F. Scott Fitzgerald.       Answer: Tender is the Night7. Ritz proposed a general formula to describe these observations.  The Brackett (*) and Pfund are the fourth and fifth series found in the infrared part of the electromagnetic spectrum.  The Rydberg constant derived from them is 1.09678 times 10 to the seventh inverse meters.  FTP, the Lyman, Balmer and Paschen series are the first three sets of what measured spectral phenomena of the lightest element?       Answer: Hydrogen lines (prompt on spectral lines)8. This dynasty's 400-year rule was broken up in half by Wang Mang, (*) who established the Hsin Dynasty.  After a 15-year rule, the Hsin fell and Liu Hsiu re-established the dynasty at Luoyang, which was slightly east of Xian, the former capital of the dynasty.  FTP, name this dynasty, which was originally founded by Liu Pang in 202 BCE.	Answer: Han Dynasty9. Due to a lack of information known by the consumer regarding a used car, the consumer is immediately suspicious of the quality of the car, and lower car prices prevail as a result of this phenomenon described in The Market For Lemons, (*) a 1970 work by George Akerlof.  FTP, name this phenomenon that netted Akerlof, Joseph Stiglitz, and Michael Spence the 2001 Nobel Prize in Economics.	Answer: aysmmetric information (prompt on Nobel Prize and the recipients' names)10. Roger Byrne, Tommy Taylor, Duncan Edwards, Eddie Coleman, Mark Jones, Billy Whelan, Geoff Bent, David Pegg all died on the spot, while Duncan Edwards died in the hospital (*) when a plane carrying this team crashed during takeoff in Munich in 1958.  Matt Busby survived, as did Bobby Charlton.  FTP, all these players were members of what English football club, today managed by Sir Alex Ferguson?       Answer: Manchester United (accept Busby's Babes before "this team"; prompt on Munich air crash before power)11. Its title characters are an ambitious private eager for combat, staying behind at the last minute to work for the optical department; an Indiana farm boy (*) who ends up deserting after killing a superior officer; and a Harvard student who becomes disillusioned with the army and goes AWOL.  Dan Fuseli, Chrisfield, and John Andrews are the central characters in, FTP, which novel by John Dos Passos?       Answer: Three Soldiers12. Until 1970, they were believed to be a single species until D.K. Bailey noticed the subtle structural differences between the eastern and western varieties.  They grow to an average height of 60 feet (*) and usually grow at altitudes between 10 and 11 kilometers.  FTP, Edmund Schulman discovered that Methuselah is the oldest tree of what long living species found only in the western U.S.?       Answer: bristlecone pines (accept Pinus longaeva)13. A boyhood friend of Johnny Appleseed, this man fought in the Revolutionary War, but his fame developed during the War of 1812. (*) Sam Wilson opened up a meat-packing plant and earned his nickname with a reputation for fair dealing and a jovial demeanor.  Since some crates of meat were meant for military use, he had them stamped with "U.S.," for "United States."  FTP, identify this character who wants you for the U.S. Army.       Answer: Uncle Sam14. The bed of the titular character stretches from upper left to lower right of the canvas.  At the foot of the bed, a slave woman is being killed, (*) while another's body is already slumped on the bed.  A troop of servants are present in the lower left, while on the upper right, an army of Medes ravages the land.  FTP, identify this Eugene Delacroix painting based on a Byron poem about the demise of a Persian ruler.       Answer: Death of Sardanapolus15. The star of this show plays drums in a band called Scarlet Division, but the show focuses on the star's talent as a (*) chef.  As a teenager, he cooked at The Cricketers, a pub owned by his parents and eventually worked at The River Cafe in London.  Also the chief food editor for British GQ, FTP, name this Food Network show, which features a clothed Jamie Oliver serving up recipes that strip foods down to their bare, tasty essentials.	Answer: The Naked Chef16. "The First Job," "A Rice Sandwich," "Gil's Furniture Bought and Sold," and "Cathy Queen of Cats," (*) are four of the vignettes found in this novel, which follows the life of a poor Chicago adolescent.  First published in 1984, the book focuses on the titular location, a three bedroom, one bathroom shack.  FTP, name this first novel about Esperanza Cordero written by Sandra Cisneros.	Answer: The House on Mango Street17. Its weak form states that the worldline of a freefalling body is independent of its composition, structure, or state.  In general, it is exemplified by the situation wherein a person in an elevator (*) feels a force but does not know its origin.  FTP, identify this cornerstone of Einstein's general relativity which posits that an acceleration is fundamentally indistinguishable from a gravitational field.       Answer: equivalence principle18. In 1670, its king, Osei Tutu conquered Denkyeraand other nearby states to establish this empire that reached its height in 1750.  When its capital Kumasi (*) was captured by the British, the southern regions became the Gold Coast Colony which grew to absorb the declining empire.  FTP, what African empire is notable for its ruler's authority being symbolized by the Golden Stool?       Answer: Ashanti Empire19. She is represented in two of Hans Christian Andersen's tales: The Snow Queen and The Ice Princess.  It is she who pronounced sentence on Loki (*) for his crimes, as well as being the cause of death of her own father, Thiazzi.  FTP, identify this Norse goddess of winter and hunting who married Njord because he had the most beautiful feet.	Answer: Skadi20. References in this album's song titles and lyrics tie the album to an opera, including references to returning "when the robin makes his nest." (*) The singer's relationship with a half-Japanese girl living "Across the Sea" parallels the relationship in the opera between an American military officer and a Japanese geisha.  FTP, identify this second Weezer album named after a character in Puccini's opera Madama Butterfly.       Answer: Pinkerton21. During his marriage he managed to publish the poems London and The Vanity of Human Wishes, as well as his first play (*) Irene.  His last published work was the ten-volume Lives of the Poets.  His Journey to the Western Isles of Scotland was overshadowed by Boswell's account of his life.  FTP, what author wrote the monumental Dictionary of the English Language?       Answer: Samuel Johnson22. This region is primarily made of iron and magnesium silicates.  Deep focus earthquakes are believed to originate here yet the region is not believed to be brittle enough to cause quakes. (*) The convection cells created by flux of densities of rocks found in this region is just one major reason for the theory of plate tectonics.  FTP, what layer of the earth lies just below the lithosphere and shares its name with the Greek goddess of wisdom?       Answer: athenosphere23. Its two organizers were Peter Yorck von Wartenburg and Helmuth James von Moltke, (*) and it was intended to represent a cross section of pre-Nazi Germany.  Its constitution was intended as a plan for the future government of post-war Germany, but almost all of its members were executed before the war's end.  FTP, identify this group of German intellectuals which took its name from the von Moltke estate where it met.       Answer: Kreisau Circle24. Along with his wife, he plunged a jewel spear into the ocean and the water drops that fell from its tip became Onogoro. (*)  From his right eye came the moon goddess Tsuki-Yumi and from his left eye came Ameterasu.  FTP, who is this primordial Shinto sky god, husband and brother of Izanami?       Answer: Izanagi
CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley CBonus Questions1. Identify the architect of each of these building FTPE.a) Church Sant' Andrea al Quirinale and the Cornaro Chapel    Answer: Giovanni Lorenzo Berninib) Villa Emo, Villa Barbaro, Villa Cornaro, La Malcontenta, and La Rotunda    Answer: Andrea Palladioc) The Banqueting House at Whitehall in London and the Queen's House in Greenwich    Answer: Inigo Jones2. Identify a common psychological disorder given a description FTPE.a) A personality disorder characterized by a distrust of others and a constant suspicion that other people have sinister motives.Answer: paranoiab) A personality disorder characterized by a pervasive pattern of detachment from social relationships and a restricted range of expression of emotions in interpersonal settings.Answer: schizoid personality disorderc) A personality disorder characterized by a constant desire for attention.    Answer: histrionic personality disorder3. Identify these various stories from James Joyce's Dubliners FTPE.a) A meeting in the titular location begins with political planning and ends with the reading of a eulogy for Parnell.    Answer: Ivy Day in the Committee Roomb) Mr. Cunningham and Mr. Power conspire to bring Mr. Kernan closer into the Catholic Church.    Answer: Gracec) Gabriel Conroy's wife has an affair with her ex-lover Michael Furey.Answer: The Dead4. Given the brightest stars in a constellation, name that constellation FTPE.a) Antares    Answer: Scorpius or Scorpiob) Procyon    Answer: Canis Minorc) Spica    Answer: Virgo5. Identify these battles of the English Civil War FTPE.a) On July 2, 1644 Alexander Leslie, Earl of Leven defeated Prince Rupert at the location from which the battle takes its name.    Answer: Battle of Marston Mooreb) Charles I himself led the Royalist troops against Oliver Cromwell and Sir Thomas Fairfax at this June 14, 1645 Northamptonshire battle and lost.    Answer: Battle of Nasebyc) The last victory for the Royalist forces was this battle in Cornwall, following Marston Moore, where Charles I soundly defeated Robert Devereaux, 3rd earl of Essex.    Answer: Battle of Lostwithiel6. Identify these foreign film directors who are not French or British FTPE.a) This Polish director is most famous for his Colors trilogy including Red, White, and  Blue, and for his series Decalogue.    Answer: Krzysztof Kieslowskib) This Russian director created the movies Stalker and Solaris but is probably best known for his monumental movie about medieval Russia, Andrei Rublev.    Answer: Andrei Tarkovskyc) He took on Shakespeare in Ran and Throne of Blood.  Another of his most famous works is in the West is Rashomon.    Answer: Akira Kurosawa7. In the fashion of the new TV game show "Smush," please smush together these answers given clues about popular musical acts FTPE.a) The Chad Kroeger-fronted band whose song, "How You Remind Me" recently topped Billboard's Hot 100 smushed with the Boy band whose recent single, "Drowning," drowned on the same chart.Answer: Nickelbackstreet Boysb) The lesbian-folk duo consisting of Amy Ray and Emily Sailers smushed with the first single released by Duran Duran.Answer: Indigo Girls on Filmc) The title of the most recent Jimmy Eat World album smushed with the one hit wonders that performed the 2001 hit "Flavor of the Week"Answer: Bleed American Hi-Fi8. Given a list of characters, identify the Moliere play FTPE.a) Madame Pernelle, Orgon, ElmireAnswer: Tartuffeb) Alceste, Philinte, OronteAnswer: The Misanthropec) Monsieur Jourdain, Madame Jourdain, Lucile, CleonteAnswer: The Would-Be Gentleman9. Identify the following things from physics from descriptions FTPE.a) A particle traveling in a medium with a speed greater than the speed of light in that medium will emit this radiation.    Answer: Cherenkov radiation or effectb) If two superconducting materials are separated by a thin layer of insulating material, a current will flow between them.    Answer: Josephson effectc) The radiated power of a hot body is proportional to the radiating surface area and the fourth power of the temperature.    Answer: Stefan-Boltzmann law10. Name these Latin American revolutionaries FTPE.a) This Venezuelan aristocrat made a famous vow in Rome to never rest until America was free of colonization.  A South American country was named for him in 1825.Answer: Simon Bolivarb) Cuban Communists and exiles alike honor this 19th-century national hero, who through his writings in exile and his direct actions pursued independence.Answer: Jose Martic) Even now, followers of this indigenous leader struggle for land reform and fair treatment from the Mexican government.Answer: Emiliano Zapata11. Identify the following about the film Black Hawk Down FTPE.a) The film depicts a botched U.S. military expedition in which country?Answer: Somaliab) FFPE, identify the two special forces groups that were taking part in said botched expedition.Answer: Army Rangers and Delta Forcec) The trouble begins when this Army Ranger private falls from one of the Black Hawk helicopters at the beginning of the film.Answer: Todd Blackburn12. Given the Greek mythological figure name his or her spouse FTPE.a) Orpheus    Answer: Eurydiceb) Deianeira    Answer: Herakles or Herculesc) Pasiphae    Answer: Minos13. Identify these works of John Barth FTPE.a) This parody of a historical novel centers on the character Ebenezer Cooke.Answer: The Sot-Weed Factorb) The hero of this novel sets out to conquer the terrible Wescac computer system that threatens to destroy his community.Answer: Giles Goat-Boyc) This novel interweaves the stories of Scheherezade, Perseus, and Bellerophon, who slays the title creature.Answer: Chimera14. Given a digestive enzyme, name the gland or human structure that secretes it FTPE.a) pepsin    Answer: stomachb) trypsin    Answer: pancreasc) amylase    Answer: salivary glands15. Given a secretary of state, identify the president under whom he served FTPE.a) James G. BlaineAnswer: Benjamin Harrisonb) Edmund RandolphAnswer: George Washingtonc) William Pierce RogersAnswer: Richard Nixon16. Given a brief description of a pillar of Islam, give its name in Arabic FTPE.  All the names begin with "S."a) "I bear witness that there is no god but Allah and I bear witness that Muhammed is his messenger" is the statement that must be declared publicly in order to fulfill this first pillar of Islam.    Answer: Shahadab) This fourth pillar of Islam is the act of fasting from sunrise to sunset during Ramadan.    Answer: Sawmc) This second pillar of Islam is the obligatory prayers that include 5 daily ones, the Friday noon congregation prayer and the funeral prayer.    Answer: Salah17. The first novel in this sci-fi/fantasy series is The Pawn of Prophecy.  Identify the following FTPE.a) What is this sci-fi/fantasy series?Answer: The Belgariadb) Who is the author of The Belgariad series?Answer: David Eddingsc) Which grandson of Belgarath rises to become king of Riva?    Answer: Belgarion18. Identify these works of Herman Wouk FTPE.a) This novel focuses on Willie Keith, though it is more famous for its depiction of the neurotic Captain Queeg, who loses command of his ship.Answer: The Caine Mutinyb) This novel centers on the Henry family as they become involved in the events preceding America's involvement in WWII.Answer: The Winds of Warc) The title figure of this novel rebels against the middle-class values of her American-Jewish family.  After her failure as a actress, she repents and marries a conventional man.Answer: Marjorie Morningstar19. Given an element and its atomic number, name the electron configuration of its valence shell in its most commonly found form FTPE.  For example, if I said lithium with atomic number 3, you'd say 2s1.a) aluminum, 13    Answer: 3p1b) calcium, 20    Answer: 4s2c) uranium, 92    Answer: 5f320. Identify the Supreme Court Case given a description FTPE.a) This 1962 case forced the Tennessee legislature to reapportion itself on the basis of population, thus ending traditional over representation of rural areas.Answer: Baker v. Carrb) This 1961 decision held that the exclusionary rule that prohibits evidence discovered in illegal search and seizure that applies to the federal courts also applies to state courts.Answer: Mapp v. Ohioc) This 1833 case involved the owner of a Maryland wharf that was destroyed due to a diverting of several streams.Answer: Barron v. Baltimore21. Identify these logical paradoxes from descriptions FTPE.a) One version of this paradox is called the Epimenides paradox.  It is the paradox of a man who says, "I am not telling the truth."    Answer: Liar paradoxb) The set of all sets is its own power set.  Therefore the cardinality of the set of all sets must be bigger than itself.    Answer: Cantor paradoxc) Let there be the set of all sets that are not members of themselves.  Then this set is neither a member of itself nor not a member of itself.    Answer: Russell paradox22. Identify these biographers F15PE.a) This acclaimed biographer of Theodore Roosevelt ran into trouble when he freely mixed fact and fiction in his 1999 biography of Ronald Reagan.    Answer: Edmund Morrisb) Much of what we know of the Julio-Claudian and Flavian emperors comes from this Roman's book, The Twelve Caesars, one of the first impartial histories.Answer: Gaius Suetonius Tranquillis23. Identify these lesser-known Nobel laureates in physics from descriptions FTPE.a) This American physicist received the Nobel prize in 1944 for developing magnetic moment recording by means of the resonance method.    Answer: Isidor Rabib) One of the rare prizes given for work in astrophysics went in 1967 to this German-American physicist for explaining nuclear reactions in stars.  He is perhaps more famous for his work with Alfer and Gamow.    Answer: Hans Bethec) Although he had to wait 40 years for the prize, this Russian physicist finally got it in 1978 for his pioneering experimental work in superconductivity.    Answer: Pyotr Kapitsa24. Give the Chinese dynasties in power at the time these events occurred FTPE.a) Norman conquest of EnglandAnswer: Song Dynastyb) Magna Carta is signedAnswer: Yuan Dynastyc) Vulgate Bible producedAnswer: Sixteen Kingdoms11