CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley AToss-Up Questions1. It contains Bellum Civile and Troiae Halosis, along with tales of the Pergamene Boy and the widow of Ephesus, narrated by the poet (*) Eumolpus, who tries to divide Giton from his lover, the narrator Encolpius.  FTP, this occurs in which first century novel featuring a feast in Puteoli given by the wealthy freedman Trimalchio, written by Petronius Arbiter?       Answer: Satyricon or Satyrica2. This molecule is affected by the allosteric effector 2,3-BPG, which can occupy its binding site.  It is a tetramic (*) protein with each of its four subunits designated alpha, beta, gamma, and delta.  A substitution of valine for glutamic acid in this protein results in the affliction known as sickle cell anemia.  FTP, identify this oxygen-transporting protein in red blood cells.       Answer: hemoglobin3. According to Lytton Strachey's Eminent Victorians, he was an evangelical Christian who visited Jerusalem to find Noah's Ark and the Garden of Eden.  He received his nickname in the 1860s after helping the Ever Victorious (*) Army suppress the Taiping Rebellion.  Sent to Africa to help the Egyptian Khedive, FTP, name this British general who died at the siege of Khartoum.       Answer: Charles George "Chinese" Gordon4. The focus of a recent exhibit at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, he wrote technical manuals like the Basic Photo-Books (*) series.  He founded the first college department of photography in 1946 at the California School of Fine Art.  FTP, name this American whose Taos, Pueblo was his first collection of photographs of southwestern landscapes and national parks like Yosemite.       Answer: Ansel Adams5. He was a statistician who advocated the gold standard in The Case Against Bimetallism.  Few economists knew him until Alfred Marshall credited him with discovering that the income effects of bread or (*) potatoes may subvert the law of demand.  FTP, identify this Scottish economist with a type of inferior good named after him.       Answer: Robert Giffen6. He put stolen bank notes into circulation, but received a much harsher punishment than his accomplice.  He made a fortune in Australia (*), then lost it all when Compeyson identified him hiding out in England as Uncle Provis.  FTP, name this father of Estella and the benefactor of Pip in Charles Dickens' Great Expectations.       Answer: Abel Magwitch (accept either name; also accept Provis early)7. This quantity is proportional to the diffusion constant, and describes the extent to which diffusion takes place by random walk.  It can be calculated as the average speed divided by the collision frequency, (*) and it must be large compared to the molecular diameter to result in ideal gas behavior.  FTP, name this average distance traveled by a molecule between collisions.       Answer: mean free path8. Influences on his military strategies included Iphicrates, Pelopidas, and Epaminondas.  He was regent for his nephew Amyntas before seizing the throne, and after he subdued the Illyrians, the King of Epirus gave him Olympias (*) in marriage.  The subject of a famous series of orations by Demosthenes, FTP, name this father of Alexander the Great.       Answer: Philip II of Macedon9. He was a roadie for Metallica in the 1980s and co-wrote the Port Huron Statement, although he disavows the compromise second draft.  He also drinks White (*) Russians and relaxes by listening to tapes of bowling tournaments, though he gets involved in a kidnapping scheme when he attempts to seek restitution for his ruined rug.  FTP, identify this Jeff Bridges character, namesake of a 1998 Coen Brothers movie.       Answer: Jeff Lebowski (from The Big Lebowski; accept The Dude)10. The third section, "Of the Origin and Nature of the Affects," contains definitions of the emotions, two postulates, and fifty-nine propositions.  The first section includes the proposition "whatsoever is, is in God (*), and without God nothing can be, or be conceived."  Modeled after Euclid's Elements, this work equates infinite substance with God, an example of its author's pantheistic beliefs.  FTP, name this work of Spinoza.       Answer: Ethics11. It was chosen ahead of The Battle with the Centaurs and The Riot of the Tipsy Bacchanals, and was selected by the master of revels, (*) Philostrate.  Besides the title characters, it includes moon shine, a wall, and a lion, played by such figures as Snout and Starveling.  FTP, name this Peter Quince-directed play within a play about ill-fated lovers starring Bottom in act five of A Midsummer Night's Dream.       Answer: Pyramus and Thisbe12. Old, low-mass stars enter the horizontal branch when this element ignites with a flash. (*) Its most stable isotope has very high binding energy per baryon, partially explaining why it was the last effective product of Big Bang nucleosynthesis.  It serves as fuel in the triple alpha reaction producing carbon.  First detected in the Sun's spectrum, FTP, name this cosmically abundant noble gas.       Answer: helium or He13. Referred to in the Vatican's copy of the History of the Archbishops of Hamburg-Bremen, Yale bought a proposed map of this place in 1957.  In Ingen Grenser, or No Boundaries, Per Lilliestrom (*) and Thor Heyerdahl claim that the papacy was aware of it and suggest that its inhabitants eventually mixed with Native Americans.  FTP, name this Viking colony founded by Leif Ericson around 1000 CE in North America.       Answer: Vinland14. Her offspring include Lakhmu and Mummu, (*) and she took Kingu as her consort after the death of Apsu.  The story of her death can be found in the Enuma Elish, which says that one of her descendants held her jaws open with a hurricane and then fired an arrow into her belly.  FTP, name this primordial Babylonian goddess of salt water, whose body was made into the earth and heavens by Marduk.       Answer: Tiamat15. The main story was written by Carl Meyer and Hans Janowitz and its framing was conceived by the original director Fritz Lang.  Set in Holstenwall, it tells the story of an insane asylum director (*) using Cesare to commit murders while hypnotized, but is really a nightmare vision of a patient in the asylum.  FTP, name this Robert Weine film named for the asylum director and the coffin-like box where he keeps Cesare.       Answer: The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari16. At the conclusion of this play, Alquist renames Helena and Primus as Adam and Eve. Alquist is the only human to survive a massacre (*) instigated by Damon, who leads a group named after the Czech word for "forced labor."  FTP, identify this play by Karel Capek that introduced the word "robot" into the English language.       Answer: R.U.R.: Rossum's Universal Robots (accept either part)17. The displacement current density is proportional to the partial time derivative of this quantity, and in the static case its line integral is path-independent.  Its divergence is proportional to the local charge density (*), and it is zero in the interior of a perfect conductor.  The negative gradient of the scalar potential, FTP, name this vector quantity which equals electric force divided by charge.       Answer: electric field18. This man joined the Richmond Grays in 1859 so he could see John Brown's execution.  Ironically, he was betrothed to Lucy Hale, the daughter of an abolitionist senator. (*) He was shot, probably by the self-castrated religious fanatic Boston Corbett, in a barn and his last words were "Useless, useless."  FTP, name this actor who spoke his most famous line, "Sic Semper Tyrannis," while leaping to the stage of Ford's Theater.       Answer: John Wilkes Booth19. This object, a relic of a boy's flight from Orchomenos, was consecrated to Ares by King Aeetes. (*) The king of neighboring Iolcos, who had usurped the throne from his half-brother Aeson, sent Aeson's son to retrieve this item, a memoir of the flight of Phrixus.  FTP, name this object guarded by an unsleeping dragon, whose retrieval from Colchis was the task taken up by Jason and the Argonauts.       Answer: Golden Fleece20. In August 2001, a man who had blasted his stereo in public was sentenced to listen to four hours of this man's music. His first big hits were 1948's "Just Because" (*) and 1949's "Blue Skirt Waltz."  His other tunes include "Who Stole the Kishka" and "Too Fat Polka."  He won the first Polka Grammy in 1986.  FTP, name this Polka wonder who shares his surname with "Weird" Al.       Answer: Frankie Yankovic (prompt on Yankovic)21. His hometown of Kirriemuir, Scotland, appears in his fiction as Thrums.  The rights to his most famous work are held in perpetuity by the Great Ormond Street (*) Hospital for Sick Children.  Some of his works include Sentimental Tommy, though his first success came when he adapted his 1891 novel The Little Minister for the stage.  FTP, name this author of a play about the Lost Boys led by Peter Pan.       Answer: James Matthew Barrie22. The zeroth entry in this sequence is 1, the first is -1/2, the second is 1/12, and the third, like all other elements with odd subscript, is zero.  They appear in the expansion of both the regular and hyperbolic tangent (*) functions.  Their discoverer used them in his formula for the sum of the first n perfect kth powers.  FTP, name this sequence denoted B sub n and named after a member of a famous Swiss family of mathematicians.       Answer: Bernoulli numbers23. During the Gulf War, a ship with this name suffered severe damage after setting off two mines.  During the Battle of Leyte Gulf, a ship with this name burned and exploded, killing ten of its crew and hundreds on the nearby Birmingham. (*) In 1844, a cannon on a ship with this name exploded, killing two members of Tyler's cabinet.  FTP, give their common name, derived from a 1777 battle in a New Jersey university town.       Answer: U. S. S. Princeton24. He had a small role as a Pakistani taxi company owner in the 1973 film Hard Labour, though his film debut was in Fear is the Key. (*) A rare foray into comedy saw him play Dr. Watson to Michael Caine's Sherlock Holmes in Without a Clue, though his more famous films include Sneakers, Dave, and Bugsy.  FTP, identify this half-Indian actor, born Krishna Bhanji, who starred in Gandhi.       Answer: Ben Kingsley
CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley ABonus Questions1. Identify the following terms from animal behavior FTPE.a) This is a highly stereotyped behavior that is innate.  Once initiated, it is usually carried to completion even if the activity becomes inappropriate.    Answer: fixed-action pattern or fixed-motor patternb) This very simple type of learning involves a loss of response to unimportant stimuli or to stimuli that do not provide appropriate feedback.    Answer: habituationc) Konrad Lorenz studied this phenomenon with geese.  It is distinguished by a critical period in which learning can take place, and what is learned is irreversible.    Answer: imprinting2. Given his role in a band, name the famous actor FTPE.a) Bass guitar for Dogstar    Answer: Keanu Reevesb) Lead singer for Tenacious D    Answer: Jack Blackc) Guitar and vocals for 30 Odd Foot of Grunts    Answer: Russell Crowe3. Answer the following related literature questions FTPE.a) Many of the relatives of Macon Dead, Jr., like First Corinthians and Pilate, have names chosen randomly from the Bible in this 1977 novel.    Answer: Song of Solomon    b) Name the 1961 novel in which Noel and Malachi Constant become fantastically rich by picking stocks whose symbols formed the text of a hotel Gideon Bible.    Answer: The Sirens of Titan    c) FFPE, name the authors of Song of Solomon and The Sirens of Titan.    Answer: Toni Morrison and Kurt Vonnegut Jr.4. Identify these body fluids FTPE.a) This clear plasma bathes all cells in the human body.  It has its own complex system of vessels akin to blood vessels and is transported between its namesake "nodes."Answer: lymphb) This fluid acts as a lubricant, nutrient carrier, and shock absorber.  It surrounds your joints and is secreted from its namesake surrounding membrane.Answer: synovial fluidc) This is the watery fluid that fills the space between the cornea and the iris in the eye.  It is secreted by the ciliary body and gives the front of the eye its form and shape.Answer: aqueous humor5. Identify these battles involving Alexander the Great FTPE.a) At this 338 BCE battle, he led his father's heavy cavalry against the 300-strong Theban Sacred Band and killed 254 of them, thus breaking the power of the Athens-Thebes alliance.    Answer: Battle of Chaeronea    b) This 334 BCE battle, named for the river on whose banks it was fought, was the first major battle of his reign; though his shield and helmet were broken, he carried the day.    Answer: Battle of Granicusc) This last pitched battle of his Asian campaign, also named for a river, took place in 326 BCE. Porus' opposing army included 200 war elephants, but Alexander crushed his left wing.    Answer: Battle of Hydaspes6. Identify these members of the Frankfurt School FTSNOP.a) (5 points) This radical Freudian psychologist wrote The Sane Society and Escape from Freedom.    Answer: Erich Fromm    b) (10 points) This author of One-Dimensional Man was also the teacher of the black nationalist Angela Davis.    Answer: Herbert Marcuse    c) (15 points) He was the co-writer of Theodor Adorno's book Dialectic of Enlightenment.    Answer: Max Horkheimer 7. Answer the following questions about painters who inspired works of classical music FTPE.a) Mussorgsky wrote Pictures at an Exhibition as a tribute to this Russian painter.  Unfortunately, many of his paintings that inspired Mussorgsky no longer exist.    Answer: Victor Hartmannb) Paul Hindemith's opera, Mathis der Maler, focuses on the life of this creator of the Isenheim altarpiece.    Answer: Matthias Grunewald    c) The seventh movement of this work was a tribute to the British painter Arthur Griffith.  Other movements include C.A.E., Dorabella, and R.P.A in this work by Elgar.    Answer: The Enigma Variations8. Identify the play from the seductive women FTPE.a) Abbie Putnam, the third wife of Ephraim Cabot, seduces and later falls in love with his son Eben, but when he learns of her original duplicitous motives, she murders their child.    Answer: Desire Under the Elmsb) Inez Serrano tries to seduce Estelle Rigault who tries to seduce Garcin in a Second Empire-style drawing room.    Answer: Huis Clos or No Exit    c) When his new stepmother fails to seduce him, she accuses the title character of this Euripides play of rape.    Answer: Hippolytus9. Identify these functional groups from clues FTPE.a) An OH group attached directly to an aromatic ring.    Answer: phenolb) An oxygen double-bonded to a carbon in the middle of a carbon chain.    Answer: ketonec) An oxygen between two carbon chains.    Answer: ether10. Identify these rebellious Russian princes FTPE.a) In March 1917, this opponent of Nicholas II became head of the first democratic provisional government in Russia, but stepped down four months later after an uprising in Petrograd brought the Mensheviks into power.    Answer: Prince Georgi Yevgenyevich Lvovb) This prince was a socialist anarchist who belonged to Bakunin's faction of the First International.  His books include Mutual Aid and Memoirs of a Revolutionist.    Answer: Prince Piotr Alekseyevich Kropotkin    c) Boris Godunov allegedly murdered this prince in order to ensure his own succession to the throne after Fyodor I.  Four different rebellions during the Time of Troubles were instigated by men who impersonated him.    Answer: Prince Dmitri or Demetrius11. Identify these non-fiction works about religion FTPE.a) This work of comparative mythology by James Frazer heavily influenced T. S. Eliot in writing The Waste Land.    Answer: The Golden Bough    b) In this work, Emile Durkheim uses aboriginal Australian rituals to show that religion results from society worshipping an image of itself.    Answer: The Elementary Forms of (the) Religious Lifec) Freud argues in this book that the patriarchs of the Old Testament worshipped a God that was a projection of their own unfulfilled needs for a father figure.    Answer: Moses and Monotheism12. Identify these bands associated with side projects that include the word love FTPE.a) This new wave band would play as the opening act at its own concerts by disguising itself as the gospel group, Dove, the Band of Love.  Those were the times they whipped it best.    Answer: Devob) The members of this group recorded a cover version of Prince's "Raspberry Beret" under the name Hindu Love Gods with Warren Zevon substituting for the regular lead singer.    Answer: R.E.M.c) Members of this classic rock group known for "Barracuda" and "Magic Man" occasionally perform in smaller clubs as The Lovemongers.    Answer: Heart13. Identify these characters from the Ramayana FTPE.a) This brother of Rama accompanied him during his exile.    Answer: Lakshmana    b) Rama, Sita, and Lakshman encountered this poet, who promised to write the Ramayana.    Answer: Valmiki    c) This king of the rakshasas kidnapped Sita after his sister's nose was cut off by Lakshman.    Answer: Ravana14. Identify these effects from quantum physics F15PE.a) This is the energy shift in electron energy-levels due to electron self-interaction.    Answer: Lamb shiftb) Different combinations of electron spin and proton spin in an atom give rise to multiple energy levels clustered near the principal energy level.    Answer: hyperfine splitting or hyperfine structure (do not accept fine structure)15. Identify these pharaohs of ancient Egypt FTPE.a) This man unified Egypt and established the capital at Memphis.  He was the first pharaoh.    Answer: Narmer or Menes    b) He succeeded Akhenaten to the throne, abolishing the cult of Aten and moving the capital back to Thebes.  His nearly intact tomb was discovered by Howard Carter in 1922.    Answer: Tutankhamen or Tutankhaten    c) This man employed Imhotep as his chief architect.  Step pyramids made their first appearance during his reign.    Answer: Djoser or Zoser16. Name these 20th century architects from hotel projects FTPE.a) Miami's Fontainebleau and Eden Roc hotels were designed by this recently deceased Russian-American.  The influence of his work, epitomized by his anti-Miesian mantra "Too much is never enough," was recognized only in the last decade of his life.    Answer: Morris Lapidusb) The Park Inn Hotel in Mason City, Iowa, is the only surviving hotel he designed.  His most famous one, Tokyo's Imperial Hotel, was dismantled in the 1960s.    Answer: Frank Lloyd Wrightc) This Dutch architect, who heads Rotterdam's Office for Metropolitan Architecture, has built an art gallery for The Venetian in Las Vegas; his other works include Educatorium Utrecht University and the book S, M, L, XL.    Answer: Rem Koolhaas17. Given descriptions, name the athlete and his famous wife FFPE.a) This Indians pitcher has racked up 189 wins, mostly for the Angels; his wife, once married to David Coverdale of Whitesnake, crawled around on a Porsche in their video for "Here I Go Again."    Answer: Chuck Finley and Tawny (Julie) Kitaenb) This cornerback was burned for the first TD in Super Bowl XXXV; his wife, once a Seventeen covergirl, played Ryan McBride on "Baywatch Nights" and voices Barbara Gordon on "Batman Beyond."    Answer: Jason Sehorn and Angie Harmonc) This right-winger now plays for Florida with his more-famous brother; his wife starred as Donna Jo on "Full House," and her more famous brother played Mike Seaver on another sitcom.    Answer: Valeri Bure and Candace Cameron Bure18. Given a description of the cause of death for a character in a Nathaniel Hawthorne short story, identify the story FTPE.a) Beatrice, the title character, has lived for so long with poisonous flowers that a dose of antidote is fatal to her.    Answer: Rappacini's Daughter    b) Georgiana dies after being administered an elixir by her husband Aylmer designed to remove a physical imperfection.    Answer: The Birthmark    c) Reuben Bourne accidentally kills his son Cyrus while hunting because he failed to fulfill the dying wish of a friend killed while fighting the Indians.    Answer: Roger Malvin's Burial19. Answer the following questions on galaxy classification FTSNOP.a) (10 points) What American astronomer classified galaxies into four morphological classes?    Answer: Edwin Hubbleb) (5 points each) Identify three of the four main classes of galaxy classification.    Answer: spiral, barred spiral, elliptical, irregular    c) (5 points) Hubble provided definitive evidence that spiral "nebulae" were truly independent galaxies when he identified a Cepheid variable in this closest galaxy that resembles our own.    Answer: Andromeda or M3120. Answer these questions about an African people FTPE.a) This leader's name came from an intestinal beetle thought to cause menstrual irregularities.  He came to power around 1816 and within five years had conquered most of southeast Africa and Natal.    Answer: Shaka Zulub) This Zulu king annihilated a British force at Isandlhwana in 1879; in the same campaign, his forces killed 23-year-old Prince Imperial Louis Napoleon, last of the Bonapartes.    Answer: Cetewayo or Cetshwayo or Ketshwayoc) Cetewayo's great-grandson is this man, founder of the South African Black Alliance and President of the one-and-a-half-million strong Inkatha Freedom Party.    Answer: Mangosuthu Gatsha Buthelezi21. Name the mythological character that appears in a later creative work that has become better known than the original myth or tale FTPE.a) Unlike in Shakespeare's version, he remains quite sane and retains his kingdom according to Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain.    Answer: King Lear    b) This subject of a sixth century Northern Chinese folk ballad travels 1000 leagues and fights 12 years in drag.    Answer: Mulanc) Possibly a variant of Alberich, he is king of the fairies in some medieval myths, and in the Huon de Bordeaux, he is the son of Morgan le Fay and Julius Caesar.    Answer: Oberon22. Identify these literary works with a prominent character whose name is a number FTPE.a) Set in One State in the thirtieth century, it concerns the rebellion of D-503, but when his imagination is surgically removed he betrays I-330 in this novel by Yevgeny Zamyatin.    Answer: My or Web) Mr. Zero kills his boss when he loses his job to the title object, goes to the Elysian fields, and is reincarnated in this play by Elmer Rice.    Answer: The Adding Machine    c) The real name of the title character of this W.H. Auden poem is JS/07/M/378; "had anything been wrong [with him], we should certainly have heard."    Answer: The Unknown Citizen23. Identify these terms associated with sediment generation and transport FTSNOP.a) (5 points) Breakdown of rocks at the earth's surface through mechanical and chemical action.    Answer: weatheringb) (5 points) Movement of material from one place to another on earth's surface by such agents as gravity, water, ice, and wind.    Answer: erosionc) (10 points) Downslope movement of rock, regolith, and soil, under the influence of gravity.  Examples include solifluction, slump, and debris flow or mudflow.    Answer: mass wastingd) (10 points) Fine soil particles are lifted by the wind; when they strike the surface again they either rebound back into the air or knock other particles into the air.    Answer: saltation24. Answer the following about Mexican labor in California FTPE.a) Give either of the most commonly used Spanish terms for the labor contractors who arranged workers for planters, and usually skimmed from their wages and/or charged them exorbitantly for meals.    Answer: contratista or enganchista or enganchadorb) This term, derived from the Spanish for arms, refers to the temporary laborers brought to the U.S. under agreements with Mexico from World War II until 1964, and by extension, day laborers in general.    Answer: bracerosc) This labor leader initiated a 5 year table grape boycott as head of the NFWA (later renamed the United Farm Workers) in the 1960s.    Answer: CŽsar Chavez11