CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley DToss-Up Questions1. His first publication was "How I Built Myself a House," though is first novel was (*) The Poor Man and the Lady, which was rejected for publication.  Though most famous as a novelist, this writer was heavily influenced by architecture and considered himself a poet, penning such works as Wessex Poems.  Among his other works are The Dynasts and Under the Greenwood Tree.  FTP, identify this author of Jude the Obscure.	Answer: Thomas Hardy2. These compounds must not affect the solution they inhabit, and they must be able to change rapidly to be useful.  Examples include thymol blue, (*) methyl orange, methyl red, and its most famous example, which is clear in acidic solutions but turns pink in a base.  FTP, name this type of compound that changes color in response to a specific change in pH, exemplified by phenolphthalein.       Answer: indicators3. After defeating Tostig, Earl of Northumbria on September 25 at the Battle of Stamford Bridge, (*) the English force, entirely close-combat infantry, occupied Senlac Hill and waited.  The poor discipline of Harold's forces resulted in a retreat, and subsequent rout by the troops of William the Conqueror.  FTP, identify this famous battle of 1066.	Answer: Battle of Hastings4. Divided into seven propositions, 2.0 states that "What is the case is the existence of states of affairs."  4.01 (*) states that "A proposition is a picture of reality," while 7.0 famously states that "What we cannot speak about we must pass over in silence."  FTP, name this brief, most famous work of Ludwig Wittgenstein.	Answer: Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus or Treatise on Logical Philosophy5. Considered an omen of ill fortune, it supposedly can be seen during stormy weather off the Cape of Good Hope. (*) Walter Scott wrote that originally it was laden with precious metal and a horrible murder occurred on it; then plague broke out among the crew, so no port would allow it to anchor.  Thus it wanders endlessly.  FTP, this describes what ship, the title vessel of a Wagner opera?       Answer: The Flying Dutchman6. He asserts his necktie with a simple pin, and people comment on the bald spot in his hair and how his arms and legs are growing thin. (*) Towards the end of the poem he hears the mermaids singing each to each, but does not think they will sing to him.  His life is measured out in coffeespoons.  FTP, identify this focus of a T. S. Eliot poem that begins "Let us go then, you and I..."	Answer: J. Alfred Prufrock7. It serves as a current amplifier, and its three terminals are the collector, base, and emitter. (*) Its semiconductor layers are arranged n-p-n or p-n-p.  Invented at Bell Labs in 1947, it allowed the development of integrated circuits, and won a Nobel Prize for Bardeen, Brittain, and Shockley.  FTP, name this circuit component which replaced the vacuum tube.	Answer: Bipolar Junction Transistor8. Wyoming Senator John Kendrick introduced the resolution that investigated this scandal that eventually led to the imprisonment of a cabinet member.  The 1927 Mcgrain v. Daugherty (*) decision, which established Congress' right to compel testimony, was also an indirect result of this scandal during Harding's term.  FTP, name this scandal involving Albert Fall and a U.S. Navy petroleum reserve.	Answer: Teapot Dome9. He recently published 9-11, (*) a political work that grew out of his life-long fascination with U. S. foreign policy.  Studying under Zellig Harris, he achieved fame with his technical models of language in Language and Thought and The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory.  FTP, name this developer of transformational generative grammar whose most famous work is Syntatic Structures.	Answer: Noam Chomsky10. Their first EP was titled We Die Young, and the title track reached the top five on the metal charts in 1990.  This band, featured on the soundtracks to the movies Singles and Last Action Hero, (*) later topped the charts with their second EP Jar of Flies, though most recognize their first two albums, Facelift and Dirt.  FTP, identify this Seattle grunge band famous for songs like Man in the Box, Rooster, and Would?	Answer: Alice in Chains11. Its first assertion is that one must know the rules in order to break them. (*) It espouses the following principles: put statements in positive form; keep related words together; place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end; and omit needless words.  These are elementary principles of composition can be found in, FTP, what manual of writing by William Strunk and E. B. White?	Answer: The Elements of Style12. This law demonstrates that meiosis and recombination of genes do not alter gene frequencies.  This biological law that states that the frequencies of alleles (*) in a randomly mating population will achieve equilibrium frequency.  FTP, identify this system of population genetics given by the equation p squared plus 2 p q plus q squared equals 1.       Answer: Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium13. When Comte Vicente Benedetti of France was sent to speak with William I, (*) he was ordered by Napoleon III to demand an apology and renunciation of any possibility of the Hohenzollern candidacy for the rule of Spain.  William replied by authorizing this dispatch.  FTP, identify this message that sparked the Franco-Prussian War, edited to be more inflammatory by Otto von Bismarck.	Answer: Ems Dispatch14. Two categories of this form had emerged by the late 17th century: the da chiesa and da camera varieties.  Among its early masters included Arcangelo Corelli and Johann Kuhnau.  In the 19th century, its three parts were given its modern names: exposition, development, and recapitulation, followed by a short coda.  FTP, identify this musical form of which Beethoven's Moonlight might be the most famous.	Answer: sonata15. Victims included an off-duty police officer, a lost motorist, a busty maid, and a singing telegram girl. (*) This film features three different endings in which the senator's wife and the owner of a house of ill-repute are guilty, though the third ending reveals that it was the butler Wadsworth.  Featuring such characters as Mr. Green and Mrs. White, FTP, identify this film starring Tim Curry based on a famous mystery board game.	Answer: Clue16. The title character completes his quest upon falling into a river and hearing the holy (*) Om.  The main character first leaves home with his friend Govinda and after a life of brutal asceticism becomes devoted to the material life.  The title character discovers nirvana while serving as a ferryman and ends up becoming the Buddha.  FTP, identify this spiritual novel by Herman Hesse.	Answer: Siddhartha17. This scientist helped discover the element protactinium in 1918 and predicted the existence of the chain reaction, which contributed to the development of the atomic bomb.  In 1997, it was announced that the element with atomic number 109 (*) would be named in her honor.  FTP, name this Austrian-Swedish physicist who, with Otto Hahn, first identified nuclear fission and has the element with symbol Mt named after her.	Answer: Lise Meitner18. His name translates as "The all-powerful warrior who, because of his endurance and inflexible will to win, will go from conquest to conquest leaving fire in his wake." (*) Stressing a return to African authenticity, he deposed Patrice Lumumba and became dictator of his home country, only to be overthrown in 1996 by Laurent Kabila.  FTP, identify this one-time dictator of Zaire.	Answer: Mobutu Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu wa za Banga19. She was a priestess of Hera, the daughter of the river god Inachus and Melia.  Her child by Zeus was Epaphus (*) and for a time she was guarded by Argus until saved by Hermes.  Zeus came to make love to her in the form of a cloud, but was forced to disguise her from Hera, who had her pursued by a gadfly.  FTP, identify this lover of Zeus that he turned into a heifer.	Answer: Io20. Augustus Sutter established the settlement New Helvetia in 1839 on the site that would become this city.  Currently having a population of roughly 1.5 million, it is the terminus of a deep-water canal completed in 1963 to better move its extensive agricultural products to San Francisco Bay. (*)  The ending point of the Pony Express, FTP, name this current home of the NBA's Kings and capital of California.       Answer: Sacramento21. The narrator is introduced to his favorite writer, Bergotte, by his friend Bloch. (*) De Charlus becomes the watchdog for the love of the title character, who must compete with Forcheville for her affections.  The narrator, named after this work's author, learns more about vices by spying on people, especially his love Gilberte.  FTP, identify this work by Marcel Proust that forms the first book of his In Search of Lost Time.Answer: Swann's Way (prompt on In Search of Lost Time or Remembrance of Things Past on early buzz)22. Launched on March 2, 1972, this spacecraft was the first to encounter Jupiter (*) in December 1973.  By 1997, it was over 6 billion miles from the Sun and searching for the heliopause, the meeting surface of the solar wind and the region where interstellar space begins.  FTP, identify this first satellite to leave the Solar System.	Answer: Pioneer 1023. This one-time member of the Catholic Center Party served as lord mayor of Cologne during the Nazi era.  He helped found the Christian Democratic Union (*) and became party chairman in 1945, allying West Germany with NATO and the European Union.  FTP, identify this German statesman and first chancellor of West Germany.	Answer: Konrad Adenauer24. He was to be black with a white square mark on his forehead and an eagle on his back.  When found he would be put in a building facing east and fed milk for four months. (*) This creature is often associated with Ptah, who shared his center of worship at Memphis.  FTP, name this bull-like animal of Egyptian mythology.	Answer: Apis (accept Bull of Memphis early)
CARDINAL CLASSIC XII: Beware the EskerStanford UniversityFebruary 2, 2002Packet by Berkeley DBonus Questions1. Identify these Hindu deities from descriptions FTPE.a) The god of fire, his face is smeared with butter from consuming numerous sacrifices.Answer: Agnib) This Vedic god hurls a thunderbolt, rides the white elephant Airvata, and is the father of the hero Arjuna.Answer: Indrac) This god of new beginnings and writing has an elephant's head.  He's cool.Answer: Ganesha or Ganipati2. Name the authors of these classic textbooks, all published in 1890, FTPE.a) Principles of Economics	Answer: Alfred Marshallb) Principles of Psychology	Answer: William Jamesc) The Influence of Sea Power Upon History	Answer: Alfred Thayer Mahan3. Identify the writer given works FTPE.a) Lord Weary's Castle and For the Union DeadAnswer: Robert Lowellb) The Prelude, The Recluse, and Memorials of a Tour on the ContinentAnswer: William Wordsworthc) Death and the King's Horseman, A Play of Giants, and The Credo of Being and Nothingess    Answer: Wole Soyinka4. Name these familiar equations from descriptions FTPE.a) This equation relates the lengths of the sides of a right triangle.    Answer: Pythagorean theoremb) This equation states that the sum of the lengths of any two sides of a triangle cannot be less than the length of the third side.    Answer: triangle inequalityc) This equation relates trigonometric and exponential functions by employing imaginary numbers.    Answer: Euler's equation5. Identify these Civil War generals FTPE.a) Famous for uttering the phrase "War is hell," this Union general is famous for his namesake March after capturing Atlanta.Answer: William Tecumseh Shermanb) This Confederate from Louisiana directed the assault of Fort Sumter.Answer: P. G. T. Beauregardc) Nicknamed "Beast" while military governor of New Orleans after commanding the land forces that captured the city.  He commanded the Army of the James in Virginia.Answer: Benjamin F. Butler6. Identify the following films from descriptions of stills found in the National Nobel Museum of Film and Television FTPE.a) On the beach, a knight in armor is playing chess with a pale, hooded man with a hidden scythe.	Answer: The Seventh Sealb) The faces of two similar-looking women are superimposed.  The left side of the face belongs to the nurse; the right side of the face belongs to the opera singer who suddenly lost her voice.	Answer: Personac) The clock has stopped ticking.  An old professor is standing next to a carriage carrying a coffin.  He is looking at his own face inside the open coffin.	Answer: Wild Strawberries7. Identify the schools based on coaching changes FTPE.a) Mark Mangino replaces Terry AllenAnswer: University of Kansasb) Tyrone Willingham replaces Bob DavieAnswer: University of Notre Damec) Paul Johnson replaces Charlie WeatherbieAnswer: U.S. Naval Academy or Navy8. Identify these Ernest Hemingway works from characters FTPE. a) Robert JordanAnswer: For Whom the Bell Tollsb) Robert Cohn, Jake BarnesAnswer: The Sun Also Risesc) Harry MorganAnswer: To Have and Have Not 9. Given a constant, provide its units FTPE.a) universal gas constant, 0.0821    Answer: L·atm/mol·K (liter atmospheres per mole kelvin)b) gravitational constant, 6.670x10-11    Answer: N·m2/kg2 (newton meters squared per kilogram squared)    c) Boltzmann constant, 1.38x10-23    Answer: J/K  (joules per kelvin)10. Identify these British prime ministers FTPE.a) This Whig came to office in the midst of the Crimean War and suppressed the Sepoy Rebellion.Answer: Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston (accept either name)b) He served as prime minister before and during WWI.Answer: Herbert Henry Asquithc) He served as the head of Great Britain's first Labour government.  He succeeded Churchill as prime minister in 1945.Answer: Clement Atlee11. Identify these American architects from works FTPE.a) State Capitol at Richmond, Virginia; University of Virginia campus	Answer: Thomas Jeffersonb) Guggenheim Museum at Bilbao; Experience Music Project	Answer: Frank Gehryc) Trinity Church, Boston	Answer: Henry H. Richardson12. Name the group the given superheroes are a part of FTPE.a) Human Torch, Invisible Woman, Mr. Fantastic       Answer: Fantastic Fourb) Jubilee, Jean Grey, GambitAnswer: X-Menc) Die Hard, Bedrock, Shaft (no, not THAT Shaft) Answer: Youngblood13. Identify the following works by W. Somerset Maugham FTPE.a) This is the unauthorized biography of Edward Driffield, a man idolized by literary society and whose second wife learns about his less respectable days.    Answer: Cakes and Aleb) Charles Strickland is driven to abandon his home, wife, and children, to devote himself to painting, drifting to Paris, Marseilles, and finally, to Tahiti.    Answer: Moon and Sixpencec) This work is a fictional biography of Machiavelli that talks about the incidents and motivations behind the writing of The Prince.    Answer: Then and Now14. Identify the following about plants FTPE.a) These are the two major categories of flowering plants, distinguishing the number of seed leaves produced by the embryo.  Identify both FFPE.Answer: monocotyledons and dicotyledonsb) This is the thin layer of generative tissue lying between the bark and the wood of a stem in woody plants.Answer: cambiumc) This is a bandlike region of primary wall that contains suberin and lignin, typical of endodermal cells in roots.Answer: casparian strip15. Identify the following about the Duchy of Brabant FTPE.a) The Duchy came under the control of this ruling European family after annexed by Charles I of Spain in 1549.Answer: Habsburgb) The Duchy of Brabant became part of an independent Netherlands after the signing of this 1648 treaty.Answer: Peace of Westphaliac) A Brabantian law concerning the transfer of property to children became the focus of this war of Louis XIV that was waged with Spain in 1667-8.Answer: War of the Devolution16. Name these American academic philosophers FTPE.a) He is considered the founder of the school of pragmatism and authored such works as The Fixation of Belief and How to Make Our Ideas Clear.	Answer: Charles Sanders Peirceb) This major proponent of pragmatism wrote such works as Principles of Psychology and The Varieties of Religious Experience.	Answer: William Jamesc) This leading figure of American idealism believed in absolute truth and wrote The Conception of God, The Problem of Christianity, and The Religious Aspect of Philosophy.	Answer: Josiah Royce17. Identify these eastern religions FTPE.a) This is the primary religion of Vietnam.       Answer: Cao Dai       b) Its four main forms are Koshitsu, Jinja, Kyoha, Minzoku.  This religion centers on the worship of Kami and adorns its temples with torii.	Answer: Shintoc) This religion consists of a highly structured pattern of life, advocating a bureaucratic lifestyle.  Its customs are best codified in the Analects.       Answer: Confucianism18. Identify the following works by Bernard Malamud FTPE.a) This novel centers on baseball slugger Roy Hobbs and was made into a sappy movie with a happy ending.Answer: The Naturalb) Sy Levin is a recovering alcoholic who begins anew as an English instructor in the Pacific Northwest.  Instead of peace and renewal, he finds love in the arms of students and faculty wives.    Answer: A New Lifec) An expose of the relationship between two writers, Harry Lesser struggles with an unfinished novel while Spearmint is writes a violent, anti-Semitic work.    Answer: The Tenants19. Name these probability distribution functions named after famous mathematicians FTPE.a) More famously known as the normal curve, this distribution approximates the sample mean of any arbitrary distribution in the limit as the sample size goes to infinity.    Answer: Gaussian distributionb) Generalized version of this distribution includes the Gaussian as a special case.  This function is usually used to model data with the mode at a narrower, sharper peak.    Answer: Laplace or Laplacian distributionc) This distribution looks a lot like the generalized Laplacian at first.  Upon closer examination, we find that its mean, standard deviation, and kurtosis are all undefined.    Answer: Cauchy distribution20. Identify the following about the Battle of Actium FTPE.a) This man commanded Octavian's fleet in the victory at Actium, defeating Mark Antony and Cleopatra.Answer: Marcus Vipsanius Agrippab) The battle was fought in this gulf, where the two armies camped on opposite shores.Answer: Ambracian Gulfc) Identify the year in which the Battle of Actium took place.Answer: 31 BCE21. Identify these versions of the Final Fantasy video game series from summaries FTPE.  You only need to specify the number.a) The Avalanche, led by Barret Wallace, fights the Shinra Corporation who is sucking the life force out of the planet.	Answer: Final Fantasy 7b) The Forrest Owls, led by Rinoa Heartilly and a couple of sidekicks, are attempting to overthrow the rule of Galbadia over Timber.	Answer: Final Fantasy 8c) The Returners, led by Banon, are fighting the empire led by Gestahl.	Answer: Final Fantasy 6 (also accept Final Fantasy 3 if specifically stating English version)22. Identify these characters from Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities FTPE.a) He rejects the values of his uncle Evremonde and flees to England, though he returns to Paris to save Gabelle.Answer: Charles Darnay (accept either name)b) This bloodthirsty woman's hatred of the aristocracy fuels her crusade for the revolutionary cause, turning on Lucie Manette.Answer: Madame Defargec) An ambitious lawyer, this man acts proud and foolish, unlike his associate Sydney Carton.Answer: Mr. Stryver23. Identify the charges on the following polyatomic ions FTPE.  You must specify the charge on each.a) hydroxide    Answer: -1b) borate    Answer: -3c) neptunyl (V)    Answer: +124. Given a monarch, name his or her predecessor FTPE.a) Elizabeth II of Great Britain	Answer: George VIb) Charlemagne	Answer: Pepin the Shortc) Philip VI of France	Answer: Charles IV       122