Cardinal Classic XVIII:  Sir Peter Wimsey and the Case of the Lost MonocleEditors Packet (Brian Lindquist, Kristiaan De Greve, Kevin Koai, Arnav Moudgil) Tossups: 1.  He was elected to Congress to fill the seat left empty after John Clopton's death.  He managed to get the Danish tariff of 1695 reduced, and Matthew Maury was made head of the National Observatory during his presidency. He appointed Samuel Nelson to the Supreme Court, and one of his first acts was to veto the Fiscal Corporation bill, while the Treaty of Wangxia was signed during his presidency.  Two of his cabinet members, Thomas Gilmer and Abel Upshur, were killed by an explosion on the U.S.S. Princeton, while other events during his presidency were Dorr's Rebellion and the signing of the Webster-Ashburton treaty. FTP, Texas was annexed during the term of what man known as "His Accidency," who became president upon the death of William Henry Harrison?ANSWER:  John Tyler 2.  John Moffat has developed a nonsymmetric theory of this, while Renate Loll and others have developed of a theory of this phenomenon that makes use of pentachorons, and is called causal dynamical triangulation.  Another theory of this interaction has two fields and coupling constant called omega, while a different theory depends on the Immirzi parameter.  Along with Brans-Dicke theory, and a theory developed by Mordehai Milgrom called MOND, there are recent theories like quantum loop theory that attempt to quantize this interaction, which is mediated by spin-2 particles. FTP, identify this interaction which can be described in terms of the curvature of space-time, and whose inverse-square law was developed by Isaac Newton.ANSWER:  gravitation (OR gravity OR other word forms) 3.  The seer Telemus predicted the occasion when this figure would go blind. He took his hundred-reed pipe and sang how the woman he desired "was whiter than snow" and yet "more cruel than fire." He fell in love with a woman who herself was in love with the son of Faunus, Acis, but this figure crushed Acis under a boulder. In a more famous story, this figure devours four Achaeans before he is blinded a by a figure named "Nobody," who proceeds to escape from this figure's cave by lashing to the underside of sheep. When he hears the real name of his assailant, he calls on his father Poseidon for revenge, who makes sure that the assailant, Odysseus, wanders for 10 years before reaching home. For 10 points, name this Cyclops in the Odyssey.ANSWER: Polyphemus 4.  The final section of one aria sung by this opera's title character features a solo cello and English horn, and just prior to that aria he searches for another character while feigning nonchalance by singing "La ra, la ra." That aria is "Cortigiani, vil razza dannata." One of the opera's best-known numbers is a quartet in D-flat major that forms the basis of Liszt's concert paraphrase of this opera for piano. In that quartet, "Bella figlia dell'amore," the title character watches the central villain woo Maddalena. A recurring theme is associated with the curse originally uttered by Monterone. The title character realizes that Sparafucile has not killed the Duke of Mantua when he hears the Duke singing "La donna è mobile." For 10 points, identify this opera by Giuseppe Verdi about a jester.  ANSWER: Rigoletto  5.  One of this poet's works bewails the death of a child whose "parting caused us weep" and begins, "No sooner came, but gone, and fall'n asleep." In addition to three poems written on the deaths of grandchildren, this poet wrote a poem whose thirty-third and last stanza refers to "he whose name is graved in the white stone," who will outlast "time's rust." In another poem, she describes her breast as "the welcome house of him my dearest guest," and another poem addressed to the same man begins, "If ever two were one, then surely we"; those poems are "A Letter to Her Husband, Absent upon Public Employment," and "To My Dear and Loving Husband." Another poem, which addresses the "ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain," is "The Author to Her Book." For 10 points, identify this poet of the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet 6.  One edition of this event led to the building of the Leonine walls, and in another, Norman forces under Robert Guiscard had previously forced Henry IV to flee. Charles III of Bourbon and Georg von Fundsberg were the commanders in another edition of it, and in yet another one, Totila and his Ostrogoths were involved. A more famous version of it saw Petronius Maximus abandon his wife Licinia Eudoxa to Gaiseric and his Vandals, and in yet another version, Brennus was allegedly prevented from finishing it by the geese of Juno. By pleading personally with Attila, Pope Leo I managed to avoid it, and Hannibal never achieved it. FTP, What is this violent event involving the Italian capital??ANSWER: Sack of Rome (accept conquering Rome, capturing Rome, destroying Rome and equivalents)7.  Lesser known portrayals of this character include John Ireland playing him opposite Tom Tyler and Reed Hadley in a 1949 Samuel Fuller film.  John Carradine played him in a 1940 film also starring Gene Tierney and Henry Fonda which was directed by Fritz Lang.  A song with this man in the title begins with the lyrics "Like a corn in a field I cut you down."  That song was released as a single paired with "Grow Some Funk of Your Own," and is an Elton John song titled "I Feel like a Bullet In the Gun of" this man.  In a recent movie, his brother is played by Sam Rockwell, and his portrayal earned an Oscar nomination for Casey Affleck.  FTP, name this "coward" in a 2007 film about his assassination of Jesse James.?ANSWER:  Robert (or Bob) Ford 8.  Newman and Holzman wrote a 1993 work about this man subtitled "Revolutionary Scientist."  He argued that the discipline of Pscychology would have to undergo major changes in The Historical Meaning of the Crisis in Pscychology, while he was a major thinker in the field of defectology.  He argued that an important part of child development was "self-talk" that would later develop into inner speech. An early essay of his on Hamlet was included as part of his work The Psychology of Art, and he also wrote Thought and Language, but he may be best known for a concept related to "scaffolding," which specifies the difference between what a child can learn with and without help. FTP, name this developer of the zone of proximal development.?ANSWER:  Lev Vygostky 9.  One key image in this novel is that of airplanes spelling the word "toffee" in the sky, which one character points out to her husband in an attempt to take the advice of Dr. Holmes. Earlier, the protagonist sees the lines "Fear no more the heat o' the sun / Nor the furious winter's rages" from Cymbeline in a book in a shop window. The protagonist does not like Millicent Bruton, and Lady Rosseter turns out to be the protagonist's childhood friend Sally Seton, who speaks for some time with Peter Walsh. William Bradshaw is delayed by the suicide of Rezia's husband Septimus Smith to the party that concludes this novel, which begins with the title character going to buy flowers. For 10 points, identify this novel by Virginia Woolf. ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway  10.  Some have suggested that this man was influenced by Native American sand paintings, and some of his early works, like The Moon-Woman Cuts the Circle, shows his interest in Native American mythology. Clement Greenberg proposed a title for one of his paintings that displays a strong atmospheric effect with minimal colors. That painting, Lavender Mist, also has a hand-print in its top right corner, while yellow paint crisscrosses his No. 5, 1948. This husband of Lee Krasner studied at the Art Students League of New York under Thomas Hart Benton. The inspiration for the term "action painting," for ten points, name this American Abstract Expressionist who is best known for his "drip-style" of painting.ANSWER: Jackson Pollock 11.  This process is inhibited by prostacyclin, and its products can be countered with tPA. Those with Von Willebrand disease are unable to adequately carry out this process, and a negative feedback loop controlling this process is regulated by activated protein C. Vitamin K assists as a cofactor to this process, which is mediated by thirteen namesake factors. Its final steps involve thrombin cleaving fibrinogen, leading to a fibrin meshwork at the site of injury. Vital to hemostasis, drugs like warfarin, heparin, and aspirin depress the blood's ability to undergo this process. A bleeding time test is usually used to assess, for ten points, what ability of the body that hemophiliacs lack?ANSWER: coagulation (or clotting) 12.  It consists of a Qotri and a Qawmi branch, and its motto is "wahda, hurriya, ishtirakiya". It was founded by Michel Aflaq and Salah al-Bitar, and the latter represented it in office until his downfall and subsequent exile. Hafiz el-Assad adhered to it, as did Ali Hassan Al-Majjid and Tariq Aziz. Nasser absorbed it for the duration of the United Arab Republic, after which it reemerged and radicalized. After its split in 1966, the Syrian branch sought the support of the Soviet Union, while the Iraqi one remained more neutral, until being outlawed by Paul Bremer in 2003. FTP, what is this Arab secular and nationalist party, led in Iraq by Saddam Hussein until 2003? ?ANSWER: BAATH party (Ba'ath or whatever Arab transcription you want) 13.  A composition by this composer subtitled "a study for 23 strings" quotes the funeral march from Beethoven's Eroica; that piece is Metamorphosen. The last movement of this composer's first tone poem quotes the popular tune "Funiculi, funicula," and the score to another tone poem was published with a poem by Alexander Ritter. In addition to Aus Italien and Death and Transfiguration, he composed a "Rondeau Form for Large Orchestra" that depicts a character who mocks religion, flirts with women, and ends up on the scaffold. Another work opens with a brass fanfare depicting sunrise. For 10 points, identify this German composer of Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks and Also sprach Zarathustra. ANSWER: Richard Strauss  14.  The final section of this work notes that the cube root of 64 is not equal to half of 10, while in an earlier section, an anonymous acquaintance of the author pretends he is Epicurus giving a speech before the Athenian people.  That section is entitled "Of a particular Providence and of a future State," while the sixth section of this work discusses how people form predictions of future events, and is called "Of Probability."  The second section of this work distinguishses between "impressions" and "ideas," while a later section distinguishes between "relations of ideas" and "matters of fact," and yet another section is entitled "Of Miracles." FTP, name this philosophical text based on its author's earlier Treatise of Human Nature, a 1748 work of David Hume.ANSWER:  An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding 15.  Mauricio Macri is its current mayor, and it is served by the Pistarini International Airport. Important sites in this city include the teatro Colon opera house and the Cabildo, a colonial-era government building. Neighborhoods in this city include Palermo, Puerto Madero, and La Boca, and the Riachuelo forms its southern border. The Plaza de Mayo is home to the Casa Rosada or presidential palace, and the Plaza San Martin is named after the South-American liberator who is buried in this city. Other famous inhabitants include Julio Cortazar, Diego Maradona and Eva Peron. Located on the Rio de la Plata, FTP, what is this Argentinian city, its capital?ANSWER: Buenos Aires 16.  At one point in this short story, the narrator expresses dissatisfaction with the "paltry friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere Man." He later explains a strange apparition by assuming that someone must have thrown the titular entity through an open window, thus eventually leading to a reaction between ammonia and the lime of plaster. The white image of a gallows appears and torments the narrator, who near the end of this story comments on the sturdiness of his house and raps on the walls, prompting a shriek that confirms the narrator's guilt. The narrator kills his wife after she stops him from taking his axe to the reincarnation of Pluto, the titular creature. For 10 points, identify this short story by Edgar Allan Poe.ANSWER: "The Black Cat" 17.  He was succeeded by his son Samsu-Iluna, and he was a contemporary of Siwe-Palar-Hupak. Himself a son of Sin-Muballit and a member of the first dynasty, notable opponents of this man included Shamshi-Hadad I and Zimri-Lim of Mari. He turned against his former ally, Rim Sin I of Larsa, after having averted an invasion of the Elamites. Initially only encompassing nearby cities like Kish, he expanded his state's territory greatly by conquering such cities as Eshnunna, Eridu, and Ur, to the extent that at his death, it would encompass all of Mesopotamia. Reigning for an alleged 42 years until his death around 1750 BC, FTP, who was this Babylonian ruler, best known for his codex??ANSWER: Hammurabi 18. Two versions of it are the Muwatta of Ibn Malik and the Musnad of Ahmad ibn Hanbal, and more famous versions were written by Sunan of Tirmidhi and Abu Da'ud. The Kashf al-khafa' is an erroneous version of it, while the Kanz al-'ummal lacks isnads, or chains of transmission. The two "true" or sahih versions were compiled by Bukhari and Muslim, and the one described as qusdi or "sacred" limits itself to the forty thought to have come straight from Allah. It includes such entries as, "I am leaving you with the Book of God and Sunnah of his prophet," and, "Muslim is a brother to every Muslim and that the Muslims constitute." For ten points, name this collection of sayings attributed to Mohammad. ?ANSWER: hadith 19.  Sodium hypochlorite and methyl dichloride react with trans-alkenes to from them in the Jacobsen-Katsuki reaction. Another reaction uses sulfur ylides and ketones in DMSO to yield them, and that reaction is named after Johnson, Corey, and Chaykovsky. Yet another synthesis of these compounds, the Prilezhaev reaction, proceeds through the so-called "Butterfly Mechanism," while enantioselective versions of them are created from allylic alcohols via a reaction named after Sharpless. They are most commonly formed by an oxygen in the spiro position attacking a double bond, with the use of a peracid like mCPBA to donate the oxygen. For 10 points, name these molecules that all have a three-membered ring containing oxygen.ANSWER: epoxides 20.  The protagonist of his most famous comedy, based on an episode from Juan Ruiz de Alarcón's Truth Suspected, claims that he can't share the recipe for a certain medicine because it is in Hebrew. That protagonist confides in his valet Cliton and eventually declares his love for Lucrece in The Liar. The title character of another play is a Roman soldier at war with Alba, where his wife Sabine is from, and another play, subtitled "The Mercy of Augustus," is titled after the grandson of Pompey. In addition to Horace and Cinna, he wrote a play in which Chimène loves the title character, Rodrigue, who earns his nickname while fighting for the Castilians against the Moors. For 10 points, identify this French playwright of Le Cid.ANSWER: Pierre Corneille                                       Bonuses: 1.  It sucks to be a prince of Wales; answer the following about English heirs to the throne with a troubled relationship with their fathers, FTPE:[10] The first English prince to hold the title of prince of Wales, he struggled with his father over the latter's stance towards the Scots:ANSWER: Edward II[10] This son of George II and noted patron of the arts was hated by his father; his death in 1751 led to his son, the later George III, becoming the heir-apparent:ANSWER: Frederick-Louis (or Friedrich Ludwig) of Hannover[10] This Prince of Wales acted as regent for his father from 1810 till 1820. His previous attempted regency was thwarted by William Pitt the Younger:ANSWER: George IV (George Augustus Frederick of Hannover) 2.  One of these in chlorophyll forms a complex with magnesium. For 10 points each:[10] Name this heterocyclic ring that is also found in heme.ANSWER: porphyrin[10] Four of this pentagonal aromatic heterocycle make up one porphyrin ring, which is similar to furan and thiophene.ANSWER: pyrrole[10] Another kind of ring is this one, which is found complexed to cobalt in vitamin B12. Unlike porphyrins, it is not entirely aromatic and is therefore more flexible than a porphyrin ring.ANSWER: corrin 3.  Answer the following questions about the Alps, FTPE:[10] The highest peak in the Alps is this French-Italian mountain. Some sources quote it as the highest European mountain, but that excludes the Kaukasus:ANSWER: Mont Blanc (or Mente Bianco)[10] This iconic, pyramidal Swiss-Italian peak is the determining landmark of the posh resort of Zermatt. Its north face is a dream of many mountaneers:ANSWER: Matterhorn (or Mont Cervin/Monte Cervino)[10] located in Grindelwald, Switzerland, this mountain is famous for its dreadfully difficult to climb north face, which was first climbed in 1938 by Heinrich Harrer - of 7 years in Tibet fame:ANSWER: Eiger 4.  Identify some actors who appeared in the classic 90's film, Can't Hardly Wait, FTPE:?[10] Vicki, who goes around asking everybody to sign her yearbook, is played by this actress best known for playing Sabrina, the Teenage Witch.?ANSWER:  Melissa Joan Hart?[10] This actor has a short cameo as Trip McNeely.  He may be better known for playing the overweight kid Vern Tessio in Stand By Me.?ANSWER:  Jerry O'Connell?[10] The nerdy character William Lichter, who warns "Nobody drink the beer.  The beer has gone bad," was played by this actor, who played The Kid in Dick Tracy and Peter Pan's son in Hook. ?ANSWER:  Charles Korsmo 5.  He wrote the poem "My Grandmother's Love Letters," in which he declares, "There are no stars to-night / But those of memory." For 10 points each: [10] Identify this American poet who also wrote "At Melville's Tomb" and the long poem The Bridge. ANSWER: Hart Crane [10] Crane also wrote this series of six poems, found in his collection White Buildings. The second and most famous begins, "-And yet this great wink of eternity." ANSWER: "Voyages" [10] Crane wrote a sonnet to this American poet, whose own poems include "Success is Counted Sweetest." ANSWER: Emily Dickinson  6.  He wrote Letters of an Inhabitant of Geneva to his Contemporaries. FTPE:[10]  Name this man who argued for a new religion dedicated to serving the poor of society in The New Christianity.ANSWER:  Henri de Saint-Simon[10]  One of Saint-Simon's students was this person, often regarded as the founder of sociology.  He also wrote The Course in Positive Philosophy.ANSWER:  Auguste Comte[10]  Auguste Comte was friends with this lexicographer, who in 1873 completed his Dictionary of the French Language.ANSWER:  Emile Littre 7.  After his father died, he had his mother married to Manawydan and he became lord of the Dyfed. For 10 points each:[10] Name this man, the son of Pwyll.ANSWER: Pryderi[10] Pryderi was the son of this woman, whose handmaidens smeared her face with puppy blood and accused her of having murdered and eaten Pryderi.ANSWER: Rhiannon[10] The stories of Pwyll, Rhiannon, and Pryderi can be found in this collection of Welsh stories and myths.?ANSWER: Mabinogion8.  They can be activated by environmental factors like pH, or by cleaving particular residues. For 10 points each:?[10] Name these precursors to active enzymes, examples of which are found in digestion and blood clotting.?ANSWER: zymogens (or proenzymes)?[10] This gastric enzyme comes from a zymogen that autocatalytically cleaves 44 amino acids under low pH. It then goes on to break down proteins.?ANSWER: pepsin?[10] Another example of zymogen-derived enzymes includes this group of cysteine proteases that play a major role in apoptosis. They can be activated by granzyme B.?ANSWER: caspases  9.  She was commanded by William Bainbridge. FTPE:[10]  Identify this American ship that was captured in Tunisia in 1803 after running aground.  The next year, Stephen Decatur led a raid and burned this ship in the harbor of Tripoli.ANSWER:  U.S.S. Philadelphia[10] The burning of the U.S.S. Philadelphia happened in the first of these two wars in which the United States fought against some North African pirate states.ANSWER:  Barbary wars[10]  This American was the head commander of the Mediterranean Squadron involved in the blockade of Tripoli.  In September 1804, Samuel Barron would replace him.ANSWER:  Edward Preble 10.  Literary theorist Terry Eagleton wrote a book titled after The Rape of the title character of this novel. For 10 points each:  [10] Identify this epistolary novel, subtitled "The History of a Young Lady," whose title character is seduced by Lovelace. ANSWER: Clarissa [10] Clarissa was written by this British novelist, who also wrote Pamela and was mocked by Henry Fielding in Shamela. ANSWER: Samuel Richardson [10] In this final novel by Richardson, the title character is loved by Emily Jervois, Olivia, Clementina della Porretta, and Harriet Byron. He marries the last. ANSWER: Sir Charles Grandison  11.  Military commanders love cryptic names; answer the following about military campaigns and their codenames, FTPE:[10] The German invasion of the Soviet Union was known under this name; it refers to a 12th century German emperor:ANSWER: Operation Barbarossa[10] Although they failed to execute it after the Luftwaffe lost the battle of Britain, this would have been the code name of the German invasion of England:ANSWER: Operation Sea Lion (or Seeloewe)[10] This name refers to the German attempt at breaking through the Eastern front near Kursk in July of 1943; this "largest tank battle in history" led to a decisive German defeat. It's also known as the battle of Kursk:ANSWER: Operation Citadel 12.  He wrote a 1990 work called Realism with a Human Face.  FTPE:[10]  Identify this philosopher who wrote about his Twin-Earth thought experiment in the paper "The Meaning of Meaning."ANSWER:  Hilary Putnam[10]  In "The Meaning of Meaning," Putnam imagines a twin-earth where water's chemical formula is not H20, but this instead.ANSWER:  XYZ[10]  Putnam lends his name to an indespensability argument, along with this American philosopher famous for works like Word and Object and Two Dogmas of Empiricism.ANSWER:  Willard Van Orman Quine13.  1453 was a dark year for orhtodox christianity. Answer the following related questions, FTPE:[10] The last of the Christian Byzantine emperors, this man saw the Ottoman Turks conquer Constantinople. He died during the siege:ANSWER: Constantine XI[10] This Ottoman Sultan made an end to Byzantine rule, and tunred the Hagia Sophia into a mosque. Greek orthodoxy is still mad at him:ANSWER: Mehmed II[10] After the fall of Constaninople, the orthodox found a new Byzantium in Moscow. This Russian czar's marriage with Sophia Paleologue, a niece of Constantine XI, made this claim somewhat plausible:ANSWER: Ivan III (or Ivan the Great) 14.  Answer some questions about calculating heat capacity, FTPE.[10]  This law, named for two Frenchmen, says that the heat capacity per mole of any substance is simply equal to 3 times the ideal gas constant.ANSWER:  Dulong-Petit law[10]  The Dulong-Petit law fails for low temperatures, where it must be replaced by this model which calculates heat capacity by using a model of phonons in a box.ANSWER: Debye model[10]  The Debye model correctly predicts that at low temperatures, the heat capacity of a solid is proportional to temperature raised to this power.ANSWER:  3  (OR third OR cubed) 15.  Answer the following about the English song cycle, for 10 points each. [10] "The Vagabond" and "Bright is the Ring of Words" are two songs from this composer's Songs of Travel, which sets poems by Robert Louis Stevenson. He also wrote A Sea Symphony and The Lark Ascending. ANSWER: Ralph Vaughan Williams [10] Benjamin Britten's best-known song cycle is one of these "for Tenor, Horn, and Strings." Other examples of this compositional genre include Mozart's Eine kleine Nachtmusik.  ANSWER: serenades [10] He set five Shakespeare songs in the cycle Let Us Garlands Bring. His other best-known works are Dies natalis and a clarinet concerto.   ANSWER: Gerald Finzi 16.  This essay lends its title to a larger collection that also includes "Tennis Player Michael Joyce's Professional Artistry as a Paradigm of Certain Stuff About Choice, Freedom, Discipline, Joy, Grotesquerie, and Human Completeness." For 10 points each: [10] Identify this essay, originally published as "Shipping Out," that chronicles a week on the Caribbean cruise ship the Zenith. ANSWER: "A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again" [10] This recently-deceased author of Brief Interviews With Hideous Men and The Broom of the System wrote "A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again." ANSWER: David Foster Wallace [10] This lengthy novel by Wallace, which takes its title from Hamlet, features Dr. James Incandenza and the Enfield Tennis Academy. ANSWER: Infinite Jest  17. It was first realized by Cornell, Wiemann and Ketterle; FTPE:[10] what is this state of matter, in which integer-spin particles cluster together near absolute zero temperature; it is named after an Indian and a Jewish physicist:ANSWER:  Bose-Einstein-condensate (accept BEC)[10] Ketterle realized his condensate in sodium-23, whereas Cornell and Wiemann used the 87 isotope of this element, often used by atomic physicists:ANSWER: Rubidium[10] another manifestation of B-E condensation is in superfluidity, which occurs in He-4 when cooled below this temperature, corresponding to 2.17K. It obtains its name from the shape of the phase diagram:ANSWER: Lambda-point18. In this play, the governor's wife Natella pulls Michael out of the title area, which causes her to lose him. For 10 points each:[10] Identify this play in which the judge Azdak awards Michael to Grusha.ANSWER: The Caucasian Chalk Circle[10] This German playwright and frequent collaborator with composer Kurt Weill wrote The Caucasian Chalk Circle.ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht[10] Swiss Cheese, Eilif, and Kattrin are the offspring of the canteen woman at the center of this Brecht play, set during the Thirty Years' War.ANSWER: Mother Courage and Her Children 19. Four of them for solo piano make up Robert Schumann's opus 72, and late in life Beethoven wrote a "Great" one for string quartet. For 10 points each:[10] Identify this type of contrapuntal composition that features a subject and an answer.ANSWER: fugue[10] The praeludium and postludium of this work are exact retrograde inversions of each other, and in between there are twelve fugues and eleven interludes.ANSWER: Ludus tonalis [or Play of Tones][10] Ludus tonalis was composed by this German composer, who also wrote a series of eight pieces called Kammermusik.ANSWER: Paul Hindemith20. Hindus mark this observance as the day Rama returned to Ayodhya from his exile. For 10 points each:[10] Name this holiday traditionally celebrated by lighting oil lamps and fireworks.ANSWER: Diwali or Deepavali[10] This other Hindu festival is rooted in Narsimha's defeat of Hiranyakashipu, but most people just look forward to thowing powdered color. It traditionally marks the arrival of spring.ANSWER: Holi[10] Another Hindu festival linked to Vishnu is this birthday of Lord Krishna.ANSWER: Janmashtami