2009 Cardinal Classic XVIII: Sir Peter Wimsey and the Case of the Lost MonoclePacket by Missouri (Alex Dzurick, Karen Draper, Larkin Philpot, Charlie Dees, Michael P. Hill, others)Tossups:1. Molecules with this functionality can react with carbonyls in the Conia-Ene reaction in the presence of a gold catalyst. Two equivalents of their terminal variety can be joined in the Eglinton reaction or Cadiot-Chodkiewicz coupling, and vinyl and aryl halides can join to them in Sonogashira coupling. They can form cyclopentenones with alkenes and carbon monoxide in the Pauson-Khand reaction, and butyllithium and triphenylphosphine can be used to create them in the Corey-Fuchs reaction. A palladium catalyst doped with quinoline can be used to reduce them to alkenes, and that catalyst is named after Lindlar. For 10 points, name this class of compounds that feature a linear, carbon-carbon triple bond. ANSWER: alkynes2. Moses Narboni wrote a commentary on this man's Epistle on the Possibility of Conjunction, while Ernest Renan wrote that his "blunders in matters of Greek literature cannot but make one smile" in an 1852 work on this man.  He wrote a Decisive Treatise on the Agreement Between Religious Law and Philosophy, and his Colliget is an important medical work, while his ideas include the acquired intellect, which derives from the active intellect.  He is also often believed to have expounded the doctrine of the "double truth," but he may be best known for a work written in response to a work by Al-Ghazali.  For ten points, name this author of many important commentaries on Aristotle, an Islamic philosopher who wrote The Incoherence of the Incoherence.ANSWER: Averroes [or Ibn Rushd]3. This sea story set during war times opens with a small boat coming ashore to pick up the titular character whose identity is known only to Captain Munson. While on shore Barnstable meets his fiancée who gives him a letter and a signal book. After returning to sea, military plans are made and Barnstable hopes to rescue his fiancée when he leads raids against wealthy English. In one incident a man is pinned to a mast with a whaler's harpoon during a pitched naval battle. In another incident the titular character must guide the American ship through dangerous waters to escape from British ships. For 10 points name this Revolutionary War sea story written by James Fenimore Cooper.ANSWER: The Pilot4. Following the death of his official predecessor, Wilhelm Marx and Hans Luther temporarily occupied this man's final position in public service. He had previously succeeded Maximilian von Pritwitz and Erich von Falkenhayn, and his succession of the latter led to a period known as The Silent Dictatorship. A cadet at age 11, he was named the "Wooden Titan" by biographer John Wheeler-Bennett. Kurt von Schleicher served under this man, as did Heinrich Bruning, and other politicians of the Centre Party. He co-headed the plan to blockade Britain, and he earlier gained prominence for crushing P.K. Rennenkampf and Alexander Samsonov's Russian forces at the battle of Tannenberg. Forcing Erich Ludendorff to take the blame for his nation's loss during World War One, for 10 points, name this German field Marshall who became the president of the Weimar Republic during Hitler's rise.?ANSWER: Paul Ludwig Hans Anton von Beneckendorff und von Hindenburg5. Le Phenix by Corrette is scored for four of these instruments, and Carl Maria von Weber reworked his Andante and Hungarian Rondo from viola to this instrument. Vivaldi wrote more concertos for it than any other instrument but the violin, and Giles Brindley built a "logical" one. Lucio Berio's 12th Sequenza is a solo for it, and it derives from the Dulcian. The "double" variety is played an octave lower, and Mozart's sonata in B flat for it is considered the most important work in its repertory. It plays an ad libitum solo in a high register to begin Igor Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring, and it is played by blowing through a double reed. For 10 points, name this larger relative of the oboe.ANSWER: bassoon [or Faggot; or faggoto or any variants on the word "Faggot;" prompt on "dulcian"]6. Ezra Carr, a former professor of his at the University of Wisconsin, introduced him to John Tyndall as well as to his future wife, Louisa Wanda Strentzel. He used his friendship with Edward Harriman in order to influence congress.  Working as an engineer in Indianapolis, a serious eye injury spurred him to travel to the Gulf of Mexico, which inspired his work A Thousand-Mile Walk to the Gulf.  His discovery of a glacier below Merced Peak helped him spread his theory of glacial erosion, but may be better known for opposing the Hetch Hetchy dam in Yosemite National Park.  FTP name this early American environmentalist and co-founder of the Sierra Club.ANSWER: John Muir7. The speaker of this poem compares the souls of him and his lover to planets who's "trepidation" is "innocent", while the "dull sublunary" love of other people is like the small movements of the earth that cause earthquakes. He urges, "So let us melt and make no noise" and says their souls are like "gold to aery thinness beat." This poem begins with a dying lover urging his love not to mourn his passing and not to cheapen their love by telling others about it. It contains one of the most famous examples of the metaphysical conceit, the speaker comparing the souls of him and his lover to "stiff twin compasses" that separate to trace out a circle but are always connected. For 10 points, name this poem by John Donne.ANSWER: A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning8. It features the "Icefall," a three-story indoor waterfall that humidifies and chills its lobby, and no vertical steel beams are used above its base. Built upon a six-story building designed by Joseph Urban, this structure's British architect designed a 46-story tower of glass and steel arranged in a diagrid pattern. That tower, completed in 2006, resembles the Gherkin, a London tower by the same architect. This building features recycled steel framing and was the first "green" building in its home. Located at the corner of West 57th and 8th Avenue, for ten points, name this New York City building designed by Norman Foster, headquarters to the media conglomerate that owns publications such as Cosmopolitan and Esquire.ANSWER: Hearst Tower 9. A theorem saying that magnetic materials cannot be explained by classical physics, and thus magnetism must be a quantum mechanical phenomenon, is named for him and van Leeuwen.  One value named for him is sometimes also named after Procopiu, and is equal to half the electron charge times h-bar divided by the electron mass, while a distance of 0.53 angstroms is also named for him.  He developed the idea that quantum mechanics must agree with classical physics at the macroscopic level, and his namesake radius is roughly the size of a hydrogen atom, while the magnetic moment of the electron is proportional to his namesake magneton.  FTP, name this man whose model says that electrons can only occupy certain energy levels in an atom, a Danish physicist.ANSWER: Niels Bohr  (accept van Leeuwen before it's mentioned)10. His attempt to marry his daughter to Johan of Schleswig Holstein failed, and he refused an offer of personal union by Lew Sapieha. He was the most famous member of a family that, in the early fourteenth century, had migrated to Kostroma, and earlier in his life, this man took part in the Serpeisk campaign as an archer. He had been a member of the oprichnina, and was made konyushy or Master of the Horse. The support of patriarch Job was instrumental in this man's climb to power. His sister, Irina Feodorovna, was married to his predecessor, for whom this man and Vasili Shuiski acted as regent. After his death, his son Feodor would be killed by his enemies, and would be succeeded by the first of the false Dimitrys.  For 10 points, name this Russian czar and boyar of Ivan the Terrible, a subject of works by Pushkin, Mussorgsky, and Prokofiev.?ANSWER:  Boris Godunov11. Found in several common forms, all of which are a way to praise God and the Trinity, this is used in both Catholic and Protestant churches. The Roman Missal of the Tridentine period included specific movements for priests to perform while reciting it and its Latin translation inspired a solo soprano by Handel. The "lesser" form of this is sung at the close of the psalmody and is also known as Gloria Patri. Metrical forms of these often accompany presentation of tithes and offerings during worship. For ten points, name this religious element also known as Gloria in Excelsis. ?ANSWER: Doxology12. Chris Carney represents this state's 10th district in congress, which includes Snyder and Wyoming counties. It is home to the nation's first zoo, and houses the Harry Houdini museum. It has the eastern hemlock as its state tree, the ruffed grouse as state bird, and Bloomsburg is the only officially incorporated town in this state. Its highest point is at mount Davies, and it includes Raystown Lake; the Monongahela ends in this state, where it meets the Allegheny river. Allentown and Reading are two of the larger cities in this commonwealth, and Bethlehem gave its name to a large steel company here. Scranton is the center of the coal mining industry in this rustbelt state, which is the starting point of the Ohio river. Also known as the Keystone state, and with capital at Harrisburg, FTP what northeastern state has Philadelphia as its metropolis, and is named after its Quaker founder?ANSWER: Pennsylvania13. This painting includes two white cats sitting beside a child eating a fruit, and a green and brown bird walks in the background towards the center of this painting, which also includes a sitting black dog at its right edge. Next to that woman is a blue religious statue on a rock, and other figures include two women wearing white loincloths, as well as three who are fully nude. On the left side, an old woman appears to close her eyes and lay her head in her hands, while in the center, a man picks an orange fruit, and on the right side a baby lays on a rock. With all of the humans exhibiting a yellow tint to their sckin, for 10 points, name this picture of Tahitian women demonstrating the three title questions by Paul Gauguin.ANSWER: Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We Going? [or D'ou Venons Nous / Que Sommes Nous / Où Allons Nous]14. This name is shared by the author of a work in which Chang buys a coffin for the mother of Tsai Jung, who is ordered by the emperor to marry Prime Minister Niu's daughter even though he already had a wife. That author wrote the only nangxi play in existence, entitled The Lute, and another author with this name wrote about Sun Huirong, who is raped by a Communist before being sent to a mine. Other characters in that novel include the Jewish lover of the protagonist, Margarethe, and his supervisor Old Liu. Another novel by that author of Bus Stop and One Man's Bible follows his search for Lingshan, the titular geographic entity. For 10 points, give this surname shared by a Chinese playwright named Ming and the author of Soul Mountain named Xingjian.ANSWER: Gao [accept Gao Ming and Gao Xingjian to be lenient]15. Those with Factor V Leiden are at high risk of clotting during this condition, and Hegar's sign, Goodell's sign, and Chadwick's sign all indicate it. Hemolytic anemia, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet counts are seen in one complication of it called HELLP syndrome. Another complication results in hypertension, proteinuria, and seizures and is known as eclampsia. It results in the proliferation of milk-secreting alveoli and it is tested for by the presence of human chorionic gonadotropin. During this time, the corpus luteum is maintained, inhibiting ovulation, and adequate folic acid intake should be maintained for proper development. Miscarriages may occur in, for 10 points, this condition that, in human females, usually lasts 9 months.ANSWER: pregnancy 16. This figure settled in Crimissa and founded a sanctuary to Apollo after the Trojan War. Before the war, this man was the leader of Olizon, Meliboea, and other Thessalian. While on the island of Tenedos, this man was bitten by a sea serpent and the wound was so putrid that Agamemnon abandoned him on the island of Lemnos, where he was cared for by Iphimachus. Odysseus and Diomedes were sent to bring this man back to Troy after Calchas revealed that the Greeks needed a particular weapon of Heracles to win the war. It was either him or his father Poeas who lit Heracles's funeral pyre, after which this man inherited Heracles's bow. For 10 points, name this mythological archer who used that bow to kill Paris.ANSWER: Philoctetes17. Calvert Watkins wrote his dissertation on the origins of the verb in this language group. These languages notably feature initial consonant mutations, and sentences generally follow verb-subject-object order. There is much debate regarding whether this language group descended from the same proto-language as Italic, with which it shares many features.  One classification scheme of these languages splits them into "P" and "Q" groups, which contain subgroups like Brythonic and Goidelic.  Also containing the language Breton, spoken by the inhabitants of Brittany, FTP, name this group of languages containing Cornish, Welsh, and Irish.ANSWER:  Celtic18. One war fought in this country included a battle fought in the Kurum Valley, and an earlier war included a battle between Sir John Keane and Hyder Khan at Ghuznee which was a disastrous attempt to put Shah Shuja on the throne. A coup was staged in this country to put the former prime minister Daud Khan in power, and he was killed in the Saur revolt. Ahmed Shah Durrani controlled it in the 18th century, and Zahir Shah was its last king. In this country, two so-called Arab journalists led a suicide attack on rebel leader Ahmed Shah Massoud, named the "Lion of the Panjshir," and that one-time warlord kept the north of this country independent of the one-eyed Mullah Omar. Subject of a Soviet invasion that led to mujahedeen forces fighting back in this country, it was later invaded during Operation Enduring Freedom after planes were used to destroy the World Trade Center. For 10 points, name this country were the Taliban and Osama Bin Laden live.ANSWER: Afghanistan19. He wrote about Johnny Hake, who quits his job producing the plastic wrap parablendum before finding Grace Maitland with the lawn boy while trying to commit a robbery in "The Housebreaker of Shady Hill." In another novel by this author, Shinglehouse throws himself under a train and the boy Tony refuses to get out of bed, leading to his parents having Swami Rutuola visit to have Tony repeat "Hope" and "Love." That novel, in which Paul Hammer tries to kill Eliot Nailles, is Bullet Park, and he wrote about Jody, the gay lover of the convict and heroin addict Ezekiel Farragut, who is accused of killing his brother Eben. This author wrote about St. Botolphs, which is home to Cousin Honora, who controlled the family nominally held by Leander. For 10 points, name this author of Falconer and The Wapshot Chronicle.ANSWER: John Cheever20. He wrote about the college history instructor Lawrence John, who is hired to push the wheelchair of Juan Jose Ramirez in a Greenwich Village nursing home, while another of his works involves a cyborg who gives sex therapy to old men. In addition to Eternal Curse on the Reader of These Pages and Pubis Angelical, this man wrote about Nene Fernandez who writes letters about her passion for the tubercular Juan Carlos Etchepare. Another of his novels follows a fellow student of Cobito and Paquita at the George Washington School, Toto Casals, and he wrote a novel about a window dresser who refers to himself as a girl, the gay Luis Molina, who is imprisoned with the dissident Valentin Paz. For 10 points, name this author of Heartbreak Tango, Betrayed By Rita Hayworth, and The Kiss of the Spider Woman.?ANSWER: Juan Manuel PuigA staffer of the Encyclopedia Britannica, Penrose Annual and The Imprint, Stanley Morison is known as the creator of this, which made its debut in London on Oct. 3, 1932 and would go on to leave an indelible mark on history. Other works by its author include Four Centuries of Fine Printing and History of the Times. It is so influential that no regulation Quizbowl packet could be produced without Morison's contribution to the world. For ten points, name this serif typeface that was designed for The Times of London newspaper.ANSWER: Times New Roman (Do not accept Times) Bonuses:1. Unlike most Oaxacans, this man was born a mestizo with both Indian and Spanish blood.  For ten points each:[10] Name this Mexican politician and general, who promoted the idea of "sufragio efectivo, no reelección" and assumed the role of the presidency on November 29, 1876.Answer:  Porfirio Díaz[10] Díaz served as president until May, 1911, save for the four year term from 1880-84, when this man served, a childhood friend of Díaz and a general in the Mexican army.Answer:  Manuel González[10] In 1911, Diaz was ousted by Madero, who had previously outlined his revolutionary ideas in this 1910 document. His failure to implement it led Zapata to issue is own Plan de Ayala:ANSWER: Plan of San Luis Potosi2. It discusses beliefs that are "radically incapable of proof."  FTPE:[10] Name this philosophical work which argues that belief is not based on reason, and yet is nonetheless essential.  This 1923 work introduces ideas the author would later analyze further in Realms of Being.ANSWER:  Scepticism and Animal Faith[10] Scepticism and Animal Faith was written by this Spanish-American philosopher who noted that those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.ANSWER:  George Santayana[10] In this other Santayana work, a figure known as "The Stranger" discusses philosophy with Socrates, Democritus, and others.ANSWER:  Dialogues in Limbo3. As Galileo Galilei theorized, the center of the solar system is the sun, which is about 109 times the size of Earth and accounts for 99 percent of the entire mass of the solar system. For 10 points each, answer these questions about the sun.[10] About 90 percent of the sun's atoms are made of this element, which is important since the energy produced by the sun is accomplished by converting it to helium.ANSWER: Hydrogen[10] The sun's hydrogen is converted according to Einstein's e=mc2 formula, causing 0.7 percent of its mass to become energy, resulting in a radiative output known as the solar constant, which is measured using these units.ANSWER: Ergs[10] The sun's surface temperature is about 5,200 Kelvins, causing it to be classified as this type of star because it falls within the second-hottest group of stars within its class.ANSWER: G2 V (Do not accept G2 or V by themselves) 4. This contemporary of Duccio was often mistakenly attributed with painting the Ruggiero Madonna. For 10 points each:[10] Name this painter who started to break away from Byzantine flatness in frescos like Healing of a Sick Man and Madonna and Child Enthroned with Two Angels and St. Francis and St. Dominic.ANSWER: Giovanni Cimabue [or Cenni di Pepo][10] This pupil of Cimabue furthered the break with Byzantine art in works like his depictions of the life of St. Francis in the church of Santa Croce. He would later influence Masaccio.ANSWER: Giotto di Bondone[10] Giotto worked extensively on the frescos of this chapel in Padua, that includes depictions of The life of Joachim, The Passion of Christ, the Last Judgement, and Virtues and Vices.ANSWER: The Arena Chapel [or the Scrovegni chapel]5. Human-animal hybrids are popular throughout world mythologies. For 10 points each:[10] Born of Gaia and Tartarus, he has serpentine parts from the waist down. He challenges Zeus's rule but is defeated when Zeus hurls Mt. Etna on him.ANSWER: Typhois or Typhon or Typhaon[10] These Sumerian protective deities were half man and half winged bull or lion and often appeared on gates as guardians to buildings.ANSWER: Shedu or Lamassu or Lamma[10] Found in Hindu and Buddhist mythology, these beasts have serpentine and human traits. In the Mahabharata, they are portrayed in epic rivalry with the bird-man Garuda.ANSWER: Naga or Nagini6. One character in this work is lured into the apartment of the pimp Ibrahim Faraj, and that character's foster mother Umm Hamida tries to make her marry Salim Alwan for his wealth. For 10 points each:?[10] Name this novel about Hamida, who is engaged to the barber Abbas Hilu, who takes up a job with the British to stack that paper.?ANSWER: Midaq Alley [or Zuqaq al-Midaqq]?[10] This other novel opens with the Jawad family at breakfast. Members of that family include Amina, who is hit by a car, and Aisha, who is sixteen years old at the novel's opening.?ANSWER: Palace Walk [or Bayn al-qasrayn]?[10] Midaq Alley is set in this city, along with Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street, which make up its namesake trilogy by Naguib Mahfouz.?ANSWER: Cairo [or Al-Qahirah]?7. It's not easy to implement reforms, especially not when you're a pope. Answer the following about the counterreformation, FTPE:[10] This 19th eucumenical council of the catholic church mainly dealt with counterreformation issues; it primarily met in the namesake city, form 1545 till 1563:ANSWER: council of Trent (Trento in Italian)[10] This Italian pope, born as Alessandro Farnese, convened the council of Trent in 1545; he would only live to see its first 4 years:ANSWER: Paul III[10] After the closing of the council in 1563, it took a few years for its counterreforms to get enacted. Most of the credit therefore goes to this Dominican pope and saint, who reigned from 1566 till 1572, and who notable standardized the Tridentine Mass:ANSWER: Pius V (or Michele Ghislieri) 8. Answer the following about some central European lakes, FTPE:[10] This largest Swiss lake has the Rhone river flow through it. A namesake city is located on its shores:ANSWER: Lake Geneva (or Lac Leman)[10] This Hungarian lake is the largest freshwater body in central Europe; the Zala river is its main source:ANSWER: lake Balaton[10] This lake straddles the Austro-Hungarian border; it is the largest freshwater body in Austria:ANSWER: Lake Neusiedl (Neusiedler See, or Ferto To in Hungarian)9. In its third part, this work discusses "abnormal forms" of the title concept, such as "forced," and "anomic."  FTPE:[10] Identify this 1893 work that claims that the title concept can lead to a feeling of "organic solidarity."ANSWER:  The Division of Labor in Society  (or De la division du travail social)[10] Name this French sociologist who wrote The Division of Labor in Society, as well as Suicide.ANSWER:  Emile Durkheim[10] This other work of Durkheim begins by answering the question "What is a Social Fact?" and proceeds to discuss how we observe and explain social facts.ANSWER:  The Rules of Sociological Method (or Les Regles de la methode sociologique)10. It is an unbound molecule in its G form and a linear polymer in its F form. For 10 points each: [10] Name this protein. ANSWER: actin [10] Actin polymers form these cytoskeletal structures that are similar to other structures composed of tubulin. ANSWER: microfilaments [10] Actin polymerization can be blocked by this class of drugs isolated from fungi. ANSWER: cytochalasins11. He passed off parts of his work on the seven-opera cycle Licht to his children Markus, Majella, and Simon. For 10 points each:[10] Name this composer of the electronic Gesang der Junglinge as well as "point music" like his Kontra-Punkte.ANSWER: Karlheinz Stockhausen[10] Stockhausen's Kreuspiel is influenced by this composer's Mode de valeurs. This fan of bird songs and the octatonic mode wrote a symphony scored for orchestra, piano, and ondes Martenot entitled the Turangalila Symphony.ANSWER: Olivier Eugene Prosper Charles Messaien[10] Messaien is best known for this work written in a prison camp with movements like a "Praise to the Immortality of Jesus" and "Liturgy of Crystal." It is scored for violin, cello, clarinet, and piano.ANSWER: Quartet For the End of Time [or Quartour pour la fin du temps]12. This author was one of the main writers of amatory fiction and is considered the first English woman to earn a living by writing. Virginia Woolf praises her in A Room of One's Own saying that all women should be grateful to her for paving the way for women writers. For 10 points each:[10] Name that woman, author of "The Disappointment" and "The Rover."ANSWER: Aphra Behn[10] This work narrates the tragic life of an African slave and his wife and is based on Behn's own experiences in Surinam.ANSWER: Oroonoko: Or, The History of the Royal Slave[10] Behn became a spy for Charles II in Antwerp during this war, where she first used the pseudonym, Astrea, that most of her works were published under, and saw the British monarchy engage in hostilities against the states of Holland.ANSWER: The Second Anglo-Dutch War13. Answer the following about reaction kinetics, for 10 points each: [10] For a reaction to proceed, it must overcome this energetic barrier. It appears in the exponent of the Arrhenius equation. ANSWER: activation energy [10] For enzymatic reactions, kinetics are governed by this equation, which was improved upon by Briggs and Haldane. ANSWER: Michaelis-Menten equation [10] Graphing the reciprocal of the Michaelis-Menten equation yields this plot, from which the maximum reaction rate could be calculated. ANSWER: Lineweaver-Burk plot14. The longest suspension bridge in the world is Japan's Akashi Kaiky? Bridge, spanning 6,532 feet and wide enough for six lanes of traffic. For ten points each, answer these questions about bridges.[10] Making supporting appearances in the films "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "The Bridges of Madison County," these types of bridges are also known as "kissing bridges."  ANSWER: Covered Bridges[10] Common in Asia, these types of bridges often feature such sharp initial angle of ascent that those who wish to cross must climb up in a manner similar to going up a ladder, thus giving enough room for higher water vessels to pass under.ANSWER: Moon bridge[10] These structures are often erected prior to the construction of a bridge giving construction workers an airtight and dry environment in which to work.ANSWER: Caisson15. This character's suicide drives his ward Nancy Rufford to insanity, and he barely speaks to his wife Leonora in private. For 10 points each:[10] Name this character, who has an affair with Florence for nine years, the title character of The Good Soldier.ANSWER: Edward Ashburnham [accept either name][10] The Good Soldier is a novel by this author, who also wrote about Christopher and his cheating wife Sylvia Tietjens in Parade's End.ANSWER: Ford Madox Ford [or Fenil Haig; or Ford Madox Hueffer][10] This character, the husband of Florence, is the completely clueless narrator of The Good Soldier. He is unable to understand what is actually going on when people act irrationally, like Florence lying about a heart condition so she doesn't have to sleep with him on their honeymoon.ANSWER: John Dowell [accept either name]16. African musical traditions became part of the purely American jazz music in the late 1890s.  For ten points each:?[10]  Cake walks and jig bands developed into this early style of jazz, which often took the form of marches, waltzes, and other already-popular styles.?ANSWER:  Ragtime?[10]  One leading ragtime composer was this man, a classically-trained pianist from Missouri who wrote 'Maple Leaf Rag' and 'The Entertainer.'?ANSWER:  Scott Joplin?[10]  Ragtime music publishers were often proud to include this word in the title of their releases.  It describes musical notes that occur off of the beat.?ANSWER:  syncopated [accept syncopation]17. For 10 points each, answer the following related to statoliths. [10] Statoliths are thought to mediate this form of plant growth, which ensures that stems grow upward and roots grow downward. ANSWER: gravitropism [10] Gravitropism is mediated by this class of plant hormones. Its other effects include root and shoot apical dominance. ANSWER: auxin [10] The primary auxin molecule features acetic acid bound to this aromatic heterocycle. It is also found in the amino acid tryptophan. ANSWR: indole18. An article in Colliers magazine accused him of making corrupt deals over Alaskan coal lands, and the subsequent controversy is believed to have contributed to the creation of the Bull Moose Party. FTPE:[10] Name this Secretary of the Interior under Taft, who was accused of undermining the previous administration's policies of conservation.ANSWER: Richard Ballinger[10] The Ballinger-Pinchot spat revolved angered this former president enough to decide to split the Republican party to drive Taft out. He had previously made it into office when McKinley was shot.ANSWER: Theodore"Teddy" Roosevelt  (prompt on "Roosevelt")[10] This successor to the Elkins act was passed during Theodore Roosevelt's administration and gave the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to establish maximum rates and set standard accounting practices.ANSWER: The Hepburn Act19. They were discovered by Carl Anderson in 1932. FTPE:[10]  Identify these antimatter leptons that were originally predicted by Paul Dirac as holes in a sea of negative-energy particles.ANSWER:  positron[10] The neutral variety of these mesons occasionally decay via the so-called "Dalitz decay" to a positron, electron, and a photon.  They come in both charged and neutral versions, are made of up and down quarks, and are the lightest mesons.ANSWER:  pion  (or pi-meson)[10]  This is the name given to the process of a positron scattering with an electron.  It is named after an Indian physicist.ANSWER:  Bhabha scattering20. This man's appearance is believed to have ended a "prophetic cycle" in history, and beginning a "Cycle of fulfillment." For 10 points each:[10] Name this author of the Bayan, a leader believing in the ultimate unity of Islam, Christianity, and Judaism who took a name meaning "Door."ANSWER: The Bab or Sayyid Ali Mohammed Shirazi[10] The Bab is often considered the forerunner to this faith, that has a 17-month calendar and was founded by the Baha'ullah.ANSWER: Baha'i[10] This institution in the Baha'I faith was supposedly given the power to rule on everything not specifically laid down in Baha'I scriptures, even thought it didn't come to being until 1963. It has a 9 body membership elected every 5 years, and is found in Haifa, Israel.ANSWER: The International House of Justice21. As this is a college quizbowl tournament, it seems fitting that you should answer these questions about early European universities for 10 points each.[10] This southern European city hosts the oldest degree-granting university in Europe, dating back to 1088. Napoleon instated it as capital of the Cispadane republic, and Charles V was coronated here in 1530:  ANSWER: University of Bologna[10] This university established in the 12th century is composed of many individual colleges including University, Balliol, and All Souls. It is the oldest university in England:ANSWER: Oxford University[10] King Dinis founded this oldest Portuguese university in 1290; it is the namesake of a group of the oldest and most prominent European research universities:ANSWER: Coimbra University22. Name these characters or things from Moby Dick based on their descriptions for 10 points each.[10] This young black character goes insane after being stranded at sea and forges a connection with the Captain later in the book.ANSWER: Pip or Pippin[10] This is the name of them small, black, carved idol carried by Queequeg.ANSWER: Yojo[10] This is the first mate of the Pequod who objects to Ahab's mad quest in pursuit of the White Whale.ANSWER: Starbuck23 Identify these characters from McDonaldland. For 10 points each:[10] A large purple wooly member of the "wumpus" species, he is a clumsy simpleton who provides a comic foil to Ronald McDonald.ANSWER: Grimace[10] These creatures resembling pom-poms with eyeballs enjoy gobbling up other characters' French fries.ANSWER: Fry Kids[10] This thief in a red cape was known for his habit of stealing burgers.ANSWER: The Hamburglar