Cardinal Classic XVIII:  Sir Peter Wimsey and the Case of the Lost MonoclePacket by UCLA (Ian Drayer, Anurag Kashyap, Mik Larsen, Ray Luo) Tossups:  1.  The sixty-year-old businessman Woody Selbst reacts to the death of his father in this author's short story "A Silver Dish," later collected in Him With His Foot in His Mouth and Other Stories. In an early novel, the protagonist urges his sister-in-law Elena to send her son Mickey to the hospital, where he dies. That novel, which centers around the relationship between Kirby Allbee and Asa Leventhal, is The Victim. The title millionaire's encounter with the Arnewi tribe is the subject of another novel, and Valentine Gersbach is the lover of the ex-wife of another novel's title character, who spends time writing letters to living and historical people. For 10 points, identify this American author of Henderson the Rain King and Herzog.ANSWER: Saul Bellow 2.  Soldiers who have completed their basic training are sworn in on this site "which will not fall again". Roads leading to this site included the Serpent from the east, and an easier ascent from Lake Asphaltitis, and its highest point is called the White Promontory. It served as a settlement for Byzantine monks in the fifth century, and was built by a man referred to only as Jonathan, which could refer to Alexander Yannai. After being taken by Menahim, it was seized by Eleazar and his sicarii through treachery. Flavius Silva, using machines devised by Vespasian and Titus, used it as the target for gigantic ramps, the remnants of which are still visible. The only contemporary account of it was by Josephus, and it was the final refuge of insurgents in the Jewish Revolt. FTP, name this mountain fortress where only seven survived a mass suicide in 73 AD.ANSWER: Masada  3.  The Gaisser-Hillas function can be used to model these objects, while one recently built facility employs a combination of PMT's and flourescence detectors to observe these.  They have been studied by the AGASA experiment as well as the aforementioned Pierre Auger experiment, and their spectrum is modeled with a differential spectral index equal to approximately 2.7.  The theoretical maximum energy of these objects is called the GZK limit, and is about 10 to the 19th electron volts.  They were discovered by Victor Hess, and they are the main source of the muons that reach earth.  FTP, identify these particles from outer space that interact with the atmosphere, and that consist mainly of energetic protons.ANSWER:  cosmic rays 4.  His failed in his attempts to make peace between Vieri dei Cerchi and Corso Donati, leaders to two Florentine factions. He dispatched Johannes Monachus to France, who later betrayed Jean Lemoine. He collected church legislation in Liber Sextus and replied against the imprisonment of Bernard Saisset with Ausculta Fili. He quarreled with Albert I of Habsburg and was later taken prisoner at Anagni by Sciarra Colonna and Guillaume de Nogaret when he threatened to excommunicate the king. He held his predecessor Celestine V at Fumone and issued bulls against taxation of the clergy and for the supremacy of the papacy. For 10 points, name this enemy of Philip IV, a pope who issued Clericis Laicos and Unam Sanctam.ANSWER: Boniface VIII 5.  A table cloth is pulled off to reveal a dead character, which leads to a song where one character exclaims "Your apple pie don't taste too nice."  The opening song for this movie references King Kong and Flash Gordon, eventually referencing the producer RKO.  One character is chained up by his master and scolded when he has sex with one of the heroes.  When these heroes knocked on the door, the master of the house offers to bring in an old Steeve Reeves movie.  To this Brad replies that he just wants to use a phone, a request that is never fulfilled.  This master kills Eddie, played by Meatloaf, who "really loved that rock and roll."  For 10 points, name this 1975 cult movie that starred Tim Curry as Dr. Frank-n-Furter, the sweet transvestite from Transexual Transylvania.ANSWER: The Rocky Horror Picture Show 6.  The Shinnecock and Possepatuk Indian Reservations are the only ones located here, and it was called Paumanok by the Native Americans.  It contains 4 counties, including Suffolk county, and it was formed by glacial moraines. Minor towns here include Far Rockaway, Oyster Bay and Glen Cove, and it is home to Hofstra University and the United States Merchant marine academy. Located to the south is Fire Island, and scientists may know it as the location of both Cold Spring Harbor and Brookhaven national laboratory. At the farthest east point is the Montauk lighthouse, and in the eastern part of the island are the Hamptons. A namesake sound separates it from the mainland, and Nassau county is located on it. For 10 points, name this most populated island in America, just east of Manhattan, separated from the rest of New York by the East river.ANSWER: Long island 7.  His early works of rural landscapes, such as Landscape with Ditch and Women and Child in front of a Farm, failed to win him the Prix de Rome when he entered in 1898 and 1901. A critical component of his work was the tilted "lozenge", leading to an established structure of his following period which would be modified in works like 1942's New York City I. After meeting Theo van Doesburg, he created several works based on one of Doesburg's stained glass window, during a period where he was a frequent contributor to the De Stijl magazine. The creator of a style translated from the Dutch phrase nieuwe beelding, or "new image," for 10 points, name this artist known for typifying Neoplasticism in such works as Broadway Boogie-Woogie.ANSWER: Piet Mondrian 8.  Margaret of Anjou is excluded from most productions of this play; in the 1993 film version, her character is merged with the Duchess of York. Those murdered include the Earl of Rivers, the Queen's brother, and Lord Hastings, after the title character marries Anne Neville, the widow of the Prince of Wales. After the assassination of the Earl of Clarence, he uses the assistance of the Duke of Buckingham to undermine the legitimacy of Edward IV's children and gain the throne. Concluding with the victory of the Earl of Richmond at Bosworth Field, for 10 points, name this 1591 Shakespeare play that begins with the line "Now is the winter of our discontent/ made glorious summer."ANSWER: Richard III 9.  The mathematical expression for them is sometimes splined together with a Morse potential for better agreement with experiment.  One model for these interactions is a three-body potential which includes the product of three cosines of angles, and is named for Axilrod and Teller.  Another model of these interactions was created by H.C. Hamaker.   One type of these interactions is named for (*) Keesom, while another is named after Debye.  They are responsible for the term inversely proportional to the sixth power of distance in the Lennard-Jones potential.  FTP, identify this class of intermolecular forces which includes London dispersion forces, and is named for a Dutchman.ANSWER:  van der Waals forces [Accept London dispersion forces before (*).  DO NOT accept afterwards. Prompt on "intermolecular" forces.] 10.  After his tabling of the Clayton Compromise, Judge Francis Cone slashed his face and arms with a knife before being restrained. He served alongside the "Bourbon Triumvirate" during Reconstruction, eventually becoming Governor of his home state in 1882. Before William Jennings Bryan did, he earned the nickname "The Great Commoner", and encouraged Joseph Brown in stressing states' rights and ignoring reinforcement requests.  He spoke of the "great truth that the negro is not equal to the white man" in his Cornerstone speech, and he met on the River Queen with Lincoln and Seward at the Hampton Roads Conference in February 1865, without much result. FTP, name this Georgia politician who served as Vice President of the Confederacy.ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton Stephens 11.  One complication of it is called Lucio's phenomenon and results in necrosis of arteriole endothelial tissue. Erythema nodosum is another complication of its diffuse type, which histologically resembles leukocytoclastic vasculitis and can be a response to a Herxheimer reaction. The diffuse type can cause smoothening of wrinkles, while other varieties of it include neuritic, borderline, and tuberculoid. Standard treatment includes rifampicin, dapsone, and clofazimine, and G. H. A. Hansen discovered the mycobacterium responsible for it. Largely found in developing countries like Brazil and India, this is, for 10 points, what disease that causes severe skin lesions and nerve damage and the mistakenly believed to result in limbs falling off?ANSWER: leprosy (accept Hansen's disease until stated) 12.  The title character of this text is cheered by the girl Iambe, who tells jokes, or in some versions, shows her genitals. Sitting near the Parthenion of Eleusis, she encounters Kallithoe and the other daughters of Keleos, and after telling a tale of being abducted from Crete by pirates, she adopts the name Doso. After she accepts a drink of barley and water instead of wine, Metaneira having given her the task of nurturing the infant Demophon, she attempts to bestow immortality upon him by concealing him in fire. This visit to the mortal plane follows a fruitless visit to Hekate, another to Helios, who reveals the source of her troubles, and finally a message from Zeus, who mediates her dispute with Hades. Describing the events following the abduction of Persephone, for 10 points, name this Archaic Greek text, a lyric poem in praise of the titular goddess.ANSWER: "The Homeric Hymn to Demeter" 13.  When he died in a large gathering, the crowd thought him to be asleep.  One legend states bees left their honey in his mouth as a youth, which foretold his future greatness.  In one of his poems he wishes a God be propitious to Psaumis, and the first in another series was to Chromius,who has just won a chariot race.  That poem, like others in the series was chanted at the Olympic ceremonies exclaiming the prowess of a youth.  Another one, Pythian X was written for Hippocleas after he won a race twice around the course in the title location.  For 10 points, name this ancient Greek poet famous for his Olympic, Pythian, Nemean, and Isthmian odes.ANSWER: Pindar 14.  A recent study of this phenomenon by Charles, Hurst, and Roussanov has linked it to race, and its equilibrium distribution with respect to pride and envy are determined in a dynamical model by Daniel Friedman. In the work in which it was first introduced, the author describes how "it becomes substantially honorable to itself," and how conformity to ways of living introduces a norm to be satisfied. Elaborated in The Theory of Business Enterprise, it is exemplified by "use of intoxicating beverages," "wearing of liveries," and buying a car simply for its ability to indicate wealth and status. For 10 points, give this term introduced by Thorstein Veblen to roughly mean lavish spending.ANSWER: conspicuous consumption 15.  He married Caroline of Anspach, and he would found the University of Gottingen. Under his rule, his country would adopt the Gregorian calendar, and earlier in life, his Leicester House residence would be a prime venue for those who opposed his father, like Charles Townshend. Prime Minister Pelham served under him until his death, and the earl of Wilmington was another of his prime ministers. At Dettingen, he was the last British monarch to command troops in battle, and previously, he had fought in the vanguard during the battle of Oudenaarde. His reign saw the War of Jenkin's Ear, against the wishes of Robert Walpole, as well as the suppression of the last Jacobite rebellion at Culloden Moor in 1746. The first monarch to employ Pitt the Elder, for 10 points, name this British sovereign, a Hanoverian whose throne passed to his mentally unstable grandson in 1760.ANSWER: George II 16.  One of his works describes the thought of another philosopher as a "philosophy for the occasion," and that work is titled after the author of the Historical and Critical Dictionary.  Along with writing Pierre Bayle, this philosopher used the term Gluckseligkeitstrieb to refer to man's "drive for happiness." He also wrote Principles of the Philosophy of the Future, while another work of his describes the title idea as "the dream of the human mind."  He published a proposition for the spread of human influence after death in Thoughts on Death and Immortality.  FTP, name this philosopher who described religion as a product of humankind's psychological needs in his The Essence of Christianity.ANSWER: Ludwig Andreas Feuerbach 17. The first two nominees to investigate this event were Silas Strawn and Thomas Gregory, but their names were withdrawn.  Later, a team of Pomerene and Roberts were appointed to investigate this event, which led to the Supreme Court case of McGrain v. Daugherty.  The initial Senate investigation was led by Thomas Walsh. People involved in this affair were Edward Doheny, who escaped criminal prosecution, and Harry Sinclair.   One person implicated was Edwin Denby, the Secretary of the Navy, and this event partially involved land in Elk Hills, California.  FTP, name this scandal that led to the jailing of Secretary of the Interior Albert B. Fall, which involved the leasing of oil fields in Wyoming, and was the chief scandal of the Harding administration.ANSWER: Teapot Dome scandal 18.  In one of his novels, a quantum physicist named Thelma applies her theory of variable time to her life with Charles Drake and his friend Stephen Lewis, an author of books for children. In another of his novels, a witness to a balloon accident threatens to kill himself when found with Joe Rose's lover Clarissa Mellon, only to be shot before he can commit suicide. In addition to The Child in Time and Enduring Love, he wrote The Cement Garden, and described how the rape of Lola by Paul Marshall was blamed on Robbie Turner, later a soldier at Dunkirk and lover of Cecilia, by the novelist Briony Tallis. Clive Linley and Vernon Halliday swear revenge at the funeral of Molly Lane in his Booker prize winning novel. For 10 points, name this author of Atonement and Amsterdam.ANSWER: Ian McEwan 19.  One character in this opera snores the first four notes of Beethoven's fifth upon falling asleep after singing the aria "I'm Off Chez." Njegus sings with a very bad accent of being from a Balkan village and trying to integrate into Parisian society in the aria "Words Forbidden," while St. Brioche and Cascada join in in an aria about "Girls, Girls, Girls." The title character fills in for Valencienne in the pavilion, so all thinks that she's marrying Camille Rasillon. Baron Zeta becomes one of the suitors when he finds the fan with the words "I love you" addressed to his wife, but the Pontevedrian protagonist is in love with a man who hangs out at Maxim's with the Can-Can dancing girls, Count Danillo. For 10 points, name this opera about the happy and eligible young heiress Anna Glawari, by Franz Lehar.ANSWER: The Merry Widow; or Die lustige Witwe 20.  Their differences can be traced to AMPA vs. metabotropic glutamate receptors at the outer plexiform layer that invert the signs preserved in the inner plexiform layer. Peter Schiller found that two types of them can be selectively inactivated, resulting in deficits in bright and dark detection. They project to the pretectum, which via the Edinger-Westphal nucleus mediates the pupillary light reflex. They also project to the superior colliculus in coordinating eye movements and to the suprachiasmatic nucleus for directing circadian rhythms. Stephen Kuffler found that they respond to luminance contrast, and are found in P and M, and on-center and off-center varieties. For 10 points, name these cells whose axons make up the optic nerve leaving the retina.ANSWER: retinal ganglion cells; not "spinal ganglion" or "spiral ganglion" or "basal ganglion"                             Bonuses: 1.  Name these works of Charles Dickens. For 10 points each.[10] Pip's benefactor is actually a convict, not Miss Havisham, as he believes for some time in this novel that begins when Pip is 7.ANSWER: Great Expectations[10] The titular character in this novel travels through England with his friends Mr. Winkle, Mr. Snodgrass, and Mr. Tupman, and is also sent to debtor's prison for refusing to pay after a lawsuit by his landlady, Mrs. Bardell.ANSWER: The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club or The Pickwick Papers[10] This Dickens novel features John Harmon, who must marry a woman he has never met, Miss Bella Wilfer, to claim his inheritance.ANSWER: Our Mutual Friend 2.  Answer the following about crystals. For 10 points each.[10] In this crystal lattice structure there is one atom at each corner of the cube and one atom in the middle of every side.ANSWER: face centered cubic[10] This set of 14 lattices in 3 dimensions is achieved by combining the body centered, face centered, and primitive centered lattices.  In 2 dimensions there are only 5 of them.ANSWER: Bravais lattice[10]  This geometrical construct is useful in X-ray crystallography.  Bragg's law can be formulated by saying that the reciprocal lattice points must lie on the surface of this three-dimensional object named for a German.ANSWER: Ewald sphere 3.  The central political text of this movement was known as the 16 Points. For 10 points each.[10] Name this reform movement started in 1966 that persecuted dissident literature and intelligentsia, as well as distructed factions within the Chinese Communist Party.ANSWER: Cultural Revolution[10] A stated goal of the Cultural Revolution was the destruction of historical artifacts and documents classified under this grouping; it involved Customs, Culture, Ideas, and Habits.ANSWER: Four Olds or "the Four Old Things" or "si jiu"  [10] This president of the people's republic was arguably the most high-profile victim of the Cultural Revolution. He had previously ended Mao's Great Leap forward, for which Mao never forgave him:ANSWER: Liu Shaoqi 4.  This work ends with a discussion of how static concepts fail to model the reality that is the dynamic flow of history.  FTPE:[10] Name this work including a section on "Cinematographical Mechanisms of Thought and the Mechanistic Illusion" which introduces the concept of elan vital.ANSWER: Creative Evolution  [10] This 1903 essay by Henri Bergson on methodology contrasts analytic discrete reasoning with intuitive global reasoning which alone can grasp the perpetual flux of duration.ANSWER: Introduction a la metaphysique; or An Introduction to Metaphysics[10]  Bergson also developed the concept of the "open society," which this other philosopher discussed in The Open Society and its Enemies.  This guy also advocated falsifiability in The Logic of Scientific Discovery.ANSWER:  Karl Popper  5.  The 1830 Indian Removal Act was the culmination of Andrew Jackson's interactions with Native Americans. FTPE:[10] The Indian Removal Act targeted the Five Civilized Tribes, which included this tribe forced to undergo the Trail of Tears in 1838.ANSWER: Cherokee[10] Shortly after the passage of the Indian Removal Act, this man, the Secretary of War under Andrew Jackson, was responsible for Indian Affairs and land cessions. Known for the doctrine of popular sovereignty, he lost the presidential election of 1848.ANSWER: Lewis Cass[10] This Chief of the Cherokee Nation from 1828-1860 was a prime instigator in the fight against encroachment and removal.ANSWER: John Ross (also accept "Kooweskoowe") 6.  Its "Budo" section was also recorded by Bud Powell as "Hallucinations," while the title of its "Boplicity" was taken from the group leader's mom Cleo Henry, and composed by the nonet's assembler, pianist Gil Evans. For 10 points each.(10) Name this album containing pieces like "Rocker," "Moon Dreams," and "Venus de Milo," the originator of a slower version of bebop.ANSWER: Birth of the Cool(10) Birth of the Cool owes its innovations to the playing of this trumpeter, who'd go on to fuse jazz and rap in Doo-Bop, and jazz and rock in Bitches Brew.ANSWER: Miles Davis(10) A major part of the nonet was this saxophonist who later began the West Coast jazz movement with Chet Baker and refused to use a piano.ANSWER: Gerry Mulligan 7.  Answer the following about forms of DNA. For 10 points each.[10] DNA usually exists in this situation, where the 5' to 3' polarity of one strand is complemented by the 3' to 5' polarity of the other.ANSWER: antiparallel[10] Single-stranded DNA can adopt this lollipop-shaped structure whereby two palindromic stretches of DNA form a double-helix. It also features an unpaired loop of DNA.ANSWER: stem-loop or hairpin loop[10] DNA can also exist in this triplex form, in which thymine binds to the adenine of an AT pair, or cytosine binds to the guanine of a GC pair. Named for the scientist who recognized it, it is stable at low pH because of a protonated cytosine.ANSWER: Hoogsteen pair form 8.  The displacement of old gods can involve significant violence. For 10 points each.[10] Name the struggle in Greek mythology in which the generation of Kronos was ousted and imprisoned Tartarus.ANSWER: Titanomachy (accept "War with the Titans" or similar equivalents)[10] This group, the offspring of Ouranos and Gaia, were released from their prison by Zeus, and were critical in his victory. Their powers included the creation of storms.ANSWER: Hundred-Handed ones  (accept "Hekatonchires")[10] This defeated Titan married Asia, daughter of Oceanus, and fathered Atlas and Prometheus, for which he was called the ancestor of humanity.ANSWER: Iapetus (or "Japetus")  9. At the beginning of season three, he is seen trying to do some tricks on a skateboard. For 10 points each:[10] Name this man, who had been placed in a ketamine-induced coma between seasons two and three while recovering from gunshot wounds.ANSWER: Gregory House, M.D.[10] The character of House was based on this deerstalker-donning British detective. In the 1940s, he was voiced by Nigel Rathbone.ANSWER: Sherlock Holmes[10] Sherlock Holmes, in turn, was based on this real physician. In season five of House, it is revealed that Wilson gave this man's Manual of the Operations of Surgery to House as a Christmas present.ANSWER: Joseph Bell 10.  The lust-driven Reverend Shannon seeks to restrict his tour group to the Costa Verde Hotel in Mexico. For 10 points each.[10] Name this play, in which the Reverend seeks refuge alternately with the hotel manager Maxine and the itinerant artist Hannah.ANSWER: The Night of the Iguana[10] This Mississippi-born playwright, winner of two Pulitzer Prizes, wrote The Night of the Iguana.ANSWER: Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams[10] This 1953 Williams work was a horrific failure; it involves a mythical crossroads populated by an assortment of Latin American folklorish characters.ANSWER: Camino Real 11.  This founder of the Yuan Dynasty had capitals at Dadu and Shangdu, also called Xanadu. For 10 points each.[10] Name this Mongol lord of China and beyond.ANSWER: Kublai Khan (also accept "Khubilai Khan")[10] Kublai Khan inherited the title of Khagan of the Mongol Empire after the death of this older brother of his in 1260.ANSWER: Mongke Khan[10] Mongols under Kublai Khan contended with the remnants of the Song Dynasty before winning an overwhelming victory in this 1279 battle in modern-day Guangdong Province. The child Song Emperor was drowned.ANSWER: battle of Yamen (also accept the battle of "Mount Ya") 12.  Name some ways of measuring a country's economy. For 10 points each.[10] This value is defined as the total cost of all goods and services produced within a country in a given year.ANSWER: gross domestic product (DO NOT accept GNP)[10] This ratio between 0 and 1 expresses the disparity in income throughout a country. It was introduced in the work Variability and Mutability, and can be computed from the Lorenz curve.ANSWER: Gini coefficient (or index)[10] This method for measuring economic growth uses a namesake food and compares its price in different countries.  It was developed by The Economist.ANSWER: Big Mac index 13.  His The Joy of Life was only re-exhibited after 72 years when the Barnes Foundation opened in 1993. For 10 points each.[10] Name this Fauvist painter of such works as A Glimpse of Notre-Dame in the Afternoon, the collage-book Jazz, and the controversial Blue Nude: Souvenir de Biskra.ANSWER: Henri Matisse[10] This Matisse work, painted for the mansion of Sergei Schukin in 1910, depicts five nude youths with linked arms moving in a circle. He remade it twice in other forms.ANSWER: The Dance (or "La danse")[10] This 1905 Matisse work was exhibited at the Salon d'Automne that year. Depicting someone believed to be his wife in impressive headgear, it supposedly engendered the Fauvist title from critic Louis VauxcellesANSWER: Woman with a Hat (or "La femme au chapeau") 14.  She addressed the lines "After you've won by urgent plea, the right to tarnish her good name, you still expect her to behave, you that coaxed her into shame" to the titular group in "You Men." For 10 points each.[10] Name this writer who also wrote the Respuesta addressed to Sister Filotea, in which she argues for equal educational opportunity.ANSWER: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Juana Ramirez de Asbaje[10] Sor Juana's trial by fourty professors of Nepantla's viceroy are described in Traps of Faith, a work by this Mexican author of The Labyrinth of Solitude.ANSWER: Octavio Paz[10] Ines de la Cruz was reprimanded for studying music and cartography while at this convent, where she wrote most of her poems. Its cloister lies opposite Isabel la Catolica in its namesake church in Mexico City.ANSWER: San Jeronimo 15.  This Abolitionist publicly burned a copy of the Constitution in Massachusetts in 1854. For 10 points each.[10] Name this editor of the Liberator who was a founding member of the Anti-Slavery Society.ANSWER: William Lloyd Garrison[10] Two South Carolinian sisters with this last name were rebuked by the Quakers for publicly discussing abolition; they combined to edit 1839's American Slavery as it is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses.ANSWER: Grimke (Angelina Grimke Weld and Sarah Grimke)[10] This prominent preacher and abolitionist funded arms to be distributed to anti-slavery settlers in Kansas and Nebraska, which were known as his "Bibles." Victoria Woodhull published an accusation that he had committed adultery, leading to a famous 1875 trial.ANSWER: Henry Ward Beecher 16.  Name these waterfalls. For 10 points each.[10] This largest waterfall in Africa is located in the Republic of South Africa in the Drakensberg mountains is also the second largest in the world.ANSWER: Tugela falls[10] This beautiful waterfall on the southern edge of the Yosemite Valley can be seen from the Tunnel view; it is fed by the Ostrander Lake:ANSWER: Bridalveil Falls [10] This short waterfall on the Yellow river is located between the Shaanxi and Shanxi provinces, in the Jinshan valley.ANSWER: Hokou waterfall 17.  Unlike penguins, they lack a keeled sternum that prevents proper flight muscle attachment. For ten points each:[10] Name this group of flightless birds.ANSWER: ratites[10] This African bird is the largest living ratite, though the extinct elephant birds of Madagascar were the largest ever.ANSWER: ostrich (or Struthio camelus)[10] These ratites, endemic to northern Australia and New Guinea, have bright blue necks and prominent crests on their heads. Males raise the chicks after they hatch.ANSWER: cassowary (or Casuarius) 18.  After the protagonist becomes the first woman in Europe to smoke cigars, she receives a visit from a ringmaster of Mammoth circus, who proposes to "show everything the ordinary woman dreams of doing but lacks the courage to do." For 10 points each.[10] Name this film about a titular dancer played by Martine Carol who had affairs with Lt. James, a German socialist student, and King Ludwig I of Bavaria, who ends up doing trapeze acts at a circus that celebrates her illustrious career as a lover.ANSWER: Lola Montes[10] Name the director of Lola Montes, The Sorrow and the Pity, and most famously, La ronde.ANSWER: Max Ophuls[10] Lola Montes also had an affair with this composer, who dedicated Valse d'adieu to her before they separate, noting that she's "true to [his] music." He went on to compose the Hungarian Rhapsodies.ANSWER: Franz Liszt19.  Answer the following related to vectors. For 10 points each.[10] Also known as pseudovectors, these are vectors that change both orientation AND sign when mirror-imaged. Often the cross product of two real vectors, they are the opposite of polar vectors:ANSWER: axial vectors[10] This function of vector fields is defined as the cross product of the gradient and the vector field function.  It can be used to express Faraday's law of induction.ANSWER: curl[10] Though normally used to find a line integral, this theorem allows you to find the area of a region when taking the vector field (-y/2, x/2)ANSWER: Greene's theorem 20.  Name these sons of Noah. For 10 points each.[10] This son of Noah received more land and lived in Shem's tents, giving rise to those who lived around the Mediterranean Sea.ANSWER: Japheth[10] The oldest son of Noah, he fathered Elam and Aram, and his descendants include Eber and his sons Peleg and Joktan, whose sons lived in the Eastern hill country.ANSWER: Shem[10] Father of Canaan, the slave to other sons, he was ancestor of both Nimrod, the great hunter who built Nineveh and Resen, and the Casluhites, who became Philistines.ANSWER: Ham 21. Answer the following about the life of Edward III, FTPE:[10] Edward founded this order of knighthood, allegedly after one of his favorites, Joan of Kent, dropped the namesake piece of clothing during a ball:ANSWER: Order of the Garter[10] Edward's lenient treatment of his sons probably led to the war of the roses; this fourth son of his was bestowed bith the title of Duke of York, and would give rise to the House of York's claims to the throne:ANSWER: Edmund of Langley[10] Charles V mainly used this French-Breton commander, who had previously aided Henry of Trastamara against Pedro the Cruel and the Black prince:ANSWER: Bertrand du Guesclin 22. Name the following regarding a monumental disaster in NASA. For 10 points each.[10] In 1999 NASA lost this space probe due to a miscommunication between engineers regarding the use of the metric system as opposed to the English system.ANSWER: Mars Climate Orbiter[10] This agency used English units for the thruster measurements and caused them to fire significantly later than needed, allowing the probe to crash into the planet.ANSWER: Lockheed Martin[10] Lockheed Martin received the contract from NASA to build this space craft, the next one for manned missions and is scheduled for first launch in 2014.ANSWER: Orion 23.  "Moloch! Moloch! Nightmare of Moloch!" is part of a poem's second stanza. For 10 points each.[10] Name that poem whose third stanza describes all the ways the speaker is with Carl Solomon in Rockland.ANSWER: "Howl"[10] Name the beat poet that wrote such poems as CIA Dope Calypso and Howl. ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg[10] This beat author wrote about William Lee in his Naked Lunch.ANSWER: William Burroughs 