2009 Cardinal Classic XVIII: Sir Peter Wimsey and the Case of the Lost MonoclePacket by UC-San Diego (Auroni Gupta, Darwin Fu, Earth Hassasri, Diana Yu) Tossups: 1. The author of this work recounts an episode of Erewhon Revisited in which Professors Hanky and Panky tell Higgs not to divulge his true identity. It concludes with the statement that a good world "needs a fearless outlook and a free intelligence" and in another section praises Socrates for being "bland and urbane" to his listeners. This work briefly deals with the wish for safety, which its author considers only slightly less powerful than "hav[ing] been taught from early infancy." After examining the First-Cause and Natural-Law arguments, the author considers moral arguments and claims that the title religion "has been and still is the principal enemy of moral progress in the world." For 10 points, name this essay by Bertrand Russell which summarizes why he'd never acknowledge Jesus as savior.ANSWER: Why I am Not a Christian 2. In the prologue of this work, the Stage Manager performs a benediction and instructs the Actress to sing about summer. The title character is repulsed by a bee which is trying to land on her face, which another character observes from a shade after handing his ornaments to his charioteer. Its second act opens with a complaining soliloquy by the jester Mathavya, and later the title character parts with her pet jasmine plant and says adieu to her father Kanwa. After defeating the Titans, one protagonist is rewarded by Indra with a journey through heaven, after which he discovers Bharata, the title character's son. Priyamvada and Anusaya abandon the title character after a fish swallows her signet ring, her only token of identity after Durvasa's bewitching of King Dushyanta. For 10 points, name this Sanskrit play and best-known work of K?lid?sa.ANSWER: The Recognition of ?akuntal? by a token [or Abhijñ?nash?kuntala] 3. Mikhail Tukhachevsky and Semyon Budyonny saw defeat near this city, for which a code-breaking lieutenant was awarded the Virtuti Militari. The KOR movement started after a brutally ended strike in this city's district of Ursus, and the largest single massacre in the country this city is in happened in its district of Wola. Grigoriy Rosen assisted Hans von Diebitsch in a battle fought on the outskirts of this city, which saw the storming of the Belweder Palace in the prelude to the November Uprising centered here. The Henrician Articles included the articles of the namesake Confederation of this city, which was the center of the Congress Kingdom, the bulk of an entity created as part of the Treaty of Tilsit by Napoleon Bonaparte, its namesake Grand Duchy. Also home to the Sejm parliament of its home country, it was the namesake of an organization which included Albania, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. For 10 points, name this city that saw the best known Jewish Ghetto uprising in World War 2, the capital of Poland.ANSWER: Warsaw [or Warszawa] 4. A speaker of one of this poet's works goes "into never and nowhere/like trains - off the railroad." The speaker asks the title character of another of her poems to "let your words shine and flow" in her work "Reading Hamlet," and she wrote a poem where "an autumn whisper" pleads "Die with me!" She wrote about a voice who tempts her to leave her "deaf and sinful land" in the opening of her collection Plantain, which she finished after her collections White Flock and Evening. One of her works describes the word falling on the speaker's "still living breast" in its 7th section Sentence, and another describes a "superfluous shadow/with neither face nor name." Author of Anno Domini MCMXXI, Requiem, and "Poem Without a Hero," for 10 points, name this Russian Acmeist poet.ANSWER: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreevna Gorenko] 5. Silica aerogels are frequently used in devices for measuring this phenomenon, and one such device is called the threshold detector, while another device used to measure it is called a ring imaging detector. The governing equation can be derived by using Poynting's theorem and applying the Fourier transform to determine the energy loss at infinite distance.  A periodic grating can give rise to a version of this effect named after Smith and Purcell, while the Frank-Tamm equation governs this phenomenon, which travels at an angle whose cosine is inversely proportional to the index of refraction and the object's speed. For 10 points, name this effect in which a charged particle moves through a medium faster than the speed of light in that medium, giving off radiation.ANSWER: Cherenkov radiation 6. One of his students wrote the book Formations of the Secular: Christianity, Islam, and Modernity as well as Genealogies in Religion. The mentor of CUNY anthropologist Talal Asad, he gave a rudimentary definition of social anthropology in "The Scope of the Subject," and described the many uses of a zawiya in his The Sanusi of Cyrenaica. Coeditor of African Political Systems, this man conducted research on the Bongo and developed on ethnographer Charles Seligman's theories of religion. He described the "Trickster" of the tribe he studied most, which along with the Nuer occupy Southern Sudan. For 10 points, name this British anthropologist and author of Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic Among the Azande.ANSWER: Sir Edward Evan Evans-Pritchard 7. The composer of this opera sided against Sergio Falioni even though Falioni wished to remain loyal to its original score. One location in this opera is represented in its set by dimming all of its lights, and previous to that, white light is flashed in order to represent "the kingdom". The opening lines of this opera were drawn from the composer's country's Reg?s songs, and its oft-omitted prologue asks whether its stage is "outside or in". Calling for occasional ghostly sighs and including the treasury, the torture chamber, and the pool of tears, its protagonist finds three women dressed heavily in jewelry after being handed a key. Ending with Judith consigned to the fate of the title character's three former wives, for 10 points, name this one-act opera by Bela Bartok.ANSWER: Duke Bluebeard's Castle [or A kékszakállú herceg vára]  8. Murray Krieger analyzed "The Escape from Body or The Embrace of Body" in this poem, the subject of Michael Deporte's "Grace within Reach." One line of this poem was echoed in the opening of Byron's "Prisoner of Chillon," and another notes that "death, only death, can break the lasting chain." One title character of this poem relates that "clouds interpose, waves roar, and winds arise" when the other "beckon[s] from the skies." One character in this poem is represented by the metaphorical "Indus," while the other begs for "Alps between us!" and for the other to "fly me, fly me far as pole from pole." One character is freed from "the contagion of carnal impurity" by his castration in this poem, in which the omniscent speaker beckons the "eternal sunshine of the spotless mind!" An heroic epistle written in the style of Ovid, for 10 points, name this poem about an abbess's illicit love for her teacher, written by Alexander Pope.ANSWER: "Eloise to Abelard" 9. One abbot chronicler described "Fountains flowing with blood" and "infinite calamities to the maritime places" as features of this man's reign. A prime donor to Bermondsey Abbey, he held the Curia Regis thrice-annualy, which his former general Robert of Mowbray decided once to boycott as a prelude to a rebellion against him. Served by Ranulph Flambard and known for two unsuccessful invasions of Wales, he reached a concordat with Urban II after holding the council at Rockingham, which failed to reign in his nemesis Saint Anselm. This man defeated Odo of Bayeaux, the leader of rebels loyal to this man's brother Robert Curthose. While hunting with Walter Tirel in the New Forest, this man was killed by an arrow that pierced his lung. For 10 points, name this unpopular Norman king, the successor to his father William the Conqueror.ANSWER: William Rufus [or William II] 10. Studies have suggested that the addition of this vitamin to histones may play a role in regulating DNA replication and transcription. Hair loss and a facial rash are common symptoms of its deficiency, which can be caused by frequent consumption raw egg whites; avidin, a protein in egg whites, can bind this vitamin and prevent its absorption from food. This water soluble vitamin functions as a coenzyme for five different carboxylases critical in gluconeogenesis and the metabolism of fatty acids as well as amino acids such as leucine. The main part of its sulfur-containing structure is two fused rings with a pentanoic substitutient.  For 10 points, name this vitamin frequently designated as B7.ANSWER: Biotin [accept B7 before mentioned; accept "Vitamin H" as well] 11. This deity shrieked a "long wild cry" while the Keres rejoiced over dying men during the fall of Troy, and in another role escorted Typhon before his battle against Zeus. Guarded by a "huge cavern, barred by a mountain", this deity engineering a contest in which the loser would have to present the winner with a female servant, which ended with Aedon and Polytekhnos being turned to birds. Mother of the Kaikodaimones, the sources of man's misfortunes, she along with Aporia turned an apple larger with every hit of Herakles's club. Also the deity of arguments and frequently associated with Enyo, she tossed a golden apple marked "to the fairest" at the wedding of Peleus and Thetis, which Paris gave to Aphrodite. For 10 points, name this goddess of strife and discord.ANSWER: Eris [accept Discordia until "discord"; prompt on "strife"] 12. Mu Soeng and Thich Nhat Hanh have written notable commentaries on this text, in which one character brings up an example of the king of the mountains as a contender for a great personal existence. Another section reflects the concept of mappo by allaying Subhuti's fears that the principles in this text will be forgotten 500 years after they are taught. In its 18th section, it is stated that the divine eye, the eye of insight, as well as the eye of transcendent wisdom are all possessed by the Tathagata. This best known work of the Perfection of Wisdom genre opens after several monks finish begging for their breakfast, allowing Buddha time to broaden his disciple's perceptions of enlightenment. Also known as the Vajra Cutter, for 10 points, name this Mahayana Sutra that is "as hard and sharp" as the title mineral.ANSWER: Diamond Sutra [or Vajracchedik?-prajñ?p?ramit?-s?tra] 13. Francisco Marco del Pont was deposed after this encounter, in which one side employed a roto, who related that a commander not involved in this battle gave orders to "run to the field." A general involved in this battle hoarsely ordered a decree of death to any retreating soldiers after overhearing a conversation between an official and Antonio Quintanilla. The victorious commander went on to score victories at Curapalihue and Talcahuano, aided at this battle by his flanking of the Talavera Regiment, which was led by Rafael Maroto. General Soler led one flank of the victorious army, which would later crush the Royalists at the Battle of Maipú, and was named the Army of the Andes. A victory for O'Higgins and San Martin, for 10 points, name this 1817 rebel victory in the Chilean War of Independence.ANSWER: Battle of Chacabuco 14. This man's song "Paracelsus" recycles sections from a work in his earlier "Men of Literature" cycle, and near the end of his career he published Three Quarter Tone Piano Pieces and 114 Songs. This composer, the subject of Jan Swafford's study, included the hymn "Watchman, tell us of the night" in his humongous Symphony No. 4 and he related his experiences with Delta Kappa Epsilon in one of his Cartoons titled "Calcium Light Night." Three parts of his unfinished Universe Symphony are extant, and his piano trio's second movement's scherzo "is a joke." His "Two Contemplations" include The Unanswered Question and a piece which famously quotes Hello, My Baby, Central Park in the Dark. For 10 points, name this American composer best known for his composition Three Places in New England.ANSWER: Charles Edward Ives 15. This compound is reacted with aldehydes and pyruvic acid in the Doebner reaction to create cinchoninic acids and it is used in the one pot Gassman synthesis reaction to produce indoles. It can be fluorinated in the Balz-Schiemann reaction or undergo nucleophilic substitution via the Sandmeyer reaction, which first converts its characteristic functional group into a nitrile. It is utilized in the Nissl stain to stain neural RNA blue and it is critical in the production of polyurethane and dyes. For 10 points, name this simplest aromatic amine, a benzene ring with an NH2 substitutient.   ANSWER: Aniline [or aminobenzene; or phenylamine] 16. Sensuality and Matter was a notable exhibition of the works of the painter from this country known popularly as Vlady. "Cotton Gin" and "Work and Rest" are two works by Jean Charlot, who primarily worked in this country. Another painter from this nation worked with Lea Remba to create "Two Characters Attacked by Dogs," as well as "Birth of the Nationality." Yet another painter created a series titled The Sob focusing on working class women from this country. The painter of Man on Fire is from here, as is a muralist whose Man, Controller of the Universe controversially depicts Lenin and his wife, who painted several self-portraits. For 10 points, name this nation whose painters include Rufino Tamayo, José Clemente Orozco, Diegeo Rivera, and Frida Kahlo.ANSWER: Mexico [accept United Mexican States] 17. This river forms from a river that itself is the confluence of the Onon and the Ingoda, and another one which originates from the Greater Khingan Range. It passes through the city and county of Huma and is traversed by hovercrafts carrying people to the city of Heihe on its southern bank. Tributaries include the Ussuri and the Zeya, and in 2007, its namesake bridge project was announced by the chairman of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast which is adjacent to it. This river was affected by petrochemical leaks from the adjacent Songhua River, and it is located next to the massive Daqing oilfield. Ending at the Strait of Tartary that separates it from the Sea of Okhotsk, for 10 points, name this river forming much of the Sino-Russian border.ANSWER: Amur River [or Heilong Jiang; prompt on Black River before mentioned]  18. A refusal by William Rosecrans prompted this man to unsuccessfully run for governor in his state, after which he served for ten years as the president of the Kentucky Central Railroad. This man was the chief proponent of a plan to redeem Civil War bonds in paper money, which was named the Ohio Idea. Serving as Minister Plenipotentiary as well as Envoy Extraordinary to Germany in his final years, he served as the running mate to the former commander of the Army of the Potomac, George McClellan, in the election of 1864. His namesake law was actually written by Dorman Eaton and sponsored by him while he served as Chairman of the Democratic Conference, and applied to only federal level jobs. For 10 points, name this namesake of an 1883 anti-spoils system law.ANSWER: George Hunt Pendleton 19. This character once discovers two miraculous lumps in the lining of his overcoat, and records events such as China's hydrogen bombing of Chicago in a cassette which he leaves in a safe-deposite bank. Early in the novel he appears in, his companion Weary surrenders an obscene photograph and gets his boots taken, and in this character's office hangs a framed paper with the prayer asking God to grant him the wisdom to know the difference between what he can and cannot change. He often distances himself from his wife Valencia, much unlike his relationship with Montana Wildhack. When he was a child, his father tossed him into the deep end of a swimming pool, and he is quite fond of the phrase "so it goes," which reflects the philosophy of the Tralfamadorians which he encounters. A once prisoner of war who survives the firebombing of Dresden, for 10 points, name this man who has become unstuck in time in Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five.ANSWER: Billy Pilgrim [accept either] 20. The first stellar stream discovered contained this namesake star and is the remains of a dwarf galaxy destroyed by the Milky Way. This class K star forms a vertex of the Great Diamond and it can be used to determine the location of another vertex star, Spica. The light of this orange-red giant takes 37 years to reach earth and was famously collected to turn on a series of switches, opening the 1933 Chicago World Fair. It follows Ursa Major around the celestial pole and thus it is called the "Bear Watcher". For 10 points, name this fourth brightest star of the night sky and the brightest of the northern Hemisphere, the alpha star of the constellation Bootes.ANSWER: Arcturus [accept alpha Bootes until mention] 21. One character in this story notes that another was in a "kosher convent," and another has his derby hat tipped back sitting on a stool next to a sawed-off shotgun. Two men in this story keep their gloves on throughout this story, which opens as two men argue about the clock being twenty minutes fast. After being untied, one character repeats "I don't want any more of that" and another shakes off the towel in his mouth. The former character, Sam, is "the nigger that cooks" and the latter later is rebuffed when he attempts to contact the police. Mrs. Bell answers the door for the Swedish heavyweight prizefighter Ole Anderson, the target of a would-be murder by the title characters Al, Max, and George which Nick Adams attempts to thwart. For 10 points, name this Ernest Hemingway short story.ANSWER: "The Killers" 22. Peoria and San Francisco are two of four locations for research laboratories established by the second act of this name. That act's programs were funded by nonrecourse loans, and an addition to it was born from the desire to see an "honest dollar" theory. That addition, which allowed the President to expand currency by $3 billion through authorization by the open market committee, was known as the Thomas Amendment, and the tax underpinning this law was declared unconstitutional by the ruling of United States v. Butler. Creating an organization notable for employing Adlai Stevenson and replaced with the better Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, for 10 points, name this New Deal act which paid farmers to cut their crop output.ANSWER: Agricultural Adjustment Act 23. One attempt to prove it by Richard Hamilton utilizes the Ricci flow, the solutions to the differential equation dg/dt = -2R for every point i and j. The Stallings-Zeeman theorem is a proof of the generalized version of this statement for n >= 7. The Smale theorem showed that it applied to n >=5 and the Freedman theorem further generalized it to the case n=4. It states that if a three-dimensional manifold has the property that every simple closed curve can be continuously deformed to a point, then the three-dimensional manifold is a sphere. For 10 points, name this topological problem solved by Grigori Perelman, the only Millennium Prize problem with a verified solution.ANSWER: Poincare Conjecture 24. A one-time side-quest in this game involves moving a tree away from a water stream, for which a woman will later give you a Hard Nut. An invisible path leads to a tablet in this game which gives the player the power of "Ki", and a woman in this game asks the main character to help Hsu and gives the protagonist of its sequel a Golden Ring if the party in this game does. Crossbone Isle is accessible through the same location that contains the mandatory boss Manticore, the Lamakan Desert. Hammet is kidnapped by Dodonpa at one point in this game, which contains the annual Colosso festival. Kraden never joins you in battle, but is present in Vale when Saturos and Menardi decide to wreak havoc. Featuring djinn and ending with the lighting of Venus Lighthouse, for 10 points, name this RPG produced by Camelot and Nintendo.ANSWER: Golden Sun                                               Bonuses: 1. Subtypes of this group of viruses are characterized by differences in two viral surface proteins, hemaglutinin and neuraminidase, for 10 points each:[10] Name this group of viruses whose H5N1 strain is currently spread by poultry.ANSWER: Influenza [or Orthomyxoviridae; or the flu][10] The neuraminidase, or NA, surface of flu viruses catalyzes the release of viral particles by cleaving the terminal residue of this acid found in animal glycoproteins.  ANSWER: Sialic acid[10] The major problem with developing NA inhibitors is that flu viruses undergo this process, the accumulation of random genetic mutations; it is not to be confused with a similarly named shift.ANSWER: Antigenic drift 2. The central characters of this novel build a fantastic war machine, which ultimately fails in battle against Polish forces. For 10 points each:[10] Name this novel about a young Italian who is enslaved by Hoja, a man who closely resembles him and badly wants his superior European education.ANSWER: The White Castle [or Beyaz Kale][10] Enishte can't get enough of the Book of the Soul in this novel centering on Kara and his love interest Shekure, which opens with the murder of the miniaturist Master Elegant Effendi.ANSWER: My Name is Red [or Benim Adım Kırmızı][10] Both The White Castle and My Name is Red were authored by this outspoken Turkish Nobel Laureate who wrote The Black Book and The New Life in addition to his novel about Ka, Snow.ANSWER: Ferit Orhan Pamuk 3. This deity once took the form of an enormous spider to punish a wicked man and also helped the blacksmith Munechika. For 10 points each:[10] Name this oft-androgynous kami of rice, industry, and success, whose female aspect is often conflated with Dakiniten and who is served by pure white foxes known as kitsune.ANSWER: Inari [accept Oinari][10] In some legends, Inari is married to the disgusting Uke Mochi, whose excreting of food disgusted this god so much that he killed her. This moon god was born from a mirror in Izanagi's right hand.ANSWER: Tsukuyomi[10] For killing Uke Mochi, Tsukuyomi earned the ire of this goddess. Ame-no-uzume had to perform a sensual dance to lure this sun goddess out of a cave, because her brother Susanoo got drunk one day.ANSWER: Amaterasu 4. It traces the development of society and the welfare state over the past 300 years.  FTPE:[10] Name this 1962 work of Jürgen Habermas describing "An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society."ANSWER:  The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere[10] This 1996 Habermas work discusses political theory, and attempts to construct a new political paradigm that goes beyond liberalism.ANSWER:  Between Facts and Norms[10] Habermas is a member of this group of neo-Marxist philosophers named after a European city, along with Adorno and Marcuse.ANSWER:  Frankfurt School 5. Is your TV ready for the digital transition next Tuesday? Answer the following questions regarding analog and digital signals for 10 points each.[10] An ideal DAC, or digital-to-analog converter, can accurately convert signals up to this frequency named for a Swedish scientist with an eponymous sampling theorem.ANSWER: Nyquist frequency[10] One type of DAC uses a ladder made of this circuit component, whose voltage drop can be computed with Ohm's Law.ANSWER: Resistor[10] The digital signal to be converted is probably in this most common form, which assigns 0 to 0.8 volts as logic zero and 2 to 5 volts as logic one.ANSWER: Transistor-Transistor-Logic 6. Part of why this man's last term sucked so much was that he was on Benzedrine, which he was prescribed for a damaged bile duct. For 10 points each:[10] Name this prime minister who granted clemency to Albert Kesselring, withdrew Britain from the International Military Tribunal, and rejected an offer of union with France made by PM Guy Mollet.ANSWER: Robert Anthony Eden, 1st Earl of Avon[10] Eden was particularly maligned for his handling of this military action to prevent Nasser from militarizing the namesake waterway. He even tried to enlist Miles Copeland to assassinate Nasser.ANSWER: Suez Crisis [accept clear knowledge equivalents][10] The military campaign against the Egyptians was led by Pierre Barjot and this man, who had previously served as commander of the Army of the Rhine; he later served as governor of Gibraltar:ANSWER: Charles Keightley 7. This composer directed the premier of Beethoven's Missa Solemnis in his country while director of its SEMA. For 10 points each:[10] Name this composer of the score for Green Mansions who broke with Romanticism in his landmark Children's Carnival and inspired Artur Rubenstein with his piece A Prole do Bebê.ANSWER: Heitor Villa-Lobos[10] Villa-Lobos remains best known for this series of suites which includes the "Little Train of Caipira." Each suite in this series juxtaposes a theme from the namesake composer with a folk tune.ANSWER: Bachianas Brasileiras [accept Brazilian Bach-Pieces][10] The sixth suite in the Bachianas is scored for a bassoon and this instrument, which also represents the bird in Peter and the Wolf. Debussy's Syrinx is a solo piece for this instrument.ANSWER: flute 8. It is exhibited by materials below the Curie temperature. FTPE:[10] Name this type of magnetism where spins align parallel to each other within domains, allowing materials to retain magnetism even after an external magnetic field is removed.ANSWER:  ferromagnetism[10] This famous model of ferromagnetism describes the interaction energy of a material in terms of the product of spins occupying adjacent points on a lattice.  Lars Onsager solved its 2-dimensional version.ANSWER:  Ising model[10] While the Ising model uses spins that can only be either "up" or "down," this similar model treats the interaction energy as proportional to the dot-product of spins, where the spins are now described by 3-dimensional vectors.ANSWER:  Heisenberg model 9. David G. Burnet represented one polity during their signing, and the man who represented the other claimed to be "clapped in irons for six months". For 10 points each:[10] Name these documents signed in the May of 1836 after the Battle of San Jacinto, one of which was a secret treaty ordering Santa Anna to get the hell to Veracruz as quickly as possible.ANSWER: Treaties of Velasco[10] The conflict ended by the treaties of Velasco included a notable massacre following a Texan defeat. This massacre culminated after James Fannin's surrender at the Battle of Coleto.ANSWER: Battle of Goliad [or Goliad Campaign; accept other equivalents][10] The best known battle of the Texas Revolution is the one fought at this mission, which was defended by commanders such as William Travis, Jim Bowie, and Davy Crockett.ANSWER: Alamo [or Mission San Antonio de Valero] 10. The red color of this artwork is often referred to as its namesake's red, and a scale model can be found in the Loop Station post office. For 10 points each:[10] Name this installation designed to contrast with the adjacent Mies-designed Kluczynski Federal Building, consisting of a walk-under arch connected to an origami-like rendition of the title bird.ANSWER: Flamingo[10] Flamingo is an acclaimed work of this American sculptor of stabiles like Shiva who invented the mobile in works such as The Four Elements and the awesome Lobster Trap and Fish Tail.ANSWER: Alexander Calder [accept Sandy Calder][10] An omphalos warps the reflections of people standing under this public sculpture affectionately known as "The Bean," another popular Chicago artwork. It was designed by Anish Kapoor and is located in Millenium Park.ANSWER: Cloud Gate 11. Noted Rules Committee member David Dreier claims to be a distant relative of this man, who served in the first iteration of that committee, according to Wikipedia. For 10 points each:[10] Name this early Virginia representative who assisted James Madison in his senate run against James Monroe, who may be better known for owning the estate Sully and earning the moniker "General Farmer" by realizing that tobacco is hard to grow.ANSWER: Richard Bland Lee I [prompt on Lee; prompt on R. Lee][10] Richard Lee opposed this man due to his initial rejection of Madison's candidacy as well as his desire to include another Bill of Rights in the state's constitution. This man is better known for wanting liberty or death.ANSWER: Patrick Henry[10] Richard Lee's brother, "Lighthorse" Henry Lee, fought at this August 16, 1780 battle in South Carolina, whereCornwallis defeated Horatio Gates.ANSWER:  Battle of Camden 12. Answer the following about the geography of Arizona, for 10 points each:[10] This relatively recent city established by Robert McCulloch began along Pittsburgh Point on the east shore of its namesake body of water, which is spanned by a faux-London Bridge.ANSWER: Lake Havasu City[10] This hot and dry desert connects the cities of Mexicali in Mexico with Tucson and is called the Low Desert due to its contrast with the Mojave. The Bradshaw and Chocolate Mountains pass through this desert.ANSWER: Sonoran Desert[10] This awesome area of badlands in Northern Arizona runs from the Grand Canyon to the Petrified Forest National Park and contains even bands of gray, red, and other colors in its rocky landforms.ANSWER: Painted Desert 13. Abbe Chantavoine refuses to ring his church bells, ushering in a sort of public mourning in this story. For 10 points each:[10] Name this short story in which Rachel, the heroine, stabs the title character with a cheese knife, sending von Kelweinstein, Otto, and Fritz packing. She marries a patriot at the end of this work.ANSWER: "Mademoiselle Fifi"[10] Mademoiselle Fifi is the title story in a collection by this French author, who also wrote "The Necklace", "Ball of Fat", as well as the short novel Pierre et JeanANSWER: Guy de Maupassant[10] In this other Maupassant novel, the former NCO Georges Duroy rekindles his old affair with Mme de Marelle after a string of affairs with other mistress such as Susanne Walter and her mother.ANSWER: Bel Ami 14. It can be burned directly as a fuel source though its energy content is only half that of natural gas, for 10 points each:[10] Identify this mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen typically used as an intermediate in the production of other chemicals.ANSWER: Synthesis gas [or syngas][10] Synthesis gas is reacted in the presence of a porous iron catalyst, at very high pressures, in this important industrial reaction to produce a major component of fertilizers.ANSWER: Haber-Bosch process [or Haber-Bosch process][10] Synthesis gas can also be used to produce water and various hydrocarbons in this process, whose hydrocarbon product composition is given by the Anderson-Schultz-Flory distribution.ANSWER: Fischer-Tropsch process 15. Antipas, the first Christian bishop of this city, was martyred here in 92 A.D. For 10 points each:[10] Name this city, the capital of a namesake kingdom which reached its peak after the Treaty of Apamea and was ruled by the Attalids, which received Seleucid territory for helping the Romans.ANSWER: Pergamon [or Pergamum][10] Pergamon aided Flaminius and the Aetolian League against Philip V at this 197 BC battle, wherein Roman maniples outsmarted the Macedonian phalanx, which would happen again at Pydna.ANSWER: Battle of Cynoscephalae[10] Philip V was a sometimes Roman ally, as in the case when he supported this general, for which the Romans freed Philip's son Demetrius. This general defeated Hannibal at the Battle of Zama.ANSWER: Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus [accept Scipio the Elder; accept Africanus the Elder] 16. The full weight of "Infinity!" falls on the speaker of this poem, who symbolically reaches to touch the sky. For 10 points each:[10] Name this poem which begins "All I could see from where I stood/Was three long mountains and a wood." Its speaker is brought back to life by a torrent of rain, after which she can see the face of God.ANSWER: "Renascence"[10] "Renascence" is one of the best known works of this poet, the first woman to receive the Pulitzer for poetry. She also wrote of her "candle burn[ing] at both ends" in her oft-quoted poem "First Fig."ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent Millay [accept Nancy Boyd][10] St. Vincent Millay dedicated this poem to her mother. The title character notes that "the sight of" her son "makes your mother's blood crawl," as she makes red cloaks to cover up her poor children.ANSWER: "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" 17. Common isotopes analyzed via this process include Hydrogen-1, Carbon-13 and Fluorine-19, for 10 points each:[10] Name this type of spectroscopy which can only be done on nuclei with spin.ANSWER: nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy[10] For proton and carbon NMRs, this silicon compound with a tetrahedral structure is common added as a reference as it produces a single sharp peak.ANSWER: Tetramethylsilane [or TMS; or (CH3)4Si][10] Assuming an ideal first-order spectrum in proton NMR, a hydrogen atom with two equivalent neighboring hydrogen atoms will produce this splitting pattern according to a simple additive rule.ANSWER: Triplet [Prompt on something that just mentions the word three]  18. A horse and procession of thin-legged elephants stare down the muscular title figure of the Salvador Dalí version of this scene. For 10 points each:[10] Name this scene also famously depicted by Martin Schöngauer and in a work where its central figure kneels at an altar while surrounded by curious creatures, a triptych by Hieronymus Bosch.ANSWER: The Temptation of St. Anthony[10] A depiction of Mary bathing Christ and a predella with the lamentation of Christ appear alongside the temptation of St. Anthony in this gruesome altarpiece, Matthias Grünewald's best known piece.ANSWER: Isenheim Altarpiece[10] Yet another German notable for painting the temptation of St. Anthony is this one, whose semi-landscape works include The Stag Hunt of the Elector Frederick the Wise. He's well known for his portraits, including those of Philip Melancthon and his buddy.ANSWER: Lucas Cranach the Elder 19. This man curiously founded the Jacobin Club in his country, for which he was given the appellation "Citizen". For 10 points each:[10] Name this king who died defending Srirangapattana and developed the strategic use of rocket artillery along with his father Haidar Ali. He employed the general Yaar Mohammad, his "right hand".ANSWER: Sultan Fateh Ali Tipu [accept underline in reverse order; prompt on Tiger of Mysore][10] Both Tipu Sultan and his father Haidar Ali were kings of this long-lasting empire which fought four wars against Britain and was until 1565 a vassal of the Kingdom of Vijayanagara.ANSWER: Kingdom of Mysore[10] Tipu Sultan sent Sujan Rai to the court of this waning kingdom, which in the previous century re-enacted the jizya tax on non-Muslims and fought constantly in the Deccan under Aurangzeb.ANSWER: Mughal Empire 20. One character insists that the title song of this play be sung by her nephew Sylvester, who stutters. For 10 points each:[10] Name this play in which the owner of the Sturdyvant studio rejects Levee, who then goes on to kill Toledo. Cutler, Slow Drag, and even the manager Irwin just can't get the title song recorded.ANSWER: Ma Rainey's Black Bottom[10] Ma Rainey's Black Bottom was a play written by this author of the Pittsburgh Cycle who wrote of Troy Maxson's affair with Alberta in Fences as well as Radio Golf and The Piano Lesson.ANSWER: August Wilson[10] This second play in Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle is set in the 1910s in a boarding house. The protagonist Herald Loomis was recently relased from the title man's chain gang and fathers Zonia.ANSWER: Joe Turner's Come and Gone 21. The three inventions of this society are the razor, the scissors, and the comb. For 10 points each:[10] Name this society which corrupted the teachings of Jesus Christ, represents white people, is in perpetual rebellion against "Earth's Rightful Ruler," and is fundamentally opposed to the land of Zion.ANSWER: Babylon[10] This religious movement is all about rejecting Babylon and considers the late Haile Selassie to be the Jah incarnation of God. At ceremonies called reasonings, its adherents gather and smoke ganja.ANSWER: Rastafarianism [prompt on "Rasta"][10] This term refers to food that is approved of within the Rastafari movement. It excludes pork, shellfish, and any alcohol or coffee, because such things turn the temple of the body into a cemetery.ANSWER: I-tal 22. Much to Jonathan Magin's delight, creatures in one of this man's experiments were found to form cognitive maps without reward. For 10 points each:[10] Name this conductor of the latent-learning and spatial-orientation experiments, author of Purposive Behavior in Animals and Men. An S-S theorist, he didn't like the law of effect.ANSWER: Edward Chace Tolman[10] The S-R theory which opposed Tolman's was advocated by this psychologist, who did doctoral research on "Quantitative Aspects of the Evolution of Concepts." He also developed an equation for determining motivation.ANSWER: Clark Leonard Hull[10] Tolman's idea that animals didn't need external biological events to learn was a nod to the theories of this school consisting of students of Carl Stumpf, such as Max Wertheimer and Kurt Koffka.ANSWER: Gestalt psychology [prompt on Berlin school] 23. While performing this set of maneuvers, it is customary to pop one's collars and dust oneself off as if they stole third. For 10 points each:[10] Name this ecstasy-induced activity possibly created out of contempt for the Harlem Shake, which may involve throwing up some Ts and putting a namesake look on one's face as if fresh piss was smelt.ANSWER: Thizzle Dance[10] The Thizzle Dance was popularized by this originator of the Bay Area Hyphy movement known for his acclaimed album Stupid Doo Doo Dumb, the song "Get Stupid", and for being murdered in Kansas City.ANSWER: Mac Dre [accept Andre Hicks][10] This other Bay Area rapper debuted in his cousin E-40's album Gasoline and recorded the album Hyphy Ain't Dead along with Mistah F.A.B. His song "Groupie" is popular, as is his 2007 album West Coast Vaccine: The Cure.ANSWER: Turf Talk [accept Demar Bernstine] 