2009 Cardinal Classic XVIII: Sir Peter Wimsey and the Case of the Lost MonoclePacket by UC-Irvine (Ray Anderson, Marcus Luna, Brendan Shapiro, Dwight Wynne) Tossups: 1. Late in life, he spent time with both the Black Panthers and the PLO, periods which he chronicled in his last work, A Prisoner of Love. An arrant thief, he was imprisoned numerous times throughout his life, and famously discovered his homosexuality while imprisoned as a teen, a time recounted in his book A Thief's Journal.  While still in prison, his novel Our Lady of the Flowers came to the attention of Jean Cocteau, who fought to have him released. FTP, name this French playwright, author of The Maids, The Balcony, and The Blacks.ANSWER: Jean Genet 2. "Tomato," from Georges Barrrere's In the Vegetable Garden, is based on this work. The original score of one movement of this symphony, which at one point belonged to Felix Mendelssohn's godson, shows that its most famous part was merely an afterthought. Its first movement, though traditional in its establishment of the dominant D major, introduces its first theme in F Major, and an erroneous crescendo appears in many scores of the finale. In German, it is known as the Symphony with the Kettledrum, due to the timpani's presence in its most famous part. For 10 points, name this London symphony, a work by Franz Joseph Haydn whose second, Andante, movement contains an unexpected fortissimo chord.ANSWER: Surprise Symphony, No. 94 in G Major [accept either] 3. A 2005 paper by Ward explored why this entity used greater levels of state violence and terror than other similar entities.  It included the Lado Enclave that reverted to British control after it dissolved.  District officials in this entity were paid on a commission based on the profit they generated for the "owner" of it.  Most of its territory was in the Domaine Prive [dough-man pree-vay], and native communities were required to provide food and rubber payments.  Those who provided insufficient payments suffered from the "currency of the severed hands" perpetrated by the Force Publique.  The Casement Report detailed abuses in it, while works of literature titled after its owner's "Soliliquy" and "Ghost" detail its impact.  With capital at Boma and lasting from the Berlin Conference until 1908, name, for 10 points, this private colony of Leopold II, the predecessor state to the Belgian Congo. Answer: Congo Free State  (do NOT accept or prompt on Belgian Congo or Congo) 4. One process that makes use of this effect was developed by Charles Tipler, while a very similar process making use of this effect is partly named for William Hampson.  If the thermal expansion coefficient times temperature equals one, then this effect's coefficient is zero, while this effect is commonly used in the Linde process.  This effect is most commonly used when the gas is below the inversion temperature, which means that its namesake coefficient is positive.  Ideal gases don't experience this effect, which occurs at constant enthalpy.  FTP, identify this throttling process, which causes the temperature of a gas to change as it expands through a valve, named after two scientists.ANSWER:  Joule-Thomson (OR Joule-Kelvin,  accept names in either order) 5. Its white branch begins in the Fichtelgebirge, and both its white and red branches join in Kulmbach. Major tributaries of it include the Tauber and Regnitz, and it is well known for its wines, served in the so-called Bochsbeutel [box-boy-tel]. Towns on it include Lohr, Wertheim, Aschaffenburg and Wurzburg, and Bayreuth is located on its red branch. It is navigable downstream of Bamberg, while a canal completed in 1992 connects it to the Danube River Basin.  Beyond its origins in upper-Franconia, it flows further through Bavaria, Baden-Wurttemburg, and Hesse. It is an important European waterway, and a major right tributary of the Rhine. FTP,  Frankfurt lies on and is named after what German river?Answer: Main  6. The first chapter of this work considers three possible meanings of the sentence "The definition of horse is 'A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus.'"  The author considers the title of its last chapter ambiguous, offering "summum bonum" as one possible meaning.  The second chapter criticizes Herbert Spencer, saying he is not so much an evolutionist as a hedonist, while the third chapter adopts the term "intuition" from Henry Sidgwick, who had an important influence on the author of this work.  The author says it is an "open question" whether that which is normal is good, thus criticizing the "naturalistic fallacy."  FTP, identify this 1903 work, the magnum opus of G.E. Moore.ANSWER:  Principia Ethica 7. This poem's author notes that its address to a "Storm-wind" in its seventh section "will not appear extravagant to those who have heard it at night and in a mountainous country;" the end of that section discusses a lost child's attempt to make her mother hear her. Its eighth section asks "gentle Sleep" to visit a lady friend with "wings of healing," and notes that though it is midnight, the author cannot sleep. Beginning with a quote from the Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens, this poem contains the lament "My genial spirits fail" in its third section. For 10 points, name this rather depressing poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.ANSWER: Dejection: An Ode 8. Philip of Cognac was the only and illegitimate son of this man, who is buried at the Abbey of Fontevraud.  His engagement with Alix, countess of the Vexin did not result in marriage, as allegedly his own father took her as mistress; he married Berengaria of Navarre instead. That marriage took place in Limassol after this man conquered Cyprus from Isaac Comnenus. He came to the rescue of his sister, Queen Joan, in Sicily, and forced Tancred to release her and reinstate her dowry. Leopold V of Austria imprisoned him in Durnstein, and both his brother and Philip II of France plotted  to keep him prisoner; instead, he was released on a huge ransom and returned to England. He died in 1199, allegedly in the arms of his mother, Eleanor of Aquitaine. FTP Name this son of Henry II and brother of King John, leader of the 3rd crusade?ANSWER: Richard I or Richard the Lionhearted 9. This man's coaching career started in his home state of New Jersey at Garfield High School. He was soon hired at the University of Detroit, where he at one led them to a 21 game winning streak. In 1978 he became coach of the Detroit Pistons, but only lasted a year. ESPN has a running gag  on sportscenter where they point out that he is the only famous Tampa Bay Rays Season ticket holder. In 2004 he released his autobiography living a dream. FTP, name this famous broadcasting legend who adds baby to the end of a lot of his sentences while announcing college basketball.ANSWER: Dick Vitale 10. Members of this religion recite the Avashyakas, and its central hymn is the Namokar Mantra. It states that Siddha live in the supreme abode, while the lowest forms of life inhabit the Nigoda, and it divides time into progressive and regressive time cycles called kalcharkas. It is believed in this religion that women can never reach the afterlife as it requires being naked which is not allowed by women. It is divided into two groups, one where monks where white garments and another in which they forego clothing altogether, the Svetambara and Digambara sects. Those who achieve enlightenment are called Tirthankars and there are 24 of them, the last of which was Mahavira. For ten points, name this nonviolent Indian religion.ANSWER: Jainism 11. This man disagrees with several critics' contention that Don Quixote definitely puts on a barber's basin instead of the helm of Mambrino in his introduction to Tobias Smollett's translation of Don Quixote. Teodula Moctezuma and Ixca Cienfuegos are the "Overseers" in this man's first novel, Where the Air is Clear, while President Condoleeza Rice oversees the American occupation of Colombia in The Eagle's Throne. A recurring character in his works is Jaime Ceballos, who appears as an adolescent in Guanajuato in The Good Conscience and an ambitious lawyer in The Most Transparent Region, as well as at a New Year's Eve party, talking with the title aging businessman in The Death of Artemio Cruz. For 10 points, name this Mexican author who also wrote about Ambrose Bierce's disappearance in The Old Gringo.ANSWER: Carlos Fuentes 12. In the pituitary gland, stimulation by LHRH causes repeated spikes in the cytosolic concentration of this ion, while the TRP channel opens in response to low levels of this ion in the endoplasmic reticulum. This ion is necessary for the formation of tight junctions, and cell-cell adhesion is prevented in solutions deficient in this ion, but only when expressing E-cadherin. A rise in the concentration of this ion causes secretion of insulin, and myosin light-chain kinase is activated by a complex of four of these ions and a certain protein. For 10 points, name this ion that binds to calmodulin and is stored in the sarcoplasmic reticulum, best known for being the most prevalent cation in bone matrix.ANSWER: calcium [accept Ca2+] 13. In one work, this author repeats Hermann Keyserling's question of why human beings still marry.  Along with that work, "The Problem of the Monogamous Idea," another work by this thinker contains sections on "The Search for Glory" and "The Tyranny of the Should." That work also laments unhealthy relationships called "morbid dependency."  "Moving Toward," "Moving Against," and "Moving Away" are three of the coping strategies developed by this author of Our Inner Conflicts.  A student of Karl Abraham, she wrote Femine Psychology.  FTP, name this woman who wrote The Neurotic Personality of Our Time and Neurosis and Human Growth, and coined the term "womb envy."ANSWER:  Karen Horney 14. Franklin Toker has written a book that interviewed John Howe and Robert Mosher on its construction, and Edgar Tafel was apprenticed to its principal architect. Its architect once recommended covering its concrete surfaces with gold leaf, and it was the basis of much of Ayn Rand's The Fountainhead. The original plan for it involved a more conventional placement near the foot of a cliff; however, the architect decided instead to make the building conform to the cliff itself. Featuring extensive use of cantilevered floors and reinforced concrete as supports, it was constructed for Pittsburgh retail magnate Edgar Kaufmann. FTP, name this most famous Frank Lloyd Wright residence, named for a certain mobile geographical feature.  ANSWER: Fallingwater (accept Kauffman House before the mention of Kaufmann') 15. In one incident in this conflict, a group of men led by Michael Pierce were ambushed, an event that became known as "Nine Men's Misery."  Early battles were fought at Mendon and Middleborough, and an attack at Hadley gave rise to a legend about the "Angel of Hadley."  Forces led by Josiah Winslow led one side to a key victory in the Great Swamp Fight.  The key event that started the conflict was the murder of the Christian convert John Sassomon, and forces led by Benjamin Church captured the other side's leader who had succeeded his brother Wamsutta.  FTP, name this war between colonists and the Wampanoag Indians, a 1675-1676 conflict named after a Native American also known as Metacomet.ANSWER: King Philip's War 16. This god tricked a dwarf who was promised to marry his daughter into solving wisdom tests until the sun rose which instantly turned him into stone. He defeated a giant whose head and heart were made of stone, Hrungnir, but that giant's body pinned him to the ground, and it was his son Magni that lifted the giant so his father could escape. He and his companions took shelter in the thumb of the glove a giant named Skrymir, and he went with Tyr to steal a kettle from Hymer. This god has a chariot driven by the goats Tanngrisnir and Tanngnjostr, and the dwarves Brokk and Eitri forged his weapon, the hammer Mjollnir. FTP, name this god who will be killed by Jormungandr at Ragnarok.ANSWER: Thor 17. In a recent BBC film version of this play, the cure scene in Act II is portrayed as a sexual act, rather than the medicine of Gerard de Narbonne. Along with Measure for Measure, it is one of the few Shakespeare plays to feature the "bed trick," in which the heroine achieves her goals by duping the hero into sleeping with her. That hero, Bertram de Rossillion (RAW-SEE-YAWN) runs away to fight in Italy, rather than marry Helena, who has cured the French King of his fistula. FTP, name this Shakespeare play in which everything seems to work out.ANSWER: All's Well That Ends Well 18. He starred in one of his own films in which he plays a pimp who turns to shoplifting and murder in Love is Colder than Death. He directed a film adaptation of Jean Genet's Querelle de Brest in 1982. After working as a prostitute in his teens, he became involved in Munich's theatre community, the influence of which is evident in films such as The Bitter Tears of Petra von Kant. Tom Stoppard wrote the screenplay for one of his movies that was based on a Nabokov novel, Despair. He also makes a famous cameo as a racist son in Ali: Fear Eats the Soul, and is BRD Trilogy contains the film Veronika Ross. FTP, name this pioneer of New German Cinema, the director of Lola and The Marriage of Maria Braun.  ANSWER: Ranier Werner Fassbinder  19. John Costello succeeded this man twice in office, and when he finally retired from public service at the age of 90, Erskine Childers succeeded him. In one executive position, this man was preceded by W.T Cosgrave, and he abolished this position by introducing a new constitution, which also saw Douglas Hyde become his country's first president. He served as president of the League of nations, and adopted a neutral stance during WWII. Before serving as his country's president, he had been its Taoiseach 3 times, for a total of 15 years. His American origins made him avoid execution after the Easter Rising, and during the civil war, he opposed Michael Collins and the 1921 treaty with Britain. FTP, who was this Irish freedom fighter, Prime minister and founder of the Fianna Fail?ANSWER: Eamon de Valera 20. In biology, the antifungal agent FMDP works by undergoing this reaction. Angular triquinanes can be produced through an intramolecular form of this reaction. Another variant of this reaction uses trityl salts as catalysts when followed by aldol condensation. That reaction typically uses either a Lewis acid or fluoride ion source as a catalyst and is named after Mukaiyama, while the entire sequence is known as Robinson annulation. It is often performed in the presence of strong lithium-containing bases. For 10 points, name this conjugation between an enolate and a conjugation enone, used to form a new carbon-carbon bond and a typically 1,4-dicarbonyl, named after its American discoverer.ANSWER: Michael addition/reaction/etc 21. He is famous for his travel writing, such as 1978's The Snow Leopard, which recounts a trip to the Himalayas but also shows the author struggling to deal with the death of his wife, Deborah. More notable are his novels, such as 1965's At Play in the Fields of the Lord and the Watson Trilogy. FTP, name this American author, the co-founder of the Paris Review and winner of the 2008 National Book Award for his Shadow Country.  ANSWER: Peter Matthiessen 22. One of its discoveries was that the Asteroid 216 Kleopatra was shaped like a dog-bone.  More notably, it was used to discover that the rotational rate of Mercury was 59 days rather than 88 days as previously believed.  Measurements of pulsar B1257+12 using it led to the discovery of the first extrasolar planets, while Hulse and Taylor's Nobel prize was based on the discovery of the first binary pulsar with this instrument.  In the mid-90's a Gregorian reflector was installed, while in 1974, it transmitted its namesake message towards M13.  Operated by Cornell University, it is the source of the data used by SETI@home.  First used in 1963, for 10 points, name this largest radio telescope in the world, whose immobile reflector is located near its namesake Puerto Rican city.ANSWER:  Arecibo Observatory (or Arecibo Radio Telescope)  23. A 2006 paper by Given explored how this biological mechanism related to social policy towards the tobacco industry, while Kathleen Eisenhardt used it to describe how administrative organizations change.  Richard Dawkins has argued that the fossil record does not validate this mechanism.  One of the co-proposers of it stated that cladogenesis predicted by it would occur in small, isolated populations.  Based off of Mayr's theory of allopatric speciation, it was first proposed in a 1972 paper by Nils Eldredge and Steven Jay Gould.  For 10 points, name this theory of evolution which states that relatively long periods of evolutionary stability occur between relatively short periods of rapid change.Answer:  Punctuated Equilibrium                     Bonuses: 1. Name these French ruling dynasties, FTPE:[10] A side branch of the Capetians, this family came to power in 1328 with Philip VI as its first king:ANSWER: House of Valois[10] This side branch of the house of Valois came to power with Francis I. It lost power to the Bourbons under Henry IV:ANSWER: Valois-Angouleme[10] This side branch of the Bourbons came to power with Louis-Philippe, after the 1830 July revolution. It would be the last ruling Capetian family in France:ANSWER: House of Bourbon-Orleans 2. Identify the following Australian novelists, FTPE[10] Probably Australia's most beloved living novelist, his books often take place in Western Australia. His novel The Riders was short-listed for the Booker Prize, but Cloudstreet is probably his most popular work.  Answer: Tim Winton  [10] Winner of the 1973 Nobel Prize in Literature, this London-born Australian novelist gained fame for his idiolectal use of narrative focalization in works such as The Eye of the Storm and Voss.  Answer: Patrick White [10] He is one of only two authors, along with J.M. Coetzee, to have won the Booker Prize twice, for The True History of the Kelly Gang and Oscar and Lucinda. His other works include Bliss and Jack Maggs.  Answer: Peter Carey  3. For 10 points each, answer some nonsense about the binomial distribution.[10] For large n, the binomial distribution converges to this other distribution, with parameter ? = np representing both its mean and variance.ANSWER: Poisson distribution[10] By showing that the limit as n goes to infinity of the moment generating function of a binomial distribution is equal to the mgf of the normal distribution, one can prove this theorem, which approximates a binomial distribution as a normal distribution.ANSWER: de Moivre-Laplace theorem[10] The de Moivre-Laplace theorem is a special case of this theorem, which states that regardless of distribution, the distribution of sample means will converge to a normal distribution, provided a sufficiently large population.ANSWER: Central Limit Theorem [accept CLT] 4. Name these people involved in the Whiskey Ring FTPE[10] The Whiskey Ring scandal occurred during this man's presidential administrationANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant[10] This Secretary of the Treasury helped to bring down the Whiskey ring by using secret agents outside of the Treasury department to conduct key raidsANSWER: Benjamin H. Bristow[10]  This man was initially appointed as the special prosecutor in the case but was fired for challenging Grant's interference.ANSWER: John Brooks Henderson 5. Name these famous seaport battles in the history of Russia/USSR FTPE:[10] This port city on Kamchatka was besieged during the Crimean war, but never fell:ANSWER: Petropavlovsk [10] This longest battle of the Russo-Japanese War saw the Japanese sink several warships, and lead to crippling Russian defeat.Answer: Port Arthur[10] This naval base near Saint-Petersburg was the site of a 1921 rebellion against the Bolsheviks. The red army crushed it by sending troups over the ice to this island:ANSWER: Kronstadt 6. Identify the following musicians associated with the Bossa Nova, FTPE [10] This Brazilian musician is often identified as the father of Bossa Nova. His songwriting credits include "The Girl from Ipanema" and "Desafinado."  Answer: Antonio Carlos Jobim [10] This American saxophonist won a 1963 Grammy for a performance of Jobim's "Desafinado." He is also famous for a number of recordings with Chet Baker in the 1950s; he was nicknamed "The Sound" and is often mentioned in the novels of Haruki Murakami.  Answer: Stan Getz or Stanley Gayetzky [10] Famous for his gentle guitar-playing and vibrato-free singing, this Brazilian musician is famous for versions of "The Girl from Ipanema." His wife, Astrud, and daughter, Bebel, are also world-renowned vocalists.  Answer: Joao Gilberto  7. For 10 points each, answer the following about Earth's atmospheric thermodynamics.[10]This term denotes a situation where the temperature of the atmosphere increases with increasing height. In urban areas, it can create very poor air quality.Answer: (temperature) inversion (accept: inversion layer)[10]  This layer of the atmosphere directly above the troposphere has temperature inversion.ANSWER:  stratosphere[10]An inversion is specifically defined as a situation where this quantity is negative.  It equals negative the derivative of temperature with respect to height.  Answer:  lapse rate 8. Identify these D.H. Lawrence novels, FTPE.[10] The titular aspiring flautist abandons his young, Central-England family to pursue his dream Italy. He meets with some success in Florence until his flute is destroyed in a politically-related explosion.  Answer: Aaron's Rod [10] Ursula and Gudrun Brangwen become involved with Rupert Birkin and Gerald Crich, respectively. Gerald inherits his father's mining empire, but his young sister drowns at night. During a trip to the Swiss Alps, Gerald commits suicide in a fit of romantic jealousy.  Answer: Women in Love [10] Lawrence's first novel, it is set in the Midlands of his youth and involves an unhappy marriage in the Beardsall family. The main character, Cyril, makes friends with a young gamekeeper.  Answer: The White Peacock  9. Answer the following about legal philosophy, FTPE.  [10]  This English philosopher was an earlier developer of legal positivism, but may be better known for developing utilitarianism and for writing Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation.ANSWER:  Jeremy Bentham[10]  This student of Jeremy Bentham who wrote Province of Jurisprudence Determined was another key early legal thinker.  He shares his first and last name with a philosopher who wrote How to Do Things with Words.ANSWER:  John Austin[10]  This legal scholar has written works like Infotopia and The Second Bill of Rights.  He is a proponent of legal minimalism, and he recently moved from the University of Chicago to Harvard Law School.ANSWER:  Cass Sunstein 10. For 10 points per part, name these parts of your vestibular system.[5/5] For 5 points each, name the two parts of the static labyrinth, responsible for noticing linear acceleration. One is oriented parallel to the base of the skull; the other, perpendicular.ANSWER: utricle and saccule[10] Both the utricle and saccule contain this sensory organ, which contains hair cells, much like the organ of Corti in the cochlea. Another organ with this name is found in the fovea and can degenerate.ANSWER: macula[10] Three of these organs are found at right angles to each other; as the head shifts around, endolymph bends the hair cells embedded in their cupulae. Each cupula is found at the crest of the crista ampullaris.ANSWER: semicircular canals   11. Often referred to as "Madam," she bitches about having to pay her deadbeat boyfriend Roscoe's phone bill, which she eventually refuses to do, and vehemently tells Death that she "Ain't goin' with you today!" For 10 points each:[10] Name this narrator of several Harlem Renaissance poems, who asks "What can/Them other girls do/That [she]/Can't do - and more, too?"ANSWER: Alberta K. Johnson [accept Alberta K. Johnson][10] Madam Alberta K. Johnson appears in twelve monologues by this author of "The Negro Speaks of Rivers."ANSWER: Langston Hughes[10] Hughes may be better for creating this other alter ego, a Harlem "everyman" who marries Joyce Lane and talks at the bar with Ananias Boyd.ANSWER: Jesse B. Semple [accept either; accept Simple] 12. Identify these following about paintings by the Hudson River School, FTPE [10] A waterfall can be seen in the foreground of this painting while a large mountain dominates the background. In the distance on the left can be seen ChimborazoANSWER: Heart of the Andes[10] Heart of the Andes is by this artist, who also painted Cotopaxi and The Andes of Ecuador on his travels there.ANSWER: Frederic Edwin Church[10] Church was a student of this man, who appears alongside William Cullen Bryant in Asher Durand's Kindred Spirits.ANSWER: Thomas Cole 13. For 10 points each, name these second most populous cities in their respective countries.[10]This Italian city is the largest in Lombardy and its the financial and fashion capital of Italy.Answer:  Milan or Milano[10]This Tanzanian city is a major tourist hub, the site of a famous declaration of self-reliance by Julius Nyerere, and the site of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.Answer: Arusha[10] This city in Southeast Bangladesh is located on the Bay of Bengal and is its country's main seaport.Answer:  Chittagong 14. In Geoffrey Payzant's preface to a biography of a certain pianist, he notes that he can think of only three "top-ranking musical performers who are also eminent as writers" in "English-speaking North America." For 10 points each:[10] That preface is to a biography of this Canadian, a composer of a one-movement String Quartet who is much better known as a pianist, especially of the works of J.S. Bach.ANSWER: Glenn (Herbert) Gould[10] This composer of symphonies nicknamed "Jeremiah," "The Age of Anxiety," and "Kaddish" may be best known for writing the music to the musical West Side Story.ANSWER: Leonard Bernstein[10] This American pianist performed a BBC Radio tribute to Chopin and gave three farewell concerts upon retiring from the University of Chicago; he also wrote music theory/history books like The Classical Style and The Romantic Generation.ANSWER: Charles Rosen 15. For 10 points each, answer the following related to a subatomic particle.[10]First, name the only fundamental subatomic particle predicted by the Standard Model that has yet to be observed experimentally.  It has spin 0 and is responsible for electroweak symmetry breaking.Answer:  Higgs boson[10]ATLAS and this other general purpose detector at the LHC are designed to detect production of Higgs bosons.Answer: Compact Muon Solenoid[10] In spontaneous symmetry breaking, one of these massless bosons is created for each broken symmetry.ANSWER:  Nambu-Goldstone bosons 16. Name the 20th-Century American writer, given titles of works, FTPE. [10] "The Way We Live Now," The Volcano LoverAnswer: Susan Sontag [10] "In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson is Buried,"10 Reasons to LiveAnswer: Amy Hempel [10] "Come Back, Dr. Caligari," 60 StoriesAnswer: Donald Barthelme  17. Antibonding types of these objects are typically represented with an asterisk. For 10 points each:[10] Name these regions where electrons are likely to be found when two atoms come together.ANSWER: molecular orbitals[10] This relatively simple method for determining LCAO molecular orbitals looks only at pi bonds. The solutions of its secular equation yields energy levels of delocalized molecular orbitals.ANSWER: Huckel method [or theory, or really anything that clearly implies it's not Huckel's Rule][10] This theorem named after a Dutch Nobel Laureate in, of all things, Economics, roughly states that the ionization energy of an electron is equal to the magnitutde of the energy of the orbital from which the electron came.ANSWER: Koopmans' Theorem [accept Koopman's Theorem, as at least one textbook has the name misspelled] 18. For 10 points each, name these African Socialists and leaders of the Non-Aligned Movement.[10]This Egyptian leader overthrew King Farouk, built the Aswan High Dam, and invaded Israel during the Six Days' War.Answer:  Gamel Abdel Nasser[10]This Zambian was president from independence until 1991 and nationalized the copper mining industry.  He later was a scholar in residence at Boston University.Answer:  Kenneth Kaunda[10]This Algerian was his country's longest serving leader and nationalized the oil and gas industries before his 1978 death.Answer:  Houari Boumédienne  19. For 10 points each, name these American labor acts.[10]This 1947 act  limited the power of labor unions.  It was passed over Truman's veto, and is named in part for a conservative Ohio senator. ANSWER:  Taft-Hartley Act (or Labor-Management Relations Act)[10]  This 1959 act banned communists from holding union offices, and contained a "Bill of Rights" for members of unions.ANSWER:  Landrum-Griffin Act (or Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act)[10]This 1993 act requires employers to allow employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid absence to care for themselves or family members in the event of childbirth or illness.  Sadly, it's not doubly-eponymous.ANSWER: Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993  20. He founded the first African Studies department in the U.S. at Northwestern.  FTPE:[10]  Name this author of The Myth of the Negro Past.ANSWER:  Melville Herskovits[10]  This man advocated the idea of the "talented tenth" in The Negro Problem.  He is also known for writing The Souls of Black Folk, and for helping to found the NAACP.ANSWER:  W.E.B. Du Bois[10]  This sociologist wrote a story about an African American woman trying to ride a bus in "Color Trouble."  He is better known for developing ethnomethodology, and for his work with breaching experiments.ANSWER:  Harold Garfinkel 21. Name these people associated with Sumerian Mythology FTPE:[10] This solar god rose to the head of the Babylonian pantheon in the second half of the second millenia BC. He is also the father of Nabu, the god of wisdom.ANSWER: Marduk[10] This man-beast who at various times foiled and help animal trappers often assisted his fellow hero Gilgamesh as when they fought against Humbaba.ANSWER: Enkidu[10] This god with ears of corn sprouting from her shoulders is the god of cereal grain.ANSWER: Ashnan 22. For 10 points each, answer the following about last names in literature that sound similar.[10] This originally Indian author often writes about various aspects of the experience of American immigrants, as in Days and Nights in Calcutta and The Tiger's Daughter.ANSWER: Bharati Mukherjee[10] Rudyard Kipling asks that you not ask him what happened to this "pride of Bow Bazaar" and owner of the press "Barrishter-at Lar" in his poem "What Happened."ANSWER: Hurree Chunder Mookerjee [since we've already established that it sounds like "Mookerjee," we need either the H, C, Hurree, or Chunder in addition to Mookerjee][10] Yet another Hurree Chunder Mookerjee appears in this Kipling novel, which also features the Afghan horse trader Mahbub Ali and the titular orphan of Irish heritage.ANSWER: Kim 