2007 Chicago Open Literature Singles
Packet 7



1. Raymond Carver's "Where I'm Calling From" ends with the narrator contemplating this story. In its final pages, its protagonist imagines himself as Mercury skimming across the land while running towards Henderson Creek. The main character thinks that his hands hang like weights after pulling off his mittens with his teeth, and finally concedes that the advice from the old man of Sulphur Creek was correct. That character's dog goes in search of new food-providers after the protagonist's last desperate attempt to perform the title action, which became a matter of life and death when a pine tree dumped snow upon an earlier attempt. For 10 points, name this short story about a man who freezes to death in the Yukon, by Jack London. 
ANSWER: "To Build A Fire"  

2. The protagonist of this novel throws a snowball at Gerstacker after asking him whether he can drive the protagonist around, to which Gerstacker replies, "What do you mean?" A conversation with Pepi, a substitute barmaid, is found in the remaining eighty pages of this work, which were found among its author's papers. The protagonist works as a school janitor after the mayor disregards his letter from Klamm and learning that his services were erroneously requested by the title structure. Ending with Frieda leaving with Jeremiah instead of the protagonist, who still has not heard from Count Westwest about working as a land surveyor, FTP, name this novel about K.'s frustrating inability to penetrate the title building, by Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: The Castle or Das Schloss 

3. An early chorus in this play criticizes the play Marcias for overplaying its crone and relying on the god "Hyperbolus," and celebrates its author's previous work's ingenuity in insulting Cleon. One of this play's characters later attempts to default on debts owed to Amynias and Pasias by arguing that the day "Old-and-New" is really two days. That character's son beats him for insulting Euripides, and justifies his assault using Wrong Logic, which had earlier won a debate over Right Logic. Ending with Strepsiades burning down the Thinkery, FTP, identify this play by Aristophanes satirizing Socrates as a Sophist that features an ethereal chorus. 
ANSWER: The Clouds 

4. This poem alludes to Sir Formal Trifle and claims that its addressee was "ne'er in Epsom blankets tossed," while it also refers to Maximin from its author's play Tyrannic Love. It notes that Heywood and Shirley were mere precursors of that addressee, who is the "last prophet of Tautology" and resides by a Brothel-house in the ruins of Augusta's watch tower. It begins as the minor poet Richard, its namesake, declares this poem's target the heir to his kingdom because "Thy Tragic Muse gives smiles, thy Comic sleep," and because he is "mature in Dullness." Beginning "All human things are subject to decay," for 10 points, name this poetic attack on Thomas Shadwell by John Dryden.
ANSWER: "MacFlecknoe"  

5. After the narrator's attack is repulsed in its second part, Genius proposes a solution which leads to a sequence of innuendo where the narrator discusses grasping his staff and plowing deep trenches after penetrating the castle guarded by Rebuff.  Though charged with misogyny by Chrstine de Pizan, that second part received a more generous treatment in the third chapter of C.S. Lewis's Allegory of Love. In its first part, the narrator becomes smitten at the well of Narcissus in a walled garden owned by Pleasure and seeks instruction from the God of Love in winning the allegorical title woman. For 10 points, name this medieval romance, cynically completed by Jean de Meun and begun by Guillaume de Lorris. 
ANSWER: The Romance of the Rose [or Le Roman de la Rose]



6. Bottle Hill stands at its northern extreme, while Lake Quad defines part of its southern boundary with Quadling Country. No houses may be built outside the gate separating it from the surrounding land it administrates so as not to spoil views of its city gate, by the orders of its putative builder, Oscar Zoroaster Diggs. Its surrounding lawns are studded with trees fringed with leaves like ostrich feathers which shine with all colors of the rainbow. Its entrance is a single gate studded with its namesake gem, and its palace contains the seat of Ozma. FTP, identify this metropolis located at the end of the yellow brick road, described in seven novels by L. Frank Baum. 
ANSWER: Emerald City  

7. The third stanza of the poem about this character compares him to a sexton ringing a bell at evening. The voice of his daughter in the church choir reminds him of his mother's singing in Paradise, and every day children rush to his home after to school to watch the sparks on his floor. His hair is "crisp, black, and long," and he has a "brow wet with honest sweat," while the poet finally thanks him for "the lesson thou hast taught," of having every day "something attempted, something done." For 10 points, name this poetic character who stands "under a spreading chestnut tree," and whose bellows everyone can hear blow, created by Henry Longfellow. 
ANSWER: "The Village Blacksmith" 

8. Four of her novels were published in Household Words, including My Lady Ludlow. In one of her novels, the daughter of a Nonconformist minister moves to Milton and decides whether to marry John Thornton, while in another, Matty and Deborah's brother Peter returns to the title town, to the delight of Mary Smith. In addition to North and South and Cranford, the plot of her first novel turns on the testimony of Will Wilson, who proves that Henry Carson was not murdered by Jem, but by the Chartist father of the title character. Also known for her ghost stories and her biography of Charlotte Bronte, for 10 points, name this Victorian author most famous for her novel set in the industrial village of Manchester, Mary Barton. 
ANSWER: Elizabeth Gaskell 

9. He argued that "colonization [equals] thingification" in his Discourse on Colonialism, and wrote about the death of Patrice Lumumba in A Season in the Congo. One of his poems begins by repeating the line "at the end of daybreak," and Andre Breton influenced the surrealist imagery of his poems collected in Beheaded Sun and Solar Throat Slashed. Breton asked to meet this author upon reading his poem Notebook of a Return to the Native Land, and his adaptation of The Tempest focuses on Prospero's oppression of Caliban. Earlier, he founded The Black Student with a writer who would later become the president of Senegal. FTP, identify this poet born in Martinique, a friend of Leopold Senghor who coined the term négritude.
ANSWER: Aimé Césaire

10. One passage of this work discusses how the narrator attempted vegetarianism, but after seeing that fish ate other fish, reasoned himself out of it. In its final passage, Captain Kennedy prevents a shipwreck in St. George's Channel, which impresses upon the narrator the need to build lighthouses in his homeland before he goes on his first diplomatic mission to London. Its minor characters include the poet James Ralph and the printer Andrew Bradford, with whom the narrator competes under Samuel Keimer writing The Pennsylvania Gazette. Addressed to the narrator's son William, the colonial governor of New Jersey, for 10 points, name this autobiography that also discusses an experiment involving a kite and lightning. 
ANSWER: The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin [or The Private Life of the Late Benjamin Franklin, or Memoires de la vie privee]  








11. This work's villain plans to rape Anna, her mother, and her maidservant on their voyage to the Isle of Wight. In the last of the protagonist's letters, which is found thirty years after her death among the personal effects in her brother's estate by the executor of his will, she begs her cousin the Colonel not to avenge her death; a concluding monologue attributed to Dame Belford notes that he did anyway. The conflict begins when the protagonist's family betrothe her to Mr. Solmes, despite her protests and those of Morden. To escape their tyranny, she takes up correspondence with mysterious suitor, who takes her to a brothel, drugs her with laudanum, rapes her, and offers to marry her, but she refuses Robert Lovelace and dies slowly of shame. FTP, identify this epistolary novel about the "history of a young lady," the 2nd work of Samuel Richardson. 
ANSWER: Clarissa, or, the History of a Young Lady 

12. He discussed his attempt to join the Prague Academy in his autobiographical novel Leavetaking, which was followed one year later by Vanishing Point. He published his novel Document I under the pseudonym "Sinclair," which preceded his first play, The Tower. He wrote about the men who carried out the murders at Nazi concentration camps in his "oratorio with 11 cantos," The Investigation, and three opponents of fascism contemplate the Pergamon altar frieze at the beginning of his massive novel The Aesthetics of Resistance. However, he is most famous for a play that opens in a bathhouse in a Charenton asylum, containing a bathtub where one of the title characters will later die. FTP, name this German postwar dramatist of Marat/Sade. 
ANSWER: Peter Weiss 

13. No. 251 suggests that the noise of the streets can be conducted into harmony, while No. 1 notes that its title personage appears all through society in clubs like The Cocoa and can pass for a Jew at the exchange. Eliza Haywood wrote a "Female" version thirty years after its final sections were published, and its recurring characters include the country gentleman Will Honeycomb and the wealthy merchant Sir Andrew Freeport, who belong to its namesake club. First published in 1711, its authors used pseudonyms like Sir Roger de Coverly to promote "wit and morality." For 10 points, name this premier daily of 18th century, written by Richard Steele and Joseph Addison, who founded it after the death of The Tatler. 
ANSWER: The Spectator  

14. One character in this novel impregnates a woman at Kent State, but brings home her friend Melanie to stay the summer instead. That character deliberately crashes a classic car after the protagonist denigrates his business plan. After rolling in gold coins with his wife, the protagonist is turned on by Polaroids of Cindy Murkett performing oral sex, but during the climactic wife-swap ends up with Thelma Harrison instead. Its three-word title is stated after the protagonist inherits Springer Motors, which he runs with Charlie Stavros, from Janice's father; there, he runs into a girl who leads him to Ruth, the woman he'd had an affair with twenty years prior. For 10 points, name this 1981 novel by John Updike set during the late seventies, the third about Harry Angstrom. 
ANSWER: Rabbit is Rich 

15. Its sequel is set in Madrid, and features two of the main characters fighting over La Nuche. In an early scene, Valeria gives the female characters Gypsy masks, leading the title character to ask the men to have their fortune told. Those men later compare sword lengths to decide who should  rape the wench that Frederick and Blunt have trapped, but then realize she is Belville's finacée, Florinda. The title character finally becomes engaged to Flordina's sister Hellena after being held at gunpoint by the courtesan Angelica Bianca. Based on Killigrew's Thomaso, or the Wanderer, and subtitled The Banished Cavaliers, for 10 points, name this play about the rake Captain Willmore, by Aphra Behn.   
ANSWER: The Rover, or the Banished Cavaliers  






16. This novel includes a passage about the "ancient song" of the sounds "ee um fah um so / foo swee too eem oo," which issue opposite Regent's Park station. One of its characters is described as craving "oilily" for domination, and worships the goddesses of conversion and proportion. Lady Rosseter reveals that Hugh Whitbread kissed her at Bourton to punish her for supporting women's suffrage, and discusses the title character with Peter Walsh, who has just returned to England. After having a vision of Evans, a World War I veteran jumps out a window in defiance of Dr. Holmes and Dr. Bradshaw, who mentions his death to the title character during her party. Ending with the suicide of Septimus Smith, FTP, name this novel by Virginia Woolf about a day in the life of the title woman. 
ANSWER: Mrs. Dalloway 

17. She wrote about "soaring through air" in order to "leave the rolling universe behind" and "Measure the skies, and range the realms above" in "On Imagination." She wrote that "Gallic powers Columbia's fury found" in a poem prophesying that Brittania will soon "droop" its "pensive head / While round increase the rising hills of dead." Her portrait was painted by Scipio Moorhead, and her first published poem elegized the Methodist reformer George Whitefield. This author of "To His Excellency George Washington" published Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral in 1773, and often appealed to the "Afric muse." FTP, name this author who wrote "Christians, Negroes, black as Cain / May be refin'd, and join th' angelic train" in "On Being Brought From Africa to America," an 18th century American poet brought to Massachusetts as a slave.
ANSWER: Phyllis Wheatley  

18. This author describes the "four Buddhas of Polonnaruwa" in "a ceremonial funeral structure for a monk made up of thambali palms" in his poem "Step." His poetry is collected in Rat Jelly and There's a Trick with a Knife I'm Learning to Do, and he fictionalized the life of Buddy Bolden in his novel Coming Through Slaughter. He wrote about a Sri Lankan who works with the archaeologist Sarath to identify a skeleton in Anil's Ghost, and about the disappearance of Ambrose Small in his novel centering on Patrick Lewis, In the Skin of a Lion. In another of his novels, Caravaggio believes that Almásy is the title character, who is nursed by Hana after World War II. FTP, identify this Canadian author of Divisadero and The English Patient. 
ANSWER: Michael Ondaatje 

19. The protagonist of this work loves Petronius, and buys a turtle whose shell is encrusted with gold and diamonds. It is thought to appear in The Picture of Dorian Gray as the "poisonous yellow book," which enslaves Dorian's thoughts and corrupts him beyond redemption. The main character is fascinated by the strength of the American acrobat Miss Urania, and covers his house with the paintings of Gustave Moreau. Becoming addicted to the experience of artistic and sensual pleasure, the protagonist forsakes company to indulge himself in aesthetic experience, until he faints from rapture and starvation. A landmark of the late 19th century Decadent movement, FTP, identify this novel about the Duc des Esseintes, by Joris-Karl Huysmans. 
ANSWER: À Rebours [or Against the Grain or Against Nature or In Defiance] 

20. In a deleted scene, he meets in the woods with the female lead, who claims he walked through fire with her and burned her ignorance away. He uses his wife's sickness to explain to Jonathan why he has only been to church 26 times in the last 17 months, but when quizzed he can only recall the nine commandments he hasn't broken, and then cannot convince Cheever that the poppet is insignificant. After his wife does not corroborate his confession of adultery, he is asked "What say you?" by Judge Danforth and replies, "I say God is Dead." Finally refusing to sign his confession and thus joining Tituba and Rebecca Nurse at the gallows, for 10 points, name this inhabitant of Salem, the protagonist of The Crucible.  
ANSWER: John Proctor (accept either)

