2007 Chicago Open Literature Singles
Packet 9


1. The addressee of this poem is "[l]ike a Poet hidden / In the light of thought . . . [and] "[l]ike a high-born maiden / In a palace tower." Its author claimed to have written it to contrast his view of poetic joy as communal with Coleridge's suggestion of its isolation in "Kublai Khan." In the last stanza the speaker implores the title figure to "[t]each me half the gladness / That thy brain must know," insisting that if "[s]uch harmonious madness / From my lips would flow / The world should listen then-as [he is] listening now" to its beautiful song. Originally published in a book with Prometheus Unbound and beginning by addressing the title creature as a "blithe spirit," FTP, name this poem by Percy Shelley about a songbird. 
ANSWER: "To a Sky-Lark" 

2. One character in this play believes that watching creatures of the air devouring creatures of the sea means that God shows a savage face to people. These thoughts are revealed to Doctor Cukrowicz, otherwise known as Doctor Sugar, who is experimenting with new brain treatment in the Lion's View Sanatorium. Aunt Violet implores him to give a lobotomy to her son's escort in Cabeza de Lobo, convinced she is the cause of his death. However, after ingesting truth serum, Catherine Holly describes how the protagonist was eaten by sexually-abused young boys that she procured for him. FTP, name this play about the gruesome tale of Sebastian Venable, a work by Tennessee Williams named for the season when the central events occurred.
ANSWER: Suddenly Last Summer 

3. The plot of this story is instigated when Percy Armitage proposes marriage to its central female. After the London introduction, it largely takes place at Stoke Moran, where a group of gypsies live with a menagerie including a cheetah and a baboon that are incorrectly suspected of being the users of a milk saucer. Other key items include a bell-rope that is installed beneath a ventilator in the second bedroom, despite attaching to nothing, through which was sent the creature that murdered the recently-engaged rival Julia and which tried to kill her sister in the same way. Helen Stoner's inheritance is ensured when Grimesby Roylott's titular snake is found and killed in, for 10 points, what Sherlock Holmes story? 
ANSWER: "The Adventure of the Speckled Band"  

4. According to Allen Tate, this poem is "flawless to the last detail" because all of its images are "fused with the central idea." The speaker describes passing "Fields of gazing grain" and "the setting sun" while accompanied by the title figure, who "knew no haste." In the fourth stanza, the speaker says her "Tippet" is "only Tulle" [tool], explaining the "quivering and chill" caused by the dew. The speaker anticipates entering a "House that seemed / A swelling of the Ground," and finally surmises that "the horses' heads / Were towards eternity." Sometimes titled "The Chariot," but only officially known as number 712, FTP, name this this poem in which the speaker rides in a carriage with the grim reaper, who has kindly stopped for her, by Emily Dickinson. 
ANSWER: "Because I Could Not Stop for Death" (accept 712 before mentioned; prompt on "The Chariot") 

5. In Act two, this play's protagonist falls down in the middle of a long speech of invented Latin after he's ascertained that no one else speaks it. That protagonist insists he needs to see the breasts of Jacqueline, the wetnurse of Lucinde, who refuses to speak because her father will not let her marry Leandre. Its main action begins when Martine seeks revenge on her husband by telling Geronte's men he belongs to the title profession but can only be made to admit it when he's beaten with sticks. For 10 points, name this play in which Sganarelle asserts that science has changed the side of the body the heart and liver are on while impersonating a physician, by Moliere. 
ANSWER: The Doctor In Spite of Himself  [or Le Medecin Malgre Lui]


6. One poem by this author begins by describing a "woman riding high above with bright hair flapping free," while another notes that "flower-petals flee" and "birds faint in dread" in the wintertime. In addition to "Beeny Cliff" and "In Tenebris," he wrote about the attempts of Festus Derriman, Bob Loveday, and John Loveday to earn the love of Ann Garland in The Trumpet Major, and the Spirit of Years, Shade of Earth, and the Spirit of Pities watch the events that transpire in Europe in his play The Dynasts. Bathsheba Everdene marries Gabriel Oak in another of his novels, which is set in the county of Wessex. FTP, identify this British author of "Hap" and "The Darkling Thrush" as well as the novels Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy 

7. According to Dionysus of Halicarnassus, this author's poetry was the best example of "smooth composition." Said by Plutarch to be the first to utilize the Mixylodian mode, this author was depicted by Ezra Pound as the inventor of the barbitos. One of this poet's fragments describes Artemis as pitiable because "love which loosens the limbs never visits her," while another, appearing on an amphoric vase attributed to Euphronius, states, "I suffer, I desire." The contemporary of Alcaeus, this poet was praised in Plato's Phaedrus as the tenth muse. FTP, identify this author of the fragment "Anactoria" and "Hymn to Aphrodite," who supposedly jumped to death from the Leucadian rock because of unrequited love for Phaon, and lived on Lesbos.
ANSWER: Sappho 

8. William Chamberlayne's Pharronida provides the epigraph for this work, whose protagonist begins his recollections by recalling his early days in a "large, rambling, Elizabethan house in a misty-looking village of England." At the end of his fifth year under Reverend Dr. Bransby, the title character flees to Eton College, and after attending Oxford, he leaves after he nearly cheats his way to financial prosperity by winning illegitimately over Lord Glendinning at cards. However, his life comes to an end at the party of Duke Di Broglio, where he stabs the man who has prevented him from eloping with the duke's wife, only to look in the mirror and see that he has, in fact, murdered himself. A doppelganger with the same birthday, same physical appearance, and same name haunts the title character of, FTP, what short story by Edgar Allen Poe? 
ANSWER: "William Wilson" 

9. After being accused of madness by his father for changing his college major too often, the protagonist procures a certificate of sanity from Dr. Castrini. After the death of his friend and business partner, Guido, the protagonist undergoes psychoanalysis with Dr. S, who encourages him to write about his life, though the doctor's suggestions fail to rid the protagonist of his habit. In his writings, he often includes the annotation "L.C." in his repeated attempts to effect the end of his addiction by noting the time and date of what he always says will be his last cigarette. Published in 1923 after encouragement from the author's English tutor, James Joyce, FTP name this novel by Italo Svevo. 
ANSWER: The Confessions of Zeno [or The Conscience of Zeno or La Coscienza di Zeno]  

10. This play's protagonist states that he's seen hundreds of yogi in the streets of San Francisco in order to disparage another character's explanation of Theosophy. In the second act, Mrs. Tancred asks Jesus to replace "hearts of stone" with "hearts of flesh" during a funeral procession for her son, who was betrayed by Johnny, a Diehard who is shot in revenge during the final act. At the conclusion of this play, Charlie Bentham abandons Mary after impregnating her, and the first title character leaves the second one, who observes that "the whole world's in a terrible state o' chassis" while drinking with Joxer Daly. The disintegration of the family of Captain Jack Boyle mirrors the turmoil in Ireland in, FTP, what play by Sean O'Casey? 
ANSWER: Juno and the Paycock 







11. In one work, he called Poe "three fifths [a] genius and two-fifths sheer fudge" and Holmes "a Leyden jar always charged." He was the first to publish works by Jones Very, doing so in his magazine The Pioneer, and he edited and published the collected works of his wife, the former Maria White. He collected his periodical criticism in Conversations on Some of the Old Poets, while his own poems include "The Changeling" and "The Darkened Mind." His put his views on slavery and the Mexican war into a work presenting letters from the farmer Ezekiel and his son Hosea to and from figures like the Reverend Homer Wilbur and the Yankee renegade soldier Birdofredum Sawin. FTP, name this editor of the Atlantic Monthly, the author of "A Fable for Critics" and The Biglow Papers. 
ANSWER: James Russell Lowell 

12. This thinker analyzed a work he described as an "encyclopedia of folk culture" in a book about the inversion of societal norms in medieval society, a concept he called "carnivalesque." Another of his works argues that the polyphonic nature of the title subject's novels offer a "loophole of meaning" not found in the work of that author's contemporaries such as Tolstoy. His most famous work presents his theories of the novel through his concepts of heteroglossia and the chronotrope. The author of Rabelais and His World and The Problem of Dostoevsky's Poetics, FTP, identify this Russian literary critic best known for The Dialogic Imagination.  
ANSWER: Mikhail Bakhtin

13. In Act Two, one character quotes two lines Hamlet speaks to Ophelia after a tramp asks for money. In the third act, a Jewish band plays during a ball where Pischin is astonished by magic tricks. Another character is derisively called an "eternal student," and was the tutor of Grisha, whose death by drowning caused the protagonist to move to Paris for five years. The final act ends with Firs' abandonment by the central family, who finally leaves Russia after Gayev is unable to save the title property, which is bought by Lopakhin. Madame Ranevskaya unwillingly allows the title estate to be chopped down in, FTP, what play by Anton Chekhov? 
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishniovy sad]

14. One character in this poem bids the bard Bracy, who has a dream about a bright green snake killing a dove, to leave Langdale Hall with a message for his childhood friend. This follows a scene where the title character offers a weary character wine made from wild flowers by her mother, who will hear the castle-bell "strike twelve upon [the title character's] wedding day." Upon meeting the daughter of Lord Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine in the forest outside her castle, the title character takes that spell-casting woman into the home of Sir Leoline, but cannot convince him to send Geraldine away. Originally intended to be included in the second edition of Lyrical Ballads, FTP, name this unfinished poem about the title woman's supernatural encounter, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. 
ANSWER: "Christabel" 

15. A subplot in this novel focuses on Orest Mercator, who is bitten six minutes into his unsuccessful attempt to set the world record for sitting in a cage filled with poisonous snakes. The protagonist visits "the most photographed barn in America" in its first section, while it ends with the narrator viewing "another postmodern sunset" with his wife, Babette. In its third section, "Dylarama," Murray Jay Siskind suggests that the protagonist should kill Willie Mink in order to obtain an experimental drug that frees people from their fear of death. Exposure to an "airborne toxic event" intensifies the death fears of Hitler Studies professor Jack Gladney in FTP, this 1985 novel by Don DeLillo. 
ANSWER: White Noise 

16. Because he left a birch tree standing in the Osmo forest, an eagle saves him from drowning after his horse is killed. Without the help of the Sun, Moon, or Great Bear, he had broken out of his mother's dungeon thirty years after his birth, which occurred after that mother endured a seven-hundred year pregnancy in the ocean. At the end of his tale, he orders Marjatta's virgin child killed, but when the baby catalogues his misdeeds, which include failing to keep Aino from walking into the ocean, he goes into exile after singing a copper boat into existence. Also famous for joining with Lemminkäinen to fashion a kantele from the jaw of a pike and for bringing Illmarinen to Pohjola to forge the Sampo, for 10 points, name this hero of the Kalevala. 
ANSWER: Väinämöinen 
17. Donald Keene claims this work's tragedy plays out between its women while the male hero "sits in a stupor." Scholars are puzzled by the narrator's initial nonsense seven lines, which precede both his description of the songs of the Shell River and its first scene, where Sugi gives a minstrel money to sing a song from the writer's earlier work about General Watonai. At the beginning of Diary of a Mad Old Man, Utsugi goes to see its Teahouse scene, where Magoemon, aiding Osan's father, is mistakenly convinced that Koharu is asleep and that his paper merchant brother Jihei is not there, so he need not worry about a fatal pact. For 10 points, name this 1723 bunraku by Chikamatsu which, while partially set at Sonezaki, is not named for it. 
ANSWER: Love Suicides at Amijima [or Shinju Ten no Amijima]

18. He sees two women knitting black wool before the Company doctor measures his cranium. Described as a "Buddha preaching in European clothes," this character compares his interest in a river with a snake's fascination with a bird, and begins his story by discussing Roman citizens who feel "the utter savagery" closing around them during their invasion of England. He tells that story to the Lawyer, the Accountant, and the Director of Companies on the return trip of the Nellie, and describes seeing a row of severed heads on stakes, which signify the madness of a man known for extracting tons of ivory from the natives. FTP, name this sailor who travels up the Congo and encounters Kurtz, the narrator of Heart of Darkness. 
ANSWER: Charlie Marlow 

19. After watching a boxing match between two angry dwarves, Dan Moore yells "Jesus was once a leper!" in one story in this collection. In addition to "Box Seat," it includes stories about Esther, who loves the mystic King Barlo, and Becky, who is shunned for bearing mulatto sons. Another story in it describes "Seventh Street," which infuses "black reddish blood into the white and whitewashed wood of Washington," and a white mob burns Tom Burwell alive for killing Bob Stone in its story "Blood-Burning Moon." Its author's time in rural Georgia inspired its final section, "Kabnis." Beginning with a story describing the beauty of Karintha and a poem about the "Black Reapers" of the title plant, FTP, name this modernist collection of short stories and poems by Jean Toomer. 
ANSWER: Cane 

20. She wrote about the desire of her childhood friends to rule over "four kingdoms on the sea" in "We Were All to be Queens." Her final book, Lagar, was written after the death of her friend Stefan Zweig, and she memorialized the death of her mother in her poems "The Flight" and "Lapida Filial," which appear in her collection Tala. Langston Hughes translated many of the poems of this author, whose 1922 compilation Desolacion includes the sections "La Escuela" and "Dolor," as well as three poems inspired by the suicide of her fiancee Romelio Ureta. Taking her pen name from the French poet of The Song of the Rhone, FTP, name this Chilean poet best known for the Sonnets of Death. 
ANSWER: Gabriela Mistral [or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga] 


