2007 Chicago Open Literature Singles
Packet 11


1. One of this man's characters swings too high on a hundred-foot swing and plummets over a cliff, while another another leaves Col. McConnel to seek his fortune and is captured by a home-guard. He wrote about a wanderer who contemplates the philosopher Hali and then finds his own tomb in "An Inhabitant of Carcosa," and his satirical takes on Aesop are collected in his Fantastic Fables. A young boy leads a company of wounded soldiers to his home, only to discover that it is on fire, in his story "Chickamauga," while another of his works calls love "a condition curable by marriage." In his best known work, the failed sabotage of Union railroad raiders by Peyton Farqhuar leads to his fantasy of escaping his hanging. The subject of The Old Gringo, FTP, name this author of The Devil's Dictionary and "An Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge." 
ANSWER: Ambrose Bierce 

2. The main character in this novel insists on leaving the drawing room after seeing a pair of scrolls claiming human knowledge must be acquired through literature next to a portrait of the cousin who drives him insane and into a monastery. Some versions of it translate rather than transliterate the servants' names, calling two "Purple Nightingale" and "Invading Fragrance." One of its titles comes from ballads by the Monitory Vision Fairy, while the other refers to the main character as the human manifestation of an item left over when Nuwa repaired the sky. Set largely in the Ning-guo and Rong-guo houses and featuring the "Twelve Beauties of Jinling," for 10 points, name this novel about Jia Baoyu, a Qing dynasty novel by Cao Xuequin. 
ANSWER: Dream of the Red Chamber [or Hónglóu mèng or Story of the Stone or Shítóu jì]

3. One character in this work is told he's good at crossing out the past, to which he later responds that anything can be put right that way. Towards the end of the last scene, the unseen Judith is invoked during an aborted sabre charge; she later appears in the sequel to ruin her father's new plans. Much of that last scene is spent waiting for a telegram from the mainland proving that that father and the Sergeant Major have embezzled, but, despite Quarantine Officer Kurt's promises, it says nothing. After he claims the central couple are "demons" and leaves, Edgar and Alice agree he can be the best man at their silver anniversary. For 10 points, name this play about the torturous marriage of an artillery captain, by August Strindberg. 
ANSWER: The Dance of Death [or Dödsdansen] 

4. In one poem in this collection, a chapel with the words "Thou Shalt Not" written over its door fills the title location with graves. In another, a priest burns a young boy alive for setting "reason up for judge / Of our most holy mystery." Along with "The Garden of Love" and "A Little Boy Lost," other poems in it describe an "invisible worm" whose "dark secret love" attacks "The Sick Rose," and "Babes reduced to misery / Fed with cold and usurous hand" on "Holy Thursday." Containing an introduction beginning "Hear the voice of the bard / Who present, past, and future, sees" and also including "The Clod and the Pebble," "A Poison Tree," and "The Tiger," FTP, name this poetry collection by William Blake often paired with "Songs of Innocence." 
ANSWER: Songs of Experience 

5. He picks up an old copy of Liberty and reads "Can Germany Conquer the World Through the Air?", after which another character tells him "Von Richtman's circus is between here and Saulier." His book on streptothricosis is dubbed "a brilliant performance" by Pritchard-Mitford after he pulls on his gloves to operate on Wellington McMillan. He declares he could have killed Gregory Fitzhurst at three hundred feet with his left hand before deciding to go to a small A&P, having said "Puppy biscuit" to himself. After picking up his wife from the hairdresser's, he begins to think again, perhaps about using his Webley-Vickers automatic to fight in a war, as he had daydreamed earlier. FTP, name this title character of a short story by James Thurber.
ANSWER: Walter Mitty [prompt on "Walter"]  


6. In one version of its second half, its heroine is sliced by Hildebrand's sword, but her body only falls apart when she bends over. In its first half, that heroine decided to remain unmarried after dreaming of a falcon killed by two eagles, although she is wooed by a character who helps the men of Worms defeat the Saxons after stealing treasure from two dwarves. Though he bathed in dragon's blood, its hero is vulnerable on his back, where, with Kriemhild's help, Hagen spears him before throwing the hoard into the Rhine. For 10 points, name this German epic about Siegfried, the basis of a similarly-named cycle by Wagner. 
ANSWER: Nibelungenlied [or The Song of the Nibelungs]  

7. The end of this novel reveals that Madame Walravens died at the age of ninety and suggests that the protagonist's beloved died on the Atlantic. That beloved is likely based on Constantin Héger, and the protagonist is frightened by the apparition of a nun, who later turns out to be Colonel de Hamal in disguise. The main character begins to fall in love with Dr. John Graham Bretton, whose home she had stayed in as a young child in England, although he marries Polly Home. After moving to the title Belgian city, the protagonist works in Madame Beck's boarding school, where she finally falls in love with Monsieur Paul Emanuel. FTP, name this novel about Lucy Snowe, by Charlotte Bronte.
ANSWER: Villette 

8. One character in this story calls Paul Fort "the prince of poets," and notes that the 20th century has inverted the story of Mohammed and the mountain. That character is in the midst of writing a long poem called The Earth, and sorrowfully tells the narrator that Zunino and Zungri are about to tear down his house. In its postscript, the narrator believes that the title object destroyed in the demolition of Calle Garay was false, though it enabled him to see obscene letters sent to Carlos Argentino Daneri by his dead lover Beatriz, as well as the rest of the universe. FTP, name this short story by Jorge Luis Borges about a point in space containing all other points, named for a letter of the Hebrew alphabet. 
ANSWER: "The Aleph" [or "El Aleph"]	

9. Bianchon diagnoses one character in this novel with a disease that is peculiar to negroes and American tribes because Carabine tells a wealthy Brazilian that the aforementioned character plans to marry Crevel. Before suffering the rage of Baron Montes Montejanos, Valerie Marneffe had received a statue of Delilah from Wenceslas, a sculptor discovered by the title character. Despite knowing about her husband's affair with the actress Josepha, Adeline is more concerned with finding a husband for her daughter Hortense, who marries Count Steinbock. Their marriage causes Lisbeth Fischer to attempt to take revenge on the Hulot family. Published under the title Poor Relations along with Cousin Pons, FTP, name this novel by Balzac about a malevolent title relative.
ANSWER: La Cousine Bette [or Cousin Betty]

10. This story titles a collection that also includes "The Dulham Ladies" and "The Foreigner." Its protagonist plays a game of hide and seek with her cow Mistress Moolly, and her grandmother comments that "the wild creatures counts her as one o' themselves." That character is initially frightened by the aggressive whistle of a stranger, who tempts her with the gift of a jack-knife and a promised reward of ten dollars. After climbing a large pine tree, the protagonist discovers the location of the title animal, and initially resolves to tell a young hunter where to find it. FTP, Sylvia finally refuses to reveal the nest of the title bird in what short story set in the Maine woods by Sarah Orne Jewett? 
ANSWER: "A White Heron" 

11. In this play's final scene, characters playing Hector and Pompey get into a fight during a presentation of the Nine Worthies. That performance is organized by Holofernes, a schoolmaster who earlier reads a love letter mistakenly given to Jaquenetta. On the advice of Boyet, four characters mask themselves and switch their favors in order to confuse men disguised as Russians, who they derisively mock. In the opening scene, three of those men sign a pledge renouncing women in order to study with the King of Navarre, but all break their oath upon the arrival of attendants of the Princess of France. Ending with Dumaine, Longaville, and Berowne failing to woo Maria, Katherine, and Rosaline, FTP, name this early Shakespearean comedy. 
ANSWER: Love's Labor's Lost 
12. In the form prepared by its author, this collection's first word would've been "love" and its last word "spring," the former beginning "Morning Song" and the latter concluding "Wintering"; however, that optimistic tone was eliminated by its editor upon publication. Another poem in it begins "Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children," while another describes a "flap like a hat" followed by "red plush." In addition to "The Munich Mannequins" and "Cut," the title figure of another poem in it is called a "ghastly statue with one gray toe," while another concludes with the speaker stating "I eat men like air." Named for a poem beginning "Stasis in darkness," FTP, name this collection which includes "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy," a posthumous work of Sylvia Plath.  
ANSWER: Ariel  

13. English translations of this work usually render the name of Peniculus to mean "sponge," losing some of this play's genital jokes, which include the cook Cylindrus asking one of the title figures whether what he hears as his "precious penis" will be attending a feast. The other title character steals a mantle from his wife to give to his mistress, Erotium, who then baffles the other title figure by asking him to get the mantle fixed. Finally, Messenio, the slave to the character originally named Sosicles, solves the confusion in the last scene of Act Five. FTP, identify this play about a twin from Syracuse who finds his brother, a work of Plautus which inspired The Comedy of Errors. 
ANSWER: Menaechmi [or The Twin Brothers] 

14. This poem's central heroine is based on the granddaughter of King Alexander III. The main character tries to prevent the central event with webs of silken cloth and twine, and that event is foreseen by one character's vision of "the new moon / Wi' th'old moon in her arms." Beginning "The King sits in Dumferling town / Drinking his blood-red wine," this poem ends with the image of the title character lying "50 fathoms deep /...With the Scots-Lords at his feet." The title knight is asked to escort Margaret, Maid of Norway, to take the throne of Scotland, when an autumn storm drowns both of them. FTP, name this medieval Scottish ballad about the death of the title sailor.
ANSWER: Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens 

15. Many characters in this play disparage people named Patel, and its third scene begins with one character saying "all train compartments smell vaguely of shit." The protagonist is introduced as D. Ray Morton after James Lingk arrives to speak to the character who he met at a Chinese restaurant, the setting for the three scenes of Act One. Moss threatens to turn Aaronow into the police if he refuses to rob Mitch and Murray, while another character asks to be put on the board after convincing Bruce and Harriet Nyborg to buy eight units of Mountain View. However, Williamson deduces that Shelley Levene stole the leads from the office, which is in the midst of a contest for a Cadillac. FTP, name this play about shady real estate salesman, by David Mamet.
ANSWER: Glengarry Glen Ross 

16. Wayne Booth's The Rhetoric of Fiction claims that, while the symbolism of The Grapes of Wrath seems stilted with time, this work's commentary grows more compelling, and The Hedgehog and the Fox uses passages from this novel to analyze its author's "view of history." In one of its sections, historians throw stones at Alexander before noting "If we admit that human life can be ruled by reason, the possibility of life is destroyed." The protagonist duels with Dolokhov over Elena Kuragin, and joins a foreign army to assassinate its leader, who his Freemason numerology proves is the Anti-Christ, but must be rescued by Kutusov's Cossack forces. Ending with the happy marriages of Nikolai with Prince Andrei's sister Maria and Natasha Rostov with Pierre Bezukhov, FTP, name this epic novel about Napoleon's invasion of Russia, by Leo Tolstoy. 
ANSWER: War and Peace  [or Voyna i mir]








17. Eleazer Hosannah convinces a mob of the death of Dr. Godspeak in this author's play Requiem for a Futurologist. This author described a racist landlady who asks a potential tenant "ARE YOU LIGHT OR VERY DARK" in "Telephone Conversation," and wrote about mendicants operated on by the sinister Bero in Madmen and Specialists. This author of the recent King Baabu also wrote a play about the "metamorphosis" of a religious charlatan first introduced in The Trials of Brother Jero, and depicted a ruler who forces Danlola to present him with the New Yam in a play about a dictator based on Nkrumah. FTP, name this playwright of Kongi's Harvest who described the ritual sacrifice of Elesin in Death and the King's Horseman. 
ANSWER: Wole Soyinka 

18. He wrote about an encounter between Shakespeare and Cervantes in Spain in "A Meeting in Valladolid," and updated The Flying Dutchman in "The Endless Voyager." Some of his essays are collected in "Homage to QWERT YUIOP," and he depicted the life of a young Christopher Marlowe in A Dead Man in Deptford. His novels Time for a Tiger, The Enemy in the Blanket, and Beds in the East are known as The Malayan Trilogy, and he used Somerset Maughm as the basis for the homosexual author Kenneth Toomey, the protagonist of his novel Earthly Powers. Another of his characters jumps out of a window after F. Alexander begins playing a symphony, which nauseates him because of the Ludovico Technique. FTP, name this British author who wrote about Alex and his "droogs" in A Clockwork Orange. 
ANSWER: Anthony Burgess 

19. This novel's protagonist buys three baked yams on the street after emptying a spittoon on a Baptist preacher's head, which results in him being banned from the Men's House for ninety-nine years and one day. He eventually leaves Mary's home for good after a meeting at the Chthonian hotel helps cushion the loss of his job working for Mr. Kimbro at Liberty Paints, the only place that will take the protagonist after Dr. Bledsoe sends him away from his college for allowing Mr. Norton to meet Jim Trueblood. His new job entails him delivering speeches against Ras, whose inciting of destruction forces the narrator to flee, whereupon he falls through a manhole. Enlarged from its author's short story "Battle Royal," it begins with the title character describing his life underground. FTP, name this novel by Ralph Ellison. 
ANSWER: Invisible Man 

20. Nicholas D'eux stuffs bread into Choubert's mouth in order to discover whether "Mallot" is spelled with a 't' or a 'd' in this author's play Victims of Duty. A man becomes buried by an exponentially increasing amount of furniture in his play The New Tenant, while a gigantic foot bursting onstage signals the rapid growth of a corpse which eventually carries the title character of his play Amédée into space. In another of his plays, a professor says "the knife kills" before fatally stabbing his female pupil, and in yet another, an old couple set up the title objects in preparation for a message delivered by a mute orator. FTP, name this playwright of The Lesson and The Chairs who used clichés taken from English textbooks for his play about the Smiths and the Martins, The Bald Soprano. 
ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco 

