2007 Chicago Open Literature Singles
Packet 6


1. Enraged audience members chased this author down Charing Cross Road after being subjected to his musical The World of Paul Slickey. He directed stage actors to ad-lib anti-Irish and anti-Semitic slurs to the audience in his play A Sense of Detachment, and the theories of Brecht influenced his play Luther. After being approached by Laurence Olivier, he created the character of Archie Rice in The Entertainer, and wrote a sequel to his most famous play in 1991, Deja Vu. Helena Charles falls in love with that play's protagonist, a friend of Cliff Lewis who lives in the Midlands with his wife Alison. FTP, name this British playwright who wrote about Jimmy Porter in Look Back in Anger. 
ANSWER: John Osborne 

2. In one section of this work, "Light drowned the lithic trillions of [the] spawn" of the title figure, and "blue-eyed Mary with the claret scarf" is asked to shine. Those passages are found in "Southern Cross" and "Virginia," both of which are part of the section "Three Songs." Its longest section begins "imponderable the dinosaur / sinks slow," and in yet another section, the narrator talks to Luis de San Angel and Juan Perez about Genoa. Along with "Cape Hatteras" and "Ave Maria," its sections include "Powhatan's Daughter" and "Cutty Sark." Opening with a "proem" about a work of John Augustus Roebling, FTP, name this modernist poetic sequence by Hart Crane.
ANSWER: The Bridge 

3. One character in this work refers to General Corbulo to note that wisdom and dulness are not different, and later is carried to the bookstore before a journey so he doesn't disorder his own library. Its title comes from the scene where Nazarius inquires into Peter's collapse and vision, while the central event occurs when a city's ruler orders it burnt so he can experience artistic suffering. It begins with the post-feast private bath of Petronius, who tries to assist his nephew in taking the hostage Lygia, though Marcus Vinitius is eventually converted to Christianity. For 10 points, name this historical novel whose title means "where are you going" in Latin, by Henryk Sienkiwiecz. 
ANSWER: Quo Vadis? 

4. Published as part of "The Princess," its second stanza evokes two ships: one bringing "friends up from the underworld," the other "sinking with all we love below the verge." The third stanza compares the title objects to the song of "half-awakened birds" heard by a dying man, while the fourth and final stanza compares them to "remembered kisses after death," which cause the speaker to feel "deep as first love, and wild with all regret." Each stanza ends with "the days that are no more," which the speaker originally recalls while "looking on the happy Autumn-fields" after the title objects arise "from the depths of some divine despair." FTP, name this Tennyson poem whose speaker weeps in vain.
ANSWER: "Tears, Idle Tears"

5. Gilian Overring wrote about "Language, Sign and Gender" in this work, while Mary Flavia Godfrey compared its "Thematized Decapitations" to those in the Biblical story of Judith. By the time the main action starts, the title character has a belt with nine notches, signifying nine sea creatures killed during his voyage. Later, before the climactic battle, the title character tells of Haethcyn's accidental killing of his brother Herebeald during an account of his father's battle with the Swedes. The fate of the necklace of Brosing is central to a 1936 lecture arguing that this work exhibits unity and should be viewed as a work of art, not a historical document. With the hero accompanied only by faithful Wiglaf during his final victory against the dragon, FTP, identify this Old English epic about a Geat who defeats Grendel. 
ANSWER: Beowulf 





6. At its last part's close, one character tries to commit suicide with methanol but only blinds himself, while the central character returns to a temple he has not seen in sixty years and concludes that he adopted the wrong child. That character had acquitted the protagonist of its second part, which takes place shortly after the May 15 incident, using Hori's forged diary and an innkeeper's conflation of him with Kiyoaki. The latter's death, for love of Satoko, exhibited a purity of spirit that Isao demonstrates by killing himself after murdering a capitalist, when his plan to restore the Emperor fails. Focusing on Shikoguni Honda, FTP, name this tetralogy that includes Runaway Horses and Spring Snow, a work by Yukio Mishima named for a lunar mare. 
ANSWER: The Sea of Fertility [accept The Decay of the Angel before "second part"] 

7. In the play The Paris Letter, Sandy's mother doesn't understand the end of this work, which is prefaced by one character chanting the Dies Irae. That character fires a gun containing a parasol instead of bullets, and calls the central female a cyclops, though she later calls its two men sexual "flops" and herself "the Earth Mother." In its final lines, that female responds "I am" to her husband's repetition of the title, which was the wittiest thing said at the History Department party they have just returned from, after the "Bringing Up Baby" game where her husband exposed that their child was imaginary. For 10 points, name this play where Nick and Honey get caught in the marital crossfire of George and Martha, by Edward Albee. 
ANSWER: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 

8. In one of his short stories, four iconoclastic brothers from Aachen devote their lives to chanting the Gloria in excelsis after hearing Sister Antonia conduct an Italian Mass. In another, a marquis burns his castle to the ground after seeing the ghost of a woman he ordered to move behind a stove. In addition to "St. Cecilia, or the Power of Music" and "The Beggarwoman of Locarno," the title character of another of his stories becomes pregnant after being taken advantage of by the Russian officer Count F-. Josefa and Jeronimo Ruggiero are killed in a church after being blamed for a natural disaster in his story set in Santiago, "The Earthquake in Chile." FTP, name this German author of "The Marquise of O" who committed suicide after writing Penthesilea and Prince Friedrich of Homburg.
ANSWER: Heinrich von Kleist

9. At the end of this work, we learn that Kukshina goes to Paris to study architecture and that Sitnikov claims to carry on the central character's cause after he contracts typhus during an autopsy. That character had healed Pavel Petrovich after provoking a duel by kissing the maid Fenecka, who had bore his friend Arkady's half-brother Mitya with her employer Nikolai. The protagonist enjoys dissecting frogs, as he insists that a chemist is more valuable than twenty poets and that the only thing that matters is that two times two equals four. For 10 points, name this work about two generations of Kirsanovs and Bazarovs, a novel about a nihilist by Ivan Turgenev. 
ANSWER: Fathers and Sons [or Ottsy i Deti]  

10. Unlike other writers of his period, this author of Hecyra did not use omniscient narrators or divinities in his prologues, and he also never had characters directly address the audience. The title parasite arranges for the orphan girl Phanium to be married to Antipho in one of his plays, while another contrasts the harsh parental discipline of Demea with the soft approach of his sibling Micio. In addition to Phormio and Adelphi, this rival of Luscius Lanuvinus also wrote plays translated as The Self Tormentor and The Eunuch. FTP, identify this Carthaginian-born playwright whose name was adopted by the persona of some of Housman's poems. 
ANSWER: Terence or Publius Terentius Afer 









11. Corny has adventures with his friends Dirck and Guert in a novel by this author named for a peninsula shaped like the devil's foot. That novel, Satanstoe, is the first of a trilogy that includes The Chainbearers and The Redskins, which are collectively known as The Littlepage Manuscripts. In another of his novels, Harry Wilder has continual run-ins with the title character, a pirate who is known by the nickname of his ship, The Red Rover. His first novel featuring La Longue Carabine is subtitled "The Sources of the Susquehanna," while his first novel, Precaution, was followed by one about Harvey Birch, The Spy. FTP, identify this author of The Prairie, The Pathfinder, and The Deerslayer, best known for creating Natty Bumppo in The Leatherstocking Tales. 
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper 

12. This poem was inspired by the poet's cousin Mrs. Wilmot, whom he met at a party hosted by Lady Sitwell. That cousin's dark dress and hair coupled with her fair face is the likely source of this poem's mingled imagery of light and dark. Describing "cloudless climes and starry skies" that offer a mellowing "tender light / which heaven to that gaudy day denies," this poem's last lines depict the central figure's "smiles that win" and "tints that glow," which reflect "A heart whose love is innocent!" A "nameless grace" softly lightens the face of that figure, and according to the speaker, "all that's best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes." FTP, name this 1815 poem about a woman who moves in the title condition "like the night," by Lord Byron. 
ANSWER: "She Walks in Beauty" 

13. This founder of the short-lived journal New Life died in the midst of translating Gogol's Dead Souls. He characterized his country as a suffocating "iron house" in the preface to his first short story collection, Call to Arms, and described the wife of Xiang Lin, a former servant who dies after being ostracized from her community, in "The New-Year's Sacrifice." Another of his short stories ends with the line "Save the children" and concerns a man who believes that he is surrounded by cannibals, while the title character of his best-known short story criticizes the "Imitation Foreign Devil" and deceives himself into characterizing defeats as "spiritual victories." FTP, name this Chinese author of "A Madman's Diary" and "The True Story of Ah Q".
ANSWER: Lu Xun or Lu Hsün or Zhou Shuren 

14. "Pretty girls make graves" is a favorite saying of this novel's narrator, indicating his belief that lust leads to conception which leads to death. Still, he engages in the sexual game of yabyum with Princess and his poet roommate Alvah, the author of a long poem called "Wail." The protagonist then climbs the Matterhorn peak of California's Sawtooth range with his Buddhist friend Japhy Ryder, an ecstatic experience which makes Ray Smith prophecy a "rucksack revolution" to come. In this roman a clef, Ryder represents Gary Snyder and Alvah represents Allan Ginsberg. Published the year after On the Road, FTP, name this novel by Jack Kerouac whose title refers to "wandering Buddhas." 
ANSWER: The Dharma Bums 

15. Upon learning that townspeople have turned the day of his wife's burial into a fiesta, he vows to make them die of hunger. This character hires El Tilcuate to attack a group of revolutionaries, and has Toribio Aldrete killed for "falsifying boundaries." He bribes Father Renteria into praying for his dead son Miguel, and is eventually killed by Abundio Martinez. His love is not returned by the insane Susana San Juan, while he marries Dolores Preciado for economic reasons upon becoming the head of the Media Luna ranch, causing Juan Preciado to go to Comala to look for him. FTP, name this Mexican badass, the title character of a novel by Juan Rulfo. 
ANSWER: Pedro Páramo 








16. In Act 1, Poggio recounts his master's speech comparing his love for another character to his love for parmesan cheese, much to the chagrin of Donado. After being given a poisoned sword by Richardetto, Grimaldi mistakenly kills Bergetto in act three, but is taken into the protection of the Catholic Church by a cardinal. In Act 4, Vasques arranges for Hippolita to drink poison, and hires bandits to gouge out Putana's eyes. In the final scene, Florio dies when his son enters carrying his sister's heart on a dagger, and Soranzo is killed by a former student of Friar Bonaventura. Focusing on the tragic results of the incestuous relationship between Giovanni and Annabella, FTP, name this play by John Ford.
ANSWER: 'Tis Pity She's a Whore 

17. Paula Backscheider analyzed this character in a book subtitled The Making of a Criminal Mind. She writes alternate lines of a love poem using a diamond ring with one man, while another insists they can lie in bed naked without having sex. At the start of the novel named for her, she has an affair with her mistress's youngest son, who refuses to marry her and gives her to his short-lived brother Robin. She finally returns to her England with her Lancashire husband after spending her later years with her Virginia family, which include the half-brother she accidentally married as well as their mother, who had escaped Newgate by "pleading her belly," though she herself ended up there for theft. For 10 points, name this picaresque heroine created by Daniel Defoe. 
ANSWER: Moll Flanders (accept Mrs. Betty or variants) 

18. The protagonist of this work resolves to marry another character after learning that she may have had a lesbian relationship with Mademoiselle Vinteuil. Its third section ends with a duchess changing from black to red shoes to attend a fancy-dress ball instead of comforting a dying man, and begins with the narrator watching La Berma's performance of Phèdre. The narrator is similarly inspired by the paintings of Elstir, whose studio he visits in Balbec, and Bergotte, who becomes a member of the "little clan" of the Verdurins in its fourth section. The narrator's relationship with Albertine is paralleled by the one in its first section between Odette de Crecy and Charles Swann. Beginning with an "overture" in which the narrator remembers his childhood in Combray after tasting a Madeleine, FTP, name this seven-part novel by Marcel Proust.  
ANSWER: In Search of Lost Time [or Remembrance of Things Past or A La Recherche du Temps Perdu]

19. A play based on this story ends with one character being told "this is your future" before being shot six times. The protagonist encounters an old man tying an enormous knot, and his incredulity about the amount of time required to sail from Cape Horn to St. Maria prompts another character to cut his master while shaving him. In the final pages of this story, the title character is asked "what has cast such a shadow over you," and replies "the negro." The ominous sound of the hatchet-cleaners foreshadows the unveiling of a figurehead featuring the words "Follow your leader" and the skeleton of Don Aranda, the former captain of the San Dominick, which Amasa Delano realizes is run by the slave Babo. FTP, name this short story about a slave rebellion on the ship of the title Spanish captain, by Herman Melville. 
ANSWER: "Benito Cereno" 

20. Elizabeth Bishop's "A Miracle for Breakfast" is one, as is Louis Zukofsky's "Mantis." Popeye "sits in thunder" and "scratche[s] his balls" in "Farm Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape," a comic one by John Ashbery. The first one was Arnaut Daniel's "Lo Ferm Voler," and the earliest example of one in English is a song sung by shepherds Strephon and Klaius by Philip Sidney titled "Ye Goat Herd Gods." Ending with a three-line tornada or envois, it originated in 12th-century France and is the only form accepted for poetry submissions to McSweeney's. Using a retrograda cruciata pattern of repetition in six-line stanzas, FTP, name this complex poetic form of 39 lines in which the same six words must end the six lines in each stanza and then all be used in the final three-line stanza. 
ANSWER: sestina 

