Chicago Open 2007
Packet by Matt Lafer, Ray Luo, Jerry Vinokurov and Ryan Westbrook

1. This artist traveled to Caracas with his first teacher, the Danish painter Fritz Melbye, and established a studio there, painting such pieces as Coconut Palms by the Sea.  Other works depict an orange-shirted lady amidst lush foliage in Young Woman Bathing Her Feet in a Brook and a similarly tranquil scene in his The Garden of Les Mathurins at Pontoise.  His pen sketches entitled Les Turpitudes Sociales prominently feature the word "Anarchie," fitting since this artist was a member of the Social Art Club, devoted to the aims of radicals like Jean Grave.  Perhaps best known for his series of paintings of Kew Gardens in London, he switched styles numerous times.  For ten points, identify this man of Spanish/Jewish extraction, who was born on the island of St. Thomas, and was the only artist to exhibit in all eight Impressionist exhibitions.
ANSWER: Camille Pisarro

2. One of its protagonists initially appears in the disguise of a neighbor, Madame Berlingot.  Herbert Trench helped inspire a scene in which the characters visit the Luxury of Knowing Nothing and the Luxury of Being Rich, the latter of whom says that the title object is "not good to eat".  The main action consists of a journey wherein personifications of Bread, Milk, Sugar and Light, as well as the family dog, Tylo, help two children to find the title animal, which can cure their neighbor's sick daughter.  The fairy Berylune helps the children Tyltyl and Mytyl find happiness, represented by the titular avian, in, FTP, what play by Maurice Materlinck?
ANSWER: The Blue Bird  or L'oiseau bleu

3. Early in his career, this politician headed an investigative committee with Robert Wagner which looked into the Triangle Shirtwaist fire.  Belle Moskowitz was his longtime campaign manager and he started the career of Robert Moses, the "master-builder" of New York City.  Arkansas senator Joe Robinson was chosen as his running mate, and while he owed much of his rise to Silent Charlie Murphy, he later renounced his ties to Tammany Hall.  Later in life, he founded the American Liberty League along with John Davis, the democratic nominee in the election previous to his presidential run.  FTP, name the so-called"Happy Warrior," a Catholic from New York who lost to Hoover in 1928.
ANSWER: Alfred Emanuel Smith  

4. This universal property of all spinless boson systems can be derived exactly for all charged scalar fields at any temperature.  This property is most easily observed in symmetric electronic structures such as ionic crystals.  Materials with this property do not fit into the assumptions of Earnshaw's theorem, as they have negative susceptibility.  Bismuth has the highest elemental value for this property, and superconductors demonstrate the perfect variety of this property when they expel magnetic fields.  For ten points, identify this type of magnetism employed in a namesake type of levitation and distinguished from paramagnetism.
ANSWER: diamagnetism

5. This work endorses Maimonides's views on adoption, and it lays out an argument for the subsistence of the soul that takes issue with Aristotle's De Anima.  It argues that fate is unchangeable at the end of a section entitled "Theology."  This section is followed by one called "Ethics" which discusses the "irascible" passions, and the third section is entitled "Christ."  Structured as a series of objections and responses, it was begun at the time of Clement IV.  It uses the author's own commentaries on Lombard's Sentences to justify its arguments, one of which famously depends on the nature of efficient causes.  Aiming to instruct beginners in "whatever belongs to the Christian religion," FTP name this work of scholastic philosophy, the major work of Thomas Aquinas.
ANSWER: Summa Theologica or Summa Theologiae

6. In this work, the poet states "The sides of wet stones cannot console me" after noting that the title character is "not here, / Waiting like a fern, making a spiny shadow."  The title character is variously addressed as a wren, a sparrow, a skittery pigeon, and a maimed darling.  The poet recalls that when the titular scion of the Bannick family was sad, "she cast herself down into such a pure depth, even a father could not find her."  In the end, the poet declares that he has "no rights in this matter," as he is "neither father nor lover."  Memorializing a student thrown by a horse, FTP name this poem by Theodore Roethke.
ANSWER: "Elegy for Jane"

7. Some rivers that flow into this body of water from the north include the Amite and the Tchefuncte River, which passes through Covington on the way.  It is connected by a strait known as the Rigolets to the "One-Eyed Lake," Lake Borgne, in the east.  The most prominent town on its northern banks is Mandeville, while further north are Slidell and Hammond.  The Industrial Canal connects it to another large body of water and it receives water diverted by the Bonnet Carré Spillway.  Skirted to the north by Interstate 12 and crossed by the Twin Span Bridge of Interstate-10, FTP, name this second-largest saltwater lake in the US, to the north of New Orleans.
ANSWER: Lake Pontchartrain

8. In the northern part of this engagement, sometimes called the Battle of San Martino, Ludwig von Benedek's 8th Corps successfully held off the attacking force, and, later, von Benedek would screen the retreat of his defeated compatriots.  Masses of the new rifled field guns and early control of the battlefield assured victory for the winning side, resulting in the Peace of Villafrance 16 days later.  Franz Josef was the losing commander, doing no better than his generals had at Magenta earlier in the month.  FTP, name this 1859 battle between the French and Sardinians on one side and the Austrians on the other whose aftermath inspired Jean-Henri Dunant to found the Red Cross.
ANSWER: Battle of Solferino

9. This equation can be used with alkali metal atoms so long as their single valence electron is sufficiently shielded from the nucleus.  It was modified by Moseley's Law to allow for accurate k-alpha and l-alpha values, and Ritz improved this equation by analyzing nonzero boundary conditions.  It produces the Brackett, Pfund and Paschen series, and it was created when its originator inverted both sides of Balmer's formula.  Used in connection with a namesake constant, FTP, name this formula used to produce the line spectrum for hydrogen, named for a Swede.
ANSWER: Rydberg-(Ritz) Formula/Equation

10. Arias in this opera include "Ah!, Pescator, affonda l'esca", sung when one of the characters is disguised as a fisherman, and the duet "L'amo come il fulgor del creato" between the two lead females.  Prior to the most famous piece is a scene where the inquisitor Alvise believes his adulterous wife has drank a poison, although it was really only a sleeping potion.  In the climactic scene, the title character helps the lovers Laura and Enzo escape from the spy Barnaba, and then, after singing the aria "Che vedo la! Il rosario!", commits suicide.  With a libretto by Boito based on Hugo's Angelo, FTP, name this opera that includes the "Dance of the Hours", a work of Amilcare Ponchielli.
ANSWER: La gioconda  (accept "the ballad singer" or other equivalent unnecessary English translations)

11. Minor characters in this work include the utterly normal Rodney Bayham and the cabin boy Jimmy who keeps up the charade of his mistress' heart condition.  At one point the sickly Ms.  Maidan has her ears boxed and much of the third section takes place at Branshaw Manor in Fordingbridge, where the novel's narrator lives.  Originally entitled The Saddest Story, its title character slits his throat after receiving a telegram from his former ward and unrequited love Nancy Rufford.  The novel opens in Nauheim where Florence Dowell and her husband, the narrator, John, meet Leonora and her philandering husband for the first time.  For ten points, identify this work named for Captain Edward Ashburnham, a purportedly virtuous military man, the best-known work of Ford Madox Ford.
ANSWER: The Good Soldier

12. This work's chapter on "Devout Observances" begins with a caveat that the truth and beauty of the anthropomorphic cults considered are "of too grave import to find a place in so slight a sketch."  It describes the coercive factors of industrial exemption in a chapter on "The Conservation of Archaic Traits."  It calls gambling "another subsidiary trait of the barbarian temperament" in "The Belief in Luck."  Hailed as social satire by Howells, this work introduced the term for attempting to surpass a neighbor in wealth status, pecuniary emulation.  Focusing on the titular economically useless group, FTP name this work that coined the term conspicuous consumption, written by Thorstein Veblen.
ANSWER: The Theory of the Leisure Class

13. A method for calculating a Euclidean type of one of these involves understanding of the properties of Delaunay triangulation.  In the case of directed weighted edges, finding one of these is not sufficient and Edmond's Algorithm should be used instead.  The most efficient algorithm for calculating them was found by Bernard Chazelle, and has a runtime of approximately O(e) ("big-O of e").  The oldest algorithm for finding them was developed for an electricity network in Bohemia and is called Boruvka's algorithm.  Usually found using Kruskal's or Prim's algorithm, FTP name this type of subgraph, the smallest tree that connects all vertices of the graph together.
ANSWER: minimum spanning tree

14. This man was the most famous disciple of the author of the "Great Book of Writing", Neolin.  He participated in the war against Nicholas Orontony, a chief of the Huron, and may have met Robert Rogers and his rangers during their western campaigns.  General Jeffrey Amherst may have attempted to wipe this man and his followers out with smallpox after this man's victory over the British at Bloody Run.  After making peace with the British supervisor William Johnson, he was assassinated by a Peoria Indian in 1769.  FTP, name this Ottawa chief who laid siege to Detroit in 1763, an action which began the rebellion named for him.
ANSWER: Pontiac or Obwandiyag

15. Some of the recurring characters on this show include Rainn Wilson as Arthur Martin and Kathy Bates as Bettina.  A montage at the end of the final episode of this series shows the eventual deaths of the main characters, such as Claire's in 2085 at the age of 101.  One of the characters on this show has two adopted children with his security guard boyfriend Keith, and his mental health suffers after his brother Nate dies of a ruptured AVM.  That brother, David, is a member of the Fisher family, who own a funeral home in, FTP, what HBO series.
ANSWER: Six Feet Under

16. It includes a poem written by a man who had an affair with the wife of King Tissa, the "Oil Cauldron Verses," and a work about a relic that can be found in the Sacred Temple of the Tooth, the Dathavamsa.  Its "Island Chronicle" is the first known work to be written about Sri Lanka.  Recitations by the disciple Upali were transcribed to form its section on rules for monks and nuns, the Vinaya, which is joined by the Sutta and Abhidhamma.  FTP name this sole canonical collection of Theravada Buddhist writings named alternately for the sacred language in which it was written, or for its originally being stored in three baskets.
ANSWER: Pali canon or tipitaka or tripitaka

17. He notes that prairie dogs give three hurrahs "all unstingingly as to the moon" in "Great Western Plains," contemplates an opera production in "Carmen de Boheme," and compares a musician to Aesop in "Black Tambourine."  In another of his works the speaker reflects on keeping one's good humor in times of despair.  That piece, "Chaplinesque," along with such titles as "Voyages" and "At Melville's Tomb" can be found in his first collection of poetry White Buildings, which was published four years before his greatest work: an epic divided into such sections as "Powhatan's Daughter" and "Cutty Sark."  For ten points, identify this American poet best known for his poem The Bridge.
ANSWER: Hart Crane

18. Smaller ones include Phoenix, whose components all have a richness class of zero.  Many of their component structures are listed in the Abell catalogue.  Their discovery had its roots in distribution maps produced by Shapley and Ames.  They typically do not appear dynamically relaxed, and are usually found on the outskirts of enormous voids in large filamentary or sheet-like structures, such as the Great Wall.  The Local Group and the Virgo Cluster belong to the same one, which is moving towards the Great Attractor.  FTP name these large collections of galaxy clusters.
ANSWER: supercluster

19. This text features a revolt of grinding stones and pottery, upset at being overworked.  At one point in this work, 400 boys are killed by a thrown stone and become the group of stars called Motz.  A louse swallowed by a toad swallowed by a snake swallowed by a falcon delivers a challenge to two brothers after they play the ball game by the Great Abyss.  The hero twins Hunapu and Xbalanque triumph over the lords of Xibalba in, FTP, this primary source for Mayan mythology.
ANSWER: Popul Vuh

20. This man, known to his supporters as the "Father of the Poor," had a brother, Benjamin, who was known as "the Kiss," and ran his country's secret police.  Deposed once in a military coup, this man was elected to his country's senate following the presidential election of Eurico Dutra, and he would go on to win his last presidential election in 1950.  Francisco Campos, this man's justice minister, helped draft his most famous plan, which was supported by the Integralistas.  This man's downfall came about following the dismissal of his protégé Joao Goulart and the attempted murder of opposition journalist Carlos Lacerda.  FTP name this dictator who committed suicide in 1954 and established the quasi-fascist Estado Novo in Brazil.
ANSWER: Getulio Donelas Vargas


1. He was arrested in the middle of the night and taken to cell 404, where he paces 6.5 steps to and fro, and communicates with the military prisoner in cell 402 by tapping, using a quadratic alphabet.  FTPE.
[10] Name this ex-Commissar of the People forced to denounce himself to the public prosecutor by his former college friend Ivanov in an Arthur Koestler novel.
ANSWER: Nicholas Rubashov; accept either name
[10] Rubashov is executed after confessing at the end of this dystopian novel.
ANSWER: Darkness at Noon
[10] This man replaces Ivanov.  He subjects Rubashov to sleep deprivation and brings out the decrepit, hare-lipped prisoner Keiffer from cell 402 to testify against Rubashov.
ANSWER: Gletkin

2. It can be modified by the Taft Equation and its constants are often incorporated into a Craig Plot.  FTPE:
[10] Name this equation of organic chemistry that posits an empirical relationship between aromatic reactants with different substituents in different reactions.
ANSWER: Hammett Equation
[10] Hammett observed his correlation for para and meta-substituted benzoic acids, but not for those with this third type of substitution.
ANSWER: ortho substitution
[10] With Curtin, Hammett gives his name to a principle that states that the product ratio of a multipath reaction is dependent upon this value for the transition state.  The spontaneity of a reaction is also dependent upon the change in this value.
ANSWER: Gibbs Free Energy

3. Name these Italian composers of the 17th century, FTPE:
[10] His most famous composition is the Miserere mei, Deus for two choirs, which is sung annually during Holy Week in the Sistine Chapel.  Mozart is popularly thought to have heard and transcribed it from memory during a visit to Rome in 1780.
ANSWER: Gregorio Allegri
[10] This Italian's eighth concerto grosso is often played on Christmas, and he is also known for the variations on La Follia.  Anecdotally, he is known for having gotten in a row with Handel after being unable to play that man's overture to The Triumph of Time and Truth.
ANSWER: Arcangelo Corelli
[10] This composer's Fiori musicali, consisting of three organ masses, and several toccatas for the Elevation of the Host, was a major influence on Bach, and he was also the teacher of Johann Froberger.
ANSWER: Girolamo Frescobaldi

4. Answer some questions about the investiture controversy FTPE.
[10] After the excommunication of Henry IV by Gregory VII, Henry stood bare-headed in the snow for three days outside this castle where Gregory was staying as part of his reconciliation effort.
ANSWER: Canossa
[10] Following the civil war that ensued after Gregory issued a prohibition on lay investiture, Gregory was driven out and died in exile in Salerno under the protection of this man.
ANSWER: Robert Guiscard or Robert de Hauteville or Duke Robert I of Apulia
[10] This 1122 compromise between Calixtus II and Henry V allowed for bishops and abbots to be selected by the clergy, though the emperor could decide contested elections.  It formally settled the investiture controversy.
ANSWER: Concordat of Worms

5. Answer some questions about complex analysis, FTPE.
[10] This man's namesake integral formula states that a holomorphic function is determined within any disk by its values on the disk boundary.  With Riemann, he gives his name to two partial differential equations satisfied by all holomorphic functions.
ANSWER: Augustin Louis Cauchy
[10] This term denotes a function that is holomorphic over the whole complex plane.
ANSWER: entire function
[10] Picard's Little Theorem generalizes this theorem, which states that an entire function that is bounded must be constant.
ANSWER: Liouville's Theorem

6. Name these places and things that appear in Blake's Songs of Experience, FTPE.
[10] In this poem, the speaker hears "the mind-forg'd manacles" in "every voice, in every ban" while wandering "thro' midnight streets" in the title city.
ANSWER: "London"
[10] The narrator states that he watered the title plant "in fears, / Night & morning with my tears."  The narrator is pleased to see his foe "outstretchd beneath" it after his foe tries to steal its bright apple.
ANSWER: "A Poison Tree"
[10] Sharing its name with a Rubens painting, the speaker finds this place filled with graves and tomb-stones where flowers should be, and a Chapel with "'Thou shalt not' writ over the door" built where he used to play on the green.
ANSWER: "The Garden of Love"

7. This republic encompasses Rodrigues, the Agalega Islands, and the Cargadas Carajos Shoals.  FTPE:
[10] Name this island nation with cities including Vacoas and its capital of Port Louis.
ANSWER: Mauritius
[10] Together with the island of Réunion, the Republic of Mauritius composes these islands named in honor of a Portuguese navigator.
ANSWER: Mascarene Islands
[10] This archipelago, also known as the Oil Islands, was administered by the British from Mauritius until it became the British Indian Ocean Territory.  It sits squarely in the middle of the Indian Ocean south of the Maldives.
ANSWER: Chagos Archipelago

8. Its residents include Osmotar, the bride-advisor, as well as a man distinguished by his blue stockings.  For ten points each:
[10] Identify this title locale of an epic poem whose name translates as "land of heroes."
ANSWER: Kalevala
[10] The Kalevanders are opposed by Louhi, the mistress of this location sometimes known as North Farm.  Lemminkainen, Ilmarinen, and Vainomoinen court the maiden of this place.
ANSWER: Pohjola
[10] A cowherd named Soppy Hat kills Lemminkainen while he hunts the swan of this land of the dead.
ANSWER: Tuonela or Tuoni

9. Answer the following about congressman Laurence Keitt, FTSNOP:
[10] Keitt used a pistol to hold off senators who attempted to rescue this man, a Massachusetts senator beaten by Preston Brooks.
ANSWER: Charles Sumner
[10] During a debate over Bleeding Kansas, Keitt called this man a "damned black Republican puppy", after which a scuffle between the two broke out.  He later became Speaker of the House during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Galusha Aaron Grow
[5] Keitt joined Rhett, Yancey, and Ruffin in this group of extreme secessionists, whose first convention was held at Nashville in 1850.
ANSWER: Fire-Eaters
[5] Keitt was one of the few Southern casualties at this last battle won by Lee's army.  It was fought east of Richmond in early June 1864 during Grant's Overland Campaign.
ANSWER: Cold Harbor

10. Answer some questions about a playwright, FTPE:
[10] Some of this author's pioneering efforts were On Trial¸which was one of the first plays to use flashbacks, and Judgment Day, an early condemnation of Nazism.
ANSWER: Elmer Rice
[10] Elmer Rice's most well-known work is this play about the replacement of Mr.  Zero by the titular contraption.
ANSWER: The Adding Machine
[10] This Rice work centers around the romance of the Irish girl Rose Maurrant and the Jewish Sam Kaplan.  A depiction of the melting-pot of New York City tenement life, it was adapted into musical theatre by Kurt Weill.
ANSWER: Street Scene

11. Name the following players selected in the 2007 NFL draft, FTPE:
[10] Despite unfunny jokes about Detroit taking their fourth wide receiver in the first round in the last five years, they still selected this Georgia Tech standout with the second overall pick.
ANSWER: Calvin Johnson 
[10] This defensive end from Clemson was the fourth overall pick by the Buccaneers, making him the first defensive player selected.
ANSWER: Gaines Adams 
[10] The highest player drafted that did not play in a BCS conference was this offensive tackle for Central Michigan, who was taken 28th by the 49ers.  
ANSWER: Joe Staley

12. Answer the following about chromosome mapping in fruit flies, FTPE.
[10] This student of Thomas Morgan saw that recombinant frequencies for pairs of genes add linearly, and proposed the unit of centimorgan for a percent recombination.
ANSWER: Alfred H.  Sturtevant
[10] Sturtevant and Calvin Bridges found that this can occur in autosomes as well as sex chromosomes.  Nonsister chromatids are not involved, thus a single one can produce a maximum of only 50% recombination per tetrad.  
ANSWER: crossing over
[10] Crossing over can be prevented in Drosophila stocks by introducing these chromosomes that contain at least one recessive lethal allele and a bunch of inversions which makes pairing impossible.
ANSWER: balancer chromosome

13. He was so bummed out by the failure of the 1848 Frankfurt Assembly that he stopped doing much philosophy and started studying rocks instead.  FTPE:
[10] Name this German philosopher, a leader of the Left Hegelians, who wrote Principles of the Philosophy of the Future and influenced Karl Marx's historical materialism.
ANSWER: Ludwig Andreas Feuerbach
[10] In this 1841 work, Feuerbach calls religion the outward projection of the inward nature of humankind, and suggests that the proper study of theology should be anthropology.
ANSWER: Das Wesen des Christentums; or The Essence of Christianity
[10] In this anonymously-published 1830 book, Feuerbach argued that individual consciousness is reabsorbed into the infinite consciousness after one's passing, and that belief in a personal deity is mere egoism.
ANSWER: Gedanken uber Tod und Unsterblichkeit; or Thoughts on Death and Immortality

14. Identify the following people important in the life of Justinian I, FTPE.
[10] Justinian succeeded this man, his uncle, who was, according to legend, designated heir when Anastasius I had a dream that the first person to enter his chamber in the morning should be emperor.
ANSWER: Justin I
[10] The compilation of Justinian's namesake code was overseen by this quaestor.
ANSWER: Tribonian
[10] The primary source for information during Justinian's reign is the Secret History by this man, secretary to Belisarius.
ANSWER: Procopius

15. Answer some questions about literary works with a common title word, FTPE.
[10] The love quadrangle between Richard, Bertha, Robert, and Beatrice is at the core of this only play by James Joyce.
ANSWER: Exiles
[10] The stories "The Guest" and "The Silent Men," together with six others, appear in this man's story collection Exile and the Kingdom, posthumously published in 1958.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] This literary critic chronicled the adventures of the Lost Generation in Exile's Return.  He also helped rehabilitate Faulkner's reputation with his editing of The Portable Faulkner.
ANSWER: Malcolm Cowley

16. Answer the following about Russian Christianity, FTPE.
[10] This group rejected the reformed ritual of 1652, such as the crossing with three rather than two fingers and the new spelling of the name of Jesus.
ANSWER: Old Believers (accept Starovery or Raskolniki)
[10] This man was the patriarch of the church who enacted the Raskol reforms in 1652.  Initially a friend of the tsar, he was later shut up in a convent but his reforms remain to this day.
ANSWER: Nikon
[10] This smaller sect, with a name meaning "spirit wrestlers", attached themselves to the Old Believers in the 17th century in a show of solidarity against the official church.  Persecuted by the tsars for their pacifism, most of them fled to western Canada, their passage paid in part by Tolstoy.
ANSWER: Doukhobors

17. Identify these operators important in quantum mechanics, for ten points each.
[10] This operator represents the total energy of a system, and the solutions to the Schrodinger equation are its eigenstates and eigenenergies.
ANSWER: Hamiltonian
[10] This operator is the generalization of the Laplacian to a Minkowski spacetime.  Found in the Klein-Gordon equation, it is often written as "box-squared."
ANSWER: d'Alembertian
[10] These unitary operators give the time evolution of states.  If the Hamiltonian is time-independent, they are given by the exponential of the Hamiltonian times the time.
ANSWER: propagator

18. Answer the following about architecture of the Spanish Renaissance, FTPE.
[10] Juan Bautista de Toledo and Juan de Herrera helped create this gridiron-shaped palace complex, featuring a library with frescoes of the liberal arts.
ANSWER: El Escorial
[10] Rodrigo Gil de Hontañón designed the Palace of Monterrey in this city, whose university was constructed by Alfonso IX of León in 1218 but received a fresh Renaissance façade; students at the university have included Cervantés.
ANSWER: Salamanca
[10] Probably the foremost architect of the Spanish Renaissance, he completed a Golden Staircase for the Cathedral of Burgos but remains best known for his work on the Granada Cathedral.
ANSWER: Diego de Siloé

19. His earlier novels include Coolie and Untouchable, the story of lowly bathroom sweeper Bakha.  FTPE:
[10] Name this Indian writer, perhaps best known for his trilogy about the life of the Sikh peasant Lalu, including Across the Black Waters and The Sword and the Sickle.
ANSWER: Mulk Raj Anand 
[10] Anand authored an homage to this Bengali author of The Crescent Moon and Gitanjali.
ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore 
[10] Anand formed a triad of Indian novelists with Raja Rao and this author of several novels and stories set in the fictional town of Malgudi, including his first novel, Swami and Friends.
ANSWER: Rasipuram Krishnaswami Ayyar Narayanaswami

20. A comprehensive theory of this process was proposed in 1960 by Stommel and Arons.  For ten points each:
[10] Identify this process, in which salinity and temperature gradients drive oceanic currents.
ANSWER: thermohaline or deep or abyssal circulation (prompt on "circulation")
[10] During the thermohaline cycle, deep water can sink to the ocean floor by being funneled down through these convective features.
ANSWER: chimneys
[10] Ekman spirals occur in oceanic circulation when frictional forces and wind stress are balanced by this force, which is also responsible for the existence of geostrophic flows.
ANSWER: Coriolis force

