2007 Chicago Literature Singles
Packet 5


1. In one of his stories, Count B's picture of Switzerland is shot by Silvio after his wife gives him a pretext for declaring their duel a joke. That story, as well as "The Post-Master" and "The Coffin-Maker," is included in his collection The Tales of the Late P. Belkin. Also the author of a poem about the animation of a bronze statue of Peter the Great, another of his stories focuses on Hermann, who frightens Countess A to death while trying to procure the three-seven-ace combination. In his most famous work, Zaretsky fails to prevent the death of Lensky, who challenges the title character to a duel after he flirted with Olga on Tatiana's name-day celebration. For 10 points, name this Russian author of "The Queen of Spades" and Eugene Onegin. 
ANSWER: Alexander Pushkin

2. Chapter Seven of Shosana Felman's Writing and Madness performs a Lacanian reading of this work, refuting the essay on "The Ambiguity" of its author by Edmund Wilson. In its introduction, the Griffins question whether Douglas's love for its central narrator causes his reticence to relate the story. A key moment involves Luke's failure to find the letter written to the unseen uncle, though it's later revealed to Mrs. Grose that the letter is blank. Taking place at Bly, where the narrator first sees her predecessor upon the nearby lake and her lover standing upon a tower, for 10 points, name this novella where Miles dies in his governess's arms during the final approach of Peter Quint, by Henry James. 
ANSWER: The Turn of the Screw

3. This novel opens with its protagonist having three separate dreams, each while lying on a different side of his body. The protagonist argues with Arline Wilson and Cleotine Dobbs about a social worker in Tokyo, and dreams that his girlfriend Alice shrinks to the size of a doll while evading vicious animals. Leaving Ella Mae at home with the baby, the main character drives off to pick up Homer, Conway, Smitty, Johnson, and Pigmeat to take them to the Atlas Shipyard, where he is their leaderman until his offensive language gets him demoted. The protagonist finally agrees to join the Army after being falsely accused of rape by Madge Perkins. Set in post World War II Los Angeles, FTP, name this novel about Bob Jones, the first of Chester Himes. 
ANSWER: If He Hollers Let Him Go

4. One character with this first name clashes with Regina Goode over his desire to rename the town of Winthrop "New Prospera" in Colson Whitehead's novel Apex Hides the Hurt. A second character of this name declines to eat chicken bones, and violently kicks another character in the shins for attempting to wipe his tears away with a handkerchief. That character discusses "the skull in Connemara" and the existence of a personal God with "divine apathia," "divine aphambia," and "divine aphasia" upon being told to "think!" by his master, who is connected to him by a rope over both their necks. FTP, identify this word which names the slave of Pozzo in Waiting for Godot, and which also describes Jim Dixon in the title of a novel by Kingsley Amis. 
ANSWER: Lucky 

5. According to F.P. Magoun, this poem's references to the Deity such as "mankind's Guardian" and "Master Almighty" were probably coined beforehand since the conversion of the region had occurred fifty years prior. Later copies of this poem's manuscript change line five to read, "for sons of men" instead of "for sons of earth." Stating that the Lord first created "heaven as a roof" and then "middle-earth," its West Saxon and Northumbrian versions are the two most canonical. In The Ecclesiastical History of the English People, Bede describes its author as an illiterate herdsman who miraculously composed it in a dream. FTP, name this work created between 658 and 680 CE, the first extant Old English Poem. 
ANSWER: Caedmon's Hymn or Caedmon's Song

6. He describes using the advance money from an early novel to purchase the 13-volume Conrad edition of Flaubert's correspondence in 1986's The Perpetual Orgy: Flaubert and Madame Bovary. He used Euclides da Cunha's Os Sertoes as the basis for his description of the Canudos uprising in a 1981 novel set in rural northern Brazil. His own time at the Leoncio Prado Military Academy informs his story of Jaguar's killing of fellow student Esclavo, while yet another of his novels focuses on Don Anselmo, who builds the title brothel near the jungle. The author of The War of the End of the World, The Time of the Hero, and The Green House, FTP, name this El Boom novelist who wrote about Mario Vargitas and Pedro Camacho in Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. 
ANSWER: Mario Vargas Llosa 

7. The last stanza of this poem claims that "the Sacred Seven" pine in vain for the title figure's abode. Its narrator claims that "shadow and sunlight," as well as "shame and fame," are the same to him, and calls himself both "the doubter and the doubt." It controversially ends, "Find me, and turn thy back on heaven," after beginning by noting the mistake made "If the red slayer thinks he slays / or the slain thinks he is slain," for the narrator claims "They know not the subtle ways / I keep, and pass, and turn again." For 10 points, name this poem based on the Bhagavad Gita by Ralph Waldo Emerson, named for a Hindu god. 
ANSWER: "Brahma"  

8. Part five of John Ashbery's Flow Chart ends with a double sestina based on a poem by this author beginning, "There is no woman living who draws breath / So sad as I,"  "The Complaint of Lisa." T.S. Eliot's The Sacred Wood includes sections on him "as Critic" and "as Poet," in which he praises this author's Tristram of Lyonesse. He noted "Ask nothing more of me, sweet / All I can give you I give" in "The Oblation," and another of his poems praises "whatever gods may be" out of "too much love of living." For 10 points, name this early Decadent, the author of "The Garden of Prosperine," The Triumph of Time, three sets of Poems and Ballads, and Atalanta in Calydon. 
ANSWER: Algernon Swinburne 

9. In an ecstatic review, Thomas Carlyle wrote that Coleridge's Biographia Literaria "[is] but a slight business" compared with the learning on display in this man's writings. He wrote, "Afar lies the world, sunk in a deep grave; waste and lonely is its place" to address the melancholy created in him by the death of his fiancée Sophie von Kuhn. He argued for a return to medieval Catholic ritual in a speech he never gave, Christianity or Europe, and he died before he could finish the bildungsroman in which he used the symbol of a blue flower to represent Romantic aspiration for the other-worldly. FTP, identify this German Romantic who didn't complete Heinrich von Ofterdingen but did live to see publication of his Hymns to the Night. 
ANSWER: Novalis [or Friedrich von Hardenburg]

10. She parodied The Scarlet Letter in In the Blood and Fucking A, and fictionalized the story of Saartje Bartman in Venus, while her breakthrough included characters like Queen Hatshepsut and Black Man With Watermelon. Her most recent work is a collection of 365 short plays written over a year, though her most famous work, inspired by the black Lincoln impersonator she created in The America Play, deals with an ex-card shark who is shot by his three-card monte-playing brother, Booth. For 10 points, name this author of Death of the Last Black Man in the Whole Entire World who won the 2002 Pulitzer Prize for Drama for her play Top Dog/Underdog. 
ANSWER: Suzan-Lori Parks  









11. Alan Golding's From Outlaw to Canon suggests that this movement was responsible for splitting theory and creative practice, while Rene Wellek's The Attack on Literature claims the charges against it ignore its basic human concerns. The subtitle of George Steiner's Tolstoy or Dostoevsky distances itself from this movement, which is named for a book by John Crowe Ransom. It's most associated with the attack on the "Heresy of Paraphrase" in Cleanth Brooks's The Well-Wrought Urn and with Wimsatt and Beardsley's essays attacking the affective and intentional fallacies. Emphasizing uniqueness and internal unity in texts found through close reading, for 10 points, name this simply-titled movement of literary criticism that dominated the American academy through the mid-20th century.  
ANSWER: New Criticism 

12. One character in this novel tries to write his memoirs, but keeps putting Charles I into them. The doctor Mr. Chillip has to inform its protagonist's aunt that the title character is not a girl, causing her to call him by her last name, Trotwood. The title character goes to her after leaving the despotic Mr. Creakle at Salem House, where he had met Traddles and Steerforth, and after running away from his stepfather, Mr. Murdstone, who had put him to work in a factory. After his childish bride Dora dies, he realizes that he loves Agnes Wickfield, whose father's company he saves, with the help of Mr. Micawber, from exploitation by Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this bildungsroman by Charles Dickens. 
ANSWER: The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of David Copperfield the Younger of Blunderstone  

13. In its prologue, the narrator's friends abandon him when he breaks his roller-skates, while in its first chapter the protagonist tells that narrator that he dumped Lucia because she lacked a dowry. Its narrator later berates that protagonist for cheap behavior like returning uneaten cereal to the store and alienateing his second wife Mala. After discovering the narrator's comic, Prisoner From Hell Planet, its protagonist destroys his first wife Anja's diaries, which may have shed light on her suicide and time at Auschwitz. Comprising "And Here My Troubles Began" and "My Father Bleeds History," for 10 points, name this graphic novel that depicts Jews like Vladek Spiegelman as the titular rodent.  
ANSWER: Maus: A Survivor's Tale  

14. One character in this work says that if he ever meets God he'll ask for a million dollars and a bottle of beer. A policeman tells another character that she has complained of 42 separate ruined daughters after she's been arrested for drunkenness. In its opening chapters, the protagonist's brother Tommie dies, and another character fights with Billie. It begins on Rum Alley, where the title character's brother Jimmie is saved from the children of Devil's Row by the sophisticated Pete, whom the title character idolizes. However, Nellie causes Pete to leave the title character, who then tries to make a living as a prostitute before her death. For 10 points, name this naturalistic novel about a "girl of the streets," by Stephen Crane. 
ANSWER: Maggie, A Girl of the Streets   

15. As a young child, this character's mother stuffed him with jam and his father let him run barefoot, and he later earns a certificate in natural history while under the care of a wholesale ironmonger. Earlier, he was forced to conjugate "ridiculous sum" twenty times in his first day of class, where he mumbles his own name incorrectly. A week after Héloise learns that she possesses a great fortune, her death leaves him free to marry the daughter of Rouault, whose leg he had set in Bertaux. He leaves only twelve francs for his daughter Berthe after dying of a broken heart, having read love letters from Léon Dupuis and Rodolphe Boulanger. FTP, name this fictional doctor, the husband of Emma in a novel by Gustave Flaubert. 
ANSWER: Charles Bovary [prompt on "Bovary," do not accept "Madame Bovary"] 







16. In Act 3, the protagonist is visited by Matt of the Mint and Ben Budge, and laments his betrayal by Jemmy Twitcher. Produced by John Rich, this play's third act includes two characters consulting the Coronation Account before the arrival of Diana Trapes, who tells them the whereabouts of the protagonist. In its introduction, the title figure tells The Player that the work was "originally writ for celebrating the marriage of James Chanter and Moll Lay, two most excellent ballad singers." After being recaptured by Lockit, the main character consents to be hanged in Newgate, until the author intervenes to decide that there must be a happy ending. Satirizing Robert Walpole through the character of Peachem, FTP, name this play about the criminal MacHeath, by John Gay. 
ANSWER: The Beggar's Opera 

17. After the death of his first wife, this author married the daughter of a wealthy butcher while writing sonnets to Lucinda. Before that, he had written La Hermosura de Angélica, based on Ariosto's Orlando Furioso. Other works of this author include his pastoral novel La Arcadia and a mock epic about a cat titled Gatomachia, but he remains better known for his dramas, such as one where the countess Diana prevents her secretary Teodoro from marrying Marcello, as well as one where Estrella Tabera, the title character, refuses to marry Don Sancho with the murder of her brother Don Bustos. The author of The Gardener's Dog and The Star of Seville, FTP, identify this early Spanish dramatist of La Dorotea and The Sheep Well, as well as thousands of other plays.
ANSWER: Lope Félix de Vega Carpio 

18. In one story in this collection, Ginnie Mannox demands cab fare from Selena Graff, whose brother Franklin cuts off his finger. In another, an art instructor in Montreal becomes intrigued by the works of Sister Irma. Besides "Just Before the War with the Eskimos" and "De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period," its last story focuses on a gifted child interested in Eastern mysticism, Theodore McArdle. More famously, it includes stories about Sergeant X, who receives a broken watch from the title thirteen-year-old, and Sybil Carpenter, who learns about the title aquatic creatures from Seymour, who soon thereafter commits suicide. FTP, name this collection that features "For Esme--with Love and Squalor" and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," a work by J. D. Salinger named for the number of narratives it contains. 
ANSWER: Nine Stories 

19. The main character of this novel sees deformed beggars that include a dwarf who walks on two fingers and "men upside-down with baskets of fish at their feet." The protagonist's father becomes a boxer who fights the ghost of Yellow Jaguar, and in its second half, Madame Koto becomes corrupted by wealth. The protagonist is not born until the end of the first chapter, as he is an abiku, or spirit-child, which according to Yoruba tradition exist between the dimensions of the living and the dead. However, Azaro finally decides to stay in the world of the living and travel the title path. Awarded the 1991 Booker Prize, FTP, identify this novel by Nigerian author Ben Okri. 
ANSWER: The Famished Road 

20. At one point in this novel, a Brazilian Marxist named Amparo suddenly performs a sensual dance during a ritual of Exu. The protagonist is introduced to that ritual by Count Agliè, who may or may not be the immortal Comte de Saint-Germain. This novel's ten sections are named for the Sefirot, and the main conflict begins when Colonel Ardenti describes a theory linking the Knights Templar to the Holy Grail. That story inspires three editors to use their computer Abulafia to create "The Plan," which culminates in their invention of a fictional map revealing Earth's telluric currents. Ending with a secret society hanging Jacopo Belbo on the title object, FTP, identify this Umberto Eco novel criticizing conspiracy theories that shares its name with a way of measuring the Earth's rotation. 
ANSWER: Foucault's Pendulum 

