Chicago Open 2007
Packet by Mike Bentley, Jeremy Eaton, Jonathan Magin, and Chris Ray

1. Many chapters in this novel begin with quotes from Zero Hour.  The protagonist's son Philip becomes an advocate of Corpoism, and Shad Ledue terrorizes his former employer upon joining the Minute Men, an organization dedicated to supporting "the Chief."  After being sentenced to the Trianon Concentration Camp, the protagonist escapes to Canada and joins Emmanuel Coon's rebellion against Dewey Haik, who becomes president after killing Lee Sarason.  With the support of Bishop Paul Peter Prang, Senator Berzelius "Buzz" Windrip defeats Walt Trowbridge to win the 1936 presidential election, and becomes dictator after arresting the Supreme Court and dissenting members of Congress.  FTP, name this novel in which Doremus Jessup fights against the fascist takeover of America, a work by Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER: It Can't Happen Here

2. One theory of its nature includes a tracker field whose time evolution is controlled by Hubble damping.  It must have an equation of state parameter of less than -1/3.  The first direct evidence for it came from the Supernovae Cosmology Project and the High-Z Supernova Search.  Galaxy cluster surveys and the position of the first peak in the angular power spectrum of the CMB set its abundance at about 70% of Omega critical, making it the most abundant density component in the universe.  Quintessence and a cosmological constant are two forms of, FTP, this mysterious substance that accelerates the expansion of the Universe.
ANSWER: dark energy

3. Taken on June 21 1941 by the Anglo-French Gentforce, this city was taken in 613 by Chosroes with the help of some uppity Jews after Byzantine Emperor Heraclius botched its defense.  A shrine it its largest mosque - one of oldest continuously used in the world - is said to contain the head of John the Baptist.  Its "Tower of Heads" square references its sack by Tamerlane in 1400, and in 1925 the French bombed large portions of it during a Druze revolt.  This site of a disastrous attack in 1148 during the Second Crusade was taken by Omar, the second caliph, in 636 and used as the capital of the Umayyad Empire.  FTP, identify this longest continuously inhabited city on Earth which is today the capital of Syria.
ANSWER: Damascus or Dimashq or Ash-Sham

4. This work unfavorably contrasts the "marginal Keri" of the Talmud with the Old Testament's "textual Chetiv," and argues that without the freedom to choose, Adam would have been "mere[ly] artificial."  Later, it compares the "sad friends of Truth" to Isis looking for the pieces of Osiris' body, and uses the construction of Solomon's temple to symbolize the search for knowledge.  It also compares books to dragon's teeth that "may...spring up armed men," and concludes by asserting that a certain piece of legislation will cause "the discouragement of all learning" in England.  Asserting that "he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself," it is named for a speech given by Isocrates and was aimed at the Licensing Order of 1643, FTP, name this anti-censorship tract written by John Milton.  
ANSWER: Areopagitica

5. It is aided in its most notable function by the binding of ASPP-1.  This molecule is composed of an N-terminal transcription-activation domain, a central DNA-binding core domain, and a C-terminal homo-oligomerization domain.  Mutations of its DBD section destroy its ability to bind to target DNA sequences, which leads to Li-Fraumeni syndrome.  It is normally inactivated by the ubiquitin ligase mdm-2, until it is phosphorylated by MAP kinase or Chk.  Its major functions include the activation of DNA repair proteins, holding the cell in the G1 phase to prevent division in a dysfunctional cell, and triggering cell death in an un-repairable cell.  FTP, name this tumor suppressor located on chromosome 17, known as the "guardian angel of the genome".
ANSWER: p53 or tumor protein 53

6. In Hawaiian mythology these creatures frighten a race of magical little people known as the Menehune.  The Mayan ruler of Mitnal, Ah Puch, had the head of one of these creatures, and the Hindu goddess Lakshmi rides one known as Ulooka.  According to Ovid, Persephone threw water from Phlegethon on Ascalaphus to turn him into one, and Gwydion turned Blodeuwedd into one of these creatures, condemning her to haunt the night.  Eros causes indifference using leaden arrows fletched with their feathers.  A symbol of Athena, FTP, name these birds often associated with wisdom.
ANSWER: Owls

7. He served as secretary to an All Parties Conference where his father issued a namesake report calling for the creation of a federal government without a state religion.  Later in his life, he would gain fame for raising a flag of independence over the Ravi River in 1930, and later still he would be succeeded in the last office he held by Gulzaril Nanda.  The author of his country's first 5-year plan in 1951, he would clash with his home secretary Vallabhbhai Patel over the handling of Kashmir, but later embraced Patel's theories in his invasion of Goa.  Jailed eight times for, among others, his association with the Quit India movement and the Congress party, FTP, identify this first prime minister of India.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru

8. Its Tell range contains the headwaters of the Chelif River.  A section of this mountain range intersects the Draa valley near the city of Ourzazate, and large sections of it are inhabited by kabyles.  The Rif region, though geographically adjacent to its northwest section, is not geologically related.  Formed in the Alleghenian orogeny, making it the same age as the Appalachian Mountains, it is extended to the east by the Aurès Mountains.  Jbel Toubkal, located about 60 kilometers south of Marrakesh in Morrocco, is the highest point of, FTP, what mountain range of Northwestern Africa?
ANSWER: Atlas Mountains

9. This concept is represented in Shinto tradition by the Mitso Tomoe and embodied in the Ayyavazhi tradition by Ayya Vaikundar, who is believed to be a Manu avatar of Narayana.  Much of the modern Christian interpretation is due to the Cappadocian Fathers.  The Christian version can be symbolized by the Scutum Fidei summarizing the first part of the Athanasian Creed, or by Borromean rings.  The Puranas describe one known as the Trimurti consisting of Brahma, Shiva and Vishnu.  FTP, identify this concept exemplified by Christianity's Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
ANSWER: Trinity or Triad or Triple, or pretty much anything with three; accept Trimurti before mention in the question

10. In the seventh book of this work, the writer claims that evil cannot be a substance but is rather a "conflict of interests."  One book describes the principle of cor ad cor loquitur, while in another book, the author admits to being unable to explain the concept of time.  In book 10, the author calls memory the "stomach of the mind," and in book 2, the author compares himself to Catiline after describing the theft of some pears.  The deaths of Vecundus and Nebridius prompt the abandonment of rhetoric, while an earlier death inspires the author to abandon Manichaeism in Milan.  The author's mother Monica plays a key role in, for 10 points, what autobiographical work by the future bishop of Hippo, Saint Augustine?
ANSWER: The Confessions of Saint Augustine

11. The world premiere of this opera was a joint production between the music department of Morehouse College and the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra and was conducted by Robert Shaw in 1972, more than sixty years after it was composed.  Its second act features the ballet "Frolic of the Bears," which is followed by the antagonists fleeing from a man dressed as a scarecrow, who saves the titular heroine from "The Wasp-Nest."  Remus sings the aria "Wrong is Never Right" in the third act of this opera, which begins with the attempted sale of a bag of luck.  The characters dance "A Real Slow Drag" after accepting the title character as their leader and ousting conjurers that represent superstition.  Named for the educated daughter of Ned and Monisha, FTP, name this ragtime opera by Scott Joplin.
ANSWER: Treemonisha

12. Li and Cai have used it to synthesize peptides with tetrahedral phosphorous molecules, which have the potential to act as enzyme inhibitors.  One variation of it that uses hydrophosphoryl compounds is the Kabachnick-Fields reaction, while a ring-forming variant of it is the Pictet-Spengler reaction.  An asymmetric version of it uses a proline catalyst, which blocks attack from the Re face in its second step.  In the first step, a primary or secondary amine attacks formaldehyde and eliminates the resulting hydroxyl group, forming a Schiff base.  This is followed by the abstraction of an acidic alpha-hydrogen and formation of a carbon-carbon bond.  FTP, name this organic reaction that forms a beta-amino-carbonyl, named for a German chemist.
ANSWER: Mannich reaction

13. With "Bromberg" it is applied anti-German violence in Poland at the outbreak of World War II, and it is also often applied to the first day of fighting at the battle of Paardeberg during the Boer War.  Also applied to the culmination of the abortive Soviet attempt to stop Lithuanian independence, events precipitated by Chun Doo-Hwan at Gwangju in 1980 are often given this name, as is a 1965 attempt to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge.  Father Gapon was responsible for the strike at the Putilov plant, whose workers were gunned down at the Winter Palace in one in 1905.  FTP, identify this term, also applied to a 1972 shooting of protesters in Derry, Northern Ireland.
ANSWER: Bloody Sunday

14. Leibniz discusses this philosopher in his Discourse on the Natural Theology of the Chinese, noting the similarity of his ideas to the concept of Li.  Karl Popper wrote a book about the "world" of this thinker, and Socrates contrasts him with men of flux in the dialogue Theaetetus.  The last part of his main work deals with "opinions of mortals," but this section, the Way of "Seeming" or "Doxa," survives only in fragments.  In the second section of his main work, this thinker presents himself riding on a chariot to a goddess who instructs him on the "way of truth."  She tells him that the world is unchanging and monistic.  For 10 points, identify this Eleatic philosopher who wrote the poem On Nature and who may have been the teacher of Zeno.
ANSWER: Parmenides of Elea

15. It is preceded and concluded by a brief song noting how the events of the story failed to inspire lasting change upon the world: "same are loss and gain."  In the beginning of this work, three strangers declare eternal brotherhood and get exceedingly drunk, and later their leader is informed that another has tied up and begun thrashing a prominent official.  Other events include a minister's use of his adopted daughter in a palace plot and the triumph of Dong Zhuo over Zhang Rang and the eunuchs.  The work also describes a dramatic battle at Guandu and Sun Quan and Liu Bei's victory at Red Cliffs over Cao Cao.  Featuring a plot set in motion by the Yellow Turban rebellion, FTP, identify this Chinese classic by Luo Guanzhong, a work named for the Wei, Wu, and Shu dynasties, which vied for power.
ANSWER: Romance of the Three Kingdoms or Sanguo Yanyi

16. He was an extra at a party in "Less Than Zero" and was a love interest named Chuck on "Head of the Class."  He's slated to appear in three title roles in upcoming films, playing Benjamin Button, Carl Schmidt and Jesse James.  His most recent TV work was lending his voice to Boomhauer's brother Patch on "King of the Hill."  On the big screen he has played detectives, including one named David Mills who finds his wife's head in a box, as well as criminals, including Rusty Ryan, a character who's almost always seen eating.  FTP, identify this hunky star of Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Babel, and Fight Club.
ANSWER: Brad Pitt

17. His first two operas, Alfred and The King and the Charcoal Burner, show the influence of Wagner.  His late career saw him set the verse fairy tales of Karel Erben to music in four tone poems, two of which include The Water Goblin and The Golden Spinning Wheel.  An E major Serenade for Strings followed by a lengthy Stabat Mater inspired by the deaths of his three children preceded his friendship with Brahms, who helped establish his reputation abroad.  His most famous works-a B minor cello concerto, an F major string quartet composed in Spillville, Iowa, and his 9th symphony-were inspired by a famous trip.  FTP, name this composer of the Slavonic Dances and the New World symphony.
ANSWER: Antonin Dvorak

18. His first elected position was Sheriff of Erie County, and personally carried out two hangings while in that office.  The Department of Agriculture was created under his administration, and among his appointments to the Supreme Court were Lucius Lamar and Rufus Peckham.  In foreign policy, he refused to promote his predecessor's Nicaragua canal treaty and forced Britain to submit to arbitration in its border dispute with Venezuela.  Thomas Hendricks, his first Vice President died after less than a year in office, and he first rose to prominence as Mayor of Buffalo.  Noted for putting down the Pullman Strike and refusing to annex Hawaii, FTP, name this American president, the only one to serve two non-continuous terms.
ANSWER: Stephen Grover Cleveland

19. In one scene, a lieutenant orders a peasant to chop wood to drown out the sound of drumming.  In another scene, a mute character tries on the boots of Yvette, a prostitute who sings "The Fraternization Song" to describe her liaison with a cook named Peter Piper.  In the first scene, three of the title characters draw black crosses from a helmet, and the eldest is led away by a recruiting officer.  The main character is threatened with ruin by the brief peace after the Battle of Lützen, and this play ends with that character continuing to run her canteen in spite of the deaths of Kattrin, Eilif, and Swiss Cheese.  Centering on Anna Fierling, who had earned the title nickname by driving through the bombardment of Riga to sell moldy loaves of bread, for 10 points, name this play set during the Thirty Years War by Bertolt Brecht.
ANSWER: Mother Courage and Her Children or Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder

20. In one of his paintings, the Ark of the Covenant destroys a statue of Dagon in the background, warning Philistines of the title pestilence.  Besides The Plague of Ashdod, another painting by this artist includes a statue of Janus on the left, portrays Aurora leading Apollo's chariot through the sky, and features a winged man playing the lyre for the dancing figures of Wealth, Pleasure, Industry, and Poverty.  That painting, A Dance to the Music of Time, was finished in 1640, four years after he painted Adoration of the Golden Calf.  He also depicted four shepherds reading a phrase from Virgil's fifth Eclogue on a pastoral tomb, and Romulus presiding over a violent abduction.  FTP, name this artist of Et in Arcadia Ego and The Rape of the Sabine Women, a 17th century French classical painter.
ANSWER: Nicholas Poussin



1. Identify the following about a Japanese unifier, FTPE:
[10] This son of Nobuhide achieved naval supremacy when he created the first ironclad warships in 1576, reportedly discovering that the fat of recently slain enemies was necessary in the binding process.  His goals were furthered after his death by Toyotomi Hideyoshi.
ANSWER: Oda Nobunaga
[10] Nobunaga was frustrated by an uprising by the troublesome Ikko-ikki mobs, which followed a twisted version of this religious sect.  It is named for Sukhavati and reveres Amitabha Buddha.
ANSWER: Pure Land Buddhism (prompt on Amidism)
[10] In response to the Ikko-ikki, Nobunaga initiated one of the first of these weapon confiscation programs.  A better known one was the Taiko in 1588.
ANSWER: Sword Hunt (or Katanagan, if someone thinks they're cool)

2. Identify these things relating to viscosity, FTPE.
[10] This model for a viscoelastic fluid consists of a spring connected in series with a viscous dashpot, and has a relaxation time given by the dashpot viscosity over the spring constant.  Its namesake added the displacement current term to Ampère's law.
ANSWER: Maxwell material
[10] These fluids have constant viscosity, so that the strain rate is linearly proportional to the shear stress.  Their namesake also enunciated a law of cooling stating that conductive heat loss is proportional to temperature difference.
ANSWER: Newtonian fluids
[10] This class of non-Newtonian fluids exhibit time-dependent viscosity under application of a shear, characterized by shear thinning with a long relaxation time.
ANSWER: thixotropic fluids

3. This work includes the story of the legendary Viriathus, and concludes with the heroes being rewarded by Venus with an orgy on the Isle of Bliss.  FTPE:
[10] Name this poem whose fifth canto sees the heroes encounter the giant Adamastor during their journey to the kingdom of Melinde.
ANSWER: The Lusiads or Os Lusiadas
[10] This Portuguese poet wrote a bunch of sonnets as well as The Lusiads.  
ANSWER: Luis vas de Camoes or Camöens
[10] The Lusiads focuses on this explorer's journey around the Cape of Good Hope.
ANSWER: Vasco da Gama

4. He depicted a head with spikes sticking out of it in Cactus Man.  FTPE:
[10] Name this Symbolist whose charcoals include The Crying Spider, The Smiling Spider, and Eye-Balloon.
ANSWER: Odilon Redon
[10] In this painting by Redon, a nude man hides in a green landscape from the title mythological creature, whose prominent feature stares out at the viewer.
ANSWER: The Cyclops
[10] Odilon Redon was one of the featured artists at this famed 1913 exhibition organized by Athur B.  Davies in in New York City.
ANSWER: the Armory Show

5. Answer the following about places that share a common bond FTPE.
[10] Named by Alphonso d'Albequerque for a day on the Catholic calendar, this dependency of St.  Helena is notable for its high proportion of pyroclastic deposits.  The British used it as an airfield during the Falklands War.
ANSWER: Ascension Island
[10] Originally named "Las Tortugas" by Columbus, this nation of three islands lies directly south of Cuba.  England gained control of them, along with Jamaica, in the 1670 Treaty of Madrid.
ANSWER: Cayman Islands
[10] The capital of both places is some variant of "George Town," a name shared by the capital of the state of Penang in this country.
ANSWER: Malaysia

6. They are the spatial components of one-electron functions.  FTPE:
[10] Name these solutions to the Schroedinger wave equation that can be bonding or antibonding.
ANSWER: Molecular orbitals
[10] Lennard-Jones introduced this approximation method of finding molecular orbitals, which expresses them in terms of a basis set of wavefunctions.
ANSWER: Linear combination of atomic orbitals
[10] This approximation equates the ionization energy of an orbital to the eigenvalue of the Fock operator for that orbital.  
ANSWER: Koopmans' theorem or approximation

7. In its concluding section, "In Beirut," Brita Nilson photographs Abu Rashid, a terrorist who had arranged the kidnapping of Jean-Claude Julien.  FTPE:
[10] Name this 1991 novel about reclusive writer Bill Gray.
ANSWER: Mao II
[10] Mao II was written by this author, who also wrote Underworld and Libra.
ANSWER: Don DeLillo
[10] The first section of Mao II, "At Yankee Stadium," describes a ceremony led by this real-life figure.  He is referred to as the Master and the Lord of the Second Advent, and he is said to have "seen Jesus on a mountainside."
ANSWER: Reverend Sun Myung Moon

8. In the preface to this work, the author credits A.O.  Lovejoy's The Great Chain of Being and the papers of Benjamin Whorf as important influences.  For 10 points each,
[10] Identify this 1962 book, which described the advancement of knowledge in a certain field as a succession of crises that lead to new, incommensurable paradigms.
ANSWER: The Structure of Scientific Revolutions
[10] Who wrote The Structure of Scientific Revolutions?
ANSWER: Thomas Kuhn
[10] Kuhn conducted a lengthy correspondence with this philosopher after completing The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.  Famous for putting forth an "anarchistic" theory of science, his books include Against Method and Science in a Free Society.
ANSWER: Paul Feyerabend 

9. Answer the following about Italy in the 1490's, FTPE.
[10] In 1494, this French king invaded Italy.
ANSWER: Charles VIII
[10] Charles was first encouraged and later opposed by Ludovico il Moro, Duke of Milan and a member of this ruling family founded by Muzio which came to power in Milan with Ludovico's father Francesco.
ANSWER: Sforza
[10] Ludovico melted 70 tons of bronze intended for a da Vinci statue to build weapons for this July 1495 engagement, in which he joined with the Venetians and the Mantuans to expel Charles in the first major battle of the Italian Wars.
ANSWER: Battle of Fornovo

10. Identify the following about a certain Old Testament prophet, FTPE.
[10] This native of Anathoth gave a rousing "temple sermon" during the reign of King Jehoiakim warning that the Temple of Jerusalem would be destroyed.  He also supposedly wrote the Book of Lamentations.
ANSWER: Jeremiah
[10] Jeremiah is said to have served under this earlier king whose ministers found a copy of the Old Testament scriptures while renovating the Old Temple.  He would later be killed by Necho II at Megiddo.
ANSWER: King Josiah (also accept King Josias and King Yoshiyahu)
[10] After the fall of Jerusalem, Jeremiah was released from prison and entrusted to this governor of Judah.  His assassination is commemorated with a fast on the third day of Tishrei, typically the day after Rosh Hashanah.  
ANSWER: Gedaliah

11. Little girls dying make for good poetry.  FTPE:
[10] This Wordsworth poem reimagines the drowning of a girl during a snowstorm.  In its conclusion, we learn that some people claim the title character can still be seen "Upon the lonesome wild." 
ANSWER: "Lucy Gray"
[10] This poet notes, "After the first death, there is no other," and says of the title character, "I shall not murder / The mankind of her going" in his "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London."
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas
[10] In this John Crowe Ransom poem, we learn that the geese "cried in goose, Alas, / For the tireless heart within the little / Lady," who had "such speed in her little body, / And such lightness in her footfall."
ANSWER: "Bells for John Whiteside's Daughter"

12. Answer the following about volcanism in the solar system FTPE.
[10] Volcanic structures on this body include the extrusive Mons Hansteen and shield volcanoes known as domes associated with Mons Rümker and the Marius Crater, all located on the Oceanus Procellarum.
ANSWER: the Moon
[10] This volcanic bulge on Mars's equator lies at the western end of the Valles Marineris.  It is home to Ascraeus Mons, Pavonis Mons, Arsia Mons and Olympus Mons.
ANSWER: Tharsis
[10] Barnard discovered this reddest object in the Solar System; its coloration is thought to result from sulfurous material launched out of the volcanoes of Io.
ANSWER: Amalthea

13. It opens with an "Evocacion," and includes "Almeria," "Lavapiés," and "El Albaicin".  FTPE:
[10] Name this suite of twelve piano "impressions" depicting different places in Andalusia.  
ANSWER: Iberia
[10] This Spanish piano virtuoso composed Iberia, as well as Suite Española and Chants d'Espagne.
ANSWER: Isaac Albéniz
[10] One of the most passionate champions of Spanish piano music was this Polish-American virtuoso, who made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1906 and toured Spain from 1914-1917.
ANSWER: Artur Rubinstein

14. Answer the following on pre-Incan civilizations, FTPE.
[10] Among the finds at the Caral complex site, which has been carbon-dated to 2627 BC, is an artifact reminiscent of these knotted-cord accounting devices used by the Inca.
ANSWER: quipu or khipu or quipo
[10] These people produced polychrome pottery featuring figures like a multi-faced centipede demon.  This culture also created large geoglyphs of animals, people and lines in the Peruvian desert.
ANSWER: Nazca
[10] Black limestone and white granite sculptures from this Early Horizon site have human bodies and and the heads of jaguars, a pattern that may relate to contemporary evidence for the use of hallucinogens and cannibalism.
ANSWER: Chavin de Huantar 

15. In its final part, August Esch is killed by William Huguenau, who represents a society with no values.  FTPE:
[10] Name this trilogy consisting of The Romantic, The Anarchist, and The Realist, named for the state of being between the destruction of an ethical system and the creation of another.
ANSWER: The Sleepwalkers or Die Schlafwandler
[10] The Sleepwalkers was written by this European author of The Guiltless and The Death of Virgil.
ANSWER: Hermann Broch
[10] Hermann Broch was born in this country, also the home of Thomas Bernhard, Robert Musil, and Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: Austria

16. Two of its forms are cholecalciferol and ergocalciferol.  FTPE:
[10] Name this vitamin produced in the skin from 7-dehydrocholesterol.
ANSWER: Vitamin D
[10] Deficiency of vitamin D causes this disease, leading to softening of bones and easy fractures.
ANSWER: Rickets
[10] This most active form of vitamin D is synthesized in the kidneys via 1-alpha-hydroxylase.  Its synthesis is inhibited by parathyroid hormone.
ANSWER: Calcitriol or 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol or 1,25-(OH)2D3

17. Adventures in radio censorship that don't involve nappy headed hos, FTPE.
[10] Even before his dismissal, the Don Imus show attracted controversy when co-host Sid Rosenberg mocked this Australian woman's breast cancer.  As a singer, she's best known for "Can't Get You Out of My Head" and a cover of "The Locomotion."
ANSWER: Kylie Minogue
[10] In May, XM indefinitely suspended this show over an incident involving Homeless Charlie implying that he would like to rape Queen Elizabeth II, Laura Bush, and Condoleezza Rice.
ANSWER: Opie and Anthony 
[10] Someone at Sacramento station KDND probably should have censored this water-drinking contest to win a new Nintendo system before Jennifer Strange died of water intoxication.
ANSWER: Hold Your Wee for a Wii

18. People with this character type have no "clear core of self" and exhibit a "psychological need for approval."  FTPE:
[10] Name this personality type whose decision-making process, based on gaining peer approval, is reminiscent of a radar system rather than the "psychological gyroscope" used by their counterparts.
ANSWER: other-directed character [or other-direction]
[10] Nathan Glazer and Reuel Denney collaborated with the primary author on this "study of the changing American character" that describes the shift from the inner-directed to the other-directed character.
ANSWER: The Lonely Crowd
[10] This man wrote Constraint and Variety in American Education, and collaborated with Glazer and Denney on The Lonely Crowd.  
ANSWER: David Riesman

19. Identify the following relating to the problem of longitude, FTPE.
[10] Thanks to the influence of King George III, this self-taught British clockmaker finally was awarded the complete twenty thousand pound longitude prize for his H-4 chronometer in 1773.
ANSWER: John Harrison
[10] The K-1 clock made by Larcum Kendall, based on the design of Harrison, served as an aide for this British captain who was killed by Hawaiians in February of 1779.
ANSWER: Captain James Cook
[10] The quest to determine longitude through celestial calculations was greatly aided by this "King's Astronomical Observator," effectively the first Astronomer Royal.  He gave his aid unwillingly, as Halley and Newton stole his precious star charts and published them in 1712.
ANSWER: John Flamsteed

20. Identify some of these things relating to Software Engineering, FTPE.
[10] Divided into groups like structural, behavioral, and creational types, these generally repeatable solutions to problems in designing software include Factories and Visitors.  They were introduced in the eponymous book by the so-called "Gang of Four."
ANSWER: Design Patterns
[10] This common design pattern, often managed by the use of a private constructor, is employed in situations where only one instance of a class is allowed to be instantiated.
ANSWER: Singleton Pattern
[10] This structural design pattern provides a simple interface to a more complex interface such as a class library.  This pattern differs from an Adapter pattern in that its intent is to make the interface simpler.
ANSWER: Facade Pattern

