2007 Chicago Open Literature Singles
Packet 13


1. In Woolf's Orlando, this work is described as the globe in which "all the seeds of English fiction lie latent." Mary Wroth's The Countesse of Mountgomeries Urania was inspired by this work, which supplied the Gloucester subplot to King Lear. In one section of it, a potion made by Gynecia to inflame the love of one of the princely protagonists is accidentally drunk by Basilius, the king of the title location. One of its characters appears clad as a black knight in order to defend Pamela, but is defeated by a character who disguises himself as the Amazon Zelmane after falling in love with Philocrea. Focusing on the shipwrecked princes Pyrocles and Musidorus, FTP, name this pastoral romance ostensibly written to amuse the author's sister, Mary Herbert, Countess of Pembroke, by Sir Philip Sydney. 
ANSWER: Arcadia [or The New Arcadia]

2. In one short story by this author, Demorest and Stacy discover gold after their partner discovers he owns two hundred thousand dollars worth of stock. In another, Miss Mary agrees to educate the son of Sandy. In addition to "Barker's Luck" and "The Idyl of Red Gulch," he wrote about Tom Simson, who reads from the Iliad to his companions around a campfire, in a story about travelers to Sandy Bar. Bill Nye is out-cheated by Ah Sin in his poem "Plain Language from Truthful James," and in another of his stories, the bigamist Stumpy is chosen to minister to a woman giving birth, whose child is named by the gambler Oakhurst. The editor of The Overland Monthly, FTP, identify this author of "The Outcasts of Poker Flat" and "The Luck of Roaring Camp." 
ANSWER: Bret Harte  

3. In Act 2, the blinding of Baron von Attinghausen sparks a clandestine meeting at Rootli where emissaries from Unterwald, Schwytz, and Uri agree to attack strongholds at Rossberg and Sarnen. At the beginning of this play, the son-in-law of Walter Furst rows Baumgarten safely across Lake Lucerne in spite of a roaring tempest. The protagonist is arrested for refusing to bow down before a cap on a pole, leading him to aid a rebellion led by Stauffacher and Melchthal. Concluding with the tyrannicide of Gessler, whose death leads to the end of Austrian domination over Switzerland, FTP, name this play by Schiller about a legendary hero who uses a crossbow to shoot an apple on his son's head. 
ANSWER: Wilhelm Tell or William Tell 

4. According to Helen Vendler, the title being of this poem is "the principle of our final relation to the universe." Its fifth section reveals that the narrator does not know whether to prefer "the beauty of inflections" or "the beauty of innuendos," while another section states that "bawds of euphony" would cry out at the site of the title animal. The narrator asks the "thin men of Haddam" why they do not see the title creatures, one of which "marked the edge / Of one of many circles." Beginning by describing how "among twenty snowy mountains / The only moving thing / Was the eye of the" title avian, FTP, identify this poem that presents a number of ways of perceiving the title bird, by Wallace Stevens.
ANSWER: "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"

5. This group opposed the ideas of Karl Kraus, and criticized the "abulia," or lack of will, they perceived in their country. One member of this group wrote grotesque plays like Bohemian Lights and The Gala of Death, which he termed esperpentos, while another member wrote Memories of a Man of Action and The Tree of Knowledge. In addition to Valle-Inclan and Pio Baroja, this group included the author of the sonnet "The Atheist's Prayer" and the novel Niebla, and was named by Azor’n. Influenced by the "modernismo" of Ruben Dario, it also featured Antonio Machado and the author of Platero y Yo. Including Juan Ramon Jimenez and Miguel de Unamuno, FTP, name this literary movement which attempted to reinvigorate Spain after the Spanish-American War. 
ANSWER: Generation of 1898 [or Generacion del 1898]





6. This book argues that the medieval mimus is an important antecedent to the title designation, and presents Manuel de Pedrolo's Homes i No as a prominent example. The last section describes its significance and cites Eva Metman's assertion that contemporary drama features mankind alone with demonic powers. The author states that the American belief in progress has prevented the title genre from gaining a foothold there, and that the disillusionment caused by World War Two spurred its development throughout Europe. Its author later turned the section on Harold Pinter into his book The Peopled Wound, and it begins with chapters on Arthur Adamov, Jean Genet, Eugene Ionesco, and Samuel Beckett. FTP, name this book by Martin Esslin which defined a new genre of plays that express the arbitrariness of the modern world. 
ANSWER: The Theatre of the Absurd 

7. Marbodius recounts his journey into hell to visit Virgil in this novel's third section, which also describes the rulers Brian the Good, Queen Crucha, and Draco the Great. Anarchists like George and Caroline destroy all traces of civilization in its final section, which tells of "Future Times." General Greatauk arrests the innocent soldier Pyrot in a section corresponding to the Dreyfus Affair, while earlier sections describe the lives of St. Orberosia and Kraken, who gains power by pretending to be the "dragon of Alca." A debate in heaven gives the title creatures souls after they are baptized by St. Mael, whose boat is blown off course by Satan. FTP, identify this novel by Anatole France, whose title refers to a location populated by flightless birds. 
ANSWER: Penguin Island    

8. In one of his short stories, a German musician fends off an unseen antagonist by frantically playing the viol, while in another, Dr. Mu–oz decomposes after his system of refrigeration breaks down. Besides "The Music of Erich Zann" and "Cool Air," this author also wrote about Herbert West, a doctor obsessed with reanimation, and Randolph Carter, who appears in "The Silver Key" and The Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath. Also known for inventing fictional grimoires like the Pnakotic Manuscripts, this author of "The Colour Out of Space" and "The Shadow Out of Time" may be better known for inventing Miskatonic University and a "Mythos" including gods like Nyarlahotep. FTP, name this author of "The Shadow Over Innsmouth," "At the Mountains of Madness," and "The Call of Cthulhu."
ANSWER: Howard Phillips Lovecraft  

9. The last one asks if the chief "good and market" of man's time is to "sleep and feed," and begins "how all occasions do inform against me!" A late one, ending "in our circumstance and course of thought / 'Tis heavy with him," repudiates the preceding one, which asks "What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba / That he should weep for her?" The first compares the world to an "unweeded garden," and asks "this too too solid flesh" to "melt / Thaw and resolve itself into a dew," though more famous is one that wonders "what dreams may come / When we have shuffled off this mortal coil." For 10 points, name these passages, the most famous of which begins "To be or not to be." 
ANSWER: soliloquies by Prince Hamlet (prompt on any references to the play)  

10. This book's epigraph cites First Corinthians, and argues "that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die." In its eleventh chapter, Mrs. Dickinson predicts a coming holocaust during the farewell party for John Thompson, whose final words are "eliminate the vermin." Set in the village of Thabai, this novel ends with Gikonyo reuniting with Mumbi, and shares similar subject matter to its author's earlier novel The River Between. Its main conflict results from the slaying of the brutal District Officer Tom Robson by Kihika, a resistance leader who is hanged after being betrayed to the British by Mugo. Written after its author's conversion to the Marxist ideas of Franz Fanon, FTP, name this novel set during the Mau Mau Rebellion by Ngugi wa Thiong'o. 
ANSWER: A Grain of Wheat  







11. This play's first act ends with a former employee of the circus telling a joke about a doctor who dies of overwork selling snake oil. In the last act, one character says "when St. Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland they swam to New York and joined the police force" in order to insult Moran and Lieb. In act three, Margie and Pearl argue with their pimp about whether they are tarts or whores, and Piet Wetjoen fights with Cecil Lewis about their respective dreams of returning to South Africa and England. Another character is urged to "take a walk around the ward" by the central character, who implores the others to give up their pipe dreams until he reveals that he has killed his wife Evelyn. FTP, name this play about the arrival of Theodore "Hickey" Hickman to Harry Hope's bar, written by Eugene O'Neill. 
ANSWER: The Iceman Cometh 

12. This author warned "New Presbyter is but Old Priest writ large" in a sonnet criticizing the "New Forcers of Conscience." He wrote "Alas, how soon our sin / Sore doth begin / His infancy to seize" in a poem about Christ's circumcision, and asked lambs to "Go home unfed" in his lament for the death of Charles Diodati, Epitaphium Daimonis. The infant Jesus causes the Oracles to fall silent and forces pagan gods to "troop to th'infernal jail" in his poem "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity," while he wrote "They also serve who only stand and wait" in a sonnet considering how his "light is spent". FTP, name this English poet of Samson Agonistes best known for Paradise Lost. 
ANSWER: John Milton 

13. He argued for the superiority of non-Euclidian art to realism in his essay "On Literature, Revolution, and Entropy." This author adapted Leskov's short story "Lefty" into his play The Flea, and described Mr. Craggs' attempt to blackmail lovers in an English park in his short story "The Fisher of Men." A strong influence on the Serapion Brothers, he wrote of Martin Martinych's theft of wood to heat the title frozen room in Petrograd in "The Cave." Upon being exiled from Russia, he created self-satisfied characters like Vicar Dewly and Mr. O'Kelly in his satire of England, The Islanders, and also wrote a novel about the failed rebellion of I-330 and D-503 against the One State. FTP, name this Russian author best known for his 1921 dystopia We. 
ANSWER: Yevgeny Zamyatin  

14. In the thirteenth stanza, the appearance of a "stiff blind horse" beyond "service from the devil's stud" causes the speaker to conclude "he must be wicked to deserve such pain." The speaker remembers the disgrace of Cuthbert and Giles, and while fording a river, compares the noise made by a speared water-rat to "a baby's shriek." In the opening stanzas, a "hoary cripple, with malicious eye" directs the speaker into an "ominous tract" where he searches for, and encounters, the title structure. Based on Edgar's song in King Lear, it ends with the title character placing a slug-horn to his lips. FTP, name this poem by Robert Browning about an aspiring knight's arrival at the title turret. 
ANSWER: "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came" 

15. One novel about this event opens with a prologue comparing it to a "Groun'hog hunt." This event takes place in Times Square in that novel, which represents Communism by an entity called the Phantom, and ends with Uncle Sam sodomizing Richard Nixon. In addition to The Public Burning, another novel about this event includes a scene where the protagonist journeys to Disneyland to encounter Selig Mindish, a stand-in for David Greenglass. In Angels in America, Roy Cohn is haunted by one of the victims of this event, which is described in E.L. Doctorow's novel The Book of Daniel, and fascinates Esther Greenwood in another novel. FTP, The Bell Jar takes place during the summer marked by what 1953 event, which saw two accused spies killed for passing nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union? 
ANSWER: the execution of the Rosenbergs (accept obvious equivalents, as long as they mention Rosenbergs)







16. This author wrote about a family that builds a gallows and rack on their front porch and lodges a tiger in "Unusual Occupations," which along with "Unstable Stuff" and "The Instruction Manual" make up his collection Cronopios and Famas. An obsessed man transforms into the title salamander in his short story "Axolotl," and his short story "Las Babas del Diablo" inspired Antonioni's film Blow-Up. The disappearance of La Maga causes Horacio Oliviera to return to Buenos Aires in one of his novels, which has 99 expendable chapters, and can either be read linearly or by jumping between different chapters. FTP, name this Argentine author best known for Rayuela, an experimental novel usually translated as Hopscotch. 
ANSWER: Julio Cort‡zar 

17. The surviving lines from a mostly lost work attributed to this author note that "the gods taught [the title character] neither to dig nor to plow [and] he failed at every craft." Another mostly lost work tells of the cunning brothers Acmon and Passalus, whose refusal to avoid Heracles causes them to be turned to stone by Zeus. In addition to Margites and Cercopes, the complete destruction of one side in a war is forestalled by the arrival of a crab army in his Batrochomyomachia, or the Battle of Frogs and Mice. He also wrote about the blind minstrel Demodocus, whose infirmity may be the basis for the supposition that this author also suffered it. FTP, name this author who wrote of the wrath of Achilles in an epic poem that's like the basis of Western Civilization.
ANSWER: Homer 

18. According to Brian Boyd, one character in this novel influenced the work of another from beyond the grave, and an odd message is really the warning of Aunt Maud, whose ghost inhabits "The Haunted Barn." One character discovers a hidden passage while playing with Oleg, Duke of Rahl, and later escapes through it with the help of Donald O'Donnell. Its index features a game of word golf, and reveals that a central character is really Vseslav Botkin, who commits suicide to escape the assassin Jakob Gradus. Set in New Wye, it mainly consists of a commentary by a man who thinks he is the exiled king of Zembla, Charles Kinbote. FTP, name this work centering on a 999-line poem by John Shade, by Vladimir Nabokov.
ANSWER: Pale Fire  

19. One chapter of this work relates the story of a young man who hangs himself in shame after being discovered eating mutton. The narrator is visited by Yram in prison, and spends six months with the Nosnibors, who hope he falls in love with Zulora, although he flies back to England with Arowhena. Earlier, that narrator witnesses a trial where a man is sentenced to receive two tablespoons of castor oil daily for being guilty of pulmonary consumption. After talking with Chowbok, the protagonist encounters a society that worships Ydgrun, is supported by the Colleges of Unreason, and believes that adults are under siege from the World of the Unborn. Partly based on the essay "Darwin Among the Machines," it begins with the narrator discovering the title location in New Zealand. FTP, name this utopian novel by Samuel Butler.
ANSWER: Erewhon  

20. This story's main character discards his "tainted" watch and compass at the end of its first section, and learns in part four that his grandfather's incest caused Eunice to drown herself. Although the protagonist relinquishes his inheritance to break from a cycle of ownership that he believes has cursed the land, this story ends with Boon Hogganback screaming that he owns a group of squirrels. In part two, the enormous dog Lion is trained to kill the title creature when Major de Spain accuses it of destroying his property, leading to the death of Sam Fathers. Beginning with the introduction of Ike McCaslin into the wilderness, FTP, name this section of Go Down, Moses about the annual hunt for the title animal, written by William Faulkner. 
ANSWER: "The Bear" 

