Chicago Open 2007
Packet by Berkeley (Juliana Froggatt, Brett Hallahan, Andrew Lim)

1. It was accompanied by a note to the reader that identifies a "person on business from Porlock" interfering with its composition.  Written in iambic tetrameter, its first section describes "gardens bright with sinuous rills" and "an incense bearing tree."  With a title inspired by a passage in Purchas' Pilgrimage, it was William Bartram's Travels that suggested the "mighty fountain momently ...  forced."  After hearing "a damsel with a dulcimer... singing of Mount Abora," the poem's speaker imagines himself building a device in the air that is sunny, in order to fulfill the decree of the title emperor.  FTP, name this poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, a work that envisions the construction of "a stately pleasure-dome" in Xanadu.
ANSWER: "Kubla Khan" 

2. Many members of this religion skip one meal a month and donate the saved money to their religious organization in the "offer a meal" movement.  Its adherents subscribe to "Four Affirmations," including physical cleanliness, tradition and the family, and love of nature.  Its cosmology includes the High Plain of Heaven and the Dark Land, or Yomi.  This religion's shrine or jinja tradition was closely associated with the state tradition until the end of World War II, when the emperor renounced his divinity.  FTP name this religion involving the worship of kami, most prevalent in Japan.
ANSWER: Shintoism

3. When this compound is hyperpolarized, it can be used in NMR studies of the lung to diagnose emphysema and asthma, and like boron triflouride, it can be used in Geiger-Mueller counter to detect neutrons.  It reacts with hydrogen in the fourth branch of the proton-proton chain, and Anthony Leggett won his 2003 Nobel for studying superfluidity in this compound; he noted that it achieves that state at 2 millikelvins because its nuclei are fermions.  It is believed to be abundant in the upper regiolith of Earth's moon, but it is most often obtained from the beta decay of tritium.  FTP, name this non-radioactive isotope of the lightest noble gas with 2 protons and 1 neutron in its nucleus.
ANSWER: Helium-3

4. She was miscast as Cydaria, the daughter of Montezuma, so John Dryden tried her next in a comic role. Her appearance as Florimel in Secret Love earned the admiration of the Earl of Dorset, who invited her to court. A crowd attending the Parliament at Oxford mistook her for her rival, Louise de Keroualle, Duchess of Portsmouth, and surrounded her carriage. She emerged to reassure the mob with the words "Be civil, good people. I am the Protestant whore!" With good reason Pepys described her as both pretty and witty.  FTP, name this one-time orange-seller at the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane, the most famous mistress of Charles II.
ANSWER: Nell Gwyn

5. Created for Luman Reed, a successful Coxsackie businessman, each of the five canvases that make up this group features the same hill or mountain, with a rock at its top and a sheer face, in the background.  The Third scene borrows from Canaletto's paintings of the Grand Canal, while the artist said of the fourth scene, which features a large headless statue and lots of smoke, that, "Luxury has weakened and debased.  A savage enemy has entered the city."  Tracing the development of an unnamed nation from its savage and pastoral states, to its consummation, and subsequent destruction and desolation, this is, FTP, what 1830s series of paintings by Thomas Cole?
ANSWER: The Course of Empire

6. The cruel police officer Cruz is compared to a snake, while the killing of the Albino is justified by Father Olguin as an instinctive reaction to evil.  Other notable events in this work include a description of the Eagle Watcher's Society in section 1, "The Longhair," and Angela St. John's plans to seduce the main character after seeing him chop wood.  Divided into four parts, each chapter in this novel takes place on a specific date; on the final date, February 28, the protagonist, who has returned to Walatowa, prepares his grandfather Francisco for burial in the traditional manner and then heads out for a ceremonial run.  For ten points, identify this work about Abel that takes its title from the first words of a Navajo chant, the most famous work of N.  Scott Momaday.
ANSWER: House Made of Dawn

7. It began when a wig-maker's apprentice named Garrick called out to a passing man who had not paid his bill. That man, Captain Samuel Goldfinch, ignored the cry and an argument broke out between Garrick and a nearby sentry who came to Goldfinch's defense. A crowd quickly formed around the combatants, and when the sentry knocked Garrick to the ground they became abusive. Captain Thomas Preston and eight other men were arrested following this event, and all but two were acquitted on the basis of self-defense.  FTP, name this event, which ended with the deaths of Samuel Maverick, James Caldwell, Patrick Carr, Samuel Gray, and Crispus Attucks.
ANSWER: The Boston Massacre

8. The uniform one of these induces a topology on Euclidean space that is finer than the product topology and coarser than the box topology.  One of these can be defined for any regular space with a countable basis, according to the Urysohn theorem.  The discrete topology corresponds to one of these functions that gives 0 for identical points and 1 for any distinct pair of points.  One of these can be defined in terms of a norm as the norm of the difference of the arguments.  FTP name these positive-definite, symmetric functions that obey the triangle inequality and give the distance between any pair of points in a space.
ANSWER: metrics

9. This song originally appeared on a 1976 album sandwiched between "Squealer" and "R.  I.  P.  (Rock in Peace)."  It was the theme song for Axl Rotten's partner in the Hardcore Chair Swingin' Freaks in the ECW.  The singer boasts, "If your name is on the guest list / No one can take you higher," and says of the title objects that some "are held for charity / And some for fancy dress," but Bon Scott prefers it when they're held for pleasure.  The title objects "are always bouncing / To the left and to the right" in, FTP, this AC/DC song supposedly about large social gatherings, which is actually about large testicles.
ANSWER: "Big Balls"

10. In one work, this loanword is associated with a system based on the contract in which convention replaces folkways and religion.  The work uses the author's "normal type" construct in discussing this concept, which is associated with the arbitrary or rational will that develops out of the essential or natural will associated with this concept's counterpart.  It is also associated with city life, as opposed to family and rural life, or community.  FTP name this German term for society paired in the title of a Ferdinand Tönnies work with Gemeinschaft.
ANSWER: Gesellschaft (prompt on society)

11. Also known as the battle of Zalgiris, the losing side had withdrawn from Schwetz and was defending the line of the River Drewenz.  The overall conflict had started with an uprising in Samogitia and the losing side had initially invaded Kuyavia.  The victorious army included a contingent of Moldavians sent by Alexander the Kind, while the losing army was led by Ulrich von Juningen.   Simon Lingwen commanded a contingent from the Russian city of Smolensk, which held the right flank of the eventual victors after the retreat of the light cavalry.   The winning side, commanded by Wladyslaw Jagiello and his brother Vytautus the Great,  smashed the power of the Ordenstaat in Prussia, in FTP, this 1410 battle where a combined Polish-Lithuanian army decisively defeated the Teutonic Knights.
Answer:  Battle of Tannenberg or Battle of Grunwald

12. Mrs.  Caldwell Speaks to her Son is written in the form of an unstable matriarch's letters, while his collections of short stories include The Windmill and The Mirror.  His non-fiction includes Genes, Gods, and Tyrants and Voyage to Alcarria.  Many of his works were first published in Argentina after being banned by his country's government.  A consistent provocateur, his Secret Dictionary was filled with scatological humor and taboo definitions.  One of his works, set at Dona Rosa's coffee shop, offers a panoramic view of Madrid after the end of the Civil War, while another explores the motivations of the impoverished title character who is executed after killing his mother.  For ten points, identify this Spanish Nobel Laureate and author of Mazurka for Two Dead Men, The Hive and a The Family of Pascual Duarte.
ANSWER: Don Camilo Jose Cela Trulock

13. The LUMA assay uses chemiluminescent methods to detect this process, and bisulfite treatment or pyrosequencing can also be used to detect it.  It can be inhibited by decitabine, and errors in one protein responsible for it cause the rare ICF syndrome.  It is also important in distinguishing the template strand during MutL-MutS-mediated mismatch repair.  It occurs in CpG islands within promoter sequences as a means of regulation, and it is a common vehicle for genomic imprinting, as seen in Prader-Willi and Angelman's syndromes.  Also occurring excessively in the CGG repeats of Fragile-X syndrome and in Barr bodies, FTP, name this mechanism of gene silencing involving the attachment of the namesake chemical group to DNA.
ANSWER: DNA Methylation (Don't accept protein or histone methylation; all of the clues are unique to DNA methylation)

14. The Lithuanian Bangputys and the Inuit Idliragijenget both have this role, as does a Polynesian figure who frequently turns into a green lizard to signal good weather.  In Ugaritic myth, two magical clubs crafter by Kothar are used to defeat one of these figures after he is cast out from Mount Sappan.  One of these figures sees his servant Fimafeng killed in the Lokasenna while hosting a feast of the gods.  The Polynesian Tangaroa shares this role with the rival of Baal Hadad, Prince Yam.  In Norse myth, the two gods with this role are married to Ran and Skadi, and in Greek myth the Olympian god with this role is married to Amphitrite.  FTP name this role shared by Aegir, Njord and Poseidon.
ANSWER: god of the seas or oceans

15. One man of this name wrote sections describing the adventures of Miss Harriet Simper and Tom Brainless in his poem The Progress of Dulness.  Another man with this name painted Sortie from Gibraltar and The Battle of Bunker Hill, and saw the National Academy of Design established by disaffected students during his time as president of the American Academy of Fine Arts.  The first man wrote the mock-epic M'Fingal and collaborated on The Anarchiad with Lemuel Hopkins, David Humphreys and Joel Barlow.  The second man painted the portrait of Alexander Hamilton that appears on the $10 bill.  FTP give the shared name of a leader of the Hartford Wits and the painter of Declaration of Independence in the Capitol Rotunda.
ANSWER: John Trumbull

16. Cities in this county include Mingachevir, Sumqayit, Ganja and Naftalan, home to petroleum spas.   Its highest point is Mount Bazarduzu and most of it is drained by the Kur River.  During the middle ages, most of it was part of Shirvan, and its territory was formerly known as Arran in Armenian and Albania in the Graeco-Roman world.  It controls the oil-rich Apsheron peninsula as well as the exclave of Nakhchivan.  The country is 60% Shia and 40% Sunni, while Urmia and Tabriz are the capitals of the two provinces bearing its name in Iran.  Currently ruled by Ilham Aliyev, who succeeded his father Heydar, FTP, name this Caucasian country whose capital is Baku.
Answer:  Azerbaijan

17. The "sigma 8" parameter in cosmology is the rms fluctuation in this quantity in spheres with radius 8 megaparsecs over the dimensionless Hubble parameter.  The Boussinesq approximation ignores its variations except in gravity terms.  In elephant trunk globules and salt domes the gradient in this quantity opposes the effective gravity, resulting in the Rayleigh-Taylor instability.  The Poisson equation relates it to the Laplacian of the gravitational potential, and Archimedes' principle states that the buoyant force on an object depends on the object's volume and this property of the surrounding fluid.  FTP name this quantity whose average value is given by an object's mass over its volume.
ANSWER: mass-energy density (specifically mass density after "Boussinesq")

18. During World War II, he served in the Air Force's Office of Statistical Control, analyzing the effectiveness of Curtis LeMay's B-29's in flattening Japanese cities.   After the war, he join Ford Motors, becoming the first president of that company not named Ford.  Later still, he headed the World Bank, while his wife Margaret used her position as a cabinet spouse to launch Reading is Fundamental.  In his most famous position, he rejected Stuart Symington's proposal to replace the Joint Chiefs of Staff with single Chief of Staff, but he is more noted for rationalizing and consolidating military equipment purchases and his inability to deal with irregular, asymmetrical conflict. FTP, identify this Secretary of Defense under Kennedy and Johnson, the Donald Rumsfeld of the Vietnam War.
Answer:  Robert McNamara

19. Notable recordings in which an optional baritone replaces the mezzo soprano soloist in this work are Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau's performances with Paul Kletzki and Leonard Bernstein.  Including such movements as "The Drunkard in Springtime" and "Loneliness in Autumn," its composer described it to Bruno Walter in 1908 as his most personal work yet.  Written after the composer was diagnosed with a heart ailment and his eldest daughter died, its six sections are set to seven poems from The Chinese Flute, a collection of Chinese lyrics translated into German by Hans Bethge.  FTP, name this song cycle for tenor and mezzo soprano that was originally intended to be the 9th symphony of Gustav Mahler.  
Answer: Das Lied von der Erde or The Song of the Earth

20. Act three features the gift of a dead mouse and gingerbread sent to a gentleman caller by a woman feigning madness, while the final act begins with six neighbors telling the master about recent comings and goings during his trip to the "hop yards."  Visitors to the London address where the play is set include Kastril, "a well-to-do youth" who wants to learn how to fight better, and Ananias, a deacon and a "violently fanatical Puritan," who wants to mint money.  Only Pertinax Surly, the friend of Sir Epicure Mammon, sees through the ruses and refuses to buy into the promises made by Dol Common and  Jeremy about their ability to procure the philosopher's stone.  For ten points, name this Ben Jonson comedy about a man named Subtle who practices the title profession that claims to turn base metals into gold.
ANSWER: The Alchemist


1. Answer the following about an author and his work, for ten points each:
[10] His 1847 work A Common Story traces a young man from the country's experiences in Moscow, while The Precipice focuses on the rivalry of three men for the hand of one woman.
Answer: Ivan Goncharov
[10] This 1859 novel, which contrasts the energetic Shtolts with the title aristocrat, who is too lazy to get up from his couch for much of the novel, is recognized as Ivan Goncharov's masterpiece.
Answer: Oblomov
[10] Goncharov's best known essay might be A Million Torments which addresses this classic comedy about the Famusovs and the Molchalins. It was written by Aleksandr Griboyedov.
Answer: Woe from Wit or The Woes of Wit or Wit Works Woe

2. Name these characters from Oz that are made from all sorts of materials, FTPE.
[10] This man made out of wood and a large fruit was constructed by Tip as a prank and brought to live by the evil witch Mombi.  His dimwittedness varies with the number and condition of the seeds in his head.
ANSWER: Jack Pumpkinhead (either name acceptable)
[10] Built by the celebrated engineering firm of Smith & Tinker, this copper clockwork man is the only unpetrified resident of the Emerald City when Dorothy arrives in the film Return to Oz.  In the novel Wicked, his name is used as an adjective for any robot, such as Madame Morrible's servant.
ANSWER: Tik-Tok
[10] Intended as a maidservant for the Crooked Magician, this whimsical creation was kidnapped and forced to serve for a time as Queen of the Quilties.  She lives in the Emerald City and has a romantic interest in the Scarecrow.
ANSWER: The Patchwork Girl or Scraps

3. Answer some questions about Konrad Lorenz and his work.  FTPE:
[10] With Tinbergen, Lorenz explained these behavioral sequences that are triggered by a sign stimulus.  One example is male red stickleback fish attacking anything else with a red belly during mating season.
ANSWER: Fixed action pattern
[10] Lorenz is probably best known for categorizing this type of learning that must occur within a critical period.  The canonical example is a group of ducklings following the first moving object they see
ANSWER: Imprinting
[10] This form of reverse sexual imprinting occurs when a male and a female are in close proximity during their early years, and any sexual desire between them is suppressed later.  It is thought to prevent incest, and is common in Israeli kibbutzes.
ANSWER: Westermarck effect

4. Name these writers from early modern France.
[10] His essay "On Cannibals" used the behavior of Brazilian Indians to undermine the concept of barbarism.
ANSWER: Michel de Montaigne
[10] His Six Books of the Commonwealth, a reaction to the chaos of the wars of religion, first defined the concept of sovereignty.
ANSWER: Jean Bodin 
[10] Though his most famous work is the political utopia Telemaque written for the Duke of Burgundy, his banishment from court was the result of his quietist theological writings.
ANSWER: Francois Fenelon

5. Identify the following works by Raphael, for ten points each:
[10] This 1516 portrait of famous humanist and author of The Book of the Courtier depicted him in as the perfect gentleman.
ANSWER: Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione
[10] In this 1507 work that was given a French name, Raphael employs a pyramidal structure derived from Leonardo da Vinci.  It depicts the Virgin and Child in a field with a baby St. John.
ANSWER: La Belle Jardiniere
[10] This work in the Villa Farnesina presents the titular mythological figure astride a seashell and surrounded by hippocampi, tritons, and cupids.  
ANSWER: The Triumph of Galatea

6. Answer the following about an African American writer and his work, for ten points each:
[10] The collection Eight Men was published after his death in 1961, but he first gained fame with the publication of such short stories as "Down by the Riverside" and "Big Boy Leaves Home."
ANSWER: Richard Wright
[10] This was Richard Wright's second novel, it was written after his arrival in Paris and focuses on Cross Damon, who ends up committing murder and is finally killed in jail.
ANSWER: The Outsider
[10] Wright might be best known for this protest novel about Bigger Thomas.
ANSWER: Native Son

7. Answer the following about some serenades of Mozart.
[10] This serenade, K. 250, shares its name with Mozart's 35th symphony, and was donated to the wedding party of its namesake family's daughter.  
Answer: Haffner serenade
[10] This work, K. 525, is probably Mozart's single most recognizable composition.  Its subtitle implies its ideal function as evening outdoor party music.
Answer: Eine Kleine Nachtmusik or A Little Night Music
[10] This 9th serenade of Mozart, K. 310, takes its nickname from the instrument prominently featured in a solo passage of the 6th movement.  It is Mozart's most serious effort in this light genre.
Answer: Posthorn serenade

8. Identify these figures from the turbulent history of nineteenth-century Mexico, FTSNOP.
[10] He issued the 1821 Plan de Iguala and a year later was briefly proclaimed Emperor Agustin I.
ANSWER: (Agustin) de Iturbide
[10] This conservative served as Foreign minister after the fall of Iturbide. His History of Mejico spelled the country's name with a j, indicating his sympathy for Spanish culture.
ANSWER: Lucas Alaman
[5] Alaman's conservatism stemmed from the disgust he felt when he saw the Alhondiga of Guanajuato burned by forces loyal to this rebellious priest of Dolores.
ANSWER:  Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla
[5] Vice president in the 1830s under Santa Anna, this liberal-federalist leader later opposed central government in favor of secessionist movements in the Yucatan and elsewhere. 
ANSWER: Valentin Gomez Farias

9. He wrote "not by eastern windows only, / When daylight comes, comes in the light," in his poem "Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth."  FTPE:
[10] Name this Victorian writer who also described the Sun, "Through Eastern pictured panes his level beams transmitting," in his poem "Epi-strauss-ium."
ANSWER: Arthur Hugh Clough (should rhyme with "rough," but be lenient on pronunciation)
[10] The image of a solitary elm recurs throughout this monody written by Matthew Arnold in the voice of the shepherd-poet Corydon to commemorate Clough following his death.
ANSWER: "Thyrsis"
[10] The life of the solitary elm in "Thyrsis" is linked with the life of this reclusive title character of another poem by Arnold.  The poem focuses on his life after leaving Oxford.
ANSWER: "The Scholar Gypsy"

10. Violent relaxation results from this phenomenon's so-called dynamical variety, in which a large mass in motion pulls lighter bodies towards it, producing a gravitational wake that slows the large mass.  FTPE:
[10] Name this phenomenon whose more common static and kinetic varieties involve boundary interactions that oppose motion.
ANSWER: friction
[10] The Chandrasekhar dynamical friction formula involves this special function, typically abbreviated "erf."  It gives the normalized area under a Gaussian within a certain finite distance of the mean.
ANSWER: Gaussian error function
[10] The Chandrasekhar formula also involves this man's namesake logarithm, which is an important parameter in describing collisional plasmas.  This man's namesake equation relates the static or kinetic friction force to the coefficient of friction times the normal force.
ANSWER: Charles Augustin de Coulomb

11. She became a monster after Hera killed this woman's children by Zeus.  FTPE:
[10] Name this daughter of Belus whom Zeus gave the strange gift of being able to take her eyes out and put them back in again.  
ANSWER: Lamia
[10] Eustathius and Stesichorus listed Lamia as the mother of this woman.  Following an unfortunate incident in her bathtub, her lower body turned into six dogs and she took to eating men near Charybdis.
ANSWER: Scylla
[10] Scylla is more commonly said to be a daughter of this old sea-god, who was also said to be the father of Echidna and the Gorgons.
ANSWER: Phorcys

12. Felton Earls' studies of collective efficacy suggest that this theory's emphasis on maintaining physical and social order is misplaced.  FTPE:
[10] Name this criminological theory expounded by Coles, Wilson and Kelling which holds that reducing petty crimes such as vandalism will in turn reduce major crime.
ANSWER: broken windows theory
[10] This psychologist conducted the original "broken windows" study, abandoning a pair of similar cars in the Bronx and near his home university.  His recent books include The Lucifer Effect.
ANSWER: Philip Zimbardo
[10] This Frenchman created the parable of the broken window as an illustration of the concept of hidden costs in his 1850 essay That Which is Seen and That Which Is Unseen.  His work Economic Sophisms includes a satirical petition asking that the Sun be blocked out to aid the candle-making industry.
ANSWER: Frédéric Bastiat

13. Identify the following related to literary military men, for ten points each:
[10] This namesake of a satirical Arthur Schnitzler novella must decide between suicide and resignation from the army as restitution for his lost honor.
ANSWER: Leutnant Gustl or Lieutenant Gustl or Lt. Gustl
[10] After he retires from the Army he spends his time making tiny golden fish.  His loves include Remedios Moscote and Pilar Ternera.  One Hundred Years of Solitude begins with him standing in front of a firing squad.
ANSWER: Colonel Aureliano Buendia [we need the whole thing to differentiate him from the many similarly named characters in the book]
[10] In this 1946 Pulitzer Prize winner John Hersey tells the tale of Major Joppolo who decides to return an occupied Italian town's 700 year old instrument.
ANSWER: A Bell for Adano

14. High ratios of helium-3 to helium-4 in some samples of this rock may reflect shallow-mantle processes rather than the traditional deep-mantle plume interpretation.  FTPE:
[10] Name this rock produced by MORB magmas that can have tholeiitic [thoe-lee-IT-ic] composition.
ANSWER: basalt
[10] Underwater eruptions of basaltic magma produce deposits with this elongated, bulbous morphology.
ANSWER: pillow basalts
[10] A common mineral component in basalts is this aluminosilicate series whose end members are albite and anorthite.  
ANSWER: plagioclase feldspar

15. FTPE, name these German aces of the First World War.
[10] His 80 kills led all aces during war, though he did not survive it; his famed red Fokker triplane was downed in April 1918, with both Australian anti-aircraft gunners and Canadian pilot Roy Brown claiming credit.
ANSWER: Manfred von Richthofen (prompt on Red Baron; prompt on Richthofen alone, as Manfred's brother Lothar was also a WWI ace)
[10] This German airman claimed 40 kills before his October 1916 death in an aerial collision with his wingman, but this master tactician is best known as the author of 8 combat rules that are still taught to combat pilots today.
ANSWER: Oswald Boelcke
[10] Succeeding Richtofen in command of the Flying Circus, he finished the war with 22 kills, but went on to significantly greater infamy as commander of the Luftwaffe during WWII.
ANSWER: Hermann Goering

16. Identify these items related to the geography of prehistoric Utah, FTPE.
[10] The Great Salt Lake is the shrunken remnant of a Pleistocene lake named after this explorer, who also lent his name to the vast salt flats west of the lake.
ANSWER: Benjamin Bonneville
[10] Utah's highest point, Kings Peak, is in this range near the Wyoming border, which runs east to west and gave its name to an Eocene herbivore with large canines.
ANSWER: Uinta range (the animal is Uintatherium)
[10] The fossil beds of Dinosaur National Monument are located on the banks of this river, the Colorado's largest tributary.
ANSWER: Green River

17. Providing fodder for commentators without anything to say for years, answer these questions about athletes with blasphemous surnames FTPE.
[10] Drafted by the Edmonton Oilers and top scorer on the Buffalo Sabres' 1998 Eastern Conference Championship team, this Slovak winger is now with the New York Islanders.
ANSWER: Miroslav Satan
[10] This Puerto Rican Cubs outfielder was called up in May 2007 to replace Matt Murton.  Acquired from the Mets organizations, his stats are forgettable-- .267 and 3 HR in the first half of the 2007 season.
ANSWER: Angel Pagan
[10] Currently playing with the Portland Chinooks of the IBL and with stints in the Chinese, Polish, and Saudi Arabian professional basketball leagues to his name, he may have achieved his greatest notoriety during two years at Providence.  He lasted one year in the NBA, with the Wizards in the 1997-98 season.
ANSWER: God Shammgod

18. Answer these questions about related works of literature, FTPE.
[10] Name the protagonist, a British police inspector, of Grahame Greene's The Heart of the Matter.
ANSWER: Major Henry Scobie (accept either)
[10] Another Scobie appears in this first book of Lawrence Durrell's Alexandria Quartet.
ANSWER: Justine
[10] The second of Justine's two epigraphs is a quote from this man's 1791 Justine.
ANSWER: Comte Donatien-Alphonse-François, Marquis de Sade

19. Reacting them with an alkene gives a cycleopropane derivative.  FTPE:
[10] Name these compounds, which consist of a carbon atom with two substituents, two electrons, and an empty p-orbital.
ANSWER: Carbene
[10] Schrock carbenes are useful catalysts in this reaction, which cleaves and rearranges double bonds.
ANSWER: Olefin metathesis
[10] Carbenes can also be created using this reaction, which decomposes diazoalkanes in an aprotic solvent.
ANSWER: Bamford-Stevens reaction

20. Name these paths to salvation in Hinduism, FTPE.
[10] This path involves complete knowledge of a supreme being or object.  Adherents seek 4 means of salvation, including discrimination, dispassion, and the sixfold qualities of perfection.
ANSWER: jnana yoga
[10] Sometimes seen as a stepping-stone to jnana yoga, this path emphasizes unselfish performance of one's duty, or dharma, without regard for rewards.
ANSWER: karma yoga
[10] This path of devotion typically involves worship of Krishna, Vishnu or Shiva as the supreme deity.
ANSWER: bhakti yoga

