Chicago Open 2007
Packet by Andrew Yaphe

1. In one of this man's plays, Mary steals the tin can made by her son Michael, ruining Sarah's plans to marry Michael.  In another of his plays, a wandering friar uses some water from the title location to restore sight to Martin and Mary Doul.  In addition to The Tinker's Wedding and The Well of the Saints, he wrote about Dan Burke pretending to be dead, then driving out his wife Nora, in the one-act play In the Shadow of the Glen.  Another of his plays features the Widow Quin and Pegeen Mike, both of whom are initially enticed by a supposed patricide named Christy Mahon.  FTP name this playwright of The Playboy of the Western World.
ANSWER: John Millington Synge

2. In an early work by this artist, a woman dressed in black and named Lydia is being watched in her Opera Box, while an 1873 painting by this artist shows a toreador lighting a cigarette. A better known 1893 painting by this artist features a baby in pink being held by a woman wearing a white hat, while the foreground shows a man in black who is rowing the titular "boating party." After studying at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts during the Civil War, this artist moved to France, and placed a painting in the 1872 Salon.  FTP, name this painter of The Bath and Children Playing on the Beach, a female artist who exhibited with the Impressionists.
ANSWER: Mary Cassatt

3. The beginning of the end for its independence was the Battle of Shelon River, where its poorly organized forces were routed by a force one-quarter its size.   Its constituent political units were public assemblies known as vecha, and executive power may have been vested in a Council of Lords chaired by the Archbishop.   Though it rose to prominence because of the fur trade, and was the site of the Hanseatic kontor of the Peterhof, its inability to feed itself made it dependent on the region of Vladimir-Suzdal for food, and it was annexed by Ivan III in 1478 to Muscovy.  With a name meaning "New City," FTP, name this historic Russian city, led in the 13th century by Alexander Nevsky.
ANSWER:  Velikiy Novgorod (or Novgorod the Great)

4. The Pratt hypothesis posits lateral variations in the density of this rheologically-defined region, while the Airy hypothesis posits lateral variations in its thickness.  Both hypotheses seek to explain its isostatic equilibrium with the layer below it, which is sometimes known as the low seismic velocity zone.  The layer below it may contain partial melt or volatile enrichment, explaining the lower layer's plasticity compared with this layer's rigidity.  FTP name this solid thermal boundary layer of the Earth broken up into plates that float on the asthenosphere, consisting of the crust and upper mantle.
ANSWER: lithosphere (accept crust before "rheologically-defined")

5. A major enemy of this group was Caecillian, who condemned the lady Lucilla's excessive devotion to the bones of the martyrs. They supported Majorinus and opposed Caecillian's ordination by Felix of Apthunga because Felix was thought to be a "traditor," one who had handed over church books to the authorities during the third-century persecutions.  Its followers instead maintained that the sacraments should only be celebrated by those of blameless life, who most certainly did not include the bishop of Carthage. FTP, name this heresy denounced by Saint Augustine, a source of schism in the early church of North Africa.
ANSWER: Donatism (or Donatists)

6. This work is discussed in the first part of the "Fortunata" chapter of Erich Auerbach's Mimesis, which goes on to consider the first book of the Annals of Tacitus.  The William Arrowsmith translation of this book includes such chapters as "Lichas and Tryphena," "The Road to Croton," and "Among the Rhetoricians."   In the opening section of this book, Agamemnon and one of the central characters discuss questions of literary value, while several of the characters are later waylaid by Quartilla.   Later, a poet named Eumolpus offers the central character consolation after he is deserted by Giton.  FTP, name this work which centers on Encolpius and includes the episode of Trimalchio's feast, a comic novel by Petronius.
ANSWER: Satyricon or Satyrica

7. The turberomammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus releases this compound as a neurotransmitter, and it acts upon the medial forebrain bundle to cause arousal and vigilance.  One receptor for this compound is found on the parietal cells of the stomach, where it triggers the release of HCl, and it is also stored in the enterochromaffin-like cells there.  It is destroyed by the action of diamine oxidase and its namesake N-methyltransferase.  Most commonly, it is released when the Fc-epsilon-RI receptor binds to immunoglobulin E, causing degranulation of mast cells.  Created by histidine decarboxylase, FTP, name this vasoactive amine whose actions are inhibited by Benadryl and are responsible for allergic reactions.
ANSWER: Histamine

8. The only railroad in the world to use gas-turbine electric locomotives on a large scale, its early acquisitions included the Oregon Short Line and the Los Angeles & Salt Lake.    It founded Sun Valley in 1935 under W. Averell Harriman, and under Jay Gould it expanded with acquisitions such as the Kansas Pacific, though Gould's tenure left it financially unstable.  Later acquisitions, such as the Missouri Pacific, Chicago & Northwestern and Southern Pacific would greatly extend its reach.  Left near bankruptcy with Credit Mobilier scandal, FTP, name this American railroad that built the eastern part of the first Transcontinental.
ANSWER:  Union Pacific

9. This composer's Opus 1 and 2 are piano sonatas in C major and F-sharp minor, respectively, while his Opus 10 is a series of four Ballades for piano dedicated to Julius Grimm.  A D minor work which this composer originally intended to be a sonata for two pianos was later transformed into his first piano concerto, while his better-known second piano concerto is a B-flat major work in four movements which premiered in 1881 with the composer at the keyboard.  This composer's other works include the Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel and the Alto Rhapsody, as well as four symphonies.  FTP, name this composer of the Academic Festival Overture and the German Requiem.
ANSWER: Johannes Brahms

10. The title of a 2004 book by Hilary Putnam refers to the author's attempt to develop a version of this "without ontology," while a 1979 essay by Thomas Nagel describes a version of it "without biology."  A book on this subject "and language" was written by Charles Stevenson, a leader of the "emotivist" school of thought concerning it.  This subject was said to be without rational foundations in a book which discusses it "and the limits of philosophy" written by Bernard Williams.  A 17th-century book with this title is divided into five sections, and moves "in geometric order" through such topics as "the power of the understanding" and "human bondage."  FTP, name this philosophical subject which is discussed in a treatise by Aristotle known as the "Nicomachean."
ANSWER: ethics (accept Ethics Without Ontology on the first sentence)

11. One work by this author concludes "The worlds revolve like ancient women / Gathering fuel in vacant lots," and mentions a "notion" of an "infinitely gentle / Infinitely suffering thing."  Another poem by this author concludes that "Our lot crawls between dry ribs / To keep our metaphysics warm," and begins by noting that John Webster was "much possessed by death / And saw the skull beneaeth the skin."  In addition to "Preludes" and "Whispers of Immortality," this author asked "After such knowledge, what forgiveness?" in a poem about an "old man in a dry month," "Gerontion."  FTP, name this American poet who wrote "Sweeney Among the Nightingales" and "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock."
ANSWER: Thomas Stearns Eliot

12. This organ derives from the mesenchyme of the dorsal mesogastrium, and attaches to the gastrolineal, lienorenal, and phrenicocolic ligament to support itself.  One section of this organ is affected by MALT lymphoma and expresses the MARCO protein, and another section of it contains the Malphigian corpuscles.  Its marginal zone divides its two main sections, the red pulp and white pulp, and sequestration of this organ occurs in sickle cell anemia.  The site of erythrocyte destruction, FTP, name this largest lymphoid organ, a reservoir of B and T cells.
ANSWER: Spleen

13. In 1885, he was dispatched to Seoul as the Qing Dynasty's Resident, giving him great influence in Korea until the outbreak of Sino-Japanese War.   His conduct during the hundred days' reform, he probably betrayed the reformers to the reactionary Cixi's forces.   He earned the trust of foreigners for suppressing the Boxers in Shandong as governor, he later turned the Beiyang army into the most powerful in China.  Supposedly nursing a foot ailment with the Qing Dynasty fell, he was later thought to be behind the assassination of Song Jiaoren.  However, in 1912, he was the only candidate acceptable by all factions for the president of the new Republic of China.  FTP, name this late Chinese general and statesman who unsuccessfully tried to crown himself emperor in 1915.
ANSWER:  Yuan Shikai

14. In his last tragedy, the title character is overthrown thanks to a priest named Joad, leading to the crowning of Joas.  The title character of one of his earlier plays is the younger brother of Amurat who falls in love with Atalide, who commits suicide after Roxane orders his death.  Pharnace and Xiphares oppose the title monarch in his Mithridate, while the Bible inspired his late works Athalie and Esther.  He borrowed from The Wasps in his only comedy, Les Plaideurs, though he is better known for tragedies based on Greek works.  FTP, name this French dramatist of Andromaque and Phèdre.
ANSWER: Jean Racine

15. This creature was associated with Tool-ba, the foolish uncle of the Abenaki culture hero Glooscap.  The Chinese goddess Nü-Gua cut off the legs of one of these creatures to prop up the four cardinal points, and Apollo assumed this form to get Dryope to put him in her lap.  In Balinese myth, Bedawang Nala is a gigantic one that supports the earth, and in Hindu myth, during the churning of the ocean Mount Mandara rested on the curved back of one of these animals.  Vishnu's second avatar, Kurma, was an example of, FTP, this animal whose shell provided the body for Hermes's lyre.
ANSWER: tortoise or turtle

16. In one track, this artist asks "Damn, what happened to the summertime cookouts?" and requests not to be asked why he's "motherfuckin stresssed," seeing as his mother has "cancer in her breast." In another track, he claims that his mother "wished she got a fuckin abortion" and asserts "When I die, fuck it I want to go to hell / 'Cause I'm a piece of shit." Both those tracks, "Things Done Changed" and "Suicidal Thoughts," appeared on a 1994 album by this artist which also featured "Juicy" and "Big Poppa." In addition to Ready to Die, he created the album Life After Death, which was actually released two weeks after his 1997 murder. FTP, name this large rapper who was born Christopher Wallace.
ANSWER: The Notorious B.I.G. (accept Biggie Smalls; accept Frank White; accept Christopher Wallace before it is mentioned; accept "Big Poppa" before it is mentioned)

17. Parsbit may have been a female military commander of these people, whose military was traditionally led by a Bek, assisted by tarkhans.   Other leaders include Irbis, who may not have existed, and Bulan or Sabriel.  Their leader Barjik defeated the Umayyads in 730, while both Justinian II and Constantine V married princesses of this people.   Severely weakened by the Kabar rebellion and the departure of the Magyars, their cities included their capital of Itil and the fortress of Sarkel, built with Byzantine assistance on the Don River.  Though they enjoyed a revival under Joseph and Aaron II, they were eventually destroyed by Svyatoslav of Kiev.  FTP, name this Turkic people on the lower Volga, perhaps most famous for converting to Judaism. 
Answer:  Khazars

18. This city's Trianon Park lies close to a structure utilizing right-angled solidium beams in a litter to carry MASP [rhymes with "hasp," not "wasp"].  This city's Week of Modern Art featured paintings by Anita Malfatti and Emiliano di Cavalcanti, a reading from Hallucinated City by Mário Andrade, and performances of works by Heitor Villa-Lobos.  Its BOVESPA ["boh-VES-puh"] stock exchange is the largest in Latin America.  A riverbank in this city was the site of the Grito de Ipiranga, the proclamation by Dom Pedro I of Brazilian independence.  FTP name this most populous city in the Southern Hemisphere.
ANSWER: São Paulo

19. The Voigt line profile is a convolution of a Gaussian with this man's namesake profile for natural or resonant line widths.  Independently of a Danish scientist with a similar last name, he discovered a relation that is equivalent to the Clausius-Mossotti equation.  His line profile has the shape of a Cauchy distribution, and the group of inhomogeneous transformations named for him is also known as the Poincaré group.  He lends his name to the electromagnetic force on a moving charged particle, and to the transformations between inertial frames in special relativity.  FTP name this Dutch physicist who explained the Michelson-Morley result with a namesake contraction hypothesized independently of Fitzgerald.
ANSWER: Hendrik Antoon Lorentz

20. In this novel, one source of religious authority is the town's vicar Parson Irwine, who cares for his invalid sister Anne.  The title character is loved by Mary Burge, the daughter of his employer, and studies with a schoolmaster named Bartle Massey.  Set in the town of Hayslope at the end of the 18th century, it features a Methodist preacher named Dinah Morris who eventually marries the title character after the woman he loves is sentenced to death for murdering her illegitimate child.  FTP, name this work which features Arthur Donnithorne and Hetty Sorrel, the first novel written by George Eliot, whose title character is an upstanding carpenter.
ANSWER: Adam Bede 


1. A saint raises his hands on the left side of the painting, while seven nudes stand or kneel in the background beneath billowing yellow and green cloths.  FTPE:
[10] Name this painting created between 1608 and 1614, whose upper portion was cut off in the late 19th century.
ANSWER: The Opening of the Fifth Seal of the Apocalypse or The Vision of Saint John or The Fifth Seal of the Apocalypse
[10] This Mannerist painted The Opening of the Fifth Seal of the Apocalypse, as well as The Burial of Count Orgaz.
ANSWER: El Greco (or Domenicos Theotokopoulos)
[10] According to Wikipedia, The Opening of the Fifth Seal of the Apocalypse was a direct inspiration for this 1907 painting, which depicts five prostitutes from Barcelona.
ANSWER: Les Demoiselles d'Avignon or The Young Ladies of Avignon

2. It relies on the spontaneous creation of a dipole in an otherwise neutral molecule.  FTPE:
[10] Name this weak intermolecular force, a subset of Van Der Waals forces
ANSWER: London dispersion forces
[10] London dispersion forces are important in liquid helium-4 above this temperature, below which it becomes a superfluid and crazy stuff starts happening.
ANSWER: Lambda point
[10] This third-order potential results when considering London dispersion forces between three bodies.  It is named for two American physicists.
ANSWER: Axilrod-Teller potential

3. One of his most recent books is The Temptation of the Impossible, which discusses Les Misérables.  FTPE:
[10] Name this contemporary novelist, whose other critical works include a book about Madame Bovary entitled The Perpetual Orgy.
ANSWER: Mario Vargas Llosa
[10] One plot of this 2000 Vargas Llosa novel concerns Urania's return to Santo Domingo, while another details the assassination of Trujillo.
ANSWER: The Feast of the Goat or La Fiesta del Chivo
[10] The protagonist of this 1977 Vargas Llosa work falls in love with the first title character, who is the sister-in-law of his Uncle Lucho, while the other title character is Pedro Camacho.
ANSWER: Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter or La tia Julia y el escribidor

4. Its provisions were modified by the Conference of San Remo in 1920.  FTPE:
[10] Name this secret agreement reached on May 9, 1916, between Great Britain and France, to which Russia was also a signatory.
ANSWER: the Sykes-Picot agreement
[10] The Sykes-Picot agreement dealt with the division of territory belonging to this nation; among other things, it assigned Baghdad to Great Britain and Lebanon to France.
ANSWER: the Ottoman Empire
[10] The following year the agreement was modified by the Agreement of Saint-Jean-de-Maurenne, by which this nation was given parts of Anatolia.
ANSWER: Italy

5. Answer the following about the geography of Wales, FTPE.
[10] Separated from the mainland by the Menai Strait, this island was a druidic center at the time of the Roman conquest.
ANSWER: Anglesey (or: Ynys Mon)
[10] The highest peak in Wales, it is supposedly the burial place of the giant Rhita slain by Arthur.
ANSWER: Snowdon (or: Yr Wyddfa)
[10] This port on the Bristol Channel in Glamorganshire has been the capital of Wales only since 1955.
ANSWER: Cardiff

6. Answer the following on big things in astronomy, FTPE.
[10] Polaris can be found from the Big Dipper asterism by sighting along two stars, commonly known as the Pointers.  Name either of the Pointers.
ANSWER: Merak or Dubhe
[10] This term denotes the eventual fate of a closed universe, in which all matter and energy recollapse to a singularity.
ANSWER: Big Crunch
[10] These energetic systems often display an optical and ultraviolet spectral feature known as the big blue bump.  Their subtypes include quasars, Seyferts and blazars.
ANSWER: AGNs or Active Galactic Nuclei

7. Name these freethinkers of that freethinkingest of centuries, the 18th, FTPE:
[10] This German-born thinker who worked on the Encyclopedia set forth his materialistic views in The System of Nature, whose determinism and atheism shocked even fellow freethinkers.
ANSWER: the Baron d'Holbach (or Paul Henry Thiry)
[10] Wolmar, the so-called "virtuous atheist" in this man's Nouvelle Heloise, was said to be based on d'Holbach.  This freethinker's other works include the Discourse on Inequality.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] This French philosopher flirted with freethinking, but ended up a Calvinist in the end. He criticized superstition in his 1682 Thoughts on the Comet, and then criticized it some more in his Historical and Critical Dictionary.
ANSWER: Pierre Bayle

8. Name these works by Nathaniel Hawthorne, FTPE:
[10] Donatello, the count of Monte Beni, is the title character of this last completed novel by Hawthorne.
ANSWER: The Marble Faun
[10] In this 1831 story by Hawthorne, Robin goes to Boston in search of the title character, only to discover that he has been tarred and feathered by a mob.
ANSWER: "My Kinsman, Major Molineux"
[10] The title thing in this story from Mosses from an Old Manse belongs to Georgiana, the wife of a scientist named Aylmer.
ANSWER: "The Birthmark

9. Identify these battles of the late Roman Empire, FTPE.
[10] At this October 312 AD battle, Constantine I defeated Maxientus.  Just prior to the battle, Constantine is said to have seen a vision promising victory through the help of the Christian God.
ANSWER: Battle of Milvian Bridge
[10] The Romans, led by the Emperor Gallienus and the future Claudius II, defeated a 268 AD Gothic invasion at this site in modern-day Serbia.
ANSWER: Battle of Naissus
[10] This 271 AD battle, where the Emperor Aurelian destroyed a retreating Alamanni army, shares its name with a 1525 battle that saw the capture of Francis I.
ANSWER: Battle of Pavia

10. In the final episode of its most recent season, Naomi was killed by a knife in the back, after which another character called a man named Minkowski. FTPE:
[10] Name this TV show, whose third season ended with a central character drowning after Mikhail exploded a grenade.
ANSWER: Lost
[10] In the flashforward portion of the season finale of Lost, Jack drove to somebody's funeral while listening to the song "Scentless Apprentice" from this album.  Other songs on this Nirvana album include "Rape Me" and "Heart-Shaped Box."
ANSWER: In Utero
[10] The character who drowned in that episode was Charlie, a musician portrayed by this actor who also has been seen as a hobbit in The Lord of the Rings.
ANSWER: Dominic Monaghan

11. They have three body types, asconoid, syconoid, and leuconoid.  FTPE:
[10] Name this phylum of primitive, sessile, aquatic organisms.
ANSWER: Sponges or Poriferans 
[10] The digestive system of a sponge consists of these flagellated cells that filter the water around them for nutrients.
ANSWER: Choanocytes or Collar cells
[10] In Asconoid sponges, the collar cells are found in this central tube of the sponge.
ANSWER: Spongocoel

12. His musical works inspired by America include the Louisville Concerto and Bostoniana.  FTPE:
[10] Name this French composer, who won the Prix de Rome in 1919 and wrote the orchestral suite Ports of Call (Escales) while in Italy.
ANSWER: Jacques Ibert
[10] Ibert collaborated with this  composer of Pacific 231 and the oratorio King David on the operas L'Aiglon and Les Petites Cardinal.
ANSWER: Arthur Honegger
[10] Ibert's career was launched by the Paris premiere of this symphonic poem based on verses by Oscar Wilde.
ANSWER: The Ballad of Reading Gaol or La Ballade de la Geôle de Reading

13. After Evadne admits to being the king's mistress, her brother Melantius gets her to murder the king.  FTPE:
[10] Name this play written in the early 17th century, whose other characters include Amintor and Aspatia.
ANSWER: The Maid's Tragedy
[10] This pair of Elizabethan playwrights wrote The Maid's Tragedy as well as Philaster.
ANSWER: Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher
[10] As a solo writer, Beaumont is best known for this work in which a grocer interrupts a performance of The London Merchant so that his apprentice Ralph can appear in it.
ANSWER: The Knight of the Burning Pestle

14. It gave England New Netherland from the Dutch and Antigua from France, while France got Acadia back.  FTPE:
[10] Name this treaty signed in 1667, which ended the second Anglo-Dutch War.
ANSWER: the Treaty of Breda
[10] The Dutch were in a hurry to sign the Treaty of Breda because Louis XIV had launched this war by invading the Spanish Netherlands; it ended in 1668.
ANSWER: the War of Devolution
[10] Louis XIV fought the War of Devolution under the pretext of pursuing his wife's claim to succeed her father in lieu of this man, her half-brother, who was the last Spanish Habsburg monarch.
ANSWER: Charles II (or Carlos II or Charles the Mad)

15. Maurice Stein's The Eclipse of Community compares studies of several different American cities and communities.  FTPE:
[10] Stein discusses Robert and Helen Lynd's studies of this pseudonymous, small American community, later revealed to be Muncie, Indiana.
ANSWER: Middletown
[10] Stein analyzes William Lloyd Warner's ambitious, decade-long study of this New England community, which culminated in such works as The Living and the Dead.
ANSWER: "Yankee City" or Newburyport, Massachusetts
[10] Stein describes Robert Park's study of "natural areas" in this city.  Park joined Ernest Burgess and George Herbert Mead in its namesake school of sociology.
ANSWER: Chicago, Illinois

16. These constructs are partitions of the rational numbers into two sets, such that one of the sets is closed downwards and has no greatest element.  FTPE:
[10] Name these constructs developed by Gauss's final doctoral student.
ANSWER: Dedekind cuts
[10] Dedekind cuts can be used to construct this complete, ordered field from the rationals.  It consists of the algebraic and transcendental numbers. 
ANSWER: reals or real numbers or R
[10] John Conway used a method similar to Dedekind cuts to construct this class of numbers that includes the reals and Cantor's infinite ordinal numbers.
ANSWER: surreal numbers

17. Here's a hodge-podge of questions on light in various religions.  FTPE:
[10] This woman claimed that light shone out of her pudendum, illuminating the palaces of Syria, at the moment she gave birth to Muhammad.
ANSWER: Aminah
[10] Lighting fireworks to chase away dead spirits and setting lots of earthenware oil lamps floating down streams are some of the hallmarks of this Indian "Festival of Lights."
ANSWER: Diwali or Deepavali
[10] Figures in this religion include the 12 Virgins of Light, and its texts include the Arzhang and the Psalms of the Festival of Bema.  Its namesake experienced a divine revelation at a young age from a spirit he called the Syzygos or Twin.
ANSWER: Manicheism

18. "Tibby Hyslop's Dream" is one of the poems in his The Shepherd's Calendar.  FTPE:
[10] Name this Scottish author who is better known for a book in which Robert Wringham murders some people at the urging of the devil, The Confessions of a Justified Sinner..
ANSWER: James Hogg
[10] Perhaps the best known book called The Shepheard's Calendar was one by this author of The Faerie Queene.
ANSWER: Edmund Spenser
[10] Yet another Shepherd's Calendar was written by this minor Romantic poet of the lyric "I am," who spent the last decades of his life in a Northampton insame asylum.
ANSWER: John Clare

19. The shield Svalin helps protect this goddess as she rides in her chariot pulled by Alsvid and Arvak.  FTPE:
[10] Name this sister of Mani.
ANSWER: Sol or the sun
[10] This wolf chases Sol each day.  At Ragnarok, this relative of Fenrir will catch and devour the sun, while his brother Hati will devour the moon.
ANSWER: Sköll
[10] Sol and Mani were said to be the children of this giant by his wife Glaur.
ANSWER: Mundilfari

20. During this period, two Mongol invasions were defeated thanks to some timely typhoons.  FTPE:
[10] Name this period of Japanese history, which is named for the city where Minamoto Yoritomo established his capital.
ANSWER: the Kamakura period
[10] The Kamakura period ended in the 1330s, when this emperor led a plot to overthrow the shogunate; he died in 1339 after setting up a southern capital to rival that of Kogon.
ANSWER: Go-Daigo Tenno or Takahuru
[10] Kogon was the emperor appointed by this family, who started out as retainers for the Hojo family but ended up ruling Japan in a shogunate which held power until 1573.
ANSWER: the Ashikaga

