COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET ONE: "Secrets, Puzzles, and Little Fears"


Toss-Ups

1. Early appearances of this character saw him teamed with the Constrictor and battling Iron Fist, Power Man, and Spider-Man, all heroes he is not associated with now. This character was responsible for killing Chickenwings and probably Mole, and killed a number of Vietnamese prostitutes in Saigon during the 1960's. Recruited by Scalphunter while in Saigon on behest of (*) Mister Sinister, this man helped perpetuate a major act of genocide in the tunnels underneath New York. This man has a violently anti-mutant son, Graydon, whose mother is also a mutant, Mystique. At one point rumored to be the father of his greatest rival, details of their relationship remain hazy. FTP, identify this X-Men villain, a savage assassin who frequently tangles with Wolverine.
ANSWER: Sabretooth (accept Victor Creed)

2. WARNING: First AND Last Name required. This man married Dr. Carolyn Fields, a hypnotherapist who eventually died from a disease similar to ALS. Prior to this, he had been married to Laura, who died in a car accident on the way home from a picnic. In his last adventure, this man apparently dies when he falls a great distance out of an exploding plane. In one of his adventures, he is defended by blind lawyer (*) Matt Murdock and in another he meets the god Thor, both of which were aborted attempts to create spin-offs. His recurring nemesis is the relentless reporter Jack McGee. This man was played by the former star of "My Favorite Martian," Bill Bixby. FTP, identify this human alter ego of the titular character on the live-action TV show "The Incredible Hulk," whose first name was changed from the comic books.
ANSWER: David Banner (do not accept or prompt on Bruce Banner, even though it says first and last name required in the opening, I guess prompt on The Incredible Hulk)

3. This character never received his own solo comic book until a 1983 limited series. In a series of back-up stories in, he became a newspaper columnist and ran for mayor, losing in a probably fixed race. One of this character's most famous storylines was entitled "Snowbirds Don't Fly" and involved the supporting character of Roy (*) Harper. In Frank Miller's The Dark Knight Returns, this man is seen minus an arm, which is implied to be the work of Superman. Mike Grell produced a critically acclaimed series for this character, which downplayed the superhero aspects by taking away the sonic scream power of his partner, Black Canary. FTP, identify this superhero, a frequent partner of Green Lantern, who uses a bow and arrow to fight crime.
ANSWER: Green Arrow (accept Oliver Queen)

4. The comic book parody video game Nightshade featured a villain who took the appearance of this entity and used one of his alternate names. An entity with this name created the Helmet of Power wielded by Paul Destine. On the world of the Squadron Supreme, this entity controlled President Rockefeller, and in the Atlantis(*) Attacks crossover, this entity was worshipped by Ghaur and Llyra. In the movie Conan the Barbarian, this is the entity worshipped by Thulsa Doom. In the Marvel universe, this entity took control of the dinosaurs and used them to try to kill mammals. In ancient Egypt, Apocalypse was mistaken to be this entity. FTP, identify this deity, whose name has been used for various Marvel entities that do not always resemble an Egyptian god of evil. 
ANSWER: Set (accept Seth and Sutekh)
       
5. This man illustrated a comic adaptation of the Disney film The Black Hole for a Disney syndicated comic strip. Several of his proposed set designs for the canceled film Lord of Light were utilized by the CIA during the Iran hostage crisis when agents smuggled Americans out of the country while posing as a movie crew. Along with his partner, he created the comic series Young Romance, and he also took over the comic Superman's Pal (*), Jimmy Olsen in the 1970's, which he used to introduce his "Fourth World" characters. The creator or co-creator of Manhunter, Mister Miracle, the Demon, and Darkseid, he is most famous for his collaborations with Joe Simon and Stan Lee. FTP, identify this co-creator of Captain America and the original artist for The X-Men and The Fantastic Four, known as the "King."
ANSWER: Jack Kirby (if anyone negs with "Joe Simon" for Young Romance, the earlier clues have ruled him out)

6. In a series of Silver Age storylines, this character married a woman named Ardora and became hero to an alien civilization. The Silver Age also featured a family for this character consisting of a sister named Lena and parents Jules and Arlene, who change their name to Thorul to avoid association with this character.  The Earth-2 version of this character died when Brainiac destroyed him during Crisis on Infinite Earths. In modern continuity, this man sold his soul to Neron in order to regain his youth and vitality, and then achieved a major position in the wake of the Gotham City earthquake. This man's company was briefly led by Lana Lang, before she was fired under a company policy preventing aid to Kryptonians. FTP, identify this bald villain who has long been a nemesis of Superman.
ANSWER: Lex Luthor (accept either)

7. During one period, this character became a boutique owner and trained under the tutelage of the Chinese sage I Ching. Lesser known villains in this character's rogues gallery include Egg Fu and the Angle Man. This character was invented by a psychologist who had written such academic fare like the article "Don't Laugh at the Comics" and had also contributed to the development of the polygraph test. This character is multilingual and can speak Mandarin Chinese, Egyptian (*), and, of course, Themysciran. During the events of Infinite Crisis, she kills Max Lord, which hurts her friendship with Batman and Superman. A recent April Fool's Day prank claimed Megan Fox would play this character in a movie. FTP, identify this Amazon superheroine with a magic lasso.
ANSWER: Wonder Woman (accept Diana Prince)
       
8. This character has a nerdy cousin named Marcy, who is a big fan of science fiction, as well as another cousin named Leroy, who is a devious prankster. An Australian pop rock band consisting of the Origliasso sisters has taken their name from this character and has actually encountered her in several storylines. This character runs a blog in which she has discussed riding a horse named (*) Bella and wished happy birthday to Chuck Clayton. The daughter of Hiram and Hermione, she first appeared in Pep Comics #26, with her creator reportedly inspired to name her by both a contemporary movie actress and a prominent political family. FTP, identify this character from the Archie universe, who plays the keyboard in the Archies and is the romantic rival of Betty Cooper.
ANSWER: Veronica Lodge (accept either)

9. One member of this group is the Atlantean Meranno, who was a disgruntled childhood playmate of Namor's. Another member of this group is John Falsworth, who once met Count Dracula in Transylvania. Yet another member of this group eventually became a researcher of bees and then the supervillain Swarm upon this group's dissolution. It was a member of this group who was responsible for the crippling of Freddy (*)  Freeman, Captain Marvel's sidekick, and another member of this group created such beings as Primus and Doughboy. A more famous member of this group fought Professor X and Magneto while trying to get money to found HYDRA. The leader of this group eventually became the villainous Hate-Monger. FTP, identify this real-life organization which has included Baron Strucker, the Red Skull, and a certain Mr. Hitler.
ANSWER: Nazi Party (accept obvious equivalents)

10. The child of German immigrants, this character bequeathed his inherited fortune to charity, saying he would "demonstrate the possibility of achieving anything from nothing." In 1966, this character joined a group founded by Nelson Gardner. In his final appearance, this character states that he is not a Republic serial villain, as demonstrated by his refusal to play by supervillain clichés. Inspired by another character, Peter Cannon, Thunderbolt, this man owns a genetically engineered cat which he names (*) Bubastis, a reference to his admiration for the figure that replaced Alexander the Great as his idol, Rameses II. Some of his dastardly deeds have included murdering Moloch the Magician and Edward Blake, alias the Comedian. FTP, identify the secret identity of Adrian Veidt, the ultimate villain of Alan Moore's Watchmen, who shares his name with a famous poem by Percy Shelley.
ANSWER: Ozymandias (accept Adrian Veidt before it is mentioned)

11. The last issue of this comic was a blank, all white background with the word "Think" written in black type in the center. One of the most famous issues of this comic tells the tale of an assistant copy boy who matches wits with Billy Spafon, a boy reporter with the devious secret identity of Captain Marbles. One cover of this comic showcases Basil Wolverton's famous drawing of Lena the Hyena, while another cover was designed to look like a school composition book. The brainchild of Harvey (*) Kurtzman, this comic's first cover described a horrible being called Melvin and promised "humor in a jugular vein." FTP, identify this EC satirical comic, which still exists today, although in a magazine form, whose comic form never featured Alfred E. Neuman.
ANSWER: MAD
	
12. During the Marvel vs. DC crossover, this man purchased the Daily Planet and replaced Perry White with J. Jonah Jameson. A supporter of Randolph Cherryh for the mayoralty of New York, he is also the father of the Schemer. Alongside his son, he served as the puppet head of the Las Vegas division of HYDRA before he realized he was being used by the Red Skull. A wealthy spice (*) merchant, he married his wife when she was still a teenager. This man has employed the Answer and is a major rival of Silvermane. In recent years, this man survived an attempted coup by Sammy Silke and endured the deaths of his son, Richard, and his wife, Vanessa. FTP, identify this major Marvel Comics villain, the bald and corpulent head of a major crime empire.
ANSWER: Kingpin of Crime (accept Wilson Fisk) 

13. In one storyline, this character wonders why superheroes can't fight more realistic villains and not "evil maniacs with grandiose plans to destroy the world," prompting another character to sarcastically suggest using the "Bat-Fax" to send letters to the editor. Despite such ponderings, this character himself has a superhero alter ego who is said to be "the masked man of (*) mega might," yet who has only won "moral victories" over such opponents as Annoying Girl and Mom Lady. Along with that alter ego, Stupendous Man, this character has also taken up such identities as Tracer Bullet and most famously, Spaceman Spiff. FTP, identify this Bill Watterson created comic strip character who pals around with a tiger named Hobbes.
ANSWER: Calvin (accept Stupendous Man before it is mentioned)

14. According to David Michelinie, this character was originally going to be a woman whose husband is hit by a cab and killed while the driver is distracted by a certain superhero, causing the woman to seek revenge. This character was instead given a different identity and was connected to a storyline involving the serial killer Sin-Eater. Ann Weying, the ex-wife of the first man to take this identity, temporarily became this character, as did Angelo (*) Fortunato. In recent times, the former Scorpion, Mac Gargan has taken on this identity, but the most famous wielder of this identity was a devout Roman Catholic and former Daily Globe correspondent. FTP, identify this combination of Eddie Brock and alien symbiote, which originally existed to kill Spider-Man.
ANSWER: Venom (accept Eddie Brock before it is mentioned)   

15. One issue of this comic featured the main villain being apparently assassinated by a Denver auto mechanic, who then promptly posed as the villain for many issues before being killed himself by the resurrected bad guy. That storyline also featured the deaths of such unmemorable characters as Captain Minh, Voltar, Croc Master, and Raptor. Another memorable storyline in this comic featured the deaths of heroic characters like Thunder, Crankcase, (*) and Heavy Metal. Possibly the most famous issue was #21, entitled "Silent Interlude" because it contained no dialogue at all. This issue also introduced the enigmatic ninja Storm Shadow. In the final issue, the heroes' base, the PIT, closes, and another ninja, Snake-Eyes, writes a letter on the nature of military service. FTP, identify this comic based on a toy line about the "Real American Hero."
ANSWER: G.I. Joe

16. In one of this character's earliest appearances, he quits superheroics to work at his cousin Bones' circus. Some of this character's romantic partners have included the alien healer Zsaji, aspiring actress Julie Angel, and longtime girlfriend Doris Evans, who frowned on him being a superhero. This character was replaced by the robot (*) HERBIE in a cartoon adaptation of his comic, with an urban legend claiming the network was afraid kids would try to imitate this hero. Married as the result of a deception to a Skrull named Lyja, this man has attempted an acting career by trying out for the role of the Rawhide Kid in a Hollywood film. FTP, identify this superhero, who during the Civil War, temporarily left the Fantastic Four to join the Secret Avengers with his sister Sue.
ANSWER: Human Torch (accept Johnny Storm, prompt on Storm)

17. One member of this species had a humorous secret origin in which he was injected with a super-soldier serum by Dr. Anabolus. Another member of this species bolstered a prominent star-shaped marking on his forehead, which necessitated the wearing of a hood. A third member of this species had the secret identity Skip and wore a disguise of a brown dye patch. An entire group of this species existed to patrol space and opened their meetings with the chant, "We'll stop evil, now now now !" One member of this species hangs out with Wendy (*) and Marvin on the "Superfriends" cartoon, while a more conventional member of this species was owned by the Superboy clone in his solo series. FTP, identify this species, whose members include Ace, Rex, and most famously, Krypto.
ANSWER: Dog (accept obvious equivalents)

18. A comic with this name appeared for seven issues in the 1960's, telling the adventures of Western superhero Carter Slade. In 1972, the more famous incarnation of both comic and character appeared. For a few issues, this comic featured a character known only as "the Friend," which was clearly intended to be Jesus Christ, although it was later retconned to be nothing more than a demonic illusion. Roy Thomas claimed this comic was inspired by the boring Daredevil supporting character the Stunt(*)-Master. A 1990's revival of this comic featured villains Blackout and Deathwatch, along with a lot of mystical characters like the Midnight Sons and the Darkhold Redeemers. The stars of this comic have included Daniel Ketch and more famously, Johnny Blaze. FTP, identify this comic about a skull-faced motorcycle driver.
ANSWER: Ghost Rider (prompt on Johnny Blaze or Dan Ketch or Carter Slade before they are mentioned-it's clearly looking for the name of the comic)

19. During a brief stint in the 1970's, this character had his own solo comic book which lasted a mere nine issues. In the first comic that he appeared, this character was going to die after accidentally stabbing himself, but was thankfully spared. This character's diplomatic career has seen him work for the Iranian government and serve as Qurac's ambassador to the U.S. In one of his most famous storylines, he attempts to demonstrate what can happen after "one (*) really bad day." Despite various retcons, a previous identity of this character remains the Red Hood, and in a famed origin story, he turns to crime to support his pregnant wife after a previous job as a stand-up comic fails miserably. FTP, identify this arch-villain of Batman, the main antagonist of the recent film The Dark Knight.
ANSWER: The Joker (prompt on Red Hood before it is mentioned, grudgingly accept Jack Napier)

20. In one of this character's appearances, he is blamed for the disappearance of John Hawks' cattle, but helps reveal the true culprits, Lefty and Bill. In another appearance, he successfully helps put an end to the long war between the Megans and Betans. This character has battled the pre-human anthropoid Yetrigar, the mad scientist Dr. Demonicus, and the giant robot Red (*)  Ronin, which was piloted by the nephew of its creator, Dr. Takiguchi. In the last issue of his original comic, he is asked to leave America before someone gets hurt and obliges by wandering off into the ocean. In the first issue, he explodes out of an iceberg off the coast of Alaska and begins his trek across the United States. FTP, identify this gigantic dinosaur-like lizard, who appeared in a Marvel comic based on his numerous movie appearances, the so-called "King of the Monsters."
ANSWER: Godzilla (I guess accept Gojira)

21. This character is known as Effy in Israel and Holger in Denmark. He appears in the Simpsons episode "Bart's Comet" as one of the people seeking shelter in Ned Flanders' bomb shelter. His first appearance resulted in some controversy over accusations that a topless woman was drawn into a beach scene. That appearance was basically plotless with the basic idea that he was going on (*) holiday. His second appearance involves time travel, where he hobnobs at such violent scenes as the Crusades and the fall of the Aztecs. This character owns a dog named Woof and matches wits with the nefarious Odlaw. FTP, identify this picture book character who always wears glasses and a red and white striped shirt.
ANSWER: Waldo (accept Wally)
       

Bonuses

1. You take the good, you take the bad, you take them both, and there you have: the Justice League. For ten points each, answer the following about this seminal superhero team:
[10] The Justice League's original sidekick was this beatnik, a teenager whose power was making a noise with his fingers. Wow-ee!
ANSWER: Snapper Carr (accept either)
[10] In 1984, the Justice League dropped most of its well-known members and used a low-wattage lineup of heroes like Vibe, Steel, and Vixen, who were based out of this real-life industrial city.
ANSWER: Detroit
[10] In a 2005 story arc, the Justice League's Watchtower headquarters was destroyed by this character, a very confused resident of Earth-Prime, whose previous actions include making the phrase "punching time" a metaphor for retconning things.
ANSWER: Superboy-Prime (accept Superman-Prime)

2. You can't have a hero without a dumb comic relief sidekick. For ten points each, answer the following about ridiculous super hero sidekicks.
[10] This superhero from the Golden Age was backed up by a taxi driver from Brooklyn, Doiby Dickles, who has no powers but is good in a fight. This hero would later be aided by his son, Obsidian.
ANSWER: Green Lantern (accept Alan Scott or Sentinel)
[10] Captain Marvel, that is the Billy Batson version, was supported by this unimaginatively named sidekick. His secret identity was Freddy Freeman, a crippled newsboy.
ANSWER: Captain Marvel Jr. (accept Shazam)
[10] This character has made a good living backing up all sorts of Marvel superheroes, including Captain America, Captain Mar-Vell, Rom, and probably most notably, the Incredible Hulk. It was while saving him that Bruce Banner was exposed to the gamma radiation that turned him into the Hulk.
ANSWER: Rick Jones (accept either part)

3. Famous people write comic books too, you know. For ten points each, answer the following about well known authors who dabbled in the funny books:
[10] This creator of the private detective Mike Hammer wrote a series of short text pieces inserted into various comics in the 1940's.
ANSWER: Mickey Spillane
[10] This author of North and South and various historical sagas wrote some stories for Conan the Barbarian and various Marvel horror comics, none of which were turned into sprawling miniseries.
ANSWER: John Jakes
[10] This creator of The Talented Mr. Ripley penned a few comic stories for such forgotten mags as Golden Arrow and The Black Terror.
ANSWER: Patricia Highsmith

4. This controversial storyline temporarily ended your question writer's interest in Spider-Man, but he came back to it once he realized there were far worse stories out there. For ten points each, answer the following about the Clone Saga:
[10] The 1990's clone saga began when this chap, a spitting image of Peter Parker, showed up. For a time, it was thought he was the original Spidey and "our" Peter was a clone.
ANSWER: Ben Reilly (accept either, also accept Scarlet Spider)
[10] The clone saga also involved this shadowy figure, later revealed to be a poor original clone of Peter Parker. This guy killed the lame Grim Hunter and temporarily killed Dr. Octopus.
ANSWER: Kaine
[10] Both Ben Reilly and Kaine were created by this criminal mastermind and brilliant geneticist, who also served as Peter Parker's science professor at college.
ANSWER: The Jackal (accept Dr. Miles Warren)

	5. He's been appearing in comics since 1940. Holy Senior Citizen! For ten points each, answer the following about the illustrious career of one Dick Grayson:
[10] For a while, Dick had a romantic relationship with this Teen Titans member, a princess of the planet Tamaran with energy projection powers.
ANSWER: Starfire (accept Koriand'r, grudgingly accept Kory)
[10] In his solo series, Nightwing, Dick patrolled the municipality of Bludhaven, and frequently battled this superstrong gangster, who was finally killed by Tarantula while Dick did nothing to stop it.
ANSWER: Blockbuster (accept Roland Desmond)
[10] The terrible movies Batman Forever and Batman and Robin featured this actor in the role of Dick Grayson. He was recently seen in Kit Kittridge, an American Girl as the titular character's father.
ANSWER: Chris O'Donnell

6. Wikipedia defines this conflict as a battle between an empire of "the Greater Magellanic Cloud" and an empire from the Andromeda Galaxy. For ten points each:
[10] Name this conflict within the Marvel Universe, which pitted a militaristic race of pink and blue skinned folks against a race of shapeshifters for several thousand years.
ANSWER: Kree-Skrull War 
[10] During the Kree-Skrull War, the Kree were led by this gooey organic computer, supposedly consisting of the best minds of the Kree race.
ANSWER: Supreme Intelligence
[10] The Kree-Skrull War started when the Kree attempted to curry the Skrulls' favor by constructing a magnificent blue city on this object within our solar system. For many years, the Inhumans lived there as well.
ANSWER: Earth's Moon (prompt on moon)

7. It's a bird! It's a plane! It's a series of progressively worse films! For ten points each, answer the following about the Superman movie series:
[10] The first Superman film was directed by this man, who filmed much of the second film before being taken off the project and replaced by Richard Lester.
ANSWER: Richard Donner
[10] Lester's horrid Superman III begins with an ill-conceived slapstick sequence and continues by having this famous comedian take a major supporting role as computer genius Gus Gorman.
ANSWER: Richard Pryor
[10] Christopher Reeve himself directed Superman IV, which introduced this poorly thought out character, the nerdy nephew of Lex Luthor, played by Jon Cryer.
ANSWER: Lenny Luthor (prompt on Luthor, obviously)

8. This comic kicked off the Marvel universe's Silver Age. For ten points each, answer the following about the grand-daddy of them all, Fantastic Four #1.
[10] The story does not see the Fantastic Four based in New York City, bur rather in this fictional location, which shares its name with the hometown of the Barry Allen Flash.
ANSWER: Central City
[10] The villain of the first story was this diminutive would be-conqueror, who lives beneath the earth and is a scientific genius, but has very poor eyesight.
ANSWER: Mole Man
[10] The cover of this comic, showing the Four battling one of the Mole Man's monsters, has become legendary. On the cover, this character utters the famous line, "The Fantastic Four have only begun to fight!"
ANSWER: Human Torch (accept Johnny Storm, but prompt on Storm)

9. He's one of the great actors of our time and a big fan of comic books. For ten points each, answer the following about Nicolas Cage.
[10] While long rumored to play various superheroes, to date Cage has only headlined one comic book film, playing the titular character in this 2007 Marvel adaptation.
ANSWER: Ghost Rider
[10] Cage, who was born Nicolas Coppola, has claimed his assumed surname was inspired by composer John Cage. At other times, though, he has admitted he was inspired by the Marvel character Luke Cage, who was also known by this descriptive pseudonym, an alias once used by the villainous Erik Josten.
Answer: Power Man
[10] Cage proved his comic book dork cred by giving this name to his son with his third wife. This name comes from the Superman mythology. 
Answer: Kal-El

10. Let's try to find some comic characters who died and stayed dead. For ten points each:
[10] This villain, who was thought responsible for the death of Bucky, killed himself by bringing down an avalanche on him. His son, Helmut, lives on, though.
ANSWER: Baron Heinrich Zemo 
[10] This Spider-Man villain was assassinated by agents of the Foreigner so Jason Macendale could assume his identity. In his civilian identity, he was married to Betty Brant.
ANSWER: Hobgoblin (accept Ned Leeds)
[10] This guy has technically been dead since his first appearance, when he was killed by gangsters. This police detective than assumed the identity of the Spectre to mete out justice from beyond the grave.
ANSWER: Jim Corrigan 

11. Answer the following about superheroes in the old west, for ten points each.
[10] This surly DC character is noted for his scarred face, caused by a searing hot tomahawk. He was eventually killed while playing cards and his body was stuffed.
ANSWER: Jonah Hex 
[10] This modern western comic tells the story of Jesse Custer, who travels the west with his old girlfriend Tulip and an Irish vampire named Cassidy.
ANSWER: Preacher
[10] Marvel had several western characters all with the word "kid" in their name, most of which were men unjustly wanted by the law. Besides the Rawhide Kid, name either of the other two-one was a fugitive named Blaine, while the other was a lawyer named Matt Hawk.
ANSWER: Kid Colt or Two-Gun Kid

12. Inspiration comes in the strangest places. For ten points each, answer the following about how comic book artists found inspiration for the looks of famous characters:
[10] A popular legend is that C.C. Beck, the creator of this superhero, took facial inspiration from the actor Fred MacMurray. Beck himself has confirmed this inspiration to be true.
ANSWER: Captain Marvel (accept Billy Batson)
[10] Julie Schwartz has confirmed that this race of alien beings, who command the Green Lantern Corps, were visually modeled on Israeli leader David Ben-Gurion.
ANSWER: Guardians (accept Oans, I guess)
[10] Gil Kane, when drawing the original Hal Jordan Green Lantern, reportedly was highly influenced by the face of this actor, who won an Oscar for The Color of Money playing Fast Eddie Felson.
ANSWER: Paul Newman

13. Remember when DC tried to fool you into thinking Superman was dead? Those were the days. For ten points each, answer the following about the Death and Return of Superman storyline:
[10] After Superman's apparent death, a few new folks showed up to take Superman's mantle. One was this character, whose real name is John Henry Irons and wields a gigantic hammer.
ANSWER: Steel (accept Man of Steel)
[10] Superman's body was harvested for DNA by this somewhat ethically dubious genetic engineering project. They managed to produce a clone of Superman that became Superboy.
ANSWER: Project Cadmus 
 [10] The Return of Superman storyline concluded with the destruction of Coast City at the hands of the villainous Cyborg and this yellow-skinned alien warlord.
ANSWER: Mongul

14. You may know Norse mythology, but do you know it interpreted Marvel-style? For ten points each, answer the following about comic book portrayals of Asgardians.
[10] The Marvel version of this god does not die at the hands of Hoder, but instead lives to engage in numerous adventures. He is the sometimes lover of the Queen of the Norns, Karnilla.
ANSWER: Balder
[10] The Marvel version of this goddess has only infrequently appeared, usually engaging in attempts to aid her nefarious husband, such as trying to capture Dr. Donald Blake in order to influence Odin.
ANSWER: Sigyn
[10] This Asgardian is not explicitly based on any mythological character, although her beauty and magical prowess may align her with Freya. She is a master of seduction, frequently partners with the Executioner, and is obsessed with winning the love of Thor.
ANSWER: Enchantress (accept Amora)

15. Gail Simone came up with this famous term to describe what she saw as a systematic assault on female characters in comics. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this term that became a website. It specifically refers to the death of Alex DeWitt in Green Lantern.
ANSWER: Women in Refrigerators
[10] This villain killed Alex DeWitt. He would later kill the Green Lantern Arisia and seemingly kill Kyle Rayner's mother, although the latter turned out to be false.
ANSWER: Major Force (accept Clifford Zmeck)
[10] Simone herself wrote this DC comic about a team of superheroines such as Oracle, the Huntress, and Black Canary.
ANSWER: Birds of Prey 

16. They're all-new and all-different and also a lot better. For ten points each, answer the following about the "New" X-Men created in 1975 to revive the franchise.
[10] The "new" X-Men were first introduced in Giant-Size X-Men #1, which saw the mutants battle this crazy living island entity.
ANSWER: Krakoa
[10] This new X-Men, an American Indian named John Proudstar, died in their second mission during a plane explosion. He is the brother of Warpath.
ANSWER: Thunderbird
[10] Not counting Thunderbird, identify any of the three X-Men who made their first ever appearance in Giant-Size X-Men #1.
ANSWER: Nightcrawler (accept Kurt Wagner), Storm (accept Ororo Munroe), or Colossus (accept Peter Rasputin). 

17. Life is like a hurricane for these folks. For ten points each, identify the following denizens of Duckburg.
[10] This famous inventor creates all sorts of wacky machines and frequently helps out both Scrooge McDuck and Donald Duck.
ANSWER: Gyro Gearloose (accept either)
[10] This male goose is Donald Duck's cousin and is both lazy and extremely lucky. Donald has a rivalry with him, helped along by both character's large egos. 
ANSWER: Gladstone Gander (prompt on Gander)
[10] This second richest duck in the world is a major antagonist for Scrooge McDuck. While originally from South Africa, he has been retconned to be Scottish like Scrooge.	
ANSWER: Flintheart Glomgold (accept either)

18. For the stated number of points, answer the following about one of the largest superhero teams ever, the Legion of Superheroes:
[5,5,5] For five points each, name the initial three members of the Legion, who first appear in Adventure Comics #247 to recruit Superboy as a member.
ANSWERS: Lightning Lad (accept Lightning Boy or Garth Ranzz), Saturn Girl (accept Imra Ardeen), and Cosmic Boy (accept Rokk Krinn)
[5, 15] Five for one, fifteen for both, two of the Legionnaires were married in the comic's 200th issue. The bride was Luornu Durgo, who has the ability to split into alternate bodies, while the groom was Chuck Taine, who could inflate like a ball. Name both.
ANSWERS: Bouncing Boy and Duo Damsel (accept Triplicate Girl for the latter)

19. This was an instance of "the Man" taking on the Man. For ten points each, answer the following about a famous violation of the Comics Code Authority:
[10] In 1971, Stan Lee produced a series of Amazing Spider-Man stories that focused on this insecure supporting character's drug addiction, which earned the ire of the Code.
ANSWER: Harry Osborn (prompt on Osborn, I guess accept Green Goblin)
[10] Harry went on the drug habit because he had been rejected by this woman, his current paramour at the time who refused to be tied down to just one man.
ANSWER: Mary Jane Watson (accept either)
[10] Soon after this storyline, Stan and Roy Thomas challenged the Code again, somewhat, by creating this scientific vampire to battle Spider-Man, possibly in order to get around the Code's proscriptions against undead beings.
ANSWER: Morbius, the Living Vampire (accept Dr. Michael Morbius)

20. For ten points each, answer the following about the classic DC event Armageddon 2001. What, you don't remember Armageddon 2001? 
[10] The main villain of this crossover event was a fellow known as the Monarch, a tyrant from the future. Monarch was eventually revealed to be a future version of this hero, the secret identity of Hank Hall, whose partners are always pacifist in nature.
ANSWER: Hawk
[10] The Monarch was originally intended to be this hero, who fit the clues better, but it was leaked to the public prematurely, prompting a switch. This metallic-skinned hero is Nathaniel Adam and was the major inspiration for the Watchmen character of Dr. Manhattan.
ANSWER: Captain Atom
[10] The basic point of the crossover was to present potential futures for various DC characters. This character had several futures, including one where he became president and another when he romanced Maxima upon the death of his wife.
ANSWER: Superman (accept Clark Kent and Kal-El)













