COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET FIVE: "Death from Above"

Toss-Ups

1. The first cover of this comic featured such characters as Johnny Quick and Superwoman, while the last cover featured such characters as Air Wave and Wildcat. One of the final pages in this comic's run was a character mumbling to himself about how "nothing's ever (*) predictable like it used to be." This comic was used to wrap up the fates of various characters, such as Prince Ra-Man, as well as kill off disliked characters such as the Matt Hagen version of Clayface. The most famous cover of this comic depicts an inversion of Michelangelo's Pieta, where a male character holds a fallen female character in his hands while weeping. Besides Supergirl, this comic also infamously killed off Barry Allen's Flash. FTP, identify this 12-issue DC miniseries that tried to resolve the complicated status of DC's multiverse.
ANSWER: Crisis on Infinite Earths (prompt on Crisis)

2. While this man is mostly known by an alias, his real identity is that of Kent Allard, a World War I aviator who fought for the French. He has appeared off-and-on in comics, including having a brief title in the 1960's for Archie Comics that depicted him as a campy superhero. In a more recent DC series, he teamed up with (*) Doc Savage and encountered a man named Grover Mills who played him on the radio. Some of his aides include Harry Vincent and Moe Shrevnitz, as well as the lovely Margo Lane. A 1994 film saw him battling the evil Shiwan Khan and starred Alec Baldwin. This man once teamed up with Batman, who revealed that he was one of his greatest inspirations. FTP, identify this secret identity of Lamont Cranston, a comic and radio star who knew what evil lurked in the hearts of man.
 ANSWER: The Shadow (accept Lamont Cranston until mentioned, accept Kent
Allard on an early psychic buzz)

3. Cities on this earth include Humanity, a town that was ultimately destroyed by the Razormen. This earth has a New York City, which features such locations as a diner run by Al Forbush and such denizens as the New York Special Crimes Unit. Another city on this earth contains a secret headquarters called the (*) Barrow, as well as Lenny's Bar and Grill where a guy named Patches Malone always seems to be hanging out. Mythical places on this earth include a living dinosaur island and Atlantis, whose rightful king is named Mariner. Comic books about this earth are Bullets and Bracelets, Generation Hex, and Legends of the Dark Claw, while this earth's most powerful sorcerer is Dr. Strangefate. FTP, identify this earth which briefly existed when two universes merged together in the DC vs. Marvel crossover.
	ANSWER: Earth-Amalgam (accept DC vs. Marvel before it is mentioned, accept clear-equivalents)

4. Along with George Lucas, this man wrote the Chronicles of Shadow War trilogy, which pick up where the movie Willow left off. While he is most associated with Marvel, he wrote a DC comic entitled Sovereign Seven. This man wrote the graphic novel God (*) Loves, Man Kills, which features the characters he is most associated with battling the Reverend William Stryker. Fans have compiled a list of this man's famous pet phrases, such as "By the white wolf!" and "Ah'm nigh invulnerable when ah'm blastin'!" This man was replaced as writer of Excalibur by Scott Lobdell, who also replaced him on the comic he is most associated with. FTP, identify this man, who, from 1975 to 1991, was the writer for Uncanny X-Men.
ANSWER: Chris Claremont

5. This man once briefly had his title usurped by a dude named Torgo, whom this man killed. In one of this man's storylines, he is beaten up by a motorcycle punk named Lucas Brand, whom this man then kills. This man's wife was raped and killed by a guy named Turac, whom this man killed. This man inspired the books and films of Harold H. Harold and in a 2006 miniseries, this character does battle with (*) Apocalypse but does not kill him. This man aided Otto von Bismarck in taking power while battling one of his greatest enemies, a man named Abraham. Ironically, Abraham's great-granddaughter, Rachel, would fall in love with his descendant, Frank Drake, and both assisted in killing him several times, but, of course, he always comes back. FTP, identify this enemy of Van Helsing, a vampire who just won't seem to die.
ANSWER: Dracula (accept Vlad Dracula, Vlad Tepes, I guess accept Vlad the Impaler)

6. One version of this character has been reincarnated several times throughout history, including as Sheila Carr, Cinnamon, and Lady Celia Penbrook. Another version of this character met her husband while battling the Rainbow Robbers. In the miniseries The Dark Knight Strikes Again, it is this character's son who eventually ends up killing(*) Lex Luthor. Lesser known people to take this character's name include Sharon Parker, who was murdered by her husband, Fel Andar, and Kendra Saunders, whose body was the home of the spirit of the first person to hold this identity, Shiera Saunders. The most famous woman to hold this identity worked in museums with her husband, Carter Hall, but was actually an alien from Thanagar. FTP, identify this superheroine, who in all of her identities, works with Hawkman.
ANSWER: Hawkwoman (or Hawkgirl, accept Shayera Hol, Shayera Thal, and Sharon Parker, Kendra Saunders, and Shiera Saunders before they are mentioned)

7. In one of this character's video game appearances, he goes through such unexcitingly named levels as Park, Boiler Room, and the final level, the Woods. In a 1998 film, he confronts the incredibly unthreatening villainy of Brian Doyle-Murray and Carrot Top, while an earlier film featured the more serious villain Switchblade (*)  Sam, played by Christopher Lloyd. Regular members of his supporting cast include the object of his affections, Gina Gillotti, and his best friend, Joey McDonald, along with the ever-annoying Margaret. This character owns a dog named Ruff and was created by Hank Ketcham, who was inspired by his own son. FTP, identify this comic strip youth who always bugs Mr. Wilson.
ANSWER: Dennis the Menace (accept Dennis or Dennis Mitchell)

8. This trait was possessed by the woman responsible for introducing the guns called the Toastmasters to Metropolis, Angora Lapin. It is also possessed by the daughter of Gemma Sinclair, who was the high priestess of Black Spectre. This trait was held by the crime lord that headed the Metropolis branch of the 100, Tobias (*) Whale. During The Resurrection of Ra's al Ghul storyline, it was revealed that Ra's had a son named Dusan who possessed this trait. One of the better known characters with this trait was a hit man for the Kingpin who once broke Robbie Robertson's back, but refrained from killing him because they had grown up in Harlem together. FTP, identify this medical condition held by Tombstone, which explains why he appears white even though he is African-American.
ANSWER: Albinism (accept being an albino, etc.)

9. Members of this group were originally drawn to look like movie actors, with some members resembling Orson Welles and Donald Sutherland. Many elements of this organization were also derived from an episode of the British spy series "The Avengers." Before joining the Reavers (*), Cole, Macon, and Reese worked for this group, and both James Braddock and Warren Worthington have inherited membership into this organization. Lesser known members of this group include Harry Leland and Donald Pierce, while the ancient mutant Selene is also a member. Its best known members include Sebastian Shaw, the Black King, and Emma Frost, the White Queen. FTP, identify this group that has sparred with the X-Men and is based on real-life British gentlemen's clubs.
ANSWER: Hellfire Club

10. This man wrote his first comic in 1960, using a loan from his credit union for start-up cash, and he founded his publishing company in Rancho Cucamonga in 1970. Some of his recurring comic characters include teacher Ms. Henn and her student, Li'l Susy Barnes. In one of his comics, "The (*) Slugger," he tells the story of superstar baseball player Frank Stone. His comic "Dark Dungeons" opens with an infamous scene in which Marcie commits suicide because her RPG character dies. Some of his more controversial comics include "The Death Cookie" and "The Curse of Baphomet," which oppose Roman Catholicism and Freemasonry respectively, while "This Was Your Life" restrains itself to merely sharing the Gospel. FTP, identify this reclusive publisher, noted for his ubiquitous cartoon tracts that promote Christian values.
ANSWER: Jack T. Chick

11. This storyline ended the belief by the people of Gotham that Batman was an urban legend, when he was caught on tape in Act One. Started when one of Batman's contingency plans was stolen and initiated, one character's critical flaw was in not realizing that "Matches Malone" was in fact a cover used by Batman. This plan would have united all the (*) gangs of Gotham, but Batman's part in the plan was left unfulfilled, leading to complete chaos. Its most lasting fan backlash came from the idea that Dr. Leslie Tompkins would let the character who enacted said plan die, to "punish" Batman for his use of children in his war on crime, leading to an inevitable retcon. Black Mask was established as a major villain in, FTP, what major Batman storyline that saw the death of the recently-fired Robin, Stephanie Brown?
ANSWER: Batman: War Games

12. This character appeared in a comic where he attempts to vacation at Mount Tiki Toki. He has appeared in several video games, including one subtitled When Danger Calls and another game where he battles the robot Dug with his friend Lucius entitled Rise of the (*) Underminer. Most of this man's rogue gallery is unknown, an exception being Bomb Voyage, although Mr. Huph, his nasty boss at the insurance company, can perhaps be counted as a nemesis. One of this man's most notable adventures was stopping Operation Kronos, a sinister plot enacted by his former fan Buddy Pine, which killed several of his friends, including Gazerbeam, but not Frozone. FTP, identify this superhero, who is married to Elastigirl and is the father of three super-powered children, the protagonist of Disney's The Incredibles.
ANSWER: Mr. Incredible (accept Bob Parr, accept Lucius Best/Frozone until it mentions "Lucius")

13. One man to hold this identity was Fred Davis, who was forced to give it up after being shot in the line of duty. In this identity, Davis assisted William Naslund and Jeff Mace. Another man to hold this identity was Lemar Hoskins, who ultimately changed his name to (*) Battlestar after thinking about possible racial connotations. A third man to hold this identity battled Communists until he became paranoid and had to be placed into suspended animation along with his mentor. This man, Jack Monroe, later dropped this identity to become the superhero Nomad. The most famous man to hold this identity served with the All-Winners Squad and the Invaders before being thought dead for many years, only to return as the Winter Soldier. FTP, identify this youthful sidekick who served with Captain America.
ANSWER: Bucky (accept James Buchanan Barnes)

14. On the live-action special Legends of the Superheroes, this man is played by comedian Charlie Callas, while a slightly less embarrassing appearance sees this villain confronting none other than Duck Dodgers in 2003. During the events of Infinite Crisis, this character blows a hole through the body of Ryan Kendall, the second (*) Black Condor, killing him instantly. This man used to be an anthropologist until he succeeded Prohl Gosgotha to one of his most notable positions. In this capacity, he battled the Khunds until his dictatorial policies saw him replaced as guardian of Korugar by Katma Tui. After being banished to Qward, this man ended up with his deadly yellow ring with which he attempted to get revenge against the Guardians. FTP, identify this pink-skinned, arch-nemesis of Green Lantern.	
ANSWER: Sinestro

15. In this man's first appearance, he visits the casino run by Fadwell and ends up shot many times by Jack Stork before surviving thanks to the powers of Bernice the Whiffle Hen. This character was originally a minor one in his comic, but swiftly displaced Harold Hamgravy to become the star of his comic. In 2001, the Culture and Family Institute (*) suggested that this character was homosexual after he appeared in a Minute Maid commercial where he shares a bike with another man. His first line in his comic, Thimble Theatre, was "Ya think I'm a cowboy?", a joke about his obviously nautical appearance.  On his "Robot Chicken" appearances, he is voiced by Dave Coulier, who frequently imitated this character on "Full House." FTP, identify this love of Olive Oyl who gets strong by eating spinach.
ANSWER: Popeye 

16. This concept is seen in the movie The Return of Captain Invincible, as a way of explaining where Captain Invincible had been for over thirty years. It is also seen in the comic Astro City, but its chief proponent, Stevenson, turns out to be an alien. In the "Acts of Vengeance" storyline, the Fantastic Four's subplot features much debate regarding this concept, with Ben Grimm ultimately agreeing with the NRA's feelings regarding this concept. In the "Days (*) of Future Past" storyline, this concept becomes reality after the death of Robert Kelly, while it occurs in Watchmen after mass riots in 1977. This most recent application of this concept resulted in the unmasking of Spider-Man and the rogue status of Captain America. FTP, identify this concept, the main theme of the Marvel series Civil War.
ANSWER: Superhuman Registration Act (accept government control of superhumans or mutants, or other equivalents)  

17. In an extended storyline, this character battled the crime cartel VULTURE while posing as a jet-setting playboy named Marco Xavier. This character had a brief series of his own in 1998, which established that this man was very active within the Southern Hemisphere. Earlier appearances established that his man loved eating (*) Oreo cookies. In the early '90s, this man served in the Justice League under the identity Bloodwynd. The first appearance of this man was a story titled "The Strange Experiment of Dr. Erdel," in which the titular character dies. Despite having great power, this man has a major weakness which is shared with all of the members of his race. FTP, identify this fire-hating superhero, a resident of the fourth planet from the sun.
ANSWER: Martian Manhunter (accept J'onn J'onzz or John Jones, accept Bloodwynd and Marco Xavier before they are mentioned) 


18. One of this man's love interests was Dr. Ashley Kafka. During the Bloodstone Hunt, this man was assigned to Captain America as a pilot, and he once possessed telepathic powers and went by the name Stargod. In one of his appearances, he is attacked by the (*) Rhino, who wishes to kidnap him, while in another appearance he gains super strength from alien spores and attacks Spider-Man. This man recently annulled his marriage with a woman he eloped with in Las Vegas, She-Hulk. This man appeared in the first ever issue of Amazing Spider-Man, where he is rescued by the web-slinger, and remains friendly with the hero despite trying to kill him in his identity as Man-Wolf. FTP, identify this former astronaut, the son of anti-Spidey publisher J. Jonah Jameson.
ANSWER: John Jameson (prompt on Jameson, accept Stargod and Man-Wolf until they are mentioned)	

19. In one of his earliest appearances, this character talks about his girlfriend Elaine and shows a photo to one of his friends, who confuses her with a dog. This man once worked in the World Trade Center and was saddened to discover his old boss died on 9/11. While he considered having an affair with his old college friend Nicole (*), he ultimately remained faithful to his wife, who herself had an affair with Zeke. Other jobs for this man include working in advertising, where he helped create the tobacco spokesman Mr. Butts. He is currently married to a Vietnamese woman several years his younger named Kim. A one-time Republican, he became disillusioned by the Bush presidency, as did everyone else in his comic strip. FTP, identify this titular character of a comic strip by Garry Trudeau.
ANSWER: Mike Doonesbury (accept either)

20. This character's self-awareness allows him to have conversations with his thought balloons and with any narration, including after returning from the dead and asking if he "still thought in those little yellow boxes." His recap of the Civil War explained why having Spider-Man unmask was a foolish idea, "as if we hadn't seen the movies already and didn't know it was dreamy doe-eyed Tobey Maguire under the mask!" (*) During Secret Invasion, he appeared to betray Earth, only to have the Skrulls created from him get cancer from the healing factor he got to prevent his death. His most famous series, however, may have been his long running team up with Cable. Named by Rob Liefeld in acknowledgment of being basically the same character as Deathstroke, FTP, name this creation of Weapon X, the "merc with a mouth."
ANSWER: Deadpool (accept Wade Wilson)

21. The origin of this character has been portrayed in many different ways, with one particularly fanciful story, told by a museum janitor, stating that this man was the last survivor of a dying planet who learned kung fu in a monastery. A more realistic story says he adopted his superhero identity at the high school prom to fight Elmo Sputterspark. This man is a member of a superhero group that includes such other members as Stegmutt, Neptunia (*), and Morgana McCawber. Frequently called upon to work for SHUSH by its director, J. Gander Hoover, this man battles the agents of FOWL, as well as more insane villains like Bushroot and Megavolt. Noted for his metaphors like "I am the ants at your picnic" and his catchphrase "Let's get dangerous," FTP, identify this cartoon superhero duck, the "terror that flaps in the night."
ANSWER: Darkwing Duck (accept Darkwing and Drake Mallard)


COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry

Bonuses
1. The Flash certainly had one of the more diverse collections of bad guys, ranging from a color-blind would-be artist, a guy with a boomerang fetish, and, of course, the Reverse-Flash. For ten points each, identify these other villains of the Scarlet Speedster.
[10] This futuristic magician hailed from a time where magicians couldn't make a good living, so wanting public attention, he went to the past and became a super-villain. Good idea!
ANSWER: Abra Kadabra
[10] This durable Flash villain has tackled both Barry Allen and Wally West. The brother of the Golden Glider, he's made a fine career out of basically being just a guy with a freeze gun.
ANSWER: Captain Cold (accept Len Snart)
[10] It's hard to blame this guy for turning to crime with a name like "James Jesse." It might be easier to fault his goofy costume, his shoes that allow him to walk on air, and his comedic shtick.
ANSWER: Trickster

2. Remember when Jean Grey was dead, Peter Parker was married, and Lex Luthor was a mad scientist, not a businessman? For ten points each, answer the following about other infamous comic book retcons.
[10] This character in X-Men was a Chinese mutant with healing and magnetic powers. It was later revealed that he was Magneto...and then it was revealed that he wasn't Magneto. D'oh.
ANSWER: Xorn (accept Kuan-Yin or Shen)
[10] After the destruction of Coast City, Hal Jordan went insane and became this supervillain. It was later retconned by revealing that Hal was actually controlled by a demonic entity with the same name.
ANSWER: Parallax
[10] This man has been the target of several retcons-one retcon explained his lack of aging as due to something called the Infinity Formula, while another retcon explained he wasn't actually killed by the Punisher, it was just a Life Model Decoy.
ANSWER: Nick Fury (accept either)

3. Da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da, BATMAN! I think you get the general idea what the topic of your bonus will be. For ten points each, answer the following about Mayor Adam West's greatest role.
[10] This character, a relative of Dick Grayson, wasn't created for the show, but she became useful to allay suspicions that three men living alone, two of them in tights, weren't up to, you know, gay stuff.
ANSWER: Aunt Harriet Cooper
[10] This recurring villain was played by three actors, including George Sanders, Otto Preminger, and Eli Wallach. The latter two gave him a zany German accent.
ANSWER: Mr. Freeze (accept Victor Fries, I guess)
[10] In a crossover episode, this superhero and his sidekick, played by Bruce Lee, showed up to help the Dynamic Duo take on Colonel Gumm. Holy two for the price of one deal!
ANSWER: Green Hornet (accept Britt Reid)

4. This Steve Ditko creation had the odd power of possessing a personal kinetic field. He also shares his name with a drug. For ten points each, answer the following about Robbie Baldwin, a.k.a. Speedball.
[10] Speedball was apparently the only member of this youthful superhero group to survive an explosion caused by the villain Nitro during the events of the Civil War. The group was led by Night Thrasher and also included Namorita.
ANSWER: New Warriors
[10] The explosion occurred in this Connecticut city, the home to the international headquarters of World Wrestling Entertainment and a Dunder-Mufflin branch.
ANSWER: Stamford
[10] After the disaster, Speedball adopted this more serious name, possibly out of guilt felt about his role in the explosion. The name is shared with a hard-skinned, red member of Generation X.
ANWER: Penance

5. Superheroes have consistently run into the eternal problem of "women [pronounced "wimmin"] trouble." For ten points each, answer the following about various characters' marital bliss or lack thereof.
[10] Alan Scott, the Golden Age Green Lantern, was married to two former villainesses, Molly Mayne and Rose Canton. Identify the alternate identities of either of these two women.
ANSWER: Harlequin or Thorn (accept Rose and Thorn for the latter)
[10] The wedding of these two superheroes was depicted in a 2007 film as taking place in Japan, with Brian Posehn playing the priest in a bit of bizarre casting.
ANSWER: Mr. Fantastic and Invisible Woman (or Girl, accept Reed Richards and Sue Storm)
[10] This associate of Daredevil and former law partner with Matt Murdock was married to a woman named Debbie Harris, who ended up cheating on him, resulting in a messy divorce. Luckily he knew some good lawyers.
ANSWER: Franklin "Foggy" Nelson (accept any)

6. Superheroes have made us laugh, made us cry, and inspired us. They have also led to some kickass songs. For ten points each, answer the following about music and comic books.
[10] To the surprise of no one, the film Iron Man utilized the song with the same name for television commercials and the beginning of the credits. It is, of course, a product of this heavy metal band.
ANSWER: Black Sabbath
[10] "Magneto and Titanium Man" was a song recorded by this band in 1975. The song served as the B-side to the band's other songs "Venus and Mars" and "Rock Show."
ANSWER: Wings
[10] This rock and roll duo of the 1960's recorded a song called "Batman!" in 1966. It was not as popular as their other songs "Surf City" and "The Little Old Lady from Pasadena."
ANSWER: Jan and Dean (accept William Jan Berry and Dean Torrence)


7. "Hulk smash!" "Avengers assemble!" "Flame on!" Now, for ten points each, given a slightly more difficult catch phrase, identify the character it is associated with.
[10] This superhero takes care of villains with the mighty shout of "It's clobberin' time!"
ANSWER: Thing (accept Ben Grimm)
[10] This superhero received his trademark phrase of "I'm the best there is at what I do. And what I do...isn't very pretty" in the pages of X-Men.
ANSWER: Wolverine (accept Logan, accept James Howett)
[10] Green Lantern received his powers by saying an oath that has become a well known piece of comic book history. Give the first sentence of this oath. Hint: the second sentence is "Let those who worship evil's might, beware my power-Green Lantern's light!" Second hint: it rhymes.
ANSWER: "In brightest day, in blackest night, no evil shall escape my sight!" (be nice and accept phrases that are close-in particular, accept "darkest" for "blackest")

8. In 1993, DC Comics decided it was time to get serious about its mature readers. For ten points each, answer the following about the critically acclaimed Vertigo imprint of DC.
[10] This graphic novel was published under the Vertigo line in 1997. It tells the story of a small-town restaurant owner who is revealed to have a hidden past relationship with the Mafia and was made into a 2005 film by David Cronenberg.
ANSWER: A History of Violence
[10] This DC character, whose real name originally was Buddy Baker, had been active in the 1960's, but flourished under the Vertigo banner where he became an elemental force and preached environmentalism. He is one of the few superheroes who understands that the entire DC universe exists in a comic book.
ANSWER: Animal Man
[10] This miniseries was the first original series published under the Vertigo name. A Neil Gaiman creation, it focused on the sister of Dream, a figure represented as a teenage girl.
ANSWER: Death: The High Cost of Living

9. This comic book parody, created during the writers' strike, told the story of its titular character, a would-be supervillain played by Neil Patrick Harris. For ten points each, answer the following about Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog.
[10] Dr. Horrible is obsessed with this beautiful girl that he met at the Laundromat. She is played by Felicia Day from the film Bring it On Again!
ANSWER: Penny
[10] Dr. Horrible's arch-nemesis is the self-centered jerk of a superhero Captain Hammer, played by this actor, who worked with Dr. Horrible creator Joss Whedon on the program "Firefly."
ANSWER: Nathan Fillion
[10] Dr. Horrible's goal is to get into this redundantly named villainous organization run by Bad Horse, which he manages to achieve at the end of the film.
ANSWER: Evil League of Evil

10. This nefarious baddie is known as the "Devil Doctor," but he's not all bad. He also inspired a popular style of mustaches. For ten points each, answer the following about the comic book appearances of Dr. Fu Manchu.
[10] In Marvel comics, Fu is the father of this master of kung fu who dedicates himself to stopping his pop's evil plans, at least until Marvel lost the rights to Fu Manchu.
ANSWER: Shang-Chi
[10] Fu was one of the villains in this Alan Moore limited series, although the main villain turned out to be an Englishman. Since Moore didn't have the rights to him either, he just called him the Devil Doctor.
ANSWER: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen
[10] Fu is probably one of the inspirations for this Marvel bad guy, a Chinese genius who uses alien technology to battle Iron Man. He was probably miffed that he wasn't the main bad guy in the movie.
ANSWER: Mandarin (accept Gene Khan)

11. In 1990 and 1991, Valiant Comics produced comic books as part of the Nintendo Comics System. For ten points each, answer the following about their rather interesting results.
[10] One such comic was the title Game Boy, which featured kids having to pull Mario from the Game Boy to battle this nefarious villain, the nemesis of Mario's first Game Boy adventure, Super Mario Land.
ANSWER: Tatanga the Mysterious Spaceman
[10] The comic book adaptation of this Nintendo animated series dropped the character of Simon Belmont, but kept Pit and also added frequent appearances by Samus Aran.
ANSWER: Captain N: The Game Master
[10] This comic book adaptation of a video game only featured two stories-in one, the protagonist battles Piston Honda, while the other features Super Macho Man.
ANSWER: Punch-Out!! (accept Mike Tyson's Punch-Out)

12. According to Wikipedia, this alloy can be molded into different shapes for eight minutes as long as its original mixture is kept at a temperature of 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. Fascinating. For ten points each, answer the following about a certain superhard substance in Marvel Comics.
[10] First, identify this alloy, which is almost indestructible and is famously attached to Wolverine's body and his claws.
ANSWER: Adamantium
[10] A more malleable version of adamantium is carbonadium, which is the alloy used to make the tentacles wielded by this Russian bad guy who drains victims of life energy using the tentacles. He is a frequent opponent of the X-Men.
ANSWER: Omega Red (accept Arkady Rossovich)
[10] Adamantium is also used to coat the bones of this psychopathic assassin who claims to "never miss," although Colin Farrell certainly missed with his frothing-at-the-mouth portrayal of this man in a 2003 film.
ANSWER: Bullseye (accept Lester, accept Benjamin Poindexter)

13. This guy's advertisement was pretty popular in comics for several decades, thrilling all those 97-pound weaklings who longed to get their revenge. For ten points each, answer the following about an iconic comic book ad that saw bullies defeated through bodybuilding.
[10] First, identify this developer of the landmark ad campaign that promised to turn chumps into champs, a bodybuilder born as Angelo Siciliano.
ANSWER: Charles Atlas (both names needed)
[10] The Charles Atlas company sued DC Comics over this creation, a parody of Atlas protagonists who worked as "The Man of Muscle Mystery" and appeared in Grant Morrison's Doom Patrol and in his own mini-series in 1996.
ANSWER: Flex Mentallo (accept either)
[10] This musical and motion picture contains a song about Charles Atlas also called "I Can Make You a Man," sung in reference to Frankenstein-like experiments.
ANSWER: The Rocky Horror Picture Show

14. Before Smallville, folks who wanted Superman mixed with soap opera could find a home with "Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman." For ten points each, answer the following about the program that unleashed Teri Hatcher upon an unsuspecting world.
[10] One of the recurring villains on the show was Tempus, a villain from the future who was discovered by this real-life author, who at least on the show, had the ability to travel through time.
ANSWER: H.G. Wells
[10] This character only appeared in the first season and was played by Tracy Scoggins. In the comics, she's appeared quite frequently as a gossip columnist grieving over the death of her son.
ANSWER: Cat Grant (accept either)
[10] Longtime Superman character Inspector Henderson appeared in a few episodes played by various actors. One of the actors was this man, who is better known for playing one character on eight different television shows, including a long stint on Homicide: Life on the Street and a current run on Law and Order: Special Victims Unit.
ANSWER: Richard Belzer 

15. This character was originally supposed to be the alter ego of a mutant eight year-old, which explains his rather literal name. For ten points, answer the following about a certain X-Men villain.
[10] First, identify this bad guy, a master geneticist, who ran the orphanage where Scott Summers grew up and is obsessed with the Summers family.
ANSWER: Mister Sinister (accept Nathaniel Essex)
[10] Sinister utilized this mutant, at the time a master thief, to help him form his assassin squad, the Marauders. It later was revealed to his teammates among the X-Men.
ANSWER: Gambit (accept Remy LeBeau)
[10] While Sinister has rarely used this villainous team in the comics, they were his main henchmen on the animated series. Consisting of Ruckus, Gorgeous George, Hairbag, and Slab, they, like their boss, also have a fairly literal name.
ANSWER: Nasty Boys

16. This superhero team used the catchy slogan "Justice, Like Lightning," which helped mask the fact that they were actually all villains in disguise. For ten points each, answer the following about the Thunderbolts.
[10] The Thunderbolts were led by Baron Helmut Zemo, who used this alias while leading the Thunderbolts, the name of a World War II hero actually killed by Baron Heinrich Zemo.
ANSWER: Citizen V
[10] During the events of the Civil War, the Thunderbolts tracked down superhumans for the government, with this man serving as their director. He used medication to try to control his psychotic personality, which didn't always work.
ANSWER: Norman Osborn (accept either, accept Green Goblin)
[10] The original roster of the Thunderbolts, including Goliath, Screaming Mimi, Moonstone, and the Fixer, were all formerly members of this unimaginatively named villainous team previously led by Zemo. Other incarnations of the team were led by Ultron, the Crimson Cowl, Egghead, and Zemo's father.
ANSWER: Masters of Evil

17. For those who feel, "I like DC Comics, but I need more anime-driven storylines," this cartoon was a godsend. For ten points, answer the following about the Cartoon Network program "Teen Titans."
[10] Wesley Crusher himself, Wil Wheaton, was a recurring guest star as this youthful superhero, whose real name is Garth and now goes by the name of Tempest.
ANSWER: Aqualad
[10] These characters were invented for the show. Guatemalan twins, they move at super speed if they're touching with each other. Barack Obama ripped off their catch phrase of "yes we can!"
ANSWER: Mas y Menos (accept More and Less OR Plus and Minus)
[10] This Japanese duo sings the theme song to the program. Consisting of Ami Onuki and Yumi Yoshimura, their name brought a cease and desist order from a certain rapper and fashion designer.
ANSWER: Puffy (accept Puffy AmiYumi)

18. This man wrote Captain America for ten years, during which he brought back the Red Skull and introduced the Serpent Society. For ten points each:
[10] First, identify this writer, who worked as a Marvel editor for many years and produced the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe as well as writing the classic miniseries Squadron Supreme.
ANSWER: Mark Gruenwald
[10] Gruenwald introduced this sidekick to the Red Skull, a sadistic bodyguard whose name was coined purely to verbally match his boss' name.
ANSWER: Crossbones (accept Brock Rumlow, prompt on "Bones")
[10] Gruenwald also created this woman, first as a member of the Serpent Society and then as an on-again, off-again love interest for Cap. She frequently teams up with Asp and Black Mamba.
ANSWER: Diamondback (accept Rachel Leighton)

19. In pre-Crisis continuity, one of the more interesting things about DC Comics was the notion that there were multiple Earths with different histories. For ten points each, given a description of an Earth, identify it. For example, if I said "this Earth was the home to Jay Garrick," that would be Earth-Two.
[10] This Earth had a reverse history-Christopher Columbus discovered Europe, Abraham Lincoln shot John Wilkes Booth, and there were no superheroes, just supervillains.
ANSWER: Earth-Three
[10] This Earth was basically our world where the DC characters were just fictional characters from comic books. It had only two superhumans-Ultraa the alien and a Kryptonian who escaped this Earth's destruction.
ANSWER: Earth-Prime
[10] This Earth was populated by anthropomorphic animals. Its letter designation may refer to its most famous resident, the leader of the Zoo Crew.
ANSWER: Earth-C

20. Superheroes aren't just in comic books, they're also on Cartoon Network! For ten points each, answer the following about the adventures of a certain heroic group on said cable channel.
[10] This innocuous program tells of the adventures of the titular trio of superheroic girls-Blossom, Buttercup, and Bubbles.
ANSWER: The Powerpuff Girls
[10] On "The Powerpuff Girls," this villainous, super smart chimp continually threatens the girls and proves the age-old adage that monkeys make good bad guys.
ANSWER: Mojo Jojo
[10] The girls were created by Professor Utonium to protect this rather generically named location, whose mayor is named mayor. Hint: the answer is not New York City.
ANSWER: Townsville

