COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET THREE: "The Wagers of Sin"

Toss-Ups

1. In the mid 1980's, Epic Illustrated ran a 10-part tale titled the last story featuring this character, which, of course, it was not. A reference to this character appears in the opening line of Junot Diaz's novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. This character had a self-titled 6-issue miniseries that ended in 2000 with his apparent death, only to be resurrected (*) shortly thereafter to stop Abraxas. A story in Super-Villain Classics revealed that this character previously was a resident of the world Taa and was once known as Galan. A force of nature, he has no set appearance, taking the image of each alien race that views him. He created the Air-Walker and Firelord, as well as the Silver Surfer. FTP, identify this cosmic figure who eats planets for nutrients.
ANSWER: Galactus (accept Galan until mentioned)

2. This man has described himself in an interview as "one of the world's most inept LSD dealers," after he was busted as a teenager for dealing. He parodied Silver Age Marvel Comics with his 1963 limited series, which instead of the Marvel Bullpen, showcased the(*) "Sixty Three Sweatshop." Some of his other works include the series Top 10 and a classic Superman story called "For the Man Who Has Everything." One of his series features Mina Murray leading a team of adventurers against Professor Moriarty, while another describes life in England under the dictatorial party Norsefire. Aside from The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and V for Vendetta, he is best known for a work that features Dr. Manhattan and Rorschach. FTP, identify this writer of the miniseries Watchmen.
ANSWER: Alan Moore

3. One man with this title led the criminal group Shadowspire, which attempted to unleash the Borgia Plague on Washington D.C. Another man with this title had a daughter named Astrid and killed his own mother and grandfather as part of a sacrificial rite to achieve power. Yet another man with this title was the brother of(*) Union Jack, whose villainy was ultimately ended by Captain America. More famous men with this title include a man who attempted to use the Death Spore bomb to take over the world and another man who invented Adhesive X. The latter was also a Nazi scientist, while his son, Helmut, served as leader of the Thunderbolts. FTP, identify this aristocratic title held by Wolfgang von Strucker and Heinrich Zemo.
ANSWER: Baron (prompt on Blitzkrieg until "Astrid")

4. In one Donald Duck story, Donald goes to a suburb of this place in search of a necklace for Daisy Duck. A chapter in The Sandman: Brief Lives collection is entitled "people who remember" this place. Residents of this location worship such gods as (*) Chaon, Gemimn, and Tynan, and the first Lord of the Vampires, Varnae, was from this place. One character from this location first appeared in a story called "The Girl from Superman's Past," in which she posed as a handicapped student named Lori. In both DC and Marvel continuity, this place is currently destroyed, due to the actions of the Spectre and the villain Nitro respectively. FTP, identify this fabled location that is famously ruled by both Aquaman and Namor.
ANSWER: Atlantis 

5. During the events of the Cosmic Odyssey, the Martian Manhunter lambastes this character for his arrogance and stupidity and then watches this man almost commit suicide. This man became known as the Master Builder after he achieved great success in running the so-called Mosaic World, while his past includes a stint as a (*) Marine sniper. This man's first cover appearance sees him defiantly saying "now let's see them try me!" He suffered tragedy after his wife was killed by an insane Star Sapphire, but he overcame this to lead the Darkstars. On the Justice League animated series, he has romantic relationships with Vixen and Hawkgirl, and is voiced by Phil LaMarr. FTP, identify this man, the first African-American male to serve as Green Lantern.
ANSWER: John Stewart (prompt on John, prompt on Green Lantern)

6. A man named Warhawk once took control of this location as part of a plot to test a group of superheroes. A DC creation called "The  Kitchen" parodies this location and is utilized by the Justice League of America. In one of this location's earliest appearances, it is deceitfully called a gym awaiting equipment in order to fool parents. In the Age of Apocalypse alternate universe, this location is known as the (*) "Killing Zone," while this location is the primary setting for the X-Men video game for the Sega Genesis. In Astonishing X-Men, this location achieved sentience, perhaps due to the amount of Shi'ar technology that has been installed into it. Originally featuring simple traps like flamethrowers, it now uses a bevy of holographic challenges. FTP, identify this setting used by the X-Men to hone their skills.
ANSWER: Danger Room (prompt on X-Men's Headquarters or Xavier's School or equivalents)

7. This man is the author of the novels Dunn's Conundrum and The God Project, which are both spy thrillers. While serving in the U.S. military, he, along with Corporal Dick Ayers, witnessed the Howling Commandos in action and years later, was present at a roast celebrating the Commandos. This man at one point hosted Saturday Night Live with musical guest Rick (*) Jones. The DC character of Funky Flashman highly resembles this man, who unsuccessfully tried to become the Hulk in an episode of "The Simpsons." This man was present at the wedding of James Hudson and Heather McNeil, but was thrown out of the wedding of Reed and Sue Richards. FTP, identify this comics icon, who co-created almost all of the early Marvel superheroes and popularized such phrases as "Excelsior!"
ANSWER: Stan Lee (accept Stanley Lieber)

8. This comic was initially published under the title Crime Patrol, before undergoing a change in title with the seventeenth issue. The comic only featured three recurring characters and is mainly associated with writer Al Feldstein and artist Jack Davis. The final issue of this comic, issue forty-six, includes such stories as "Tatter (*)  Up!" and "Blind Alleys." A 1972 film adaptation of this comic starred Ian Hendry, Joan Collins, and Peter Cushing and featured a framing sequence consisting of a cave tour, while a 1996 film uses this comic's title and main character in a plot involving private detective Dennis Miller battling vampire queen Angie Everhart. In 1989, this comic became a HBO program starring John Kassir as the wisecracking host. FTP, identify this comic, a major hit for EC Comics, which told ghoulish tales of horror.
ANSWER: Tales from the Crypt

9. In a crossover with the comic book The Mask, this character acquired the titular object and after donning it at a truck stop, killed several bar patrons and then crashed the Feel Good Games. First appearing in the lesser known comic Omega Men, he was originally a member of the Velorpian race. This man has a love for dolphins, (*) which caused him to call off one battle with Aquaman, and at one point, found religion and served the triple-headed fish god, although he ultimately destroyed this being. This character appeared on a Superman: The Animated Series episode called "The Main Man," but DC said an action figure of him would be inappropriate. FTP, identify this character who was once hired to assassinate Santa Claus, an alien bounty hunter who calls himself the "Ultimate Bastich."
ANSWER: Lobo  

10. The final issue of this comic, issue number 107, is a rarity as poor sales meant few copies were produced. Its final cover depicts the main cast members smiling at the reader, with one character smoking a cigar, while Hoojibs and a Hiromi (*) appear in the background. Memorable recurring characters in this comic included Valance, a mercenary who hated mechanical things, as well as Domina, Ulric, Silas, and Orman, all members of the villainous House of Tagge. The seventh issue of this comic was entitled "New Planets, New Perils," a sign that the comic would move on from adapting events already seen on film, such as introducing a space station called the Tarkin. FTP, identify this Marvel comic which presented the adventures of characters from a certain film series by George Lucas. 
ANSWER: Star Wars 

11. Marvel Comics was initially reluctant to publish a comic featuring this character, instead preferring a similar character created by Lin Carter. Lesser known villains of this character include Vammatar and her husband Kulan Gath, who plotted to resurrect the demon Shuma(*)-Gorath. This man's first cover appearance sees him looking defiantly upward and screaming "To the death!" His major recurring villain was a bad guy who wielded the Black Ring and constructed the Cobra Crown, Thoth-Amon. He was once saved from freezing to death on a mountain by the god Crom, and his other adventures include such stories as "The Tower of the Elephant" and "The Song of Red Sonja." FTP, identify this Robert E. Howard character adapted into a sword-and-sorcery comic by Marvel.
ANSWER: Conan the Barbarian

12. Lesser known members of this group included Lilith Clay, who possessed precognitive powers, and a time displaced Neanderthal named Gnaark. The original members of this group joined together to fight the villainous Mr. Twister. During the 1970's, members included a woman named (*) Bumblebee and a West Coast branch with members Betty Kane and Golden Eagle. During the 1980s's, this group met the X-Men and Dark Phoenix and battled such villains as the Fearsome Five and its master, the demon Trigon. Members of this group at that time included Cyborg, Changeling, and Trigon's daughter, Raven. An early member of this group was Donna Troy, who was the only member of the group's founders that was not an established sidekick. FTP, identify this DC team consisting of superheroic youngsters.
ANSWER: Teen Titans (accept Titans) 

13. This man's senior thesis at Princeton was about the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences. After leaving Princeton, where he captained the volleyball team and played free safety on the football team, he made it to Buffalo Bills training camp but an injury ended his NFL dreams. This man hosted a revival of Ripley's (*) Believe It or Not! beginning in 1999 and played a character based on Vandal Savage, the immortal Dr. Curtis Knox, on TV's "Smallville." He also played the murderous Scott Peterson in a TV-movie about Laci Peterson's death. This man is most associated with a role he began in 1993, which saw him working for Lane Smith and romancing Teri Hatcher. FTP, identify this actor who played Clark Kent on TV's "Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman." 
ANSWER: Dean Cain
	
14. This event has been depicted both in the comics and on the screen. In the comics, it occurred just prior to a major banquet where one character's enemies would be blown up at a townhouse rigged with explosives. The final pages of the comic depicting this event are completely silent and picture two characters holding hands, while a photograph (*) showing these characters as young men is prominently on display. This event was caused by one character ingesting a formula that granted him super strength but slowly poisoned him. On film, this event occurs after one character learns the truth from Bernard the butler, and goes to help his best friend battle Venom and the Sandman. FTP, identify this incident from the Spider-Man mythos which saw the death of the man who replaced his father as the Green Goblin.
ANSWER: Death of Harry Osborn (accept death of the second Green Goblin, prompt on death of the Green Goblin, grudgingly prompt on death of the Hobgoblin) 

15. One comic with this name included such odd supporting characters as the demonic businessman Null, the shark villain Armaggon, and an extradimensional being named Cudley the Cowlick. This comic also included such humorously named characters as the undersea crusader Man (*) Ray and the supervillain Vid Vicious. Another comic with this name featured such villains as a dinosaur alien race called the Triceratons and the inventor of the Mousers, Dr. Baxter Stockman. This comic was published by Mirage Studios and was created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird, and included numerous references to Daredevil, such as the Hand ninja clan parodied by the Foot clan. FTP, identify this comic featuring mutant reptiles fighting the villainous Shredder.
ANSWER: Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles

16. This character was the main villain of the post-Crisis miniseries Legends. He also was the secret benefactor of the original Secret Society for Super-Villains, whose members turned against him when his presence was revealed. Among this character's minions are (*) Steppenwolf and Glorious Godfrey. On the "Superman" cartoon, this character murdered Detective Dan Turpin, who was modeled after his creator, Jack Kirby. With Suli, this man fathered Kalibak, and with Tigra, he has another son, who is prophesized to ultimately defeat this figure. In his attempts to solve the Anti-Life Equation, he battles many heroes, including his son Orion. FTP, identify this major DC supervillain, the ruler of the planet Apokolips.
ANSWER: Darkseid (accept Uxas)

17. This character's origins were described in a 1995 miniseries subtitled Root of Evil, which depicted various childhood tragedies, including the death of her dog when she was nine and her mother's death at the hands of assassins hired by her older brother. A 1986 story suggests she was raped by her father (*), an ambassador to the United States, while a 1998 origin story portrayed her parents as members of a World War II resistance movement led by Stavros. Recently, this character was seemingly stabbed to death by Maya Lopez before it was revealed she was a Skrull. In a 2005 film, she protects Mark Miller after having initially been hired to kill him. FTP, identify this Daredevil supporting character, a Greek assassin played by the not-Greek Jennifer Garner in two films.
ANSWER: Elektra (accept Elektra Natchios)

18. This character was once known as the Outsider, a supervillain with pasty skin and telekinetic powers, before eventually returning to normal. In pre-Crisis continuity, this man had a romantic relationship with Mademoiselle Marie during World War II, producing a daughter named (*) Julia. Originally overweight in appearance, he slimmed down in a move reportedly inspired by the look of the actor who first played this man on film, William Austin. In his original appearances, this character had the last name of "Beagle," a name eventually assigned to his Earth-2 counterpart. In more recent films, this man's background includes military service in Burma where he met a man who just wanted to see the "world burn." FTP, identify this Englishman played by Michael Caine in The Dark Knight, the loyal butler to Bruce Wayne.
ANSWER: Alfred Pennyworth (accept either, accept Alfred Beagle before it is mentioned)

19. This character appeared in a 1998 film where he battled the villainous George Hamilton and teamed with an extremely young Hilary Duff, while an earlier film revealed that his favorite baseball player was Duke Snider. One of this character's friends is a young girl whose (*) aunts continually exhort her to perform mischief, and this character himself is frequently bedeviled by his own relatives, Stretch, Stinky, and Fatso. This character's first on-screen appearance saw him attempting to commit suicide, a highly illogical act considering his condition. In the comics, he was frequently teamed with fellow Harvey Comics characters Richie Rich and Wendy the Good Little Witch. FTP, identify this cheerful "friendly ghost."
ANSWER: Casper the Friendly Ghost

20. A character with this name once fought Iron Man and his estranged daughter Carla in Tales of Suspense #41. During a brief period in the late '60s, the more well-known character with this name adopted the last name of "Sanders" and began wearing a masked bodysuit. This character has a brother named Victor who would eventually become a new (*) Baron Blood. In the 1980's, this character successfully used the Montesi Formula to at least temporarily eliminate all vampires. Recently, he was seen fasting at the North Pole during the events of the Civil War, which occurred after his final meeting with the rest of the Illuminati members. This character's enemies include Umar and her brother the Dread Dormammu, but he is aided by her daughter, Clea. FTP, identify this Marvel character, Earth's "sorcerer supreme."
ANSWER: Dr. Strange (accept Stephen Strange, accept Stephen Sanders until is mentioned)
	
21. This man was featured in a late '90s comic drawn by Mark Texeira (not the baseball player), where one storyline featured a brass frog that once belonged to King Solomon. In his comic, which was written by Christopher Priest, this man battled such villains as Erik Killmonger and worked with State Department attorney (*) Everett Ross. In the 1970's, this character was drawn by Billy Graham (not the evangelist) and written by Don McGregor for stories in the comic Jungle Action.  In 1993, Wesley Snipes said he wanted to play this character, although it never happened. This man frequently must defend his country from invaders that want vibranium and in 2006 he acquired a wife, the mutant Storm. FTP, identify this ruler of Wakanda, whose name has nothing to do with the politics of Huey Newton.
ANSWER: Black Panther (accept T'Challa) 


COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET THREE: "The Wagers of Sin"


Bonuses
1. This bonus is about the greatest animated series ever. For ten points each, answer the following about Batman: The Animated Series.
[10] This stage actor provided the voice of Batman in the show, as well as almost all of its successors, several video games, and even a theme park attraction.
ANSWER: Kevin Conroy
[10] This female police officer was introduced on the show and now appears in the comics. She was outed as a lesbian and now has taken up the identity of the Question.
ANSWER: Renee Montoya (accept either)
[10] This 1993 film adapted the animated series to the big screen. It featured Batman taking on the Joker and a mysterious vigilante voiced by the future voice of Lois Lane, Dana Delany.
ANSWER: Batman: Mask of the Phantasm

2. A time-honored tradition in comic books is to have a team-up book, where superheroes team up to fight evil. For ten points each, identify these team-up titles based on descriptions.
[10] This title ran for 97 issues, teaming Superman with a variety of heroes, including the Martian Manhunter and Ambush Bug. Its title is incredibly generic.
ANSWER: DC Comics Presents
[10] This durable title initially ran for 200 issues, mostly featuring Batman teaming up with other heroes. It currently exists as a random team-up comic and has inspired a cartoon show featuring Batman.
ANSWER: The Brave and the Bold
[10] This Marvel team up title ran for 100 issues, mostly featuring quirky team-ups between the Thing and frequently obscure heroes.
ANSWER: Marvel Two-in-One

3. Bad guys have to go somewhere when they're beaten. For ten points each, identify these various places that are used to hold villains in the comic universe.
[10] This home for the criminally insane in the Batman universe not only holds almost all of Batman's villains, but it has produced several loonies from among its employees as well.
ANSWER: Arkham Asylum
[10] This prison in the Rocky Mountains kept many Marvel villains under wraps, but was harmed by numerous breakout attempts and is currently destroyed.
ANSWER: The Vault (accept U.S. Maximum Security Installation for the Incarceration of Superhuman Criminals)
[10] Kryptonians imprisoned their villains in this extra-dimensional area-the end result was that all of Krypton's notorious criminals survived the planet's destruction.
ANSWER: Phantom Zone
	
4. For ten points each, answer the following about one of the best websites on the planet.
[10] This website has many features, but takes its title from its main section, which uses various panels and cover images from the Silver Age to demonstrate the rather bad behavior of a certain DC superhero, most of which involves abusing Lois Lane.
ANSWER: Superdickery.com
[10] One of the galleries on Superdickery proclaims that "everything's better with" this type of animal, examples of which include Titano and Beppo.
ANSWER: Monkeys (accept equivalents, including "apes" and "gorillas")
[10] One infamous example of Superdickery features Superman trying to disrupt Lois Lane's relationship with this cheerful singer, whose hits included "Love Letters in the Sand." In 1997, he released the album In a Metal Mood: No More Mr. Nice Guy.
ANSWER: Pat Boone

5. Now it's time for an obligatory Watchmen bonus. Unlike regular quiz bowl, you will need to know something more than Alan Moore. For ten points each:
[10] During various issues of Watchmen, this fictional pirate comic book appeared, with scenes from a story called "Marooned" being read by a young boy.
ANSWER: Tales of the Black Freighter
[10] This superhero writes the tell-all book Under the Hood, passes his mantle on to Dan Dreiberg, and is ultimately beaten to death by a raging street gang.
ANSWER: Nite-Owl (accept Hollis Mason)
[10] This man is the president of the United States during the events of Watchmen. He is in his sixth term and employs the Comedian and Dr. Manhattan.
ANSWER: Richard Nixon

6. This entity intended to destroy all mutants and humans and was stopped at great cost with the apparent destruction of a number of Earth's superhumans. For ten points each, answer the following about the being who spawned Heroes Reborn.
[10] Identify this psionic entity, the result of Professor X's suppressed urges merging with Magneto's negative emotions, which first appeared in X-Man #15.
ANSWER: Onslaught
[10] Onslaught is first mentioned when he hits this supervillain hard enough to send him flying across the country. Apparently something could stop him after all.
ANSWER: Juggernaut (accept Cain Marko)
[10] Onslaught was the final boss in this fighting video game which pits Marvel superheroes against characters like Mega Man and Strider.
ANSWER: Marvel vs. Capcom: Clash of Super Heroes 

7. You may have noticed that there have been few questions on Marvel's Ultimate universe. This was intentional. Nevertheless, for ten points each, answer the following about the Ultimate line of comics.
[10] This Scotsman created The Ultimates title and worked on Ultimate X-Men and Ultimate Fantastic Four. He is also known for creating the recently filmed comic book Wanted.
ANSWER: Mark Millar
[10] This member of Ultimate X-Men was eventually outed as a homosexual and had a relationship with Northstar. In the non-Ultimate universe, he is heterosexual and once skirted the bounds of statutory rape with Kitty Pryde.
ANSWER: Colossus (accept Peter Rasputin)
[10] This mutagenic drug is responsible for the creation of the Ultimate universe's Spider-Man, Green Goblin, Doctor Octopus, and the Hobgoblin. It was named for the head of the company which produced it.
ANSWER: OZ

8. These are the comics the kids like these days, I guess. For ten points each, answer the following questions about webcomics.
[10] Wikipedia labels this webcomic as "the first true webcomic." Introduced in 1995, it is still infrequently updated and tells the story of a hacker who has created a Personal Transport Protocol which allows physical transport of people through the Internet.
ANSWER: Argon Zark!
[10] This man, noted for his seminal works Understanding Comics and Reinventing Comics, has argued in favor of treating webcomics as a true comics medium and has pushed for micropayments for their creators.
ANSWER: Scott McCloud
[10] This webcomic won the Web Cartoonist's Choice Award for Best Comic two years in a row. It tells the story of six college students living in an apartment building who deal with bizarre, supernatural situations.
ANSWER: College Roomies from Hell!!! (accept CRFH)

9. This bonus is on a certain television program which takes its cue from comic books. For ten points each, answer the following about the People's Choice Award-winning show Heroes.
[10] This man provides the artwork for the show, creating the work produced on the show by the artist character Isaac Mendez. He previously collaborated with Heroes producer Jeph Loeb on The Long Halloween.
ANSWER: Tim Sale
[10] Isaac, who had the power to paint the future, was eventually killed by this nefarious Heroes villain who kills superhumans to steal their powers.
ANSWER: Sylar (accept Gabriel Gray)
[10] In the episode "Unexpected," Stan Lee appears as a bus driver who greets this character when the latter boards the bus after trying to convince his friend Ando to return home.
ANSWER: Hiro Nakamura (accept either)

10. For ten points each, answer the following about a certain controversial comic book writer.
[10] This man was criticized for his handling of Karen Page's death during his scripting of Daredevil, as well as his continual work delays. His work on Spider-Man/Black Cat: The Evil That Men Do team-up had a nearly three year delay at one point.
ANSWER: Kevin Smith
[10] Smith was also criticized for killing off this longtime Spider-Man villain in the pages of Daredevil, although he appears to be resurrected now. Perhaps it was just another of his illusions.
ANSWER: Mysterio (accept Quentin Beck)
[10] In Smith's movies, this is the name of the comic book based on Jay and Silent Bob, which eventually becomes a film starring Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek. Smith produced this as an actual comic as well at one point.
ANSWER: Bluntman and Chronic

11. Hopefully this isn't the worst bonus ever. For ten points each, answer the following about Jeff Albertson, alias the Comic Book Guy, from The Simpsons.
[10] Comic Book Guy operates this comic book store, which also serves as a baseball card shop.
ANSWER: Android's Dungeon and Baseball Card Shop
[10] Comic Book Guy's first appearance was in the episode "Three Men and a Comic Book," where he sells this important comic book to Bart, Milhouse, and Martin.
ANSWER: Radioactive Man #1 (prompt on Radioactive Man)
[10] In "Bart Sells His Soul," Comic Book Guy branches out by getting Bart's soul from Milhouse in exchange for pogs in the likeness of this figure, who Milhouse remarks is "back in pog form."
ANSWER: ALF (accept Gordon Shumway)

12. Amaze your friends and astound Greg Peterson by getting, for ten points each, all three parts of this bonus on Sabrina the Teenage Witch.
[10] Sabrina's talking cat, this figure used to be a warlock and was voiced on the television program by Nick Bakay.
ANSWER: Salem Saberhagen (accept either)
[10] Sabrina's boyfriend in the comic and for a good deal of the TV show, this guy isn't very bright but on the whole is a pretty nice guy. On the TV show, he eventually discovered she was a witch.
ANSWER: Harvey Kinkle (accept either)
[10] In the comics, Sabrina lives with her aunts, Hilda and Zelda, as well as this man, her cousin, a somewhat stuffy warlock who as far as I know did not appear on television.
ANSWER: Ambrose 

13. Holy moley! It's time for a Captain Marvel bonus. For ten points each, answer the following about the Big Red Cheese himself, Billy Batson.
[10] The term "Big Red Cheese" was coined by this nefarious criminal scientist, who is short, bald, and is the father of evil children Georgia and Thaddeus Jr.
ANSWER: Dr. Sivana (accept Thaddeus Bodog Sivana, obviously prompt on Thaddeus)
[10] This superheroine is Billy Batson's twin sister and gets her powers by calling upon female deities like Aurora and Minerva. She recently worked for Darkseid.
ANSWER: Mary Marvel (accept Mary Batson or Mary Bromfield, prompt on Batson)
[10] Captain Marvel was originally created for this publishing company, which stopped producing comics in 1953 and eventually sold Captain Marvel to DC.
ANSWER: Fawcett Comics

14. He briefly starred in a comic, but he's far better known for a six-year run on television where he told kids the power was theirs. For ten points each, answer the following about Captain Planet.
[10] Captain Planet was produced by this man's television company and was supposedly based on one of his own ideas. Perhaps it was actually Jane Fonda's idea.
ANSWER: Ted Turner
[10] Americans may not be pleased that the sole American among the Planeteers was this rather obnoxious fellow, who wielded "Fire." He frequently preferred to act before thinking.
ANSWER: Wheeler
[10] This unimaginatively named evil counterpart to Captain Planet appeared several times, created when a group of eco-villains used evil duplicates of the Planeteers' rings.
ANSWER: Captain Pollution (do not accept Zarm)

15. This comic strip is doubtless the only one in the paper to share its name with one of Adolf Hitler's dogs, unless der Fuhrer had a Schnauzer named Ziggy somewhere. For the stated number of points, answer the following about Blondie.
[10] Blondie's husband, Dagwood, works for this crusty, tyrannical construction company head.
ANSWER: J.C. Dithers (accept Julius)
[5, 5] For five points each, identify the teenage children of Blondie and Dagwood. A boy and girl, they have been frozen in age for several decades.
ANSWER: Alexander (accept Baby Dumpling) and Cookie
[10] This man created Blondie and drew it until his death in 1973, when his son Dean took over the strip. Along with various artists, Dean still produces Blondie today.
ANSWER: Murat Bernard "Chic" Young

16. This bonus covers one of Frank Miller's most critically acclaimed works, Sin City. For ten points each:
[10] First, this is the town where Sin City takes place in. A crime-filled town in the American west, it is commonly referred to as Sin City, but it's not Las Vegas.
ANSWER: Basin City
[10] This family dominates business in Basin City. Its members include a cardinal, Patrick; a senator; and the senator's pedophile son, the Yellow Bastard.
ANSWER: Roark
[10] In the movie Sin City, this handsome actor appears in the opening and closing segments as a hitman. He also appeared in another comic book film, 30 Days of Night.
ANSWER: Josh Hartnett

17. Token minorities don't just exist on ensemble TV shows. For ten points each, identify these black comic characters introduced for purposes of diversification.
[10] This guy was introduced into Peanuts in 1968 and plays center field for Peppermint Patty's baseball team. He has frequently been accused of being a token black character.
ANSWER: Franklin Armstrong (accept either)
[10] This bass player for the Pussycats has street smarts and mechanical knowledge. She was played by Rosario Dawson in the Josie and the Pussycats movie.
ANSWER: Valerie Brown (accept either, accept Valerie Smith or Smith)
[10] This guy isn't a token, but he is one of the few blacks seen in the G.I. Joe comic. A burly machine gunner and gourmet cook, he is noted for always talking in rhyme on the cartoon.
ANSWER: Roadblock (accept Marvin Hinton)

18. During his run of about twelve years on The Incredible Hulk, this man delved into Bruce Banner's childhood, made the Hulk both green and smart, and became the comic's signature writer. For ten points each:
[10] First, identify this man, who wrote for the Hulk between 1987 and 1998 and eventually left the comic after disagreeing with Marvel about the reintroduction of the Hulk's savage persona.
ANSWER: Peter David
[10] David ended his run on the Hulk by killing off this wife of Bruce Banner, saying he was inspired by the breakup of his own marriage. This character's death and resurrection have both been retconned.
ANSWER: Betty Ross Banner (accept Betty or Betty Ross, prompt on Banner or Ross)
[10] One of David's more interesting ideas was making the Hulk the leader of this secretive organization of extended family members in which everyone had names from Greek mythology, although it turned out that the leader was actually half Asgardian.
ANSWER: Pantheon

19. While long rumored for over 25 years, Spider-Man finally became a film in 2002. And then two more came. For ten points each, answer the following about Sam Raimi's Spider-Man series.
[10] This actress, who recently played Laura Bush in W. and one of the titular characters in Zack and Miri Make a Porno, appears in all three films as Betty Brant, J. Jonah Jameson's secretary.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Banks
[10] This Raimi pal appears in all three films in showy cameos, including as a ringside announcer, an obnoxious usher, and a French waiter.
ANSWER: Bruce Campbell
[10] The second and third films featured Peter Parker living in this European man's apartment building. He has a daughter named Ursula, who obviously is attracted to Pete. His name is inspired by one of Spider-Man's creators.
ANSWER: Mr. Ditkovich

20. Let's get into the belated holiday spirit with a Santa Claus bonus. For ten points each, answer the following about comic book appearances of Kris Kringle.
[10] In a Marvel Holiday Special, this deity acts like Santa by wishing folks "a good midwinter to all" and riding a sleigh driven by two rams. The story sees him and his son acting to help out a Germanic couple named Sigurd and Sia.
ANSWER: Odin
[10] In Incredible Hulk #378, the cover apparently shows the Hulk beating up on Santa Claus. As it turns out, it is actually this burly, rather dumb supervillain posing as a mall Santa. This man has tried to ram both the Hulk and Spider-Man in many stories.
ANSWER: Rhino (accept Aleksei Systevich)
[10] A Superman teaming with Saint Nick in DC Comics Presents featured the duo taking on this villain, an appropriate choice as he uses the same things which Santa gives out to kids, except for evil.
ANSWER: Toyman (accept Winslow Schott)

