COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry

PACKET SIX: "The Killing Cure"

Toss-Ups
       
1. One version of this character was a Russian, the son of cosmonauts affected by alien radiation. This character took over the Soviet state of Pokolistan and attempted to turn the sun red. In a pocket universe created by the Time Trapper, another version of this character wreaked much havoc on that universe's Earth before his eventual defeat and execution by (*) Superman. The pre-Crisis version of this man attempted to take over his home planet by using robot duplicates of himself, but was easily foiled. In 2006, it was revealed that he has a biological son named Lor, who eventually becomes Chris Kent. Along with Chris' mother, Ursa, this man is frequently seen trapped in the Phantom Zone, although he frequently escapes. Famously played by Terence Stamp in his movie appearance, FTP, identify this rogue Kryptonian whose proclamation of "kneel!" from Superman II is widely remembered.
ANSWER: General Zod (accept Dru-Zod, accept Zed)

2. According to a press release by its distributor, this comic strip was the last personally approved by publisher William Randolph Hearst. The strip was originally based around its creator's friends at the University of Missouri, with the main character an individual named Spider, whose name was swiftly changed. Minor characters in this strip include (*) Chigger, the main character's younger brother, and Dr. Bonkus, a crazy psychiatrist. In 2002, Chip Gizmo, a tech expert, was added after a write-in contest determined his name. The strip technically spun off "Hi and Lois," as Lois is the sister of this comic's titular character. On March 13, 1951, this strip completely dropped its college setting and characters by having its protagonist enlist in the Army. FTP, identify this Mort Walker comic strip which features such characters as General Halftrack and Sergeant Snorkel.
ANSWER: Beetle Bailey 

3. During a race between two universes to collect items of power, this object was found by Darkseid but cast aside after the realization that it has no power in the DC Universe. Loki would discover a previously unknown extra piece to it containing the consciousness of Nemesis during a foray into the Ultraverse. This object's most noted use involved capturing a group of cosmic beings including (*) Galactus, two Celestials, and the embodiment of life, Eternity. However it was carelessly misplaced, and stolen by Nebula, who accidentally frees them, before losing this object to Adam Warlock. Theoretically, with these powers, its holder could become omnipotent. With its constituent Gems now held by the Illuminati, FTP, identify this all-powerful glove assembled by Thanos.
ANSWER: Infinity Gauntlet

4. In a 1998 storyline, this character was possessed by an entity named K'ad-Mon who was actually the first man, Adam. This character's ex-wife has a severely scarred face and spent years regaining her sanity at Roswell Sanitarium. In his alter-ego, this character once met a girl named Sainte-Cloud, whom he told about his work on Project Sulfur, a means to develop bio-chemical warfare. This character's traveling companions have included disc jockey Richard (*) Rory and sorceress Jennifer Kale. Humor can be had at the fact that one of this character's comics contained the adjective Giant-Size preceding his name. Formerly Dr. Ted Sallis, this character was created through the combination of a mutagenic formula and a magical swamp near Citrusville, Florida. FTP, identify this creature that guards the nexus of realities, who famously burns anything he touches that displays fear.
ANSWER: Man-Thing (accept Ted Sallis until mentioned)  

5. In his first appearance, this man sports a shaved head and gets thrown out of apartment windows not once but twice. Barely alive after being shot by a woman who tricked him, this man receives impromptu plastic surgery and disguises himself as one of Wallenquist's agents. He then gets his revenge by shooting Ava Lord, finishing off the story "A Dame to (*) Kill For." In another story, he confronts the agents of Don Magliozzi, helping to spark a mob war between Magliozzi and Wallenquist. In the story "The Big Fat Kill," he shows his chivalrous side by defending Shellie from Jack Rafferty by dumping his head into a filled toilet. In this same story, he nearly drowns in a tar pit before being rescued. FTP, identify this protagonist of Sin City, a chivalrous man who, along with Marv, protects the Old Town girls and is played in the movie adaptation by Clive Owen.
ANSWER: Dwight McCarthy (accept either)

6. In one storyline, the X-Men battle what appears to be this character, only to be revealed that aliens from a tropical planet had created a robot that resembled this character. In the Bloodstone miniseries, this character is named Adam and is the guardian of Bloodstone's magical possessions. This character has been sought after by various mad (*) scientists, including Dr. Walston Kraft and Baron Ludwig von Shtupf. He also once teamed with Iron Man to battle Dreadknight. This character's larynx was damaged during a fight with vampires, which was not corrected until the present day by a woman named Victoria, a descendant of his creator, who had himself died at the Arctic Circle while stalking this character. FTP, identify this famous monster, which was adapted into Marvel Comics history from a book by Mary Shelley.
ANSWER: Frankenstein's Monster (accept Frank or Frankie, accept the Monster, accept Adam before mentioned, grudgingly accept Frankenstein)

7. Holder of the American rights to manga such as Gunsmith Cats, this company also holds the rights to a manga where a character wears gloves reading "Jesus Christ is in HEAVEN," Hellsing. The tie-in limited series to The Incredibles was released by this company, and they have also published licensed series of Aeon Flux, Conan the Barbarian, and Indiana (*) Jones.  Several of their original works have become motion pictures, including The Mask, and the recent works 300, Sin City, and Hellboy.  Publishing comic book adaptations of all the Star Wars films, as well as serializing several Expanded Universe works, FTP, name this independent publisher of Alien vs. Predator and Buffy the Vampire Slayer, whose name suggests they see themselves as underdogs.
ANSWER: Dark Horse Comics

8. This character's race's galaxy exploded due to the interference of a demonic entity, and the remnants were guided by the sentient spaceship Skuttlebutt. His encounter with his predecessor ended with him challenging Galactus to prevent the death of his Korbinite race's new home world. After engaging in a duel over Mjolnir, the two knocked each other unconscious, (*) and Odin rewarded this man with his own similar hammer.  He would become ally to the Asgardians after the revelation that Surtur was responsible for the destruction of his home. Recently this man was kidnapped by the Skrulls, and after extensive torture, was essentially tossed to Asgard's new location over Oklahoma. Wielding the hammer Stormbreaker, FTP, name this cosmically named alien, who highly resembles his ally Thor.
ANSWER: Beta Ray Bill (accept Beta Ray Thor, I guess accept partial answers)

9. This group made their first appearance in a comic whose cover features a character snickering that it is "too late, automaton!", while the final issue of this group's original comic featured a caption at the bottom reading "You decide!" in a reference to the fact that DC was requesting feedback as to what to do with the characters. This group would later be resurrected with new members including Vietnam veteran Joshua (*) Clay and cosmonaut Valentina Vostok. Older villains of this group included the Animal-Vegetable-Mineral Man and General Immortus, while this group also encountered the Brotherhood of Dada and the Scissormen. The original version of this group seemingly died at Codsville, Maine, but all of the members, including Elasti-Girl and Robotman have since returned. FTP, identify this superhero team of superpowered misfits led by a crippled genius that is not the X-Men.
ANSWER: Doom Patrol

10. This character, under the control of Harlequin, used Mr. Bones to kill Skyman. He is mentioned in the chorus of the Crash Test Dummies song "Superman's Song" purely for rhyming purposes and his appearance on the cartoon "The Batman" turned out to be merely Clayface in disguise. This character has been disposed of by being trapped on the moon and turned into a statue of petrified wood, but he keeps coming back. In The Long(*) Halloween, Harvey Dent meets him in the sewers under Gotham and befriends him. This man used to be Cyrus Gold, a merchant who was murdered and dumped into Slaughter Swamp, only to have his corpse mysteriously reanimated, apparently by the swamp itself. Having no memories of his old self, this character could only remember the date of his birth, which explains his name. FTP, identify this raging monster who was said to have been born on a Monday.
ANSWER: Solomon Grundy (accept either)

11. This man, along with writer Marv Wolfman, replaced Jack Kirby on the Machine Man comic book. Some of his lesser known creations include Mr. A and Shade the Changing Man. After drawing comics for an Army newspaper, he got into art school due to the G.I. Bill and produced his first cover for Space Adventures in 1954. He is a follower of Ayn Rand's Objectivism and several of his characters, such as the (*) Question, were very aggressive in their battles against crime. Also the creator of the Blue Beetle and co-creator of Dr. Strange, he reportedly left the comic he is most associated with over a dispute with his writer regarding the identity of a recurring villain, with the writer winning the battle to make it an established character, that of Norman Osborn. FTP, identify this artist that co-created Spider-Man with Stan Lee. 
ANSWER: Steve Ditko

12. One of this man's love interests was Mona, a woman he met at Lorenzo's School for the Personality Impaired, while in a 1986 special, this man journeyed to Paradise World and briefly found romance with Princess Owooda. This man's occupation is vaguely defined, with potential answers being that he is an accountant, an insurance salesman, or, at least in early appearances, a cartoonist. In one of his film appearances, he actually ends up (*) marrying his girlfriend in London, an event that has not yet happened in the comic strip. This man grew up on a farm with his brother, Doc Boy, and had a friend named Lyman who completely vanished several years ago and bequeathed his dog to this man. FTP, identify this complete loser, the star of a webcomic in which he talks to himself, and the owner of Odie and Garfield.
ANSWER: Jon Arbuckle (accept either)

13. In the Deadly Foes of Spider-Man miniseries, the Kingpin disguises an operative as this character in order to prevent the Shocker from killing Spider-Man, while the Red Skull's agent, Mother Night, disguised herself as this character while recruiting Blackwing and Jack O'Lantern for the Skull. The Skull himself claimed to employ this character, using him both to fake his own death and kill a Skull imposter. It was later revealed, though, that this character was actually the brainchild of Tom(*) Holloway, formerly the superhero Angel, who created this character to punish criminals. This character initially claimed to be the brother of the Enforcer, a criminal this character killed while posing as a bag lady. FTP, identify this vigilante, who is actually a number of individuals dedicated to wiping out criminals, and slew a number of lame Marvel supervillains while using the catch phrase "Justice is served!"
ANSWER: Scourge of the Underworld (There are a number of "names" of individual Scourges, but surely no one will be ridiculous enough to say those)

14. The final episode of the Cartoon Network Teen Titans series featured this character's apparent resurrection, explaining to another character that no one is quite like how they are remembered and that no matter what, "Things Change." In the "Titans of Tomorrow" storyline, this character is a member of the anti-fascist Titans East. Jericho's possession abilities would be used to cause this character to believe she had been (*)  betrayed, leading her to bring down H.I.V.E. headquarters around her. During World War III, she is able to trap Black Adam between a pair of rocks, but only manages to further enrage him before he punches through her chest. The sister of Geo-Force and princess of Markovia is, FTP, what traitorous Teen Titan who betrayed them to Deathstroke in "The Judas Contract" storyline?
ANSWER:  Terra Markov

15. This character attended school under the tutelage of Angela Daskalakis, where he befriended Xina Kwan and antagonized Kron Stone. Rather arrogant upon graduation, he achieved financial success while pissing off his assistant Aaron Delgato. After becoming unwittingly addicted to Rapture, this character acquired his powers and later a costume obtained from a Day of the (*) Dead festival. Called a "Harbinger of Thor" by the Thorite group, this character later inspired his own group of followers. This character has a holographic assistant named Lyla and in time it was revealed that his true father was actually Tyler Stone, the head of Alchemax. Initially offered a cabinet position by President Doom, he eventually acquired Mjolnir and ruled his earth for a thousand years before retiring in 3099. FTP, identify this alter ego of Miguel O'Hara, a futuristic version of everyone's favorite web-slinger.
	ANSWER: Spider-Man 2099 (prompt on Spider-Man, accept Miguel O'Hara until mentioned

16. The final scene of this storyline featured a character quoting FDR's advice about fear as he sits all alone. It was eventually revealed several years later that while this storyline was occurring, the Skrulls kidnapped Alicia Masters to replace her with Lyja. This storyline also introduced several characters, including Volcana and the second Titania. Ridiculous incidents in this storyline include the (*) Enchantress summoning a water spirit in a bathtub, as well Hawkeye and Ben Grimm playing pat-a-cake with Klaw and the Lizard. This storyline's first issue includes such scenes as Galactus zapping Ultron with his finger but then himself being swatted down like a fly by an entity who orders all the characters to "slay your enemies!" FTP, identify this 1980's Marvel miniseries in which numerous characters are summoned to do battle by the mysterious Beyonder. 
ANSWER: Secret Wars (do not accept Secret War)

17. One character with this name went by the alias Sylvester Mann while living at a boarding house for several years. Another character with this name appeared in Kingdom Come as a friend of Norman McCay who was tormented by prophetic visions of Armageddon. This man also once had a love interest named Dian Belmont and a sidekick called the Golden (*) Boy, who has since taken on his identity. A third character who goes by this name can take on many different appearances, such as a fox, an alien skull, and a cat when talking to the goddess Bast. The criminal with this name, William Baker, was once bitten by Venom, which destabilized his body structure, while the superhero with this name, Wesley Dodds, was a member of the Justice Society noted for his "gas gun." FTP, identify this common identity, also shared with the comic featuring Neil Gaiman's creation Dream.
ANSWER: Sandman (accept all given names until mentioned-also accept Flint Marko or Morpheus)

18. This character was the star of a 1990's Family Channel cartoon, in which he was frequently accompanied by the feisty Rowanne and the clumsy Arn. He was played by Robert Wagner in a 1954 film, which saw him wooing the heart of a woman played by Janet Leigh. This character's first storyline is retroactively titled "Into(*)  the Fens," as it documents his origins in a British swamp. This man is an expert fighter, primarily using a weapon called Flamberge, also known as the Singing Sword. The putative source of information about this man comes from a historian named Geoffrey, while the final story written by this man's creator dealt with Viking raids in the North Sea. FTP, identify this Hal Foster creation, the star of a beautifully drawn comic strip about medieval adventure that is noted for not using text captions instead of dialogue balloons.
ANSWER: Prince Valiant (accept Valiant or Val)

19. In a non-canon MAX miniseries, this man kills two criminals who had taken hostages on national television, prompting his employer to fire him. This character's first adventure as a superhero was against the villain Magma, while the first issue of his titular comic saw him battling the forces of an African dictator being backed by the nefarious Advisor. Recently, this man was the head combat instructor of Sentinel (*) Squad O*N*E, although it has since been revealed that he has suffered numerous injuries and requires many cybernetic parts. He met his best friend and employer in Southeast Asia while the latter was escaping from Wong Chu's prison camp. In October of 2008, it was reported that Don Cheadle would play this man instead of Terence Howard in the sequel to Iron Man. FTP, identify this man who has filled in for Iron Man and used a silver suit of armor for his own adventures.
	ANSWER: War Machine (accept James Rhodes or "Rhodey," prompt on Iron Man)

20. The first seeds for its events occur in 2005's Seven Soldiers series, while the build for this storyline began in a story in Teen Titans involving the mysterious Terror Titans, led by the Clock King, repeatedly ambushing the Titans and kidnapping Kid Devil and Miss Martian, while a simultaneous branch of that story appeared in Birds of Prey, with Misfit, Black Alice, and other teenage metahumans (*) brainwashed to fight in a tournament for Granny's love. Darkseid and the Gods of Apokolips attempt to shape  the dawning of the Fifth Worldin his image by sending the Anti-Life Equation out through the Internet and enslaving humanity, in this Grant-Morrison penned storyline that saw the apparent deaths of Orion, the Martian Manhunter, and even Batman. FTP, identify this storyline advertised as "The Day Evil Won," the rather literally named ending to the various DC "Crisis" crossovers.
ANSWER: Final Crisis

TB. This character once had an intruder enter her house on Christmas Eve and take away her doll, prompting her to hold a grudge against Santa Claus. As a child, she ate such delicacies as snow and during Children's Day, never got out of school and had to eat bologna sandwiches. While attending university, this character partied all night before exams and ended up getting the lowest score in the history of the school, prompting her to drop out and join a bike gang. (*) In a comic appearance, she gets married to her frequent partner and becomes pregnant. This character has a rivalry with Cassidy and her partner, Butch, but neither group is particularly competent at catching Pikachu. FTP, identify this Pokemon villainess and member of Team Rocket, who is partnered with James.
	ANSWER: Jessie (prompt on Team Rocket, accept Musashi)


COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry

Bonuses

1. You may have noticed the rather large amount of Batman in these packets. This was not a mistake. For ten points each, answer the following about the various retellings of the Caped Crusader's origin.
[10] While the 1989 Batman film depicted the Joker killing Bruce Wayne's parents, almost every other depiction features it being done by this criminal, who is sometimes shown to be a mobster, sometimes a desperate druggie.
ANSWER: Joe Chill (accept either)
[10] Many of the origin stories have the Waynes killed after they have seen a movie featuring this character, who has been played on screen by Douglas Fairbanks, Tyrone Power, and Antonio Banderas. 
ANSWER: Zorro (accept Don Diego Vega)
[10] In the aforementioned 1989 Batman film, Jack Napier, who will become the Joker, asks this nonsensical question to Bruce Wayne after he murders his parents. He later again asks this question before shooting a grown up Bruce Wayne.
ANSWER: "You ever dance with the devil by the pale moonlight?" (accept anything close-the key components are obviously dance, devil, and pale moonlight)

2. Has any other film series featured mutagenic ooze, the line "I made a funny!", and bizarre trips through time to ancient Japan? For ten points each, answer the following about the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film series.
[10] The second Turtles film infamously features an appearance by this rapper, who performs the tune Ninja Rap during an on-camera appearance in the film.
ANSWER: Vanilla Ice (accept Robert Van Winkle)
[10] The 2007 Turtles film featured this actress as April O'Neil, giving her another opportunity to play a cartoon icon on screen. She had previously played Daphne in the Scooby- Doo film series.
ANSWER: Sarah Michelle Gellar
[10] This character, a hockey player turned vigilante, appears in the first and third films and is played by Elias Koteas. He shows up again in the 2007 film, played by Chris Evans.
ANSWER: Casey Jones (accept either)

3. So whenever we think mutant, we think X-Men. That's not fair. For ten points each, answer the following about mutant teams that are not the X-Men.
[10] This mutant team featured such characters as Northstar, Marinna, and Puck, and worked for Department H to protect the good people of Canada.
ANSWER: Alpha Flight
[10] This mutant team was originally named X-Force, but later adopted this name. Featuring characters who were intentionally marketed within the comic as media superstars, the team included Doop and Orphan, but not, as was originally proposed, Princess Diana.
ANSWER: X-Statix
[10] This isn't a mutant team per se, but it has included several mutants, such as Polaris and Havok, as well as Havok's late father, Christopher Summers, formerly known as  Corsair. Most of its members are alien pirates who primarily operate within the Shi'ar Empire.
ANSWER: Starjammers

4. During the '70s and '80s, a mysterious new way was devised to take out bad guys. Gone were the days of guns and knives and super strength. Rather, this new way embraced the Twinkie and the Fruit Pie. For ten points each, answer the following about an iconic series of advertisements.
[10] This company frequently utilized superheroes in its advertisements to plug their snack products. The plot of each of the ads featured a superhero defeating a villain by usually bribing them into surrendering via a snack treat.
ANSWER: Hostess
[10] While the ads with superheroes are the most remembered, this Archie Comics character appeared in over 25 Hostess products, frequently with her friend Melody and her boyfriend Alan M.
ANSWER: Josie James (accept either)
[10] This writer attempted to bring the Hostess characters into Marvel continuity by using the ad character Icemaster during his run on Thunderbolts. He made Icemaster one of Crimson Cowl's Masters of Evil. His continuity skills were put to the test when he wrote the JLA/Avengers crossover.
ANSWER: Kurt Busiek

5. Every superhero has a weakness. Superman had kryptonite, Tony Stark had alcohol, and Professor X had stairs. For ten points each, answer the following about other superheroic Achilles heels.
[10] While Hal Jordan's Green Lantern could not affect things that were the color yellow, this weakness perhaps made more sense when compared to Alan Scott's Green Lantern, who could not affect things made out of this extremely common material. The Lorax would be pleased.
ANSWER: Wood (prompt on parts of a tree, like bark)
[10] As a child, this superheroine was once buried under rubble. This left her with an intense claustrophobia that can reduce her to a childlike state even as an adult.
ANSWER: Storm (accept Ororo Munroe)
[10] This particular kind of kryptonite, at least in the pre-Crisis continuity, would not only incapacitate Kryptonians but permanently take away their powers. It has rarely appeared in post-Crisis continuity.
ANSWER: Gold Kryptonite

6. This guy was probably a bigger threat to comic book heroes than Doctor Doom, Lex Luthor, and Galactus combined. For ten points each, answer the following about the man probably most responsible for the Comics Code Authority.
[10] First, identify this psychiatrist who argued that comic books could be harmful to impressionable children. He also noted potential homosexuality in the stories of Batman and Robin and bondage scenes in Wonder Woman.
ANSWER: Dr. Fredric Wertham
[10] Wertham's most famous book was this 1954 work that became a bestseller among parents fearful about the effects of comics. It featured many panels that served as examples of the harm comics could inflict on children.
ANSWER: Seduction of the Innocent
[10] This Michael Chabon novel features a depiction of the Wertham-inspired hearings that investigated comics, showing their effects upon the titular writer and artist team.
ANSWER: The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay (accept Kavalier and Clay)

7. As Hank Williams Jr., Pink, and Faith Hill have eloquently expressed, football is important to the American people...and comic book characters. For ten points each, answer the following about comic book characters' connections to the gridiron game.
[10] This long-running comic strip tells the story of its titular character, who is an ex-defensive linebacker turned local sports television reporter.
ANSWER: Tank McNamara
[10] Noted superhero and asshole Guy Gardner played his college football at this real-life university. Assuming he went to college in the 1950's, he would have been coached by Bennie Oosterbaan or Bump Elliott.
ANSWER: University of Michigan (accept Wolverines)
[10] In 2005, the University of Oregon used the interesting recruiting tactic of sending prospective recruits personalized comic books depicting them as football superheroes. This current Carolina Panthers back was portrayed as a hero named "Snoop."
ANSWER: Jonathan Stewart

8. Almost every superhero has a secret identity. Some superheroes have more than one, which seems a tad extravagant. For ten points each, given an additional secret identity, identify the character who took on the identity. 
[10] This member of the X-Men once posed as the mutant villain Erik the Red to join Mesmero's team of bad guys. He was later stunned to find there was an Erik the Red who worked for the Shi'ar Empire.
ANSWER: Cyclops (accept Scott Summers)
[10] This character used the name "Amy Beddoes" while working with the Suicide Squad. She first contacted the Squad by hacking into their database, reflecting her superior computer skills and information gathering abilities.
ANSWER: Barbara Gordon (accept Oracle, accept Batgirl)
[10] This supervillainess originally called herself Madame Hydra when she was working for, you guessed it, HYDRA. She then killed Jordan Dixon and adopted his more serpentine identity, while also dying her hair green.
ANSWER: Viper (accept Merriem Drew)

9. DC and Marvel have frequently parodied its rival company's characters. Some might call this a homage, others a rip-off. For ten points each, identify these examples of "artistic inspiration."
[10] Superman has been parodied various times in Marvel comics. One example is this alien leader of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard, who possesses super strength and the power to shoot energy beams from his eyes.
ANSWER: Gladiator (accept Kallark)
[10] Another Superman parody is this character, who was marketed as a lost creation of Stan Lee. Possessing nearly unlimited energy powers, he also is schizophrenic and was actually the same person as his arch-nemesis the Void.
ANSWER: Sentry (accept Robert Reynolds)
[10] Superman himself returned the favor by parodying Reed Richards in his own comic book in the form of this man, an astronaut exposed to cosmic radiation who became a paranoid villain that once imitated Superman himself.
ANSWER: Hank Henshaw (accept either, accept Cyborg)

10. Love triangles usually result in an uneven side, with one character tending to come up short. For ten points each, answer the following about characters who are rivals with our heroes for the affections of various love interests.
[10] This loutish classmate of Peter Parker's not only bullied him, but was his main rival for the affections of Liz Allan. Peter got his revenge by dating hotter chicks like Gwen Stacy and Mary Jane Watson.
ANSWER: Flash Thompson (accept either)
[10] In Archie comics, Archie frequently engages in a battle of wits with this jerk for the love of Betty and Veronica. A devious prankster, he is luckily rather dense and thus easily defeated.
ANSWER: Reggie Mantle (accept either)
[10] The film Superman Returns features this actor as Richard White, who serves as the fiancé to Lois Lane. He is not a jerk, but he's no Superman and that kid probably isn't his either.
ANSWER: James Marsden

11. Superheroes don't just come from the United States. For ten points each, answer the following about characters Lou Dobbs might have a problem with.
[10] This Japanese superhero was once an arrogant astronomer who gained her powers during the Crisis on Infinite Earths. She then became a member of the Justice League and was once attacked by the villain she shares her name with, a longtime foe of the League.
ANSWER: Doctor Light (accept Kimiyo Hoshi) 
[10] This superheroic duo hailed from Brazil and Norway and were once members of the Global Guardians before joining Justice League International. Their names reflect both their personalities and the climate of their home countries.
ANSWER: Fire and Ice (both needed, accept Beatriz de Costa and Tora Olafsdotter, also accept Green Flame and Icemaiden and any combination thereof)
[10] Villains also come from around the world. This Marvel villain leads a number of mercenary brigades, but is best known for his outrrrrrageous French accent and his fighting style that uses the feet. Zut alors!
ANSWER: Batroc (accept Georges Batroc)

12. One of the more memorable incidents in the history of the Justice League International was when one member downed another member with ONE PUNCH. For ten points each, answer the following about this incident of fisticuffs.
[10] As could be expected, the punched in this case was noted asshole Guy Gardner, while the puncher was this superhero, whose leadership was constantly challenged by Gardner.
ANSWER: Batman (accept Bruce Wayne)
[10] This character, a noted Justice League wisecracker, continually marvels at the "ONE PUNCH!" required by Batman to clean house, basically giving the event the snappy name with which it is remembered.
ANSWER: Blue Beetle (accept Ted Kord) 
[10] The cover for this issue sensationally features a snarling Gardner restrained by two powerful superheroes, promising a tougher fight than what eventually happens.  Name either of these heroes.
ANSWER: Either Martian Manhunter (accept J'onn J'onzz) or Captain Marvel (accept Billy Batson)

13. The 1950's weren't a great time for comics, but there were still a few superheroes out there trying to keep the crusading end up. For ten points each, answer the following about DC heroes active in the Fabulous Fifties.
[10] This sci-fi hero was the captain of the Planeteers before Ted Turner ever thought about Captain Planet. A graduate of Space Port "West Point," he patrols the galaxy stopping crime.
ANSWER: Tommy Tomorrow (accept either)
[10] During the 1950's, this superheroic identity was held by Sir Justin from the Knights of the Round Table, who like Captain America, had gone into suspended animation and woke up in the modern era. A more Celtic version of this character was introduced in 2005 in the Seven Soldiers series.
ANSWER: Shining Knight
[10] This non-powered team of heroes was introduced in the 1950's. Consisting of Ace Morgan, Red Ryan, Rocky Davis, and Prof Haley, this group of daredevils decided they needn't fear death since they were living on borrowed time anyway.
ANSWER: Challengers of the Unknown

14. From 1974 to 1982, this comic featured everyone's favorite webslinger taking on such bizarre villains as the Spoiler, Mr. Measles, and Dr. Fly. The best part was that it was EASY TO READ! For ten points each:
[10] First, identify this rather nonsensical comic aimed at children ages 6 to 10 that also featured the characters of Easy Reader and detective Fargo North.
ANSWER: Spidey Super Stories
[10] Both Easy Reader and Fargo North were recurring characters on this PBS children's series that also aired sketches featuring Spidey, in which the character communicated through word balloons.
ANSWER: The Electric Company
[10] While it's easy to mock Spidey Super Stories, aside from Marvel Team-Up, it was the only place to see additional monthly adventures of Spider-Man until this comic premiered in 1976. The original concept of this comic was to focus more on Peter Parker's campus life.
ANSWER: Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man (accept Spectacular Spider-Man)

15. So, like in this film series, Captain Picard and Xenia Onatopp battle Gandalf, and eventually Frasier Crane shows up looking real hairy and blue. For ten points each, answer the following about the X-Men film series.
[10] The first two X-Men films were directed by this man, who also helmed The Usual Suspects. More recently, he tried to revive Superman AND convince us that Tom Cruise was German. 
ANSWER: Bryan Singer
[10] This actress was one of several Oscar-winning performers in the X-Men cast, nabbing it for The Piano. She has also won a Golden Globe for True Blood. Her X-Men character doesn't suck blood, but rather superpowers.
ANSWER: Anna Paquin (prompt on Rogue)
[10] This character, first seen in X-Men: The Last Stand, infamously adapts an Internet meme when he calls Kitty Pryde a "bitch" during his fight with her.
ANSWER: Juggernaut (accept Cain Marko)

16. In 1993, DC ran the less-than-memorable story arc named "Bloodlines," which attempted to introduce a bunch of new characters...who were pretty much all forgotten. Nevertheless, for ten points each, answer the following about this effort.
[10] The basic idea of the crossover was that various people acquired superhuman powers when attacked by a group of bloodthirsty aliens known by this menacing name. Individual aliens had names like Angon and Gemir.
ANSWER: Parasites
[10] About the only memorable new character created in "Bloodlines" was this man, who has x-ray vision and moderate telepathy, which helps him in his job killing metahumans.
ANSWER: Hitman (accept Tommy Monaghan)
[10] Many of the new characters formed the group Blood Pack, which was led by this superheroine, a green-skinned woman who is the daughter of Alan Scott.
ANSWER: Jade (accept Jennifer-Lynn Hayden)

17. At various times, this could be won for spotting a mistake, explaining a mistake, or simply meritorious service within the community. For ten points each, answer the following about a well-remembered piece of Marvel Comics lore.
[10] First, identify this object that was famously sent to fans by Stan Lee in blank envelopes, which confused some fans who didn't understand the joke.
ANSWER: No-Prize
[10] In 1982, Marvel published a No-Prize Book which showcased some famous bloopers in Marvel history. One such incident was when this villain called Spider-Man by the name "Super-Man" in Amazing Spider-Man #3.
ANSWER: Doctor Octopus (accept Otto Octavius)
[10] While it is unknown how many, if any, No-Prizes this famous  letter writer won, he did produce more than 3,000 letters to Marvel and DC over the years. The "M" in his initials was originally short for "Mad," but was changed to an initial to make his name seem like that of a real person's.
ANSWER: T.M. Maple (accept either, obviously prompt on "M")

18. Superheroes frequently team up and fight crime and the world is a much better place. When supervillains team up, not only is it less productive but no one seems to have any fun either. For ten points each, identify these groups of notorious villains.
[10] This villainous team seeks to destroy Niles Caulder and his Doom Patrol team out of revenge. Led by the Brain, this group was also seen on the Teen Titans cartoon show.
ANSWER: Brotherhood of Evil
[10] This team has usually battled Spider-Man, which is a good showing for guys with no powers. They consist of a cowboy, Montana, a strongman named Ox, and a little guy named Fancy Dan.
ANSWER: Enforcers
[10] This crime syndicate in Marvel comics engages in largely conventional crimes and has been led at various times by Silvermane, Hammerhead, and the Nefaria family. It is not to be confused with the Mafia.
ANSWER: Maggia

19. For ten points each, identify the comic book creator based on an alias and additional clues.
[10] This man called himself Adam Austin while drawing the Sub-Mariner and Iron Man for Marvel. He later went by his more familiar name while drawing 81 issues of Daredevil from 1966 to 1973, as well as every issue of Tomb of Dracula.
ANSWER: Gene Colan
[10] This man went by John Harkness while working on Fantastic Four to express disapproval regarding storylines. He was in a better mood when he wrote the "Celestial Madonna" and "Secret Empire" storylines for The Avengers and Captain America respectively.
ANSWER: Steve Englehart
[10] This man used the alias Herbert Fine while writing a 1933 science fiction story based on Nietzsche's ideas of the Ubermensch. He, along with his partner, would later use this story as a base of ideas for their comics work.
ANSWER: Jerry Siegel

20. This man is perhaps best known for rebooting or retooling other people's characters, which sometimes has worked well and other times, flopped terribly. For ten points each, answer the following about a certain comic book artist and writer.
[10] First, identify this man, who famously rebooted Superman to make him less invulnerable and made Lex Luthor into a businessman, not a mad scientist, in his Man of Steel miniseries.
ANSWER: John Byrne
[10] Byrne also famously retooled the series of this superhero, making the character far more comedic as she realized she was in a comic book and would frequently talk to Byrne directly.
ANSWER: She-Hulk (accept Jennifer Walters)
[10] One of Byrne's major failures was this reboot of Spider-Man, in which he made Spidey and Dr. Octopus created in the same radioactive explosion and also modernized the old Spidey stories in sometimes awkward ways, like making the Chameleon not a Communist spy but a Latverian agent.
ANSWER: Spider-Man: Chapter One

