COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET TWO: "Shocks!"

Toss-Ups
	
1. In one of this character's earliest appearances, he threatens Stan Lee and Jack Kirby while Jack is drawing a character named False Face. In his first appearance, he has a lion for a pet and is obsessed with obtaining the treasure of Blackbeard. In the 2099 universe, this man fights the cyborg Tyger Wylde. Mark Waid, who recently wrote for this character, stated that this man "would tear the head off a newborn(*) baby and eat it like an apple while his mother watched" if it would help him get ahead of his nemesis, who attended Empire State University with this man. This man's heir was at one time Kristoff Vernard, who began to believe he actually was this man and took over Latveria. FTP, identify this Marvel Comics super villain, noted for his robot duplicates of himself, his metal armor, and his hate for Reed Richards.
ANSWER: Doctor Doom (accept Victor Von Doom or just Doom) 

2. This man appears in one of Bob Haney's most famous comic stories, "Dirty Job," which was published in Our Army at War #241. Rick Veitch quit working on Swamp Thing because DC refused to let him have Swamp Thing meet this figure. Analogues of this figure in Marvel Comics include Aquarian and Adam Warlock, who reenacted events from this character's life on Counter-Earth. In Hellblazer #64, this man's birth is described as the product of a rape (*) performed by Gabriel. In 2006, Tim Seeley wrote a story for Image Comics depicting this man fighting vampires called "Loaded Bible." More traditional comic portrayals include the cartoon tract King of Kings. FTP, identify this figure from the Judeo-Christian religion, whose birthday is celebrated on December 25.
ANSWER: Jesus (accept obvious equivalents, prompt on God)

3. According to the storyline "The Magic Hourglass," this character once worked as a cabin boy and is fluent in Arabic, while the storyline "Voodoo Hoodoo" revealed he had hired cutthroats to drive out an African tribe in order to get access to their land. This character first appeared in a storyline called "Christmas on Bear Mountain," in which he uttered the line "Everybody hates me, (*) and I hate everybody!" The storyline "Back to the Klondike" established that he was present at the Klondike gold rush and was associated with a woman named Glittering Goldie. He was created by Carl Barks, who also created his enemies such as Magica De Spell and the Beagle Boys. FTP, identify this owner of a number one lucky dime, the world's richest duck and the star of the cartoon DuckTales.
ANSWER: Scrooge McDuck (accept either)

4. This character was fictionally portrayed on film by actor Paul Sloane, who went insane and thought he actually was this man. One account of his origin shows his descent into madness beginning when he encounters a serial killer who murders senior citizens. Nicknamed Apollo, this man has an affair with Janice Porter in Batman: Dark Victory before ultimately killing her and reminding her that he is a married (*) man. According to the end of The Long Halloween, his wife, Gilda, committed a series of murders under the name Holiday. During the "One Year Later" DC crossover, this man replaced Batman as Gotham City's protector before going insane again and re-scarring his face. FTP, identify this villain, whose split personalities force him to a flip a coin. 
ANSWER: Two-Face (accept Harvey Dent)
	
5. This character has a daughter named Tess Black, and he teamed with Spider-Man to save her from the goddess Morwen. He was the primary mover behind the crossover "Acts of Vengeance," which pitted villains against heroes they rarely fought. He also created the Absorbing Man and was unintentionally responsible for the creation of the Wrecker while trying to get power from Karnilla. In the video game Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, this character disguises himself as both the Mandarin (*) and Nick Fury. In recent storylines, this character is revealed to be a member of the Dark Illuminati, although now in a female form. This character was the first ever opponent of the Avengers, when he manipulated the Hulk in an effort to destroy his hated foster brother. FTP, identify this Asgardian god of lies and evil.
ANSWER: Loki (accept Laufeyson, prompt on Odinson)

6. According to a World's Finest Comics storyline, this man was a young shepherd in Canaan who became one of the world's first superheroes, the Champion. He received his powers through such gods as Voldar and Arel and eventually fathered the demons Blaze and Satanus. Blaze would eventually seduce this man's successor, one of Rameses' sons, causing him to turn evil. This man helped revive Ibis (*) the Invincible to fight evil, before eventually naming his most famous successor. After using Egyptian gods like Shu and Aton to give power to Black Adam, this man used primarily Greco-Roman deities for his next subject, such as Hercules, Atlas, and Mercury, along with the Judeo-Christian Solomon. FTP, identify this ancient wizard who empowered Captain Marvel, whose name Billy Batson speaks to transform into the hero.
ANSWER: Shazam (accept Jebediah and the Champion before it is mentioned, do not accept Captain Marvel)

7. Some of this character's villains include the Onion and Dr. Blemish, with the latter being the nemesis of this character's friend, Professor Keenbean. His other friends include Freckles, Pee-Wee, and his girlfriend Gloria. This character first appeared in the pages of Little Dot #1 and was played by David Gallagher in a 1998 movie, with Michelle Trachtenberg as (*) Gloria. Better known supporting characters include the mean-spirited prankster Reggie Van Dough and the friendly butler Cadbury. This character has appeared in comics such as Vault of Mystery and Gold Nuggets Digest. In a 1994 movie, Reggie was turned into an adult named Lawrence and played by John Larroquette, while this character himself was played by Macaulay Culkin. FTP, identify this youthful Harvey Comics character, the world's richest boy.
ANSWER: Richie Rich

8. This character never appeared on the cover of a comic book until fourteen years after his creation by Mort Weisinger and Paul Norris, probably due to the fact he continually appeared in the same comics as bigger named heroes like Green Arrow and Superboy. He finally snapped the cover streak when he appeared along with the rest of the Justice League on a 1960 cover of The Brave and the Bold. Occasionally based out of New Venice, this man has a half-brother named (*) Orm who was one of his greatest villains. In 1994, Peter David dramatically changed his look by giving him a beard and removing one of his body parts. A movie about this character was directed by James Cameron and starred Mandy Moore and Vincent Chase, and, of course, was fictional. FTP, identify this DC hero, the so-called monarch of the sea.
ANSWER: Aquaman (accept Arthur Curry or Orin)   

9. This character has an uncle named Arthur who lived in London. For a time, it was thought that a woman named Joyce Delaney was using this character's identity. In the series X-Statix Presents: Dead Girl, this character, along with Mockingbird and Moira MacTaggert, can be seen in Heaven as members of the Dead Sisters' Book Club. During the events of the House of M, she does (*) not die but instead becomes a peace activist, with Mary Jane Watson playing her in a movie. According to the "Sins Past" storyline, this character has children named Gabriel and Sarah with Norman Osborn. This woman appeared in the final episode of the Spider-Man cartoon series and was played by Ron Howard's daughter in Spider-Man 3. FTP, identify this one-time love interest of Spider-Man who died when the Green Goblin threw her off the George Washington Bridge.
ANSWER: Gwen Stacy (accept either)

10. This man's first work in comics was for The Twilight Zone comic book, although his first work for Marvel Comics was for John Carter, Warlord of Mars. In the 1990s, he created the comic Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot, which became a short-lived animated cartoon. He also wrote the scripts for the movies Robocop 2 and Robocop 3. This man has announced he would like to write a (*) Batman story called Holy Terror, Batman!, which pits Batman against al-Qaeda, reflecting his conservative view that the war on terror is a war against barbarism. Two of his best-known works have been adapted into successful films, one directed by Zack Snyder and the other by Robert Rodriguez. The creator of Elektra and the author of Batman: The Dark Knight Returns, FTP, identify this artist and writer who created the comics 300 and Sin City.
ANSWER: Frank Miller

11. This character has a daughter named Bonnie Braids and a daughter-in-law named Moon Maid, who was killed by assassins with a car bomb. He has another son named Joseph Flintheart, who was named after one of his closest friends, an actor named Vitamin Flintheart. This man's sidekicks have included Groovy Grove, Lizz, and Pat Patton, while a cartoon series depicted this man palling around with stereotypical figures like Joe (*) Jitsu and Go Go Gomez. This man has matched wits with such villains as B.B. Eyes and The Brow, all of which took time away from his marriage to Tess Trueheart. More famous villains may include Pruneface, Mumbles, and Flattop, as well as his first nemesis, Big Boy Caprice, who was played on screen by Al Pacino. FTP, identify this ace police detective from a long-running comic strip, noted for his distinctive yellow coat and two-way radio.
ANSWER: Dick Tracy (prompt on Dick)

12. For a brief time period in the late 1980's, this comic was converted into a weekly anthology that featured characters like Wild Dog and the Secret Six. This comic had earlier been an anthology that featured the Vigilante, Mr. America, and Congo Bill. It has also introduced such characters as Livewire and the Prankster. This comic went on hiatus in 1986 and 1993 (*), both times because of events related to its most well known character. Issue #844 of this comic featured a temporary foster child, Chris, for its main character. More well known characters to debut in this comic include Metallo, Brainiac, and the Ultra-Humanite. While it is not the longest running active comic, it is second only to Detective Comics. FTP, identify this DC comic that premiered in 1938 and introduced Superman, its longtime star.
ANSWER: Action Comics (do not prompt on or accept Superman)

13. In this character's first appearance, J. Jonah Jameson calls him "the most newsworthy thing to happen to New York since Boss Tweed." This character's old acquaintances include Bert Kenyon, who saved this man's life and eventually became an assassin for hire. Near the end of his first appearance, Spider-Man muses that this man's problems make Spidey's look like a birthday (*) party. This man was born in Queens to Italian parents, who Anglicized their last name when he was six. While serving in the Marines, he won the Purple Heart four times, all apparently for service in the Vietnam War. This man has little recurring villains, although they include the viciously scarred gangster Jigsaw. FTP, identify this Marvel vigilante, recently played on screen by Ray Stevenson, who replaced Tom Jane.
ANSWER: Punisher (accept Frank Castle)

14. The characters of this comic were introduced in DC Comics Presents #47, when Superman came to their world. This comic was published by both DC and Marvel, with the Marvel series concluding with the two-part storyline "Life-Time," which imagined a world without this comic's main hero. Issues not produced by DC or Marvel include "The Treachery of Modulok" and "The Cosmic Key." One of the last issues of this comic was a storyline featuring cybernetic dinosaurs and (*) Keldor, the uncle of the main character, who was implicitly this comic's main villain as well. A movie version of this comic starred Courteney Cox, with Dolph Lundgren as the protagonist. Villains in this comic included King Hiss, Hordak, and, of course, Skeletor. FTP, identify this comic that was sold with action figures, told the story of He-Man, and has nothing to do with Grey's Anatomy.
ANSWER: Masters of the Universe (prompt on He-Man)

15. Lesser known members of this group include Richard Rennselaer, who became the villainous Overrider to eliminate all nuclear weapons to please his son; Karl Delandan, who became corrupt and was dismissed; and Gail Runciter, who once tried to flirt with Captain America. According to the Marvel Handbook, members of this group always carry a 20 inch garrote reel, a knife in their boot, and a thermite (*) bomb in their belt pouch. In a 2008 film, the character of Phil Coulson appears at various times, eventually coming up with a shorter way to say this organization's name. This group was founded to combat threats like AIM and HYDRA and in recent years was led by Maria Hill. FTP, identify this peacekeeping force best associated with Nick Fury, which can stand for Strategic Hazard Intervention, Espionage Logistics Directorate.
ANSWER: S.H.I.E.L.D. (accept Strategic Hazard Intervention, Espionage Logistics Directorate before it is mentioned, also accept Supreme Headquarters, International Espionage, Law-Enforcement Division or Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement, and Logistics Division-if anyone says these, please make fun of them)

16. In "The Superman Super-Spectacular," Superman recruits this man to pose as Clark Kent on a television program alongside Superman to preserve his secret identity. This man also knew Superboy, contacting him for assistance using a signal lamp. He met Supergirl when she arrived on Earth, urging her to fight crime and preserve world peace. In Superman #170, this man recruits Superman's help to promote a physical  fitness initiative in order to close the "muscle (*) gap." With all of his Superman connections, it was ironic that Norman Mailer's essay "Superman Comes to the Supermarket" was actually about this man. DC originally shelved this man's appearance in the physical fitness storyline, but eventually ran it anyway on Lyndon Johnson's request. FTP, identify this real-life President of the United States who was assassinated in 1963.
ANSWER: John F. Kennedy (prompt on Kennedy)

17. In the past, this character entered a sharpshooting competition with his future nemesis, but they were both defeated by Sureshot. This character was seemingly killed fairly early in his comic, when his nemesis cheated in a video game duel. However, thanks to Ethan Zachary, he was revived and later adopted the new identity of Powermaster. This character arrived on Earth many years ago, but did not become active until (*)1984 when a volcanic eruption awakened him and his colleagues. Having come to Earth on the Ark to escape his enemies, this character befriended the Witwickys, who helped him defeat Shockwave and other Decepticons. FTP, identify this leader of the Autobots, who can look like a semi truck, possibly the most famous of the Transformers characters.
ANSWER: Optimus Prime (accept Convoy)

18. This comic was first seen in the pages of a newsletter in the California College of Arts and Crafts. It has been published by such companies as Fishwrap, Comico, and Fantagraphics. This comic's first stories saw the main characters battling a volcano god cult in "Monkeys Violating the Heavenly Temple." Later stories saw the characters conducting an exorcism at the supermarket and finding a world totally ruled by (*) children. In 2007, this comic won a Best Digital Comic award for a web storyline called The Big Sleep. This comic also appeared in The Adventurer, the newsletter for LucasArts customers, which was appropriate because its characters may be best known for appearing in a 1993 LucasArts game that saw them investigating a missing Bigfoot. FTP, identify this comic which tells the story of two freelance policemen, a dog and a rabbit.
ANSWER: Sam and Max (accept anything that has the words Sam and Max in it)

19. One character with this name is Helen Goddard, who appeared just once in 1944's Major Victory #1. Another character with this name edited Justice Magazine in a cartoon series that ran for 16 episodes from 1970 to 1980. The comic book version of this character once worked for HYDRA agent Otto Vermis and had a romantic relationship with Jerry Hunt. This character was trained by Magnus and battled Morgan (*) le Fey. Her successor of the same name hailed from Denver and first appeared during the events of the Secret Wars. Both women were attacked by Charlotte Witter, who absorbed their powers, but Witter was defeated by the current person with this identity, Mattie Franklin, who previously posed as Peter Parker when the latter briefly retired. FTP, identify this superheroine, who like Peter, has arachnid-like powers.
ANSWER: Spider-Woman

20. An incorrect urban legend asserts that this character first appeared during the "Panic in the Sky" storyline as a tool of the villain Brainiac. This character has encountered Darkseid a few times, even defeating him in combat before Superman eventually deposited this character at the End of Time. This character was developed by a scientist named (*) Bertron, who used a form of accelerated natural selection to create him by continually having him killed and re-cloned. In his first major storyline, he received his name from Booster Gold, who was commenting on this character's rampaging activities. He eventually evolved to have sentience and intelligence, prompting Superman to comment that he was no longer "a mindless thing" who couldn't feel pain. FTP, identify this indestructible creature that once killed Superman. 
ANSWER: Doomsday

21. A character with this name appeared in a self-titled 1953 story by Stan Lee and Bill Everett, published in the comic book Menace. That same character, who was reused by other writers many years later, was the head of a coffee company who continually mistreated his gardener, Gyps. A 2006 revival of this character changed his occupation to that of a bank teller. Another character with this name has battled Batman and is a bald gentleman with extraordinary skill at throwing (*) knives. That character worked with Trogg and Bird. In 2005, a comic of this name told the story of Earth-2149, in which most of the population has been infected by an extraterrestrial plague that compels them to eat fresh meat. FTP, identify this word, which can be used to refer to a rabid fan of Marvel Comics or the antagonists of Night of the Living Dead.
ANSWER: Zombie (accept Marvel Zombie, especially at the end, accept Simon Garth until "another character")


COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET TWO: "Shocks!"


Bonuses

1. While he isn't exactly a beloved character, the Devil and folks imitating him have popped up a lot in comics. For ten points each, answer the following about comic book portrayals of Satan.
[10] While many demons take the guise of the Devil in Marvel Comics, one of the more durable ones is Marduk Kurios, who is the father of this occult expert and sometimes ruler of hell, otherwise known as the Son of Satan.
ANSWER: Daimon Hellstrom (accept either)
[10] From 2000 to 2006, DC's Vertigo line published a comic called Lucifer, which focused on the devil running a bar on Earth. It was a spinoff of this earlier fantasy series, written by Neil Gaiman, which told the story of Morpheus.
ANSWER: Sandman
[10] The demon Malebolgia, who created the titular character, was thought to be Satan for many issues during the run of this Image comic, which eventually introduced the "real" Satan much later.
ANSWER: Spawn

2. Remember when DC tried to convince you Bruce Wayne would no longer be Batman? Those were the good old days. For ten points each, answer the following about Knightfall.
[10] The events of Knightfall began when this muscular, drug-addicted supervillain broke out all the inmates from Arkham Asylum. He would go on to break Bruce Wayne's back.
ANSWER: Bane
[10] After Bane broke Batman's back, Jean-Paul Valley took up the mantle of Batman. Valley was previously known by this name while working as an agent for the Order of Saint Dumas, which may be familiar to Smurf fans.
ANSWER: Azrael
[10] Bruce Wayne recuperated under the care of this physiotherapist, who briefly developed romantic feelings for Bruce before suffering mental trauma.
ANSWER: Dr. Shondra Kinsolving (accept either)

3. These guys ran your favorite comics, in some cases into the ground! For ten points each, identify the following men who served as editors in chief of Marvel Comics.
[10] This current editor in chief helped install the Ultimate series of comics, which is good, and also broke up Peter Parker's marriage, which is bad.
ANSWER: Joe Quesada
[10] This man served as editor in chief from 1972 to 1974, following Stan Lee's tenure. A big fan of continuity, he wrote comics set during World War II for both Marvel and DC, The Invaders and The All-Star Squadron respectively.
ANSWER: Roy Thomas
[10] This man was the editor in chief for most of the 1980's, keeping the job from 1978 to 1987. He pushed many ideas, including the company crossover Secret Wars, the New Universe series, and the Star Comics line for children. He had begun writing comics as a teenager for DC.
ANSWER: Jim Shooter

4. This guy was criticized for drawing comic book characters like they were "very cool toys." For ten points each, answer the following about a controversial writer and artist.
[10] Identify this man, who worked on The New Mutants and X-Force before serving as one of the co-founders of Image Comics. He liked big muscles and big guns in his artwork.
ANSWER: Rob Liefeld
[10] One of Liefeld's first comics for Image was this title about a superhero team working for the government, whose members included Shaft and Badrock.
ANSWER: Youngblood
[10] In 1996, Liefeld participated in this Marvel Comics event which tried to modernize and reboot Marvel characters after the events of Onslaught. It ended up being critically and commercially ill received.
ANSWER: Heroes Reborn

5. They're probably the only comic books you can still buy at supermarket checkout lines. For ten points each, answer the following about the Archie series of comics.
[10] Archie and his friends attend high school in this small town, which also contains Pop Tate's Chocklit Shoppe as a local hangout.
ANSWER: Riverdale
[10] This portly, bald fellow is Riverdale's high school principal, who, like Mr. Belding, is always getting exasperated at his students.
ANSWER: Waldo Weatherbee (accept either, prompt on "The Bee")
[10] This character appeared in the 1980's as a third romantic foil for Archie besides Betty and Veronica. This rich redhead is from the upscale community of Pembrooke.
ANSWER: Cheryl Blossom (accept either)

6. DC and Marvel have occasionally teamed up over the years, which I'm sure rankles continuity buffs. For ten points each, answer the following about these inter-company crossovers.
[10] The first official crossover featured Spider-Man and Superman teaming up to battle Lex Luthor and this longtime Spidey villain, who matched his scientific acumen with Luthor's.
ANSWER: Doctor Octopus (accept Otto Octavius)
[10] When they next teamed up, Spider-Man and Superman encountered Marvel villain Doctor Doom and this far lesser known Superman villain, whose powers to absorb energy made him valuable to Doom.
ANSWER: Parasite (accept Raymond Jensen, do not accept Rudy Jones, who was not the Parasite at this time)
[10] Batman's first intercompany crossover featured him paired with this unlikely partner. The two took on the Joker, who was trying to curry the favor of the Shaper of Worlds.
ANSWER: Hulk (accept Bruce Banner)

7. This Marvel comic told the story of Jessica Jones, a former superhero who is now a private investigator. For ten points each:
[10] First, identify this comic, which ran for 28 issues and has nothing to do with Jennifer Garner. The characters from this series would eventually move to The Pulse.
ANSWER: Alias
[10] Alias was part of this imprint of Marvel Comics, which featured more even explicit content than the Marvel Knights line and was intended for more mature readers. Other series in this imprint include The Punisher and Fury.
ANSWER: MAX
[10] Alias was written by this man, who has also written for Daredevil and The New Avengers, but is best known for his long-running work on Ultimate Spider-Man.
ANSWER: Brian Michael Bendis

8. Comic book movies have had a checkered history. For ten points each, identify the crappy comic book adaptations based on descriptions.
[10] This 2005 film featured the main character being trained by Stick and battling the assassin group called the Hand. It was so bad that one was left wishing Ben Affleck would show up.
ANSWER: Elektra
[10] This 1984 film featured Oscar winner Faye Dunaway hamming it up as an evil sorceress matching wits with the titular character, played by Helen Slater. 
ANSWER: Supergirl
[10] This 1997 film featured Judd Nelson as the bad guy and Richard Roundtree as Uncle Joe. It featured the star of Kazaam as a weapons designer turned superhero. 
ANSWER: Steel

9. This comic book storyline told of a dystopian future filled with concentration camps and killer robots. And Barack Obama isn't even President. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this X-Men storyline about an alternate future where Sentinels locked up or killed most of Earth's mutants. This storyline gave us the character of Rachel Summers.
ANSWER: Days of Future Past
[10] The events of Days of Future Past come to pass after Mystique and her Brotherhood of Evil Mutants succeed in assassinating this anti-mutant politician. This guy is played in the X-Men movie by Bruce Davison and dies after Magneto tries to turn him into a mutant.
ANSWER: Senator Robert Kelly (accept either)
[10] One of the Sentinels from this future came to the X-Men's world and continued in its plan to kill mutants. This super-powerful Sentinel takes its name from a biblical hunter.
ANSWER: Nimrod

10. No other comic strip inspired as many mildly amusing t-shirts. For ten points each, answer the following about The Far Side.
[10] This man created and drew The Far Side. He was honored in 1989 by having a new type of louse named for him.
ANSWER: Gary Larson
[10] One of Larson's most well remembered cartoons was one featuring two chimpanzees, with one calling this prominent woman a "tramp." Luckily, she found it funny.
ANSWER: Jane Goodall 
[10] Numerous readers were stymied by one cartoon depicting the imaginary tools used by this animal species. Larson intended for the tools to be nonsensical, which confused readers.
ANSWER: Cows (accept any form of cow)

11. Even comic characters must deal with AIDS. For ten points each, answer the following about cases of HIV in the comics world.
[10] Jim Wilson, a sometime supporting character in The Incredible Hulk, died of AIDS in 1994. Jim's uncle was this superhero from Harlem, a frequent partner to Captain America.
ANSWER: Falcon (accept Sam Wilson, prompt on Wilson)
[10] DC character Mia Dearden is HIV-positive. In 2005, Dearden adopted this name, one previously used as a young man by the Justice League member Red Arrow.
ANSWER: Speedy 
[10] This Doonesbury character died of AIDS in the early 1990's and even has a panel on the AIDS quilt. He went to law school with Joan Caucus.
ANSWER: Andy Lippincott (accept either)

12. For those of you who were forced into playing this side event, you may appreciate this bonus. For ten points each, answer these comics-related questions that will utilize academic clues. If you need a non-academic clue, you will receive shame and five points.
[10] This group takes its name from the subterranean race depicted in H.G. Wells' novel The Time Machine.
[5] This group of mutants, mainly led by Callisto, has frequently encountered the X-Men, and most of their members were killed by Mister Sinister's agents.
ANSWER: Morlocks
[10] This villainous duo takes its name from the creature that will devour Odin during the events of Ragnarok.
[5] These villains, otherwise known as Andrea and Andreas Strucker, possess bio-energy powers and have no relation to any giant wolf at all.
ANSWER: Fenris
[10] This DC character shares a surname with a Gounod opera and a Berlioz composition, which is also referred to as a "dramatic legend."
[5] This sinister sorcerer is an old foe of the Justice League and is not above selling his soul in order to receive mystical knowledge.
ANSWER: Felix Faust (accept Faust, do not accept Dr. Faustus)

13. Comic book characters come out of the closet too. For ten points each, identify these characters, whom Wikipedia at least labels as LGBT.
[10] This former Flash villain outed himself after Crisis, around the same time he became an ally of Wally West. He is an expert in sonic technology.
ANSWER: Pied Piper (accept Harley Rathaway)
[10] This occult detective and protagonist of the comic book Hellblazer is bisexual, a plot element that was unexplored in the film version starring Keanu Reeves.
ANSWER: John Constantine
[10] One of the strangest LGBT characters in comics is this nemesis of the Doom Patrol, a genius gorilla who wears a beret and apparently lusts for his employer, the Brain.
ANSWER: Monsieur Mallah (accept Mallah)

14. You may have heard of this film. For ten points each, answer these questions about The Dark Knight.
[10] For whatever reason, possibly due to being married to a crazy person, Katie Holmes declined to reprise her role as this attorney and longtime friend of Bruce Wayne, leaving it open for Maggie Gyllenhaal.
ANSWER: Rachel Dawes (accept either)
[10] Brilliant actor and sibling Eric Roberts portrayed this sleazy gangster, whom Batman throws off a building at one point. In the comics, this man is responsible for the disfigurement of Harvey Dent.
ANSWER: Sal Maroni (accept either)
[10] This sitting U.S. senator, a big Bat-fan, plays a party guest in the film, who acts defiant by refusing to be intimidated by the Joker.
ANSWER: Senator Patrick Leahy

15. This comic introduced us to Barry Allen's Flash, the Challengers of the Unknown, and Hal Jordan's Green Lantern. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this DC anthology comic that featured a variety of characters from 1956 to 1970 and lends its name to DC's reprint collection of its classic comics.
ANSWER: Showcase
[10] Showcase #9 was a solo story for this character, who would go on to have a silly comic book probably best noted for the storyline "I am Curious (Black)," in which she becomes African-American.
ANSWER: Lois Lane (accept either)
[10] Showcase also introduced this Steve Ditko creation, the alter-ego of reporter Jack Ryder. He is noted for his yellow skin, green hair, and insane laugh.
ANSWER: the Creeper

16. Some super-villains are iconic. Some are cool. Some suck. For ten points each, identify the following villains that suck.
[10] This Marvel baddie is noted for his paste gun and his embarrassing former nickname of "Paste-Pot Pete." He pals around a lot with the Wizard.
ANSWER: Trapster (accept Peter Petruski)
[10] This lame Batman nemesis was blind, but could see using optic nerves implanted into his fingers, which explains his nickname. He died during the Crisis on Infinite Earths.
ANSWER: Ten-Eyed Man (accept Philip Reardon)
[10] This nemesis of the Human Torch wore a costume made of a material resistant to flame, which was good, except it was carcinogenic, which was bad. And he lost to the Torch anyway.
ANSWER: Asbestos Man (accept Orson Kasloff, even though it says "he," accept Asbestos Lady or Vicky Murdock as well, just to be nice)

17. This character has altered various people's memories, including lowering the intellect of Dr. Light and intervening with Catwoman's criminal tendencies. For ten points each:
[10] Identify this female magician, who has been a member of the Justice League at various times during her career. Her father was a noted illusionist who helped train Bruce Wayne.
ANSWER: Zatanna Zatara (prompt on Zatara)
[10] One of the sillier and perhaps more annoying things about Zatanna, especially during the Silver Age, was the way she verbally cast her spells, which utilized this simplistic method of speaking.
ANSWER: Speaking Backwards (accept obvious equivalents)
[10] On Batman: The Animated Series, Zatanna was voiced by this actress, who had been a MTV hostess and the star of the film Earth Girls Are Easy. She shares her name with another MTV personality who coined the catch phrase "wubba wubba wubba."
ANSWER: Julie Brown (prompt on "Downtown")

18. The Squadron Supreme represents of one of Marvel's best attempts either to pay tribute to or make fun of DC. For ten points each, given a member of the Squadron Supreme, identify the Justice League member that he or she is parodying. If you need more clues, you will receive five points. 
[10] Hyperion, also known as cartoonist Mark Milton
[5] Hyperion is the last known member of his race on Earth. He was raised by adoptive parents and his main nemesis is a guy with a distinctive hair style.
ANSWER: Superman (accept Clark Kent or Kal-El)
[10] Doctor Spectrum, also known as astronaut Joe Ledger
[5] Doctor Spectrum gained his powers when he saved the life of an alien and received a gem capable of synthesizing energy.
ANSWER: Green Lantern (accept Hal Jordan, grudgingly accept Alan Scott, John Stewart, Guy Gardner, or Kyle Rayner)
[10] Whizzer, also known as postman Stanley Stewart
[5] He can run really fast. That's all you get.
ANSWER: Flash (accept Barry Allen, grudgingly accept Jay Garrick, Wally West, or Bart Allen)

19. This DC miniseries imagined a world in which superhuman vigilantes were out of control, prompting Superman to intervene by forming a coalition of heroes which placed lawbreakers into a big gulag. For ten points each:
[10] First, identify this miniseries, written by Mark Waid and drawn by Alex Ross, which ends in a gigantic fight between Superman and Captain Marvel and the deaths of many metahumans.
ANSWER: Kingdom Come
[10] The events of Kingdom Come basically begin with the arrival of this violent vigilante hero, who executes the Joker and whose actions eventually cause the destruction of Kansas. His name is perhaps familiar to readers of biblical prophecy.
ANSWER: Magog
[10] The superhuman gulag was guarded by this frequently forgotten hero, a mutant spacefarer with telepathic powers, who was previously the star of the short-lived comic Secret Society of Super-Villains.
ANSWER: Captain Comet (accept Adam Blake)

20. Besides being a TV show, a film series, a cartoon show, and a computer game series, it's also a comic book. For ten points each, answer these questions about the various Star Trek comics.
[10] From 1967 to 1978, this comic book line produced a Star Trek comic. It produced numerous other comics based on licensed properties, such as Uncle Scrooge, The Green Hornet, and Bonanza.
ANSWER: Gold Key (prompt on Western Publishing or Dell)
[10] From 1997 to 1998, Marvel published Star Trek: Early Voyages, which chronicled the adventures of this man, the captain of the Enterprise prior to James T. Kirk.
ANSWER: Captain Christopher Pike (accept either)
[10] Not counting the animated series, comics have been produced as tie-ins to four of the five Star Trek television programs. As of December 2008, this show has not been turned into a comic.
ANSWER: Enterprise










