COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry
PACKET FOUR: "Rites and Wrongs"

Toss-Ups

1. This man is the creator of such obscure cartoon characters as superspy Cool McCool and the adventurer Courageous Cat. After working at the Max Fleischer studio as a young man, he got into comics, generally producing humorous works like Peter Pupp and Oscar the Gumshoe.  His wife, Elizabeth Sanders, played Gossip (*) Gertie in two films featuring his most famous creation, which he claimed was inspired by such varied sources as the drawings of Da Vinci and a film about a mysterious killer in an old mansion. While he is generally credited as sole creator, both Jerry Robinson and Bill Finger are commonly given major credit for helping to create this man's most famous creations. FTP, identify this writer and artist, who in 1939 changed comics forever with his invention of Batman.
ANSWER: Bob Kane

2. Jeremy Miller, who played Ben on "Growing Pains," voiced this character in a special about a New Year's party. This character has several nemeses, most of which are opposed to one of his particular habits. These enemies include his own grandmother. He has a crush on his teacher, Miss (*) Othmar, and in turn is wooed by a girl who calls him her "sweet babboo." In one of his most famous animated appearances, he quotes the Gospel of Luke and says the line, "I never thought it was such a bad little tree." Despite his Christian knowledge, he maintains a devotion to a Halloween pagan entity that no one else believes in, the Great Pumpkin. FTP, identify this Peanuts character, the brother of Lucy, who always walks around with a security blanket.
ANSWER: Linus van Pelt (prompt on van Pelt)

3. In one of his appearances, he compares himself to a boomerang and says that he will return. This appearance saw him kidnapping boxers like Kid Gulliver and working with the villainesses Betsy Boldface and the Siren. In other appearances, he commands the River Rat Gang and the Mole Hill Mob. Some of his schemes see him dressing up like silent movie comedians and trying to rob the Moldavian (*) embassy. In one appearance, he is assisted by Molly, who falls to her death in an atomic pile. Usually played by one man, he was temporarily played by John Astin in an episode called "Batman's Anniversary." FTP, these are all clues describing the schemes of what villain on the 1960's Batman TV show, played by Frank Gorshin, whose comic book identity is Edward Nygma?
ANSWER: The Riddler (accept Edward Nygma, accept Frank Gorshin before it is mentioned)

4. This man lived in the house that had once belonged to Depression-era gangster Dutch Mallone, who hid his fortune behind a wall in the home. While working at Coney Island, this man rivaled Johnny Jerome for the attentions of the woman who would become his wife. He has a younger brother named Richard, who once worked as an(*) intelligence agent in Algeria investigating the Red Skull. While his occupation was unclear in the comics, he was an electrician in one of his film appearances. This man was ultimately killed during an aborted search for the fortune of Dutch Mallone, a quest later resumed by the supervillain Mysterio, but not before, according to some depictions, passing along a little bit of wisdom about power and responsibility. FTP, identify this husband to May Parker, whose death at the hands of a burglar inspired his nephew, Peter Parker.
ANSWER: Uncle Ben Parker (prompt on Parker, but accept Peter Parker or Spider-Man until "Coney Island")

5. One member of this species was a member of the Institute of Evil who was in love with Tom Thumb, while the villainous Red Ghost owned a member of this species who was super-strong. Judge Dredd fought a whole gang of these creatures who were led by Don Uggie. An entire city of these creatures exists and is generally seen being ruled by (*) Solovar. After previously having his brain in the body of Delores Winters, the Ultra-Humanite used a body of one of these creatures for numerous criminal schemes. The jungle explorer Congo Bill had the power to transform into a member of this species, while one of the most famous members of this species was a villain who continually fought the Flash. FTP, the Silver Age especially loved appearances by this type of simian, exemplified by the super-intelligent bad guy Grodd.
ANSWER: Gorilla (prompt on "ape")

6. According to one origin story, this man's first supervillain was a guy called the Conquistador. Love interests for this man include Linda Donaldson, his assistant when he was at the Brand Corporation, and Vera Cantor. This man has changed his physical appearance several times, once occurring due to the intervention of Carl Maddicks (*), and another due to the actions of Infectia. Another relationship with reporter Trish Trilby became strained due to accusations that she was engaging in bestiality. In an alternate universe, this man was an evil mad scientist who managed to enter our universe where he managed to temporarily fool the X-Men. Recently seen on film played by Kelsey Grammer, FTP, identify this member of the X-Men, noted for his athleticism, scientific skills, and blue, furry appearance.
ANSWER: Beast (accept Hank McCoy)

7. This comic was originally titled to refer to the family of its titular character, with the name being shortened very soon after its creation. A villain in this comic was Aldo Kelrast, who stalked the titular character before driving his car off a cliff while drunk, while supporting characters included columnist Wilbur Weston and Professor Ian Cameron. In a "Simpsons" episode, the Springfield Shopper's (*) comic department is headed by the author of this comic, while Comic Book Guy has been seen to own various memorabilia related to this comic, including a phone shaped like the titular character and a very rare storyline depicting the titular character's comments regarding suicide. FTP, identify this long-running dramatic comic strip about a Wall Street tycoon's widow who dispenses advice to her various friends and relatives.
ANSWER: Mary Worth (accept anything with Mary Worth in it, accept Apple Mary)

8. Some of this character's villains include Pro Rata, the Kidney Lady, and the nefarious Reverend Jun Moon Yuc. He made his first appearance in a comic called Adventure Into Fear, but more frequently appeared in a comic with the tagline stating he was "trapped in a world he never made." His most recurring nemesis, Dr. Lester Bong, once was married to his chief love interest, Beverly (*) Switzler. This character was created by Steve Gerber, who frequently used him to satirize fads, cults, and hot-button political issues, even going so far as to have this character run for president in 1976. A master of martial arts and always seen with his ubiquitous cigar, this character may be best remembered for a 1986 film starring Lea Thompson which bombed. FTP, identify this cantankerous Marvel character, a talking duck.
ANSWER: Howard the Duck
	
9. This character once appeared in a limited series where he protected a group of yellow-skinned aliens who lived in Central America, but he failed to prevent loggers from ultimately destroying their colony. During the Countdown miniseries, this man was proclaimed by a Monitor to be the solution to "the great (*) disaster," prompting a search through the Multiverse for this character. This man's ex-wife went on to marry Paul Hoben and specialize in estate law, although her actions eventually led to the deaths of Tim Drake's father, Captain Boomerang, and the Elongated Man's wife. Originally based in Ivy Town, where he worked as a professor, he frequently partnered with Hawkman and fought such villains as Chronos. FTP, identify this former husband of Jean Loring, a superhero noted for his ability to become microscopic in size.
ANSWER: The Atom (accept Ray Palmer, do not accept any other names) 

10. In one of this character's storylines, writer Floyd Gottfredson depicted him attempting various ways of killing himself while failing in a comical manner. One of this man's friends is Eega Beeva, an alien human from the future, and some of this character's villains include the crooked lawyer Sylvester Shyster and the Phantom Blot. This man has nephews named(*) Morty and Ferdie, while he has a girlfriend who first appeared in the short Plane Crazy. She has an uncle named Mortimer, which was the original name intended for this character. While this character has frequently appeared in comic books and strips, he is best known for appearing in shorts like The Band Concert and The Lonesome Ghosts. FTP, identify this loveable rodent who first appeared in Steamboat Willie, the symbol of the Disney company.
ANSWER: Mickey Mouse (prompt on Mouse)

11. As a youth, this character was a bit of a punk, working for racketeer Big Time Bigelow and once spending three months and juvenile hall. He once dated Melanie Walker, who turned out to be Ten in an incarnation of the Royal Flush Gang. This man's parents were once slated to be assassinated by Andrea Beaumont on orders of Amanda (*) Waller, but the hit was canceled, although his father was eventually slain by Derek Powers, the man who would become the villain Blight. This character's best friend is Max Gibson and his ideal crush is Dana Tan. While he occasionally works with Police Commissioner Barbara Gordon, his chief ally is a man who is actually his biological father, thanks to some trickery involving DNA. The nemesis of such villains as Inque and the Jokerz street gang, FTP, identify this secret identity of Terry McGinnis, and future successor to Bruce Wayne.
ANSWER: Batman Beyond (accept Terry McGinnis until mentioned, prompt on Batman)

12. This character made an appearance in a 1989 comic Christmas with the Super-Heroes, where she gives encouragement to Deadman before saying it is doubtful he will remember whom she is. In her civilian identity, this character appeared on the soap opera "Secret (*) Hearts" and later worked for KSF-TV in San Francisco. Another character with this name eventually became the Angel of Fire and was recently seen being teleported to Hell. The best known incarnation of this character owned animals named Streaky and Comet and hailed from Argo City. The second version of this character, also known as Matrix, was created by an alternate universe's Lex Luthor and eventually became the girlfriend of our universe's Lex. FTP, identify this superheroine, most frequently seen as the cousin of Superman.
ANSWER: Supergirl (accept Kara, accept Linda Danvers, accept Matrix before mentioned)

13. This character was once banned from the UK for "verbal crimes against the crown," and as a young man, performed stand-up comedy about cafeteria food and big hair before being embarrassed when his pants fell down. For Halloween, he once dressed up Father Guido Sarducci and Jambi the Genie. This man has a second identity named Vance (*) Mudgeman who has a family in a trailer park at Broiter Grove. Despite the fact that she says she doesn't like him at all, this character is convinced that Marzipan is in love with him and has such impressive celebrity cred as his song "Everybody to the Limit." FTP, identify this character with boxing glove hands, the brother of Sad and Mad, who answers viewers' e-mails on the Homestar Runner website.
   ANSWER: Strong Bad (he's used a lot of names, so prompt on his aliases)

 14. One character with this occupation betrayed the supervillain Lloyd Bloch, who later, as Nefarius, tried to kidnap her. This occupation is held by Jericho Drumm, the civilian identity of the superhero Brother Voodoo. Another character who used to have this occupation made her first appearance posing as a police officer and once tried to kill her greatest opponent by hanging him (*) upside down over a school of piranhas. Another character with this occupation is the man thought to be responsible for the death of Sharon Carter but who eventually used Carter to assassinate Captain America. Yet another character with this occupation sports green hair and helped the Hulk overcome his multiple personality disorder. FTP, identify this occupation once held by Harley Quinn and Dr. Leonard Samson.
ANSWER: Psychologist (accept psychiatrist, prompt on doctor)

15. To date, this man's only published work for DC Comics is a contribution to "The Boys are Back in Town," an issue of Superman/Batman, although he did write the introduction to the Identity Crisis trade paperback. In 2001, he began writing a series about a woman who fought lurks entitled Fray. This man has an impressive pedigree, with his grandfather writing for The Donna Reed Show and his father working on The Electric Company. His other comic book creations include the evil alien (*) Ord and government agent Abigail Brand from S.W.O.R.D, both of which appeared during his run on Astonishing X-Men. This man is better known, though, for his television work, which includes creating the show Firefly and another show that took place in Sunnydale. FTP, identify this creator of Buffy the Vampire the Slayer.
ANSWER: Joss Whedon

16. This character gained her powers as a result of a device invented by Professor Andre LeClare, who had received financial support from a South American dictatorship. She participated in the original Secret Wars and was temporarily slain when Doctor Doom discovered her spying on him. Over Roger Stern's objections, Mark Gruenwald pushed for a storyline that saw Captain America replace this character as (*) leader of the Avengers because of the latter's difficulty handling the job. This character basically shares her name with an earlier character who loved Una and battled Yon-Rogg and who was made an honorary Avenger following his death from cancer. FTP, identify this common name, held by the African-American woman Monica Rambeau and an alien from the Kree race who wielded "nega bands."
ANSWER: Captain Marvel (accept Mar-Vell, accept Monica Rambeau until mentioned, accept Photon, accept Pulsar)

17. These characters were introduced into continuity in the comic book Extreme Justice, where they joined a group led by Captain Atom. In an earlier comic book, they were once put on display as sideshow freaks before eventually coming to Earth and posing as Swedish exchange students. In a Family Guy episode, Peter and Brian try to act like(*) these characters using objects from a box of Frankenberry, while an episode of South Park saw the members of Korn acting like these characters. On Justice League Unlimited, these characters are basically parodied as Downpour and Shifter, while a series of Adult Swim cartoons saw them continually transforming into worthless objects. FTP, identify this sibling duo from the cartoon Super Friends, who touched each other to activate their morphing powers.
ANSWER: Wonder Twins (accept Zan and Jayna, prompt on Super Friends)

18. In planning the storyline that eventually introduced this character, Bob Layton reportedly wanted to use the existing character of the Owl. After Layton left the comic, though, this character was created as the head of the group that included Timeshadow and Stinger. In another move that never happened, Robert Weinberg wanted to reveal this man to be the third Summers brother, a feat which would have to involve time travel. This man is responsible for the creation of (*) Exodus and gave powers to Nathaniel Essex to make him Mister Sinister. This character is the final boss of the X-Men vs. Street Fighter arcade game, and among his villainous deeds includes infecting Nathan Summers with a techno-organic virus and turning Warren Worthington into Archangel. FTP, identify this ancient X-Men villain who promotes survival of the fittest through such minions as his four horsemen.
ANSWER: Apocalypse (accept En Sabah Nur or the First One)

19. This superhero team had a 1992 comic which was canceled after ten issues despite strong sales, with writer Len Strazewski claiming it "was a capricious decision made personally by editor Mike Carlin."  This brief comic introduced the character of Jesse Quick, the daughter of two of this group's members. In this group's first appearance, the members merely sat around and ate dinner while recounting previous adventures. After this team ran afoul of  (*) HUAC, it disbanded for a good chunk of time before eventually reforming in the 1960's. Most of this team's members were killed during Zero Hour where the energies that kept them young were removed. FTP, identify this superhero team with such members as Dr. Fate, Dr. Mid-Nite, Hawkman, and Green Lantern, the Golden Age precursor to the Justice League.
ANSWER: Justice Society of America (do not prompt on or accept Justice League)

20. This character originally served as the mascot for a Massachusetts store called New England Comics which depicted this character as a mental institution escapee. In his comic appearances, he works with a man named Clark Oppenheimer at a newspaper called Weekly World Planet. Based in a city named the City, this character has battled such villains as Multiple (*) Santa and Chairface Chippendale, and coined his battle cry while eating a bowl of Drama Flakes. He frequently teams with folks like the Sewer Urchin, Bat Manuel, and Die Fledermaus, as well as a non-powered former accountant in a moth suit. Played by Patrick Warburton in a short-lived 2001 live-action series, this hero appeared in a 1994 cartoon with his sidekick Arthur. FTP, identify this blue-clad hero who uses the catch phrase "Spoooooooon!"
ANSWER: The Tick

21. As a youngster, this character enjoyed reading the comics of Gardner Fox, which eventually helped him in his later cases. He made a potential appearance in a storyline of Quasar, which saw him using the first name "Buried." This man was once engaged to Fiona Webb and ended up having to apparently kill his arch nemesis in order to protect her. In a 1990's TV program, he teamed with Tina (*) McGee and was played by John Wesley Shipp. This man's wife, Iris, was actually from the thirtieth century where she was taken after being killed by Professor Zoom. He was the first to discover the alternate Earth-2, the home of his idol Jay Garrick, and was ultimately killed at the hands of the Anti-Monitor in Crisis on Infinite Earths. FTP, identify this superhero, known as the Scarlet Speedster during the Silver Age.
ANSWER: Flash (accept Barry Allen, do not accept Wally West) \


COMICS 2009
Tournament by Mike Cheyne and George Berry

Bonuses

1. While several films have been adapted from his works, Alan Moore has not participated in the making of any of them. For ten points each, answer the following about films he probably hated, if he saw them.
[10] The first of Moore's major works to be adapted to the screen was this 2001 thriller starring Johnny Depp, which offered a theory for the killings of Jack the Ripper.
ANSWER: From Hell
[10] In 2005, the Wachowski brothers produced V for Vendetta, which starred this Australian actor in the titular role. He had previously played such fantasy roles as Elrond the Elven Lord and Agent Smith.
ANSWER: Hugo Weaving
[10] The upcoming Watchmen film casts this actor, a former beau of Claire Danes, as Dr. Manhattan. Hopefully he sounds a little more dramatic than when he narrates those ubiquitous "Priceless" commercials for Mastercard.
ANSWER: Billy Crudup

2. The late '80s kicked off the era of the great Marvel crossover that would run through multiple comic books. For ten points each, identify the crossover based on a description.
[10] This 1989 crossover, which played out over various comics' annuals, featured an attempt by various undersea empires to take over the surface world and revive the serpent god Set.
ANSWER: Atlantis Attacks
[10] This 1989 crossover mostly involved the mutant titles and saw various superheroes battling demons under the control of S'ym and N'astirh. Many inanimate objects became demonically possessed and attacked their owners.
ANSWER: Inferno
[10] This far more recent crossover depicted a massive insectoid force in space battled by Nova, the Super-Skrull, and Ronan the Accuser. Its leader turned out to be an old Fantastic Four bad guy who once ruled the Negative Zone.
ANSWER: Annihilation (accept anything with Annihilation in it, do not accept Annihilus)

3. This battle wasn't exactly Ali vs. Frazier, but it may comfortably rank up there with Tyson vs. Spinks. For ten points each, answer the following about the DC vs. Marvel crossover.
[10] Among the individual match-ups, one of the least competitive was that pitting Robin against this young mutant, which was over before it even started.
ANSWER: Jubilee (accept Jubilation Lee)
[10] One of the least intuitive match-ups featured Spider-Man, or Ben Reilly that is, taking on this DC hero. Perhaps it made sense because they're both copies of another character.
ANSWER: Superboy (accept Kon-El, accept Conner Kent)
[10] The conflict between the two universes ultimately ends after the two "embodiments" of each universe examine the pasts of the last two superheroes to battle and conclude that each universe is worthy. For 10 points, all or nothing, identify those two heroes, two of the oldest DC and Marvel characters.
ANSWER: Batman (accept Bruce Wayne) and Captain America (accept Steve Rogers)

4. He's been one of Marvel's most durable heroes, if only he could come up with a consistent identity. For ten points each:
[10] First, give the full name of this man who has appeared in such heroic guises as Ant-Man, Giant-Man, and Yellowjacket, as well as just going without a codename.
ANSWER: Henry Pym (accept Hank Pym, prompt on partial answer)
[10] Pym has had an on-again, off-again relationship with this fellow superhero, who has led the Avengers on various occasions, and like Pym, also possessed the power to shrink herself.	
ANSWER: Wasp (accept Janet van Dyne)
[10] At one point, Pym adopted this other giant-size identity which has since been used by Clint Barton, Erik Josten, and Bill Foster, who is killed by a clone of Thor during the Civil War.
ANSWER: Goliath (accept Black Goliath)

5. This is the equivalent of a painting bonus. For ten points each, given a description of a famous comic book cover, name that issue. You will need the title and the issue number.
[10] An unsavory looking man is being carried in one hand by another character who swings through the rooftops, while at least four other men stand in the background, on the top of a building, and watch.
ANSWER: Amazing Fantasy #15
[10] A character swings on a rope, carrying a dapper man in a green suit in a chokehold, while two men look on and prepare to open fire with handguns.
ANSWER: Detective Comics #27
[10] A man in a labcoat stands in the center looking incredibly uneasy, while a threatening figure looms around him. A young woman looks horrified to the right, while an older man in a military uniform stands near her, barking orders to several other soldiers.
ANSWER: Incredible Hulk #1

6. After Conan the Barbarian and Conan the Destroyer, where would the series go next? Conan the Menace? For ten points each, answer the following about the two-film Conan series.
[10] This bad guy is the main villain of the first film and is played by James Earl Jones. An evil wizard, he is basically the same as the character of Thoth-Amon, but has this name in the film.
ANSWER: Thulsa Doom
[10] This Japanese actor appears in both movies as the wizard Akiro. While Oscar-nominated for his work in The Sand Pebbles, he also appeared in Highlander III and Robocop III.
ANSWER: Mako Iwamatsu
[10] This NBA badass appeared in Conan the Destroyer as the villainous captain Bombatta. His ball skillz didn't translate into fighting as he got served by Conan.
ANSWER: Wilt Chamberlain

7. Remember when special guest stars for comic books included real people? For ten points each, identify the real life celebrity that teamed up with superheroes in the pages of comics.
[10] This actor appeared in the pages of Superman to plug his movie Black Magic. He ends up having to help Superman take on the Martians. Holy irony!
ANSWER: Orson Welles
[10] This writer appears in an Incredible Hulk issue as himself attending a socialite's party. Perhaps he was getting some inspiration for the character of Charlotte Simmons.
ANSWER: Tom Wolfe
[10] This comedian, who had his own comic book during the 1960's, teamed with Batman to battle both the Joker and a new criminal named the Kangaroo. He also took up the mantle of the superhero Ratman.
ANSWER: Jerry Lewis

8. Hey, before Christopher Nolan, Batman movies had a respectable history too. Sort of. For ten points each, answer the following about the Batman film series, pre-Batman Begins.
[10] While Tim Burton directed Batman and Batman Returns, the next two entries were directed by this man, who was viciously mocked for the suckiness of these films. He has also directed The Phantom of the Opera.
ANSWER: Joel Schumacher
[10] This man played the ruthless executive Max Shreck in Batman Returns, although strangely enough, he seems to underplay the role. Wish one could say the same for his work in Balls of Fury.
ANSWER: Christopher Walken
[10] The only actors to appear in all four of these Batman films were the men playing Alfred and Commissioner Gordon. Name either of these veteran performers.
ANSWER: Michael Gough (it's pronounced "Goff," but take anything close) or Pat Hingle

9. There used to be a time when comic characters had one goal and one goal only: to kick some Nazi ass. For ten points, answer the following about these red-blooded American patriots.
[10] This cigar-chomping Marvel character led the Howling Commandos to lay some hurt on the Huns. He later donned an eyepatch and led S.H.I.E.L.D.
ANSWER: Nick Fury (accept either)
[10] This badass was the leader of Easy Company and crushed the Krauts on numerous occasions. Some stories depicted him teaming up with Batman after the war was over.
ANSWER: Sgt. Rock (accept Rock and Rocky)
[10] This crack pilot led a bunch of stereotypical ethnicities, including Andre and Chop Chop, into battle against those heinous Hitler-heilers. He and his team briefly became superheroes after the war.
ANSWER: Blackhawk (accept Bart Hawk) 

10. The worst thing one can say about this storyline is that it inspired X-Men: The Last Stand. For ten points each, answer the following about the Dark Phoenix Saga.
[10] One of the tipping points that transformed the Phoenix into the Dark Phoenix was when she was manipulated by this illusion-casting villain as part of his plan to get into the Hellfire Club.
ANSWER: Mastermind (accept Jason Wyngarde)
[10] This Sh'iar empress declared that the Dark Phoenix needed to be destroyed, going so far as to pit her Imperial Guard against the X-Men in a battle for the fate of the Phoenix.
ANSWER: Lilandra Neramini
[10] When Jean Grey was thought to be killed after the defeat of the Dark Phoenix, Scott Summers ended up marrying this lookalike, who turned out to be a clone of Jean. She eventually went nuts.
ANSWER: Madelyne Pryor (accept either)

11. Superheroes have inspired several comedy films, albeit with a mixed track record. For ten points each, identify the movie based on a description.
[10] This parody film was about such wacky heroes as the Shoveler, Mr. Furious, and the Bowler, who take on the nefarious Casanova Frankenstein.
ANSWER: Mystery Men
[10] This comedy featured Luke Wilson dating Uma Thurman, who turned out to be the superheroine G-Girl and also have a bit of an anger problem.
ANSWER: My Super Ex-Girlfriend
[10] This Disney film told the story of kids at a titular institution run by a principal played by Lynda Carter. Other superheroes on hand were Kurt Russell and Kelly Preston as The Commander and Jetstream.
ANSWER: Sky High

12. They're not just comic books, they're graphic novels. See how a little wordplay can get comic books on your syllabus? For ten points each, identify these works that you might actually read in a college course.
[10] This Art Spiegelman work, which won a Pulitzer Price Special Award, depicts the Holocaust using a cast of animals, including the Germans as cats.
ANSWER: Maus: A Survivor's Tale
[10] This work by Marjane Satrapi is a memoir depicting the author's childhood in post-revolutionary Iran. It was adapted into a critically acclaimed animated film in 2007.	
ANSWER: Persepolis
[10] While not a graphic novel per se, this comic, which follows the teenagers Enid and Rebecca, has been successfully collected into book form. A satire of popular culture and American life, it was also adapted into a film in 2001.
ANSWER: Ghost World

13. A guy is sent to hell, but he comes back as a hellspawn and battles villains. Theologians roll in their grave. For ten points each, answer the following about the comic book Spawn.
[10] Spawn was created by this highly influential artist, who is also noted for his work on Spider-Man, where he helped to create Venom.
ANSWER: Todd McFarlane
[10] This demon was placed in charge of monitoring Spawn and frequently ended up battling him to prove his own superiority. He was played by John Leguizamo in the Spawn film.
ANSWER: Clown (accept Violator)
[10] In one origin story, this mercenary murders Al Simmons, who then becomes Spawn. Spawn would later get some revenge by cutting off some of this dude's face. Great stuff for the kiddies.
ANSWER: Chapel (accept Bruce Stinson)

14. Brian Bendis said he hoped this crossover would "shake the world and break the Internet wide open." It certainly outraged fans of the Blob. For ten points each, answer the following about the event that ultimately depowered many of the world's mutants, the House of M series.
[10] The House of M began when this superheroine, in an attempt to change reality to recreate her lost children, ended up creating an alternate world where mutants ruled the planet.
ANSWER: Scarlet Witch (accept Wanda Maximoff)
[10] Fearing for his daughter's sanity, Magneto brought the Scarlet Witch to this island nation which he previously attempted to make into a mutants-only paradise. Previously, it had been a nation known for enslaving mutants.
ANSWER: Genosha
[10] This member of the X-Men ended up losing her electromagnetic powers at the end of the House of M. This green-haired mutant has been at various times thought to be the daughter of Magneto.
ANSWER: Polaris (accept Lorna Dane)

15. The Eisner Awards are given annually to honor creative achievement in comic books. For ten points each, identify the following winners of the award from descriptions.
[10] The first man to win Best Writer other than Alan Moore or Neil Gaiman was this man in 1998, who was honored for his work on the series Preacher and Hitman.
ANSWER: Garth Ennis
[10] This Jeff Smith comic won Best Continuing Series in 1994 and 1995. It tells the tale of a family consisting of such members as Fone, Smiley, and Phoney.
ANSWER: Bone
[10] This Marvel comic won Best Limited Series in 1994, presenting the history of the early Marvel Universe through the eyes of an everyman character, Phil Sheldon.
ANSWER: Marvels 

16. This bonus is about a television program that brought a WB kind of sensibility to superheroics. For ten points each, answer the following about Smallville.
[10] This character, played by Allison Mack, was created for the show. She was the cousin of Lois Lane and eventually married Jimmy Olsen.
ANSWER: Chloe Sullivan (accept either)
[10] This actress plays Martha Kent and had previously been part of the Superman universe by playing Lana Lang in Superman III. She also played "The Huntress" on the self-titled show which had nothing to do with the comic.
ANSWER: Annette O'Toole
[10] This ruthless businessman, played by John Glover, is the father of Lex Luthor. He was eventually killed by his own son.
ANSWER: Lionel Luthor (prompt on Luthor)

17. Wikipedia describes this superhero as "a humanoid mass of vegetable matter." For ten points each, answer the following about Swamp Thing.
[10] Swamp Thing's main villain is this evil scientist, who created the Un-Men and has attempted to place his mind into Swamp Thing's body in order to achieve immortality.
ANSWER: Dr. Anton Arcane (accept either)
[10] When Alan Moore wrote Swamp Thing, he created this organization of plant elementals that wanted to use Swamp Thing to do their bidding. Its name is similar to a work of Chaucer's.
ANSWER: Parliament of Trees
[10] Swamp Thing appeared in a 1982 film directed by this horror icon which starred Louis Jourdan and Adrienne Barbeau. A few years later, he would begin a long-running horror film series of his own invention.
ANSWER: Wes Craven

18. You know Charlie Brown and Lucy, but do you remember Jose Peterson or Shermy? For ten points each, identify these other Peanuts supporting characters.
[10] This character is Linus and Lucy's younger brother and has a deep desire for a dog his own. He shares his name with a character from the sitcom "What's Happening?"
ANSWER: Rerun van Pelt (prompt on van Pelt)
[10] This awful baseball player is Charlie Brown's idol. Mr. Brown once purchased five hundred penny-packs of baseball cards in a fruitless effort to find a card of this man.
ANSWER: Joe Shlabotnik (prompt on Joe)
[10] This poignant character is Charlie Brown's crush. He frequently observes her while eating his lunch outside, but continually fails in his efforts to approach her.
ANSWER: Little Red-Haired Girl (accept Heather, accept obvious equivalents)

19. It originally was a comic, so cut this bonus some slack. For ten points each, identify the following recurring features of the humor publication MAD, all of which involve cartoons of some kind.
[10] This popular feature occurs at the end of every issue of MAD. It consists of a drawing that when manipulated by the reader in a certain way forms a "secret" message, usually a biting punchline.
ANSWER: Fold-In
[10] This feature by Antonio Prohias depicts two figures in black and white suits engaging in a never-ending battle to destroy each other and steal secrets.
ANSWER: Spy vs. Spy
[10] This man, billed as MAD's "Maddest Artist," was known for drawing strange characters with even stranger sound effects accompanying them, like "GLORK!" He eventually worked for the imitation magazine Cracked.
ANSWER: Don Martin

20. This alternate universe creation has been one of Marvel's most popular female characters. In the tradition of its other female characters, it's merely a spin-off of an existing character. For ten points each, answer the following about the amazing Spider-Girl.
[10] Spider-Girl is the daughter of an alternate universe's Peter and Mary Jane Parker. In civilian life, she goes by this rather logical name.
ANSWER: May Parker (accept Mayday)
[10] This son of Felicia Hardy and Flash Thompson was May's on-again, off-again boyfriend. He felt she was unreliable, while she found him too dominating.
ANSWER: Eugene Thompson
[10] In the regular universe, Peter and Mary Jane's unborn child was killed by Allison Mongraine, an agent of this nefarious villain who is one of Peter's deadliest enemies.
ANSWER: Green Goblin (accept Norman Osborn)

