TOSSUPS - BERKELEY F								WIT XI/COTKU 2003Questions by Juliana Froggatt, Jeff Hoppes, Larissa Kelly, Paul Lujan, Ray Luo, and Seth Teitler1. The Minoan Household Goddess was associated with the cult of this animal, and the Aztec goddess Coatlicue (pron. Ko-at-LEE-kway) had a skirt of them. In the epic of Gilgamesh, one of these creatures steals the herb of immortality. In the Vedas, the thousand-headed god Sesha is one of these animals, and serves as chief of the Nagas. As a baby, Heracles strangled two of them sent to kill him. FTP, name these poisonous creatures which made up the hair of Medusa.	Answer: 	snakes2. It is based on the Jordan measure. Its applicability can be extended using nondecreasing real functions in the Stieltjes generalization. Improved behavior in exchanging with limits is gained with the more general Lebesgue definition. It is defined if the upper and lower sums agree in the limit as the mesh size goes to zero. Providing early evidence for the fundamental theorem of calculus, FTP name this simple definition of the antiderivative based on the limit of sums of rectangles.	Answer: 	Riemann integral3. "I have loved justice and hated iniquity; therefore I die in exile," were his last words, spoken at Salerno. The speaker had been expelled by the Roman mobs after the Norman troops of Robert Guiscard caused a riot. The Normans were supposed to defend the pope against the German emperor who called him "Hildebrand, not pope but false monk." FTP, name this pope, the opponent of Emperor Henry IV at Canossa.	Answer:	Gregory VII4. His first name is Horatio, and he was born on an island in the Milk Sea.  His former adversaries, Sylvester, Snyder, and Squish, now apparently work as control testers at the AFCO Sponge company, and his nemesis Jean LaFoote, the Barefooted Pirate, was introduced in 1968, 5 years after his own creation by Jay Ward.  He was voiced by Daws Butler, also the voice of Yogi Bear, Auggie Doggie, and others.  According to his official website, he was made an Admiral, but got sick of being a desk jockey, and gave it up to return to his former position and a happier life.  FTP, name this character, the commander of the SS Guppy who gives his name to a Quaker Oats cereal.	Answer: 	Cap'n Horatio Crunch5. The Stromgren sphere around hot young stars is an HII (read: H 2) region where hydrogen is primarily ionized by this type of radiation. The Lyman series lies in this region. The catastrophe of this name refers to a flaw in the Rayleigh-Jeans law. Fluorescent materials usually absorb this type of radiation, which induces production of vitamin D and melanin in the skin. With longer wavelength than soft x-rays, FTP name this type of radiation somewhat higher in energy than purple visible light.	Answer: 	ultraviolet (or: UV)6. This policy began with the surprise victory of D. F. Malan's National Party in 1948. The Group Areas Act of 1950 empowered the government to carry out compulsory resettlement, which was accomplished at Sophiatown in 1963 and District Six during the 1970s. Poverty in the self-governing rural "homelands" and urban revolt in Soweto combined with international pressure to undermine the system in the 1980s. FTP, name this policy of "separation," created by the white government of South Africa and opposed by the African National Congress.	Answer:	apartheid7. It replaced an earlier, smaller, and less permanent structure built by Statius Taurus, and Martial wrote his Liber spectaculorum to celebrate its opening. Built on the former site of Nero's Golden Palace, it was a gift and a bribe to the people of Rome from the new ruling family, the Flavians. In it, crowds of between 50,000 and 75,000 spectators watched venationes - hunts - and munera - fights. FTP, name this venue known to the Romans as the Amphitheatrum Caesareum, best remembered for its gladiatorial games.	Answer: 	the Colosseum (or Coliseum or Amphitheatrum Flavium; accept Amphitheatrum Caesareum before it's mentioned)
8. The term was first used by Friedrich Klinger, as the subtitle of his 1776 play Wirrwarr (veer-var). Both the first and last major dramatic works in this school were about thieves: Goethe's "Goetz von Berchlingen" and Schiller's "Die Rauber," respectively. The emphasis on youthful rebellion was derived from Lessing, Herder, and especially Rousseau. FTP, name this eighteenth-century literary movement, German for "storm and stress."	Answer:	Sturm und Drang9. Henry James wrote that this man would focus on a small detail "either until it grimaces or until it bleeds." Some of his work, such as "Who Knows?," "The Horla" and "A Night in Paris," in which characters experience strange visions or unaccountable compulsions, may have been inspired by his own bouts with a mental illness causes by syphilis. However, he is better known for sharp vignettes such as "Boule de Suif," or "Ball of Fat," in which a prostitute's generosity earns her the scorn of her more "respectable" traveling companions. FTP, names this nineteenth-century French writer, author of the short story "The Necklace."	Answer: 	(Henri Rene Albert) Guy de Maupassant10. It occurs in methanol, iodine monochloride, and hydrogen flouride.  It results from the differing electronegativities of atoms in polar covalent bonds which polarize the distributions of electron density in the bonds.  Often depicted by an arrow with a cross at its tail, pointing from the delta plus to the delta minus end, it represents the separation of opposite charges in a molecule.  FTP name the term describing the net polarity of a molecule obtained by vector addition.	Answer: 	dipole moment11.  It is home to an endemic species of marmot, Canada's most endangered mammal.  A dispute over sea otter trade in Nootka Sound, where Captain Cook landed in 1778, nearly caused a war between Britain and Spain in 1794. The Strait of Georgia separates it from the mainland, while the Strait of Juan de Fuca separates it from Washington state. FTP, what British Columbia island includes the capital Victoria but not the city that shares its name?	Answer:	Vancouver Island12. His essay "Tradition and the Individual Talent" claimed that poets must be seen in a purely literary context and provided the theoretical basis for the "New Criticism" of John Crowe Ransom.  His critical essays pushed schools to change their curriculums in favor of metaphysical poets as opposed to the Victorians.  He is better known for his grim examination of Post-World-War society in works such as The Hollow Men and Sweeney among the Nightingales.  FTP name this poet who wrote Murder in the Cathedral and The Wasteland.	Answer: 	T. S. Eliot13. The playwright Aeschylus died at Gela on this island in 456 BCE. Patton's Seventh Army attacked the beaches near the same city in 1943. Despite tension between American and British commanders, the German garrison evacuated the island after five weeks. Major cities include Marsala, Catania, Augusta, and Syracuse on FTP, what triangular Mediterranean island separated from mainland Italy by the Strait of Messina?	Answer:	Sicily14. He had a son named after happiness with the slave girl Zilpah, and had Dan and Naphtali with another slave Bilhah.  Issachar came after Reuben's mother exchanged mandrakes for a night with him.  He worked 7 years for Laban, only to get Leah in return, so he worked 7 more for Rachel.  Before returning to his brother Esau, he bruised his hip at Peniel wrestling with an angel.  FTP name this son of Isaac who purchased his birthright for red broth.	Answer: 	Jacob  (or: Israel)15. The first owner of the land where it stands was Matthew Maule, who was executed after an accusation of witchcraft. His property was taken over by his accuser Colonel Pyncheon, the Puritan builder of the title structure.  One current boarder is the photographer Holgrave, who reveals an ancient title deed at the novel's end. FTP, name this 1851 novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.	Answer:	The House of the Seven Gables
16.  "My rages are inspired by reason," he wrote to the Archbishop of Bordeaux. His Political Testament denounced the evils of "flattery, scandal, and scheming," but urged the king to engage in constant diplomacy with his rivals.  At the siege of La Rochelle, he appeared in a costume that combined military and church dress, but after the Huguenots were defeated, he led France into the Thirty Years War on the Protestant side. FTP, name this minister to Louis XIII, the arch-enemy of the Three Musketeers.	Answer: 	Armand Jean du Plessis, Cardinal Richelieu17. John Ruskin bought it, but quickly sold it again when he found it "painful" to observe at leisure. The painting is dominated by a sunset breaking through a storm, meant to symbolize the death of the institution depicted.  Collingwood, the captain of HMS Zong, had run short on water on his way to Jamaica and threw his dying cargo overboard. FTP, name this 1840 J. M. W. Turner seascape.	Answer: 	Slave Ship (Slavers throwing overboard the Dead and the Dying, Typhoon coming on.)18. A great deal of attention is paid to the devices ornamenting warriors' shields, such as a moon and stars, a man carrying a firebrand, a portrait of Typhon belching smoke, and a sphinx, which last the speaking characters consider to be an insult to their city. Although the Chorus pleads with the king not to fight with his own brother, he ignores their advice and sets a further tragedy in motion. FTP name this play by Aeschylus in which Eteocles and Polyneices slay one another.	Answer: 	The Seven Against Thebes 19. Modern versions operate by measuring the voltage needed to keep a mass centered in the housing. They record Love and Rayleigh waves from distant events, and can detect nuclear detonations. Measurements of the S-P times from 3 of them can be used to locate the focus. Ideally placed on bedrock, the maximum amplitude recorded on the Wood-Anderson type is used to calculate the Richter magnitude. FTP, name these earthquake-recording devices.	Answer: 	seismograph (also accept: seismogram or seismometer)20.  Its adherents offered to make rain for the state of Nevada after their prophet saw in a vision that "the sun had died," and that God would return the spirits of the dead to perpetual youth in their ancestral lands. Only among the Sioux did it have military significance, as their warriors wore shirts said to be impervious to the bullets of the whites. FTP, the Paiute Wovoka founded this Native American spiritual movement that resulted in the massacre at Wounded Knee.	Answer: 	Ghost Dance21.  He proposed that neurosis could be classified into four types (ruling, learning, avoiding, and socially useful) and noted the similarity of his theory to the Greek concept of the four humors. Two of his papers, on the aggression instinct and on child psychology, suggested that sexual dreams should be taken metaphorically rather than literally, which led to his falling out with Freud by 1907. FTP, name this Austrian psychologist, author of The Neurotic Constitution.	Answer:	Alfred Adler22. Synthesized in the liver, this organic compound contributes to the structure of cellular membranes.  It is the starting material for making bile salts, testosterone, and other steroids.  We absorb this compound from milk, butter, and fats.  Too much of it can lead to deposits in our arteries, leading to arteriosclerosis.  FTP name this type of steroid that is associated with heart attacks.	Answer: 	cholesterol23. As People's Commissar for Military and Naval Affairs, he organized the Red Army and led it to victory over the Whites in the Russian Civil War. After his expulsion from the Central Committee in 1927, he was banished to Kazakhstan and then deported to Turkey. In 1937, after years of travel, he used his friendship with Diego Rivera to obtain residence in Mexico, where he would spend the last three years of his life. FTP, name this opponent of Joseph Stalin, killed with an icepick in 1940.	Answer:	Leon Trotsky
BONUSES - BERKELEY F								WIT XI/COTKU 2003Questions by Juliana Froggatt, Jeff Hoppes, Larissa Kelly, Paul Lujan, Ray Luo, and Seth Teitler1. Name the poem by completing the line, FTPE.A. "She knows not what the curse may be,/ And so she weaveth steadily,/ And little other care hath she..."	Answer: 		The Lady of ShalottB."While the angels, all palid and wan,/Uprising, unveiling, affirm/That the play is the tragedy, 'Man',/And its hero the..."	Answer:		 Conqueror WormC. "My friend, you would not tell with such high zest/ To children ardent for some desperate glory/ The old lie:..."	Answer: 	Dulce et decorum est (grudgingly take "pro patria mori" if appended)2. The Romans generally didn't have much respect for pansies, but they made an exception for Aeneas. FTPE:A.  Aeneas bravely ran all the way down Mount Ida to avoid being gutted like a very scared pig by this man, the strongest of the Greek heroes in the Trojan War.	Answer: 	AchillesB.  Aeneas was bravely saved by Mommy when this fierce Greek hero attacked him. This hero went on to wound Aphrodite and Ares with the help of Athena.	Answer: 	DiomedesC.  The next time wussy boy Aeneas faced Achilles, he bravely recited his lineage, then had to be bravely whisked away by this brother of Zeus, who usually acted against the Trojans because he'd never been paid for helping to build Troy's walls.	Answer: 	Poseidon3. Identify the following figures from Dr. Strangelove FTPE.A.  This British actor equally famous for the Pink Panther films played Group Captain Mandrake, President Merkin Muffley, and Dr. Strangelove, but hurt himself before he could tackle the role of Major Kong.	Answer: Peter SellersB.  To get a cowboy for the role of Major Kong, Kubrick hired this westerns actor to ride on the bomb in the movie's most famous scene.	Answer: Slim PickensC.  Kubrick demolished this American actor in chess, and made him go over-the-top in the role of Buck Turgidson, a caricature of General Curtis LeMay.	Answer: George C. Scott4. Identify these uses of the common magnetic field FTPE.A. This device uses a constant magnetic field to move particles in a circle while they are accelerated by a potential difference between two metal dees.	Answer: 	cyclotronB.  This device separates isotopes by accelerating ions and then passing them through a constant magnetic field, using the fact that the radius of the circular motion depends on their mass.	Answer: 	mass spectrometer (or: mass spectrograph)C.  This device uses a toroidal magnetic field in combination with a "poloidal" magnetic field to produce an overall helical magnetic field to confine particles.	Answer: 	tokamak5. British Romantic poems from lines, FTPE.A. "'Beauty is truth, truth beauty,-that is all Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know."	Answer:	Ode on a Grecian Urn.B.  "Nothing beside remains: round the decay/ Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare, The lone and level sands stretch far away."	Answer:	OzymandiasC. "Milton! Thou shouldst be living at this hour/  England hath need of thee"	Answer: 	London, 1802
6. Consider the 2 by 2 matrix where all 4 entries are 1. FTPE:A.  What is the determinant of the matrix?	Answer: 	0B.  What is the trace of the matrix?	Answer: 	2C.  This matrix has two real eigenvalues. Name either. You have 10 seconds.	Answer: 	0 or -27.  Regime change, from democracy. FTPE:A. This Guatemalan president was overthrown by a CIA-backed coup in 1954.	Answer:	Jacobo ArbenzB. The ouster of Arbenz was advocated by this corporation, whose presence in Guatemala led locals to call it "El Pulpo," the octopus.	Answer:	United FruitC. Following the election of this Marxist as Chilean leader, he was replaced by the brutal regime of Augusto Pinochet.	Answer:	Salvador Allende8. Generals from the Thirty Years War, FTPE.A.Called "Lion of the North," this Swedish king championed the Protestant cause until his death at the battle of Lutzen.	Answer: Gustavus Adolphus (or: Gustav II Adolf)B. The commander of the Imperial army, whose treacherous dealings with the Swedes and with his own master form the subject of a drama by Schiller.	Answer: Albrecht von WallensteinC. The Bavarian general whose army of the Catholic League committed atrocities at the siege of Magdeburg and was smashed by the Swedes at the battle of Breitenfeld.	Answer: Johann Tserclaes, Graf von Tilly9. Name these American novels from characters, FTPE.A. George Hurstwood, Charles Drouet	Answer: Sister CarrieB. Carol Milford, Will Kennicott	Answer: Main StreetC. Edith Leete, Julian West	Answer: 	Looking Backward10. Name these figures from early medieval Britain, FTPE.A. The saint who arrived in Kent in 597 to preach to the heathen English.	Answer:	Augustine of CanterburyB. The king of Wessex who defeated the Vikings and translated Latin works into Old English.	Answer:	Alfred the GreatC. Historians believe that this unfortunate king's nickname really means something like "ill-counseled"; he lost his kingdom to the Danes.	Answer:	Ethelred the Unready11. Name these stages in the life of a Sun-like star FTPE.A.  Much of the star's luminous lifetime is spent in this stage, in which the core is producing energy primarily by hydrogen fusion to form helium. On the HR diagram stars in this stage occupy a diagonal strip.	Answer: 	main sequenceB.  When a Sun-like star reaches the end of its main-sequence lifetime, it expands and cools to form one of these objects.	Answer:	 red giantC.  After the red giant stage, a low-mass star ascends the asymptotic giant branch. At this point the star can eject a planetary nebula and collapse down to this degenerate type of object, which must have a mass less than the Chandrasekhar limit.	Answer: 	white dwarf
12. Given the contents, name the multi-volume work, FTPE.A. Spring Snow, Runaway Horses, The Temple of Dawn, The Decay of the Angel	Answer:	Sea of Fertility tetralogy (Mishima)B. Agamemnon, The Libation-Bearers, The Eumenides	Answer:	Oresteia (Aeschylus)C. Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, Sugar Street	Answer:	Cairo trilogy (Mahfouz) 13. In 1869, Irish chemist Thomas Andrews measured the volume of a given amount of CO_2 as a function of pressure at various temperatures and obtained a series of isotherms.  FTPE identify the following features and properties of gas condensation curves.A.   As pressure is increased at a low temperature, we eventually reach a point where the volume decreases with no increase in pressure.  Name the pressure at this horizontal line in the PV curve.	Answer:	 equilibrium vapor pressureB.   As temperature is increased, we reach a point where the horizontal line becomes a point and the isotherm is tangential to the liquid-vapor equilibrium curve.  Name this rather important point.	Answer: 	critical pointC.   As temperature is increased further, the PV curve becomes a hyperbola, i.e. the product PV is a constant at a given temperature.  Name this law named for an English chemist.	Answer: 	Boyle's law14. Answer these questions regarding the philosophy of G. W. Leibniz, FTPE.A.  Leibniz believed that these substances of dynamic force are held together by pre-established harmony.  Name these windowless metaphysical souls which is each a separate world.	Answer: 	monadsB.  Since any event can be explained by a prior cause, there must be a final cause that exists necessarily because its own essence is enough to justify its existence.  Name this principle that explains why God exists.	Answer: 	Principle of Sufficient ReasonC.  Applied to the physical world, this law states that rest and motion are aspects of each other, and that the rule of rest ought to be a particular case of the rule of motion.  Name this law that states that nature makes no leaps.	Answer: 	Law of Continuity15. Economic factors from nineteenth-century America, FTPE.A. This party, formed to support a cheap paper currency that would eliminate farmers' debts, disintegrated after the unsuccessful presidential bid of Benjamin Butler in 1884.	Answer:	Greenback PartyB. This 1878 compromise between free-silver and gold-standard forces required the government to coin silver dollars.	Answer:	Bland-Allison ActC. William Jennings Bryan's famous 1896 speech, promising avoidance from metaphorical crucifixion.	Answer: 	Cross of Gold16. Name these terms from Russian literature, FTPE.A. An educated aristocrat who, despite his status, is incapable of taking any action. Turgenev wrote the diary of one.	Answer: 	superfluous manB. The title to the fifth chapter of the Brothers Karamazov. Ivan tells Alyosha a parable about the return of Christ.	Answer: 	Grand InquisitorC. The creed taught by Bazarov in Fathers and Sons, it derives from the Latin for "nothing."	Answer:	nihilism
17. Name these features of Roman religion, FTSNOP.A. (10) At any time, there were six of these women who tended Rome's sacred flame. If it went out, or if they were found to be impure, they could be - and were - put to death.	Answer: 	Vestal Virgins B. (5 each) Although originating as spirits attached to specific important places, like crossroads, and spirits who protected the family's larder, from which they got their names, over time both kinds were grouped together to serve as household protectors. F5PE, name them.	Answers: 	lares and penatesC. (10) Known in Latin as the "Great Mother," the cult of this Anatolian goddess was imported from Phrygia during the Second Punic War to ensure Rome's victory. Apparently it worked.	Answer: 	Cybele18. Name these articulatory processes in linguistics FTPE.A.  Insertion of a segment such as that of [p] between "m" and "th" in "warmth."	Answer: 	epenthesisB. Two sounds become less alike in articulatory or acoustic terms, such as pronouncing the "th" as a "t" in "fifths."	Answer: 	dissimilationC. Reordering of a sequence of segments, as in English-speaking children pronouncing "spaghetti" as "pesghetti."	Answer: 	metathesis19. Identify the class in phylum Chordata from orders FTSNOP.A.  For five, orders Primata, Rodentia, and Monotremata.       Answer: 	Mammalia (or: mammals)B.  For five, orders Crocodilia, Testudines, and Squamata.       Answer: 	Reptilia (or: reptiles)C.  For ten, orders Columbiformes, Cuculiformes, and Psittaciformes.       Answer: 	Aves (or: birds)D.  For ten, orders Anura, Caudata, and Apoda or Gymnophonia.	Answer: 	Amphibia (or: amphibians)20. FTPE, name these governing bodies from the French Revolution.A. The chief instrument of the terror, it was led by Robespierre from July 1793 to July 1794.	Answer: Committee of Public Safety (or: Comite de Salut Public)B. Formed by the representatives of the Third Estate, this was the body that took the oath of the tennis court, vowing that it would not disband despite pressure from Louis XVI.	Answer: National Assembly (or: Assemblee Nationale)C. Created by Napoleon after the coup of 18th Brumaire, this government ostensibly shared power between Bonaparte, Sieyes, and Ducos.	Answer: the Consulate21. Given the ruler of Egypt, name the dynasty during which he reigned, FTPE, 5 if you need his approximate dates.A. (10) Djoser(5) 2668-2649 BCE	Answer: 	3rd DynastyB. (10) Tutankhamen(5) 1334-1325 BCE	Answer:	 18th DynastyC. (10) Menes(5) began his rule circa 3100 BCE	Answer: 	1st Dynasty