TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Stephen Webb with a couple by your genial quizmaster1.	He wrote the only Roman textbook on physics, Quaestiones naturales and his eight tragedies include Thyestes and Phaedra. Implicated in Piso's conspiracy, he was ordered by his former pupil to kill himself, and thus this Stoic philosopher-playwright had his veins opened and bled to death. For ten points, name this Spaniard and tutor to the future emperor Nero who was made consul in 57 AD before resigning in 62 after losing favor with the emperor.	Answer:	Lucius Annaeus Seneca2. It holds generally if the energy terms vary only with the square of each of the generalized momenta and coordinates, and only in the classical limit with a continuum of energy. It explains why the internal energy of a monoatomic gas is given by 3/2 NkT but for a diatomic gas the energy is 5/2 NkT, but it breaks down for quantized energy levels. For ten points, name this theorem of statistical mechanics which states that each additional degree of freedom adds a fixed amount of energy per particle to the internal energy.	Answer:	equipartition theorem3.	In the foreground of this painting a man is dragging a horse and stabbing it, while just above his shoulder a woman lays dead across a bed. Another man stabs a nude woman, and all around the household is committing suicide as its leader watches on. The events depicted occur after Nineveh had been sieged by the Medes for two years, and the Assyrian monarch is preparing for his own suicide as the city is about to fall. For ten points, name this 1827-1828 work by Eugène Delacroix.	Answer:	Death of Sardanapalus4. The first generators came online in 1984, and the final one was activated on April 9, 1991. Each of the eighteen generators is capable of producing 700 megawatts, and when fully functioning it provides 25% of the electricity to Brazil and 90% of Paraguay's. For ten points, name this currently largest hydroelectric power plant in the world, situated on the Paraná river, which will be surpassed in capacity, though not output, with the completion of Three Gorges Dam.	Answer:	Itaipu Dam5. His father Fuad I spoke no Arabic, and following his coronation at the age of sixteen he was the first time the King of his nation had directly addressed his people. As he aged, he began to steal things during official state visits, including a ceremonial sword from the Shah of Iran, to whom his sister Fawzia was married, and a pocket watch from Winston Churchill, and this coupled with his defeat in war in 1948 led to his overthrow. For ten points, name this las king of Egypt, overthrown by Gamal Abdel Nasser.	Answer:	Farouk of Egypt6.	Identifiable with the Jacobi integral, it is a Legendre transform of the Lagrangian, in which the generalized momentum replaces the time derivatives of the generalized velocities of the Lagrangian, and is identifiable with the energy only if the Lagrangian does not explicitly depend on time. For ten points, name this quantity, formulated in 1833 by its namesake Irish mathematician, which in quantum mechanics is identified with the operator that defines the Schrödinger equation.	Answer:	Hamiltonian7.	During the travels of the main characters, they encounter Thomas Codlin and his traveling puppet show and work for Mrs. Jarley's Wax Works. A kindly schoolmaster, Mr. Marton, gives the pair a house near an old church in return for tending the graves. Sent on their journey when Daniel Quilp takes over the grandfather's title location, for ten points, name this work in which both Nell Trent and her grandfather die shortly after being found by Kit Nubbles, written by Charles Dickens.	Answer:	The Old Curiosity Shop8. It has been used in two shows, BBC Two's Time Commanders, and the History Channel's Decisive Battles, in both cases being used to recreate key historical battles of antiquity. A demo of the game was released on August 23, 2004 and featured the battle of Trebia, and work on the game had begun from the beginning of Creative Assembly's first game of the series. For ten points, name this latest release of real time strategy that was finally released September 22, 2004, much to your question-writer's great joy.	Answer:	Rome: Total War
9. He purchased a seat in Parliament in 1757, and five years later he founded the periodical The North Briton and began writing articles critical of George III.  He was arrested on a general warrant, but that was ruled a breach of Parliamentary privilege.  So the government got him expelled from Parliament first, then convicted for seditious libel.  He was repeatedly reelected to Parliament but denied his seat, raising the issued of royal manipulation to thwart the popular will.  FTP name this eventual Lord Mayor of London, whose chief claim to fame is as the namesake of a second-rate actor and Southern sympathizer of the acting Booth family.	Answer:	John Wilkes10.	In 1933 he fled from Germany to the US, as many intellectuals did, where he taught at the New School for Social Research and published the book Productive Thinking. In 1912, following work with two younger colleagues, he published the work "Experimental Studies of the Perception of Motion" based upon their studies of pictures of a toy stroboscope. For ten points, name this psychologist, who along with Koffka and Kohler, was one of the leading founders of the Gestalt school of psychology.	Answer:	Max Wertheimer11.	In April of 1870 he put forth a city charter in New York that placed all the power in the hands of a select few men, and proceeded to plunder between 30 and 200 million dollars. A chairmaker by trade, in 1851 he became an alderman, and the following years was elected to the US House of Representatives, and from 1860 until 1870 he controlled all Democratic Party nominations in the state. For ten points, name this man, brought down by Samuel Tilden in 1871, the first political "boss" of Tammany Hall.	Answer:	Samuel Marcy "Boss" Tweed12. The first completed edition contains in its Preface the line "There was never any thing by the wit of man so well devised, or so sure established, which in continuance of time hath not been corrupted," and though new editions continued to be published, Mary I had its original author burned at the stake in 1556. For ten points, name this work of Thomas Cranmer, first completed under Edward VI, which fully incorporated Protestant ideas into the Anglican Church.	Answer:	Book of Common Prayer13. In 1972 he established the first Environmental Engineering program at UCLA, at the time being a Professor of Chemistry at Berkeley. Working with Harold Urey at Columbia on the Manhattan Project, he was responsible for developing the process of gaseous diffusion used to enrich the uranium-235 used in the Hiroshima bomb, however he is more famous for his work that he led with James Arnold and Ernie Anderson. For ten points, name this 1960 Nobel laureate in chemistry who won for his development of Carbon-14 dating.	Answer:	Willard Frank Libby 14. One of the earliest objections to it can be found in the form of Gaunilo's Island, in which the namesake conceives of the perfect island, then argues that it is unlikely that such a perfect island exists, even though to be such a perfect island it would have to exist. First appearing in the second chapter of the Proslogion, for ten points, name this argument for the existence of God by Saint Anselm.	Answer:	Ontological argument15. Among the contemporary radicals of the novel's publication, only Dmitry Pisarev accepted the portrayal of the title character, who is in direct conflict with his friend Arkady's uncle, Pavel Petrovich Kirsanov, who upholds the aristocratic tradition in the face of the central character's ridicule. Published in 1862, the chief character of the work, Bazarov, allows the author to introduce the term "nihilist." For ten points, name this novel, the most famous work of Ivan Turgenev.	Answer:	Fathers and Sons or Ottsy i deti16. An indemnity of a little over two million dollars was paid after the aggressor nation acknowledged full responsibility for the attack, much to the relief of Joseph C. Grew. The survivors of the attack were rescued by the USS Oahu and the HMS Ladybird and Bee, as the ship had been with three Standard Oil tankers on the Yangtze. For ten points, name this 1937 incident in which the Japanese sank the namesake US ship as it was escorting vessels in occupied China.	Answer:	Panay incident17. Many of the stories regarding this man can be found in The Cattle Raid of Cooley, and one myth of his birth is that his mother Dechtere was impregnated when she swallowed a gadfly. Taught the art of war by the goddess Scathach, he fell during the War for the Brown Bull against the forces of Queen Maeve, although another myth holds that he died after throwing his spear at a satirist. For ten points, name this Celtic hero, whose spear Gae Bulg sang for the blood of his enemies.	Answer:	Cúchulainn
18. All but the simplest members of this phylum have tubules called protonephridia, which probably function as excretory and osmoregulatory organs.  Classes within this phylum include Monogenea, Turbellaria, Trematoda (or flukes), and Cestoda (or tapeworms.).  FTP name this phylum of flatworms.	Answer:	Platyhelminthes; prompt on "flatworms" before it's read19. At the moment that the main character kills an eagle, his love recalls a foreboding message she received from a hermit she met in the forest, and a picture of her ancestor falls to the floor. The next day, she continues to feel on edge, and her love has succeeded in striking the mark six times, with the seventh shot to be guided by the Evil One, as Caspar has arranged. For ten points, name this opera, in which Agatha is saved from Max's last bullet by her bridal wreath, written by Carl Maria von Weber.	Answer:	Der Freischütz or The Freeshooter20. The work is partly based upon the story of Robert Nixon, who was electrocuted for two murders in 1938. The central character's Communist lawyer is the voice of the author, who declares that there is no escaping the destiny of his client or any other African American, since they are a product of the society that raised him, and he is ultimately convicted of killing a white woman and his girlfriend. For ten points, name this story about Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.	Answer:	Native Son21.	A 27-year old colonel, Muammar al-Qaddafi, deposes King Idris to take power in Libya.  The FCC bans cigarette ads from radio and TV.  The Stonewall riot in New York City marks the inception of the gay rights movement.  The Mets stun the Orioles to win their first World Series.  And no matter what he claims, Bryan Adams was only 9 1/2 and couldn't have started that garage band that summer.  FTP name the year, whose other major cultural landmarks included Woodstock and Apollo 11.	Answer:	196922.	After his education in Saigon he went to military school at Saumur, France, and when his maternal grandfather died in 1941, he succeeded him to a post that he would abdicate the first time in 1955, when he turned the office over to his father. President of his country once, prime minister twice and non-titled head of state, and since earlier this year he has been residing in Pyongyang and Beijing, finally allowing his son, Chea Sim, to succeed him. For ten points, name this popular but ailing man, who abdicated the throne of Cambodia on October 7.	Answer:	Preah Bat Samdech Preah Norodom Sihanouk Varman23.	His involvement with the National Revolutionary Youth Organization prior to World War I led to his being interned at the Doboj Austrian detention camp, and afterwards he became an ambassador to Germany. Early works include The Journey of Alija ?erzelez but he is perhaps most famous for a work focusing on the relations between Serbs and Muslims in the Ottoman Empire. For ten points, name this author of the Bosnian Chronicle, which includes The Bridge on the Drina, winner of the 1961 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Ivo Andri?24.	In Scotland, his efforts to extend the Anglican church led to riot in St. Giles', and the riot let to the "Bishops' War," which led to the calling of the Long Parliament. A confessor to Buckingham beginning in 1622, he, along with Strafford and Charles I became chiefly responsible for spreading absolutism in church and state, and it was for his attacks on Puritans that the Long Parliament sentenced him to death by beheading in 1644. For ten points, name this archbishop of Canterbury during the reign of Charles I.	Answer:	Archbishop William Laud25.	The design was first introduced in public in 1920, with a model of the spiraling tower displayed in Petrograd at the same time as the performance of The Staging of the Winter Palace. The original design for the work was meant to be taller than the Eiffel Tower, and was intended to house a telegraph office, but the actual engineering problems were never worked out by the architect and the building was never completed. For ten points, name this abandoned tribute to the Bolshevik Revolution designed by Vladimir Tatlin.	Answer:	Monument to the Third International26.	Construction on it was begun by Professor William E. Gordon of Cornell, who hoped to use it to study the ionosphere. Currently the home of the National Astronomy and Ionosphere Center, it is operated jointly between Cornell and the NSF, its main purpose now is the observation of stellar objects. The first observatory to directly image an asteroid and responsible for revising the period of orbit of Mercury to 59 days, for ten points, name this radio telescope, the largest radio telescope ever constructed.	Answer:	Arecibo Observatory
BONI - GEORGIA TECH A			Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Stephen Webb1.	Your packet author listed this under anthropology, but your genial quizmaster shifted it to cover the history category.  Answer the following about American Indian tribes for ten points each.(a) Navajo for "Ancient Ones," this prehistoric tribe of the Four Corners region is responsible for the adobe and sandstone dwellings in cliff walls preserved at Mesa Verde National Park.	Answer:	Anasazi(b) This Native American nation is traditionally divided into clans, with the Bear Clan being the most prominent. Located mostly on their reservation in northeastern Arizona, surrounded by the Navajo reservation.	Answer:	Hopi(c) One of the Five Civilized Tribes, the Seminole are a branch of this tribe that migrated to Florida, they experienced a civil war from 1813-1814 inspired by Tecumseh.	Answer:	Creek2.	Given the year and the reason they won, name the early Nobel Prize winning physicist FTPE.(a) 1910, for his equation of state for gases and liquids.	Answer:	Johannes Diderik van der Waals(b) 1933, for the discovery of new productive forms of atomic theory, specifically the development of quantum mechanics. We will take either of the two correct answers	Answer:	Erwin Schrödinger or Paul Adrien Maurice Dirac(c) 1906, for discovering the electron.	Answer:	Joseph John Thomson3.	It's football season again, and that means that you get a football season bonus. As of October 12, given the category name the NFL league leader for ten points each.  If you need the team, you'll get only five points each.(a) 10 pts.: Rushing yards, with 577.  But that's only #1 because previous leader Priest Holmes had a bye last week.       5 pts.: New York Giants	Answer:	Tiki Barber(b) 10 pts.: Sacks, with 7. We'll accept either of the co-leaders.       5 pts.: One plays for the Falcons, the other for the Saints.	Answer:	either Patrick Kerney or Charles Grant(c) 10 pts.: Touchdown passes, with 14.        5 pts.: Indianapolis Colts.	Answer:	Peyton Manning4.	Name the Shakespeare play from a brief synopsis of what happened for ten points each. Yes, the goal is to make this bonus as dry and boring as most of his work.(a) The title character finds himself broke, and as Apemantus predicted, his friends turned on him. The title character finds gold, as well as has a run-in with Alcibiades.	Answer:	Timon of Athens(b) Presumably written with George Wilkins, the title character infuriates King Antiochus for guessing that he has an incestuous love for his daughter, and is forced to leave his own kingdom, and eventually marries Thaisa before the plot continues to drag on.	Answer:	Pericles, Prince of Tyre(c) To break with all this Greek stuff, this play is about how Bassanio finances his journey to marry Portia by having Antonio borrow money from that crazy Jew Shylock.	Answer:	The Merchant of Venice5.	Identify the following people who contributed to the study of folklore by the works they penned for ten points each.(a) The Golden Bough	Answer:	Sir James George Frazer(b) Mabinogion (the first person to translate into English)	Answer:	Lady Charlotte Guest(c) Kalevala	Answer:	Elias Lönnrot
6.	Yeah, name the Greek philosopher from a description for ten points each.(a) His pupil Anaximander offered up the theory of the apeiron in contrast to this man's assertion that water was the basic unit of all things.	Answer:	Thales(b) Founder of the Eleatic school, this philosopher's surviving works include On Nature and the Way of Truth, he is quoted as saying "nothing comes from nothing" and is the subject of a Platonic dialogue.	Answer:	Parmenides(c) Considered the last Greek philosopher to write in verse, works include On Nature and Purifications. Believing himself divine from his knowledge, he hurled himself into Mount Etna to prove this, and promptly died.	Answer:	Empedocles7.	Because I hate biology, I'm going to write the biology question early. FTPE:(a) There are three basic steps in this process. First, the target genetic material must be denatured, using heat to unwind the strands of its helix. The second is hybridization or annealing, in which the primers bind to their complementary bases on the now single-stranded DNA. The third is DNA synthesis by an enzyme of the namesake type.  FTP name the process.	Answer:	PCR or polymerase chain reaction(b) This royal prick and Georgia Tech alumnus received the 1993 Nobel Prize for developing the process of polymerase chain reaction.	Answer:	Kary Mullis(c) The key to the process's automation is polymerase from this bacterium, which is found in hot springs and is thus impervious to the rapidly fluctuating temperatures of automated PCR.	Answer:	Taq or Thermus aquaticus8.	Identify the following ancient civilizations from the region of Anatolia for ten points each.(a) This ancient kingdom was the origin of the Great Mother Cybele, and had its capital at Gordium.	Answer:	Phrygia(b) Responsible for signing the Treaty of Kadesh with Egypt, the earliest surviving treaty in history, this empire was displaced by the Phrygians, who either took an active role in the fall of their capital at Hattusa, or merely moved in after their demise.	Answer:	Hittite(s)(c) The expansions of Alyattes and Croesus led this kingdom to the status of an imperial power, centered at Sardis, and became the first kingdom to mint coins. Croesus was defeated by Cyrus in 548 BC, and this kingdom passed into the hands of Persia.	Answer:	Lydia 9.	Name the French author from works for ten points each.(a) The Barber of Seville and The Marriage of Figaro	Answer:	Pierre-Augustin Caron de Beaumarchais(b) Cyrano de Bergerac	Answer:	Edmond Eugéne Alexis Rostand(c) Le Cid and Medée	Answer:	Pierre Corneille10.	Indonesia has a lot of islands. Identify the following for the stated number of points each.(5) The sixth largest island in the world by size, this island is separated from the Malay Peninsula by the Straits of Malacca, and is the westernmost of the islands.	Answer:	Sumatra(5,5) F5P name the island to the southeast of Sumatra, separated from it by the Sunda Strait, and for another 5 points name the national capital located on said island.	Answer:	Java and Jakarta(5,10) This volcano on an island in the Sunda strait erupted on August 26, 1883, causing tsunamis that killed some 36,000 people. For five points, name the volcano, and for another ten name the island it is on.	Answer:	Krakatoa and Rakata
11.	Name the composer from works for ten points each.(a) I Pagliacci	Answer:	Ruggiero Leoncavallo(b) The Cunning Little Vixen	Answer:	Leo? Janá?ek(c) The Carnival of the Animals	Answer:	Camille Saint-Saëns12.	The first one was the first time war was declared under the United States Constitution, and they began when, on the day of Jefferson's inauguration, the pasha of Tripoli demanded $225,000 from the new administration. FTPE:(a) Name this series of wars against pirate states of North Africa.	Answer:	Barbary Wars(b) In October of 1803 the Philadelphia was captured intact, but a small contingent of sailors on the Intrepid led by this man succeeded in invading Tripoli harbor and destroying the ship, denying its use to the enemy.	Answer:	Stephen Decatur, Jr.(c) Those damn Barbary pirates took up their old practices during the War of 1812, so the Second Barbary War broke out in 1815, and this time Decatur led the forces sent with this rank.	Answer:	Commodore13.	Identify the following people who contributed to set theory for ten points each.(a) This man's "paradox" led to the abandoning of early set theory for a more axiomatic approach, as he asked about "the set of all sets that do not contain themselves" in 1901.	Answer:	Bertrand Russell(b) The father of early set theory, he was responsible for determining that there are different sizes of infinity, and proved that the set of all rational numbers was countable, but that the set of reals is not.	Answer:	Georg Ferdinand Ludwig Philipp Cantor(c) Considered to be the father of modern analysis, he along with Bolzano developed a theorem regarding bounded subsets, and also developed a function that is continuous everywhere but differentiable nowhere.	Answer:	Karl Theodor Wilhelm Weierstraß [that last thing is pronounced like a double S]14.	Damn Beatniks. Name them from works for ten points each.(a) Naked Lunch	Answer:	William Seward Burroughs(b) A Coney Island of the Mind	Answer:	Lawrence Ferlinghetti(c) Happy Birthday of Death	Answer:	Gregory Nunzio Corso15.	Nobel Prizes in Chemistry from works for ten points each.(a) 1908, for his study of the disintegration of the elements, and the chemistry of radioactive substances.	Answer:	Sir Ernest Rutherford(b) 1936, for his studies of the dipole moment and the diffraction of X-rays and electrons in gas.	Answer:	Petrus Josephus Wilhelmus Debye(c) 1920, for his work in thermochemistry, which includes a postulate regarding entropy at zero temperature.	Answer:	Walther Hermann Nernst16.	Identify the following standard quizbowl references from clues for ten points each.(a) This open-source on-line encyclopedia is working on 365,810 articles as of this writing, and was begun in January of 2001.  Your genial quizmaster has discovered only one error so far, since corrected, regarding the U.S.S. Clamagore.	Answer:	wikipedia(b) The author of this literary reference work, first published in 1948, won the 1942 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry for The Dust Which Is God.  That still leaves him one Pulitzer short of his kid brother's total.	Answer:	Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia [prompt on just Benet's; accept just Reader's Encyclopedia](c) A work of Frank Magill, it provides summaries of some 1801 major literary works, and can be purchased in a condensed form of one volume rather than the twelve volume complete work.	Answer:	Masterplots  
17.	Had enough Nobel Prize winning science for one round?  OK, then, fine.  Name the Nobel Prize winning authors from works for ten points each.(a) The Pianist	Answer:	Elfriende Jelinek(b) And Quiet Flows the Don	Answer:	Mikhail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov(c) The Magician of Lublin and Satan in Goray	Answer:	Isaac Bashevis Singer18.	Name the artist from works for ten points each.(a) Monument to the Third International	Answer:	Vladimir Tatlin(b) Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks	Answer:	Claes Oldenburg(c) Man Walking, Woman with Her Throat Cut	Answer:	Alberto Giacometti19.	Answer the following about disarmament treaties involving the US for ten points each.(a) Signed in 1817, this treaty between the US and UK disarmed the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain.	Answer:	Rush-Bagot Treaty(b) From 1921 to 1922 this first disarmament conference was held, which excluded the Soviet Union, but resulted in the Nine-Power and Five-Power Treaty, restricting the rate of naval build-up with the involved nations.	Answer:	Washington Naval Conference(c) An extension of the Washington Naval Conference, this treaty involved the US, UK, Japan, France and Italy was signed in 1930 and restricted the use of submarine warfare and military shipbuilding.	Answer:	London Naval Treaty or Treaty for the Limitation and Reduction of Naval Armament20.	Answer the following about those filthy Jacobites and their failed efforts to restore the Stuarts for ten points each.(a) Taking place just outside the town of Drogheda, this skirmish saw the Protestants under William III defeat forces led by James II, symbolically marking the beginning of Protestant rule over Ireland, on July 1, 1690.	Answer:	Battle of the Boyne(b) The last battle to be fought on English soil, the Jacobite Uprising of 1715 was crushed by the Hanoverian forces at this town in Lancashire.	Answer:	Battle of Preston(c) In 1692, after Alaister Maclain, the chief of the namesake region, refused to swear allegiance to William III after supporting the Jacobite uprising, resulting in English forces killing some 80 men while the rest of the town escaped as the reinforcements for the English were late arriving.	Answer:	Massacre of Glencoe21.	His A Defense of Culture argued that the emperor was the source of Japanese culture, and created his own private army, the Tatenokai, or Shield Society, to protect the emperor. For ten points each:(a) Name this Japanese novelist, who committed ritual suicide in 1970 having been thrice nominated for the Nobel prize.	Answer:	Yukio Mishima(b) This 1948 Mishima work, about a latent homosexual who must hide behind the title object to fit into society, is considered to be highly biographical.	Answer:	Confessions of a Mask(c) This set of four works, that concluded in 1970 with The Decay of the Angel includes the works Spring Snow, Runaway Horses and The Temple of Dawn.	Answer:	The Sea of Fertility Tetralogy22.	In a move both straightforward and loopy, answer the following about the Nile for ten points each.(a) This lake in Uganda is widely regarded as the source of the Nile.	Answer:	Lake Victoria(b) The Blue Nile springs from this lake in the Ethiopian highlands, and then weaves to join the White Nile to form "the Nile."	Answer:	Lake Tana(c) The While Nile and Blue Nile form the Nile at this city.	Answer:	Khartoum23. Name the following about the Nobel Prize in Physics for this year for the stated number of points each.(a) For five points each, name the three men who won, one from UC Santa Barbara, one from Cal Tech, and the third from MIT.	Answer:	David Gross, David Politzer and Frank Wilczek(b) For ten points, they won the Nobel for their collective work on asymptotic freedom of what fundamental force?	Answer:	strong force(c) For five, the strong nuclear force is mediated by this type of boson.	Answer:	gluons24. Name the treaties leading up to World War II for ten points each.(a) This April 16, 1922 treaty between the Weimar Republic and Bolshevist Russia renounced all territorial and financial claims following the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.	Answer:	Treaty of Rapallo(b) Named for the foreign ministers of the USSR and Germany, this 1939 treaty pledged that neither side would attack the other in the event of war.	Answer:	Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact(c) Written after the British Empire devolved, it established the British Commonwealth out of the newly independent states in 1931.	Answer:	Treaty of Westminster25. USC is just obscene they're so good. Identify the following players on the USC football team for ten points each.(a) Their starting quarterback, at the time of writing he has thrown for 8 TDs and 1 interception for a quarterback rating of 157.9.	Answer:	Matt Leinart(b) Second on the USC team for both rushing yards and receiving yards is this man, with seven combined touchdowns between the two.	Answer:	Reggie Bush(c) Reggie Bush is, as of writing, five total rushing yards behind this man, who has 5 rushing TDs.	Answer:	LenDale White