TOSSUPS - FLORIDA C	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Florida C with some from Carleton and Missouri-Rolla1) This is 1.2 kilometers in diameter, 570 feet deep, and anywhere from 15000 to 40000 years old.  The edge is 150 feet above the surrounding ground.  In 1891 the chief geologist for the U.S. Geological Survey concluded it must have been formed by volcanic action, even though no volcanic rocks had ever been found near it, and it took the failed mining efforts of the person for whom this feature is now named to convince scientists of its meteoric origin.  For 10 points identify this Arizona location, the best-preserved and first-proven meteorite impact site.	Answer:	(Barringer) Meteor Crater2) Privately built in 1863 by Park and Lyons of Mobile, Alabama, this Confederate submarine made a daring late night attack on the USS Housatonic in Charleston Harbor off the coast of South Carolina, by ramming it with a harpoon torpedo, backing off, and detonating the charges in the torpedo. The explosion sank both vessels, but the sub earned its place in history as the first submarine to sink a ship in wartime. For ten points, name it.	Answer:	H. L. Hunley       3) In mid-September 2002 a block of public lavatories in the resort of Santa Teresa Riva was named after Ecuador's Bryon Moreno, whose performance as referee in the second round included disallowing a golden goal, turning down a penalty claim and sending off star Italian player Francesco Totti.  Many believed his incompetence eventually led to Italy's loss to co-hosting country South Korea in, for 10 points, what international soccer competition?	Answer:	the 2002 World Cup  [prompt on early buzz naming either team]4) The Florida record for one of these is 612 pounds, 4 ounces, but overfishing has reduced the average size of commercially caught specimens to 48 inches.  They are highly migratory and found worldwide in temperate and tropic waters from the surface down to depths of 400 to 500 fathoms, and reach top swimming speeds of 60 mph.  Class Osteichthyes, order Perciformes, suborder Scombroidei, genus Xiphias, species gladius.  For 10 points this describes what kind of popular sport fish closely related to the marlin?	Answer:	Swordfish5) Not even the real name of the author of this work known.  Murasaki was scathingly critical of this work, although it appears that Murasaki borrowed imagery from this work for her own.  It is written in a style that was probably very common amongst literary men and women in Heian Japan in which stray thoughts and impressions were recorded, the work is made up of about 320 separate sections.  FTP name this work by Sei Shonagon.      Answer:	The Pillow Book or Makura no Sôshi6) In March 1973 President Nixon promised Golda Meir 48 U.S. Phantom jets to be delivered over a four-year period.  This made Egyptian President Anwar Sadat convinced that only another war could regain the territories lost in the 1967.  Syria was to attack the Golan Heights while Egypt was to strike Israeli troops near the Suez Canal.  However, only 17 days later, Israel managed to encircle the Egyptian 3rd army and advance more than halfway to Damascus.  For 10 points name this conflict which started on October 6th, 1973 on the holy day of Jewish atonement.         Answer:	 Yom Kippur War7) A group starts by playing the original theme once in unison, taking turns improvising on the theme's chords, and finishing with the main theme again.  Material was taken from popular songs of the time, but with emphasis on virtuoso technique and complex harmony rather than singable melodies.  Performers have included Miles Davis, Fats Navarro, Thelonius Monk, and Dizzy Gillespie.  For 10 points identify this jazz movement pioneered by Charlie "Bird" Parker.	Answer:	bebop8) Actions ought to be done for the sake of morality, states this work.  Unfortunately, if this is true, the author tells us that then no man is moral as there will always be some other ulterior motive.  Also, in the work is the universal maxim principle, or the categorical imperative, which is a reformulation of the Golden Rule.  It also greatly expresses the need for upholding certain moral duties such as life and truth and that no person should ever be used as a means to and end.  For 10 points name this breakthrough work in moral philosophy by Immanuel Kant.Answer:	 Grounding for the Metaphysics of Morals 
9) He developed an analysis that can be thought of as the opposite of superposition.  Trying to decide between religion and mathematics, his life was further complicated by joining the local Revolutionary Committee in 1793 France.  Working closely with Biot, Poisson, Laplace, Carnot, and even with Napoleon for some time, he eventually developed a set of theories that served as an impetus for trigonometric function development.  For 10 points name this French mathematician who developed an analysis of wave motions to break any wave into constituent smaller waves.  Answer:	 Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier10) This novel is written entirely in dialogue format, except for several footnotes by the author, which give information on old films as well as differing theories of homosexuality.  Molina, a homosexual, shares his jail cell with the revolutionary Valentine in Argentina, although no scene takes place outside of the prison.  To pass the time, Molina recalls all of the old movies he has seen and the friendship between the two grows.  For ten points name this novel by Manuel Puig, which was adapted into a movie featuring Raul Julia and William Hurt.       Answer:	 Kiss of the Spider Woman  (El Beso de Mujer Arana)11) The ancient capital of Hue was taken and held for over a month.  More than 100 other cities and towns were attacked simultaneously.  President Johnson's approval rating dropped to an all-time low of 30 % after this event.  Commenced in February of 1968, Saigon and the US embassy were penetrated, dealing a huge psychological defeat to Americans in the war.  For 10 points name this major rush in the Vietnam War that coincided with a Vietnamese holiday.       Answer:	  The Tet Offensive       12) In 1986 C.E. a cruise sets forth from Guayaquil for an island group off the South American coast.  On board are four Americans, one of whom is posing as a Canadian, two Japanese and their pocket supercomputer, a German Ecuadorian, four stowaways belonging to a native tribe, and of course a dog.   There is also an omniscient disembodied narrator who puts stars before the names of those who are about to die.  The ship is wrecked and over the next million years the human race gets reinvented.  For ten points, the above spoils the plot of which 1985 book by Kurt Vonnegut?	Answer:	Galápagos13) He is described as being so tall that his hundred heads touched the stars, with snakes coiling from his lower limbs, and lava pouring from his mouths. So terrible was he that initially all the gods were frightened away until Zeus finally took a stand against him.  FTP name this monster whom Zeus eliminated by causing Mount Aetna to fall and crush him.  	Answer:	Typhon14) It is based on Le Chatélier's principle, and was first stated by a German physicist in the mid-19th century.  He developed his namesake law based on independent experiments that were virtually the same as Faraday's and Henry's.  Still, he was the only to draw his conclusion and state that the direction of any magnetic induction effect is such as to oppose the cause producing it.  For 10 points give this law, the explanation for the negative sign in Faradays law.       Answer:	 Lenz's Law15) Among his projects were the Dhahran Air Terminal, the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency Head Office, and the Founder's Hall in Shiga Prefecture.  He became known for integrating cultural elements with modern structural systems.  In 1966 he was selected to work in conjunction with Emery Roth & Sons on a design containing nine million feet of office space in downtown Manhattan for the Port Authority of New York.  For 10 points identify this architect whose best-known work is probably the twin towers of the World Trade Center.	Answer:	Minoru Yamasaki (accept either name)16) Merton determined that this existed most severely in persons who lack acceptable means of achieving goals. First introduced in 1893, it comes in two types - a primitive mechanical form existing in less-developed societies, and organic, which comes into being as societies become more complex and specialized. For 10 points, name this social condition in which norms become unclear and confused, invented by Emile Durkheim. 	Answer:	anomie17) August 1999: The Summer Night.  August 2026: There Will Come Soft Rains.   February 2002: The Locusts.  February 2003: The Interim.  April 2026: The Long Years.  November 2005: The Off Season.  June 2001: And The Moon Be Still As Bright.  April 2005: Usher II.  April 2000: Third Expedition. January 1999: Rocket Summer.  September 2005: The Martian.  These are all from, FTP, which Ray Bradbury collection of short stories about colonizing the fourth planet?	Answer:	the Martian Chronicles
18) This person may have been the inspiration for Sinbad; like the fictional sailor, he made seven voyages over the course of 28 years.  Some 80 years before Columbus's first voyage, he was already exploring around India, the Persian Gulf, the Red Sea, Africa, and large areas of the West Pacific.  In 1985, during the 580th anniversary of his voyages, his tomb was rebuilt according to the customs of his religion, Islam.  FTP name this Chinese navigator who sailed for the Ming Dynasty.	Answer:	Cheng Ho (Zheng He)19) Developed in France in the 1890s, it was first produced commercially in the United States in 1910 by the American Viscose Company.  It is not synthetic, but rather it is prepared from wood pulp, giving it cotton-like characteristics.  It is commonly used in women's clothing, and was originally called "artificial silk."  FTP, what was the first manufactured fiber?	Answer:	Rayon20) Three months before being killed in a midair collision in December 1942, John Gillespie Magee Jr. wrote a poem during a test flight of the Spitfire V fighter and sent it to his parents.  The poem was included in a Library of Congress exhibition titled "Faith and Freedom" and was quoted by Ronald Reagan when eulogizing the Challenger 7 crew.  Today it is often cited and recognized as a moving description of the piloting experience.  For 10 points what is the title of the poem, whose first line starts, "Oh, I have slipped the surly bonds of earth...?"	Answer:	"High Flight"21) It gained independence from French-administered U.N. trusteeship on Jan. 1, 1960.  In 1997, President Paul Biya was reelected to office with 92.6% of the vote-which doesn't mean much when the opposition supporters were boycotting the elections.  For 10 points identify this republic, capital at Yaounde, which contains and shares its name with the highest mountain in sub-Saharan West Africa?	Answer:	Cameroon22) According to the Hebrew Kabbalah, each of these embodies certain concepts, ideas, and attributes to be meditated on in order to grasp intuitive insights about the Tree.  They include Kether or Supreme Crown, Binah or Intelligence, Chokmah or Wisdom, and Chesed or Love.  Self-realization occurs when the initiate realizes all of them within himself or herself.  For 10 points identify these ten emanations on the Tree of Life.	Answer:	Sephiroth23)  In 1974 this musician received a special Grammy for the liner notes he had written for a set of Hindemith sonatas.  His first and last recordings were both complete sets of the Goldberg Variations by J.S. Bach.  Most of his life was spent making records, after retiring completely from concert performance at the age of thirty-one.  Recording technology, he said, allowed the artist " the time and freedom to prepare his conception of a work to the best of his ability."  For 10 points name this reclusive Canadian pianist. 	Answer:	Glenn Gould24) This battle ended after six hours when a freak grenade hit the ammunition stash on the other side and exploded, forcing the rebels to retreat with the Royalists under General Félix María Calleja in pursuit.  The site can be freely accessed today by taking Federal Highway 80 from Guadalajara a few kilometers past Zapotlanejo, where the battlefield itself is marked by a large monument to Padre Miguel Hidalgo who led the Mexican rebels.  For 10 points, what was this January 1811 battle in the Mexican War for Independence?	Answer:	the Battle of Calderon Bridge (Batalla del Puente de Calderon) 
BONI - FLORIDA C		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Florida C with some from Carleton and Missouri-Rolla1.	Answer these related questions FTPEA. In the Proslogion, this Italian born, Benedectine English theologian of the 11th century argued that Since God is perfect, and being is more perfect than not being, God must exist.  Answer:	AnselmB. Unlike Anselm, he assumed God when he said "Beer is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy"Answer: Benjamin FranklinC.  This name is given to Anselm's argument for the Proof of God, and has been ridiculed to prove that beer exists. 1) Beer is defined as the being in which none greater is possible.  2) It is true that the notion of Beer exists in the understanding (your mind.)   and so on.  Answer: Ontological Argument for the Proof of (God, Beer)2.	By now you probably know that four elements are named for Ytterby, Sweden.  But wait - there's more!  FTPE answer these questions related to that elemental town:a)  This man, who analyzed the ore yttria and found it to be a composite of silica and some other earth metal, became only  the second man to have an element (specifically the one with atomic number 64) named after him.       Answer: 	Johan Gadolinb) A student of Berzelius, this Swedish chemist isolated erbium and terbium from yttria.       Answer: 	Carl Mosanderc) Besides the four named for Ytterby, that same ore yielded this fifth hitherto unknown element, which its isolator, Georges Urbain, named after the Latin name for his hometown.         Answer: 	Lutetium3.	Name these Cold Warriors for ten points apiece:--The Truman Secretary of State who made the statement at a press conference that Korea was "out of the sphere of US protection".  Six days later the Korean War started.       Answer:	Dean Acheson--The Kennedy Secretary of Defense who helped to develop the plan of "flexible response".  He argued for attacking during the Cuban Missile Crisis, when questioned on the inevitability of nuclear war he stated, "Well, calmer heads will prevail"       Answer:	Robert McNamara--The Senator who lost the election to President Johnson, ironically because he was painted as a warmonger.  Maybe it had something to do with being quoted as saying "Nuke them 'til they glow"...	Answer:	Barry Goldwater4.	Given a scenario, name the appropriate muse you would invoke for assistance, for 10 points each.-- You're going clubbin' and you want to look good on the dance floor.       Answer:	Terpsichore-- You're cramming for a history test.Answer:	Clio-- You are auditioning for Saturday Night Live.       Answer:	Thalia5.	For ten points each, name the following ancestors of Dan Quayle given brief clues:-- This ancestor of Quayle penned "The Courtship of Miles Standish."       Answer:	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow-- This 9th great-grandmother to Quayle is the subject of the abovementioned poem.       Answer:	Priscilla Mullins--This 5th great grandfather of Longfellow and 9th great grandfather of Dan Quayle wins over Mullins, much to the dismay of Miles Standish.       Answer:	John Alden
6.        In 1996 the U. S. women's gymnastics team won gold at the Olympics.   FTPE name the team members from clues.-- Though she had no previous Olympic experience, she was chosen to be the team captain       Answer:	Amanda Borden-- After a disappointing performance in the individual all-arounds, she went on to win America its first individual gold on the balance beam.       Answer:	Shannon Miller-- She was the only member of the team to compete in the '92 Olympics and the 2000 Olympics.       Answer:	Dominique Dawes       [AUTHOR'S NOTE:  P.S.  Kerri Strug sucks]7.	For 10 points, what term describes any one of the world's major ecological communities, consisting of the organisms who have adapted to live in a given region and climate?	Answer:	biomeFor another 10 points each, identify the following biomes:--The name comes from Finnish for treeless plain.  The coldest biome, it has very little precipitation, a short growing season, few nutrients, and low biological diversity.  	Answer:	tundra--The largest land biome on Earth, it is located in the northern parts of North America, Europe, and Asia.  Its name comes from a Russian word for marshy forest. 	Answer:	taiga8.	FTPE name the battles from the War of 1812 when given a description.(10) This January 8, 1815 battle was unnecessary, as the treaty of Ghent ending the war had been signed weeks earlier       Answer:	Battle of New Orleans(10) At this September 9, 1813 naval battle, the Americans under Oliver Hazard Perry forced the surrender of the British under Barclay       Answer:	The Battle of Lake Erie(10) The battle near present-day Detroit at which Tecumseh lost his life       Answer:	The Battle of the Thames9.	Name the Russian author given works on a 10-5 basis(10) On the Eve     (5) Fathers and Sons       Answer:	Ivan Turgenev     (10) The Idiot     (5) Crime and Punishment       Answer:	Fyodor Dostoevsky      (10) Sakhalin Island     (5) Three Sisters       Answer:	Anton Chekhov       10.	Given a national capital city, identify the river that runs through or beside it F5PE:A:  Buenos AiresAnswer:	La PlataB:  VientianeAnswer:	MekongC:  ViennaAnswer:	DanubeD:  BamakoAnswer:	NigerE:  DublinAnswer:	LiffeyF:  Washington, D.C.Answer:	accept either Potomac or Anacostia
11.	All these base are belong to you.  Answer the following about amino acids FTSNOP:a)  For five points apiece give the four nucleotides that make up DNA       Answer: 	adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymineb) For an additional ten points name the base that appears in RNA instead of thymine.	Answer:  	uracil12.	C. S. Lewis once said that he preferred his Chronicles of Narnia read chronologically according to storyline rather than publication date, with The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe being read second.  You have your choice: either you can answer the next three questions for 10 pts. each, or you can get the list of the six other titles in the series to choose from, and then only get 5 pts. per answer.  You must decide now which way to play it.       [READER: If they request titles, read this list to them: The Horse and His Boy, The Last Battle, The Magician's Nephew, Prince Caspian. The Silver Chair, The Voyage of the Dawn Treader]a) If they're read sequentially, which book would precede The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe?       Answer:	The Magician's Nephewb) Which book would immediately follow The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe?	 Answer:	The Horse and His Boyc)  The Last Battle would be, well, last.  Which book would immediately precede it?       Answer:	The Silver Chair13.	If you don't know any of these, we strongly recommend some independent research within the next week.  Name the Dire Straits song from lyrics, 5-10-20-30:  a)  We gotta install microwave ovens / Custom kitchen deliveries / We gotta move these refrigerators / We gotta move these color TV's        Answer:	Money for Nothingb)  A long time ago came a man on a track walking thirty miles with a pack on his back 	Answer:	Telegraph Roadc)  They don't give a damn about any trumpet playin' band / It ain't what they call rock 'n' roll 	Answer:	Sultans of Swingc)  He got the action, he got the motion / Yeah, the boy can play  	Answer:	Walk of Life14.	Answer the following about historical roadways for ten points each.a) The oldest and most celebrated highway of the Roman Republic, it was built in 312 BC and parts are still in use today. Over 350 miles long, it was the main route to Greece.						       Answer:	The Appian Way or Via Appiab) Historians date its origin to the second century BC; commerce persisted until the early sixteenth century when ocean trade superseded trade on land. It linked Europe, Persia and western Asia, Central Asia, and China.	Answer:	The Silk Roadc) About 2000 miles long, it extended from Independence, Missouri, to the Columbia River in its namesake state. Originally used by Native Americans and trappers, many settlers used it to move west.	       Answer:	The Oregon Trail15.	Ripping open one's own abdomen with a 10-inch blade is generally an unpleasant experience.  Answer the following about seppuku FTPE:a) What is the other, often mispronounced term for seppuku that means literally "belly-cutting"?	Answer:	hara-kiri     (not hari-kari!!)b) Name the short knife traditionally used in seppuku.	Answer:	tantoc) Name the Japanese author of Confessions of a Mask and "The Boy Who Wrote Poetry" who committed seppuku in November 1970 after taking the head of a local military base as hostage.	Answer:	Yukio Mishima16.	There are four different equations that make up Maxwell's equations, each named for someone other than Maxwell.  5-10-20-30, name them.       Answer:	 Gauss's Law, Gauss's Law for magnetism, Ampere's law, Faraday's law
17.	For ten points each, answer the following.a) This sculptor lived in Greece in the 4th century B.C. One of his most famous works is a statue of Hermes carrying a baby Dionysus to the nymphs that will raise him.			       Answer:	Praxitelesb) Name the 15th century Italian painter known for "Primavera" and "Birth of Venus"			       Answer:	Allessandro Botticellic) Born in 1624 in Normandy, this painter's works include "Rape of the Sabine Women" and "The Triumph of Neptune and Amphitrite" 			Answer:		Nicolas Poussin18.	Identify the work from clues 30-20-10.(30) The book opens with two quotes, one from the Bible, specifically Ecclesiastes.  "You are all a lost generation" attributed to Gertrude Stein is the other.(20) First published in 1926, the book opens with the lines "Robert Cohn was once a middleweight boxing champion Princeton.  Do not think that I am very much impressed by that as a boxing title, but it meant a lot to Cohn."(10) This Hemingway novel features Jake Barnes and Brett Ashley in an age of moral bankruptcy of 1920's Europe.  The title comes from that quote in Ecclesiastes.   Answer:	The Sun Also Rises19.	For ten points each, name the following battles of World War I.a) Occurring in the last two weeks of August 1914, this battle ended the French hope of driving deep into Alsace and Lorraine in order to advance into the center of Germany.				Answer:	Battle of the Frontiersb) From August 26 to August 30 the German Eighth Army, which had been sped southward by railway, overwhelmed and virtually destroyed the Russian Second Army. 			Answer:	Battle of Tannenbergc) This September 6 battle destroyed the German war plan for a quick and decisive victory over France. 				Answer:	First Battle of the Marne20) For 10 points each answer the following:--Identify this photographer who between 1944-58 won three Guggenheim Fellowship grants to photograph the national parks and was responsible for developing zone exposure to get maximum tonal range from black-and-white film.	Answer:	Ansel Adams--With Edward Weston and Imogene Cunningham, Ansel Adams was one of the founding members of which photography group with a name derived from a diaphragm number of the camera lens?	Answer:	f/64--Name the 1944 photo essay at the Museum of Modern Art where Adams documented conditions in wartime internment camps.	Answer:	Born Free and Equal21. Given the device, tell whether it should be hooked up in parallel, series, or other for ten points each.--Voltmeter				Answer:	 parallel-Ammeter				Answer:	 series--Ohmeter:				Answer:	 parallel22.	Given a definition of one of MSN Encarta's "10 Words You Simply Must Know", name the word FTPE:	a) First digit on the foot, big toe.						Answer:	Hallux	b) Places at opposite sides of the world, opposites.			Answer:	Antipodes	c) The study of waste materials.						Answer:	Garbology23.	30-20-10: name the composer from works(30) Trois Romances sans Paroles, Op. 17(20) Masques et bergamasques, four-movement orchestral suite - Op. 112(10) Après un rêve, Op. 7, No. 1	Answer:	Gabriel Fauré