TOSSUPS - WOFFORD			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Wofford College and your genial quizmaster1.	The horse thief and murderer John Murrell apparently had an island headquarters situated on it.  Its lesser-known tributaries include the Big Sunflower, St. Francis, Rock, and Kaskaskia, as well as the White, the Black, and the Red.  Navigable all the way downstream from the Falls of St. Anthony, its present channel is preserved by the Old River Control Structure, an engineering project designed to keep its main channel from shifting to the Atchafalaya.  Strictly speaking, it is about 225 miles shorter than its longest tributary, the Missouri.  FTP name this major American waterway whose discovery by Europeans is credited to Hernando de Soto.  	Answer:	Mississippi River2.	Its natural sulfate is the mineral celestite, while its hydroxide is used in refining beet sugar.  This group two element has three allotropic crystalline forms and is softer than calcium in its solid state.  Salts of this silvery-white element can be used to generate a red color in pyrotechnics.  It has 12 unstable isotopes; the one with an atomic mass of 90 is a major health risk in fallout.  FTP name this alkali earth metal with atomic number 38.	Answer:	 Strontium 3.	His nonfiction includes an account of his father's death, Patrimony: A True Story. Although he has lived more than 30 years in the Connecticut countryside, several of his novels are set in his native Newark, NJ.  He recently became the youngest living author to be given solo billing in the Library of America.  His breakthrough 1969 novel was banned in Australia and attacked by scholar Gershom Scholem as the "book for which all anti-Semites have been praying."  FTP name this author of The Human Stain, American Pastoral, and Portnoy's Complaint.	Answer:	Philip Roth4.	Schopenhauer described his work as "the height of audacity in serving up pure nonsense, in stringing together senseless and extravagant mazes of words, such as had been only previously known in madhouses." Perhaps because his work was so hard to understand, some followers advocated political and social orthodoxy, while others were influenced in more revolutionary directions.  He was convinced that Kant did not represent the final word in philosophical matters because it was impossible to conceive a unified theory of reality.  FTP name this German idealist, author of the Philosophy of Right and Phenomenology of Spirit.	Answer:	 Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel5.	He served as vice-president for two different presidents, but then left that office to take a seat in the Senate.  He felt that as a senator he could more effectively represent his the interests of his home state, which had recently provoked a crisis with the federal government when it acted on his theory of nullification and declared the federal tariff null and void.  FTP name this South Carolinian, whom one of the presidents he served under, Andrew Jackson, supposedly threatened to hang.	Answer:	John C. Calhoun6.	Science Verse. Baloney. Squids Will Be Squids. Math Curse. The Book That Jack Wrote. The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales. These are all titles written by this man in collaboration with illustrator Lane Smith.  FTP name this award-winning author of the children's books The True Story of the Three Little Pigs and the Time Warp Trio series.	Answer:	Jon Scieszka [rhymes with "Fresca", but be lenient on pronunciation]7.	Occurring during either spermatogenesis or oogenesis ("oh-oh-genesis"), this occurs when both members of a chromosome pair go into the same daughter cell or gamete.  The less common result is monosomy, seen in humans in Turner's syndrome, while the more common trisomy can lead to Patau, Warkany, Edward's, or Down Syndrome.  FTP name this failure of homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids to separate and go to different cells during meiosis.	Answer:	nondisjunction or aneuploidy; also accept either monosomy or trisomy until each is said
8.	He died before finishing the fourth volume to go with Fruitfulness, Labor, and Truth in his socialistic tetralogy Four Gospels.  His best-known novels were in the 20-volume series Les Rougon-Macquart, including The Dram Shop, Germinal, and Nana.  But today he may be most famous for the 1898 editorial in which he charges high French military leaders with conspiring against a fellow officer and failing to recognize the true traitor.  FTP name this author, who defended Alfred Dreyfuss in his letter J'accuse.	Answer:	Emile Zola9.	At age 15 he exhibited his first watercolor at the Royal Academy of Arts, and he was elected an associate of the academy in 1799 and a full member three years later. He achieved vibrant representations of forces such as the strength of the sea and the rhythm of rain by rendering objects as indistinct masses within a glowing haze of color in such works as The Approach to Venice and Crossing the Brook.  FTP name this English landscape painter, better known for painting a scene of a steam locomotive with shimmering effects of light in Rain, Steam, and Speed-The Great Western Railway.	Answer:	J[oseph]. M[allord]. W[illiam]. Turner10.	Now called Navpaktos, it lay near the mouth of the Gulf of Patras.  G. K. Chesterton wrote an epic poem about it, and a fine Spanish brandy is named for it.  The victorious commander was Don Juan of Austria, leading a fleet organized by a "Holy League." While it did not shift the balance of power on land, it did even the scales by preventing Ottoman naval control of the Mediterranean as well.  Miguel de Cervantes was wounded in, FTP, what naval battle of 1571?	Answer:	Lepanto11.	Though he was born in Michigan, English was a second language; Swedish was his first.  Friends and colleagues at California- Berkeley included Ernest O. Lawrence and Robert Oppenheimer.  He also did plutonium work for the Manhattan Project at the University of Chicago's Metallurgical Laboratory.   One of the youngest winners of the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1951 at age 39, he co-discovered many of the transuranic elements, including californium and curium, and lived long enough to see element 106 named after him. FTP name this former Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission and co-discoverer of plutonium.  	Answer:	Glenn T.  Seaborg12.	His memoir was titled All in One Lifetime.  Like Strom Thurmond, whom he succeeded as governor of South Carolina, he later switched to the GOP in opposition to desegregation.  That governorship was after he'd served in the House during World War I, the Senate during the Great Depression, and the Supreme Court during World War II.  He left the Court in 1942 to direct war mobilization for FDR, later becoming Secretary of State before a falling-out with Truman.  FTP name this man, commonly known as FDR's "assistant president."	Answer:	James F. Byrnes13.	In his Julius Exclusus, Pope Julius II is denied entrance at the gates of heaven because of his earthly warfare.  Yet he remained a Catholic priest and attacked Luther's doctrine of predestination in On the Freedom of the Will.  Other notable works included Adagia and Manual of the Christian Knight.  FTP name this Dutch humanist, author of The Praise of Folly. 	Answer:	Desiderius Erasmus14.	It is the namesake of a golf resort illogically located in Plymouth, Indiana.  Commissioned by Vladimir Petrovich Begichev, it was revised after the composer's death by his brother Modest [moe-DEST] and the conductor Riccardo Drigo.  As a conceit to the prima ballerina Pierina Legnani, one dancer takes the twin roles of the impostor Odile and the heroine Odette, who has been transformed by the evil sorcerer von Rothbart into the titular animal.  FTP name this ballet by Peter Tchiakovsky.	Answer:	Swan Lake (if they say Lebedinoe Ozero, they're just showing off but give 'em 10 pts. anyway)15.	The worship of him, celebrated in a midsummer festival, is considered analogous to the cults of the Phrygian Attis and the Babylonian Tammuz; some believe he was also exported to Germanic myth as Balder.  According to Ovid, he was the offspring of his mother's incestuous tryst with her own father, Cinyras, king of Cyprus.  He was born even as his mother turned into the myrrh tree for her crime.  Also claimed by Persephone after he was killed by a boar, FTP name this famous consort of Aphrodite, considered the paragon of masculine beauty.	Answer:	Adonis 
16.	They can be defined as the stationary solutions of the circular restricted three-body problem.  The first three are points of unstable equilibrium, easily disrupted by any disturbance.  The other two, sometimes called the Trojan ones, lie along the orbit of the secondary around the primary, sixty degrees ahead of and behind the secondary.  Named for the 18th century mathematician who proposed them, they are stable because centrifugal pseudoforces cancel out gravity.  FTP give the collective name for the five points in space where a small object can remain stationary relative to two larger celestial bodies.	Answer:	Lagrange or Lagrangian points [accept L-points; accept libration point before "named for...]17.	He directed and starred in a film known as either Dance of the Vampires or The Fearless Vampire Killers, or Pardon Me, But Your Teeth Are in My  Neck.  He brings a voyeuristic and dark style to his films, such as The Tenant, Chinatown, and Rosemary's Baby.  He has said his greatest regret was not being at home while his wife and friends were murdered.  FTP name this 2002 Oscar-winning director of the film The Pianist.	Answer:	Roman Polanski18.	It chose not to exploit the populace along its way, in adherence to the Eight Points of Attention.  As Nationalist troops besieged the soviet base in Jiangxi province, about 90,000 soldiers broke through in several installments, the first led by Fang Zhimin.  They headed west toward Guizhou province where, at the Zunyi Conference, they chose Mao Zedong as their leader.  He chose to take them to join the soviet in Shaanxi province, with about 20,000 making it all the way to Yan'an.  FTP name this journey of about 6,000 miles undertaken by the Red Army of China in 1934-35.	Answer:	the Long March or Changzheng19.	It contains the line, "Saintliness is also a temptation."  Its author played up the conflict between the title character's close relationship with the Norman king and his Saxon roots, only to learn later that one of his sources was in error and the title character was really a Norman.  Unlike The Lion in Winter, it depicts Eleanor of Aquitaine as more whiny than strong, but like The Lion in Winter the film version had Henry II played by Peter O'Toole.  FTP name this Tony Award-winning play by Jean Anouilh about Henry's friend-turned-rival, the Archbishop of Canterbury.	Answer:	Becket, or the Honor of God20.	Those who died of this disease included Jean-Baptiste Lully, Ponce de Leon, Allan Pinkerton, and possibly King Tutankhamun. Caused by the infection of a wound by the endospores of Clostridium perfringens, it results in the destruction of adjacent tissue and has been a problem in battlefield hospitals.  The most common treatment for this condition is the amputation of the necrotic tissue.  FTP give the common name for this bacterial disease.    	Answer:	gangrene21. Guillaume Apollinaire and Pablo Picasso were both taken in for questioning after it was stolen from the Louvre in 1911. Elton John paired its name with a character from Lewis Carroll's world in a song from the album "Honky Chateau."  It was also the title of the chart-topping and Oscar-winning song from the film, Captain Carey, USA, the most well-known version of which is by Nat King Cole.  Some have said this work could be a self-portrait. FTP name this painting by Leonardo da Vinci, also called La Gioconda.	Answer:	Mona Lisa [accept La Gioconda before "its name"; prompt thereafter till it's said]22.	Born in Ohio in 1843, he served in the Union Army during the Civil War.  He was first elected to Congress at the age of 34, and while serving in the House he became the leading Republican tariff expert, giving his name to the measure enacted in 1890.  He twice defeated William Jennings Bryan for the presidency, and became the third president in less than 40 years to die from an assassin's bullet.  FTP name this last president of the 19th century.	Answer:	William McKinley 23. This artist was featured in a song by They Might Be Giants, and co-founded the exhibition society "The Twenty."  His works include Christ's Entry into Brussels and the morbidly prophetic My Portrait in 1960, painted in 1888.  FTP name this Belgian painter, printmaker, and draftsman.	Answer:	 James Ensor
BONI - WOFFORD			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Wofford College and your genial quizmaster1.	FTPE, given the description, name the literary work set mostly or entirely in the city of New Orleans.  You'll receive 5 points if you need the author.A. 10 points: Having suffered a tremendous personal loss, an 18th-century Louisiana plantation owner named Louis Pointe du Lac descends into an alcoholic stupor and is persuaded to become a member of the undead.       5 points: Anne Rice	Answer:	Interview with the Vampire [grudgingly accept "a" rather than "the" - many sources err]B. 10 points: A 30-year-old medievalist lives at home with his mother in New Orleans, pens his magnum opus on Big Chief writing pads he keeps hidden under his bed, and relays to anyone who will listen the traumatic experience he once had on a Greyhound Scenicruiser bound for Baton Rouge.       5 points: John Kennedy Toole	Answer:	A Confederacy of DuncesC. 10 points: This collection of short prose pieces was originally published in the New Orleans Time Picayune and the Double Dealer in 1925, and represent this future Nobel Prize winner's first serious commitment to fiction, completed while he was living and working in the French Quarter.       5 points: William Faulkner	Answer:	New Orleans Sketches2. Name these female abolitionists FTPE:Upon meeting her in 1862, Abraham Lincoln allegedly said, "So you're the little woman who wrote the book that started this great war!"	Answer:	Harriet Beecher StoweBorn into a wealthy slave-holding family in South Carolina, these two sisters named Sarah and Angelina campaigned against the iniquities of slavery.	Answer:	GrimkéWhen this Quaker went to the World Anti-Slavery Conference in London in 1840, she and other female delegates were denied their seats and consigned to the balcony.  It was there that she met Elizabeth Cady Stanton, with whom she later organized the Seneca Falls Convention.	Answer:	Lucretia [Coffin] Mott 3.	FTPE name these video games that are contenders for all those different Game of the Year 2005 awards:A) The only problems that critics find in this game are its short length and its repetitiveness.  You play as Kratos trying to get revenge on Ares, the title character, in this highly action-packed game exclusively for the Playstation 2.	Answer:	 God of WarB) In currently the best reviewed game of 2005, Leon S. Kennedy investigates the kidnapping of the President's daughter, but comes to realize that he's in deeper than he originally thought once he comes into contact with "plaga" samples; however, he doesn't the help of Claire or Chris Redfield to bail him out.	Answer:	Resident Evil 4 (prompt on Resident Evil)C) This Ubisoft offering, the third installment in a series bearing the name of Tom Clancy, centers on Sam Fisher, covert operative for the NSA's black-ops unit Third Echelon.	Answer:	Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory (prompt on Splinter Cell or Splinter Cell 3)4.	FTPE name these eponymous laws of physics:a) The line integral of the magnetic flux around a closed curve is proportional to the algebraic sum of electric currents flowing through that closed curve.       Answer:	Ampere's Law b) The force between two point charges is proportional to the algebraic product of their respective charges as well as proportional to the inverse square of the distance between them. 	Answer:	Coulomb's Lawc) The intensity of the magnetic field set up by a current flowing through a wire varies inversely with the distance from the wire.	Answer:	Biot-Savart Law
5.	FTPE name these people who made advancements in photography.A) The French chemist who made the first surviving photographic image called View of His Window at Gras.	Answer:	Nicéphore NiépceB) Another Frenchman, he inadvertently took the earliest known photography of a human being, and his invention created prints that were not as blurry as prints made with Niépce's piece.	Answer:	Louis-J.M. DaguerreC) This Briton's classic 50-photo series "The Horse in Motion" and his subsequent invention, the Zoopraxiscope, were precursors of the motion picture.	Answer:	Eadweard Muybridge6.  For 10 points apiece, name each cellular structure:A) This cellular organelle is involved in photosynthesis.  It contains chlorophyll and uses light energy to convert carbon dioxide and water into oxygen and glucose.  	Answer:	chloroplastB) These large membrane-bounded sacs in the cytoplasm of a cell provide storage and aid in transport. 	Answer:	vacuole or vesicleC) This cellular organelle sorts, packages, and directs the transport of the cell's synthesized products, it is composed of stacks of disk-like membranes	Answer:	Golgi apparatus or body7.	So what if they're not nations?  Given a territory, province, etc., name the capital F5PE or 30 for all 5:a) Alberta	Answer:	Edmontonb) Western Australia	Answer:	Perthc) American Samoa       Answer: 	Pago Pago [pronounced Pango Pango, but accept anything close]d) Falkland Islands	Answer:	Stanleye) Chechnya       Answer:	Grozny8.	For ten points each, name the treaty that ended these wars:A) The Thirty Years' War	Answer:	The Treaty (or Peace) of WestphaliaB) The Seven Years' War	Answer:	The Treaty (or Peace) of Paris of 1763C) The War of Spanish Succession	Answer:	The Treaty (or Peace) of Utrecht9.	Given the first and the last line of the play, FTPE, name the work by William Shakespeare. A. First line: "Who's there?"; Last line: "Go, bid the soldiers shoot."	Answer:	HamletB. First line: "In sooth, I know not why I am so sad"; Last line: "So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring."	Answer:	The Merchant of VeniceC. First line: "O for a muse of fire, that would ascend"; Last line: "In your fair minds let this acceptance take"	Answer:	King Henry V [Five]10. Given a bit of the plot, name the Socratic dialogue for 10 pts each.A) Socrates instructs a slave on geometry in order to find out if the truth can be learned or if it is already in us.	Answer:	MenoB) Socrates asks a priest of the god love something because it is pious or if something is pious because the gods love it.	Answer:	EuthyphroC) A dying Socrates waxes poetic upon the geography of the underworld.	Answer:	Phaedo
11. Name these Spanish monarchs FTSNOP:A) 5 pts. each: They both signed the expulsion order that demanded that all Jews leave Spain or convert within four months, later expanded to include the expulsion of Muslims.  	Answer:	Ferdinand and IsabellaB) 10 pts.: The only son of Emperor Charles V, he ruled as king of Spain from 1556 to 1598.	Answer:	Philip IIC) 10 pts.: He became the head of state in 1975 after the death of Francisco Franco, who is of course still dead.	Answer:	Juan Carlos12.	For ten points, name the 1960s situation comedy with a lead character who had unusual, non-human powers.A) Though Samantha pledged to her husband Darrin that she would not be a normal housewife and not use her powers, she often could not help but twitch her nose.	Answer:	 BewitchedB)  The title character was married to astronaut Tony Nelson, who had to go to great lengths to hide her from the suspicious base psychiatrist, Dr. Alfred Bellows.	Answer:	I Dream of JeannieC)  Character actor Ray Walston, who also played the Devil in "Damn Yankees," played the title role, and Bill Bixby, who later played the Hulk, was the newspaper reporter who shielded his "uncle" from the other earthlings.	Answer:	 My Favorite Martian13.	FTPE, stuff about an important chemist:A) This Briton's many achievements included the discovery of six elements, including potassium and sodium.	Answer:	Humphry DavyB) While Priestley discovered this gas, Davy became well-known for his experiments with it, established its anesthetic properties, introduced it to Coleridge and Southey, and eventually himself became addicted to it.	Answer:	nitrous oxide or NO(2)C) Using one of Volta's early batteries, Davy was one of the first to experiment with this technique, using it to isolate potassium and sodium.  But it was left to his onetime assistant Michael Faraday to establish the first and second laws of it.	Answer:	electrolysis14.	Given the definition, give the music term FTPE:A) A passage that brings a piece or movement to a conclusion	Answer:	coda [c-o-d-a coda, co-co-co-co-coda, dunh-dunh-dunh-dunh dunh-dunh, coda]B) The female voice between soprano and alto	Answer:	mezzo-sopranoC) A direction to slow the tempo gradually	Answer: 	ritardano15.	Name this female writer, 30-20-10:[30] This great-niece of Catharine Beecher was raised in New England by her mother after her father deserted the family.[20] Editor of the liberal journal The Forerunner, in 1898 she wrote a controversial book, Women and Economics, that suggested the benefits of freeing women from full-time child care.[10] Inspired by her own struggles with mental illness, in 1892 she published her short story, "The Yellow Wallpaper."	Answer:	Charlotte Perkins (Stetson) Gilman 16.    A total of 34 Supreme Court nominees have failed to be confirmed.  FTPE, name the presidents with such nominees:A) Eight of his nine nominees failed to be confirmed, perhaps because some considered him an "accidental president" as the first to assume office on the death of his predecessor - or perhaps just because most considered him a jerk.	Answer:	 John TylerB) Abe Fortas was a sitting associate Justice when he was nominated for Chief Justice, but a Senate filibuster forced this man to withdraw the nomination in the last year of his presidency, his political capital diminished by an unpopular war. 	Answer:	 Lyndon Johnson (prompt on "Johnson")C) His nomination of Henry Stanbery was thwarted by a legislative initiative to decrease the size of the court, one of many actions the Republican Congress took to limit the effectiveness of this Democrat elected on the GOP ticket.	Answer:	 Andrew Johnson (prompt on "Johnson")
17.	On a 5-10-20-30 basis, given the alpha star, name the constellation.  Hint: none are in the zodiac.A) Vega	Answer:	LyraB) Polaris	Answer:	Ursa MinorC) Altair	Answer:	AquilaD) Arcturus	Answer:	Bootes18.	For 10 pts each, name these Christian mystics.A) This 14th century mystic prayed that on her 30th birthday she would receive an illness that would bring her closer to understanding Jesus' passion.	Answer:	Julian of NorwichB) This "mother of thousands of souls" helped convince Pope Gregory XI to return to Rome.	Answer:	Catherine of SienaC) This mystic traded in his wealth and finery for poverty, and later received the "stigmata."	Answer:	 St. Francis of Assisi [prompt on Francis]19.	From the list of works, identify the American author for the stated number of points.A. (5 points): The Fire Next Time, Giovanni's Room, Go Tell It on the Mountain	Answer:	James BaldwinB. (10 points): Laguna Woman, Almanac of the Dead, Ceremony	Answer:	Leslie Marmon SilkoC. (15 points): The Sorcerer's Apprentice, Oxherding Tale, Middle Passage	Answer:	Charles Johnson20.	Given the offspring between a woman and Zeus, name the mother for 10 pts each.A) Minos, Sarpedon, Rhadamanthys	Answer:	EuropêB) Dionysus	Answer:	SemelêC) Perseus	Answer:	Danaê21. Given the major function, identify each of the following cranial nerves by name or number, for ten points each. A) This nerve controls the autonomic functions of the gut, sensations from the pharynx, swallowing, and the muscles of the vocal cords.	Answer:	Vagus nerve or Cranial Nerve X (ten)B) This nerve affects the motor function of the shoulder and neck muscles.	Answer:	Spinal Accessory nerve or Cranial Nerve XI (eleven)C) This nerve provides sensation for hearing and the sense of balance.	Answer:	Vestibulocochlear nerve or Auditory nerve or Cranial Nerve VIII (eight) 22.	Name these objects from Irish mythology for 15 pts each.A) This object, one of the 4 treasures, provided an inexhaustible bounty of food to its owner.	Answer:	The Cauldron of the Dagda, or Dagda's CauldronB) This weapon of Cúchulainn entered the victim at one point but left thirty wounds within.	Answer:	Gáe Bulga, or Gáe Bolga, or Gáe Bulg, or Gáe Bolg23.	Given the works, name the author of the graphic novels.A. 5 points: The Doll's House, Sandman: A Season of Mists	Answer:	Neil GaimanB. 10 points: Domu: A Child's Dream; Akira	Answer:	Katsuhiro OtomoC. 15 points: The Good Times are Killing Me; Cruddy: An Illustrated Novel	Answer:	Lynda Barry