TOSSUPS - EMORY		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Greenpeace lauded this author's upcoming Forest of the Pygmies for being printed on recycled paper.  That book will finish a trilogy containing City of the Beasts and The Kingdom of the Golden Dragon.  Best known for creating the characters Esteban Trueba and Clara del Valle, FTP identify this author of Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits.	Answer:	Isabel Allende2.	A major hazard in this reaction is its production of explosive and anaesthetic ethoxyethane vapor.  The apparatus must be dried to prevent the formation of alkanes instead of the intended product and must be cooled because the reaction is exothermic.  In this, an orgomagnesium halide is added to a ketone or aldehyde to form a tertiary or secondary alcohol.  This is FTP, what reaction that uses its namesake reagents?	Answer:	Grignard Reaction3.	Lieutenant Generals Ewell and Hill led the expeditionary forces against G.K. Warren and Winfield Scott Hancock, hoping to stall until Longstreet could arrive with reinforcements.  Longstreet's troops did prevent a Confederate defeat, and they advanced a bit forward, but this merely stalled the advances of Grant's Army of the Potomac.  Fought on May 5 and 6, 1864, this is FTP what first battle of Grant's Virginia campaign against Lee?	Answer:	Battle of the Wilderness4.	The libretto by Franceso Maria Piave caused such a stir that this opera was retitled Amore e Morte and the setting was changed by a hundred years.  Based on La Dame aux Camélias by Alexander Dumas, its title character declares her love in "Amami, Alfredo" but realizes that her tuberculosis will kill her.  Violetta the courtesan dies tragically in, FTP, what Verdi opera?	Answer:	La Traviata5.	Adrien-Marie Legendre gave this function its current notation as well as proving the n=2 case of its Gauss Multiplication Formula.  Karl Weierstrauss showed that its poles are where x equals negative k, where k is a whole number.  For positive real numbers it is one of the most important functions written using improper integrals.  FTP, what function generalizes the factorial?	Answer:	Gamma function 6.	Royal magistrates of the high court would have had to give up four years worth of salary.  This event resulted, led by Armand de Conti and Madame de Longueville.  A peace was arranged in 1649, but it soon broke down again.  Prince Louis II de Condé demanded control over the crown, and the resulting rebellion was the last time nobles tried to oppose the French crown by force.  FTP name this series of revolts against Cardinal Mazarin.	Answer:	Fronde7.	This river's name dates to Tacitus's Germania, where it is recorded to flow into the Mare Suebicum. Starting near Barania Góra in the north of the Carpathians, its gradual curve shape is almost entirely navigable. Known by the local population, it flows past Torun after the merging of its two major parts, the White Little and Black Little.  Flowing into the Baltic Sea through Gdansk, this is FTP what main river of Poland?	Answer:	Vistula8.	His sonnets such as "To a Virtuous Lady" and "Methought I Saw My Late Espoused Saint" deal with religious subjects and contain bitter visual imagery.  Better known is "When I Consider," which deals more directly with his blindness.  FTP, identify this British poet and author of Samson Agonistes and Paradise Lost.	Answer:	John Milton 9.	Some speculate that these were the predecessors of modern genes.  Comparatively short, they are on average in eukaryotes only about 140 nucleotides, so a new form of PCR that focuses on them allows much quicker gene sequencing.  Due to certain sequences being left out during transcription and RNA splicing, mRNA is made up entirely of these. FTP, what DNA sequences are code for amino acid sequences?	Answer:	Exons
10.	"Michael" is homoerotic.  "Auf Achse" contains crucifixion imagery, but it is "Darts of Pleasure" that slips into German.  "Tell Her Tonight" specifies neither who must tell her nor what this person must tell.  "Matinee" discusses an interview on BBC2.  "40 Feet" sounds like it's about suicide, but isn't.  This bizarre lyricism comes from, FTP what band's self-titled album that contains the hits "This Fire" and "Take Me Out"?	Answer:	Franz Ferdinand11.	His claimed that the increase in money supply due to mercantilism would increase prices and wages, decreasing international competitiveness in his Political Discourses.  He published a series of letters sent between himself and Rousseau that made the latter seem mentally unstable.  Best known for a rewriting of Book I of his Treatise of Human Nature, FTP name this English philosopher and author of Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.	Answer:	David Hume12.	Colgreve v. Green had stated that the process discussed in this case was a political question.  As a result, Justices Harlan and Frankfurter dissented in this case, claiming that the Supreme Court was not the right forum to discuss questions of representation.  The majority opinion by Justice Brennan cited precedents that held that false tallies, stuffing of the ballot box, and refusal to count votes from some precincts diluted a citizen's right to vote free of arbitrary state impairment.   Tennessee was thus forced to enfranchise urban residents by, FTP, what 1961 case that established the principle of "one person, one vote"?	Answer:	Baker v. Carr13.	The Dioscuri appear in this play via the deus ex machina to resolve the fate of the two protagonists.  The main character's husband, the Peasant, has never slept with her because of her noble status.  Partially mocking The Libation Bearers, FTP what play by Euripides contains the murder of Clytaemnestra by Orestes and the title character, the daughter of Agamemnon?	Answer:	Electra14.	Jazz crooner Michael Buble [boo-BLAY] got his break in show business after a former holder of this office, Brian Mulroney, heard his CD.  Conan O'Brien's "60" deals with an attempt on the life of one.  Marg, Princess Warrior recently ambushed and kissed a leading candidate for the office.  On South Park, the new one resembling the Wizard of Oz tries to force Ike to return to his native land.  FTP, name the position currently held by Paul Martin.	Answer:	Prime Minister of Canada (accept equivalent)15.	A pioneer in the study of radio astronomy, he set up radiotelescopes in Dwingeloo and Westerbork in his native country.  His mapping of the spiral-arm structure of the Milky Way confirmed Lindblad's theory of the galaxy's rotation.  He confirmed that synchrotron radiation caused the emission of light from the Crab Nebula by proving that the light was polarized.  FTP name this Dutch astronomer best known for his proposition that comets orbit the solar system in his namesake cloud.	Answer:	Jan Hendrick Oort16.	He was not born with his animal's head; rather, his original head flew off when his cursed uncle Sani looked at him.  Because of his superb skill as a scribe, Vyas Dev tells the story of the Mahabharata.  His wives are Siddhi and Buddhi, prudence and wisdom.  Son of Parvati and Shiva, FTP name this Hindu god represented with the head of an elephant.	Answer:	Ganesha or Ganesh or Ganesa or Ganapati17.	The upper left is filled with a cloudy sky except for the top of a steeple.  On the left, a group of horrified soldiers and a concerned-looking Indian watch.  On the right, two soldiers pray to prevent the titular event.  Depicting an episode from the conquest of Quebec, this is FTP what 1770 painting by Benjamin West?	Answer:	The Death of General Wolfe18.	The first group of this name ruled the city of Gao before 1325.  Sunni Ali Ber founded the other, but its widest expansion came during the Mandigo Askia period.  That period was named for the dynasty founded by Askia Mohammed, who ruled while the empire's Koranic university attracted students from far and wide.  FTP, identify the civilization, successor to the Mali, with capital at Timbuktu.	Answer:	Songhai
19.	At constant volume and temperature, the differential of this quantity equals the product of the temperature and the differential of entropy plus the product of the volume and the differential of pressure.  Usually, it is described by a parallel of the first law of thermodynamics.  Also called the heat content, FTP name this state function, equal to internal energy plus volume times pressure.	Answer:	Enthalpy20.	At the beginning of this novel, while waiting for orders to march, Jim explains that he would only fight if the rest of the unit fought.  When they finally encounter the enemy, the protagonist fights methodically, in contrast with his later fleeing.  Wilson acts like a medic, and he and Henry Fleming lead their unit's charge in, FTP, what novel by Stephen Crane?	Answer:	The Red Badge of Courage21.	A student of hydroelectric engineering, he apparently likes ballroom dancing and table tennis.  Unlike all of his predecessors, his political career began after 1949.  Recently, he became the chief of the military to go along with his chairmanship of his party and presidency.  Information about his personal life is scant, partially due to his desire to avoid offending the still-powerful Jiang Zemin. FTP, name this current President of China.	Answer:	Hu Jintao22.	His description of a single driving need, striving for perfection, predated Maslow.  His work on masculine protest discussed the implications of patriarchy on gender roles.  The four personality types he theorized, the ruling, learning, avoiding, and socially useful, were based on different energy levels.  Breaking from Freud because he believed Freud overemphasized sex, this is FTP what Austrian psychologist whose best-known theory is the inferiority complex?	Answer:	Alfred Adler 23.	This resulted from French and Belgian seizure of the Ruhr, massive inflation of the Mark, and the expiration of Germany's yearlong moratorium on debt payments.  Under it, the Germany went on the gold standard and the Allies oversaw a restructuring of the Reichsbank.  Criticized for not decreasing the payment of reparations, this is FTP what 1924 plan for the German war debt?	Answer:	Dawes plan24.	His popularity among American literary critics began with Glas, a book split into two columns, one about Hegel and one about Genet.  His "I Have to Wander All Alone" memorialized Giles Deleuze while his Writing and Difference launched deconstruction as a major concept.  FTP name this French philosopher and literary critic who died on October 8, author of Of Grammatology.	Answer:	Jacques Derrida
BONI - EMORY		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	FTPE, identify the poet who wrote the following lines.  If you need the title you'll get just 5 pts.(10)  "Let us go then, you and I, / When the evening is spread out against the sky / Like a patient etherised upon a table"(5) "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"	Answer:	Thomas Stearns Eliot (10) "Sang his wondrous birth and being, / How he prayed and how be fasted, / How he lived, and toiled, and suffered, / That the tribes of men might prosper, / That he might advance his people!"(5) "The Song of Hiawatha"	Answer:	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (10) "And what I assume you shall assume, / For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you."(5) "Song of Myself"	Answer:	Walt Whitman 2.	FTPE identify the functional group from structure.A) A carbonyl group linked to two other carbon atoms.	Answer:	KetoneB) An aromatic hydrocarbon with at least one benzene ring.	Answer:	AreneC) RCOOH, where R is a hydrogen or organic group.	Answer:	Carboxylic Acid3.	Identify the war ended by the treaty of Paris in the given years FTSNOP.5) 1783	Answer:	American Revolution or Revolutionary War5) 1898	Answer:	Spanish-American War10) 1856	Answer:	Crimean War10) 1814 and 1815	Answer:	Napoleonic Wars4.	Name the school of philosophy from a description FTPE.A) They based their philosophy off an axiom of Wittgenstein's Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus and included Rudolph Carnap, Carl Menger, and Friedrich Waismann.	Answer:	Logical Positivism or Vienna CircleB) Including Jurgen Habermas, Theodor Adorno, and Walter Benjamin, this was a center for research into social sciences from a Marxist perspective.	Answer:	Frankfurt SchoolC) Founded by Charles Pierce and followed by William James, this school popular around the turn of the 20th century is currently espoused by Richard Rorty.	Answer:	Pragmatism5.	Give the 20th century composer from works on a 10-5 basis FTPE.A) - 10) Slava Overture, Kaddish5) West Side Story	Answer:	Leonard BernsteinB) - 10) The Death of Klinghoffer5) Nixon in China	Answer:	John AdamsC) - 10) The orchestral suite Masquerade and the ballet Spartacus5) The ballet Gayane, which contains the famous "Sabre Dance."	Answer:	Aram Khachaturian
6.	Identify the constant from physics FTPE.A) It relates the absolute temperature of each molecule of an ideal gas to its kinetic energy.	Answer:	Boltzmann's ConstantB) Known as the fundamental constant of nature, it describes the sizes of quanta.	Answer:	Planck's ConstantC) This dimensionless number appears in the creation of Feynmann diagrams and represents the strength of interaction between electrons and photons.	Answer:	Fine Structure Constant7.	For no reason whatsoever, identify these geographical features in Texas and Massachusetts FTSNOP.5) This mountain in its namesake chain is the highest point in Texas.	Answer:	Guadalupe Peak10) This is the highest point in Massachusetts.  Its saddleback shape was an inspiration for Melville's Moby Dick.	Answer:	Mount Greylock5) This Massachusetts island gained its name for its high concentration of wild grapes.	Answer:	Martha's Vineyard10) This national park far from civilization in Texas got its name from its location on the Rio Grande.	Answer:	Big Bend National Park8.	Identify the confusing film from clues FTPE.A) In this David Lynch movie, Henry Spencer and Mary X produce a weird-looking mutant child.  The title comes from an utterly obtuse scene at the end.	Answer:	EraserheadB) This Terry Gilliam film intersperses Sam Lowry's life in a dystopic bureaucratic future with his escapist fantasies involving Jill Layton.	Answer:	BrazilC) This autobiographical Fellini film centers around Guido Anselmi's retreat into his own dreams and imagination to avoid the pressure about his new film.	Answer:	8 1/29.	Answer the following about the leaders who came to power in 1973 FTPE.A) This man became President-for-life of the Philippines on January 17.	Answer:	Ferdinand MarcosB) After 18 years in exile, he returned to be President of Argentina in October after his stand-in Héctor Cámpara resigned.	Answer:	Juan Domingo Perón SosaC) On June 25, he began his 18 month rule as President of Ireland which ended with a heart attack during a public speech.	Answer:	Erskine Hamilton Childers10.	Identify the work of John Steinbeck from description FTPEA)  The pirate Henry Morgan strikes around the Cuban and American coast looking for La Santa Roja and intending to conquer Panama.  Oh yeah, it's his first novel.	Answer:	Cup of GoldB)  Named after a Robert Louis Stevenson work, this describes a four-month journey taken with the titular poodle.	Answer:	Travels with CharleyC) This novel discusses the ranch hands Lenny and George searching for a land plot of their own.	Answer:	Of Mice and Men11.	FTPE identify the following about an episode from Greek mythology.A) Before he defeated the Minotaur with the help of Ariadne, this hero had to make his way to Athens.	Answer:	TheseusB) On his way, Theseus first met this scoundrel and King of Eleusis who would challenge anyone he met to a wrestling match and then kill them.	Answer:	CercyonC) The final bandit met on the way to Athens was this man who would force passersby to fit in a bed by stretching them or removing extraneous height.	Answer:	Procrustes
12.	FTPE name the genus of family Hominidae from members.A) Chimpanzees	Answer:	PanB) Orangutans	Answer:	PongoC) Humans	Answer:	Homo 13.	FTPE, name the Thomas Hardy work from main characters, none of whom is Tess of the D'Urbervilles.A) Michael Henchard	Answer:	The Mayor of CasterbridgeB) Clym Yeobright	Answer:	Return of the NativeC) Cynthia Gray	Answer:	Desperate Measures14.  Identify the figure from clues about his or her artwork for fifteen each.  You'll get 5 if you need more information.A) - 15) His "For He is Raised" shows bitterness towards Easter, but more people would associate him with the skull in his "Very Still Life"5) Better known as "Dr. Death," he is a leading proponent of assisted suicide.	Answer:	Doctor Jack KevorkianB) - 15) His only revealed painting depicts a blindfolded woman holding a torch against a black background.5) He is found at the inner station by Marlow in Heart of Darkness.	Answer:	Kurtz15.	Name the Roman emperor FTPE.A) Founder of the Flavian dynasty, he led the war in Judea before defeating his predecessor Vitellius in 69 CE.	Answer:	Caesar Vespasian Augustus or Titus Flavian VespasianusB) This emperor appointed Vespasian to fight in Judea in 66 CE.  His wife Poppaea died the same year.  Nephew of Claudius, he was known for playing the lyre.	Answer:	Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus or Lucius Domitius AhenobarbusC) Governor of Britain before becoming emperor, this first Severan emperor refused to give his wife or son imperial titles, foreseeing his own assassination.	Answer:	Publius Helvius Pertinax16.	Identify the following sets FTPE:A) This is formed by taking the open middle third of the interval between zero and one, then taking the open middle third of each remaining segment, etc.	Answer:	Cantor SetB) This set is the union of a set A and the complement of A in the universal set.	Answer:	Null Set or Empty SetC) This set is defined on the complex plane by Z sub (N plus one) equals (Z sub N) squared plus C as long as Z sub zero equals zero does not tend to infinity.	Answer:	Mandelbrot Set17.	Questions about a novel for ten points each.A) The first novel by Chinua Achebe, this focuses the downfall of a leader of an Ibo village due to the introduction of the white man.	Answer:	Things Fall ApartB) A champion wrestler, he is the main character of Things Fall Apart.	Answer:	OkonkwoC) Okonkwo repeatedly wishes that this daughter of his was a son.	Answer:	Ezinma
18.	Answer the following about popular sovereignty FTSNOP.5, 5) The compromise of 1850 allowed these two states to enter the union under popular sovereignty.	Answer:	New Mexico and Utah10) This act that repealed the Missouri Compromise set up popular sovereignty in the titular territories.	Answer:	Kansas-Nebraska Act10) This Democratic senator proposed the Kansas-Nebraska Act and was a leading proponent of popular sovereignty.	Answer:	Stephen Douglas19.	Name the type of mimicry FTPE.A) Many species, all harmful, exhibit the same warning sign.  This benefits all species.	Answer:	Mullerian MimicryB) A harmless species mimics a dangerous one to ward off predators who learn to avoid both species while young.	Answer:	Batesian MimicryC) A predator mimics a harmless species to more easily catch prey.	Answer:	Aggressive Mimicry20.	Name these economics concepts related to international trade FTPE.A) In this model, different relative factor endowments drive trade.  The nation with relative abundance in a factor will export the good using that factor relatively intensely.	Answer:	Hecksher-Olin ModelB) This concept identified by Ricardo explains that if a country is disadvantaged in the production of all goods, it will specialize in the good it is least bad at producing.	Answer:	Comparative advantageC) This is the term for the benefits that occur due to the shift in supply after trade takes place.	Answer:	Gains from production or Gains from specialization21.	Identify the anthropologists from clues, 10 each.A) The founder of functionalism, his time in the Trobriand Islands contributed to his cross-cultural study of psychology.	Answer:	Brotislaw MalinowskiB) A student of Boas, she developed the "configurational approach" to culture, but is better known for Patterns of Culture and the Chrysanthemum and the Sword.	Answer:	Ruth Fulton BenedictC) This feminist anthropologist and author of "Is female to male as nature is to culture?" founded "Practice Theory," which deals with the impact of socioeconomic structures on individual life.	Answer:	Sherry Ortner22.	Nathaniel Hawthorne short stories from symbolism of the title FTPE.A) The titular object may symbolize both its bearer's and the community's desire to hide their sins from both the community and themselves.	Answer:	The Minister's Black VeilB) The titular feature may represent original sin and its necessity for human existence.	Answer:	The BirthmarkC) The title character represents the dangers of trying to improve upon nature and the complex relationship between life and death.	Answer:	Rappaccini's Daughter23.	Name the Secretary of State FTPE.A) Before moving on to a more famous post, he served under Harding and Coolidge, calling a conference in Washington that produced an armament limitation treaty.	Answer:	Charles Evans HughesB) The successor of Charles Evans Hughes, he coauthored a pact that called for an "end to war as an instrument of national policy"	Answer:	Frank Billings KelloggC) He lost influence with Carter because of Zbigniew Brzezinski and resigned to protest a military attempt to rescue the Iranian hostages.	Answer:	Cyrus Roberts Vance
24.	Answer the following about the Jewish canon FTPE.A) Known as the Hebrew Bible, this term for the Hebrew canon is an acronym for its contents, including the Torah	Answer:	TanakhB) This second portion of the Tanakh contains the shortest book in the Tanakh and is read during the Haftarah.	Answer:	Prophets or Nevi'imC) This is the term for the commentary on the Tanakh as well as the process of interpreting its text.	Answer:	Midrash25.	Name the artist from works including a parody FTPE.A) Dancing in Colombia, Mona Lisa, The Arnolfini Family	Answer:	Fernando BoteroB) L.H.O.O.Q., Nude Descending a Staircase	Answer:	Marcel DuchampC) Olympia, The Fifer	Answer:	Edouard Manet