TOSSUPS - AUBURN-MONTGOMERY	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by AUM and Charlie Steinhice with help from Jason Zuffranieri, Ross Ritterman, and Gaius Stern1.	Perhaps the most descriptive label is "I Begin Life on My Own Account, and I Don't Like It."  "I Am Born," "I Observe," "I Have a Change," "I Fall Into Disgrace,"  "I Am Sent Away from Home," and "I Enlarge My Circle of Acquaintance" are the first six parts.  Other sections include "My First Half at Salem House," "Tommy Traddles,"   "Steerforth Home," and "Micawber's Gauntlet."    These are a few of the 64 chapters in, FTP, what interminable semiautobiographical work by Charles Dickens?	Answer:	David Copperfield2.	Like her husband's, this 18th Dynasty figure's name was erased from much of the historical record after her death.  She broke with tradition when she filled a post as priest that should have been her husband's. It is believed she also influenced her husband to make their kingdom a monotheistic one by proclaiming Aten (Ah-ten) the sole deity of Egypt.  FTP name this queen, aunt and/or stepmother of Tutankhamen, still in the news with the controversy surrounding a newly discovered mummy that may be hers. 	Answer:	Nefertiti 3.	Paul Muller won the 1948 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology for his 1939 discovery that just a few grains of this white powder would wipe out colonies of mosquito larvae.  It proved effective against disease-bearing ticks as well.  During WWII, B-25 bombers sprayed it prior to invasions in the Pacific, and after the war it helped to wipe out malaria in the developed world.  However, it was linked to fish toxicity and thinner eggshells leading to dramatic declines in certain bird populations, including the bald eagle.  FTP name this pesticide, banned in the U.S. since 1973.	Answer:	 DDT (or dichlorodiphenyl trichloroethane if you're showing off)4.	Because she moved during her high school career, she was Player of the Year in both Illinois and Texas.  She speaks with an impediment and has severe hearing loss in both ears.  As a freshman she helped Tennessee to a perfect 39-0 record and an NCAA title.  After sitting out the 2001 season with a knee injury, she made first team all-WNBA in 2002 and 2003.  FTP name this hard-playing forward for the Indiana Fever, daughter of former NBA journeyman Harvey.	Answer:	Tamika Catchings5.	With its eastern terminus in Kings County, it opened on May 24, 1883, after nearly fourteen years of construction.  Its planner and chief engineer John A. Roebling died during its construction.  It was the world's first steel cable suspension span.  FTP name this impressive structure linking Manhattan with its namesake borough.	Answer:	the Brooklyn Bridge6.	It can be written as, the quantity (T-sub-one over T-sub-two) squared equals the quantity (a sub one over a sub-two) cubed, where T is the orbital period and a is the semimajor axis measured in AU's.    Translation: The square of the period of revolution of the body in question is in direct proportion to the cube of the semi-major axis of its orbit.  FTP name this scientific law which established a relationship between a planet's average distance from the sun and the time it takes it to complete one revolution around the sun.	Answer:	Kepler's Third Law or harmonic law7.	His wife was the Chilean actress and pianist Felicia Montealegre.  His reputation was secured when he shone while subbing for the ailing Bruno Walter for a national radio broadcast on a few hours' notice.  He took W.H. Auden's poem "The Age of Anxiety" as the basis for his Second Symphony; two other symphonies, "Jeremiah" and "Kaddish," reflect his Jewish heritage.  FTP name this longtime conductor and music director of the New York Philharmonic, whose more popular works include "On the Town" and "West Side Story."	Answer:	Leonard Bernstein8.	Born Doroteo Arango, when he came of age he declared himself free of the peonage of his parents and took to the countryside.  When Huerta overthrew Madero in 1913, he backed Venustiano Carranza, but after a break with Carranza he attempted his own rebellion and briefly took Mexico City.  Driven to the hills, he goaded the U.S. into entering Mexico in pursuit of him, damaging U.S relations with Carranza.   FTP name this Mexican rebel, who led Pershing's troops on a wild goose chase in 1916.	Answer:	Pancho Villa
9.	His life is told in four novels, not counting one novella which ties up loose ends for his widow, his longtime lover, and his son in Brewer, Pennsylvania.   In the 3rd, he is the financially successful chief sales representative of Springer Motors, while in the final installment he must confront his own mortality in his fat and old state, a far cry from the star basketball he was in his youth.  FTP name this character, whose flight from his unsatisfying middle-class life forms the basis of the first of four acclaimed novels by John Updike. 	Answer:	Rabbit, or Harry Angstrom10.	Facing surprisingly harsh religious persecution just before and during World War II, they waged a legal counteroffensive that led to 23 First Amendment-related Supreme Court rulings between 1938 and 1946.  In a 3-year stretch, the court went from saying in Minersville School District v. Gobitas that the state could compel displays of respect for the flag to reversing it in West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette.  Their belief that governments, all governments, are the work of Satan prompts their refusal to salute the flag or bear arms.  FTP name this denomination, founded by Charles Taze Russell as the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society.	Answer:	Jehovah's Witnesses (accept Watchtower Bible & Tract Society before it's said)11.	Natural sources of it at radio wavelengths include plasma oscillations in the polar atmosphere, Brewster's Angle highlights, and the Zeeman effect.  Because of the transverse electric and magnetic field in light propagation, a single photon will oscillate on a line perpendicular to the direction of propagation, making it possible to break it up into two perpendicular components.  FTP name this phenomenon peculiar to transverse waves, the orientation of vibration patterns in a single plane, especially light waves.	Answer:	polarization [accept forms such as "polarizing," etc.]12.	He emulated the style of Pierre Corneille so successfully that Corneille tried to ruin him, with the support of his former friend Moliere.  But Louis XIV backed him, eventually appointing him royal historiographer.  His last two major works, Esther and Athalie, used Biblical subjects rather than the classical texts behind his most successful plays.  FTP name this dramatist, author of Britannicus, Iphigenia en Aulide, and Phedre.	Answer:	Jean Racine	13.	150 years of contention between France and England over control of this area was ended by the 1713 Peace of Utrecht, which awarded it to England but left Cape Breton Island in French hands.  British control was solidified by the expulsion of most of the French in the 1750's and by the separation of other parts of the former Acadia into New Brunswick.  Site of Canada's first newspaper and university, in 1867, this region joined the Dominion of Canada as one of the four original members.  FTP name this small eastern province of Canada with its capital at Halifax.	Answer:	Nova Scotia  [accept Acadia till mentioned]14.	A less poetic but more accurate statement of their intent, as translated from the original, goes roughly "Whatever it is you want to tell us.  The answer we'll give is society's sympathy.  For the sake of preventing the world's destruction, For the sake of protecting the world's peace, Going through the evils of truth and love."  The idiomatic English translation is, "To protect the world from devastation.   To unite all peoples within our nation.  To denounce the evils of truth and love.  To extend our reach to the stars above."  FTP name the ineptly sinister partners in crime who recite these words just before their inevitably futile attempts to steal Pokemon.	Answer:	Team Rocket15.	Jean Beagle Ristaino, a plant pathologist at North Carolina State, recently examined mitochondrial DNA from leaf samples preserved at Kew Gardens and disproved the long-held assumption that a water mold called phytophthora infestans was the cause.   Whatever the biological agent, the effect was magnified by the eviction of hundreds of thousands of tenant farmers by their landlords.  Some 1.6 million emigrated to America and perhaps a million more died due to, FTP, what  catastrophe of the late 1840's?	Answer:   Irish Potato Famine (accept clear equivalents - there's no official name for it, y'know)16.	His daughter Erika was a noted actress, and hiss on Klaus was a playwright and anti-Nazi journalist.  His works show a preoccupation with the clash between psychological and external cultural problems, and his bourgeois class heroes often struggle with a spiritual conflict.  FTP, name this author of Joseph and His Brothers, Mario and the Magician, Buddenbrooks, Doctor Faustus and The Magic Mountain.	Answer:	 Thomas Mann
17.	While in private practice in the St. Paul area, he served as adjunct faculty at the University of Minnesota Law School and became in-house counsel to the Mayo Foundation and Mayo Clinic.  In 1959, Eisenhower appointed him to the U.S. Court of Appeals, 8th Circuit.  After failed nominations of two party hacks, in 1970 Nixon appointed this respected judge to the Supreme Court, where he served until 1994 and proved much less conservative than expected, although he told friends that it was the Court's leanings that changed, not his own.  FTP name this Associate Justice best remembered as the author of the majority opinion in the 1973 landmark decision Roe v. Wade.	Answer:	Harry Blackmun18.	The only masters he acknowledged were Velasquez, Rembrandt, and nature.  He was left deaf after a near-fatal illness, possibly lead poisoning, at age 47.  His portraits of women and speculation about his relations with them have inflamed imaginations for generations, as many of his subjects were members of the Spanish nobility.  FTP name this court painter of King Charles IV, famous for his "Disasters of War" series and for "The Naked Maja." 	Answer:	Francisco Goya y Lucientes19.	Stories about her birth and parentage conflict.  Cyprus, Paphos, and Cythera all claim her.  She had something of a fidelity problem and betrayed her husband with not one, but two of his brothers.  She also had affairs with mortals, to whom she bore Eryx and Aeneas.  FTP name this goddess of classical mythology, the patron of courtesans and lovers.	Answer:  	Aphrodite (or Venus according to those copycat Romans)20.	It hunts by ambush, seizing prey with its jaws; because of a toxic bacterial brew in its mouth, even if the prey escapes it usually dies within 1 to 2 days from blood poisoning.  This descendant of the mosasaur can grow to over 8 feet long and over 200 pounds; it has a taste for goats, but has also been known to eat humans, each other, and 2,000 pound water buffalo.  FTP name this endangered species only found on 7 Indonesian islands, the world's largest extant lizard. 	Answer:	 Komodo dragon21.	He was from Halicarnassus, but he did not write in his native Doric dialect.  He decided Hecetaeus had too many errors, so he set about correcting them through his Inquiries, generally known by a different name today.  His readings inspired the young Thucydides, who picked up close to where this man left off after 478 BC.  FTP name this so-called Father of History, also called the Father of Lies for his somewhat meandering account of Greco-Persian Wars.		Answer:  Herodotus22.	It is a city of canals, cathedrals and pastel colors.  It has been called the Venice of the North and was founded in 1703.  Built on land reclaimed from the swamps, it was said to be a city built on bones.  FTP, name this city known for its "White Nights," which for much of the 20th century was called Leningrad.	Answer:	St. Petersburg23.	During the Pastry War in Mexico, this rebel leader was injured and had to have his leg amputated.  He then had the leg transported to Mexico City where, after an elaborate procession, it was given a formal burial.  FTP name this rebel-turned-establishment figure, president of Mexico and wartime personal bitch of Sam Houston.	Answer:	Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna
BONI - AUBURN-MONTGOMERY		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by AUM and Charlie Steinhice with help from Jason Zuffranieri, Ross Ritterman, and Gaius Stern1.	Answer the following about a particular song FTSNOP:(10) Written by Leo Robin and Jule Styne, this show tune begins, "A kiss on the hand can be quite Continental..."	Answer:	"Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend"F5PE, name the performer who sang this song in:(5) The 2001 film Moulin Rouge       Answer:	Nicole Kidman(5) The 1949 Broadway premiere of Gentlemen Prefer Blondes	Answer:	Carol Channing(5) The 1953 film version of Gentlemen Prefer Blondes        Answer:     Marilyn Monroe [Also accept Marilyn Horne, who was dubbed in for the high notes](5) Madonna duplicated the film version's production number for her video of this song.	Answer:	"Material Girl"2.	Answer these questions about the B-complex vitamins FTPE.A. This vitamin, known as B3, produces two critical enzymes that help release energy in the form of glucose.  It also blocks the production of cholesterol and helps grow healthy skin.	Answer:	NiacinB. Known as B9, it plays a pivotal role in the spinal development during the first trimester of pregnancy.  A deficiency of it can lead to spina bifida.	Answer:	Folic Acid (accept Folate)C. Which of the B-complex vitamins has the unlikely pseudonym Vitamin H?	Answer:	Biotin3.	FTPE name these works by James Fenimore Cooper from a description:10) In this patriotic story, Harry Birch is wrongly accused of selling secrets to the British during the American Revolution        Answer:	The Spy10) Many critics consider this, the 3rd installment, to be the best of the Leatherstocking Tales.  Natty Bumppo falls in love with Mabel Dunham, who falls in love with Natty's friend Jasper Western.       Answer:	The Pathfinder10:  Set in the Louisiana Purchase, this convoluted novel concludes the Leatherstocking Tales with Natty's death.         Answer:	The Prairie4.	Most Americans know that Abraham Lincoln was assassinated in 1865, but let's see how many other details you know.  FTPE:a) What play had President and Mrs. Lincoln gone to watch at Ford's Theatre that night?  	Answer:	"Our American Cousin" b) As he leapt to the stage, Booth caught a spur and broke his leg, stepping on his own line as he shouted this 3-word phrase, the state motto of Virginia.  Give it in Latin FTP or in English for 5.	Answer:	"Sic semper tyrannis!"  [5 pts. for "Thus always to tyrants" or close equivalent]c) Almost 100 years later, evidence surfaced that this Secretary of War and behind-the-scenes problem for Lincoln was warned of the plot but took no steps to halt it.  This explains why he was ready with the memorable quote "Now he belongs to the ages" when Lincoln finally died.	Answer:	Edwin M. Stanton5.	Identify these little known sports and games FTPE:1.  This Scottish sport involves hurling a large log as far as you can.	Answer:  Caber Toss2.  A bit like shuffleboard on ice, you send a heavy disc rolling down a smooth surface such as a frozen lake and try toget your disc closest to a marker, using brooms to change the surface tension of the ice.	Answer:  Curling3.  You draw a circle in the dirt and each person tries to throw the penknife into the very center.Answer:  Mumblety-Peg
6.	Name these 20th century artists FTPE:Already noted for capturing social injustice at home, during WWII, while working for Life magazine, this photographic artist became the first female war correspondent to cover the front lines.  	Answer:	Margaret Bourke-White [prompt on Bourke or White]This Bulgarian-born artist is famous for his epic scale works, such as wrapping Berlin's Reichstag building or wrapping islands in Miami's Biscayne Bay with 6.5 million square feet of pink fabric.  	Answer:	Christo [accept Christo Javacheff]Associated with New Mexico, her recurring motifs included cow's skulls and irises.	Answer:	Georgia O'Keeffe7.	Given the opening line or lines, name the William Butler Yeats poem FTPE:a)  "That is no country for old men."	Answer:	Sailing to Byzantiumb)  "I have met them at close of day / Coming with vivid faces."	Answer:	Easter 1916c)  "The trees are in their autumn beauty /The woodland paths are dry"	Answer:	The Wild Swans at Coole8.	5-10-20-30, name these assorted terms from physics:a)  Branch of physics concerned with the action of forces on bodies at rest	Answer:	staticsb)  Law stating that the strain produced in a solid body is proportional to the stress applied to it	Answer:	Hooke's Lawc)  Random motion of microscopic particles suspended in a liquid or gas       Answer: 	Brownian motiond)  A quantity, such a mass or time, that has magnitude but no direction	Answer:	scalar9.	FTPE answer the following about events of the year 1821:a) This state became the 24th in the Union, admitted as a slave state only because Maine had been admitted as the 23rd.	Answer:	Missourib)  Napoleon died while in exile on this lonely South Atlantic island.	Answer:	St. Helenac)  This nation celebrates May 25 as its National Day because on May 25, 1821, it began its 11-year war that won it independence from Turkey.	Answer:	Greece10.	Name the composers of these operas FTPE:a) Lucia di Lammermoor, Daughter of the Regiment	Answer:	Gaetano Donizettib) Khovanshchina, Boris Godunov	Answer:	Modest Mussorgskyc) The Barber of Seville, William Tell       Answer: 	Gioacchino Rossini11.	5-10-20-30, give the class to which these members of the phylum Mollusca belong:a)  Snails and abalone	Answer:	Gastropoda or gastropodsb)  Octopi and squids	Answer:	Cephalopoda or cephalopodsc)  Oysters and scallops	Answer:	Pelecypodia or Bivalvia or bivalvesd)  Tusk or tooth shells	Answer:	Scaphopoda or scaphopods
12.	Answer these elementary questions FTSNOP:A.  For 5, what is Sherlock Holmes' street address?       Answer:  	221 B Baker StreetB.  For 5 points, who is Holmes' sidekick?       Answer:  	Dr. John WatsonC.  For 10 points, where was Holmes killed... well, nearly killed, since Arthur Conan Doyle was pressured to revive him?       Answer:  	Reichenback FallsD.  For 10 points what was the first Holmes novel?       Answer:  	A Study in Scarlet [accept "The" for "A", we'll be nice]13.	FTPE, answer the following about the Cuban Missile Crisis of Oct. 1962:a)  This Soviet foreign minister insisted the missiles in Cuba were not offensive weapons. 	Answer:	Andrei Gromykob)  As US ambassador to the UN, this former Presidential candidate shocked delicate ears by saying on national TV that he was prepared to wait "till Hell freezes over, if necessary" for a Soviet answer to a tough question.     	Answer:	Adlai Stevensonc)  To save face, this Soviet Premier offered to remove missiles from Cuba as a quid pro quo if the U.S. removed missiles from Turkey, missiles he knew we were already planning to remove. 		Answer:	Nikita Khrushchev14.	Only eight women have been awarded a Nobel Prize for Literature.  Name 37.5% of them from clues FTPE:Born German, this co-winner of the 1966 prize and her family fled to Sweden in 1940. She lamented the Holocaust in the poetry collections "In the Apartments of Death" and  "O the Chimneys." 	Answer:	Nelly SachsThe second American woman to win, her works include The Bluest Eye, Beloved, and Jazz.       Answer:	Toni Morrison [or Chloe Anthony Wofford]The 1991 winner, she was a critic of apartheid and its moral effects on the white ruling class of South Africa.  Her works include July's People and My Son's Story.       Answer:	Nadine Gordimer  [Accept if they say Nadime Gordimer.  Several sources list her this way, including the URL for her biography from the Nobel Foundation's official website.]15.	Answer the following about an African country FTPE:a) It had no working government from the early 1991 ouster of President Mohammed Siad Barre till either 2000 or 2002, depending on how you define it.  In that time four regions including Jubaland and Puntland declared themselves separate states.  Plus it suffered its worst drought ever in 1992, and relief workers were hampered by the tendency of some locals to loot their supplies and shoot at them.	Answer:	Somaliab) After Barre's ouster, two men claimed to be the new President.  After an ambush killed 23 Pakistani peacekeepers, in 1993 U.S. forces tried and failed to capture this claimant, who died in 1996 of either battle wounds or a heart attack, depending on who you believe.	Answer:	Mohammed Farah Aididc)  Aidid and his chief rival, Ali Mahdi Mohammed, controlled opposite sides of this capital like the Jets and the Sharks.	Answer:	Mogadishu16.	FTPE name these philosophical -isms:a)  Doctrine that holds that pleasure is the basic principle of chief good in life, determining individual actions and morality	Answer:	hedonismb)  Belief that the self or consciousness is the only thing in existence, or at least the only thing knowable for certain	Answer:	solipsismc)  Doctrine that the only things that really exist are individual physical objects, and abstract concepts exist only as names	Answer:	nominalism 
17.	From the five-carbon organic compound, give its chemical formula FTPE.A. Cyclopentane	Answer:	C5H10B. Neopentane	Answer:	C5H12C. Isoprene	Answer:	C5H818.	For 10 points each, which amendment to the U.S. Constitution:a) Prohibits cruel and unusual punishments?	Answer:	Eighth Amendment b) Guarantees a defendant the right to counsel?	Answer:	Sixth Amendmentc) Passed after FDR's death to prevent anyone else from being elected President for more than two terms?	Answer:	Twenty-Second Amendment19.	FTPE name these groundbreaking women of the late 20th century:a) The first African-American to serve in the Texas State Senate, she also served in the U.S. Congress for six years.  She became the first black and the first woman to give the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention.  	Answer:	Barbara Jordanb) An Indian-rights activist and worker since the late 1960's she was made chief of the Cherokee Nation in 1985.  She was selected to head the Inter-Tribal Council of Oklahoma and continued her tenure until retirement in 1994.  	Answer:	Wilma Mankillerc) Now in her eighth term from Florida's 18th District, this native of Cuba is the first Hispanic-American woman to serve in Congress.       Answer: 	Ileana Ros-Lehtinen20.	The original Cyclopes were a trio known for their strength and craftmanship.  They made thunderbolts for Zeus in his first war.  A.  First for 5 points each, name the original 3 Cyclopes.	Answers:	Arges, Brontes, SteropesB.  For another 5 each, name the two items the original cyclopes made for Hades and Poseidon, respectively.	Answer:	helmet of invisibility, tridentC.  For a final 5 points, name the Cyclops who had a bad turn with Odysseus	Answer:	Polyphemus21.	Identify the following discoverers from discoveries, FTPE:A.  Calculating machine			       Answer:  Charles BabbageB.  Seed drill			       Answer:  Jethro TullC. (original) Pendulum			       Answer:  Galileo22.	Answer these questions about the career of the Viking King Harald Haardraada.A.  First for 10 - which Scandinavian kingdom did he rule?       Answer:  NorwayB.  For 10 points - At what battle was he killed in 1066?	Answer:  Stamford BridgeC.  Earlier in his career, Harald served in what crack Viking regiment in Byzantine service?       Answer:  Varangian Guard