TOSSUPS - EMORY A	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UTCQuestions by Steve Bahnaman1.  Proposed in its namesake book as an alternative to the once-popular Peter Principle, this rule of business management laments that the most ineffective workers are systematically moved to the place where they can do the least damage: management.  The rest of the book explores ways for employees to gain at the expense of their oppressive companies, including stealing office supplies and telecommuting, and contains a chapter called Machiavellian Methods ghost-written by a certain canine consultant.  FTP, name this principle and thus the faux management treatise containing it, authored by comic-strip creator Scott Adams.	Answer:	The Dilbert Principle2.  Common subjects during it include sad-looking people, especially by the ocean, with elongated faces, such as in the emblematic three-person family depiction The Tragedy and the remarkable oil Woman and Child by the Sea.  Its psychological trigger may have been the suicide of Casagemas, which had a dramatic effect on an artist who had just moved to Paris and who was still in his late teens.  Better-known paintings from it include Old Guitar Player and La Vie, and a namesake nude.  FTP, name this sad-hued period from about 1901-1904 in the work of Pablo Picasso.	Answer:	The Blue Period3.  As a staunch New Dealer, he gained the friendship of the influential Sam Rayburn, who got him a commission from FDR in 1935 to direct the Texas branch of the National Youth Administration.  His legislative career included an 87-vote win in the Democratic primary for Senate in 1948, after which began a Senate career in which he would found and chair the Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee of the Armed Services Committee, serve as Democratic floor leader beginning in 1953, and marshal support for Eisenhower's programs.  FTP, name this war-focused politician, whose foreign conflict troubles would later obscure the intent of programs such as the Great Society.	Answer:	Lyndon Baines Johnson or LBJ4.  This question was originally proposed by Kepler, and incorrect answers to it have included the hypothesis that absorbing clouds obscured an observer's vision of distant stars.  The correct answer, and the one supported by the paradox's original creator, is that the universe is in fact finite in time and place, and that the total amount of matter and energy is far too small to light up the night sky.  FTP, name this paradox, which asked how an infinite universe could produce the perception of a dark sky at night.	Answer:	(Heinrich Wilhelm Matthaus) Olbers' Paradox5.  The "something" in the first line of this poem is only defined in the verses as "not elves exactly," though it seems to be more of a natural force.  After all, it is powerful, as it "spills the upper boulders in the sun; and makes gaps even two can pass abreast."  In the end, the poetic voice decides to let his neighbor continue believing in his father's saying that "good fences make good neighbors."  FTP, name this Robert Frost poem about the repair of a title object.	Answer:	Mending Wall6.  After what one can only imagine was a trying week, he named state senator Tom Rossin as his running mate and accepted the endorsement of his recent opponent as he took a platform hinging on child welfare, environmental concern, and a foundation for providing governmental health care especially to seniors.  This, after Mr. Nobody turned giant-killer and defeated a former cabinet member who had moved back into his state.  FTP, name this Tampa lawyer who won by a whopping 4,800 votes of 1.3 million cast in the Florida Democratic primary for governor against Janet Reno.	Answer:	Bill McBride7. The most famous work of this classicist and anthropologist from Glasgow was originally published in two volumes in 1890, but eventually was enlarged to 13 volumes containing chapters entitled "Tabooed Things," "Corn-Mother in Many Lands," "The External Soul in Folk-Tales," and "Our Debt to the Savage."  The author traced the debts of modern Christian society to traditions around the world, and as such created the first major work of comparative religion.  FTP, name the author of The Golden Bough.	Answer:	Sir James G(eorge) Frazer8. Though much information about her early career comes from the oft-questioned Secret History of Procopius, it is relatively clear from actions she took while in power, such as her aid to the Jacobite Church, that she was influenced heavily in her youth by Monophysite sects.  She was a stronger person than her better-known husband, and may have saved the throne through her energetic action in the Nika riots during the Blue and Green clashes in 532.  FTP, name this joint ruler of the Byzantine Empire, the wife of emperor Justinian the Great.	Answer:	Empress Theodora9.  Gases at either high temperature or low pressure, possibly.  Aqueous solutions of acids and bases, always.  Inorganic salts, always.  Acetic acid, yes, but it's weak.  Potassium chloride and sodium hydroxide, yes, and they're strong.  FTP, what ability do all of these substances have which metals lack, the ability to carry electrical current by ions rather than free electrons?	Answer:	They can all be electrolytes or electrolytic (Prompt on "conduct electricity" and equivalents until the word "metals" is read) (DNA or prompt on "electrolysis," which is an effect of electrolytic conduction)  10.	One by one, the logging and textile industries of the title locale in Dexter County, Maine have gone belly-up, and the holdings of the Whiting clan now consist of decrepit real estate.  Miles Roby, who runs a failing grill, is caught in the midst of all of this, his parents having brought him back from school never to let him leave again.  All of this serves as the backstory to, FTP, what Richard Russo social novel, the winner of the 2002 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction?	Answer:	Empire Falls11.  In an appendix, the author hints that this creature may not have been awakened by simple mining problems but rather by the growing power of evil in nearby Dol Guldur.  Its death came at the end of a two-day and two-night battle at the mountain of Zirakzigil atop the Endless Stair, putting an end to a millennia-long history that marked the end of Nain I, his father Durin VI, and Balin, all of whom tried to recolonize the area where this Maia dwelled.  Khazad-dum and Moria both served to name the abode of, FTP, what ancient demon vanquished by Gandalf in The Fellowship of the Ring?	Answer:	the Balrog (of Moria)  (Prompt on "Durin's Bane")12.  Early influences on the thought of this sect include the Lanka-Vatara Sutra which emphasized the doctrine of "consciousness-only" and the Platform Sutra of Hui-neng, which defined enlightenment as the "direct seeing" of one's own mind.  Its legendary Chinese founder is Bodhidharma, who advocated the contemplative practice of "wall-gazing."  Its teaching style developed during a Chinese "golden age" during the 8th and 9th centuries, when the practices of oral instruction and nonrational dialogue were incorporated into the consciousness-seeking method.  FTP, name this Buddhist sect, whose Lin-chi and Ts'ao-tung schools were renamed the Rinzai and Soto when it made inroads in Japan in the 14th century.	Answer:	Zen (or Ch'an) Buddhism13.  It was named for a French-educated Irish general in the Continental Army, who purportedly wrote a letter to another general severely criticizing the Commander-in-Chief's policies.  That letter was discovered by William Alexander and James Wilkinson, a member of the staff of Saratoga victor Horatio Gates, whom many congressmen and officers supported as commander.  The intrigue amounted to nothing, however, and the Irish general himself turned out never to have written the letter at all.  FTP, name this cloudy 1777 attempt to depose George Washington as head of the Continental Army.	Answer:	Conway ('s) Cabal 14.  While it does not bite, this scavenging arthropod is dangerous because of its external digestive process.  As it spits out digestive fluid and sucks it back in through its tubelike lower lip, it leaves a residue that can contain bacteria causing typhoid, cholera, and dysentery.  Its larvae go through four-stage metamorphosis living in garbage and manure, which may contain the later-transmitted bacteria.  FTP, name this infamous two-winged contaminator with scientific name Musca domestica.	Answer:	The housefly (prompt on "fly;" accept "Musca domestica" until it is read)
15.  A large amount of his literary output was in the form of something he called "palm-of-the-hand" stories, two to three page short stories including "Up in the Tree," a story about very young lovers.  Better known are his longer narratives, like his first novel, 1925's Izu Dancer, a semiautobiographical account of his infatuation as a 14-year-old with a performer.  Komako, a geisha, has an affair with middle-aged aesthete in The Snow Country.  FTP, identify this Japanese master, who also published Thousand Cranes and The Sound of the Mountain.	Answer:	Kawabata Yasunari16. Forming in central Mato Grosso state, Brazil, it passes through the pantanal and the Gran Chaco before the Pilcomayo and Bermejo rivers join it from the West.  It continues its southward flow along the Argentine border until joining the Parana, which flows into the Rio de la Plata.  FTP, name this navigable South American river with its chief port at Asuncion.	Answer:	(Rio) Paraguay River 17.  This book primarily consists of three Problema:  "Is there a teleological suspension of the ethical?"; "Is there an Absolute Duty to God?"; and "Was it ethically defensible for Abraham to conceal his undertaking from Sarah, from Eliezer, and from Isaac?"  This third problema is also the subject of four earlier versions of Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac which follow a preface by the author's pseudonym, Johannes de Silentio.  In the end, the philosopher concludes that "Faith is the highest passion in a person."  FTP, name this parent work of existentialism, entitled with the two conditions under which we must "work out our faith," according to Soren Kierkegaard.	Answer:	Fear and Trembling18.  Made a British protectorate in 1894, this African nation's first prime minister after independence was A. Milton Obote, who represented the People's Congress party.  His leftist policies were ended by a 1971 coup, which brought in the nation's most famous leader, who was himself deposed by more leftists in 1978, this time by the National Liberation Front.  The National Resistance Army brought to power current leader Yoweri Museveni, and the slightly renamed National Resistance Movement has remained the only legal political party.  FTP, name this African Great Lakes country ruled in the 1970s by Idi Amin.	Answer:	Uganda19. They are color-neutral and carry a half-quantum unit of angular momentum.  They adhere to the law of conservation of family number, which for them is +1.  Some of the odder varieties are the unstable and heavy sigma, delta, xi, N, and lambda, which are known as hyperons.  FTP, name this class of three-quark particles which also includes the nucleons: the proton and neutron.	Answer:	baryons20.  His real last name was Ivanovski, but this Ukraine native adopted a last name that his grandfather had taken to claim noble Cossack ancestry.  Pushkin may have inspired him to write his 1831 "Dikinka Tales" of Ukrainian folklore, but his first success came with 1835's Mirgorod, a collection of short stories including "Old World Landowners."  Also published in 1835, St. Petersburg Stories contained "The Diary of a Madman" and the striking "The Nose," and in the following year he would publish the play The Inspector-General.  FTP, name this author of "The Overcoat" and Dead Souls.	Answer:	Nikolai (Vasilyevich) Gogol21. Biopsy of those killed by this disease reveals unique multinucleated cells called Reed-Sternberg cells.  Symptoms of the disease include the requisite itching, fever, and night sweats, along with the signature lymphatic swelling in the neck or the armpit.  There is evidence that some sort of infection is involved in acquiring the disease, as the Epstein-Barr virus is often present, and exposure to Agent Orange has been strongly linked to its incidence.  FTP, name this malignant lymphoma.	Answer:	Hodgkin's disease or Hodgkin's lymphoma (Prompt on "lymphoma")22. Calvin, the owner of the titular establishment, is faced with a dilemma: open a recording studio or continue on track with his current unprofitable business, which he inherited from his father.  Along the way, multiple themes about the unity and identity of the black community in South Chicago are developed, including education, personified by Sean Patrick Thomas as Jimmy James; women's liberation, personified by Eve as Terri; and dealings with past injustice, experienced and survived by Cedric the Entertainer as Eddie.  FTP, name this 2002 film centered around the employees and community value of a business owned by a character portrayed by Ice Cube.	Answer:	Barbershop23. This constellation lies on the Sun's ecliptic, southwest of Bootes, and was by various ancient civilizations identified with the figures of Rhea, Ceres, Isis, and Ishtar.  Its alpha star is the bluish-white first-magnitude binary star Spica, whose name is the Latin word for "ear of grain."  FTP, name this Zodiacal constellation believed to depict a woman holding an sheaf of wheat.	Answer:	Virgo (prompt on "Virgin")24.	The clarinet training he had as a youth in the 1950s has informed his composition, especially on such works as the chamber-orchestra piece Gnarly Buttons and the highly experimental Short Ride in a Fast Machine, on which the winds section leads a single-note minimalist charge.  Aside from his orchestral work, this modern composer is highly regarded for his unusual operas, including I Was Looking at the Ceiling and then I Saw the Sky, about a Los Angeles earthquake, and his latest oratorio, El Nino, which treats the nativity of Jesus from many different apocryphal and modern perspectives.  FTP, name this modern American composer of the eminent satirical opera, Nixon in China.	Answer:	John (Coolidge !?) Adams25. One by this name was bishop of Nicomedia from 330-339 and patriarch of Constantinople from 339-342, where he befriended the emperor's son Constantius and advanced the heresy of Arianism throughout the empire.  The better-known churchman of this name was a bishop of Caesarea in Palestine, who favored the Arian ideas of the first one and submitted a simple creed that would evolve into the Nicene Creed.  He is better known, however, as the author of the first church histories.  FTP, what first name was shared by the Arian leader and the author of the Chronicle and the Ecclesiastical History?	Answer:	Eusebius
BONI - EMORY A	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UTCQuestions by Steve Bahnaman1.  Stuff about a really, really old kingdom, FTPE.A.  Rulers of this kingdom's Early Dynastic II period in about 2700 BCE include Gilgamesh, a member of the first dynasty of Uruk.	Answer:	Sumerian or SumerB.  The most important ruler over the Sumerian lands was likely this cupbearer to the king of Kish, who rebelled and built the city of Akkad, defeated King Lugal-zagezi of Uruk, and conquered most of Mesopotamia in the 24th century BCE.	Answer:	Sargon the Great or Sargon of Akkad or Sharru-kinC.  In the 21st century BCE, after a brief renaissance, the Sumerian kingdom was overrun by this earlier-conquered group, who emerged from the desert and eventually destroyed the capital city of Ur.  Later, they would set up an important dynasty at Babylon, of which Hammurabi was a member.	Answer:	Amorites2.  Name the Russian nationalist composers from works FTPE:A.  The Snow Maiden; Scheherezade.	Answer:	Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-KorsakovB. A Life for the Czar; Russlan and Ludmilla.	Answer:	Mikhail Ivanovich GlinkaC.  The Prisoner of the Caucasus; The Captain's Daughter	Answer:	Cesar Antonovich Cui3.  Answer the following about cells taking stuff in through their membranes, or endocytosis, FTSNOP.A.  (5 each)  Name the two types of endocytosis, colloquially termed "cell eating" and "cell drinking."	Answer:	phagocytosis and pinocytosisB.  (5 each)  In both types of endocytosis, sacs of pinched-off cell membrane containing the cell food are taken to other sacs containing digestive enzymes called acid hydrolases.  Name both types of sacs.	Answer:	vesicles and lysosomesC.  (10 points)  Only a few cells in the human body actually undertake phagocytosis, or the absorption of microscopically visible objects, and all are derived from these unspecialized cells in the spleen, thymus, and bone marrow.	Answer:	stem cells4. Given the titular character and the author, name the work of world literature FTSNOP.A.  (10)  Character: Eliza Sommers; Author: Isabel Allende	Answer:	Daughter of Fortune or Hija de la FortunaB.  (5)  Character: Harry Haller; Author: Hermann Hesse	Answer:	SteppenwolfC.  (10)  Character:  Halvard Solness; Author: Henrik Ibsen	Answer:	The Master-BuilderD.  (5)  Character:  Dolores Haze; Author: Vladimir Nabokov	Answer:	Lolita5. Name the following laws of economics for ten points each.A.  This eponymous law says that "supply creates its own demand."	Answer:	Jean-Baptiste Say's LawB.  According to this pessimistic law, the earnings of each employee tend to stabilize around the subsistence level.	Answer:	iron law of wagesC.  This law of microeconomics states that if one factor of production is increased while others remain constant, the marginal amount of created product will decrease with every unit of the factor of production.	Answer:	law of diminishing returns
6.	Identify the following books of the Bible from some issues they raise for feminist Bible scholars, FTPE.A.  This New Testament epistle is particularly problematic for feminist scholars, as it has Paul exhorting women to cover their heads when they pray and, more notoriously, contains the schematic that "Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of a woman, as God is the head of Christ."  He also says in this letter that women should never preach.	Answer:	First Letter of Paul to the Corinthians (prompt on "Corinthians")B.  This work of Old Testament prophecy is important to feminists because its author is the first to use the metaphor of husband for the deity, using feminine imagery to compare the unfaithful Israel to his own unfaithful wife Gomer.	Answer:	HoseaC.  The "preacher" who authored this writing presents a rather unappealing view of women, but has attracted positive statements from feminist scholars for the grounding of his philosophy of life firmly in individual experience, and his guarded glorification of the pleasures of the natural world under the sun, which are not always mere "vanity."	Answer:	Ecclesiastes or Qoheleth (NOT "Ecclesiasticus," which is another name for Sirach)7.    Name these lieutenants of Robert E. Lee who accompanied him into Southern Pennsylvania during the Gettysburg Campaign FTPE.A.  Lee relied on this 2nd inheritor of the command at Chancellorsville for information gathered by cavalry scouts.  During the campaign, he was absent during a disastrous Union raid; and Lee was not soon enough apprised of the situation.	Answer:	J(ames) E(well) B(rown) "Jeb" StuartB.  Stuart actually inherited command at Chancellorsville when this man, who had taken it from Jackson, was likewise wounded.  At Gettysburg, he led the Third Corps, which brought on the fighting on July 1.	Answer:	A(mbrose) P(owell) "A.P." HillC.  This lieutenant general and right-wing commander at Gettysburg had distinguished himself at Second Bull Run, and would last until he surrendered with Lee at Appomattox.  His excessive delays may have cost Lee the battle at Gettysburg.	Answer:	James Longstreet8.  The early Swiss physician Paracelsus introduced some important chemicals into use as medicines, though often they later proved to cause serious problems.  Name these, for ten points each.A.  Unfortunately, one of his most lasting contributions was the use of laudanum, a tincture of this addictive flower product, to treat many disorders.	Answer:	opiumB.  The spread of syphilis was rampant during Paracelsus' time, and he utilized compounds of this metal to treat it, a treatment which lasted until the development of penicillin in the 1940's.  Unfortunately, the metal can cross the blood-brain barrier and cause severe neurological damage including complete loss of motor control.	Answer:	mercuryC.  Many compounds of this highly poisonous semimetallic element are still used as drugs, though these compounds were largely unknown in Paracelsus' day.  He prescribed it for syphilis and yaws, but his patients often died later from continued exposure to the element.	Answer:	arsenic9. Name these albums from the 90's rock world which this question-writer found very disappointing, for ten points from a heavily editorialized description, or five if you need the artist who recorded the album.A.  10-Subtitled "Songs from the Vatican Gift Shop," this offering did contain the very cool "Lady Picture Show," but for the most part dragged listeners through pop-punk Beatles ripoffs like "Big Bang Baby."5-Stone Temple Pilots	Answer:	Tiny Music...Songs from the Vatican Gift ShopB.  10-This record seemed to portend  the major suckage of follow-up "Americana," with ill-advised power ballad "Gone Away" and some really stupid punky songs like "Mota" and the uninspired "All I Want."  Of course, what should anyone have expected from an album which combines Spanish and Pig Latin in its title?5-The Offspring	Answer:	Ixnay on the HombreC.  10-A reasonably pathetic follow-up to the band's best album, this rock record greatly reduced the roles of Boyd Tinsley and Leroi Moore in favor of guitar, drums and bass on such fare as the plodding "The Space Between."  The title track was upbeat and fun to listen to, if not musically genius.5-The Dave Matthews Band	Answer:	Everyday10.  Quote: "Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically.  The cataclysm has happened, we are among the ruins, we start to build up new little habitats, to have new little hopes."  FTPE:A.  This is the first line of what D.H. Lawrence work?	Answer:	Lady Chatterley's LoverB.  What is the name of Lady Chatterley's Lover?	Answer:	Oliver Mellors (Accept either answer)C.  What is the name of the house in which Clifford and Lady Chatterley live, and in which Mellors is the groundskeeper?	Answer:	Wragby Hall11. FTPE, identify the country in which the following United Nations peacekeeping operations are active:A. The mission of UNIFIL, a peacekeeping program in this country, was originally to ensure Israeli withdrawal following a 1978 invasion.  However, since Israel finally did withdraw in 2000, UNIFIL is charged with maintaining the "Blue Line," which has been violated during border disputes over such areas as the Shaba'a Farms.	Answer:	LebanonB. The newest of the UN peacekeeping organizations, UNMISET was formed in 2002 to ensure the independence of this republic which broke away from Indonesia.	Answer:	East TimorC. Begun in 1999, UNAMSIL has the goal of helping the government and other parties cooperate in the implementation of the Lome Peace Accords.  Now, it administers a disarmament plan and is supposed to help with elections in this tumultuous African republic.	Answer:	Sierra Leone12. Now that we're some weeks into the NFL season, you may have to dig deep into your memory to pull out the answers to the following questions about a game with a weird ending in Week 1.  Ten points each should help jog your memory.A.  During a last-minute Kansas City Hail Mary attempt, a Browns linebacker had Chiefs QB Trent Green in his grasp when Green desperately lateraled the ball to an offensive tackle.  This linebacker thought he had sacked Green, and in celebration removed his own helmet and threw it to the field, resulting in a personal foul penalty.	Answer:	Dewayne RuddB.  Meanwhile, this somewhat slow-footed Chiefs offensive tackle lumbering with the ball down to the 25-yard line, where he went out of bounds, thinking that he had lost the game until he noticed the flag on the field.	Answer:	John TaitC.  Unfortunately for the Browns, the game cannot end on a defensive penalty.  The Chiefs received half the distance to the goal line and a single play, during which this kicker, who was at that time the NFL's oldest player, made an easy game-winning field goal.	Answer:	Morten AndersenNOTE:  Morten Andersen was replaced as the NFL's oldest player when his old rival Gary Anderson showed up again in a Vikings jersey after Week 2.13.  Identify these eponymous effects from physics, FTPE.A.  This effect demonstrated the particle concept of electromagnetic radiation by describing the increase of the wavelength of rays due to scattering of the incident radiation by free electrons.	Answer:	Compton effect or Compton scatteringB.  This effect describes the symmetrical splitting of spectral lines in a magnetic field.	Answer:	Zeeman effectC.  This effect refers to the splitting of spectral lines as the result of an externally applied electric field.  This splitting is not symmetric, unlike that of the Zeeman effect.	Answer:	Stark effect14. Name these poems by the great rhythmic voice of the Harlem Renaissance, Langston Hughes, from quotes FTPE.A.  Rest, at pale evening.../ A tall, slim tree.../ Night coming tenderly/ Black like me.	Answer:	Dream VariationsB.  Droning a drowsy syncopated tune, / Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon, / I heard a Negro play.	Answer:	The Weary BluesC.  I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it. / I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans, and I've seen its muddy bosom turn all golden in the sunset.	Answer:	The Negro Speaks of Rivers 
15.	Identify the following concepts from philosophy that deal with basic things for ten points from a definition or five if you require the main proponent of the concept.A.  10-Posited in the 18th century, these constituents of existence are immaterial, inactive, and arranged on an ascending scale by the distinctness with which each represents the universe.       5-Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz		Answer:	monadsB.  10-This was an attempt to develop a universal philosophic method with no presuppositions.  Such a pure philosophy would ideally be achieved by the creation of a mind which realized the presence of an object and then instantly perceived its true meaning or essence through intuition.       5-Edmund Husserl		Answer:	phenomenologyC.  10-These basic elements of the universe are defined as things which undergo processes, or which serially go through stages of prehension or grasping; concrescence; and satisfaction.  Examples include humans, rocks, bacteria, and even God.  God is unique because only God positively prehends all other ones of these.       5-Alfred North Whitehead		Answer:	actual entity (es)16.  There are many ways to call substances acids and bases.  Name these eponymous systems for defining them, FTPE.A.  According to this man's theory, when dissolved in water, acids dissociate to yield H-plus, or hydrogen ions.  Bases yield OH minus, or hydroxide ions.	Answer:	ArrheniusB.  In this theory, an acid donates a proton and a base accepts a proton in a solution.  Water therefore can be either an acid or a base.	Answer:	Bronsted-Lowry  (prompt on either Bronsted or Lowry)C.  In this theory, an acid accepts an electron pair; a base donates an electron pair.	Answer:	Lewis17.  Answer the following about a labor union and a labor leader, FTPE.A.  This all-black union of railroad workers was formed in 1925 despite tremendous opposition from the infamous Pullman company.	Answer:	The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters or BSCPB.  When the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters was formed under his leadership, this civil rights and labor advocate was elected its first president.	Answer:	A(sa) Philip RandolphC.  The activities of A. Philip Randolph and the BSCP had an effect on the government, as FDR in 1941 established this committee in the Office of Production Management to eliminate discrimination in hiring during wartime.  Truman tried to extend it to peacetime, but Congress ended it in 1946.	Answer:	Fair Employment Practices Committee or FEPC18.  Name the following characters related by blood to Sir Gawaine in Arthurian legend, FTSNOP.A.  (10)  Not Abraham's nephew, this king of Orkney married Arthur's half-sister Morgause.  By him, she gave birth to several children, including Gawaine.	Answer:	King LotB.  (5 each)  Gawaine has three proper brothers.  One is a generous and very chivalrous knight who figures heavily in Malory as a paragon of chivalry.  Another is the eventual killer of Morgause for her infidelity with Lamorak.  The final one is slain by Lancelot for exposing his infidelity with Guinevere.  Name them in any order for five points each.	Answer:	Gareth, Gaheris, and AgravainC.  (5)  Gawaine also has another half-brother, a son of Morgause by her half-brother King Arthur.  Name this usurper who is a primary villain in Arthurian legend.	Answer:	Modred or Mordred or Medraut
19.  Identify the U.S. State in which each of the following National Parks is located, 5 points each with a bonus 5 for all correct.  Each answer only falls within one state.A.  Kenai Fjords			Answer:	AlaskaB.  Saguaro					Answer:	ArizonaC.  Voyageurs					Answer:	MinnesotaD.  Zion						Answer:	UtahE.  Joshua Tree					Answer:	California20. Identify the following Mexican painters who are not Diego Rivera FTSNOP.A.  (5)  This female contemporary of Rivera was known the graphic anatomical imagery of her self-portraits.	Answer:	Frida Kahlo Writer's Note:  Yes, she was Rivera's wife, but that doesn't have to be in the question.B.  (10)  With Rivera, this muralist and painter of Dartmouth College's Epic of Culture in the New World was a leading figure of the Mexican renaissance.	Answer:	Jose Clemente OrozcoC.  (15)  This popular artist and inspiration of Rivera's generation was particularly active around the fin-de-siecle, when he composed lots of low-budget prints and sold them at low cost to the masses.  Of particular note are his satirical works on the Dance of Death, which contain the emblematic image of the skeleton on a bicycle.	Answer:	Jose Guadalupe Posada21.	Identify the following algae phylums from clues for the stated number of points.A.  10-This 2000-species phylum consists of unicellular algae, some of which are phototrophic.  Most have two flagella that cause them to spin through the water, and many are also phosphorescent.  Members of this phylum are responsible for red tides.	Answer:	Dinoflagellata or Dinoflagellates; also PyrrhophytaB.  15-This algal phylum includes the largest of the giant kelps, as well as most algae which are commonly known as seaweed.  Their characteristic pigmentation color comes from accessory pigments such as fucoxanthin.	Answer:	Phaeophyta (accept Brown algae)C.  5-This major phylum of algae contains most organisms commonly known by the name algae, including Chlamydomonas, Volvox, and pond scum.	Answer:	Chlorophyta (accept Green algae)22.  Name these works by Alexander Pope from quotations, FTPE.A.  Say first, of God above or man below, / What can we reason but from what we know?	Answer:	Essay on ManB.  A little learning is a dangerous thing; / Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring;	Answer:	Essay on CriticismC.  What dire offence from amorous causes springs!  /  What mighty contests rise from trivial things!	Answer:	The Rape of the Lock23. Identify the treaties that ended the following wars in the following years, 5-10-20-30.A.  Sino-Japanese War, 1895.			Answer:	Treaty of ShimonosekiB.  Russo-Japanese War, 1905.			Answer:	Treaty of PortsmouthC.  Russo-Turkish Wars, 1829			Answer:	Treaty of Adrianople or EdirneD.  Crimean War, 1856				Answer:	Treaty of Paris