Rollapalooza/ COTKUTossups1.  The 1936 Nobel Prize Winner in Chemistry , the poet author of  "Letters to Heloise",  a bishop of Paris whose "Four Books of Sentences" is a standard theological text, a British actor known for his Shakespeare and for Lawrence of Arabia, a fisherman apostle from Christianity, and the ever-young boy of a work by James Barrie share what common first name?Answer:  Peter  (Peter Debye, Peter Abelard, Peter Lombard, Peter O'Toole, Peter, Peter Pan) (accept Peter Debye before "poet")2.  As a politician, he enjoyed an illustrious career - he was prime minister from 1902 to 1905 and foreign minister in the government of David Lloyd George from 1916 to 1919.  He was a staunch opponent of  Irish Home Rule, and though opposed to the British South Africa policy of the time, insisted on decisive victory in the Boer War.  He is better known, however, for a certain declaration that bears his name.  FTP, name this British statesman, advocate of Zionist efforts to establish a Jewish nation in Palestine.Answer: Arthur James Balfour3.  It was designed by Stanley Morison for a London newspaper, where it was introduced in 1932.  According to its creator, "it had to be so good that only very few recognize its novelty.  If readers do not notice the consummate reticence and rare discipline of a new type, it is probable a good letter."  It's now an industry standard, rising to the lofty position as the default for a new document in Microsoft Word.  For ten points, name America's favorite type font.Answer:  Times New Roman4. Copper is the cathode.  Zinc is the anode.  In this type of cell, copper ions are being reduced to copper and zinc is being oxidized to zinc cations.  For ten points, give the name of this type of cell, named for an Italian scientist, also known as a voltaic cell.Answer: Galvanic cell (accept voltaic before "Italian scientist")5.  They originated in Vienna, Austria in 1927, where certain models looked like cigarette lighters, ironic since their intent was to remove cigar breath.  The highest price ever paid for one was $4,375 in 1997 for an early model that came without a  head.  Recently, they've become much more high-tech, including a battery-powered one featuring Marvin the Martian.  FTP, what is this device, whose most popular varieties have featured Mickey Mouse and Santa Claus, that dole out over 3 billion namesake candies a year?Answer: Pez dispensers6: Its CPU runs at 733 MHz, it has a 10 GB hard drive, and a GeForce 3 graphics chip It is the product of the collaboration between nVIDIA  (pronounced invidia) and Microsoft.  Featuring such software as Halo, Jet Grind Radio Future,  and Dead or Alive 3, FTP name this big, green and black game console scheduled for release on November 15, 2001.Answer: Xbox7. Although he won the first-ever American League MVP, it was the only one he would ever win.  He never played on, or managed, any World Series team.  He was one of two people to homer both before (*) his 20th birthday and after his 40th; this was somewhat surprising considering that he stole home more often than anyone else in history.  FTP, Name this batting champ, a long-time Detroit Tiger who still holds the Major League records in Runs and Batting Average, and held the record in hits until Pete Rose passed him in 1985.Answer: Ty Cobb8.  It would be an understatement to say that the Akkadians and the Sumerians did not get along. The years from 4000 BCE to 1850 BCE marked a time of near-constant warfare. But, apparently, they worked even better as a team. 1850 BCE marked the rise to prominence of what ancient empire, now more famous for its ziggurats and hanging gardens, and for its former rulers Nebuchadnezzar and Hammurabi. Answer: Babylon or Babylonia or the Babylonian Empire9.  The Earth rotates eastward, and the tangential velocity of a point on Earth's surface is a function of latitude.  Thus, if one were to fire a cannon northward from a point on the equator, the cannonball would land to the east of the targeted point.   It has greater importance in astrophysics and stellar dynamics, in which it is a controlling factor in the rotation of sunspots.  For ten points, name this effect which does not, as popular myth holds, make toilets flush backwards in Australia.Answer:  Coriolis Effect or Force10.  Included in it are the square roots of 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, and 10 to 100 decimal places, not to mention e, pi, the golden ratio, and many others.  Better known inclusions are works by anyone from Shakespeare, Dante, and Poe through Ayn Rand and Bertrand Russell.  These works are chosen by unpaid volunteers, but it can't reprint anything published after 1923.  For ten points, name Michael Hart's aptly-named internet project of freely publicizing famous and important literature.Answer:  The Gutenberg Project11: It was constructed in 1769 by Wolfgang von Kempelen and presented to Empress Maria Theresa. The illusion took the form of a man seated at a desk on which a typical board was placed.  After demonstrating that no one was hidden inside the 'automaton', von Kempelen pretended to wind up the mechanism and set the machine in operation. Surprisingly to all on-lookers, it never lost a game of chess.  For ten points, name this illusion, in which a concealed grandmaster would swindle pawn-pushers of their money.Answer:  The Turk12.  It was written in 1886, but it was never performed in its composer's life time.  The final of its fourteen parts is included in Disney's Fantasia 2000.  For ten points, "Fossils", "Aquarium", "Wild Asses", and "Cocks and Hens" are movements from what humorous fantasy collection by Camille Saint-Saens?Answer:  Carnival of the Animals13.  Cases began upon petition or information.  Depositions were taken from witnesses, but no jury was used.  The punishments, which were arbitrary, included imprisonment, fine, the pillory, whipping, branding, and mutilation, but never death.  It was most effective since it was not bound to the common law as were the lower courts, but rather to the King's Law, most notably that of Henry VIII.  For ten points, name this establishment of English law, abolished by parliament in 1641, named for the design of its meeting room.Answer:  The Star Chamber14.  His 1953 autobiography "Always the Young Strangers" described his time in the Spanish-American War with the 6th Illinois infantry.  From 1910 to 1912, he acted as an organizer for the Social Democratic Party and as secretary to the mayor of  Milwaukee.  He wrote an autobiography of his brother-in-law Edward Steichen entitled Steichen the Photographer in 1929.  FTP, name this American poet, historian, and novelist, best known for his autobiographies of Lincoln and his the poem "Chicago."Answer:  Carl Sandburg15.  The ancient city of Troy, recognizing its importance, defended it from the Southwest end.  In 480 B.C., the Persian Army of Xerxes traversed it by a bridge of boats.  Ironically, Alexander the Great learned from this tactic and used the same trick to cross it against the Persians in 334 B.C.  It's also known as the site of a World War I campaign against Turkey.  For ten points, name this channel straight, namesake of the alternative name for Gallipoli.Answer:  Dardanelles16.  The name's the same for this company and its one-time owner.  The owner was the son of communists, and his ties to Al Gore Sr. came back to haunt Gore Jr.'s political career.  He was a secret agent of the Soviet Union from 1921 until his death in 1990, but is better known as the owner of Occidental (*) Petroleum.  The company was purchased by the owner for the notable coincidence between their names.  For ten points, identify this common name now known as "the standard of purity" in baking soda.Answer:  Arm and Hammer or Armand Hammer17.  With the outbreak of the Russian Revolution in 1917, he joined the Red Army and began to organize defense forces.  He found his calling, however, in providing entertainment for the troops.  His first  film, "Strike" revealed his theoretical motivations as a cinematographer, attempting to reform the then-static film life of Russia.  For ten points, name this Russian film director, best known for his works "Alexander Nevsky",  "Ivan the Terrible," and "Battleship: Potemkin."Answer:  Sergei Eisenstein18.  Though his most well known books are children books, this author also wrote many non-fiction works dealing with Christianity and a trilogy of science fiction books set on Mars, Venus, and Earth (*). He was, along with J.R.R. Tolkien, a member of the Inkblot society in England. Tolkien's unfinished novel The Lost Road was meant to be a companion book to his space trilogy. Give the name of this author who's most well known works are his Narnia books.Answer: C.S. Lewis19.  Evidence of this disease has been noted as far back as 5000BC, but its current name comes from the doctor who first analyzed it in 1817. In the normal brain, some nerve cells produce the chemical (*) dopamine, but in patients with this disease, nearly 80 percent of those cells are dead. The disease usually doesn't hit until the ages of 60 and 70, but it doesn't have to. For ten points, name this disease that affects Pope John Paul II, Janet Reno, Muhammad Ali, and Michael J. Fox. Answer: Parkinson's Disease 20.  Formally, it states that "To every omega-consistent recursive class of formulas, there correspond recursive class signs such that neither the statement nor its negation belongs to the set of theorems corresponding to those class signs."  It was instrumental in the solution, or rather lack thereof, of Hilbert's 10th problem, which asked for a general solution to all Diophantine problems.  For ten points, name this revolutionary theorem in the field of logic, telling mathematicians that not every theorem is provable.Answer:  Godel's Undecidability Theorem21.  A British empiricist, he divides the content of human experience in to impressions and ideas.  He believed that philosophy was the inductive, experimental science of human nature.  For ten point, name this philosopher who died 154 years to the day before the birth of the most famous actor from his country, Sean Connery, best known for his Inquiries Concerning the Principals of Morals.Answer: David Hume23.  "A house is a machine for living in" and "a curved street is a donkey track, a straight street, a road for men" are among the declarations of this man, author of Toward A New Architecture (*) and advisor to the construction of the Punjabi capital of Chandigarh.  FTP, name this architect, designer of the Savoye House and the foremost architect of the International Style.Answer: Le Corbusier24.  Critical to Quality.  Defect.  Process Capability.  Variation.  (*) Stable operations.  Design for Blank.  Fill in the blank, and you'll have named, FTP, what latest management fad that incorporates the previous sextet of buzz-words and requires fewer than 3.4 mistakes for every million opportunities?Answer: Six Sigma Quality.25.  Judd Nelson , Eric Idle, Orson Welles, Casey Kasem, Leonard (*) Nimoy, voiced, respectively, Hot Rod, Wreck-Gar, Unicron, Cliff Jumper, and Galvatron in what 1986 film featuring the end of some of the TV series' most well-known characters, Megatron and Optimus Prime?Answer:  Transformers: The Movie
Rollapalooza/COTKUBonuses1.  Given the numerical baseball statistic, give the player who holds the all-time career record with that number FTPE.  If you need the category, it's worth 5.a) (10) 14,053    (5) Most Career At-BatsAnswer:  Pete Roseb) (10) 23    (5) Most Career Grand SlamsAnswer:  Lou Gehrigc) (10) 309    (5) Most Career TriplesAnswer:  Sam Crawford2.  Given the country, name its president or prime minister at the time of the Suez Canal crisis, in 1956, FTPE.a) EgyptAnswer: Gamal Abdel Nasserb) IsraelAnswer: David Ben-Gurionc) Great BritainAnswer: Anthony Eden3. Pencil and paper may be needed. Given the reaction: A+2B-->3D answer the following questions about chemical kinetics FSNPE.a) (5) If the following is an elementary step, what is its order?Answer: third orderb) (10) Still assuming the step is elementary, what is its order in B?Answer: second orderc) (15) To determine the rate law, you assume that the concentration of the intermediate, D, is constant. This is what type of approximation for a rate law?Answer: steady-state approximation4. Given a short description name the novel by Jane Austen or one of the Brontes, name it FSNP.a) (5) Charlotte's most famous novel. Need more?  Too bad!Answer: Jane Eyreb) (5) Emily's only novel.Answer: Wuthering Heightsc) (10) Jane's third novel tells the story of Fanny Price. Her virtue pays off and she eventually marries her cousin Edmund.Answer: Mansfield Parkd) (10) Probably the better known of Anne's novels, this novel tells of the struggle for independence of Helen, a painter who has fled from her marriage.Answer: The Tenant of Wildfell Hall5.  30-20-10 Name the theatrical production.a) (30) Created by Luke Cresswell and Steve McNicholas, it was derived from the street performance style of "busking". b) (20) This difficult to classify show is now in its 6th sold-out year at New York's Orpheum Theater, as well as having been performed at locations across the US and the world.c) (10) Props include brooms, trash cans, lighters, and the stage itself.Answer: Stomp!6.  Answer the following questions about the February 28th, 2001 earthquake in Washington State, 5-10-15.a) (5) The earthquake was north of this city, the capital of Washington.Answer: Olympiab) (10) Give the Richter magnitude of the quake to within 0.5.Answer: 6.3 (5.8 - 6.8 acceptable)c) (15) What was the estimated damage to the city to within $10 million.Answer: $150 million  ($140 - 160 million acceptable)7.  Answer the following about the human immune system, FTPE.a) (10) These are foreign organisms or molecules whose recognition by the immune system triggers an immune response.Answer: antigensb) (10) These cells are antigen-specific, and generates plasma cells and memory cells when their specific antigen is presentAnswer: B cells or B lymphocytesc) (10) B cells are part of this division of the immune system, which takes its name from the Latin for "fluid".Answer: humoral immune system8.  30-20-10 Name's the same:a) (30)  A word meaning "Patriarch", a 15th century elector who owned Brandenburg and founded the    University of Frankfurt, and the first name of Oscar-winning cinematographer Almendros who won for his work on 1978's Days of Heaven.b) (20)  An 11th century monk from the Monastery of the Caves in Kiev who wrote biographies of notable Russian of the time and from history.  His "Tale of Bygone Years" is arguably the most important historical work of early medieval Russia.c) (10)  A king of Pylos, in Greek legend, all of whose brothers were killed by Heracles.  In the "Iliad" he is about 70 years old, and is the wise man of Troy.  In the "Odyssey", he tells Telemachus about his trial in the Trojan war.Answer:  Nestor9.  30-20-10 Name the work from section headings.a) (30) Volume 1, Chapter 1: The Home of my Parentsb) (20) Volume 2, Chapter 8: The Strong is Strongest When Alonec) (10) Volume 2,  The Nationalist Socialist MovementAnswer:  Mein Kampf10.  Note these mathematical fields: Number Theory, Knot Theory, Graph Theory, Game Theory, and Analytical Calculus.  Given a series of terms, give which field they belong to FSNPE.a) (5) Stoke's Theorem, Taylor Polynomials, Euler's ConstantAnswer:  Analytical Calculusb) (5) Four-Color Theorem, Chromatic Polynomials, Steiner Tree ConstantsAnswer:  Graph Theoryc) (10) Kontsevich's Theorem, Jones Polynomials, Vasilliev Constants, Answer:  Knot Theoryd) (10) Quadratic Reciprocity Theorem, Irreducible Polynomials, Hardy-Littlewood ConstantsAnswer:  Number Theory
11.  Answer these questions about Presidents of the United States. FSNPE.a) (5) Give the most common first name for a president of the United States.Answer:  Jamesb)  (15max) Ignoring James "Jimmy" Carter, name the other five presidents whose first name was James, 5 for 3, 10 for 4, 15 for all 5:Answer:  Madison, Monroe, Buchanan, Polk, and Garfieldc)  (10max) It may be clear that the next most common name for U.S. presidents is John.  Now give the next two most common, for five points apiece, both having been names of three American presidents.Answer: William and George12.  Given the recent year and his collaborators, give the well-known winners of the Nobel Prize in physics.  If you need an additional clue, you'll get 5.a) (10) 1965, with Sin-Itrio Tomonaga and Julian Schwinger    (5) Work in quantum electrodynamics, including his namesake diagrams.Answer:  Richard Feynmanb) (10) 1921, no collaborators     (5) For his discovery of the photoelectric effectAnswer:  Albert Einsteinc) (10) 1958, with Mikhail Frank and Igor Tamm(5) The namesake of the radiation and effect of particles traveling in a medium faster than light can in that mediumAnswer:  Pavel Cherenkov13.  Answer the questions about the Haymarket Square Riot:a) (5)  In what year did the Homestead strike occur?Answer:  1892b) (10)  Carnegie's chief advisor, he was made chairman of Carnegie Brothers and Company and was the man responsible for bringing in the Pinkertons as strikebreakers.Answer:  Henry Clay Frickc) (15)  As a result of his leading role in the Homestead strike, Frick was shot and stabbed by what anarchist, who associated with such noteworthy anarchists as Emma Goldman and Leon Csolgosz?Answer:  Alexander Berkman14.  30-20-10 Name the author from works:a) (30) Virgin Soil, Spring Torrents, On the Eveb) (20) A Sportman's Sketches, Home of the Gentryc) (10) Fathers and SonsAnswer:  Ivan Turgenev15.  Given a century, given the Chinese Dynasty for the entirety of that century.a) (5) 15th Century:Answer:  Mingb) (10) 19th Century:Answer:  Manchuc) (15) 8th Century:Answer:  Tang16. Answer the following about systems engineering, FTPE.a) (10) If an RC circuit is given an input voltage x of t and has an output voltage y of t, and the system parameters R and C are constant over time, then the system between y and x has this property.Answer: time-invarianceb) If the same system obeys the principle of superposition, it has what other property?Answer: linearityc) If the system, when fed a bounded input x of t, produces a bounded output y of t, it has this property.Answer: stability17.  Name the artist from works on a 10-5 basis:a) (10) The Three Graces, The Veiled Woman, The Knight's Dream     (5) Madonna of the Goldfinch, GalateaAnswer:  Raphaelb) (10) The Gypsy Madonna, The Education of Cupid, The Emperor Charles on Horseback     (5) Sacred and Profane Love, The Gypsy MadonnaAnswer:  Titian (accept or Tiziano Vecelli)c) (10) The Mystic Nativity, The Allegory of Spring, Judith     (5) The Adoration of the Magi, Mars and VenusAnswer:  Sandro Botticelli18.  Given the nation, name its representative at the close of the Potsdam Conference on August 2, 1945, FTPE.a) (10) USAAnswer: Harry S. Trumanb) (10) Great BritainAnswer: Clement Attleec) (10) Soviet UnionAnswer: Joseph Stalin19.  Given offspring of Zeus, name their mother, 5-10-15a) (5) Hephaestus, Hebe, AresAnswer:  Herab) (10) HerculesAnswer:  Alcmenec) (15) Apollo, ArtemisAnswer:  Leto20. 30-20-10 Name the work.a) (30) It's name takes its title from the poem "Cynara" by Ernest Dowson.  Within 6 months, one million copies had been sold.b) (20) Four decades after the author's death, it sequel was published: Scarlett, by Alexandra Ripleyc) (10) It was written by Margaret Mitchell in 1936.Answer:  Gone with the Wind21.  Given the name of an arena, name the NHL team that it is home to, FTPE.a) (10) Reunion Arena Answer: Dallas Starsb) (10) First Union CenterAnswer: Philadelphia Flyersc) (10) Continental Airlines ArenaAnswer: New Jersey Devils22.  Identify these approaches to economics, 15 each.a) (15) This approach to economics attempts to describe how the economy operates using the scientific method.Answer: positive economicsb) (15) This alternative approach uses value judgements to evaluate the workings of the economy.Answer: normative economics
23.  30-20-10 Name the historic site.a) (30) Located 18 km north & west of Fort Macleod, Alberta, Canada, this UNESCO World Heritage Site comes highly recommended by Dave Barry's The Only Travel Guide You'll Ever Need.  b) (20) Located amidst the foothills of the Rocky Mountains, this site has been used by Native American tribes for over 6000 years to kill bison by stampeding them over the edge of a cliff.c) (10) Supposedly, one Native American decided one day to watch this process from under the cliff, and numerous animal landed on his head.  His condition thereafter shares its name with the site itself.Answer: The Head-Smashed-In Buffalo Jump24.  Given a definition from linguistics, give the term for 15 points.  If you need an example, you'll get 5.  The moderator will not give the correct answers until the bonus is finished.a) (15) A voiced segment characterized by generalized friction of the air passing in a continuous stream through the pharynx and opened mouth, with relatively no narrowing or other obstruction of the speech organs.    (5) "I"Answer: vowelb) (15) Any segment produced by stopping and releasing the air stream, or stopping it at one point while it escapes at another, or a very narrow passage causing friction.Answer: consonant 