TOSSUPS - VIRGINIA TECH A & B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaTossups by Virginia Tech; bonuses by their Jedi master, Jason Thweatt1.	It is a memoir of the author's trip across America to find out what has changed about the nation's character.  The author sets out from Sag Harbor to take in the country that he'd made a living describing in his works, making the journey in a custom-made camper that he named in honor of Don Quixote's steed.  For 10 points, identify this travelogue whose title features the aging poodle who accompanied his master on the journey, a work that comes as close to an autobiography of John Steinbeck as a travel memoir can.	Answer:	 Travels with Charley2.	His doctoral thesis refined the ideas of reflection and refraction of light in the electromagnetic theory of James Clerk Maxwell.  Later, he developed the concepts of local time and length contraction, the latter of which is most noticeable in a body traveling at relativistic speed.  For 10 points, who is this physicist whose mathematical transformations helped lay the foundation for the Special Theory of Relativity?	Answer:	 Hendrik Lorentz3.	He learned the tanning trade from his father in Connecticut.  After suffering a sizeable financial loss during the Panic of 1837, he was declared bankrupt by a court five years later.  In 1855, he joined his sons in Kansas and earned one of his famous nicknames in the defense of Osawatomie, a free-soil town.  As revenge for the sacking of Lawrence, he led a raid on Pottawatomie Creek that resulted in the deaths of five pro-slavery settlers.  FTP, identify this abolitionist whose efforts were funded by the Secret Six, but who failed to ignite a large-scale slave insurrection in the wake of his 1856 raid on Harper's Ferry.	Answer:	 John Brown4.	Born in 1678, he was trained as a priest, earning his most famous nickname as a result of his vocation and a very distinctive physical characteristic.  Asthma left him unable to celebrate mass, and the dispensation given him due to ill health left him free to become a violin instructor and later, conductor at the Pio Ospedale della Pieta in Venice.  It was here that he composed the bulk of his music, numbering more than 450 concertos and 40 operas. For 10 points, name this Baroque composer and "Red Priest" most notable for his concerto "The Four Seasons."	Answer:	 Antonio Vivaldi5.	Once annexed by the British Empire as part of the colony of India, it gained sovereignty in 1948.  The United Nations has recognized its name change since 1989, but the United States and United Kingdom do not, since they contest rule of the military government that instituted the name change.  For 10 points, name the country where Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi remains under house arrest, and that J. Peterman, will always know as Burma.	Answer:	 Myanmar (Prompt on Burma.)6.	His 1871 Sonnet of the Vowels employed a form of synesthesia, a literary device in which terms from one type of sensory experience are used to describe another, by assigning each vowel a color.  He prefigured surrealism with his hallucinatory images in The Drunken Boat and by calling for poets to become seers in Letter from the Seer.  And he's often cited as one of the creators of free verse because of the rhythmic experiments in Illuminations.  FTP name this French poet who illuminated his own intense, tortured existence in A Season in Hell.	       Answer:	Arthur Rimbaud7.	Conducted between September 17 and 25, the intent was to cut off German supply lines and to secure an easier path into German territory.  Two coordinated operations, one of which saw the largest airborne operation in history, made progress up to the capture of the Waal bridge at Nijmegen.  However, the final Rhine bridge at Arnhem proved to be "a bridge too far," a failure that led to the destruction of the British 1st Airborne Division.  FTP, identify this 1945 invasion of the Netherlands, unsuccessful because of stiff German resistance and lack of reinforcements.	Answer:	 Operation Market Garden
8.	He started his career as a video store clerk in Manhattan Beach, California where he spent all day watching, discussing and recommending videos.  In 1986 he wrote his first script, True Romance, and followed that up in 1988 with Natural Born Killers.  For 10 points, name this filmmaker who often uses an unconventional storytelling device in his films, such as retrospect, non-linear, or "chapter" format and who often plays a small role in his films, as he did in 1994's Pulp Fiction.	Answer:	 Quentin Tarantino9.	Disorders such as Alien Hand Syndrome, where a sufferer's hands seem to act on their own, is best documented in cases where the brain's hemispheres have been separated, or due to damage in this area.  It is the largest white matter structure in the mammalian brain - except in monotremes, who do not possess the structure - and is responsible for carrying out most of the communication between the brain's halves.  For 10 points, name this region, also known as the commissure of cerebral hemispheres, a transverse nerve bundle that connects the halves of the cerebrum.	Answer:	 corpus callosum10.	According to one story, he was not a Greek by birth, but a Phoenician who brought the alphabet to Boeotia.  His search for a missing sister was abandoned after consulting the oracle at Delphi, who told him to found a new city at the spot where a cow stopped to rest.  In The Greek Myths, Robert Graves remarked that ""A cow's strategic and commercial sensibilities are not well-developed," and just how much of the calamity that followed was the cow's fault is perhaps subject to debate.  FTP identify this heroic figure of Greek myth, the progenitor of the tragic royal family of Thebes.	Answer:	 Cadmus11.	He passed through both the styles of Impressionism and Symbolism, and kept up with Cubism while he lived in Paris before the start of World War I.  His art followed a path towards the more spiritual.  The 1912 work Composition VII shows the influence of Cubism with its use of grey around the edges of the work and its shapes.  For 10 points, name this artist and prominent member of De Stijl, best known for creating geometric works in the style he called Neoplasticism, such as "Composition with Red, Yellow, and Blue."	Answer:	 Piet Mondrian12.	His father died a month before his birth in Westminster, and his mother married a master tradesman.  After being put to that trade, he found it not to his liking, and he spent some time as a soldier before turning to writing.  He was imprisoned for his part in writing "The Isle of Dogs" in 1597, and a year later he was back in jail after a duel that resulted in the death of a member of an acting company to which he once belonged.  He escaped the gallows by claiming the benefit of clergy, and was thus branded on the thumb and forced to forfeit his property.  FTP identify this bricklayer-turned-playwright, best known for writing The Tale of the Tub, The Alchemist, Everyman in His Humour, and Volpone.	Answer:	 Ben Jonson13.	Past winners include Billy Graham, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and most recently, the cosmologist George Ellis.  Currently worth 795,000 pounds, it was established in 1972, and first awarded to Mother Teresa the next year.   For 10 points, identify this award, the namesake of an American entrepreneur and philanthropist, given annually to the living person who best exemplifies the effort of "trying various ways for discoveries and breakthroughs to expand human perceptions of divinity and to help in the acceleration of divine creativity."	Answer:	 Templeton Prize for Progress Toward Research or Discoveries about Spiritual Realities14.	Consisting of a single membrane that separates them from the cytosol, they are most abundant in the liver. One of their main functions is to detoxify the cells they occupy by using the enzyme catalase to split hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen. They also are responsible for the catalyzation of the first two steps of the synthesis of ether phospholipids, which are used to make membranes. For 10 points, what is the name given to these eukaryotic cellular organelles, discovered in 1965 by Christian de Duve?	Answer:	 peroxisomes15.	The peasant Zhu Yuan-Zhang founded the dynasty at the head of a rebel army; its emperors would go on to rule China for nearly 300 years.  It saw expeditions sent out to explore new regions, the greatest of which was commanded by the eunuch Zheng He - a fleet carrying 70,000 men that spent 28 years on seven voyages.  Beijing became the capital of China, and construction on the Forbidden City was completed in 1421.  For 10 points, name the dynasty whose name means "brilliant," known popularly for the quality of its vases.	Answer:	 Ming
16.	This Detroit native began her comedic career in Toronto, then moved to New York City to do the National Lampoon Radio Hour, where she was discovered by Lorne Michaels.  One common thread in her somewhat disappointing film career was that her films always seemed to be directed by other actors - Charles Grodin, Buck Henry, Sidney Poitier, and (twice) her husband, Gene Wilder.  FTP name the member of the original "Not Ready for Prime Time" Players, the originator of the characters Emily Litella, Baba Wawa, and Roseanne Roseanna-Dana.	Answer:	 Gilda Radner17.	Born in Cape Town in 1940, he took degrees in mathematics and English at the University of Cape Town.  Besides having written early works such as Dusklands and In the Heart of the Country, he is the first author to have received the Booker Prize twice - for The Life and Times of Michael K in 1983, and for Disgrace in 1999.  For 10 points, name this South African, the fourth writer from Africa to win the Nobel Prize for Literature.	Answer:	 John Maxwell Coetzee18.	A veteran of the Mexican War, he had just been appointed superintendent of West Point when he resigned his commission to fight for the Confederacy.  Sometimes called "Napoleon in Gray," he was extremely flamboyant and well-connected in the Southern society.  FTP, name this general who commanded the Confederate forces that shelled Fort Sumter in 1861, achieved victory at First Manassas, a stalemate at Shiloh, and held off Union troops at Shiloh.	Answer:	 P.G.T. Beauregard19.	It was developed as one result of its creator's failed attempt to synthesize ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen and hydrogen, a process later perfected by Haber.  In developing the principle, he surmised that in order for ammonia to be synthesized, the pressure of the system had to be increased.  This would result in the reaction favoring the creation of the product ammonia, in response to the change in the system conditions.  For 10 points, identify this principle of chemistry stating that the equilibrium state of a system shifts to relieve a stress applied to it in a previous equilibrium state.	Answer:	 LeChatelier's principle  20.   In languages such as Spanish, French, or Portuguese, these markings also known as guillemets can be used singly or doubly as quotation marks.  Worn on the shoulder by land military forces or by the police, they serve to identify the rank of non-commissioned officers: one usually denotes a private, two a corporal, and three a sergeant.  For 10 points, give the term that also names the company founded as the Pacific Coast Oil Company in 1879 that merged with Texaco in 2001.	Answer:	 chevron21.	It is thought to have been first isolated by Islamic alchemists during the Middle Ages.  The second simplest of its family of chemical compounds, it is composed of a methyl group bonded to a methanol group.  For 10 points, name the compound having chemical formula C2H5OH, the intoxicating substance in alcoholic beverages.	Answer:	 ethyl alcohol or ethanol (Prompt on partial answers.)22.    The son of King Siddartha and Queen Trisala, he lived the life of a kshatriya - a member of the Hindu warrior caste.  At the age of thirty, he gave up all of his worldly possessions and became an ascetic. In the quest to achieve Moksha, adherents to his faith base their conduct on five great vows: non-attachment, chastity, truthfulness, non-stealing, and ahimsa, or non-violence. For 10 points, identify the 24th and last of the Tirthankaras, known as the founder of Jainism.	Answer:	 Mahavira or Mahavir or Vardhamana or Niggantha Nathaputta23.	Experiments in the early 20th century led to the discovery of this relationship between rock formation and rock composition. It claims that rocks formed at high temperatures typically contain minerals such as olivine, pyroxene and calcium plagioclase while rocks formed at low temperatures tend to contain minerals such as potassium feldspar and quartz.  For 10 points, name this sequence that displays the order in which minerals crystallize from magma to form igneous rocks, whose contents are identical to the Goldich Weathering Series.	Answer:	 Bowen's Reaction Series
BONI -VIRGINIA TECH A & B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaTossups by Virginia Tech; bonuses by their Jedi master, Jason Thweatt1.	For everything that happened, the election of 2000 was not the election of 1876.For 5 points, who lost that election?	Answer:	 Samuel TildenTwo sets of election returns were sent to Washington from four states, including three states still under military occupation.  For 5 points per answer, name the four states.	Answer:	 Florida, Louisiana, South Carolina, OregonOne of the members of the Electoral Commission that settled the issue of the disputed electoral votes was a congressman from Ohio who would be elected President in the next election.  For 5 points, name him.	Answer:	 James Garfield2.	Perhaps the truth is out there.  For 10 points each:This is the branch of philosophy that deals with the nature and origins of knowledge and truth.	Answer:	 epistemologyThis theory of truth has its origins in Plato and Aristotle and has since found more modern proponents, such as George Edward Moore, Bertrand Russell, and Karl Popper.  It holds that a statement is true if and only if it agrees with the facts.	Answer:	 correspondence theory of truthCharles Sanders Peirce [PURSE], who invented this theory of truth, first called it pragmatism, and then pragmaticism.  It holds that a statement is true if all those who investigate it would agree with it.	Answer:	 consensus theory of truth3.	For 10 points each, identify these techniques that an analytical chemist might employA reagent of known concentration and volume is added a known volume of reactant.  When acids and bases are involved, an indicator such as phenolphthalein is used to note when the mixture has reached a certain pH, at which point calculation is used to determine the concentration of the reactant.	Answer:	 titrationIn both cases, a substance is vaporized.  Analysis involves determining the range of electromagnetic radiation that the vapor absorbs, or the range that it radiates.  These two specific varieties of the analytical test are identified as absorption and emission, respectively.	Answer:	 spectroscopyCommonly used in the analysis of genetic material, molecules are separated based on their movement through a gel under the influence of an applied electric field.  The smaller and more negatively-charged a particle is, the faster it travels through the gel from the cathode to the anode.	Answer:	 electrophoresis4.	VISUAL BONUS: [Moderator: Hand out attachment.)  Identify these features of Antarctica FTSNOP:The ice shelf marked "A" and the sea that it borders are both named for the British explorer who discovered the sea.  For 10 points, identify the ice shelf.	Answer:	 Ross Ice ShelfMany of Antarctica's regions are known as "lands." For 5 points for one, 10 points for two, and 20 points for all three, name these Antarctic lands:"B" indicates the land first explored by the first man to fly over the South Pole, which he named after his wife.	Answer:	 (B) Marie Byrd Land "C" shows the land named after the first queen consort of an independent Norway, and corresponds roughly to the Norwegian claims in Antarctica.	Answer:	 (C) Queen Maud Land "D" indicates the land named after the first American to circumnavigate Antarctica, a man who later became known for seizing Confederates James Mason and John Slidell, precipitating the Trent Affair.	Answer:	 (D) Wilkes Land
5.	Identify these writers of the Harlem Renaissance for 10 points eachThe poem of his that is perhaps best known supplied the title of Lorraine Hansbery's A Raisin in the Sun.	Answer:	 Langston HughesIn addition to writing, this civil-rights activist served in the diplomatic corps.  He is best known for writing The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man in 1912, and God's Trombones in 1927.	Answer:	 James Weldon JohnsonA native of Jamaica, his first book of poetry, Songs of Jamaica, was the first to be published in the Jamaican-English dialect of patois.  Among his best-known poems are "If We Must Die" and "The Tropics in New York."	Answer:	 Claude McKay6.	Identify these painters of royals for 10 points each.He intentionally made Queen Maria Luisa the center point of his 1800 painting The Family of Charles IV, which seems to show the Spanish king as unaware of his surroundings as he was to the governance of his nation.	Answer:	 Francisco de Goya y LucientesSometimes called the founder of the English school of painting, this one-time assistant to Rubens and leading court painter in England executed the portrait Charles I and Queen Henrietta Maria with Charles, Prince of Wales and Princess Mary in 1632.	Answer:	 Anthony van DyckAfter meeting Napoleon in 1797, he was Napoleon's painter from 1799 to 1815.  His depiction of The Coronation of Napoleon and Josephine, begun in 1805, now hangs in the Louvre	Answer:	 Jacques-Louis David7.   They are uncharged atoms and molecules that have unpaired electrons.  In the body, they are important to a number of biological processes, but their high reactivity also finds them participating in other reactions that can cause cell damage.For 10 points, what term is applied to these highly reactive species?	Answer:	 free radicalsFor 10 points, this class of vitamins can prevent the chemical process that produces free radicals.	Answer:	 antioxidantsFor 5 points per answer, identify any two vitamins that are antioxidants.	Answer:	 vitamin A (retinol, beta carotene.), vitamin C (ascorbic acid.), vitamin E (tocopherol)8.	FTPE, identify these efforts undertaken during the Hoover administration to fight the Great Depression.In 1932 Hoover signed the act that created this government agency, which made loans to states and certain businesses for public works and unemployment relief.  The New Deal saw its scope expand widely.	Answer:	 Reconstruction Finance CorporationThe 1932 law of this name was meant to reform abuses in the banking industry that had contributed to the crash of the economy.  Named for a Virginia senator and an Alabama representative, a 1933 law co-sponsored by the same two lawmakers would establish the FDIC.	Answer:	 Glass-Steagall actAn initial pledge to keep the budget balanced while maintaining federal assistance required other sources of revenue.   But this 1930 act, which raised tariffs on over twenty thousand items to their highest levels ever, caused other nations to erect their own trade barriers.  The Depression deepened as world trade slowed dramatically.	Answer:	 Smoot-Hawley tariff act9.	For 10 points each, identify the on-court indication that a basketball referee is making with the same hand or arm gesture that would be made by a football referee indicating each of the following.Touchdown, or successful field goal, or successful point after touchdown	Answer:	 successful three-point attempt (Accept reasonable equivalents.)Ineligible receiver downfield	Answer:	 shot-clock violationOffside defense	Answer:	 blocking foul 
10.	Answer these questions about stanza forms for the stated number of points.Italian poets developed the sonnet as an octet followed by a sestet.  English poets later developed their own form - three quatrains followed by a couplet.  Each sonnet form came to be known by the name of its most famous practitioner.  For 5 points each, name these two poets.	Answer:	 Francesco Petrarca or Petrarch, William Shakespeare (Accept the adjective forms that name the sonnet.)A variant on the Shakespearean sonnet has the rhyme scheme abab, bcbc, cdcd, ee.  For 10 points, identify the contemporary of Shakespeare who invented this form.	Answer:	 Edmund Spenser (Accept the adjective form that names the sonnet.)In The Faerie Queen, Spenser used a nine-line stanza form - eight lines of iambic pentameter, followed by a line of iambic hexameter.  FTP, this is the term applied to the last line of this Spenserian stanza.	Answer:	 alexandrine11.	They are elementary particles that mediate, or carry, the fundamental forces of nature.For 10 points, what specific name is given to this class of particles?	Answer:	 gauge boson (Prompt on partial answers.)For 5 points per answer, identify the massless "particle of light" that carries the electromagnetic force, the class of particles that mediate the strong nuclear force, and any of the particles that mediate the weak nuclear force.	Answer:	 photon (electromagnetic), gluon (strong), W or W-plus or W-minus or Z (weak)For 5 points, this undiscovered particle is hypothesized as the gauge boson for the gravitational force.	Answer:	 graviton12.	Answer these questions about U.S military decorations for 10 points each.The second-highest decoration in the U.S. Army, it is awarded for gallantry that does not merit the Medal of Honor, but which does involve exceptional risk of life.  Its counterpart in the Navy is the Navy Cross, while its counterpart in the Air Force is the Air Force Cross	Answer:	 Distinguished Service CrossThe third-highest decoration is common to all branches of the U.S. military.  The required gallantry is less than that required for the Distinguished Service Cross or its counterparts.  John Kerry and Max Cleland both received the decoration during the Vietnam War, and Pat Tillman received it posthumously.	Answer:	 the Silver Star medalIn the U.S. Army and the U.S. Air Force, these devices denote subsequent bestowal of awards such as the Silver Star and the Bronze Star.	Answer:	 oak leaf clusters13.	Identify these authors who employed the local color of their regions, for 10 points each.She intended to raise public awareness of the plight of American Indians in the same way that Harriet Beecher Stowe had done for Black slaves in Uncle Tom's Cabin.  But the criticisms she portrayed in 1884's Ramona were overshadowed by the romantic depiction of California's mission past.	Answer:	 Helen Hunt JacksonThe Midwest farmlands where he grew up did not always find positive portrayal in verse and short stories; Main-traveled Roads (1891) and Prairie Folks (1893) depict the difficulty and futility of farm life.  His two most famous works, 1917's A Son of the Middle Border and 1921's Pulitzer Prize-winning A Daughter of the Middle Border are autobiographical in nature  	Answer:	  Hamlin GarlandA Georgia journalist, he captured an idealized version of race relations in the antebellum South in a series of stories that were themselves based on the African story-telling tradition: the Uncle Remus stories.	Answer:	 Joel Chandler Harris
14.	Identify these musical forms for 10 points each.They started out as exercises designed to provide practice for a given technical aspect of a solo instrument.  In the hands of Chopin, who wrote 27 for piano, they came to be appreciated as performance-worthy compositions in their own right.	Answer:	 etude They are perhaps not so much a musical form as they are free compositions that often employ a theme and variations.  Ralph Vaughn Williams wrote one on a theme of Thomas Tallis, and another on a more famous folk song attributed to Henry VIII.	Answer:	 fantasiaThis is the general term for music intended to represent or accompany an extra-musical theme.  Examples include Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique, a musical telling of a tragic love story, and Vivaldi's Four Seasons, which accompany four sonnets written by the composer himself.	Answer:	 program music15.	Despite being outnumbered almost four-to-one, the Macedonians and their Greek allies routed the Persians after their commander fled the field.For 10 points, this happened at what 333 BC battle on the Pinarus River, fought near the border of modern-day Turkey and Syria?	Answer:	 IssusFor 5 points each, who commanded the Macedonian and the Persian armies at Issus?	Answer:	 Alexander the Great, Darius IIIThe flight of Darius back to Babylon left Alexander free to conquer Phoenicia and Egypt.  The two kings met again some two years later.  This time, the Persians outnumbered the Greeks five-to-one, but Alexander put Darius to flight again.  Within a year, Darius had been murdered by one of his own governors.  For 10 points, identify this battle that signaled the end of the Persian Empire.	Answer:	 Gaugamela or Arbela16.	Answer these questions about vertebrae for 10 points eachWith the exception of the sloth, the manatee, and the spiny anteater, chances are that if you're a mammal, you have this many cervical vertebrae.	Answer:	 sevenThis bone near the end of the spine is actually five vertebrae fused together.  It sits below the fifth lumbar vertebra.	Answer:	 sacrumMammals may actually have anywhere from 17 to 60 or more vertebrae.  This is because animals such as cats have bones in their tails that are actually vertebrae.  What name is given to the class of vertebrae that give support to the tail and protect its circulatory system?	Answer:	 caudal vertebrae17.	For 10 points each, identify from a description these personality disorders that Jerry Seinfeld might see at the supermarket while using his American Express card.In Produce, having everything displayed in alphabetical order has long since subsumed the need for actual sales.  The staff works eighteen hours each day making sure that all is perfect, but no one can figure out why no one shops there.  Maybe it's because Produce is always closed, as "perfection" is never attained, or maybe it's all the rotten fruit that is never discarded, despite the clear worthlessness of spoiled food.	Answer:	 obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (Note: Strictly speaking, obsessive-compulsive disorder is different from obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.  But we aren't obsessive enough to count it wrong.)The butcher professes to be the best on earth.  Sales are suffering though, because he has a penchant for only selling to people who understand the depth of his talent and who are therefore worthy of having it shared with them.  He took advantage of the manager to get his current position, but doesn't really care.  It's irrelevant anyway, since he believes that the manager is jealous of him and his numerous talents.	Answer:	 narcissistic personality disorderThe manager has had to speak with the baker on several occasions about her excessive and often inappropriate intimacy with customers.  He's also had to explain that short miniskirts and tight tube-tops aren't appropriate work uniforms, although she obviously relishes how they make her the center of attention.  Customers have learned to offer compliments liberally when she goes "fishing" for them, if only to be spared the theatrics of "emotional breakdowns" or outright temper tantrums.	Answer:	 histrionic personality disorder
18.	Identify these African nationalist leaders of the post-colonial period for 10 points each.In 1938 while studying under Bronislaw Malinowski, he wrote Facing Mount Kenya, an anthropological study of his native Kikuyu people.  In 1963 he became the first prime minister of Kenya.	Answer:	 Jomo KenyattaPopular throughout his rule, in 1986 this President of Mozambique died in a suspicious plane crash.  His widow later got remarried - to Nelson Mandela.	Answer:	 Samora MachelA poet of international renown and the first African to be invited to membership in the Académie française, he became the first president of Senegal in 1960.	Answer:	 Léopold Senghor19.	It begins with three friends - Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei - swearing an oath of brotherhood in a peach garden, before going off to oppose the Yellow Turban Rebellion.  It ends with Sun Hao of the Kingdom of Wu submitting to Sima Yan, temporarily reuniting China under the Jin dynasty.  For 10 points each:This describes what Chinese literary classic?	Answer:	 Romance of the Three KingdomsRomance of Three Kingdoms is a historical and legendary account of the Three Kingdoms period, which followed the collapse of this dynasty.	Answer:	 Han dynastyRomance of Three Kingdoms was attributed to this 14th century author, to whom authorship of another adventure classic, The Water Margin, has also been attributed.	Answer:	 Luo Guanzhong20.	There is something to be said for being light-hearted.  In the Egyptian mythos, the dead could expect to have their earthly deeds measured by having their hearts weighed.  For 10 points, the heart was weighed on a balance against this type of object.	Answer:	 the feather of truthA heart laden with evil deeds would be heavier than the feather of truth.  For 10 points, identify the Egyptian goddess of truth and justice whose headband supplied the feather.	Answer:	 Ma'atThe jackal-headed god of death adjusted the scale, while the ibis-headed god of wisdom recorded the result.  For 5 points each, identify these two Egyptian deities.	Answer:	 Anubis, Thoth21. Identify these legal terms that come from Latin for the stated number of points.For 5 points each, the "guilty mind" and the "guilty action" that are required elements to prove criminal liability are know by these two phrases.	Answer:	 mens rea, actus reusFor 10 points, this term describes a case whose evidence has met the burden required to sustain additional discovery or a trial.	Answer:	 prima facieFor 10 points, as opposed to prima facie evidence, this doctrine describes evidence, facts, or claims that need not be explained beyond what is obvious.  It is useful in negligence cases, where the fact that harm occurred is largely sufficient to show that negligence occurred.	Answer:	 res ipsa loquitur 22.	Reasoning that his empire had become weak because the veneration of images amounted to the worship of idols, in AD 730 the Byzantine emperor banned the use of such depictions of Jesus, Mary, and the saints, and also ordered the destruction of existing images.For 10 points, this touched off what controversy, so called because of the religious images that were being destroyed.	Answer:	 Iconoclastic Controversy (Accept word equivalents.)For 10 points, this emperor ignited the Iconoclastic Controversy.	Answer:	 Leo III or Leo the IsaurianThe first period of iconoclasm came to an end after a church council called by an empress who had seized power during the regency of her son.  For 5 points each, name the empress and the AD 787 church council that had been packed with supporters of iconography.	Answer:	 Irene, Second Council of Nicaea 
23.	FTSNOP answer these questions about government and economic systems that are not designed for the common benefit.For 10 points, this term comes from the German for "plunder economy."  It refers to the intent of colonialists to rape the resources of a region but not to bring the benefits of civilization to its natives.	Answer:	 RaubwirtschaftFor 10 points, it literally means "rule by thieves," and refers informally to any nation whose masters use a corrupt government as the means for building personal fortunes.	Answer:	 kleptocracyIt is either appropriate or ironic that the best examples of Raubwirtschaft and kleptocracy are to be found in the same place.  From 1877 to 1908, one man owned and ruled the Congo Free State as a personal kingdom, wringing the wealth from it through mass killing, maiming, and what was effectively slave labor.  From 1965 to 1997, another ruled Zaire as president and in the process amassed a fortune of some four billion dollars by siphoning off the nation's wealth.  Identify these two men for 5 points each.	Answer:	 King Leopold II, Mobutu Sese Seko 