TOSSUPS - UTC		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice, John Kilby, Nikki Poarch, Nick Bradshaw, and Eric Fox with help from Jeremy White, Gaius Stern and Ross Ritterman1.	An older notation for it is an L on the bottom left side of the number, but Christian Kramp was the first to use the modern notation for this operation.  For large arguments it can be estimated using Stirling's approximation.  A generalization to most complex numbers is given by the gamma function. For 10, this quantity is 3,628,800.  For 5, it is 120.  For 3, it is 6.  For 0, it is 1.  FTP, name this operation most widely represented with an exclamation mark.	Answer: 	factorial2.	Written by the Tectonic Theatre Project, headed by Moisés Kaufman, it premiered in Denver in March 2000.  Kaufman also directed the 2002 production for HBO, with many cameos including Janeane Garofalo, Peter Fonda, and Camryn Manheim, and featuring Christina Ricci and Laura Linney.  FTP name this emotional portrayal of the murder of Matthew Shepard through stories and remembrances of his life and death and the titular community's response.  	Answer: 	The Laramie Project3.	One of the waste products of chlorenchyma cells exits through these structures, which are not covered by the waxy cuticle. The arrangement of the cellulose microfibril rings in the specialized cells flanking these structures causes those companion cells to buckle outward when they grow turgid from taking in water by osmosis. The major avenues for transpiration, FTP what are these cellular structures, minute [my-NYEWT] pores between guard cells, mostly found on the underside of leaves, which regulate gas exchange?       Answer:	stomata (singular form, stoma, is OK)4.	His affair with Mrs. Reynolds, and subsequent blackmail by her husband, was one of the first political scandals in American history.  At age 20 a Lieutenant Colonel and aide-de camp to George Washington during the Revolution, he was later the only man from his state to sign the Constitution. He advocated a life term for the president and a National Bank. FTP name this New Yorker, our nation's first Secretary of the Treasury.	Answer:	Alexander Hamilton5.	The logical successor to Arch Rivals, it made its debut in 1993.  Lead designer Mark Turmell was a Detroit Pistons fan, so he made it impossible for the Chicago Bulls to hit a last-second shot for the win.  Distributed by Midway, it was the first arcade game to be licensed by the NBA.  FTP, this is what classic basketball arcade game featuring over-the-top dunks and the removal of fouls that was recently redesigned and released on the Xbox and PlayStation2?      Answer: 	NBA Jam6.	As page to the future Duke of Clarence, in 1359 he went on one of Edward III's many military expeditions against the French, was taken prisoner, and was ransomed the following year.  His first great patron was John of Gaunt, whose wife Blanche's death was the subject of his allegorical lament, The Book of the Duchess.  Diplomatic missions to Italy exposed him to Dante and especially Boccaccio, who inspired the love poem Troilus et Criseyde in which he perfected the rhyme royal.  FTP name this Middle English author whose masterwork was The Canterbury Tales.	Answer:	Geoffrey Chaucer7.	Its narrow coastal plain rises to mountains divided by deep valleys carved by tributaries of the Ogooue River.  Once part of the decentralized Loango empire, its coast was explored by the Portuguese in the 1470's, who made deals with coastal traders for slaves from the interior.  In 1849 the French established a home for former slaves there, hence the name of its eventual capital.  Fully independent since 1960 and ruled by Omar Bongo since 1968, FTP name this African nation with its capital at Libreville.	Answer:	Gabon8.	Richardson hypothesized that in this type of motion the average distance between particles grows as time to the 3/2, and Kolmogorov hypothesized that the velocity difference between two points grows as the separation to the 1/3. The most common mechanism used to explain its development is the formation of eddies with velocity amplitudes roughly equal to 10% of the average flow velocity. Characterized by large Reynolds numbers, for ten points name this counterpart to laminar flow in which fluid flow properties vary erratically.	Answer:	 turbulence or turbulent flow
9.	He started with Coca-Cola driving a truck as a route manager in 1964 but eventually rose to the executive level.  In 1995 he was elected president of the state of Guanajuato, which enjoyed strong economic growth in his administration.  He got only 43% of the vote as nominee of the conservative National Action Party, or PAN, but in a three-way race that was enough to break the 71-year rule of the PRI, or Institutional Revolutionary Party.  FTP name this man, elected President of Mexico in July 2000.	Answer:	Vicente Fox Quesada 10.	Footage of his most famous act did not appear to show him moving front to back in a rock-like motion.  But the phrase "Punishment time, in the air lurks gloom" could hardly be more appropriate, and there are other parallels - he did get in trouble, pretty deep, and he says it was not intentional.   He has been offered a free three-month stay in Pompano Beach till things blow over back home.  FTP name this man, who shares his last name with the hit song from "The Simpsons Sing the Blues" and is himself singing the blues as scapegoat for the Cubs' 2003 NLCS collapse.	Answer:    Steve Bartman  [Before "free three-month", accept "The Bartman" and prompt on "Bart Simpson."]11.	While he published mostly nonfiction, he once received a letter from Robert Frost praising several of his short stories.  Techniques he developed included shaping, or "the method of successive approximations," and variable schedules of reinforcement, which he found more effective than either fixed ratio or fixed interval schedules in controlling the behavior of rats. FTP name this author, whose only full-length fictional work, Walden Two, describes a near-utopian community based on his behaviorist principles.  	Answer:	B. F. Skinner12.	Unable to have children of his own, he attempted to secure his dynastic succession by adopting the grandson of Agustin Iturbide, and deporting the child's mother when she objected to the arrangement. A liberal at heart, he found himself in conflict with the conservatives who had originally called for his installment and was abandoned by the French emperor Napoleon III, whose armies had brought him to power. On June 19, 1867, he was executed by a firing squad on The Hill of the Bells in Queretaro by the forces of Benito Juarez. FTP name this Austrian archduke who in 1863 became the second Emperor of Mexico.	Answer:	Ferdinand Maximilian Joseph Hapsburg13.	One type of this condition is treated by the Epely maneuver.  It can be triggered by migraines, Meniere's disease or brain injuries, but the most common type can be diagnosed by the Dix-Halpike maneuver which triggers nystagmus, the eye movement associated with its benign paroxysmal positional or top-shelf variety.  FTP name this condition marked by hallucinations of movement which has little to do with a film directed by Alfred Hitchcock.	Answer:	 vertigo14.	QUOTE: "So then we tried - ain't feeling this love now / Because you weren't used to how fast we touched / Then we locked eyes - and I knew I was in there / And I was gon' tear ya ass up / I know that I'm carrying on, never mind if I'm showing off I was just" doing this according to, FTP, what 2003 top five hit for Pharrell Williams and Jay-Z?      Answer: 	"Frontin'"  [accept even if they say "Fronting"]15.	He earned a BA in English from NYU and an M.A. in English from Columbia in the 1940's.  He worked as an advertising copywriter for Time from 1952 to 1956 and as a promotion manager for McCall's from 1958 to 1961.  Some of his lesser-known works include Picture This, God Knows, and the play We Bombed in New Haven.  His last novel, Closing Time, was nowhere near as successful as the book it is the sequel to.  FTP, name this author who wrote about the exploits of Yossarian in Catch-22.	Answer: 	Joseph Heller16.	His memorable arias include Constance's "Sadness was my Fate"  and Pamina's "Oh, I feel it, it's gone." At the July 1782 premiere of The Abduction from the Seraglio, among those in attendance was Emperor Joseph II.  He also composed the "Haffner" symphony (No. 35 in D major), named after friends of the family; his last symphony was No.  41 in C Major, also called "Jupiter." FTP name this composer of Don Giovanni and The Magic Flute.  Answer:	(Johann Chrysostom) Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart  
17.     He thought of himself as a pilot above all else, flying everything from cartography missions to commercial airlines for twenty years, drawing on the latter for his first novel, Southern Mail.  In Wind, Sand and Stars, he takes his readers on an air adventure through the Pyrenees and Andes, as well as over the Sahara.  He was illustrator as well as author of another book which begins with a crash into the Sahara desert.  FTP name this French author of The Little Prince.	Answer:	Antoine de Saint-Exupéry18.	It can reduce hot metal oxides to the metal itself.  It dissolves barium, calcium, strontium, and alkali metals by forming an unstable, slowly decomposing blue solution of the metal ion and free electrons.  It was used as a refrigerant prior to the advent of freons, and in the first operational maser. It can be prepared synthetically using the cyanamide process, but is commercially produced at 200 atmospheres pressure over an iron catalyst to force nitrogen to combine with hydrogen in the Haber process.  FTP name this colorless compound with chemical formula NH3.       Answer:	ammonia19.	Some sources say he was the Benedictine Prior of Winchester, but there is no evidence to that effect.  We do know he was a bishop and trusted advisor to the West Saxon king Egbert, and that on his deathbed in 862 he asked to be buried outside the cathedral's north wall so raindrops from the eaves would drop upon his grave.   Ironically, it was shortly after his remains were transferred over a century later to a shrine inside the new church that a number of miraculous cures occurred, leading to his canonization in 971.  FTP name this patron of Winchester Cathedral, remembered mostly for a popular superstition attached to the significance of rain on his feast day, July 15.	Answer:	Saint Swithin20.	As a secretary for a Texan congressman, he was elected Speaker of the "Little Congress," an assembly of congressional secretaries on Capitol Hill. His surprise 1937 election to the U.S. House was marked by the vigor of his support for Roosevelt's "court-packing" plan.  In December 1941, he became the first member of Congress to enter active military duty by joining the Navy, receiving the Silver Star for gallantry in a 1942 bombing mission over New Guinea.  Winner of a disputed 87-vote primary victory in a 1948 Senate bid, he eventually rose to Senate Majority Leader and then Vice President.  FTP name this ambitious man, who on the death of JFK became the 36th president of the United States.	Answer:	Lyndon Johnson21.	In this work, the author argues that the government does not prove itself useful often.  He also states that the power of the government comes from the majority, not because they hold the most reasonable viewpoint, but because they are the strongest.  This work was a major influence on Martin Luther King, Jr.  FTP name this influential essay criticizing slavery and the Mexican-American War, written by Henry David Thoreau.	Answer:	Civil Disobedience22.	His father's specialty was altarpieces; examples include St. Catherine and Basilica of St. Paul, both at Augsburg, and St. Sebastian in Munich.  His brother Ambrosius did some portraiture but was better known for his detailed book illustrations.  He himself did both altarpieces (such as the Madonna of Burgomaster Meyer) and illustrations (pen drawings for Erasmus's In Praise of Folly.)  But we know him mainly for portraits such as Thomas More and The French Ambassadors.  FTP name this 16th century painter of the Northern Renaissance.	Answer:	Hans Holbein the Younger23.	It was served by Hebe, but after she spilled some, she got fired and the job was given to Ganymede.  It passed perpetual youth to those who drank it, so many authors attribute immortality to this beverage.  It was probably sweet like honey, but not as thick.  FTP name this beverage of the Greek gods served with ambrosia.		Answer:  nectar
BONI - UTC		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice, John Kilby, Nikki Poarch, Nick Bradshaw, and Eric Fox with help from Jeremy White, Gaius Stern and Ross Ritterman1. A now-defunct website offered a Dead Russian Composer Personality Test.  One multiple choice question was "When you're gone, you want your monument to be..." FTPE, name these composers from applicable choices & other clues:a)  "A Broadway musical based on your works" - a reference to Kismet, based on this man's Polovetzsian Dances.	Answer:	Alexander Borodinb)  "The fact that only a select few can tackle the difficulties of your work, and many unworthy people have been carted off to the funny farm trying"-a reference to David Helfgott's well-documented breakdown after tackling this man's  Concerto No. 3 in D Minor	Answer:	Sergei Rachmaninoffc)  Two answers could apply: "A vodka brewery named after you" - a reference to his heavy drinking -- and "That you are forever associated with the holiday season."        Answer:	Peter Tchaikovsky (or Tchaikowsky, etc.) 2. FTPE, identify these films [read with a movie ad voice] NOW PLAYING AT A THEATER NEAR YOU!10) Dwayne Johnson, known to most as The Rock, starts as a bounty hunter who teams up with Seann William Scott to find the hidden treasure in the town of Heldorado.          Answer: 	The Rundown10) Denzel Washington stars as a Florida police chief who must solve a double homicide before he himself falls under suspicion.       Answer: 	Out of Time10) Cuba Gooding, Jr., returns to his small Georgia hometown to collect an inheritance, but finds out that in order to do so, he must form a church choir.  Beyonce Knowles also stars.       Answer: 	The Fighting Temptations3. Answer the following about a major bone of legal and political contention FTPE:Stemming from and codifying the Watergate investigation's use of a "special prosecutor", 1978 Ethics of Government act created this office appointed on a need-only basis under certain circumstances.       Answer:	independent counselb) The Supreme Court ruled that the independent counsel was not unconstitutional in this 1988 case, which was a countersuit filed by an independent counsel against the Assistant Attorney General who'd sued to remove her.	Answer:	Morrison v. Olsonc) In one of his most scathing dissents, this Associate Justice wrote in Morrison v. Olsen: "By its short-sighted action today, I fear the court has permanently encumbered the Republic with an institution that will do it great harm." And " The ad hoc approach to constitutional adjudication has real attraction even apart from its work-saving potential.  It is guaranteed to produce a result in every case, that will make a majority of the court happy with the law."Answer:	Antonin Scalia 4.   FTPE name these genetic disorders:	(a)  It is an inability to properly break down a particular amino acid, from which it takes its name.  Untreated, the buildup of that amino acid causes mental retardation.  Hence the warning label on products containing Nutrasweet.       Answer:	phenylketonuria(b)  This autosomal recessive condition, common in people of African descent, results in abnormal hemoglobin, which interferes with the body's transport of oxygen throughout the body.       Answer:	sickle cell anemia (c)  A nondisjunction at chromosome 21 results in three copies of it, leading to varying degrees of mental retardation and distinctive facial features.Answer:	Down (or Down's) syndrome
5.	FTPE answer these questions about the play Death of a Salesman:10) Lost in optimistic illusions, the title character is this elderly salesman who dies in the end.  (DUH.)      Answer:	 Willy Loman10) Much of the story deals with the conflict between Willy and this son, a high school football star disillusioned because he caught Dad cheating on his mom.      Answer:	Biff Loman10) Oh, all right.  Who wrote Death of a Salesman?      Answer:	Arthur Miller [Yes, prompt on Miller.  There's another Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright named Miller, Jason Miller, and to confuse things further there was a TV-movie where Jason portrayed Arthur.]6.	Identify these easily confused ancient Romans, FTPE:A.  He became emperor in 54 after his predecessor ate poisoned or poisonous mushrooms.  He jokingly referred to the murder by calling mushrooms "the food of the gods."		Answer:  NeroB.  He became emperor after a coup assassinated the hated Domitian in AD 96.  He only ruled 2 years, but adopted the very capable Trajan.		Answer:  NervaC.  He became Rome's second king in ca. 715 BC and built the temple of Janus.  His reign was the last time Rome enjoyed peace until 235 BC.       		Answer:  Numa Pompilius7.	Identify these fundamental laws and theorems of circuit theory on a 5-10-20-30 basis.A) This law, when stated mathematically, is voltage equals current times resistance.      Answer: 	Ohm's LawB) Equivalent to conservation of energy, it states that for a closed path in a circuit, the sum of the voltages is equals to zero.      Answer: 	Kirchhoff's Voltage or Loop Law or Rule (prompt on Kirchhoff's First Law)C) Equivalent to conservation of charge, it states that the amount of current entering any point is equal to the amount of current leaving that point.      Answer: 	Kirchhoff's Current or Node Law or Rule (accept: Junction Rule) (prompt on Kirchhoff's Second Law)D) It states that any combination of batteries and resistances with two terminals can be replaced by a single voltage source and a single series resistor.       Answer: 	Thevenin's Theorem8.	It's a TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE VISUAL BONUS!!  [MODERATOR: Hand out attachment - 2 pages]One of the few big time art galleries Charlie has been to is the National Gallery of Art.  The handout show four works from their collection by American artists.  5-10-20-30, all you have to do is name each artist.  You have 15 seconds.	Answers:	a) Mary Cassatt; b) Frederic Remington; c) Jackson Pollock; d) Gilbert Stuart9.	It's a TRAVELS WITHOUT CHARLIE VISUAL BONUS!!  [MODERATOR: Hand out attachment - 1 page]The handout shows the outlines of six nations Charlie has never visited.  Name them F5PE.  You have 15 seconds.	Answers:	a) Norway; b) Angola; c) Peru; d) Haiti; e) Sudan; f) North Korea10.	Given characters name the Oscar Wilde work they appear in FTPE.10) Lord Henry Wotton, Sybil Vane, Basil Hallward	Answer:	The Picture of Dorian Gray10) Algernon Moncrieff, Gwendolen Fairfax, Lady Bracknell	Answer:	The Importance of Being Earnest10) Viscount Goring, Phipps, Mrs. Cheveley	Answer:	An Ideal Husband  (accept "The" for "An", we're really nice here)
11.	Answer the following about this year's topsy-turvy NFL season FTSNP.15) After last Sunday's games (10/12), none of last year's 8 division winners were in first place.  F5PE name the three remaining undefeated teams in the NFL.       Answer: 	Kansas City Chiefs, Carolina Panthers, Minnesota Vikings (place or team name acceptable)5) This team won the AFC championship last year but has looked even worse than its 2-4 record so far would indicate.       Answer: 	Oakland Raiders (city or team name acceptable)5) Defending Super Bowl champs Tampa Bay looked pretty good till their vaunted defense became the first in NFL history to blow a 21-point lead in the last 4 minutes of a game, losing in overtime to this team.        Answer: 	Indianapolis Colts (city or team name acceptable)5) Arguably the league's MVP at this point is this record-setting kick returner for the Kansas City Chiefs.       Answer: 	Dante Hall12.	There are seven stars with names that begin with "A" and have magnitudes of +1 or below.  Given such a star, name the constellation on a 5-10-20-30 basis.a) Altair	Answer:	Aquilab) Antares	Answer:	Scorpioc)  Arcturus       Answer: 	Bootesd)  Aldebaran	Answer:	Taurus13.	Given a famous philosophical quote, name its author FTPE:  If you need the work you'll get only 5 pts.:a) 	10 pts.:  "Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains."	5 pts.:  The Social Contract		Answer:	Jean-Jacques Rousseaub)  	10 pts.:  "The life of man [in a state of nature] is solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.	5 pts.:  Leviathan		Answer:	Thomas Hobbesc) 	10 pts.:  "Liberty consists in doing what one desires."	5 pts.:  On Liberty       Answer: 	John Stuart Mill14.	Given clues name the Kennedy FTPE.10) The only one your genial quizmaster has actually met, he is the son of Edward Kennedy and the current US Representative from Rhode Island	Answer:	Patrick Kennedy10) She is the eldest daughter of Robert Kennedy and the former Lt. Governor of Maryland.	Answer:	Kathleen Kennedy Townsend10) She is the daughter of Eunice Kennedy and the wife of the Governor-elect of California	Answer:	Maria Shriver [prompt on "Mrs. Schwarzenegger"]15.	Answer these related questions FTPE.a.  This titular literary character is supposed to be a descendant of a Prince of Wallachia, who was a brilliant, yet savage general and ruler.         Answer:	Draculab.  This silent film, the earliest surviving adaption of Dracula, starred Max Schreck and was directed by F.W. Murnau	Answer:	Nosferatuc.  This 2000 film starring John Malkovich and William Dafoe as Murnau and Schreck depicts the making of Nosferatu	Answer:	Shadow of the Vampire
16.	FTPE answer the following about electromagnetic radiation:a.  Within the range of electromagnetic radiation there are several different light spectrums.  Name this one where light that ranges between 440 nm to 700 nm.  	Answer:	Visible spectrum (radiation also works)b.  This laboratory instrument measures the intensity of the light entering a sample and the light exiting a sample and compares the two intensities, resulting in transmittance, or percent transmittance, which can be used to calculate absorption.  	Answer:	spectrophotometerc.  This law states that the absorbance is directly proportional to the concentration of a solution.	Answer:	Beer's Law17.	FTPE identify these immortals who said I do to Zeus.A.  His last and most famous wife, queen of the gods.	Answer:	Hera [can't take Juno -her marriage license distinctly says "Jupiter" on it.]B.  The wife who bore him Athena, but was swallowed.	Answer:	MetisC.  Some say this Titaness of Justice and Order was Zeus's wife after Metis and before Hera.  She certainly bore him the Horae, Moirae, and Astraea.	Answer:	Themis18.	Name these people who have something in common FTPE.10) A 4th century bishop of Myra in Asia Minor, he is the patron saint of children and pawnbrokers 	Answer:	Saint Nicholas10) This Tsar crushed the Decembrist rebellion in Russia in 1825	Answer:	Nicholas I10) He married a German Princess in 1893 and was assassinated with his entire family in 1918	Answer:	Nicholas II19.	FTP answer these questions about steps your good friends at Pepsico take to keep carbon dioxide in your favorite tasty soft drinks when they are packaged in plastic bottles.  Other companies besides Pepsico probably do the same thing, but why would you want to drink their inferior products?a.  Carbonated soft drinks are packaged at roughly 40 degrees Fahrenheit.  This is because lower temperature liquids keep a higher amount of carbon dioxide in solution.  One way to prove this is to measure the temperature dependence of the constant associated with what law, which states that the partial pressure of a gas above a solution is proportional to the concentration of that compound in the solution?	Answer:	 Henry's Lawb.  Once you get the carbon dioxide in the soda, you have to keep it in there.  Its relatively low gas permeability is one of the reasons this polymer was selected as the material of construction for 2-liter carbonated soft drink bottles.	Answer:	 PET or Polyethylene Terephthalatec.  Carbonated soft drink bottles are typically stretch-blow molded imparting this polymer property typified by a more orderly arrangement of the molecules.	Answer:	 Orientation       EDITOR'S NOTE: Why, yes, Jeremy White works for Pepsico.  How'd you guess?20.	FTPE, name the work in early English LiteratureThe oldest extant English epic, probably composed in the early 8th cent. by an Anglian bard in the vicinity of Northumbria. It survives in only one manuscript, written c.A.D. 1000 by two scribes and preserved in the British Museum in the collection of Sir Robert Cotton.	Answer:	Beowulf Preserved in the Exeter Book along with the group of poems known as the Elegies, it tells of a battle near a town in Essex.  	Answer:	"The Battle of Maldon"The finest poem of the school of Cynewulf, the first known example of the dream vision.	Answer:	"The Dream of the Rood"
21.	Given a description, identify the type of animal embryonic tissue FTPE:Cells remaining on the surface following gastrulation.	Answer:	EctodermThese form the innermost body layer, generally including the inner lining of the digestive system.	Answer:	EndodermBetween the Ectoderm and the Endoderm, these eventually produce the larval skeleton.	Answer:	Mesoderm22.	California isn't the only state with fuzzy logic in its election laws.  Answer the following FTSNOP:(5) In 2002, what state's Supreme Court allowed the Democratic Party to replace their embattled Senatorialnominee with a substitute?       Answer:  New Jersey(10) What inflamatory incumbent NJ senator dropped out of the race when it became clear he would be defeated?       Answer:  Robert Torricelli(15) Name the former NJ senator who agreed to return to politics as the new Democratic nominee for Torricelli's seat.Answer:  Frank Lautenberg23.	Given a description, identify the type of computer language that is being described FTPE.10) This is the language that consists of 1's and 0's.  It is dependent on the system and is therefore not portable.      Answer: 	machine language10) A step-up from machine language is this kind of language that provides more control over the instructions to be run while still allowing the programmer to use less cryptic commands.  It uses an assembler to convert code into machine language.      Answer: 	assembly language10) Languages like C++ and Java are this type of languages, which allow programmers to use basic English expressions and mathematical notations to describe instructions.  A compiler is used to convert it into machine language.      Answer: 	high-level language
VISUAL BONUS FOR #8, UTC ROUND	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCA.	B.
C.D.
VISUAL BONUS FOR #9, UTC ROUND	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCA.								B.					C.								D.				E.								F.		 		