TOSSUPS - FLORIDA STATE A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Billy Beyer with duplicate insurance from... another set by Billy Beyer1. A song from this album includes the lines "Crack raised the murder rate in D.C. and Maryland / We invested in that / It's like we got Merrill Lynched." Xylophones and saxophones can be found on this album's fourteenth track, "We Major." Co-produced by Jon Brion, it includes a sampling of the James Bond theme "Diamonds Are Forever" on its first single, "Diamonds from Sierra Leone" and Jamie Foxx is featured on its second single, "Gold Digger." For ten points -- name this follow-up to The College Dropout, the sophomore album of Kayne West. 	Answer: Late Registration2. Its onset is triggered by the deactivation of the protein kinase, while an important protease involved in it is separase, which breaks down cohesin. The action of this stage is caused by the shortening of the spindle microtubules, which leads to the sister chromatids of each chromosome separating from each other and migrating to opposite ends of the cell. For ten points -- name this shortest stage of mitosis, which occurs between metaphase and telophase.	Answer: anaphase (prompt on mitosis)3. Its speaker asked the audience to "Look at me! Look at my arm!" shortly after declaring that "There is so much racket there must be something out of kilter." Its middle section repeats the exclamation "Where did your Christ come from?" and responds by saying "From God and a woman!" Delivered in Akron, Ohio at a Women's Convention, it argued that American antebellum culture placed white women upon a pedestal and gave them certain privileges, unlike black women. For ten points -- name this 1851 speech by Sojourner Truth.	Answer: "Ain't I a Woman?"4,	A duet from this opera, "Per queste tue manine" is often cut in performances today, and Ottavio's aria "Il mio tesoro" was cut in its 1787 premiere. Act two begins with Leporello threatening to leave his master, the title character, who then sets his eyes upon Donna Elvira's maid. Ignoring an inscription reading "Vengeance here awaits my murderer", the title character invites a statue of The Commendatore to dine with him, but in the end, the statue drags him into hell. For ten points -- name this Mozart opera, based on the Don Juan legend.	Answer: Don Giovanni [jo-VAHN-nee] 5.	The first part of a trilogy with Sons and A House Divided, this work opens with the father of the protagonist buying a wife from the Hwang family. The protagonist is concerned what will happen to his retarded daughter after his death, but his concubine, Pear Blossom, promises to care of her. The protagonist, Wang Lung, and his purchased wife, O-Lan, work hard and are able to acquire land and happiness, temporarily. For ten points -- name this Pearl S. Buck masterpiece.	Answer: The Good Earth6. After founding this country's communist party, Bela Kun led a revolution and served for four months as premier before a counterrevolution in 1919. The following year saw the Treaty of Trianon, which fixed this country's borders, and the election of Mikl—s Horthy as Regent. Within the Eastern bloc, this country was "the happiest barrack" under the rule of J‡nos K‡d‡r, who was preceded as Prime Minister by Imre Nagy. For ten points -- name this Eastern European country with capital at Budapest.	Answer: Hungary7. Young females might dress up in masks and costumes resembling Queen Vashti on this day. Triangular pastries called hamentaschen are consumed on this holiday, which also involves the exchanging of gifts, or Mishloach Manot. Celebrated on the 14th of Adar, the name of this holiday is an Akkadian word meaning "lots", referring to the lots Haman [HAY-man] cast to decide the day of the massacre. For ten points -- name this Jewish holiday which celebrates the victory of the Jews, as recorded in the Book of Esther.	Answer: Purim
8. The Wilson effect concerning sunspots is supported by observations using this effect. Hendrik Lorentz used classical physics to win a Nobel Prize for his contributions explaining the normal version of it, while an anomalous version, which is more common, appears on transitions where the spin of the electrons is not zero. The Paschen-Beck effect is a strong field generalization of it, which is an analogue of the Stark effect. For ten points -- name this splitting of spectral lines in a magnetic field, named for a Dutch physicist.	Answer: Zeeman [ZA-mahn] effect 9. This annual award, now in its thirty-seventh year, recently awarded £50,000 to its 2005 winner on October 10th. Works by William Trevor have been nominated four times, while works by Beryl Bainbridge have been nominated five times, yet none have ever won. Relatively recent winners include Yann Martel's Life of Pi, and J.M. Coetzee's Disgrace. For ten points -- name this literary prize, awarded to contemporary British and Commonwealth fiction.	Answer: The Man Booker Prize10. In polar coordinates, theta raised to the one-half power is equal to his namesake spiral. His primality test is used to determine if a number is composite or probably prime, his namesake numbers are equal to 2 raised to the 2n power, plus 1, and Snell's Law is derived from his namesake principle. For all natural numbers a and primes p, a raised to the p power is equal to a mod p, according to his little theorem. For ten points -- name this 17th century French mathematician whose last theorem was finally solved by Andrew Wiles.	Answer: Pierre de Fermat11.	In 1957, Pablo Picasso created his own interpretation of this work, which was originally painted in 1656 after its artist made a trip to Italy. Two Peter Paul Rubens paintings are found near the top, and in the back, an enigmatic figure looks back as he mounts the stairs beyond an open door. At the bottom right of this painting, a girl in red has her left foot on a dog, while a hideous dwarf makes the Infanta Margarita seem even more precious in comparison. For ten points -- name this Diego Velazquez painting.	Answer: Las Meninas (or The Maids of Honor}12. Clark M. Clifford served in this position for less than a year, and Elliot Richardson served prior to becoming Attorney General. Before throwing himself out a window, James Forrestal was the first man to serve this position, which was created in 1947 after the creation of the NME. One of Clinton's three was Les Aspin, and Bush Senior only had one, Dick Cheney. For ten points -- name this Cabinet position, currently held by Donald Rumsfeld.	Answer: Secretary of Defense13. This collection's ninth edition is sometimes called the Death-Bed Edition and its fifth edition added the poem "Passage to India." The first edition was published anonymously in 1855, and its front cover featured its author in short-sleeves and with arms at his side wearing a jaunty hat. For ten points -- name this collection which includes "I Sing the Body Electric", "O Captain! My Captain!" and "Song of Myself", written by Walt Whitman.	Answer: Leaves of Grass14. Strong titanium oxide and some neutral calcium can be found in the spectral lines of this red-orange spectral class. Betelgeuse is an example of a supergiant in this class, which is also home to Mira variables and red dwarfs. For ten points -- name this most plentiful class of stars, which have surface temperatures of around three thousand Kelvin, making them the coolest of the original seven main classes.	Answer: M15. This film ends with the bad guy making an impassioned speech saying that he can't control his violent urges and asking "Who knows what it's like to be me?" Since Peter Lorre couldn't whistle, viewers actually hear this movie's director whistle "In the Hall of the Mountain King." This film tells the story of a psychotic child murderer whose capture is aided by the Berlin criminal underground. For ten points -- name this 1931 Fritz Lang film, which shares its name with the answer to the previous tossup.	Answer: M
16. A river by this name in New Zealand feeds into the Akitio River. The one in Kentucky rises in the mountainous region of the Cumberland Plateau and flows through the Daniel Boone National Forest. The one in Asia begins in China's Yunnan [YOO-nahn] province and flows southeast into Vietnam near the eastern edge of Hanoi. The one in the northern United States passes through the cities of Grand Forks, Moorhead, and Fargo. For ten points -- give this common and colorful river name, the most famous of which forms the border between Texas and Oklahoma.	Answer: Red River17.	Your question writer recently forgot the natural log symbol in this equation and received no credit on a quiz. It is essential to use the Joules per mol times Kelvin units for the gas constant in this equation, which can give the slope of the line separating two phases on a pressure-temperature diagram. The Antoine equation is sometimes used instead of this equation, which does not work as well at high pressures or near the critical point. For ten points -- name this equation which relates temperature to vapor pressure and heat of vaporization, named for two scientists.	Answer: Clausius-Clapeyron equation18.	It was preceded three years earlier by the Peace of Passau, which had been called because of a revolt led by Maurice of Saxony. Article twenty-four of it allowed movement into different states, but neither the Anabaptists nor the Calvinists were protected. For ten points -- name this 1555 accord, signed between Charles V and the forces of the Schmalkaldic League, that allowed the tolerance of Lutheranism in Germany. 	Answer: Peace/Treaty of Augsburg	19. The Kent State tragedy was the subject of his oratorio, Truth Has Fallen, and he dedicated the song In Your Own Sweet Way to his wife Iola. Inspired by his service during World War II, in which he saw many Biblical rules being broken, he recently unveiled a six-minute choral work entitled The Commandments. After studying under Darius Milhaud [me-YO], he formed his namesake quartet, which included Joe Dodge, Bob Bates, and Paul Desmond. For ten points -- name this jazz great whose Time Out album contained the songs Blue Rondo a la Turk and Take Five.	Answer: Dave Brubeck 20. According to this play, the true nature of thunder is really just farting. It opens with the protagonist dreaming about horses, a hobby that has driven the protagonist's father, a dishonest farmer, into great debt. Believing he can convince his son to learn shrewd argument skills to use against his debtors, Phidippides encourages his son, Strepsiades, to attend the Thinkery, a Sophist school run by Socrates. For ten points -- name this comedy written by Aristophanes.	Answer: The Clouds21. The daughter of Erechtheus and Praxithea, her offspring includes a daughter who married Deucalion [doo-KA-lee-en]. Epimetheus fell in love with this woman, who was molded out of clay by Hephaestus. She received beauty from Aphrodite and musical talent from Apollo, and was bestowed upon humankind as a punishment for Prometheus's theft of fire. For ten points -- name this "all-gifted" woman, who opened her namesake box out of curiosity and released all the evils of human life.	Answer: Pandora22. Its exterior resembles bamboo segments, with eight floors to each segment, reflecting the belief that eight symbolizes luck and prosperity. It contains two of the world's fastest elevators, which run at thirty-nine miles per hour, and a six hundred and sixty ton mass damper, which stabilizes the tower against earthquakes and typhoons. For ten points -- name this one hundred and one story skyscraper, often considered the highest in the world, located in the capital of the Republic of Taiwan.	Answer: Taipei 101 (or Taipei Financial Center)
BONI - FLORIDA STATE A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Billy Beyer with duplicate insurance from... another set by Billy Beyer1.	FTPE answer the following about a certain form of matter.(10) Fog and smoke are examples of this form of matter which is intermediate between a true solution and a mixture or suspension.	Answer:	colloid(10) In 1861, this Scottish scientist was the first to create a colloid.	Answer:	Thomas Graham(10) Named for an Irish scientist, this effect describes the phenomenon noticeable when light shining through the rafters of a building lights up previously invisible particles of dust in the air.	Answer:	Tyndall effect2. For ten points each -- answer the following about an artist and his works.(10) After studying under the Bellini brothers and finishing some of Giorgione's [jor-JO-ne's] works, this 16th century Italian Renaissance painter devoted himself solely to oil works such as Sacred and Profane Love and Pesaro Madonna.	Answer: Titian [TISH-en](10) In this Titian nude, the title figure wears a bracelet on her right arm, and her right hand holds a bunch of flowers. 	Answer: Venus of Urbino(10) In this mythological scene, the first title character jumps out of his cheetah-drawn chariot after he instantly falls in love with the second title character, who was abandoned by the man whose ship can be seen in the distance.	Answer: Bacchus and Ariadne3. For ten points each -- answer the following about a creature from Norse mythology.(10) After finally breaking the Gleipnir, this wolf will devour Odin at Ragnarok.	Answer: Fenrir (or Fenris or Fenrisulfr)(10) In retaliation for not removing Gleipnir, Fenrir bit off the hand of this war god.	Answer: Tyr(10) Fenrir was the offspring of Loki and this giantess, who also is the mother of Hel and the Midgard Serpent.	Answer: Angrboda4. For ten points each -- answer the following about literature liked by members of the Survivor: Guatemala cast.(10) Ivy League student Rafe is a big fan of this Japanese author, whose autobiographical works include A Personal Matter and The Silent Cry.	Answer: Kenzaburo Oe(10) Law school student Brooke is a fan of this George Orwell fable, in which a group of animals, led by Napoleon and Snowball, oust humans from Manor Farm.	Answer: Animal Farm(10) The Source, by this author, is a favorite of retired firefighter Jim. This historical writer won a Pulitzer Prize for Tales of the South Pacific.	Answer: James Michener5. For ten points each -- answer the following about a Russian tsar.(10) This tall Westernizing tsar abolished the distinction between slave and serf, and shaved his subjects.	Answer: Peter the Great (or Peter I)(10) During this warm 1709 Great Northern War battle, Peter the Great led forty-five thousands troops against Sweden's Charles XII. 	Answer: Battle of Poltava(10) In 1722, due to struggles with the boyars, Peter the Great created this new order of list of ranks and positions, which stated precedence should be determined by merit and service.	Answer: Table of Ranks
6. For ten points each -- name these parts of the human eye.(10) This most visible part is suspended between the cornea and lens and regulated how much light enters the eye.	Answer: iris(10) Connected by the optic nerve to the brain, this thin layer of cells converts light into nervous signals.	Answer: retina(10) Located in the center of the macula, this rodless area of the retina is 	Answer: fovea7. For ten points each -- name historians who wrote about Rome.(10) His massive Ab Urbe Condita, or From the Founding of the City, was originally composed of 142 books, but only 35 are extant. Machiavelli wrote a commentary on his first ten.	Answer: Livy (or Titus Livius)(10) His autobiography, Memoirs of My Life and Writings, is a reflection of the work which consumed most of his entire life, The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.	Answer: Edward Gibbon   (be sure players, especially UF's Travis Vitello, do not add an 's' to his last name)(10) The moral corruption of Rome is contrasted with the heroic virtue of barbarians in his work, Germania.	Answer: Gaius Cornelius Tacitus (or Publius)8. For ten points each -- name these college quarterbacks.(10) His plans to become Florida State's starting quarterback were dashed with pepper spray after he was found lying in the street wearing only a wet pair of shorts, and identifying himself as God, all common symptoms of Lyme disease.	Answer: Wyatt Sexton(10) When he isn't engaged in his intellectually demanding courseload this semester consisting of a two-credit course in ballroom dancing, this USC quarterback is trying to win a third consecutive championship and back-to-back Heismans.	Answer: Matt Leinart(10) This quarterback's hopes to win the Heisman were likely dashed after going 16-for-37 with two interceptions in a 31-3 upset loss to Alabama.	Answer: Chris Leak9.	For ten points each -- name the following people associated with the Vietnam War.(10) Commander of American military operations in the Vietnam War from 1964-68, he also served as US Army Chief of Staff from 1968 to 1972.  He died in July of 2005.	Answer: William Westmoreland(10) This first president of South Vietnam served until 1963, when he was assassinated in a military coup d'Žtat.	Answer: Ngo Dinh Diem(10) This Minnesotan Senator ran for president in the 1968 election on an anti-war platform. Despite scoring 42% of the vote in the New Hampshire primary, he received only 23% of the delegates at the Democratic convention. 	Answer: Eugene McCarthy10. For ten points each -- given a line of poetry, identify the poem from the collection Lyrical Ballads.(10) "I shot the Albatross."	Answer: "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"(10) "Five years have passed; five summers, with the length / Of five long winters!"	Answer: "blah blah Tintern Abbey blah blah"(10)  "Sisters and brothers, little maid / "How many may you be?""	Answer: "We Are Seven"11. For ten points each -- answer the following about fluid physics.(10) Measured in pascal-seconds, this quantity is the degree to which a fluid resists flow under an applied force.	Answer: viscosity(10) Named for a French engineer and a British mathematician, these equations comprise the momentum balance for a fluid element.	Answer: Navier-Stokes equation(s)(10) Rigorous non-dimensionalization of the Navier-Stokes equation results in this number, defined as the ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces. It determines whether a flow will be laminar of turbulent.	Answer: Reynolds number
12.	For ten points each -- name these royal houses.(10) This British house was in control during the American Revolution and Crimean War, led by King George III and Queen Victoria, respectively.	Answer: Hanover(10) The first ruler of this house took control after the Time of Troubles.	Answer: Romanov(10) This Swabian house produced Holy Roman Emperors such as Frederick Barbarossa.	Answer: Hohenstaufen (or just Staufen)13. For ten points each -- answer the following about the interrelated exciting world of fine arts.(10) In this position, the dancer bends forward while standing on one straight leg with the arm extended forward, and the other arm and leg extended backward.	Answer: arabesque(10) His works for piano include a set of Arabesques. His tone poems include La Mer and Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun.	Answer: Claude Debussy(10) This choreographer produced Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun along with The Rite of Spring.	Answer: Vaslav Nijinsky14. For ten points each -- name these 20th century dramas.(10) Olga, Masha, and Irina are the title characters in this Anton Chekhov work.	Answer: The Three Sisters (accept Tri sestry for UF's Sarah Whitfield and all those other Russian speakers) (10) The Bridegroom and Leonardo fight to the death for the love of The Bride in this Federico Garc’a Lorca play, which was written while obsessively listening to a Bach cantata.	Answer: Blood Wedding (or Bodas de Sangre)(10) In this Athol Fugard short play, set in South Africa during apartheid, Sam and Willie are two black servants who are friends with the title character, who is often referred to as Hally.	Answer: Master Harold...and the Boys15. For ten points each -- name these groups who have played free concerts at Florida State.(10) Led by Jim Adkins, this band changed the name of their Bleed American album after the 9/11 attacks.	Answer: Jimmy Eat World(10) In 2001, their cover of the Michael Jackson song "Smooth Criminal" brought attention to them and their album, ANThology.	Answer: Alien Ant Farm(10) This six-member Christian-emocore band recently received TV airtime for their music video "Reinventing Your Exit", off their album They're Only Chasing Safety.	Answer: Underoath16.	FTPE, given a Russian work of literature, name the author.(10) Anna Karenina	Answer:	Leo (or Lev) Tolstoy (10) And Quiet Flows the Don	Answer:	Mikhail Sholokhov(10) We	Answer:	Yevgeny Zamyatin17.	For ten points each -- answer the following about a philosopher.(10) Voltaire wasn't a big fan of his idea that we live in "the best of all possible worlds", so he based the character of Pangloss on this German, who is also well-known for his work in math.	Answer: Gottfried Leibniz(10) According to the metaphysics of Leibnitz, these were the indivisible, impenetrable unit of substance which were the basic constituent element of physical reality.	Answer: monads(10) Written in dialogue form, this 1705 Leibniz work was a chapter-by-chapter rebuttal of a similarly titled John Locke.	Answer: New Essays on Human Understanding  (or Nouveaux essais sur l'entendement humain)
18. For five points each -- given an animal, identify the class it belongs to. (5) Beetle	Answer: Insecta (5) Squid	Answer: Cephalopoda (5) Shrimp	Answer: Crustacea (5) Tapeworm	Answer: Cestoda (or Cestoidea) (5) Portuguese Man-of-War	Answer: Hydrozoa(5) Leech	Answer: Hirudinea 19.	For ten points each -- answer the following about a rebellion from early American history.(10) This 1794 Pennsylvania rebellion was in regards to a federal tax on a certain spirit.	Answer: Whiskey Rebellion(10) The Whiskey Rebellion was suppressed by approximately fifteen thousand men, gathered under Washington, Hamilton, and this man, who would later call Washington "first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen."	Answer: 'Lighthorse Harry' Henry Lee(10) This Pennsylvania governor believed that judicial authority was enough to restore order, and that fifteen thousand men were unnecessary.	Answer: Thomas Mifflin20.	For ten points each -- name these African capital cities.(10) Table Mountain overlooks this legislative capital of South Africa.	Answer: Cape Town(10) Aso and Zuma Rock are the only points of interest in this boring city, which replaced Lagos as capital of Nigeria in 1991.	Answer: Abuja(10) Home to the largest church in the world, this small home village of FŽlix Houphou‘t-Boigny was transformed into the capital city of Cote d'Ivoire in 1983.	Answer: Yamoussoukro [YAH-moo-SOO-kro]21.	For ten points each -- name these psychological patients.(10) Using a white rat and a loud sound, John Watson condition this child to fear white fluffy things.	Answer: Little Albert(10) This Josef Breuer patient suffered from hysterical paralysis after cradling her dying father with her arm. Although there was nothing actually wrong with her arm, she stopped using the arm as punishment because she blamed herself for her father's death.	Answer: Anna O. (or Bertha Pappenheim)(10) Significant changes in personality and temperament were seen in this railroad construction worker who suffered a traumatic brain injury in 1848.	Answer: Phineas Gage22.	FTPE name these former Chairmen of the Communist Party of China.(10) Along with Li Dazhao, this man founded the Communist Party of China and was its first Chairman and General Secretary.	Answer:	Chen Duxiu(10) This successor of Chen Duxiu led the Long March and initiated the Great Leap Forward.	Answer:	Mao Zedong(10) Much to the dismay of the Gang of Four, this man became chairman following the death of Mao and served from 1976 to 1981.	Answer:	Hua Guofeng