TOSSUPS - ATHENS STATE		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTC Questions by Lee Henry and Kivin Childers1.	Although shaped by the ideas of Plotinus and Plato, this name originated from the philosopher Immanuel Kant's Critique of Practical Reason.  It was adopted by a group of 19th-century New England scholars and writers whose works sought permanent spiritual reality beyond that of physicality.  FTP, what is this name, used by authors such as Bronson Alcott, Henry David Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson?	Answer:	Transcendentalist or Transcendentalism2.	Its northern and southern boundaries are maintained by strong opposing jet streams, and it contains a circulating anti-cyclonic flow with a period of about 6 days. The clouds associated with it rise almost 10 km above the neighboring cloud tops. Credited for discovering this structure, which has persisted for over 300 years, is given to Hooke and Cassini. It was studied by the Galileo spacecraft, and is large enough to contain 3 Earths. Ranging in color from pale pink to brick, FTP name this atmospheric feature on Jupiter.	Answer: 	the Great Red Spot3.	The first sequel to this movie begins with a prologue that hastily rehashes the original, leaving out all but two of the main characters.  The action begins when a recording of an ancient Sumerian text causes the teenagers to become soul-sucking zombies.  Spawning two film sequels, as well as two video games is, FTP, what film in which Bruce Campbell's Ash first fights the "Deadites?"	Answer:	The Evil Dead 4.	Discovered in the 1930s by Schrader, Ambros, Rudriger, and Van der Linde, its scientific name is isopropyl methyl-flouro-phosphonate.  Exposure to as little as ten micrograms can be lethal if not treated by atropine.  It is more toxic than tabun and soman, and acts by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase. It was also among the Weapons of Mass Destruction that Saddam Hussein was supposedly hiding.  FTP, identify this nerve gas used in Iraq against Kurds as well as in a 1995 attack on Tokyo's subways.	Answer:	Sarin Gas5.	He toured the country in a train called the "Red Special" during 1908, appropriate given his background as a railroad fireman. In April 1894 his American Railway Union shut down the Great Northern line for eighteen days. Charged with contempt of court during the Pullman Strike, this author of Industrial Unionism and Walls and Bars found himself imprisoned again during the last of his five presidential campaigns in 1920. FTP, name this Terre Haute, Indiana-born socialist, jailed for denouncing the draft during World War One.	Answer:	Eugene V. Debs5.	This artist was inspired after reading Sigmund Freud's writings on the erotic significance of subconscious imagery.  His paintings, such as Swans Reflecting Elephants, often depicted common objects in a dreamlike world where they are juxtaposed, deformed, and often appear to be melting, like the clocks in his most famous work.  FTP, identify this Spanish surrealist, painter of The Persistence of Memory.	Answer:	Salvador Dali6.	After World War II, several of his stories - often depicting his own experiences in the army - appeared in The New Yorker.  His thirteen extant stories appear in Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters;  Seymour; Nine Stories; and Franny and Zooey. FTP, name this reclusive author whose only novel is The Catcher in the Rye. 	Answer:	Jerome David Salinger7.	Credited with coining the term "planned economy," along with his brother Bo he drafted the legislation that created the Swedish welfare state. His diplomatic successes included keeping Sweden out of NATO, releasing Korean War prisoners, and establishing an "emergency force" to separate the contending parties in the Suez crisis. He was attempting to negotiate a cease-fire between Moise Tshombe of Katanga and the Congolese government when his plane crashed, killing all aboard. FTP, name this second UN Secretary General, the posthumous recipient of the 1961 Nobel Peace Prize.		Answer:	Dag Hammarskjold
8.	Western trees of this name are threatened by infection from Alaskan dwarf mistletoe. Eastern ones are under attack by scale insects and woolly adelgids (UH-del-jids), two exotic pests that cause their dark green needles to turn yellow and drop off.  The European plant of the same name is a member of the parsley family, whose leaves contain a neurotoxic alkaloid that causes convulsions. FTP, name this poison that caused the death of Socrates.	Answer:	hemlock9.	 Through his first wife, he acquired the duchy of Lancaster in 1362.  His additional name is a derivation of his birthplace, and was seldom used during his lifetime, but gained popularity through its use in a Shakespearean play about his nephew. A direct ancestor of the 15th-century Lancastrian monarchs is, FTP, what Duke of Lancaster and uncle of Richard II?	Answer:	John of Gaunt10.	His name means "plantain leaf," the material that formed the roof of the hut where he wrote and meditated. "Fuga-no-michi," or "the way of elegance," characterized his poetry, as he advised his readers to "achieve enlightenment, then return to this world of ordinary humanity." His "haibun," or travelogues, include the famous Narrow Road to the Deep North.  FTP, identify this first master of the Japanese haiku.		Answer:	Matsuo Basho 11.	Emerging from the Dada and Surrealist movements, this American photographer and painter gained fame for his images produced by placing objects on photo-sensitive paper and exposing them to light.  This resulted in images that resembled Cubist paintings.  FTP, name this man whose aforementioned eponymous works were called "rayographs." 	Answer:	Man Ray 12.	Under the pseudonym John Sinjohn, he wrote his first novel, Jocelyn. Greatly influenced by the drama of Ibsen, he is remembered for his satirical portrayals of the British upper-class. His most-famous work is a series that includes the books The Man of Property, In Chancery, and To Let.  FTP, identify this author of The Forsyte Saga.	Answer:	John Galsworthy13.	The NIST standard value of this quantity is calculated by measuring the density of a crystal of silicon, the unit cell length as determined by x-ray crystallography, and the relative atomic mass, but in the past it has been derived from measurements the blueness of the sky and Brownian motion, the method used by Albert Einstein in his doctoral dissertation. First successfully calculated by Joseph Loschmidt, it is sometimes called Loschmidt's number. Officially defined as the number of carbon-12 atoms in 12 grams of carbon-12, FTP, what is this quantity, more familiarly known as 6.02 x 10^23?	Answer: 	Avogadro's number14.	The 1798 battle of Saint George's Caye resulted in defeat for Spain, confirming the right of British settlers to harvest logwood in this region. Today much of its economy is still based on mahogany, and periodic land disputes with Guatemala forced the British army to maintain troops until 1994 in the colony formerly known as British Honduras. FTP, name this only English-speaking nation in Central America, whose capital is Belmopan. 	Answer:	Belize15.	The best-known tradition names his father as Oeagrus, king of Thrace. Like Hercules, he was tutored by Linus; unlike Hercules, he was killed by Maenads. His skills enabled the Argonauts to pass by the Sirens unscathed, and he was the only person who ever softened the heart of Persephone, who granted his request, but he failed to capitalize upon it because he became anxious and looked back. FTP name this Greek musician who journeyed to the underworld to bring back his wife Eurydice. 		Answer: 	Orpheus16.	The first production of this opera was interrupted by Napoleon's siege of Vienna.  In 1806, after many revisions, it reopened but was closed again because of feuding between the composer and the producers.  In 1814 it finally became a hit.  FTP, identify this opera which some spectators say was ruined when the composer insisted on conducting despite his deafness.	Answer:	Fidelio
17.	A 2001 study found that, as expected, this mechanism is effective only in regions where the model is present. That study looked at how often predators attacked plasticine models of the Scarlet King Snake and the Coral Snake.  Also known as pseudaposematic coloration, its better-known name is derived from that of a 19th century British naturalist and explorer. FTP, identify this type of mimicry in which a harmless species takes on the physical characteristics of a dangerous relative, as opposed to Mullerian mimicry.	Answer:	Batesian Mimicry18.	The only work he published during his lifetime was the 1690 Memoirs Relating to the State of the Royal Navy. During his service as a clerk in the Navy Office, he abused his power in order to seduce the wives of his subordinates. His most-famous work is a narrative that describes the coronation of Charles II, the plague of 1665, and the Great Fire of London.  FTP, identify this 17th century author, the best-known diarist in English literature.		Answer:	Samuel Pepys 19.	Nijo Castle, his official residence in Kyoto, was equipped with an elaborate system of whistles to warn of potential assassins. The 1615 "laws of military houses" forced the great lords to withhold protection from the fugitive Samurai who challenged his power. The former vassal of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, two years after Hideyoshi's death he smashed the western clans at Sekigahara. FTP, name this founder of Japan's Tokugawa Shogunate.	Answer:	Tokugawa Ieyasu20.	His father claimed to be a descendant of the last king of Athens.  His mother was related to Critias and Charmides, extremist leaders of the oligarchic terror of 404 BC.  Born as Aristocles, his acquired name refers to the fact that he had a very broad forehead - which was believed to account for his huge range of knowledge.  This was, FTP, what Greek philosopher and author of The Republic?	Answer:	Plato21.	A sufferer of ill health for most of her life, she was cured of a back ailment by Phineas P. Quimby, who claimed to cure ailments without medication in the early 1860s.  She remained well until Quimby died in 1866 when she suffered a fall and lost all hope of recovery.  However, she managed to be cured again, this time by reading the New Testament. This was, FTP, what founder of the Christian Science movement?	Answer:	Mary Baker Eddy22.	He helped Claudius become emperor in 41 AD and as a reward, Judea and Samaria was added to his kingdom.  In order to gain the favor of his Jewish subjects he persecuted the Christian community in Jerusalem.  FTP, who was this ruler of Palestine, the grandson of Herod the Great?	Answer:	Herod Agrippa I23.	It was established in Bretton Woods, New Jersey as part of the 1944 United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference.  Going into operation in 1947, it seeks to maintain peace by providing financial stability through loans, grants, and policy guidance for member nations.  Identify this specialized UN agency.	Answer:	International Monetary Fund or IMF
BONI- ATHENS STATE		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Lee Henry, Kivin Childers, and Daniel McHan1.	FTPE, name the African country, given some cities.1. 	Tobruk, Derna, Benghazi		Answer:	Libya2.	East London, Pietermaritzburg, Pretoria		Answer:	South Africa3. 	Meru, Malindi, Mombasa		Answer:	Kenya2.	Identify the American novels in which the following characters appear FTPE, or 5 points if you need the author.1. 	(10 points) Clyde Griffiths   	 (5 points) Theodore Dreiser		Answer:	An American Tragedy2.	(10 points) Joe Christmas	(5 points) William Faulkner		Answer:	Light in August3. 	(10 points) Frederic Henry	(5 points) Ernest Hemingway		Answer:	A Farewell to Arms3.	Identify the following acid-base indicators FTPE.1.	(10 Points) This indicator is colorless in an acid and pink in a base			Answer:	Phenolphthalein2.	(10 Points) This indicator is red in an acid and yellow in a base			Answer:	Methyl Orange3.	(10 Points) This indicator is red in an acid and blue in a base				Answer:	Litmus4.	Identify the following Mughal Emperors FTPE.1. 	This man is famous for having built the Taj Mahal.		Answer:	Shah Jahan2. 	This capable leader founded the dynasty but was succeeded in 1530 by his incompetent son Humayun.					Answer:	Babur or Babar3.	This third son and successor of Shah Jahan had many political rivals killed, including his own son.  His use of absolutism is often compared with that of his contemporary, Louis XIV.		Answer:	Aurangzeb  5.	FTPE, given a 2003 NFL First Round Draft Pick name the NFL team that chose him1.	(10 points) Andre Johnson	     	Answer:	Houston Texans (accept either)2.	(10 points) Willis McGahee	    	 Answer:	Buffalo Bills  (accept either)3.	(10 points) Terrance Newman	     	Answer:	Dallas Cowboys (accept either)6.	Given clues to a Supreme Court decision, name the case, FTPE.1.	(The "one man, one vote" concept came from this 1962 Tennessee case.	  	 Answer:	Baker v. Carr2.	This 1986 case mandated that all states wishing to continue to receive full federal highway aid were required to raise the legal age to purchase and consume alcohol to 21 years.		Answer:	South Dakota v. Dole3.	Although later modified by Nix v. Williams, 1984, this 1966 case stated that defendants must be informed of their rights before making a statement.  If you don't know the answer, you have the right to remain silent. . .	   	Answer:	Miranda v. Arizona
7.	Identify the authors of the following Booker Prize-winning novels FTPE.1.	(10 Points) The Conservationist				Answer:	Nadine Gordimer2.	(10 Points) Rites of Passage				Answer:	William Golding3.	(10 Points) The Blind Assassin				Answer:	Margaret Atwood8.	Identify the Muse of Greek mythology when given their arenas of inspiration FTSNOP.1.	(5 Points) She is the muse of epic poetry and shares her name with a circus instrument.		Answer:	Calliope2.	(10 Points) This history muse has the same name as a fortune teller/psychic.		Answer:	Clio3.	(15 points) She was the muse of Songs to the Gods.		Answer:	Polyhymnia9.	Answer the following concerning the pancreas FTPE.1.	(10 Points) The pancreas is attached to which part of the small intestine?					.       Answer:	Duodenum2.	(10 Points) Other than the small intestine, to what organ is the pancreas attached?			Answer:	Spleen3. 	(10 Points) Insulin is produced in what specialized cells of the pancreas?				Answer:	Islets of Langerhans10.	Identify the following concerning acclaimed novels written for young adult readers FTPE.1.	This Louis Sachar novel was recently made into a Disney film starring Sigourney Weaver as a Simon Legree-like taskmaster at a camp for delinquent young boys.		Answer:	 Holes2.	This author's The Giver is also currently being made into a movie.  		Answer:	Lois Lowry3.	This Idaho native wrote about Jennifer Lawless and Dillon Hemingway in his 1989 novel, Chinese Handcuffs.		Answer:	Chris Crutcher11.	Name the artist from works FTPE, or 5 if you need additional works.1.	 (10 points) Death of Socrates, Coronation of Napoleon and Josephine	 (5 points) Oath of Horatti, Death of Marat	      Answer:	Jacques-Louis David2.	 (10 points) Penn's Treaty with the Indians	 (5 points) Death on a Pale Horse, The Death of General Wolfe	      Answer:	Benjamin West3.	 (10 points) The Four Seasons, Triumph of Death	 (5 points) The Harvesters, Hunters in the Snow	   Answer:	Pieter Breughel the Elder12.	Identify the Romantic English Poet from works FTPE.1.	(10 Points) "The Sensitive Plant" and "To a Skylark"		Answer:	Percy Bysshe Shelley2.	(10 Points) ""Dejection: An Ode"		Answer:	Samuel Taylor Coleridge3.	(10 Points) "The Battle of Blenheim"		Answer:	Robert Southey
13.	Given an English king, name the royal house FTSNOP.1.	 (5 points) Henry VII	   	 Answer:	Tudor2.	 (10 points) Edward III   		 Answer:	 Plantagenet 3. 	(5 points) James I  		 Answer:	 Stuart4.	(10 points) Edward VII    		Answer:	 Saxe-Coburg-Gotha14.	Identify the following "B-vitamins" from their chemical names FTPE.1.	(10 points) Riboflavin		Answer:	B22.	(10 points) Pyridoxine		Answer:	B63.	(10 points) Cobalamin		Answer:	B1215.	Given the lakes, name the country in which they can be found, 5-10-15.1.	(5 Points) Lake Manitoba, Lake Winnipeg 	   Answer:	Canada2.	(10 Points) Lake Torrens, Lake Eyre	   Answer:	Australia3.	(15 Points) Lake Mweru, Lake Bangweulu	   Answer:	Zambia16.	Given the organism, name the phylum, 5-10-15.1.	(5 Points) Sponges		Answer:	Porifera2.	(10 Points) Sea lancelets	   	Answer:	Chordata3.	(15 Points) Comb Jellies	   	Answer:	Ctenophora17.	Identify the following about Brazil FTPE.1.	(10 Points) Brazil was first claimed by what Portuguese explorer?			Answer:	Pedro Cabral2.	(10 Points) This Portuguese King moved to Brazil in 1807.							       Answer:	John VI3. (10 Points) The son of John VI, he became the first Emperor of Brazil						Answer:	Pedro I18.	Given the allegedly classic rock hit, name the artist FTPE.1.	(10 Points) Wheel in the Sky	   	Answer:	Journey2. 	(10 Points) Carry on Wayward Son	   	Answer:	Kansas3.	 (10 Points) Radar Love	   	Answer:	Golden Earring
19.	The God Hermes is often depicted with three special items.  FTPE, identify each item by a common English wordA.  What is the petasus?	Winged hatB.  What is the cadeucus?	Herald's wand entwined with snakesC.  What are the thalaria?	winged sandals       20.	30-20-10 Name the artist.	(30 points) Born in Canton, New York, he studied art at Yale and at New York's Art Students League.	(20 points) In 1898, he covered the Spanish American War as a news correspondent.  His 	paintings during that time where reproduced in numerous newspapers, bringing him both wealth and fame.	(10 points) Despite being a talented painter, he is more famous for his bronze sculptures such as The Bronco Buster.		Answer:	Frederic Remington21.	When given an ancient or archaic name for a nation, identify that nation FTPE.1.	(10 Points) Moab				Answer:	Jordan2.	(10 Points) Caledonia			Answer:	Scotland3.	(10 Points) Anahuac			Answer:	Mexico22.	Given a professional golfer, identify the college he attended FTPE.1.	(10 Points) Jerry Pate	   	Answer:	Alabama2.	(10 Points) Notah Begay	  	 Answer:	Stanford3.	(10 Points) Phil Mickelson	  	Answer:	Arizona State23.	Given an animal, give the collective group name for that animal.. 5-10-151.	(5 Points) Rabbit 	   	Answer:	 Colony or Warren2.	(10 Points) Crow	  	 Answer:	Murder3.	(15 Points) Fox	  	 Answer:	Skulk24.	Translate these original titles of Mozart's works into English FTPE. (Note to moderators: Be lenient on translations)1.	(10 Points) Cosi Fan Tutte						Answer:	They're All Like That  or They All Do It2.	(10 Points) Die Zauberflaute					Answer:	The Magic Flute3.	(10 Points) Le Nozze di Figaro					Answer:	The Marriage of Figaro