Rollapalooza/COTKU1. Though he was on his country's fencing team in 1960 and played minor league baseball with Roberto Clemente, he is better known as a golfer - an impressive resume for a poor sugar cane field worker from Puerto Rico.  FTP, name this flamboyant golfer whose real first name is Juan, and who often demonstrated his fencing skills after sinking an important putt.Answer: Juan "Chi-Chi" Rodriguez2. This work depicts Jules Champfleury, Pierre Proudhon, Charles Baudelaire, and Napoleon III among the onlookers.  Its artist wrote that the figures on the left are people who "live on death," while those on the right "live on life."  The work is subtitled A Real Allegory Summing up Seven Years of My Artistic and Moral Life.  FTP, name this painting by Gustave Courbet.Answer: L'Atelier du peintre (accept The Painter's Studio or The Artist's Studio or reasonable equivalents)3. The compound known as Arsphenamine was found to cure this in 1910, when it was patented under the name Salvarsan.  Salvarsan is also known simply as 606 or Erlich-606 because it was the 606th, and first successful, compound Paul Erlich used, FTP, to treat this sexually transmitted disease - a use for which the compound was also called Erlich's "magic bullet."Answer: syphilis4. Little is known of his life, and he never wrote a compendium of his philosophy, instead writing commentaries on disputed questions from the works of others, like Peter Lombard and Aristotle.  This Franciscan is primarily remembered for defending freedom of the will against the determinism of the radical Aristotelians.  FTP, name this British author of Treatise on God as First Principle.Answer: John Duns Scotus5. James Madison's roommate at Princeton, he and Madison co-founded the university's American Whig Society.  His activism continued later in life, when he founded the National Gazette in Philadelphia to support Jefferson's ideals.  He also wrote lyric (*) poetry, such as "The Indian Burying Ground" and "The Wild Honey Suckle."  FTP, identify this "Poet of the American Revolution."Answer: Philip Freneau6.  The clerk Dapper wants to meet a demon who will help him at gambling; Abel Drugger wants astrological advice about his new shop; and Dame Pliant wants her fortune told.  The tricksters Dol Common, Face, and Subtle are happy to oblige, but their main clients are Epicure Mammon and Ananias, for whom they try to produce the philosopher's stone.  FTP, identify this play of Ben Jonson.Answer: The Alchemist7.  His work "The Legacy" is a bawdy parody of the medieval legacy poem.  He wrote the more serious "Ballad of the Hanged" while awaiting the gallows.  But he is most remembered for "Petit Testament" and "Grand Testament," which includes such poems as "Ballad of Women of Yore," famous for the line "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"  FTP, identify this medieval French poet and thief.Answer: François Villon
 8. In this film, Slim testifies that his name is Malden Skulovich, the real name of co-star Karl Malden.  It tells of corrupt labor leaders who get confronted by Terry Malloy in an attempt to expose them.  FTP, identify this 1954 classic that earned 8 Oscars, including Best Supporting Actress for Eva Marie Saint, Best Director for Elia Kazan, and Best Leading Actor for Marlon Brando.Answer: On the Waterfront9. You may not recognize the names of Myra Jackson, Kenneth Sanford, and Sean O'Kane, but you have probably seen them on TV doing active things like jogging or carrying a bike out their front door - or you might just recall them holding up pants that look far too large for them.  All of them, like the more famous Jared Fogle, lost weight by eating food - FTP- primarily from which fast-food restaurant?Answer: Subway10. Arrested in July after presenting the work he did at Elcomsoft at a Las Vegas convention, this scientist is among the first to be prosecuted under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act for demonstrating the flimsiness of an e-book encryption scheme used by Adobe - a case that sparked nationwide protest among computer scientists.  FTP, identify this young Russian programmer.Answer: Dmitry Sklyarov11. Although many of his works, such as The Porisms, have been largely lost, 6 of the 13 books of his Arithmetica survived long enough to be translated into Arabic.  In them, the author considers linear and quadratic equations that have only positive rational solutions, calling other solutions "absurd."  FTP, name this Alexandrian mathematician, often called the "father of algebra."Answer: Diophantus of Alexandria12. The winners of this case were so grateful to their lawyer that they commissioned Gilbert Stuart to paint his portrait.  Chief Justice John Marshall agreed with that attorney, Daniel Webster, that the obligation clause of the Constitution applied to corporate charters.  FTP, identify this case, which foiled a state's attempt to control a private educational institution.Answer: Dartmouth College vs. Woodward 13. Rating only between 2 and 2.5 on the hardness scale, it is also extremely dense for a nonmetallic mineral.  It cleaves in 3 directions, forming prisms, and is known for showing penetration twinning, forming pyramids.  More importantly, it has been an important source of mercury since Roman times.  FTP, name this mineral with the formula HgS, easily recognized by its deep red color.Answer: cinnabar14. This city was the British colonial administrative center of its country from 1893 to 1958. It lies on the northwestern shore of Lake Victoria, 34 kilometers from Kampala. It has a noted botanical garden and one of the largest airports in eastern Africa. That airport was the site of a dramatic Israeli commando raid on an airliner hijacked by Palestinians in 1976. FTP, name this Ugandan city.Answer: Entebbe
15. Negotiations leading to this treaty began on March 23rd, 1902. Britain agreed to pay a three million pound indemnity for rehabilitation, and granted amnesty and repatriation to loyalty-pledging Afrikaners. Recognizing self-government of the Transvaal and the Orange Free State as colonies of the British Empire, FTP, what treaty also marked the end of the Boer War?Answer: Treaty of Vereeniging16. This city was founded by a certain group of Putuns, who lent their name to part of the city name. Along with statues and motifs of the god Kukulcan located here, there were also numerous temples, an observatory, and the largest ball court in Mesoamerica. FTP, identify this Mayan city, conquered in 1221 by the neighboring state of Mayapán.Answer: Chichén Itzá17. It is a canticle used in the Christian church. A joyful hymn of praise, it is used at vespers. Based on Luke 1:46-55, it is taken from the account of the meeting of Elizabeth and Mary, mother of Christ. FTP, identify this hymn that, when sung in Latin, has the title word followed by the phrase anima mea dominum.Answer: Magnificat18. This city was founded as a republic in 452 CE, and remained so until conquered by Napoleon in 1797. It has a population of 300,000, but receives more than 1 million visitors annually. Spread out over 120 islands, its largest attraction, located in Plaza San Marco, is St. Mark's Cathedral. FTP, name this Italian city once ruled by doges.Answer: Venice or (accept Venezia)19. This man's original name was Telemarque. Inspired by the Bible description of the Israelites' delivery from Egypt, he and some trusted slaves constructed a plan to overthrow Charleston, South Carolina. However, someone leaked the plan, and this man and his cohorts were hanged on July 2nd, 1831. FTP, name this revolt leader, who shares his first name with a Scandinavian country.Answer: Denmark Vesey (VEE-see)20. They occur when the ball lands too high in the pocket and fails to start the 'domino effect' by hitting its four intended targets. Occurring more commonly with lighter balls, one of the "baby" varieties is the 2-7, and the 4-9 is an especially difficult one of these. FTP, name this bowling term, the most notorious example of which is the 7-10.Answer: split21. This chemical is synthesized in basophils and mast cells, and the cells release it when they are injured. A component of the body's inflammatory response, this chemical immediately lowers an organism's blood pressure and dilates blood vessels. FTP, identify this substance that you would counteract with any drug for the common cold.Answer: histamine22. This quantity derives from a measurement system developed by Hipparchus, although his system had only six possible values. This quantity can be classified as apparent, in which case it depends on the distance from the observer, or absolute, where all objects are assumed to be at a distance of ten parsecs.  FTP, name this quantity used to describe the brightness of stars.Answer: magnitude23. As a young man, this author escaped from a military academy in Austria. Travelling across Europe, he met Leo Tolstoy in Russia, and later settled in Paris as secretary to Auguste Rodin. He admired Friedrich Hölderlin, and emulated his work for some time, evident in his The Notebook of Malte Laurids Brigge. FTP, name this author, better known for Poems from the Book of Hours and Duino Elegies.Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke24. Catherine Maurice's book Let Me Hear Your Voice tells of two children treated for this disease by the Lovaas Method, a controversial behavioral therapy.  Its manifestations range from a high-functioning form called Asperger's syndrome to near-total lack of functioning with some "islets of competence."  FTP, name this disease with a famous spokesperson in Doug Flutie.Answer: autism25. The first one simply states that every competitive equilibrium is Pareto efficient.  The second one explains that any Pareto efficient allocation could be achieved by reallocating resources in some way and then letting the market run.  FTP, what are these two economic theorems proven in the early 1950's by Lionel McKenzie, Gerard Debreu, and Kenneth Arrow?Answer: Fundamental Welfare Theorems
Rollapalooza/COTKU 1. Identify the following on a 5-10-15 basis.(a) (5) This brutal dictator of the Dominican Republic was assassinated in 1961.Answer: Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina(b) (10) This African-American, named poet laureate of the United States in 1993, has published such collections as The Yellow House on the Corner and Museum, and an extended series of poems called Thomas and Beulah.Answer: Rita Dove(c) (15) In 1957, Rafael Trujillo ordered 20,000 black Haitians killed because they could not pronounce the "r" in the Spanish word for this plant, which also names a Rita Dove poem about the massacre.Answer: Parsley2. Identify the following concerning a famous family.(a) (10) This stream-of-consciousness novelist made her sexually abusive half-brother George Duckworth the focus of her autobiographical 22 Hyde Park Gate.Answer: Virginia Woolf(b) (10) This man, Virginia Woolf's father, was a distinguished intellectual who edited The Cornhill Magazine and The Dictionary of National Biography.Answer: Leslie Stephen(c) (10) This woman, Woolf's only sister, was an accomplished painter who designed dust jackets for several of Woolf's works.Answer: Vanessa Bell3. Identify the following concerning complex ions.(a) (10) From the Latin for "to bind," these are ions or molecules that bind to transition metal ions.Answer: ligands(b) (10) This is the term for the number of ligands bound to the central transition metal ion.Answer: coordination number(c) (10) This man developed a theory of coordination complexes that helped him win the 1913 Nobel prize for chemistry.Answer: Alfred Werner4. Answer the following about dissenting Congresspersons for ten points each.(a) (10) This Montana Republican was the lone vote in either house against American entry into World War I and also voted against entering World War II.Answer: Jeanette Rankin(b) (10) This Texan, a former Libertarian presidential candidate, is known as "Dr. No" in the House of Representatives for his lone dissents against seemingly innocuous measures.Answer: Ron Paul(c) (10) This California representative cast the lone vote in either house against granting broad power to President Bush in responding to the World Trade Center crisis, citing a desire to keep Congress involved.Answer: Barbara Lee
5. The April 18, 2001 death in police custody of high school student Guermah Massinissa has sparked further protests by a minority group in Algeria.(a) (5) For five points, this group, of which Massinissa was a member, comprises the indigenous inhabitants of North Africa, and today constitutes nearly 30% of the population of Algeria.Answer: Berbers(b) (10) For ten points, the Berbers are protesting the cruel treatment they have received under the regime of this current Algerian president.Answer: Abdelaziz Bouteflika(c) (15) For fifteen points, they are also fighting for the recognition of this Berber language as a national language of Algeria.Answer: Tamazight or Tamizight6. Identify the following from Celtic mythology.(a) (10) The greatest hero of Celtic myth, he was born Setante, but changed his name in his youth.  He also used his spear, gae bolg, to defend Ulster against Meave before dying at age 27.Answer: Cu Chulainn(b) (10) He was the son of Ross the Red and Roich, and in the court of Connacht, he became the most trusted adviser to Queen Meave.  He refused to fight his pupil, Cu Chulainn, at Cuialnge.Answer: Fergus Mac Roich(c) (10) Cu Chulainn was a member and Fergus was the leader of this elite group of defenders of Ulster.  Their colorful name comes from the king's assembly hall in Emain Macha.Answer: Red Branch7. Identify the following concerning Frank O. Gehry.(a) (10) In 1997, Gehry designed the Spanish branch of this museum in a curvaceous, free-form style.Answer: Guggenheim Museum(b) (10) This Seattle landmark, also designed by Gehry, was dedicated to Jimi Hendrix.Answer: Experience Music Project(c) (10) In 1989, Gehry was awarded this architectural prize for being "refreshingly original and totally American."Answer: Pritzker Architecture Prize8. Identify the following about a CS concept, 5-10-15.(a) (5) This is a data structure that uses a random access data structure, such as an array, and a mapping function, to allow for O(1) [read: "order one"] searches of a large set of keys.Answer: hash table(b) (10) This hashing technique, the opposite of open addressing, puts all the elements that hash to the same slot in a linked list.Answer: chaining(c) (15) This string-matching algorithm uses hashing to avoid a quadratic number of symbol comparisons.  The expected number of comparisons is O(n+m).Answer: Rabin-Karp algorithm
9. Identify the following plays by Aristophanes, for ten points each.(a) (10) This play revolves around the women of Athens, who conspire to deny their husbands sexual intercourse until they make peace with the Spartans.Answer: Lysistrata(b) (10) This play involves a dispute between Aeschylus and Euripides over who is the greater tragedian, moderated by Dionysus.Answer: The Frogs(c) (10) This last surviving play of Aristophanes, also called Wealth, is a satire on greed.Answer: Plutus10. Identify the following concerning the 2001 Little League World Series. (a) (10) This founder and namesake of the Bronx league's team has been banned for life from Little League involvement following an investigation into the age of star-pitcher Danny Almonte.Answer: Rolando Paulino(b) (10) This president of Little League Baseball said that Almonte and the other boys had been treated in a "contemptible and despicable way."Answer: Stephen Keener(c) (10) With the focus on the Bronx team both during and after the tournament, most of the other teams got overlooked.  For ten points, after winning the championship, the team from this country rushed to center field to bow to a statue of what they thought was a baseball god.Answer: Japan[Moderator note: the statue was of former LL vice president and stadium namesake Howard J. Lamadie]11. Answer the following about the life and times of Gwen Stefani.(a) (10) Her most recent album with No Doubt is this 2000 work, which features such songs as "Ex-Girlfriend" and "Simple Kind of Life."Answer: Return of Saturn(b) (5 points each) She also lent her vocals to two songs which won 2001 MTV Video Music Awards.  For five points each for title and primary artist, name them both.Answer: South Side by Moby, Let Me Blow Ya Mind by Eve12. Identify the major river of each of the following European capitals for ten points each.(a) (10) PragueAnswer: Vltava (accept Moldau)(b) (10) BratislavaAnswer: Danube or (accept Dunaj)(c) (10) BucharestAnswer: Dambovita13. Answer these questions about Eva Perón.(a) (5) Within three years, how old was Eva Perón when she died of ovarian cancer?Answer: 33 (acceptable answers range from 30 to 36)(b) (5) What profession did she have when she met Juan Perón?Answer: actress(c) (10) Eva gave her dramatic monologue "Don't Cry for Me, Argentina" from the balcony of what state building?Answer: The Casa Rosada(d) (10) Eva was co-leader of what voter support base for Juan Perón, whose name translates as the "shirtless ones"?Answer: Los descamisados14. Answer these questions about viruses.(a) (5) This spaceship-shaped virus attacks bacteria.Answer: bacteriophage(b) (5) The protective shell of the virus, made up of repeating proteins, is given this name.Answer: capsid(c) (10) Not all people who contract this virus ever show any symptoms of it, though it does cause such diseases as mononucleosis, and possibly certain types of blood cancers.Answer: Epstein-Barr(d) (10) This type of cancer of the blood vessels often seen in advanced AIDS patients is caused by a herpes virus.Answer: Kaposi's Sarcoma15. Given a constellation, identify its brightest star.(a) (10) Scorpius (Scorpio)Answer: Antares(b) (10) CygnusAnswer: Deneb(c) (10) CapricornAnswer: Alpha Capricornus16. Given a song from Boublil & Schönberg's Les Misérables, name the character that sings it.(a) (10) "On My Own"Answer: Eponine(b) (10) "Stars"Answer: Javert(c) (10) "Empty Chairs at Empty Tables"Answer: Marius17. Answer these questions about World Cup soccer.(a) (10) Which country won the first World Cup in 1930?Answer: Uruguay(b) (10) France's 1998 victory over Brazil came with the aid of two goals from what star player?Answer: Zinedine Zidane(c) (10) The USA's final loss to which country gave them a 32nd-place finish in 1998?Answer: Iran18. Answer these questions about a certain period in Canadian history.(a) (5) Armed rebellion broke out between French-speaking and English-speaking Canadians in what year (within five years)?Answer: 1837 (acceptable answers range from 1832 to 1842)(b) (10) The 1837 rebellion was named for what leader of the dominant party in the Lower Canada legislature?Answer: Louis Joseph Papineau(c) (15) What was the name of Papineau's party?Answer: Patriote
 19. Given an aria, identify its opera.(a) (5) "Vissi d'arte"Answer :Tosca(b) (5) "O patria mia"Answer: Aïda(c) (10) "Un bel di vedremo"Answer: Madame Butterfly(d) (10) "O mio babbino caro"Answer: Gianni Schicchi (SKEE-kee)20. Answer these questions about the Battle of Hastings.(a) (5) In which year did it take place?Answer:1066(b) (10) The two principal combatants in the Battle of Hastings were a Saxon king and a Norman duke. Name them for five points each.Answer: Harold II and William I (also acceptable: William the Conqueror - prompt on William of Normandy)(c) (15) William prepared to invade England after receiving a blessing from which pope?Answer: Alexander II21. Identify the following morphemes, given a description.(a) (5) Affixes are morphemes that occur at the beginning or end of a word. What is the term for a morpheme inserted into another morpheme? An example of this would be the simple superlative in Russian, or fan-damn-tastic.Answer: infix(b) (10) What is the term for a single morpheme that occurs on both sides of another morpheme?Answer: circumfix (This occurs in Samoan, among other languages.)(c) (15) Name any language where interweaving morphemes are found.Answer: Arabic OR Hebrew OR Aramaic (interweaving morphemes occur only in Semitic languages)22. Answer these questions about Edna Ferber works.For five points each, name the state about which Ferber wrote each of the following novels:(a) (5) Ice PalaceAnswer: Alaska(b) (5) GiantAnswer: Texas(c) (5) CimarronAnswer: Oklahoma(d) (15) She is a forward-thinking woman working for a skirt company who faces her daily dilemmas and gradual loss of youth with practicality. For 15 points, who is this title character of a 1915 Ferber work?Answer: Emma McChesney
 23. Given the German state, name the capital.(a) (5) Schleswig-HolsteinAnswer: Kiel(b) (10) Sachsen (Saxony)Answer: Dresden(c) (15) HessenAnswer: Wiesbaden24. Answer the following questions about the "Time of Troubles."(a) (10) The Time of Troubles began during the reign of what man, who was elected tsar in 1598?Answer: Boris Godunov(b) (10) In 1604, False Dmitry, a pretender, invaded Russia with Polish troops. Whose son did he claim to be?Answer: Ivan IV or Ivan the Terrible(c) (10) The Time of Troubles ended with this man's election as tsar in 1613.Answer: Michael Romanov25. Answer the following questions about a management philosophy for 15 points each.(a) (15) This man became a business hero in Japan for his "14 Points of Management" and his "System of Profound Knowledge."  Later, the American Statistical Association named an award after him.Answer: W. Edward Deming(b) (15) This three-word term describes Deming's system of putting the customer first and turning out high-caliber products.Answer: Total Quality Management (prompt on "TQM")