TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #1	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by various contributors to COTKU, Deep Bench, and Rollapalooza1.	This social phenomenon, given its name by Irving R. Janos, could be observed during the Vietnam War, when President Lyndon Johnson and his policy advisors escalated the war despite warnings from all U.S. allies and intelligence agents. The organization exhibits feelings of invulnerability and unquestionable morality. Enemies are impossible to negotiate with; problems with the organization or its thoughts are rejected; all opinions are seen as universally held by all members of the organization. FTP, name this kind of social influence that enforces the society found in 1984.	Groupthink2.	These proteins have an unusual primary sequence, in that there is a very high concentration of lysine and arginine.  Also, about 80 percent of the secondary structure for these proteins is alpha-helix.  There are five major classes: H1, H2A, H2B, H3, and H4, with the sequences for H3 and H4 being nearly identical from organism to another.  In the cell, these proteins form an octameric disc around a 146 base pair segment of DNA.  FTP, name these proteins that the DNA of eukaryotes form supercoils around.	Answer:	histones3.	Essential elements of the victory were the defeat of St. Leger's troops at Fort Stanwix, and the defeat of Hessian Mercenaries attempting to raid the depot at Bennington. Also essential was the ill-advised departure of William Howe on a campaign against Philadelphia.  This enabled Daniel Morgan and Benedict Arnold to defeat John Burgoyne at Freeman's Farm and Bemis Heights in, FTP, what battle marking the turning point of the Revolution?	Answer:	Saratoga (prompt on Freemans Farm and Bemis Heights before they are given)4.	Unlike most works of this form, this masterpiece does not contain a declaration of faith in the Resurrection, because the composer was not religious. The composition was begun after the death of the composer's mother, which followed the death of his teacher and friend, Robert Schumann.  FTP, identify this choral masterpiece in rondo form, that is one of Brahms's best-known choral works.	Answer:	 German Requiem (accept Ein Deutches Requiem)5.	In the end, Dame Pliant is married off to Lovewit by her brother Kestrel, who confronts Surly, who in order to expose the hucksters, disguised himself as a Spaniard in need of a whore. While Dapper is found locked in the privy, Sir Epicure Mammon and Tribulation Wholesome are turned away from the house, their hopes of obtaining the philosopher's stone dashed. Subtle and Doll manage to flee while Face reverts to being Jeremy the butler. FTP, name this play about swindlers who exploit superstition, a comedy by Ben Jonson.Answer: 	The Alchemist 6.	Based on an electrochemical reaction where carbon electrodes transmit a current through a cryolite melt. After its invention, the product of the process was adapted to the Bessemer process as a replacement for silver andtin. However, the process had the drawback of creating a mixture that was explosive in air and many deaths resulted. This notwithstanding, it made refining bauxite ores industrially feasible and made a group three element no longer a precious metal. For ten points name this process named for both an American and French Chemist.	Answer:	Hall-Heroult Process (accept either name)7.	The son of Lebanese immigrants, after getting his law degree he taught for two years at the University of Hartford.  Among his books are Canada Firsts, written to give his Canadian friends material to brag with, Verdicts on Lawyers, about the legal profession's monopoly status, and the 368-page Lemon Book, about how to deal with manufacturers of defective cars.  Of the many organizations he has founded, the largest is the Washington-based Public Citizen.  FTP, who is this consumer-rights advocate, whose best known book is 1965's Unsafe At Any Speed?	Answer:	 Ralph Nader8.	Dong Zhuo helped to suppress the Yellow Turban rebellion, and defeated an allied army under Yuan [YOOEN] Shao at Sishui [SIR - SHWAY] pass.  Guan Yu was the leader of the "five tigers" who fought for Shu, in this novel attributed to Luo Guanzhong [LWOH GWEN JOHNG].  Shu's leader was a former straw mat weaver named Liu Bei.  The leader of Wu was the Ruthless Zao Zao.  FTP, what is this Chinese classic set at the end of the Han dynasty, featuring the countries of Shu, Wu, and Wei.	Answer:	Romance of the Three Kingdoms
9.	One of the rulers of this kingdom built the new capital of Kar-Tukulti-Ninurta but it lasted only as long as he did. A precursor to this kingdom was that constructed by Shamshi-Adad I around 1800 B.C.  Its power would wax and wane over the centuries after that, but its heartland was always centered on the key religious city of Ashur.  Reaching its zenith from 750 to 620 B.C., FTP name this Near Eastern empire ruled then by kings such as Sennacherib and Esarhaddon.	Answer:	Assyria10.	He was drafted in 1985 out of Mississippi Valley State University.  After 18 years in the NFL, he now possesses nearly every record for his position.  In his third game of 2002, he broke Walter Payton's record for most career yards from scrimmage.  FTP - identify this legendary wide receiver that now wears number 80 for the Oakland Raiders.       Answer:  	Jerry _Rice_11.	Suppose two firms, X and Y, are in competition, and must each decide whether to adopt a red or a blue package for their product.  Assume each firm earns a higher profit if it selects a package color that differs from the other's.  If X chooses blue, it is in the best interest of Y to choose red.  As long as X stays with blue, Y should choose red in order to maximize its payoff.  The set of strategies and corresponding payoffs then meet this condition.  FTP, what is this important result from game theory, for which its eponymous discoverer won the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics?	Answer:	Nash Equilibrium12.	"The Encantadas" details the authors experiences during his 1841 journey to the Galapagos Islands.  The story of a salesman who visits during thunderstorms is told in "The Lightning-Rod Man".  Published in the wake of the critical failure "Pierre", most of its contents had been printed previously in "Putnam's Monthly Magazine." Among these are a story about the artist "Bannadonna", the requisite tale of shipboard intrigue, and a "Story of Wall Street".  FTP, Identify this collection of stories by Herman Melville, including "Bartleby the Scrivener", and "Benito Cereno".	Answer:	The Piazza Tales13.	Controversial plans for a dam in the Batoka Gorge along this river have been cancelled, although several massive dams, including the Kariba, have been built in the past.  Drawing its name from the Batonka people's words for great river, it flows some 2700 kilometers from its confluence near the Zambia/Angola/Democratic Republic of the Congo border to the Indian Ocean in Mozambique.  For ten points, name this river, the fourth longest in Africa, best known for a feature along the Zambia/Zimbabwe border named Victoria Falls.	Answer:	Great Zambezi River14.  His career has been mostly behind the camera as an announcer, first on the 5-season run of "Soap." In the early 80's, he hit his stride, serving as announcer on 4 game shows during the period including 5 years on "Love Connection," and all 5 seasons of "Press Your Luck." FTP, name this man, who since 1986, has been the announcer on "The Price Is Right."	Answer:	Rod Roddy15.	Beginning his professional career as a sailor, from 1836-1848 he lived in South America in exile due to his involvement in a republican plot back home.  His fame serving the Uruguayan government reached his home country, and he returned in 1848.  Again, he was exiled due to sympathies with the republican sentiments of Mazzini.  Allowed to return in 1854, in 1860 he deposed the Bourbons in Naples, his greatest achievement.  FTP, name this leader of the Red Shirts.	Answer:	Giuseppe Garibaldi16.	In 1862 he entered a technical school at Utrecht, where he was expelled, accused of having produced a caricature of one of the teachers.  When studying cathode rays he discovered that material outside of the apparatus fluoresced, thereby discovering bremsstrahlung.  He famously made a photograph of the bones in his wife's hand using this new penetrating radiation.  FTP, name this physicist, discoverer of x-rays, the first winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics.	Answer:	  Wilhelm Ršentgen
17.	Born from the union of Gaia and Tartarus, according to Hesiod he is the father of the four winds.  During a lengthy battle, he gained the upper hand on Zeus, and stole the sinews from his body, leaving him helpless in a cave.  Zeus was rescued by Hermes, but needed the help of the fates to defeat this monster.  They told him that eating the flesh of mortals would give him strength, but it actually weakened him enough for Zeus to fling an island on top of him, which became Sicily.  FTP, who is this hundred headed monster of Greek myth, the father with Echidna of the Sphynx, the Nemean Lion, and the Chimera among others?	Answer:	Typho or Typhon18.	Used to explain periodic mass extinctions on Earth, this theory proposed the possibility that the Sol system is a binary star system. The near passage of Sol's dim sister star disrupts the Oort cloud of comets, sending a barrage of meteorites through the solar system that in old times was seen as "righteous vengeance" from the heavens. For ten points, name this theory.      Answer: Nemesis (accept also Dark Star)19.	It was found on the Esquiline, near the Domus Aurea, in 1506.  It was not complete until a right arm, found separately, was attached in 1905.  Its story is essential to that of Aeneas.  The central figure is depicted much larger than the flanking two. The title figure was a priest of Apollo who warned the Trojans against opening the Trojan Horse.  FTP, what is this classical statue featuring a man and his two sons being strangled by snakes?	Answer:	Laocošn  (LAY-ak-oh-on)20.	His literary success is partially due to his story of a family of Oregon loggers, Sometimes a Great Notion. In The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, Tom Wolfe described his exploits as leader of the "Merry Pranksters".  However, he is best known for a novel featuring Big Nurse and Randle McMurphy, whose film adaptatio n won five Academy Awards in 1975.  For 10 points name this author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.	Answer:	Ken Elton Kesey21.	John J. Audubon, Henry Clay, James Fenimore Cooper, Andrew Jackson, Dolley Madison, midgets, Commodore Matthew Perry, Daniel Webster, Siamese twins, Mark Twain, Walt Whitman, Edgar Allen Poe, the Monitor and Merrimack, Abraham Lincoln, and soldiers encamped. FTP, these were all subjects of photographs taken by what man, best known for images of the devastation of Civil War battlefields?	Answer:	 Matthew Brady22.	. He got a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1903, the youngest man to do so at the time.  Later on, he took a position as professor and director of the psychological laboratory at Johns Hopkins University, where he edited the Psychological Review for fourteen years.  But it was after reading of Pavlov's experiments that he developed the concept of conditioning as a method of treatment. For 10 points-name this founder of behaviorism, whose experiments on Little Albert have since been vilified.	Answer:	John Broadus Watson23.	It opens with a mysterious plague in the titular city, which the main character, a recent graduate from the Academy, is recruited to help combat. With the help of Aarin Gend, the paladin Aribeth, and Lord Nasher, he works to find the cure for, and the source of, the plague. For ten points, name this BioWare computer role-playing game that is set in the frozen northern regions of the Forgotten Realms.	Answer:	Neverwinter Nights
TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #2	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by various contributors to COTKU, Deep Bench, and Rollapalooza1.	He was born near Winnfield, Louisiana in 1893, and was elected governor of that state in 1928. He began using state funds for such things as hospitals and roads, for which he was promptly impeached, although acquitted, by the state legislature. In 1930, he became a U.S. Senator, but didn't resign his governor's seat until 1932. However, his great power ended at the Louisiana state capitol on September 8, 1935, when he was assassinated by Carl Weiss. FTP, name this politician, famous for his slogan, "Every Man A King."	Answer:	Huey P. Long2.	The mascot of this university is a white dog in a red sweater, and the current mascot is the sixth of the same name.  Apparently he is lucky, as his team is off to a 6-0 start with victories over SEC rivals Alabama and Tennessee under second year coach Mark Richt.  FTP, identify this college football team, which plays its home games between the hedges at Sanford stadium and has produced such NFL players as Quincy Carter and Herschel Walker.	Answer:	 University of Georgia (or UGA)3.	Annoyed by the tale of the Summoner, he tells a tale of another summoner who swears his friendship with the devil and engages in conversation about various forms of extortion.  The two pass a man who is cursing, which would normally give him over to the Devil, but the Devil explains that he will not take the man, as he does not really mean what he says.  FTP, this recounts which of Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales?	Answer:	  The Friar's Tale4.	His second wife, an artist with the pseudonym Valetta Swann, was largely responsible for publishingposthumous works such as Scientific Theory of Culture. Although originally a mathematician, his discovery ofFrazer's Golden Bough began an anthropological career which culminated with such works as Crime and Customin Savage Society; Dynamics of Cultural Change; and Magic, Science, and Religion. FTP name thisanthropologist who studied the Kula ring exchange of the Trobriand islanders and wrote Argonauts of theWestern Pacific. 	Answer:	Bronislaw _Malinowski_5.	To synthesize this compound, one must react safrole with hydrobromic acid to give 3,4-methylenedi- oxyphenyl-2-bromopropane, which is then reacted with methylamine.  Some of its effects are similar to those of amphetamine, but it also exerts a strong effect of relaxation.  Its effects are reduced by SSRIs such as Prozac and Paxil, and it may cause selective damage to serotonin axons and axon terminals.  Because serotonin is depleted during its use, it can cause a "serotonin crash" from several days to two weeks after use.  FTP, name this drug, whose street name is Ecstasy.   	Answer:	MDMA or methylenedioxy-n-methylamphetamine (accept ecstasy until it is read.  MDA is not acceptable, as the synthesis is different)  6.	The property of being a cat is not itself a cat, while the property of being a property is itself a property. Consider the property that something has just in case it is a property that does not apply to itself. All you have to do is ask yourself: Does this property apply to itself?  If you figure out the answer, you will have solved one of these.  FTP, what is this philosophical conundrum, named for one of the authors of Principia Mathematica?	Answer:	 Russell's Paradox7.	Tayama Dosen is its Superior, and it sits near Otani University.  Kashiwagi thinks the edifice is a hollow shell.  Mizoguchi is haunted by its overwhelming beauty, but he decides that the most beautiful things must be ephemeral & sets fire to it on July 2, 1950.  FTP, name this titular building of a 1959 novel by Mishima Yukio.       Answer: 	Kinkakuji or The Temple of the Golden Pavilion8.	The phosphate berlinite shares this mineral's structure, though it is not a silicate.  It is composed of a trigonal crystal system that involves helical chains of silicon tetrahedrons.  Examples of this mineral include amazonite and tourmaline, and various gemstone varieties include citrine, amethyst, and the smoky and rose types.  Composed entirely of silicon dioxide, this mineral is the most abundant mineral on earth.  FTP, identify this mineral that rates a seven on the Moh's hardness scale and tends to be a clear crystal.       Answer: 	quartz
9.	This strongpoint on the Gustav Line delayed the Allies for some five months in 1944 and four battles were fought for possession of it, though the German commander, a Benedictine, didn't station troops within it until after it was leveled by American bombers.  FTP, name this Italian monastery eventually captured by the combined efforts of French Moroccan and Polish troops, which was not used by either side for gambling.      	Answer:	Monte Cassino10.	It is formed by a large indentation in the Earth's surface that extends inland to the Coachella Valley. It gets progressively deeper going south along its 700 mile length. It is rich with oysters and sponges that along with tourism are staples of the local area's economy. Major cities along its coastline include Guaymas, La Paz, and Mazatlan. FTP identify this body of water in northwestern Mexico, also known as the Sea of Cortes, that shares its name with one of the United States.	Answer:	 Gulf of California (accept Sea of Cortes before it is mentioned)11.	His wife was Jewish, so he found an unusual way to defect: he went to Stockholm to claim his Nobel Prize and never returned to Italy.   In 1934, he began bombarding elements with slow neutrons, effectively being the first scientist to perform nuclear fission. FTP, name this Italian physicist who conducted the first controlled nuclear chain reaction at the University of Chicago in 1942.	Answer:	Enrico Fermi12.	His royal symbol was the porcupine, which can be seen decorating the wing he had built at the castle of Blois.  He had three wives, Jeanne de France, the daughter of a former king, Marie, the sister of Henry VIII of England, and Anne of Brittany, the widow of his predecessor Charles VIII.  He continued Charles' campaigns in Italy where he was opposed by the Holy League.  FTP, name this French king who was succeeded by his cousin, Francis I.	Answer:	Louis XII (Prompt on "Louis")13.	A sailor has tossed a rope to the nude youth, but he cannot reach it. Two others strain over the side of the boat, attempting a rescue, while the elder boatswain grasps his companion's shirt to keep him on board. The terrified oarsmen row furiously, and the man standing in the prow has his hook poised. This piece depicts a real 1749 attack that occurred in a Havana harbor, but it is obvious the artist never saw such a creature, since the one in this painting has lips. FTP, what is this painting by John Singleton Copley?	Answer:	 Watson and the Shark14.	Early in his reign, he was involved in a bloody struggle to conquer the Kalinga region on the east coast. After this, he renounced the violence of his youth and advocated "conquering by dharma." He was the last major ruler of the Maurya dynasty. India's national emblem is based on the lion on the pillar he had constructed at Sarnath. FTP, name this leader, who ordered the Rock Edicts and Pillar Edicts to be set up bearing Buddhist scriptures.	Answer:	 Ashoka15.	Editor of the American Men of Letters Series, with others he compiled a multi-volume Library of the World's Best Literature.  He was a longtime contributor to Harper's Monthly, in which serially appeared The Golden House, A Little Journey in the World and Their Pilgrimage, while his first major work was his 1871 book My Summer in a Garden.  For ten points, name this 19th century American author perhaps best known for collaborating with Mark Twain on The Gilded Age.	Answer:	 Charles Dudley Warner16.	He wrote "Our Penal Machinery and its Victims", sympathizing with the poor.  He is himself the subject of Vachel Lindsay's poem "The Eagle that is Forgotten" and Howard Fast's novel "The American".  For ten points name this man, who committed political suicide when as Governor of Illinois he pardoned those convicted of inciting the Haymarket Riots.	Answer:      John Peter Altgeld17.	This is one of the most popular tropical fish kept in the home aquarium today.  Due to the fact that it comes from oxygen-deprived waters such as the rice paddies of Southeast Asia, it has a special organ, known as a labyrinth organ, that lets it breathe oxygen directly from the air.  For ten points, name this bright-colored, long-finned species of fish, the males of which are very intolerant of their own kind.	Answer: Betta Splendens or Siamese Fighting Fish
18.	 In June about 150 members were refused entry to planes in Copenhagen, Baltimore, and Boston, and another 65 were detained upon their arrival at Keflavik airport.  Literally meaning Law Wheel, tt was founded by Li Hongzhi. They were all on a watch list set up by the Icelandic government in anticipation of the arrival of Chinese Premier Jiang Zemin for a summit in Reykjavik.  FTP, name the "spiritual exercise movement" outlawed in China to which these people belong?       Answer:	Falun Gong19.	When the idea was proposed to him, the author of this work said, "Oh no! I've already composed one of those.  Can't you write a script about Ellis Island?"  Given the provisional title "The Courting at Burnt Ranch," it was first performed at the Metropolitan Opera House in October 1942, and was a great success. The composer adapted American folk songs including "Old Paint" for the work.  With choreography  and story by Agnes Demille, FTP this is what ballet by Aaron Copland, perhaps now best known for its Hoedown section, used in a series of ads for the American Beef Council?	Answer:	Rodeo20. One character is Sammy Singer, a friend of the main character of the author's most famous work.  The returning characters are aging or dead. The president (who, the author noted, is based on Dan Quayle) is immature, plays video games, and is known as "the little prick." Gaffney, a private eye, is a near-omniscient character. It is still the proprietor of M and M Enterprises and Associates, John Yossarian, that steals the show.  FTP, what is this Joseph Heller novel, the sequel to Catch-22?	Answer:	 Closing Time21.	In his youth, this artist was trained in the traditions of Late Byzantine mosiacs and frescoes; early works include Dormition of the Virgin.  Later, he moved to Venice, where he became influenced by Titian and Tintoretto and painted Purification of the Temple and the portrait of Giulio Clovio . In 1577, this artist received a commission for of the church of Santo Domingo el Antiguo, and so emigrated to Spain, where he did his most famous work.  FTP, name this artist, orginally from Crete, painter of The Burial of Count Orgaz and View of Toledo.	Answer:	El Greco or Domenikos Theotocopoulos22.	This element is widely used in the electronics industry, often as filaments in vacuum tubes and fluorescent lights. Its alloy with carbon is often used in high speed cutting tools and in mining tools, and when alloyed with steel, makes steel stronger and more elastic. FTP, identify this element, number 74, that has the highest melting point of all metals, and is often found in wolframite.	Answer: 	Tungsten23.	It followed the Yayoi period, and saw the beginning of the imperial dynasty. Also known as the Kofun period, it saw the introduction of Buddhism from the mainland, and its end is marked by the rise of the Fujiwara clan. An older name for the region of the modern-day Nara Prefecture, it also names the sister ship of the Musashi. FTP, give this name of one of the largest battleships ever built, which saw action in the battle of Leyte Gulf.	Answer:	Yamato period (accept Kofun period before mention in the question)