TOSSUPS - TENNESSEE			Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-Chattanooga1. Born to Protestant parents near Dublin in 1871, he spent time in Germany studying music before moving to Paris.  There he worked as a literary critic and met William Butler Yeats, who convinced him to move to the Aran Islands, which inspired his 1907 journal The Aran Islands.  His first two one-act plays, In the Shadow of the Glenn and Riders to the Sea, were performed by the Irish National Theatre Society.  FTP name this Irish playwright, whose most notable work was 1907's Playboy of the Western World.	Answer:	John Millington Synge2. About forty representatives of the Iroquois Confederation attended it, with Chief Hendrick of the Mohawk as their main spokesman  Peter Wraxall served as its Secretary and William DeLancey, acting Governor of New York, was its Chairman.  Representatives met daily from June 19 to July 11 to discuss better relations with the Indian tribes and common defensive measures against the French. FTP, name this 1754 meeting of representatives of seven of the British North American Colonies at which Benjamin Franklin proposed a plan for uniting the colonies.	Answer:	Albany Congress  3. This reaction is typically carried out in an egg-shaped container.  The top of the container has a small opening through which the initial material is introduced, and the final product is removed.  The wider base has many perforations called tuyres into which air is forced.  The acid form of the process uses clay and silica to line the container, and does not remove phosphorous from the initial material, whereas the basic process uses dolomite, and does remove phosphorous.  FTP name this process invented around 1862 that revolutionized the steel industry.  	Answer:	the Bessemer Process4. This tissue, a form of connective tissue, comes in two varieties: white and brown, with the white form being prevalent in humans.  It serves a number of functions, including the secretion of leptin, which inhibits hunger, and desensitizes liver tissue to the effects of insulin.  FTP name this tissue in which the cells are filled with triglycerides which serves as a major store of energy.  	Answer:	Adipose tissue (Accept "fat tissue" condescendingly)5. A naked man crouches in the bottom left hand corner holding a cross.  He appears to be warding off a parade of animals with grossly elongated legs, with various items on their backs including a tower, an obelisk, and a nude woman clutching her breasts.  Below the elephant, two figures appear to be battling one another in the distance.  FTP name this 1946 painting by Salvador Dali.  	Answer:	The Temptation of St. Anthony6. This skilled clothmaker had curious dressing habits: she wore an enormous hat, scarleted hose, spurs on her feet, and even a rug about her sizable posterior.  She had five different husbands over the course of her lifetime, taking her first one at the young age of twelve.  This character touts her sexual experience as authority to tell a story about a knight, whose punishment for raping a maiden is to either find out what women truly desire from their husbands and lovers or face execution.  FTP, name this titular character of one of Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales.	Answer:	The Wife of Bath7.  In the red corner: William de la Pole, earl of Suffolk; Edmund Beaufort, duke of Somerset, and the queen, Margaret of Anjou.  Sometimes in the red corner and sometimes not: Richard Neville, earl of Warwick.  Largely disinterested and unaffected: the middle and lower classes.  In the white corner: Edward IV and Richard III.  FTP name the series of struggles within the English nobility of the late 15th century, which were finally resolved by the rise of Henry Tudor.	Answer: 	the Wars of the Roses [singular "War" is OK]8. Among the monsters slain by this hero were Periphetes, Sinis, Sciron, and Procrustes, who had been attacking travelers on the road between Troezene and Athens.  He was instructed to travel that road to Athens to join his father Aegeus once he grew strong enough to lift a boulder off of his sword and sandals.  He later became king of Athens after his father threw himself into the Aegean Sea.  In his most famous exploit, he enlisted the help Ariadne, daughter of King Minos of Crete.  For ten points, name this Athenian hero who killed the Minotaur and escaped the Labyrinth.	Answer:	Theseus
9. He studied art with Samuel Colman George Inness during the 1860's, and by 1880, he had become the youngest member of the National Academy of Design.  His most famous commission was for the loggia of the main entrance to the Laurelton Hall now exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum in New York.  FTP name this champion of Art Nouveau famous for his stained glass lamp creations.	Answer:	Louis C. Tiffany			10. Its name means "manly peak" and it was most likely used as a royal estate and religious retreat. One of the most significant things found there was a large stone column known as an intihuatana, which was used in a religious ritual as a symbolic hitching post for the sun, few of which survived the Spanish conquest.  FTP, what is this city, located at an altitude of 8000 feet in the Andes mountains, which was rediscovered in 1911 by Hiram Bingham after being lost since the early 1500s?	Answer:	 Machu Picchu11. Its popularity rose after the introduction of Cordura, a tire cord made from this material. Made by weaving together the nitrocellulose found in wood pulp, it was invented by Count Hillaire de Chardonnet in the 1880's.   Rising silk prices and the extreme demand for a high-quality fake silk prompted DuPont to open eight plants devoted exclusively to the production of this material in the 1920's.  FTP name this fiber, eight times more prevalent than silk in America at its heyday.	Answer:	Rayon12. Codified at 18 United States Code section 1385, this act generally prohibits Federal military personnel and units of the United States National Guard under Federal authority from acting in a law enforcement capacity within the United States, except where expressly authorized by the Constitution or Congress.  Passed in 1878, it was intended to prohibit Federal troops from supervising elections in former Confederate states.  Lending its name to a notorious white supremacist militia group, FTP, what is this act whose name translates from the Latin as "power of the country"?	Answer:	Posse Comitatus Act13.  In 1991 he was awarded the inaugural Ig Nobel Prize for Peace for his "lifelong efforts to change the meaning of peace as we know it."  Among his proposals was "Project Chariot," which would have created a deep-water harbor in Alaska by detonating underwater hydrogen bombs.  With mathematician Stanislaw Ulam, in 1951 he devised a configuration ensuring that a fairly small fission explosion could trigger a much larger fusion reaction, thus earning him the nickname "Father of the H-Bomb." FTP name this bombastic Hungarian-born nuclear physicist who died in 2003.	Answer:	Edward Teller14. Born in Sulmo in the first century BC, some of this man's lesser known writings include a handbook on cosmetics and a book of fishing poems.  Under the literary patronage of Messalla Corvinus, he composed a multitude of works including the Fasti, a treatise on the occurrences of the first six months of the Roman calendar, and the Amores, a collection of whimsical elegiac love poems.  As a result of his Ars Amatoria and an "error" - most likely an affair with Augustus' daughter Julia - he was exiled to Tomi on the Black Sea.  For ten points, name this author of the most authoritative Roman mythological source, the Metamorphoses.	Answer:	Publius Ovidius Naso15. Sweet Sue and her Society Syncopaters are on their way to an engagement at the Seminole Ritz in Miami, Florida and happen to need a saxophone and bass player.  Luckily for Sue, Josephine and Geraldine just happen to play those instruments and are available; unluckily for Sue, they are in reality Joe and Jerry, who are on the lam because they saw Spats Colombo gun down some rival gang members in a recreation of the St. Valentine's Day Massacre.  This briefly describes, FTP, the plot of what Billy Wilder classic, chosen the number one comedy of all time by the American Film Institute.	Answer:	Some Like It Hot16. The 14th child of a Methodist minister, his 1899 novel Active Service was based on his observations of the Greco-Turkish War while a war correspondent.  He settled in Sussex, England in 1898 and befriended Joseph Conrad, Henry James, and H.G. Wells, but would die in 1900.  His several posthumously published works include Wounds In The Rain and Whilomville Stories.  FTP name this American author of the autobiographical short story "The Open Boat."	Answer:	Stephen Crane
17. 	They formed in a garage in Melbourne with Mark Wilson on bass, brothers Chris and Nic Cester on drums and guitar, respectively, and Cameron Muncey on guitar and lead vocals.  In 2002 they self-released 1,000 copies of a vinyl-only EP, Dirty Sweet, which sold out in a hurry and got them record deals in the UK and the US, not to mention a gig opening for the Rolling Stones in Australia.  FTP name this band, whose first full-length album, Get Born, features the hit "Are You Gonna Be My Girl?"	Answer:	Jet18. This metal has one of the longest liquid phases of any metal, and is therefore often used in high-temperature thermometers.  It expands upon solidification, and its arsenide is used in LEDs. Essentially liquid at room temperature, it is produced in a relatively impure state as a by-product of the extraction of aluminum from bauxite.  FTP name this group 13 metal with an atomic weight of 69.723, atomic number of 31, and the abbreviation Ga.	Answer:	Gallium19. Born in Kiev, she immigrated to Milwaukee in 1906 and became a schoolteacher.  She and her husband Morris moved to Palestine in 1921; in the mid-Thirties she assumed a political post within the Histadrut, a labor federation.  Her government career saw her serve in a number of capacities, including minister of labor and minister of foreign affairs.  FTP, name this political leader, the first and only female Prime Minister in Israel's history. 	Answer:	 Golda Meir20. They are sometimes known as cosmic figures, though that term sometimes also includes their concave equivalents, the Kepler-Poinsot solids. Euclid proved that there are exactly five of them in the last proposition of the Elements.  Classically, they were associated with elements -- the tetrahedron with fire, the cube with earth, the octahedron with air, the icosahedron with water, and the dodecahedron with the stuff of which the constellations and heavens were made.  FTP, what are these objects, named for the man who described these elemental associations in his Timaeus?	Answer:	 Platonic solids21. Kublai Khan and Pope Celestine V were born.  Toulouse came under control of Simon de Monfort in the Albigensian Crusade.  Otto IV was deposed as King of Germany and Holy Roman Emperor.  Beijing was captured by Mongols, beginning the Yuan dynasty.  The Fourth Council of the Lateran was held.  FTP, all these events happened in what year that saw, on June 15th, the signing of the Magna Carta?        Answer:	 1215 22.	Botulism toxin works by decreasing its effects, whereas nicotine increases its activity.  The disease myasthenia gravis occurs when the body inappropriately produces antibodies against its receptors, thereby inhibiting its proper signal transmission.  First identified by Henry Hallett Dale in 1914, this primary neurotransmitter of the parasympathetic nervous system in humans was the first neurotransmitter to be discovered.  FTP points, name this compound, an ester of acetic acid and choline.	Answer:	Acetylcholine 23.	One of the most prolific writers of the Renaissance period, this poet, playwright, and novelist performed services as a spy in the city of Antwerp under Charles II and took up writing as a means of survival after returning to England and not receiving payment from the crown.  During a formative period in her writing, she traveled to an English sugar colony and befriended an African prince who was eventually the basis and titular character of her last and most famous novel.  FTP name the first professional woman writer in the English language, author of The Rover and Orinooko.	Answer:	Aphra Behn
BONI - TENNESSEE			Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-Chattanooga1. For ten points each, identify the WWI battle.1. German Gen. Helmuth von Moltke was halted before Paris and eventually driven back in this Sept. 1914 engagement.	Answer:	First Battle of the Marne2. A Russian army advancing into East Prussia was encircled and > defeated in this August 31 1914 battle.	Answer:	Tannenberg3. This 1916 battle's first day saw the British army suffer nearly 60,000 casualties--the bloodiest day in British military history.	Answer:	Battle of the Somme2. In the "Thursday Next" series of Novels of British author Jasper Fforde, famous literary characters come to life and roam our world as well as the world of fiction. FTPE, identify these famous characters from British Literature that are also members of the "Jurisfiction" law enforcement agency. If you need the author that originally penned them, you'll get 5 pts.a1) This character's home county has been re-districted, so it is now known as the "Unitary Authority of Warrington Cat".a2) Lewis Carroll	Answer:	 The Cheshire Catb1)This character, even though she still wears the tattered wedding gown that she had on when she was jilted at the altar, fights fiction infractions while taking care of her ward Estella.b2) Charles Dickens	Answer:	 Miss Havishamc1)This character takes anger management classes so he doesn't go off on his fellow jurisfiction agents, no wonder after the treatment he got from his adopted brother Hindley. Even though in his own novel he ends up dead at the end, in the world of jurisfiction, he still has a thing for his adopted sister Catherine.c2) Emily Bronte	Answer:	 Heathcliff Earnshaw3. FTPE, given a description of a granulocyte, name it.a. These large, nonspecific phagocytic cells with lobular nuclei. have granules that stain with both acid and basic dyes.  	Answer:	NeutrophilsThese phagocytic granulocytes make up less than 3% of the total white cell population.  They stain with acid dyes, and are responsible for attacking parasitic worms.	Answer:	EosinophilsThese non-phagocytic cells have granules that contain many inflammatory compounds.  They play a major role in allergic responses.  They stain with basic dyes.	Answer:	Basophils4. Lots of fun to research this question...FTPE given a description of a liqueur, name it.a. This Japanese liqueur has a characteristic melon flavor and green color.  It is made by the Suntory Hermes company and is a primary ingredient in an Alligator.	Answer:	Midorib. This Italian liqueur with bottle shaped like a monk's habit, was developed over 300 years ago in the Italian Piedmont.  It is a primary ingredient in a Peanut Butter and Jelly Shot.	Answer:	Frangelicoc. This German liqueur is made from 56 herbs and spices, and it purported to have been made in the 7th century.  It is a primary ingredient in a Fire Engine.	Answer:	JŠgermeister  5. FTPE, given a Middle Eastern country, name its capital.a. Qatar	Answer:	Dohab. Bahrain	Answer:	Manamac. Oman	Answer:	Muscat	
6. Biochemistry, anyone?  For ten points, name the amino acid from a description of its side chain.  Five points if the one-letter abbreviation is needed.  (10) A secondary propyl group.  (5) V.	Answer:	Valine(10) A propyl group attached to the alpha carbon and alpha amino groups in a ring structure.(5) P.	Answer:	Proline(10) Two methylene groups with a primary amide at the end.(5) Q.	Answer:	Glutamine7. FTPE name these very dead sculptors:This sculptor's Discobolos is a superb example of movement and curvature in portraying athletic prowess.	Answer: 	MyronRegarded by many as the greatest Greek sculptor, whose masterpieces included the statue of Athena Parthenos and Zeus at Olympia?	Answer: 	PhideasThis sculptor's works were considered the mortal equivalent to Phideas' sculptures of divinities.  His meticulously proportioned Doryphoros, or "Spear-bearer", created the classical standard of the male nude.	Answer: 	Polyclitus			8. FTPE given a 20th century novel, name its female American author.a. The Woman Warrior	       Answer:	Maxine Hong Kingstonb. Bastard Out of Carolina	Answer:	Dorothy Allisonc. The Optimist's Daughter	Answer:	Eudora Welty9. Answer the following related questions from American history, FTSNPa. (5) Passed in 1887, this act's aim was to regulate surface transportation (initially railroads, later trucking), to ensure fair prices and regulate other aspects of the conduct of common carriers	Answer:	Interstate Commerce Actb. (15) Sponsored by Teddy Roosevelt and passed in 1903, this act strengthened the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 by forbidding rebates to shippers and forbade railroads from deviating from published rates.	Answer:	Elkins Actc. (10) Passed in 1906 it gave the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) the power to force railroads to obey orders. If the railroads protested, the ICC's conditions would be in effect until the outcome of litigation said otherwise.	Answer:	Hepburn Act10. FTSNP, answer these questions about the mechanics of opera.(5) First, give the term for the text or book of an opera.       Answer:	 Libretto(10) In traditional opera, there are two modes of singing, the plot-driving passages sung in a non-melodic style, and an individual song which often stops the plot and the singers focus on one topic using full voice. Name them both F5PE:       Answer:	 Recitative and Aria (15) French opera with spoken text is called "opera comique", whereas German operas are known as "Singspiel". For 15 points, identify the term for the indigenous opera of Spain, named for the official residence of the Spanish royal family.	Answer:	 Zarzuela
11.	F5PE, 30 for all 5, given the opening line to a Shakespearean play, name the play.a. "Now is the winter of our discontent."	Answer:	The Life and Death of Richard the Thirdb. "I thought the king had more affected the Duke of Albany than Cornwall."	Answer:	King Learc. "In sooth, I know not why I am so sad: It wearies me; you say it wearies you."	Answer:	The Merchant of Veniced. Noble patricians, patrons of my right / Defend the justice of my cause with arms...	Answer:	Titus Andronicuse. If music be the food of love, play on; / Give me excess of that, surfeiting...	Answer:	Twelfth Night12. Answer these questions about the administration of President Jimmy Carter FTSNOP:a. Carter oversaw the creation of two new cabinet departments from the splitting up of a former cabinet department.  For 5 pts name the old cabinet department and for 5 pts, all or nothing, name the two new ones that were created out of it. (Total of 10 pts. possible)	Answer:	Department of Health, Education and Welfare (old); Department of Health and		Human Services and Department of Educationb. Carter's administration additionally saw the creation of another new cabinet department.  For 5 pts., name it.	Answer:	Department of Energyc. For 5 pts., all or nothing, what two leaders met with Carter to hammer out the Camp David Accords in 1978?	Answer:	Anwar Sadat and Menachim Begind. (10) The two treaties that transferred sovereignty of the Panama Canal to Panama are named jointly for Carter and this Panamanian President, whose death in a plane crash may have been the work of his allegedly loyal aide Manuel Noriega.	Answer:	Omar Torrijos 13. The year 2004 witnessed a Russian Revolution in Women's Professional Tennis.  Given one of the 3 grand slams won by a Russian woman, name the 2004 winner, 10 pts. each.a. French Open	Answer:	Anastasia Myskinab. Wimbledon		Answer:	Maria Sharapovac. U.S. Open		Answer:	 Svetlana Kuznetsova  14. Fun with SI units. There are 22 "derived" SI units with their own name and symbol. These units can be defined either in terms of other SI units or even in terms of the seven base units. For example, the "pascal" measure of pressure can be defied as Newton per square meter or in terms of base units as "meters to the negative one times kilograms times seconds to the negative 2". Identify these derived units in terms of the base SI units for 10 points or in the more common definition for 5 points.a1) square meteres times kilograms times seconds to the negative 3 a2) Joules over seconds	Answer:	wattb1)  square meters times kilogram times seconds to the negative 3 times ampere to the negative 2b2) Volts over Amperes	Answer:	ohmc1) square meters times kilograms times seconds to the negative 2 times amperes to the negative 2c2) Webers over Amperes	Answer:	henry 
15.	Identify these unrelated terms from philosophy, 10 pts. each.a. A self-replicating unit of cultural meaning transmitted socially among individuals of different generations, which evolve through processes of mutation and natural selection. For example, the jingles sung by children while skipping rope, the conventional standards for fashionable dress, and the notions comprising the "common-sense" view of the world are all passed on through time, gradually modifying without any deliberate guidance. 	Answer:	memesb. Simply this is a logical truth, or a statement which is necessarily true because, by virtue of its logical form, it cannot be used to make a false assertion. For example: "If neither John nor Betty is here, then John is not here." 	Answer:	tautology c. A proposition formally accepted without demonstration, proof, or evidence as one of the starting-points for the systematic derivation of an organized body of knowledge. 	Answer:	axiom 16. FTPE, identify these pioneers of computer science from a short description..a) Born in 1791 he was the first person to come up with the idea of a programmable computer. It wasn't until 1991 that a "difference engine" was finally constructed from his original plans. It worked perfectly.       Answer:	 Charles Babbageb) Most modern computers are based on his eponymous architecture which separates storage from processing. He is also considered the father of such concepts as game theory and the idea of mutually assured destruction.       Answer:	 John von Neumannc) He invented the first practical high-level computer language (FORTRAN) and the most commonly used notation to define formal languages, now named for him and another computer scientist.	Answer:	 John Backus 17.	Love him or hate him, you gotta admit he had a gift.  FTPE answer the following about a particular diplomat:a)  This Frenchman's greatest triumph came at the Congress of Vienna, where he sold the concept of pre-war "legitimacy" and thus weaseled his way into taking part as an equal with ministers from the nations that had defeated France.	Answer:	Charles Maurice de Talleyrandb)  Talleyrand had already earned the wrath of the United States when its agents were told they'd have to pony up $250,000 before he'd even meet with them; the resulting diplomatic crisis is known by this name.	Answer:	the XYZ Affairc)  Talleyrand helped this "citizen king" to power in 1830 but declined the post as Foreign Minister, accepting instead the post of ambassador to Britain.	Answer:	Louis Philippe 18.	For ten points each, answer the following questions about the Biblical book of Leviticus:a. Men who sin by touching unclean creatures which walk upon the ground are commanded to sacrifice a female one of these in order to atone.	Answer:	Lamb (Goat also acceptable)b. If an unclean man can not afford a lamb, he must instead bring two doves or pigeons to sacrifice: one of these birds is to have its neck wrung (but not severed completely) and have its blood scattered on the altar.  The other is to be killed in this manner.	Answer:	It is to be burnt (accept equivalents that speak of burning, putting on fire, etc.)c. If a man can not afford two doves or pigeons, he is to sacrifice a tenth of an ephah (about 2 liters) of what foodstuff?	Answer:	Flour 19. FTP given a description of an insect order, provide its name.  a. Beetles			Answer:	Coleopterab. Ants, Wasps, Bees		Answer:	Hymenopterac. Butterflies, Moths		Answer:	Lepidoptera
20. FTPE, given characters from a Henrik Ibsen play, name the play.(10) Dr. Stockman	Answer:	An Enemy of the People(10) George Tesman, Aunt Juliana Tesman, Eilert Lovborg, and Judge Brack.	Answer:	Hedda Gabler(10) Halvard Solness, Aline Solness, Knut Brovik, and Hilda Wangel.	Answer:	The Master Builder21. For five points each, given the name of the actress, name the character on Sex and the City she played.a. Cynthia Nixon			Answer:	Miranda Hobbesb. Kim Cattrall			Answer:	Samantha Jonesc. Sarah Jessica Parker		Answer:	Carrie Bradshawd. Kristen Davis			Answer:	Charlotte YorkOn the last episode of the series, we finally learn what Mr. Big's name is...at least his first name.  For 10 pts., what is it?       	Answer:	John22. Name the heresy FTSNOP. (5) This belief that Jesus is separate from and subservient to God was condemned at the First Council of Nicaea and has nothing to do with the Nazis.        	Answer:	 Arianism (10) This 17th century movement emphasized original sin and predestination and the importance of prayer and confession before receiving communion and was condemned by Popes Innocent X, Clement XI, and Pius X.       	Answer:	 Jansenism (15). Popular in the fourth and fifth centuries in North Africa, followers of this belief thought that clergy who had forsaken the Church during the persecution of Diocletian had lost their spiritual authority.         	Answer:	 Donatism 23. FTSNOP, name the Grant Wood painting from a brief description.(5) Neither subject looks particular happy.  The man stares straight ahead, but the woman seems preoccupied with his tool.  	Answer:	American Gothic(10) A barn appears in the middle-right hand side of the painting, and another is in the center of the painting.  There are three small windmills, a bridge over a river, and several small houses.  Rolling hills dotted with highly geometric trees and crops roll out in the distance. 	Answer:	Stone City, Iowa(15) A farm is set in the distance.  The familiar geometric crops extend across the hills, and an old fashioned wooden plow is prominently features in the foreground. 	Answer:	Fall Plowing