ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001					TOSSUPS -- ROUND 11)       This planet has one natural satellite, an orbital eccentricity of .0167, and a mass of 5.97*10^24 kg. It has an orbital inclination of 0 degrees and a rotational inclination of 23.45 degrees. Its semi-major axis is 1 Astronomical Unit, and its average surface temperature is 45 degrees Fahrenheit. FTP, name this planet that revolves around the sun in 365.256 days.	Answer:  	Earth2) 	Born in 1808 in a small Kentucky town, he was elected to Congress from Mississippi in 1840.  But in 1846 he resigned his post to serve in the Mexican War. After the war he became U.S. senator from Mississippi from 1847 to 1851, then secretary of war in the cabinet of President Franklin Pierce from 1853 to 1857, and then U.S. senator from 1857 to 1861.  For 10 points, name this man who served in another office between 1861-1865.	Answer:  	Jefferson Davis  3)   	There is a story that his death was caused by a gust of wind sent by Zephyr, rather than the more usual tale that blames Apollo's aim.  He was killed while competing at discus throwing with his dearest companion, the god Apollo.  Actually it was Apollo that threw the discus that cracked his head.  FTP identify either the youth of Greek myth, or the flower that bears his name.	Answer:  	Hyacinthus or hyacinth4) 	English is one complicated language.  This word has several scientific definitions.  It can be defined as any agent that transfers genetic material from one cell to another.  It can be used to describe an organism like a mosquito or tick that spreads disease-causing microorganisms from one host to another.  It can also mean a course to be followed, and it is a synonym for a one-dimensional matrix.  For ten points, name the word that is most commonly known as a quantity with magnitude and direction.	Answer: 	Vector5) 	Born in London on December 9, 1608, he went to school at Cambridge University where he majored in theology. When he was done he planned on becoming a clergyman in the Church of England, but his growing dissatisfaction of the way the clergyman handled themselves led him to give up his dream of becoming a man of the cloth. He started writing about political happenings such as in the novel Areopagitica in which he shows a disapproval of the English parliament. Later in his writing career he changed his writing style to writing about religion; after many unpopular books and poems about religion he wrote probably his most famous poem, which was released in 1667. FTP, name this author who wrote "Paradise Lost."	Answer:  	John Milton6)	This battle centered on the control of a single bridge.  The 1st Airborne was unable to take the bridge on their initial assault because their drop zone was too distant and unexpected German resistance was encountered.   A single battalion of the 1st under Colonel John Frost was able to take the north end of the bridge, but they could not budge the German resistance at the far end of the bridge.  Frost and his outnumbered battalion would eventually be overrun after a brave stand before Allied reinforcements could arrive. FTP name this battle which was the final portion of Market Garden and is often referred to as a "Bridge too far."	Answer:  	Battle of Arnhem7) 	Philip Francis Nowlan created him for the serial "Armageddon: 2419" in Amazing Stories in 1928.  Dick Calkins picked up on that, and turned him into a comic strip character, which ran from 1929 until the late 1960s.  By 1932, he'd moved into radio as well, with Jack Johnstone writing plots for him, his lovely co-pilot Wilma Deering, and the brilliant Dr. Huer.  For 10 points, name this hero, who made it to TV in the late 70s, starring Gil Gerard and Connie Sellecca.       Answer: 	Buck Rogers8) 	According to the American Library Association, it is the 41st most-frequently challenged or banned book in the US from 1990 to 2000.  Presumably, very few of those challenges came from Chicago, as the city has instituted the One Book, One Chicago campaign to get all Chicagoans to read & discuss it over a seven-week period.  For 10 points, name this 1960 book, which relates the story of a black man falsely accused of rape and the white lawyer who defends him, told through the eyes of the lawyer's young daughter, Scout Finch.       Answer: 	To Kill a Mockingbird9)	Attacked by both Vikings and Russians between A.D. 900 and 1100.  Taken over by German invaders in the 13th century.  Partitioned between the Poles, Swedes, and Lithuanians in 1561.  Conquered by Russia in the early 18th century.  Declared independent in 1918.  Secretly declared no longer independent by Germany and the Soviet Union in 1939, and invaded by the Soviets in 1940.  Taken by the Germans in 1941 and taken back by the Soviets in 1944.  FTP name this hockey puck of history, after 1990 independent (for now, anyway), with its capital at Riga.	Answer:	Latvia10)  	Its graceful and flowing fourth movement, subtitled "The Bringer of Jollity," was performed at the royal wedding of Charles and Diana in 1981, a sharp contrast to its harsh third movement, subtitled "The Bringer of War." Its other movements feature a Bringer of Peace, a Bringer of Old Age, a Mystic, a Magician, and a Winged Messenger. For 10 points, identify this 1918 Gustav Holst work, a mixture of music and astronomy.       Answer:  	The Planets11)	Latimeria chalumnae and Latimeria menadoensis are thought to be the only two surviving members of this once common family of fish.  These ancient fish are thought to be related the fish that millions of years ago grew legs and became the first land-based creatures. These fish were thought to be extinct since prehistoric times until some were hauled in off the Comoros Islands by a fisherman in 1938. FTP name this type of fish that is pronounced different than its spelling. 	Answer:  	coelacanth (see - la - kanth)12)  TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED: Smithson Tennant, the guy who proved diamonds were made of carbon by burning them, also discovered two new elements in 1804. Silvery-white metals, of course, they were similar to each other in many ways: one had a mass of 190.20 the other had a mass of 192.22.  The former, with an average density of .81 pounds per cubic inch, is the densest of all elements, while the latter is perhaps best known for the traces of it that indicate the meteor strike many believe doomed the dinosaurs. FTP name in either order these elements with atomic numbers of 76 and 77. 	Answer:  	osmium and iridium13)  	Born on March 18, 1893, he returned to his native England in 1915 to enlist. He was wounded in March 1917 and sent home but declared fit to serve and sent back in August 1918. On November 4, 1918, just one week to the day before the Armistice, he was killed in a German machine-gun attack, ironic because his poetry speaks to the pointlessness of war. FTP, identify this author of "At a Calvary Near the Ancre", "On Seeing a Piece of Heavy Artillery", and "Dulce et Decorum Est."	Answer:  	Wilfrid Owen14)	Its most recent expansion was spearheaded by Mississippi Rep. Sonny Montgomery.  Already expanded to include Korean War veterans, in 1966 is was further extended to anyone honorably discharged from the armed forces, even in peacetime.  It provided for vocational rehabilitation and veterans' hospitals, low-interest mortgage loans, and stipends for tuition and living expenses for veterans attending college.  FTP name this memorable law, formally known as the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944.	Answer: 	the G.I. Bill (accept Servicemen's Readjustment Act before said)15)  This principle presents  a geometrical method for finding the shape of a wave at one instance, if its shape is known at some previous time.  All results obtained using this principle can be reproduced using Maxwell's equations.  Name this principle that states that every point of a wave front may be considered the source of secondary wavelets that spread out in all directions with a speed equal to the speed of the propagation of the wave.				Answer:  	Huygens' Principle16) This structure's most remarkable feature is a huge dome supported by four massive piers, each measuring approximately 100 square m at the base. In its entirety it measures 77 x 79 m and the impressive huge dome soaring 62 m. above the floor has a diameter of about 33 m. By clever arrangement the bearing structure is hidden from the eye, creating the impression that space expands in all directions and that the dome floats in the air. Roughly 600 persons, from priests to doorkeepers, were assigned to serve in it. For ten points, name this famous Byzantine church, constructed in 532 AD and located in what is today Istanbul.					Answer:  	Hagia Sophia (accept St. Sophia)
17)	Thanks to the prefect of the praetorians, Sextus Afranius Burrus, and this man's former tutor Seneca, the first years of his reign were generally good ones.  Then the fun started.  He has his half-brother Brittanicus poisoned, then had his mother killed because she did not like his mistress. In 67 A.D. he divorced his wife Octavia and later he had her killed. But he is most remembered for the emperor at the time when 2/3 of Rome burned to the ground, which he later blamed on Christians.   FTP name the fifth emperor of the Roman Empire.	Answer:     	Nero Claudius Drusus Germanicus; accept Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus if some wiseass insists on saying it.18)   He dropped out of California State University-Sacramento in 1977 after his first year to pursue a career in theater. In 1982 he made his TV debut opposite Peter Scolari and Donna Dixon in the series "Bosom Buddies." He then made his movie debut in 1984 as Allen Bauer in the movie Splash.  Plum roles like Rick Gassko in Bachelor Party and Richard in The Man with One Red Shoe soon followed, as did his work in Volunteers, where he met current wife Rita Wilson.  FTP, name this man, the last actor to win back-to-back Oscars, for Philadelphia and Forrest Gump.	Answer:  	Tom Hanks 19)	It ends with the execution of the protagonist for the attempted murder of Madame de Renal.  She had jeopardize his plans to marry Mathilde, his boss's daughter, whome he had seduced.   FTP name this character study of the ambitious Julian Sorel, published in 1830 and written by Stendhal.	Answer: 	The Red and the Black  [or Le rouge et le noir]20)  Taken in a logical context, it is not simply a collection of propositions.  Many passages from historical, literary, and scientific texts contain related propositions but completely lack this structure.  The simplest kind consists of only one premiss and one conclusion claimed to follow from it, though the logician recognizes that one exists anywhere one proposition is claimed to follow from a group of propositions regarded as providing support or grounds for the truth of the proposition in question.  FTP, identify this logical construction, which Monty Python accurately declares not to be the simple gainsaying of everything the other fellow says.       Answer:  	argument21)  This phenomenon, mentioned in Shakespeare's The Tempest, is caused by an electrical discharge that ionizes the surrounding atmosphere.  The electricity usually gathers around nearby conductors, such as church spires, ship masts, and airplane wings.  Traditionally, sailors who saw the beautiful blue glow that accompanies this occurrence as the protection of St. Erasmus, the patron saint of sailors.  For ten points, name this phenomenon, which is also the name of a 1985 movie starring Demi Moore and Rob Lowe.	Answer: 	St. Elmo's Fire22)	He was born in Oxford, England in 1934.  His father was wrongly arrested by the Franco government of Spain in 1940, and rather than admitting their mistake the government let his father out if they left the country.  That is how he ended up in America.  It took three years and five schools to get him through first grade, but by the time he got his BA in writing from Goddard College he had caught up with his peers.  His first novel, Chthon, was also his thesis for his BA degree.  His first successful novel was A Spell for Chameleon, the first of the Xanth novels.  FTP identify this author of Battle Circle, Race Against Time, Triple DŽtente, and The Source of Magic.	Answer:  	Piers Anthony Dillingham Jacob
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 21)  Born Elias Bates, he was schooled as a violin maker and made the instruments that he played on. These instruments varied and would sometimes even be covered with fur, but he was most famous for the Cigar Box Guitar that he made at the Foster Vocational Academy in Chicago in 1945. He used primal beats in his music, particularly the one named after him, and was a pioneer of signifying. FTP, name this blues guitarist, famous for "Road Runner", "Who Do You Love?", and "I'm A Man".	Answer: Bo Diddley2)  Invented on December 23, 1947 by three scientists at Bell Labs, this semiconductor device has at least three terminals and can be used in a circuit as an amplifier, detector, or switch.  They are the building blocks of microprocessors and other complex integrated circuits, although most people associate the word with small radios that were popular in the 1950s and 1960s.  For 10 points, name this electronic device.	Answer: Transistor3) Born in Osnabrueck, Germany in 1898, he volunteered for WWI at the age of 18, where he was assigned to the western front. In 1929 he told of his experiences through the character of 19-year-old Paul Baeumer. His books, such as Three Comrades and Arc de Triomphe were known around the world, but none could compare to All Quiet on the Western Front. FTP, identify the author.	Answer:  	Erich Maria Remarque4)	In 1995, David Bailey, Peter Borwein, and Simon Plouffe used an unprecedented digit-extraction algorithm to calculate this number, which is also coincidentally the reciprocal of the square root of air pressure in megapascals. FAQTP, identify this number which the Bible said is more than three, thus getting closer to it than the Indiana legislature.	Answer:  	 Pi.5)	The first to invent the idea of an angel, we also credit this ancient race of people for words like khaki, lemon, and jungle. The Shahnameh of Ferdowsi [fer-do'h-si] and the Rubaiyat of Khayyam are among the most famous examples of their poetry, although these are really the only ones known to the Western world. FTP, name this civilization which, for 200 years, stood as the capital of the world until it was defeated by Alexander the Great.                                             Answer:	Persia6) 	Discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall, it measures approximately 5 miles by 7.5 miles. It is irregularly shaped and pitted with numerous craters, and every 31 hours it completes a revolution about the planet Mars. FTP, name Mars' outer satellite, the smallest in the galaxy.	Answer:  	Deimos7)  	He was the second son of a Jewish distiller in Kalischt, Bohemia,.  At eighteen he published his first major work, a piano arrangement of the Third Symphony of Anton Bruckner, one of his friends and instructors at the Vienna Academy.  Superstitious about dying after his ninth symphony, like Beethoven, Schubert, and Bruckner had done, he named his called his actual ninth Symphony Das Lied von der Erde.  FTP name this composer of ten symphonies (if you do not count the former composition), in 1907, also one of the most renowned conductors of the Metropolitan Opera.	Answer:  	Gustav Mahler8) 	Born on August 27, 1890 in Philadelphia, PA, he moved to Brooklyn, NY as a child. He turned down an architectural scholarship senior year, moving instead to Ridgefield, NJ, to start work as an advertising draftsman.  His biggest work would come later in another medium, such as "Egg Beater", "TNT", and "Chess Set". For 10 points, identify this artist, who began life as Emmanuel Radnitzky.	Answer:  	Man Ray9) 	A member of the Austrian Nazi party, his zeal after the Anschluss in deporting Jews brought him promotion in 1939 to chief of the Gestapo's Jewish section. Arrested by the Allies in 1945, he escaped and settled in Argentina. FTP, name this man who abducted in 1960 to Israel where he stood trial and was hung for his crimes against humanity.       Answer:	Adolf Eichmann
10)  "I just can't seem to paint nice things," he was once heard to remark. Born in Harvey, IL on Feb 20, 1897, he went on to study architecture at Northwestern University and University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana. During WWI he became skilled at making surgical drawings, and later he would paint such works as "That Which I Should Have Done I Did Not Do (The Door)", "If There Were Life There Would Be No Death", and "Self Portrait at 55 East Division Street". FTP, name this artist, son of Adam Emory and brother of Malvin, who painted the picture of Dorian Gray.	Answer:  Ivan Albright [accept either name]11)	His idol is a carved block of wood, with a hideous face painted black and a distended blood red mouth.  During a festival day, as an idol of this deity was drawn along, pilgrims would throw themselves under the enormous wheels of its cart and be crushed to death. FTP, identify this deity of Hindu origin, whose name in modern connotation means an unstoppable, invincible force.	Answer:  	Juggernaut or Jagranath12)	His father died while he was still young, but after seeing his literary talent, others financed his education at Bowdoin College.  He changed the spelling of his last name when he began to write books under his own name, probably in order to distance himself from a relative who had officiated at the Salem Witch trials in the town of this author's birth. FTP name this man, the author of such works as The Scarlet Letter and The House of Seven Gables.	Answer:  	Nathaniel Hawthorne13)	This marine animal is usually grayish-brown, roughly ten feet long, and weighs around 1000 pounds. Like the dugong, it has two small pectoral flippers for steering and bringing food to the mouth, no hind limbs, and a paddle shaped tail.  It feeds on a variety of water vegetation, although some have eaten fish from nets.  Its natural lifespan is 50 to 60 years, although collisions with human watercraft and floodgates are serious concerns.  FTP name this creature, occasionally mistaken for a mermaid.	Answer:  	manatee14)	This politician served as Secretary of War from 1817 to 1825 and as Secretary of State from 1844 to 1845.  He wrote an essay titled The South Carolina Exposition and Protest, which expressed his belief in the states' ability to nullify federal laws, a belief which led him to resign his highest office.  FTP name this man, best known as Vice President to both John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson.       Answer: John C. Calhoun15)	This 1985 movie was directed by Martha Coolidge and included such supporting players as Jonathan Gries and Michelle Meyrink.  It centers on the fictitious Pacific Tech, where Prof. Jerry Hathaway teaches the two main characters, students Mitch and Chris.  FTP name this movie in which Gabe Jarret and Val Kilmer stop the CIA from putting their new laser to bad use, and which could be called the definitive Rolla movie.  	Answer:  	Real Genius16)	Oedipus was his great-great grandson.  His wife was Harmonia, the daughter of Aphrodite and Ares.  After his sister was taken away by Zeus in the form of a white bull, his father sent his brothers and he out to find her.  Instead of doing so, he went off and founded the city of Thebes.  He built the city into a glorious place with the help of five men who sprang up from the ground where he planted the teeth of a dragon. FTP identify this man, one of whose daughters was Semele, the mother of Dionysus.			Answer:  	Cadmus17) Other hypocrites in this work besides the title character include Mrs. Evans Riddle, Judson Roberts, and Sharon Falconer.  The title character is a handsome former football player who uses personal charm and largely plagiarized sermons to find success as an evangelist in the Midwest.  FTP name this 1927 novel by Sinclair Lewis.	Answer:	Elmer Gantry18)	It was rebuilt in 68 BC by Pompey, conquered in AD 778 by Charlemagne, placed under the control of Ferdinand of Aragon in 1512, taken from Spain by Napoleon, and then recaptured from the French by the Duke of Wellington in 1813.  From the 11th century on it has served as the capital of Navarre,   FTP name this city, known for the one day a year when daredevils hang out in the streets for the fun of being charged by a bunch of bulls.	Answer:	Pamplona
19)	Historian Douglas Bukowski called him "...a modernizer.  He vertically integrated his business, controlling production, distribution, etc."  At its height his operation took in $120 million a year, leading Fred Pasley to call him "the John D. Rockefeller of some 20,000 anti-Volstead Act filling stations."  He's also the man who figured out how to compensate for the kick of the Thompson submachine gun, rendering it effective.  FTP name this self-described second-hand furniture dealer who succeeded Johnny Torrio as mob boss of Chicago in the Twenties.	Answer:  	Al Capone20)  This material was developed in the 1960s, and has the chemical formula C14 N2 O2 H10.  The molecules bond into symmetric crystalline polymers, which give the material great strength and rigidity.  The individual polymer strands are held together with strong hydrogen bonds.  For ten points, name this material that, when immersed in water, is twenty times stronger than steel and, when dry, is still strong enough to make bulletproof vests.	Answer: 	Kevlar21)	This company has a car that traveled 20,700 miles across 5 continents using only 209 gallons of fuel with an average speed of 53 miles per hour.  That is an average fuel mileage of 99 miles per gallon.  This car is the 1.2 liter Lupo with a turbocharged diesel engine and an output of 61 horsepower.  This car began and ended its journey in Germany, Berlin and Wolfsburg respectively.  FTP identify the manufacturer of the Lupo, also with vehicles such as the Eurovan, Cabrio, Golf, and Passat.	Answer:  	Volkswagen22)	This basic law of refraction can be derived from the wave theory of light but was arrived at experimentally in 1621. It states that n(1) sin theta(1) equals n(2) sin theta(2), where n(1) and n(2) are indices of refraction, theta(1) is angle of incidence, and theta(2) is the angle of refraction. FTP, name the law.	Answer:  	Snell's Law.
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 31)	The frontman of this band made the news not too long ago because he had a dinosaur named after him.  The band consists of two Scottish brothers, who moved to London in the early 70's where they met future bassist John Illsey and drummer Patrick Withers.  Their band released its debut album in 1977 for Vertigo Records with producer Muff Winwood.  For ten points name this band with such hits as Telegraph Road, Money For Nothing, and Sultans of Swing, and who is of course fronted by Mark Knopfler.  	Answer:  	Dire Straits  [do not accept Mark Knopfler - the lead-in makes it clear to say the band name]2)	He ascended to the French throne when Charles X was forcefully removed from the position.  During his reign, he strengthened his own powers by appointing friends as ministers, manipulating elections, and granting judiciary favors.  These actions directly caused the Revolutions of 1848 that spread across Europe.  FTP name this French monarch who was a member of the house of Orleans.	Answer: Louis Phillippe Orleans3)	It was an unpopular subject for decades; experimentalists thought it got in the way of publishable equilibrium data. But styles change: non-equilibrium and "dirty" materials with long-range elastic or magnetic forces are now a major focus of research on such subjects as avalanches and noise interefence.  It is defined by Webster's as a lagging or retardation of the effect, when the forces acting upon a body are changed, as if from velocity or internal friction; a temporary resistance to change from a condition previously induced, observed in magnetism, thermoelectricity, etc., on reversal of polarity. FTP, identify this physics term.	Answer:  	 Hysteresis.4)  He asked a lot of questions in his day, which was 1757 to 1827.  Among them were "Or art thou not a man like me?", "Did He smile his work to see?" and "Did He who made the lamb make thee?"  He also had a lot of answers, including what it meant "to see a world in a grain of sand / And a Heaven in a flower." FTP, identify this author of "London", "Auguries of Innocence", and "The Tyger."	Answer:  William Blake5) It has a mean radius of 1,516 miles and an orbital velocity of 29.75 miles/sec. It completes a sidereal rotation in 88 days and a synodic rotation in 115.9 days. It has no natural satellites and an average surface temperature of 333 degrees Fahrenheit. FTP, name this planet which shares its name with the 80th element in the periodic table.	Answer:  Mercury6) With a libretto based on Schiller, this opera is about a man who leads the Swiss resistance against the Austrian overlords in the 14th century AD.  The title character ferries a fugitive across the river and the other Swiss refuse to reveal his identity.  Eventually, the Austrians realize the identity of the ferryman and arrest him.  The leader of the Austrians, Gessler challenges the ferryman to an interesting feat.  For ten points, name this Rossini opera in which the title character must shoot an apple off his son's head. 	Answer:  William Tell (accept Guillaume Tell) 7) Born in Baltimore in 1947, he got a successful insurance job after graduating from Loyola College.  After many years in the insurance industry he took time off to start writing his first book. After his first book the Pentagon gave him special privileges into military weapons. His special privileges lead to him writing many non-fiction books on the specs of military weapons. And, he's currently the Vice Chairman of Community Projects & Public Affairs for the Baltimore Orioles.  But he's most famous for the over 20 novels he's written.  FTP, name this writer, the creator of Domingo "Ding" Chavez, John Terrence Kelly (aka John Clark) and Jack Ryan.	Answer:  Tom Clancy8)  The most commonly used of this class of chemical compounds is dichlorodifluoromethane, or CCl2F2.  All of these chemicals are haloalkanes, that is, halogen derivatives of saturated hydrocarbons.  Every compound in this class has fluorine in it, and most contain chlorine and bromine as well.  Many are ozone-depleting CFCs, and have been banned.  For ten points, name this class of generally colorless, odorless, and inert group of chemicals used in fire extinguishers, aerosol propellants, and refrigeration systems.	Answer: Freon
9) Okay, so he wasn't particularly creative when he titled his books; works like Journal as Ambassador to Great Britain and Notes as Vice-President tell you what positions he held, but that's not why we remember him.  And his Journal of the McKinley Years gives you some historical context; he'd been a member of the Republican executive committee in McKinley's campaign.  But his A Journal of Reparations might be a bit more instructive, since he headed up the reparations committee from 1923-24 that attempted to stabilize post-war Germany.  For 10 points, name this American statesman and banker.	Answer: Charles G. Dawes10)  Eskimos in Manitoba, barracuda off Aruba, cock an ear when Roger Bobo starts to solo on the tuba, but that doesn't really have anything to do with this question... or does it? He was born in Shillington PA, remarkably similar to Olinger or Brewer, and attended Harvard University later in life. Although unable to read bravely as a child because of a stuttering problem, his Harvard education turned him into the author of "Licks of Love", "The Centaur", and "The Witches of Eastwick". FTP, name the author.	Answer:  John Updike11)	First described in England in 1817, it affects about 1 out of 500 people, and most often develops after age 50. This disease produces progressive deterioration of the nerve cells of the part of the brain that controls muscle movement.  In addition to muscle rigidity and tremor, some people become severely depressed. It is a result of a lack of the neurotransmitter dopamine.  FTP name this disease, one of the most common neurological disorders of the elderly and a primary concern in the life of the star of Spin City. 	Answer:	Parkinson's Disease12)	Many people associated with it rose to greater fame, including attorneys William Wirt and Daniel Webster and boat pilot Cornelius Vanderbilt.  It arose from a dispute between two rival steamboat ferries between New York and New Jersey.  FTP name this landmark 1824 Supreme Court decision, the basis for Federal regulation of interstate commerce and communication.	Answer:  	Gibbons v. Ogden13)	A jealous rival, Luscius Lavinius, launched serious accusations at him, ranging from accusing him of contaminated his plots by mixing material from different Greek sources to asserting that he wrote with the help of unnamed nobles.  He did make some changes from the Greek models, most notably cutting out prologues so the audience would be in the dark as much as the characters were.  In his short life he only produced six plays, among them The Eunuch, The Mother-in-Law, and The Woman of Andros.  FTP name this former slave, master of Roman comic drama.	Answer:	Terence14)	It is a huge pyramid structure surrounded by a vast moat 590 feet wide.  Along the causeway leading to the entrance gate are balustrades shaped as giant serpents, representing fertility.  It consists of a towering complex of terraces and small buildings that are arranged in a series of three diminishing stories and surmounted by five towers.  The walls are covered with carved reliefs that illustrate Hindu mythology, principally scenes related to the god Vishnu, to whom this temple was dedicated. FTP identify this temple, the religious center of the Khmer Empire and located 192 miles west of Phnom Pehn.	Answer:	Angkor Wat15) Born in 1887, he was the half-brother of artist Jacques Villon. He began to paint in 1908, but soon turned to kinetic and ready-made art, such as a fountain made out of a discarded urinal. His paintings, on the other hand, seem to have a lot to do with nudity, such as "Bride Stripped Bare By Her Bachelors, Even" and "Nude Descending A Staircase No. 2." FTP, name the artist.	Answer: 	Marcel Duchamp16)	This effect was noticed by many artillerymen in the First World War because it made well-aimed targets miss their marks for no apparent reason.  The force is defined as the fictitious force exerted on a body when it moves in a rotating reference frame. FTP name this oft-debated effect, which is very important in weather, or the French scientist whose name it bears.	Answer:  	Coriolis force or effect
17)	The need for such a force was realized by Colonel C. A. Beckwith in the 1960's following his brief stint with the British SAS.  But it was not until November 1977 that this elite force, modeled after the SAS, came into being.  Members of this unit are specialist at counter-terrorism and hostage rescue and are said to be the finest soldiers in the world at close quarters combat.  For ten points name this force whose members are primarily recruited from the Green Berets, the 82nd Airborne and US Army Rangers and is also the name of one of the many bad Chuck Norris movies.  	Answer:  	Delta Force18)	Talk about a nightmare!  His office manager shows up at his house at 7:10 am to ask why he didn't catch the 5:00 am train in to work, and yells at him about the disgraceful exhibition he's putting on.  Then his sister Grete (who aspired to be a violinist) takes all his furniture.  Finally, his whole family shuns him.  And that's after (and perhaps because) he woke up one morning and "found himself transformed in his bed into a gigantic insect."  For 10 points, name this man, the protagonist of Kafka's Metamorphosis.	Answer: Gregor Samsa19)	A high-caste Brahmin, he ascribed to an English-style form of parliamentary reform from above.  He balanced neutrality in most international matters, such as the Korean War, with firm territorial nationalism as seen in clashes over Goa, Kashmir, and the border with Tibet.  FTP name this first prime minister of India.	Answer: 	Jawaharlal Nehru20) He was a priest who lived in Babylon after the Babylonian conquest of Judah and Jerusalem around 600 B.C.  He recorded many visions, the most famous of which was of wheels within wheels that contained all-seeing eyes.  FTP name this Hebrew prophet whose visions and prophecies are contained in the Old Testament book that carries his name.       Answer: Ezekiel21) It is the nickname for a highwayman who falls in love with and secretly marries Polly Peachum, but her father finds out and rats him out to the cops, who toss him into Newgate prison.  Bertolt Brecht revived him for The Threepenny Opera, after John Gay had created him for The Beggar's Opera and used him again in Polly.  For 10 points, give Captain Macheath's nickname, the title of the song Brecht and Kurt Weill wrote for his character, which became an unlikely hit for both Louis Armstrong and Bobby Darin.	Answer: Mack the Knife22)	PENCIL AND PAPER READY [ALLOW 10 SECONDS FOR ANSWER]:    The volume of a cone is (pi*h*r^2) / 3. The volume of a pyramid is (h*s^2)/3 if the base is a square of side s. If s = 2r, FTP, what is the ratio of the volume of a cone to the volume of a pyramid?	Answer:  	  pi / 4.
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 41)	Unable to reconcile his inner poetic fantasies with the demands of everyday life, he heads to the country to get his head together.  There he falls in love with Charlotte Bugg, an uncomplicated woman who just happens to be engaged to his friend Albert.  Unrequited love plus perception of emptiness of life equals suicide.  FTP name this protagonist, or the 1774 Sturm und Drang novel featuring him, written by Johann Goethe.	Answer: 	(The Sorrows of Young) Werther  [accept Die Leiden des jungen Werthers from showoffs]2)	For the love of the daughter of the King of Chios, he cleared that island of wild beasts.  While drunk, he insulted the maiden, and her father had him blinded with the help of Dionysus.  He got his vision restored at the island of Lemnos, and then went to Crete and became Artemis' huntsman.  Nevertheless, at the end the goddess killed him.  FTP, identify this giant, who was placed into the heavens where today he wears a belt and carries a sword and club.	Answer:  Orion3) There are allegations that he invented blood doping. Born in 1897 in southern Finland, he won three golds and one silver at Antwerp in 1920, five golds at Paris in 1924, and one gold and two silvers in Amsterdam in 1928, dominating the fields of middle and long distance running. Apart from these victories, he set 25 world records at distances between 1500 meters and 20000 meters throughout his twelve-year career. FTP, identify this "Flying Finn."	Answer:  	Paavo Nurmi4)	In mathematics, it holds only for linear operators, and any operator that satisfies it is called a linear operator.  In circuit analysis, it is used to find the voltage and current response of a linear network to a number of independent sources by summing the responses obtained by applying each independent source once with other independent sources set equal to zero.  In physics, it states that when two or more waves of the same nature travel past a point at the same time, the instantaneous amplitude there is the sum of the instantaneous amplitudes of the individual waves.  FTP, identify this heroic sounding idea.	Answer:  	principle of superposition OR superposition theorem5)	Historians who have chronicled include David Chalmers, Wyn Craig Wade, and Allen Trelease.  In the 1920's it controlled state politics in Oklahoma, Indiana, and Oregon, and claimed over 3 million members nationwide.  After its 1915 revival it was more of an urban phenomenon, belying its origin as a rural paramilitary force.  FTP name this often-fragmented organization, which has risen and fallen several times since its 1866 founding in Pulaski, Tennessee.	Answer:	Ku Klux Klan6) 	QUOTE: "A dollar in the hands of a rich person is worth less than a dollar in the hands of a poor person."  When the rich spend their marginal dollars on luxury goods, they contrast with the poor, who having no marginal dollars, spend only on necessities like food and clothing.  This basic logic led to the formulation of a theory of redistribution of wealth from the rich to the poor.  FTP, identify this economic theory of redistribution that depends upon the philosophy of Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill and involves a specific unobservable and unmeasurable quantity.	Answer:  utilitarian justice7)	His father was a country gentleman of limited means, who lost the family fortune in a depression, then went crazy, and may have killed himself.  His uncle Ralph was a moneylender and shady character who couldn't stand him, and sent him to Dotheboys Hall after his father's death.  He ran away and became a strolling player, then a clerk, and eventually a partner in Cheeryble Brothers.  For 10 points, name this man, title character of a Charles Dickens novel.	Answer: Nicholas Nickleby8)	According to Native American legend, the vertical lines along its sides were the claw marks of a giant bear.  Located near Hulett in Crook County, it is an isolated pillar of basalt that shows characteristic columnar cooling features.  FTP identify this natural rock formation in Wyoming that resembles a giant petrified tree stump, perhaps best known for being sculpted in mashed potatoes by Richard Dreyfuss in Close Encounters of the Third Kind.	Answer:	Devils Tower
9)	She is mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1086 as holding many estates in Warwickshire including Coventry, inherited from her husband Leofric, Earl of Mercia.   Documents show she was a generous benefactor to religious establishments and in her patronage of the arts.  It appears that more than a century after her death, the medieval scribe Roger of Wendover exaggered the extent of her generosity, particularly with respect to taxation issues affecting the poor. FTP name this Anglo-Saxon noblewoman whom legend says persuaded her reluctant husband to reduce their tax burden, at the price of her riding naked at midday through the Coventry market-place.	Answer:	Lady Godiva10)	This chemical compound is a waxy, soft substance that melts at 44 degrees C and boils at 280 degrees C.  Because of its high reactivity, it must be stored under water.  It is extremely toxic, as little as .1 gram can be fatal to humans.  FTP give the common name of this phosphorus compound whose atoms are arranged at the corners of a tetrahedron.  		Answer:  	White Phosphorus  (prompt on P4; do not accept phosphorus as it's an element, not compound)11)  	It has been viewed both as a self-portrait and as a view on German humanism during the 16th century. The winged figure in the foreground represents man's creative spirit alone with his innermost thoughts, and the ladder leaning up against the wall represents an unfinished task. Also contained in this Albrecht Durer work are an angel, a wheel, an hourglass, a balance, and a sick dog. FTP, name this work which was painted in the year shown in the two middle numbers on the bottom row in the magic square.	Answer:  	Melancholia12)  	It contributed to Truman's upset of Tom Dewey in the 1948 Presidential election.  It required unions to register and file financial reports with the department of Labor, outlawed closed shops and secondary boycotts, and gave the President the rightto impose a "cooling-off" period to stop strikes that threaten national safety or health.  FTP name this 1947 act, popularly kown by the names of the New Jersey Representative and Ohio Senator who sponsored it.	Answer:	Taft-Hartley Act or Labor-Management Relations Act13)	He was born in Andernach, Germany but grew up in poverty in San Pedro, CA. Although not technically a beat writer, his style has earned him a place in the hearts of beat fans. He was honest and humorous and wrote about such topics as hangovers, horse-racing and whores. He was also incredibly prolific and wrote books and compilations such as "Ham on Rye", "Factotum", and "The Last Night of the Earth Poems."  FTP, name this honorary beat writer.	Answer:  	Charles Bukowski14) Its first postulate states that the laws of physics have the same form in all inertial refence frames. its second postulate is that light propagates through empty space with a definite speed c independent of the speed of the source or the observer. FTP, name this theory, which deals with inertial reference frames as opposed to accelerating reference frames.	Answer:  	Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity.15) 	He began his musical instruction under Schwemmer and later at the Universities of Altdorf and Ratisbon. In 1671 he moved to Vienna and became an organist at the Imperial Chapel. In 1677 he was organist in Eisenach and in 1678 moved to Erfurt, where he taught Johann Christoph Bach. Johann Sebastian Bach admired his work and modeled his technique of chorale variation. FAQTP, name this organist and composer of "Canon in D Major."	Answer:  	Johann Pachelbel16)	His assertion of strong executive powers and his legendary arrogance led many to fear he wanted to be a dictator, but he resigned abruptly in 1947 and again in 1969 when he clearly did not have the support of the people.  He served a total of twelve years as President of France, but the most important stretch may have been as Provisional President during and after liberation in 1944-1945.  FTP name this general and statesman, leader of the Free French in exile during World War II.	Answer:	Charles de Gaulle
17) The first version of this operating system was released in the late 1980s, and was expected by its creators to be enormously popular.  Although it had multitasking abilities, the design was so complicated that very few applications were released for it.  Later versions of the system were improvements of the original, and many experienced computer users preferred it to Microsoft Windows.  For ten points, name this so-called "half an operating system," designed to be the replacement for MS-DOS and the last to be co-developed by IBM and Microsoft.	Answer: 	OS/2 (accept Operating System 2)18)	Born in Scotland in 1882, he grew up in London, and studied at Trinity College, Cambridge.  He was briefly an assistant editor at Punch, but he enlisted in the Royal Warwickshire Regiment and served in France in WWI.  He married Daphne de Selincourt in 1913, and returned to Cotchfield Farm near Hartfield with her after the war, complete with its bridge and hundred acres of forest nearby.  For 10 points, name this author, who expanded on the stories his wife created with their son, Christopher Robin.	Answer: 	A. A. Milne19)	In an 'X-Files' episode, residents of a small southern U.S. town began contracting this disease at a rate far exceeding the statistical occurrence in an average population.  It was later discovered that the townspeople had adopted the practice of ritual cannibalism and were selectively eating members of the community, including their brains. The disease in question appears to be spread most reliably through the ingestion of infected tissue, and the brain is most affected in this case.  FTP what neuro-degenerative disease in humans is believed to correlate most closely to bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or 'mad cow' disease?	Answer: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease  [do not accept or prompt on Mad Cow or BSE as the residents did not contract that]20)	Originally named the Unadulterated Food Corporation, it is now owned by Cadbury Schweppes, but it has had to fight recent rumors that it's really owned by Osama bin Laden's network.  It presents new flavors on its website in its "nursery."  It claims to use no chemical dyes, no preservatives, and no artificial flavors, and further claims to be the only major soft drink company able to make that claim.  The current company name comes from a carbonated apple beverage in their original product line.  FTP name this trendy maker of teas and fruit drinks "made from the best stuff on earth."	Answer:  	Snapple21)	These are divided into deictic ones, which take their meaning from context, and anaphoric ones, which take some of their meaning from a previous part of what is said or written.  Types of these include intensive, reflexive, demonstrative, interrogative, relative, and personal.  FTP name this part of speech that has no complete meaning itself but takes the place of a noun.	Answer:	pronoun22)	He was born in Omaha in 1949.  He suffers from dyslexia, which made it difficult for him to read and write at a young age.  He has worked as a carpenter, a violinmaker, a hypnotherapist, a wildlife artist and a restorer of rare artifacts.  Now he lives in the forest of Maine with his wife Jeri, and writes.  FTP identify this author of Stone of Tears, the second book in the Sword of Truth series.	Answer:  	Terry Goodkind
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 51)	This man did important work in organo-arsenic compounds and discovered an antidote for arsenic poisoning.  He shares credit for the discovery of cesium and rubidium with his assistant Gustave Kirchoff, with whom he developed techniques of spectroscopy.  FTP name this man, who left us two eponymous inventions: a carbon-zinc electric cell used in arc lamps, and that ubiquitous common chem lab apparatus, the gas burner.  	Answer:  	Robert Bunsen 2)	As an outspoken member of Parliament from Wales he dissented on the Boer War and defended the Boers' right to independence.  In 1905 he became Asquith's Chancellor of the Exchequer, where he began Britain's old age pension and national health insurance programs.  FTP name this Prime Minister from 1916 to 1922, best known for his role in the Versailles Conference.	Answer: 	David Lloyd George [prompt on George - his last name is both words]3)	Born in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1966, this singer was often made fun of for her green eyes and red hair. A depressed childhood lead to an escape into the world of rock 'n roll, where she became a singer for bands such as August 1984, Wild Indians, and Goodbye, Mr. Mackenzie. She was pulled from Angelfish by Butch Vig for her current group. For ten points, name this singer whose current group is definitely not a trashy act and whose songs include "#1 Crush," "Androgyny," "The World Is Not Enough," and "Stupid Girl."       Answer:	Shirley Manson [prompt on Manson]4)	As the Greeks prepared to depart for the Trojan War, a strong Northern wind held their thousand ships in the harbor.  This woman was sacrificed to appease Artemis and allow the ships to leave.  Some stories claim that Artemis could not stand to see her altar defiled with human blood, and so spirited this woman away to the Taurians.  Later she was rescued by her brother, Orestes, and returned to Mycenae. FTP identify this woman, the eldest daughter of Agamemnon. 	Answer:  	Iphigenia 5)	Small-scale, medium-scale, large-scale, very large-scale, and ultra large-scale all preface this term, whose level provides a measure of the number of agates or switching devices known as transistors, that are on a single silicon chip used as a digital circuit.  In mathematics it might be approximate, numerical, improper, indefinite, or partial and can be accomplished by substitution, by partial fractions, and by substitution.  Politically, it often accompanies the phrase "volunteer busing" and usually refers to the amount of interracial mixing in the public schools.  FTP, identify this variously used term.	Answer:  	integration6)	Born in 1876 in Catalonia, this man began his concert career in 1891, and in 1905 he formed a chamber trio with Thibaud and Cortot. His career as a conductor began in 1919 with his namesake orchestra, and he lived in Puerto Rico for the last 17 years of his life. His museum is located in San Jose where his music, cello, and piano are now on display. FTP, name this distinguished conductor and possibly the greatest 20th century master of the violincello.        Answer:	Pablo Casals7)	Made chiliarch by Perdiccas after the death of Alexander the Great, he turned on Perdiccas and took part in the conspiracy that killed him in 321 BCE.  Antigonus' power forced him to flee to Ptolemy's Egypt in 315, but hereturned to Babylonia in 312, after defeating Demetrius Poliorcetes at Gaza. Upon his return, he was confirmed as ruler of the lands east of the Euphrates by the general peace of 311.  For 10 points, name this son of Antiochus or the namesake dynasty he founded.	Answer: 	Seleucus I Nicator or Seleucid8)	By story's end the ghost of Akaky Akakevich leaves, satisfied, having gotten his satisfaction from a Certain Important Personage.  Akakevich had died of a cold several days after the title object was stolen from him and the Certain Important Personage refused to help him recover it.  FTP name this Nikolai Gogol short story, in which the ghost relieves the Certain Important Personage of the same garment taken from him.	Answer: 	The Overcoat
9) Debuting in 41 American newspapers on 19 June 1978, he and "his cartoonist" looked very different than they do today. Some of his alter egos include Banana Man, the Claw, Amoeba Man, and the Caped Avenger. For ten points, name this comic cat created by Jim Davis who lives to eat lasagna and terrorize Jon and Odie.	Answer:  	Garfield10)	Leading exponents of this doctrine included Henrik Shipstead of Minnesota, Gerald Nye of North Dakota, Hiram Johnson of California, Burton K. Wheeler of Montana, and William E. Borah of Idaho.  It reached perhaps its peak in the U.S. with the Senate Investigation of the Munitions Industries in 1934-1936 and adoption of the Neutrality Acts of 1935, 1936, and 1937.  Adherents failed by one vote to defeat a peacetime draft in 1940, and the America First Committee disintegrated rapidly in 1941.  FTP name this political philosophy which denounced eastern business, ideological, and political elites for involvement in European affairs.	Answer:	isolationism11) Born in 1876 and trained as a carpenter and stonemason, he settled in Paris in 1904. African and Oriental art influenced him greatly; from these inspirations, he created such works as "Beginning of the World", "Maiastra", and "Bird in Space".  FTP, identify this free-form Romanian sculptor, perhaps most notable for his "The Kiss".	Answer:  	Constantin Brancusi12)	It states that an induced electromotive force is always in a direction opposite of the change in flux that caused it. This is true even when there is no circuit and is applied when a current is induced in a coil of wire. FTP, identify this law named after an Estonian physicist.	Answer:  	 Lenz' Law.13)	It rises in the Baikal highlands and, fed by such rivers as the Vitim, Alekma, and Vilyuv, it empties through a wide delta into the Laptev Sea, part of the Arctic Ocean.  The principal city along its bank is Yakutsk.  FTP name this 2,730-mile river of east central Siberia.	Answer:	Lena14)	QUOTE: "A man stood upon a railroad bridge in Northern Alabama, looking down into the swift waters twenty feet below.  The man's hands were behind his back, the wrists bound with a cord.  A rope loosely encircled his neck.  It was attached to a stout cross-timber above his head."  For 10 points, this is the first line of what 1891 short story by Ambrose Bierce?	Answer: An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge15)	Out with the old order, in with the new.  The order Edentata is now being applied only to a cluster of extinct toothless or near toothless mammals.  Booted out of Edentata, animals of such families as Dasypodidae, Bradypodidae, and Myrmecophagidae have now been reclassified in a new order which takes its name from a certain articulation between vertebrae.  FTP name this order which includes sloths, armadillos, and anteaters. 	Answer:	Xenarthra16)	Her first work In a German Pension was re-published after her death in 1923, and it didn't seem to fit with the rest of her sensitive work, such as "The Apple Tree" or "The Wind Blows".  Like those, her first major story was a recollection of her south Pacific home "The Aloe".  Other works include "The Lady's Maid", "Miss Brill", "Life of Ma Parker", "The Daughters of the Late Colonel" and "The Young Girl."  For 10 points, name this author, whose major works were published in an anthology which took its title from a story within it, The Garden Party.	Answer: 	Katherine Mansfield (accept Kathleen Beauchamp)17)	The foreword to his biography was written by Albert Einstein. His relationship to Einstein came through mathematics, in which he earned his Ph.D. while defending his world title.  In 1894, at the age of 25, he challenged Steinitz, the reigning World Champion and defeated him by the score of ten wins, four draws, five losses. He maintained the title for 27 years, the longest period in history, until losing to Capablanca in 1921.  FTP, identify this great fighter of chess who took third in an international tournament at the age of 66.        Answer:  	Emanuel Lasker
18)  	This moon is 14th outward from its planet.  Its surface is a cratered terrain with systems of interconnected valleys hundreds of kilometers long.  For 10 points, name the largest moon of Uranus which takes its name after the queen of the Fairies in Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night Dream.    		       Answer: 	Titania19)	His first play was the acclaimed Five Finger Exercise (1960.)  It was made into a high-profile film, as were his later plays  The Royal Hunt of the Sun , Lettice and Lovage, and the award-winning Equus.  FTP name this British playwright, best known for Amadeus.	Answer: 	Peter Shaffer 20)	It was abrogated by the formation of the short-lived Dominion of New England in 1686.  It created a "civil body politic" to enact "just and equal laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions, and offices."  Every adult male had to sign it before being permitted ashore - oh, well, so much for liberty.  FTP name this document signed by English colonists in November 1620.	Answer:	the Mayflower Compact21) 	Born in Cambridge, MA in 1894, he got his MA from Harvard in 1916. During WWI he was interned in a prison camp while working as an ambulance driver, the basis for his novel "The Enormous Room." He was most famous for his poetry, such as "anyone lived in a pretty how town", "r-p-o-p-h-e-s-s-a-g-r", and "Buffalo Bill's". FTP, identify this poet whose first and middle names are Edward Estlin.	Answer:  	e.e. cummings22)	Patricia Highsmith wrote the novel; Raymond Chandler co-wrote the screenplay.  Guy Haines is an amateur tennis player in love with a Senator's daughter, but he's already married, and his estranged wife Miriam won't divorce him.  While traveling to a tournament, he meets Bruno Antony, who also has a problem: his father doesn't approve of his lifestyle.  Bruno suggests that he'll kill Guy's wife if Guy kills Bruno's father, "criss-cross".  For 10 points, name this 1951 Alfred Hitchcock classic, remade into the Billy Crystal-Danny Devito Throw Momma from the Train.	Answer: Strangers on a Train
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 61)	It has recently been discovered that this is situated above geologic formations of limestone that contains bitumen.  The decomposition of this bitumen released organic gases such as ethane, methane, and ethylene into the atmosphere through small fissures in the earth's surface.  This could explain why the priestess of this temple would have mind altering experiences and give prophetic advice, or sometimes have seizures and die.  FTP identify this temple or the famous priestess who inhabited it.	Answer:	the sanctuary of Delphi or the Delphic Oracle or Oracle of Delphi2)	It is difficult to explain how this can exist because it because it is hotter than the sun's surface while extended a million kilometers above that surface.  It is the portion of the sun where solar winds originate and has been found to emit X-ray radiation.  FTP name this portion of the sun that was the target of NASA's Spartan 201 mission and sounds like a kind of beer.  	Answer:  	Corona3)	Change of heart or kissing of ass?  You be the judge.  He wrote his first important work, "Heroic Stanzas" in memory of Oliver Cromwell.  A scant year later, he wrote "Astraea Redux" and "Panegyric on the Coronation" in celebration of the restoration of Charles II.  FTP name this opportunist, whose other works include "Absalom and Achitophel" and Marriage A La Mode.	Answer: 	John Dryden4)	As Garfield's Secretary of State he advocated the creation of an International Bureau of American Republics to promote a customs union of trade and political stability for the Western Hemisphere.  As Speaker of the House from 1869 to 1875 he led the "Half-Breed" faction against Roscoe Conkling's Stalwarts.   As Senator his reputation was tarnished by the disclosure of the Mulligan Letters, implicating him in an Arkansas railroad scandal.  And as Presidential candidate, he was doomed to a narrow defeat thanks to a zealous supporter calling the Democrats the party of "rum, Romanism and rebellion."  FTP name "the Plumed Knight", defeated in the memorable election of 1884 by Cleveland.	Answer:	James G. Blaine5)	He was born in Kaunas, Lithuania in 1898 an emigrated to America in 1904. Later on in life he became a lithographer's apprentice and attended New York University and the National Academy of Design. He had adopted strong socialist views and painted works such as "Miners' Wives" and "The Passion of Sacco and Vanzetti". FTP, name the artist, also known for photographs, such as "Migrant Mother" and "Cotton Picker, Arkansas."        Answer:  	Ben Shahn6)	The 25 original cases were located in Belgrade and two German cities, one of which was Frankfurt.  It was first identified in 1967, when 25 people who were working with organs and cell cultures from Ugandan monkeys became ill, and seven died.  Like the Ebola virus, it causes haemorrhagic fever, meaning that it infects and causes severe bleeding of tissues and organs. The victims of the virus became ill so quickly that it did not have much of a chance to spread outside of those cities.  FTP name this filovirus, named for the other German city affected.       Answer: 	Marburg [accept Ebola-Marburg before Ebola is said]7)	In 1998 she became the first country singer included in Lilith Fair.  This farm girl from Sharon, Kansas, was also featured on the soundtracks of A Muppet Christmas Carol, Hope Floats, Where the Heart Is, and The Runaway Bride.  Her hits include exuberant songs like "Wild Angels," "Safe in the Arms of Love," and "When God-Fearin' Women Get the Blues." FTP name this country singer whose concern for issues of family violence is seen in the songs "Concrete Angel," "A Broken Wing," and "Independence Day."  	Answer:	Martina McBride
8)	Oleg Kostoglotov is not a happy camper, or rather ex-camper.  He's still stuck in Kazakhstan, having recently been released from a brutal forced labor camp. He's only been released due to illness, and he's now trapped inside a microcosm of Soviet society as embodied by his fellow patients.  FTP name this suppressed 1968 novel inspired by the real-life hospitalization and treatment of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.	Answer: 	Cancer Ward or Rakovy Korpus9)	In June of 1943, the USS Eldridge, a destroyer, was reportedly loaded with sophisticated equipment.  About a month later, the equipment on the ship was supposedly powered up, and witnesses claimed to see the Eldridge become enveloped in a green fog and slowly fade out of sight.  When the ship re-appeared a few minutes later, the members of the crew's ship apparently felt disoriented and nauseous.  For ten points, give the name of the unconfirmed American experiment that was supposed to make a ship invisible to radar, but, according to witnesses, produced very mysterious results on several occasions, such as the one described above.       Answer:	Philadelphia Experiment or Project Rainbow10)	Its theoretician was looking for a logical theory that could serve as a framework for mathematics, particularly one that would avoid vicious-circle antimonies, like the author's paradox the of the property of those properties that are not properties of themselves.  First described in 1908, it suggests that the hierarchy of properties and relations is two-dimensional, where properties and relations are distinguished first by their order, and then by their level within each order.  For 10 points, identify this theory of Bertrand Russell's. 	Answer:  	Theory of types11)	A student of Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco, this Air Force vet and Julliard grad scored episodes for "Wagon Train" and "Gilligan's Island."  His first feature film gig was Daddy-O, a film bad enough to be featured on MST3K.   His break came with the theme for the TV series "Lost in Space," and in 1967 he got his first Oscar nomination for Valley of the Dolls.  In only six of the past 30 years has he NOT gotten at least one Oscar nomination.  FTP name this composer of film scores for Saving Private Ryan, Jaws, and all 4 Star Wars movies.	Answer:	 John Williams 12)	Directly affecting the brain, this chemical's official name is nepetalactone, which is chemically similar to hallucinogens. Native to Europe and currently a weed in North America, it is a perennial herb of the mint family known as Nepeta cataria.. The funny thing is that this chemical only seems to affect felines.  FTP, name this chemical, often added to cat products causing cats to become extremely playful for about 10 minutes.           Answer:  	catnip13)  	It was once the site of swamps and grassy plains inhabited by wooly mammoths, giant sloths, and bison. A French commander authorized a dig there in 1739, making it the first paleontological site in North America and the most important site for Quaternary mammal fossils in Kentucky. FTP, name this state park that comprises 525 acres of land along the Ohio River.	Answer:  	Big Bone Lick14)	He served as general secretary of the National Union Party and Speaker of the Parliamentary Assembly before becoming his country's Vice President in 1969.  Thrust into the presidency a year later by the unexpected death of Nasser, he followed Soviet advice in launching the October War in 1973.  Its failure led him to break with the USSR and seek both peace and American support, which ultimately cost him his life.  FTP name this Egyptian president assassinated in 1981 for his signing a peace treaty with Israel in 1979.	Answer: 	Anwar el-Sadat15)	The protagonist becomes enraged at the injustice of war after seeing a friend's death, and by book's end he returns to his regiment and fights with courage and without illusions.  Quite a turnaround for Henry Fleming, who ran with fear during his first major action, although he got the requisite wound from a slight blow to the head from a deserter.  FTP name this 1895 Civil War novel by Stephen Crane.	Answer: 	The Red Badge of Courage
16)	If you were a Hindu, and setting out on a journey or beginning an undertaking, you might say a prayer to this son of the god Shiva and his wife Parvati, as he is the patron god of scribes and the remover of obstacles.  FTP, name this god who, after coming between his parents in the midst of sexual intercourse, was beheaded by his father and given the head of an elephant.	Answer:  	Ganesh.17)	It made household names of such curious figures as security guard Frank Wills, private investigator Tony Ulasewicz, and personal secretary Rosemary Woods.  FAA administrator and former White House functionary Alexander Butterfield blew the case wide open by revealing something he didn't know was top secret -- the existence of a voice-activated tape recording system at the White House.  FTP give the common name for this political scandal of 1972-1974, named for the complex containing the bugged headquarters of the Democratic National Committee.	Answer:	Watergate18)	In general terms it is equal to two times the gravitational constant times the mass of the body divided by the square of the speed of light.  At this distance, the escape velocity from a black hole is equal to the speed of light, indicating that nothing can ever leave, and any body is a black hole if all its mass is inside a sphere having this specially named radius.  FTP, identify the name for the radius that separates stars from black holes, which for a star with the sun's mass is equal to three kilometers.         Answer:  	Schwarzschild radius19)  Born in Rutherford, NJ in 1883, while attending Horace Mann High School, he decided to be a doctor, but didn't want to leave behind the world of poetry. Even while getting his MD from the University of Pennsylvania, he got drawn into the Imagist movement when he met Ezra Pound. FTP, name this author of the collection "Pictures from Breughel and Other Poems", the poem "The Red Wheelbarrow" and the five volume epic "Paterson".  	Answer:  	William Carlos Williams20)  In 1889, Fusajiro Yamauchi founded this company, run today by his great-great grandson. In 1959 the company changed from card games to collectible cards that featured Walt Disney characters. Once again in 1977 the company changed what they made, this time dropping cards altogether for the then-new video game industry. FTP name this company that released the Famicom in Japan in 1983, and brought the system to the United States in 1985 under a different name.        Answer:  	Nintendo       21)	In Massinger's Old Law and Shakespeare's A Comedy of Errors, the term is used for a courtesan.  In films, examples have been portrayed by Daryl Hannah and drawn by Disney artists.  And in modern advertising, one is associated with a particular brand of tuna.  FTP name this mythical marine creature.	Answer:	mermaid22)	A red supergiant, this star is roughly 700 times the diameter of the sun, but has only about 10 times more massive. It is also known and Vespertilio and Kalb al Akrab, and is the namesake of a U.S. Navy vessel in the Military Sealift Command Strategic Sealift Force.  Its name comes from the Greek for "rival of Mars." FTP, name the brightest star in the constellation Scorpius,	Answer:  	Antares
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 71)	A street is named after it in Pittsburgh, where Jim Delligatti created it in 1967; it was cleared for national distribution the following year.  The crown, the club, and the heel are the proper terms for the three parts of the last item in the famous formula, the sesame seed bun.  To date over 14 billion have been sold.  FTP name this ubiquitous double-decker sandwich.	Answer:  	the Big Mac2)	Its structure is believed to consist of a relatively dense core that lies near the ecliptic plane and gradually replenishes the outer boundaries, creating a steady state.  It is the birthplace and reservoir of the long-period comets.  Inferred by the research of a Dutch astronomer in 1950, more modern research has only confirmed its existence.  FTP identify this region of interstellar objects that extends from the planetary boundary of our solar system to about 3 light years from the sun.	Answer: 	Oort Cloud3)	#106 begins, "When in the chronicle of wasted time..."  #71 starts, "No longer mourn for me when I am dead."  #130 opens "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun."  And #18 starts, "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"   These are among 154 of, FTP, what writings first published as a collection in 1609?	Answer:	Shakespeare's sonnets [accept equivalents; prompt on Shakespeare or sonnets]4)	Be careful who you badmouth  This man had publicly criticized Marc Antony, so before Antony fell from favor with Octavian, he persuaded Octavian to execute this Senator.  It was a sad ending for a man who'd exposed the Catiline conspiracy.  FTP name this Roman politician and orator, whose works include De Amicitia, Philippics, and of course Orations Against the Catiline.	Answer:	Cicero5)	Researchers at Berkeley have made a very small transistor.  This may not seem that impressive until you contemplate that the transistor is the size of one molecule - one tiny, soccer ball shaped molecule.  FTP, give the name of this molecule of 60 carbon atoms, named after the inventor of the geodesic dome.	Answer: 	buckyballs or Buckminsterfullerene6)	He was born on August 30, 1943 in Philadelphia and grew up with a sadistic father, a mother hooked on amphetamines, and a brother who grew more and more insane. He began to draw comics to appease his brother and quickly mastered the style of Walt Disney. He started drawing professionally in 1962 but his career didn't truly start until 1965 when he took a vial of acid. FTP, name this underground artist and "Breughel of the 20th Century" who made "Mr. Natural" and "Fritz the Cat" famous.	Answer:  	R. Crumb (prompt on just "Crumb", but take "Robert Crumb")7) This man developed his painting skills while working with his father decorating houses. In 1900 he moved to Paris, where he studied the work of many Fauve artists. He met Picasso, and together they developed Cubism. For ten points, name this artist, who is known for such paintings as "Still Life with a Violin" and "Man With a Guitar."			Answer:  	Georges Braque8)	It was the most famous thing ever built by the firm of Blohm and Voss. Admiral Leutjens, famous for sinking 22 British merchant ships with the battle cruisers Scharnhosrt and the Gneisenau, was given its command.  It sank the HMS Hood with a single 15" shell, but was finally defeated by the Rodney, King George V, and the Norfolk.  FTP name this much-feared mammoth battleship, which was only afloat for 7 days.	Answer: 	the Bismarck9)	This building measures 45 feet high, 33 feet wide, and 50 feet long.  According to tradition, it was originally built by Abraham and his son Ishmael and was used to house idols and other Arab pagan objects before Muslim forces came and cleansed it of these things.  The structure itself is actually a reconstruction of the original, but is constructed of the same black granite as the first.  FTP, name this "House of Allah" in Mecca.	Answer:  	The Kaaba.
10)	Cecil.  Kent.  Frederick.  Wicomico [wick-COMic-co.] Calvert. Queen Annes. Anne Arundel.  Prince Georges. These are among the 23 counties of a state whose motto translates, "Manly deeds, womanly words." FTP name this state, whose other counties include Carroll, Montgomery, and Baltimore.	Answer:	Maryland11)  Originally from Fort Dodge, IA, he showed a proficiency in writing by junior high and was working for Readers' Digest when WWII began. During the war, however, he was a communications officer on a Navy cargo ship writing humorous vignettes in his journal to keep himself sane. He shipped this journal to his cousin Wallace Stegner, who had them published, and they became wildly successful. They had become a Broadway play in 1948, a movie in 1955, and another movie in 1963, but he missed out on most of the success, having drowned in 9 inches of water in 1949. FTP, identify this author of "Mister Roberts."	Answer:   	Thomas Heggen12)  Born in Sweden in 1814, this man was a physicist and astronomer, and is widely credited with founding the science of spectroscopy, or the study of the electromagnetic spectrum.  He developed the science by studying the solar spectrum and observing that there is hydrogen in the sun's atmosphere.  For ten points, give this man's last name, who gave his name to the unit of length equal to one hundred millionth of a centimeter.	Answer: 	Anders Jonas ngstršm 13)	It was rendered necessary when Rep. Tallmadge of New York proposed an amendment to a seemingly-routine bill admitting another state to the Union.  Tallmadge's amendment would have prohibited slavery in the new state, even though it was already well-established there.  House Speaker Henry Clay finessed the issue by tying the admission of Maine as a free state to the measure and also banning slavery in the remainder of the Louisiana Territory north of 36 degrees 30 minutes latitude.  FTP name this 1820 Congressional action.	Answer:	the Missouri Compromise14) This band's first album, Days of Future Passed, was released in 1966 and is one of the first concept albums. Although recorded with a symphony orchestra, the band decided on later albums that they would only record songs that they could perform live with just their own instruments. With around thirty albums and compilations released, the most recent being Strange Times in 1999, they obviously still have a lot to offer the music industry. FTP name this band, whose songs include "The Story in Yoru Eyes," "Trip Inside Your Mind," In Your Wildest Dreams," "Tuesday Afternoon," and "Nights in White Satin."	Answer:  	The Moody Blues15)	He edited the journal Conservative Judaism and was editor-in-chief of the Jewish Publication Society.  He wrote a nonfiction history of the Jews called Wanderings as well as such novels as I Am the Clay, The Tree of Here, and The Book of Lights.  FTP name this author, who explored the relationship between Hasidic and more secular Jews in My Name Is Asher Lev and The Chosen.	Answer:	Chaim Potok16)	The Greeks did not use them explicitly, but in the fifth century BC, Eudoxus used the method of exhaustion to prove the familiar formula for the area of a circle, thus indirectly using the same concept used today.  The Greek method of exhaustion was to inscribe a polygon in a figure such as the circle, circumscribe a polygon about the figure, and then let the number of sides of the polygon increase.  As the number of sides increases, the area of the circle is approximated more closely.  Another example can be found in asymptotic relationships, such as y = 1/x2, which approaches infinity as x approaches zero.  FTP, identify this beautiful concept in mathematics that forms the basis of differential and integral calculus.	Answer:  	limit17)	The Voice of America and the Army Signal Corps came under the scrutiny of his committee.  Among those he leveled accusations against were Owen Lattimore, Dean Acheson, and even George C. Marshall.  He finally got a taste of his own medicine when a special Congressional committee held very visible hearings into the attempts of him and top aide Roy Cohn to get another of his aides special treatment from the Army.  FTP name this Wisconsin Senator who rose and fell by making wild, unsubstantiated claims that the U.S. government was filled with closet Communists.	Answer:	Joseph R. McCarthy
18)  Outside the walls of Mycenae, she mourns the death of her father at the hands of her mother.  She calls on her father's spirit when her sister warns her that their mother and the mother's new husband are planning to kill her.  When her mother asks what sacrifice she must make to appease the gods, the title character reply that her brother will kill the mother and her new husband wife a sacrificial axe.  At this moment, however, a messenger arrives with the news that the brother is dead and the mother regains composure.  Later, another messenger arrives and tells the title character the her brother is indeed dead, but this messenger is her brother.  The brother then kills both her mother and the mother's husband.  As the brother is proclaimed king, the title character dies from the joy of the triumph.  FTP, name this opera by Richard Strauss. 	Answer:  	Elektra  19)	May 2001 was a good month for both Brood XXII (22), in Louisiana and Mississippi, and Brood VII (7), in New York. Brood 22 is of the tredecim type, while Brood 7 is of the classic septendecim variety.  They're of a different genus than the Tibicen or "dog day" variety, which explains why we see some in smaller amounts every year.  And properly speaking, they are not locusts, though often confused for them because of their periodic swarms and their noise levels.  FTP name this insect, the 17-year varieties of which have the longest lifespan of any insect.	Answer:	cicada20)	It includes a carnival, a palazzo, a thousand perceived injuries, some chains, some newly purchased sherry, and a bunch of bricks.  First published in Godey's Lady's Book in 1846, it is told by Montressor, who seeks and gets his revenge on his nemesis Fortunato.  FTP name this short story by Edgar Allan Poe.	Answer: 	"The Cask of Amontillado"21)	Popes Leo X, Clement VII, and Leo XI.  The regent for France's Louis XIII.  The queens of French kings Henry II and Henry IV.  And the patrons of Brunelleschi, Donatello, Ghiberti, da Vinci, and the young Michelangelo.  FTP name the Florentine family to which they all belonged.	Answer:	Medici22) When designing a computer game, it is necessary to transfer blocks of image data from one surface to another, i.e., place an image on a surface by storing pixel data in the surface's memory. For ten points, give this game design term.	Answer: 	Blitting
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- ROUND 81)   	According to one source, he is Joseph Conrad's heir as the annalist of the destinies of empires in the moral sense: what they do to human beings, and his authority as a narrator is grounded in his memory of what others have forgotten, the history of the vanquished.  He has demonstrated these techniques in such works as The Mystic Masseur, Miguel Street, The Loss of El Dorado, and The Enigma of Arrival.  For 10 points, name this author of A House for Mr. Biswas, winner of the 2001 Nobel Prize for Literature.       Answer: 	V. S. Naipaul 	(do not need to prompt on Naipaul, but do not accept Shiva Naipaul)2)	On October 11, 2001, he was awarded the 2185th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.  His credentials for this honor?  Well, he did guest spots on Everybody Loves Raymond and The Larry Sanders Show, and his movie credits include Hooper, Smokey & the Bandit II and Cannonball Run; what more do you want?  He did help CBS win two Emmys, in 1992 & 1993 for NFL Today.  For 10 points, name this Hall of Fame quarterback, comic foil of Jimmy Kimmel, and studio commentator on Fox NFL Sundays.       Answer: 	Terry Bradshaw3)	In the laboratory, it is usually approximated with a hollow object having a small hole leading to its interior.  Any radiation striking the hole enters the cavity, where it is trapped by reflections back and forth until it is absorbed.  Characteristic radiation emitted by this ideal object can be approached by inspection of the radiation emitted from the opening of the approximation.  The ideal element performs an important function in thermal physics, allowing the physicist to disregard the precise nature of a radiating object, since all of them act in exactly the same way.  FTP, give the term that refers to an object that absorbs all radiation incident upon it regardless of frequency.       Answer:  	blackbody4)	He persuaded Athens to continue warring with Megara over the lands of Salamis by writing a poem about it.  Judged to be an effective mediator between the serfs and the disenfranchised, he was elected archon in 594 BCE;among his first acts was the abolition of the serfdom and debt-slavery. In order to arrive at the fairest division of power, he divided the citizens into four property classes, then brought 100 of each into the Assembly. For10 points, name this Athenian statesman, who set up the Council of 400. 	Answer: 	Solon5)	It was written around 1798, probably under the title "Susan," and was sold to a publisher in 1803 but not released until its posthumous publication in 1817.  First in the fashionable society of Bath and then in the title location itself, Catherine Morland gains worldly wisdom and learns not to interpret the world through the conventions of the gothic thrillers dhe reads.  FTP name this satire by Jane Austen.	Answer:	Northanger Abbey6)  	Its title comes from a style of architecture found prevalent in early 1930s Iowa, where it was painted. The artist's sister and a local dentist named Byron McKeeby posed for this work, which is considered to be the epitome of midwestern life in the first half of the 20th century. The woman, however, is not the man's wife but his daughter, doomed to spending her days assisting her widowed father on the farm. FTP, identify this 1930 Grant Wood painting.	Answer:  	American Gothic7)  	Early in the Civil War, noted Antarctic explorer Charles Wilkes commanded the U.S.S. San Jacinto.   In Nov. 1861 Wilkes stirred up a heap of trouble by forcibly removing James M. Mason and John Slidell, two Confederate emissaries, from a British mail and passenger ship.  Despite public opinion in support of Wilkes' actions, Lincoln and Secretary of State Seward chose to smooth things over with Britain, release the emissaries, and apologize.  FTP name this diplomatic incident, named for the British ship in question.	Answer:	the Trent affair8)	This number is equal to the limit of the quantity (1+x) to the -xth power as x approaches zero. It is more commonly defined by its Maclaurin series, 1/n! as n goes from zero to infinity. FTP, identify this number which is the derivative of itself.	Answer:  	e.    
9)	This Baltimore native wrote eleven books about a secret agent man named Lanny Budd, including Worlds End and the Pulitzer-winning Dragon's Teeth, which had Lanny deal with the Nazi threat.  He's better remembered today for King Coal, The oney Changers, and other novels centered on economic and social issues. FTP name this author, whose best-known book dealt with unsanitary working conditions in the meat packing industry.       Answer:  	Upton Sinclair 10)	She turns 30 a week from tomorrow.  Yet she has already worked for Jim Jarmusch in Night on Earth, Woody Allen in Celebrity, Jim Abrahams in Welcome Home, Roxy Carmichael!, Spike Jonze in Being John Malkovich, Martin Scorsese in The Age of Innocence, Francis Ford Coppola in Bram Stoker's Dracula, and Tim Burton in Beetlejuice and Edward Scissorhands.   FTP identify this Minnesota born star of Alien Resurrection, Heathers, and Girl Interrupted.	Answer:  	Winona Ryder11)	Developed by the Mikoyan-Gurevich company after World War II, it was first put into service in 1949 and featured a VK-1 engine, one 37mm and two 23mm cannons, along with up to 2,000 lbs of rockets or bombs.  It was used extensively by the North Koreans in the 1950s, where it suffered heavy losses to the similarly-designed but better-armed F-86 Sabre.  For ten points, name this Soviet fighter plane.	Answer: MiG-15 (Prompt for more information on "UTI" or "Fagot")12) This effect is defined as the splitting of a single spectral line into a group of closely spaced lines when the substance producing the single line is subjected to a uniform magnetic field. In the normal effect, the spectral line corresponding with the original frequency of light appears with two other lines arranged symmetrically on either side of it. In the far more common anomalous effect the pattern is much more complex. FTP, name this effect which earned its discoverer the 1902 Nobel Prize for physics.	Answer:  	the Zeeman Effect.13)	Trained as a military leader, he served as military attache in Petrograd and as legation secretary at the embassy in Moscow.  From 1931-33, he was minister of defense, but he left government service and founded the NationalUnity party.  An active supporter of the Nazis, he appointed himself premier when the Nazis invaded in 1940, but his government lasted only 6 days. For 10 points, name this Norwegian whose name has become synonymous with traitor.	Answer: Vidkun Quisling14)	She justified her poetry by arguing that "imposed silence about any area of our lives is a tool for separation and powerlessness."  Thus, she celebrates all of her selves in order that others could come to find their own voices.  Her first five volumes of poetry were The First Cities, Cables to Rage, From a Land Where Other People Live, New York Headshop and Museum, and Coal.  For 10 points, name this 20th century black lesbian feminist author, of such prose works as "Eye to Eye: Black Women, Hatred, and Anger" and "Poetry is Not a Luxury".	Answer: Audre Lorde15)	His first published composition was the song cycle Eliland, ein Sang vom Chiemsee in 1911; it began his tradition of setting earlier pieces to music.  He discovered Latin in the 1930's, and his work went in a different direction; compositions from this period include the Trionfo di Afrodite and Catulli Carmina, an adaptation of 11 poems by Catullus.  For 10 points, name this German composer, whose most famous work is the 1937 Carmina Burana.	Answer:  Carl Orff16)	Its highest point is the 3,681-ft. Mt. Victoria.  Bounded on the north by the Hondo River, it includes the islands of Turneffe, Glovers Reef, and Ambergris Cay.  Guatemala didn't recognize its independence until 1992, so even after its independence in 1981 British troops remained stationed there just in case.  FTP name this nation, the former British Honduras, whose capital is Belmopan.	Answer:	Belize17)	He taught at Ghent and Bonn; one of his students was Richard Erlenmeyer, inventor of the eponymous flask.  In 1858 he showed that carbon atoms are tetravalent and linked together in chains.  FTP name this chemist, whose 1865 proposal of a ring structure for benzene opened the entire field of organic chemistry.	Answer:	Friedrich August Kekule von Stradonitz
18)	His close friends inChicago included economic theorist Henry George and future governor John P. Altgeld.  He was repudiated by his allies in the labor movement in 1911, after he advised the McNamara brothers to plead guilty to bombing the offices of the L.A. Times.  This launched a second career for him in criminal law, including the spectacular defense that spared Leopold and Loeb the death penalty.  FTP name this superb attorney, probably best known today for a case which got a $100 fine (overturned on appeal) for his client, John T. Scopes.	Answer:	Clarence Darrow19)	Its name means "learner." Its founder, Guru Nanak, received a vision and subsequently built the first temple at Katarpur. Its tenth Guru compiled the first holy text which consists of mostly hymns and writings of the first ten Gurus. For ten points, name this religion, whose followers often wear colored turbans, similar to the Muslim clerics.       Answer:	Sikhism20)	Although it is native to South America, the primary producers today are China and India.  It's properly named Arachis hypogaea and belongs to the family Fabaceae Leguminosae.  It's valuable for the oil and protein produced by its seeds, as well as those other 300 things George Washington Carver found you could do with them.  FTP name this ubiquitous legume.	Answer:	Peanut21)	His second wife, Glauce, had to be an improvement over the first one.  Saved by his mother from his uncle Pelias, he was reared by the centaur Chiron.  When his uncle sends him on a suicide mission, he succeeds with the help of the woman he married first, Medea.  FTP name this Greek hero who led the Argonauts to recover the Golden Fleece.	Answer:	Jason22)	This effect was first described by an Austrian physicist in the early 19th century. It is defined as the apparent difference between the frequency and waves leave a source and the frequency at which they reach the observer. FTP,identify this effect commonly used in weather radar.	Answer:  	The Doppler Effect.     
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #31)	He has served as chairman of the Carnegie Foundation, the Rand Corporation, and PBS.  In May 2001, in a guest column in USA Today, he reflected on his remarks 40 years earlier to a conference of the National Association of Broadcasters, where he urged that TV serve the public interest and said that "when television is good, nothing - not the theatre, not the magazines or newspapers - nothing is better."  FTP name this former FCC Chairman best remembered for his prophetic warning that if you spent the whole day in front of a TV set, "you will observe a vast wasteland."	Answer: 	Newton N. Minow2)	Weighing in at 43 tons and sporting an enormous 420mm cannon, it could fire a 2,200- pound shell over 9 miles.  Two of these destroyed the fortified city of Liege in under three days at the beginning of World War I.  FTP give the common name of this German Howitzer, officially called the Krupp Howitzer L/14.	Answer: 	Big Bertha3)	Introduction.  The Shepherd.  The Echoing Green.  The Lamb.  The Little Black Boy.  The Blossom.  The Chimney Sweeper.  The Little Boy lost.  The Little Boy found.  Laughing Song.  A Cradle Song.  The Divine Image.  Holy Thursday.  Night.  Spring.  Nurse's Song.  Infant Joy.  A Dream.  On Anothers Sorrow.  For 10 points, these are collected in what 1789 collection of poems by William Blake?	Answer:  	Songs of Innocence (accept Songs of Innocence and of Experience, because I'm a giving man; prompt on "William Blake" if they say it before you do)4)	A fisherman brought him to Polydectes, the king of Seriphus.  He borrowed a shield from the goddess Minerva and winged shoes from Mercury to fight a frightful monster.  Later he saved an Ethiopian princess from the fate of being devoured by a sea monster. FTP identify this son of Jove and Danae, slayer of Medusa, and savior of Andromeda.	Answer:  	Perseus5)	The founding members had all played with John Mayall's Bluesbreakers, and together they had their first #1 hit with the instrumental Albatross in 1968.  Two years later, Peter Green and Jeremy Spencer left the band for religious reasons, and John McVie replaced them, to some extent, with his wife Christine.  By 1975, they'd added Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks; with this personnel, they recorded 1977's Rumours, which stayed at #1 for 31 weeks.  For 10 points, name this seminal band.	Answer: 	Fleetwood Mac6)	PENCIL AND PAPER READY [ALLOW 10 SECONDS FOR ANSWER]:    Torque on a current loop equals the number of wire turns times the current times the loop area times the magnetic field as long as magnetic field is parallel to the area of the loop. FTP, if a 10-Ampere current flowing through a 1x10^-4-square-meter current loop in a 2 Tesla magnetic field yields 1 Newton*meter of torque, how many wire turns does it have?	Answer:  	500.7)	1526, between Clement VII and Francis I of France against the Emperor Charles V.  1576, the Jesuits, Henry III, and Henry, duke of Guise against the Huguenots and for the defense of the Catholic Church.  1511, between Pope Julius II, Ferdinand of Aragon, Henry VII, Emperor Maximilian, the Swiss, and Venice to drive the French out of Italy.  For 10 points, what name is given to each of these alliances?	Answer:  	the Holy League; accept Holy Alliance8)	In 1944, John von Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern published a revolutionary work in which they analyzed a set of problems in which two or more people or organizations pursue their own interests and in which no one of them can dictate the outcome.  Ideas from this study include maximum strategies and dominant strategies, and the characteristic problem is the so-called prisoner's dilemma.  FTP, identify this field of mathematics, logic, and economics that states in all conflict situations, there are decision-makers, rules, and payoffs.	Answer:  	game theory
9)	In some ways, he was not unlike Ogden Nash; witness his "The Hippopotamus" from The Bad Child's Book of Beasts: "I shoot the hippopotamus / With bullets made of platinum, / Because if I use leaden ones / His hide is sure to flatten 'em."   In other ways, he was much more serious; a devout Catholic, he and colleague GK Chesterton advocated a return to the guild system, turning away from crass materialistic capitalism.  For 10 points, name this French author of such works as Marie Antoinette, Richelieu, Danton, and Milton.	Answer:  	Hilaire Belloc10)	The soft-stemmed Laphophora williamsii has pink or white flowers in summer and a blue-green stem, while Laphophora diffusa has white or yellow flowers.  Both have high levels of several alkaloids, most notably mescaline.  FTP name this cactus, used in religious rituals and as a source of a much-prized buzz.	Answer:	peyote11)	A gifted speaker, he was a loyal member of the Tory party even while trying to reform it from within.  He served as secretary of state for India before becoming Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1886, where his first budget proposed deep cuts in military spending and failed so badly he resigned.  His greatest contribution was a result of his 1874 marriage to the American Jennie Jerome.  FTP name this minor British statesman, whose failure served as a major motivation for his son Winston.	Answer:	Randolph Churchill12)  Born in the slums of Hamburg, Germany on May 7, 1833, he would become one of the greatest composers of the romantic period.  At the age of fourteen, he played in the first public performance of one of his piano compositions.  Dedicated to the memory of his mother, his German Requiem originally met with hisses from the audience but was to become admired throughout Europe.  For 10 points, name this composers who at 43 wrote his First Symphony and is best remembered for a short tune that might lull you to sleep.        	Answer:  	Johannes Brahms13)	She emigrated to the US in 1941 and became a Guggenheim fellow, and in 1959 she became the first woman appointed to a full professorship at Princeton. Her first publication, Origins of Totalitarianism, established her as a political thinker, and she went on to write The Human Condition. FTP, name this German-American political theorist, also famous for her analysis of the Nazi war crimes in Eichmann in Jerusalem.       Answer:	Hannah Arendt14)	Around 1911, he wrote "The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petals on a wet, black bough," calling the poem "In a Station of the Metro."  About 9 years later, he would invent a contemporary of limited ability, and say of him "He strove to resuscitate the dead art of poetry, to maintain the sublime in the old sense."  This contemporary he called Hugh Selwyn Mauberley.  For 10 points, name this American expatriate author of The Pisan Cantos.	Answer: 	Ezra Pound15)	Andre Debierne isn't a household name like Becquerel, Roentgen, or the Curies.  But in 1899 he examined uranium ores and discovered a radioactive metallic element produced as a decay product of uranium.  Its most stable isotope has atomic weight of 227 and a half-life of about 22 years.  FTP name this element with atomic number 89, the first on the periodic table of a series that bears its name.	Answer:	actinium	16)	Developed as part of the Green Project headed by James Gosling, this computer language was created in December of 1990. It was originally called Oak, but its name was changed ain 1993. One of the main hallmarks of this programming language is the fact that it can be run on virtually any type of computer. FTP, name this programming language whose name is not Just Another Vague Acronym.       Answer:	JAVA17)	Born in Richland, Washington in 1951, he grew up in California, Arizona, and Utah. He lived in Brazil for two years as an unpaid missionary for the Mormon Church and received degrees from Brigham Young University in 1975 and the University of Utah in 1981.  He was the first writer to receive both the Hugo and Nebula awards for best novel two years in a row.  FTP identify this author of Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead.	Answer:  	Orson Scott Card18)	It was first studied with an evacuated tube containing two electrodes connected to a source of variable voltage, with a metal plate whose surface was irradiated acting as the anode.  The electromagnetic theory of light cannot explain it for three reasons.  First, there is no time interval between the arrival of light at the metal surface and the emission of electrons.  Second, a bright light yields more electrons than a dim one but electron energies remain the same.  Third, the higher the frequency of the light, the more energy the emitted electrons have.  At a frequency below a certain critical frequency characteristic of particular metals, no electrons are emitted.  Above the critical frequency, electrons range in energy from zero to a maximum value that increases linearly with increasing frequency.  FTP, identify this effect first explained by Albert Einstein in 1905.	Answer:  	photoelectric effect19)	He built a formidable political machine in New York known as the Albany Regency.  Serving as Jackson's Secretary of State, he opposed Calhoun's doctrine of nullification and wound up taking Calhoun's former spot on the ticket in 1832.  He embarked on the Seminole Wars and declined to ntervene federally in the economic crisis of 1837.  FTP name the eighth President of the U.S., nicknamed "the Red Fox of Kinderhook."	Answer:	Martin Van Buren20)	Lucinda Matlock gathered many shells there.  Rutherford McDowell took pictures of many of its residents.  Perry Zoll was twice rejected for membership in its County Scientific Association.  Seth Compton built up its library.  Hamilton Greene represented it in Congress.  Carl Hamblin published its newspaper, the Clarion.  Daisy Fraser was a big contributor to the school fund.  And Archibald Higbie hated it.  For 10 points, these are but a few of the residents of what Illinois town, according to a 1915 published Anthology by Edgar Lee Masters.	Answer: 	Spoon River21.	It includes part of the Carpathian Moutains and the Pripet Marshes and borders the Gulf of Karnitinsk and the Sea of Azov.  It was independent from 1648 to 1775 and unsuccessfully declared its independence after the Russian Revolution.  Major cities include Donestk, Dnepropetrovsk, and Kharkov.  FTP name this former Soviet republic, now Europe's second largest nation, with its capital at Kiev.	Answer:	Ukraine22.	He is associated with the ideal of the stile antico, a strict style of diatonic counterpoint that became a widely accepted method of teaching after his death.  He is also often thought of as the savior of church music, thanks to his legendary 1576 Missa Papae Marcelli.  For 10 points, name this 16th century Italian composer and master of the madrigal.	Answer:  Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina
ROLLAPALOOZA/COTKU 2001				TOSSUPS -- FINALS1)  He's been spotted "doing the pigeon" with Jimmy Swaggart, fondling a young Michael Jackson, conspiring with OJ Simpson, taking part in an orgy with Tommy Lee & Pamela Anderson, harassing young women on a Dutch episode of The Jerry Springer Show, painted into the back of Dennis Rodman's hair, and, most recently, in a poster supporting Osama bin Laden.  For 10 points, name this TV star, roommate and evil corruptor of Ernie.       Answer: Bert2)  Helena Glory has been send by the Humanity League on a mission to a automaton factory to gain better living conditions for the creations, but she is dismayed to learn that if they begin to act erratically, they are destroyed and recycled.  After a confrontation with the executives (including her husband, general manager Harry Domin), the higher-end automatons start to exhibit human-like emotions.  Such is a very brief plot synopsis of, for 10 points, what 1920's drama by Karel Capek?	Answer:  R.U.R. (accept Rossum's Universal Robots)3)  A disheveled man yelling, "God lives on!" hit it at least four times with a small hammer on April 6, 2001, the first assault on it since the early 1970s when a man was arrested for beating it with a car tailpipe.  According to Andrew Lins, a Philadelphia Museum of Art curator who examined it after the attack by Mitchell Guilliatt, the damage was superficial, especially when compared with previous abuse.  FTP, identify this piece of American history whose name was first applied in an abolitionist pamphlet of 1839, the largest single tourist attraction in Philadelphia.	Answer:  The Liberty Bell4)  The son of an Austrian-born violinist in the Boston Symphony Orchestra & the Kneisel Quartet, he studied violin, piano, and conducting in Berlin at the Hochschule fur Musik.  He debuted as a soloist there, but returned to the US with the outbreak of WWI, and joined the Boston Symphony Orchestra as a viola player.  In 1929, he organized the outdoor series of Esplanade Concerts.  For 10 points, name this man, who a year later was appointed to the position which he held for the next 49 years, conductor of the Boston Pops.	Answer: Arthur Fiedler5)  In British slang, it is a foolish or incompetent person.  In electronics and digital system design, the IEEE standard for it is a rectangle enclosing the numeral one.  In C++ it exists in both input and output forms, with the output form being flushed by code such as cout [CEE-out] stream-insertion operator flush semicolon or endl [end-ELL] semicolon.  In chemistry, it is defined as any solution that undergoes a limited change in pH upon the addition of a small amount of acid or base.  FTP, identify this term whose standard lexical definition is a device for polishing.	Answer:  buffer6)   From 1903 until his death in 1909, he was chaplain of the US Senate.  A Unitarian minister from Boston, he also wrote prolifically, mostly biographical and historical works such as Crusoe in New York, Franklin in France, and If Jesus Came to Boston.  His uncle was also quite famous - indeed, that relative was supposed to be the principle speaker at Gettysburg.  For 10 points, name this man, grand-nephew of an American patriot, and author of The Man Without a Country.	Answer: Edward Everett Hale7)  According to Ian Hancock, a researcher at the University of Texas, they were originally a mix of Indian ethnic groups in the 11th century who banded together to resist Islamic forces.  Their language is thus really a lingua franca for military use; which might explain why the codified dictionary has only 5000 words.  For 10 points, give the name for this European ethnic group, numbering approximately 6 million, despite the 1/2 million killed in the Holocaust.	Answer: gypsies (accept: Roma)8)  The only native El Salvadorean in the NFL, he was originally signed by the San Diego Chargers out of Oregon State in early 2000, but he saw no action for them.  He played for the Amsterdam Admirals of NFL Europe in 2000, tying for the league lead with 9 field goals.  Then, his travels took him to Los Angeles, where he hit on 20 of 25 field goals for the XFL champion Xtreme.  For 10 points, name this NFL kicker, who has hit (as of this writing) his first 10 field goals for the San Francisco 49ers.	Answer: 	Jose Cortez
9)  Energy and momentum are conserved, with the scattered photon having less energy and a longer wavelength than the incident photon.  In the laboratory, an x-ray might strike an electron and be scattered away from its original direction of motion while the electron receives an impulse and begins to move.  One way to think about this phenomenon is to equate the loss of photon energy with the gain in electron kinetic energy, though this does not take into account the fact that two distinct photons are involved in the event.  FTP, name this phenomenon, first explained by a researcher at Washington University in St. Louis in 1923, in which a photon is scattered by an electron.	Answer:  	Compton effect10) NOTE: The following tossup was taken verbatim, with only minor rearrangement, from a web page as translated from German by Google.He studied law and theology, became a priest, gave the occupation up however and took over different diplomatic missions, which led it through completely Europe. 1755 he because of its auschweifenden life and proven Blasphemie were condemned to five years detention in the famous bleikammern. It could escape and became 1757  Lotteriedirektor in Paris, was however soon again on the escape. In the cities, where he stopped off, it always succeeded to it to operate in the finest sets but led constant scandals, frauds and Liebeshaendel again and again to the classification. The adventurous life tiredly, he assumed 1785 the librarian place with the count Waldstein on its lock Dux in Boehmen, where he found the time, its experiences (15 tapes in French language) to finally note and thus future generations a anecdote-rich view of 18. To leave century. The just as global report on its moved dear life made these memoirs famous. FTP give the name of the large adventurer and lover that became proverbial, among whose still further writings are the novel Eduard and Elisabeth or the journey the inside the globe and his notorious Memoirs detailing his many love affairs.       Answer:	Giacomo Girolamo Casanova11)  In 1993, Andre Kolingba lost power in this country's elections, and he hasn't been seen in public since.  But, it is believed that his forces are responsible for the May, 2001 failed coup, which did not unseat current President Ange Felix Patasse, who only held onto the presidency through the 90's with the intervention of a rebel group from the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo.  For 10 points, name this nation, whose government lacks the CFA francs to pay their civil servants in the capital city of Bangui.	Answer: 	Central African Republic12) Los Angeles, 1924-25.  Uganda, 2001.  Starting in China but then spreading worldwide, 1894-1900.  Roman Empire, 541.  And, perhaps most famously, all of Europe, 1347-52.  For 10 points, identify the disease that has ravaged those locations at those times.	Answer: 	bubonic plague (accept Black Death)13)  Starting in 1992, astronomers have become aware of a vast population of small bodies orbiting the sun beyond Neptune. There are at least 70,000 "trans-Neptunians" with diameters larger than 100 kilometers in the radial zone extending outwards from the orbit of Neptune to 50 AU. Observations show that the trans-Neptunians are mostly confined within a thick band around the ecliptic, leading to the realization that they occupy a ring surrounding the sun.  FTP, identify this ring of trans-Neptunian bodies that is widely believed to be the reservoir for short-period comets.	Answer:  	Kuiper Belt14)  Katje Borgesius, a Dutch triple agent.  Vaslav Tchitcherine, a Russian intelligence officer.  Geli Tripping, Tchitcherine's girlfriend and apprentice witch.  Major Weismann, a German rocket scientist.  Oberst Enzian, Weismann's protege.  Dr. Edward Pointsman, a Pavlovian researcher.  Roger Mexico, a statistician in the employ of Pointsman.  And Tyrone Slothrop, an American lieutenant and experimental subject.  For 10 points, in what 1973 novel by Thomas Pynchon do these characters appear?	Answer:  	Gravity's Rainbow15) When the Moabites saw what Israel had done to the Amorites, King Balak of Moab summoned this man to curse them.  Initially, he refused, but Balak finally convinced him to come, a decision that displeased God enough to send the Angel of the Lord to kill him on the road.  Luckily, his donkey saw the angel and avoided it by walking off the road, pressing close to a wall, and finally stopping altogether.  As one might imagine, the man became incensed with his donkey's behavior and beat her.  As one would not imagine, the donkey talked back to him, demanding to know why she was beaten for doing her master a service. So goes the story of, FTP, what biblical character who had a talking ass?	Answer: 	Balaam
16)  Very few of Carter's appointments were renewed by Reagan, but the choice for US Ambassador to Japan was.  A history & political science professor, he served as a Congressman from 1943-53, then in the US Senate from 53-77.  Lyndon Johnson made him majority whip in 1957, and when Johnson was elected Vice-President, he became Senate Majority Leader in 1961.  For 10 points, name this man who died in October 2001, who served as Majority Leader longer than anyone else.	Answer: 	Mike Mansfield17)   Researchers at the University of New South Wales in Australia have found that this man's paintings, which were so deliberate in the making, contain unusually high orders of fractals which undoubtedly contribute to the "beauty" of his paintings. "Blue Poles," "The Blue Unconscious," and "Full Fathom Five" are examples of his innovative style of painting, which in the absence of mathematical interpretation was derisively referred to by some as "monkey painting." FTP name this troubled "action painter," a Wyoming native who died a troubled man in 1956.	Answer:  	Jackson Pollock.18) A lawyer from Nantes, he founded L'Humanite, a socialist journal. Working his way through various posts in the French government, he helped implement the separation of church and state as minister of education and religion. Between 1909 and the mid 20s, he served as premier 11 times, and foreign minister to many governments after WWI.  It was in this post that he negotiated the Locarno Pact with Gustav Stressman, for which he won the 1926 Nobel Peace Prize.  For 10 points, name this man, co-author of the 1928 agreement that outlawed war.	Answer: 	Aristide Briand19)  	Around 1600, Johann van Helmont prepared this through destructive distillation of green vitriol (AKA ferrous sulfate.)  It was used in the LeBlanc process for making sodium carbonate, its first major industrial use.  With uses ranging from making rayon and auto batteries to pickling metals before coating them with steel, it's no wonder more of this is made each year than any other manufactured chemical.  FTP name this colorless, oily, corrosive liquid, sometimes called oil of vitriol, with formula H2 S O4.	Answer:	sulfuric acid [accept H2 S O4 or oil of vitriol on early buzz]20) 	The British Office of National Statistics has coded it as a religion for purposes of the next census, although this coding falls short of declaring the faith an official religion.  According to its adherents, it is a force created by and flowing through all living things which allows its masters to influence the minds of the weak.  For 10 points, name this creed, famous Knights of which include Mace Windu, Ben Kenobi and Yoda.	Answer:  	Jedi [prompt on "the force" if said before "a force"]21)   Related to the Latin root volvere (from which we get "revolve"), it denotes turning or rotating.  The earliest known example of music especially for this dance is found in a 1754 German comedy; indeed, it wasn't until about 1790 that the dance wasn't just called "Deutsche."  It apparently caused quite a commotion in the medical community, as a 1797 medical pamphlet suggested that it spun people around too fast, causing weakness of the body and mind.  For 10 points, name this dance in triple time, mastered by Johann & Richard Strauss.	Answer:  waltz22) This term refers to airborne pyroclastic material, usually ranging in size from 0.002 inches to the size of a small car, formed by the explosion of magma during a volcanic eruption. Pumice, cinders, and ash are the most common kinds of this material. For ten points, name it.		Answer:  	tephra23.	This mapping technique allows for analysis of Boolean logic reductions by their locations in a grid. Functions of two or more variables can be analyzed in this fashion, and the technique is useful in that multiple variables can be grouped on one axis. Patterns are thus more easily detected. For ten points, name this technique, which can also be described as a rearranged truth table.	Answer:  	Karnaugh map or K-maps