TOSSUPS - FINALS	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by DePauw, Paul Litwak, and other Deep Bench, Rollapalooza, and COTKU contributors 1.  This man took power in 1971.  During his rule, an Anglican Archbishop, a chief justice, several cabinet members and over 300,000 people in all met their end under his orders.  In 1972, he claimed that God came to him in a dream and told him to rid his country of all Asians, all of whom he gave 90 days to leave.  FTP, who is this man who, overthrew Apolo Milton Obote and was himself ousted as Ugandan leader on April 11, 1979?	Answer:	Idi Amin2. These are the less frequently occuring of the events described by the 18-year Saros cycle, and Baily's Beads are phenomena associated with them.  Up to five may occur in a year.  The type observed depends on whether it is the umbra or the penumbra.  These can only occur at new moon, and the next one will occur on December 4, 2002.  FTP, name this celestial event, where the moon and sun are aligned so that the moon's shadow falls on Earth.	Answer:	Solar eclipse (prompt on eclipse)3. This term derives from the Latin for "net", as it originally referred to kidnappers who used the nets to capture children.  Turnitin.com, a web service devoted to the prevention of this practice, is used by over 200,000 secondary schools, colleges, and universities. FTP, what is committed by taking others' written work and passing it off as your own? 	Answer:	Plagiarism (accept equivalents)4. During his life, he was revered by Samuel Johnson and his Literary club, often for the comic faux-pas that he made, although his caricatures in The Retaliation suggested that the faux-pas were not accidental.  He was made famous in 1759 with publication in The Bee, which included stories like "Reverie at the Boar's Head Tavern".  His The Citizen Of The World took time to make fun of Montesquieu.  FTP, who is this English author of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield?       Answer:  	Oliver Goldsmith5. His 1927 University of Berlin dissertation was entitled Sanctorum Communio and he was offered a teaching post there in August of 1931.   In 1933, he became minister to a church in London where he helped found the Confessing Church.  Returning to Germany in 1935, he was banned from speaking publicly in 1940 and was arrested for abuse of his Military Intelligence position. Later implicated in a plot to kill Hitler, FTP, what Lutheran theologian and author of The Cost of Discipleship was executed in Flossenburg Concentration Camp on April 9, 1945.	Answer:  	Dietrich _Bonhoeffer_6. L. C. Allen suggested that this concept is the average one-electron energy of the valence shell electrons in ground state free atoms.  This definition correlates well with the Allred-Rochow definition, which is based upon the electrostatic force of attraction between the nucleus and valence electrons.  Hans Jaffe expounded on the definition relating electron affinity and ionization potential purported by R. S. Mulliken, though the most famous definition might be Linus Pauling's.  FTP, identify this chemistry concept that defines an atom's ability to attract electrons, for which fluorine has the highest value.       Answer: 	electronegativity7.	In the movie Life is Beautiful, Roberto Benigni's character tells his young son he will not let these people into the family book shop, mocking the persecution of the Jews.  In reality, they drove the Vandals from Spain, conquered Aquitaine, and established Toledo as their capital.  Rodrigo was the last of them to be king of Spain; his rivals invited Tarik ibn Ziyad to help them defeat him. FTP, who are these medieval people whose power in Spain was lost to the Moors in 711?       Answer: 	Visigoths (do not accept or prompt on "Goths")8.	This band was founded after the 1994 breakup of Uncle Tupelo, and it includes four of that group's original members.  They have recorded five albums, including Mermaid Avenue with Billy Bragg.  Recent singles include "Heavy Metal Drummer" and "War on War", and the documentary "I Am Trying to Break Your Heart" chronicled the making of their fourth album, including Jay Bennett's departure from the band.  FTP, identify this band fronted by Jeff Tweedy, whose most recent release was Yankee Hotel Foxtrot.	Answer:	Wilco
9.	He fought with the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War, and his home country appointed him ambassador to India in 1962.  He resigned his post over the government's violent suppression of protests during the 1968 Olympics, and wrote a response entitled "Postscript."  His poems feature Aztec themes, and include "Piedra del Sol", and "Luna Silvestre", his first published work.  FTP, identify this Mexican poet, winner of the 1990 Nobel Prize, and author of "The Labyrinth of Solitude".	Answer:	Octavio Paz10. Its flag features a gold dove flying over a golden sun that is setting into a series of wavy blue and white lines all against a red background. It became the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony in 1916. Among its 33 islands are the Line Islands, the former Christmas Island, and the one-time American claims, Kanton and Enderbury. It gained independence in 1979, a year after the Ellice Islands gained theirs and renamed themselves Tuvalu. FTP name this South Pacific nation that crosses both the equator and the International Date Line.       Answer: 	Kiribati (pron. Kiribass)11. His discovery of a method of making jewellery clasps brings prosperity to the town of M. sur M., where he is elected mayor.  However, his true identity is suspected when he uses his prodigious strength to lift a cart off of Father Fauchevelant.  Later, to save the innocent Champmathieu, he acknowledges his criminal past to the police inspector Javert.  FTP, name this man, the protagonist of Victor Hugo's Les Miserables.	Answer:	 Jean Valjean12.  His two other top ten finishes this year have come at the Kemper Insurance Open, where he finished second, and the Genuity Classic, where he placed fourth.  With two holes to play, he found himself up 14 strokes on Steve Lowery at this year's International, ultimately winning the tournament by only one stroke.  FTP, which pro golfer then parlayed that win into a win the following week over Tiger Woods in this year's PGA Championship, his first ever major win?	Answer:	 Rich Beem13. The groundwork behind its discovery was conducted by Walther Bothe and Herbert Becker, who observed strange radiation produced by bombarding metal beryllium with alpha particles.  Gary and Tarrant later made contributions to studying its photoelectric properties, and Feather made observations regarding its absorption properties in paraffin.  However, this particle was discovered by an Englishman who won the 1935 Nobel Prize in physics.  Composed of two down and one up quark, FTP, identify this neutral particle that can be found in the nucleus of atoms.       Answer: 	neutron14. The word is derived from the Portuguese for a pearl of irregular shape, and was applied to art before music. The use of basso continuo and the idea of affect were important in the music of this period. Contrasting textures, tempi, and dynamics mark this style. The concerto grosso took shape under composers like Corelli, and Monteverdi began the opera form during this time. FTP, what is this period of music from about 1600 to 1750, during which J.S. Bach, Handel, and Vivaldi wrote?	Answer:	 Baroque15. He was heir to his family's successful department store, but instead chose to go into politics.  Serving the U.S. for fifty-six years as a soldier and statesman, in 1986 the federal government created a scholarship in his name awarded to top students around the nation.  However, he is best known for the stand he took against civil rights and his extreme anticommunism while facing off against Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1964 presidential race.  For 10 points-name this conservative senator from Arizona.	Answer:	Barry Morris Goldwater16. The children convince Bailey to drive the car down a dirt road to a house that promises a secret panel.  The oldest character would much rather have visited the kinfolk in east Tennessee than go to Florida in the first place.  The car breaks down and an escaped convict rumored to be in the area, appears and systematically offs each member of the family.  FTP, the grandmother claims the Misfit is "one of her children" in what short story by Flannery O'Connor?	Answer:	 A Good Man is Hard to Find
17. Common elements in these include CV syllabic structures; that is, syllables composed of only a consonant and a vowel.  In addition, they usually feature free pronouns, even if their lexifying source language uses bound pronouns.  When one of these becomes nativized, it is considered a creole.  FTP, identify these languages which may arise when speakers of two different languages attempt to converse.	Answer:	 pidgins18.	In some myths, he is the parthenogenous son of Parvati, though other myths consider him to be the son of Parvati and Shiva. According to myth, he wrote down the Mahabarata while the scribe Vyasa dictated it. He is also called Vinayak, meaning "the one who puts off all obstacles".  FTP, name this elephant-headed Hindu god.	Answer:	 Ganesha19.	Caused by what the Center for Civilian Biodefense Strategies calls "the single most poisonous substance known", this disease results from the absorption of the toxin onto a mucosal surface.  The toxin, which exists in seven varieties, binds irreversibly to peripheral cholinergic synapses, preventing the release of acetylcholine.  It is caused by a bacteria of the Clostridia genus.  FTP, identify this disease, most of whose natural cases are caused by contamination of preserved food.	Answer:	 Botulism20.	The group numbered 87 people initially, led at various points by William Russell and William Boggs.  Sarah Keyes was the first to die, and by the end, it was Louis Keseberg who suffered the most and saw the most death.  The trek, roughly a year in length, ran from April of 1846 to April of 1847, and is largely documented in the journal of Patrick Breen.  FTP, this describes what expedition from Illinois to California where Keseberg and others ate their fellows to stay alive, named for the lead family of the trip?       Answer: 	The Donner Party21. When eaten, this plant releases hydrochloric acid in the stomach, aiding digestion, and one of the plant's main constituents, choline, is essential to liver function. It is also useful as a diuretic.  In addition, the leaves are sometimes used in salads, while the blossoms may be used to make jellies or wines.  FTP, name this common yellow flowered weed, whose name comes from the French for "lion's tooth"?	Answer:	 Dandelion22.	It was built in less than six years, and the fast pace of construction may have contributed to its structural defects.  Its main dome fell twice in earthquakes before it was replaced 26 years after it was completed; a lot of external buttressing was also added later, as were other new features.  Designed by Anthemius of Tralles, this building was dedicated to the Divine Wisdom of God.  After the city it is in changed hands, minarets were built as part of the conversion to a mosque.  For ten points, name this now museum in Istanbul commissioned by the Emperor Justinian.	Answer:	Hagia Sophia23.	Pencil and paper may be helpful. Let the matrix A be the 2x2 (read: two by two) matrix whose rows are [5     2] (five, two) and [4    -1] (four, negative 1). FTP, Calculate the determinant of this matrix. You have 15 seconds.				Answer:		-13 (negative thirteen)
BONI - FINALS		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by DePauw, Paul Litwak, and other Deep Bench, Rollapalooza, and COTKU contributors 1.	Given a description of a C.S. Lewis book, name it FTSNOP: [5] In this clever work, an experienced demon counsels his nephew, Wormwood, on how to obtain the soul of a young man.	Answer:	  The Screwtape Letters [10] This work, Lewis's autobiography, chronicles his early life and his conversion to Christianity. 	Answer:	 Surprised by Joy [15] F5PE name the three books in Lewis's Space Trilogy..	Answers:	 Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra, That Hideous Strength2.	Answer these questions about organic chemistry's most disrespected and abused class of molecules, lipids, FTPE.[10] Discovered in human semen in 1935, this group of lipids consists of 20-carbon fatty acid derivatives bearing five-carbon rings.  Their diverse effects include  stimulation of inflammation and smooth muscle contraction.	Answer:	prostaglandin[10] Prostaglandins, prostacyclins, leukotrienes, and thromboxins are all types of this class of compounds, which are produced from arachidonic acid.	Answer:	eocosanoids[10] These tetracyclic lipid derivatives include antiinflammatories like prednisone, and sex hormones like estradiol, but examples like nandrolone and dianabol have grabbed headlines.	Answer:	steroids3.	Identify the revolutionary war battles, FTPE.[10] George Rogers Clark led his Virginia and Kentucky miltiamen on this campaign into present-day Illinois, in which he kicked the Brits out of Cahokia and Fort Sackville, and forced them to retreat to Fort Detroit.  It is named for a city on the Wabash, near the site of Fort Sackville.	Answer:	Vincennes[10] Daniel Morgan technically lost this battle against Banastre Tarleton, but the British casualties were substantially heavier, and their position was rendered untenable.	Answer:	Cowpens[10] In October 1780 a group of loyalists was met by American irregulars under Shelby, Sevier, and Campbell at this site in the Smokies, where they were brutally slaughtered. Nine men were hanged for treason.	Answer:	King's Mountain4.	Name the artist, FTPE:[10] His Diagonal Composition and Broadway Boogie Woogie exemplify this Dutchman's.abstract neoplasticist style.	Answer:	 Piet Mondrian [10] His Arrangement according to Laws of Chance (Collage with Squares) and papiers déchirés (torn papers) are examples of the work of this Dada French sculptor, painter, and poet.	Answer:	 Jean Arp[10] This early Automatist used the technique decalcomania, pressing surfaces together to transfer paint, and produced Dada photomontages.	Answer:	 Max Ernst5.	Identify these African capitals with something in common on a 15-5 basis. each.For 15, Originally known as Kombemtinga, it was one of four Mossi states, before conquering the other three.  Its main business district is the Grand Marche.For 5, Despite not being on the Volta River, the French colonizers made it the capital of Upper Volta, now Burkina Faso.	Answer:	_Ouagadougou_For 15, With a name meaning "city of thousands" it began as a 17th century fortress and once had the Zoma, the longest market in the world.  It sits on the Imerina plateau in the middle of the country.For 5, Its central location makes it a base city for the island country's growing eco-tourism industry.	Answer:	_Antananarivo_(Their common feature is that they both have an overabundance of vowels)
6.	Identify the book from characters for 10, 5 if you need the author.[10] Woody, Chizu, Eleanor, Jeanne, about internment of Japanese-Americans.[5] Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston	Answer:	 Farewell to Manzanar[10] Per, Beret, and Ole Hansa, Peder Victorious are Norwegian immigrants.[5] O.E. Rölvaag	Answer:	 Giants in the Earth[10] Reuben and Rainie Pritchard, Billy Colman, the dogs Little Ann and Old Dan[5] Wilson Rawls	Answer:	 Where the Red Fern Grows7.	Given the major league baseball manager fired after the 2002 season, identify the team that axed him FTPE:(10) Luis Pujols        Answer:  _Detroit_ _Tigers_ (either answer acceptable)(10) Jerry Narron       Answer:  _Texas_ _Rangers_ (either answer acceptable)(10) Bobby Valentine         Answer:  _New York_ _Mets_ (either answer acceptable)8.	FTPE.identify these physical limits: A. Temperature above which magnetic dipoles in a ferromagnet randomize so that only weak paramagnetism remains.       Answer: 	Curie temperatureB. The possible maximum mass for a white dwarf star.       Answer: 	Chandrasekhar limitC. Temperature of 2.18 Kelvin, below which helium-4 begins to demonstrate superfluidity.   Answer: 		Lambda point9.     The Greeks mastered tragedy, but the Romans were funnier.  Name the authors of these comic masterpieces FTPE:.A. Phormio, The Mother-In-Law, and Woman of Andros       Answer: 	Terence (Publius Terentius Afer)B Memaechmi and Miles Gloriosus       Answer: 	Titus Maccius PlautusC. The Satyricon       Answer: 	Gaius Petronius Arbiter10.	I think I wrote a lead-in just like this before, but hey, I liked it.  Given a description, name the work written by  John Stuart Mill of his own free will FTPE:A. This 1859 tome treats the nature of freedom and how it best achieves itself.       Answer: 	On LibertyB. In this 1863 work, Mill examines the philosophical doctrines and work of his father James and of Jeremy Bentham.       Answer: 	UtilitarianismC. Mill wrote this 1869 proto-feminist work with the aid of his wife Harriet Taylor.       Answer: 	The Subjection of Women11.	It's the World History Grab Bag.  Answer the following FTSNOP:A. (5 each) Its been said that Roses are Red and Violets are blue, but this House of England did not agree during the War of the Roses. FTP each Which house had which rose?        Answer:	York -White, Lancaster -RedB. (5 each) What are the two major social classes of Rome under the Republic?        Answer:	plebeians, patriciansC. (10) Until the War of the Pacific, Bolivia had a seacoast. Chile took what are now two provinces from Bolivia. Name either        Answer:	Antofagasta, Tarapaca
12.	Name these French operas, FTPE.[10] This Offenbach opera based on the stories told by the author of "The Nutcracker" contains the famed "Barcarolle."	Answer:	Tales of Hoffmann[10] This Berlioz opera begins with the characters admiring a large wooden equine, and ends with Didon flinging herself upon her sword, and prophesying defeat for her city.	Answer:	Les Troyens (The Trojans)[10] Golaud discovers the heroine of this Debussy work lost in the forest.  He marries her, but treats her so badly that she falls for his brother instead.  So Golaud kills him.	Answer:	Pelleas and Melisande13.	FTP, name these delegates to the 1815 Vienna conference.This Austrian foreign minister is considered to be the driving force behind the conference, which shaped post-Napoleonic Europe for nearly half a century.       Prince Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar von MetternichThis opportunistic Frenchman had served both the Republic and Napoleon before attending the Vienna conference on behalf of Louis XVIII.       Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-PérigordThis ambitious Tsar of Russia attended the conference personally, to garner support for his "Holy Alliance".	Alexander I    14.	Identify the substance 30-20-10-5.[30] In plants, it has been shown that this chemical plays a key role in regulation of polar growth in pollen tubes.  In animals, it plays a similar role in axon guidance, causing undirected growth at high concentrations. [20] Benzodiazepines function by increasing the effect of this chemical at its receptors.[10] Glutamate, which is excitatory, and this chemical, which is inhibitory, are the two most widely-present neurotransmitters in the body.    [5] Its common name is an abbreviation for gamma-aminobutyric acid.	Answer:	 GABA (accept gamma-aminobutyric acid before the 5)15.	Identify the mathematical philosophers, FTPE.[10] This Greek dude established a cult of the number.  There's a lot of apocryphal stuff about what his followers did concerning the irrational numbers.	Answer:	Pythagoras[10] It's fitting that this Jansenist would have a "wager" named after him, as he did an awful lot of wagering in an effort to determine the laws of probability.	Answer:	Blaise Pascal[10] Some of his notation was picked up by Russell and Whitehead.  Not only did he create the language Interlingua, he also created a set of axioms for the natural numbers.	Answer:	Giuseppe Peano16.	Queen Victoria had 9 children, who eventually made connections with almost every royal house in Europe. Answer these questions about some of the descendants of Queen Victoria for 10 points each. 1. Victoria's youngest daughter Beatrice gave birth to a daughter named Eugenie. Eugenie married King Alphonso XII, two of whose sons were afflicted with hemophilia because Beatrice and Eugenie both carried the gene for it. Alphonso's grandson became what current King of Spain after the death of Francisco Franco in 1975?  	Answer:	Juan Carlos I2. Victoria's daughter Alice, who married Prince Louis of Hesse, had 5 daughters of her own, the 4th of which, Alix, married what last czar of Russia?	Answer:	Nicholas II3. Alice of Hesse's oldest granddaughter married into the Greek royal family, giving birth to what Prince, who would eventually marry Queen Elizabeth II of England?	Answer:	Prince Phillip
17.	Answer the following questions about relating to a band for ten points each.[10] This English synth-pop group with a French name has had hits in the United States with songs such as "Enjoy The Silence", "People Are People", "Policy of Truth", and most recently 2001's "Dream On."	Answer:	Depeche Mode[10] An original member of Depeche Mode, he ran away from fame after they became successful.  He himself had trouble escaping success, as he has had a number of hits with Allison Moyet in Yaz and with Andy Bell in his current group, Erasure.	Answer:	Vince Clarke[10] In 1988 Depeche Mode became the first single artist in almost a decade to sell out this venue; this concert was later released as the live album 101.	Answer:	Rose Bowl18.	Identify the following psychological disorders from clues FTPE. A.  Sufferers of this impulse-control disorder are unable to resist the impulse to pull out their own hair.	Answer:	 trichotillomaniaB.  Diagnostic criteria for this disorder, a type of autism, include repetitive patterns of behavior and problems in social interaction but do NOT include delays in verbal skills.	Answer:	  Asperger's syndromeC.  Sufferers of this disorder, which is abbreviated as BDD, experience marked distress due to imagined or minor bodily flaws, causing social and occupational difficulties. 	Answer:	  Body Dysmorphic Disorder19.	30-20-10, name the author from works:[30] My Uncle Oswald, Going Solo, Switch Bitch[20] The Umbrella Man, The Giraffe and the Pelly and Me, The Great Automatic Grammatizator[10] Danny The Champion of the World, George's Marvellous Medicine, James and the Giant Peach	Answer:	 Roald Dahl20.	Answer these questions about the Kuiper belt, FTPE.[10] This object sits in a stationary orbit above the equator of Pluto.  Pluto's only satellite, it was discovered in 1978 by James Christy.	Answer:	Charon[10] This object, named from the mythology of the Tongva tribe, early inhabitants of the LA area, was recently discovered by Michael Brown and Chadwick Truillo.  At 1300km in diameter, it is the largest object in the solar system identified since the discovery of Pluto.	Answer:	Quaoar (pronounced "kwa- whar")[10] The so-called "Plutinos" are locked in a 3:2 resonance with what object?	Answer:	Neptune21.	Identify the islands of our neighbor to the north for ten points each, eh.[10] This island, part of the Queen Elizabeth Islands, is the 10th largest on earth and the 3rd largest in Canada and contains the country's northernmost point.	Answer:	Ellsmere Island[10] This Ontario island is the largest island inside a lake in the world.	Answer:	Manitoulin Island[10] The Confederation Bridge connects this island to the mainland.  It forms a province with capital at Charlottetown.	Answer:	Prince Edward Island (accept PEI)22.	Answer these related questions FTPE:A. This organization was founded in 1912 as a nonviolent civil rights organization that worked to promote the interests of black South Africans. Answer:	ANC or African National CongressB. In 1955 the ANC issued this, which stated that "South Africa belongs to all who live in it, black and white." Answer:	Freedom Charter C. Rivals, who believed South Africa, broke from the ANC and formed this party.Answer:	Pan-Africanist Congress or PAC