TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY A		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Seth Kendall1. Rose spends much of her early life assisting her father, Lionel, in his anti-apartheid Communist activities, even going so far as to smuggle messages to him during his frequent incarcerations by feigning a love affair with a fellow political prisoner. Managing to gain government permission to go abroad after Lionel's death, she hangs out in Paris and London, but her attendance at a Communist rally there comes back to haunt her after she returns to South Africa to work as a physical therapist during the Soweto school riots. This is a brief chronicle of, FTP, what title character of the most famous novel of Nadine Gordimer?	Answer:	Burger's Daughter2. After graduating from what was then Memphis State and earning a law degree from Vanderbilt this man went to Washington and served as an assistant attorney to the Senate Watergate Committee, in which capacity footage of him can be seen in the background in the film JFK. By that time he had already become familiar to moviegoers from parts played in Feds, The Hunt for Red October, and Die Hard II, and though his role in In the Line of Fire would be his last before a temporary retirement to pursue a different career from 1994 to 2002, he has recently been able to combine his interests in law and acting in a role on a television courtroom show. FTP name this one-and-a-third-term Tennessee Senator who now plays DA Arthur Branch on Law and Order.	Answer:	Fred Dalton Thompson 3. It occurs in a variety of forms, such as satin spar and selenite, and is often found in salt plains along with other evaporite materials like anhydrite and halite. This nonsilicate mineral can be used for fluxing agents, fertilizer, and filler in paper and textiles, but it is most commonly used for building materials and statuary. FTP name this mineral, one of whose forms is alabaster, consisting of hydrated calcium sulfate, whose principal use is in plaster of Paris.	Answer:	gypsum4. Non-rabbinical Jewish tradition holds that his objection to the circumcision of his grandson Gershom brought about a divine attack on the boy's father found in Exodus 4:24-26. Though confusion is caused by an alternate name, this Biblical figure apparently also has a son named Hobab whom Moses asks to guide the Israelites through the desert as well as a daughter named in Exodus 2, whom the strange Egyptian exile helps at a well and ultimately marries.  A Midianite priest also called Reuel, FTP name this biblical father-in-law of Moses, also the namesake of a character played by Max Baer Jr.	Answer:	Jethro [accept early buzz with Reuel]5.  According to its "author" the title malady derives from three types of despair, of which the first, unconsciousness of self, is exhibited by sensualists who ignore truth for illusory happiness. The other types of despair include that of weakness, which is the unwillingness to be one's self, and that of defiance, which is the willingness to be a false self, yet all of these can be overcome by embracing one's true nature with all its limitations and external faults and by resolving to "live no matter what". Such is the remedy proposed by Anti-Climactus in, FTP, what philosophical work actually written by Soren Kierkegaard?	Answer:	Sickness unto Death6. When his adopted nation voluntarily gave up its independence he returned to Washington, where he had served in the House of Representatives from 1823 to 1827, to serve in the Senate from 1845 to 1859. Further insurrection at home would end his political career permanently two years later, when the area he led through one secession decided against his wishes to secede again and depose him as governor. FTP name this one-time governor of Tennessee, whose leadership at San Jacinto led to his being chosen as President of, and later Governor of, Texas.	Answer:	Sam Houston
7. Exposure to this strong vesicant at high concentrations can lead to pulmonary edema and conjunctivitis. Also known as bis(beta-chloroethyl) sulfide or dichlorodiethyl sulfide, its long-term effects can include leukemia, birth-defects, and cancer of the throat, mouth, and skin, but it is usually more dreaded for its short-term effects including blistering of the skin and lungs and burning of the eyes. FTP name this anti-personnel compound, perhaps best known for its use at Ypres in the first World War.	Answer:	mustard gas (accept bis(beta-chloroethyl) sulfide or dichlorodiethyl sulfide prior to mention)8. The name of this mountain range is Turkish for "Black Mountain," and features of it include vast glaciers such as the Hispar, Siachen, and Baltoro. 500 miles in length if the Ch'iang-ch'en-mo and Pangong ranges of the Plateau of Tibet are included,  they are perhaps most famous for a peak in the system known in local languages as either Chogori or Dapsang. FTP name this range helping to form the borders of Tajikistan, China, India, Afghanistan, and Pakistan and which contains the peak K2.	Answer:	Karakorum9. By applying pressure to his own eyeballs he observed that it is possible to see the shadows of retinal blood vessels, known as his "vessel figure." He discovered the sweat glands of the skin and observed that as light intensity decreases red objects are perceived to fade faster than blue objects of the same brightness. He also discovered large nerve cells with many branching extensions found in the cortex of the cerebellum. FTP name this scientist who also discovered his namesake fibers which conducts the pacemaker stimulus along the inside walls of the ventricles.	Answer:	Jan Evangelista Purkinje10. The background music suggests the train to San Antonio about which the narrator is speaking, pondering about those in the fancy compartments having coffee and cigars and observing that thoughts of it and its passengers torture him and make him cry. Nevertheless, he admits the justice of his current predicament, which has led to him not seeing the sunrise for as long as he can remember because he had ignored his mother's pleas that he not play with guns. FTP identify this song narrated by an inmate incarcerated for having shot a man in Reno just to watch him die, one of the earliest and biggest hits of the late Johnny Cash.	Answer:	Folsom Prison Blues11. The action of the play takes place in the basement of what appears to be a restaurant in Birmingham, where the two main characters have been sent by the mysterious and uncommunicative Wilson. Confused by several cryptic messages sent to them, they are aware that they have been sent to kill someone though they don't know who, and this ambiguity remains unresolved in the end even when it appears that one of the men is going to kill the other one. Such is a brief sketch of the adventures of Gus and Ben in, FTP, what absurdist play by Harold Pinter whose title refers to the device by which they are sent unfillable requests?	Answer:	The Dumbwaiter12. Burdened by plunder taken during their raid of hostile territory near Orleans, the English army was cornered near Tours and, despite terms offered by its commander, was forced to brace itself from an attack by a vastly larger French army. At first, the dismounted cavalry of that army seemed sure to take the field, but an infantry counterattack took advantage of the impaired movement of the fully armored horseless knights, and the archers promptly cut them to shreds, after which the Black Prince was able to make a retreat to Bordeaux with his captives, including French king John II. FTP name this 1356 battle of the Hundred Years War.	Answer:	Poitiers13. In 1993 British Science Minister William Waldegrave awarded bottles of champagne to five winners of his challenge to explain on a single sheet of paper what this is and why it matters.  It is a logical consequence of the Standard Model in particle physics, as it would be associated with its namesake field that hypothetically gives particles their masses.  Some theorize it is actually a combination of particles, which would explain why it is as yet unidentified.  FTP name this conjectured subatomic particle whose existence or non-existence is a major objective of Fermilab and CERN.	Answer:	Higgs boson
14. In it, marine mammals such as the cetaceans and the sirenians first appeared, as did the artiodactyls, as well as early forms of bats, rodents, and primates, and its beginning marked the emergence of the first modern mammals. This second epoch of the Tertiary Period began about 57.8 million years ago and ended about 36.6 million years ago. Preceded by the Paleocene Epoch and followed by the Oligocene Epoch, FTP name this epoch which, as its name suggests, was the "dawn" of recent life.	Answer:	Eocene15. Goshkov is a former public relations man and would-be author whose downfall comes because of a lawsuit for mismanagement, though he dies of shock when he is finally cleared of the charge. Barbara Dobroselova's heart was broken by the death of her betrothed Pokrovski and was abandoned by another suitor, wealthy playboy Bwikov, who eventually offers marriage, while Makar Dievushkin is a clerk whose generosity persists despite his destitution. Such are a few of the impoverished title characters in, FTP, what novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky?	Answer:	Poor Folk16. In 1665 he commanded the squadron that defeated the Dutch at the Battle of Lowestoft, but he was ultimately removed in favor of Prince Rupert of the Rhine as Lord High Admiral when he refused to take the Test Oath of 1673, and by 1690 he had apparently lost all of his fighting Žlan and was soundly defeated at the Battle of the Boyne.  In the colonies his appointment of Edmund Andros as governor of the Dominion of New England made him unpopular, while back home his marriage to Mary of Modena and unwillingness to convert from Roman Catholicism led to his deposition in the Glorious Revolution.  FTP name this predecessor of William III.	Answer:	James II17. Phil is a widowed journalist sent to New York with his young son to do a piece on anti-Semitism, whose life seems to be taking a turn for the better when he begins to fall in love with Kathy Lancey. The problems begin when, instead of employing the experiences of his friend David Goldberg order to write the piece, he begins to use the pseudonym "Greenberg" and allows people to believe he is Jewish, thus experiencing the prejudiced attitudes of landlords, his secretary, and even Kathy first-hand. Such are the events of, FTP, what Elia Kazan film, which earned the director an Oscar and also took Best Picture in 1948.Answer:	Gentleman's Agreement18. The performer Eminem claims to have been victimized by this disorder which also plays a role in the film The Sixth Sense. First extensively described by Roy Meadow in 1977, those afflicted with it are usually women who appear to be wonderfully compassionate and attentive mothers and who exhibit extensive medical knowledge which they use to help doctors diagnose the ailments of their children, ailments which unsurprisingly elude diagnosis, as they are in fact being manufactured by the loving parent. For 10 points identify this disorder ultimately named for a legendary 18th century German Storyteller, whose "sufferers" gain attention caring for their sick children whom thy themselves are making ill.	Answer:	Munchausen's by Proxy Syndrome (accept any arrangements of key words)19. Sir Walter Scott inspired this composer's Waverly Overture, while Byron supplied the subject of his Corsair Overture as well as another famous piece. Shakespeare also provided subject matter, as his work was used for such pieces as The Death of Ophelia and the opera Beatrice and Benedict, but perhaps his most famous work was taken from an episode from a Roman author. FTP name this man, who had mined Byron for Harold in Italy but drew from Virgil's Aeneid for The Trojans.	Answer:	Hector Berlioz20. By 1765 he had gained a solid medical reputation for pioneering the use of Peruvian bark for throat ailments.  But he is best known for his political career, which included terms as Chief Justice, Governor, and President of his native New Hampshire. Perhaps his chief distinction came while serving in the Continental Congress, where he signed the declaration of independence, though he is today perhaps most famous today for a fictive descendant who serves as President, or at least does so every Wednesday night. FTP name this real-life figure, the ancestor and namesake of Martin Sheen's character on NBC's "the West Wing".       Answer:	Josiah Bartlett
21. In the foreground of this painting figures in a rowboat can be seen somewhat clearly, while in the background ships and the smokestacks of a town can be discerned amidst darkness and mist with difficulty. The title event can be seen in the upper middle left which suggests that the sailors leaving the harbor of Le Havre might want to "take warning". FTP name this painting in which the red glow of dawn was depicted in 1872 by Claude Monet.	Answer:	 Impression: Sunrise (Impression: soleil levant) 22. Set on Independence Day during World War II, the action of this work begins as Ambrose, his parents and uncle, his older brother Peter, and Magda, a girl Ambrose likes, are en route to Ocean City, Maryland. Ambrose is given money and he, Peter, and Magda go to the Boardwalk, but before Ambrose can tell Magda he loves her, she and Peter leave him in the Hall of Mirrors while they go off to visit other parts of the title structure. Such is a sketch of the plot of, FTP, what 1968 story, one of the most famous of John Barth?	Answer:	Lost in the Funhouse23. The novel is split into four parts,  "Red and Black Laughter", "The Struggle for Life", "Men in War and the Death of Society", and "The Passing of a Great Race and The Making and Marring of Americans". It chronicles the adventures of Scripps O'Neill and Yogi Johnson, but it is more of a ruthless parody of Sherwood Anderson's Dark Laughter and satire on the literary scene of its author, Ernest Hemingway. FTP name this novel, the first published by Hemingway, which shares its title with a work by Ivan Turgenev.	Answer:	Torrents of Spring24. The fact that Mimir and such consorts of the gods as Gerd, Skadi, and Jord are of their number casts doubt on their traditional hostility to the gods manifested by such figures as Utgard-Loki, Thyrm, and Hrungnir, especially since Thor is thus technically descended from them. FTP name this race of beings in Norse mythology descended from Ymir, who are often but not always correctly referred to as "giants".	Answer:	Jotuns (accept "giant" before the last clue, but note that not all Jotuns are giants and vice-versa)25. According to Livy, one man by this name was finally hunted down and defeated by Marcus Furius Camillus, who recaptured from him the treasure he had taken from the Romans. This treasure was given to him as payment to end his siege of the Capitoline after having defeated the Romans at the Allia River, and though he cheated in weighing down the scales with the weapons from his troops, he got away with it after laconically remarking "Vae Victis", or "Woe to the Conquered". FTP name this semi-legendary leader of the Gauls who supposedly sacked Rome in 390 BCE, who shares his name with another Gaulish chieftain driven to suicide in 279 BCE after heavy losses at Thermopylae.	Answer:	Brennus
BONI - KENTUCKY A			CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Seth Kendall1. The campus of the University of Virginia is filled with interesting statues, and this bonus will ask about a few of them. Answer the following about these sculptures, 5-10-15; note that none of the answers will be "Thomas Jefferson".1. (5 points) In front of Cabell Hall sits a statue sculpted by Moses Jacob Ezekiel of this most revered poet from antiquity, who once sang "of the anger of Achilles".	Answer:	Homer2. (10 points) At the end of campus at the intersection of West Main Street and Jefferson Park Avenue there is a Robert Ingersoll Aitken statue of this man, an Indian fighter and Revolutionary War soldier known for his fondness for Kentucky and for his capture of Fort Kaskaskia. Name this man, brother of a famous explorer.	Answer:	George Rogers Clark (accept "Rogers", "George", "G", "R" or something like that, so long as Clark is part of the answer too )3. (15 points) Next to the library is a statue made to resemble Icarus called "Aviator" which is dedicated to James Rogers McConnell, a Virginia alumnus who died flying for the French during World War I. It was sculpted by this man, more famous for his work on Stone Mountain and Mount Rushmore.	Answer:	Gutzon Borglum2. In the second season of the original Star Trek series Kirk and crew come upon a deadly space craft in the process of destroying whole solar systems and headed for the most populous part of the galaxy, which the Enterprise must stop. For the stated number of points:1. (5 points) Name the episode written by Norman Spinrad, in which Kirk and crew do battle with the lethal craft that looks for all the world like a lit joint.	Answer:	"The Doomsday Machine"2. (10 points) Kirk is alerted to the device by the distress call of a starship, whose damaged hulk and emotionally damaged commander help Kirk deactivate the machine. Name the commander played by William Windom, who ultimately sacrifices himself in a shuttle craft to weaken the machine and whose son, Willard, would later command the Enterprise and sacrifice himself to V'Ger.	Answer:	Commodore Matt Decker3. (15 points) Matt Decker was commander of this ship, which Kirk ultimately used to destroy the device. Name this ship, part of the Constitution class whose registry -1017- was essentially the Enterprise's numbers rearranged, because for the episode the producers used an old Enterprise model to save money.	Answer:	U.S.S. Constellation3. 1838 was an interesting year in American history. Answer the following questions about it FTPE1. (In Pennsylvania the refusal to accept the defeat of the incumbent governor led to the so-called "Buckshot War", in which a number of politicians were forced to flee the capitol.  One of them was this man, then a representative, later destined to become a Radical Republican, leader of the move to impeach Johnson, and all-around hero.  (Editor's note: the original version of this question included the word "dickbag" in place of the word "hero," thus proving that historians differ.  Greatly.)	Answer:	Thaddeus Stevens2. President Van Buren refused to dispatch troops to quell the "Buckshot War" but was forced to dispatch Winfield Scott to deal with this border dispute in Maine which, despite its name, was actually bloodless and ultimately resolved by the Webster-Ashburton treaty.	Answer:	Aroostook War3. In 1838 this man was dispatched on an exploratory mission to Antarctica, which would make him famous, though he would enter the stage of history again when his seizure of three Confederate diplomats from a ship bound for England precipitated the Trent Affair.	Answer:	Charles Wilkes
4. In a moment of distraction while she is proving victorious at a game of ombre the main character of the poem is approached by a Baron, who robs her of a prized possession, a ringlet of her hair. For the stated number of points:1. (5 points) Name the protagonist and victim of Alexander Pope's "The Rape of the Lock".	Answer:	 Belinda2. (10 points) "The Rape of the Lock" is based on an actual incident which befell this woman at the hands of Lord Petre.	Answer:	Arabella Fermor (either name acceptable)3. (10 points) Belinda is attended by an invisible company of these spirits, who include Zephyretta (who guards her fan), Mementilla (guardian of her watch) and Crispessa, in charge of the shorn hair.	Answer:	sylphs4. (5 points) Chief of the sylphs is this spirit, whose name is also that of the sprite in Shakespeare's Tempest freed from the snare of Sycorax, as well as a certain Disney mermaid.	Answer:	Ariel5. Identify the following scientists who died by their own hands FTPE:1. After a distinguished career which included helping to develop statistical mechanics and deriving the theorem for the equipartition of energy with James Clerk Maxwell, in 1906 while vacationing in Dueno, Italy this man fell into a depression and hanged himself.	Answer:	Ludwig Boltzmann2. In 1902 this man's determination of the structures of uric acid, xanthine, caffeine, theobromine, and other related compounds to which he gave the name "purine" resulted in the award of the Nobel Prize for Chemistry, but following the death of his sons in WWI he committed suicide in 1919.	Answer:	Emil Fischer3. In 1961, fifteen years after winning the Nobel Prize for Physics for his work in high pressures that resulted in his discovery of Internal Peltier heat and that the electrons in cesium undergo a rearrangement at a certain transition pressure, this man learned of his terminal cancer and committed suicide.	Answer:	Percy Williams Bridgman6. Identify the following about a pretty sick mythological family, 10 points each.1. A son of Zeus, though mortal he was allowed to dine with the gods whom he incensed by revealing the secrets told at the divine table and by stealing and selling ambrosia. His worst offense, however, was the sacrifice of his own son to be served before the gods, for which he was condemned in Tartarus to eternal hunger and thirst.	Answer:	Tantalus2. Resurrected from the dead, this son of Tantalus defeated Oenomaus king of Elis in a chariot race and won the hand of his daughter Hippodamia through chicanery involving the king's charioteer, whom he later murdered to cover up the deed.	Answer:	Pelops3. The daughter of Tantalus and sister of Pelops, this wife of Amphion made the mistake of suggesting her fourteen children were more impressive than the twin offspring of Leto, who then proceeded to slay all fourteen; she wept so copiously that she was later turned into a stone.	Answer:	Niobe7. Identify the authors of the following similarly-titled works on 5-10-15 point basis.1. (5 points) This man wrote the Gothic novella Castle of Otronto.	Answer:	Horace Walpole2. (10 points) This Czech had published posthumously his Das Schloss, or The Castle.	Answer:	Franz Kafka3. (15 points) This Italian poet and novelist wrote a semifantasy novel called The Castle of Crossed Destinies, though he is more famous for his If on a Winter's Night a Traveler and The Cloven Viscount.	Answer:	Italo Calvino8. Identify the author from works, 30-20-10.1. 30: A Transit to Narcissus; Barbary Shore; Harlot's Ghost2. 20: An American Dream; Tough Guys Don't Dance; Ancient Evenings3. 10: The Naked and the Dead; Armies of the Night	Answer:	Norman Mailer
9. Name the planets from moons on a 10-5 basis.1. 10 points: Adrastaea, Ananke, Pasiphae      5 points: Io, Callisto, Europa	Answer:	Jupiter2. 10 points: Larissa, Despina, Galatea      5 points: Nereid, Thalassa, Triton	Answer:	Neptune3. 10 points: Telesto, Enceledus, Rhea      5 points: Hyperion, Atlas, Titan	Answer:	Saturn10. In 546 BCE Cyrus the Great, noticing that at the earlier battle of Pteria that horses cannot stand the smell of camels, used a camel line to foil a cavalry attack and then took the capital city of his enemy at a battle sometimes called the battle of Thymbra. For 10 points each:1. Name Cyrus's opponent defeated at Thymbra, a son of Alyattes who is perhaps most famous for his legendary wealth.	Answer:	Croesus2. Croesus was the king of this people, inhabitants of Western Anatolia alleged to have begun the art of coinage.	Answer:	Lydia3. The battle of Thymbra is often known by this name, the name of the capital city of the Lydians near which it was fought.	Answer:	Sardis 11. A stranger wanders into a town and discovers it is divided between two rival gangs, which he decides to play off of each other. For 10 points apiece:1. This is essentially a plot summary of what 1961 film starring Toshiro Mifune and directed by Akira Kurosawa?	Answer:	Yojimbo2. This is also the central plot of what 1963 film, ostensibly based on Yojimbo, directed by Sergio Leone and featuring Clint Eastwood as "The Man with No Name"?	Answer:	 A Fistful of Dollars (Accept Per un pugno di dollari)3. A Fistful of Dollars and the 1996 mega-dud Last Man Standing are both, like Yojimbo, based on Dashiell Hammett's Red Harvest, though neither film cites Hammett in the credits. Nor do the Coen brothers, who combine Red Harvest and The Glass Key in this film starring John Turturro, Marcia Gay Harden, and Gabriel Byrne.	Answer:	Miller's Crossing12.	Among this language's virtues include its ability to compile to a single executable, simplifying distribution and reducing all versioning issues, its multiple platform native code from the same source code, and its support for latest technology and standards. For 10 points apiece:1. Identify this computer language produced by Borland name for the most famous of classical oracles.	Answer:	Delphi2. Delphi was designed by the Dane Anders Hejlsberg who intended to add Object Orientation and thus supercede this earlier language he had created, one of the first integrated development environments created for the IBM PC based on an older language invented by Niklaus Wirth.	Answer:	Turbo Pascal 3. Hejlsberg is also the leader of the team which developed this musically-named object-oriented programming language based on Java and C++ for the Microsoft .NET initiative	Answer:	C# (C Sharp)13. Identify the artists responsible for the following pieces found on the Best of Ken Burns's Jazz, 10 points each.1. "Straight, no chaser"	Answer:	Thelonius Monk2. "Take Five (the 45-RPM version)"	Answer:	The Dave Brubeck Quartet3. "Jumpin' At the Woodside"	Answer:	Count Basie and his Orchestra
14. In Act 2 scene 2 of Hamlet, two characters are asked how they are doing and proceed to describe how they are on Fortune's cap not the very button, nor the soles of her shoe; asked by Hamlet where about on Fortune's body they would find themselves, they give an interesting answer. For the stated number of points:1. (5 points each) Name the two friends so interrogated.	Answer:	Rosencrantz and Guildenstern 2. (15 points) All or nothing, give the three word location used to describe their whereabouts on lady luck, later used as a punning title to a novel about British service in World War I by Frederic Manning.	Answer:	"her privates we" (technically, the quote begins "'Faith", so accept that if anyone says it)3. (5 points) This interview is downplayed in the play about Rosencrantz and Guildenstern written by this man.	Answer:	Tom Stoppard15. Given a Civil War battle and the victorious general, name the losing General, five points each.1. Pea Ridge, Union General Samuel Curtis	Answer:	Earl van Dorn2. Kennesaw Mountain, Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston	Answer:	William T. Sherman3. Vicksburg, Union General Ulysses Grant	Answer:	John Pemberton4. First Manassas, Confederate General P.G.T. Beauregard	Answer:	Irwin McDowell5. Pittsburg Landing, Union General Ulysses Grant	Answer:	Braxton Bragg6. Fredericksburg, Confederate General Robert E. Lee	Answer:	Ambrose Burnside16. Name the scientist from clues, 30-20-10.1. 30 points: While working as a professor of Chemistry in 1948 this man helped elucidate the Thunberg-Wieland cycle by which bacteria synthesized four-carbon sugars from acetate, and began speculation as to whether or not the cycle might operate in reverse in photosynthesizing organisms.2. 20 points: Using the green alga Chorella, he managed to show how CO2 reacts with ribulose biphosphate that yields sugar phosphate and another ribulose phosphate during photosynthesis.3. 10 points: In 1961 he received the Nobel Prize in chemistry for his discovery of this carbon-fixing cycle which bears his name.	Answer:	Melvin Calvin17.	Answer the following related questions FTPE.1. An aromatic herb of the Asteraceae family, this spice has a warm odor and robust taste similar to anise derived from its essential oil, whose principal component is methyl chavicol. Also called Tarragon, it is used to flavor fish, cheeses, and certain types of vinegar, and its name is ultimately thought to derive from the Greek word for "dragon."	Answer:	estragon 2. An ally of Basil II Bulgaroctonus of Byzantium, this Kievan ruler married Basil's daughter Anne after converting to Christianity, which he made the state religion of Rus.	Answer:	Vladimir I3. In what absurdist play do Estragon and Vladimir contemplate taking a big hang while expecting someone who never comes, written by Samuel Beckett?	Answer:	Waiting for Godot  18. Given a substance that appears on the Mohs hardness scale, name the substance which defines the next hardness number, FTPE.10) topaz	Answer: corundum10) calcite	Answer: fluorite10) apatite	Answer: orthoclase (accept plagioclase or feldspar)
19.  Located between Quebec and northern Ontario, this shallow body of water contains numerous islands which are administered by the Northwest Territories. The southern extension of a much larger body of water which begins roughly at the Belcher Islands. For the stated number of points:1. 10 points: Name this body of water in Canada.	Answer:	James Bay2. 5 points: Name the larger body of water of which the James Bay is a part.	Answer:	Hudson Bay3. 15 points: This island of 1,159 square miles is the largest in the James Bay.	Answer:	Akimiski Island20. The Athenian Xenophon is chiefly known as an adventurer and historian, though he wrote several philosophical works which are undeservedly overshadowed by his fellow pupil of Socrates, Plato. Identify these philosophical works by Xenophon for 10 points each.1. (10 points) One of Xenophon's more interesting works is his description, written in novel form, of the ideal education of this man, the founder of the Persian Empire.	Answer:	Cyrus the Great2. (10 points) One of Xenophon's last works which was written to counter the argument that poverty required Athens to wage war, this work proposes a method of resource management and cost-effective spending by which Athens can acquire the resources to live in peace; it is not to be confused with a Congressional committee of the same name, though they should probably read it.	Answer:	Ways and Means3. (10 points) In this Socratic dialogue the ideal management of an Athenian household is elicited by Socrates from Isomachus.	Answer:	Economicus (accept Oikonomikos or The Homeowner or reasonable equivalents)21. In 1798 an anonymous work was published detailing how hopes for improvement of the poor will be in vain, for the population unchecked will grow and outrun the food supply and that betterment of the lot of mankind is impossible without stern limits on reproduction.  For 10 points each:1. Name the author of this work, partially titled An Essay on the Principle of Population, also known for inventing and naming the concept of "effective demand" in his Principles of Political Economy.	Answer:	Thomas Malthus2. Malthus's work is in full entitled An Essay on the Principle of Population as it affects the Future Improvement of Society, with Remarks on the Speculations of these two writers. Name these men, the one an English philosopher and author of works like An Enquiry Concerning Political Justice and the idealistic Caleb Williams and father of a famous novelist, the author a French philosophe known for his theories of the infinite perfectibility of man expressed in works like Sketch for a Historical Picture of the Progress of the Human Mind and for his "paradox" for deciding the winner of a contest if A beats B, b beats C, and C beats A.	Answer:	William Godwin and the Marquis de Condorcet (Marie-Jean-Antoine-Nicolas de Caritat)22. Name the women born before 1600 who were the subjects of films in the late 1990's from clues on a 5-10-15 point basis.1. (5 points) Cate Blanchett portrayed this Tudor monarch of England whose reign saw the defeat of the Spanish armada.	Answer:	Elizabeth I2. (10 points) Valentina Cervi portrayed this artist in a 1997 film which chronicles her love-hate relationship with her teacher Agostino Tassi; she is also known for paintings like Judith Beheading Holofernes.	Answer:	Artemisia Gentileschi2. (15 points) In Dangerous Beauty  Catherine McCormack played this Venetian courtesan also known for literary works like Familiar Letters and Terze Rima.	Answer:	Veronica Franco
23. Identify the following psychologists from clues, 10 points each.1. Though he contributed to study of childhood sexual trauma in relation to schizophrenia, symbols and myths, and dreams as wish-fulfillment, this man may be best known for his identification of the earlier oral, oral-sadistic, anal expulsive, anal retentive, phallic, and adult genital stages of the development of the libido in works like A Short Study of the Development of the Libido, Viewed in the Light of Mental Disorders.	Answer:	Karl Abraham2. A student of Abraham, this author of The Neurotic Personality of Our Time, Our Inner Conflicts, and Neurosis and Human Growth argued against Freud's theories, such as death instinct, the Oedipus complex, and penis envy; after all, penis envy is ridiculous, but "womb envy", which she proposed in its stead, makes much more sense.	Answer:	Karen Horney3. Invited by Abraham to join the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute, this one-time subject of S‡ndor Ferenczi studied children and came up with the theory that a child relates to parts rather than to complete objects-for example, to the breast rather than to the mother - which she termed a paranoid-schizoid position, and how anxiety caused by a child's destructive urges led to imbalances during the following depressive period; these theories she published in works like The Psychoanalysis of Children, Envy and Gratitude, and  Narrative of a Child Analysis.	Answer:	Melanie Klein24. In 605 BCE an Egyptian army was met and destroyed by forces under the Assyrian crown prince at the battle of Carchemish. Answer the following questions about that battle for the stated number of points.1. 15 points: name the Egyptian pharaoh personally wounded at Carchemish and forced to withdraw back to Egypt, where, according to Herodotus, he would sponsor the first successful circumnavigation of Africa.	Answer:	Necho II2. 10 points: Until the battle of Carchemish Necho II had enjoyed great success in Asia Minor, defeating the Assyrians the previous year and destroying the armies of king Josiah at this 609 BCE battle. Name this battle, also the site of battles in 1468 BCE, 1918 CE, and, according to Biblical legend, the last battle to be fought.	Answer:	Megiddo3. 5 points: This crown prince and son of Nabopilassar defeated Necho at Carchemish; he would go on to capture Jerusalem and lead King Zedekiah blind and in chains back to Babylon.	Answer:	Nebuchadnezzar