TOSSUPS - FLORIDA STATE B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-Chattanooga(with one bonus you can blame on your genial quizmaster - see if you can guess which one)1. This current member of the Princeton faculty is a member of the editorial board of The Nation magazine. She caused a stir in politics when she called Bill Clinton the first black president, but is better known for creating such characters as Pecola Breedlove, Sula, and Sethe. Born Chloe Anthony Wofford, FTP name this Nobel-winning author of Jazz, The Bluest Eye, Song of Solomon, and Beloved.       Answer:	 Toni Morrison       2. Giovani Filippo is usually credited as the first physician to describe it, in the mid-1500's.  It can be treated with acyclovir, but it's better to prevent it with the vaccine Varivax, since it remains dormant in nerve tissue and can reactivate to cause shingles.  The virus is actually a strain of the herpes virus but is better known as the Varicella-Zoster Virus, or VZV.  It has a 2-week incubation period and is an extraordinarily contagious airborne virus. FTP name this childhood disease that many parents actually try to expose their children to so that they will gain immunity and not catch it as adults when it would be more dangerous.		Answer:	chicken pox [accept Varicella before it's said; be kind and prompt on shingles]3. Andrew Ellicott was the head surveyor of the group that was mandated by this treaty. The full name of this treaty is Treaty of Friendship, Limits, and Navigation Between Spain and the United States  and some of the lesser issues it dealt with were an agreement not to incite the Indians, and protection of and the promise not to detain or embargo the opposite parties vessels. FTP name this treaty signed in 1796 between Spain and the US that established the Florida boundary line. 	Answer:	Pinckney's Treaty (also accept Treaty of San Lorenzo)4. Among those whose ideas inspired this school of thought were Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, and Ernst Mach.  It asserts that logical truths must take into consideration and agree with the physical world and logical inference must be based from observable facts. IT favors the scientific method and tends to support realism and materialism while being skeptical of theological and metaphysical reasoning. FTP name this philosophical movement developed in the 1920s by the Vienna Circle.  	Answer:	Logical Positivism [prompt on Vienna Circle before "It asserts.."]5. They formed in 1987 in Tempe, Arizona, and took their name from a photo of W.C. Fields. Members of the band included bassist Bill Leen, guitarist Jesse Valenzuela, drummer Phillip Rhoades, and songwriter Doug Hopkins. Their success was overshadowed by the suicide of Hopkins in 1993. For ten points, name the alternative pop and rock band who had hits with such songs as "Hey Jealousy," Found Out About You," and "Follow You Down."		Answer:	The Gin Blossoms6. Although a component of the medicine tartar emetic, it forms a poison gas when mixed with hydrogen.  The more common of its two allotropic forms is a bluish white, extremely brittle metal with a flaky crystalline texture. It is not acted on by air at room temperature, but burns brilliantly when heated, with a formation of white fumes. It is a poor conductor of heat and electricity, and it and its compounds are toxic. Found principally in the ore stibnite, FTP name the chemical element with atomic number 51 and symbol Sb.	Answer:	antimony7. The viewers of this painting are involved directly in the painting by use of a serving girl about to ask for an order. The beer bottles have the triangular logo for Bass Beer and the bottle in the bottom left bears the artist's signature. The presence of a trapeze artist's feet in the upper left hint that a circus is going on. FTP name this last major work of Manet, depicting a nightclub in Paris. 	Answer:	A Bar at the Folies-Bergère 8. Towns along this river include Girvin, Iraan, Sheffield, and Mentone, the last being the seat of America's least populous county. It flows for nine hundred miles total and separates Loving and Reeves Counties, before it is impounded at the Red Bluff Dam and is released to begin its journey to Seminole Canyon. FTP name this river that flows across New Mexico and Texas and empties into the Rio Grande, namesake of a mythic American cowboy character.		Answer:	The Pecos River
9. Circumstances leading up to this incident were caused by the election of the Catholic Duke of Styria to become the successor to the King of Bohemia.  Tempers flared when Protestants feared that the newly elected Duke would rule against them on a land dispute for new churches, a clear violation of the freedom of religion granted to them. This all culminated on May 23, 1618, in an event central to the start of the 30 Years' War.  FTP name this event, in which two Catholic imperial governors were thrown out a window and into a pile of manure.           Answer:	The (2nd) Defenestration of Prague10. It's not by Shakespeare, but this play prominently features a bride-to-be named Kate. Kate's half-brother is the loutish Tony Lumpkin, whose mother is intent on marrying him to Constance Neville (despite their mutual dislike) so her jewels will stay within the Hardcastle family. Also featuring the characters Hastings and Charles Marlowe, FTP name this play written by Oliver Goldsmith.	Answer:	She Stoops to Conquer11.  Sir Dauda Kairaba Jawara served 24 years as this country's president before a 1994 military coup overthrew him and banned political activity.  It saw a nominal return to civilian rule after a 1996 constitution and presidential election, followed by parliamentary balloting in 1997. The nation went through another round of elections in late 2001 and early 2002, where Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, the leader of the 1994 coup, was elected president. FTP name this West African country surrounded by Senegal, with capital at Banjul, setting for part of Alex Haley's Roots.		Answer:	The Gambia12. In 1841 he was sent on a voyage to India, but stopped off at Mauritius, and returned to Paris in 1842. Besides his intimate letters, which were translated by playwright Christopher Isherwood, he left the autobiographical novel La Fanfario.  Called the "father of modern criticism," he shocked his contemporaries with his visions of lust and decay.  FTP name this French symbolist writer best remembered for his poetry collection, The Flowers of Evil.		Answer:	Charles Baudelaire13. The first experimental evidence of them was found in 1979 at PETRA, an electron positron collider in Hamburg. As a consequence of their confinement with hadrons, they are not involved in the nuclear forces like mesons. With a spin state of 2, zero isospin, and a negative intrinsic parity, FTP name this particle that mediates the strong nuclear force.	Answer:	gluon(s)14. When asked how high he was flying, he would often reply "not high enough." Ironically he died in a helicopter crash working as traffic reporter in LA, a far cry from his previous form of employment. A Swiss army knife  -- labeled CIA technology -- was among the things confiscated and exhibited as proof of his capture. Traded for Soviet spy Rudolf Abel 21 months into his sentence, he was criticized for opting for the 3 years of imprisonment and 7 years of hard labor versus using his craft's self-destruct or the suicide pin.  Leading to major embarrassment for Eisenhower, who'd denied the possibility, FTP name the pilot of the U2 plane shot down over the USSR on May 1, 1960.	Answer:	  Francis Gary Powers15. After battling all day on the field of Idavoll in the heart of Asgard, the einherjar return here for a great feast on Saehrímnir, a pig that is reborn each day. It has 540 doors through which 800 could walk abreast, walls made of spears, and a roof made of shields. FTP name the hall of Odin to which Valkyries bring fallen heroes so that they may prepare to defend Asgard in the final battle of Ragnarok.	Answer:	 Valhalla16. It features a new Winton Flyer automobile, with an African-American named Ned stowed away in the trunk.  Ned and Boon, the car's driver, have no concept of shielding the young protagonist from the harsh realities of the struggling poor or the vices grown men engage in against the orders of the fundamentalist church. FTP name the work that centers on a road trip to Memphis by eleven-year-old Lucius Priest, a novel that won William Faulkner the 1963 Pulitzer Prize.	Answer:	The Reivers
17. Despite a history of no serious achievements, he was essential to the group for which he is best known, serving as a buffer between the other two members, who historians presume would otherwise have caused a civil war to break out. He had previously served as a consul, and the Roman senate approved the assembly he helped form so the three of them could attempt to draft a stable Roman constitution. FTP, name the man who, along with Octavian and Mark Antony, was a member of Rome's Second Triumvirate.		Answer:	M Aemilius Lepidus18. In his only book, Chemical Treatise on Air and Fire, he distinguishes heat transfer by thermal radiation as opposed to conduction and convection. Lactic and citric acid, glycerol, and hydrogen cyanide are among many compounds he was the first to isolate.  While some sources credit him with as many as seven elements, due to his limited and delayed publication most sources only count chlorine. FTP name this Swedish chemist, perhaps best known for his discovery of oxygen before Joseph Priestley.  	Answer:	 Carl Wilhelm Scheele19. The opera was first suggested by Emperor Joseph II and first performed in Vienna in 1790. Don Alfonso sparks the action in this opera when he makes a wager with Fernando and Guglielmo, and Fiordiligi and Dorabella are fooled by the two officers disguised as rich Albanians. FTP name this comedic opera by Mozart which centers around a bet to test the fidelity of two officers' wives.	       Answer:	Cosi Fan Tutte (Also accept the School of/for Lovers)20. Rampant illegal downloading in advance notwithstanding, its release date was September 27, 2005. While talking to David Bowie, an Asian reporter sets her people back 1000 years, a "Wanna-Bango" is purchased for a tour cross-cuntry (without the O), and Peter's gears are grinded by the lack of new priest-rabbi jokes and when he can't find the droids he's looking for.  FTP name this movie about the maniacal infant's search for his true father, during which he glimpses his future as a 35 year old, Parade magazine-reading virgin.         Answer:	 Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story   (prompt on Family Guy: the Movie, etc.)21. It was first published in The Criterion, a literary magazine edited by the author, but then made its way to the US in The Dial magazine in November 1922. It is divided into 5 sections: The Burial of the Dead, A Game of Chess, Fire Sermon, Death by Water and What the thunder said; the first 4 are dedicated to the Greek elements. FTP name the 433- line poem by T.S Eliot whose first line is, "April is the Cruelest Month."         Answer:	The Waste Land22. He took music lessons from his father, a keen violinist, and from several local teachers. At first he earned a precarious living as a teacher until, in January 1884, he was appointed resident piano teacher to Count Leopold Thun's family, which provided him with the means to study harmony, counterpoint and composition with Josef Proksch. For ten points, name the Czech composer of The Brandenburgers in Bohemia, My Fatherland, and The Bartered Bride.	Answer:	Bedrich Smetana23. At the Rhenish front, French forces laid siege to the fortress of Philippsburg. French forces had previously occupied the Duchy of Lorraine and the Habsburg Netherlands. In Northern Italy, a French-Sardinian army occupied Milan, fought an Austro-Prussian army commanded by Prince Eugene in the Battle of Parma and again in the Battle of Gustallia, which ended with a Franco-Sardinian victory credited to the Sardinians. For ten points, this describes events that happened in what war, which took place from 1733-1735?	Answer:	The War of Polish Succession
BONI - FLORIDA STATE B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-Chattanooga(with one bonus you can blame on your genial quizmaster - see if you can guess which one)1. Identify the following types of snakes, FTPE(10) It is the world's longest venomous snake.	Answer:	king cobra [prompt on cobra; do not accept king snake](10) According to Guinness, the longest snake ever captured was one of these, captured on Sumatra in 2003.       Answer:	 reticulated python(10) Found in sparsely populated areas of Western Queensland, Australia, it has the deadliest venom of any.       Answer:	the fierce snake or the inland taipan or the Western taipan or the small-scaled snake2. Given their running mates, name the unsuccessful major party Presidential candidate, 5-10-20-30:a) Jack Kemp, 1996	Answer:	Robert (Bob) Doleb) Geraldine Ferraro, 1984	Answer:	Walter Mondalec) Both John Bricker in 1944 and Earl Warren in 1948       Answer: 	Thomas E. Deweyd) John Sparkman, 1952, and onetime Chattanoogan Estes Kefauver, 1956	Answer:	Adlai E. Stevenson III3.  Given a line from a poem, name the poet who penned it FTPE. You'll receive 5 pts.if you need the name of the poem:(10) "Had we but world enough and time/ This coyness, lady, were no crime"(5): "To His Coy Mistress"	Answer:	Andrew Marvell(10): "Higher still and higher from the earth thou springest, like a cloud of fire."(5): "To a Skylark"	Answer:	Percy Bysshe Shelley(10): "For oft, when on my couch I lie in vacant or in pensive mood, they flash upon that inward eye which is the bliss of solitude."(5): "Daffodils"	Answer:	William Wordsworth 4. Identify the artist from paintings for FTP:(10) The Adoration of the Magi and Tribute Money	Answer:	Masaccio [accept Tomasso Guidi](10) Margareta Snyders and Charles I of England 	Answer:	Anthony Van Dyck(10) The Misstep and Pilgrimage to Cythera	Answer:	Jean-Antoine Watteau5. Given a description, name these things from competitive swimming FTP:(10) It requires bilateral symmetry in the arms, which go over the head, and a dolphin kick	Answer:	the Butterfly(10) Used in freestyle and backstroke, this type of turn is the most efficient way to reverse directions at a wall.       Answer:	Flip-turn(10) This event requires a swimmer to perform an equal distance of all the strokes. 	Answer:	200 IM or 400 IM or Individual Medley  (do not accept Medley Relay)6. Identify the following scientists, FTPE(10) His discovery of X-rays has overshadowed other important work in thermology, mechanics, and electricity.	Answer:	Wilhelm Roentgen(10) He was awarded the 1903 Nobel Prize in physics for his discovery of spontaneous radioactivity.	Answer:	Henri Becquerel(10) In 1932, this American physicist discovered the positron.	Answer:	Carl David Anderson
7. Given an English ruler, name their house/dynasty F5PE or 30 for all 5:(5) George VI       Answer:	Windsor(5) George IV       Answer:	Hanover(5) Charles I	Answer:	Stuart(5) Henry II	Answer:	Plantagenet or Angevin(5) Edward IV	Answer:	York8. Identify these works of Russian literature from a description FTPE; if you need the author, you'll get only 5 pts.(10) This historical novel is primarily concerned with the histories of five aristocratic families, most notably the Bezukhovs, the Bolkonskys, and the Rostovs.(5) Leo Tolstoy	Answer:	War and Peace(10) Prince Myshkin, who falls in love with Nastasya Filippovna, is the title character of this work.(5) Fyodor Dostoyevsky	Answer:	The Idiot (10) Published in 1842 and considered the greatest humorous novel in the Russian language, it features the characters Pilushkin, Manilof, Nozdref, and Tchichikof.(5) Nikolai Gogol	Answer:	Dead Souls9.   Sept. 19th was National Talk Like A Pirate Day. In belated observance, name the item from Greek mythology FTPE:(10) This ship had the gift of speech and carried Jason on his quest for the Golden Fleece	Answer:	the Argo(10) Apollo's twin sister, this huntress was the goddess of wildlife.	Answer:	Artemis(10) This Lydian woman challenged Athena to a weaving contest and was foolish enough to win.  Bad things ensued.	Answer:	Arachne10. Identify the following psychologists for ten points each:(10) He originated the school of psychology known as behaviorism, in which behavior is described in terms of physiological responses to stimuli.		Answer:	John B. Watson (10) Known for his large forehead, his entire system was based on operant conditioning, and he also wrote the fictional book Walden Two about a community run by his behaviorist principles.		Answer:	B.F. Skinner (10) He published the book, The Neurotic Constitution, in which he further developed his psychological system known as "Individual Psychology."		Answer:	Alfred Adler11. Name the band from songs FTPE:(10) "The Middle", "the sweetness", "a Praise Chorus"  	Answer:	Jimmy Eat World(10) "Sell Out", "Beer", "She has a Girlfriend now"	Answer:	Reel Big Fish(10)  "Only One", "One Year Six Months", "Ocean Avenue"	Answer:	Yellowcard
12. Given a writer's first published novel, identify him on a five, ten, fifteen basis:A. 5: This Side of Paradise	Answer:	F. Scott FitzgeraldB. 10: Soldier's Pay	Answer:	William FaulknerC. 15: Dangling Man	Answer:	Saul Bellow 13.	Given a name, state the chemical formula FTPE:(5) Lithium Oxide		Answer:	Li2O(5) Potassium Iodide		Answer:	KI(X) Copper (II) Chloride	Answer:	CuCl2(X) Sucrose	Answer:	C12H22O1114. Given the years, identify who served as Roman emperor during those years for FTPE:A. A.D. 37-41	Answer:	CaligulaB. A.D. 81-96	Answer:	DomitianC. A.D. 161-180	Answer:	Marcus Aurelius15. Given characters from an opera, name the composer of the opera for ten points; five points if you need the opera.(10) Musetta, Mimi, Rodolfo(5) La Bohéme       Answer:	Giacchino Puccini(10) Tamino, Papageno, Pamina(5) The Magic FluteAnswer:	 Wolfgang Mozart(10) Morales, Escamillo, Frasquita(5) Carmen	Answer:	Georges Bizet16.	Identify the following explorers FTPE:(10) He served as the governor of Quebec from 1633 until his death in 1635.		Answer:	Samuel de Champlain(10) This explorer is credited with discovering Brazil, though it was really an accident; he claimed it for Portugal in 1500.		Answer:	Pedro Alvares Cabral(10) He sailed to the New World in 1493 on Columbus' second voyage and also served as the first Spanish governor of Cuba.		Answer:	Diego Velazquez de Cuellar17.	Identify the following countries of distinction FTP: (10) In terms of land area, it is the largest country in Africa.		Answer:	The Sudan(10) This tiny European nation is the most densely populated country on earth.		Answer:	Monaco(10) In terms of area, it is the world's smallest, non-island country whose capital city does not contain its name.		Answer:	Liechtenstein
18.	Answer questions about recent literature FTPE:(10) Among other things, the titular character of this 2004 work must deal with underage drinking, premarital sex and other immoral practices found on college campuses in her freshmen year in college.  To which we say, "Duh."		Answer:	I Am Charlotte Simmons(10) Charlotte Simmons attends what elite university closely modeled after Duke and Stanford?	Answer:	Dupont(10) He wrote I am Charlotte Simmons as well as The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and The Right Stuff	       Answer:	Tom Wolfe19.	Identify the following political pundits FTPE:(10) Known as much for her legs as her conservative viewpoints, she is the author of the books Slander, Treason, and How to Talk to Liberal (If you must).	Answer:	Ann Coulter(10) This Fox News contributor released his first book, Red, White, and Liberal: How Left is Right and Right is Wrong, in 2003.	Answer:	Alan Colmes(10) Along with Georgia congressman John Linder, this Libertarian radio show host wrote The Fairtax book, which was released in August 2005.	Answer:	Neal Boortz20.	F5PE and a 5 pt bonus for all correct, given the approximate wavelength name the correct type of wave: A.  	.01  to 50 nanometers 	Answer:	X-RayB.	390 to  700 nanometers		Answer:	Visible Light [prompt on light]C.	50 to 390 nanometers	Answer:	Ultraviolet or U.V. Rays	D.	.01 nanometers and below	Answer:	Gamma RaysE.	700 nanometers to .1 millimeters	Answer:	Infrared21. (10/10/10) Orion is one or the most notable constellations in the night sky. FTPE, name its three brightest stars.	Answer:	Betelgeuse, Rigel, Bellatrix22. Given a description, name the gun FTPE:(10) This rifle is known for its accuracy in hunting and is often hailed as "the gun that won the west"		Answer:	Winchester(10) The rifle company supplied guns for both the Mexican War and the Civil War; later they made sewing machines and typewriters as well.	Answer:	Remington Steel(10) It is a large-bore dual cartridge for revolvers but was enlarged (as it name implies) and is also used for hunting rifles	Answer:	.44 Magnum23.	Identify the following battles of the Hundred Years War, FTPE:(10) The army of Charles VI suffered approximately five thousand deaths at this October 25, 1415 battle.		Answer:	The Battle of Agincourt(10) Many historians view this August 26, 1346 battle as the beginning of the end of chivalry, since many of the prisoners and wounded were killed against the chivalric codes of warfare. 		Answer:	The Battle of Crecy(10) The Valois used the cannon to defeat the Lancastrians and end the war at this 1453 battle.		Answer:	The Battle of Castillon