TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH A	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Stephen Webb1. 	Navigable for most of its length, ships are able to go as far as Ciudad Bolivar 435 kilometers upstream. Its largest tributary is the Apura river, while the Casiquiare starts as an arm of this river and flows to the Rio Negro, a tributary of the Amazon, thus forming a natural canal between these two South American rivers. Beginning in Parima on the Brazilian frontier, for ten points, name this 2140 kilometer long Venezuelan river. 	Answer:	Orinoco River2. 	Her three pregnancies ended in stillbirth, causing the throne to devolve to her sister upon her death, the only two children of their father's first marriage to Anne Hyde to survive childhood. It was on November 4, 1677 that she provided the mechanism for the deposing of her father with her marriage to the Dutch Protestant William of Orange. For ten points, name this successor of James II who ruled with William following the Glorious Revolution. 	Answer:	Mary II3. 	Part of its distinction is shared by Ananke, Carme, Pasiphae and Sinope at Jupiter and Phoebe at Saturn, and because of this unique property and its impossibility to form from the same solar nebula as the planet, there is speculation that it came from the Kuiper belt. Discovered seventeen days after the planet it orbits by William Lassell in 1846, its unstable orbit will eventually drop it to the Roche limit and form a planetary ring much like Saturn's. For ten points, name this largest retrograde-orbiting moon in the solar system, also the largest moon of Neptune. 	Answer:	Triton4. 	He submitted to Sir William Johnson on July 25, 1766, and three years later was murdered by a Kaskaskia Indian bribed by English traders. He had obtained the leadership of his people by 1755, and in 1763, in a meeting consisting of most of the Algonquin tribes, planned the simultaneous attack on English forts at a certain phase in the moon. For ten points, name this Ottawa chief whose "Conspiracy" lasted from a year from 1763 to 1764, and whose namesake town in Michigan is almost wholly owned by General Motors. 	Answer:	Chief Pontiac5. 	In 1891 he expressed his love for his cousin Madeleine and his desire to suppress physical desire in Les Cashiers d'Andre Walter. Two years later, after a trip to North Africa, he rejected all previous ideas, discovered homosexual feelings, and published an ode to the search for experience, The Fruits of the Earth. For ten points, name this French author of The Immoralist, recipient of the 1947 Nobel Prize in Literature. 	Answer:	Andre Gide6. 	Until the age of forty, he worked primarily on madrigals, the last book of which being Madrigals of Love and War. Known to have composed over eighteen operas, only two full ones and the aria "Lamento" from L'Incoronazione di Poppea have survived. For ten points, name this Baroque composer who made music history in 1609 when he composed the first opera, Orfeo. 	Answer:	Claudio Monteverdi7. 	In 1970 he released an album entitled Lie to help fund his defense. Though not present for the crimes he was convicted of, Tex Watson, Patricia Krenwinkel, Susan Atkins and Linda Kasabian were affiliated with him, and he himself planned the attack, which left seven people dead. FTP, name this mass murderer who now has a swastika carved into his forehead, who planned the murders of Abigail Folger, Jay Sebring, Voytek Frykowski and Sharon Tate. 	Answer:	Charles Manson8. 	The search for this ship ended when author Clive Cussler with his team from the National Underwater and Marine Agency culminated a fourteen year search in conjunction with the South Carolina Institute of Anthropology and Archaeology found the wreck of this vessel. On February 16, 1864 it approached the sloop-of-war USS Housatonic and embedded a spar torpedo into its hull, only to itself be destroyed in the explosion. For ten points, name this ship, the first submarine to sink a vessel in wartime. 	Answer:	CSS Hunley9. 	From his experiences in the Norton-Harjes Ambulance Service in World War I, he wrote his first book, One Man's Initiation - 1917, while in 1952 his second trilogy was published as District of Columbia, with components being Adventures of a Young Man, Number One and The Grand Design, while he followed that with a series of "Contemporary Chronicles" the first of which being 1951's Chosen Country. For ten points, name this author whose first successful work, Three Soldiers, was followed by The USA Trilogy. 	Answer:	John Rodrigo Dos Passos10. 	His most famous oracle was located at Dodona, in Epirus. In early childhood, he was raised in a cave on Mount Dicte, where he was suckled by the divine goat Amaltheia, and in some myths he was aided by Metis, who gave his father an emetic potion to force his father to regurgitate his siblings, whom he then split the universe with. For ten points, name this child of Cronus who became the "father of gods and men" and supreme ruler of Mount Olympus. 	Answer:	Zeus11. 	A straightforward proof of this theorem can be arrived to by taking dot products of a vector and the sum of two vectors that equal it, in the special case that the two vectors that sum to the third are orthogonal. Another method that does not require vectors entails the relationship between the area of a square and another square with corners at the midpoints of the sides of the larger square. For ten points, name this theorem which relates the length of the sides of a right triangle. 	Answer:	Pythagorean theorem12.	Attending Bowdoin College from 1821 until 1824, he became close friends with Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and future president Franklin Pierce. In 1842 he married Sophia Peabody, a transcendentalist and illustrator who always admired her husband's work, writing "I am always so dazzled and bewildered by the richness, the depth, the jewels of beauty in his productions." For ten points, name this early American author of such lovely works as Mosses for an Old Manse and The Scarlet Letter. 	Answer:	Nathaniel Hawthorne13. 	A pheochromytoma may cause excessive amounts of catecholamines to be released, particularly this one, which has a chemical formula C-9 H-13 N O-3. Medical uses include a vasoconstrictor in anaphylactic shock and sepsis, a bronchodilator in acute bronchial asthma and to stimulate cardiac action during cardiac arrest, as in that classic scene of heroin overdose in Pulp Fiction. For ten points, name this hormone of the sympathetic nervous system intimately related to stress reactions, which lowers blood pressure, dilates the pupils and increases blood sugar. 	Answer:	Epinephrine or Adrenaline14.	His uncle Sinibald was the abbot of the original Benedictine monastery at Monte Cassino, and he was poised to follow in his uncle's shoes. However, during his studies at the University of Naples, he joined the Dominican order of friars, which displeased his family, who kidnapped him and held him for two years, even tempting him with a prostitute, until they finally yielded and allowed him to study in Cologne under Albertus Magnus. For ten points, name this theologian whose writings include Summa contra Gentiles and Summa Theologica. 	Answer:	Saint Thomas Aquinas15. 	His poetry was often vague enough to be addressed to same-sex interests, including "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love," and he had a relationship with Thomas Watson, who introduced him to Sir Francis Walsingham, who headed a spy network across Europe. His play Edward II dealt explicitly with the relationship with the English monarch and Piers Gaveston. For ten points, name this author who debuted with Tamburlaine and followed it up with The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus. 	Answer:	Christopher Marlowe16. 	He set forth the definition of the state as the only entity which possesses the legitimate use of force, which may elect to delegate as it sees fit, in his Politics as a Vocation. He explained the disparity in wealth between religious denominations by explaining that Catholics rely heavily upon waving hands and magic to enter into heaven, while Protestants, with no such beliefs, must work constantly to assure themselves a place in heaven. For ten points, name this author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. 	Answer:	Max Weber
17. 	A 1995 renegotiation of the 1947 agreement that founded this organization, entitled the Marrakesh Agreement, resulted in the formation of a new international organization, and ended the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations. Beginning with 23 states and signed in Geneva, in the United States it holds the position of a congressional-executive agreement, as it is not truly a formal treaty, but rather an understanding on general rules of international trade. For ten points, name this agreement which spawned the WTO in 1995. 	Answer:	General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade18. 	Shortly after Volta demonstrated how to produce a continuous electric current, he began to experiment with the effects of electric currents upon different chemical compounds, with the help of Hisinger and, based upon the work of Davy, concluded that atoms formed stable groups that moved together. Earlier, he and Hisinger had performed thousands of analyses over ten years, providing massive support for the law of definite proportions and supporting Dalton's atomic theory. For ten points, name this Swede who took Dalton's ideas and prepared the first reasonably accurate list of atomic weights in 1828. 	Answer:	Jons Jakob Berzelius19	One character was, unknown to Tommy, a gypsy bare-knuckle boxing champion so, after getting beaten badly by Gorgeous George, he renders the boxer unconscious and unable to fight. Forced into a corner, Tommy and the movie's narrator ask Mickey to fight in George's place, but instead of throwing the fight in the fourth round he wins with one punch. Meanwhile, three black guys try to rob a bookie's office looking for a man with four fingers and a brief case, finding him, then having him shot in the head by Boris the Blade. All this and more for an 86-karat diamond and a corrupt boxing promoter. For ten points, name this 2001 Guy Ritchie dark comedy staring Brad Pitt and Benicio del Toro. 	Answer:	Snatch20.	The 56 of them are split into three categories: proximal, intermediate, and distal, or ungual.  The twenty ungual ones are the first that ossification strikes during osteoporosis.  These bones share their name with the plural for an ancient Greek military unit.  FTP, name these bones on the tips of human fingers and toes.	Answer:	Phalanges   21. 	Choosing to work under Domenico Ghirlandaio, beginning in 1488, he was recommended to Lorenzo de Medici, for whom he created the reliefs Battle of the Centaurs and Madonna of the steps before Lorenzo's death left him without a patron. Following the death of a later patron in 1513, he was commissioned by yet another Medici, Pope Leo X, to reconstruct the interior of the Church of San Lorenzo, which he was unable to complete. For ten points, name this Renaissance artist who flourished under the patronage of Julius II, producing the ceiling paintings of the Sistine Chapel. 	Answer:	Michelangelo Buonarroti22. 	Jean Giraudoux adapted this story for a 1931 play, and in 1841 Friedrich Hebbel modified the story by having the central figure become intimate with Holofernes before murdering him. Displaying Holofernes' head to her countrymen, they routed the invading army of Nebuchadnezzar. For ten points, name this Jewish heroine from Bethulia who is the namesake of a book of the Apocrypha. 	Answer:	Judith23. 	Coining the term critical rationalism, he opposed the ideas of classical empiricism, holding that all scientific laws are universal and cannot be directly observed, instead testable only by their implications. Holding that no scientific theory can ever be truly verified by experiment, and that they can only be falsified by one experiment, he thus rejected the concepts of psychoanalysis and Marxism as sciences. For ten points, name this Austrian philosopher, the author of The Open Society and Its Enemies and The Poverty of Historicism. 	Answer:	Karl Popper24.	 A memorial building, formerly the Guildhall, was opened by US President Jimmy Carter following its conversion. His childhood ventures between his mother's family's farm in Carmarthen and the town life at Swansea lend themselves to poems such as "Fern Hill", while radio plays include Under Milk Wood and the short story A Child's Christmas in Wales. For ten points, name this author most noted for a poem to his father entitled "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night." 	Answer:	Dylan Thomas
BONI - GEORGIA TECH A		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Stephen Webb1. Everybody's tired of bonuses about Zeus' many sexual escapades, so I'm going to mix things up a little by exposing another horny sex offender Olympian, Apollo. Identify the following liaisons he had for ten points each. (a) By this woman he sired Troilius, whom it was prophesied that Troy would not fall so long as he was alive. In much the way these things go, Troilius and his sister Polyxena were slain in an ambush by Achilles, thus sealing her and her husband Priam's fate. 	Answer:	Hecuba (b) This Spartan prince had a bit of a love affair with Apollo, but was killed when a discus was diverted by Zephyrus, who had a bit of a thing for him as well. A namesake flower was sprung from his blood. 	Answer:	Hyacinth (c) Apollo was struck by this nymph after Eros hit Apollo with one of his arrows after Apollo mocked his archery skills. Never piss of Love, as Apollo learned when this nymph was turned into a Laurel tree by the river god Peneus. 	Answer:	Daphne 2. Identify the following characters from MacBeth for ten points each. (a) The Thane of Lochaber, he is killed under MacBeth's orders, but his ghost later appears at a banquet, visible only to MacBeth. 	Answer:	Banquo (b) This son of Banquo escapes an assassination attempt and flees to Wales, where he eventually starts a line that descends to the Stuart line of Scotland, fulfilling the prophecy of the witches. 	Answer:	Fleance (c) Under the prompting of his wife, MacBeth murders this king of Scotland, thus himself becoming king. 	Answer:	Duncan 3. Name the following figures from the history of Sparta for ten points each. (a) Tradition holds that Sparta was founded by this mythical figure, the son of Zeus and Taygete. 	Answer:	Lacedaemon (b) This Spartan led his troops to victory during the second Persian invasion at Thermopylae, perhaps compensating for the Spartan arrival after Marathon during the first invasion. 	Answer:	Leonidas (c) Finally, during the Peloponnesian War, this Athenian statesman switched sides to lead Sparta after an accusation of heresy on the Athenian side, only to switch sides again and lead the Athenians to victory at the naval engagements at Abydos and Cyzius. 	Answer:	Alcibiades 4. Given some information, name the Swedish scientists for ten points each. (a) This botanist laid the groundwork for modern taxonomy in his Systema Naturae. 	Answer:	Carolus Linneaus or Carl von Linne (b) Appointed Keeper of the Uppsala Astronomical Observatory in 1843, a unit of length equal to 0.1 nanometers is named for him. His son Knut was also known for his research on solar radiation. 	Answer:	Anders Jonas Angstrom (c) Discoveries by this chemist include glycerol, prussic acid, citric acid and the elements tungsten, manganese and molybdenum, but most notably he discovered oxygen before Joseph Priestley but failed to publish his discovery until three years after Priestley. 	Answer:	Carl Wilhelm Scheele 5. Baroque composers, for ten points each. (a) Telemaco, Marco Attilio Regolo, and Griselda 	Answer:	Alessandro Scarlatti (b) Autumn, Summer, Spring and Winter, all quartets 	Answer:	Antonio Vivaldi (c) Canon in D, Choral Preludes and Fantasia 	Answer:	Johann Pachelbel 
6. Name the following nineteenth century Supreme Court cases from a brief description for ten points each. (a) This 1866 case stayed five executions, ruling that military tribunals could not try civilians even in times of war and that habeas corpus may only be suspended if the civilian courts were forced closed. George W. Bush do you hear this? 	Answer:	Ex Parte Milligan (b) The lone dissenter on this case was Marshall Harlan (though David J. Brewer abstained), who argued that the policy of "separate but equal" violated the thirteenth and fourteenth amendments. 	Answer:	Plessy v. Ferguson (c) In 1876 the Supreme Court held that if the general welfare requires it, business interests could be reined in by the government, upholding legislation that regulated railroad and grain elevator rates. 	Answer:	Munn v. Illinois 7. Given a brief description name the following films featuring Kevin Spacey for ten points each. (a) Spacey works at Premiere Properties in this 1992 film from David Mamet. 	Answer:	Glengarry Glen Ross (b) This film staring Dustin Hoffman, among others, is about the sudden appearance of a deadly illness from Zaire in a small Midwestern town. 	Answer:	Outbreak (c) Spacey won his first Oscar in this movie for his portrayal of Verbal Kint in this 1995 crime flick that also saw the likes of Benicio del Toro and Stephen Baldwin.  It takes its title from a line in Casablanca.	Answer:	The Usual Suspects 8. Identify the following relating to a certain enzyme for ten points each. (a) This enzyme can be used to transcribe RNA into DNA, thus integrating into the host genome, and is found in every retrovirus. 	Answer:	Reverse transcriptase (b) Reverse transcriptase makes this lab technique able to be applied to RNA. It was invented by Kary Mullis, who won the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for it. 	Answer:	polymerase chain reaction (c) This drug, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, is sold under the generic name Zidovudine or by Glaxo-SmithKline as Retrovir, and is used to treat HIV. 	Answer:	AZT or azidothymidine 9. Identify the following authors who committed suicide for ten points each. (a) This guy committed suicide by pumping car exhaust into his vehicle. More notably, he won the Pulitzer Prize posthumously for A Confederacy of Dunces. 	Answer:	John Kennedy Toole (b) Gas asphyxiation was the suicide of choice for this wife of Ted Hughes and author of The Bell Jar. 	Answer:	Sylvia Plath (c) She drowned herself by filling her pockets with rocks and walking into the water, but Nicole Kidman won an Oscar for portraying this author of Mrs. Dalloway in The Hours. 	Answer:	Virginia Woolf10. Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake prompts a bonus on serial killers. Identify the following for ten points each. (a) This serial killer was the inspiration (kind of) for Leatherface, as well as Norman Bates and Buffalo Bill. When police were searching his house, among the things  found were a belt made from nipples, noses and a human heart, lampshades made of human skin, and the decapitated and gutted body of one of the deputy's mothers hanging from the ceiling. 	Answer:	Ed Gein (b) Working for a time as a clown, this serial killer from Chicago was convicted of the murder and rape of 33 men, 28 of whose bodies were buried under his house. When he was pronounced dead in 1994, vendors sold t-shirts and merchandise. 	Answer:	John Wayne Gacy (c) This Hungarian countess aimed to improve her complexion by bathing in the blood of young girls, and, when she was found to have killed some six hundred peasants in 1610, she was put into solitary confinement. Her count makes her the most prolific female serial killer in history. 	Answer:	Baroness Erzsebet Bathory or Elizabeth Bathory 
11. Identify the following French mathematicians for ten points each.(a). Dying in a duel at the age of twenty, his greatest contribution was the introduction of group theory and the theory of abstract algebra dealing with the symmetries of the roots of polynomials that bears his name. 	Answer:	Evariste Galois (b) Sometimes regarded as the father of both differential calculus and number theory, his lasting fame rests in a note written in a copy of Diophantus' Arithmetica regarding that was finally proven by Andrew Wiles and Richard Taylor. 	Answer:	Pierre de Fermat (c) His lasting fame comes from his namesake series which allows any periodic function to be written as the sum of different harmonics of the sine and cosine functions. 	Answer:	Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier 12. Name the following things associated with temperature for ten points each. (a) This simplest thermodynamically reversible process consists of isothermal expansion, adiabatic expansion, isothermal compression and adiabatic compression of the gases. 	Answer:	Carnot Cycle (b) He was among the first to support Joule, and collaborated with Joule to work out an effect involving the drop in gas temperature during expansion in a vacuum. He went on to develop a namesake absolute temperature scale. 	Answer:	William Thomson, Baron Kelvin (c) This Scottish engineer developed an absolute system similar to Kelvin's, but based upon Fahrenheit, making it almost unused by scientists. 	Answer:	William John Macquorn Rankine 13. Identify the following things from the Hundred Years War for ten points each. (a) This English king attempted to claim the French throne following the death of Charles IV of France.	Answer:	Edward III (b) The French disinherited Edward's mother, Isabella of France, by citing this ancient Frankish law code, which stipulated that the crown could not descend through the female line.	Answer:	Salic Law(c) Beginning in the area of Beauvais and led by Guillaume Kale, this series of peasant revolts in 1358 flowed from the hardships of the peasantry and the hatred of local lords, but was defeated the next summer. 	Answer:	Jacquerie 14. Name the German authors that may, but probably don't, have something else in common from works FTPE(a) Magister Ludi and Demian. 	Answer:	Hermann Hesse (b) Lorelei and Trip to the Harz Mountains. 	Answer:	Heinrich Heine (c) Iphigenie, Egmont, and The Sorrows of Young Werther. 	Answer:	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe  15. Name the following early twentieth century philosophers from works for ten points each. (a) Tractatus Logico-Philisophicus 	Answer:	Ludwig Wittgenstein (b) Logical Investigations 	Answer:	Edmund Husserl (c) Why I am not a Christian and Principia Mathematica 	Answer:	Bertrand Russell 16.	Answer the following about a particular element in chemistry for ten points each. (a) This element has an association with the smell of rotten eggs, and has an atomic weight of 32.065 amu. 	Answer:	sulphur (b) In its crystalline form, sulphur comes in rings of this many atoms, the same number as its spiral helical structure in the amorphous form. 	Answer:	8 (c) Sulphur can be found in this ore, also a major source of mercury which has a chemical formula of HgS. 	Answer:	cinnabar or cinnabarite 
17. Identify the following painters from the twentieth century for ten points each. (a) In 1931 this French creator of a relief in the Harvard University Graduate Center and a mural at the UNESCO building broke with the Surrealists to form Abstraction-Creation. 	Answer:	Jean Arp (b) Major works by this Belarussian surrealist include "Green Violinist" and "I and the Village." 	Answer:	Marc Chagall or Mark Zakharovich Shagal (c) A founder of Der Blaue Reiter, he developed a series of Improvisations and Compositions. 	Answer:	Wassily Kandinsky  18. Identify the following about Watergate for ten points each. (a) This head of the Committee to Re-Elect the President and Attorney General had planned the use of bugs at the Watergate and was convicted of conspiracy to obstruct justice on March 1, 1974. 	Answer:	John Mitchell (b) Now running a syndicated radio talk-show, he was one of the "plumbers" responsible for finding leaks and running operations against the Democrats, previously orchestrating the arrest and trial of Timothy Leary. 	Answer:	G. Gordon Liddy (c) This Chief Judge of the US District Court in the District of Columbia oversaw the Watergate trials, handed down thirty year sentences to those involved until James W. McCord spoke up to avoid a long jail sentence, broadening the investigation. 	Answer:	John Sirica 19. Identify the following dramas that won the Pulitzer Prize for ten points each. (a) In 1920 Eugene O'Neill won his first Pulitzer Prize for drama with this work about the Mayo brothers. 	Answer:	Beyond the Horizon (b) Jonathan Larson won the prize in 1996 for this drama- turned-musical about starving artists in Alphabet City while dealing with AIDS. 	Answer:	Rent (c) The first award, given in 1918, went to this work by Jesse Lynch Williams. 	Answer:	Why Marry? 20. Name the saint, ten points each. (a) Over 350 of his sermons are preserved today, but he is probably better remembered for his Confessions. 	Answer:	Saint Augustine of Hippo (b) Allegedly the founder of several churches in India that were later attacked by the Portuguese as heretical, his great claim to fame was his refusal to believe in the Resurrection unless he could feel Christ's wounds. 	Answer:	Saint Thomas (c) Taken to live in the Temple of Jerusalem at age three, she has feast days on January 1, February 2, February 11, March 25, May 13, May 31, June 27, August 15, August 21, October 7 and December 8. 	Answer:	Blessed Virgin Mary 21. Name the artists who have something in common from works for ten points each. (a) Pope Innocent X and Las Meninas 	Answer:	Diego Rodriguez de Silva Velazquez (b) The 1953 work Study After Velazquez: Portrait of Pope Innocent X, as well as Figure with Meat 	Answer:	Francis Bacon (c) Francis Bacon did a painting of the death mask of this painter/mystic/weirdo who produced such works as Job and His Daughters and the title page for The Marriage of Heaven and Hell. 	Answer:	William Blake 
22. Name the following defendants at the Nuremberg Trials for ten points each. (a) The initiator of the U-boat campaigns and Hitler's designated successor, he was found guilty of the two lesser charges and sentenced to ten years in prison. 	Answer:	Karl Doenitz (b) Indicted and convicted on all four counts, this senior German military figure signed the papers giving Himmler a free hand in his racial controls in Russian territory and signed the order instructing the execution of Jews and Communists. 	Answer:	Wilhelm Keitel (c) The leader of the Luftwaffe, he was found guilty on all four counts and sentenced to death, only to commit suicide the night before his execution. 	Answer:	Hermann Goering 23. Given a brief description of their role in the work, identify the following characters of Milton's Paradise Lost 5-10-15. (5) This demon, originally a Philistine god of Ekron, is second to Satan in power and rank in Hell. 	Answer:	Beelzebub (10) The tale of Satan's revolt and the expulsion from heaven is related to Adam by this archangel in the Garden of Eden. 	Answer:	Raphael (15) This other archangel sends two angels, Ithuriel and Zephon, to search for Satan after he entered the Garden of Eden. 	Answer:	Gabriel 24. Identify the following bands from albums 5-10-15. (5) OK Computer and Pablo Honey 	Answer:	Radiohead (10) Machina and Gish 	Answer:	Smashing Pumpkins (15) Soup and Nico 	Answer:	Blind Melon