TOSSUPS - SOUTH CAROLINA	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UTCQuestions by South Carolina with some from Missouri-Rolla1.	He didn't cast a shadow and he once split the moon with his finger.  The first rose sprang up from his sweat and trees, animals and poisoned meat all talked to him at one time or another.  His birthday on 12 Rabi I became a holiday for which many famous poems were written.  Although Gabriel took him to Heaven on the winged horse Buraq and introduced him to the other prophets, only he was allowed to enter the divine presence.  FTP, name this man who consummated his marriage to Ayesha when she was nine and claimed his only miracle was bringing the Koran into the world.	Answer:	Muhammad2.	Known as Sai Zhen Zhu in Chinese, she once chased away a dog that had dug up the body of a baby girl and reburied the child, a scene which appears in her most famous work.  She translated The Water Margin into English as All Men are Brothers and The Spirit and The Flesh contains biographies of her missionary parents.  FTP, name this author of The Living Reed, Mandala and The Good Earth.	Answer:	Pearl Buck3.	It threatened several Gambian tribes with extinction before the 1925 London Conference began its near-eradication.  It now affects many women and children who gather water and wash clothes in riverside brush.  The skin of late-stage patients is so sensitive that even the slightest touch brings screams and hallucinations begin when the parasites reach the brain.  Sufferers then fall into lethargy.  FTP, name this disease spread by the tsetse fly.	Answer:	 Answer: African Sleeping  sickness or African Trypanosomiasis4.	A close friend of Little Turtle, he developed a lexicon which allowed basic communication in 600 Indian languages and dialects.  His linguistic studies allowed him to first deduce Indians originally came from Asia and he sent smallpox vaccine with Lewis and Clark to protect the natives they encountered.  The first president inaugurated in Washington, his greatest opponent was his Federalist kinsman John Marshall.  FTP, name this man under whom Monroe and Livingston made the Louisiana Purchase.	Answer:	Thomas Jefferson5.	Massachusetts fishermen accepted them as payment in the tropics, so the first mill to process them was built in Dorchester in 1765.  Columbus had found natives eating them, but didn't bring any back; however, the shrewder Cortez had his own plantation, on which he said he "grew money."  British critics allege that even today the Ivory Coast, a leading producer, uses child slave labor in their industry.  To be useful, these products of the family Sterculaceae must be fermented before the seeds are removed.  FTP name these misnamed seeds of an evergreen tree, used to make cosmetics, medicine and chocolate.	Answer:	Cocoa beans or cacao6.	It can be broken at the atomic scale for up to two seconds in accordance with fluctuation theory, but Maxwell's demon can't break it because a radiation source is needed to illuminate.  Although work can always be done to change to an equilibrium state, a system in equilibrium can't do work to change itself without a net effect on the environment, making a perpetual motion machine impossible.  FTP, name this idea that differences in temperature move inexorably toward equilibrium.	Answer:	Second Law of Thermodynamics7.	The birthday cake is thought to have been developed to celebrate her birthday on the 6th of every month.  Its candles represent the moon, which the Greeks also called by her name.  Athenians sacrificed 500 goats a year to her in thanks for victory at Marathon, but she sent a boar to ravage the land of King Oeneus when he failed to placate her.  The daughter of Zeus and Leto, she accidentally killed her lover Orion and placed him in the sky with his dog Sirius.  FTP, name this goddess of the hunt known as Diana to the Romans.	Answer:	Artemis or accept Diana early8.	He learned the printer's trade publishing the newspaper at Turnwood plantation, where he once sat on a fencepost watching Sherman's troops march past and often listened to the tales told in the slave cabins.  He used Mr. Billy Sanders of Shady Dale as the spokesman for ordinary Georgia folk in many of his books, but he is better known for stories which first appeared in the Atlanta Constitution.  FTP, name this author of Uncle Remus books.	Answer:	Joel Chandler Harris
9.	He admired Communist China because it was close to his own ideas about having children raised by the state and professionals and lamented that a communist revolution in America was unlikely.  He argued that man is just another animal whose free will is largely controlled by previous actions and experiences.  Huxley and Burgess both assumed the correctness of his ideas of conditioning, but by the 60s it was obvious that he was largely wrong.  FTP, name this American psychologist whose book Walden II describes a community run on behaviorist principles.	Answer:	Burrhus Frederick Skinner10.	He has declared that Shakespeare was a 16th century Arab named Sheik Zubayr bin William.  Said to be a Barbara Cartland fan, he appreciates the moral tone of her work.  He owns a controlling stake in Zimbabwe's state oil company and refineries and gained his current position by leading the overthrow of King Idris in 1969.  He took a ship full of goat carcasses on his 2002 African tour, during which he tossed U.S. dollars from his armored car windows.  FTP, name this Libyan leader. 	Answer:	Colonel Muammar al Qaddafi/Gaddafi11.	Its first, unofficial edition was published in Ukrainian, but most copies were destroyed by Russian occupation forces.  Seven Commandments, most expressing animosity to humans, are the basis of life there.  Boxer, the horse whose mantra "I will work harder" comes from Jurgis Rudkis in The Jungle, is sent to the glue factory when exhausted.  FTP, name this George Orwell novel in which Snowball and Napoleon lead the overthrow of Farmer Jones.	Answer:	Animal Farm12.	Renowned for a lost mitre and morse set fashioned for Pope Martin V, Donatello and Paolo Uccello both served as assistants in his workshop.  He and Filippo Brunelleschi were the only two finalists in the competition which brought him fame, but his training as a goldsmith gained him the commission.  FTP, name this Quattrocento creator of the Gates of Paradise for the Baptistery of the cathedral of Florence.	Answer:	Lorenzo Ghiberti13.	It is alternately illuminated by opposite poles of the sun for 82 years each.  Its surface is mostly nitrogen and shows seasonal frost deposits.  It also has a thin atmosphere of nitrogen and methane and Voyager found smooth "ice lakes" and cantaloupe-textured terrain.  There are also 8-kilometer high plumes of liquid nitrogen which probably derive from molten heat generated by its capture, something which also explains its retrograde orbit.  FTP, name this satellite which will one day collide with Neptune or form a ring system after disintegration.	Answer:	Triton14.	The supplier of arms for the Moroccan expedition against Songhai, a German traveler's reference to the blackness of her teeth is the first known association of sugar consumption and tooth decay.  Not coincidentally, she banned all mirrors from her court  So popular that her Accession Day became a festival known as Holyday, she hand-picked such fine ministers as William Cecil, Lord Burghley.  FTP, name this English queen who wore gowns that exposed her breasts to show her virgin status.	Answer:	Elizabeth I15.	While having tea with Japanese prime minister Inukai Tsuyoshi, he was nearly assassinated by a group of military officers. Thought to have been greatly influenced by Mei Lan Fang, who popularized Bejing opera in the West, Mao Ze Dong was a big fan and his movies, including A Countess from Hong Kong, remain wildly popular in China.  Three months after burial his body was exhumed and later found reburied ten miles away.  FTP, name this star of The Kid, City Lights and The Gold Rush.	Answer:	answer: Sir Charles Spencer "Charlie" Chaplin16.	Christianity worships man, not God, so it is a kind of atheism.  Mystery, miracle and prophecy are frauds.  The Bible is not a revelation.  "My mind is my own church," as God reveals Himself through creation and man's conscience.  Religion is the greatest tyranny.  Those are the main ideas of what was called the "atheist's Bible," but its author claimed that he wasn't an atheist.  FTP, name this book which popularized deism, the first part of which Thomas Paine had published in Paris in 1794.	Answer:	The Age of Reason
17.	Son of the archbishop of Tasmania, his World War I experiences made him hate trench warfare and parade drill.  He grew to love speed and decisiveness, disobeying orders in order to take command of the Eighth Army two days early.  Eisenhower liked him enough to assign him to the American 1st Army for a while, almost causing Patton and Bradley to resign.  His greatest victory was a foolish assault launched before American allies could assist.  FTP, name this British commander who planned Market-Garden and led the attack at El-Alamein.	Answer:	Bernard Law, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein18.	It accounts for architects putting heating ducts near the floor and explains why people should stay low to avoid hot, noxious gas from fires.  When its originator made one of the first balloon flights in 1783, he made use of the volume increase and density decrease as the balloon was heated to make it rise.  The molecular explanation for it says that temperature rises causes molecular speed and average kinetic energy to increase, leading molecules to force container walls out.  FTP, name this idea that density of a gas is inversely proportional to temperature.	Answer:	Charles's Law19.	In South Africa, it sold more copies of any book other than the Bible.  Its protagonist's attempts to restore his family echo that country's struggle to rebuild itself.  In it a man goes to Johannesburg to look for his son, Absalom, and finds the boy wanted for the murder of Arthur Jarvis.  His son is hanged and his sister is a whore, but he names his new grandson Peter, as he will be the rock on which his family is rebuilt.  FTP, name this Alan Paton work about Stephen Kumalo.	Answer:	Cry, the Beloved Country20.	Shatar, its form of chess has a dog (the "shepherd's friend") for a queen and a camel for a bishop.  It had a horse post until 1949, with feathers attached to urgent letters.  A 1918 census revealed 100,000 Chinese living there, but there were only 247 left in 1947.  It didn't join the United Nations until 1961 because both the U.S. and Taiwan opposed its entry.  With winter temperatures below -30 Celsius, its capital, Red Hero, is the world's coldest capital city.  FTP, name this Asian country whose capital was once called Urga and is better known as Ulaan Bator. 	Answer:	Answer: Mongolia21.	Evolving 400 million-years-ago, they have 20,000 eye facets and terrible vision.  However, they can taste with their feet.  One type was known only from Triassic fossils until a live one was seen near a vent on the ocean floor.  There is no good method for guessing their ages, since they molt 25 times a year when young and very rarely after age ten.  Females can mate only after shedding claws and releasing a hormone to prevent males from eating them.  FTP, name these animals, most types of which have no claws and which are most abundant off the coast of Maine.	Answer:	Lobsters22.	After World War I, he led the "outlawry of war" movement which resulted in the Kellogg-Briand Pact.  His article "The Reflex Arc Concept in Psychology" marked the beginning of functional psychology, but his magnum opus was his 1925 Experience and Nature, which summarized his philosophy.  Evolutionary biology and psychology caused him to abandon the Hegelian notion that ideas mirror the order of the universe; instead, they are just tools to solve problems.  FTP, name this philosopher who with William James and C.S. Peirce founded pragmatism.	Answer:	John Dewey23.	The pure synthetic form has been a substitute for gasoline in Indy 500 race car engines since 1965.  However, this substance made through destructive distillation is used mostly for rendering a closely related compound unfit to drink.  Highly toxic because it oxidizes to formaldehyde, drinking it has resulted in many deaths.  Because it rapidly destroys the optic nerve, the first symptom of poisoning by it is blindness.  FTP, name this simplest alcohol, with formula C H3 OH , also known as wood spirit.	Answer:	Methyl alcohol or Methanol or Wood Alcohol24.	Robert Solow found growth of it was the highest contributor to American economic growth from 1909 to 1949 and it was mostly due to advance of technology, leading to the suggestion that accrual of human capital is most crucial for its growth.  Almost all growth of Asian tiger economies is not due to increases in it, but rather to increased inputs of labor and capital.  Since 1973 it has grown slowly in OECD countries.  FTP, name this amount by which output would increase as a result of improvements in methods of production with all other inputs unchanged.	Answer:	Total Factor Productivity
BONI - SOUTH CAROLINA		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UTC1.	FTPE name these 1918 Allied commanders.a)	He promised that all Teddy Roosevelt's sons would serve in the A.E.F. he commanded.  He was once mistaken for a sergeant by the Allied commander, but finally won a battle on his own at St. Mihiel.       Answer:	General John "Black Jack" Pershingb)	He was famous for his counter-attacks, but hurt by association with Joffre.  The British pushed for him to be commander of the Allied armies and he is the only Frenchman to be an honorary British field marshal.	Answer:	Ferdinand Fochc)	Commander-in-chief of the B.E.F after French's dismissal, he was soiled by association with bloodbaths at the Somme and Third Ypres.  Lloyd George tried to fire him, but it was politically impossible.  One of the best Blackadder lines is "This is it, boys, the big push to move" [this General's] "liquor cabinet six inches closer to Berlin."	Answer:	Sir Douglas Haig, 1st Earl of Haig2.	Answer these questions from inorganic chemistry for 10 points each.A.  First systematically used in formulas and calculations by Stanislao Cannizaro, this is the ratio of the average mass of an element's atoms to some standard.       Answer:  	Atomic weightB.  Gilbert Lewis first distinguished these two types of bonds, one of which links oppositely charged atoms by transfer of one's valence electrons and the other of which involves two or three nuclei sharing the same electrons.       Answer:   	Ionic and  CovalentC.  Also called after its discoverer, Joseph-Louis Proust, this law states that compounds always contain elements in the same ration, regardless of how prepared.       Answer:  	Law of definite proportions 3.	Answer these questions about a psychologist FTPE.The first to break with Freud, he repudiated the theory of libido.  He was first to emphasize social and interpersonal factors which Freud thought unimportant and called his school Individual Psychology.	Answer:	Alfred AdlerAlthough he didn't coin the term, Adler thought this involved hiding behind a deficiency or pretending to suffer from inadequacy to avoid real failure.  It stops further development and leads to passive withdrawal.	Answer:	Inferiority ComplexThis is especially obvious in the first two children of a family, who must strive for a place.  Their natures are often very different because they try to capitalize on each other's weaknesses.	Answer:	Sibling Rivalry4.	Answer these questions about a certain author for ten points each.1.  A waspish columnist for the San Francisco Examiner, his often dark and ironic stories were collected in such volumes as Tales of Soldiers and Civilians and Cobwebs from and Empty Skull,       Answer:  	Ambrose Bierce 2.  This Bierce story concerns a deaf boy who thinks the titular battle is a fantastic game until he finds his village burning and his mother dead.	Answer:	Chickamauga3.  In 1906 Bierce published The Cynic's Wordbook, a compilation of his sardonic definitions.  In 1911 it was retitled this name, the one we know for it today.	Answer:	The Devil's Dictionary 5.       Identify these works of opera by old men from a brief description for 15 points or a more detailed one for 5 points.15-Verdi's first comic opera, it premiered at La Scala in 1893 when he was 80.5-Based on two Shakespeare plays, it depicts the title character being bamboozled by Alice Ford and Meg Page. 	Answer:	Falstaff15-Puccini left it unfinished when he died at 80 and it was completed from sketches by Franco Alfano.5-Based on a Carlo Gozzi tale, it tells of Prince Calaf's attempts to win the love of the title princess by solving a riddle.	Answer:	Turandot 
6.	Identify the drink recipe from its ingredients FTPE:  a)  Kahlua, Irish cream, vodka, and milk or cream	Answer: 	Mudslideb)  Milk, amaretto, and Kahlua or Tia Maria       Answer:  	Toasted Almondc)  Vodka, triple sec, lime juice, cranberry juice, lime wedge	Answer:  	Cosmopolitan7.	Answer these questions about the Crusades FTPE:a)  This Cluniac Reform pope promised immediate entry to Heaven for all who died in battle against the infidels.  He ended his speech at the Council of Clermont by shouting, "Deus volt," or "God wills it."	Answer:	Pope Urban IIb)  Although Pope Innocent III denounced them every step of the way, Venetians and French knights forgot about attacking Egypt and captured the Christian city of Constantinople in 1204.  An orgy of destruction resulted and a French prostitute was seated on the patriarch's throne to sing ribald songs.	Answer:	Fourth Crusadec)  Though he became the first Latin ruler in Palestine in 1099, this French duke declined the title king because "no crown of gold should be worn where Jesus wore a crown of thorns."	Answer:	Godfrey of Bouillon or Godefroi de Bouillon8.	FTPE name these E.M. Forster novels.Adela Quested is taken to the Marabar Caves and has a strange, mystical experience.  She thinks that she must have been raped by the Muslim Dr. Aziz and the resulting farce makes him want to Kill Whitey.	Answer:	A Passage to IndiaIt becomes Margaret Schlegel's home when she marries Mr. Wilcox.  After Charles goes to prison, Mr. Wilcox comes to love the illegitimate baby Leonard produced with Helen and wills the home to the child.	Answer:	Howard's EndThis book's homosexual theme caused it to be published a year after Forster's death.  Its title character defies the class system by coupling with a gamekeeper on his college classmate Clive Durham's estate.        Answer:	Maurice9.	Answer these questions about muscle action FSNP.5 each-Name the two types of contractile proteins in muscle.  One is for thick filaments and converts ATP's energy to mechanical energy.  The other is for thin filaments and helps form helix-shaped filaments with ends for binding.	Answer:	Myosin and Actin10-Name the element whose ion binds at the start of muscle contraction to leave myosin binding sites.	Answer:	Calcium10-This stiffness results when calcium ions leak out and myosin heads bind with actin, but, because ATP synthesis has ceased, detachment doesn't occur until enzymes dissolve crossbridges.	Answer:	Rigor Mortis10.	Claude Monet and Edouard Manet are easy to confuse, especially for an uncultured Comp Sci like the author of this question.  Answer Manet, Monet, both, or neither to the following questions for 5 points for each correct answer.  	Which artist was born in Paris?		Both 	Which artist served in the Merchant Marines?		Manet (Monet served in the French army in Algiers)	Which artist painted portraits of Zola and Baudelaire?		Manet	Which artist painted Woman with Chrysanthemums and Foyer of the Dance?		Neither (Edgar Degas)	Which artist painted Rouen Cathedral?		Monet	Which artist actually had a painting accepted by the 1861 Salon?		Manet (Chanteur Espagnol)
11.	Ever notice how many capitals end with the letter "a"?  There aren't a whole lot that end with the letter Z.  Or that begin with Z, for that matter.  The CIA World Factbook lists only 2 nations whose capitals end with "Z" and one that begins with "Z".  For each of those nations you can name now, you'll get 10 points; if not, then we'll give you the remaining capitals, and you can name the nations for 5 pts. each.[PAUSE TO ALLOW FOR 10 POINT GUESSES; USE THE SECTION BELOW ONLY AS NEEDED]a)  La Paz	Answer:	Boliviab)  Vaduz	Answer:	Liechtensteinc)  Zagreb       Answer: 	Croatia12.	Answer these questions about The Federalist papers FTSNOP:5-The papers were written in an effort to persuade voters in which state to ratify the Constitution?	Answer:	New York15 - For 5 points each, name the three authors who wrote the Federalist papers under pseudonyms. 	Answer:	Alexander Hamilton, James Madison and John Jay10-The most famous of the papers is this one, in which Madison argued that republican government was not merely for small states and that stability and liberty were more easily achieved in large, heterogeneous states.	Answer:	Number 1013.	Name these physical effects FTPE.Its discovery allowed research into magnetic resonance effects to go forward because recoil no longer made accurate measurements impossible.  It occurs when an electron falling to a lower energy level emits gamma radiation which falls on another atom to raise one of its electrons a level.	Answer:	Mossbauer EffectDevices powered by it turn waste to power for radio stations in poor countries, as well as making energy for satellites.  It forms an electric current when heat flows to cold areas after two different metals are made into a loop and one end heated.	Answer:	Seebeck Effect Its namesake used gold in research, but others used different metals and found effects opposite to the predicted direction.  It is an electric current flowing through a conductor in a magnetic field to produce electric potential and creates a transverse curent in the conductor.	Answer:	Hall Effect14.	Name these serial killers, FTPE.The inspiration for Norman Bates in Psycho, this Wisconsin native heard about Christine Jorgenson's sex change and yearned to become a woman.  He robbed graves and killed woman so that he could wear preserved female body parts while dancing under the moon.	Answer:	Edward Theodore GeinAmerica's most notorious cannibal before Jeffrey Dahmer, he was known for yelling, "I am Christ!" and sticking needles deep in his groin.  He believed that God ordered him to castrate young boys and claimed to have raped and murdered children in every state before his 1936 execution.	Answer:	Albert Howard FishThis Nazi sniper has been convicted of bombing a synagogue (in Chattanooga, of all places) and murdering blacks and interracial couples, but was acquitted in Vernon Jordan's shooting and has never been tried for the shooting of Larry Flynt, to which he has confessed guilt.	Answer:	Joseph Paul Franklin 15.	30-20-10, name the play.A.  One of the most popular plays in the Yiddish theater, it contains the quote, "The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices / Make instruments to plague us."B.  Banned during the madness of George III, it has Goneril poisoning her ally Regan for the love of Edmund, bastard son of Gloucester.C.  The title character wrongs Cordelia, the only daughter who truly loves him, and dies soon after she is hanged.       answer: King Lear
16.	A college 35 miles north of Chattanooga is named in his memory.  Answer questions about William Jennings Bryan FTSNOP.  5: Name the defendant in the 1925 trial over the teaching of evolution in which Bryan assisted the prosecution.  		Answer:  John T. Scopes10: This name is popularly given to Bryan's 1896 speech at the Democratic National Convention in support of free silver.  		Answer: Cross of Gold speech5:  While born in Illinois, this is the state which Bryan represented in Congress.  		Answer: Nebraska10:  Bryan's support was seen as a major factor in Woodrow Wilson's 1912 Presidential victory.  Bryan then held this Cabinet post for most of Wilson's first term.		Answer: Secretary of State 17.	30-20-10, name the philosopher:30-According to one tradition, after living 200 years, he was reborn in India as the Buddha.  The two are sometimes worshipped on the same altar.  20-His name means "ear" in modern Chinese, but he is usually known by a title meaning Old Guy.  He was historian at the Zhou court before wandering off to the west.10-His most famous work, the Dao De Jing, expounds on man's fall from perfection, the doctrine of non-action, dangers of tyranny and, of course, the nature of Dao.	Answer:	Lao Zi/Tzu or Li Er18.	Like, wowwww, man.  Answer these questions about joints FTPE.Named for its resemblance to egg white, it lubricates joints and moves waste and nutrients.  Warming-up before exercise increases its production.	Answer:	Synovial FluidA wrenching of a joint that stretches or tears but doesn't dislocate the bone, it damages surrounding tissue and swelling is caused by damaged blood vessels.	Answer:	SprainThe largest joint, it is actually a synovial cavity and three individual joints: a planar and two modified hinges.	Answer:	Knee19.	Answer these questions about a figure from Greek mythology FTPE:a)  Priam divorced his first wife for her.  She watched her husband die and supervised the funeral of her grandson Astynax before leaving Troy as a slave.	Answer:		Hecuba or Hecabeb)  Hecabe dreamed of a firebrand that would burn down the city before this man, her first son, was born.  After he was wounded, his wife Oenone, whom he had abandoned many years earlier, refused to save him.	Answer:		Parisc)  Hecabe gave her son Polydorus to this man for safekeeping, but he murdered the boy.  Hecabe killed his children and blinded him, so she was turned into a dog and was buried under the "bitch's stone" in Thrace.	Answer:		Polymestor20.	FTPE, name these characters from Gustave Flaubert works.This romantic, convent-educated girl marries a boorish doctor.  When her affairs with a  squire and a lawyer are revealed to him, she drinks arsenic and dies.	Answer:	Madame BovaryThis title character is Hamilcar Barca's daughter.  She is loved by the Libyan giant Matho, who makes her trade her body for the sacred veil he has stolen.  She dies after he is tortured to death.	Answer:	SalammboA wealthy and listless law student, he loves Madame Arnoux, but only admires her from afar.  After twenty boring years, she suddenly reappears and they discuss what might have been.	Answer:	Frederic Moreau
21.	5-10-15.  Name these animals associated with the Roman empire.A.  Along with a woodpecker, a female of this sort of animal suckled Romulus and Remus.  They were sons of Mars, to whom this animal is sacred.       Answer: wolfB.  The standards of Roman legions were topped with images of this animal associated with Jupiter and it stayed in use by kings until the 20th century.        Answer: eagleC.  This bird was held in high esteem because in 390 B. C. its cackling alerted the sleeping Romans and allowed them to fight off the Goths.  A golden one was carried to the Capitol every year.       Answer: Goose22.	5-10-15, name these characters from The Sound and the Fury.5-Part one is composed of fragments of this 33-year-old idiot's memories, in which he is watched always by the black servant, Luster and later castrated.	Answer:	Benjy or Benjamin Compson10-Part two details Quentin's incestuous love for this sister, which leads him to kill himself on her wedding day.  She is turned out by her husband when he finds her baby isn't his.	Answer:	Candace or Caddy Compson.15-This black mammy keeps the family going and leads the servants, but can't stop Quentin from running off with a carnival boy.  She saw the Compsons begin and she sees them end.	Answer:	Dilsey23.	Answer these questions about a kind of tissue, 5-10-15.5-It serves as an energy reserve, reduces heat loss and is also a kind of connective tissue.	Answer:	Fat or Adipose Tissue10-Derived from fibroblasts, these fat cells are filled with large triglycerides so that the cytoplasm and nucleus are pushed to the edge.	Answer:	Adipocytes15-Adults have mostly white fat, but infants have much of this variety.  It is colored by a rich blood supply and many mitochondria and generates lots of heat to maintain body temperature.	Answer:	Brown Fat