TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Stephen Webb, Shae Williams, Robert Scott, and Nick Bendler, with 2 by your genial quizmaster1.	His mother was half-Jewish and half-German, while his father was a Kalmuk tribesman and civil servant, making him technically and in official correspondence referred to as a nobleman by birth. After learning Latin and Greek, he earned a law degree but instead began studying revolution instead of being a lawyer. After marrying Nadezhda Krupskaya in 1898, he settled on the alias history would remember him by, a reference to a goldfield worker massacre. FTP, name this revolutionary and author of "What is to be Done", the first Chairman of the Council of People's Commissars who was taken on a "Sealed Train" to St. Petersburg in 1917.	Answer:	Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, or Vladimir Ulyanov2.	Leonard Bernstein composed a symphony for this work, set in a New York City bar and featuring four characters, Quant, Malin, Rosetta and Emble. Written in eclogue form, it was published in the aftermath of the Second World War, and focused heavily on the issue of the identity of the individual, and the sources for the title feeling. Winning the 1948 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry for its author, for ten points, name this poem by W.H. Auden.	Answer:	The Age of Anxiety: A Baroque Eclogue3.	One variety plots color index on the vertical axis while the other plots surface temperature. The majority of the points on the graph fall on a diagonal line from the upper left to the lower right corners. Supergiants occur above a certain limit at the top while white dwarfs fall on a curve in the lower left. For ten points, name this plot developed by two Danish and American astronomers used to classify stars.	Answer:	Hertzsprung-Russell diagram4.	One fan, anguished at this television and movie star's lack of love for her, calls the star an "American Heathcliff, brooding and humming". A vegetarian, his earlier roles included parts in "Beethoven" and "Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead". After his most famous role, his career has gone through a prolonged slump, with such movies as "Full Frontal" and "House of D", the latter costarring his wife, Tea Leoni. FTP, name this actor who starred as Fox Mulder on "The X-Files" in the 1990s.	Answer:	David Duchovny (Why won't you love me?)	5.	In his work Ancient Judaism he showed how that religion laid the groundwork for the modern European culture as much as Greece and Rome. In his Religion of India, he notes that the caste system kept Western urban classes from developing. In The Religion of China, he showed how Confusicanism and Toaism prevented the acculmation of wealth and the gradual decline of China in the past four centuries. FTP, name this German sociologist, whose Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism examines why Protestants accumilate wealth, a concept normally considered mundane and sinful in other religions.	Answer:	Max Weber6.  I	n 1832 he returned to Lincoln, where he sat in parliament for nine years for the city, becoming a strong advocate for the Reform Bill and writing the pamphlet A Letter to a Late Cabinet Minister on the Crisis almost earned him a lordship of the admiralty. He declined as it would interfere with his writing career, which by that time had included the works Pelham and Godolphin, as well as his work The Pilgrims of the Rhine, published the same year as his most famous. FTP name this author who declined the position in the admiralty the same year he published The Last Days of Pompeii.	Answer:	Edward Bulwer-Lytton, 1st Baron Lytton7.	There is some evidence that Muhammad had contact with members of this heresy. After being condemned, the followers flocked to the Assyrian Church of the East, though later the namesake teachings were replaced by those of Babia the Great. FTP, name this heresy condemned at the Council of Ephesus in 431 that maintains that Jesus was two persons, the man himself and the Son of God.	Answer:	Nestorianism8.	A film of his life is set to debut in late 2005 with John Malkovich playing him. He is distinguished for his use of mosaic styles in his painting. He was a founding member of the Vienna Secession, but left the group in 1908. For ten points, name this Austrian painter of works such as Buchenwald, The Hydra, Judith I, and The Kiss.	Answer:	Gustav Klimt
9.	At one point he believed that he was pregnant with an elephant by a French grenadier. Although his mental health was suspect in his later life, earlier he had served with distinction in the Swedish army in the wars against Frederick the Great. After 1760, he changed nationalities but kept his uncontrolled temper, leading to a forced retirement in 1773. He was not brought out of retirement until 1793, where he served with fanatical hatred against Napoleon, but led to another forced retirement in 1806. Not until the 1813-1815 campaign when coupled with the pragmatism of Gneisenau did he find lasting success against Napoleon. FTP, this Prussian general, a key figure at Waterloo. 	Answer:	Gebhard von Blucher [when they say it, it's appropriate to whinny like a distressed horse]10.	His work with Wšhler and Kassel nearly cost him his life to arsenic poisoning, and he lost sight in one eye when an explosion propelled a sliver of glass into it. He probably also saved his life, as his use of iron oxide hydrate is still the best antidote to arsenic poisoning. However, he is better known by his work with Gustav Kirchoff on spectroscopy of heated elements, and the device invented by Michael Faraday that he perfected. For ten points, name this German chemist, whose namesake burner can be found in any chemistry lab.	Answer:	Robert Bunsen 11.	He worked his way through college as a singing waiter. He did not serve a mandatory 1 year term in the military for reasons unknown, the first of many scandals which would plague this politician throughout his career. Although early in his career he built up his corporate empire with the help of a socialist party, when he entered politics his views were center right. One apparent source of his political success is his ownership of the AC Milan soccer club, as the name of his party, "Forza Italia", is a soccer chant. FTP, name this current Prime Minister of Italy. 	Answer:	Silvio Berlusconi12.	Originally in a student of theology, he changed to math in 1847 after attending a lecture on the least squares method by Gauss. His namesake field in geometry focuses on smooth manifolds and laid some of the foundations for Einstein's relativity. His namesake hypothesis has remained unsolved since 1859. For ten points, name this mathematician whose name is attached to a mapping theorem, integral, lemma, and zeta function.	Answer:	Bernhard Riemann13.	His estate near Mantua was confiscated by the demobalized soldiers of the the victorious Second Triumvirate, however it is evidenced in one of his works that "Tityrus", a name he used for himself, had the estate restored by Octavian. "Tityrus" appeared in the first of this man's Eclogues, however he also penned such works as the Georgics, a supposed source for the phrase "time flies". For ten points, name this Latin poet, most famous for telling the tale of the events leading up to Rome's founding in his Aeneid.	Answer:	Publius Vergilius Maro14.	Howard Temin and David Baltimore shared the 1975 Nobel in medicine for its discovery. Research has been conducted on how to inhibit its use in retroviruses since both HIV and Hepatitis use it in replication. Eukaryotes with linear DNA use a type of it called telomerase. For ten points, name this enzyme that transcribes information from RNA to DNA.	Answer:	Reverse transcriptase15.	Born Baldassare Cossa, Gibbon remarked about this religious figure that, "The most scandalous charges were suppressed; the Vicar of Christ was only accused of piracy, murder, rape, sodomy and incest." Among less certain results of his life is the origins of the fraternity Kappa Sigma, who claim their origin in 14th century Bologna where this man persecuted university students. The decision by a 20th century pope to have the same name and number as Cossa is seen as confirming his antipapal status. FTP, name this "pope" deposed by the Council of Constance.	Answer:	John XXIII16.	The signature sound of his musical career was the Harmon mute he used on his trumpet starting in the mid-1950's. Famous not for his raw technical talent, but rather for helping to develop a score of other famous jazz musicians such as Thelonius Monk and John Coltrane, name this pioneer of bebop, jazz fusion, and free jazz whose albums include The Birth of the Cool, Blue Haze, and Blue Moods.	Answer:	Miles Davis
17.	The day after his funeral, there was a total solar eclipse, and one minor religion considers him a saint. Although widely regarded as insane, he did speak out for racial tolerance towards "Chinamen", proclaimed that a bridge should be built over the San Francisco Bay, and was one of the few 19th century thinkers to seek the formation of a "League of Nations". Although speculated to be the son of Emperor Louis-Napoleon, on his death his assets were discovered to be merely a few dollars and his correspondence with Queen Victoria. FTP, name this self-styled "Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico", who lived in San Francisco and was buried in the Masonic cemetery.	Answer:	Emperor Norton I18.	Disconnected ones do not contribute to the Green's function they are meant to calculate, while those that are topologically equivalent are merely duplicates of each other. Developed by their eponymous founder when he realized from Wick's theorem that the terms in a Green's function could factor, conventionally squiggly lines represent interactions and straight lines represent particles. For ten points, name this drawings used by physicists to account for various particle interactions, developed by a winner of the 1965 Nobel Prize in physics.	Answer:	Feynman Diagrams19.	In 1993, the oldest version of it was found that dated it to at least 300 BC and is referred to as the Guadian text. It is a remarkably short book, weighing with two section and 5000 characters. In addition to its namesake religion, it is also a work of some importance in Buddhism. FTP, name this work supposedly written about 600 BC by Loazi and is the major work of Chinese philosophy and religion.	Answer:	Tao Te Ching (or Dao De Jing, or The Book of the Way and its Virtue)20.	His first major work told the story of Luis Alejandro Velasco, a sailor on board the destroyer Caldas, who was returning to Colombia after a stay in the US. The Story of a Shipwrecked Sailor, published in serialized form in 1955, it began to show the author's interest in "magic realism". This writing style continued in his works, including The Autumn of the Patriarch and Chronicle of a Death Foretold. Winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1982 this is, for ten points, what author of One Hundred Years of Solitude?	Answer:	Gabriel Garc’a M‡rquez21.	In Anglo-Saxon myth, he leads the Wild Hunt. He had a fortune-telling severed head and uses Valkyrjur to gather the dead for him. He also had an infinitely reproducing gold ring and an eight-legged horse. FTP, name this Norse god who also had a nifty spear that never missed and a hall named Valhalla.	Answer:	Odin22.	Their theoretical framework is based on two principals: the Principal of Totality and the Principal of Psychological Isomorphism. Its key properties are that of emergence, invariance, reification, and multistability. FTP, name this school of psychology, attributed to Max Wertheimer and holds that the brain is holistic and analog.	Answer: Gestalt 23.	After a coup against Communist rebels was crushed, he was an admiral without a fleet in a country without a coastline, yet spent the next 24 years as the Regent for a Kingdom without a King. After being arrested by the Americans in Bavaria, a new neighbor nation demanded his extradition as a war criminal- however, the admiral was settled in Portugal and finishing up his memoirs. Serving as an admiral in the Habsburg navy in World War 1, his reputation as a war hero allowed him to rule after Bela Kun was deposed. FTP, name this interwar fascist-leaning ruler of Hungary.	Answer:	Miklos Horthy
BONI - GEORGIA TECH A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Stephen Webb, Shae Williams, Robert Scott, and Nick Bendler, with 2 by your genial quizmaster1.	After years of saying "Nothing is certain except death and taxonomy," your genial quizmaster was dismayed to learn just how much has changed since his last biology class.  Answer the following about orders of mammal, 5-10-20-30:a) Once the easiest order to identify, it's been promoted to a subclass with seven orders of its own.  Hence bandicoots are now in the order Peramelemorphia and Tasmanian devils are now in Dasyuromorphia.	Answer:	Marsupialia or marsupialsb) This order containing the platypus and echidna was also promoted to a subclass, but to make us old fogies feel better, it has only one order, with the same name.  	Answer:	Monotremata or monotremesc) Edentata split up, with aardvarks and pangolins each getting their own order.  The other former edentates, including the anteater, sloth, and armadillo, were placed in this new order whose name means "strange joints."       Answer:		Xenarthrad) This order still exists, but the tree shrews have been moved to another order, and some argue for a separate order for hedgehogs.  But at least this order still has moles.  Well, except golden moles.... My brain hurts.  	Answer:	Insectivora or insectivores2.	FTPE, name the following presidential candidates of the 1860 election given their party. A: Democrat	Answer:	Stephen DouglassB: Constitutional Union	Answer:	John BellC: Southern Democrat	Answer:	John Breckinridge3.	Answer the following architecture questions from clues for ten points each.(a) This architecture school was founded in Weimar in 1919 with the intention of functional and inexpensive design while maintaining artistic form.	Answer:	Bauhaus(b) This man was the founder of the Bauhaus in Weimar.	Answer:	Walter Gropius(c) He took over leadership of the Bauhaus in 1930. His work includes the first design of a totally glass skyscraper and the German pavilion for the 1929 Barcelona exhibition.	Answer:	Ludwig Mies van der Rohe [prompt on partial surname]4.	The earliest of the three greatest Greek tragedians, he fought at the battles of Marathon and Salamis, the later of which was the subject of his play The Persians. For ten points each(a) name this playwright who, according to legend, was killed when an eagle dropped a tortoise on his bald head.	Answer:	Aeschylus(b) Aeschylus penned this only fully extant trilogy, comprised of Agamemnon, The Libation Bearers and The Eumenides.	Answer:	Oresteia(c) This play told of how Adrastus, Amphiaraus, Capaneus, Hippomedon, Parthenopeus, Polynices and Tydeus ganged up on the title city after Oedipus stepped down as its king.	Answer:	The Seven Against Thebes5.	Several rivers around the United States have been the subject of controversy. FTPE, name them.a) This river, which forms a large portion of the Alabama-Georgia border, was the subject of extensive debate between Alabama, Georgia, and Florida due to it being the major water source for Atlanta.	Answer:	Chattahoochee [where both Alan Jackson and Ned Beatty learned a little 'bout love - ed.]b) Originating in its namesake state, this river forms the border between California and Arizona. Extensive use of its waters means that it effectively no longer reaches the Gulf of Mexico.	Answer:	Coloradoc) This Columbia River tributary has also seen environmental controversy. It originals in Yellowstone National Park and was once known as the Lewis River.	Answer:	Snake
6.	For ten points each, name the following chemicals from biology.(a) Its formula is C6H8O6 and it is used as a preservative in some foods and also as a nutrient in the human body for its antioxidant properties.	Answer:	ascorbic acid or vitamin C (b) This molecule is also referred to as epinephrine. It increases blood sugar and dilates pupils when released, and also is the name of a 1995 Deftones album.	Answer:	adrenaline(c) Its formula is C5H9N3. In the brain it functions as a neurotransmitter and in the body it is found in mast cells for local immune responses. 	Answer:	histamine7.	FTPE name these generals of the Punic Wars.A: The victor of Cannae and best Carthaginian general of the 2nd Punic War. And yes, he drove elephants over the Alps.	Answer:	HannibalB: His successful siege at New Carthage was studied for centuries in siege warfare, but he is better known for defeating Hannibal at Zama.	Answer:	Scipio Africanus or Publius Cornelius ScipioC: Name either of the two incompetent Roman generals who were soundly beaten by Hannibal at Cannae. 	Answer:	C. Terrentius Varro or L. Aemilius Paulus8.	On the eve of the deadline, an academic team packet from the year 2050 showed up in our inbox. Desperate for questions, we cannibalized it. FTPE:(A) "Around the turn of the century, these ancestors of our current robotic overlords were introduced by Sony in the form of little mechanical dogs."       Answer:	Aibos(B) "A distant precursor of the Outer Planets mission that launched recently, this 1997 mission to Saturn was the first of many discoveries of liquid oceans on other planets when it found methane seas on Titan."	Answer:	Cassini-Huygens (prompt on partial answer)(C) "During his lifetime he achieved modest acclaim. It was only posthumously, with the orchestral revival of such scores as The Lord of the Rings and The Aviator, that he was recognized as one of the greats of his time.  Thus there is little credibility to the allegations that he was poisoned out of jealousy by rival composer Danny Elfman."	Answer:	Howard Shore9.	Name the following Pulitzer Prize winning dramatists from their works for ten points each.(a) Picnic won the Pulitzer in 1953, while other plays include Come Back, Little Sheba and Bus Stop.	Answer:	William Inge(b) Plays that won this man the Pulitzer Prize include Anna Christie, Beyond the Horizon and Strange Interlude.	Answer:	Eugene O'Neill(c) Already an Oscar winner for writing Moonstruck, this year he won both the Tony and the Pulitzer for his play Doubt.  	Answer:	John Patrick Shanley10.	Name that Roman deity on a 30-20-10 basis.30) Her festival is the Quinquatrus and the holiday of artisans.20) She was the goddess of warriors, poetry, medicine, wisdom, commerce in craft. She also invented music.10) She is the Roman parallel of Athena, as she was born by springing fully formed from Jupiter's head.	Answer:	Minerva [do not accept or prompt on Athena - the lead-in specifies "Roman"]11.	FTPE, name the battles of the American Revolution, given the date and commanders.A: British: Lt. Col. Banastre Tarleton. US: Col. Daniel Morgan. Date: January 17, 1781.	Answer:	CowpensB: British: General William Howe. US: General George Washington. Date: September 11, 1777.	Answer:	Brandywine CreekC: British: General Thomas Gage. US: Captain Jonas Parker. Date: April 18, 1775.	Answer:	Lexington and Concord
12.	This is the other one Charlie wrote, but much shorter than that taxonomy thing.  FTPE, name that mineral:a) Technically considered a glass due to its absence of crystalline structure, this porous pyroclastic igneous rock is formed from frothy lava ejected into the air by a volcano.	Answer:	pumiceb) Often associated with the minerals sphalerite and fluorite, this mineral of lead sulfide is an important ore for lead.	Answer:	galenac) Commonly known as rock salt, this mineral of sodium chloride has a crystalline structure identical to galena.       Answer:		halite13.	FTPE, answer the following about grand futility in sports.(A) Never mind the fact that the Sox had already blown the lead, or that he should have been replaced with the slick-fielding Dave Stapleton when the Sox took a two-run lead in the top of the 11th.  This man became synonymous with the Red Sox failures of the last century for letting a ground ball slip between his legs in Game 6 of the 1986 World Series.  	Answer:	Bill Buckner(B) He did have a Hall of Fame worthy career, but this University of Miami QB is known for losing 4 straight super bowls with the Buffalo Bills from 1991-1994.	Answer:	Jim Kelly(C) Although he won MVP twice and was a 14-time all star for the Utah Jazz, he never won a championship, even when he played for the LA Lakers at the end of his career. 	Answer:	Karl Malone14.	Short poems by this author include Womanly Noblesse and To Rosemounde. For ten points each(a) name this author of The Canterbury Tales.	Answer:	Geoffrey Chaucer(b) Chaucer penned this long poem about the mythic romance between a Trojan prince and his love, which later went on to inspire a Shakespeare play.	Answer:	Troilus and Criseyde(c) Chaucer also penned this poem about a meeting on St. Valentine's Day of the namesake birds pairing up for romance.	Answer:	The Parlement of Foules or Assembly of Foules or Parlement of Briddes15.	Name these dead or dying languages of the Indo-European family FTPE.a) This is an extinct East Germanic language that was spoken by the tribes that led to the dismantlement of the Western Roman Empire. The most famous document is a translation of the Bible commissioned by Ulfilas.	Answer:	Gothicb) This is the language spoken in parts of northwestern France and the Channel Islands that was spoken by the namesake conquerors of England.	Answer:	Normanc) The name of this language comes from its word for 'old'. It is a branch of Middle English that evolved separately in Eastern Ireland and never underwent the Great Vowel Shift. It became extinct in the 1800s.	Answer:	Yola [y-o-l-a yola, yo-yo-yo-yo-yola, dunh-dunh-dunh-dunh dunh-dunh, yola]16.	Name the twentieth century Russian authors from works on a 10-5 basis.(a) (10) My Sister Life(5) Dr. Zhivago	Answer:	Boris Pasternak(b) (10) Heart of a Dog(5) The Master and Margerita	Answer:	Mikhail Bulgakov(b) (10) Zima Junction(5) Babi Yar	Answer:	Yevgeny Yevtushenko
17.	For ten points each, name the photographers from clues(a) He organized the Photo-Secession group in New York in 1902. He was highly praised for the spontaneity of his photos. He is best remembered though for his marriage to Georgia O'Keefe.	Answer:	Alfred Steiglitz(b) He was originally a fashion photographer for Vogue and Life magazines. He published a book titled Observations with Truman Capote in 1959 featuring the portraits he had made of people such as Pablo Picasso, Robert Oppenheimer, and Mae West.	Answer:	Richard Avedon(c) He was a close friend of Marcel Duchamp and founded the American dada photography movement. He made portraits of James Joyce, Gertrude Stein, and Jean Cocteau among others.	Answer:	Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitsky]18.	FTPE, answer these things from the Medieval inquisitions.A: This man was appointed to head the Spanish inquisition in 1481, his stated objective was to discover those Jews and Muslims who had claimed to convert, but were still secretly practicing their religion.      Answer:	Tom‡s de TorquemadaB: The first medieval inquisition was in response to the growing power of this Christian cult based in southern France.  These Gnostic Christians believed Christ had been a ghost, that God would not come in material form to a world that was evil like earth.  Name them.      Answer:	The CatharsC: This order of monks, whose members were sometimes referred to as "black friars", made up most of the inquisitors throughout Europe.  They were chosen for their education and their history of refuting heresy.  As a mendicant order, they were also well accustomed to travel, and were not interested in personal gain. Name this order, which included in its membership Torquemada and Girolamo Savonarola.      Answer:	The Dominican Order19.	For ten points each, name the men related to the field of fluid mechanics.(a) This Swiss mathematician was the first to define a mathematical function, but also developed the basic laws of fluid motion and laid the foundation for the Navier-Stokes equation while working with the Bernoulli brothers.	Answer:	Leonhard Euler [pronounced OILER, but be lenient](b) His namesake equation is fundamental to the fluid concept of velocity potential. He is also known for his five-volume masterpiece, Celestial Mechanics, and his namesake transform of a function from the time domain into a complex plain for analysis.	Answer:	Pierre-Simon Laplace(c) This German physicist was the first to describe a fluid's boundary layer as well as the condition of aerodynamic stall. His work at the University of Gottingen eventually led to the creation of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Fluid Mechanics in 1925.	Answer:	Ludwig Prandtl20.	FTPE name these naval battles of the First World War.10: The major naval battle of the war, this 1916 battle was a tactical draw but strategic victory as the German High Seas Fleet stayed in port afterwards.	Answer:	Jutland [pronounced YOOT-land, but be lenient]10: The only significant North Sea battle in 1914, it was a German defeat, especially demoralizing as it occurred within earshot of the north German coast.	Answer:	Heligoland Bight10: This battle, occurring off the coast of Chile in 1914, was regarded as the worst defeat of the British Royal Navy at sea for centuries. 	Answer:	Coronel21.	Name the author from clues, 30-20-10.(30) The word "boredom" first appeared in a work published by him serially from 1852 through 1853.(20) Said book was his ninth novel, an assault on the British judiciary system telling of the orphan Esther and Mr. Bucket, one of the first detectives in English fiction. The plot itself revolves around the legal dispute of Jarndyce and Jarndyce.(10) That book is Bleak House.	Answer:	Charles Dickens