TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY A			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by "So I Pranked Him ... to death with a tire iron" (Seth Kendall) with special guest editor Stephen Taylor and duplicate insurance by Ray Luo and Cal-Berkeley1. The consummate literary misery chick, this character derives small comfort from her dalliance with a publican who is engaged to another woman, and though he proposes to give her what she really wants, she pins her hopes instead on a merchant whom she believes can take her to Paris and whom she eventually marries. Disappointed when he wants to remain in the area and teach school, she resumes her affair with the innkeeper and ultimately destroys her marriage, and it is en route to meet her lover to run away with him that she falls into a lake and drowns. FTP name this daughter of a sea-captain whose beauty captivates Damon Wildeve and Clym Yeobright in Thomas Hardy's Return of the Native. 	Answer:	Eustacia Vye (accept either name)2. The son of a diplomat, in 1849 he was censured by the French government after his mission to reconcile Guiseppe Mazzini and Pope Pius IX ended in failure, leading to the end of his appointment as consul-general. Four years later, however, he was summoned to Cairo and invited to complete a project originally surveyed by Jacques-Marie La Pére. For 10 points name this man, more of a dictator than an engineer, who lacked the success in Panama years later that he enjoyed completing the Suez Canal.	Answer:	Ferdinand De Lesseps3. His "mechanism", whereby a scalar field gives mass to massless particles, was discovered at the same time by the Belgian physicists François Englert and Robert Brout, whose names he believes should be used to describe the field, but he does claim for himself the particle that results. For 10 points name this man credited with an explanation of why any particles have non-zero mass, especially the boson that bears his name.	Answer:	Peter Ware Higgs4. One odd variant legend about them states that they were actually kidnapped from the orchard of their father and rescued by a son of Zeus, for which their father taught their savior astronomy. Dwelling in the Land of the Hyperboreans or in Mauretania, in another legend they pilfered so much from the treasure which they were supposed to guard that a goddess set over them the dragon Ladon. Known individually as Aegle, Erytheis, and Arethusa, mythographers debate whether their father was Nyx or Atlas.  FTP name these nymphs of the Setting Sun who guarded the golden apple tree of Hera.	Answer:	Hesperides5. This band's personnel began to change almost immediately after their first album when guitarist Peter Green suffered a mental breakdown. Though membership has fluctuated over the years, their best known lineup which produced such albums as Mirage and Tusk included an American vocalist in addition to the two remaining founding members.  Featuring the on-again off-again lovers Lindsay Buckingham and Stevie Nicks as well as the two for whom the group is named, for 10 points name this band, four of whose members were married when they recorded Rumours.	Answer:	Fleetwood Mac6. On January 3rd enough troops were available that a brigade under General Hugh Mercer were meet the British face to face in open combat and drive them off, which allowed General George Washington to the capture badly needed supplies in the namesake city at a cost of 40 men to Cornwallis's 400, casualties which included the subordinates Mercer and Mawhood. FTP name this battle fought in New Jersey in early 1777 after the even more remarkable victory at Trenton.	Answer:	Princeton7. In the 1860s one of its main components was discovered by Joseph Etienne Lenoir, whose experiments with a volatile combination of coal gas and air were somewhat inefficiently applied to a Newcomen pump. Felix Wankel modified it to function without pistons, and Rudolf Diesel modified it to work without an introduced spark, but both modifications still require the forced intake of fuel, compression, explosion of the fuel, and forced expulsion of the spent fuel which comprise this process. For 10 points name this engine cycle.	Answer:	Otto Cycle (accept "Otto Engine," "four-stroke cycle" or "four-stroke engine")
8.	The Daytime TV-esque events in this writer's life include several unhappy homosexual love affairs, a snap-decision marriage to a musician whom she abandoned on their wedding night, getting pregnant by the twin brother of the man she loved, and an early trip to Europe to bear an unwanted child, which she described in her work In a German Pension. Her slice of life accounts of genteel frustration are typified in such stories as "Bliss", "A Dill Pickle", and "The Dove's Nest", as well as in her most famous work. FTP, name this New Zealand writer best known for describing the distress of Laura Sheridan over the death of a neighbor in "The Garden Party".	Answer:	Katherine Mansfield9. A series of his composite plates was said to have inspired Duchamp's Nude Descending a Staircase. A student of Jean-Léon Gérôme, his works include depictions of athletic endeavors such as Max Schmitt in a Single Scull and The Swimming Hole and he often appears in his own paintings such as the two mentioned above, but despite his superb craftsmanship only his Saling out After Rail was picked up by a museum in part because of his insistence on use of nudes in a prudish age and his unwillingness to soften his occasionally stark images such as the one on his most famous work. For 10 points  name this American painter best known for the Gross Clinic.	Answer:	Thomas Eakins10. The IJsselmeer (eye - sell - mare) formed from the enclosure of the IJ (eye) which was an inlet of the Zuiderzee, forms this city's waterfront, on which one would find the Centraal Station and the National Center for Science and Technology designed by Renzo Piano. Much commercial activity is done on Rokin Street on the Damrak, but many more tourists prefer to spend time in "Coffee Shops" or amidst the Walletjes (Wall- let-ees), where they can find small rooms whose occupants advertise their occupation with the fluorescent pink neon signs which gives the area its name. Centered around the large dam of the Amstel which gave the city land to come into being as well as its name, for 10 points name this city which is not the seat of government but in most other aspects is the capital of the Netherlands.	Answer:	Amsterdam11. One interpretation of this poem is that it narrates the end of an old woman, whose poverty is reflected in the ramshackle disrepair of her chest of drawers and by her callouses which she can no longer hide, though she apparently did try to make the most of her surroundings by stitching decorations onto her sheets. First published in the collection Harmonium in 1922, in its broader sense it is a snapshot of some rather insensitive mourners at that old woman's wake, who do not take the trouble to dress well and in fact are solely concerned with the repast which will be served to them when a strong cigar-maker has finished preparing it. For 10 points name this poem in which it is not grief but only the desire for a confection that motivates mourners, one of the best-known poems of Wallace Stevens.	Answer:	"The Emperor of Ice Cream"12. It requires an extra cup of wine for a visitor who is supposed to come unseen during the night.   Also required is maror, which is eventually dipped into a sweet concoction called ha-ro-set which has the consistency of mortar, as well as a karpas, a green vegetable to be dipped into the salt water.  A roasted animal bone called a zeroa, and a roasted egg called a beitzah is also needed. With a name meaning "order" because of the specific method by which it is conducted, for 10 points name this meal which takes place amidst explanations of what the foods mean and the story of the flight from Egypt which takes place the first night of Pesach.	Answer:	seder13. This gas burns with a brilliant white light, which led to its use as the chief source of public lighting until 1905, when electricity became cheaper. Because heating it can produce chloreprene its principal use now is in chemical synthesis though it can also be used to carburize steel.  Its other main use involves the flame it produces with oxygen which makes in ideal for use in welding. Also known as Ethyne, for 10 points name this chemical with formula C2H2 consisting of two hydrocarbons triple bonded to each other, the simplest of the alkynes.	Answer:	acetylene14. (UCB/RL) He flirts with Margaret, asking her to sing "To Swabia," accompanied by an out-of-tune piano.  She notices a dark red stain on his right hand, while he rushes off to search for the knife with which he killed his lover.  Earlier in the tavern Andres sings "A hunter from the Pfalz," while he talks to an idiot about blood, which, together with the handsome Drum-Major's triumphant Sprechgesang, prompted him to kill his lover Marie.  For ten points, name this titular character in an atonal opera by Alban Berg.	Answer:	Wozzeck
15.  (UCB/RL) Calling for homestead laws and tariffs for revenue only, its sixteen congressmen maintained power in the House for two years.  Nominating Charles Francis Adams for the vice presidency, this party weakened support for the Democrats and helped win the election for Zachary Taylor in 1848.  After the Wilmot Proviso was defeated, this party was formed in Buffalo, NY by Barnburners and "conscience" Whigs.  Nominating Martin Van Buren for the presidency, for ten points, name this political party which opposed expanding slavery into the western territories.	Answer:	Free-Soil Party16. Napoleon and Napoleon's army features prominently in such stories as Colonel Chambert, about an amnesiac veteran of the battle of Eylau, in The Wrong Side of Paris which features a secret order of Napoleon's veterans devoted to acts of benevolence, and a plot to assasinate the Emperor which is crucial to the mystery of A Murky Business. The supernatural is briefly explored in The Wild Asses's Skin, and its recurring characters include Vautrin, a former thief who becomes chief of police of Paris and who briefly lives in the same apartment building as Eugene de Rastignac in Pére Goriot. Also consisting of Cousine Bette, Cousin Pons, and Eugeneie Grandet, for 10 points name this cycle of novels and stories written by Honore de Balzac.	Answer:	La Comedie Humaine (accept Human Comedy, prompt on "Balzac" before "consisting")17. (UCB/RL) He sponsored Carlo Pisacane in Calabria and Felice Orsini in Carrara.  Editor of Roma del popolo from Lugano, he was forced into exile to Marseille in 1831.  He met Carlyle and Ashurst in England, where his correspondence with Bandiera were forwarded by the British government to Austria.  The revolutions of 1848 failed to achieve his dream of a democratic republic, and he slowly lost support as revolutionaries turned to Camillo di Cavour for leadership.  For ten points, name this founder of Young Italy, the father of Italy unification.	Answer:	Giuseppe Mazzini18. Its creator argued that no matter who actually owned the rights to a radio frequency in question, the party who wanted to use it the most would end up using it even if it meant paying the rightful owner to block him out. Its author amplified the premise of that 1959 article on the FCC and extended the notion to the general economy as a whole the year later, maintaining that efficiency would result in the absence of transaction costs as long as property rights were well defined, which could lead to bargaining for the desired resource, and that governments could minimize inefficiency by giving the rights to the party which had the most use for it. FTP name this theorem elucidated most clearly in "The Problem of Social Cost" and named for its author, the winner of the 1991 Nobel Prize in Economics.	Answer:	Coase's theorem19. Among the performers doing voice-over work for this series are Paul Winfield, Anthony Hopkins, John Turturro, and the late Jason Robards, while DeWolf Hopper reads his most famous poem and clips of Abbott and Costello and George Carlin show them doing some of their most famous bits. Non-actors who also do voiceovers include playwright Arthur Miller, and the historian Studs Terkel, while other commentators include the bizarrely chosen Billy Crystal and George Will as well as the more sensibly selected Bill Lee, Buck O'Neill, Bob Feller, and Curt Flood. For 10 points name this documentary directed by Ken Burns and featuring reminiscing by Ted Williams and Hank Aaron about their chosen profession.	Answer:	Baseball20. The name is Greek for "cloak draped around the shoulder" and was chosen because of the way the intracytoplasmic inclusions caused by the bacterium appears to be "draped" around the infected cell's nucleus.  Besides the best-known effects, the bacterium can also cause a kind of pneumonia as well as a possibly fatal illness called "Parrot's Disease" or psittacosis. The more common form of the bacterium is gram-negative and can also cause a potentially blinding eye infection called trachoma.  FTP name this type of bacterium which can lead to Pelvic inflammatory disease in women and Reiters syndrome in men but is insidious because in its most common venereal form it produces no symptoms.	Answer:	chlamydia21. Plutarch and Hesiod repeat a legend that this goddess rather than Echidne or the Chimeara bore the Lemean Lion and set it to prey upon her own people, while others say she created the lion from sea foam enclosed in a large ark at Hera's behest. The mother of Nemea herself whom she bore to Zeus, she was usually discreet about her love affairs though Pan once persuaded her to ride on his back.  She is far more famous for bedding down every night in a cave in Mount Latmos with a man for whom she acquired eternal youth, though he is forever sleeping. For 10 points name this daughter of Euryphaessa or Theia and Hyperion, the sister of Helios and Eos and lover of Endymion, the Greek goddess of the moon.	Answer:	Selene
22.	Raw uncalibrated data collected by this method is given in units of years "BP" or "Before Present", though that is something of a misnomer since the present being referred to is 1950. In recent years British efforts to revise the method using a half-life of 5730 years plus or minus 40, the so called "Cambridge half-life", have largely been rejected to avoid confusion with data collected using a half-life of 5568 years plus or minus 30, which is named for the man who led the team which discovered the technique in 1946, for which he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1960. Only accurate to 50,000 tears, for 10 points name this process by which the "Libby half-life" measuring the decay of a radioactive isotope of a common element is used to determine how much time had passed between the death of a formerly living thing and now.	Answer:	radiocarbon dating (accept Carbon 14 dating)23. 	A hero to this day in Amsterdam, where a recently tunnel connecting the center of town with the A10 beltway under the Ijsselmer (EYE -sell - mare) was named for him, according to legend he was once sold into slavery in the Spanish galleys when his home-town of Delfshaven as captured and when he emerged four years later it was woith an intimate knowledge of the Spanish navy, which he then preyed upon as a commerce raider leading uo to his capture of San Salvador under the flag of the Dutch West India Company. Promoted to Admiral of the Dutch Fleet, he helped launch the career of Witte de With and Martaan Tromp, in 1628 he captured a Spanish treasure fleet with 4,000,000 ducats of gold and silver, enabling the Dutch Republic to continue its struggle against Spain for control of the Low Countries, before dying in battle to rid the seas of the Dunkirk pirates. For 10 points name this Dutch admiral and namesake of a lineal descendant, a 20th century poet famous for his short poems known as "Grooks" and an inventor of such games as Hex and Soma Cubes. 	Answer:	Piet Hein
BONI - KENTUCKY A			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by "So I Pranked Him ... to death with a tire iron" (Seth Kendall) with special guest editor Stephen Taylor and duplicate insurance by Ray Luo and Cal-Berkeley1. Answer the film-related questions for the stated number of points.1. (5 points) Based on Conrad's Heart of Darkness and featuring as an in-joke the reading of T.S. Eliot's "Hollow Men", this film was directed by Francis Ford Coppola and featured standout performances by a young Lawrence Fishburne, Robert Duvall, and Martin Sheen along with Marlon Brando.	Answer:	Apocalypse Now2. (5 points) Appearing in Apocalypse Now is this actor known for playing roles which reflect his personal life, such as his patent insanity as seen in his performances in Waterworld and Speed, and his legendary substance abuse problems seen in his rolews in Hoosiers and Easy Rider.	Answer:	Dennis Hopper3. (10 points) Originally, George Lucas was set to direct the film and it is perhaps due to his influence that this actor was cast as Colonel Lucas; his other films have included George Lucas's American Graffiti, as well as more modern films like Witness, Regarding Henry, What Lies Beneath, and his part in Lucas's most famous efforts.	Answer:	Harrison Ford4. (10 points) Apocalypse Now was completely shut out of the major Oscars for the year 1979 by this film, which won Best Picture, Best Supporting Actress for Meryl Streep, Best Director for Robert Benton, and Best Actor for Dustin Hoffman playing a divorcé learning to be a father while being taken to court by his wife for custody of their son.	Answer:	Kramer vs. Kramer2. Identify the following about the birth and infancy of Zeus, ten points each. 1. Zeus was hidden first in a tree then later in the cave of Dicte on this mountain in Crete; another mountain in Phrygia has the same name and like the Cretan one is sacred to Rhea or Cybele, and it was here that Paris judged the contest between Here, Athene, and Aphrodite.	Answer:	Mount Ida2. Zeus was fed with the milk from Amaltheia and honey gathered from bees by this mountain nymph, whose name is Greek for honey bee.	Answer:	Melissa3. Along with Melissa, Zeus was cared for by this mountain nymph who was later associated with divine justice and retribution, such that her name, meaning "inescapable", later became a title for Nemesis.	Answer:	Adrasteia3. Answer the following questions about the novel Ben Hur for 10 points each.1. Name its author, previously a Civil War commander of dubious reputation for his inaction at Pittsburg Landing.	Answer:	Lew Wallace2. Ben Hur is accidentally responsible for injury to the new Roman governor of Judea and is sentenced without trial to serve on board the Roman galleys by this subordinate to the governor and former friend of his family, who he later defeats in a chariot race and wounds mortally in the process.	Answer:	Massala 3. Another significant character is this Egyptian, who with Gaspar the Greek and Melchior the Hindu, attended the birth of Jesus and later was compelled to seek the latter out as a young man, befriending Ben Hur while he searches.	Answer:	Balthasar4. Identify the historical figure, 30-20-10. (30) The younger brother of Emperor Francis Joseph, this man served as rear admiral in the Austrian Navy and as governor-general of the Lombardo-Venetian state before filling his most famous post in 1864.(20) Falsely convinced that his new subjects had elected him to rule and deluded by promises of aid from Napoleon III, this man nevertheless was apparently a good monarch who attempted to end peonage, stand up for the rights of Native Americans, and keep in place the reforms enacted by his predecessor and rival, Benito Juarez.(10) In 1867 Juarez returned and captured this man, and despite pleas on his behalf by such luminaries as Guiseppe Garibaldi and Victor Hugo, he was executed, as witnessed and later painted by Eduard Manet.	Answer:	Ferdinand Maximilian Joseph
5. Answer the following questions about an invention and its applications, 10 points each.1. Asked to reconstruct a device originally invented by Jacques de Vaucanson, this man refined Vaucanson's loom in the process and made the pattern to be woven controlled not by paper but by a series of punch cards.	Answer:	Joseph Marie Jacquard2. Jacquard's punch-card idea went into the plans for the never-built Analytical Engine, designed by this Englishman.	Answer:	Charles Babbage3. In 1890 this man used Jacquard's punch cards to invent a machine that would use electrical wires to make marks recording age, occupation, and similar date for the US Census. Acquiring a patent for this device, he then set up the Tabulating Machine Company, later to combine with other similar companies to form International Business Machines.	Answer:	Hermann Hollerith6. Given a brief description identify the saint, 10 points each. 1. The paintings of Francisco Zurbaran and Giovanni di Tiepolo show the cruel tortures of this woman. The patron saint of breast-cancer survivors and bell-makers, she was a Sicilian maiden who refused offers of marriage because of her vow of chastity and as a result he had her breasts torn off with pincers, and she is commonly depicted holding them on a tray.	Answer:	Agatha2. Hans Holbein, the Master of Flamalle's Werl Altarpiece and Domenico Ghirlandaio all include towers in the background of their depiction of this saint, a reference to the tower in which her cruel pagan father Discurus locked her up to preserve her from suitors. Ghirlandaio's fresco has coincidentally developed a crack which very much looks like a bolt of lightning, which according to legend killed her father after he beheaded her; for this reason she is the patron saint of artillerists.	Answer:	Barbara3. Though many saints bear this name, undoubtably the most famous was from Alexandria, a woman martyred during the persecution of Maxentius by being beheaded after the spiked wheel on which she was being tortured broke. Her vision in which she is betrothed to Christ is celbrated in many paintings of her "mystic marriage".	Answer:	Catherine7. Identify the author from works, 30-20-101. (30 points) Among his lesser known works are posthumously published novels like Islands in the Stream and The Dangerous Summer, while the lack of success of Across the River and Into The Trees suggested his career was fading before it was followed by one of his most celebrated works.2. (20 points) After some spectacular early successes this man published the novel To Have and Have Not and the play the Fifth Column, which was later included in an anthology along with some of his best known works.3. (10 points) The Fifth Column was published along with the stories "The Snows of Kilimajaro" and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber", though he is perhaps most famous for works like The Old Man and the Sea.	Ernest Hemingway 8. Identify the following about world leaders with a penchant for eccentricty, 10 points each. 1. A highly skilled pickpocket who delighted in practicing on dinner guests, this man was less adept at ruling Egypt and developed a reputation as a tool of the West, for which he was deposed by Gamal Nasser in 1952.	Answer:	Farouk I2. Although his personal quirks included a predeliction for consulting the spirits of his deceased mother, Louis Pasteur, and Leonardo da Vinci in seances, he was able to lead Canada through her assumption of independence from England, the Depression, and World War II.	Answer:	William Lyon Mackenzie King3. Since its independence in 1991 this former Soviet Republic has been under the rule of notable whack-job Saparmurat Niyazov, whose various dictates have forbidden broadcasters to wear makeup, made his Ruhnama the basis of history studied in schools, had set up statues of himself not only in the capital Ashkabad but even in the middle of the Kara Hum desert, and introduced his own alphabet in place of Cyrillic.	Answer:	Turkmenistan
9. In 1935 the British Meteorologist Robert Watson-Watt was approached by the British War Department to investigate a reported German "Death Ray" which could incinerate cities using radio waves. His report to the War Office discounted that possibility but did introduce a new technique he had developed using these waves to track storms and aircraft. For 10 points each:1. Give the name by which this process would be known.	Answer:	RADAR (Radio Detection And Ranging)2. Watson-Watt had been in touch with this man, who in 1924 had found that radio emissions would bounce back from an ionized la yer of atmosphere now known his layer, for whose detection he won the 1947 Nobel Prize in Physics.	Answer:	Edward Appleton3. During World War II this man briefly worked on the development of RADAR as well as other detection techniques. H is better known for developing the technique of  molecular beam magnetic resonance, for which he won the 1944 Nobel Prize in Physics.	Answer:	Isador Isaac Rabi10. Rid at last of the bonds of colonalism, many African nations chose new names for themselves over the names by which their former European exploiters had known them. Given such a colonial name, give the current name of the nation it once described, 10 points each.1. Rhodesia	Answer:	Zimbabwe2. Belgian Congo	Answer:	Zaire3. French Sudan	Answer:	Mali11. Given a brief description of the treatment given to some of its songs, identify the Beatles album for 10 points; if you need more information, you only get 5.1. 10 points: The song "When I'm Sixty-Four" from this 1967 album was used as the opening theme for the 1982 film "World According to Garp", while covers of "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds" have ranged from the terrible one made by Elton John to the bizarro version done by - no joke - William Shatner on The Transformed Man.  5 pts: Other songs include "A Little Help from My Friends" and "A Day in the Life".	Answer:	Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band2. 10 points: Styx has recently been touring doing their cover of "I Am the Walrus" from this album, which Oasis put on The Masterplan, a collection of their b-sides which begs the question: did Oasis ever have any "A" sides?  5 points: Other songs include "Hello Goodbye", "All You Need is Love", and "Strawberry Fields".	Answer:	Magical Mystery Tour3. 10 points: John Lennon himself played on David Bowie's remake of "All Across the Universe", also done for the Pleasantville soundtrack by the renowned logorrhea-sufferer but not untalented Fiona Apple.  5 points: Other songs on this Phil Spector "remastered" album, the last released before the band broke up, include "Get Back", the title track, and "The Long and Winding Road", whose wall-of-sound treatment infuriated Paul enough to re-release the album stripped of its arrangements in 2003.	Answer:	Let it Be	12.  Answer the following questions about the Classical Greek language, 10 points each.1. Greek differed in minor but noticeble ways in its various dialects. The Doric dialect, for example, retained the long alpha in words like "mater" and "ga" rather than use this vowel, which duplicates the vowel sound in "they" and "may".	Answer:	eta2. Another dialect of Greek was this derivative of Ionic spoken around in Athens and the surrounding region. Notable for its lack of an indefinite article and compensating overuse of the definite, it was the language of Plato and Aristotle and became the basis for koine (coin-ay) Gree.	Answer:	Attic3. Differences between Attic and Ionic include the fact that Attic almost always avoids double occurences of this letter, preferring instead to substitute a double tau. Thus, in Attic the word for "sea" is rendered "Thalatta" (tha-lah-tah) instead of its more customary spelling using two of these letters.	Answer:	sigma 
13. Identify the following about a scientist and his work, 10 points each.1. Though his achievements included the discovery of a flintlike substance in the joints of bamboo, the discovery of a new way of making coffee that foreshadowed the modern vacuum method, and a study of tears, he is perhaps best remembered for directing that his fortune, should his nephew die without issue, be left to establish a research and Museum system in the US bearing the name of his father which he eventually adopted.	Answer:	James Smithson2. Smithson did extensive work on various compounds of this element which includes the silicate, often named hemimorphite, and the carbonate, often called "smithsonite" after the scientist. Name this element of atomic number 30, a component of brass with copper and important in electroplating and galvanisation.	Answer:	zinc3. While in England the term is applied to hemimorphite, the silicate, in the U.S. Smithsonite or zinc carbonate is often called by this name. It's most often heard in context with an astringent lotion used for skin inflammations and rashes.	Answer:	calamine 14.	Named for their castle built in the Jura mountains, the founder of this family was given overlordship of Swabia in 1097 and then married the daughter of Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV; his sons, nephews of Henry V, stood close to the throne on the Henry's death and on the death of Lothair II the dynasty was initiated by Conrad who bcame Emperor as Conrad III. For 10 points each:1. Name this dynasty which, save a brief disruption from 1208 to 1212, ruled the Holy Roman Empire from 1138-1254.	Answer:	Hohenstaufen (accept just "Staufen")2. Perhaps the most famous Hohenstaufen Emperor was this one, a frequent opponent of the popes who died en route to the Third Crusade and known for a distniguisinh facial feature.	Answer:	Frederick I Barbarossa3. Another brilliant Hohenstaufen was this man, known as the "Stupor Mundi" for his great intellect which allowed him to be fluent in seven languages, for being excommuinicated at least three times by various popes, and for negotiating a victory in the sixth crusade without actually fighting.	Answer:	Frederick II15. It was composed by a man who referred to himself as "Galfridius Monemutensis" and who claimed its source was a "very old book in the English tongue" given to him by Archdeacon Walter of Oxford, though the existence of this book had been doubted by men like William of Newburgh. For 10 points each:1. Name this work which certainly drew from Nennius and Bede in its description of Arthur's time and covering 1900 years up to the reign of Cadwallader, written by Geoffey of Monmouth.	Answer:	Historia Regum Britanniae or Historia Regum Britonum or History of the Kings of Britian2. The Jersey poet Wace turned into French verse the Historia Regum Britanniae in his work Geste des Bretons which is also known by the Gallicised name of this man, allegedly the grandson of Aeneas from which "Britain" derives its name. Name this man whose name was also the cognomen of two Roman regicides from the Junius family.	Answer:	Brutus (accept Brut, the name of the work)3. Wace added to the Arthurian legend this object which passed to Arthur's possession as the dowry of Guinevere from her father Leodegrance. Name this object, attached to which was the Siege Perilous.	Answer:	the Round Table16. For the stated number of points, answer the following question about a stage of mitosis.(5) During this phase the nuclear membrane is dissolved, allowing microtubules to become attached to chromosomes. Because this stage completes the action begun by the previous step and initiates actions which continue into the next, it is seen as an intermediate step between the first and second parts of mitosis and is named accordingly.	Answer:	prometaphase(10) During prometaphase these protein complexes form at the centromere of chromosomes and attach themselves to microtubules, which they will later use to provide traction for their molecular motors when they break apart the chomosome later; because they provide the locomotion for thi separation, their name is Greek for "place of movement".	Answer:	kinetochores(15) During both prometaphase and metaphase, kinetochores which have not yet attached to microtubules produce this chemical signal which inhibits the production of the anaphase promoting complex and thus prevent anaphase from beginning too soon.	Answer:	spindle checkpoint
17.  For 10 points each, answer the following questions about some of the records of a jazz artist, 10 points each.1. In 1957 the Miles Davis Quintet added Cannonball Adderley and as a six-piece recorded this album, which includes rendition of Thelonius Monk's "Straight No Chaser", as well as Davis taking piano for "Sid's Ahead" in addition to the title piece, whose title either refers to the notes played by the composer or the distance which took place between his early career and this album.	Answer:	Milestones2. Two years later Davis and his band recorded this groundbreaking album, consisting entirely of one-take sessions with the exception of "Flamenco Sketches", whose alternate take sometimes makes it onto the album. Considered one of the best jazz albums of all time, other pieces include "So What" and "Freddie Freeloader".	Answer:	Kind of Blue3. Kind of Blue is sometimes considered the best-selling jazz piece of all time, though sometimes that honor goes to this later record, a double album featuring mostly side-length and often dissonant compositions like "Pharoah's Dance" and "Spanish Key". Considered the fundamental fusion album, it and Kind of Blue were both cited in the VH1's 100 Greatest Albums of All Time.	Answer:	Bitches Brew 18. Identify the following battles in which a prominent part was played by the U.S.S. Enterprise on a 15-10-5 point basis.1. (15 points) The United States Navy's first Enterprise was a captured British vessel which was in the fleet commanded by Colonel and erstwhile Admiral Benedict Arnold at this battle on Lake Champlain in October 1776, which was a loss but which delayed John Burgoyne from making further progress into New York.	Answer:	Valcour Island2. (10 points) The third U.S.S. Enterprise was under the command of Lieutenant Stephen Decatur when he sailed into Tripoli Bay to burn this ship which had been captured by the Tripolitan pirates.	Answer:	U.S.S. Philadelphia3. (5 points) When the injured Yorktown was forced out of the engagement, command for this battle passed to Admiral Raymond Spruance on board the carrier Enterprise, from which he directed the bombing attacks which cost Nagumo and Yamamoto four carriers in this June 1942 battle.	Answer:	Midway19. FTPE identify the following characters who end up dead by the end of Dostoyevsky's Crime and Puinishment:1. This innocent and simple sister of the pawnbroker Alyona Ivanovna ends up on the same end of Raskolnikov's axe as her sister had.	Answer:	Lizaveta Ivanovna2. This wretched alcoholic who relies on his daughter's earnings from prostitution ends up under the wheels of a carriage either by accident or by suicide.	Answer:	Semyon Zaherovitch Marmeledov3. After attempting to force Dunya, Raskolnikov's sister, and being repulsed by gunfire, this man, her former employer and tormentor, relizes he can never have her love and shoots himself in the head.	Answer:	Arkady Ivanovich Svidrigailov20. And now, a general knowledge bonus on a Prize awarded by the Swedish Royal Academy every two years which are not the Nobel Prizes. Answer the following questions about the Schock Prizes for the stated number of points.1. 5 points: Winners of the Schock Prize in this discipline include William Quine and John Rawls.	Answer:	Philosophy2. 10 points: The Schock Prize in Mathematics in 1995 went to this man, who made international fame by solving Fermat's Last Theorem.	Answer:	Andrew Wiles3. 15 points: The music prize in that same year went to this avant-gard composer, whose works include Atmosphères, Lux Aeterna and Aventures, as well as Clocks and Clouds and Nonsense Madrigals.	Answer:	György Ligeti
21. As strong as steel but about half its weight, about 60 percent heavier than aluminum but twice as strong, as a metal it is extremely resistent to corrosion, metal fatigue, and has a high melting point, yet for all of this it is easy to work, Used in aircraft and spacecraft, it was discovered in 1791 by William Gregors but was renamed in 1796 for the precursors of the Olympian Gods. For 10 points each:1. Name this element, atomic number 22,.	Answer:	Titanium2. Titanium was given the name by which it is now known by this German chemist, who rediscovered it in 1796 in its common ore form of rutilite. He is also famous for discovering zirconium and uranium.	Answer:	Martin Klaproth3. The Hunter process for producing Titanium has largely been superceded by this process, which has also been successful in producing Zirconium.	Answer:	Kroll Process22. Identify the following British War poems from descriptions, 10 points each.1. In this Siegfreid Sassoon poem a question is asked of a man who is legless, one who is blind, and one beset by nightmares from battle, with the alternatives of repressing bitterness at not being able to go hunting, the new facilities for the sightless, and alcohol suggested as remedies for what ails the broken soldiers.	Answer:	"Does it Matter"?2. In this Wilfred Owen poem a soldier is apparently granted a respite from the battle and comes upon a shelter in which he is surrounded by dead men before encountering one who is still alive in the biological sense but is, like the narrator, dead on the inside from the horrors he has seen, having "spilled spirit without stint/ But not through wounds", since their "Foreheads ... have bled where no wounds were".	Answer:	"Strange Meeting"3. One of Rupert Brooke's best- known poems describe how, on his death, there will be one spot of foreign soil that will always be a part of England, where the "rich earth a richer dust concealed". 	Answer:	"The Soldier" (prompt on 1914)23.	On the road from Troezen to Athens the hero Theseus met and dispensed with several deadly criminals. Name some of these from descriptions1. A crippled son of Poseidon or of Hephaestus and Anticleia, this highwayman owned a huge brazen club, with which he used to kill wayfarers. Theseus wrenched the club from his hands and battered him to death with it, and delighted with its size and weight, he proudly carried it about ever afterwards; and though he himself had been able to parry its murderous swing, in his hands it never failed to kill.	Answer:	Periphates2. Near the namesake city Theseus killed this wild beast, said to be the child of Typhon and Echidne and named after the crone who reared it and taught it to kill travellers, which she subsequently robbed. Plutarch states that the beiong killed was actually the woman herself, whose disgusting habits earned her the nickname of this monster. 	Answer:	Phaea (accept "Crommyonian Sow"; prompt on "sow")3. Surnamed Pityocamptes, or "pinebender", this Corinthian brigand and son of Procrustes whom Thesues would kill later on killed travellers by asking for their help bending two giant pine, which he would release and toss then to their deaths. Theseus let go of his end first, and the tree whiplashed into his opponent and killed him.	Answer:	Sinis