TOSSUPS - NORTHWEST-SHOALS	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Josh Clanton and Charlie Steinhice with a few from Joon Pahk and Gaius Stern1.	The irreverent online magazine "History House" labels their illustration of this simply: "We're screwed."  Its misfortune stemmed partly from the fleet command being given to Hugues Duroy de Chaumereys -- a royally favored customs officer with no naval experience - and partly from the haste of the new colonial governor to get to his post in Senegal.  Running aground four miles from the Senegalese coast, crew and passengers of higher rank got lifeboats, while the rest of the crew was put on a makeshift raft.  Most familiar to us today is the moment on July 17, 1816, when the 15 survivors of the original crew of 149 were overcome with despair as the Argus, the ship that eventually was to rescue them, sailed off.  FTP identify this ship, the results of which are most familiar from a painting by Theodore Gericault.	Answer:	The Medusa  [Yes, accept The Raft of the Medusa.  They're not one and the same, but the question has been worded so that either is correct.]2.	They occur throughout the world, drastically affecting Scandinavian and Japanese fisheries, Caribbean and South Pacific reef fishes, and shell fishing along U.S. coasts.  Most recently, one has been implicated in the deaths of hundreds of whales, dolphins, and manatees in North American waters.  Caused by several species of marine phytoplankton or by blooms of dinoflagellates that produce potent neurotoxins, FTP, identify this phenomenon that causes extensive fish kills, contaminates shellfish, and can create severe respiratory irritation for humans.        Answer:	Red Tides3.	Instead of gushing out confessions and pleading for forgiveness, Mathilde took responsibility for her mistakes by replacing the title object.  It seemed honorable, but by not telling Mrs. Forrestier in the first place, Mathilde is then plunged into poverty and drudgery that will take away her prized youth and beauty in, FTP, what short story by Guy de Maupassant?		Answer:	The Necklace4.	It is directed by Gary Fleder, whose previous films include Kiss the Girls, and Don't Say a Word.  The uncredited Dylan McDermott plays Jacob Woods whose murder leads his widow to hire attorney Mitchell Rohr and sue the gun manufacturer.  The defendants hire a shady consultant, Rakin Finch, to manipulate the case, but there's a wild card named Marlee who seems to be in cahoots with juror Nicholas Easter. FTP name this new film, based on a John Grisham novel.	Answer:	The Runaway Jury5.	While lecturer at the French War College, he published two books, The Army of the Future and France and Her Army, which led Petain to accuse him of taking credit for his staff's work.  At Caumont he became the only French commander to force the Germans to retreat during their 1940 invasion.  Fleeing to England to avoid certain arrest when France surrendered, he was initially propped up by FDR and Churchill, then cut out of the loop when he declared a provisional French government without consulting them, shortly before D-Day.  FTP name this leader of the Free French and later President of France.   	Answer:	Charles de Gaulle6.     He had the foresight to realize Cronus could never defeat Zeus, so he decided to help the eventual winner in the war.  He also persuaded one brother to back the winning horse, but another brother, Atlas, would not listen and paid for it. FTP, name this Titan, who despite knowing the punishment, disobeyed Zeus' instructions and brought mankind the gift of fire.	Answer:  	Prometheus7.	Among the things named for him are: with Kovalevskaya, an existence theorem for the solution to partial differential equations; a sequence in a metric space whose terms become arbitrarily close as the sequence progresses; with Riemann, a set of equations stating conditions for a complex function to be analytic; an integral theorem stating that a closed loop integral of an analytic complex function is zero; and perhaps most famously, an inequality relating the dot product of two vectors to the product of their magnitudes. FTP, name this French mathematician known for his rigorization of calculus and development of complex analysis.	Answer: Augustin-Louis Cauchy 
8.	Due to nuclear fusion, the sun produces more than 2 times 10 to the 38th of them every second, and a supernova blast can unleash 1000 times more of them than our sun will produce in its 10-billion year lifetime. Since they rarely interact, they pass through the sun and the earth unhindered.  FTP what are these tiny, possibly massless, neutral elementary particles which interact with matter via the weak nuclear force?	Answer:	Neutrinos9.	Born on January 1, 1879 in London, he had been originally named Henry Morgan after his late paternal uncle, but he was accidentally baptized with the first name Edward, after his father.  Arctic Summer, Where Angels Fear to Tread, and Maurice are among his lesser-known works.  FTP Identify this author of Room with a View an A Passage to India 	Answer:	Edward Morgan Forster10.	It begins, "Some writers have so confounded society with government, as to leave little or no distinction between them; whereas they are not only different but have different origins."  Published anonymously in 1776, it became an immediate bestseller, with fifty-six editions printed in that year alone.  FTP name this pamphlet, which greatly helped to spark popular support for the movement for American independence.	Answer:	Common Sense11.	He makes a cameo appearance in 22 Short Films About Springfield, when he sort of stands out in a crowd. He does, however, have his taste - preferring to work to Mancini (man-chee-nee). Then again, he tells anyone who wants to get his attention to "Squeeze the wheeze" and wishes that his costume had a zipper by the fifth inning.  FTP identify this mascot of the Capital City Capitals.	Answer:	The Capital City Goofball12.	An avid chess player, in his spare time he developed a more complex form of the game using a 110-square board.  Hi birth name meant "iron," and a sobriquet added to it reflected lingering effects of arrow wounds suffered while stealing sheep.  He claimed direct descent from Genghis Khan and adopted his mode of conquest, but added to it the exploitation of already-conquered settled populations.  FTP name this Central Asian conqueror, who died in 1405 of natural causes while preparing to complete the Silk Road revival by invading China..  	Answer:	Tamerlane (or Timurlaine, Timur Lenk, etc.)13.	His Nominalist take on the Trinity in book Theologia generated considerable controversy -- it implied that the three members of the Trinity were real, but their union as the One God was an abstraction, which his opponents claimed was heresy.  To keep his post at Notre-Dame he kept secret his marriage to Heloise, whose enraged father send thugs to castrate him.  FTP name this unfortunate Medieval scholar, author of Sic et Non.	Answer:	Peter Abelard (or Pierre du Pallet) 14.	Alloys of cobalt and this silver metal are excellent magnetic materials.  It makes up about 1% of misch metal and is used in doping calcium fluoride crystal for lasers.  Discovered by Paul Emile Lecoq de Boisbaudran (Bla-bou'-dran), this rare-earth metal is separated from other rare-earth metals by ion-exchange or solvent-extraction processes.  FTP, identify this chemical element named after a Russian engineer, not a city conquered by the Assyrians, with atomic number 62.	Answer:	Samarium15.	A sober-minded farmer, Strepsiades, is concerned about the debts run up by his wastrel son Pheidippides.  He sends Pheidippides to a renoned academy to study not only high culture, but also how to win lawsuits.  FTP name this Aristophanes comedy which skewers Socrates and his followers.	Answer: 	The Clouds16.	It claims both the French-administered Tromelin Island and the British-controlled Chagos Archipelago.  Since becoming independent in 1968 it's shifted from an economy dependent mostly on sugar cane exports to one based more on finance and tourism, although there is some unrest within its Creole community about disparities in wealth.  Intense conservation efforts appear to have saved its native kestrel and pigeon from extinction, unlike a former inhabitant, the dodo.  FTP name this island nation in the Indian Ocean with capital at Port Louis.	Answer:	Mauritius
17.	It was reportedly one of the grievances Timothy McVeigh cited against the U.S. government.  There have been few prosecutions under its provisions; its impact has been seen more in sales practices, although there remains a loophole for gun shows.  One provision has been declared unconstitutional, the part requiring local law enforcement officers to perform background checks on prospective handgun buyers.  FTP name this legislation, narrowly passed in 1993 at the urging of the Presidential Press Secretary gravely wounded in 1981 by John Hinckley.	Answer:	Brady Bill (or Brady Handgun Control Act)18.	Rosemary is a beautiful young movie star, born in America but educated in France. She falls in love with the main character at first sight and contributes to his dissipation through their affair.  Nicole Warren, the beautiful heiress to a wealthy Chicago magnate, was sexually abused by her father and suffers from mental breakdowns as a result.  She too falls in love with the main character at first sight, and the two enjoy an extravagant and turbulent life in Europe at the center of a sophisticated group of friends.  FTP name this novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald, centered around the main character, Dick Diver.	Answer:	Tender is the Night19.	The derivative of this quantity with respect to frequency is usually positive, but near to resonance it can go large and negative, a phenomenon known as anomalous dispersion. Its imaginary part corresponds to attenuation and is sometimes referred to as the absorption coefficient. It is also possible for this quantity to take a value less than 1, although only the group velocity is affected, so that it does not imply the ability to send a signal faster than the speed of light. FTP, what is this quantity appearing in Snell's law, measuring the decrease in velocity of light propagating through a medium, and symbolized by a lowercase n?	Answer: 	index of refraction20.	Solos for this instrument are rare, though there is a notable one in The Magic Flute.  Most have a 2 1/2 octave range.  Variants include one with piano action generated by a keyboard and a portable one also called a bell lyre.  FTP name this percussion instrument which provides sweet, clear bell sounds.	Answer:	glockenspiel21.	Its "Marine" version is used at sea, while its "Land" version can rely mostly upon observations of  tree branches and leaves.  Smoke drifting gets a score of 1, while major damage and uprooting of trees rates a 10.  Ranging from 0-12, FTP, name this scale invented by a British admiral that is used to visually measure wind speed.	Answer:	Beaufort Wind Scale22.	It is not that people did not ever believe his warnings like Cassandra, but the gods conspired to undermine his most important utterance.  When he saw the Trojan Horse, he urged his countrymen to destroy it and he threw a spear at it to prove it was a hollow trap.  Shortly after, serpents attacked his two sons and then him as well.  FTP name this priest ofPoseidon whose cry "I trust not the Greeks, not even those bearing gifts," went unheeded.		Answer:  Laocoon23.	Its exact origins are unknown.  However, records of the ancient Egyptians and Babylonians indicate that they were aware of its principles as long as 5000 years ago.  The Greek philosopher Plato and the students at his Academy influenced its emphasis from a theoretical point-of-view.  FTP, identify this branch of mathematics which is organized as an axiomatic system of terms, postulates, and theorems.	Answer:	Geometry
BONI - NORTHWEST-SHOALS		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Josh Clanton and Charlie Steinhice with a few from Joon Pahk and Gaius Stern1.	Name these immortal tricksters FTPE:In Norse myth, he was a troublemaker but also sometimes used his wits in heroic fashion, which helps explain why he still enjoyed Odin's favor.       Answer:        LokiHe was the Greek god of liars and thieves, making on wonder why anyone trusted him with important news.       Answer:        HermesOne of many tricksters in Native American tradition, this humpbacked flute player of Hopi myth is also a fertility god.	Answer:	Kokopelli or Kokopilau2.	Identify the following about a hormone produced in the pancreas FTPE.What is this hormone that is used to treat patients of Diabetes mellitus, the third leading cause of death?	Answer:	InsulinThis man, along with Charles Best, isolated insulin in 1921 and used it to treat diabetic dogs.  In 1923, the Department of Medical Research at the University of Toronto was established and named in honor of he and Best.	Answer:	Sir Frederick Grant BantingThis Canadian physiologist helped isolate insulin for the treatment of diabetes in humans.  His work won him the 1923 Nobel Prize in physiology along with Sir Frederick Banting.  	Answer:	John James Rickard Macleod3.	Given poem titles that are also complete sentences, name the author FTPE:a)  "I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died"	Answer:	Emily Dickinsonb)  "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death"	Answer:	William Butler Yeatsc)  "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight" and "General William Booth Enters Heaven"	Answer:	Vachel Lindsay4.	Your genial quizmaster notes that in a major international contest, the French were behind at the end of regulation and only salvaged a tie during stoppage time.  FTPE answer the following about the Hundred Years War:(a)  In 1340 the French were prepared to take the fight to England, but anchored their massive fleet tightly at this site now in the Netherlands.  The English wiped the fleet out with fireships and by fighting from ship to ship like a land battle.       Answer:	Sluys(b)  In 1345 the French forced the English into battle here.  The English took high ground and exhausted French cavalry by making them climb up soggy ground in heavy armor while longbowmen picked off them and their horses.  (It worked so well for the French, the dumbasses used the same tactic 9 years later at Poitiers, with even worse results.)       Answer:	Crecy(c) Under this 1360 settlement, the French were forced to cede France south of the Loire to the duchy of Edward, the Black Prince.	Answer: Peace of Bretigny5.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: While he enjoyed his visit earlier this month to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, your genial quizmaster was struck by its imbalance: it let in virtually every short-lived doo-wop group of the '50's, but almost none of the titans of progressive rock. On a 10-5 basis name the non-Hall of Fame group from songs:(a)  10 pts.:  "Yours Is No Disgrace," "Your Move/(I've Seen) All Good People"        5 pts.: "Roundabout," "Owner of a Lonely Heart"       Answer:	Yes(b)  10 pts.:  "Trip Inside Your Mind," "Ride My Seesaw," "Tuesday Afternoon"        5 pts.: "The Story in Your Eyes," "Your Wildest Dreams," "Nights in White Satin"       Answer:	the Moody Blues(c)  10 pts.:  "Strange Magic," "Fire on High," "Do Ya," "Turn to Stone" (not the Joe Walsh one)        5 pts.: "I Can't Get It Out of My Head," "Living Thing," "Evil Woman"       Answer:	Electric Light Orchestra or ELO
6.	Identify the following physical constants FTPE.The universal constant h that has a value of 6.626 times 10 to the negative 34th joules. A quantum of energy is equal to the product of the frequency of the radiation and this.	Answer:	Planck's constantIt relates the average energy of a molecule to its absolute temperature and is approximately 1.38 times 10 to the negative 23rd joules per kelvin.	Answer:	Boltzmann's constantThe constant of an optical medium that describes the ratio of its refractivity to its dispersion. A high V-value indicates more nearly equal refraction at all wavelengths.  Given as V sub d equals the quantity N sub d minus 1 divided by the quantity N sub f minus N sub c.	Answer:	Abbe constant7.	Name the ancient Greek play FTPE from some character names, or for 5 given the author as well:a)  10 pts.:  Pentheus, Agave       5 pts.:  Euripides	Answer:	The Bacchaeb)  10 pts.:  Creon, Haemon, Tiresias       5 pts.:  Sophocles	Answer:	Medeac)  10 pts.:  Kleonike, Myrrhine       5 pts.:  Aristophanes	Answer:	Lysistrata8.	In recent years style manuals have endorsed, at least for business writing, the omission of the comma that should go before the next-to-last item in a series of three or more items.  Given an artwork with a title in which your genial quizmaster insists on leaving that extra comma, name the artist FTPE.(a)  Rain, Steam, and Speed       Answer:	J.M.W. Turner(b)  Knight, Death, and the Devil       Answer:	Albrecht Durer(c)  The Love Embrace of the Universe, the Earth (Mexico), Diego, Me, and Se–or Xolotl       Answer: 	Frida Kahlo9.	Oh, those wacky third parties.  Given years and standard bearers, name the party doomed to lose F5PE:(a)  Robert LaFollette, 1924, and Henry Wallace, 1948       Answer:	Progressive Party(b)  H. Ross Perot, 1992 and 1996; Pat Buchanan, 2000       Answer:	Reform Party(c)  William Wirt, 1832       Answer:	Anti-Masonic Party(d)  John Bell, 1860       Answer:	Constitutional Union Party(e) & (f)  James B. Weaver lost on one third party's ticket in 1880 and another in 1892.  Name both in any order F5PE.       Answer:	Greenback (or Greenback-Labor) and Populist parties10.	FTPE name the composers of the following music inspired by the works of Shakespeare:a)  The operas Otello and Falstaff	Answer:	Giuseppe Verdib)  Overture to A Midsummer Night's Dream	Answer:	Felix Mendelssohnc)  The overture fantasy Romeo and Juliet	Answer:	Peter Ilyich Tchiakovsky
11.	F5PE or 30 for all 5 correct, give the chemical formulas for these acids:a)  Phosphoric	Answer:	H3 P O4 b)  Perchloric	Answer:	H Cl O4c)  Sulfuric	Answer:	H2 S O4d)  Acetic	Answer:	H4 C2 O2 or H C2 H3 O2 e)  Citric	Answer:	H8 C6 O712.	FTPE name the Shakespeare play from some characters:a)  Thomas Wolsey, Cranmer, the Duke of Buckingham	Answer:	Henry VIIIb)  Vincentio, Angelo, and Mistress Overdone	Answer:	Measure for Measurec)  Antipholus, Antipholus, Dromio, and Dromio	Answer:	The (or A) Comedy of Errors  13.	Answer the following about a power struggle in 20th century China FTPE:(a)  Named vice chair and designated as Mao's successor at a 1969 Party Congress, he opposed softening of relations with the West.  He died in a 1971 plane crash while trying to leave China after a failed coup.       Answer:	Lin Biao (or Piao)(b)  This man, who headed a moderate faction opposed to Lin Biao, emerged as Premier and oversaw the diplomatic effort that led to Richard Nixon's historic 1972 visit.        Answer:	Zhou (or Chou) Enlai(c)  Zhou was opposed by a radical faction led by this woman, Mao Zedong's wife, who was arrested as part of the "Gang of Four" soon after Mao's death       Answer: 	Jiang Qing (or Chiang Ching)14.	Answer these questions about gravitation FTPE.A) The constant G in Newton's law of gravity was first experimentally measured using a torsion balance by what English physicist, also noted for his discovery of hydrogen?	Answer: Henry CavendishB) Roland Eotvos [YOTE-vosh] later also used a torsion balance to verify this fundamental principle of general relativity, which states that the inertial mass of any object is equal to its gravitational mass.	Answer: principle of equivalenceC) Based on Einstein's prediction that light passing nearby a massive object would be deflected, this technique allows dark matter to be located based on multiple images of the stars on the other side of it from the Earth.	Answer: gravitational lensing15.	Answer the following questions about numbers in sports for five points each.  No counting reserves...1 - How many players form a soccer team?	Answer:	11 2 - How many players start on a Major League Baseball team?	Answer:	93 - How many players start on a professional hockey team?	Answer:	64 - How many players are there on a water polo team?	Answer:	75 - How many players are there on a women's lacrosse team?	Answer:	126 - How many players are there on a men's lacrosse team?	Answer:	1016.	Identify the state or province which contains the following FTPE.Lake Oahe, its largest; the Missouri River, and the geographic center of the United States	Answer:	South DakotaMilford Lake, its largest, the Missouri River, and the geographic center of the 48 contiguous US states	Answer:	KansasDevils Lake, its largest, the Missouri River, and the geographic center of North America	Answer:	North Dakota 17.	Name the Latin American authors of the following FTPE:a)  Kiss of the Spider Woman	Answer:	Manuel Puig b)  The War of the End of the World, Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter	Answer:	Mario Vargas Llosa (pron "YO-sa but accept LO-sa"; prompt on Vargas or Llosa)c)  The Labyrinth of Solitude	Answer:	Octavio Paz18. Identify the following about a famous geologist FTPE.Darwin studied the works of this man, often called the founder of modern geology.	Answer:	Sir Charles LyellBetween 1830 and 1833, Lyell published all 3 volumes of this work, which organized the existing information about geology.	Answer:	Principles of GeologyIn 1863, Lyell also published this book which contained his studies concerning prehistoric people in Europe.	Answer:	The Antiquity of Man19.	FTPE name these heroic queens of the Classical era:A.  This Queen of the Iceni raised a revolt against Nero which burned London.  Despite her advantage of numbers, she was defeated by Suetonius Paulinus and committed suicide.	Answer:  Boudiccea   [Boadicea, Baudicca, lots of variant spellings, so cut a lot of slack on pronunciation]B.  This queen of Halicarnassus, whose name is the same as the queen who built the Mausoleum, gave Xerxes good advice, but he did not always heed it.  She had to sink an ally's ship at Salamis in order to get a Greek vessel pursuing her to abandon its course, thinking she had switched sides.	Answer:  Artemesia C.  This Queen of Palmyra only had sex to procreate.  After her husband's death she made war on Rome and took much of the East.  Aurelian defeated her ca. 273 AD.	Answer:  Zenobia20.	Identify these astronomical terms FTPE.A) This term, used in the definition of the parsec, refers to the angular difference in the location of a star when viewed twice from the Earth six months apart.	Answer: parallaxB) This kind of star is a compact object with a cold blackbody spectrum, supported from further gravitational collapse only by electron degeneracy pressure. Chandresekhar proved that they cannot be larger than about 1.4 solar masses.	Answer: white dwarfC) Spectral photometry is now standardized by measuring the frequency response at three different points in the spectrum; this system is known by what three-letter acronym?	Answer: UBV (for ultraviolet-blue-violet)21.	30-20-10 Identify the novel from clues30- Set in the small town of Starkfield in Winter, this novel portrays the themes of love, betrayal and  	 	  	      communication. 20- Mattie, an orphan, is the young, flirtatious, outgoing cousin of Zeena.  Zeena, in turn, is the frigid, cold, 	 	      emotionless wife of the titular characterwho wouldn't express her feelings to him.		10- The titular character is taciturn and extremely responsible but has no social skills and has a martyr cinokex, 	   Identify this Edith Wharton novel. 	Answer:	Ethan Frome22.	Answer the following questions about three Middle Eastern nations FTPE.1 - Accounting for three-fourths of the land area of the Arabian peninsula, this nation contains the cities of Mecca and Medina along with its capital at Riyadh.	Answer:	Saudi Arabia 2 - Bordering Saudi Arabia to the South and with its capital at Sana, the Gulf of Aden borders this nation on the 	 	      south and the Red Sea borders it on the west.	Answer:	Yemen	3 - Bordering Yemen to the east, this nation has no constitution and no legal political parties.  The Strait of Hormuz 	lies at its northern tip and a namesake gulf borders it to the north.	   	Answer:	Oman23.	30/20/10    Identify the common name of the following Romans:(30) The first famous woman of this name married Gaius Marius.  Her family brought him prestige since she claimed descent from Venus.(20) A grand-niece of the same lady mentioned before married Pompey the Great.  Buts he died after childbirth and so did the baby.  Her death played a role in the breakup of the First Triumvirate.(10) Yet another woman of the same family, she was the daughter of Augustus.  She married Marcellus, Agrippa, and later Tiberius.  Her love affairs caused a scandal, flaunting Augustus' moral legislation, so she was confined to an island.	Answer:  Julia24.	FTPE, identify these art terms that begin with a common letter.1 - It is defined as a small stick of colored wax, chalk, or charcoal.  Binney & Smith is the leading producer of them.	Answer:	Crayons2 - It is defined as the art of beautiful handwriting or penmanship.	Answer:	Calligraphy	3 - Literally meaning wedge-shaped, it is descriptive of the characters used in ancient Akkadian, Assyrian,Babylonian, and Persian alphabets.	Answer:	Cuneiform