TOSSUPS - FLORIDA A & B			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Doug Robeson, Kelli Barone, and Travis Vitello with minor additions by your genial quizmaster1.	There are two forms of the disease: wet, which affects the heart and is sometimes fatal, and dry, which causes partial paralysis resulting from damage to the peripheral nerves. Its generic symptoms may include weight loss, emotional disturbances, impaired sensory perception, weakness and pain in the limbs, and periods of irregular heartbeat.  With a name that translates to "I cannot, I cannot,"FTP name this nervous system ailment caused by a deficiency of vitamin B1, or thiamine.	Answer:	Beri-beri 2.	The initial emigration figures estimate the 70 thousand people immediately left and a total of over 300 thousand people left before it was over and done with. It started with the invasion on the night of August 20th, and unfortunately 11 of the countries 12 army divisions were already deploy on the West German border.  The Soviet army easily took over and the democratic countries could only voice disapproval because of fears surround the Cold War nuclear standoff.  FTP, this describes what event in Czechoslovakia, described in The Unbearable Lightness of Being, and named for the capital city and season involved.      	Answer:	Prague Spring3.	He dropped out of Gladstone High School in the 10th grade in 1960 when a teacher accused him of plagiarizing a 20-page paper on Napoleon. But that did not stop him from writing. He spent the remainder of his teen years educating himself by reading Ralph Ellison, Richard Wright, Langston Hughes, and others.  His greatest literary achievement is a cycle of ten plays, each set in a different decade, depicting the comedy and tragedy of the African-American experience in the 20th century. FTP, name this recently deceased author of Radio Golf, Jitney, and Fences	Answer:	August Wilson4.	It was inspired by the story of Merhan Nasseri, an Iranian refugee. In 1988, he landed at Charles de Gaulle Airport after being denied entry into England because his passport and United Nations refugee certificate had been stolen. French authorities would not let him leave the airport.  The movie is set in New York and the refugee is from Krackozhia. FTP, name this 2004 Steven Spielberg movie where the character Viktor Navorski is played by Tom Hanks. 	Answer:	The Terminal 5.	This man's namesake illusion depicts a diamond with two horizontal red bars that appear to bend inwards.  Author of Contributions to the Theory of Sense Perception, his early lectures were published as Lectures on the Mind of Humans and Animals.  The founder of the journal Philosophical Studies, this student of Hermann von Helmholtz earned much acclaim with his Principles of Physiological Psychology.  FTP, identify this German thinker and father of experimental psychology.	Answer:	Wilhelm Max Wundt 6.	When this concept was challenged by Benjamin Constant, its formulator responded with the essay On a Supposed Right to Tell Lies From Benevolent Motives.  In it, the author argues that it is indeed one's moral duty to be truthful, even to a murderer, since lying or abstaining from comment could not be willed onto every person for this concept to work.  Defined as an absolute, unconditional requirement that allows no exceptions, FTP, what is this two-word term central to the moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant?	Answer:	categorical imperative7.	They react with formaldehyde to form primary alcohols and with ketones to form secondary and tertiary alcohols.  Since they decompose rapidly in the presence of water, reactions involving them typically occur in solvents like anhydrous ether or tetrahydrofuran.  Important in the synthesis of carbon-carbon bonds, they can be formed by the reaction of an alkyl or aryl halide with an organomagnesium metal.  FTP, what are these reagents whose discovery won their namesake the 1912 Nobel Prize in Chemistry?	Answer:	Grignard reagents
8.	This pharaoh was an 18th dynasty ruler from 1503 to 1482 BCE. Supported by the priesthood of Amen-Re, this pharaoh took control of the throne un-rightfully, but was eventually overthrown by Tuthmosis III.  Although sending out notable expeditions to Byblos, Sinai, and Punt for resources such as timber, turquoise and incense, she is probably better known for her many statues depicting her with the male characteristics of a pharaoh, including the ceremonial beard. FTP, name this Egyptian queen, daughter of Tuthmosis I, best known for her mortuary temple at Deir-al-Bahri in Thebes.	Answer:	Queen Hatshepsut9.	It's home to a species of rare river dolphin that lives in both the ocean and the saltwater estuaries. It is also home to the Admiral Graf Spee, a German ship that was scuttled there to keep the ship from falling into the hands of the three British ships that trapped it here.  The secondary gun mounts have been restored and are now outside the National Maritime Museum in Montevideo.  FTP, name this South American river formed by the Uruguay and Parana Rivers that is the widest river in the world and empties into the Atlantic at Buenos Aires. 	Answer:	Rio de la Plata or River Plate10.	A major theme of this 1929 novel is the horror and waste of war. Coupled with death and physical ruin is the destruction of the spirit of the soldiers; totally drained of emotions, they become self-centered and thoughtless. A minor theme is the importance of camaraderie, and when Kat is killed, the protagonist suffers an emotional blow. The teacher Kantorek lies about the glory of war and convinces his students to enlist in the infantry. He is later blamed for the death of the first student to die, Behm. Muller, Kropp, Katczinsky, and Paul Baumer are all characters in, FTP, what novel about World War I by Erich Maria Remarque?	Answer:	All Quiet on the Western Front11.	At the Paris premiere of this film, its director hid behind the screen armed with stones for fear of being attacked by an angry audience.  In 1960, two Argentinean tangos and extracts from Wagner's Liebsestod were added as its soundtrack.  It opens with the disturbing scene of Simone Mareuil having her eye being sliced open with a razor.  Other images include ants emerging from a hole in a man's hand and a man dragging a piano, dead donkeys, and two priests, one of whom is Salvador Dali.  Only 16 minutes in length, FTP, what is this 1928 surrealist film by director Luis Buñuel?	Answer:	Un Chien Andalou or An Andalusian Dog12.	He spent his early years working as a surveyor with his brother William in the west of England and Wales.  In 1848 he and the naturalist Henry Walter Bates went to Brazil to collect specimens in the rainforest, unfortunately the ship caught fire and sank on the return trip to Britain.  If that ship didn't sink, maybe he would be the one more closely identified with his best theory.  He went on to study species, such as the frog named for him, and hypothesized about the zoogeographical boundary named for him in Malay Archipelago. FTP, name this naturalist who independently of Darwin came up with the idea of natural selection.	Answer:	Alfred Russel Wallace13.	This novel ends in the same way that it begins, with the protagonist sitting at the communal dinner table of her hotel. While sight seeing in Florence, the protagonist encounters Mr. Emerson in the Santa Croce church, and he tells her that his son George needs her affection to overcome his melancholy. After a romantic kiss in the countryside is interrupted by Charlotte, her older cousin and chaperone, Lucy returns to Surrey where she becomes engaged to Cecil. But after reading a novel by Miss Lavish based on her romance in Florence, Lucy breaks off the engagement with Cecil and goes back to George. This is, FTP, what novel about Lucy Honeychurch, which began over the titular complaint about hotel accommodations not overlooking the Arno River, written by E.M. Forster?	Answer:	A Room with a View  14.	Based upon a poem by Henri Cazalis, a variation of its xylophone motif can be found in another of its composer's works, Fossiles.  At its 1874 premier, it was not well-received by the unsettled audience, though Franz Liszt was so impressed that he transcribed it into an arrangement for piano.  As a symphonic poem, it elicits the images of skeletons frolicking in a graveyard, led by the fiddle of Death.  FTP, identify this gloomy work by Camille Saint-Saens.	Answer:	Danse Macabre or Opus 40
15.	He was a distinguished World War I veteran and it was his advocacy of a defensive strategy that led, in large part, to the construction of the Maginot Line. Following the war, he went into politics, and  in 1934 he was appointed to the French cabinet as Minister of War. The following year he was promoted to Secretary of State. But it would be his next venture into politics that would lead to his name becoming a French derogatory word. FTP, name this former war hero, who moved the capital to Vichy after the Nazi Germans appointed him Prime Minister of occupied France.   	Answer:	Marshal Henri Philippe Benoni Omer Joseph Pétain (accept any of those names with Petain)16.	This work's primary defining feature is that it is almost entirely written in verses of iambic tetrameter with an unusual rhyme scheme. The first complete edition of the novel was published in 1833, but it was originally published in serial form starting in 1823.  It is the story of a Russian aristocrat who has found his life to be empty and devoid of pleasure, despite the beauty and wealth that surrounds him. Trying to discover what life holds for him, the titular character moves to the country and meets Tanya, who falls in love with him. However, he instead falls in love with Olga, and kills her fiancé Lensky in a dual. This is, FTP, what Alexander Pushkin novel, basis of a Tchiakovsky opera?	Answer:	Eugene Onegin17.	King Oeneus held annual sacrifices to the gods but one year the king forgot to include Artemis in his offerings. Insulted, Artemis created this ferocious beast and unloosed it on the king's city.  It rampaged throughout the countryside, forcing people to take refuge inside the city walls, where they began to starve. People from all over Greece came to the help rid the king of this beast, such as Idas, Telamon, Nestor, Theseus, Mopsus, and Laertes. FTP, name this creature finally wounded by Atalanta and killed by Meleager. 	Answer:	Calydonian Boar 18.	In an 1895 attempt to explain the Michelson-Morley experiment, he introduced the concept of local time. He also proposed that bodies approaching the velocity of light contract in the direction of motion. In 1904, one year before the publication of Einstein's paper, he extended this work and developed his namesake transformations that describe basic effects of the theory of relativity, namely the increase of mass, shortening of length, and time dilation that are characteristic of a moving body. FTP, name this Dutch physicist who won the Nobel prize in 1905 for his work on electromagnetic radiation. 	Answer:	Hendrik Lorentz19.	When this nation's first president was attempting a land reform, it was discovered that the nation could technically secede from the United States.  Its president represented the country at the United Nations, but was given a seat in the last row next to Albania.  In an attempt to gain more respect in the international theater, this nation annexed a neighboring territory and renamed it Joe-hio.  FTP, what was this tiny country within Quahog, Rhode Island, whose government officials included Stewie Griffin as the President of Poopie and Peter Griffin as the nation's first president and namesake?	Answer:	Petoria20.	Being ambidextrous and a classical languages teacher, he was able to write in Greek in one hand and Latin in the other at the same time.  But this wasn't enough for him, so he studied law and passed the Ohio bar in 1860.  He commanded the Ohio 42nd Volunteer Infantry during the Civil War and following the war, he went into politics.  While in politics he served on the Electoral Comission that decided the 1876 election of Rutherford B. Hayes, and prior to the next presidental election, while campaigning for Sherman, he was chosen to run on the Republican ticket.  FTP, name this President with the second shortest term, holding office from March to September of 1881.	Answer:	James A. Garfield  21.	He wanted to serve at the front lines in WWI, but the British government wouldn't allow him to so he served in the Genadier Guards instead.  After the war he visited many deprived areas of the UK and signed up 200,000 people to his back-to-work scheme. While living at his new home in Berkshire and while his mistress, Lady Furness, traveled abroad, he began seeing a married woman that would have a large impact on his life.  FTP, name this English king who in order to marry Wallis Warfield Simpson, abdicated the throne in December of 1936.  	Answer:	Edward VIII
22.	Born as Neftalí Ricardo Reyes Basoalto in 1904, he spent his youth in Temuco, where he befriended Gabriela Mistral. Alongside his literary activities, he studied French and pedagogy at the University of Chile in Santiago. Between 1927 and 1935, the government put him in charge of a number of honorary consulships, so he traveled extensively to many countries and wrote Residence on Earth. In 1943, he returned to Chile, and in 1945 he was elected senator. His works during this time were political and include Las Uvas y el Viento and Elementary Odes. FTP, this is what winner of the 1971 Nobel prize, and poet of Canto General and Twenty Love Songs and a Song of Despair.	Answer:	Pablo Neruda23.	At the age of 15, this man was conscripted into the Roman legion and stationed at Amiens in Gaul.  It was here that he met a naked beggar and, without hesitation, cut his own military cloak in two, giving one half to the poor man.  That night, Jesus is said to have appeared to him in a dream wearing the same cloak, thus confirming this man's piety.  He would go on to hold the position as the bishop of Tours in 371 and his day is now celebrated on November 11th.  FTP, identify this man, the patron saint of innkeepers and drunkards.	Answer:	Saint Martin 
BONI - FLORIDA A & B			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Doug Robeson, Kelli Barone, and Travis Vitello with minor additions by your genial quizmaster1.	Identify these miscellaneous things that have to do with the University of Florida, 5-10-20-30: (5) She is the namesake of a fast food chain founded by her dad, Dave, and she attended UF. 	Answer:	Melinda Lou "Wendy" Thomas (5) He dropped out of UF to pursue a career in music.  Buffalo Springfield was the first of three different bands in which he and Neil Young were both members.	Answer:	Stephen Stills(X) Colonel Paul Tibbits, a UF grad, piloted this B-29 Superfortress bomber which he named after his mother on his was to dropping the first ever atomic bomb ever used in warfare. 	Answer:	Enola Gay(X) Another UF alumnus, this comic actor known for his impersonation of Bill Clinton now holds the record for longest tenure in the cast of Saturday Night Live.	Answer:	Darrell Hammond2.	Name the Arthur Miller work from a description FTPE.(10) Miller's best know work, it won the 1949 Pulitzer in drama and tells the story of the tragic hero Willy Loman. 	Answer:	Death of a Salesman(10) This 1947 work has Joe Keller selling defective airplane parts, then getting in trouble for it, then blaming someone else for it.  His sons find out the truth and then he commits suicide. 	Answer:	All My Sons(10) Miller wrote this screenplay about old horses being turned into dog food and an unlikely love affair-much like the relationship between him and Marilyn Monroe, who costarred in the film with Clark Gable.	Answer:	The Misfits   3.	Identify the Chinese dynasty from clues FTPE. (10) Also known as the Manchu dynasty, this was the last dynasty of China, ruling until 1912 when the Republic of China was established under Sun Yet-Sen.	Answer:	Qing [or Ching] Dynasty(10) At the time, this dynasty had the largest navy in the history of the world under Zheng He.  There are perhaps more well known for their silks and porcelain vases.  	Answer:	Ming Dynasty(10) It followed the Sui Dynasty.  The Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period in China followed when it turned to dust, or at least to an orange powder. 	Answer:	Tang Dynasty4.	Answer the following about electromagnetism FTPE.(10) This Danish chemist is credited with the discovery of electromagnetism.	Answer:	Hans Christian Oersted(10) In 1831 this man discovered electromagnetic induction which is when a magnet is moved through a looped wire, an electric current flows through the wire.	Answer:	Michael Faraday(10) First built in 1832, this machine was one of the earliest generators and uses electromagnetic principles to convert mechanical rotation into an alternating electrical current.	Answer:	dynamo5.	Given the Roman God, name the Greek counterpart FTPE.(10) Aurora	Answer:	Eos(10) Trivia	Answer:	Hecate(10) Victoria	Answer:	Nike
6.	Answer these questions about modern art FTPE.(10) This 1913 New York exhibition was one of the most influential displays of modern art in America, and was organized by influential artists Walt Kuhn and Arthur B. Davies.	Answer:	Armory Show(10) Perhaps the most controversial work in the Armory Show, this Duchamp work is an example of what is called Cubo-Futurism because it shows the influences of both Cubism and Futurism. 	Answer:	Nude Descending a Stair Case (10) Works by this Russian artist of the Blue Rider school were shown for the first time in America when the painting Improvisation No. 27 was exhibited at the Armory show.	Answer:	Wassily Kandinsky7.	Identify the type of chemical bonds from description FTPE. (10) The namesake element in this type of bonding must be attached to a strongly electronegative element, such as oxygen, nitrogen or fluorine.	Answer:	hydrogen bond(10) These bonds occur between metals, losing electrons, and non-metals, gaining electrons, such as in lithium flouride. 	Answer:	ionic bond(10) These are bonds where there is no nodal plane containing the line segment between the two bonded species. They are also the strongest type of covalent bonds.	Answer:	sigma bonds8.	Identify these people and things that are concerned with a certain literary movement FTPE.(10) He wrote Pilgrims Regress following his conversion to Christianity and is better known for his fantasy series which includes The Silver Chair and The Last Battle. 	Answer:	C. S. Lewis(10) He wrote The Book of Lost Tales while recuperating from illness during World War I and is better known for his fantasy series and The Silmarillion.  	Answer:	J. R. R. Tolkien(10) Tolkien, Lewis, and others were members of this literary group associated with Oxford that worked to produce narrative fantasy works.	Answer:	The Inklings9.	Identify these naval battles of WWII from description FTPE. (10) In terms of ship tonnage and area the battle took place, this 1944 victory for the US and Australia was the largest naval battle ever. 	Answer:	Battle of Leyte Gulf(10) The Japanese ship Kikuzuki was sunk here.  Also, the Shokaku sustained heavy damages and the Zuikaku lost many of is aircraft resulting in neither being able to take part in the Battle of Midway a month later. 	Answer:	Battle of the Coral Sea(10) Allied ships suffered a disastrous defeat to the Japanese Navy here in February and March 1942. The action included the smaller, but also significant Battle of Sunda Strait.	Answer:	Battle of the Java Sea10.	How much do you know about Bond, James Bond?  Given a film, identify the actor who played 007, F5PE:(5) Dr. No	Answer:	Sean Connery(5) Goldeneye	Answer:	Pierce Brosnan(5) The upcoming Casino Royale	Answer:	Daniel Craig(5) On Her Majesty's Secret Service	Answer:	George Lazenby(5) License to Kill	Answer:	Timothy Dalton(5) Moonraker	Answer:	Roger Moore
11.	He is positioned next to Canis Major and Canis Minor as he faces Taurus.  FTSNOP:(5) For five, what is this constellation, commonly known as The Hunter?	Answer:	Orion(10) This is Orion's brightest star, with a visible magnitude of 0.18.  For ten points, name it.	Answer:	Rigel(10) For ten, this dark nebula can be found within the Orion constellation.  It is located just below Alnitak, the easternmost star of Orion's belt.	Answer:	Horsehead Nebula(5) And for a final five, this red supergiant is the second brightest star in Orion.	Answer:	Betelgeuse12.	13.	Name the German authors FTPE: (10) Winner of the 1929 Nobel in Literature, his works include Buddenbrook , The Magic Mountain and Death in Venice.	Answer:	Thomas Mann(10) This author of The Clown and Billiards at Half Past Nine won the Nobel in 1972.	Answer:	Heinrich Boll(10) Although he has been called romanticism's greatest psychologist of the unconscious, today he is mostly known indirectly, through classic operas based on his works by Tchiakovsky and Offenbach.	Answer:	E.T.A. Hoffman13.	Cryptozoology is cool.  Name these creatures that may or may not be real FTPE.(10) The first clear-cut picture of this creature, the 'Surgeon Photo' turned out to be a hoax.  But many people still believe the stories about this Scottish plesiosaur.	Answer:	Loch Ness Monster or Nessie(10) This creature supposedly resides in Lake Okanagan in Canada, which is why the native Indians used to carry animals with them whenever they crossed the lake to use as a sacrifice.	Answer:	Ogopogo(10)  The state government of Vermont has put this creature, which is said to live in Lake Champlain, on its Endangered Species List.	Answer:	Champ15.	Identify the US tariffs from descriptions FTPE.(10) The unpopular Tariff of 1828 got this nickname because some of the duties that resulted from it were over 50%. 	Answer:	Tariff of Abominations(10) This 1894 tariff  lowered overall rates from 50 percent to 42 percent, but it contained so many concessions to protectionism that Cleveland refused to sign it. 	Answer:	Wilson-Gorman Tariff(10) This raised US tariffs on over 20,000 dutiable items to record levels, and, in the opinion of many economists, initiated the Great Depression. Hoover signed the act into law on June 17, 1930.	Answer:	Smoot-Hawley or Hawley-Smoot Tariff15.	Given a quotation by a famous Greek philosopher, identify who said it, FTPE:(10) "Man is the measure of all things"	Answer:	Protagoras(10) "One cannot step twice into the same river"	Answer:	Heraclitus(10) "The only good is knowledge and the only evil is ignorance"	Answer:	Socrates
16.	Identify the rebellions, revolts, or uprisings, from descriptions FTPE. (10) The Irish Volunteers led by school teacher Padraig Pearse and the Irish Citizen Army of James Connolly seized key locations in Dublin and proclaimed an Irish Republic independent of Britain in this 1916 rebellion.	Answer:	Easter Rebellion or Rising (10) Army officers led about 3,000 Russian soldiers to the Senate Square in St. Petersburg in this 1825. The square was later renamed for the month it occurred. 	Answer:	Decembrist Revolt or Uprising (10) It was started in 1830 in Warsaw by a group of conspirators and was soon joined by large part of the Polish society. It was crushed by the superior numbers of the Russians and named for the month in which it was started.	Answer:	November Uprising17.	Everybody likes good cheese Danish, so identify the following Danish authors from clues FTPE.(10) This Dane wrote children's tales, such as The Ugly Duckling and the Little Mermaid. 	Answer:	Hans Christian Andersen(10) Her real name is Karen Blixen but she is more familiar in quizbowl circles by this pen-name she used for Out of Africa and Seven Gothic Tales.	Answer:	Isak Denisen(10) This Dane, author of The Long Journey and The Fall of the King, won the 1944 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Johannes Jensen  18.	Of all the animals in the world, this is reputedly the only one that can't stick out its tongue.  FTPE:(10) What is this reptile, varieties of which include the American, the Mugger, and the Nile?	Answer:	crocodile(10) The only surviving member of the family Gavialidae is this crocodile-like reptile native of the Northern Indian subcontinent.	Answer:	gharial (prompt on gavial)(10) Also of the order Crocodylia are these South American crocodilians that differ from alligators by the absence of a bony septum.  They lend their name to a Caribbean island group probably best known as a tax haven.	Answer:	caimans19.	Name these things from abstract algebra FTPE.(10) Abstract algebra generally starts by working with these closed sets with a binary operation, the associative property with that operation, inverses, and an identity.  	Answer:	Groups(10) This is the general name for a group that contains all the rotations and reflextions of a regular polygon.  	Answer:	Dihedral Group(10) This group was discovered by Hamilton and consists of plus or minus 1, i, j, and k.  It also comes in handy for rotations using computer programming.	Answer:	Quaternions20.	Name these Gian Carlo Menotti operas from descriptions FTPE.(10) This Menotti work debuted on NBC on Christmas Eve, 1951. It was inspired when the composer saw the famous painting The Adoration of the Magi in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.	Answer:	Amahl and the Night Visitors(10)This Menotti work is an opera buffa in one act, that premiered in 1937. While the protaganist  is preparing to go to the titular event, her husband bursts in, angry at having found letters to her from her lover. When her husband returns to find her with her lover, tempers rise, and matters reach a climax. 	Answer:	Amelia al Ballo, or Amelia goes to the Ball, or Amelia at the Ball (10)This recent full-length opera was commissioned and performed by Plácido Domingo and the Washington Opera at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1986. It shares its name with the artist of Las Meninas.	Answer:	Goya
21.	Given a list of island names, identify the group to which they belong, FTPE:(10) Majorca, Minorca, Ibiza, and Formentera	Answer:	Balearic Islands(10) Graciosa, Corvo, Sao Miguel, and Pico	Answer:	Azores(10) Saunders, Staats, Lively, and Bleaker	Answer:	Falkland Islands22.	While on a 2003 hiking trip in Utah, he nearly died after being partially pinned by a boulder.  FTSNOP:(10) For ten, who was this man whose will to live combined with a dull pocket knife allowed him to survive this experience?	Answer:	Aron Ralston(5) For five, what limb did Aron sacrifice in order to free himself from under the boulder?	Answer:	right arm(15) For 15, this is the aptly-named title of Aron's best-selling novel about his harrowing adventure.	Answer:	Between a Rock and a Hard Place 