TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions mostly by Georgia Tech B, with strays by UT alums, Cal-Berkeley, Ray Luo, Wesley Mathews, Jason Keller, Ahmad Ragab, Nathan Bragg, Daniel Pareja, and your genial quizmaster1.	According to some theorists, it was created as a result of a giant impact with Theia, evidence supported by its ellipsoid shape. It is covered by KREEP, non-crystalline potassium, rare earth elements, and phosphorus that was believed to float upon its once molten surface. It has many seas, basin and craters as a result of uneven lava flow and impact craters over the last four billion years. FTP name this object named for a goddess often overshadowed by Artemis or Diana, the largest satellite of Earth.	Answer:	Luna or Selene [accept just the Moon before "named for a goddess"; prompt thereafter]2.	She had an affair with the bisexual journalist William Mortan Fullerton, among others. She was interested in landscaping and architecture, writing on those topics in The Decoration of Houses, and Italian Villas and Their Gardens, but these were all but forgotten after the success of The House of Mirth. Basing many of her works on the New York aristocracy, FTP, name this author of the 1920 Pulitzer Prize winning novel, The Age of Innocence. 	Answer:	 Edith Wharton3.	This title translated into English comes from an Arabic word, taken from the French, who in turn received the word from the Latin's who's term originated from a Romanized Arabic word.  The original Arabic word literally meant "to succeed" or "to be behind".  The more modern version of this word can be roughly translated as "to steward".  Originally just a single individual, this title was taken by many leaders of the Islamic faith before the Ottomans asserted their authority either by crushing or outlasting other claimants.  FTP name this title, first taken by Muhammad's father-in-law, who represents the spiritual leader of all Muslims.	Answer:	Caliph4.	(UTA) The right panel of this triptych depicts the title figure sitting contemplatively while in the upper left a man and woman fly on a fish.  The central panel depicts the kneeling title figure being tormented by devils, including a man with a thistle for a head and a fish that is half gondola.  The painting tells the story of an Egyptian hermit monk who established Christian monasticism in the 4th century.  FTP, name this painting by Heironymous Bosch.	Answer:	The Temptation of St. Anthony5.	(WM) The return of the Captal de Buch from Prussia prevented the spread of this movement to the east, and it ended after suffering several reverses engineered by Sir Enguerrand VII de Coucy. Beginning at St. Leu, this movement peaked after becoming entrenched in Vermandois, but it was soon routed at Clairmont-en-Beauvais by Charles II of Navarre. It began as an attack on the ecourcheurs, but after turning on its patrons, Gaston Phoebus and Jean III de Grailly arranged the massacre at Meaux. Led by Guillaume Cale, FTP, name this 1358 revolt against the French nobility named after the nickname for the French peasantry.       Answer:	 The Jacquerie (Accept Peasant Revolts of 1358-9 before mentioned)6.	It took place five days after the Battle of South Mountain, where the Union took key passes after defeating Lee's rear guard. Many have criticized Union tactics at this battle itself, especially McClellan's unwillingness to commit his reserves to pursuit.  It was considered a tactical defeat but a strategic victory for the Union, while each side lost about 25% of their original force in probably the bloodiest single day in American history, Sept. 17, 1862.  FTP name this Civil War battle fought outside the town of Sharpsburg, Maryland.	Answer:	Battle of Antietam [accept Sharpsburg before it's said]7.	(DP) Possibly the most powerful of the Noldor who left Valinor except for F‘anor (feh-AH-nor), "her hair was lit with gold as though it had caught in a mesh the radiance of Laurelin." (first syllable as English "cow") She left Valinor so that she might rule in Middle-earth, and was the only child or grandchild of Finw‘ (FIN-weh) to live through the First Age, except her father. During the First Age she lived with Melian in Doriath and fell in love with one of the princes of the kingdom. In the Second and Third Ages she lived with Celeborn (KEL-eh-born) and held Nenya, the Ring of Adamant. FTP, name this member of the White Council, the daughter of Finarfin and Lady of L—rien.	Answer:	Galadriel
8.	This theory changed the way that people viewed developmental psychology.  First formulated by John Locke, this theory was one of the first to state that a person's behavior is based upon their childhood experiences, not genetics, and that parent's can influence their child's behavior based upon positive feedback as well as negative.  FTP, what is this theory, taken from the Latin words for "blank slate"?	Answer:	Tabula Rasa9.	It is the title of a Connie Willis short story; its name appropriately mean "black shield." It can be approximated by multiplying the mass of an object by 1.48 * 10^(-27) meters per kilogram, which is derived from twice the universal gravitation constant divided by the speed of light squared. FTP, identify this point that defines the minimum size an object can reach before becoming a black hole.	Answer:	Schwarzschild Radius 10.	(UCB/RL) Calling himself a homunculus, this character is accidentally circumcised by a window shade.  Injuries like this seem to run in the family, as his uncle received a groin wound at Namur.  Correctly retelling the events of the battle becomes an obsession, a "hobby-horse" for Uncle Toby.  This title character's own hobby-horse, telling "a history of what happens in a man's own mind," causes him to make digressions throughout.  For ten points, name this "gentleman" whose "life and opinions" are the subject of a nine volume work by Laurence Sterne.	Answer:	Tristram Shandy11.	(UTA) It's the name of a typeface based on the handwriting of the Simpsons' creator Matt Groening.   It's also the name of the son of Humayun, who succeeded his father in 1556 and ruled until his death in 1605.  FTP, name this greatest of the Mughal rulers.	Answer:	Akbar12.	A less common application of it relates cell membrane potential of a single ion to the negative log base ten of the ion concentrations out of the cell over the inside of the cell times .0591 divided by the total number of moles of electrons. In extreme temperatures it is necessary to multiply by the universal gas constant times temperature over the Faraday constant times the number of moles rather than the commonly used .0591, which holds for room temperature batteries. FTP name this electrochemical equation named for the 1920 recipient of the Nobel Prize for Chemistry.	Answer:	The Nernst Equation13.	(UTA) King Heinrich asks Count Telramund to explain why the Duchy of Brabant is torn by strife and disorder. Telramund accuses his ward  of having murdered her brother, Gottfried.  In truth Gottfried was enchanted by the evil Ortrud, whom Telramund has wed.  Ortrud attempts to disrupt the happy nuptials of Telramund's ward and the title character by preying on her curiosity about his identify.  The ward, Elsa, eventually asks and learns that her husband-to-be is from the temple of the Holy Grail at distant Monsalvat and Parsifal is his father.  FTP, this is a brief synopsis of which Richard Wagner opera?	Answer:	Lohengrin14.	Its flag bears one white star inside a black triangle, inside a larger yellow triangle against a red field.  It includes one non-contiguous territory elsewhere on the same island, called either Oecussi or Ambeno.  After declaring independence from Portugal on November 28, 1975, this nation was invaded and conquered by Indonesia just 9 days later, and Indonesian troops killed as many as 300,000 people in the next 25 years.  With its capital at Dili, FTP, what is this nation that overwhelmingly voted for independence on August 30, 1999, and was finally recognized in 2002?	Answer:	East Timor [accept Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste] 15.	It was adapted for film in 1957 by Jean Paul Sartre, and again in 1996 by the author. Judges Danforth and Hathorne are convinced by the evidence of Abigail Williams and John Hale, though the later becomes concerned about the legitimacy of the trials and withdraws his support in the final act. FTP, identify the play, based both on McCarthyism, and, more obviously, the Salem witch trials, written by Arthur Miller.	Answer:	The Crucible
16.	(UTA) Its current version is 3.141592, and future version numbers will continue approaching pi.  Created to improve typesetting for The Art of Computer Programming, it rapidly gained favor with scientists, especially mathematicians, as it allows accurate representation of symbols and formulas in a printed document generated from a plain-text file.  FTP, what is this document-creation system, designed by Donald Knuth, the "te" version of which is found on many Unix systems?	Answer:	TeX (pronounced "tech")17.	(TM) In April 2005, this former reserve goalie for West Adelaide and Adelaide City became 15% owner of Sydney FC. He could fill-in as goalie in a pinch, as he currently plays that position for the Hollywood United celebrity soccer team. His acting awards include the Best Actor Tony for A View From the Bridge, and a Guest Actor Emmy for playing Daphne's brother Simon on Frasier. FTP, who has won an Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actor for his role as Jack Malone on Without A Trace?	Answer:	Anthony LaPaglia18.	Among the contents of its second edition are a prose elegy for the poet's granddaughter Elizabeth who did not live past the age of two, and a verse which refers to it as the "ill-form'd offspring of [the poet's] feeble brain."  More notable is its prologue, which begins by saying that "To sing of Wars, of Captains, and of Kings, / Of Cities founded, Common-wealths begun, / For [the poet's] mean Pen are too superior things;" but despite this humility, she is "obnoxious to each carping tongue / Who says [her] hand a needle better fits." FTP, name this collection of poems, first published in 1650 by Anne Bradstreet.	Answer:	The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America 19.	This pact created the "crime against peace" that many at the Nuremberg trials were convicted of after initiating World War II.  First proposed in 1927 as a pact between France and the United States, it was later drafted into an international accord that was eventually to include 62 signing nations.  After its passing, nations began to claim the "right of self-defense" or the "right of collective defense" as casus belli.  FTP name this pact of 1929, signed by all the upcoming combatants in World War II save those in Eastern Europe, which outlawed war.	Answer:	Kellogg-Briand Pact20.	(WM) Exchange of material between these objects and their surroundings occurs via porin channels in their outer membrane. Ubiquinone and several types of cytochrome are among the molecules lining its inner membrane, which permits oxidative phosphorylation along several shelves called cristae. Its introduction to the cell by phagocytosis is supported by its unique type of DNA. The site of the Electron Transport Chain, FTP, name this ATP manufacturing organelle responsible for cellular energy production via cellular respiration, often called "the cell's power house."       Answer:	mitochondrion21.	Claimed as ancestors by the people of Lebanon, Malta, Tunisia and Somalia, these people were sometimes attributed to the Israeli Dan tribe.  Other possible origins include Greek tribes migrating out of the conflict rich Balkan Peninsula.  The resulting civilization was the first to produce bronze in large quantities due to its ability to acquire tin and copper from different areas of its far-reaching empire.  FTP name this civilization of Mediterranean traders, famous for their cities of Carthage and Tyre.	Answer:	Phoenicians22.	This man was born in Minneapolis in 1892.  As principal owner, and president of the Minnehoma Financial group he was considered to be one of the richest men in the world.  He would use this wealth to start an amazingly good art collection which was the centerpiece for an entire art center including conservation laboratories following his death.  FTP name this man, perhaps most famous for his work with oil, or as the reputed first billionaire.	Answer:	Jean Paul Getty23.	Born on January 18, 1925 in Paris, this man ended his life in 1995 by jumping out of a hospital window.  Two of his more popular works shared a subtitle, Capitalism and Schizophrenia, where he and Felix Guattari expound upon their concept of the "body without organs." FTP name this philosopher, co-author of Anti-Oedipus, A Thousand Plateaus, and whose thesis was Difference and Repetition.	Answer:	Gilles Deleuze
BONI - GEORGIA TECH B			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions mostly by Georgia Tech B, with strays by UT alums, Cal-Berkeley, Ray Luo, Wesley Mathews, Jason Keller, Ahmad Ragab, Nathan Bragg, Daniel Pareja, and your genial quizmaster1.	Given a famous fictional location, name the author for 10 pts, 5 points if you need works. [10] Jefferson, Mississippi [5] The Sound and the Fury       Answer:	William Faulkner [10] Grovers Corners, New Hampshire [5] Our Town        Answer:	Thornton Wilder [10] Shangri-La [5] Lost Horizon        Answer:	James Hilton2.	Identify the following poisons FTPE[10] This chemical the electron transport chain, resulting in the stop of cellular respirations, and has formula CN-        Answer:	Cyanide [10] Though historically used in the treatment of syphilis, the vapors of this heavy metal were responsible for the insanity of many hatters in England.        Answer:	Mercury [10] This fat soluble class of toxins includes TCDD and was used in an attempt to assassinate Viktor Yushchenko.        Answer:	Dioxins3.	Name the Egyptian pharaoh from the description FTPE.[10] This pharaoh is believed to be the one in the Bible that Moses contends with.  He was also a great military leader,, greatly expanding the borders of the Egyptian empire.       Answer:	Ramses II or Ramses the Great[10] It's debated whether this man was a pharaoh at all, or wether he was actually a sign of the gods.  Name this man, cruel and ruthless after taking power, and commissioner of one of the Pyramids at Giza.       Answer:	Khufu or Cheops[10] This man ascended to the throne after his older brothers died.  As pharaoh, he led an expedition that added Nubia to the Egyptian empire.  Name this man, succeeeded by Thutmose I.       Answer:	Amenhotep I 4.	(UCB/RL) On November 16, 2004, Santa Monica police asked for rapper David Darnell Brown to turn himself in for questioning regarding the stabbing of Jimmy James Johnson.  For ten points each.1. By what name is Brown, a member of 50 Cent's G-Unit posse, better known?	Answer:	Young Buck2. The stabbing took place at this event, the second ever held, which honors hip-hop and R&B artists.	Answer:	Vibe Awards3. Johnson was stabbed after attacking this man, who was receiving a Legend Award for his work producing artists such as Snoop Dog, Eminem, and Blackstreet.	Answer:	Dr. Dre or (Andre Young)5.	(CCS) Name these American composers from works, 5-10-20-30:a) El Salon Mexico and Fanfare for the Common Man       Answer: 	Aaron Coplandb) Vanessa and Adagio for Strings	Answer:	Samuel Barberc) Porgy and Bess and Rhapsody in Blue	Answer:	George Gershwind) Grand Canyon Suite and the orchestration for Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue	Answer:	Ferde Grofe
6.	Name these basic laws of electromagnetism FTPE:[10] It states that the amount of electric flux through a surface is equal to the amount of charge contained inside that surface divided by the permittivity constant.       Answer:	Gauss's Law[10] This law relates the strength of two charges and the distance between them to the electrostatic force felt by the same charges. It involves a constant, two point charges, and the distance between them.  	Answer:	Coulomb's Law[10] It states that the magnetic field around a loop is proportional to the amount of current going through the loop.       Answer:	Ampere's Law7.	FTSNOP, identify the works of Mark Twain given characters[5] Jim, Tom Sawyer, the Dauphin, the Duke	Answer:	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn[10] Hank Morgan, ak.a. Sir Boss	Answer:	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court[5] Edward, Tom Canty, Miles Hendon	Answer:	The Prince and the Pauper[10] Chambers, Roxy, Tom Driscoll, and the title character, whose first name is David	Answer:	Pudd'nhead Wilson8.	(UTA) Paraphilias all have in common distressing and repetitive sexual fantasies.  Identify the sexual paraphilia as described by the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, FTPE.a. Individuals feel compelled to display their genitals to an unsuspecting stranger.	Answer:	Exhibitionism or exhibitionist or exhibitionb. Individuals feel compelled to watch other undressing or in other intimate behaviors.	Answer:	Voyeurismc. Individuals feel compelled to pursue fantasies or actual relationships with underage individuals.  (Ewww.)	Answer:	Pedophilia or pedophile9.	Name these men from the time of the Hundred Years War FTPE.[10] Though he originally supported the actions of the boy-king Richard II, he was later exiled from the realm.  He returned, overthrew Richard II, and became King of England.  His reign included the rebellion of Owen Glendower and of Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland.  Name this King.       Answer:	Henry IV or Henry Bolinbroke[10] This man was the father of Richard II, but he never gained the English throne.  His poor health led to his resigning from the governing of Aquitaine and returning to England, where he died just one year before he would have been the obvious successor to the throne.  Name this man who, like Henry IV, is also buried at Cantebury Cathedral.       Answer:	Edward the Black Prince[10] This man was crowned king of France following the lifting of the siege of New Orleans.  Name this dauphin who figures prominently in the Joan of Arc stories.       Answer:	King Charles VII of France10.	And now for the old geography bonus standby of African capitals, which may or may not be accurate dependent upon the day of the week.  Given the capital, you give the country FTPE. [10pts] Libreville       Answer:	Gabon[10pts] YaoundŽ       Answer:	Cameroon[10pts] Antananarivo       Answer:	Madagascar
11.	Name these things related to philosophy FTPE:[10] This branch of philosophy is the study of "being".Answer:	Metaphysics or Ontology[10] This term's modern definition is credited to Alexander Baumgarten.Answer:	Aesthetics[10] This branch deals with the origin of knowledge/Answer:	Epistemology12.	Answer these questions concerning the people and events surrounding the travels of a Germanic tribe FTPE.[10] Moving south from northern Poland, this barbarian tribe controlled the region known as Scythia, including the modern day countries of Belarus and Ukraine.  They were greatly feared by the peoples they conquered as captives from their battles were sacrificed to their one-armed god Tyr.  Name this band of Germanic nomads.       Answer:	Goths[10] The Goths would later fight a decisive 378 A.D. battle in the Balkans after the Emperor Valens decieved them concerning food supplys for the winter.  Name this battle.       Answer:	Battle of Adrianople[10] The greatest of the Ostrogothic kings, this man controlled southern Gaul, Italy, and almost all of the Balkans.  He would later nearly reunite the Ostrogoths and Visigoths, but his efforts were immediately discarded at his death.  Answer:	Theodoric the Great13.	Given a plot description, name the movie that was a vehicle for a musician FTPE; 5 Points if you need the name of the musician.[10] Starring Jennifer Connelly and featuring the writing and directing talents of Jim Henson, this movie features a Goblin king and a huge maze.[5] David Bowie	Answer:	Labyrinth[10] Supposedly based on the artist's own life, this 2001 bomb features no redeeming qualities and co-start Max Beasley and "Da Brat".[5] Mariah Carey	Answer:	Glitter[10] Filmed in black and white and featuring Kirsten Scott Thomas, this parody of classic romance films bombed at the box office despite a well received soundtrack.[5] Prince	Answer:	Under the Cherry Moon 14.	Answer the following concerning a field of biology FTPE.[10] Coming from a French term, this is the term used for the branch of zoology that study's animal behavior.	Answer:	Ethology[10] Early ethologists like Julian Huxley defined this behavior as occurring in all members of a given species under specified circumstances.	Answer:	Instinctive or Natural Behavior[10] Discovered by Konrad Lorenz while studying the hatching of young birds, he coined this phrase to describe the early, almost instinctive learning shown by geese and chickens that follow their mother almost immediately after birth.	Answer:	Imprinting15.	Identify the works of Thomas Hardy FTPE[10] This, the last of Hardy's novels, centers on a stonemason who yearns to be a scholar, but instead is forced into an unwanted marriage.        Answer:	Jude the Obscure [10] This novel tells of a milkmaid who is abused by her distant cousin Alec       Answer:	Tess of the D'Urbervilles [10] This poem by Hardy was written in response to the sinking of the Titantic.        Answer:	The Convergence of the Twain 
16.	FTPE name these things concerning the Labor movement in the United States.[10] Founded in large part by the Western Federation of miners, this labor union promoted industrial unionism, freedom of speech, and the inclusion of skilled, unskilled, and immigrant workers.  Name this organization.       Answer:	Industrial Workers of the World or IWW or The Wobblies[10] The IWW included one Presidential candidate in their leadership.  FTP name him.       Answer:	Eugene V. Debs[10] The most prominent figure in the establishment of the IWW, this man was the main organizer of the strikes and riots used by the Wobblies to fight capitalism at the expense of the workers.  Following his arrest for leading a strike during wartime, he escaped to the Soviet Union were he advised the Bolsheviks until his death.       Answer:	Big Bill Haywood        17.	Identify these French existentialistic works FTPE[10] This Samuel Beckett work was once described as "Nothing happens, twice"        Answer:	Waiting for Godot [10] This Sartre trilogy reacts to the Nazi occupation of France.        Answer:	The Roads to Freedom or Les chemins de la libertŽ [10] This Albert Camus novel consists of a number of monologues set in Amsterdam by Jean-Baptiste Clamence.        Answer:	The Fall or La Chute18.	Given a brief description, name the famous physics experiment FTPE[10] This experiment disproved the idea of ether        Answer:	The Michelson Morley experiment [10] This experiment demonstrated that the plum pudding model was inadequate and led to the adopting of the idea of a nucleus.        Answer:	The Rutherford gold foil experiment [10] This experiment, by rapidly accelerating a metal bar, proved that electrons are the charge carrier in metals.        Answer:	The Tolman-Stewart experiment19.	(AR)  Name these Abstract Expressionist Immigrants, FTPE.(10) Born in Turkey, this accident-prone depressed artist, eventually hanged himself at 44His works include, Mannikin, Study for Organization, Portrait for Master Ball	Answer:	Arshile Gorky(10) This Canadian and member of the New York School was primarily self-taught, eventually becoming a professor of Art at St. Louis his works include, To BWT, Deluge II, Talking, and City Limits	Answer:	Philip Guston(10) This Russian painter, often classified as an Abstract Expressionist, though he himself denied that label, collaborated with Philip Johnson for works in the Seagram Building and a church in Houston that eventually became known as his Chapel I would list works but frankly most of them have titles like untitled and No. 10, so just think "color field. "	Answer:	Mark Rothko20.	(RL) Traversing a graph is like exploring a maze.  Unwind a ball of strings when you enter a room and rewind to return to the previous room when you have no other place to go.  FTPE.(10)  What fundamental search algorithm traverses a graph by pushing visited vertices onto a stack?	Answer: depth-first search(10)  Suppose you mark vertices with a pre-visit and post-visit time.  The directed graph possesses what property if depth-first search on it produces no back edge, i.e. edge (v, w) for which pre-visit[v] > pre-visit[w] and post-visit[w] is undefined?	Answer: acyclic; or dag(10)  We can sort vertices in a dag by decreasing post-visit times from an depth-first search.  Frequently used in task scheduling, this is what type of sort?	Answer: topological sort
21. FTPE, Give the information concerning an American presidential election:[10] At the time, 25% of the states did not have a popular vote, instead leaving it up to state legislatures.  The controversy caused in this Presidential election year, with four major candidates and no clear winner, provided impetus to change that.       Answer:	The Election of 1824[10] Despite a massive stroke the year before, this candidate who had the support of Jefferson and Madison finished third in the original electoral vote after carrying Virginia and his native Georgia.       Answer:	William Harris Crawford[10] This man ran for Vice President in 1824, but did not win the position until 8 years later.       Answer:	Martin Van Buren22.	Given a snippet from the CIA World Factbook about a country or entity, identify it FTPE:[10] Due to touchy political issues, this island's government has no listed formal name, and it is not listed with the other countries starting with the same letter.Answer:	Taiwan[10] "Cultivation of opium poppy reached unprecedented level of 206,700 hectacres in 2004" (Estimated to be about 4,950 metric tons once harvested)Answer:	Afghanistan[10] This nation "currently hosts the only United States military base in sub-Saharan Africa"Answer:	Djibouti23.	Upon being given an equation, give the SI units of the result FTPE, for instance mass times acceleration, you could say newtons or kilogram meters per seconds squared. [10] charge over four pi epsilon naught distance squared        Answer:	volts per meter or Newtons per Coulomb [10] integral of velocity with respect to time        Answer:	meters [10] moment of inertia times angular acceleration       Answer:	Newton meters (prompt on Joules)