TOSSUPS - VALDOSTA STATE	 	Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Mitch, Mikey, Nick, Dickey, and Higgy with strays from Cal-Berkeley, Ray Luo, UT alums, and your genial quizmaster1.	The only time this amendment was litigated in federal court was in the 1982 case of Engblom v. Casey. That case involved the rights of striking prison guards at Attica Prison who had been kicked out of their living areas. When National Guard troops were given their spots in return, the prison guards sued and won despite not being owners of the property in question. FTP, name this Bill of Rights amendment dealing with the quartering of soldiers.	Answer:	Third Amendment2.	Born in Thagasta around 354 CE, his father Patricus sent him to Catharge where he studied - among other things - Greek philosophy. He traveled all over the Roman world teaching, absorbing Manichaeism and Plato, and attempting to sleep with as many women as possible, until he settled in Milan. There, along with his illegitimate son Audiodatis, he was baptized by St. Ambrose, whose was introduced to him by his mother Monica. Later returning to Africa as the Bishop of Hippo, FTP, who was this theologian and author of Confessions and City of God?	Answer:	St. Augustine3. 	First separated from traditional taxonomy by Dr. Karl Woese [Voss] in the late 1970s, they are divided into three major groups: methanogens, halophiles, and thermophiles. They differ from other prokaryotes by extreme variations in their Ribosomal-RNA sequencing and their tendency to rely heavily on chemosynthesis for food production. FTP, identify this domain of bacteria considered by many biologists to be the oldest life forms still in existence on earth.	Answer:	Archaeabacteria [ar-KAY-uh-bacteria]4. 	(UTA) In the early 18th century its headquarter was at the Cocoa Tree.  Queen Anne appointed 2 of them ministers in 1710, Harley and Bolingbroke, who negotiated the Treaty of Utrecht which ended the War of the Spanish Succession.  Its name came to be used more commonly in reference to Prime Ministers Lord Bute and Lord North.  By the late 18th century the label came to be applied to believers in the right of Kings to determine the direction of the state rather than to act merely in accordance with the wishes of parliament.  FTP name this forerunner of today's British Conservative Party.	Answer:	Tory or Tories5. 	In 1928, workers struck against its controlling banana company, and, appropriately enough, its name literally means banana. It lay across the mountains from the city of Riohacha [ree-oh-AH-cha] and north of a Spanish galleon that had made its way inland. It witnessed visiting gypsies and flying carpets since its first appearance in Leaf Storm. Founded by Jose Arcadio Buendia, FTP, name this South American city destroyed by a flood in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude.	Answer:	Macondo6. 	Although one of the most commercially successful artists of his time, his style of quick, methodic paintings received some criticism from other artists and critics who called his style artificial and void of detail. His television series was taped for eleven years on PBS, and he parlayed that success into an extensive line of art supplies and "How-To" books. FTP, identify this "great" American painter whose 1995 death precluded PBS from saying, "a happy little painter works here."	Answer:	Bob Ross 7. 	The theoretical model of the vacuum as an infinite sea of particles possessing negative energy is known as his "sea." In mathematics, a periodic Schwartz distribution constructed from delta functions in known as his "comb." A British theoretical physicist and founder of the field of quantum mechanics, he spent his last years teaching at Florida State University. FTP, identify this scientist, whose namesake equation, formulated in 1928, accounts for the nature of particle spin and led to the discovery of the positron.	Answer:	Paul Dirac
8. 	Discovered in 1908 by Josef Szombathy [chom-BATH-y], its purpose cannot easily be explained due to its small size and inability to stand on its own. Carved from oolithic [oh-oh-LITH-ick] limestone and tinted with red ochre, its artistic intentions have been the subject of wild speculations ranging from use as a good luck charm to a vaginally-inserted fertility aid. The figure's face is blank, but the artist more than compensated by painstakingly applying detail to her disproportionately large breasts and genitalia. FTP, identify this statuette that predates her counterpart in Urbino by roughly 20,000 years.	Answer:	The Venus [Woman] of Willendorf9. 	The psychiatrist Sir William Bradshaw arrives late to her party because his patient, Septimus Smith, has committed suicide by jumping out of a window. Although the title hostess never meets Smith, their lives are connected in many ways, such as by a plane flying overhead and a bus passing both of them. She further realizes that her life is as emotionally bankrupt as Smith's after the arrival of her former lover Peter Walsh from India. FTP, name this titular London socialite of a 1925 novel by Virginia Woolf.	Answer:	Mrs. [Clarissa] Dalloway10. 	His early forays into crime included stealing butter and laundry, throwing rocks at Chinese immigrants, and escaping from jail by climbing up a chimney. Recent photographic analysis has determined that neither John Miller nor Ollie P. Roberts, nicknamed Brushy Bill, could have been this man. After his friend and employer John Tunstall was killed, he became famously embroiled in the Lincoln County War. FTP, identify this outlaw who was tracked down by Lew "Ben Hur" Wallace and Pat Garrett.	Answer:	Billy the Kid [Accept also William H. Bonney or Henry McCarty.]11. 	In the Chinese love story of Qi Xi [Chee-Shee], it marks the location of the Magpie Bridge, which allows the separated lovers Niu Lang [New-Lang] and Zhi Nu [Shee-New] to be reunited on one special night of the year in late summer. Its name comes from the Arabic word for "tail," and it forms the western apex of the Summer Triangle with two other first magnitude stars, Vega and Altair. Making up the tip of the Northern Cross, FTP, identify this massive super giant that marks the "tail" of the swan Cygnus.	Answer:	Deneb12. 	Usually taken around the age of eight, this nomadic, Turkish-speaking tribal people could ride horses and hunt at an early age and were generally sold by their families in hopes of giving them a better life. When they reached their destination, they trained in the Art of War and Islam. Since their parents were not around, the Caliph would adopt them to keep them loyal to the nation. FTP, name these "slave" warriors of Islam who acted as princes in the 10th century CE.	Answer:	Mamluks or Mameluks or Mamelukes 13.	A life sized bronze statue of him is being erected in the Bosnian city of Mostar. According to city administrators, that statue will "be a reminder of our childhood dreams of a just world where crude physical force does not matter, but skill, speed and the will to fight for justice does." Soon after his birth, his parents changed his name to Sai Feng [Sigh-Fung], or Slender Phoenix, to protect him from demons. However, he is most well known by the name given to him by nurses at the California hospital where he was born. FTP, name this originator of Jeet Kune Do, or The Way of the Intercepting Fist, who began his American acting career as Kato in The Green Hornet series.	Answer:	Bruce Lee [Accept Lee Jun Fan or Sai Feng before mentioned.]14.	(UCB/RL) He rallies his troops by declaring "the king's name is a tower of strength," and declared "I have set my life upon a cast, and I will stand the hazard of the die."  "Cheated of feature by dissembling nature," he tells Anne that he is fit for but one place: her bed chamber.  "Sent before [his] time into this breathing world scarce half made up," he plots the murder of Clarence and destroys Buckingham for rebeling.  Claiming that the sun of York made glorious summer out of winter of our discontent, for ten points, name this Shakespearean monarch in want of a horse.	Answer:	Richard III; or Duke of Gloucester15.	Its motto is "Whichever way you throw me, I stand," which is appropriate considering its most famous residents. Some of its major cities include Port Ramsey and Erin, though more than 40 percent of the island is uninhabited. Internationally famous for shopping, banking, and the arts, its capital of Douglas is the home of the Tynwald, the island's parliament. FTP, identify this small island nation that is neither a part of the Commonwealth nor the European Union, which is famous for a tailless breed of cat.	Answer:	The Isle of Man
16. 	Its composer's first and longest composition, this work takes approximately 5 hours to complete with no intermission. Given the nature of the music - the lengthy repetition of small elements, very gradual development and change, recurring patterns - audience members are free to enter and leave as they wish. The plotless libretto is composed in solfege [SOLE-fayzh] syllables, numbers, and short segments of poetry dedicated to the themes of AM radio, science, nuclear weapons, and General Relativity. FTP, identify this 1976 opera by Phillip Glass.	Answer:	Einstein on the Beach17.	(UCB/RL) He was sometimes called the Great God of Strength, Great Time, Three-Eyed One, or Aashutosh, meaning "he who is pleased by small offerings."  His hair is adorned with crescent moon, and he breaks the fall of the Ganges to earth as it trickles through.  He and Vishnu are sometimes visualized as a single divinity named Harihara.  The mirror image of Kali and father of Karttikeya and Ganesha, for ten points, name this Hindu deity often found in the Nataraja form as Lord of the Dance, a member of the Trimurti known as the restorer and the destroyer.	Answer:	Shiva; or Siva18. 	Discovered in the minerals spodumene [SPO-doo-meen] and lepidolite [luh-PID-oh-lite] in 1817 by Johann Arfvedson, it was not properly isolated until 1923 by Sir Humphry Davy. Its name is thought to arise from the fact that, unlike its other family members, it was discovered in a rock matter rather than plant matter. FTP, identify this chemical element, the lightest of the metals, which shares its name with a bitchin' Nirvana song.	Answer:	Lithium19.	The first great influence on his writing was his time studying Tolstoy in Russia, where he wrote his collection of poems Das Stundenbuch [doss-STOON-den-book], or The Book of the Hours. The second was his time studying with Rodin in Paris, where he married the sculptor's pupil Klara Westhoff and wrote his novel The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge [MALL-tuh-LAH-rids-BRIG-uh]. FTP, name this German poet, probably best remembered for his Sonnets to Orpheus and his poems about a castle in Croatia, The Duino Elegies. 	Answer:	Rene "Rainer" Wilhelm Josef Maria Rilke20.	(CCS) Even though he wasn't a third party candidate, he appeared three times on the national ballot, opposing Bob Dole, George H.W. Bush, and Ronald Reagan -- in that order.  That's because the first two of those races were for Vice President, as the winner in 1976 and the loser in his 1980 reelection bid with incumbent President Jimmy Carter.  Later a U.S.ambassador to Japan, FTP name this former Minnesota Senator, the 1984 Democratic nominee for President.	Answer:	Walter Mondale21.	(UCB/RL) It ends with the protagonist's friend promising to recover the pukku and the mikku.  When his friend dreams of the house of dust and falls ill to die, the protagonist questions Siduri, then travels to the island at the end of the earth, ferried by Urshanabi.  Told to eat a plant at the bottom of the sea by Utnapishtim, he loses the herb to a snake, which gains the immortality promised.  Featuring rejection of Ishtar and wrestling with Enkidu, for ten points, name this epic found in 12 tablets in the library of Ashurbanipal, about the titular mortal king of Uruk.	Answer:	Epic of Gilgamesh 22.	Before the title event occurs, the main character's psyche struggles between an accusatory "Thou" voice and a defensive "I" voice. These voices work together in a stream of consciousness technique to tell a tale of how a political boss was able to outlive all the idealists, including his son Lorenzo, by betraying his friend Gonzalo Bernal and his country during the Mexican Revolution of 1910. FTP, identify this novel, the first to garner international critical acclaim for its author, Carlos Fuentes.	Answer:	The Death of Artemio Cruz [Accept also La Muerte de Artemio Cruz.]23.	In 1999, an 1100-mile-in-diameter one was detected by the Hubble Space Telescope in the northern polar region of Mars. Some varieties appearing on Earth include the Polar Low, Meso, and Tropical. Generally defined as the rotation of a volume of air about an area of low atmospheric pressure, they are known as Willy-Willys in Australia and Typhoons in the western Pacific. FTP, identify this general class of storm, which Pecos Bill was said to have tamed and ridden.	Answer:	Cyclone [Accept Willy-Willys or Typhoons before mentioned.]
BONI - VALDOSTA STATE	 		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Mitch, Mikey, Nick, Dickey, and Higgy with strays from Cal-Berkeley, Ray Luo, UT alums, and your genial quizmaster1.	Given a very brief synopsis that totally ignores any thematic elements, identify the Hemingway short story FTPE.A: This story's title character is "accidentally" killed by his wife while hunting water buffalo.	Answer:	The Short Happy Life of Francis MacomberB: A man and woman argue while drinking beer in a Spanish train station with the titular geologic features in the distance.	Answer:	Hills Like White ElephantsC: A writer on safari in Africa develops gangrene and realizes, as he is dying, that though he is a writer, he never actually writes anything and therefore contradicts himself.	Answer:	The Snows of Kilimanjaro2.	Let's hear one more time about those loving kids in Genesis and the crazy things that they do, Phil Collins excluded. FTPE:A: After they got off the boat, this guy saw that his father was drunk and naked, and then he "knew" or "laid" with him, whatever that means.	Answer:	HamB: This son of Jacob, along with his brother Simeon, slaughtered a whole village after one of the villagers raped their sister Dinah. The priests, like Aaron the brother of Moses, were supposed to be descendants of him. There also was a certain tax collector in the New Testament who had the same name before changing it to Matthew.	Answer:	LeviC: This son of Judah was struck dead by God for not impregnating his dead brother's wife Tamar who his father Judah would later get. Dorothy Parker named her parakeet after him because it too spilt his seed on the ground.	Answer:	Onan3.	If there's one thing we love, it's breasts. Given the title and artist, identify the number of fully exposed female breasts depicted in the painting, 5 pts. per answer.A: Botticelli's The Birth of Venus	Answer:	2 [two]B: Delacroix's Liberty Leading the People	Answer:	1 [one]C: Velasquez's The Toilet of Venus, aka Venus with Mirror or the Rokeby Venus	Answer:	0 [zero]D: Manet's Olympia	Answer:	2 [two]E: Duchamp's Nude Descending a Staircase #2	Answer:	0 [zero] [all those images and not even so much as a suggestive curve]F: Rubens' The Three Graces	Answer:	3 [three]  [To be specific, one for the grace on the left, zero in the middle, two on the right]4.	FTPE, identify the following about the discoveries of a 19th century Italian chemist.A: This is defined as the number of carbon atoms in exactly 12 grams of the carbon-12 isotope.	Answer:	moleB: The number of atoms in one mole of a substance equals this eponymous number	Answer:	Avogadro's NumberC: Avogadro's Law states that one mole of gas will occupy 22.4 L of space at this constant.	Answer:	Standard Temperature and Pressure or STP5.	Given the Northern name of these Civil War Battles, provide the Southern name FTPE.A: First Bull Run	Answer:	First ManassasB: Stones River	Answer:	MurfreesboroC: OK, this one is tricky.  Some reputable sources say Pittsburg Landing was the Union name, some say it was the Confederate name.  Well, whichever army called it that, tell us what the other army called it and we usually call it today.	Answer:	Shiloh
6.	FTPE, given a set of lesser-known moons, identify the planet around which they orbit. If you need a major moon you will only receive five points.A: [10] Skathi, Albiorix, and Kiviuq     [5] Titan	Answer:	SaturnB: [10] Lerissa, Despina, and Proteus    [5] Triton	Answer:	NeptuneC: [10] Themistis, Nneme, and Aetne    [5] Ganymede	Answer:	Jupiter7.	Identify the following characters with something in common FTPE.A: This "grasping old sinner," who was first visited by the ghost of Jacob Marley, has become a symbol of greed in modern parlance partially because of the way he treated Bob Cratchit. 	Answer:	Ebenezer Scrooge [accept either first or last name]B: The name of this "'umble" court clerk in the employment of Mr. Wickfield has come to denote a maliciously ambitious person or blackmailer, not to mention an out-of-control 70's heavy metal band with an occasional good song.	Answer:	Uriah Heep [accept either]C: His name has come to mean any dumbass who would willingly give up his life for a woman like Lucy Manette so that whore could be with Charles Darnay.	Answer:	Sidney Carton [accept either]8.	Unfortunately, this writer was born without soul. Thankfully, Motown has enough soul for us all. Identify the following Motown groups from members FTPE.A: Mary Wilson, Jean Terrell, and Dianna Ross	Answer:	The SupremesB: Otis Williams, Eddie Kendricks, Paul Williams, and Elbridge Bryant (later replaced by David Ruffin.)	Answer:	The TemptationsC: Renaldo Benson, Abdul Fakir, Lawrence Payton, and Levi Stubbs	Answer:	The Four Tops9.	Identify the following people who have something in common FTPE. A: He restricted the mobility of the serfs in Russia; he also created the Zemsky Sobor and was the first Russian Ruler to take the title of Tzar.	Answer:	Ivan IV [The Terrible or Ivan Grozny]B: Nicknamed Kilita or moneybags, as the Mongols' leading tax collector he made himself and Moscow very wealthy. 	Answer:	Ivan I [Moneybags]C: He was described as an apathetic ruler who didn't act when Olgierd [OLE-geerd] of Lithuania captured his father-in-law.	Answer:	Ivan II [The Fair]10.	Given the two plates and the type of collision that happened along their boundaries, identify the mountain range that was created FTPE.A: The subduction of the Juan de Fuca plate under the North American plate.	Answer:	the CascadesB: The subduction of the Nazca plate under the South American plate.	Answer:	the AndesC: The syncline of the African plate with the Eurasian plate.	Answer:	the Atlases 
11.	FTPE answer these questions about West Point.A: He signed the law establishing the United States Military Academy in 1802.	Answer:	Thomas JeffersonB: Born in present-day Belarus, he was put in charge by George Washington of building military works at the stronghold of West Point during the Revolutionary War.	Answer:	Tadeusz [Thaddeus] KosciuszkoC: Ironically, this naval officer and author of The Influence of Sea Power Upon History was a West Point native and son of a Military Academy faculty member. 	Answer:	Alfred Thayer Mahan12.	Warning: spoiler clues ahead. FTPE identify these Defence Against the Dark Arts professors from the Harry Potter series.  If you want to avoid spoiler details, ask the reader just to give you the book title in italics as your only clue.A: This Defense Against the Dark Arts Professor from The Sorcerer's Stone was a stuttering idiot that wore a purple turban to hide Lord Voldemort's face that was growing on the back of his head.	Answer:	Quirinus Quirrell [accept either]B: A five-time winner of Wizard Weekly's Best Smile, this Defense Against the Dark Arts Professor from The Chamber of Secrets was actually a fraud who used memory jinxes to brainwash heroes and take credit for their exploits.	Answer:	Gilderoy Lockhart [accept either]C: This Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher from The Goblet of Fire actually spent the entire year locked inside a box while a Death Eater imitated him with Polyjuice potion.	Answer:	Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody [accept either]13.	FTPE, given a first line of a work, give the "hot" title. You'll only receive 5 points if you need the author.A: [10] It was a pleasure to burn. It was a special to see things eaten, to see things blackened and changed.    [5]  Ray Bradbury	Answer:	Fahrenheit 451B: [10] Midway in our life's journey, I found myself alone and in a dark wood.     [5]  Dante Alighieri	Answer:	The Inferno C: [10]  The store in which the Justice of the Peace's court was sitting smelled of cheese.     [5]  William Faulkner	Answer:	Barn Burning14.	Given a list of orders from a class of vertebrates, name the class FTPE.A: Trochiloformes [tro-KEE-lo-forms] and falconiformes [fal-CON-uh-forms]	Answer:	Aves or birdsB: Chelonian [kuh-LOW-nee-uh] and squamata [skwa-MA-tuh].	Answer:	Reptilia or reptilesC: Tubilidentata [too-buh-luh-den-TAH-tah] and lagomorpha [laa-go-MORE-fah].	Answer:	Mammalia or mammals15.	Given the musician, identify the instrument he is the most famous for playing FTSNOP.A: For 5 points, Niccolo Paganini	Answer:	ViolinB: For 10 points, Yo-Yo Ma	Answer:	CelloC: For 15 points, Domenico Scarlatti	Answer:	Harpsichord16.	Given a brief description of an Islamic term name the term FTPE.A: These are the sayings of Muhammad that exist outside of the Qur'an. The word literally means "tradition."	Answer:	HadithB: This is Islamic law that is taken from the Qur'an and the Hadith and used as law for most Islamic countries in the Middle Ages. Now it still thrives in certain orthodox countries like Iran and Saudi Arabia.	Answer:	ShariaC: A body of elected men who study the Hadith and the Qur'an, they act as "judges" under nations who use Sharia as law.	Answer:	Ulama
17.	Identify the following literary stuff FTPEA: Associated with Vanderbilt University in the 1920s, this group of Southern poets and critics received its name because they all contributed to the same poetry magazine. Members included Allen Tate, Robert Penn Warren, and Laura Riding.	Answer:	The Fugitives [or Fugitive Poets]B: This Vanderbilt professor edited the magazine The Fugitive and later founded and edited the Kenyon Review. His essay collections include God Without Thunder and The World's Body.	Answer:	John Crowe RansomC: This movement in 20th-century American literary criticism shared its name with the title of a work by John Crowe Ransom. Some of its members included Kenneth Burke, Cleanth Brooks, and R. P. Blackmur.	Answer:	New Criticism18.	Given the year and the reason for their winning, identify the following Nobel Laureates in Physics FTPE.A: 1932, "for the creation of quantum mechanics, the application of which has, inter alia, led to the discovery of the allotropic forms of hydrogen."  Curiously, note that there was no mention of uncertainty.	Answer:	Werner Karl HeisenbergB: 1913, "for his investigations on the properties of matter at low temperatures which led, inter alia, to the production of liquid helium."	Answer:	Heike Kamerlingh OnnesC: 1949, "for his prediction of the existence of mesons on the basis of theoretical work on nuclear forces."	Answer:	Hideki Yukawa [accept either name; we found sources treating each as the primary name]19.	(UCB/RL) Answer the following questions about Chinese history for ten points each.1. This period began with the Later Liang, followed by the subsequent loss of the 16 border prefectures, and then ended with the Later Zhou.	Answer:	Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms2. What dynasty brought the Five Dynasties to an end?	Answer:	Song Dynasty3. The Song dynasty continued to have problems with foreign invasions and was forced to agree to this humiliating treaty giving many concessions to the foreigners.  	Answer:	Yuan Shan Truce  20.	Identify the following terms from Greek drama FTSPNOP.A: For five points, a group of 12-15 men who sing and dance during the plays. They often represent the collective community, but not necessarily the poet's thoughts.	Answer:	ChorusB: For ten points, a crane device used to lift actors above the acting area, usually when a player was portraying a god.	Answer:	MechaneC: For fifteen points, a building or tent in the rear of the acting area that was often painted for scenery.	Answer:	Skene [Skay-Nay]21.	FTPE answer the following about Cleveland, a city in Ohio that rocks.A: For five points, this river oozes rather than flows through the second largest city in Ohio.	Answer:	Cuyahoga RiverB: What home of the Cleveland Indians currently sits on the banks of the Cuyahoga?	Answer:	Jacobs FieldC. This former home of the Indians was imploded and collapsed into the Cuyahoga to create a habitat for sturgeon.	Answer:	Cleveland Municipal Stadium [accept "Mistake by the Lake"]22.	Answer the following questions that kind of have something in common, FTPE.A: This Supreme Court case dealt with whether or not the American Government could place Japanese citizens in work camps during World War II.	Answer:	Korematsu v. United StatesB: This student of Franz Boaz was interested in how American and Japanese people viewed prisoners of war.	Answer:	Ruth BenedictC: This book, published by Benedict in 1946, dealt with the society and culture of Japan.	Answer:	The Chrysanthemum and the Sword 