TOSSUPS - VIRGINIA TECH		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Virginia Tech A & B with duplicate insurance by Casey Retterer1.	The first issue of Look magazine was published.  William Henry Hastie became the first African American appointed to a federal judicial post. Chemist Wallace Carothers committed suicide.  Daffy Duck debuted, the Marijuana Tax Act passed, Amelia Earhart disappeared somewhere over the Nukumanu Islands, and the Hindenburg burst into flames in New Jersey.  All of these events took place in, FTP, this year: the first year of FDR's second term.	Answer:	  1937 2.	There is an ongoing philosophical debate among physicists over Max Planck's assertion that this law proves that we can define a temperature function.  It was first recognized by Maxwell in 1872, but it only received its current name from Fowler and Guggenheim in the 20th century.  That name stems partly from its fundamental nature, and partly to the fact that it was not considered necessary to state it as a separate law until 1939, after three other laws had already been numbered.  FTP, name the physical law that states that thermal equilibrium between systems is transitive.	Answer:	zeroth law of thermodynamics3.	He is head of the English department at UNLV, and has also been a professor at Emory University and the University of Lagos.  Arrested during his country's civil war in 1967, he recounted his experiences there in The Man Died.  FTP, whose plays Death and the King's Horseman and The Lion and the Jewel helped him in 1986 to become the first African to win the Nobel Prize in Literature?	Answer:	Wole Soyinka4.	While her biographers also include Stefan Zweig and Willa Cather, Robert Peel's trilogy is considered the authoritative story of her life.  Originally, a Congregationalist, she associated with Phineas Quimby in the 1860s, and a nasty fall onto ice and subsequent quick recovery led her to rethink her spiritual foundation.   Besides her many books and pamphlets, she wrote the official Church Manual for her newfound  faith and in 1908 founded its influential newspaper, the Monitor.  FTP, name this founder of the Church of Christ, Scientist.	Answer:	  Mary Baker Eddy5.	Steven Spielberg's film 1941 marked the screen debut of this Liberty City, FL native, but his breakthrough role was as an arsonist in Body Heat. Although he received critical acclaim for such films as Angel Heart and Barfly, he quit acting to become a professional boxer. However, he has returned to the big screen, playing deceitful lawyer Jordan Kalfus in 2004's Man on Fire.  FTP, name this man best known for as Marv in 2005's Sin City.	Answer:	  Mickey Rourke aka. Philip Andre Rourke Jr.6.	In the 1950's and 60's this drug was widely distributed by Grünenthal, a German company.  Originally a morning sickness aid, this compound has recently been revitalized as a cancer treatment.  It was long publicized that the teratogenic nature of the drug was related to the stereoisomer that was present, but this has been somewhat disproven. FTP name this compound that caused the death or deformity of over 15,000 children.	Answer:	  Thalidomide [or Talimol, Kevadon, Nibrol, Sedimide, Quietoplex, Contergan or Neurosedyn]7.	His concepts can be read in the essay collection Kindergarten Chats and his 1924 book Autobiography of an Idea.  Though his best works were done while chief draftsman and then partner of Dankmar Adler, he continued working after they parted ways around 1900.  Integral in designing the Chicago School, he was responsible for the Transportation building for the Chicago Columbian Exposition of 1893 as well as the Chicago Auditorium and the Guaranty Building in Buffalo.  FTP, name this architect, designer of the Wainwright Building and mentor to Frank Lloyd Wright.	Answer:	  Louis Sullivan8.	He used his perceived weakness to avoid execution by his bitter, more powerful rivals.  After the ascent of a warlord to power, this leader was expelled from the Private Apartments of the Forbidden City and for seven years set up a court-in-exile in the Japanese concession.  In 1945 he was captured by the Red Army, and after being given back to the new rulers of his home country, he spent ten years in a "re-education" camp.  FTP, who was the Emperor of Manchukuo and Qing ruler of China, commonly known as the Last Emperor? 	Answer:	Aixinjueluo Puyi [accept Henry Pu Yi]
9.	This work contains observations, travel pieces, and classic short stories.  Among the observations, "Rural Funerals" and "The Pride of the Village" focus on death.  One of the travel pieces, "Stratford on Avon," conveys what the author encountered in visits to places connected with Shakespeare.  FTP, which Washington Irving work also includes the short stories "The Specter Bridegroom," "Rip Van Winkle," and "Legend of Sleepy Hollow"?	Answer:	The Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon, Gentleman        [grudgingly accept Geoffrey Crayon's Sketchbook, as some sources list it as such]10.	The protocol which created this designation was passed on November 16, 1972, and was precipitated by the building of the Aswan High Dam in 1959.  Kyrgyzstan, Chad, Guyana, and Kuwait are among the nations with none to date. As of this writing there are 812 such locations; 160 of them being natural. Mesa Verde was the first of 20 such places in the U.S.  The Statue of Liberty, Great Wall of China and Ayers Rock are among, FTP, what UNESCO-designated places of historical importance to humanity?	Answer:	 World Heritage Sites11.	Comparable to Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" this novel tells of a titular character, who takes his family from their New England farm and supplants them in Honduras as a means to escape the corrupted American society left behind.  Trying to impress the natives with his ice-maker and ability to do a hundred pushups, the character manages to destroy part of the ecosystem, nearly kill all of his family, and gets himself killed by the story's end.  FTP name this Paul Theroux novel about Allie, Charlie, and the rest of the Fox family.	Answer:	  The Mosquito Coast12.	Officially known as 2003 VB12, it is 1800 km across.  It was discovered in 2003 and was found to be well beyond the Kuiper belt.  Though there is some debate as to its classification, many are saying it is part of the inner edge of the Oort Cloud.  For ten points, name this stellar body, named after an Inuit goddess of the sea and once thought to be the tenth planet in the solar system.	Answer:	  Sedna13.	He was a member of the minor aristocracy and descendent of Rurik, the first Russian ruler, but still lived much of his life in poverty.  Lesser-known works include the song cycles The Nursery and Sunless. He died of alcohol poisoning  at age 41, leaving numerous unfinished works including the opera Sorochintsy Fair; several of those works were finished or reworked by his former roommate, Rimsky-Korsakov.  FTP, name this composer of Khovanshchina, Boris Godunov and Pictures at an Exhibition	Answer:	Modest Mussorgsky14.	A farmer and barkeeper born in Salem Village, Massachusetts, he also served as a militiaman and army soldier from 1756 to 1779.  During an army campaign in New York, he was captured by Caughnawega Indians and would have been roasted alive had it not been for the intervention of a French officer.  He led Connecticut troops to help relieve Detroit when it came under attack by Pontiac, and also participated in campaigns against Fort Ticonderoga and Montreal.  In 1766, he was elected to the Connecticut General Assembly and helped found the Connecticut Sons of Liberty.  FTP, identify the figure of the American Revolution who was charged by General Artemas Ward with fortifying and commanding troops at Bunker Hill. 	Answer:	Israel Putnam15.	Originally a highly technical term, confined mostly to jurisprudential Latin, this legal term is literally translated as: "to be ascertained."  In the modern context, it is an order to obtain all documents from a lower court decision so that they may be reassessed.  Issued by an appellate court to a lower court in order to review its judgment for legal error, this is the method by which most cases go before the United States Supreme Court.  FTP, name this legal term, also known as a writ of review.  	Answer:	  Certiorari16.	In Howl, Allen Ginsberg calls them "one-eyed shrews".  Their counterparts in the Roman and Greek mythos are called the Parcae and the Moirae, respectively.  Every life is a string in the loom that they used to create a tapestry, one that they weave in their home beneath the Yggdrasil's roots.  Even the gods have strings in the tapestry, which shows the supreme power of fate in the Norse mythology.  FTP, give the collective term for the disirs named Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld, an equivalent triad to the Fates.	Answer:	The Norns 
17.   A controversial theory posits that this disease is caused by mycobacterium due to its similarity to tuberculosis. Drugs proven effective in lessening its severity include steroids and salicylates. Smoking and the use of oral contraceptives can increase risk for this disease which affects approximately 1 in every 300 Americans and is especially common among Ashkenazi Jews.  Named after an American gastroenterologist FTP, name this disease that affects the digestive tract. 	Answer:	  Crohn's disease18.	Aaron Fink and Mark James Klepaski left the band Lifer, which had only recently achieved commercial success.  The two joined with Ben Burnley and Jeremy Hummel due to their faith in Burnley's songwriting talents.  The Wilkes-Barre quartet would not stay intact as drummer Hummel was replaced after the band's debut album Saturate.  Still, the band's faith in Burnley has paid off: their sophomore album has gone platinum and they wrote the song Blow Me Away for the soundtrack of the video game Halo 2.  FTP, who is this band whose hit singles include "Polyamorous," "Sooner or Later," and "So Cold"?	Answer:	Breaking Benjamin 19.	It was written in 1889, three years before the author's death, and is about the acceptance of death.  Its four quatrains have rhyme scheme ABAB.  The first couplet, "Sunset and evening star / And one clear call for me!" is a metaphor for life. FTP, what Alfred, Lord Tennyson poem begins its last stanza with, "For though from out our bourne of Time and Place / The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face"?	Answer:	"Crossing the Bar" 20.	Some historians believe he was rendered insane by a near-fatal bout with encephalitis, while others think he was schizophrenic all along.  He nearly caused rebellion in Palestine when he tried to add a statue of himself inside the Temple.  He reputedly had a boat bridge lain across the Bay of Naples and claimed that he had ridden across the water like Neptune.  A temple, built by him in his honor, demanded attendees worship a gold, life-sized statue dressed identically to him each day.  Originally named Gaius Julius Caesar Germanicus, his nickname stemmed from the military boots he wore while in camp with his father's soldiers.  FTP, name this grandson of Augustus and 3rd Roman emperor.  	Answer:	  Caligula21.	One of his first achievements was the creation of the first hybrid-electric vehicle in 1899 while working for Jakob Lohner and Company.  After a stint working for Austro-Daimler, he founded his own company in 1931, where he more famously invented the first Volkswagen during the 1930s.  During World War II he also took several contracts from the Nazis, including for the Tiger I tank, and consequently was arrested and held without trial for 20 months as a war criminal.  FTP, name this Austrian engineer whose first namesake roadster, the 356, was introduced in 1948.	Answer:	Ferdinand Porsche22.	On a recent appearance on Conan O' Brien, this man revealed his affinity for Spanish language tabloid news program Primer Impacto. Following his graduation from Yale in 1989 he began reporting on various international conflicts through the 90s for Channel One and soon joined ABC news as a correspondent and anchor of World News Now; a post he left in 2000 when he left the news desk to host "The Mole".  Signing on with CNN in 2001 he has been recently been lauded for his coverage of the recent hurricanes including chiding Senator Mary Landrieu.   FTP fill in the blank and FTP name the host of BLANK 360 on CNN.	Answer:	  Anderson Cooper23.	According to Cora, he was "the only one of them that had his mother's nature, had any natural affection."  She also thinks he's the only strong male in his family to have enough sense to jump off the wagon when a log is rushing towards it.  The character's feelings regarding the whole aim of Faulkner's As I Lay Dying are made clear when he tries to burn down the barn with Addie's rotting corpse inside.  FTP, who is this character, forced into an insane asylum after the family finally buries Addie in Jefferson?	Answer:	Darl Bundren	
BONI - VIRGINIA TECH		Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Virginia Tech A & B with duplicate insurance by Casey Retterer and your genial quizmaster1. None of them killed Kenny, but FTPE identify these people, places, and things that appeared in episodes of South Park.After Scott Tenorman ate his parents, he was embarrassed further in front of this band, his favorite.  The episode guest stars Thom Yorke and the rest of the band.	Answer:	RadioheadAt this restaurant you'll find Lexus, Porsche, Mercedes and the rest of the girls.  In order to cheer up Stan, the boys take him to this clone of Hooters.	Answer:	RaisinsWhen we find out that curse words are actually cursed, Cartman argues that this food should also be a curse word.  The boys later discover that this Thai noodle dish actually is a "word of curse."	Answer:	meecrob2.	FTPE name these characters from Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire.[10] He is an ill-mannered Polish-American auto parts salesman and veteran of World War II	Answer:	Stanley and/or Kowalski[10] She is Stanley's wife and the sister of Blanche Dubois.	Answer:	Stella[10] Blanche's former husband, who, when Blanche discovers his homosexual affair and publicly confronts him abut it, shot himself in the head.	Answer:	Allan and/or Grey3.	(CR) Identify the following atomic models for ten points each.[10] It had the atom as a miniature solar system with the electrons moving like planets about the nucleus.	Answer:	 Rutherford Model[10] It quantized the orbits in order to explain the stability of the atom.	Answer:	 Bohr Model[10] It abandoned the idea of precise orbits and replaced them with a description of the orbitals where the electrons were most likely to be found.	Answer:	 Schrödinger Model4.	FTPE answer these questions about the Saturday Night Massacre.The Special Prosecutor investigating the Watergate Scandal brought about the Massacre after his insistence on reviewing Oval Office tapes prompted President Nixon's desire to fire him.	Answer:	Archibald CoxAfter initially refusing to hand over the tapes, Nixon proposed a compromise, where this long-serving conservative Democratic Senator from Mississippi would have access to the tapes.  Cox's refusal led to his eventual firing.	Answer:	 John StennisAs Solicitor General, this future Federal judge was the #3 official in the Justice Department.  He was the person to finally fire Cox after two superiors in the Attorney General's office resigned the post rather than do so.	Answer:	Robert Bork5.	For the stated number of points, identify the artist responsible for each interpretation of David.[5] His sculpture depicts David when he decides to battle Goliath.  He received the commission from the Florentine Republic.  His work was unveiled in 1504 and currently resides in the Accademia Gallery in Florence.	Answer:	Michelangelo Buonarotti[10] He created two versions of David, though the one in bronze is more popular.  It features a nude David holding a sword with his foot on Goliath's head.	Answer:	Donatello [or Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi][15] His interpretation of David features him in the midst of battle, torso twisted, brow furrowed, pulling on his sling.  He received the commission from his patron, Cardinal Scipione Borghese.	Answer:	Donato Bernini
6.	For 10 points each, name the school of philosophy which existed during the Hellenistic era.Followers of this philosophy believed that people should seek virtue only, and scorn pleasure, wealth, and social position. More popularly meaning a sarcastic person who believes that selfish and insincere motives underlie people's actions.	Answer:	CynicFollowers of this philosophy divine reason, directed the world, and that people should not complain but should learn to accept whatever nature might bring.  The aim of life focused on seeking pleasure and avoiding pain. The current context differs slightly meaning one who remains outwardly unaffected by pain or pleasure.	Answer:	StoicFollowers of this philosophy believe in seeking of intellectual pleasure but this later changed to include physical pleasure. Current context also differs slightly meaning one who enjoys the pleasure of the senses and chooses to postpone worry.	Answer:	Epicurean7.	FTPE identify these rivers in Africa that aren't the Nile. Mentioned in Rudyard Kipling's Just So Stories, this river's main tributary is the Elephant River.  It forms part of South Africa's borders with Botswana and Mozambique before emptying in the Indian Ocean.	Answer:	Limpopo RiverIt is the 4th longest river in Africa, with its source in Zambia.  This river also touches Angola, Zimbabwe and Mozambique before emptying into the Indian Ocean.  Its most prominent feature is Victoria Falls	Answer:	Zambezi RiverThis river is divided into its Black, White and Red segments.  It originally gave its name to the country now known as Burkina Faso.  It also forms a lake of the same name, the largest man-made lake in the world.	Answer:	Volta River8.	Answer the following questions about Shakespearean characters FTSNOP.   [10] Also known as Robin Goodfellow, this "shrewd and knavish sprite" is sent by Oberon to fetch the flower "love-in-idleness" and is told to apply its juice to the eyes of a youth "in Athenian garments," but erroneously administers the charm to the sleeping Lysander. 	Answer:	Puck  [10] After fleeing Antioch at the begining of the play, he sets off to Tarsus where he helps to end a famine.  FTP, name this title character, ruler of an ancient Phoenician city in Lebanon now reffered to as Sur.  	Answer:	Pericles[5/5] They are the titular Two Gentlemen of Verona.    	Answer:	Valentine and Proteus  9.	Given the final score, FTPE name the following battles in the Wars of Scottish Independence:1297: Scotland, one-nil.  50,000 English forces are massacred by 15,000 Scots, mostly by the failure of the namesake landmark.	Answer:	Battle of Stirling Bridge1298: England, one-nil.  The Scottish Army broke and ran after Irish and English footsoldiers were able to break their ranks after the Scottish noble cavalry broke and ran.	Answer:	Battle of Falkirk1314: Scotland, one-nil.  The battle allowed for the reestablishment of Scottish sovereignty, where Scots under Robert Bruce soundly defeated the English, also known as the Battle of the Pools.	Answer:	Battle of Bannockburn10.	FTPE identify these aromatic organic compounds.This compound consists of a six-member aromatic ring with nitrogen atoms in positions 1 and 3. The nucleic acids cytosine, thymine, and uracil are derived from it.	Answer:	pyrimidineThis compound consists of a five-member aromatic ring with nitrogen atoms in positions 1 and 3. In addition, a hydrogen atom moves between the two nitrogens. It is present in histidine and histamine.	Answer:	imidazoleThis compound consists of a pyrimidine ring bound to an imidazole ring. It is the base for adenine and guanine.	Answer:	purine
11.	FTPE identify these leaders who were forced from power.[10] He was deposed in the most permanent manner possible: assassination.  This President of Egypt was killed in 1981 by soldiers who shot assault rifles and threw grenades at the presidential booth during a parade in the capital.	Answer:	Anwar Sadat [10] He was forced to end a holdout in the papal nunciature in Panama City after the 1989 U.S. invasion code-named Operation: Just Cause.  He is currently serving a 40-year prison sentence.	Answer:	Manuel Noriega[10] Ousted in a 1979 coup while he was abroad, in 1976 he proclaimed his nation the Central African Empire.  The next year he had himself crowned Emperor in a ceremony that cost $22 million, roughly the nation's entire annual GNP.	Answer:	Jean-Bedel Bokassa        [accept Bokassa I or Salah Eddine Ahmed Bokassa, the name he took upon his brief conversion to Islam]12.	For the stated number of points, answer these questions about the Internet.For 5 points, this network technology is defined in the IEEE 802.3 standard. It is almost universally used in LANs today.	Answer:	EthernetFTP, this network technology developed by IBM in the early 1980s was the predecessor to modern Ethernet.	Answer:	Token RingFor 5 points per correct answer, name any three of the seven layers in a network protocol stack.	Answer:	physical, data link, network, transport, session, presentation, application13.	They just don't make 'em like that anymore.  Answer the following about the late great Kate Hepburn:[5/5/5/5] Katharine Hepburn is the only person to have won 4 acting Oscars, all for Best Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role.  For 5 points each, name those four films.	Answers:	Morning Glory, Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, The Lion in Winter, On Golden Pond[5/5] Even death couldn't keep her from another Oscar.  For 5 pts. name the woman who won Best Supporting Actress for 2004 for her portrayal of Hepburn, and for another 5 pts. name the film she won for.       Answers:	Cate Blanchett; The Aviator14.	Given a work or group of works, name the 20th century European author for 10 points each.Demian; Siddhartha; Steppenwolf	Answer:	Hermann HesseThe End of the Affair; The Third Man; The Power and the Glory	Answer:	Henry Graham GreeneIn His Own Write; A Spaniard in the Works	Answer:	John Lennon15.	Identify these terms relating to natural selection FTPE.In contrast to natural selection, this is the process of modification of a species through human actions that encourages the breeding of certain traits over others. One example of this is selective breeding.	Answer:	 artificial selection It occurs when natural selection favors a single allele leading to allele frequency shifting.  One example involved an increase in the population of dark-bodied peppered moths after air pollution in England killed the lichens in which light-bodied moths hid.  The change made the lighter moths easier for predators to spot.	Answer:	 directional selection or positive selectionUnlike directional selection, this occurs when natural selection favors multiple alleles. The two most studied examples are heterozygote advantage and frequency dependent selection.	Answer:	 balancing selection  
16.	Identify these forms of Renaissance secular music FTPE.This mainly French song originally consisted of three voices, but was predominantly enlarged to four voices by the 16th century.  Prominent composers of this form include Gilles Binchois, who composed works of the Burgundian type, and Clément Janequin, who composed works of the Parisian type.	Answer:	chansonBartolomeo Tromboncino and Marchetto Cara were notable composers of this song used in the late 15th and early 16th centuries, typically a composition of three or four voices with the highest containing the melody.	Answer:	frottolaInfluenced by both the chanson and the frottola, this song  form was characterized by four to six voices prominent from the mid 16th until the early 17th century. Phillipe de Monte and Bernardo Pisano were influential in its development.	Answer:	madrigal  17.	Answer these questions about a failed presidential assassination FTPE.This English-born painter attempted to assassinate President Jackson in 1835 as he was leaving a funeral for South Carolina Congressman Warren Davis, but both of his pistols misfired due to the humidity.	Answer:	Richard LawrenceThe prosecutor at Lawrence's murder trial, he's far more famous for writing a poem while detained on a British ship in 1814.	Answer:	Francis Scott KeyLawrence was found not guilty by reason of insanity and committed to the Government Hospital for the Insane, where he died.  The hospital is now known by this home, and is home to another failed assassin, John Hinckley, Jr.	Answer:	St. Elizabeth's Hospital18.	Name these classics of Chinese Literature FTPE.Written in 1590, the protagonist is aided by the monkey-king, the pig monster, the half-water demon and his "horse" - a dragon prince - on a pilgrimage to India..	Answer:	Journey to the West or  X? Yóu Jì or  Hsi Yu ChiThis 1792 work is about a love triangle among cousins.  The young protagonist falls in love with a sickly cousin during past lives as a stone and flower respectively, but ends up marrying another cousin.	Answer:	Dream of the Red Chamber or A Dream of Red Mansions or The Story of the Stone or Chronicles of the Stone  or hóng lóu mèng or shí tóu jìBased upon the life of a historical bandit leader during the Song Dynasty, the work features 108 heroes who occupy Mount Liang.  This classic is believed to have been written around 1573. 	Answer:	Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh or Shu?h? Zhuàn19.	 [5/5/5/5/5/5] Fermions are elementary particles with spins of exactly +1/2. Of these there are six flavors of quarks and six flavors of leptons, each of which has an anti-lepton. These are split further into neutrinos and charged leptons. Name the three charged leptons F5P each, and for another 5 each, name their antiparticles.  [READER: allow 15 seconds]	Answers:	Electron, Muon, Tauon; Positron, Antimuon, Antitauon.20.	FTPE, given the name of each weapon, give the name of the mythological figure who wielded it.  Mjolnir: 	Answer:	ThorGáe Bulg: 	Answer:	Cúchulainn (accept Sétanta) Amenonuhoko: 	Answer:	accept Izanagi or Izanami   21.	FTP each, name the 20th Century political theorist by the title on one of their works:The Doctrine and the Sword	Answer:	Mohandas K. GandhiThe Souls of Black Folk	Answer:	 W.E.B. DuboisThe Wretched of the Earth	Answer:	Frantz Fanon
22.	Since the Second Vatican Council, sedevacantists have disputed the reign of the Popes, and several Catholic groups have "elected" their own "Popes." Identify these antipopes FTPE.Manual Corral, current head of the Palmarian Catholic Church, chose this regnal name when he became "Pope" in 2005. If he had been a real Pope, he would have been the second man to hold this name, the first being the first Pope.	Answer:	Peter IIThe "true Catholic Church" elected Lucian Pulvermacher as its head in 1998, and upon election Pulvermacher chose this regnal name, which according to sedevacantists, would be the same name as his "predecessor," the last Pope to serve before Vatican II was complete.	Answer:	Pius  XIIIDavid Bawden - "elected" pope in 1990 - chose a regnal name not previously held by any legitimate Pope.  He claimed that the motivation to select this name was the fact that the invocation of the archangel of the same name was removed by Vatican II.	Answer:	Michael I