TOSSUPS - TULANE B			CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTC1. There are two species of this nocturnal mammal, the only surviving member of family Orycteropodidae. As a result of convergent evolution it bears a striking resemblance to bilbies and bandicoots. This African mammal has an almost hairless body, long erect ears, and cylindrical teeth without enamel or roots that grow continuously, hence the name of its order, Tubulidentata.  With a name from the Dutch for "earth pig," FTP name this long-snouted mammal, which resembles but is not closely related to the South American anteater.	Answer:	aardvark2. The last character to appear is a "duck-shaped woman" who owns what Cash calls a "graphophone." Darl is sent away to an asylum after he sets fire to the Gillespie family's barn.  Dewey Dell is swindled by a pharmacist who claims the power to "cure" her unwanted pregnancy. According to the youngest child, Vardaman states that "my mother is a fish." All are distractions from the journey to Jefferson to fulfill the last wish of Addie Bundren, the title character of FTP, what novel by William Faulkner?	Answer:	As I Lay Dying3. Exiled twice during his rule, each time he returned, once by marrying the daughter of his enemy Megacles. He established the dramatic competitions of the Dionysiac Festival and the athletic games of the Panathenaic Festival. Angered by his land reforms, his opponents, the Alcmaeonids, collaborated with the Spartans to end the rule of his son Hippias.  FTP, name this tyrant and successor of Solon, who ruled Athens from 561 until 528 BCE. 	Answer:	Pisistratus (or: Peisistratos)4. The World Health Organization states that over two fifths of the world's population is now at risk from this disease, sometimes called bonecrusher disease or breakbone fever. Caused by one of four related virus serotypes of the genus Flavivirus, this acute febrile disease has no commercially ready vaccine. It is manifested by the onset of a very high fever, retro-orbital pain, and headache, sometimes leading to a shock syndrome and dangerous hemorrhaging. FTP, name this disease primarily transmitted by the mosquito Aedes aegypti.	Answer:	Dengue fever (accept DHF, or Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever before hemorrhaging is mentioned.)5. One of the earliest independent landscapes ever created, it depicts its subject with near perfect accuracy.  Since it is very similar to a scene in "St. Joseph and the Christ Child", it has been postulated that it was conceived in connection with the San Jose commission.  The sky is overcast and black, green and white play prominent roles in the dramatic coloring common in the artists other works.  FTP, name this painting, a landscape of El Greco's adopted home.	Answer:	View of Toledo6. This force's most revered object is the wooden left hand of Captain Jean Danjou, who was killed defending the town of Camerone against the forces of Benito Juarez in 1863. His prosthesis spent the next hundred years in a museum at Sidi Bel Abbes in the high Atlas of Algeria, where members of the unit fought the FLN until an unsuccessful mutiny against de Gaulle forced their removal to Castelnaudary in the Pyrenees. FTP, name this fighting force formed by King Louis Philippe in 1831.	Answer: 	The French Foreign Legion (or: Legion Etrangere Francaise)7. According to a recent Fark.com article, a man conducted an experiment with elementary school children listening for the first time to this band, declaring that it is impossible to have new opinions about them.  They are still enjoying commercial success even after three experimental albums, which added more electronic, jazz and funk based sounds, as seen on "The National Anthem" and "Life in a Glass House".  FTP, give the name of this Oxford, England-based quintet, made famous by their singles "Airbag" and "Karma Police".	Answer:	Radiohead
8. Lying beneath a fig-tree in the garden of a house in Milan, he heard a child's voice repeating 'take it and read. Opening the Bible, he found a passage from Romans: "spend no more thought on nature and nature's appetites." Thus ended a sinful life that included theft from a neighbor's pear orchard, flirtation with Manichaeism, and begetting an illegitimate son, Adeodatus. FTP, name this  foe of the Pelagian and Donatist heresies, the author of City of God and Confessions. 	Answer: 	Saint Augustine of Hippo9. The Yukawa potential is another name for this man's screened potential, which for a solution has an exponential decay term involving the Debye length. His gauge sets the divergence of the vector potential equal to zero. The unit named for him is about 1 100,000th of a Faraday, or about 6.24x1018 times the charge on an electron. His law states that the electrostatic force between point charges is a 1/r2 force. FTP name this Frenchman who gives his name to the SI unit of electric charge.	Ans: Charles Augustin de Coulomb10. He's crossed into self-made genres like private eye stories, historical romances, gothic westerns, perverse mysteries and Japanese novels.  Sandwiched in between the Beat movement and the Hippy generation, his style reflects the personal narrative and free form of the former, and the social consciousness and romanticism of the later.  His poetry is terse, his prose uses many metaphors.  FTP, who is this author of In Watermelon Sugar, A Confederate General from Big Sur, and Trout Fishing in America?	Answer:	Richard Brautigan11. It marks the site of Skene's glands, also known as the vestibular glands. This tissue is filled with paraurethral and periurethral glands and ducts that secrete and expel fluid. In the 1980's sexologists John Perry and Beverly Whipple coined the popular name of this erectile tissue located at the female equivalent of the prostate gland.  FTP, give the popular name of the portion of the urethral sponge located on the vagina's upper wall, named after its discoverer, Ernst Grafenberg.	Answer:	 G-spot (accept "Grafenberg spot"; prompt on "urethral sponge" before it is mentioned)12. His works include The Tempting of America and Slouching Toward Gomorrah.  A record-setting Senate confirmation hearing on his nomination lasted for 87 hours over a 12-day period.  He himself testified for over 30 hours, required to outline his legal philosophies and beliefs in greater detail than any Supreme Court nominee before him, possibly because he was the man who fired Archibald Cox as the Watergate prosecutor.  FTP, name this conservative legal scholar and former Solicitor General, a failed Reagan nominee to the Supreme Court of 1987.	Answer:	 Robert Bork13. This work was the composer's favorite of his own symphonies.  The opening was completed separately as a tone poem, "Totenfeier" (or "Funeral Rites").  Its fourth movement was inspired by a children's choir performance of a Friedrich Klopstock hymn, whose simplicity stands in stark contrast to the finale, which depicts the full terror and glory of a pagan Last Judgment.  FTP name this symphony, the second by Gustav Mahler. 	Anwer:		the Resurrection Symphony [accept Mahler's Second or equivalents before last sentence]14. Its name means "quatrain" in its original language, and it's believed to contain anywhere from 200-600 quatrains.  The most famous English translation and embellishment of this work, written c.1120 in Farsi, was done in 1859 by Edward Fitzgerald, who also did a biography of the author.  FTP, name this collection by Persian poet Omar Khayyam.	Answer:	 The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam15. This man's theorem relates the volume of a convex symmetric set to the number of lattice points it contains. The derivative of the 4-momentum with respect to the proper time is this man's force. His eponymous diagrams show past and future light cones and world lines of particles. Refering to Einstein as a "lazy dog" who "never bothered about mathematics at all," FTP, name this mathematician whose non-Euclidean 4-dimensional space allows a nice mathematical description of relativity.	Ans: Hermann Minkowski
16. The British expelled the Dutch from the port of Trincomalee and secured their control of the cinnamon trade by acquiring this island under the Peace of Amiens. The new British authorities fought three wars with the native kings of Kandy before establishing plantations to grow coffee and tea. A 2001 cease-fire brokered by Norway attempted to end nearly two decades of fighting between the Sinhalese and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.  FTP, name this island formerly called Ceylon.	Answer:	Sri Lanka (accept Ceylon before it is mentioned)17. One passage is often called "Federigo's Falcon," and another served as the basis for Chaucer's "Reeve's Tale."  It centers around the themes of fortun, amore, and ingegno.  The majority of it is told by women from Florence who, along with the three male narrators -  Filostrato, Panfilo, and Dioneo -- compose the various members of the Brigata.  FTP, name this 14th century book of short stories by Boccaccio that centers around 10 people avoiding the plague.	Answer:	the Decameron18. This monarch's trip to England for Queen Victoria's Jubilee was cut short by a rebellion back home.  The rebellion claimed to seek reform from the traditional autocratic monarchy, but proved to be a transparent ploy by American business interests.  She went to Washington to plead her nation's case, forestalling annexation for 5 years until 1898.  Her other claim to fame is as author of over a hundred songs, including "Farewell to Thee," or "Aloha Oe."  FTP, name this last reigning queen of Hawaii.	Answer:	 Liliuokalani (prompt on "Queen Lil"; accept phonetically plausible pronunciations)   19. He derived an equation for the Gibbs free energy of solvation of individual ions. A cyclic process used to relate the enthalpy of formation of a compound to its lattice energy and a bunch of other characteristic energies is named for this man and Haber. The approximation that assumes that the nuclei can be treated as stationary while the electrons move relative to them is named for this man and Oppenheimer. FTP name this man who postulated the probabilistic interpretation of the wave function in quantum mechanics.	Answer: 	Max Born20. "Thro' your pores the dews distil. Like amber bead." It was suitable food for a rustic laborer, not for a weak and cultured Frenchman, according to Robert Burns, who wrote an address to this, the "great chieftain o' the pudding race."  On January 25th, the poet's birthday, it is served along with Cock-a-leekie, Tipsy Laird and Dunlop cheese. The ingredients (suet, oatmeal, stock, three different types of pepper and lamb's liver) are stuffed into a sheep's pluck. FTP, name this Scottish delicacy.	Answer: 	haggis21.  A Scot by birth, he was raised in Durham, though he eventually went back to attend Fettes College.  Afterwards he went on to Oxford Law,and at age 30 won his first election to the seat of Sedgefield.  He later galvanized his party, sparking debate over Clause 4 of their constitution, and coined the term "New Labour".  FTP, who became the youngest Prime Minister since Lord Liverpool in 1997?	Answer:	Tony Blair22. The texts of this sect were discovered near Oxyrhyncus, Egypt, in 1945, but were not fully translated until the 1970's. Among its scriptures were 13 codices containing over 50 texts, including the Gospel of Philip, the Gospel of Thomas, and the Gospel of Truth. FTP, name this rival sect of orthodox Christianity represented by the discovery of the Nag Hammadi Library.	Answer:	Gnosticism (accept the Gnostic Tradition and equivalents)23. Still Life with Silver Pitcher, Still Life with Crystal Bowl, Still Life with Goldfish Bowl and Painting of a Golf Ball, Go for Baroque, In the Car, Taaka Taaka, Blam, Whaam!, and Shh! FTP these are all paintings by what leader of the pop-art movement, known for his pointillistic technique that emulates comic strips? 	Answer:	Roy Lichtenstein
24. Its tagline is "Trust me.  I'm a doctor." Jessica Harper and Cliff De Young play 2 of the 4 recurring roles, Ralph and Betty Hapschatt being the remaining two.  Nell Campell reappears, this time as Nurse Ansalong, and Patricia Quinn's character is once again related to Richard O'Brian's.  FTP, name this much tamer 1981 sequel to The Rocky Horror Picture Show.	Answer:	Shock Treatment25. It was first appended to Russia in 1722 under Peter the Great. Shortly thereafter, it was the site of an Islamic revolt led by Sheikh Mansur. In modern times, it has suffered more local problems, being invaded on August 7, 1999 by Shamil Basayev with around 1,500 troops. This assault was met by 15,000 Russian troops. This cycle of invasion followed by revolt and expulsion sometimes with outside help has been a major cycle throughout its history. FTP name this tiny Russian Federation Islamic region, unfortunately wedged among Chechnya, Georgia, Azerbaijan, and the Caspian Sea.	Answer:	Dagestan
BONI - TULANE B			CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTC1.  Demonstrate your knowledge of black holes.  FTPE:10:  This is the name given the radii of black holes, named for the German astronomer who postulated them in 1916.	Answer:	 Schwarzschild Radius10:  In the curvature of space around a black hole, this is the place beyond which no radiation can escape its gravity.	Answer:	event horizon 10:  This US physicist and Niels Bohr were the first to explain nuclear fission in terms of quantum mechanics.  He coined the term "black hole" in a 1967 meeting at the Institute for Space Studies.	Answer:	 John Wheeler	2.  Given the weight range, name the professional boxing class, FTPE.a)  115 lbs. to 118 lbs.	Answer:	 bantamweightb)  140 lbs. to 147 lbs.	Answer:	 welterweightc)  154 lbs. to 160 lbs.	Answer:	 middleweight3. 5-10-20-30, answer these questions about a famous French text.a)  This book by Voltaire details the misadventures of the title character, who ends up "[cultivating] [his] garden".	Answer:	 Candideb)  Candide's philosophical teacher is this man, who firmly believes "all's for the best in the best of all possible worlds".	Answer:	 Dr. Panglossc)  At book's end she marries Candide, but along the way they are separated several times and she is raped and tortured.	Answer:	Cunegonded)  The philosophies of Dr. Pangloss parodied the optimistic theories of this German man, who published his findings regarding calculus in 1684, 20 years ahead of Newton.	Answer:	Gottfried Wilhelm Leibnitz (accept Leibniz)4.	Answer the following about people buried at Arlington National Cemetery FTSNOP.(10) Besides John F. Kennedy, the only other president buried there is this man, who also served as Chief Justice. 	Answer:	William Howard Taft(10) Besides Taft, the only other Supreme Court Chief Justice buried there is this man, also a Governor of California.	Answer:	Earl Warren(5,5) Name the discoverer of the North Pole and his African-American first mate, both buried at Arlington. 	Answer:	Robert Peary and Matthew Henson5.	Answer these questions about a Broadway musical you oughta know by now, FTPE.This musical, set on Long Island in the sixties, won the 2003 Tony Award for Best Choreography and Best Orchestrations.	Answer:	 Movin' OutMovin' Out was choreographed and directed by this woman, who also has her own modern dance company.	Answer:	 Twyla TharpThe orchestrations of Movin' Out were based on the songs of this Long Island native, who "didn't start the fire".	Answer:	 Billy JoelEDITOR'S NOTE: A Broadway musical you oughta know by now.  Get it?  Oh, wait, you're not old like me.
6.	Name these rival physicists, FTPE.This man worked out his version of quantum physics, based on "quantum jumping", in 1925 when he was recuperating from hay fever on the island of Heligoland.	Answer:	Werner HeisenbergThis man preferred waves and wanted to get rid of "this damned quantum jumping".  He also developed a famous rebuttal to the Copenhagen Interpretation of quantum mechanics in 1935.       Answer:	Erwin SchrodingerThis English scientist demonstrated that both Schrodinger's and Heisenberg's theories were special cases of his own theory.  He also originated the idea of antimatter.	Answer:	Paul Dirac7.	No Tyler here, just Tippecanoe. Answer the following questions about the battle, FTSNOPE.(10) The victorious general was this man, whose battle hero status hid his personal history of questionable land grabs.	Answer:	William Henry Harrison(10) Many erroneously assume this Shawnee chief lost at Tippecanoe, but in fact he had told the Shawnee that it was too soon to fight and then left the area to recruit more forces.       Answer:	Tecumseh (10) This man, Tecumseh's brother, launched and lost the battle despite both Tecumseh's admonitions and an agreement made the day before to meet with Harrison rather than fight.       Answer:	 Tenskwatawa or the Prophet8.	Name the large volcanoes, FTPE.This highest volcano in the US is this one, located in Hawai'i.	Answer:	 Mauna LoaThis volcano stands at 12,395 ft and is located in Central Honshu, Japan.	Answer:	 FujiDifferent sources list three different mountains - one in Chile, one on the Chile-Argentina border, and one in Ecuador - as the highest volcano in the world.  FTP name any one of the three rival claimants.	Answer:	 any one of Guallatiri, Nevados Ojos del Salado, or Cotopaxi9.	Given a play or plays, name the Greek playwright, FTPE.a)  The Persians, The Suppliants	Answer:	 Aeschylusb)  Lysistrata	Answer:	 Aristophanesc)  The Dyskolos	Answer:	 Menander10.	Answer these questions regarding business concepts with real applications, FTPE.a) Briefly stated, this British historian's eponymous law says work expands to fill the time allotted for its completion.  	Answer:	C. Northcote Parkinsonb) This idea states that "In a hierarchy, every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence."       Answer:	 The Peter Principle [sadly, do not accept Peters]c) This management guru's principle extrapolates the central tenet of the Peter Principle, to say that "the most ineffective workers are systematically moved to the place where they can do the least damage -- MANAGEMENT."	Answer:	 Dilbert  [be charitable and accept Scott Adams, since he wrote the book]
11.	Name the ballet position from descriptions, FTPE.Feet parallel, right foot fully in front of left, both arms held above the head and curving toward the centerline.       Answer:	Fifth positionFeet apart 12 inches horizontally, arms out and curved downward.	Answer:	 Second positionFeet parallel with  right heel outward 12 inches, one arm curved downward and in front of the body, the other arm held above head and curved toward the centerline.	Answer:	 Fourth position12.	Answer these questions about related authors, FTPE.He was born in 1872 in Kentucky, attended high school with Orville Wright, and was regarded to be the foremost Black poet of his day, with such poems as "Dreams" and "Sympathy".	Answer:	Paul Laurence DunbarBorn in 1928 as Marguerite Johnson, she followed her bestselling first book with the sequel Gather Together in My Name.	Answer:	Maya AngelouThis line, from the third stanza of Dunbar's "Sympathy", was also the title of Angelou's first novel.Answer:	"I know why the caged bird sings"13.	It figures that 69 AD would be a year when it was hard to tell which end was up.  Based on clues, give the Roman emperor who ruled at some point during the Year of the Four Emperors, FTPE.He was hailed emperor by the German legions on January 1, but he didn't enter Rome until after winning the First Battle of Bedriacum.	Answer:	 Vitellius At Bedriacum, Vitellius defeated this man who'd been aided to power by the Praetorian Guard and recognized as emperor by the Danube legions.	Answer:	 OthoVitellius was defeated at the Second Battle of Bedriacum by this man, who'd been declared emperor by the Danube legions after Otho's death.  As the year drew to a close, Dec. 20 saw him was recognized by the Senate, soon after the murder of Vitellius.	Answer:	 Vespasian14. Given titles and lyrics of songs, fill in the banks with the missing scientific terms, FTPE.  If you need a more standard definition, you'll get five.10:  Interplanet Janet: "She's been to the sun, it's a lot of fun/ it's a hot spot, it's a gas/ (blank) and (blank)/ in a big, bright, glowing mass"5:  In order, the first two elements on the periodic table.	Answer:	Hydrogen and Helium (do not accept Helium and Hydrogen)10:  The Mitosis Waltz: "Then chromosomes enter new phases/ split into two, and that is the basis/ of sexual transmission which always engrosses/ our feverish minds, but it's only (blank)"5: Cell division that produces reproductive cells in sexually reproducing organisms; the nucleus divides into four nuclei each containing half the chromosome number.	Answer:	 Meiosis10:  Reproduction:  "Now we see just how the stamen gets its lusty dust onto the stigma./ And why this frenzied chlorophyllous orgy starts in spring is no enigma./  We call this quest for satisfaction a what, class?/ A (blank) reaction!"5: The response of organisms to the availability of light in their environment, it plays a part in some organism's biological clock.	Answer:	 Photoperiodic reaction (moderator's discretion on accepting equivalents)15.	Name these orders of angels from the first hierarchy, FTPE.These are the angels of love, light and fire, and belong to the highest order.	Answer:	 SeraphimThese angels pray and intercede, and are usually depicted as cute and chubby.	Answer:	 CherubimThis order of angels is in charge of justice.	Answer:	 Thrones
16.	And who can blame Atlas?  Answer the following about Atlas Shrugged FTPE.a) A strong-willed railroad executive, she is the book's central character.       Answer:	Dagny Taggart [accept first or last name]b) The novel opens by asking who this guy is.  Turns out he's the Mystery Worker for Taggart Transcontinental who interrupts the novel with a radio speech that runs (depending on how you look at it) three hours or 90 pages.	Answer:	John Galtc)  Oh, all right.  Who wrote Atlas Shrugged?       	Answer:	Ayn Rand 17.	Name these nations involved in the 6 Day War of 1967, FFPE.This nation won, gaining, among other things, the Golan Heights as well as the much disputed West Bank in the process.	Answer:	 IsraelName each of these four aggresor nations, who President Nasser claimed were "poised on the borders of Israel".	Answer:	 Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, SyriaOn June 4 this nation, which did not border Israel, joined Nasser's military alliance against it.	Answer:	 Iraq18.	FTPE, given the function, name the cranial nerve:Controls the movement of the eye as well as pupil dilation.	Answer:	Oculomotor nerveTransmits somatosensory information from the face and head; controls muscles for chewing.	Answer:	Trigeminal nerveControls taste on the posterior 1/3 of tongue; transmits somatosensory information from tongue, tonsil, and pharynx and also controls some of the muscles used in swallowing.	Answer:	Glossopharyngeal nerve19.	Have no fear!  Name these phobias that most wouldn't understand, FTPE.Fear of sexual intercourse	Answer:	 coitophobiaFear of alcohol	Answer:	 potophobiaFear of money	Answer:	 chrometophobia20.	Name these essential and volatile oils from clues, FTPE.It's a white, crystalline substance that is used in China for embalming, as well as scenting soap.	Answer:	Camphor oilOils of this type, used in perfumes and dyes, are derived from the petals of the flower, which can come in "cabbage", "dog", "burnet", and a number of other varieties.	Answer:	Rose oilThis oil partially shares its name with Santalum album, Pterocarpus santalinus, and Santalum rubrum, the three different types of tree from which it can originate.	Answer:	Sandal oil21.	Give these answers related to a prominent vice-president, FTPE.In 1973 he became the second US vice-president to resign the position, the first being John C. Calhoun in 1832.	Answer:	 Spiro AgnewAgnew was charged with tax evasion for failure to report about $30,000 in kickbacks received in 1967 while he was this state's Governor.       Answer:	 Maryland What seldom-used plea got its widest familiarity because that's how Agnew answered those charges of tax evasion?	Answer:	 No contest (or nolo contendre, accept equivalents)
22.	Name the English monarchical House or Family given a monarch, FTPE.Edward I	Answer:	PlantagenetEdward III	Answer:	PlantagenetEdward V	Answer:	 York22.	Give the Roman theatrical genre, given clues and examples, FTPE.This type of theatre revolved around tragedy and Greek subjects, Seneca's work is the best example.	Answer:	Fabula CrepidataInvented by the Romans, this wildly popular genre involved mime.  It was extremely violent and obscene, and featured live sex acts.	Answer:	Fabula RicinataAlso invented by the Romans , and also featuring pantomime, this much more serious theatrical genre was a solo storytelling dance based on history and myth.	Answer:	Fabula Saltica