TOSSUPS - TULANE A	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Tulane A with a few from Charlie Steinhice, Eric Smith, and Jason Zuffranieri1. It employs a literary device called the blazon, a head-to-toe inventory of physical attractions.  It warns of the loss should "your quaint honor turn to dust / And into ashes all my lust."  FTP name this poem, which begins "Had we but world enough and time...", the best known work of Andrew Marvell.	Answer:	"To His Coy Mistress"2.	This steroid hormone is derived from dehydrocholesterol and goes through chemical conversions in the liver and then the kidney, from whence it goes to the large intestine, aiding in the absorption of calcium from food.  That initial conversion is mediated in the skin by exposure to sunlight, so dark-skinned people who live in cloudy places sometimes have symptoms of deficiency of this chemical.  Lack of it causes osteomalacia in adults and rickets in children.  FTP, name this chemical found in cod liver oil and often added to milk, more commonly known as vitamin D3.	Answer: Calciferol (accept vitamin D3 before it is mentioned; accept calcitrol only before "mediated in the skin")3. In 1887, Germany needed to find a way to transport their naval fleet from bases in the Baltic to the North Sea without passing through international waters.  So began the construction of what was originally called the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal.  After the First World War, it became an international waterway, although its use was restricted by Hitler during WWII.  FTP name this 61-mile waterway which extends from its namesake city on the Baltic to the mouth of the Elbe river.	Answer:	Kiel Canal4.  He surmised that if a government's tax rate was zero, then the nation's revenue would be zero.  Likewise, if the government tax rate was 100% of income, then the government would still not have any revenue since the incentive to work would be removed.  This presidential economic advisor then assumed that there must be a maximum point of revenue from taxes, and theoretically, government revenue could be increased if taxes were lowered.  FTP name this supply-side economist whose namesake curve was used by the Reagan administration to justify their so-called "voodoo economics" policies.	Answer:	 Art Laffer5.  It burned in about 650 C.E., apparently deliberately, though the site would later become a Toltec capital.  At its peak a hundred years earlier, it held about 100,000 inhabitants in eight square miles.  It traded liberally with the Maya city-states to the south, but it is more notable for its cosmo-religious significance than its economic impact.  Home to the Pyramids of the Sun and Moon, as well as the Avenue of the Dead, FTP name this Mesoamerican city-state centered near the much later and similarly named Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan.       Answer:	Teotihuacan (TAY-oh-Tee-wah-CAHN) (do not accept anything that sounds like Tenochtitlan)6.	He left on a Wednesday morning and decided to go for a ride.  At about five o'clock in the morning he happened to glance at an attractive meter maid and didn't notice the changing traffic lights.  His car was got into a crash and caught fire, attracting a crowd of onlookers despite the early hour.  He died of his head wounds later that day, and, being a prominent musician, a notice of his death was put into the paper, but all the papers were recalled as the news would upset the public.  His band needed to find a replacement for him, and so they held a look-alike contest and the winner William Campbell stood in for him until the band stopped touring.  FTP whose death is explained by this elaborate conspiracy theory that had many fans analyzing lyrics and listening to records backwards to find clues and hints about his supposed death.	Answer:	Paul McCartney7. He was born to a general and a noblewoman, and studied law until 1896.  After graduation, he made a complete career change, choosing to follow his love of music.  He loved to Paris in 1906 and there met choreographer Michel Fokine, and designers Alexander Benois and Leon Bakst.  His major success came with Petrushka, The Firebird and most notably The Rites of Spring.  FTP name this impresario who revolutionized classical dance with his Ballet Russes.	Answer:	Sergey Diaghilev
8.  Born Lucila Godoy y Alcayaga, she taught Spanish literature at Vassar, Middlebury, and Columbia and wrote the collections of poetry called Desolación, Ternuna, Tala, and Lagar.  FTP name this Female author of "Los sonetos de la muerte" who represented Chile in the United Nations until her death in 1957, twelve years after winning the 1945 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Gabriela Mistral9.   In 2000 Slate called him "the Bush family janitor" when he was called in to legitimize the Florida election results fight.  In 1997 Kofi Annan named him personal envoy to mediate the longstanding dispute over Western Sahara.  His wife Susan, more than Tipper Gore, was the organizational force behind the Parents Music Resource Council.  He switched from Chief of Staff to a Cabinet post under one President, then did the opposite under another.  FTP name this Texan, who served as Reagan's second Secretary of the Treasury and George H.W. Bush's first Secretary of State.	Answer:	James (Jim) Baker10. This compound, with formula 2-amino-6-oxypurine, is said to account for the iridescence of fish scales and the white, shiny appearance of the skin of many amphibians and reptiles.  It took its name because it was originally believed to be found in dried bird poop.  FTP, name this organic base of the purine family, which pairs up in DNA with cytosine.	Answer:	Guanine11. This group is not exclusive; members are allowed to keep their previous religious affiliations upon joining.  It operates and funds several charities and programs such as The Way to Happiness Foundation and the Canadian "Say No to Drugs, Say Yes to Life" ad campaign.  Members of its clergy are able to administer a personal counseling session known as "auditing" with the use of a special device called an electro-psychometer or E-meter.  FTP name this group which many deride as a cult, but is sworn to by Priscilla Presley and Jenna Elfman to help them better their thetas.	Answer:	 The Church of Scientology12.  Though there exist many variations, involving ingredients like pears, sweet potatoes, and lobster, you definitely need pepper, chicken stock, butter, onions, leeks, potatoes, and heavy cream to make it.  It is always served cold, usually with a chive garnish.  FTP, name this hoity-toity soup, named for a region in France.	Answer:	vichyssoise13.  Ulysses Grant said it was the one attack he always regretted ordering, which is understandable since in one hour of this battle which started on May 31, 1864 he lost seven thousand men.  The battle was not a complete loss, since it achieved its goal of trapping General Lee behind a fortified line for most of the remainder of the war.  FTP name this battle which was named not for a port city but for a local hotel which offered shelter, but no hot meals.	Answer:	the Battle of Cold Harbor14.  He died seventy-two years ago today, October 18, at the age of eighty-two.  He received little formal education, possibly in part because he developed a hearing impairment at an early age.  According to 1001uselessfacts.com, was afraid of the dark, all things that may have had an impact on his career as an inventor.  FTP name this famous prolific American inventor of, among other things, a pneumatic stencil-pen, a rotary kiln, a stock ticker, and an electric safety lantern.	Answer:	Thomas Alva Edison15. He was born in Corduba in 39 AD, the nephew of the great writer Seneca.  He was initially very well liked by the Emporer Nero, not surprising since his first public work was called Praises of Nero.  But this amicable relationship was short-lived since he was forced to commit suicide at age 27 after his connections with the Pisonian conspiracy were made known to Nero.  FTP name this Roman writer, famous for a work called Pharsalia or Bellum Civile.	Answer:	 Lucan (Marcus Annaeus Lucanus)16.  In the '60's, he was the guitarist in an interracial sextet called Bobby Taylor and the Vancouvers, but left music for an acting career beginning in 1978.  He appeared in The Wash, National Lampoon's Senior Trip, and was the voice of Root in Ferngully in addition to his most popular role.  More recently, he made news on September 12, when he was sentenced to 9 months in prison for selling bongs on the internet.  Name this actor, who perhaps got too wrapped up in the role he played in, FTP, Up in Smoke, Nice Dreams, and Still Smokin' with his buddy Cheech Marin.	Answer:	Tommy (or Thomas) Chong
17. This electromagnetic phenomenon is used to dampen unwanted oscillations in some mechanical balances.  The phenomenon also explains the induced magnetic field that slows down magnets falling in metallic tubes.  FTP, name this electromagnetic event, which gets its name from the circular motion of the electrons that comprise it.	Answer:	Eddy current18.  Most scholars regard Arrian's generally positive biography of him as the most reliable, though composed five hundred years after his death.  Plutarch also lauded him as a worthy precursor to the best Roman leaders.  But in his own time Demades reacted to news of his death with the remark: "impossible-the whole world would stink of his corpse."  FTP name this Macedonian general, founder of Kandahar and victor at Gaugamela.	Answer:	Alexander the Great19.  "There is no authority for the abuse of cheese" proclaims this author in her work of poetry, Tender Buttons.  Extremely prolific, she was published during her life 26 times, with five posthumous works and an eight-volume Yale Edition of Unpublished Works.  She was also known equally for her lifestyle, as an American expatriate in Paris, an open homosexual cohabiting with her long time lover and the hostess of a vibrant salon, frequented by many famous Cubist and Modernist artists.  FTP who was this author of Picasso and The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas?	Answer:	Gertrude Stein20.  The essentials of its grammar were fixed by Panini sometime around 400 AD.  An Indo-European tongue understood only by scholars today, major works in this less vulgar relative of Prakrit include Kalidasa's great epic drama Shakuntala, the Manusmriti (a law code), and of course the treatises on dharma by Vatsyayana.  FTP identify this language of the Gupta Empire, in which the most famous work is probably the Kama Sutra.	Answer:	Sanskrit21. Polls will open to every citizen at 95 different places in this country's 59 provinces for the first time on October 5, 2003.  In 2002, leader Sultan Qaboos bin Said extended the vote to everyone-previous to this, the government, an 83 seat advisory council, was elected by a select group of tribal leaders and intellectuals.  FTP, name this country, a Muslim state that held its first elections in 1992, with capital at Muscat.	Answer:	Oman22.	He was known for his chryselephantine statue of the goddess Hera at Argos, but he is more famous for his bronzes of young athletes, such as his famous "Doryphorus" or "Man Tying on a Fillet".  FTP name this fifth-century BC Greek sculptor of "The Spearbearer".	Answer:	 Polycleitus or Polyclitus 23.	Originally used by Mazatec shamans to attempt to reach a deeper spiritual understanding, it is currently banned only in Australia.  A bill proposing its proscription was brought to the US Congress in October of 2002, but no action was taken on it.  Unable to be detected in any current toxicology analyses, FTP, name this leafy substance considered by many to be a legal substitute for marijuana.	Answer:	Salvia divinorum24. Examples of this terrain can be found in Spitzbergen, Greenland, and western Ireland.  It is common in high-latitude regions where glacier action has stripped away most of the regolith, exposing carbonate bedrock.  FTP name this geological feature that leaves a rocky, intricately etched landscapes.	Answer:	pavement karst (prompt on karst)25.  On the 5th of Ramadan in the year 92 on the Muslim calendar, he led 12,000 troops from north Africa on what would become an 8-year campaign of conquest.  According to legend, a count named Julian from Toledo had been betrayed by King Rodrigo and came to this man asking for help in defeating Rodrigo.  Beginning in AD 711 on the Christian calendar, he did just that.  FTP, name this Berber general, from whose original Arabic name come the word Gibraltar, who defeated the Visigoths and conquered Spain.	Answer:	Tariq ibn Ziyad (accept spelling variations-there are many)
BONI - TULANE A		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTC Questions by Tulane A with a few from Charlie Steinhice, Eric Smith, and Jason Zuffranieri1. Not every nation in the world calls itself what we call it.  Many call us something else, but that's another story. Give the English equivalent for these names FTSNOP.  For example, "A European nation called Deutschland" would be Germany.(5) A European nation called Ellas	Answer:	 Greece(5) A South Asian nation called Kampuchea	Answer:	Cambodia(10) A European country called Magyarorszag (mahg yahr oar SHAHG)	Answer:	 Hungary(10) An African country called Misr (MISS er)	Answer:	  Egypt2.	Identify the historical figure from clues, 30-20-10,30: He split with the Federalist Party by supporting US involvement in the War of 1812 as a member of the Maryland House of Delegates, which led him to later join the Jacksonian Democrats.20: He was nominated by Jackson in 1835 to replace Gabriel Duvall as an Associate Justice, but that nomination was rejected.  He was nonetheless sworn in as Chief Justice less than a year later10: His most famous opinion was the majority in Dred Scott v. Sanford.	Answer:	Roger B. Taney (pronounced taw-nee)3. Identify these famous authors given the title of the only work of drama they produced for 15 points, from another work for 10, or from another, better known work for 5.(15) The Vegetable(10) All the Sad Young Men(5) The Diamond as Big as the Ritz	Answer:	   F. Scott Fitzgerald(15) The Fifth Column(10) Men without Women(5) A Moveable Feast	Answer:	  Ernest Hemingway4.	Almost all types of subatomic particles have an antiparticle with the same mass and opposite charge.  But these three gauge bosons don't.  Name them from additional clues FTPEa)  Sometimes called the light quantum, this particle with no charge and no mass is the fundamental component of light. 	Answer:	photonb)  This massless particle moving at the speed of light carries the strong nuclear force.	Answer:	gluonc)  With a greater mass than most subatomic particles, these help carry the weak nuclear force.  They differ from W particles in that they nave no charge.	Answer:	Z particle or Z boson 5. Identify these "super" bands FTPE.a. This British group, headed by Roger Dobson and Rick Davies had big '70's and early '80's hits with "Breakfast in America," "The Logical Song. " and "Give a Little Bit."	Answer:	Supertrampb. Another English group, they had three platinum albums-I Should Coco, In It for the Money, and a self-titled album.  Not too big on this side of the pond, they can currently be found touring the States with Radiohead.	Answer:	Supergrassc. This American one-hit-wonder is still around, but no one has heard of any of their songs except for "Sucked Out," from 1996's Regretfully Yours.	Answer:	Superdrag
6.	Identify the main mode of transportation depicted in the following works of art, FTPE:1.  Rene Magritte's Time Transfixed:Answer: a locomotive or train (coming out of a fireplace)  (Accept reasonable equivalents.)2.  _Figure Five in Gold_, by Charles Demuth, inspired by a poem by William Carlos Willaims:Answer: a fire engine or fire truck3.  Roy Lichtenstein's 1962 _Blam_ and 1963 _Whaam!_:Answer: fighter jet(s)  (accept equivalents, including just "airplane", "plane" or "jet")7.  Answer these questions about Napoleon's ill-fated Russian expedition FTPE.a. The invasion began in June of what year, with the Emperor heading the largest force ever assembled?	Answer:	1812b. By September of 1812, more than two-thirds of the French troops had been lost to famine and disease without a single pitched battle.  As Napoleon approached Moscow, the Tsar decided the first real battle would occur on what field, about 70 miles from the Russian capital?	Answer:	Borodino Fieldc. After 108,000 men were lost at Borodino field, the Russians torched Moscow and fled, leaving no resources behind for the invaders to use.  What two-word phrase describes a policy such as this one, in which materials and infrastructure are scuttled to keep an enemy from obtaining them?	Answer:	scorched earth policy8.  Given a set of Zeus' offspring, for 5 points give their mother, and for 10 the form in which Zeus seduced her.a. Radamanthus and Minos 5. Europa 10.  White Bullb. Perseus	  5.Danae  10. Shower of gold (accept equivalent)9.  5-10-15, name these works by the beatnik idol Jack Kerouac.a. Sal Paradise goes on a road trip.	Answer:	On The Roadb. Raymond Smith and Japhy Ryder explore Buddhist spirituality in the American West.	Answer:	 The Dharma Bumsc. This is the more realized version of the On the Road story, with the names of the characters changed.	Answer:	Visions of Cody10.	Given these mammals, name the order to which they belong F5PE or 30 for all 5 correct:a)  Dumbo the elephant	Answer:	Proboscideab)  Chumley the walrus	Answer:	Pinnipeda or pinnipedsc)  Bartok the bat	Answer:	Chiropterad)  Thumper the rabbit	Answer:	Lagomorphae)  Eeyore the donkey	Answer:	Perissodactyla11. Answer these questions about the assassination of Archduke Francis Ferdinand of Austria FTPE:a This Serbian terrorist group lined the streets of Sarajevo with assassins to kill him, most of whom had already failed.	Answer:	The Black Hand (also accept "Ujedinjenje ili Smrt")b Which member of The Black Hand shot and killed Ferdinand and his pregnant wife?	Answer:	Gavrilo Principc What was Ferdinand's last word, also the first name of his wife?	Answer:	Sofia
12. Name these characters from Beowulf who are neither Beowulf nor Grendel FTPE.a. This king of the Danes becomes a father figure and role model for Beowulf.	Answer:	Hrothgarb. This kinsman of Beowulf is the only thane brave enough to face the dragon with his master and thus becomes Beowulf's successor.	Answer:	Wiglafc. Unferth and Beowulf both tell the story of a young Beowulf defeating this character in a swimming contest.	Answer:	Breca13.  Name these terms from astronomy FTPE:a)  The angular measure of a star's position, measured in degrees north and south of the celestial equator	Answer:	declinationb)  Point in an object's orbit when it is closest to the sun	Answer:	perihelionc)  The slight nodding or wobbling of the earth's axis in space	Answer:	nutation14. Give the notes which form the given triad FTPE.  For example, if I say D major triad, your response would be, D, F sharp, A.a. E minor	Answer:	  E, G, Bb. F minor	Answer:	  F, A flat, Cc. G major	Answer:	  G, B, D15. Answer the following questions about the insider trading scandal involving Martha Stewart going to trial in December. FTPE.The scandal involved the sale of what company's stock?	Answer:	   ImClone Inc.Who was the founder of ImClone who was ordered to pay an eight-hundred-thousand-dollar fine and was barred from acting as an officer of a publicly traded company for his role in the affair?	Answer:	  Sam WaksalWhat was the name of ImClone's drug whose failure to receive FDA approval precipitated the insider trading? 	Answer:	  Erbitux16. Identify the country in which the following revolutionary groups primarily operated or still operate.  FTPE if you only need the acronym, FFPE if you need the group's name in English.a. (10) FSLN(5)  Sandinista National Liberation Front	Answer:	 Nicaraguab. (10) EZLN(5)  Zapatista National Liberation Army	Answer:	   Mexicoc. (10)  FMLN(5)  Marti National Liberation Front	Answer:	  Cuba17.	Identify the author, 30-20-10:30.  Many of his works, including In Evil Hour and Innocent Eréndira, were translated by the great Gregory Rabassa.20.  Another work involves the killing of Santiago Nassar, which surprises almost nobody in the town.  A non-fiction work describes a particular kind of crime committed against several prominent citizens of this author's native country.10.  The works just mentioned, Chronicle of a Death Foretold and News of a Kidnapping, are probably less famous than this Colombian's Love in the Time of Cholera.Answer: 	Gabriel García Marquez.  (prompt on just "Marquez", or "Garcia" for that matter 
18.	) Identify the movie from quotes, 30-20-10.(30)  "I tried to kill myself with a Lady Bic"(20) "I tell you if I were selling toilets today, I would be a rich man."(10) "Hey Lucas man, I heard you like went to Vegas and like married a mobster's wife and know you're--you've got a hit on you and stuff, is that true?"       	Answer:	Empire Records19. Identify these linguistics terms FTPE:a. What is the term for the insertion of a consonant to ease the pronunciation of two adjacent sounds.	Answer:	epinthesisb. What is the smallest speech unit that distinguishes one utterance from another in the competent speech of a native speaker?	Answer:	 phonemec. What is the term for the changes in pronunciation or spelling used to make new words similar to old words, sometimes to make a clearer meaning, such as referring to Alzheimer's disease as Old Timer's disease?	Answer:	folk etymology20. Given a salt, tell whether a solution of it in water will be acidic, basic, or neutral.  5 points each, 30 for all 5 correct.	Answer:	acidicb. sodium carbonate	Answer:	basicc. barium nitrate	Answer:	neutrald. potassium nitrate	Answer:	neutrale. rubidium fluoride	Answer:	basic21.  FTPE name these parts of traditional Scottish dress:a.  Since kilts have no pockets, this purse worn in front of the kilt evolved out of necessity.	Answer:	Sporranb. At all times, this small dagger is to be worn on the right hand stocking.	Answer:	 Sgian dubh or Black knifec.   These leather shoes are traditionally worn with a kilt.	Answer:	 Ghillie brogues22. Identify the size of particle according to the Wentworth scale, FTPE.a. The largest class of rock particle on the Wentworth scale, with a phi of less than 8 and a diameter of at least 2.56 centimeters.	Answer:	 boulderb. Smaller than boulders, these rocks must be at least 64 milimeters in diameter.	Answer:	cobblec. The tiniest group on the Wentworth Scale, these particles have a phi of 8 or more, and a diameter of less than 4 microns in diameter.	Answer:	clay23. Even non-English majors have to read literary criticism. Maybe. Name these critics FTPE.a. This Russian's works include the Problems of Dostoyevsky's Poetics, Marxism and the Philosophy of Language and Rabelais and his World.	Answer:	Mikhail Bakhtinb. Madness and Civilization, The Order of Things and The History of Sexuality are all works by this Frenchman, a founder of "Queer Theory".	Answer:	Michel Foucaultc. This man, also from France, is known for S/Z, Elements of Semiology and Mythologies.	Answer:	Roland Barthes