TOSSUPS - VANDERBILT A			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Matt Keller and Paul Gauthier with spares from Bevill State and your genial quizmaster1.	Bataan Death march survivor Joe Kieyoomia was tortured on the erroneous assumption that he knew of it.  The operation was not declassified until 1968, and it took till 1982 before its users received Presidential certificates of recognition.  Its use was conceived by Philip Johnston, one of about 30 non-natives to speak its basis fluently at the time. The difficulties of its tone, syntax, and dialects were further complicated by words that stood for the first letter of its English equivalent, so terms not covered in the source language could be cryptically spelled out. FTP identify this unbreakable Marine code used in World War II, which relied on about 400 southwestern Native Americans. 	Answer:	The Navajo code        [accept "code talkers" or equivalents; the answer is more specific but most clues would apply to both]2.	Although largely written in verse, they contained some prose and mimicked the formal court language of the time. They frequently incorporated preexisting works and on the whole are extremely rigid and stylized. Developed during the Muromachi period, they reached their prime in the fourteenth century with the works of Kwanami Kiyotsuga and his son, Seami Motokiyu. FTP identify this Japanese dramatic form that antedates Kabuki plays.	Answer:	Noh drama3.	The upper background contains what looks like the sea behind a wall. Although the main figure wears a blue robe over a red one, the faded paint makes them both look black. The perspective of the book in the lower right makes it seem that the viewer is looking up at it, and half of the face of the central figure has a gentle look, while the other half a startlingly stern look. FTP identify this icon, one of the oldest surviving images of Christ, named for the location of St Catherine's monastery where it resides, on a mountain more famously associated with Moses.	Answer:	The Christ of Sinai or Pantocrator of Sinai 4.	In a somewhat surprising role, it acts on the anterior pituitary to inhibit the secretion of prolactin.  At low levels, it can selectively dilate cerebral, cardiac, splanchnic, and renal arterioles while constricting those of skeletal muscle and skin.  These effects should not be surprising since it is a precursor to norepinephrine.  Associated with cocaine addiction and compulsive gambling, too much of it may be a cause of schizophrenia.  FTP name this neurotransmitter produced in the substantia nigra, the destruction of which causes Parkinson's Disease.	Answer:	dopamine5.	A veteran of the Korean War, he went through most of his acting career with a glass eye. He was nominated for best supporting actor for Murder Inc. and Pocketful of Miracles, and he played a crazed CIA agent in The In-Laws and the grandfather in The Princess Bride. FTP, identify this actor who won 5 Emmys and a Golden Globe for his portrayal of a detective with a beaten-up car and a wife known only as "the misses," Lt. Columbo.	Answer:	Peter Falk6.	One minor character is Kullervo, who marries his sister by accident. An attempt to take the magic mill Sampo from Pohjola and the ensuing fighting occupy the second half of the work.  The attempts of Leminkainen and Ilmarinen to get wives occupies much of the first half, and the work as a whole centers around the eternal sage Vainamoinen. FTP identify this epic compiled by Elias Lönnrot, the national epic of Finland.	Answer:	The Kalevala7.	Prominent surface features include the craters D'Arrest and Sharpless, and a rocky ridge called the Kepler Dorsum, though its most visible surface feature is a giant crater named Stickney for the wife of its discover, Asaph Hall.  Possibly a captured asteroid, this non-spherical shaped moon is closer to its respective planet than any other moon in the solar system.  Photographed during the Mariner 9 and Viking 1 missions, this is, FTP, what larger moon of Mars and companion of Deimos?	Answer:	Phobos8.	Languages spoken in this mountain range include Araucanian, Aymara, and Quechua, the one time imperial language of its inhabitants. It consists of the parallel Cordiera Negra and Cordiera Blanca ranges, and it contains the world's highest active volcano, Ojos Del Salado. It also includes Mount Aconcagua and the Altiplano, which contains Lake Titicaca. FTP identify this South American mountain range which runs through Chile and Peru.	Answer:	The Andes
9.	It was written in a contest with the poet's friend Horatio Smith, and appeared in a revised form in his collection Rosalind and Helen.  It recalls a "traveler from an antique land, Who said - 'Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert."  Written in response to a recent funerary bust acquired by the British Museum, it is primarily a comment on the futility of a tyrant's power, as the titular character proclaims "Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair."  FTP name this Percy Shelley sonnet, the title of which comes from the Greek word for its subject, Ramses II.	Answer:	Ozymandias10.	He endowed the financially troubled Olympic Games in 12 B.C. and had a large artificial harbor constructed at Caesarea Maritima. His troubled personal life led him to seek the mediation of the Emperor and to execute his eldest son Antipater, his two sons by Miriamme, and then Miriamme and her grandfather Hyrcanus II, the last ruler of the Hasmonean line. However, he is more famous for his large renovation of the second temple. FTP identify this Judean king who died in 4 B.C., and, according to the gospels, tried to have the infant Jesus killed.	Answer:	Herod the Great [or Herod I]11.	James Clerk Maxwell called this property "fugitive elasticity."  Though it generally applied to gases and liquids, it is theorized to exist in some solids such as glass.  The SI unit for the dynamic version of this quantity is Pascal-seconds, and the kinematic version is expressed in meters squared per second.  For liquids, it is independent of pressure, except at very high pressure, and tends to fall as temperature increases.  FTP name this property, a fluid's resistance to flow	Answer:	viscosity12.	His Monsieur Beaucaire is a romance set in seventeenth century France, while his other novels such as The Plutocrat and The Gentleman from Indiana are set in the Midwest. In his trilogy Growth, The Turmoil and The Midlander appear before and after a work about the love between Isabel and the widower Eugene, and her son George and Eugene's daughter.  FTP identify this author who won Pulitzer Prizes for both Alice Adams and The Magnificent Ambersons.	Answer:	Booth Tarkington.13.	His mother, with a lack of permanent advisors, gave away many of his territories while acting as his regent.  Later in life, he had to deal with the rebellion of his son Conrad, who was crowned King of Italy, and he almost had a deal with Paschal II to go on a crusade before unrest in his kingdom swelled again.  His main struggle resulted from his opposition of the Patarines electing their own archbishop in Milan.  FTP name this Holy Roman Emperor who did penance at Canossa after being excommunicated by Gregory VII over the issue of lay investiture.	Answer:	Henry IV14.	The first one, the LV-1901, was introduced in 1975 by Sony and relied on a U loader. However, the M loader and larger size of their competitor JVC's product far surpassed the hour of material they held. The last VCR designed for them was introduced in 1993, and in 2003 production finally stopped. Known for their superior quality, FTP identify this brand of videotape, which eventually was replaced by VHS.	Answer:	Beta or Betamax15.	They came to Europe in the 15th century and were originally used by mounted cavalry. Berlioz's Requiem employs 16 of them with 10 players, and older scoring provides lengthy rests for manually tuning them. Bartok was one of the first to exploit its glissando, a sound made possible by the introduction of the tuning pedal, while Nielsen's Inextinguishable Symphony made use of a set on either side of the orchestra to imitate artillery shots. Ranging in size from 20 to 32 inches, FTP identify these large orchestral drums.	Answer:	Tympani or kettle drums. 16.	The years leading up to this event saw the closing of the Second Bank of the United States, a recent tariff bill, and the paying off of the national debt provide a windfall for state and local banks that allowed for further development of canals and railroads.  Much public land was also bought and sold with a great deal of speculation, but when Andrew Jackson issued the Specie Circular, sales plummeted as banks did not have the specie to bank their notes.  Thus began, FTP, what economic depression that saw nearly half of the banks in the US fail, a happy greeting for the beginning of Martin van Buren's presidency.	Answer:	Panic of 1837
17.	It has gone through over a thousand editions since it was first written. Its first section was rewritten in verse by Coleridge, and others sections have earned the nicknames "The Bridge of Fools" and "The Mousetrap."  Hilbert found that 21 postulates were needed instead of the 10 given to prove its 465 propositions, and it is only at proposition 27 that the infamous fifth postulate is used. FTP identify this classic of geometry written by Euclid.	Answer:	The Elements18.	One person of this surname wrote a study of morbid psychology entitled Mr. Perrin and Mr. Trill, the semi-autobiographical Jeremy, and a series of romantic sagas: The Herries Chronicle.  Another founded the Strawberry Hill Press, and is notable for his Memoirs, which provided much information about the period.  He is also known for a novel in which Manfred usurps the throne of the titular locale, only to have Alfonso's ghost destroy it in The Castle of Otranto.  FTP give the shared last name of Hugh and Horace, the latter of whose father Robert was also the first British prime minister.	Answer:	Walpole19.	An estimated 2/3 of the world's population are infected with this bacterium, first cultivated in 1982 by Barry J. Marshall of the University of Western Australia.  While most infected people never suffer any symptoms related to it, they do have higher risk for mucosal associated lymphoid type lymphoma and gastric cancer.  Marshall shared the 2005 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology with Robin Warren, the pathologist who noted its presence close to signs of inflammation in stomach biopsies.  Their work disproved long-held assumptions that stress, diet, and lifestyle were the major causes of certain gastric ailments.  FTP name this curved bacterium now considered the primary cause of peptic ulcer disease.	Answer:	Helicobacter pylori20.	Members of this faith gather on the first day of each month on its calendar to celebrate the Nineteen Day Feast, and those able must fast for 19 days each year.  The Hands of the Cause of God and the continental counselors are two of its outreach groups, and it is governed by local and national spiritual assemblies and the Universal House of Justice.  Originating from the followers of the Bab, subsequent leaders included Abd ol-Baha and Shoggi Effendi Rabbani.  FTP name this religion that believes all founders of major religions have been manifestations of God, founded by Baha' Ullah.	Answer:	Baha'i21.	A state grant first put him into contact with Brahms, who gave him much technical advice, and Fritz Simrock, who published his early success Moravian Duets.  "O Silver Moon" from Rusalka is about the only noteworthy outcome of his attempt at writing opera, though he did compose successful versions of Stabat Mater and Te Deum.  Besides his symphonies, instrumental success came with his cello concerto in B minor and two sets of Slavonic Dances.  FTP name this Czech composer whose most famous works are associated with a visit to Spillville, Iowa: the "American Quartet" and Symphony No. 9: From the New World.	Answer:	Antonin Dvorák (Duh-VOR-zhak)22.	Its popularity was greatly increased by the popular tradition that its author was a Christian martyr. Reflecting on the transience of friends and of the favor of kings, the work is a dialogue between the author and a personified titular concept.  Notable for its lack of any overt Christian references, the author wrote this work while awaiting execution in prison after falling out of favor with Theodoric.  FTP, identify this classic medieval text by Boethius.	Answer:	The Consolation of Philosophy23.	At the beginning of the 20th century, there were 22 schools devoted to it and about 14,000 practitioners of it.  Hippocrates and Paracelsus expressed similar ideas, but it was the German Samuel Hahnemann who is credited with its founding in the 1700's after he became dissatisfied with medical treatments of the day.  The medical journal The Lancet has recently come out with an article denouncing, FTP, what alternative "medical" treatment of using highly diluted versions of substances that cause symptoms that mimic the disease?	Answer:	homeopathy
BONI - VANDERBILT A			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Matt Keller and Paul Gauthier with spares from Bevill State and your genial quizmaster1.	He gets banished from his village for seven years after accidentally killing a clansmen.  FTPE:Name this character who later kills a messenger from the British District Officer, then hangs himself.	Answer:	OkonkwoOkonkwo is the primary character of this classic Chinua Achebe work.	Answer:	Things Fall ApartThis novel, the sequel to Things Fall Apart, follows Obi Okonkwo as he returns to Nigeria after studying in England.	Answer:	No Longer at Ease2.	Answer the following about related things from optics FTPE.This type of scattering involves the excitation of an electron to a virtual excited state, followed by relaxation via light emission to either a higher or lower vibrational state, resulting in the Stokes or anti-Stokes varieties.	Answer:	Raman scatteringThis phenomenon occurs when an electron gets excited to a higher electronic energy level, then relaxes via the release of a photon usually in the visible spectrum.  It is especially common in molecules with delocalized electrons.	Answer:	fluorescenceIf an excited electron crosses over to a triplet state from the normal singlet state, relaxation can occur via photon emission in this process, which lasts much longer than fluorescence.  Many dinoflagellates in the ocean exhibit this.	Answer:	phosphorescence3.	Hoo-ah!  Answer the following related questions FTPE.This 1992 flick got Al Pacino an Oscar for best actor in a leading role as Lt. Col. Frank Slade, a blind, retired officer who likes to yell, drink, and talk about women.  	Answer:	Scent of a WomanThe part of Frank's assistant for the weekend, Charlie Simms, was an early role for this actor, who has more recently been seen in forgettable movies like The Bachelor and Vertical Limit.	Answer:	Chris O'DonnellThe whiny, spoiled George Willis, Charlie's supposed friend, was a very early role for this actor who has put in strong supporting performances in movies like Boogie Nights, The Talented Mr. Ripley, and Cold Mountain.	Answer:	Philip Seymour Hoffman4.	Keep an eye out for these historical figures - they'd do the same for you.  FTPE.This leader of the Taliban lost one of his eyes fighting against the Soviets	Answer:	Mullah Mohamed OmarThis president lost an eye in a White House boxing match.  Apparently his opponent didn't give him a "Square Deal."	Answer:	Theodore RooseveltThis successor of Alexander the Great, also known as Monophthalames, gave his name to a dynasty that ruled Macedonia 	Answer:	Antigonus5.	Identify the following 20th century philosophers from clues FTPE.This author, who declined the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1964, is known for works like the play No Exit, the novel Nausea, and his existentialist magnum opus Being and Nothingness.	Answer:	Jean-Paul SartreThis former Harvard professor is best known for his defense of egalitarian liberalism, A Theory of Justice.	Answer:	John RawlsHe put forth his speculative philosophy in Skepticism and Animal Faith and showed his naturalism in Realms of Being.  He's also known for that little quote about not repeating history's mistakes.	Answer:	George Santayana
6.	FTPE, identify the element or compound that is the primary product of these processes.Haber Process	Answer:	ammoniaHall-Heroult Process	Answer:	aluminumOstwald Process	Answer:	nitric acid7.	Given some projects, name the 20th century architect responsible for them FPTE.Experience Music Project, Millenium Park in Chicago	Answer:	Frank GehryDulles Airport Terminal, Gateway Arch	Answer:	Eero SaarinenGlass House, Crystal Cathedral, half of the team for the Seagram Building	Answer:	Philip Johnson8.	Answer the following related questions FTPE.There are 44 of these, though the 43rd is by far the most famous, asking "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways."	Answer:	Sonnets from the PortugueseThe man that the Sonnets... were addressed to wrote this dramatic monologue by a duke who, while negotiating a new marriage, mentions that the titular character may have been murdered at his request.	Answer:	My Last DuchessRobert Browning also wrote this poem behesting the reader to "Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be..."  It is named in honor of a 12th century Jewish figure.	Answer:	Rabbi Ben Ezra9.	It was founded by Thomas Durant and other influential stockholders of the Union Pacific. FTPE:What was this corporation that nearly bankrupted the Union Pacific through contracts and stock sale, and would later create a scandal around the 1872 election.	Answer:	Credit MobilierThis US Representative from Massachusetts was at the forefront of the scandal when his letters to Henry McComb were published in the New York Sun.	Answer:	Oakes AmesThis US Vice President was eventually absolved of any wrongdoing in the affair, though his reputation was still tarnished.	Answer:	Schuyler Colfax10.	Give the following statistical terms FTPE.The third central moment about the mean, it describes the distribution of the data on either side of the mean.	Answer:	skewnessThis theorem says that as the number of samples increases, the sample means will tend to form a normal distribution, even if the population does not follow a normal distribution.	Answer:	central limit theoremThis distribution is usually used when looking at number of occurrences in a period of time, but it can also be used to approximate the binomial distribution with large n and small chance of success.	Answer:	Poisson distribution11.	Answer the following about Protestant reformers FTPE.This leader of the Zurich Reformation is known for his 67 Artikel.  He agreed with Luther about many things, but even after the Colloquy of Marburg, they couldn't agree about the sacramental presence.	Answer:	Huldrych ZwingliThis Scottish Reformer had a bitter feud with Queen Mary, and introduced the Book of Common Order.  He is commonly considered the founder of Presbyterianism.	Answer:	John KnoxThis movement started by John and Charles Wesely was named due to their carefully ordered plan of life.	Answer:	Methodism 
12.	Identify the following about the Persian Empire FTPE.This Persian king defeated King Astyges of the Medes and King Nabonidus of Babylon to found the Persian Empire.	Answer:	Cyrus the Great or Cyrus IIThis name is given to the ruling dynasty founded by Cyrus, or perhaps the later king Darius I. 	Answer:	AchaemenidLiterally meaning "City of the Persians," this Persian capital was founded by Darius I in 518 B.C.	Answer:	Persepolis13.	They were a group of actors, producers, and playwrights promoting American theatre after World War I.  FTPE:Name this group that started in its namesake town in Massachusetts, headed by George Cram Cook.	Answer:	Provincetown PlayersThe Provincetown Players produced several of the plays she wrote in college, though she later became more famous for poetry collections like A Few Figs from Thistles and The Harp Weaver and Other Poems.	Answer:	Edna St. Vincent MillayThis Eugene O'Neill play was made possible from his early success with the Provincetown Players.  In it, the titular character falls in love with Mat Burke, who renounces her when he learns of her past, then eventually forgives her.	Answer:	Anna Christie14.	Name the planetary moon given some clues FTPE.This moon of Pluto is in synchronous orbit with it and always has the same face toward it.	Answer:	CharonThis largest moon of Uranus is named for the Queen of Fairies.	Answer:	TitaniaThe largest moon of Neptune, its retrograde orbit means it probably wasn't formed like Neptune's other moons.	Answer:	Triton15.	There have been some surprises through the first six or seven weeks of the college football season, including Vandy's improbable 4-0 start (then not-so-improbable collapse...).  Answer the following FTPE.In a show of ineptitude, Stanford lost to this instate "rival" as it transitions from Division II to Division I-AA.	Answer:	University of California-DavisIn another show of ineptitude, Pitt lost to this Division I-AA team in overtime as Frank Solich got a win in his debut with his new team.	Answer:	Ohio University Penn State has had quite the resurgence due in large part to the play of this experienced quarterback.	Answer:	Michael Robinson16.	Name these Supreme Court cases of the early 1960's FTPE.This 1962 case, later bolstered by Murray v. Curlett, found that even voluntary group prayer in public school promoted religion and was therefore unconstitutional 	Answer:	Engel v. VitaleAlso in 1962, this case presided over by Earl Warren ruled that each vote should carry equal weight by forcing the Tennessee legislature to use population to reapportion itself.	Answer:	Baker v. Carr In this 1963 decision, the court overturned Betts v. Brady and ruled that state courts were required to pay for defense counsel for indigent clients in criminal cases.	Answer:	Gideon v. Wainwright17.	It's big and bloody - answer the following about the liver FTPE.[10] This is the term for the basic cell of the liver.	Answer:	hepatocyte[10] When food is not being digested, this sphincter blocks the secretion of bile and diverts it into the gall bladder.	Answer:	Sphincter of Oddi[10] The Sphincter of Oddi guards the opening of the bile duct into this first segment of the small intestine.	Answer:	duodenum
18.	Identify the early American authors FTPE.He is best known for his political poems such as "General Gage's Confession", "American Liberty," and "A Poem on the Rising Glory of America."	Answer:	Philip FreneauThe best known work of this former slave is probably Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral.	Answer:	Phyllis WheatleyThis influential leader is known for writing The History of New England from 1630 to 1649.	Answer:	John Winthrop19.	Identify the following Canadian landmarks FTPE.Found in the St. Elias Mountains in the Yukon territory, it is the highest peak in Canada.	Answer:	Mount LoganThis lake, the fifth largest in North America, is drained by the Mackenzie River.	Answer:	Great Slave LakeThis largest of the Queen Elizabeth Islands is home to Alert, the northernmost settlement in North America.	Answer:	Ellesmere Island20.	Identify the following Renaissance composers FTPE.This English Composer is known for his Spem in Alium, a work for forty independent voices.  You may know him better, however, as the namesake of a fantasia by Vaughan Williams.	Answer:	Thomas TallisThis composer wrote English works for Elizabeth I, but is better known in modern times for his masses for four and five voices used for clandestine Catholic services	Answer:	William ByrdAccording to legend and a Pfitzner opera, this Italian composer's mass for Pope Marcellus inspired the Council of Trent to not ban the use of polyphony in services.	Answer:	Giovanni Palestrina21.	Answer the following about the history of the French Revolution FTPE.This group, which represented 98% of the people in France in 1789, broke away to form the new National Assembly.	Answer:	The Third EstateThis was an agreement by the Third Estate to not separate until France had a new constitution.  Jacques Louis David painted a famous depiction of it.	Answer:	Tennis Court OathOne of the National Assembly's actions was to reorganize France into 83 of these, which were then further divided into districts, cantons, and communes.	Answer:	départements 22.	Identify the following seminal works in anthropology FTPE.This classic Margaret Mead work concluded that adolescent stress is a social, rather than biological, phenomenon.	Answer:	Coming of Age in SamoaThis early masterpiece of Malinowski examined the life of the Trobriand Islanders, particularly focusing on their trade practices.	Answer:	Argonauts of the Western PacificThis Ruth Benedict work was commissioned by the Office of War Information in an attempt to understand Japanese culture.  She had to rely on interviewing people in war camps in California instead of going to Japan.	Answer:	The Chrysanthemum and the Sword