TOSSUPS - BLIND #2	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Carleton College with a few from Missouri-Rolla1.  In this unfinished novel, occasionally called a 20th century Pilgrim's Progress, K. seeks the grace of God to give meaning to his life, but he finds his path confused by the modern world.  His unrelenting struggle to reach the titular place was unresolved at the time of the author's death.  FTP, name this last and longest novel by Franz Kafka.	Answer:	The Castle       2.  Light floods into the room from the upper right hand corner creating a spotlight effect on the faces of the figures in the painting.  Five men are seated around a table, the figure in the center points to himself in astonishment.  A nearly hidden figure on the right stretches out a limp hand to point at the man.  The men at the table are counting out gold coins, presumably tax money.  FTP, name this baroque painting that depicts a Jesus and a disciple by Caravaggio.	Answer:	The Calling of Matthew or The Calling of Saint Matthew3.  This man spent 73 days in prison during his student days for publishing the radical newspaper Le Travail, and in 1871, after being elected to the National Assembly, would be a member of the Paris Commune.  Nicknamed "the Tiger" for his aggressiveness in debate, he clamped down on dissent during the First World War, arresting those who called for negotiations with Germany.  FTP, name this French journalist and statesman, editor of L'Homme Libre and prime minister who represented France at Versailles.	Answer:	Georges Clemenceau4.	Although one of the first fundamental constants of nature to be discovered, it remains one of the least well known.  This is partly because of it's small magnitude, it is about 6.67 times 10 to the minus 11 meters cubed per kilogram per second squared, and partly because of the difficulty in measuring it here on earth.  FTP, name the physical constant that is usually measured using a torsion balance?	Answer:	G (or Gravitational Constant)5.	The first episode aired March 3, 1997; the last aired January 21, 2002.  Between those dates we had five seasons of this series set in the town of Lawndale and featuring the misanthropic adventures of Kevin, who never took off his shoulderpads, his cheerleader girlfriend Brittany, the title character's popular and shallow sister Quinn, and her would-be artist best friend Jane.  It centered around a cynical high school student, based on a supporting character from Beavis and Butthead.  FTP identify this animated sitcom that aired on MTV.Answer:	Daria 6.	This novel's plot centers on the idealistic Carol Kennicott and her attempts to reform her narrow-minded rural town.  When she fails, she takes her young son to Washington, only to find that it is little more than all the small towns of America added together.  This satirical novel is set in a fictional place modeled on the author's home of Sauk Center, Minnesota.  FTP, name this 1920 book set in Gopher Prairie by Sinclair Lewis.Main Street 7.	 Born from a desire to expedite the construction of a transcontinental railway, opposition to this was, as its champion Stephen Douglas said, a question of "an imaginary Negro in an impossible place."  Nevertheless, its passage was directly responsible for a bloody prelude to the Civil War fought out on the Plains, in which John Brown would play a notorious part.  This was, FTP, what bill which made the question of slavery in its two eponymous territories one of popular sovereignty?	Answer:	The Kansas-Nebraska Act8.	In this book Paul attempts to secure lodging for himself when he is released from prison, and, more importantly to persuade the recipient of the letter  to welcome back the escaped slave, Onesimus, and grant him his freedom. FTP name this New Testament book, one of only four letters addressed to a specific person, and the shortest book of the Bible.Philemon
9.	Surprisingly enough, this element is a silvery, ductile metal.  Unlike most other silvery, ductile metals, it is obtained from the minerals zircon and baddeleyite (BAD-ell-ite), it is used in reactor control rods because it absorbs neutrons very well.  Discovered in Denmark in 1923 by Dirk Coster and Georg von Hevesy, it is named in honor of its city of discovery.  FTP, which metal, element number 72 on the periodic table, has symbol Hf?	Hafnium10.	Soldiers in this nation's army took control of the town of Bouake, causing the cancellation of the West African Nations Cup football tournament there and rendering three national teams trapped.  An uprising in the city of Abidjan left former military ruler General Robert Guei dead.  FTP, identify this nation with capital at Yamoussoukro, which has fallen victim to a military coup in recent weeks.   Cote D'Ivoire (accept also Ivory Coast)   11.	When the goods in question are perfect subsitutes the curve is a straight line connecting the x- and y-axis.  A consumer will always give up a unit of good y for a fixed number of units of good x.  For normal goods, the curve is generally convex reflecting that an increase in good x can only be achieved by a reduction in good y.  FTP name this microeconomic curve that illustrates all bundles of goods that are of equal utility to an individual.		Indifference curve    12.	Scientifically named Hydrochoerus Hydrochaeris, it does not live in the fire swamp, but it certainly is an R-O-U-S.  Weighing about 100 pounds, about 2 feet tall at the shoulder, and often greater than 4 feet in length, this semi-aquatic mammal is native to South America. FTP, what tailless rodent is the world's largest?       Capybara13.	Much of his work is a reaction to earlier modernist political philosophy that held the state of nature to be irredeemably bad and that humanity was bettered by its move toward organized society. Instead he saw the true state of nature as ideal and held that man was dehumanized and degraded by modern bourgeois society, a viewpoint he advanced in his two discourses to the academy of Dijon. FTP name this French philosopher, author of The Social Contract.	Jean-Jacques Rousseau14.	Marfa, Grigory, Lizaveta, Grushenka, and Father Zossima are supporting characters in this novel.  The story focuses on the actions and interactions of Fyodor Pavlovich's sons.  In the end, it is Smerdyakov, probably an illegitimate son, who carries out the patricide, in, FTP, what Fyodor Dostoevsky novel that includes a chapter called "The Grand Inquisitor?"       The Brothers Karamazov or Bratya Karamazovy15.	Engineered to pave the way for a South African federation, this conflict featured such battles as Rorke's Drift, where 139 men of the 24th Regiment fought off hordes of assegai-armed warriors, Ulundi, where King Cetshwayo's power was finally destroyed, and Isandhlwana, where a 1200-strong British column was wiped out.  FTP, what was this 1879 war pitting the British Empire against the African kingdom founded by Shaka?       (1st) Zulu War16.	The game was originally produced by Eleanor Abbott, who while recovering from polio decided to create an activity suitable for others who were also suffering from the disease.  Milton Bradley picked it up in 1949, and it became an instant success, delighting children for over five decades.  FTP identify this cavity-inducing board game featuring such sweet locales as the Gumdrop Mountains, as well as sticky situations such as the Molasses Swamp.	Candy Land       17.	The playwright took Euripides's Hippolytus as the basis for this tragedy, but he moved the focus away from the son of Athens's ruler.  The title character, daughter of Pasiphae and Minos of Crete, falls in guilty love with her stepson.  When her spurns her, she turns the tables by telling Theseus a tall tale of Hippolyte's advances.  Hippolyte is banished and dies, in, FTP, what Jean Racine play named after the Theseus's second wife?	Phaedra or Phèdre 
18.	The son of a postman, his career was made possible by a 1936 reform which enabled him to attend his country's military college and become an officer in its army.  After being wounded in the first Arab-Israeli War, he and other discontents within the military overthrew the corrupt regime of King Farouk.  Officially elected premier in 1956, FTP, what Egyptian leader nationalized the Suez Canal?       Gamal Abdel Nasser   19.	This piece is the second movement of the third of J.S. Bach's four Orchestral Suites.  After being transcribed it acquired the name by which it is now known.  In C, the solo part can be comfortably played on the lowest of a violin's four strings, thus giving the work, FTP, what name, which does not refer to any piece of lingerie?       Air on a G String20.	Light is absorbed, exciting an electron in the reaction center, which is transferred through chemical reactions to create a proton gradient.  The missing electrons are replaced with those from water, resulting in the release of oxygen.  NADPH then accepts a final electron, which gives power for biosynthetic reactions, such as carbon fixation and the creation of glucose.  FTP, this describes what process, which plants use to turn sunlight into usable energy?	Photosynthesis       21.  She began pursuing modeling jobs in New York City in the late 1950s while a high school student.  Later she enrolled at Barnard College, majoring in history.  She married in 1961 and began the careers in business and interior decorating that would make her famous.  FTP, name this lifestyle expert from Westport, Connecticut currently in the news thanks to an insider trading scandal.   Martha Stewart22.	It lies along the Caspian Sea, and the Amu Darya River flows through the northeastern section of it en route to the Aral Sea.  Largely desert, it shares borders with Iran and Afghanistan, although its longest border is with Uzbekistan to the north.  Ruled by President Saparmurat Niyazov, FTP, name this central Asian former Soviet republic with capital at Ashgabat.1. Turkmenistan23.	Beginning a career in photography with fashion shoots for Seventeen magazine, this artist later returned to study photography as an art.  After exploring more traditional forms, under Lisette Model this artist developed the style she is best known for.  Committing suicide at age 48, some began to interpret her past work as projections of her own troubled psyche.  FTP name this artist best known for her startling portraits of people on the margins of society. 		Diane Arbus
BONI -BLIND #2		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Carleton College with a few from Missouri-Rolla1.	For five points each, and a bonus five for all correct, name the state given its second largest city.   A:  GulfportAnswer:	Mississippi   B:  NorfolkAnswer:	Virginia   C:  Las CrucesAnswer:	New Mexico   D:  RockfordAnswer:	Illinois   E:  Spokane       Answer:	Washington2.	FTPE answer the following about the ever-popular Defenestration of Prague.  a)  What war did the 1618 event touch off?  		Answer:  The Thirty Years Warb) Name either of the two regents who were defenestrated.  	Answer:  	Jaroslav von Martinitz or William Slawatac)  That 1618 event is sometimes referred to as the Second Defenestration of Prague. The First Defenestration of Prague occurred in 1419, when the mayor and members of the town council were thrown out of the New Town Hall window starting a revolution named for this Bohemiam Protestant, burned at the Council of Constance.	Answer:  	Jan (or John) Hus3.  Name these Tennyson poems from lines, FTPE       A: "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."Answer:	UlyssesB:  "Sunset and evening star,/ And one clear call for me!"Answer:	Crossing the BarC:  "Into the jaws of Hell / Rode the six hundred."Answer:	Charge of the Light Brigade4.  Identify the following quantum physicists FTPE.A:  In 1925 this Austrian formulated a general quantum theory in terms of partial differential equations, the most important of which now bears his name.   Answer:	Erwin SchrödingerB:  This German developed a matrix algebra approach to quantum mechanics independently from Schrödinger.  It was uncertain whether the two were equivalent until Schrödinger proved that they were in 1926.   Answer:	Werner HeisenbergC: His formulation of quantum mechanics, developed at Princeton and later earning him a Nobel prize in 1965, is based on a least-action principle, using path integrals.   Answer:	Richard Feynman   5. Identify the following about hip-hop for ten points each.A:  Their 1979 single "Rapper's Delight," based on the break from Chic's "Good Times," is widely considered to be the first hip-hop record.   Answer:	The Sugarhill GangB:  He signed to Sugar Hill in 1980 with his band, the Furious Five.  Two years later, their album The Message established hip-hop's potential for social commentary.Answer:	Grandmaster Flash C:  They reinvented hip-hop starting with 1988's It Takes A Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back; leader Chuck D said their work served as "the black CNN."Answer:	Public Enemy
6.	FTPE given a brief description of a Civil War battle, name the battle.  a) . Confederate General Albert Johnston was mortally wounded at this April 1862 battle near the Tennessee River. Grant's Union forces were initially caught off guard by the Rebels, but.withstood the onslaught and claimed victory when the Confederates were forced to retreat in the face of Union reinforcements.  		Answer:  	Shiloh or Pittsburgh LandingThis battle marked Robert E. Lee's first incursion into the North.  The invasion was almost disastrous for Lee and the South when a copy of some of Lee's orders was found by a Union private.  The battle was the bloodiest singe day in American History with such places as Burnside's bridge and the Bloody Lane.  		Answer:  	Antietam or SharpsburgThe Union troops were poorly deployed here in September 1863 by the usually successful Gen. Rosecrans, leaving them highly vulnerable when the Confederates attacked.  On the second and final day Rosecrans created a gap in his own line; disaster was averted by Union General George Thomas who held his position and made a fighting retreat in the evening. 		Answer:  	Chickamauga7.	Given plays, name the playwright 5-10-20-30:  a) Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and A Streetcar Named Desire		Answer:  	Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williamsb) No Exit and The Flies		Answer:  	Jean-Paul Sartrec) All My Sons and The Price		Answer:  	Arthur Miller  [prompt on Miller]c) The Prisoner of Second Avenue and Brighton Beach Memoirs		Answer:  	Neil Simon8.  Identify these religious leaders in American history for ten points each.A. She was prosecuted in 1637 for her belief that Christians were free from Old Testament Law after the coming of Christ.  She gathered a number of followers, but was later excommunicated and banished from the Massachusetts Colony.       Answer:	Anne HutchinsonB. Claiming that she was the second coming of Christ, she eventually attracted thousands of followers to her Shaker sect.       Answer:	Ann LeeC.  She preached her fire-and-brimstone message over the radio in the early twentieth century, later founding the Pentecostal International Church of the Foursquare Gospel.       Answer:	Aimee Semple McPherson9.  Given bones in the human body, state where it is located, FTPE.   A:  Malleus, incus, stapes   Answer:	ear   B:  Patella   Answer:	knee   C:  Tarsal   Answer:	ankle (prompt on "foot")10.	The French horn is by far the coolest instrument, despite what all the other instrumentalists say.  Show your band dorkiness by answering these questions FTPE.       A: What key is the French horn in?       Answer:	F  [READER'S NOTE:  "F and B flat" is acceptable, but "B flat" alone is not]B:  What is the technique of bringing one's hand higher into the bell in order to produce a flat, tinny tone called?       Answer:	Stopping  C: What is the instrument played by marching bands in lieu of French horn, looking something like an oversized trumpet and notoriously difficult to tune?Answer:	Mellophone11.	In the absence of a clever lead-in, for 5 points each or 30 for all 5 correct, name the 5 elements in the halogen family.  You have 15 seconds.       Answers: fluorine (F), chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br), iodine (I), and astatine (At)
12.	Identify these U.S. Supreme Court cases FTPE:A. An 1895 case that upheld racially separate but equal facilities in railroad cars.       Answer:	Plessy v. FergusonB. A 1978 case that barred medical schools from having racial quotas but allowed race as a factor in admission, the first test of affirmative action.       Answer:	Regents of the University of California v. BakkeC. A 1996 case that struck down a Colorado amendment forbidding gays from seeking civil rights protection against discrimination.       Answer:	Romer v. Evans 13.	When is an autobiography not an autobiography?  5-10-20-30, identify the authors of the following:a) The Autobiography of Malcolm X	Answer: 	Alex Haleyb) The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas	Answer: 	Gertrude Steinc) The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman       Answer: 	Ernest J. Gainesd) The Autobiography of My Mother	Answer:	Jamaica Kincaid14.  I'm OK, you're OK.  Given the following situations between Sven and Lars, name the Freudian defense mechanism at work for ten points each.A. Sven says, "Don't be silly, I'm not mad at Lars, Lena is mad at Lars."       Answer:	ProjectionB. Sven says, "You betcha.  I'm mad at Lars.  I would like to see him put through the woodchipper.  Real nice day outside, please pass the lutefisk."       Answer:	IsolationC. Sven says, "I'm not mad at Lars, but I do really need to get back to my ice sculpture now."       Answer:	Sublimation15.  How well do you know your Sailor Moon?  Identify the following regarding the cartoon.A:   Give Sailor Moon's real name. (10 points)       Answer:	Tsukino Usagi (accept Serena or Bunny)B:  Give the superhero alias of Usagi's boyfriend. (10 points)       Answer:	Tuxedo MaskC:  Name any two of the Sailor Scouts with whom Sailor Moon commonly fights for five points each.Answer:    Sailor Mercury, Sailor Mars, Sailor Jupiter, Sailor Venus (accept Ami, Rei, Makoto, Minako)16. Name the following concepts in geology on a 5-10-15 basis.5) This is the theory that the outer shell of the earth is made up of thin, rigid plates that move relative to each other.	       Answer:	Plate Tectonics 10) Alfred Wegener proposed in 1912 that the continents had moved and were once part of one supercontinent called Pangaea. His theory is known as what?	Answer:	Continental Drift15) This school of thought, followed by naturalists James Hutton and John Playfair, held that basalt and granite were igneous rocks, solidified from molten materials.		Answer:	Volcanism or Plutonism17.  Give these terms from ballet for ten points each:A. The working leg is raised and bent; when done to the front or back the calf of the working leg should be as close to parallel to the ground as possible.      Answer:	attitudeB. It is a jump from one foot to the other with the working leg thrown out.  It comes in both petit and grande forms.      Answer:	jetéC. A movement, either smooth or with a spring, in which the heels are raised off the floor.      Answer:	relevé
18.	FTPE, identify the following related mathematical concepts.A: Equal to 1 plus the sum from 1 to infinity of 1 over n factorial, this number is the base of the natural logarithm.   e or Euler's NumberB:  This 1752 statement relates the number of vertices, edges, and faces of a planar graph.   Euler's FormulaC:  This function is valued such that phi of n equals the number of integers coprime to n, so phi of 1 equals 1, phi of 2 equals 1 and phi of 3 equals 2.   Euler's Function19. Name these plays by Aeschylus from a brief description FTPE.A.  For 5: A Titan is chained to a rock for his rebellion against the will of Zeus.  Thousands of years later, Shelley penned an updated take on the story.       Prometheus Bound or Prometheus DesmotesB.  For 10: In this, his earliest existing play, Aeschylus drew on the Battle of Salamis rather than Greek mythology.  The action is set in the court of Xerxes.       The Persians or PersaiC.  For 15: This second play of the Oresteia trilogy details the return of Orestes after the murder of Agamemnon.  Orestes and his sister Electra are referred to in the title.The Libation Bearers or Choephoroe20.	Name these Irish patriots, for ten points each.A:  This poet and schoolteacher, executed by the British following the Easter Rising, was the first president of the Irish Republic.         Padraig or Patrick PearseB:  The last I.R.A. commandant to surrender in the 1916 rebellion, he was spared execution, possibly because of his American birth.  He founded Fianna Fáil, and was later Taoiseach frequently from 1932 to 1959.        Eamon de ValeraC:  He was elected to the British Parliament on April 9, 1981, a month and eight days after beginning a hunger strike that would claim his life along with nine others'. 		Bobby Sands21.	Name these terms from art for ten points each.B. The Greeks' solution to balancing a sculpture, this term describes a sculpture of a human form where the weight rests on one leg and the upper and lower body face opposite directions.       Answer:	contrappostoC. Thick layers of paint applied to a canvas so that it stands out from the canvas, the works of Van Gogh are a good example of this technique.       Answer:	impastoD. Used to describe the blending of tones in a painting or the rounding of edges in sculpture, this term literally means "softness."       Answer:	morbidezza22.  Identify the following related to the recent elections in Germany FTPE.   A:  The incumbent chancellor, whose Social Democratic Party won the election.   Answer:	Gerhard Schroeder B:  His challenger, a member of the Christian Democratic Union and president of the state of Bavaria.   Answer:	Edmund Stoiber C:  The main representative of the Green Party in Germany is this man, currently on his fourth marriage and in the position of foreign minister.   Answer:	Joschka Fischer 