TOSSUPS - BLIND ROUND #6		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UTCQuestions by Missouri-Rolla1.	They behave as shallow waves regardless of actual depth, because their wavelength is so long; this fact was used to determine the average depth of the oceans long before deep-sea soundings existed.  Speeds of around 200 meters per second are reduced as depth decreases; hence, the wavelengths shorten and amplitudes increase massively as they approach shore.  FTP, what are these destructive ocean disturbances, the Japanese word for "harbor wave"?	Answer:	 Tsunami2.	Marco takes to walking home from school.  Marco's Dad made the mistake of telling him to "keep your eyelids up and see what you can see," so when he sees a horse and a cart, he can't bear the thought of just telling his Dad about such a mundane thing.  As he thinks over what he'll tell his father, the horse turns into a zebra, then a reindeer, and then an elephant.  However, when his father looks him in the eye when he arrives home, Marco tells his dad the truth about what he saw in, FTP, what story by Dr. Seuss?	Answer:	 And To Think That I Saw It On Mulberry Street3.	Except for one who died of appendicitis, the members of this returned to almost no notice, and only 2,000 copies of the volumes describing it were originally printed. Intended to find a water-based passage across the North American continent, this exploration was a failure in this regard, partly due to the difficulty of traveling upstream on the Missouri river. Planned well before the United States even owned the land, this exploration wound up being across US soil as far as the Continental Divide. For ten points, name this 1803-1806 exploration of the American West.	Answer:	Lewis and Clark Expedition4.	Filmmaker Ken Burns often tells the story of how he finished reading this book on Christmas Day, 1984 and decided at that moment to do his next film on the Civil War. The action of the entire story takes place over a 4-day period. Despite the author's use of real-life characters, historical accuracy was lacking in the book; nonetheless, its gripping prose still won its author the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for literature. FTP, identify this historical novel about the Battle of Gettysburg by Michael Shaara.	Answer:	The Killer Angels5.	Binomial ones are built up by merging a forest of binomial trees, while the Fibonacci variant involves a forest of trees with the root nodes forming a circular list.  This data structure is the basis for an n log n time sorting algorithm and shares its name with the portion of memory reserved for dynamically allocated variables.  For ten points, name this data structure, the typical underlying structure for a priority queue, where each element is either larger or smaller than any of its children.	Answer:	Heap  6.	After delivering God's message of doom and destruction to its intended recipients, he sat down and waited for the divine punishment he was sure would follow.  God caused a plant to grow to shield him from the sun, but the next day God caused a worm to eat the plant.  Earlier, God had had to rebuke this prophet in a different way, by causing a great storm to arise during his attempt to escape to Tarshish.  FTP, name this prophet who God sent to Nineveh to decry that city's wickedness.	Answer:	Jonah7.	CDC case criteria for this disease include mental status changes such as delirium or coma, as well as a biopsy showing accumulated fat in the liver or high levels of liver enzymes in the blood.  Despite a lack of conclusive proof, the use of salicylates during viral infections appears to be linked to the incidence of the disease.  FTP, name this disease, which generally occurs in children and as a complication of a viral illness such as chicken pox.  	Answer:	 Reyes Syndrome8.	Among his first and most famous compositions are works for "prepared pianos." This music called for pieces of metal or rubber or other material to be placed between the strings, resulting in unusual sounds. His "Imaginary Landscape No. 4," composed in 1951, was written for 24 musicians, a conductor and 12 radios. FTP, name this unorthodox composer, perhaps best known for 4' 33," consisting of 4 1/2 minutes of silence.	Answer:	John Cage
9.	In this play based on Lucian's "Misanthropos" and Plutarch's "Antony", the title character holds a banquet for his friends featuring dishes full of water, which he throws in their faces.  When he leaves the city with his servant Flavius, he speaks only to two men, the philosopher Apemantus, and Alcibiades.  When a delegation seeks his help in repulsing Alcibiades's imminent attack, he offers his fig tree that the citizens may hang themselves.  FTP, what is this play of Shakespeare, about a bitter man who has squandered his fortune.	Answer:	Timon of Athens10.	His brother-in-law was the controversial British author D.H. Laurence, although this man was of some notoriety himself.  Born into a German noble family, his memoirs became a bestseller in Germany shortly after his death. In about 18 months, he shot down almost 90 Allied planes before finally being shot down himself in April 1918. FTP, name this German WWI flying ace.	Answer:	the Red Baron (or Manfred von Richtofen)11.	Divided into two types, the Gamow-Teller and Fermi varieties which are characterized by the way nuclear angular momentum changes. The symmetries in this process are often described using the Racah algebra and it was the first reaction observed to violate parity conservation. FTP name this process which Pauli suggested consisted of the ejection of an electron and a neutrino from the nucleus.	Answer:	Beta Decay12.	Born in Kalamazoo, Mich., she grew up in Wisconsin. She wrote her first book, Dawn O'Hara, in 1911. Other popular works included Ice Palace in 1958 Saratoga Trunk in 1941, and 1930's Cimarron, , following her belief that good stories should also be good social criticism. FTP, name this author, best known for books like Giant, Show Boat and 1924's So Big, for which she won the Pulitzer Prize.	Answer:	Edna Ferber13.	Stanford researcher James Carlsmith and his colleague tested this phenomenon by having his subjects attemptto convince someone that sorting spools by size was a fun task. Classic examples include Aesop's fable ofthe sour grapes, and the example of cult members expecting a great flood, and their reaction when theflood never happened was studied by the originator of this psychological concept, Leon Festinger. FTP namethis phenomenon, which, unlike irrelevance or consonance, results from inconsistencies between attitudes and behavior.	Answer:	cognitive dissonance  (prompt on dissonance)14.	Their name means either "urbanite," "cultured person," or "reed people."  Their domination was ended by an invasion of Chichimec tribes.  Under the leadership of Mixcoatl, they sacked the city of Teotihuacan in 900, and his son introduced the cult of Quetzalcoatl.  Known for the their gigantic warrior statues and their reclining Chac-Mool figures, FTP, name this  people who ruled central Mexico from their capital at Tollan near modern Tula from the 10th to 12th centuries.	Answer:	Toltecs15.	One legend says that when Athena vanished from their bridal bed he did not see her disappear and spilled his semen, from which Erectheus, future King of Athens was born.  He also is oftened portrayed as without a father as Hera birthed him alone.  He later entrapped his mother in a magic throne until she gave him Aphrodite as his wife.  FTP, name this Greek god, often depicted as lame, crippled, and ugly who served as the chief smith of the gods.	Answer:	Hephaestus16.   After he fails to connect to his former mistress Anny, the main character later discovers that he has used his research on the Marquis de Rollebon as a method to escape.  The Self-Taught Man has read all of the library books in alphabetical order in hopes of gaining wisdom, but this is irrelevant as humans are products of a meaningless reality, according to Antoine Roquentin, who moves to Paris to escape the title condition.  For 10 points, name this novel by Jean-Paul Sartre.	Answer:	Nausea [La Nausée]17.	Lesser-known songs on this album include "Anything but Ordinary", "Nobody's Fool" and "Mobile." In its first 16 weeks on the charts, it peaked at number two. The opening track, "Losing Grip" leads into the two biggest singles, "Complicated" and "Sk8er [Skater] Boi".  FTP - name this 2002 release by Avril Lavigne.       Answer:  	Let Go
18.	his state leads the U.S. in production of flaxseed, sunflower, and barley.  Famous natives of this state include Maxwell Anderson, Angie Dickinson, and Phil Jackson.  It is 47th in population and has a rather small population density of 9.3 per square mile.  The town of Rugby contains the geographical center of North America.  FTP, name this state, which holds its annual state fair in July in Minot.	Answer:	North Dakota19.	This compound was discovered in 1275 by the chemist Raymundus Lullius and given the name "sweet vitriol".  It may be synthesized from alcohol with a catalyst of sulfuric acid in the Williamson process.  Because it is flammable and can cause pulmonary edemas, it is no longer widely used as a surgical anesthetic.  FTP, give the common name of this compound with chemical formula (CH3CH2)2O.  [READ: parentheses - C H3 - C H2 - parentheses closed -2 - O]	Answer:	Ether20. Born in Omaha in 1913, he was 2 when his parents divorced.  His mother moved to Grand Rapids, MI, where she got remarried and his stepfather changed his name from Leslie King by which we know him. In 1949, he became a Republican congressman from Michigan and served there for 25 years, before stating in the 1970's that Poland was not dominated by the Soviet Union.  FTP, name this man who became the 38th President of the US after Richard Nixon resigned in 1974.	Answer:	Gerald Ford21.	At its 1805 premiere, one audience member is reported to have said "I'd give another kreutzer if they would stop!" The third movement is a scherzo, not a minuet, an innovation the composer had also used in his previous symphony. The second movement is perhaps the second most famous funeral march in history, after that of Chopin.  This work was originally dedicated to Napoleon Bonaparte, but when Napoleon crowned himself emperor, the composer angrily rededicated it to "the memory of a great man."  FTP, what is this symphony by Ludwig van Beethoven?	Answer:	Eroica or Beethoven's 3rd Symphony22. 	He wrote a paper, "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom", in which he offered a $1,000 reward for an operating rotating electric motor which fit inside a 1/64-inch cube.  He won the 1965 Nobel Prize in physics, along with Shinichero Tomonaga and Julian Schwinger, for work on the theory of quantum electrodynamics, which included the diagrams named for him. For ten points, name this Caltech physicist, who also pinpointed the O-rings as the cause of the space-shuttle Challenger's explosion.	Answer:	Richard Feynman23.	In its most radical formulation, it states that language skills are part of the basic structure in the minds of every human being. It also claims that the process of learning to speak a particular language is the process of learning to set various parameters, such as the location of the preposition in a prepositional phrase. For ten points, name this linguistics theory, defined by Chomsky as "the system of principles, conditions, and rules that are elements or properties of all human languages."	Answer:	Universal Grammar
BONI - BLIND ROUND #6		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2002 -- UTCQuestions by Missouri-Rolla1.	Name these figures of the restoration theatre, on a 15-5 basis:(15) Born in Bardsley, England in 1670, he attended school in Ireland and studied law in London at Middle Temple. His first comedy, "The Old Bachelor", was very successful (5)  he then wrote "Love for Love", "The Morning Bride", and "The Way of the World".Answer:	William _Congreve_(15) Of his first play, "Love's Last Shift", Congreve said "it has only in it many things that were like wit, that in reality were not wit". When in 1730 he became poet laureate, he became the hero of Pope's "Dunciad". (5) He also wrote "She Would and She Would Not" and "The Careless Husband".Answer:	Colley _Cibber_2.  Go Oxidation State - beat Lab Tech! Given a compound, its chemical formula, and an element, give the oxidation state of the element in the compound FTPE.  For example, if I said, "Sodium chloride, NaCl, sodium," you would say, "1+".  A.  Peroxide (H2O2), oxygen.	Answer:	 1-B.  Potassium permanganate (KMnO4) , manganese	Answer:	 7+C.  Aluminum phosphate (AlPO4), phosphorus.	Answer:	 5+3.	Identify these pieces of U.S. legislation FTPE.a) This 1919 act was passed over Wilson's veto and made provisions to enforce the Eighteenth Amendment.  You know, the crappy one that made booze illegal.Answer: Volstead Actb) Officially known as the Labor-Management Relations Act, this 1947 act amended the 1935 Wagner Act.  It enlarged the National Labor Relations Board and empowered the government to obtain 80-day injunctions against strikes.Answer: Taft-Hartley Actc) This 1890 act was the first measure passed by Congress to prohibit trusts.  Named after a senator, it imposed a fine of $5000 on violators and was upheld in the Supreme Court Case of 1904 against the Northern Securities Company.Answer: Sherman Antitrust Act4.	FTSNOP, given a child or children of Zeus, name the mother:5:  Heracles	Answer:	 Alcmene10:  Athena	Answer:	  Metis15:  Rhadamanthus and Minos	Answer:	  Europa5.	Given Chris Berman's nickname for him, identify the baseball player FTPE. If you need.his team and position, you'll get only 5 pts. [10] "Crime Dog"[5]  Currently the Chicago Cubs first baseman	Answer:	 Fred McGriff[10] "Be home"[5 ]  Former Twins and Angels pitcher	Answer:	 Bert Blyleven[10] "Funky Cole"[5] Orioles and now Yankees pitcher        Answer:	 Mike Mussina
6.	Identify these organs in the body from a list of their parts FTPE.a) Bowman's capsule; glomerulus; loop of HenleAnswer: kidneyb) caudate lobe; falciform ligament; Cantlie lineAnswer: liverc) islets of LangerhansAnswer: pancreas7.	Given works of literature by a German-born Nobel laureate, name the author FTPE:[10] The Tin Drum, My Century	Answer:	  Gunter Grass[10] Billiards at Half-Past Nine, Group Portrait with Lady	Answer:	  Heinrich Boll[10] Narcissus and Goldmund, Magister Ludi	Answer:	  Hermann Hesse8.	Given the capital of a Caribbean nation, name the nation, FTPE.[10] Port-of-Spain	Answer:	 Trinidad and Tobago[10] Bridgetown	Answer:	 Barbados[10] Roseau	Answer:	 Dominica9.	It was fought in 490 BCE, after which Pheidippides ran a little over twenty-six miles to inform Athens of the victory.  Identify the following FTPE.a) Identify this battle that pitted the Greeks against the Persians.Answer: 	Battle of Marathonb) The Greek commander at the Battle of Marathon was this man.Answer: 	Miltiadesc) The Persians were led by this king at the Battle of Marathon.Answer: 	Darius the Great10.	FTPE, give the mathematical terms from a description.A. A number often encountered when taking the ratios of distances in simple geometric figures such as the regular pentagon, this is also known as the divine proportion.	Answer:	 Golden RatioB. The golden ratio is also the limit of the ratios of successive terms of this sequence, beginning 1, 1, 2, 3, 5.	Answer:	 Fibonacci SequenceC. This sequence of natural numbers resembles the Fibonacci sequence but starts with 2, 1. It is named for a mathematician who also has a chair named for him at Cambridge.	Answer:	 Lucas numbers11. 	Identify the following books with a certain commonality, FTPE.[10] This series by Dos Passos includes "The Big Money" and "1919"	Answer:	USA Trilogy[10] This work of Kafka tells the story of Karl Rossman, who's parents send him to live with his uncle, and learn Accountancy.  After his uncle fires him, he works as an elevator man.	Answer:	Amerika[10] Christopher Newman seeks to marry Claire de Cintre in this Henry James novel, but is prevented by Machiavellian maneuvering on the part of her family.	Answer:	The American
12.	Name the artist from works, 30-20-10.30: Christ Among the Doctors, Saint Philip the Apostle20: Portrait of Michael Wolgemut, The Four Apostles10: The Knight, Death and The Devil; Melencolia I, and other engravings.	Answer:	Albrecht Dürer13.	Given the name of would-be assassins, name the world leader who narrowly escaped death, FTPE.[10] Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme and Sara Jane Moore, separately, both in September 1975	Answer:	 Gerald Ford[10] Griselio Torresola and Oscar Collazo, in 1950	Answer:	 Harry Truman[10] Mehmet Ali Agca, in 1981	Answer:	 Pope John Paul II14.	Identify this form of matter 30-20-10:1. Theories regarding it include objects such as MACHOs and WIMPs.2. It theoretically makes up 90-95% of the mass of the universe.3. Current theories of its existence show that it has a negative density, thus the "gravity" field formed by an atom of it has a repulsive force rather then attractive.       Answer: 	Dark Matter15.	FTPE, give the musical form from a description.[10] Originally, this form consisted of Latin biblical text sung in two parts, one of them taken from Gregorian chant.  Later version included up to six parts.  Its name derives from the French for "word".	Answer:	 Motet[10] Works of this form are almost invariably instrumental and usually in three or four movements, and they are usually written for a soloist or a small ensemble.	Answer:	 Sonata[10] Works of this form, such as those of Schubert and Schumann, are German art songs with piano accompaniment.  	Answer:	 Lieder (singular: lied)16.	How well do you remember "American Idol?"  For 5 points per answer, and a bonus 5 points for all correct, identify the final 5 contestants on the show - including the eventual winner.  Moderator note:  First or last names acceptable on all answers.Answers:  _Kelly_ Clarkson, _Justin_ Guarini, _Nikki_ McKibbin, _Tamyra_ Gray, _RJ_ Helton.17.	Poetry is old-school.  Identify the following classical poets, FTPE.[10] This Greek wrote celebratory odes for the victors of athletic competitions.  His "Olympian 1" begins "Water is best".	Answer:	Pindar[10] This other Boeotian poet is known for giving agronomic advice in "Works and Days" and for recounting the origin of the gods in "Theogony".	Answer:	Hesiod[10] Finally, this Roman wrote numerous odes, including the "Carmen Secularae", and epistles like "Ars Poetica".	Answer:	Horace18.	Given an event from British history, tell which Prime Minister was in power at the time, FTPE.[10] Falkland Islands War	Answer:	 Margaret Thatcher[10] Signing of the Entente Cordiale between England and France	Answer:	 Arthur Balfour[10] The Irish Coercion Act is passed	Answer:	 William Gladstone
19.	Answer these questions about the discovery of heredity 5-10-20-30:1. What Czech monk first made the discovery in 1865, although it would be largely ignored till the end of the century?	Answer:	Gregor Mendel2. With what kind of plants did Mendel work with in his research??	Answer:	Pea plants3.  Mendel's work was confirmed by the work of this Kentucky-born scientist, who wisely chose an insect with very few genes to be able to figure out the sequences.  Name him, and name the genus of insect he worked with.	Answers:	Thomas Hunt Morgan; Drosophila [pompt on fruitfly; accept Drosophila melanogaster, even though we just asked fior genus.]20.	Answer these questions about Egyptian archaeology FTPE.[10] This object was recently found to be made of grey granite and not black basalt after all.  When it was first discovered, it was covered in ink to allow the inscriptions to be copied easily.	Answer:	 Rosetta stone[10] What is the modern name for the site where Akhenaton established his capital and centered his new monotheistic religion?	Answer:	 Tell el-Amarna (don't accept Akhetaton)[10] Among the many contributions made to archaeology by this man, knighted in 1923, was the technique of "sequence dating" layers by using pottery fragments.	Answer:	 Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie21,	Given a city in Japan, name the island on which you'd find it, FTSNOP.[5] Nagasaki	Answer:	 Kyushu[5] Sapporo	Answer:	 Hokkaido[10] Nagano	Answer:	 Honshu[10] Fukoka	Answer:	 Kyushu22.	Answer the following questions about an event in Chinese history, FTPE.[10] This 1850-1864 uprising against the authority of the Qing [CHING] Dynasty left  over 20 million dead and ravaged 17 provinces.	Answer:	Taiping Rebellion[10] On January 1, 1851 the leader of the revolt assumed this name, meaning  Heavenly King.	Answer:	Tian Wang [TEE-EN WANG][10] The Taiping effort to capture Shanghai in 1860 was stopped by a  European force, partially commanded by this man, who would go to be  killed defending Khartoum from the Mahdi.	Answer:	Charles "Chinese" Gordon