TOSSUPS - SOUTH GEORGIA A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Mike Butler with help from South Georgia A and your genial quizmaster, Charlie Steinhice1. 	They were purportedly located about 50 kilometers south of Baghdad on the east bank of the Euphrates River. Greeks exalted the location, while Babylonian records ignore it altogether.  This has led some to speculate that they existed only in the minds of creative Greek poets.  Nebuchadnezzar II is credited with building them to please a lover who had a passion for mountainous surroundings. For ten points, name this wonder of the Ancient World, revered for its exotic animals, lush vegetation, and numerous waterfalls.	Answer:	The Hanging Gardens of Babylon2.  	With his brother Charles, he anonymously published his first work in Poems by Two Brothers. In 1850, though, he became British Poet Laureate and held the position until his 1892 death, during which he completed works such as Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington and Ode Sung at the Opening of the International Exhibition.  In 1854, Queen Victorian made him the first English writer to be declared a "Baron."  FTP, name this author of "The Lotos-Eaters," ""In Memorium," and "The Charge of the Light Brigade." 	Answer:	 Alfred, Lord Tennyson3.  	Porous iron enriched with potassium hydroxide is used as the catalyst for this process, which takes place at temperatures of 450 to 600 degrees Celsius and pressures from 200 to 1,000 atmospheres.  In the final steps, the gas its produces is liquefied by rapid cooling, which leaves any unreacted components in gaseous form and allows for their return to the reaction chamber.  FTP, name this industrial process that forms ammonia from nitrogen and hydrogen, whose formulator won the 1918 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.	Answer:	Haber process4.  	Although born in Lowell, MA, he spent the vast majority of his adult life in France and England.  He caused a stir when he debuted his 1862 work  "The White Girl" in London and successfully sued a critic who called his painting "Nocturne in Black and Gold" a "coxcomb."  FTP, name this artist who focused on color arrangement, rather than accurate portrayals of the natural world, best known for his "Arrangement in Gray and Black, No. 1." 	Answer:	 James Abbott McNeill Whistler5.  	As governor of Massachusetts, this man broke a police strike by saying, "There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody, anywhere, anytime."  The Kellogg-Briand Pact, the Scopes Monkey trial, and Lindbergh's transatlantic flight took place during his presidency.  FTP, name the man who defeated John Davis in 1924, Harding's Vice President and the 30th President of the US.	Answer:	 Calvin Coolidge6. 	Although it was not known until after he died, this actor was a bisexual whose guilt concerning his male lovers led to persistant alcoholism and drug use that eventually caused his death in 1966.  He also needed reconstructive surgery on his face after a 1957 car wreck, and would have died in the accident had three-time co-star Elizabeth  Taylor not pulled two teeth from his throat and prevented him from choking to death.  Despite his personal tumult, this man not only became a matinee idol known for his good looks, but also garnered four Oscar nominations in only 17 films. FTP, name this actor who starred in Suddenly Last Summer, A Place in the Sun, and From Here to Eternity.	Answer:	 Montgomery Clift 7.  	This nation administers two overseas territories, Tokelau and the Ross Dependency in Antarctica.  Also associated with this island nation are the self-governing entities of Niue and the Cook Islands.  The Maori are the indigenous inhabitants of, FTP, what island nation in the South Pacific with capital at Wellington?	Answer:	 New Zealand8.	Initially serving under William Moultrie, he fought under Benjamin Lincoln at Savannah.  He was home on sick leave and thus missed the capture of his unit at Charleston.  In 1780 he organized his own troop, whose unorthodox tactics led rival Colonel Banastre Tarleton to coin his unique nickname.  FTP, name this brigadier-general who, due to his use of guerilla warfare tactics in South Carolina during the American Revolution, was known as "the Swamp Fox."	Answer:	 Francis Marion
9.  	He was born near Elephant and Castle in London and received no formal education, but he developed an interest in science while apprenticed to a seller as a teenager.  At the age of 20, Humphry Davy employed the young man as an assistant after seeing the notes the student made of one his public lectures.  During his own career, this man popularized the terms ion, cathode, anode, and electrode, and is now regarded by many as the greatest experimentalist in the history of science.  FTP, name this British physicist and chemist who discovered benzene and electromagnetic induction.	Answer:	Michael Faraday10.  	This author fueled his daily 15-hour writing schedule by drinking over forty cups of coffee per day.  Not surprising, some assert his death in 1850 was from caffeine poisoning.  He was driven in part by debt, which even the succes of early works such as Les Chouans did not relieve.  FTP, name this man whose 90 novels and short stories concerning life in bourgeois France constitute his Human Comedy (La Comédie humaine).	Answer:	 Honoré de Balzac 11.	It can be heard in two 1998 films -- Larry David's Sour Grapes and the Caspar Van Dien-Kim Cattrall epic Modern Vampires.  It is the most memorable piece from the opera La Gioconda by the once-successful but now otherwise forgotten Amilcare Ponchielli.  Its melody was also used in the 1966 Perrey and Kingsley song "Countdown to 6," as well as the Allan Sherman comedy classic "Hello Muddah, Hello Faddah." FTP name this piece best known by many for the ostrich- and hippo-laden interpretation in Disney's Fantasia.	Answer:	(The) Dance of the Hours12.	This principle was first put forth in 1927 by a German physicist who received the 1932 Novel Prize in physics for his work on quantum theory.  The theory is often erroneously explained by claiming that the measurement of position necessarily disturbs a particle's momentum.  FTP, name this concept which expresses a limitation on the accuracy of a nearly simultaneous measurement of observables such as the position and momentum of a particle.	Answer:	 the Heisenberg uncertainty principle13.  	Ozzy Osbourne is currently collaborating on a Broadway musical that will depict the life of this infamous historical figure.  His death has reached mythical status, and came after he ate poisoned wine and cakes, was repeatedly shot in the chest, back and head, and had his face pounded with a dumbbell handle. Despite this monumental ass whipping, he died by drowning after assassins dropped his supposedly dead body through a hole in the ice into the river Neva. FTP, name this Russian mystic who gained power because of his ability to cure the hemophilia of  Tsarevich Alexei.  	Answer:	Grigori Rasputin14. 	In 2002, a national tour of this rock opera began starring former Skid Row lead singer Sebastian Bach in the lead role.  The show had originally opened on Broadway thirty-one years earlier to mixed reviews, but received much attention due because of its controversial subject matter.  Director Norman Jewison filmed a movie version of the musical in 1973, which caused a religious group in South America to bomb a theater where it played.  Featuring such songs as "Heaven On Their Minds" and "I Don't Know How to Love Him," FTP, name this production of Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber that featured characters such as Mary Magdalene and Judas Iscariot.  	Answer:	 Jesus Christ, Superstar15.	It begins with a red headed protagonist standing on a cliff that overlooks a lake.  The book was the author's first major success, and was made into a 1949 movie of the same name.  Characters include Henry Cameron and Ellsworth Toohey. Using architecture as a motif for expressing the author's Objectivist philosophy, FTP name this novel about Dominique Francon and Howard Roark by Ayn Rand.	Answer:	  The Fountainhead16.	The chief objectives of this armed uprising of Irish nationalists were the attainment of political freedom from Great Britain and the establishment of an Irish republic.. The leaders of the rebellion proclaimed the independence of Ireland and announced the establishment of a provisional government of the Irish Republic.The British counteroffensive began on Tuesday with the arrival of reinforcements and martial law was proclaimed throughout Ireland. Resistance fighters realized the futility of their cause and surrendered unconditionally in the afternoon of April 29. FTP, name this uprising that took place on Easter 1916.	Answer:	The Easter Rebellion (or Uprising, etc.)
17.	Early in his career he was dismissed as a follower of his former classmate F.W. von Schelling, who was five years his junior, because he argued that Schelling succeeded where Fichte failed in systematizing and completing Kant's transcendent idealism.  The friendship with Schelling ended over a barbed criticism in the introduction to Phenomenology of Spirit, which introduced the system he elaborated upon in Science of Logic and Philosophy of Right.  FTP name this philosopher, who envisioned a world-soul developed through dialectic logic.	Answer: G.W.F. Hegel18.	Lena Grove is a young, pregnant girl who is searching for her lover, a man named Lucas Birch.  But Lucas is living under that alias Joe Brown and is involved in a moonshine venture with a mulatto mill worker named Joe Christmas.  When Christmas sets the house of his love interest, Johanna Burden, on fire, Brown turns him into to the local authorities who castrate Christmas.  FTP, name this work whose title was inspired by the special glow that illuminates Mississippi in the titular month, a William Faulkner masterpiece.	Answer:	 Light in August19.	Among whites, about 5% of the population carries the recessive gene for this disorder, but only about 1 in 1800 children are double-recessive. It is the result of a faulty gene on chromosome 7 that affects channels that transport chloride ions across cell membranes, which prevents water from passing into lung passages.  Consequently, the mucus in the lungs becomes too thick. FTP, identify this medical disorder.	Answer:	 Cystic fibrosis20.  From their chief city of Themiscyra, they invaded Lyria but were repellerd by Bellepheron, Phrygia when Priam was young, and Attica when Theseus was king. It is said that their right breast was cut off or burnt out, in order that they might be able to use the bow more freely. FTP name these warriors who fought with the Greeks in the Trojan War under their queen, Penthesilea, and whom Aeschylus called "men-haters".	Answer:	Amazons21.  It is set during the 19th century carnival season in Italy in an ancient city of palazzi, secret vaults and catacombs. Montresor vows revenge against Fortunado, a man who has wronged him a thousand times.  Montresor entices Forunado into his palace with the promise of tasting a fine, old Spanish wine.  Fortunado, who is a wine connoisseur, is lead deep into the catacombs of Montresor's palace.  Montresor leads him into an open space in the wall and proceeds to bury him alive in, FTP, what Edgar Allan Poe tale?	Answer:	 "The Cask of Amontillado"22.	The poet W.B. Yeats  popularised this self-proclaimed "author and printer" during the 20th century, who became a hero to many modern artists because of his identification with free love and democracy.  The artist was heavily influenced by John Milton and tried, as Milton had, to create his own definitions of heaven and hell. This desire to recreate the cosmos formed the heart of works that often described the struggle between unrestrained enlightenment on the one hand, and restrictive education and morality on the other.  FTP, name this author of the self-published illustrated books Jerusalem, The Book of Thel, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, and Songs of Innocence and Experience.	Answer:	 William Blake23.  A club foot kept him out of World War I, so he became a journalist. He initially opposed Adolf Hitler's membership into the Nazi party, but later embraced his anti-Semitic views to the extent that Hitler named him German Chancellor in his will.  FTP, name this man, who killed himself and his six children on May 1, 1945,  the Nazi minister of propaganda.	Answer:	Paul Joseph Goebbels24.    It was compiled despite massive popular resistance, yet is viewed as one of the greatest administrative accomplishments of its era.  It contents contain the history of many previously isolated towns and villages in England.  FTP, name this vast survey that was completed in 1086 on the orders of William the Conqueror.	Answer:	 The Domesday Book25.  This Spanish born immigrant was given the codename "GNOME" by his superiors.  As a young man, he embraced Communism and helped leftist organizations in his native country during the mid-1930s. After his 1936 release, he and his mother went to Moscow where he trained as an assasin.  Three years later, the NVD sent him to Mexico to kill Joseph Stalin's greatest rival.  FTP, name this person who murdered Leon Trotsky with an ice pick.	Answer:	Ramon Mercader
BONI - SOUTH GEORGIA A		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Mike Butler with help from South Georgia A and your genial quizmaster, Charlie Steinhice1.	Name the following from Norse mythology FTPE.  Note:  They all share a common feature. Besides being Norse.a.  This is the Great hall in Asgard where Odin received souls of heroes killed in battle.		Answer:	 Valhallab.  These are the virgin messengers of Odin who took the souls of heroes slain in battle to Valhalla		Answer:	 The Valkyriesc.  This son of Odin survives Ragnarok		Answer:	 Vidar2.	On a 5-10-20-30 basis, given the following mammals, tell what order of mammals they belong to: a) Moles, shrews, and hedgehogs.  Hint: the answer is not Rodentia.       Answer: 	Insectivorab) Rabbits and hares.  Hint: the answer is still not Rodentia.	Answer:	Lagomorphac) Bats.  Hint: the answer is still not Rodentia.	Answer:	Chiropterad) Whales and porpoises. Hint: the answer is damn sure not Rodentia.	Answer:	Cetacea3.   FTPE name the African-American woman from novels.  Note that the relatively short titles rule out Maya Angelou.a)  The Color Purple	Answer:	Alice Walkerb)  Waiting to Exhale and Disappearing Acts	Answer:	Terri McMillanc)  Linden Hills and The Women of Brewster Place	Answer:	Gloria Naylor4.   Given the years they served, name the Secretary General of the UN FTPE; if you need their home country, you get 5.a)  10 pts.: 1953-1961       5 pts.: Sweden	Answer:	Dag Hammarskjoldb)  10 pts.: 1961-1971       5 pts.: Burma	Answer:	U Thantc)  10 pts.: 1992-1996       5 pts.: Egypt       Answer: 	Boutrous Boutros-Ghali [prompt on just Ghali]5. .   VH1's 100 Greatest One Hit Wonders was loaded with Eighties acts, but we must recognize the fact that people old enough to remember them should have graduated by now.  F5PE name the artist behind these selections from the '90's:a) How Bizarre	Answer:	OMC or Otara Millionaires Clubb) Lovefool	Answer:	the Cardigansc) Baby Got Back       Answer: 	Sir Mix-a-Lotd) Bittersweet Symphony	Answer:	the Vervee) Unbelievable       Answer:	EMF f) Bitch	Answer:	Meredith Brooks	
6.	Before you decide chemistry has no real significance to your life, check those food labels.  FTPE name these common food additives:a) Obtained from seaweed, it's used to thicken and stabilize ice cream, jelly, chocolate milk, and infant formula.  	Answer:	carrageenanb) Made up of two amino acids, this artificial sweetener can cause major issues for phenylketonuretics.	Answer:	aspartame [do not accept phenylalanine - that's one of the amino acids]c) Properly known as 2-hydroxypropanoic acid, its formula is C(3) H(6) O(3).  Besides its role in pickling, it's used as an acid regulator to balance acidity in cheesemaking, limit spoilage in Spanish olives, etc.  It's also the cause of tooth decay.       Answer: 	lactic acid7.	Name the English novel from a pair of noteworthy characters FTPE, or only 5 points if you need the author:a)  10 pts.: Elizabeth Bennett; William Fitzdarcy       5 pts.: Jane Austen       Answer: 	Pride and Prejudiceb)  10 pts.: Amelia Sedley, Becky Sharp       5 pts.: William Makepeace Thackeray	Answer:	Vanity Fairc)  10 pts.: Uncle Toby, Corporal Trim       5 pts.: Laurence Sterne	Answer:	The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy8.	Many pieces of classical music are commonly known by their popular nickname.  Given the composer and an official title of his work, give the more popular title FTPE.a.  Symphony #8 by Mahler					Answer:	 "Symphony of a Thousand"b.  Symphony #8 in B Minor by Schubert			Answer:	 "Unfinished Symphony"c.  Piano Sonata #2 in B Flat Minor by Chopin			Answer:	 "The Funeral March"9.	FTPE, given the Presidential nickname, name the U.S. President.a.   The Trust Buster       Answer:  Theodore Roosevelt (prompt on "Roosevelt")b.  The Red Fox of Kinderhook       Answer:  Martin Van Burenc.  Old Rough and Ready       Answer:  Zachary Taylor10.	A knowledge of statistics can be an integral part of material organization and presentation.  FTPE, name these statistical functions given a brief explanation.a. The number of ways to select "n" objects from "N" objects in a particular order.	Answer:	 Permutation b. It's essential properties include a number of identical trails, there's only two outcomes, and "p" represents the probability of success where (1-p) equals the probability of failure. 	Answer:	 Binomial Probability Distribution (Also accept Binomial Probability)c. The probability of a discrete random variable occurring in a continuous interval.	Answer:	 Poisson Probability Distribution (Also accept Poisson Probability) 11.	FTPE name the works that introduced these characters:a) Torvald and Nora Helmer	Answer:	A (or The) Doll's (or Doll) House (translations vary; accept with suitable shock Et Dukkehjem.)b) Melquiades and the Buendia family	Answer:	One Hundred Years of Solitude (or Cien Años de Soledad)c) Antonina Alexandrovna Gromeko (or Tonya) and Larissa Fyodorovna Guishar Antipova (or Lara)       Answer: 	Doctor Zhivago
12.	Although it didn't seem like it at the time, the signing of the Magna Carta in 1215 was a key stepping stone in the end of purely monarchical rule.  Speaking of monarchs, in the year 1215 C.E., FTPE:a) Who was King of England?	Answer:	John or John Lacklandb) Who was King of France?	Answer:	Philip II or Philip Augustusc) What dynasty reigned in China?       Answer: 	Sung or Southern Sung13.	FTPE identify the related physics law given a description.a.  The acceleration of an object is directly proportional to the resultant force acting on it and inversely proportional to its mass.	       Answer:	Newton's 2nd law of motionb.  If two bodies exert forces on each other, the force is equal in magnitude and opposite in direction to the force exerted by body #1 on body #2.	       Answer:	Newton's 3rd law of motionc.  An object in uniform motion in a straight line will maintain that motion unless acted on by an eternal resultant force. 		Answer:	Newton's 1st law of motion14.	Oh Can-a-da!  Given the Canadian province or territory, name the capital, 5-10-20-30.a) Nova ScotiaAnswer:  	Halifax     b) ManitobaAnswer:  		Winnipeg c) Quebec Answer:  	Quebec (City)	d) Nunavut	Answer: 	Iqaluit 15.	Time for some literary rock and roll.  I'll name the song and performer, you name the book that its lyrics reference, FTPE.  If you need the book's author, you'll get 5.a. "White Rabbit" by Jefferson Airplane    Author:  Lewis Carroll   	Answer:	 Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, or Alice in Wonderlandb. "The Ghost of Tom Joad" by Bruce Springsteen Author:  John Steinbeck   	Answer:	 The Grapes of Wrathc. 	"Highway 61 Revisited" by Bob Dylan Author:  Debated, but I guess you can say that it's God by way of Moses	Answer:	 Genesis (prompt on the Bible, accept the Pentateuch, but give them a disapproving look)16.	Some of Mark Twain's best works were blends of travel memoir and fiction.  Name these examples FTPE:a) This 1869 work stemmed from articles Twain wrote on a journey to the Holy Land.	Answer:	The Innocents Abroadb) Twain followed the success of The Innocents Abroad with this 1872 work based on his travels to and within the U.S. West.  Told the manuscript was too short, he had to tack two lengthy appendices onto it.	Answer:	Roughing Itc) Deeply in debt, in 1895-96 Twain lectured his way around the world and returned to the travel genre with this 1897 work of purely memoir.  He admitted that, due to the recent death of a daughter, he had to struggle to keep the tone light.       Answer: 	Following the Equator
17.	Given a potential assassin or assassins, name their intended presidential target, FTPE.a. Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme and Sara Jane Moore		Answer:	 Gerald Fordb. Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola				Answer:	 Harry Trumanc.  John Hinckley Jr.						Answer:	 Ronald Reagan18.	Jean Piaget is the most famous developmental psychologist.  FTPE, name these stages of development that he named from a brief description.a.  Symbolic thinking grows, mental reasoning emerges, and the use of concepts increases.       Answer:	 Pre-Operational b. Stage at which a person begins to think abstractly.       Answer:	 Formal Operationsc. Characterized by active and appropriate use of logic.       Answer:	 Concrete Operations19.	For the stated number of points, given the quantity measured, identify the SI unit that measures each.   a.  For 5 points, Length.Answer: meterb.  For 5 points, TimeAnswer: secondc.  For 10 points, Luminous IntensityAnswer: candela d.  For 10 points, Electric CurrentAnswer: ampere20.	FTPE, name these obscure figures from the Bible from a brief description.a. Who led a rebellion against the authority of Moses that the ground swallowed up?    		Answer:	 Korahb. Who took the place of Judas as one of the twelve apostles?    	Answer:	 Matthiasc. When Hezekiah was sick unto death, what prophet told him that he was going to die?    	Answer:	 Isaiah21.	FTPE, name the public figures who have acted at one time as their own attorney, based on clues.a.  This serial killer acted as his own attorney while standing trial for killing women in Utah and Florida.  He died in Florida's electric chair in 1989.       	Answer:	 Ted Bundyb.  This man, dubbed "the Beltway Sniper," acted as his own attorney for less than a week before he utilized professional assistance.       	Answer:	  John Allan Muhammedc.  This controversial physician unsuccessfully defended himself in Michigan during his 1999 second-degree murder trial for helping a patient with Lou Gehrig's disease kill himself.	Answer:	 Dr. Jack Kevorkian 22.	Everyone knows that Sputnik 1 was the first satellite to orbit earth, but what else do you know about the Cold War space race? We're about to find out,  FTSNOP.a.  Give the month and year the USSR launched Sputnik 1, five points each.       	Answer:	 October 1957b.  A month after Sputnik, the USSR sent the first living creature into space.  FTP, given the name of the commie dog.       	Answer:	 Laikac.  Finally, for ten points, name the satellite that the US finally launched in response to Sputnik in January 1958.	Answer:	 Explorer 1