TOSSUPS - FURMAN 	CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Furman with a few from Charlie Steinhice and Jason Zuffranieri1.	His career spanned three distinct musical periods, the last of which was his venture into serialism, in which he composed such works as Movements and Variations.  The first period was Russian romanticism, which he picked up from his father, a baritone virtuoso, and his mentor, Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov.  Most important, however, was his second period, neoclassicism.  FTP, name the composer of the ballet The Rite of Spring, which resulted in a riot at its Paris premiere, whose other works include Petrouchka and Firebird.	Answer:	 Igor Stravinsky2.	This resident of Crete knew that the labyrinth would be a tough test of valor for her new love interest, Theseus, so she provided him with a ball of yarn so he could make his way out after slaying the Minotaur.  The daughter of King Minos, when she saw Theseus, it was love at first sight.  FTP, identify this girl who hopped on Theseus' boat back to Athens and became his first wife.	Answer:	Ariadne3.	The legendary English economist John Maynard Keynes supposedly called it magic; Mayer Rothschild is said to have proclaimed it the eighth wonder of the world.  It can be found by using the formula A equals P multiplied by "e" raised to the "r,t" where "A" is the amount after time,  "P" is the principal amount, "r" is the annual interest rate, and "t" is the number of years.  FTP, name this type of interest, whose exponential growth can be attributed to the fact that the interest is based on the accumulated balance, unlike its simple counterpart, which is based on the amount of principal deposited.	Answer:	Compound Interest4.	He was born in Lahore in what is now Pakistan in 1910.  This scientist, associated with the University of Chicago, became an American citizen in 1953, and was an important figure in the research of the travel of energy by radiation in stellar environments.  His work with William A. Fowler studying the evolution of massive stars won him and Fowler the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physics.  FTP, name the man whose namesake limit states that stars approximately 1.44 times the size of the sun will collapse and become neutron stars.	Answer:	Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar5.	The rock band Piebald's singer Travis Shettel laments, "I can't believe no one ever told me," about this man.  In 1907, he led a botched printer's strike in Panama, and a few years later, he became interested in the problems of blacks, which led him to found the Universal Negro Improvement Association in 1914.  Borrowing from the ideas of Henry McNeal Turner forty years earlier, he proposed an autonomous black state free from the domination of whites, and he founded the Negro World newspaper, which boosted his popularity exponentially.  FTP, identify this man, whose influence waned after his arrest and deportation for misuse of funds in establishing the Black Star Line steamboat company, the most influential black leader of the early 1920s.	Answer:	Marcus Garvey6.	It spanned the Tiber near Rome and was built by Marcus Aemilius Scaurus in 109 B.C.  Several hundred years later, this was the site of what was either a very impressive religious experience or an acid trip that would make Hunter S. Thompson green with envy.  In 312 B.C., Constantine saw a cross in the sky, and then went on to defeat Maxentius, which effectively converted the victor to Christianity.  FTP, name this bridge near which Constantine's victory made him the unchallenged ruler of the West.	Answer:	Milvian Bridge7.	It is arguably the best song on the UK release of the CD, but it does not appear on the domestic issue because a select group of assholes decided to hijack some airplanes and crash them into buildings in September of 2001.  Because the Strokes were the up and coming act hailed as the "saviors of rock and roll," they opted to remove this song because of the bravery shown by the police of the Big Apple on 9/11 (and to sell a few more records).  FTP-identify this song, a would-have-been hit that should have been on Is This It in which singer Julian Casablancas states that the titular public safety officials "ain't that smart."	Answer:	New York City Cops
8.	The name of the emo-violence band who penned the line "Sex sells more records than rock," this tropical forest flower is of the division Magnoliophyta and class Liliopsida.  They generally have three petals and three sepals, the central of which forms a nectar-secreting lip that attracts insects.  FTP, identify this flower, rare versions of which were cloned and sold to plant collectors by John Laroche in Adaptation.	Answer:	orchid9.	He is a professor of Spanish at an American University, but at the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, he decides to join the cause of the Loyalists.  His mission is to destroy a bridge in enemy territory to prevent enemy reinforcements from arriving after the Loyalists begin their attack.  While on his mission, he meets the Spanish lady Maria, and the two create a love story that would make the staunchest Stoic say "Awwww."  FTP, identify this Hemingway character, the protagonist of For Whom the Bell Tolls.	Answer:	Robert Jordan10.	The first one of these occurred on July 30, 1419, killing seven people, and sparking the Hussite Wars.  The second one occurred nearly 200 years later, involving Imperial governors Wilhelm Graf Slavata and Jaroslav Borzita Graf von Martinicz, whose lives were saved because they landed in a pile of shit.  FTP, identify this May 23, 1618 event, which saw Bohemian partisans throw the Czech governors out a castle window, effectively sparking the 30 Years' War.	Answer:	Defenestration of Prague11.	Unlike its more familiar counterpart, it measures effects at a given place, rather than estimating the overall magnitude of the studied event.  At four, most people indoors feel movement, parked cars rock, and dishes rattle.  At seven, loose bricks fall from buildings, some furniture breaks, and people have difficulty standing.  At twelve, waves can be seen moving on the ground, river courses can be altered, and there is total destruction.  FTP, identify this scale which ranges from one to twelve and measures the local effects of a distant earthquake.	Answer:	Mercalli scale12.	He wanted to be an engineer, but an eye disease prevented him from attending a technical school.  Instead, he studied literature, and published his first volume of poetry, Stances et Poemes, or Stanzas and Poems in 1865.  Other poetic works include Impressions of War, the Italian Notebook, and La France.  FTP, name this French poet, who, in 1901, received the first Nobel Prize for Literature.	Answer:	René Sully Prudhomme13.	He lost his job at Johns Hopkins because he was caught with his pants down with one of his students.  This sex scandal also lost him his marriage to his first wife, Mary Ickes.  In a 1913 document, he rejected introspection in psychology because it was not objective, thus killing the fields of functionalism and structuralism.  Though his work was initially speculative, it was given empirical foundations by the experiments of his student B. F. Skinner.  FTP, identify this early psychologist, one of the most famous graduates of Furman University, and a founder of behaviorism.	Answer:	John Watson14.	He was the professor of Theoretical Physics Emeritus at Cal Tech from 1955-1993, and authored the book The Quark and the Jaguar: Adventures in the Simple and the Complex.  He earned fame for the discovery that particles in the nucleus, including protons and neutrons, are composed of certain fundamental particles which share their collective name with the Ferengi bartender on Deep Space Nine.  FTP, name this scientist who won the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physics for his discovery of quarks.	Answer:	Murray Gell-Mann15.	The new movie The Secret Lives of Dentists is based upon this author's novella The Age of Grief.  After graduating from Vassar College, this author taught at Iowa State University from 1981 to 1996, during which she won the 1992 Pulitzer Prize for fiction.  FTP, identify the author of Horse Heaven, Moo, The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton, and A Thousand Acres.	Answer:	Jane Smiley16.	Invented in 1855, this device was proposed in 1852 when its creator moved to the University of Heidelberg.  This device safely burns a continuous stream of gas, but eliminates the risk of having the flame go back into the tube to the gas supply.  FTP, identify this heating device present in nearly every science laboratory, named after its German inventor.	Answer:	Bunsen burner 
17.	Probably the most ironic agreement ever proposed, it was rendered meaningless by Germany's occupation of Austria in 1938, Italy's invasion of Ethiopia in 1935, and Japan's entrance into Manchuria in 1931.  Signed by 15 nations, it was named for the foreign minister for the country in which the document was signed and the American Secretary of State.  FTP, name this 1928 agreement, also known as the Pact of Paris, which ineffectively outlawed war.	Answer:	Kellogg-Briand Pact18.	Ever had trouble with math homework?  If you were Tsar Peter II, you could have called upon your own personal tutor who just happened to be a famous number theorist and professor of mathematics at St. Petersburg.  Born March 18, 1690 in Königsberg, Prussia, presently Kaliningrad, Russia, this mathematician often worked in correspondence with Euler.  Lesser known is his proposal that every odd number is the sum of three primes.  His most famous conjecture, however, was made in a 1742 letter to Euler, stating that every even number greater than two is the sum of two primes.	Answer:	 Christian Goldbach19.	Born on August 25, 1927 in Silver, SC, she was the eldest of five children.  Her first major singles title came in 1956 at the French Open and she won both Wimbledon and the US Open in 1957-58.  From 1956 to 1958 she won 11 Grand Slam titles: five in singles, five in doubles, and one in mixed doubles.  FTP, name the first black entrant and champion at Wimbledon and the US National Open who died this past September. 	Answer:	Althea Gibson20.	Sometimes known as the Gulf of Eilat, this arm of the Red Sea stretches 120 miles from the Straits of Tiran to the Southern border of Israel.  Cities on this body include Eilat and Taba, and it is bordered by Egypt, Jordan, and Israel.  FTP, identify this body of water that is separated from the Gulf of Suez by the Sinai Peninsula.	Answer:	Gulf of Aqaba21.	His eyes formed the subject of a song by the British punk rock band the Adverts.  He probably breathed a sigh of relief when the Supreme Court passed down their decision in the Furman vs. Georgia case in 1972, only to have his luck change four years later when the courts handed down Gregg vs. Georgia, which allowed for states to resume the practice of the death penalty.  FTP, identify this man, most famously written about by Norman Mailer in The Executioner's Song.	Answer:	Gary Gilmore22.	He was a lawyer who eventually became a painter, and he traveled thousands of miles during the early 1800s to study the cultures of vanishing Native American tribes.  He followed the trail of Lewis and Clark, and during his six year expedition, he visited over 50 Native American tribes.  However, he is most famous for works such as his portrait of a chief, titled Buffalo Bulls Backfat, Head of the Tribe.  FTP name this artist of the old West.	Answer:	George Catlin23.	Although CDs on his Ipecac record label generally run at a price of $15.99, it's pardonable because the label has released some hot shit recently:  Isis's Oceanic, the Ruins' Tzombhorga, and his own band Tomahawk's Mit Gas.  He started the band Mr. Bungle while he was in high school, and they eventually signed to a major after his stellar work as the frontman of Faith no More.  FTP, identify this rock god, one of the most badass dudes in the past 20 years of good music, and whose current projects include the aforementioned Tomahawk, Lovage, and Fantomas.	Answer:	Mike Patton24.	This number completes the name of Tooth and Nail Records band Starflyer. While joined with Interstate 20, it passes through Meridian, Tuscaloosa, Bessemer, and Birmingham.  Other cities on this route include Slidell, Picayune, Laurel, Hattiesburg, Gadsden, Fort Payne, and Trenton.  FTP, identify this interstate highway that runs for 445 miles through five states and connects New Orleans to Chattanooga.	Answer:	Insterstate 59
BONI - FURMAN		CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Furman with a few from Charlie Steinhice and Jason Zuffranieri1.  Given a physics formula, name the law that it summarizes FTPE:a)  READ: F equals G times capital M times small M over the quantity r squared	Answer:	gravity inverse square lawb)  F equals K times Q sub a times Q sub b over the quantity d squared	Answer:	Coulomb's Lawc)  R equals V over I	Answer:	Ohm's Law2. Given a list of compositions, name the composer.A. Lady Macbeth of Mtensk 	Answer:	 Dmitri ShostakovichB. Einstein on the Beach, and the scores for The Hours and Koyaanisqatsi	Answer:	 Philip GlassC. Music for Airports, Another Green World, and Music for Films I-V	Answer:	 Brian Eno3. Man, Zoroastrianism was cool.  Answer these questions about the ancient religion FTPE.A. The good guy supreme being, who sounds like a Japanese car. 	Answer:	 AhuramazdaB. Ahuramazda's opposite number, the embodiment of evil. 	Answer:	 AhrimanC. The Zoroastrians were the first religion to believe in a virgin birth.  This was the name they gave to their "Messiah."	Answer:	 Saoshyant4. Given the name of the author, identify his or her best-seller that is as hot or hotter than the recently released pictures of Britney Spears' ass.  That means, they're reallllly hot.  Top 10 as of September 28.A. John Grisham	Answer:	 BleachersB. Arthur Agatston	Answer:	 The South Beach DietC. Mitch Albom	Answer:	 The Five People You Meet in Heaven: A Novel5. Identify these major figures from French literary life, given clues FTPE.Also a well-known stage actor, he died on stage-literally-during a performance of his play The Imaginary Invalid.  Apparently the diagnosis was incorrect.	Answer:	Moliere (or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin)A brigand and thief, his Petit Testament and Grand Testament are among the finest examples of fifteenth-century French verse.  For that matter, they are among the only examples of fifteenth century French verse.  Merci a Dieu.	Answer:	François Villon Predictably, he is not among Roy Horn's favorite authors at the present time, though his Tiger at the Gates and The Madwoman of Chaillot [SHY-oh] are fine examples of why we let the French do the writing and not les Americains.	Answer:	Jean Giraudoux6.  Given a couple of NBA players, identify the college they attended FTPE.A. Robert Horry, Latrell Sprewell	Answer:	 AlabamaB. Bobby Sura, Sam Cassell	Answer:	 Florida State [do not accept or prompt on Florida]C. Allen Iverson, Othella Harrington	Answer:	 Georgetown
7. Given some projects, identify the architect that designed them.a. Mile High Center, National Center for Atmospheric Research, John Hancock Bldg., & the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame	Answer:	I.M. Peib. the Ospedale degli Innocenti, the Old Sacristy at San Lorenzo,  the Pazzi Chapel in the Cloisters of Santa Croce, and the dome of the Florence Cathedral	Answer:	Filippo Brunelleschi c. the Robie House, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Fallingwater, Taliesin and Taliesin West	Answer:	Frank Lloyd Wright8.	June of '44 is one of Sam's favorite bands.  They were pretty cool.  FTPE, identify this some other cool stuff that actually happened in June of '44.A. This event that took place on June 6, 1944 has inspired some pretty cool video games and some Spielberg film about Ryan's privates...	Answer:	D-DayB. On June 17, 1944, this island gained independence from Denmark, and thus produced Bjork, Sigur Ros, and Mum.  Oh yeah, Snorre Sturleson would be proud.	Answer:	IcelandC. On June 27, 1844, this founder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints was killed by a mob in Carthage, IL.	Answer:	Joseph Smith9.	From a description, name the human ailment FTPE.A. This chromosomal malady comes in variations such as 47XXY and 49 XXXXY.  Its symptoms include males having certain female physical attributes.	Answer:	Klinefelter's SyndromeB. This connective tissue disorder affects many organs as well as the cardiovascular system.  Osama Bin Laden is believed to suffer from this disorder, which often (but not always) leads to disproportionate growth.  Another suspected sufferer: Abraham Lincoln.	Answer:	Marfan SyndromeC. This disease is caused by a faulty gene on chromosome 4.  The faulty gene leads to damage of the nerve cells in areas of the brain, including the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex.	Answer:	Huntington's Disease10. Emo.  The music sucks (with the exception to the mid-1980s bands Rites of Spring and Embrace), but some of the "trendy" literature that so-called emo kids read isn't half bad.A. If you haven't read this book detailing the adventures of Holden Caulfield, you definitely aren't emo.	Answer:	 The Catcher in the RyeB. This Stephen Chbosky novel might as well be Catcher in the Rye.  Same concept, but instead of Holden, we have Charlie as the protagonist.	Answer:	 The Perks of Being a WallflowerC. Diary and Survivor are two of this author's works.  This dude probably cringes every time he hears someone tell him how great a movie Fight Club is.	Answer:	  Chuck Palahnuik11. Gigli, that stunningly awful movie with stunningly awful acting from Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez...well forget it.  Just identify these stunningly awful dudes from history FTP.A. This Romanian dictator was responsible for thousands of deaths and ruined lives before he was offed in 1989.	Answer:	 Nikolai CeausescuB. This sadist and zealot was a Nazi official responsible for thousands of deaths.  His nickname was "Angel of Death."	Answer:	  Josef MengeleC. This Ugandan dictator was responsible for around 300,000 deaths, but he was stunningly good at boxing.	Answer:	 Idi Amin
12. Given a list of the counties containing parts of a major U.S. city, name the city.a.	Though its metro area now includes 19 counties, the city limits stretch only into Fulton and Dekalb counties	Answer:	Atlantab.	Though most of it lies inside Harris County, its city limits reach into Fort Bend and Montgomery counties as well.	Answer:	Houstonc.	This city covers 5 counties, including Richmond, Kings, and Queens.  Naming the other two would give it away.	Answer:	New York13. Given a dystopian literary work other than the Cubs and Red Sox media guides, name the author FTPE.A. It Can't Happen Here	Answer:	 Sinclair LewisB. Erehwon	Answer:	 Samuel ButlerC. We	Answer:	 Yevgeny Zamayatin  14. Name the following orders of architectural columns from brief descriptions FTPE.a. This type is baroque and fluted with acanthus-like leaves for capitals.	Answer:	Corinthianb. This type is found on the Temple of Athena Nike in Athens; they are fluted with scrolls on their capitals.  	Answer:	Ionicc. This type is a Roman development mixing elements from the Corinthian and Ionic orders. 	Answer:	Composite15. Given a chemical compound, state which type of acid it is an example of, 5-10-20-30.A. Hydrogen chloride gas	Answer:	Bronsted-LowryB. Boron triflouride	Answer:	LewisC. Potassium ion (K+)	Answer:	LewisD. To which two categories does liquid sulfuric acid belong?	Answer:	Bronsted-Lowry, Arrhenius16. Given a list of good films, name the director FTPE.A. Brazil, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, Time Bandits, Twelve Monkeys	Answer:	Terry GilliamB. Heavenly Creatures, Dead Alive, Bad Taste, Meet the Feebles	Answer:	 Peter JacksonC. The Sweet Hereafter, Diaspora, Exotica, Ararat	Answer:	 Atom Egoyan17.	 Identify the following galaxies from descriptions FTPE.This spiral galaxy is tilted nearly edge-on as viewed from Earth, and its white, bulbous core is encircled by thick dust lanes causing the galaxy to resemble a type of hat that gives it its name.Answer:	Sombrero galaxyThis galaxy is our nearest neighboring large galaxy.	Answer:	Andromeda galaxyThese galaxies have a large number of spectral type O and B stars accompanied by ionized gas, and they share a name with a popular type of candy.Answer:	Starburst galaxies  
18. Name the following economists from their works.The Economic Consequences of the Peace (1919) and The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money (1936)	Answer:	John Maynard KeynesThe Wealth of Nations (1776)	Answer:	Adam SmithPrinciples of Political Economy and Taxation (1817)	Answer:	David Ricardo19. Identify the following about a particular battle FTSNOP.A. For 10 points, a British army of over 25,000 amassed outside this Dervish city in 1898.	Answer:	 OmdurmanB. For 10 points, Omdurman is across the Nile from this current capitol of Sudan.	Answer:	 KhartoumC. For 5 points each, name the two British commanders at Omdurman.	Answer:	 John Kitchener and Hector Macdonald20. For fifteen points each, identify these math terms associated with theorems.Similar to a claim, this term describes a theorem whose main purpose is to help prove another more important theorem.	Answer:	LemmaThis term describes a result with a short proof whose main step is the use of another previously proved theorem.	Answer:	Corollary21. The accounting profession has been in the news lately.  FTPE, name the following financial statements prepared by accountants. a. Sometimes referred to as the statement of financial position, it reports the assets, liabilities, and stockholder's equity of a business enterprise at a specific date.	Answer:	Balance Sheetb. Often called the statement of earnings, this report measures the success of enterprise operations for a given period of time.  It is used to determine profitability, investment value, and credit worthiness.	Answer:	Income Statementc. The primary purpose of this statement is to provide relevant information about cash receipts and cash payments of an enterprise during a period. 	Answer:	Statement of Cash Flows22 	Identify the words that make up the following computer language acronyms FTPE.a. BASIC	Answer:	Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Codeb. ALGOL	Answer:	Algorithmic Languagec. COBOL	Answer:	Common Business-Oriented Language23. Identify these terms from anthropology that someone who knows zilch about science might think have no relation to the science FTPE.A. This is an electronic instrument which detects hidden metallic objects by inducing and measuring an electromagnetic field.	Answer:	 metal detectorB. Useful in locating and recording site positions, this form of photography captures land surfaces from high in the sky.	Answer:	 aerial photographyC. A tool used for surveying, often a long-steeled tape measure, this is calibrated in meters or feet and is used for site mapping and grid layout.	Answer:	 chain