Rollapalooza/COTKUTossups1. Based on an exchange of notes between the US secretary of state and British minister to the United States, this agreement has been the basis of peaceful border relations with the belligerent Canadians up to the present day. It primarily provided for the limitation of the number of vessels each country could have on the Great Lakes in the wake of the war of 1812. FTP, identify this 1817 agreement.Answer: Rush-Bagot agreement or notes 2. Cellulose is composed of the 1-4 beta variety, while starch is composed of the 1-4 alpha variety.  The alpha variety is formed when the hydroxyl group of carbon-1 is below the plane of the glucose ring and the beta variety is formed when the hydroxyl group is above the plane.  Normally formed between carbon-1 and carbon-4 of two separate sugar molecules, this type of bond forms from the removal of a molecule of water.  FTP, identify this type of linkage that bonds the monomers of polysaccharides together.Answer: glycosidic bond or linkage3. This film takes its title from a line in Kipling's poem "Gentleman Rankers," and is based on a scathing novel of the same name by James Jones. Its plot centers on a group of Americans stationed in peacetime  Hawaii in summer and fall 1941. It beat Roman Holiday and Shane to garner eight Oscars, although the total was matched the next year by On the Waterfront. FTP, name this Best Picture of 1953 that won Oscars for director Fred Zinnemann, supporting actress Donna Reed, and supporting actor Frank Sinatra.Answer: From Here to Eternity4. He was born in Regensburg to a merchant's daughter, Barbara Blomberg.  However, he eventually became a page in the imperial court, and at the age of 12 was recognized by Philip II as his half-brother and was promoted to the aristocracy.  For most of his life, he sought his own territory, which he was not granted after his greatest victory.  However, in 1576, he was granted control of the Netherlands, only to die two years later of the plague, while suppressing a rebellion.  For ten points, what illegitimate son of Charles V commanded the Habsburg fleet at the battle of Lepanto?Answer: Don Juan of (de) Austria5. The Prandtl number is defined as the kinematic viscosity divided by this property. In a transient heat conduction problem, it relates the time derivative of the temperature to the Laplacian of the temperature. It has units of meters squared per second and is equal to the thermal conductivity divided by the density and specific heat. FTP, identify this quantity which characterizes thermal energy transport by conduction.Answer: thermal diffusivity6. In a prime example of the Great Chain of Being, this poem characterizes its four elements in corresponding epistles, relating man to the universe, to himself, to society, and to happiness.  Loosely based on the deistic philosophy of Leibnitz, this poem, addressed to Henry St. John, Lord Bolingbroke, attempts to "vindicate the ways of God to man" and declares that "whatever is, is right."  Written in heroic couplets, FTP, identify this long poem, one of the best-known works of Alexander Pope.Answer: An Essay on Man7. Born in Arraba, Palestine in 1938, he lived most of his life in exile, but returned home in 1999 and took over the position of Dr. George Habash Al-Hakim in 2000. Former hijacker Laila Khaled (*) claims that the death of Israeli Tourism Minister Rehavam Zeevi was retaliation for his assassination. He died in the West Bank town of Ramallah when Israeli helicopters fired two missiles into his office on August 27 of this year. FTP, name this deceased secretary general of the PFLP.Answer: Abu Ali Mustafa
8. His 1962 essay on typology is said to be one of the most often cited papers in linguistics.  However, his most famous - and controversial - work is in the area of historical linguistics.  In the 1950s, he grouped the dozens of then-accepted families of African languages into the four major stocks accepted now, upsettingmost specialists at the time.  In 1987 he made an even more controversial categorization of the native american languages into just three families.  This work has been bolstered by his colleague at Stanford Univeristy, the geneticist Luca Cavalli-Sforza, though linguists are still uneasy with his proposed Amerindfamily.  FTP, name the linguist who published his first volume on a hypothetical language family called Eurasiatic just a year before his death in May.Answer: Joseph Greenberg9. This Hall of Famer won seven National League batting titles in his 22 year career. In the 1940's he formed a formidable outfield with Enos Slaughter and Terry Moore. At the time of his retirement in 1963, he was second in the record books for total at bats, hits and runs scored and third in RBI. FTP, name this dude who, for the St. Louis Cardinals, was the man.Answer: Stan Musial10. Its upper vestibular and lower tympanic canals contain a fluid called perilymph, while its namesake canal contains a fluid known as endolymph.  Occupying part of the labyrinthine cavity within the temporal bone, the floor of this organ bears fine hair cells that attach to the tectorial membrane and innervate the auditory nerve within the organ of Corti.  FTP, identify this organ within the inner ear that plays a vital role in hearing, and bears a snail-like shape.Answer: cochlea11. Developed by Smilebit and published by Empire Interactive, this game for the PC and Dreamcast centers around a certain peripheral. The setting takes place in February 2000, two years after the Curien Mansion Incident, and you control one of two AMS Special Agents, Gary Stewart or James Taylor. Your six-chapter mission is to rid the city of monsters created by Goldman, including bosses such as Tower and Magician and a horde of different zombies. FTP, name this popular remake of Sega's arcade shooter, The House of the Dead.Answer: The Typing of the Dead12. Though he received a Ph.D. in math from Weierstrass in Berlin, he soon returned to Vienna to study philosophy.  His early work is influenced by that of Bolzano, who anticipates many of Frege's ideas.  However, after entering the faculty at Marburg, theologians introduced him to the work of Kierkegaard, which strongly influenced his views on perception and existence.  He eventually attained a professorship at Freiburg, where he taught Heidegger.  In 1933, Sartre came to study from him, but studied with Heidegger instead, since he had lost his position as a Jew.   FTP, name this philosopher, whose school of philosophy ismentioned in the subtitles to both "Being and Time" and "Being and Nothingness".Answer: Edmund Husserl13. Published in 1690, the first is a refutation of the divine right of kings as presented in Filmer's Patriarcha. The second argued for a government with powers split between a legislative and branch and the monarchy. It also defined the principle role of government as protecting the property of man, and put forth the concept of a social contract. Published in 1690, identify this work by John Locke.Answer: Two Treatises of Government or Two Treatises of Civil Government14. This collection of 17 short stories was published in 1945 and established the international reputation of the author. Divided into two parts, The Garden of Forking Paths and Artifices, the best known stories in it include Pierre Mennard, Author of Don Quixote, and Death and the Compass. FTP, identify this central work in Latin American literature written by Jorge Luis Borges.Answer: Ficciones
15. They live in a land "in which it seemed always afternoon" due to its languid and peaceful atmosphere.  Their "land of streams" contains a gleaming river flowing to the sea, three snow-capped mountains, and shadowy pines growing in a vale.  They themselves are described as "mild-eyed" and "melancholy," with dark faces that appear pale against the rosy sunset.  They come bearing fruits to a group of stranded mariners, who lose their desire to return home upon eating their flowers.  FTP, identify this race of people that fed their namesake flowers to Odysseus' men as told in a poem by Tennyson.Answer: Lotos-Eaters16. Most elementary primality tests are built using a version of this theorem rather than Wilson's theorem. Although Leibniz proved it sometime before 1683, Euler provided the first published proof in 1736. It states that for a prime p and integer n not divisible by p, n raised to the p minus one power is congruent to 1 mod p. FTP, name this theorem that, despite its name, is used much more frequently in practical applications than its author's last theorem.Answer: Fermat's Little Theorem (accept Fermat's Theorem, prompt on Fermat)17. Aired on ABC from 1985 to 1992, this show had a very devoted cult following.  In the later episodes, the title character's employer Pete Thornton of the Phoenix Foundation goes blind after suffering from glaucoma. An early episode marks Teri Hatcher's TV debut as the recurring character Penny Parker.  Other recurring characters include the villain Murdoc and the bounty hunter Jack Dalton.  FTP, what show, with title character played by Richard Dean Anderson, "gave science geeks a refuge until Star Trek: The Next Generation"?Answer: Macgyver18. This dynasty's rule of Germany began in 919 when Henry I was elected king. It ended with Henry II in 1024 who was succeeded by Conrad II of the Salian dynasty. The dominant figure of the dynasty ruled from 936 to 973 and is remembered for winning the battle of Lechfeld. FTP, name this dynasty whose most famous member was Otto the great.Answer: Saxon or Liudolfing dynasty19. The light in this painting comes in from an open window on the left.  A chandelier hangs in the center from the ceiling, and a pair of wooden slippers can be seen on the floor.  The carving of St. Margaret, patron saint of marriage, on the bed and the small dog on the floor, a symbol of fidelity in art, contribute to the marital setting depicted in this work.  On the rear wall, a small mirror reflects the artist's image, while above that is Latin text that says the artist "was here, 1434."  This painting depicts the marriage of a black-clothed man to a woman in a green dress.  FTP, identify this work by Jan van Eyck.Answer: The Arnolfini Wedding (accept all kinds of variants with Arnolfini being the most important part)20. Two year's after this company's 1999 initiation, it sold its Blue Mountain greeting cards division and received a notice from Promethean to pay back a $50 million loan by Aug. 31. On Sept. 28, the company announced plans to file for Chapter 11 and sell its high-speed network to AT&T. FTP, identify this merger of a former #2 web portal and the largest high speed Internet service provider in the U.S., which traded under the Nasdaq symbol ATHM.Answer: Excite@Home (prompt on @Home)21. This city has seen many different pronunciations of its name, but has been spiritually significant for millions of people throughout its existence.  The name of the capital of Indonesia derives from its name, and the former name of the capital of Thailand does too.  Under the name Oudh, it was annexed by theBritish in 1856, leading to the Indian Mutiny of the following year.  Under the name Awadh, its governor erected one of the three mosques celebrating the conquests of the Moghul emperor Babur.  For ten points, what city saw the destruction of Babur's mosque by Hindu fundamentalists in 1992, leading to riots across India and increased religious tension in the subcontinent?Answer: Ayodhya or Ayutthaya (Also accept Awadh or Oudh before they are stated in the question)
22. If you take the magnitude of this vector quantity, multiply it by the speed of light, square the product and then the subtract the square of the energy, you get a  Lorentz invariant. In fluid mechanics, it is usually considered as the volume integral of the product of the density and velocity. In Newtonian dynamics, it is conserved. Newton's 2nd law equates its time derivative to force. FTP, identify this quantity, most commonly known as the product of mass and velocity.Answer:  momentum23. The author of this novel removed many passages due to the controversy about the missionaries depicted in his previous novel.  Published in 1847 with the subtitle A Narrative Adventure in the South Seas, the story traces the mutiny of the ship Julia and the subsequent travels of Dr. Long Ghost and the main character, who become beachcombers or rovers, which is what the title of this novel means.  FTP, identify this novel by Herman Melville that followed Typee.Answer: Omoo24. The Democratic Left Alliance recently defeated this group, ousted from the Sejm (pronounced: "same") with its former coalition partner, the pro-business Freedom Union. This organization started in Sept. 1980 and amassed 9 million members by mid-1981, but was suspended the following year by Prime Minister Wojciech Jaruzelski. It reemerged as a legal group in 1989 and helped its leader to replace Tadeusz Mazowiecki as president in 1990. FTP, Lech Walesa formerly headed what Polish trade union?Answer: Solidarity25. Though he was born in Portland, he grew up in the culturally diverse San Francisco bay area, which would strongly influence his later work.  He studied with Arnold Schoenberg and worked with John Cage, before becoming a music critic in New York in the 40s, where he became largely responsible for Charles Ives winning the Pulitzer prize.  However, he soon moved back to California, where he renewed his interest in the musics of cultures bordering on the Pacific.  For ten points, name this composer, who, with his lover Bill Colvig, was very important in introducing gamelan music to the United States.Answer: Lou Harrison
Rollapalooza/COTKUBonuses1. Identify the following concerning a certain literary trilogy FTPE.a) This is the first volume of a trilogy written by Theodore Dreiser that focuses on the ambitious Frank Cowperwood and his road to fortune and debauchery.	Answer: The Financierb) Dreiser based Frank Cowperwood on this 19th century industrial and financial magnate.	Answer: Charles T. Yerkesc) Identify Dreiser's other two novels about Frank Cowperwood after The Financier.  You must get both to receive all ten points.    Answer: The Titan and The Stoic2. FTPE, answer these questions about tariffs in American historya) (10) Give the year associated with the tariff of abominations which really pissed off the south.Answer: 1828b) (10) This 1890 tariff raised rates to a new peacetime high. Its namesake subsequently lost his seat in congress.Answer: McKinley tariffc) (10) This 1916 tariff supported by Woodrow Wilson included a graduated income tax as allowed by the recently passed 16th amendment.Answer: Underwood - Simmons tariff3. Answer the following questions about a type of algorithm, FTSNOP.1. For 5 points, what adjective describes an algorithm that always makes the best-looking choice of the moment, regardless of long-term performance? Answer: Greedy2. For 15, a greedy algorithm can be used to create this variable-length, optimal prefix code.  This scheme uses a table of occurrence frequency for each input symbol and runs in O(n log n) (read "oh n log n") time.Answer: Huffman code3. This classic problem has greedy solutions by Prim and Kruskal. For 10 points, name this problem, which minimizes the weight of a subset of edges that connects all vertices in a graph.Answer: Minimum weight spanning tree4. FTPE, name the following cities associated with the development of electronic music:1. This city is generally considered the birthplace of techno, although the pioneering artists Derrick May, Juan Atkins, and Kevin Saunderson actually grew up in a middle class black suburb, not in the city itself.Answr: Detroit2. This British coastal city is the source of trip-hop, being home to such artists as Portishead, Massive Attack, and Tricky.Answer: Bristol3. This site became a destination for hippies after it acceded to India in the '60s.  Their winter beach parties originally blended Catholic and Hindu festivals, but by the early '90s they had developed a new style of trance music, which is now popular at outdoor raves around the world.Answer: Goa
 5. Answer the following questions from fluid mechanics, FTPE.a) (10) These equations, which give the balance of inertial, viscous, pressure, and body forces, are generally regarded as the governing equations of fluid mechanics.Answer: Navier-Stokes equationsb) (10) This dimensionless quantity, gives the ratio of inertial and viscous effectsAnswer: Reynolds numberc) (10) This concept developed by Prandtl, which revolutionized fluid mechanics in the early 20th century, deals with the region of fluid near a solid body where the velocity transitions from the body velocity to the free stream velocity.Answer: boundary layer6. Identify the following about voluntary muscles FTPE.a) This is defined as any of the functional units that make up the myofibrils of voluntary muscles.    Answer: sarcomereb) Each sarcomere is bounded by these two bands that provide the point of attachment for actin filaments.  These lines are drawn closer together during muscle contraction.    Answer: Z linesc) This is the thick band that runs down the center of the sarcomere and serves as the point of attachment for the myosin filaments.    Answer: M band7. Identify the following classical economists, FTPE.1. Known as the "Last Ricardian" economist at Cambridge, this utilitarian philosopher attacked Mill's wage-fund doctrine and recognized externalities as a source of market failure. He wrote The Principles of Political Economy in 1883.Answer: Henry Sidgwick2. This founder of University College London and proponent of maximum felicitas created the utility function and introduced the idea of diminishing marginal utility.Answer: Jeremy Bentham3. This opponent of Malthus's population doctrines developed an "abstinence" theory of capital and interest and vehemently opposed reductions in working hours. He also initiated utility-based demand and cost of production-based supply in Great Britain.Answer: Nassau William Senior8. In 1947, on achieving independence, the subcontinent was somewhat arbitrarily divided between predominantly Muslim Pakistan and predominantly Hindu India, leaving some historical and religious sites seemingly in the "wrong" country. For five points each, identify whether each of the following sites was in India, Pakistan, both, or neither at the beginning of 1948.1. The Indus RiverAnswer: Pakistan2. The Ganges RiverAnswer: Both3. The Muslim-ruled state of HyderabadAnswer: Neither (the state remained independent until India invaded in late 1948)4. The highly Sikh state of Panjab (Punjab)Answer: Both5. The world's largest minaretAnswer: India6. The world's largest standing BuddhaAnswer: Neither (it was in Afghanistan until it was destroyed by the Taliban this March)
9. Holland plays soccer the way it is meant to be played. FTPE, answer these questions about the greatest rivalry in college football.a) (10) The Auburn-Alabama football game is traditionally known by this name.Answer: the Iron Bowlb) (10) This Auburn great ran for 256 yards in the 1983 Iron Bowl leading Auburn to a 23-20 victory.Answer: Vincent Edward "Bo" Jacksonc) (10) This former Alabama coach led an undefeated team into the 1st Iron Bowl held at Jordan-Hare stadium in 1989. Auburn won 30-20, and he is now a very bad color commentator for ESPN.Answer: Bill Curry10. Identify these works of Latin American literature FTPE.a) This novel details the story of Sim—n Bol’var's last voyage down the Magdalena River.  It was written by Gabriel Garc’a M‡rquez.	Answer: The General in His Labyrinthb) This 1972 novel by Mario Vargas Llosa deals with soap operas, writing, and creation.  It is clearly autobiographical.	Answer: Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriterc) This novel by Carlos Fuentes deals with the death of a Mexican political boss.    Answer: The Death of Artemio Cruz11. Answer these questions about Secretary Generals of the United Nations:1. For 5 points, how many Secretary Generals have presided since the UN's inception in 1946?Answer: 72. Name five Secretary Generals other than Kofi Annan. You'll have to provide the correct native country of each Secretary General to receive the points. FPE per pair.Answers: Tryvge Lie, Norway; Dag Hammarskjold, Sweden; U Thant, Burma; Kurt Waldheim, Austria; Javier Perez de Cuellar, Peru, Boutros Boutros Ghali, Egypt12. FTPE, identify the following composers of works based on poetry:1. The 1960 composition "Circles" on texts by e.e.cummings, for soprano, harp, and two percussionists.Answer: Luciano Berio2. The 1970 composition "Ancient Voices of Children" on texts by Federico Garcia Lorca, for soprano, boy soprano, piano, harp, detuned mandolin, and oboe (doubling on harmonica).Answer: George Crumb3. The 1984 composition "The Desert Music" on texts by William Carlos Williams, for large orchestra and chorus.Answer: Steve Reich        13. Answer the following questions about Indian history, 5-10-15a) (5) this empire arose under the leadership of Chandragupta in the wake of the departure of Alexander the Great from India.Answer: Mauryan empireb) (10) This grandson of Chandragupta is most remembered for his conversion to Buddhism and subsequent renunciation of violence.Answer: Asokac) (15) this city was the capital of the Mauryan empire.Answer: Pataliputra
14. Identify these famous photographers from descriptions FTPE.a) This photographer recently caused a stir with a New York exhibition of his pictures that depicted a lot of nudity and reflected, some say, his homosexual tendencies.  Among his famous photographs are Ken Moody, and Derrick Cross, a picture of a male bottom.	Answer: Robert Mapplethorpeb) His black-and-white pictures of Yosemite Valley and the southwest have permeated popular culture.  The Grand Canyon is another one of his favorite themes.	Answer: Ansel Adamsc) A student of Man Ray, she got her start by making scientific photographs.  Her portraits of James Joyce and Jean Cocteau are very well known, but she is more famous for her documentary pictures of New York City.    Answer: Berenice Abbott15. FTPE, identify these plays of John Millington Synge.1.  This one-act play is based on a drowning tragedy Synge witnessed during a trip to the Aran Islands. In the play, sisters Cathleen and Nora witness the drowning deaths of their brothers, Michael and Bartley.Answer: Riders to the Sea2. Thought to be too antagonistic to Irish nationalist sentiment following the Playboy Riots, this play was not shown in Dublin until 1971. This farcical two-act comedy pokes fun at clergy and country folk.Answer: The Tinker's Wedding3. This uncompleted work is the legend of a young girl who is prophesied to ruin the son of Usna and bring about the destruction of the city Emain. At its Abbey Theatre production in 1910, Synge's fiancee Maire O'Neill played the role of the title character.Answer: Deirdre of the Sorrows16. Answer the following questions related to the physiocrats, FTPE.a) (10) This man, considered the founder of the physiocratic school, was court physician to Madame de Pompadour.Answer: Francois Quesnayb) (10) Physiocratic principles which stressed the value of the land were first systematically stated in this 1758 Quesnay work.Answer: Tableau economique or Economic Picturec) (10) Though not truly a physiocrat, this comptroller general of finance under Louis XVI from 1774 to 1776 was strongly supported by the physiocrats for his efforts at instituting financial reform.Answer: Anne-Robert-Jaques Turgot17. Answer these questions from thermodynamics, FTPEa) (10) Representing the tendency of molecules to be transported by diffusion, it is often defined as the partial derivative of the Gibbs' free energy with respect to the number of moles at constant temperature and pressure.Answer: chemical potentialb) (10) Name the most general class of particles, with spin equal to zero or a positive integer multiplied by Planck's constant, whose members go to the single-particle ground state at absolute zero.Answer: Bosonsc) (10)  The constant-pressure specific heat is defined as the partial derivative of this quantity with respect to temperature at constant pressure.Answer: enthalpy
18. Identify these works by George Meredith FTPE.a) Perhaps the most famous work by Meredith, this novel centers on Sir Willoughby Patterne, who has all the desirable virtues except for a sense of humor and humility.	Answer: The Egoistb) This sequence of fifty poems presents the various thoughts and emotions of a married couple who perceives that their love for each other is dying.	Answer: Modern Lovec) This novel concerns a father's self-evolved system of education for his son, the title character.  He is protected from intercourse with the opposite sex, but soon falls in love with Lucy Desborough, a girl beneath his station.    Answer: The Ordeal of Richard Feverel19. Despite the preeminent focus on terrorism, American political leaders are continuing diplomatic talks with other world leaders. Answer these questions about U.S. mediation efforts, FTSNOP:1. For 10 points, Chinese president Jiang Zemin and President Bush plan to meet in Shanghai at the Oct. 20-21 summit of what organization? The leaders will primarily discuss trade and the global economy.Answer: APEC or Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation2. Vladimir Putin recently agreed to close this electronic spy center in Cuba, a 37-year old relic of the Cold War. For 10 points, identify this base that provided Havana with 75% of its intelligence material. Answer: Lourdes3. President Bush is still trying to get North and South Korean leaders to meet. For 5 points each, name the presidents of both nations.Answer: Kim Jong-il and Kim Dae-jung20. FTSNOP, identify the following types of consonants described in phonetics:5: One like "m" or "n", where no air flows through the mouth.Answer: nasal5: One like "y" and "w", in which there is no contact between the lower and upper organs of the vocal tract.Answer: semivowel10: One followed by a puff of air, like "t", "p", and "k" in English, but not in  Spanish.Answer: aspirated10: One held for double length, like the "s" in Italian "fortissimo" or the "t" in English "hot topic".Answer: geminate21. FTPE. Identify these 19th century Russian worksa) (10) This 1866 Dostoievski novella, which bridges Kierkegaard and existentialism, centers on an unnamed misanthropic narrator who attacks liberal, leftist ideologies.Answer: Notes from the Undergroundb) (10) The hero of this Lermontov novel is Pechorin, the typical superfluous man.Answer: A Hero of our Timec) (10) This short Tolstoy novel, called the best story in the world by Harold Bloom, relates the heroic struggle of a Muslim leader in the Caucasian mountains against the Russian empire.Answer: Hadji Murad22. Identify the following about batteries FTPE.a) This is a kind of battery that must be discarded when its energy has been transferred and its voltage has gone to zero.	Answer: primary cellb) This is a type of primary voltaic cell with a copper positive electrode in a copper sulfate solution and a negative electrode of a zinc amalgam in sulfuric acid.	Answer: Daniell cellc) Also known as a rocking-chair cell due to the back-and-forth motion of ions, this type of cell is a secondary cell in which layered electrodes, usually made of metal oxides or graphite, store positive ions between the crystal layers of an electrode.    Answer: intercalation cell23. Identify the following frauds and hoaxes from their entries in The Skeptic's Dictionary, FTPE:1. Officially titled Project Rainbow, this myth alleges that in 1943, the destroyer USS Eldridge turned invisible, dematerialized, and teleported from the title city to Norfolk, VA. A movie with this name, directed by Stewart Raffill, aired in 1984.Answer: The Philadelphia Experiment (prompt on Philadelphia)2. This fake fossil, 10 feet tall with 21 inch feet, was sculpted a year or two before its alleged discovery in 1869. Name this large gypsum slab, the creation of George Hull and Stubb Newell.Answer: Cardiff Giant3. Adolf Hitler and Henry Ford used this forged book to justify anti-Semitism. Published in 1905 under the pseudonym of Sir John Retcliffe, it claims that a secret Jewish cabal is plotting to take over the world.Answer: The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion24. FTSNOPE, name the following varieties of Buddhism:10: Meaning 'lesser vehicle', this kind of Buddhism is also known as Theravada, and is practiced throughout Sri Lanka and southeast Asia.  It is the closest to the original form espoused by Siddhartha Gautama, and emphasizes meditation in monastic communities.Answer: Hinayana5: Meaning 'greater vehicle', this kind of Buddhism is most common in China, Korea, and Japan, though its Zen branch is growing in the United States.  It adopted from Hinduism the belief in divinities, and claims that the Buddha was just one manifestation of a supreme divine power.Answer: Mahayana15: Meaning 'diamond vehicle' or 'vehicle of the thunderbolt', this type of Buddhism is practiced in Tibet.  It adopted elements from Tantric Hinduism emphasizing magic and mysticism.  Unlike the other varieties of Buddhism, though it considers the world to be an illusion, it considers all activities to bepotential forms of meditation, including sex.Answer: Vajrayana25. FTPE, answer the following questions about a particular war.1. First, name the war, in which Mohandas Gandhi served as a stretcher bearer, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle ran a field hospital, Rudyard Kipling worked on an army newspaper, and Sir Robert Baden-Powell assisted in the defense of Mafeking.Answer: The Anglo-Boer War2. This raid of 1895 preceded the war and was an attempt by the German Alfred Beit and British Cecil Rhodes to take control of the Transvaal for their companies.Answer: The Jameson Raid3. This treaty of 1902 ended the war.Answer: The Peace of Vereeniging