TOSSUPS - INDIANA			CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Wesley Mathews, with help from Mike Tsybulevski1.	It retained the "flexible clause" of the Fordney-McCumber Act, which later served as the basis for the "most-favored-nation" clause of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act. This legislation was the result of a compromise adopting increased rates on farm products proposed by the Senate and those of the House for manufactured goods, resulting in the raising of the general duty level to 42%. FTP, name this replacement of the Emergency Tariff of 1921 that resulted in a series of retaliatory tariffs, ultimately worsening the Great Depression.	Answer:	Hawley-Smoot Tariff (accept Smoot-Hawley)2.	His most recent novel contains a character based on the life of the Romanian conductor Sergiu Celibidache named Gabriel Atlan-Ferrara, and is entitled Inez, and his recent nonfiction includes a study of Spanish and Latin American Cultural history, The Buried Mirror. The building of the Escorial by Philip II is the subject of his novel Terra Nostra, while he fictionalizes the account of the last days of Ambrose Bierce in The Old Gringo, though he is more famous for his stream-of-consciousness portrait of a dying revolutionary. FTP, name this Mexican lawyer and novelist of The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Answer:	Carlos Fuentes3.	Its namesake proved it using solutions of sulfuric acid in excess water and ammonia in 1840 to estimate the value it tabulates for sulfur trioxide production. The Born-Haber Cycle's stepwise calculation of lattice energies owes its possibility to this principle that may be used to determine reaction heat in the formation of diamond from graphite if both combustion heats are known, since the signs of the associated energies of reaction may be reversed and added. FTP, name this law that states the enthalpy change in going from reactants to products is independent of the path, and is therefore a state function.	Answer:	Hess's Law4.	Its underwater topography includes the 11,000-foot Academic Mountain Ridge. The Sayat and Buryat peoples herd reindeer and hunt Nerpa Seals on its shoreline which includes the Holy Nose peninsula, the bays of Kultuk and Angorsky Sor, and the Salenga River Delta. The Angara River drains this lake whose outflow is controlled by the dam at Irkutsk. FTP, what is this Siberian Lake, the deepest in the world?	Answer:	Lake Baikal5.	Its story may have originated in Illyrian myth, in which it is called the lubi, though Servius interprets it to represent a volcano with three different biomes. Amisodaurus of Caria rears it to violence and sends it to attack an adjacent country, though the wisdom of Polyidus and the generosity of Athena allow one hero to defeat it after he is sent by Proetus to Lycia, where Iobates sends him to do battle with it. FTP, name this beast with the tail of a serpent, the body of a goat, and the head of a lion, famously slain by Bellerophon.	Answer:	the Chimera6.    At his death, he left unfinished the oratorio St. Stanislaus, which reworks material from his early oratorio Christus. Like Beethoven a student of Salieri, his career as a symphonist began with a setting of Victor Hugo's "What you Hear on the Mountain,." That was the first symphonic poem, followed by a series that included "Tasso: Lament and Triumph" and "Mazeppa" and by his piano cycles the "Annees de Pelerinage," his "Transcendental Etudes," and a series of "Mephisto Waltzes," FTP, name this composer of the Dante and Faust Symphonies, best known for his Hungarian Rhapsodies.	Answer:	Franz Liszt7.	He can currently be found serving up Slurpees in a Sterling Heights, Michigan 7-Eleven, as part of his work-release program after his latest conviction, for embezzlement of a meat packers' pension fund.  Earlier convictions included racketeering, loansharking, and cocaine possession.  His last games before his legal troubles began were played with Oakland and Atlanta after frequently clashing with manager Ted Williams and losing 22 games with the Washington Senators.  But in his heyday, after being bought from the White Sox, he racked up 2 Cy Young awards. FTP, name this Detroit Tigers pitching great, who before turning to a life of crime won 31 games in 1968.	Answer:	Denny McLain
8.	It repulsed an Altan led advance into Inner Mongolia and conquered Annam, though it was undone by a rebellion led by Li Zicheng that facilitated the capture of the capital by Wu Sangui and the deposition of its last emperor, Chongzhen. The abolition of private slavery and the introduction of paper currency also occurred during this dynasty, whose second emperor Yong-lo oversaw the voyages of the eunuch Zheng Ho. Founded by Hongwu, FTP, name this not-so-merciless Chinese dynasty that overthrew the Mongols in 1368, best known for its unique pottery.	Answer:	Ming Dynasty9.	An attempt to rob Blum's deli in this novel is abandoned after the protagonist attacks Gus, though expulsion from his gang's meeting place by Doc briefly ends his life of crime. The detective Britten is deceived into thinking the perpetrator of one of the central crimes is Jan Erlone due to his hatred of Communism, but the true killer must ultimately be defended by Boris Max after the rape of Bessie Mears, and the case is made that Mary Dalton's murder was a result of social pressure brought about by racism. FTP, name this novel about the trial and condemnation of Bigger Thomas, by Richard Wright.	Answer:	Native Son10.	It is represented in the Weizsaecker Formula as the ratio of the square of the difference in the mass number and twice the atomic number to the mass number times the constant 23.7MeV, a correction that determines a positive or negative value for nuclei with both even or both odd numbers of protons and neutrons while referencing the even-odd nucleus. Interactions by it whose scattering lowers the energy of affected nucleons is forbidden, and all units that obey it are governed by Fermi-Dirac statistics. FTP, what is this principle of atomic physics that forbids particles from having the same four quantum numbers?	Answer:	Pauli exclusion principle (prompt on "Pauli term" before "Interactions...")11.	This company traces its origins to 1906, when its founder and his associates bought a half interest in the Elmira Gazette, which they soon after merged with the other local newspaper. Expanding rapidly, this company, headquartered in McLean, Virginia, now counts 100 daily newspapers and 22 TV stations among its holdings. FTP, name this company, the USA's largest newspaper group in terms of circulation and the publisher of USA Today.	Answer:	Gannett Co. Inc. 12.	Decreases in Doppler velocities at their bases sometimes cause subsidence of their interface layers, leading to the development of mamma, or bulbous protrusions, that hang beneath them. Their upper formation, known as cirrus spissatus, results from the shearing of ascending air as it spreads out along the tropopause. Solitary ones are formed from regional convection within unstable air, while those associated with cold fronts are referred to as squall lines. FTP, name these high, dense, anvil-shaped clouds from which severe thunderstorms form.	Answer:	cumulonimbus (prompt on early buzz with "clouds" but do not prompt on cumulus or nimbus)13.  In this poem's opening sequence are peaceful references to "gardens, bright with sinuous rills" and "forests as ancient as the hills," though the imagery soon shifts to "A savage place" at which "a mighty fountain momentarily was forced," amidst whose tumult are heard "ancestral voices prophesying war." Also mentioned are "an Abyssinian maid," who sings of Mount Abora and "Alph, the sacred river." FTP, name this unfinished poem composed in an opium-induced stupor that opens with a reference to the "stately pleasure dome" of the title character at Xanadu, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.	Answer:	"Kublai Khan"14.	In this battle, the attacking French forces arrayed themselves in an arc around the village Dummartin. The Commander-in-Chief replaced General Charles Lanrezac with Franchet D'Espery, and ordered Michel Manoury to advance his forces, opening a gap between the armies of Alexander von Kluck and Karl von Bulow. The imperiled French 6th was saved by 6,000 reserve troops who arrived by taxi from Paris, allowing the British Expeditionary Force to reach Chateau-Thierry, and causing the Germans to retreat across the river. FTP, name this Sept. 1914 battle that repulsed the first German drive on Paris in World War I.	Answer:	First Battle of the Marne [prompt on Marne]
15.	Among his early scientific writings are an unfinished "Physical History of the Earth" and an "Essay on Gout," though notes taken during his travels reveal a developing interest in historical philosophy, which he developed in his "Considerations," an attempt to explain the ideas leading up to the decline of Rome. Book 16 of his most important work introduces his belief that inequality of the sexes is driven by marriageability ages of women in southern countries, thus the need for different laws in hot climates. FTP, name this philosopher who defended the principle of separation of powers in his Spirit of the Laws.	Answer:	Charles Louis de Secondat, baron de la Brede et de Montesquieu16.	In patients with Leber's Neuropathy, this condition is caused by a hereditary mitochondrial myopathy. It is characterized by foveal failure, and may result from macular displacement. Diagnosis is critical before age 2, since its constant form may cause amblyopia. Rare forms of it including cyclotropia and hypotropia are diagnosed by watching for a correction when vision of an object is restricted in one eye. FTP, name this condition also sometimes called squint, in which the eyes are abnormally aligned.	Answer:	strabismus (accept heterotropia or squint before it is mentioned, but do not accept "lazy eye.")17.	One controversy surrounding its age hinges on its mention of the warrior-king Varasikha, king of the Vrcivans, who is defeated at Hariyupiyah, which some scholars believe refers to the younger town of Harappah. Its early hymns tell tales like that of the use of the life-force Soma in the slaying of Vritra and the birth of the Kshatriyas and Brahmin from the self sacrifice of Prusha, though like its two later companion pieces, the theology behind this holy text is developed later in the Upanishads. FTP, name this book of over 1,000 praise mantra, the earliest text in Sanskrit and the oldest of the Vedas.	Answer:	Rig Veda (of course, prompt on "Vedas")18.	At his death, his successor O-pe-chan-ca-nough abandoned the friendship treaty of We-ro-wo-co-mo-co, which he signed with explorers ascending the York River. Called Wa-hun-son-a-cock by his people, it took him ten years to conquer the Matta-pony, Pa-mun-key and Chick-a-hominy tribes, which he absorbed into his namesake 30-nation confederacy immediately west of Jamestown. FTP, name this Algonquin chieftain who, in 1614, made peace by marrying his daughter Pocahontas to John Rolfe.	Answer:	Powhatan (accept, but be surprised to hear, Wahunsonacock before it is mentioned)19.	Jaco-Shalen-Johannsen and Connected Sum Decompositions express these entities as sums of their parts, following which their remaining components admit one of eight possible geometries, a theory known as Thurston's Geometrization Conjecture. Probably the most famous argument dealing with them states that all simply connected n-versions of them are homeomorphic to their corresponding n-sphere, known as Poincare's Conjecture. FTP, what are these locally Euclidean topological spaces, which share their name with a portion of an automobile engine?	Answer:	manifolds20.	A bearded man playing a drum leans to the left, barely appearing at the far right of this painting, while a girl dressed in bright yellow appears left of its center. On the left a dwarfish man with a crescent horn runs towards the viewer, while at rear, a man holds a vertically-hanging yellow and black striped flag next to four figures who wield spears in various positions. Also visible at center in a yellow dress and hat are a scabbard-holding figure, the lieutenant Willem van Ruytenburch, and his captain, a man in black who wears a red sash. FTP, name this group portrait of the company of Banning Cocq, by Rembrandt van Rijn. 	Answer:	The Night Watch or De Nachtwacht (accept The Young Banning Cocq as Captain orders HisLieutenant Willem van Ruytenburch to March the Company out or any variant that is close to this, early)21.	This country's fossil-rich Tenere region is a rain-shadow desert created by its Djado Plateau, at the center of which is its highest point Idoukal-in-Taghes. The base of its Air Massif is home to the Tuareg capital and salt-trading center Agadez, and a processing center for the uranium-rich Arlit region. Its other populous cities include Maradi and Zinder and the capital is located in its extreme southwest on the river that gives it its name. FTP, name this African country with capital Niamey.	Answer:	Niger
22.	This sociologist was commissioned by the Farm Security Administration to help the Lumbee Indians stage a pageant to celebrate the tribe's progress and history. She wrote the ethnographic study Camp Circle Society, worked with Franz Boas to produce Dakota Grammar, collaborated with Ruth Benedict on Speaking of Indians, and used narrative instead of description to describe Dakota camp life in her best-known work, Waterlily.  FTP, name this Sioux scholar whose nephew, Vine Jr., wrote the bestselling Custer Died For Your Sins.	Answer:	Ella Deloria  (accept, but be stunned by, Anpetu Waste Win or Beautiful Day Woman)23.	This ruler's reform ambitions were outlined in the Nakaz. Early projects included the establishment of the Smolny Institute and the Commission for Legal Reform aided by Count Betskoy, but this monarch later attempted to restrict the Jewish presence in recently conquered Lithuania and extended serfdom into the Ukraine after putting down Pugachev's Rebellion. Rising to power after the murder of her husband, Peter III, FTP, name this ruler, born Sophia of Anhalt-Zerbst, who ruled Russia from 1762-96.	Answer:	Catherine II or the Great or Yekaterina Velikaya23.	The main character of this work succeeds in crossing the ocean, but is accosted in front of a barber-shop by a man who threatens to throw him in the stocks, and by the Innkeeper, who accuses him of being a runaway indentured servant. He recognizes a man he had earlier seen at the inn wearing a half-red, half-black mask, who tells him to wait on the street for an hour and he will see the title character pass by. When the title character appears carried by the mob, Robin joins them in mocking him in, FTP, what story about the tarring and feathering of a British official, by Nathaniel Hawthorne?	Answer:	"My Kinsman, Major Molineaux"
BONI - INDIANA			CENTER OF THE KNOWN UNIVERSE OPEN 2003 -- UTCQuestions by Wesley Mathews, with help from Mike Tsybulevski1.	Name these Steinbeck novels FTPE:A: Aron finds out about his mother Cathy's life of prostitution after leaving their father and tells his brother Caleb, who joins the army and is killed, causing Adam Trask to have a stroke.	Answer:	East of EdenB: Mack and the boys collect frogs for the experiments of Doc, a character modeled on the marine biologist Edward Ricketts. Other characters are Horace Abbeville, who shoots himself after turning the Palace Flophouse over to Lee Chong, and Dora Flood, the madam at the Bear Flag Restauraunt.	Answer:	Cannery RowC: The title location's first inhabitant is a Spaniard who dies of the pox. Later, it is home to George Battle, Tularecito, Helen van Deventer, and the daughters of Old Guiermo, who open a Spanish Restaurant. 	Answer:	Pastures of Heaven2.	Answer the following questions about a certain disease FTPE.A: French scientist Jean Charcot, "the father of neurology," first described it in 1868.  The onset of this chronic, slowly progressing autoimmune disorder is characteristically between ages 20 and 40.	Answer:	multiple sclerosis or MSB: A primary effect of MS is the deterioration of what sheath insulating the nerve fibers in the central nervous system?	Answer:	myelin sheathC: Name the neural cell that produces myelin.	Answer:	oligodendrocyte3.	Name these ancient battles of some importance FTPE:A: The invader in this battle owed his success to the traitor Ephialtes, who sold out a Theban-Spartan force under Leonidas by showing him a little-known goat path across a treacherous Greek pass.	Answer:	ThermopylaeB: Syphax had to be eliminated before this battle in which the aid of the cavalry commander Massanissa of Numidia was obtained, thus securing the Roman victory of Scipio Africanus over Hannibal.	Answer:	Zama C: Julius Caesar conquered Gaul by overcoming a 6-to-1 advantage in favor of Vercingetorix and the Averni at this site in 58BCE.	Answer:	Alesia4.	FTPE, name the following about a religious movement in the United States FTPE:A: Its failure was marked by the splintering of adherents into the "Old Lights" and "New Lights," led by Charles Chauncey, and it inspired a wave of proselytizing by missionaries like Eleazer Wheelock and David Braineard.	Answer:	Great Awakening [do not accept Second Great Awakening]B: The Great Awakening was started by the sermons of this Northampton, Massachusetts, preacher and author of the theological tract Freedom of the Will and the creepy sermon "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."	Answer:	Jonathan EdwardsC: The Great Awakening's traditional end came with the institution of this new custom of admitting nonregenerate persons to church membership in opposition to the Cambridge Declaration. The city of Newark, New Jersey was founded by congregations opposed to it.	Answer:	the Half-Way Covenant 5.	Decipher the following acronyms related to computer security FTPE.A: SSL	Answer:	secure sockets layerB: TLS	Answer:	transport layer securityC: PGP	Answer:	pretty good privacy
6.	Given this packet's primary author, it seems only fair to put this question into his round.  FTPE name these songs by that other Matthews guy - Dave - from lyrics:a)  "Every dog has its day every day has its way of being forgotten / Mom, it's my birthday"	Answer:	"What Would You Say"b)  "But will I hold you again? / These fickle, fuddled words confuse me / Like 'Will it rain today?' "	Answer:	"The Space Between"c)  "I live with my hatred / I live with my jealousy / I live with the notion / That I don't need anyone but me"	Answer:	"Don't Drink the Water"7.	FTPE, name the following about the influence of an Arabian philosopher FTPE.A: Though his neoplatonist ideas about the intellect, like those he express in his Incoherence of the Incoherence, may have originated with Avempace, this court physician of Marrakech is best remembered for his original assertion that philosophic truth is derived from reason and not faith.	Answer:	Averroes or Ibn RushdB: Though he attacked Averroes' belief in philosophical reason, this philosopher borrowed his argumentative approach to Aristotelian commentary in his Summa Theologica.	Answer:	St. Thomas Aquinas C: Pope John XXII burned this poet and philosopher's book De Monarchia shortly after his 1321 death for Averroistic heresies.	Answer:	Dante Alighieri8.	Rotating viscous discs that allow these entities to accrete matter are theorized to account for their brilliant light, which may result when energy is released from supermassive black holes at the center of galactic nuclei. FTPE:A: Name these radio sources believed to be the most distant and luminous celestial objects. 	Answer:	quasarsB: If this law based on red shift that states that galaxies are receding from one another is extrapolated to include quasars, they may be up to 1,000 times brighter than galaxies and up to 15 billion light years away.	Answer:	Hubble's Law C: Radio observations focusing on particle jets emitted from the centers of active galactic nuclei reveal that quasars may be this type of galaxy known for their low-energy gamma rays with their jets oriented along the line of sight with earth, thus revealing their high energy radiation.	Answer:	Seyfert Galaxies9.	Identify the following from the oh-so-lively Election of 1884 FTSNOP.(5/5) First, for five each, name the Democratic and Republican nominees, each tagged with their own scandal..       Answers: 	Grover Cleveland and James Gillespie Blaine(10) Blaine led this Republican faction opposed to political machines, so named for its popularity in both parties.	Answer:	Half-Breeds(10) This Missouri senator led the Mugwumps in opposition to Blaine, swinging the election to Cleveland.  Other claims to fame: hiring Joseph Pulitzer for his first reporting job and serving as a Major General in the battle of Chattanooga.	Answer:	Carl Schurz10.	Given some lines, name the English poem FTPE, or 5 if you need the author:A: 10:  "What dire offence from amorous causes springs! / What mighty contests arise from trivial things!"5: Alexander Pope	Answer:	"The Rape of the Lock"B: 10: "If they be two, they are two so / As stiff twin compasses are two, / Thy soul the fixed foot makes no show / To move, but doth if the other do."5: John Donne	Answer:	"A Valediction, Forbidding Mourning"C: 10: "I could not love thee, Dear, so much / Loved I not honor more."5: Richard Lovelace	Answer:	"To Lucasta, going to the Wars" 
11.	Name these muckraking journalists FTPE.A: Known for scathing articles published in McClure's, this woman wrote the devastating 1904 work, History of the Standard Oil Company.	Answer:	Ida Minerva TarbellB: This San Francisco newsie's articles about municipal corruption were collected in works like Upbuilders and The Shame of the Cities	Answer:	Joseph Lincoln SteffensC: A series of articles this man wrote in Colliers Weekly exposing patent medicines led to the passage of the first Pure Food and Drugs Act. However he is much better known for his novels Revelry and The Great American Fraud focusing on the Harding Administration.	Answer:	Samuel Hopkins Adams12.	Name these useful equations involving electricity, FTPE:A: The force resulting when two point charges act upon one another is given by the namesake constant times the product of the charges divided by the square of the point charge radii.	Answer:	Coulomb's Law (or expression)B: The line integral of a magnetic field along a path that winds around a current is equal to the product of the permeability of free space, the current, and the number of path revolutions around the current.	Answer:	Ampere's LawC: The gradient of the vector potential defining the electric field is equal to the product of the permittivity of free space, the permeability of free space, and the partial derivative of the scalar potential with respect to time. It is used to simplify the wave-function by its namesake gauge.	Answer:	Lorenz Relation  13.	Name these characters from King of the Hill, FTPE.A: Business has not gone well for this exterminator, since his experimental insecticide is completely composed of gasoline, and the only things he knows for sure is that L. Ron Hubbard was killed by fire ants and that Bob Dole is faking his "dead arm." 	Answer:	Dale GribbleB: Nancy Gribble's debilitating headaches are healed by this Native American rights activist who is also the father of Joseph Gribble unbeknownst to Dale.	Answer:	John RedcornC: He attempts to woo the Holloways to buy his propane by introducing himself as a "real Texan," but loses the deal after starting a fistfight with him at the Jugstore Cowboys' strip club. He is Hank's anrch-nemesis.	Answer:	M.F. Thatherton 14.	Name these plays of Anton Chekhov FTPE:A: The businessman, Lopakhin, carries out his plan for a series of houses on the old Ranevsky Estate at the end of this play in which axes are heard chopping down trees offstage as the family moves out.	Answer:	The Cherry OrchardB: Elena Andreyevna cannot return the love of her brother-in-law, who manages the estate of Professor Serebryakov. Serebryakov turns out to be a phony and tries to sell his home, whereupon the title character attempts to shoot him, but this is Chekhov, so he misses, the estate is not sold, and boredom returns.	Answer:	Uncle VanyaC: Ivan Tolkhachov bursts into Murashkin's flat demanding a revolver to create some excitement from his endless tasks, but Murashkin asks him to deliver a sewing machine to Olga Finberg, and he loses his sanity. 	Answer:	A (or The) Tragedian in Spite of Himself15.	Name some things about that doom of dooms, Ragnarok FTPE:A: This guardian of Bifrost will sound his horn Gjallarhorn to warn Asgard before killing and being killed by Loki.	Answer:	HeimdallB: This god of war manages to overcome the Hel Hound Garm, but dies from wounds inflicted in the struggle.	Answer:	Tyr C: The Aesir don't have all the fun; these two mortals survive Ragnarok by hiding in the Wood of Hothmimir and repopulate Midgard in the second age (all or nothing).	Answer:	Lif and Lifthrasir 16.	Name some great African authors FTPE:A: Africa's first Nobel laureate was this Nigerian author of A Shuttle in the Crypt and Kongi's Harvest.	Answer:	Wole SoyinkaB: In 1988 this Egyptian, author of the Cairo Trilogy, became the first Arabic author to win the Nobel Prize.	Answer:	Naguib MahfouzC: Foe is a work of his about a woman's attempt to communicate with a man whose tongue has been cut out, while Dostoevsky is the main character of The Master of Petersburg, though he is best known for his dystopian novels Waiting for the Barbarians and Life and Times of Michael K.	Answer:	John Michael Coetzee 17.	The golden age of British Opera was.... wait, there wasn't one.  Name these British Operas, FTPE:A: Believed to have premiered in a girls' boarding school, this opera concerns the downfall of a queen in Africa due to her passion for the leader of some dispossessed Trojans. It is probably Henry Purcell's best-known work.	Answer:	Dido and AeneasB: Containing the "Four Sea Interludes," the title character wants to marry Ellen, but is embroiled in some controversy stirred up by Mrs. Sedley over his abusiveness of his apprentice John. In the end, he is advised to escape to sea and sink his own boat.	Answer:	Peter GrimesC: A warrior offers his services to the Knights of St. John, but a ship carrying supplies captained by his wife is intercepted by Suleyman, though he admires her courage and frees her. This William D'Avenant work is the first English opera.	Answer:	The Siege of Rhodes18.	Given a process, name the product formed or extracted FTPE:A: Bessemer-Kelly process	Answer:	steelB: Ostwald process	Answer:	nitric acid C: Mond process	Answer:	nickel19.	Given a mountain that is the highest point in its range, name the mountain range FTPE:A: Whitney	Answer:	Sierra Nevada MountainsB: Jewel Toubkal	Answer:	Atlas MountainsC: Pico d'Aneto	Answer:	Pyrenees20.	Name these architects who had roles in designing world capitals FTPE:A: His original plan called for 15 wide open spaces to be distributed among the states complete with monumental statues. Andrew Ellicott reproduced this architect's diagonal intersecting avenue grid plan for Washington, D.C from memory after he was fired for refusing to sell the plans in time for the sale.	Answer:	Pierre L'EnfantB: In 1957, he was assigned to oversee the implementation of Luis Costa's plan for the new capital at Brasilia. His designs include the Metropolitano Cathedral, the Itamaraty Palace, and the National Congress.	Answer:	Oscar Niemeyer C: This professor at the University of Illinois' only experience in city planning was Idalia, Florida when his system of eight interconnecting radial centers was chosen for Australia's new capital at Canberra.	Answer:	Walter Burley Griffin
21.	Name these communists FTPE:A: He helped suppress the Kronstadt Revolt in 1921 with Stalin, but the Stalin-Kamenev-Zinoviev triumvirate chased him to Kazakhstan, and he was eventually murdered while in exile in Mexico in 1940.	Answer:	Leon TrotskyB: As premier of Poland, he jailed Lech Walesa and outlawed Solidarity.	Answer:	Wojciech JaruzelskiC: At first sympathetic to the rebel cause as secretary of the Hungarian Socialist Workers Party, he later formed a counter government with invading Soviet troops, and in 1958 he tried and executed Imre Nagy.	Answer:	Janos Kadar22.	Answer the following questions concerning the use of anti-psychotic drugs in treatment of schizophrenia FTPE.A: Anti-psychotic drugs lower the activity of this neurotransmitter, one of the intermediate substances in the synthesis of epinephrine.	Answer:	dopamineB: Prolonged use of anti-psychotic drugs can cause the subject to exhibit symptoms of this disorder, characterized by abnormally low dopamine levels.	Answer:	Parkinson's DiseaseC: Give the name of the neurological syndrome caused by long-term use of anti-psychotic drugs that is characterized by involuntary, repetitive movements and lack of fine motor control.	Answer:	tardive dyskinesia23.	Name some stuff from Economics, FTPE:A: This is a measure of the total value of the goods and services produced in a country, usually measured in income per year. It excludes net property income from abroad.	Answer:	Gross Domestic ProductB: The trade cycle is exaggerated if this ratio is high, since it means high production for economic growth depends on spending.	Answer:	capital output ratioC: The growth rate of the GDP depends on the capital output ratio and the level of savings in this model.	Answer:	Harrod-Domar growth model 22.	Identify the following about the origins of Korea FTPE.A: This oldest Korean city was founded by the Chinese scholar Ki-tze and settled by remnants of the Shang dynasty. It became the capital of the first Korean kingdom of Koguryo in 427AD.	Answer:	Pyongyang   B: The Korean peninsula was first unified by this kingdom that conquered Koguryo and Paekche in the 7th century and introduced Buddhism. Its power was ended in 935 by Wang Kon.	Answer:	SillaC: This longest-reigning Korean dynasty overthrew the Mongols with the help of Ming China. It moved the capital to Seoul, repulsed a Japanese invasion led by Ieyasu Tokugawa, and remained in power until 1910.	Answer:	Yi or Choson Dynasty23.	Answer the following about works and an author FTPE:A: Though his literary magazine the Pioneer failed, he made a comeback in 1848 with his satire in Yankee Dialect The Biglow Papers.	Answer:	James Russell LowellB: 1848 also saw the publication of this poem about a nobleman whose offering of a drink from a wooden cup to a beggar is rewarded when the beggar turns into Christ and the wooden cup is discovered to be the Holy Grail. It is Lowell's best remembered poem.	Answer:	The Vision of Sir LaunfalC: One of this satire's conceits compares Bryant to an iceberg. Lowell refers to Whittier as "Whinier," and to himself as a figure who tries to climb Parnassus while weighted down with bales of "isms." Poe, Longfellow, and Cooper are also skewered.	Answer:	A Fable for Critics 