TOSSUPS - SOUTH GEORGIA B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by South Georgia B with a little help from your genial quizmaster1.  They call materialism "Babylon" and avoid it at all costs.  They hold that former Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie I was the last of four incarnations of God and look to that nation as a spiritual and racial home.  FTP, name this Afro-Caribbean religion whose adherents use the sacred herb Ganja to realize the "I in I" and often wear their hair in a dreadlocked style.	Answer:	Rastafarianism (accept logical equivalents)2.  The boyhood neighbor of this man was diarist Samuel Pepys, who lived within sight of the Tower of London.  At the age of 24, this individual spent 9 months in the infamous prison for blasphemy because he published a pamphlet that questioned the doctrine of the Trinity.  He adopted his faith while in Ireland and raised the ire of English gentlemen by refusing to remove his hat in their presence.   FTP name this figure who in 1681 received the largest tract of land the King of England had ever granted to a single individual, the namesake of one of the original thirteen American colonies.	Answer:	 William Penn3.  This concept addresses the belief that language obscures truth, because language is too inaccurate and ambiguous.  So this solution proposes that symbols take the place of words and stand for components of thought, which often are also elements of formal logic.  The symbols are then manipulated mathematically so that all things are reduced to either "1", which stands for "all" or "true," and "0", which represents "false" or "nothing."  FTP, name this foundation of symbolic logic that is named for the 19th century British mathematician who devised it.	Answer:	 Boolean Algebra or Logic (Prompt on George Boole)4.  During this author's 1910 funeral, the mayor of San Francisco erroneously praised her as the author of Uncle Tom's Cabin.  This undoubtedly shocked the congregation, as Harriet Beecher Stowe had died fourteen years earlier.  Yet like Stowe, she promoted the Union cause during the Civil War and maintained her social activism when the conflict ended.  FTP, name this suffragist who wrote "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."	Answer:	 Julia Ward Howe	5.  Dr. Robert Greene of Harvard established that this substance achieves its characteristic effect by preventing adenosine from attaching to the brain's cholinergic receptors.  This substance with chemical formula C8 H10 N4 O2 can be used to treat poisoning by alcohol, opium, or other depressants because it increases blood circulation.  But it's better known for inducing nervousness and loss of sleep.  FTP name this stimulant, found in tea, colas, and coffee.		Answer: 	caffeine	6.  While working with the records bureau, the protagonist meets a "dark haired" girl named Julia who works in the Fiction department. They fall in love and reveal a mutual hatred for the Outer party to each other. They later meet and confide in O'Brien, which leads to their subsequent capture and torture.  What they did not know was that O'Brien worked as agent for the Ministry of Love and had monitored Winston Smith for seven years. FTP, name this book that details a society that lives under constant government surveillance written by George Orwell.	Answer:	19847.  He imprisoned his brother in a box lined with lead and threw it into the Nile, where it flowed down river and lodged in the branches of a sapling. The growing tree enveloped the box, was eventually cut down, fashioned into a beautiful column, and placed in a king's palace. Isis visited the column each night as a sparrow and mourned for Osiris, the individual inside the box.  FTP, name the jealous brother of Osiris, the Egyptian god credited with every evil.	Answer:	Set (accept Seth)8.  A nude woman lying on a rocky slab is about to be shot.  That is, if the tigers bursting forth from a carp that has sprung from a pomegranate do not first ravage her.  In the background, an elephant with stilt-like legs and a spike-like monument on its back walks across the blue landscape.  This is, FTP, what 1944 painting in which the titular vision occurs prior to emerging from slumber, a Salvador Dali work?  	Answer:	 Dream, Caused by the Flight of a Bee around a Pomegranate, One Second Before Awakening
9.  Sometimes the term is expanded to include helotism, a master-slave relationship; commensalism, in which one party benefits and the other is unaffected; inquilinism, which involves only the sharing of living space; and even parasitism.  The last would seem to be the opposite of mutualism, which is synonymous with the narrower definition of this term.  Classic examples include interaction between fungus and lichen , fig and fig wasp, and yucca and yucca moth.  FTP give the term for a relationship when two parties complement each other by compensating for the other's shortcomings.	Answer:	 Symbiosis (accept symbiotic relationship, etc.; sorry, but can't accept mutualism)10.  As a holiday, it falls on January 5 and is the final night of Christmas.  As a play it focuses on Viola, who loses contact with her brother after a shipwreck.  Cross dressing and gender bending fun occur when Viola disguises herself as a man, takes the name Cesario, and falls in love with Duke Orsino. All confusion is cleared up when Viola and her twin brother, Sebastian, meet and recognize each other.  FTP, name this term that can either describe the Epiphany feast eve, or a popular Shakespeare play, also known as What You Will.	Answer:	 Twelfth Night 	11.  This individual was so crucial Woodrow Wilson's first presidential campaign that he made the Nebraska native his Secretary of State.  However, he resigned the position in 1915 in protest to Wilson's firmness concerning the sinking of the Lusitania.  He became a self-professed "Bible expert" and helped prosecute John T. Scopes in 1925.  FTP, name this three-time presidential candidate know as "The Great Commoner" who made his famous "Cross of Gold" Speech in 1896.	Answer:	 William Jennings Bryan12.  This man drowned in a pool formerly owned by A. A. Milne.  The coroner's report claimed "Death by misadventure." However, in 2000 his then-girlfriend Anna Wohlin claimed he had been murdered by a builder who lived with the couple while he renovated their home.  FTP, name the original lead guitarist of the Rolling Stones who wanted to bring the "authentic" black American music to a white English audience, but eventually gave in to Mick Jagger and Keith Richards in adopting a more popular sound.	Answer:	 Brian Jones  	13.  This concept was named after a scientist who established its existence in 1827 while watching microscopic pollen grains float in water.  He noticed that while the direction any particular grain differed, all moved faster when water temperature increased and slowed when it cooled.  FTP, name this key factor in the kinetic molecular theory of matter, which states that matter is composed of tiny particles in constant motion.	Answer:	 Brownian Movement (or Motion) (do not accept Robert Brown)14.  The plan originally had a $4 million dollar budget.  It called for a gradual buildup of anti-government forces within the country that could politically and militarily topple the leader. However, the operation quickly escalated and budget expanded to over $46 million. On April 17, approximately 1500 exiles landed at the targeted location and expected air support from the United States in the event of complications, but it never arrived.  FTP, name this failed military plan that emboldened Fidel Castro and eventually led to a nuclear missile standoff in Cuba. 	Answer:	 The Bay of Pigs Invasion15.  He was born in Baltimore on September 20, 1878, but moved to New York ten years later.  His immediate family was poor, but his grandparents were wealthy, a disparity that inspired him to embrace socialism.  He named Jesus Christ and Percy Shelley as his heroes, and published his first novel, Springtime and Harvest, in 1901.  FTP, name this future gubernatorial candidate and author of Manassas, A Captain of Industry, and The Jungle.  	Answer:	 Upton Sinclair16.  In 1965, Mobutu Sese Seko seized control of this country and ruled for more that 30 years.  He was overthrown by Laurent-Desire Kabila, who changed the country's name back to what it was first called in 1964.  The nation was created by Belgian king Leopold II in the late-1800s and has been known as the Congo Free State, the Belgian Congo, and Zaire.  FTP, give the full name of this African country sometimes known as Congo-Kinshasa.	Answer:	Democratic Republic of the Congo17.  Properly known as human granulocytic ehrlichiosis [GRAN-yuh-loh-SIT-uk air-LIK-ee-OH-sis], it takes its common name from a town in Connecticut.  The bacterium causes a flu-like disease that resembles and actually attaches to a more famous disease.  FTP, name this ailment that causes fatigue and is caused by a spirochete that the deer tick spreads.  	Answer:	Lyme disease
18.  When his mother became ill, he dropped out of Alcorn State to help support his family, and wound up playing basketball at Kankakee Community College.  He took bit parts such as the bouncer at the Roxbury in A Night at the Roxbury while working as a bodyguard.  He left that field after he let a friend take over for him one night, the night his client the Notorious B.I.G. was shot.  FTP name this actor, whose work in Armageddon so impressed Bruce Willis that Willis recommended him for the role of John Coffey in The Green Mile.	Answer:	Michael Clarke Duncan  19.  Thomas Hardy once said that America had two great attractions:  Its skyscrapers and this female.  A graduate of Vassar College, she won a Pulitzer Prize for The Harp Weaver and Other Poems in 1923, the first time a female won the poetry Pulitzer.  She was noted for her bohemian lifestyle, moral restraint, and original sonnets.   FTP, name this Greenwich Village resident and author of A Few Figs from Thistles and Renascence and Other Poems.	Answer:	 Edna St. Vincent Millay20. He belonged to the clan of Hashim, a poor but respected branch of the prestigious and influential tribe of Quraysh. His father died before he was born and his mother died when he was six, so he was reared by his uncle.  Pensive and withdrawn in temperament, this figure displayed an acute moral sensitivity at an early age and was known as "al-Amin", the trusted one. FTP, name this founder of Islam. 	Answer:	 Muhammad         [prompt on Congo; do NOT accept or prompt on Republic of the Congo]21.  By the time he was 5 years old, this future literary giant had read the Bible, Arabian Nights, and Robinson Crusoe in their entireties.  He entered Cambridge University on two different occasions and left each time without graduating.  During the French Revolution, he planned to start a utopian community in America but never raised the adequate funds.  FTP, name this daydreamer and opium addict who is famous for "Christabel," "Kublai Khan," and "Rime of the Ancient Mariner."	Answer:	 Samuel Taylor Coleridge22. This author began working on a novel only because Broadway producers showed no interest in any of his plays.  His publisher, Maxwell Perkins, cut the original manuscript of his first novel substantially because it was twelve times the length of the average novel.  FTP, name this North Carolina author who described the early manhood of Eugene Gant in Look Homeward, Angel.	Answer:	 Thomas Clayton Wolfe23.	It was first defined in Aristotle's Poetics, where it was characterized as a key element of the tragic hero.  Its most famous form is hubris, or an over reaching pride, such as it appeared in Oedipus Rex. Othello also possessed this characteristic, which led to a serious of catastrophic events. FTP, name this concept that is primarily used as a dramatic device and is commonly interpreted as a "tragic flaw."	Answer:	 hamartia (Accept "tragic flaw" if given before it is reached in the question)24.	His last words were "The poor south; God knows what will become of her now."  Left fatherless at a very young age, he received very little early education.  Yet he graduated from Yale College in 1804 and entered politics in his native state, where he favored a protective tariff, a national bank, and a strong army and navy.  These sentiments peaked with the release of the "South Carolina Exposition," an essay that attacked the constitutionality of the 1928 protective tariff.  FTP, name this South Carolina statesman who became the only vice-president to resign from office.	Answer:	 John C. Calhoun  25.	As a three year old he was obsessed with what he called "widdlers" and later exhibited a phobia of large animals.  He had dreams that his mother was a giraffe with a short neck and his father was a giraffe with a long neck.  In other dreams, his father appeared as horse that repeatedly fell down, which Freud claimed supported his Oedipal complex.  FTP, name this case study subject whose story is chronicled in 1909's Analysis of a Phobia in a Five Year Old Boy.	Answer:	  "Little Hans"
BONI - SOUTH GEORGIA B		Center of the Known Universe Open 2004 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by South Georgia B with a little help from your genial quizmaster1.  Only three films have won the top four major Academy Awards (Picture, Director, Actor, and Actress) in one year.  FTPE, given the director and the year it won its honors, name the movie.  If you need a cast member, you get just five.a. 10 points:  Frank Capra, 19345 points:  Clark Gable	Answer:	 It Happened One Nightb. 10 points:  Milos Forman, 1975	5 points:  Louise Fletcher	Answer:	 One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nestc. 10 points:  Jonathan Demme, 19915 points:  Jodie Foster	Answer:	 The Silence of the Lambs2.  The death of segregated schools, FTSNOP.a.  5 points:  This Alabama governor tried to prevent blacks from enrolling at the University of Alabama during his infamous "Stand in the Schoolhouse Door."	Answer:	 George C. Wallaceb.  10 points:  This is the collective name of the students who integrated Central High School in 1957.	Answer:	 The Little Rock Ninec.  15 points:  The 1963 admission of this man at the University of Mississippi sparked an evening of rioting that resulted in two deaths.	Answer:	 James Meredith3.  Given some works, name the French artist, FTSNOPa.  5 pts:  Liberty Leading the People, Massacre at Chios 	Answer:	 Eugene Delacroixb.  10 pts:  The Yellow Christ, The Day of the God, La Orana Maria	Answer:	 Paul Gauguinc.  15 pts:  The Stone Breakers, Studio of the Painter, Allegory of Realism	Answer:	 Gustave Courbet4.  FTPE, name these terms from Geology given their definitionsa.  Molten rock that is formed below the Earth's surface	Answer:	 Magmab. The mass of solid rock that lies beneath the regolith	Answer:	 Bedrockc.  The Earth's crust coupled to the rigid upper mantle	Answer:	 Lithosphere5. 30-20-10, name the American author based on works.30:  The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon20:  The Legends of the Alhambra, A History of New York10:  "Rip Van Winkle,"  "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"	Answer:	 Washington Irving6.  Provided a nation, name its deepest lake FTPEa. Russia	Answer:	Baikal (according to some sources, 5,315 feet)b.  Tanzania	Answer:	Tanganyika  (4,710 feet)c.  The US 	Answer:	Crater Lake  (1,932 feet)
7. Provided with a quote, tell in which Shakespearian work they are found, FTPE.a.  "This above all:  to thine own self be true"	Answer:	 Hamletb.  "The better part of valor is discretion"	Answer:	 Henry IV, Parts I and IIc.  ""All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players"	Answer:	 As You Like It  8.  FTPE, given the formula, name the acida.  C6H5COOH		Answer:	 Benzoic acidb.  HCOOH			Answer:	 Formic acidc.  C6H5OH			Answer:	 Phenol10.  FTPE, given the repressive S.O.B. who was president & dictator as of Jan. 1, 1982, name the South American nation: a) Augusto Pinochet Ugarte	Answer:	Chileb) Alfredo Stroessner	Answer:	Paraguayc) Leopoldo Galtieri       Answer: 	Argentina11.  Name the 20th Century Southern author based on clues, FTPE.a.  In his 1949 Nobel acceptance speech, he described his work as treating "the human heart in conflict with itself."	Answer:	 William Faulknerb.  This author of Uncle Tom's Children became a member of the Communist Party because of the racism present in American society.	Answer:	 Richard Wrightc.  Story collections by this Georgia native include A Good Man Is Hard to Find & Everything That Rises Must Converge.	Answer:	 Flannery O'Connor12.  Answer the following about our friends the arthropods FTSNOP:10) Shrimp, lobsters, and crabs belong to this particularly tasty class of the phylum Arthropoda.	Answer:	Crustacea or crustaceans10) These primitive marine arthropods were abundant in the Cambrian and Ordovician periods, but the entire subphylum has been extinct since the Permian.	Answer:	trilobites or Trilobita5/5) These two types of arthropods with similar names and appearances are not members of the class Insecta as you might have thought.  Each has its own class, Chilopoda and Diplopoda.  Name them in no particular order F5PE.       Answer: 	centipedes and millipedes13.  Grand Theft Auto:  Vice City is one of the best selling video games in history.  FTPE, name the following celebrities who voiced characters in the game.a.  The protagonist of the game, Tommy Vercetti, is voiced by this actor who has appeared in Goodfellas and Hannibal	Answer:	 Ray Liottab.  This once-prominent TV entrepreneur provides the voice for Haitian Auntie Poulet.  One of her most famous quotes in real life is "It's all in da cards."	Answer:	 Miss Cleoc.  Avery Carrington is voiced by this man, a former football player at Florida State and Oscar nominee for Best Supporting Actor for Boogie Nights.	Answer:	 Burt Reynolds  
14.  Answer the following concerning the Statue of Liberty, FTPEa.  On what Island does the statue stand?	Answer:	 Liberty Island (Ellis Island is where the Immigrant Receiving Center is located)b.  Who wrote the sonnet "The New Colossus" that is found at the statue's base?	Answer:	 Emma Lazarusc.  Which French architect devised the statue's iron frame?	Answer:	 Gustave Eiffel  (Bartholdi was the sculptor who designed the statue)  15.  Same monarch, different day.  FTPE name these British Prime Ministers who served more than one monarch:a)  Generally considered the first Prime Minister, his tenure included the last six years of George I's reign and the first 15 of George II's.	Answer:	Robert Walpoleb)  Switching back and forth with the Tory Sir Robert Peel, this Whig served three stints as PM.  His second included the death of William IV and the coronation of Victoria.	Answer:	William Lamb, Lord Melbourne		[accept Lamb]c)  Serving twice before as a Conservative in the 1920's, he headed the coalition government that straddled the death of George V, the abdication of Edward VIII, and the ascent of George VI in 1936.       Answer: 	Stanley Baldwin16.  The universe is a scary place, except to astronomers.  FTSNOP, answer the following about those special scientists.a.  5 points:  This German astronomer is famous for his three laws of planetary motion.	Answer:	 Johannes Keplerb.  10 points:  This Italian-born French astronomer discovered four of Saturn's satellites and discovered the gap in that planets rings, which is named for him.	Answer:	 Giovanni Cassinic.  15 points:  This Scottish astronomer was the first to measure the distance to a star, with the star in question being Alpha Centauri.	Answer:	 Thomas Henderson 17.  Archangels are supernatural beings in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic theology.  FTSNOP, give me the name of the following Archangels by their description.a.  5 points:  Mentioned in both the Old and New Testaments, as well as in the Qur'an, he is know as the "messenger" 	Answer:	 Gabrielb.  10 points: According to the Qur'an and the Book of Tobit this angel is the personification of death.	Answer:	 Azraelc. 15 points: His symbol is the book, for wisdom, and his name can be translated to "The fire of God".  The angel of the sun, he is one of the Holy Sephiroth.	Answer:	 Uriel 18. I'll give the numerical rank and the years served, you give me the name of the US Supreme Court Justicea.  5th, 1836-64			Answer:	 Roger Taneyb.  10th, 1921-30		Answer:	 William H. Taftc.  14th, 1953-69			Answer:	 Earl Warren 19.  "Dissociation" is defined as a splitting in the psyche that creates neurosis. FTPE, answer these questions concerning a famous literary portrayal of the condition.a.  What 1886 book dealt with Dissociation within the British upper class?	Answer:	  Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hydeb.  Name the Scotsman who created Jekyll and Hyde.	Answer:	 Robert Louis Stevensonc.  Finally, name the lawyer who wrote Dr. Jekyll's final will.	Answer:	 Utterson 
20.  Their name comes from a line in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.  FTPE, name:a.  This crusading turn-of-century American journalists.	Answer:	 Muckrakersb.  The person who gave them the term "Muckraker"	Answer:	 Theodore Rooseveltc.  The author of the anti-Standard Oil tome, Wealth Versus Commonwealth.	Answer:	 Henry D. Lloyd21.  Name the book of the Bible that follows, FTPE, a.  Exodus		Answer:	Leviticusb.  Psalms		Answer:	Proverbsc.  Jude			Answer:	Revelation22.  Name these rock stars who died after choking on their own vomit, 5-10-15a. This Seattle native died in England in 1970, just over a year after he played a controversial version of "The Star Spangled Banner" at Woodstock.	Answer:	Jimi Hendrixb.  Nicknamed "Bonzo," his death prompted the breakup of Led Zeppelin.	Answer:	John Bonhamc.  This Austrialian joined AC/DC in 1974 and sang lead on the band's "Highway to Hell" album, among others.	Answer:	Bon Scott23. FTPE, given a description, name the Constitutional amendment.a.  Due process guaranteed		Answer:	 5b.  Direct election of senators		Answer:	 17c.  DC residents given the vote	Answer:	 2324.  It's time to name the elements!  You'll get ten points if you only need the atomic number and atomic weight (listed in that order), five if you need the symbol.a.  28; 58.69	Symbol:  Ni		Answer:	  Nickelb.  17; 35.453Symbol:  Cl	Answer:	 Chlorine c. 51; 121.75Symbol:  Sb	Answer:	 AntimonyName the African nation with something in common based on their capitals, FTPE.a.  Rabat	Answer:	Moroccob.  Antananarivo	Answer:	 Madagascarc.  Maputo	Answer:	 Mozambique 