TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY B			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Gerald Patton with one spare by Casey Retterer1.	A young, pretty woman from a family of clerks marries a petty clerk in the office of the Board of Education in Paris. She feels keenly the lack of luxuries and adornments, and is disappointed by their plain apartment. Her husband's tastes are simple, but she envies the fine trappings of the rich and their elegant attentions. Madame Loisel's envy will lead to her downfall when she and her husband attend a ball and she loses the titular borrowed object. FTP, name this ironic story by Guy de Maupassant which ends with the main character finding out that the diamonds were fake all along.       Answer:	The Necklace [or La Parure if they're showing off]2.	Two important types of these are the waxes, which form protective coatings on the leaves of plants and the skins of animals, and the steroids, which include vitamin D and several key hormones. These are distinguished from other classes of organic compounds in that they do not dissolve in water but are soluble in alcohol, ether, or other organic solvents. FTP, name this diverse group of fatty substances found in all living organisms.	Answer:	Lipids [prompt on "fats" and hope they don't say "Domino"]3.	The empty landscape of this painting and its inhabitants seem very surreal. The flat blue of the sky combined with the bright and colorful stripes of the girls dress stand out very clearly in the light of the full moon. Overlooking the central figure is a lion, which appears to offer no threat to the sleeping figure. Beside the figure are a mandolin and a water jug; her hand also holds a walking stick. FTP, name this painting by Henri Rousseau.	Answer:	The Sleeping Gipsy4.	The origin of this name is uncertain; however, it probably came from the buttons cut from coins depicting the goddess of liberty that were worn by many. The most prominent one was Ohio Congressman Clement Laird Vallandigham, who was convicted of defying a military order that forbade any declaration of sympathy with the South and was banished to the Confederacy. FTP, name this serpentine term applied during the Civil War to northern Democrats sympathetic towards the south.	Answer:	Copperheads5.	Karl Marx applied this concept to social and economic processes. Hegel believed that the evolution of ideas occurs through this. Some of the earliest examples of this method can be found in the Dialogues of Plato, in which the author sought to study truth through discussion in the form of questions and answers. Aristotle, thought of this as the search for the philosophic basis of science, and he frequently used this term as a synonym for the science of logic. FTP, name this method of investigating the nature of truth by critical analysis of concepts and hypotheses.	Answer:	Dialectic 6.	As the child of a diplomat, she was born in Peru and also lived in Bolivia and Lebanon as well as her ancestral homeland.  She migrated to Venezuela after her extended family's fortunes took a major blow in 1973.  Her works include The Infinite Plan and The Stories of Eva Luna. Of her two best known works, one contains an account of her daughter's illness and death, while the other chronicles several generations of the Trueba family. FTP, name this author of Paula and The House of the Spirits, who emigrated after the coup that ousted her uncle as president of Chile.       Answer:	Isabel Allende7.	He was born in ƒpinal, France, a descendant of a distinguished line of rabbinical scholars. He proposed that groups had characteristics that were more than, or different from, the sum of the individuals' characteristics or behaviors. He also explained suicide as a result of an individual's lack of integration in society. In his studies and writings he made much use writings dealing with aboriginal societies, to support his theories.  The coiner of the term "anomie," FTP, name this French social theorist author of The Rules of Sociological Method, The Division of Labor in Society, and Suicide: A Study in Sociology.	Answer:	ƒmile Durkheim
8.	Some these possessed exceptionally large eyes and a large field of vision, such as Carolinites. Many of these, such as Olenellus, burrowed into the sea bottom for protection and to seek food. They existed from about 500 million to about 250 million years ago. Some ranged in length from a few millimeters up to about 65 cm, although most contemporary species were between 3 and 7 cm long. FTP name this extinct class of marine arthropods named for the divison of their skeleton into 3 parts.	Answer:	Trilobites9.	Financially, this dynasty depended on the lower Yangtze region, which had become the economic and population center of the empire. In this dynasty competitive literary examinations were typically used to recruit civil officials from the literati, the highly educated sons of well-to-do families. Budhism remained a major religion during this dynasty, but a new Confucian moral philosophy came to dominate the empire during the Southern period of this dynasty. FTP, name this Chinese dynasty which was founded by Emperor Taizu, which ruled from 960-1126 and 1127-1279.	Answer:	Song (or Sung) Dynasty10.	After studying the violin and cello with his father, he mastered the piano and began to compose under the guidance of Eduard Marxsen, whose conservative tastes left a lasting imprint on him.  Later in life he went on a concert tour as accompanist to the Hungarian violinist Eduard RemŽnyi. While touring he met Joseph Joachim, who introduced him to Robert Schumann. His first major work was the Piano Concerto no. 1 in D Minor. FTP name this German romantic composer, most well known for his A German Requiem or his memorable "Lullaby".	Answer:	Johannes Brahms  11.	A typical one of these is anywhere from 5 to 20 times more massive than the Sun, which has a mass of 1.99 x 1030 kg; also they are normally 10,000 times brighter than the Sun. However, what makes these stars special is that the average brightness of one of these is always in direct proportion to its oscillation period. And because of this astronomers are able to accurately determine the distance to these stars. FTP, name this special type of variable star that was fist observed in 1784 by British astronomer John Goodricke. 	Answer:	Cepheid Variables 12.	The total casualties for this battle were estimated at more than 700,000 men, of which about 377,000 were French and about 337,000 were German. In this battle Fort Douaumont fell to the Germans on February 25. That same day General Henri Philippe PŽtain was placed in command of the French troops herer. Although Fort Harcourt was also lost to the Germans on March 22, and Fort Malancourt was captured a week later, the initial German drive for this city failed. FTP, name this WWI indecisive battle that lasted from February to December 1916.	Answer:	Battle of Verdun13.	In 1995 he formed his own label with partners Damon Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke. The brutally honest lyrics and conversational style of his first album, Reasonable Doubt, proved very popular. One of his most popular songs features this man's mellow baritone rapping over music from the Broadway show Annie, in "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)." FTP, name this current love interest of BeyoncŽ Knowles, who in 2003 released The Black Album, his last. 	Answer:	Jay-Z  (prompt on Jazzy, but accept Shawn Corey Carter) 14.	Colonel Korn permits only those people who never ask questions to ask questions; the Air Force denies the death of Mudd, who was killed before officially checking in with the squadron but declares Doc Daneeka officially dead despite Doc's fervent protests; Aarfy commits murder, but the police choose instead to arrest Yossarian for going AWOL. FTP, name this novel set on the island of Pianosa and whose title has come to represent any dilemma.       Answer:	Catch-2215.	Their chief tendency was to resist all Greek or other foreign influences that threatened to undermine their religion, and they took their stand most emphatically upon Divine Law. They were originally known as the Hasidim, and they only later became known by this name when John Hyrcanus was high priest of Judea. In addition, they wished the state and all public and political affairs to be directed and measured by the standard of Divine Law, without regard for the priestly and aristocratic Sadducees. FTP name this Hebrew sect or, more-correctly, school that is famously condemned by Jesus in the New Testament. 	Answer:	Pharisees (prompt on Hasidim)
16.	In 1911 Great Britain claimed that the U.S. had gone against the last clause of this treaty by exempting American coastal shipping from paying tolls; however, President Wilson ended this practice due to British discontent. This treaty superseded the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty of 1850 as the definitive statement of Anglo-American policy concerning an Atlantic-Pacific canal. FTP, name this treaty that was negotiated in 1901 between the U.S. and Britain, which provided for the construction and regulation of a canal across the Isthmus of Panama.	Answer:	Hay-Pauncefote Treaty17.	This is normally divided into sweet and bitter varieties and the latter requires an elaborate detoxification process before consumption. This was probably first cultivated in what is now Venezuela in circa 2000 BCE, and its use spread west to the coast of Peru and south into the Amazon basin. FTP, name this tuber the principle staple crop of agricultural groups of the forest lowlands of northeastern South America.	Answer:	manioc18.   For several years the main character of this work has managed the estates of his brother in law, the retired professor Aleksandr Vladimirovich Serebryakov. However, the main character eventually comes to believe that Serebryakov is not the great scholar he once thought he was, and his hatred for Serebrakov is increased when he falls in love with Eleyna Andreyevna. FTP, identify this play by Anton Chekhov subtitled Scenes From Country Life in Four Acts.       Answer:	Uncle Vanya19.	This can be produced by the hydrogenation of carbon or carbon oxide, by the action of water on aluminum carbide, or by heating sodium acetate with alkali. It occurs in natural gas, as firedamp in coal mines, as a by-product of petroleum refining, and as a product of decomposition of matter in swamps. FTP, identify this first member of the alkane series of hydrocarbons; a gas with formula CH4.	Answer:	Methane (except CH4 before it appears in the question)20.	This is formed high in the Swiss Alps by the Vorderrhein and the Hinterrhein, which join near the town of Chur. It drains an area of 220,000 sq km, which is larger than North Carolina and South Carolina combined. Its major tributaries are the Aare,  Neckar, Main, Lahn, Ill, Mosel, Ruhr, and Lippe. FTP, name this river that flows 1,320 km in a generally northwestern direction through Austria, Liechtenstein, France, Germany, and the Netherlands, to its mouth on the North Sea.	Answer:	Rhine River21.	For neutrinos, the change in this is reflected in the MNS Matrix while the equivalent for quarks is in the CKM Matrix. Antiparticles have a -1 unit of the corresponding particle property that identifies types of fermions.  For ten points, identify this property that includes electron, muon, tau, electron neutrino, muon neutrino and tau neutrino for leptons and up, down, charm, strange, top and bottom for quarks.	Answer:	 Flavor22.	This god lived on a great mountain from which he would send storms, floods, famine, or pestilence to enforce his will when he was angry. He was one of the offspring of the wind god Anu and one of the four leading Sumerian deities. He played an important part in the Sumerian flood myth, since he was responsible for the initial decision to destroy the human race. FTP, name this Sumerian god of air.	Answer:	Enlil23.	This demanded that the king desist from levying taxes without parliaments consent, that he cease billeting soldiers and sailors in the homes of private citizens and proclaiming martial law in time of peace, and that no subject be imprisoned without cause shown. Fortunately, Charles agreed to sign this petition in exchange for parliamentary approval of funds needed to maintain his foreign policy. FTP name this title of a petition addressed to King Charles I by Parliament in 1628, which would later become a major part of the English Constitution.	Answer:	Petition of Right
BONI - KENTUCKY B			Center of the Known Universe Open 2005 -- UT-ChattanoogaQuestions by Gerald Patton1.	Identify the following important physical constants, FTPE.[10] h= 6.6252 x 10^-34 joule-sec	Answer:	Planck's constant[10] k= 1.3804 x 10^-23 joule/degrees Kelvin	Answer:	Boltzmann's constant[10] F= 9.652 x 10^7 coulombs/kilomole	Answer:	Faraday's constant2.	Identify the following European capitals from the country, FTPE.[10] Bosnia and Herzegovina	Answer:	Sarajevo[10] Romania	Answer:	Bucharest[10] Latvia	Answer:	Riga 3.	Identify the following music terms from a definition that begin with the letter "a", FTPE.[10] This is a lyric song for solo voice with orchestral accompaniment, generally expressing intense emotion.	Answer:	aria[10] This is a broken chord in which the individual tones are sounded one after another instead of simultaneously.	Answer:	arpeggio [10] This is a German dance in moderate duple time, popular during the Renaissance and Baroque periods; often the first movement of a Baroque suite.	Answer:	allemande4.	Identify the following concerning a Roman town.[10] Destroyed on August 24, AD 79; identify this town containing such famous features as the Stabian baths, the Temple of Vespasian, and the House of the Faun.	Answer:	Pompeii[10] Name the writer who wrote an account of the eruption and destruction of Pompeii, for the historian Tacitus.	Answer:	Pliny the Younger (prompt on Pliny)[10] Finally, name the Roman general and dictator who founded Pompeii as a Roman Colony in 80 BCE.	Answer:	Lucius Cornelius Sulla 5.	FTPE, stuff about a certain author:Her first novel, Alexander's Bridge, clearly showed the influence of Henry James.  Then she met local color author Sarah Orne Jewett, who advised her to shift to her adopted home of Nebraska as her major influence.       Answer:	Willa Cather[10] This is Cather's story of both a Bohemian immigrant to the state of Nebraska in the 1880s, and the novel's American-born narrator who creates his own image of the titular character in a nostalgic re-creation of his childhood and youth.	Answer:	My çntonia[10] Name this American-born narrator of My Antonia who acts as Cather's persona.	Answer:	Jim and/or Burden6.	Name the Louis from a description, FTPE.[10] This Louis was the last king of France, prior to the French Revolution.	Answer:	Louis XVI[10] He was known as the "Sun King" and he built the palace of Versaille.	Answer:	Louis XIV[10] Name this Louis who ruled from 1610-1643 who had as his chief minister the Cardinal Richelieu.	Answer:	Louis XIII
7.	Identify the following albums that are currently stacked haphazardly on my desk, from songs on that album, FTPE (you will get 5 if you need the band/group/or artist)[10] Jesus Walks, Slow Jamz, The New Workout Plan, and Graduation Day[5] Kanye West 	Answer:	The College Dropout[10] Prison Song, Chop Suey!, and Aerials[5] System of a Down	Answer:	Toxicity[10] All the Love in the World, The Hand that Feeds, and your writer's personal favorite Every Day is Exactly the Same.[5] Nine Inch Nails	Answer:	With Teeth8.	Identify the following recent Nobel Prize winners in Literature, FTPE.[10] He won in 1999 because his "black fables portray the forgotten face of history."	Answer:	Gunter Grass[10] Works by this 2003 winner include Waiting for Barbarians, Boyhood: Scenes from Provincial Life, and Age of Iron.	Answer:	John Maxwell Coetzee[10] Read the papers this month?  Good.  Name the 2005 winner, who, quote "uncovers the precipice under everyday prattle and forces entry into oppression's closed rooms," unquote, in plays like The Birthday Party and The Caretaker.	Answer:	Harold Pinter9.	I will give you a chemical name, and you will give the corresponding common name, FTPE.[10] Sodium tetraborate or Sodium borate	Answer:	Borax[10] Tirchlormethane	Answer:	Chloroform[10] Potassium acid tartrate	Answer:	Cream of Tartar10.	Identify the following works by Immanuel Kant, FTPE.[10] This book is probably the single most important work of philosophy of the modern era. In this work he tried to define the possibilities and limits of our knowledge. In this work he states that no once can ever know how the world "really is."	Answer:	Critique of Pure Reason[10] In this work Kant states that knowledge of God is only obtained through moral feelings. This work tries to construct a philosophy of ethic's bases on the free will of man.	Answer:	Critique of Practical Reason[10] Finally, this work by Kant states that the representation of a thing in art constitutes a partial understanding of the "thing in itself."	Answer:	Critique of Judgment11.	Identify the following figures from U.S. history from their nicknames, FTPE.[10] He was known as Boy General, Long Hair, and White Chief with Yellow Hair.	Answer:	George Armstrong Custer[10] He was known as Boy Orator of the Platte, Great Commoner, Peerless Leader, and Silver-tongued Orator.	Answer:	William Jennings Bryan[10] She was known as the Heaven-sent Angel of Mercy and of Prison Reform.	Answer:	Dorothea Lynde Dix12.	Identify the following constellations, from stars in the constellation, FTPE.[10] Castor and Pollux	Answer:	Gemini[10] Sirius, Adara, and Furud	Answer:	Canis Major[10] Thuban, Rastaban, and Nodus Secundus 	Answer:	Draco
13.  FTPE name the Dostoyevsky works from descriptions.  Titles in English, please; we didn't type in the Russian titles.[10] This novel's action revolves around the lives of Dmitry, Ivan, Alyosha, and the illegitimate Smerdyakov.	Answer:	The Brothers Karamazov[10] This work has two plot lines, one depicting the revolutionary movement in Russia and the other tracing the strange career of Nikolay Stavrogin.	Answer:	The Possessed (or The Devils or The Demons)[10] This work, based on Dostoyevsky's own experience at Omsk, chronicles what life was like in a Siberian prison.	Answer:	The House of the Dead14.	Identify the following painter from works, 30-20-10.[30] The Fall of the Rebel Angels, Landscape with the Fall of Icarus, The Painter and the Connoisseur[20] The Magpie on the Gallows, The Peasant and the Nest Robber, The Tower of Babel[10] Netherlandish Proverbsü The Peasant Wedding, The Hunters in the Snow	Answer:	Pieter Brueghel the Elder (prompt on Brueghel)15.	Psychology laws, FTPE.[10] This is a basic law of learning that states that the power of a stimulus to evoke a response is strengthened when the response is followed by a reward and weakened when it is not followed by a reward.	Answer:	law of effect[10] This is a law of grouping that states that elements moving in the same direction at the same rate are grouped together.	Answer:	law of common fate[10] Finally, this is a law of grouping that states that the nearest elements are grouped together.	Answer:	law of proximity 16.	Time for an anatomy question.  FTSNOP answer the following about long bones from a description.[10] This, also called the shaft, is the long tubular portion of a long bone, and it is composed of compact bone tissue.	Answer:	diaphysis[10] This is the term for the expanded end of a long bone, which meets the diaphysis in an area called the metaphysis.	Answer:	epiphysis[5/5] These are the two long bones paired in the human leg between the knee and the ankle.	Answers:	tibia and fibula 17.	Identify the following 20th Century U.S. Supreme Court cases from a description, FTPE.Consolidated with three other cases, this 1966 ruling held that criminal suspects must be informed of their rights under the Fifth and Sixth Amendments before they can be interrogated.	Answer:	Miranda v. Arizona[10] This 1945 case determined that the executive order placing Japanese Americans in internment camps was legal.	Answer:	Korematsu vs. U.S.[10] This 1982 case said that entire cars could be searched without a warrant if there is probable cause.	Answer:	U.S. vs. Ross18.	Identify these deities from Egyptian myth from a description, FTPE.[10] This was the goddess of love and joy who protected women and was represented as a cow.	Answer:	Hathor[10] This was the scarab beetle god who rolled the sun before him across the sky. He represented the ideas of rebirth and eternal life.	Answer:	Khepri[10] This was the goddess of truth and justice, she was represented as a woman setting on her heals or standing and wearing an ostrich plume.	Answer:	Maat 
19.	Identify the following plays by Aristophanes, which deal with women, from the characters, FTPE.[10] Kalonike, Reconciliation, Myrrhine, Lampito, and the title character whose name means "disbander of armies"	Answer:	Lysistrata [10] Euripides, Kinsman, Mika, Kleisthenes, Agathon, and Elaphion.	Answer:	Women at the Thesmophoria[10] Praxagora, First and Second Woman, Blepyros, Chremes, Epigenes.	Answer:	Assemblywomen20.  Identify the following concepts dealing with macroeconomics named after the people who developed them, FTPE.[10] This is the accumulated loss of output that results from a slow-down in the growth rate of real GDP per person.	Answer:	Lucas wedge[10] This rule adjusts the growth rate of the monetary base to target the inflation rate, but also to take into account changes in the trend productivity growth rate and fluctuations in aggregate demand.	Answer:	McCallum rule[10] This curve shows the relationship between the tax rate and the amount of tax revenue collected.	Answer:	Laffer curve21.	Identify the following arches, FTPE.[10] This arch consists of a lintel connected with the jambs of the doorway by corbels. The corbels start with a concave quadrant and continue vertically to meet the lintel.	Answer:	shouldered arch[10] This is a late medieval pointed arch whose shanks start with a curve near to a quarter circle and continue to the apex in a straight line.	Answer:	Tudor arch[10] Finally, this type of arch has its springing line raised by vertical piers above the impost level. 	Answer:	stilted arch22.	Identify the following divisions of the interphase stage of the cell cycle, FTPE.[10] This phase prepares cells for DNA replication.	Answer:	G1 Phase[10] This is the phase in which DNA replication happens.	Answer:	S Phase[10] This phase prepares cells for mitosis.	Answer:	G2 Phase