Dork Bowl I: Dorkier Than ThouRoundOglethorpe University1.   When he emerged from a coma in Nashville on December 27, he and his brother joked about "bringing some alcohol up to his room and getting him drunk."  Alcohol has been one of his smaller problems, though, since this 68-year old is currently serving a 99-year prison sentence.  For ten points, who is this convicted assassin, who, three days after it happened, recanted his confession to a famous 1968 murder?							James Earl Ray2.  He won at Williamsburg and Fair Oaks, but lost in the Battles of the Seven Days and Second Bull Run.  He won at Antietam, but a slow followup cost him his command.  FTP, name this New Jersey governor who lost the presidential election of 1864 to Abe Lincoln. 							George McClellan3.  From Italian, this artist's name literally translates as "ugly Tom," because he was so devoted to his art that he ignored his appearance.  Born in Florence in 1401, he is noted for painting action by utilizing gestures and groupings of figures all in one field.  He is famous for the fresco cycle in the Brancacci Chapel of the Saint Maria del Carmine.  FTP, name this artist best known for the Tribute Money.							Masaccio 4.  The fourth-oldest college football bowl started only a year after the Orange and Sugar Bowls with tiny Hardin-Simmons College defeating New Mexico State 14-13.  Four years later, Utah shut out New Mexico 26-0, the first of what would be 9 shutouts in its 61 year history, the most recent being this past season. For ten points, in what El Paso, Texas bowl game did Stanford wallop Michigan State 38-0?							Sun Bowl5.  His companion is a beggar who knows 63 ways to make money and 214 ways to spend it.  His adventures take him to many strange lands, including a place the inhabitants eat and drink nothing but air.  Born when his father was 400 years old, he ate the cow that was nursing him--no small feat even for a baby giant.  FTP, name this creation of Francois Rabelais.							Pantagruel6. Aconitase, fumarase, succinate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, and citrate synthase are all enzymes of, FTP, what biological pathway which provides reducing power for the electron transport chain in cellular respiration?				Citric Acid Cycle (accept Krebs Cycle)(prompt on "enzymes")7.  Ernst Cassirer studied the way man uses symbols in language, myth and art.  Ferdinand Saussure analyzed the human sign as the union of the signifier and the signified.  Charles S. Peirce, the first to distinguish clearly between dyadic and triadic behavior, is another early proponent.  FTP name their shared discipline, defined as the study of signs and their use.	Semiotics 8.  When his plane crashed on December 10, 1967 killing him at age 26, he had developed quite a following among rhythm and blues enthusiasts for his distinctive vocal style.  His first hit was "These Arms of Mine," followed by "Mr. Pitiful," "I've Been Loving You Too Long (To Stop Now)," and "Try a Little Tenderness."  FTP name this Georgia native, who three days before he died, recorded his biggest hit, "The Dock of the Bay."		Otis Redding9.  She has dabbled in science fiction with the five-novel series Canopus in Argos:  Archives.  Critics consider her ber most substantial work to be her series of novels about Martha Quest.   She is best known to the common man and college bowler, however, for a 1962 novel in which a woman attempts to come to terms with her art.  For ten points, name this Iranian born author of the Golden Notebook.								Doris Lessing10. An equation which bears his name is often used in thermochemical calculations, especially in calorimetry.  The equation relates the change in enthalpy for a process to the equilibrium constant for that process at different temperatures. FTP, identify this Dutch chemist who was awarded the first Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1901.							Jacobus van't Hoff11.  Born in Boudry, Switzerland, in 1743, as a doctor he believed the French Academy had conspired to keep him from receiving the recognition he deserved.  However, he abandoned his medical practice in 1789 for a higher cause.  FTP, who was this Frenchman, Jacobin and founder of the newspaper L'Ami du Peuple, who was murdered in his bathtub in 1793 by Charlotte Corday?							Jean-Paul Marat12.  Born in 1914 in Tianjin, China, he served as a foreign correspondent in the Far East, Italy, and Russia for Time and Life from 1937 to 1946.  He is well known for his documentary fiction about catastrophic events in World War II as seen in The Wall.  He is best known, however, for his 1944 novel depicting the Allied occupation of a Sicilian town during WWII.  For ten points, who is this author, winner of the 1945 Pullitzer Prize for A Bell for Adano?							John Hersey	     13.  Its chemical name is vinylidene chloride polymer, and it is also known as velon and cryovac.  Developed by Dow Chemical Company in the 1940's, it is strong, transparent, and moistureproof.  Fibers of it make excellent belts, insect screens, and automobile seat covers.  For ten points, give the more common name of this plastic, manufactured in thin, flexible sheets, most often used to "wrap" meats, fruit, and vegetables?							Saran 14. In an endothermic reaction, the products more closely resemble the intermediate than do the reactants.  In an exothermic reaction, the reactants more closely resemble the intermediate than do the products.  This is a statement of, FTP, what postulate of organic chemistry named for a former CalTech professor?       Hammond Postulate 15.  He published a successful volume of poetry in 1894, Sonnets and Other VersesA skeptic, he wrote that our knowledge of the external world depends on an act of  "animal faith." .  He proved his talent as a novelist in 1935 with The Last Puritan.  FTP, identify this Spanish philosopher who authored such philosophical works as The Sense of Beauty, The Life of Reason, and Realms of Being.							George Santayana 16.  Born in Rogers, Texas in 1931, he danced in Lester Horton's company and appeared in several Broadway productions in the 1950's.  In 1958, however, he formed his own dance troupe, and later retired to do choreography.  His most famous work, Revelations, is a soulful study of religious spirit.  For ten points, who is this African-American choreographer, whose dance troupe bears his name?							Alvin Ailey   17.  His wife, Myra, is a colorless woman whom he married to avoid hurting her feelings.  His daughter marries Kenneth Escott, a newspaper reporter.  When his son Ted elopes with Eunice Littlefield, Ted secretly earns his father's admiration for daring to follow his dreams.  For ten points, who is this character, a real estate dealer from the fictional town of Zenith and the namesake of a 1922 novel by Sinclair Lewis?							George F. Babbitt18.   A proponent of monism, he held in contrast to Descartes that mind and body are aspects of a single substance, which he called God or Nature. Born in Amsterdam in 1623, he was expelled from the Dutch Jewish community in 1656 for heresy and attacked by Christian theologians 14 years later.  FTP, name this Dutch philosopher, who presents his views in a mathematical system of deductive reasoning in his Ethics.							Baruch Spinoza19.  Keats writes "Ode to a Nightingale," Scott authors Ivanhoe, and Percy Shelley produces "Prometheus Unbound."  Florence Nightingale, Susan B. Anthony, and Fredrich Engels are born.  King George II of England died and was succeeded by George IV, and a revolution occured in Portugal.  For ten points, give the common year, which also saw Maine and Missouri become states under the Missouri Compromise?							182020.  Her career has, in the past year, taken her from TV sitcoms to music videos to the big screen.  She can be seen in commercials for BellSouth and Mastercard.  She appears in Counting Crows' newest video, "Long December," in which she mostly just tries to look sad.  She recently appeared as tabloid reporter Gail Weathers in Wes Craven's Scream.  FTP, name this actress, who plays Monica on NBC's hit series Friends?							Courtney Cox21. Situated on the southern coast of its country at the mouth of the Ozama River, this city was mostly destroyed by a hurricane in 1930.  The most impressive example of its Spanish colonial architecture is the Alcazar, the former palace of Viceroy Diego Columbus, Christopher Columbus' son and nephew of Bartholomew Columbus, the founder of the city.  For ten points, what is this Latin American city, founded in 1496 as Nueva Isabella and known from the 1930's to 1960's as Ciudad Trujillo, the oldest city in the Western Hemisphere?							Santo Domingo   23.  In 1821 he issued the Plan of Iguala which declared an independent Mexico.  A year later, he betrayed the liberals, declaring himself Emperor Augustin I in the style of Napoleon.  Within 10 months he had been overthrown and sent into exile in Europe but he returned a year later only to be captured and shot.  For ten points, who was this Mexican historical figure, a one-time ally of Santa Anna and Mexico's first emperor?							Augustin de Iturbide

Bonuses for Oglethorpe Round1.  Christmas season is over, but how much do you remember from some classic Yule-time flics?  Answer these questions for five points each with a bonus five for all five correct.	5--What actor supplied the voice of the Grinch in Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas?						Boris Karloff	5--In The Christmas Story, what is Aunt Clara's gift to Ralphie?  (Hint:  "the pink nightmare")						a bunny suit  (ACC: equivalent)	5--What is the name of George Bailey's guardian angel in It's a Wonderful Life?						Clarence	5--What is the name of Rudolph's love interest in the classic stop-action animation special Rudolph 		the Red-Nosed Reindeer?						Clarisse	5--In the Peanuts' Christmas special, for what does Snoopy win a blue ribbon 1st prize?						decorating his dog house (ACC: equivalent)2.  Given the first names from a family from the works of William Faulkner, name the family for ten.  If you need the novel from which they come, you'll earn 5 points.	10--Thomas, Henry, Judith, Clytemnestra or Clytie	5--Absalom, Absalom							Sutpen	10-Anse, Addie, Darl, Jewel, Cash, Vardaman, Dewey Dell	5--As I Lay Dying							Bundren	10--Jason Lycurgus (III), Caroline, Candace or Caddy, Jason (IV), Quentin, Dilsey, Benjamin or		Benjy	5--The Sound and the Fury							Compson3.  Given a famous verse from the Bible, name the book from which it comes for 5 points.  If you can name the chapter in addition to the book, you'll earn an additional five points (verses are from New Revised Standard Version).  (Reader's note:  team must have book right to get points for chapter.)	10--"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God."							John 1 :1	10--"Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding."							Proverbs 3 :4	10--"I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me."							Phillippians 4:134.  For 5 points each, name the 6 epochs of the Cenozoic era.						Pleistocene, Pliocene, Miocene, 						Oligocene, Eocene, Paleocene5.  In honor of the coming African-American history month, here's a bonus about African-American firsts.  FTPE.a) When this man was elected mayor of Cleveland in 1967, he became the first black mayor of a large American city.  Name him.							Carl B. Stokesb) Who, on June 30, 1967, became the first African-American astronaut in space?							Richard Lawrencec) For five points each, name both the first African-American playwrite to have a play produced on Broadway and the play he had produced.							Lorraine Hansberry A Raisin in the Sun6. Given each of the following organic compounds, for the stated number of points, tell how many carbons each contains.A. F5P, tolueneANS: 7B. FTP, xyleneANS: 8C. F15P, cholesterolANS: 27 7.  Given the year or years of a team that won the World Series name it for ten points. Hint: The years listed are the only Fall Classics these teams have ever won.	10--1924			Washington Senators	10--1985			Kansas City Royals	10--1987, 1991			Minnesota Twins8.  Given the title of a '90s dance hit, name the group that performed it, ten points each.  And please...no macarenas.10--Beautiful LifeAce of Base10--Be My LoverLa Bouche10--Another NightReal McCoy	9.  I'll give you the year in which a famous author won the Nobel Prize in Literature, and you tell me that person for 10 points.  If you need a work by that author, I'll give you only five.	10--1907	5- -"The White Man's Burden"			Rudyard Kipling	10--1925	5--Major Barbara			George Bernard Shaw	10--1957	5--Caligula			Albert Camus10.   One of Emile Durkheim's best known works is an 1897 work in which he explores suicide as a social phenomenon.  For ten points each, answer the following questions about that work.	10--What was the title of the book?						SuicideIn Suicide, Durkheim utilises two social variables to classify four types of suicide.  He argues that too much or too little of either variable will lead to a suicide.  For ten points each, name these two variables.						Integration and Regulation11.  Have you ever wandered what actually IS in the foods you eat?  Given a description of one of the mystery substances often found in the ingredient lists of modern food, name it, 10 points each.  If you need the letter it starts with and the number of letters, you'll earn 5.10--A thickening agent obtained from seaweed, large amounts of it have been found to harm test animals' colons.  It can be found in ice cream, jelly, chocolate milk, and infant formula.5--the letter C, 11 letters							carrageenan10--This emulsifier and antioxidant is used to keep soil and water from separating, retarding rancidity, reducing spattering in the frying pan, and yielding fluffier cakes.  It is a common consituent of animal and plant tissue and a source of the nutrient choline.5--the letter L, 8 letters							lecithin10--This chemical, in large amounts, can have a laxative effect.  It is used in "cavity-fighting" chewing gums because oral bacteria do not metabolize it well.  It may also be found in dietetic foods and drinks and, of all places, shredded coconut. 5-the letter S, 8 letters							sorbitol  12. Given the title of a Stephen Foster song and a line from that song, give the next line in the song according to Foster's original.  Singing is encouraged, but not required.10--Camptown Races:  "...I'll bet my money on the bobtail nag..."					"...Somebody bet on the bay."10--Old Folks at Home:  "...There's where my heart is a-burnin' quiver...."					"...There's where the old folks stay."10--Oh, Susanna:  "It was so hot, I froze to death..."					"...Susanna don't you cry."13. Answer the following questions about molecular genetics FTP each.A. After the process of transcription and addition of a 5 prime cap and poly-A tail to the nascent transcript, what general type of molecule has been formed?ANS: MESSENGER RNA (ACC: mRNA, prompt on  RNA )B. These enzymes prevent the DNA double helix from super-coiling during DNA replication.ANS: TOPOISOMERASESC. Not every portion of a transcribed gene is translated into a protein.  What is the name given to the non-coding regions of messenger RNA which are spliced out in the nucleus?ANS: INTRONS  14.  I'll give you a list of plays in which a Shakespearean character of a certain name appears.  You give me that name for ten points.  If you need a description of where the character of that name fits in one of the plays, you'll get 5 points. 10--Much Ado About Nothing, The Tempest, Two Gentlemen of Verona, Twelfth Night, Merchant of Venice5--In Merchant of Venice, he is the merchant who borrows money from Shylock and therefore issupposedly required to give him a pound of flesh.					Antonio10--Two Gentlemen of Verona, Twelfth Night, Titus Andronicus5--He is one of the Two Gentlemen of Verona						Valentine10--Much Ado About Nothing, Merchant of Venice, Romeo and Juliet, Comedy of Errors5--Almost all of the characters with this name are minor ones--servant of Portia in Merchant, servantof Don Pedro in Much Ado, a merchant in Comedy, and a servant of Romeo in Romeo and Juliet.  						Balthasar					15.  Give the exact year of the following '70's events for ten points each, for five if you are within one year.a)  Patty Hearst is kidnapped by the Symbionese Liberation Army on February 4.						10:  1974						 5:  1973 or 1975b)  Viking I lands on Mars on July 20						10:  1976						 5:  1975 or 1977c)  William H Rehnquist is named to the Supreme Court.						10:  1971						  5:  1970 or 197216.  Place these battles from the Hundred Years War in chronological order from earliest to latest, for five points for each correctly placed battle.  Here are the battles:  Crecy, Fougeres, Limoges, Orleans, Poitiers (the first), Rouen				Crecy (1346), Poitiers (1356),  Limoges (1370), 				Rouen (1419), Orleans (1429), Fougeres (1449)17.  Given a definition of a philosophical or theological term, identify it for ten points.10--In theology, the study of final things, particularly the second coming of Christ.						eschatology10--The belief that what will be will be.						fatalism10--View stating that all phenomena can be explained in terms of physical causes and laws withoutattributing moral or spiritual significance to them.						naturalism18.  Tell in which modern-day country each of the following may be located, FTPE.	10--the ruins of Timbuktu						Mali	10--The former site of the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus						Turkey	10--The ruins of ancient Carthage						Tunisia19. Given the international auto registration letters, name the European country for ten points each.10--SFFinland10--CHSwitzerland10--ESpain	 20.  For ten points each, identify each of the following world leaders who has been in the news lately.	10--The current leader of Israel				Benjamin Netanyahu	10--The current leader of Serbia				Slobodan Milosevic	10--The current leader of Peru				Alberto Fujimori21.  You may know that Sirius is the brightest star in the nighttime sky, but do you know other bright stars?  I'll give you the constellation of one of the other ten brightest stars, and you name the star, FTP each.10--CarinaCanopus10--Bootes					Arcturus					10--LyraVega