2009 Geography Monstrosity
Packet by Firth of Forth Four (Brendan Byrne and Mike Cheyne)
Edited by George Stevens

1. A 2004 book by John Mendelsohn and Selma el Obeid is subtitled The Flow of a Lifeline, and is titled after this body of water.  The Popa Falls lie on this river, while the city of Maun near its delta is known as its nation's capital of tourism. Inhabitants of this river's delta were forced to flee across the Khwai River during the 1960s when its Moremi Game Reserve was designated a national park, and it provides water to Lake Ngami. Much of this river's water is eventually discharged into the Boteti River, which itself flows into the Makgadikgadi Pan. For 20 points, identify this river of Angola, Namibia and Botswana that empties into its namesake delta in the Kalahari Desert, thus never making it to the ocean.
ANSWER: Okavango River [accept Cubango River]
2. One river that runs through this state is the Chaloosa, whose valley was explored by Father Emilie Fauthoux in the mid 1700's, while another geographical landmark is the Tonawanda Hills. This state's notable feats in education include sporting the first university in the world to ever conduct extension courses by radio. Lesser known cities in this state include Catawba, Galop de Vache, and Mohalis, while important architectural landmarks include the thirty-five story tall Second National Tower. While this state's most important city was founded in 1792, it did not enjoy mass settlement until the 1860's. Politicians who hailed from this state include Lucas Prout, while the powerful Revelation Motor ? Company was founded in this state as well. Taking its name from a Potawatomi word for "catfish," better known residents of this state include Seneca Doane and the former Fran Voelker. For 10 points, identify this Midwestern state, which contains the sprawling city Zenith, the setting of such novels as Dodsworth, Arrowsmith, and Babbitt, and, of course, was created by Sinclair Lewis.
ANSWER: Winnemac
3. One of this archipelago's islands includes Ses Paisses, a Bronze Age village which contains many megaliths called Talaiots, and another island contains a tomb called Naveta des Tudons. A cave at Es Culleram in this archipelago was the site of a shrine to Tanit, and important ancient cities here included Ciutadella and Mao or Mago. This archipelago's capital contains a sports arena that once hosted a Roger Federer match that was conducted on a half clay, half grass court, the so-called "Battle of the Surfaces", and its "Privilege" is recognized by Guinness as the world's largest nightclub. The author of a 1283 novel about a young man who becomes pope titled Blanquerna was born here. Besides Ramon Llull, this polity was also the birthplace to Federer's opponent in the aforementioned match, ? Rafael Nadal. The Pine and Gymnesian island chains are its two main groups, and this archipelago has deep cultural connections with Catalonia, which is located to its north. With capital at Palma, for 10 points, identify this autonomous community consisting of Ibiza, Menorca and Mallorca, islands off the east coast of the Spanish mainland.
ANSWER: Balearic Islands [or Illes Balears; or Islas Baleares]
4. This mountain has been painted by such artists as Mabel Moores Frisbee and Harry Cassie Best. Glaciers on this mountain include the Hotlum and Wintun, while local mythology claims that the spirit chief Skell lives on this peak. The first reliable sighting of this peak is credited to fur trapper Peter Skene Ogden, who gave it its name, although French explorer La Perouse claimed to have seen its last eruption. Frederick Spencer Oliver's A Dweller on Two Planets claims that Lemurians lived inside this mountain, and this forms a National Forest named after itself and the nearby Trinity Alps. Located in Siskiyou County, this peak's namesake river is a tributary of the Klamath, and the 1975 Summit Lighthouse Conference run by Elizabeth Clare Prophet met at its base. Guy Ballard once claimed to have met the alchemist Comte de Saint-Germain while hiking here, an event that prompted the formation of the "I AM" Activity movement, and poet Joaquin Miller frequently wrote about this peak and spent years living with the Native Americans near it. The second highest peak of the ? Cascades is, for 10 points, which stratovolcano of northern California?
ANSWER: Mount Shasta [or Sasty; or Sastisse; or the White Mountain]
5. A children's library in this city is named after the author of Tambores en la Noche, the black poet Jorge Artel. Centenary Park, built to commemorate a century of independence, can be found in this city's Getsemani Neighborhood. At the end of the Dique Canal in this city, ethnologist Gerardo Reichel-Dolmatoff discovered settlements belonging to the Monsu culture, which created artificial mounds that apparently were communal huts. This city features a monument to a woman named "India Catalina," who worked as the interpreter for Pedro de Heredia. In this city's Santo Domingo Square there can be found the sculpture Mujer Reclinada by Fernando Botero, and it is served by an airport named after a leader of the La Regeneracion movement, Rafael Nunez. This city was assaulted by the French and their buccaneer allies in a bloody 1697 incident during the War of the Grand Alliance, and later, a huge British force under ? Admiral Vernon failed to take this city during the War of Jenkin's Ear. Named after a port in Murcia, for 10 points, identify this port city of Colombia which gives its name to an 1812 manifesto written by Simon Bolivar.
ANSWER: Cartagena de Indias
6. This region is the northernmost section of an entity with capital at Faya-Largeau, and the Mourdi Depression lies south of it. The Daza and Teda people are subgroups of the Toubou ethnic group which inhabits this region, and one nation claims that its people are members of the Senussi sect, and should therefore be a part of that nation. A 1994 ruling by the ICJ settled a disagreement between neighboring countries over this region, and it is part of the Bourkou-Ennedi-Tibesti region of the nation which controls it. Said to be rich in Uranium deposits, it forms the southern border of a country once led by King Idris and currently ruled by Muhamar Qaddafi. For 15 points, name this sparsely populated region of the Sahara in northern Chad which is claimed by Libya.
ANSWER: Aouzou Strip [Prompt on "Chad" or "Northern Chad" before read]
7. A barrio and a hospital in Caracas are named after this city, while a city in Panama near Capira also took its name from it. This city's primary industry was coal-mining and it benefited from its location near the mines of Kladno. Currently, this city is home to a "Rosarium" with over 20,000 rose bushes, as well as a sculpture created by Marie Uchytilov‡ that depicts eighty-two children. This city is best known for events during World War II, which occurred after the success of "Operation Anthropoid." For 20 points, identify this Czech village which, after the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, had its population massacred and its buildings completely destroyed by Nazis.
ANSWER: Lidice [or Liditz]
8. A cave called Devil's Kitchen and a rock called Sugar Loaf can be found at this location, while the "father of gastric physiology," William Beaumont performed his initial experiments on Alexis St. Martin here in 1822. This island was the site of the second national park in the United States, which later became its namesake state park, and it once served as the center of John Jacob Astur's American Fur Company. A 1947 film starring Esther Williams and Jimmy Durante, This Time for Keeps, was filmed at this location, as was a romance starring Christopher Reeve and Jane Seymour, Somewhere in Time. According to native legend, ? Michabou created this location and it served as the home of the Great Spirit known as the Gitche Manitou. Featuring Fort Holmes, which was named for a casualty during an 1814 battle fought at this site, this location is noted for its delicious fudge and its draconian anti-automobile laws. For 10 points, identify this noted tourist destination, an island located in its namesake strait between the upper and lower peninsulas of Michigan. 
ANSWER: Mackinac Island
9. Tourist destinations in this state include the Belum Caves and Horsley Hills, and the Kuchipudi is a dance which originates from it. This state surrounds the enclave of Yanam, which belongs to Pondicherry, and it was the target of Operation Polo because Asaf Jah VII, its last Nizam, chose not to become part of India. Kakinada and Visakhapatnam are the chief ports of this state, and its two main rivers are the Krishna and the Godavari. The Vijavanagar once ruled from this state, and the ancient ruins of Golconda lie in it. Bordered by the states of Karnataka and Orissa and lying on the ? Bay of Bengal, for 10 points, name this Telugu-speaking Indian state with capital at Hyderabad, which is not to be confused with the similarly named states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
ANSWER: Andhra Pradesh
10. According to oral traditions of nearby cultures, men once saved themselves from being sacrificed if they journeyed to this location, which they called Enen-kio, to obtain the wing bone of a seabird found on it. In 1935, a village named "PAAville" was constructed at this location by Pan-American Airlines as a stopover on its US-China route. One notable incident in its history occurred in 1866, when an English opera troupe was stranded here after their ship, the Libelle, was wrecked off its eastern reef and this location once named "San Francisco" by its European discoverer, Alvaro de Mendana de Neyra. Books about this location include histories written by James Devereux and Winfield Cunningham, the latter of which once said "Send us more Japs!" in response to a failed landing during World War Two, and Admiral Shigematsu Sakaibara was later executed for ordering a 1943 massacre of American prisoners of war here. Featuring Wilkes and Peale Islands, which both surround a central lagoon, for 10 points, identify this atoll which takes its name from its largest island, the site of a December 1941 battle sometimes called the "Alamo of the Pacific."
ANSWER: Wake Island [or Wake Atoll; accept "Enen-kio" until read; accept "San Francisco" until read]
11. This body of water has one branch that begins at Okamanpeedan Lake, while the more northerly branch begins at Lake Shetek, and the two meet in Frank Gotch State Park. This river was named after the Otoe tribe when it first appeared on maps, and it is dammed to create the Red Rock and Saylorville reservoirs. Although the vast majority of this river's length lies in one state, some cities in the other state that this river flows by are Currie and Windom, while in its main state, it flows past Algona, Chillicothe, Fort Dodge and Ottumwa. The Raccoon River empties into this river at the downtown of this river's namesake city, and it forms a small part of the border between two Midwestern states that fought a bloodless 1839 conflict called the Honey War. Emptying into the Mississippi at Keokuk, for 10 points, name this river which forms part of Missouri's western border and shares its name with the capital of Iowa.
ANSWER: Des Moines River [or La Riviere; or Le Moine River; or Monk River; or Nadouessioux River, Outontantes River; or River Demoin; or River of the Maskoutens; or River of the Peouareas]
12. Bo Jonsson was the first owner of one castle in this archipelago, which is thought to have been the farthest extent to which the Comb Ceramic culture spread in the west. This archipelago was transferred to one nation via the Treaty of Hamina, and its only land border is on the skerry of Market. Ytternas, Langnas and Berghamn are among the main ports of this archipelago, whose main island is Fasta. The Bomarsund Fortress on these islands was destroyed during the Crimean War, and they were demilitarized in the ensuing Treaty of Paris. With capital at Mariehamn and lying at the entrance of the Gulf of Bothnia, for 15 points, identify this autonomous Swedish-speaking archipelago of Finland.
ANSWER: Aland Islands [or Ahvenanmaa Islands]
13. Rising on the slopes of Mount Kisirindagi, the city of Neftcala lies near its mouth, and it passes Jandari and Kaspi. This body of water is navigable to Yevlax, and the cities of Saatli and Sabirabad lie near where it meets its main tributary, the Aras River. The cities of Gori, Rustavi and Ardahan lie on this river, and it creates the Mingachevir Reservoir. Beginning in Turkey and splitting the Lesser Caucasus before reaching the Caspian Sea in Azerbaijan, for 20 points, name this largest river of Transcaucasia which flows through Tbilisi.
ANSWER: Kura River [or Mt'k'vari]
14. The first settlements near this body of water were set up by people who worshipped Mareiwa and Pulowi and who were known as the Wayuu. Islands found on this lake include Zapara, San Carlos, and Toas, and Lagunetas is a notable example of the palafitos on this body of water. On July 24, 1823, a major naval battle was fought on this lake, with Admiral Padilla defeating royalist forces, a date celebrated as a regional holiday by the Zulia state, where this lake is found. The Catatumbo River flows into this, and a bridge spanning the outlet of this lake was designed by Riccardo Morandi and is named after a military figure in the country's history, General Rafael ?Urdaneta. For 10 points, name this large South American lake, which is actually a bay, and which shares its name with the second-largest city in Venezuela.
ANSWER: Lake Maracaibo
15. Directly east of the capital of this nation is a sandstone plateau whose name means "mountain of the night" and was the burial place for various native chiefs, including the man known as "the shaver," whose death on March 11 is celebrated as a national holiday in this country. In 2006, women workers in this country founded the Apparel Alliance to Fight AIDS, reflecting the prevalence of the disease. While poor in natural resources, this country maintains the Letseng diamond mine, and also exports water from such rivers as the Malibamatso and Senqu. With its highest point located at near Sani Pass at Thaban Ntlenyana, this country is the only independent state that lies entirely above 1,000 meters in elevation. Currently ruled by Letsie III, the son of King Moshoeshoe II, this country's first Prime Minister, Leabua Jonathan, took office in 1966 after it gained independence from Great Britain and changed its name from ? "Basutoland." For 10 points, identify this African nation with capital at Maseru, best known for being completely landlocked within South Africa.
ANSWER: Lesotho [accept Basutoland until mentioned]
16. In May of 2006, a piano was uncovered on this peak, and it was later revealed to be a church organ brought up the mountain by a local woodcutter. During the 1880's, a man nicknamed "Inclement Rag" frequently ascended this peak to make meteorological observations. The hardest climbing route for this mountain is named "Rubicon Wall," while the recently developed "Echo Wall" climb is currently ungraded. At the foot of this peak is a malt whiskey distillery founded by a man known as "Long John." This mountain's name is most likely translated as "mountain with its head in the clouds" or "venomous mountain," and the easiest walking route on this mountain is the so-called "Pony Track." Once sporting a permanent weather observatory on its summit, where the inventor of the cloud chamber worked, it was not until 1847 that it was confirmed as the highest mountain on its island, edging out the home of the "The Big Grey Man," Macdui. Part of the Grampian Mountains, along with ? Snowdon and Scafell Pike, it is part of the National Three Peaks Challenge held for mountain climbers on its island. For 10 points, name this peak found in the Lochaber region of Scotland, the highest peak of Great Britain.
ANSWER: Ben Nevis [or The Ben]
17. During World War One, Ukrainian immigrants were sent to internment camps at this location's Castle Mountain, and its namesake longnose dace went extinct over twenty years ago. The Sawback Range stretches into the northwest corner of this park, which includes Vermilion Lakes. This park's Moraine Lake is situated in the Valley of the Ten Peaks, and its Wapta Icefield is the source of the Bow River. The glacial Lake Louise is a notable feature of this park, which is located adjacent to Yoho and Kootenay national parks, and connected by the Icefields Parkway to ? Jasper National Park. Located around 100 miles west of Calgary in the Rocky Mountains, for 10 points, name this Alberta landmark, the oldest national park in Canada.
ANSWER: Banff National Park [prompt on Alberta until "namesake" is read]
18. Zoologist William Blandowski once led an expedition to this body of water, where he accumulated over 17,000 specimens of birds and mammals. A mythical story about this river's creation states that it was created by the tracks of a being who was pursuing a cod fish. This river separates the site of the "Pyjama Girl" murder, Albury, from the city of Wodonga, and because it skirts the Cadell Fault, the shores of this river contain Barmah Red Gum Forests. The local government has recently proposed building a weir on this river to secure drinking water, although protestors claim it would devastate ? Coorong National Park. Although it once terminated in Lake Bungunia, it now ends at Lake Alexandrina, and provides the bulk of the fresh water for Adelaide. For 10 points, identify this river which serves as the border between New South Wales and Victoria, the longest river in Australia.
ANSWER: Murray River [accept Darling until "1956 flood," accept Murray-Darling for the whole question]
19. The Balsas River forms part of this state's western border, and the cities of Ixtapa and Taxco are two of the cities in its Triangle of the Sun, a tourism hotspot. In pre-Colombian times, the Tarascans were centered northwest of this region in the state of Michoacan, and their leader, Caltzontzin, frequently visited this region's city of Zihuatanejo. At an 1813 congress in its capital, Jose Morelos outlined his Sentiments of the Nation, and a plan named after this region's city of Iguala, also known as the Plan of the Three Guarantees, was a peace treaty between Agustin de Iturbide and this state's namesake. The diving cliffs of La Quebrada are an attraction in this state's most notable city, which served Spain as the port from which their galleons traveled to and from ? Manila. With capital at Ciudad Bravo or Chilpancingo, for 10 points, name this Mexican state bordered by Oaxaca, Morelos, Puebla and the Pacific Ocean, whose largest city is Acapulco.
ANSWER: State of Guerrero [accept Mexico until "state" is read]
20. Popular landmarks at this location include the "Bridge of 72 Hours," so-named because it was built within that time span, and the tallest flagpole in the world. Violent actions that have occurred at this site include the assault perpetrated on W.D. Henderson in 1975 and the "axe murders" which killed Arthur Bonifas and Paul Barrett in 1976. A twenty foot stump of a poplar tree can be found at this location as a reminder of Operation Paul Bunyan, which consisted of a large task force assigned to cut down the offending structure. Other structures found at this location include the "Bridge of No Return," where Operation Big Switch took place and which was notably traversed by Lloyd Bucher and his crew in 1968. Tourists may visit the Third Tunnel of Aggression, which burrows underneath this location, and a place known as ? "Peace Village," which is suspected to be an uninhabited site used for propaganda purposes, is found here. Featuring such towns as Tae Sung Dong and Panmunjeom, for 10 points, identify this strip of land created in 1953 along the 38th parallel, a highly militarized area that separates two Asian countries.
ANSWER: Korean Demilitarized Zone [accept Panmunjeom until read; or Joint Security Area; prompt on DMZ]
TB. He succeeded Jean Jacques Berger in one position, and was in charge of a department named for a prominent river. This man was influenced by the work of Ildefons Cerda, and Walter Benjamin's Arcades Project came about because of his work. This man was dismissed by Emile Ollivier and attacked in a pamphlet by Jules Ferry. The designs of this man are prominently featured in a painting that also features some ? umbrellas and rain, a work by Gustave Caillebotte. This man worked on the Boulogne Woods, but is better known for his barricades and wide boulevards in a prominent European capital. For 10 points, name this 19th century urban planner who helped Napoleon III redesign Paris during the years of the Second Empire.
ANSWER: Baron Georges-Eugene Haussmann
