2009 Geography Monstrosity
Packet by Cody and Dallas Simons
Edited by George Stevens

1. The conservation of this region was partially achieved through the Trafford Plan, which was first proposed by a governor of Burma, Dr. Brandis. Primarily accessed through the city of Gosaba, this region sustained heavy damage during Cyclone Sidr, and in Salman Rushdie's Midnight's Children, Saleem imagines being carried by a giant tidal wave to this region and achieving purification. Containing many polders and located south of the Rajmahal Range, most of this region is contained in the 24 Parganas district, and this region is bounded on the east by the Baleswar River and on the west by Calcutta. Famous largely for its population of Bengal tigers, for 20 points, name this region located in West Bengal, the world's largest tidal mangrove swamp, located in the Ganges delta.
ANSWER: The Sundarbans
2. This body of water is surrounded by the Orocopia, Chocolate, and Santa Rosa mountain ranges, and the Coachella Valley is an important outlet for this body of water. The planned cities of North Shore and Bombay Beach were created on the shores of this body in the 1950s. In 1997, researchers found a dinoflagellate in its waters which caused the death of many fish species and led to an extensive algal bloom depleting oxygen in the waters. The piping of water to the wetland Laguna Salada is a proposal to preserve this body of water, and another such proposal was for a canal linking it to the ? Sea of Cortez. Fed by the New and Alamo Rivers, and created in 1905 by overflow from the Colorado River, for 10 points, name this body of water of the Imperial Valley in California known for its high salinity content.
ANSWER: Salton Sea
3. The Zidaidas forest is located in this city's suburb of Ben Slimane, and adjoining areas to this city include the Corniche district as well as the towns of Boulaouane and Oualidia. This city was rebuilt following a devastating 1755 earthquake by Mohammed ben Abdallah, who was the first monarch to recognize the independence of the United States, and it had earlier been rebuilt following its destruction by the Portuguese in 1468, when it was known as Anfa. This city's best known landmark is also the world's third largest mosque, the Hassan II Mosque, which contains the world's tallest minaret, and it was the site of a meeting codenamed SYMBOL. The largest city in a country containing ?Agadir and Marrakech and the site of a major 1943 World War II conference, for 10 points, identify this Atlantic port city of Morocco which shares its name with a 1942 film starring Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart.
ANSWER: Casablanca
4. As a part of Britain's Operation Totem, the city of Maralinga in the northeastern part of this region was the subject of a nuclear test which drove away the Spinifex tribe and led to the creation of the Woomera Prohibited Area. Much of this region is a part of the Eucla Basin, which runs from Israelite Bay in the West to Fowler's Bay in the East, and its city of Mundrabilla contains numerous meteorites. The world's largest single piece of limestone, a train crossing this region running from Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta contains the world's longest stretch of straight railroad, and a famous hoax saw a half-naked woman living among a family of kangeroos, this region's namesake "nymph." Sandwiched between the Great Victoria Desert and the Great Australian Bight, for 15 points, name this arid region located in South Australia and Western Australia which, true to its name, contains no trees. 
ANSWER: Nullarbor Plain
5. This mountain range contains Beech Mountain National Park, and the Valcan and Stare Hory ranges are extensions of this. The Sandomierz Basin is located in this range, and Mount Tarnica is the highest point in its subset known as the Eastern Beskids. This range is often considered to end near where it is separated from the Stara Planina range, at the city of Orsova. Major cities in this range include Ordea, Kosice, and Cluj-Napoca, close to its southwestern border at the Pannonian Plain. Mount Rysy and Gerlachov Peak are located in this mountain range's largest subset, the ? Tatras, which continues through parts of Slovakia and Poland. For 10 points, identify this mountain range which extends through much of Eastern and Central Europe. 
ANSWER: Carpathian Mountains
6. Tributaries of this river include the Tokro, Chanjin and Heochun rivers, and high silt content leads to shallow depth and a maximal width of five kilometers. The Sup'ung Rodonjagu Hydroelectric dam gives power to the region around this river, and this river flows through the Ranggang province and Hyesan. Bordered by the Provinces of Jilin and Liaoning, this river rises in the Changbai Mountains, and flows into a body of water between Dandong and Sinuju, which are connected by a friendship bridge over this river. The namesake of the largest ? naval battle of the first Sino-Japanese War and a land battle fought during the Russo-Japanese War in the town of Uiju, it was the UN's crossing of this body of water during the Korean War which prompted Chinese intervention. For 10 points, identify this river which flows into the Yellow Sea after forming much of the border between China and North Korea.
ANSWER: Yalu River [or Amnok River]
7. This city contains the colonial Hospicio Cabanas hospital complex, and this city's elite frequent the Andares Plaza shopping area, located within the upscale Puerta de Hierro. In 1992, the sewer system in the Analco District witnessed several devastating gasoline explosions, which damaged the area around Gante Street. This city's Jardines del Bosque Barrio was designed by resident architect Luis Barragan, and this city is located directly northwest of Lake Chapala. Containing the suburbs Zapopan, Tonala, and San Pedro Tlaquepaque, this city is served by Don Miguel Hidalgo airport and it is located directly northwest of the state of ? Michoacan. For 10 points, identify this capital of the state of Jalisco, the second largest city in Mexico.
ANSWER: Guadalajara
8. In April 2009, the Soon Dong type of this feature were discovered in Vietnam, surpassing the "Deer" type of Borneo in size. Lukina Jama in Croatia is one of these features which is known to be home to one of the largest concentrations of leeches in the world. The Balkans contains the Vrtoglavica and Patkov Gu?t, extreme varieties of this feature. The "Carpenter's" variety depicts a giant statue of Buddha, and both this and the Kailash Temple are found at the "Ellhora" namesake in India. The ? Lascaux one of these is known for its realistic depictions of animals, and other examples in the United States include Jewel and Wind in South Dakota. For 10 points, identify this type of geological feature, made famous in America by the "Mammoth" system in Kentucky.
ANSWER: Caves [accept equivalents]
9. Vinci, a French construction company, was commissioned in 1971 to build the Gariep Dam in this river's eastern sector. At Oviston, the Teebus Spruit and Great Brak rivers take water from the dam, helping to comprise the southern hemisphere's largest continuously enclosed aquaduct, named for this river and the Fish River. This river forms the southern boundary of a neighboring nation's Karas Region, and contains the ?Vanderkloof Dam. The Augrabies Falls are the largest located on this river, which flows through Noordoewer before emptying into the Atlantic Ocean. Joining just south of Kimberly with its main tributary, the Vaal River, for 10 points, name this river rising in Lesotho's Drakensberg Mountains and named after a South African "Free" State.
ANSWER: Orange River [or Groote River; or Senqu River]
10. The confluence of the Ik and Belaya Rivers creates the Kulyagash Swamp of this entity, which also contains the Nizhnekamsk Resevoir and Atyr Lake. During Soviet rule, Kamaz was built in this region near Naberezhnye Chelny, making that city the second largest in this region. Following the Russian revolution, people from this entity created the Idel-Ural State, an attempt to recreate an earlier Khanate in this region. A 1992 referendum by President Mintimer Shaymiev ended in a majority vote desiring independence for this region, and the confluence of the Kama and Volga rivers is located near its border with Bashkortostan. For 20 points, name this predominantly Islamic republic of Russia, with its capital at Kazan.
ANSWER: Republic of Tatarstan
11. Bylot Island is located off of the coast of this larger island, that contains a region which was featured in the Bond film The Spy Who Loved Me, Auyuittuq National Park. This island's Cockburn Land is separated by the Fury-and-Hecla Straight from the Melville Peninsula, and it contains both Nettiling and Amadjuak lakes. The Meta Incognita Peninsula is located in the southeast of this island, whose highest peaks are Mt. Odin and Mt. Asgard on the Cumberland Peninsula, and the northern portion of this island is bordered by the Prince Regent Inlet, the Gulf of Boothia, and the Lancaster Sound. This island is located east of the Fox Channel and west of the Davis Strait, and The Central Eskimo was written as a study of the people of this island by ? Franz Boas. The largest city on this island is located on Frobisher Bay and has the lowest population of all of the territorial capitals in its country, having only gained that status in a 1995 vote. Lying mostly in the Arctic Circle, for 10 points, identify this fifth-largest island in the world, home to Iqualuit, the capital of Nunavut, and the largest island in Canada.
ANSWER: Baffin Island
12. The basin of this body of water is home to the Great Barsuki Desert to the northwest and the islands Barsa Kilmess and Nicholas I, while the city of Muynoq is located on its southern shore. One of the world's largest areas for anthrax deposits, Kantubek, is located on this body of water, and is a town on its Vozrozhdeniya Island. The subject of the Kokaral Dike public works project, it is bordered by the provinces of Aktobe, Kyzylorda, and Karakalpakstan. Located northwest of the Kyzyl Kum desert, it is fed by the ?Amu Darya and Syr Darya Rivers, and the Karakum Canal is thought to be a possible cause for this body of water's severe problems. For 10 points, name this body of water located between Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, a central Asian lake which has undergone massive shrinkage.
ANSWER: Aral Sea
13. The South African based SAB Miller announced it would be creating a 150 million dollar brewery in the small town of Yumbo, located in the metropolitan area of this city, while another neighboring town, Palmira, contains its Alofonso Bonilla Aragon airport. Under colonial rule, it was governed from nearby Popayan, and attractions in this city include the Plaza de Cayzedo and the Parque del Perro, but the most visited monument of the city is a statue of its founder, conquistador Sebastian de Belalcazar. The western part of this city contains the Aguacatal River, although the major river in the region is the Cauca. Known as the "sports city" of its nation and containing a world famous zoo, for 15 points, name this quickly emerging city of South America, the third most populous in Colombia.
ANSWER: Santiago de Cali [accept Colombia until "city" is read]
14. One scenic feature of this island passes Mitre Peak on its way to Milford Sound, and is located in a park containing Lake Manapouri and Lake Hauroko, Fjordland National Park. This island is home to a weather phenomenon called the Nor'west arch, which is often witnessed in North Otago and in the Canterbury Plains region. This island's Te Anau cave system is noted for its glow worms, and Ruapuke Island lies in the Foveaux Strait, which is located south of this island and separates it from Stewart Island. The largest city on this island is located on the Avon River, and its other cities include Invercargill and Dunedin. Containing the ? Southern Alps, for 10 points, identify this island separated from its neighbor by the Cook Straight, home to Mt. Cook and Christchurch, the largest island of New Zealand.
ANSWER: South Island [or Te Wai Pounamu; do NOT accept New Zealand]
15. This national park was made accessible through the opening of the Marias Pass by the Great Northern Railway, and Henry Stimson climbed this park's Chief Mountain, located at the extreme eastern boundary. The highest peak in this national park is Mt. Cleveland, while important geological history in this park can be found in the Appekunny Formation. One pathway located in this park passes St. Mary Lake, Bird Woman Falls, and Logan Pass, and is known as Going-to-the-Sun Road. This national park is located opposite Waterton Lakes National Park, and the two parks make up the world's first ? international Peace Park. For 10 points, identify this national park located on the Canadian border of Montana, named for the geologic features which shaped its distinctive landscape.
ANSWER: Glacier National Park [do NOT accept "Glaciers"]
16. This mountain range contains the prehistoric settlements of Hajji Firuz Tepe and Godin Tepe which were known for wine production. The highest peak of this range was once traversed by the Bakhtiari tribe walking barefoot and herding thousands of animals, and the Qashqai and Lurs peoples now call it home. The Kuhrud range runs parallel to this, and the Hazaran plateau can be viewed as an extension of this mountain range. The cities of Arak and Hamadan are located in this mountain range, which gives rise to the Karun and the Karkheh rivers. Jarmo, the oldest known agricultural community in the world, is found at the foothills of this range, whose highest peaks are Zard Kuh and Mount Dena. For 10 points, name this mountain range known for salt domes and oil deposits, a large range located in the western part of Iran.
ANSWER: Zagros Mountains
17. The Manaka Jungle, home to the Gurao Indians, is located at the confluence of this river and the Ventuari River, and one of its distributaries flows into Serpent's Mouth Strait. This river is connected to a neighboring watershed via the Casiquiare Canal, and one river located in the basin of this larger river holds an annual swim race and is the site of the Guri Dam. This river's basin contains Canaima National Park, which is home to Mount Auyanteqpui, and tributaries of this river include the Guaviare and Meta. Much of this river flows into the Gulf of Paria, and it joins with the Caroni near ? Ciudad Guyana. Featuring a species of crocodiles which is the largest in South America as well as many Boto, dolphins which are native to the nearby Amazon, for 10 points, identify this chief waterway of Venezuela.
ANSWER: Orinoco River [or Rio Orinoco]
18. Seismic activity in this region can be attributed to the presence of peaks like Mt. Rishiri and Mount Tokachi, while it's Shiretoko National Park is famed for its isolation and bear population. The capital city of this region lies on the Toyohira River, and its Odori Park is a central location in its annual snow festival. One ethnic group from this region instigated Shakushain's revolt, while the Republic of ? Ezo was established in this region following the Boshin War. It is linked to its southern neighbor by the world's longest underwater tunnel, the Seikan Tunnel, which runs under the Tsugaru Strait. The traditional home of the Ainu, it is bounded on the north by the Sea of Okhotsk and exercises some control over the Kuril Islands. With capital at Sapporo, for 10 points, identify this least densely-populated and northernmost main island of Japan.
ANSWER: Hokkaido [accept Ezo before read]
19. The town of Port Bell lies on this body of water, and the Bassese tribe inhabits an archipelago in this body of water which is separated by the Kkome Channel. Bugala Island is the largest of the aforementioned Ssese archipelago, and other islands in it include Rusinga and Ukerewe. The Owen Falls or Nalubaale Dam was constructed in the city of Jinja on this body of water, which is fed in the south by the Kagera River and contains Winam Gulf and Emin Pasha Gulf. Located south of Lake Kioga, cities on its shores include Mwanza, Kisumu, and the site of a night raid on a hijacked flight, ? Entebbe. First sighted by Richard Burton and John Speke, this body of water contains Ripon Falls, long believed to be the source of the Nile, and the national capital of Kampala lies near it. For 10 points, name this body of water bordered by Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania, the largest lake in Africa.
ANSWER: Lake Victoria
20. This city lies on the river that meets with the Het Scheur River near Dan Briel, forming the northern boundary of Rozenberg Island. Part of this city's port is known as the Slufter, an area ridden by toxic waste and pollution, and the formation of nearby Lake Oostvoorne was made possible from the Maasvlakte, an industrial part of this city. The Cube Houses of this city were designed by Piet Blom, and it is home to the Ossip Zadkine statue The Destroyed City, which refers to its bombing by the Nazis in 1940. Much of the traffic coming into this city is handled at ?Europoort, and this city is located on the banks of the New Meuse River and easily accessible from the North Sea. For 10 points, name this Northern European city containing the Erasmus Bridge, the second largest city in the Netherlands and formerly the world's busiest port.
ANSWER: Rotterdam
TB. The Uncia tin mines are located in this region, as is the city of Juliaca. This region was once covered entirely by Lake Ballivian, and current features of it include Lake Uru Uru and a large salt expanse, the Salar de Uyuni. A mountain range in this region contains the world's highest ski run, Chacaltaya, and one body of water located in this region is located in Oruro and is fed by the Desaguadero River. In addition to ?Lake Poopo, this region contains a body of water home to the Uros people which contains the Islands of the Sun and the Moon and has the city of Copacabana on its shores. Making La Paz the world's highest national capital, for 10 points, name this large expanse of the Andes Mountains, home to Lake Titicaca, a wide plateau region located primarily in Bolivia and Peru.
ANSWER: Altiplano [accept Bolivia until "region" is read]
