2009 Geography Monstrosity
Packet by Chris Chiego
Edited by George Stevens

Disclaimer: This is a somewhat guerilla-style packet, because it was received earlier today. Also, the difficulty is higher than the other packets.

1. In the 17th century, a stretch of this river's bank, Biffeche, was ruled by a chief known as the Little King, who had his capital at Maka. In 1972, the OMVS was set up by four nations to regulate this, and its flow is stopped by the Maka-Diama and Manantali dams. This waterway passes through the Talari Gorges before creating the Gouina Falls, both in the Kayes Region, and its tributaries include the Faleme, Karakoro and Gorgol rivers. Before reaching the ocean, this river skirts the Langue de Barbarie, an almost 400 mile long peninsula of sand, and finally reaches its mouth at Saint-Louis. Formed by the confluence of the Bafing and Semefe, or Bakoy, rivers in Bafoulabe, like the Gambia and Niger rivers, this waterway begins in ? Guinea. For 10 points, identify this African river which separates Mauritania from its namesake nation with capital at Dakar.
ANSWER: Senegal River
2. In the Mutou Valley of this region lie the Bezeklik Thousand Buddha Caves near the ancient ruins of Gaochang, and a highway has recently been constructed across this to connect the cities of Luntai and Hotan on its edges. This region's name translates as "Go in and you'll never come out," and its cities of Marin and Yarkand were key oases along the Silk Road. A part of the Tarim Basin, for 15 points, name this region lying between the Kunlun, Pamir and Tien Shan mountain ranges, a desert located in the Xinjiang Uyghur region of western China.

ANSWER: Taklamakan Desert [accept Tarim Basin until read; accept Xinjiang Uyghur until read]
3. Mark Twain describes this geographical feature in Chapters 38 through 39 of "Roughing It" where he claimed it could launder clothes within minutes. This lake avoided the fate of nearby Owens Lake after an extensive lawsuit, and this lake's Navy Beach is the site of an old naval installation, while Panum Crater looms over this lake's south shore. Fed by Rush creek, the waters of this lake harbor huge populations of brine shrimp and brine flies, making it an important nesting spot for the California Gull. Large towers of tufa dot the shoreline as well as the Negit isles and Pahoa Island, and this lake is located on a volcano chain just north of the Long Valley Caldera. For 15 points, identify this lake located between the Inyo and Sierra Nevada mountains, the largest lake found entirely within California.
ANSWER: Mono Lake
4. These people have a naming ceremony called the juogi and their music prominently features the nyatiti, an eight-stringed lyre. These people speak a Nilotic language similar to the Acholi and their chiefs are known as Ruodhi. These people, who live largely off of fishing, originated near Winam Gulf. One of their most famous leaders refused the presidency of a country because he did not want to lose his status as a ker, or spiritual leader, while another, Tom Mboya, was assassinated. Heavily concentrated in the Nyanza province, they make up a majority of the population in Kisumu as well as in the slum of Kibera. The current prime minister of ? Kenya, Raila Odinga, is a member of, for 10 points, what ethnic group whose most famous member may have been Barack Obama Sr.?

ANSWER: Luo [or Jaluo; or Joluo]
5. One of these called Sarisari–ama is famous for its perfectly round sinkholes and one called Autana has a cave that runs completely from one side of it through to the other. Parts of them are extremely nutrient-poor which include insectivores like Drosera roraimae and Urticularia humboldtii and nearly one third of all plant species located on them are endemic. One group of them is called Los Testigos and Abismo Guy Collet, the deepest quartzite cave in the world, is found in one of these, and their tops are famous sites for fulgurites. Many of these are located in the Gran Sabana and one called Matawi is sacred to the local Peton Indians while Cuquenan Falls is located on another. Many of these are located in Canaima National Park and Monte Roraima may be the most famous. For 20 points, identify these large flat-topped mountains located in the Guinea Highlands of South America.
ANSWER: Tepuis
6. The Mount Lofty Ranges traverse the Fleurieu Peninsula in this country which also contains the Jack Hills, which contain the oldest zircon fragments on earth. The remnants of the Tweed volcano can be seen in the Border and McPherson ranges as well as the former volcanic plug that now forms Mt. Warning. This nation's Canarvon range harbors a scenic gorge while the Musgrave and Hamersley Ranges are centers of uranium and iron ore mining. Cunningham's Gap through the Main Range leads to the Darling Downs in this country and the beehive-shaped Bungle Bungle range is located in this country's north. Also containing a mountain range that extends from the ? Cape Torres Peninsula to the Grampians, for 10 points, the Great Dividing Range is located in what country?
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia [accept South Australia before "country" is read]
7. An early name of this nation was Awal, which it got from the deity its people once worshipped, and its Tubli Bay has shrunk to less than half its size in the last fifty years due to land reclamation. A museum where one may view the first jar of oil produced in this country is located at its highest point, Jebel ad Dukhan. The ancient burial mounds of Dilmun in this country are being destroyed by Islamist politicians and the nearby island of Al-Muharraq is home to this country's major airport. Umm ad Nassan is the private hunting refugee of the Al Khalifa ruling family on this island and its Formula 1 racetrack contains viewing pavilions inspired by wind towers. A dispute over the Hawar Islands with a neighboring country has been put aside to build an addition to the ? King Fahd Causeway, and Saudi Riyals are also accepted as currency here, making it a hotspot of prostitution. For 10 points, identify this nation currently planning on building a bridge linking it to nearby Qatar.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Bahrain [or Mamlakat al-Bahrayn; or Kingdom of the Two Seas]
8. Robert Frost intended to commit suicide here after being rejected by some girl, but was rescued by a group of hunters instead. A lake in this area has very high amounts of tannin and most of this area is contained within Gates, Perquimans, and Camden counties. Erik Prince built a compound in this area that later grew into a multinational mercenary company, and Lake Drummond lies in its center. George Washington suggested draining this area by constructing a canal, although the existing canals, such as the Jericho and Railroad ditches functioned as conduits for lumber. Harriet Beecher Stowe's second novel, ? Dred, is subtitled after this swamp, and describes how runaway slaves hid in it. For 10 points, identify this massive marshy region that covers much of southeastern Virginia and northeastern North Carolina.

ANSWER: The Great Dismal Swamp

9. Kalambaka and Kastraki are the closest villages to this location, and one structure at this location was built by Athanasios Koinovitis on the Broad Rock. Another structure at this site contains several frescoes by Theophanes the Cretan, and Varlaam is the only nunnery on this site. The head of St. Charalambos can be found at this site, and a new bridge has made access to Roussanou much easier. The Agia Triada at this site was used in a James Bond movie, and although there were originally 24 monasteries at this site, only six survive. For 20 points, identify this site at the edge of the Pindus Mountains where Orthodox Greek monasteries appear to float in the air.

ANSWER: Meteora

10. One county by this name was named the "Safest Area" in the country by Forbes Magazine and contains towns like Wantagh and Levittown. A duchy by this name was merged into the Confederation of the Rhine by Napoleon and was located on the Lahn River. A bay by this name is located next to the LBJ Space Center, while a city by this name is home to the Adastra Gardens and a famously steep staircase that leads to Fort Fincastle. That city is also the location of the Junkanoo cultural festival and is located on ? New Providence Island, just to the south of Paradise Island. For 10 points, identify this name common to a county on Long Island and the capital of the Bahamas.

ANSWER: Nassau

11. The Adal, Aussa, and Harar sultanates existed in this region prior to European colonization, and cities here include Assab and Kismaayo. Ras Xaafun is the easternmost point of this region, and its lowest point is Lake Abbe, located on the border of two of its nations. The Dahlak Archipelago and the island of Socotra lie off this, and it is bordered by the Massawa Channel and Gulf of Tadjoura. The Bale and Semien Mountains make up the backbone of this region, and its sub-regions include Afar, Ogaden and Puntland. Lying between the ? Gulf of Aden, the larger Red Sea, and the Indian Ocean, for 10 points, name this eastern region of a certain continent, on which lies the nations of Eritrea, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Somalia.

ANSWER: Horn of Africa

12. Carstensz Pyramid is the highest point on this island and it was named for Dutch explorer ridiculed for claiming to have seen snow on this island. The Fly River system on this island was majorly affected by the Ok Tedi mine's tailings and the Sepik River originates in the Victor Emmanuel Range before flowing into the Bismarck Sea. The Owen Stanley Mountains block off access to the only national capital on this island and Jayapura is the largest city within another province on this island. Daru is located on the northern side of the ? Torres Strait which separates this island from the Cape York Peninsula to the south. For 10 points, identify this island nation where over 800 different languages are spoken.

ANSWER: New Guinea

13. The Livanjsko field is a major agricultural part of this country, and a small pocket of coastline around Neum is its only access to the sea. This nation's capital is encircled by Jahorina and Trebevic mountains, while the Miljacka flows through the capital proper and continues through the Dinaric Alps. The city of Mostar is the capital of one of its regions, while another is governed from Banja Luka, this entity's second largest city. The jade-colored Neretva River flows past a bridge of this country famously destroyed by Tito, and Ivo Andric wrote about the bridge on its ? Drina River. Parts of this country are currently occupied by EUFOR, particularly on the boundary between its namesake Federation and the Republika Srpska, and its region of Srebrenica was the site of a massacre during a conflict which ended with the Dayton Accords. For 10 points, identify this Balkan country that borders Montenegro, Croatia, and Serbia.

ANSWER: Bosnia and Herzegovina

14. The Maah Daah Hey single track bike trail, the longest in the US, is located in this state and this state's endoheric Devil's Lake has been controversially rerouted into the Sheyenne River. The Canonnball and Knife rivers are located in this state and The International Peace Garden is located in this state's Turtle Mountain region. The Souris River basin is located in this state's Drift Prairie area, and its highest point, White Butte, is located near the Kildeer Mountains. Garrison Dam created Lake Sakakewa in this state and the Elkhorn Ranch is located in ? Theodore Roosevelt National Park, which also contains part of the Badlands.  For 10 points, identify this state bisected by the Missouri River whose eastern border is formed by the Red River.
ANSWER: State of North Dakota
15. South of this city is the Ukok Plateau and Salair Ridge, as well as a man-made lake polluted by nuclear waste. One part of this city, Akademgorodok, is an area called the "Silicon Forest" and is home to the "House of the Scientists," a major center for scientific research which was allegedly the site where perestroika was conceived. The Kommunalniy Bridge replaced the original span that prompted this city's founding in 1893 and this city celebrated the introduction of its first Metro in 1985. For 15 points, identify this third-largest city in Russia, located on the Ob River and the Trans-Siberian Railway.

ANSWER: Novosibirsk

16. The Garibaldi and Anaheim Volcanic Belts are located in this region, and volcanoes formed such landmarks as Mount Meager and the Level Mountain Range here. The Okanagon region is this province's primary wine-producing region, and the towns of Hudson's Hope and Kamloops are located in it. The Haida Heritage site is located in this province where the Kootenay River rises before it flows across a national border and back again, and the Stikine Plateau is located at the center of this province which also includes ? Yoho National Park, the site of the famous Burgress Shale formation. For 10 points, the Frazer valley cuts through much of what Canadian province whose capital sits on Vancouver Island?

ANSWER: British Columbia

17. Bertram Thomas was the first European to cross this region, and Iram of the Pillars is a legendary city of the people of 'Ad at the site of a collapsed limestone cavern in it. St. John Philby searched in this area but only ended up finding freshwater clam shells and hippo teeth in the Mudafan sector, and there are several meteor craters at Al-Hadidah. Bounded on the east by the Hajar Mountains and the west by the Asir Mountains, many caravan routes crossed this from the Frankincense-producing areas near Salalah. The Shaybah field is located on the northern edge of this area, while further to the west in this region is the Ghawwar oil field, which is the world's largest. For 15 points, identify this desert located in northern Yemen and Oman as well as southeastern Saudi Arabia, sometimes called The Empty Quarter.
ANSWER: Rub al Khali [accept Empty Quarter before read]
18. David Canon contends that the creation of these areas lead to increases in responsiveness and the so-called "Zorro" example of this geographic entity had a perimeter of over 2,500 miles, taking in cities from Monroe to Ruston to Lafayette. Another example was called a "geographic monstrosity" in Miller v. Johnson while Shaw v. Reno concerned another one of these that was famously only the width of Interstate 85 at one point. They are a product of "descriptive" representation theory and Steve Cohen attracted controversy for being elected in one of these. Including modern-day examples such as Louisiana's 2nd, Florida's 3rd, and Virginia's 3rd, for 15 points, identify these congressional districts with a certain demographic composition.

ANSWER: Majority-minority congressional districts [accept Majority-Black Districts since all the examples listed are, in fact, majority black, but note that they can also be majority Hispanic too]
19. A valley called Joey's Garden on this island leads to Ridge-Where-the-Goat-Jumps-Off while East and West Jew's Point commemorate the recovery of a Jew rescued from a ship. One of this island's dependencies is Inaccessible Island, which has a noted flightless bird, and Gough Island serves as a source of Guano for inhabitants of this island. A massive fire in early 2008 destroyed this island's power generators and fishing factory and an unexpected cinder cone eruption in 1961 destroyed parts of the major settlement, Edinburgh of the Seven Seas. For 20 points, identify this small island in the South Atlantic Ocean, a dependency of St. Helena. 
ANSWER: Tristan da Cunha
20. This province contains Accona Desert as well as the Crete senesi which is home to the Monte Oliveto Maggiore monastery. Metals and borax are mined in this province's Maremma district and Alpi Apuane is a major quarry for Carrara marble. The Pratomagno is a large mountain range in this area and this region's Chianti district is known for its wine, while the town of San Gimignano is famous for its towers, and the town of ? Siena is known for its horse race. Val di Chiana drains into Umbria from this province which also contains the more famous Val d'Orsina. For 10 points, identify this region through which the Arno River flows.

ANSWER: Tuscany

TB. The Door Peninsula helped create this region by blocking the Superior lobe and some remnant species in this area include the Pleistocene Disk and the Northern Blue Monkshood. This region is the only known area of the world to feature the Algific talus slope ecosystem which uses sinkholes and talus-covered slopes to produce a windy, extra-cool environment. Military Ridge forms the southern end of this area, and the Baraboo range forms the eastern border of it. For 20 points, identify this area of the Midwest, primarily in southwestern Wisconsin, that was never covered by glaciers during the last ice age.
ANSWER: The Driftless Area [or Paleozoic Plateau]
