The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by the University of Illinois at Chicago (Rom Masrour, Bob Johnson, Nima Shahlapour, Hemant Mehta, and Ravi Sahota, feat. Chris Romero)Tossup 1. Our knowledge of this man terminates with his burial of his father in the "fields of the Hittite Ephron," though a later book holds that he was himself buried at Shechem. This shrewd bargainer married a daughter of the priest of On, Asenath, to whom he was known as Zaphnath-paaneah, which name he was given for a preternatural ability that springs him from the joint after he is accused by Potiphar's Wife, whose husband bought this man from a party of Ishmaelites. For ten points, name this patriarch and interpreter of dreams, whose story is told in Genesis 37 through 50; the most beloved of twelve brothers who is sold into slavery for twenty sheckels due to his half-siblings' envy of the "coat of many colors" given him by his father, Jacob.       Answer: JosephTossup 2. The virulence mechanism in this disease is a two-factor toxin released on phagocytosis of the vector; the first factor leads to dropsy-like symptoms through inactivation of macrophages, while the second creates septic levels of ? ["alpha"] tumor necrosis factor and ?-1 ["beta one"] interlukin if unchecked. This pestilence is caused by a gram-positive, rod-shaped, namesake Bacillus, which was first identified by Davaine and Koch; and the first vaccine was prepared against this disease by Pasteur in 1881. For ten points, name this disease whose most prominent symptom is a series of black lesions and which is therefore named for the Greek for "coal;" a deadly infection transmitted by spores which has gastrointestinal, cutaneous, and inhalation varieties, and is generally transmitted by farm animals.       Answer: anthrax (accept splenic fever, malignant pustule, or woolsorters' disease)Tossup 3. As this work opens, the main character is curt with Julianne, who has bought for her the house in which the action takes place. This drama's fourth Act begins with everyone in mourning for Aunt Rina when Brack arrives to announce another death, from an accidental gunshot wound to the chest, and from a pistol that he confides he recognizes from the beginning of Act 2. Aunt Rina's sickness also serves to distract the title character's spouse long enough for her to steal and murder a "child" dropped by a newly unrepentant drunk on his way home from a raucous party and, after this manuscript is burned, the title character gives Løvborg one of her pistols and tells him to "die beautifully." For ten points, name this play centering on the wife of Jürgen Teasman, a ruthless woman who eats her words and a bullet at the end of Act 4.	Answer: Hedda GablerTossup 4. This person showed early merit as a painter, creating such notable work as The Fishmonger and Nude but, after meeting Picasso, he began changing preferred medium frequently, going from "painterly reliefs" to "counter-reliefs" to "corner-reliefs," Cubist sculptures which he suspended from ceilings near the corners of rooms, in the space of a couple years. He broke with a number of his colleagues after the 0.10 Exhibition, eschewing the style of the new UNOVIS School in favor of his own. This artist spent the later years of his life as an operatic set designer of some merit, and his designs for organic machines, especially an insectoid glider, are now infamous. For ten points, name this foremost artist of Constructivism best known for his model for a never-built Soviet government building, 1920's Monument to the Third International.	Answer: Vladimir Yegrafovich TatlinTossup 5. This probable son of Aaron Anthony and owner of Cedar Hill served as Recorder of Deeds for the District of Columbia from 1881 to 1886, before his best-known governmental post, and attributed his literary prowess to Caleb Bingham's The Columbian Orator. As a youth, he fell somewhat under the sway of a charismatic preacher known only as Uncle Lawson, who taught a passive and contemplative life, but he nevertheless overpowered and intimidated Edward Covey, who had cudgeled a man to death in front of him, as related in this man's autobiography. For ten points, name this U.S. Ambassador to Haiti from 1889 to 1891, publisher of the "New National Era" and "The North Star," and author of a Narrative of the Life of ... An American Slave, which tells his unforgettable story.       Answer: Frederick Douglass (or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey)Tossup 6. Ovid relates that a nymph by this name is the mother of the Palaci by Jove, though it is not certain if she is the same as the better-known being with this name, who is herself the mother of the Corybantes by Apollo. The Cephissus was sacred to this goddess, a minor attendant of the Eleusinian Mysteries, whose Spartan equivalent in this case is Cleta. In her other guise, her symbols, a shepherd's crook and comic mask, indicate her dominion over rural poetry and comedy, respectively. For ten points, name this goddess of "Good Cheer," a member of both the Muses and Charities, where she joins Aglaea and Euphrosyne.       Answer: ThaliaTossup 7. While incarcerated, the leader of this organization complains to an imaginary judge of mistreatment by his parents, who deny him even a puff of the tea that his grandma pushes. The work in which this group plays a major role begins with a paean to loyalty to it, which claims that, on becoming a member, you remain one "all the way / From your first cigarette / To your last dyin' day," and which goes on to say assert a strict ban on "visitors," about which it "ain't kiddin'." Its members attend a high school dance in enemy territory, planning to "make nice with 'em," but this culminates in a rumble wherein a member of each group is stabbed. For ten points, name this street gang whose ranks include such characters as Action, Diesel, Riff, and Tony; the rivals of the Sharks in Leonard Bernstein's West Side Story.       Answer: The JetsTossup 8. This man received his training from Fred Ross, and went on to become general director of the Community Services Organization, a creation of Ross' mentor Saul Alinksy, but he quit that post in 1958. Born near Yuma, Arizona, this man lived above his family's department store in the Gila Valley before it was lost to the Great Depression, which began his association with the profession for which he is best known; and his death, at 66, was probably hastened by his habit of months-long hunger strikes. Creating the NFWA in 1962, this leader oversaw that group's 1966 merger with the AFL-CIO, and was still at its head in 1977, when its name was changed to the United Farm Workers. For ten points, name this major figure in the labor movement and vocal advocate of the rights of migrant workers; a Mexican American union organizer probably best known for his organization of grape and lettuce boycotts.       Answer: César Estrada ChávezTossup 9. These first-order entities can interfere with their own motion in a phenomenon known as strain hardening, and grain boundaries severely impair their diffusion by boundary sticking, which explains why granular substances have a higher hardness than single crystal substances, in general. For a given slip plain, these defects are signed by the orientation of their slip direction with respect to the local Burgers vector, and ones of opposite sign create strain fields that annihilate on meeting, forming a perfect crystal. For ten points, name this most important type of linear crystal defect, which comes in "edge" and "screw" varieties, and is locally identical to the displacement of half a lattice plane.	Answer: linear dislocationsTossup 10. This work opens with a discussion of how the titular property was acquired, noting that it "is always comparative" by contemplating the ghost of Lorenzo di' Medici haunting 1916 New York. It then goes on to discuss fashion, including a hilarious treatment of the facial hair of the day, before proceeding with the main plot, which details the repeated derailment by Fanny of Eugene's love for Isabel, among other things. Midland, Indiana is the setting and George Minafer the utterly spoiled protagonist due for a fall in, for ten points, what 1918 Pulitzer Prize winner by Booth Tarkington?       Answer: The Magnificent AmbersonsTossup 11. This person's skill as a peacemaker was unmatched in his time, as he negotiated the major treaties of Sjöaryd, Knärid, and Ogra all within ten years of each other. This man quickly rose to the head of his nation's council of state and, in spite of forcing its new king into an undesirable charter, he was appointed chancellor in January, 1612. This author of such major reforms as the riddarhusordning and regeringsform, however, was never as powerful as before under that king's successor, Christiana. For ten points, name this chancellor to Gustav II Adolph and virtual ruler of Sweden after Gustav's death in 1632.       Answer: Greve Axel Oxenstierna af SödermöreTossup 12. The quadratic invariant variety of this is the determinant of the coefficient matrix of the first standard transform of a two-variable quadratic equation. The elliptic variety of this is the root of an elliptic integral's parameter. That for a set is analogous to, and has the same symbol as, division, while that for complex numbers is symbolized by vertical brackets and gives the "magnitude." FTP, give the name that these math concepts share with the base of a congruence and with an operation giving the minimal remainder from dividing two numbers.       Answer: modulusTossup 13. This work's main character is ironically complemented as "awfully decent" for assenting to try and explain the "facts of life" to not-so-young Reginald Cardinal, which attempt is predictably hilarious. This work opens with a prologue, which gives the date as "July, 1956," and all of its sections are titled after the current location of the main character's thoughts, including "Mortimer's Pond, Dorset;" "Salisbury;" and "Weymouth," the eventual destination of his trip in Mr. Farrady's Ford. For ten points, name the novel in which Stephens, an archetypical English butler, searches for meaning; the 1989 work that is the best known of Kazuo Ishiguro.       Answer: The Remains of the DayTossup 14. The territory of Belfort was not included in the cession to the victorious party in this treaty negotiated by Jules Favre. For fifty-four days during the war that it ended, the victor besieged the city of Metz, so it was included in the cession. Georges Clemenceau led opposition to an initial agreement at Versailles and the final treaty was signed ten months following the Ems Telegram and included an indemnity of 5 billion francs and the cession of most of Alsace and Lorraine. For ten points, name this 1871 treaty that ended the Franco-Prussian war and was completed in the largest city of Hesse.       Answer: Treaty of FrankfurtTossup 15. This work's main character conducts an affair with Lord Styne that drives her husband to leave for Coventry Island, and her to the Continent. Another character marries George Osbourne who dies at Waterloo, leaving his son to inherit the fortune of Mr. Osbourne. The two women around whom the book centers meet again on the continent, having begun the novel as colleagues at Miss Pinkerton's Academy for Young Ladies, and things are as well as they can be, as William Dobbin has finally won Amelia Sedley. For ten points, name this massive novel named for a location in The Pligrim's Progress and detailing the social climbing adventures of Becky Sharp; the best-known work of William Makepeace Thackeray.       Answer: Vanity Fair: A Novel without a HeroTossup 16. The southern portion of this country is in the Lubombo Escarpment, while its northern sections have fairly well-defined elevation changes that divide this nation into velds. Its main waterway is the Usutu, and it was traditionally ruled from the "royal villages" of Ludzidzizi and Phondvo, which are near the old capital of Lobamba. For ten points, name this nation, most of whose industrial output comes from Manzini; a land-locked African nation bordering South Africa and Mozambique with capital at Mbabane.       Answer: SwazilandTossup 17. Noah Webster read law in this man's office, and he served on the Committees of the Pay Table, and of Five, whose work he commended in his Letters of a Landholder. This politician served as one of his State's original Senators, in which capacity he wrote the Judiciary Act of 1789, though he is probably better known as a jurist, his most important decision coming in United States v. Isaac Williams. For ten points, name this founding father, proposer of the Connecticut Compromise, draughtsman of the Bill of Rights, and third Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court.       Answer: Oliver EllsworthTossup 18. This man's best-known work contains a challenge to literary theory in the form of a 1955 seminar on "The Purloined Letter," while this man's son-in-law Jacques-Alain Miller edited and published his epic twenty-seven volume series The Seminar. Other major works of this founder of the EFP include 1973's Television, and the 1966 essay "Of Structure as an Inmixing of an Otherness Prerequisite to Any Subject Whatever." For ten points, longtime professor at Vincennes, a modern psychoanalyst best known for his Écrits.       Answer: Jacques Marie Émile LacanTossup 19. This work's background contrasts a fortified town on a hill with a pastoral church-village, an echo of the central Neoplatonic duality, both in content and in construction. In the foreground, a child reaches into the central well around which the title characters gather. The woman modestly clothed in a white dress on the left is the "terrestrial Venus," embodying the physical generative forces of nature, while the "nude Venus" on the right represents the emotional amor aeternus. For ten points, what is this allegorical painting by Titian?       Answer: Sacred and Profane LoveTossup 20. These were first discovered by Explorer I in 1958, and are most intense over the Equator and nearly absent over the poles. With energy exceeding 30 MeV ["m e v"], the protons seen in one of them are believed to arise from the neutron decay of high-energy cosmic rays. High-intensity solar activity can disrupt them, and this disruption may be the cause of auroras and magnetic storms. Consisting of both an inner and outer version, for ten points, name these toroids of charged particles present in the Earth's magnetic field, named for an American physicist.       Answer:	Van Allen radiation beltsOvertime Tossup. The naieve but frustrated nurse Marina Timofeevna proves some comic relief in this work, incessantly suggesting that people drink some tea and ignore their problems until they go away. "Waffles" embodies the tragiocomic nature of this drama best of any character, as his belief in loyalty leads him to support the children of his wife, who left him on their wedding day. Throughout this play, competition for the love of Yelena, the wife of a charlatan art professor brews, and tensions finally boil over when Serebryakov suggests the sale of the main character's home, at which point he misses Serebryakov with two point-blanc revolver shots. For ten points, name this 1899 play which ends with a series of anticlimactic farewells, a work by Anton Checkov.	Answer: Uncle Vanya (or Dyadya Vanya)
The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteBonuses by the University of Illinois at Chicago (Rom Masrour, Bob Johnson, Nima Shahlapour, Hemant Mehta, and Ravi Sahota, feat. Chris Romero)Bonus 1. Answer each of the following monumental modern artists for ten points.1. This best-known environmental minimalist is known mostly for 1970's Spiral Jetty, black rock, salt crystal, and earthen walkway in the Great Salt Lake.	Answer: Robert Smithson2. This Bugarian and his wife Jean-Claude de Guillbon work by covering things or wrapping them up. His best work is Biscayne Bay's Surrounded Islands from 1980, but he is mostly known for 1972's Valley Curtain, and for wrapping the Reighstag in clingfilm.	Answer: Christo Javacheff (accept either)3. This one-trick pony just loves putting cheesecloth-rubbed cast plaster figures all over. His notable works include 1966's The Truck, a re-casting of The Third Class Carriage.	Answer: George SegalBonus 2. Answer these questions about a social scientist and his work, for ten points each.1. His study of the Trobriand Islanders led to a namesake work, along with Sex and Repression in Savage Society.  He is considered to be the founder of social anthropology.       Answer:	Bronislaw Malinowski2. Perhaps Malinowski's most famous work is this essay which includes description and commentary on the kula ring exchange in the Trobriand Islands.       Answer:	Argonauts of the Western Pacific3. Malinowski is also known for having written the preface to Facing Mount Kenya by this man, a student of his.       Answer:	Jomo KenyattaBonus 3. Answer each of the following about statistical mechanics for ten points.1. Statistical mechanics may be formulated most easily in spaces of this type, which include the ? ["mu"] and ? ["gamma"] spaces, a point in the latter of which completely defines the state of the system by specifying the positions and momenta of every particle in the system.	Answer: phase spaces2. This fundamental object of statistical mechanics is generally symbolized simply f and is a function of the phase space variables. Its moments determine the properties of the system in the state to which it corresponds.	Answer: distribution function (or smooth phase density)3. This is the fundamental equation for the distribution function in the ? space, and states that the total time derivative of the distribution function in the phase variables vanishes.	Answer: Liouville equationBonus 4. His dramas include The Daughter of the Air and The Great Theatre of the World, but he may be best known for works like The Mayor of Zalamea. For ten points...1. Name this Spanish author.       Answer:	Pedro Calderon de la Barca2. This Calderon de la Barca drama sees the prince Segismundo locked-up in a tower by his father Basilio because it was prophesized that he would be brutal.  Oh yeah, and the prophecy was correct.       Answer:	Life is a Dream (or La vida es suena)3. Calderon de la Barca replaced Lope de Vega as the greatest writer of this period of Spanish drama.       Answer:	Spanish Golden Age (accept close equivalents)Bonus 5. Answer each of the following about a certain important model of gene expression for ten points.1. This model of gene expression control was created by Jacob and Monod in the 1960's to explain lactose digestive enzyme production in E. coli.	Answer: operon model2. These regions of genes are after the operator of an operon and code for the enzymes that the operon controls. The lac operon has three, denoted Z, Y, and A.	Answer: structural genes3. This region of the operon occurs before the operator. RNA polymerase binds to this region when the operator doesn't repress it.	Answer: promoterBonus 6. Everyone hates rivers, so answer each of the following appertaining to the river's natural enemy, the dam, for ten points.1. The Aswan High dam creates this lake as its reservoir by beating the hell out of the Nile.        Answer: Lake Nasser (or Lake Nubia)2. This nation's Grand Dixence Dam was the world's largest for almost two decades, and defeats the Dixence river, much to the glee of local mountains.Answer: Switzerland (or Swiss Confederation or Suisse or Confédération Suisse or Schweiz or Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft or Svizzera or Confederazione Svizzera or Confederazione Elvetica or Svizzra or Confederaziun Helvetica)3. If this dam being constructed at Sandouping to spite the Yangtze is ever completed, it will be the world's largest.       Answer: Three Gorges DamBonus 7. Name these existentialists for the stated number of points.1. (5 points) Killed in a car accident in 1960, this really, really famous existentialist wrote The Fall, The Plague, and the essay "The Myth of Sisyphus."       Answer:	Albert Camus2. (10 points) This Swiss theologian expressed his "wholly otherness of God" sympathies in his huge work Church Dogmatics.       Answer:	Karl Barth3. (15 points) A clinical psychologist, he tried to work an existential phenomenology into his practice as a therapist.  Works include General Psychopathology and Man in the Modern Age.       Answer:	Karl JaspersBonus 8. Name each composer from harder operas for 15 points, or from easier operas for 5 points.1. (15 points) This guy wrote Idomeneo, King of Crete; and the unfinished but hilarious L'Oca del Cairo, Lo Sposo Deluso.(5 points) He's also responsible for Abduction from the Seraglio, Don Giovanni, The Magic Flute, and a bunch of other stuff.Answer: Johann Chrysostom Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart)2. (15 points) This dude created Antony and Cleopatra and A Hand of Bridge, which may be the shortest opera ever written.(5 points) Also, this American authored Vanessa, with Menotti, and several other things.       Answer: Samuel BarberBonus 9. Name these seminal pieces of Chinese literature for ten points each.1. This work by Lou Guanzhong focuses on the period following the fall of the Han dynasty is perhaps the most famous piece of Chinese literature ever written.       Answer: Romance of the Three Kingdoms (or San Kuo chih yen-i)2. Daiyu, Baochai and Baoyu are some of the 30 major characters of this work by Cao Zhan, which chronicles the fall of the Jia family.       Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber (or Honglou Meng)3. This Gao Ming epic is based on the anecdotes of Ming dynasty scholar Cai Yong, who is referred to in the story as Cai Boxie.       Answer: Story of the Lute (or Lute Story or Papa Jin)Bonus 10. Answer these questions about a politician and his work, for ten points each.1. As commander of the Army of the James in Virginia, he led unsuccessful operations against Richmond and Petersburg.  He was also a Radical Republican, and helped lead the effort to impeach Johnson.       Answer:	Benjamin Franklin Butler2. Benjamin Butler later broke with the Republicans and ran for president on the ticket of this party in 1884, which had nominated Peter Cooper in 1880.       Answer:	Greenback Party3. Butler may be most famous, however, for his iron-fisted rule as military governor over this southern city, where he executed a man for tearing down a U.S. flag.       Answer:	New OrleansBonus 11. Name these Sophocles dramas, for ten points each.1. The first play in the so-called Theban cycle, it includes Oedipus stabbing himself in the eyes repeatedly when he discovers that Jocasta is his mother.  Man, that's disgusting.       Answer:	Oedipus the King (or Oedipus Rex or Oedipos Tyrannos)2. The title character of this Sophocles play is the sister of Orestes, who helps him plot to kill Clytemnestra and Aegisthus in revenge for their father Agamemnon's death.       Answer:	Electra3. Centers on Deianeira's efforts to win back her husband Heracles from the concubine Iole, the title characters serve as the chorus who tell Deianeira not to use the love charm that she creates.  But she does.       Answer:	The Trachinian Women Bonus 12. Answer each of the following about a vital process in mechanics for ten points.1. This is the collision-mediated spontaneous movement of molecules down a concentration gradient. Transport by a process of this type is characterized by a namesake constant with dimensions length squared per unit time.	Answer: diffusion (accept word forms, like diffusive transport, etc.)2. This fundamental equation of diffusion may be simply stated j = -D grad c ["j equals minus d grad c"], where j is the current density of the diffusively transported property with diffusion constant D and concentration c.	Answer: Fick's law of diffusion3. Source-free, steady-state diffusion of a conserved property in the common case that the reaction rate is directly proportional to the concentration gives rise to an equation of this type for the concentration, whose general form is  ["del squared c plus b c equals zero"] for constant B.       Answer: Helmholtz equationsBonus 13. Answer the following about being dead in various mythologies, for ten points each.1. In Greek myth, this river separates the world of the living from the world of the dead.  Your soul has to pay Charon some big bucks to cross it.       Answer:	Styx2. This is the river one must cross in Norse mythology to reach the land of the dead.         Answer:	Kormet3. In this faith, the souls of the dead must pass over the bridge of Chinvat, which is supposedly located on or near High Hara.        Answer:	ZoroastrianismBonus 14. Name each of the following parts of the limbic system for ten points.1. This bulbous structure of the diencephalon is located between the brain stem and forebrain. It "translates" sensory data for the cerebral cortex.       Answer: thalamus2. Named from the Greek for a sea monster resembling a seahorse, this inner brain structure of the temporal lobe plays a major role in memory formation and recall.       Answer: hippocampus3. This resident of the medial temporal lobe is attached to the hippocampus and plays an important and mysterious role in emotions, especially fear.Answer: amygdalaBonus 15. Name these barbarian tribes, for ten points each.1. According to the Venerable Bede, these peoples settled in Kent and in Hampshire, and helped to invade England with the Angles and the Saxons in the fifth century.       Answer:	Jutes2. Under the leadership of Gunderic and Gaiseric, this tribe settled in North Africa and captured Carthage, throwing off Roman lordship.  Oh yeah, and they sacked Rome in 455.       Answer:	Vandals3. Mainly agriculturalists who lived near Dacia, this tribe kicked the crap out of Valens at Adrianople, and repeatedly invaded Rome after 401 under the leadership of Alaric.       Answer:	VisigothsBonus 16. Given a description, name the following constructs in international economics for ten points each.1. Countered by the Leontief paradox, this theorem cum model states that countries in which labor is the dominant factor of production will import capital-intensive goods and vice versa.Answer: Hecksher-Ohlin Theorem (or Hecksher-Ohlin Model, Hecksher-Ohlin Framework, etc.)2. For a producing nation, these curves specify the levels of two substitutable inputs required to create a given level of output. These are generally convex to the origin, and intersect the lowest possible isocost line at the efficient point of production.       Answer: isoquants3. In contrast to the Cournot-Nash variety, this type of competition is a bidding war in which the bidders generally end up at zero-profit prices.       Answer: Bertrand competitionBonus 17. Identify the architects of New York City landmarks for ten points each.1. This man behind the Washington Square Arch and the Century Club, and designer of the second Madison Square Garden was shot to death on its roof in 1906 by millionaire Harry K. Thaw.        Answer: Stanford White2. This architect designed the art deco masterpiece Chrysler Building and caused a national sensation when, in a surprise move in November 1929, he had a stainless steel spire installed to make it the tallest structure in the world.        Answer: William van Alen3. This man designed what is considered New York's oldest surviving skyscraper, the triangular twenty-two story Flatiron Building, as well as the "White City" of the Chicago World Columbian Exposition.       Answer: Daniel BurnhamBonus 18. Answer the following about an Adult cartoon for ten points each.1. The first season of this Adult Swim mainstay consisted mainly footage of stolen from the Cartoon Network vaults by its creators, Adam Reed and Matt Thompson, with new dialogue voiced by Harry Goz and Erik Estrada, among others.Answer: Sealab 2021 (prompt on "Sealab")2. The last new episode of Sealab 2021 aired was written under this pseudonym, by the same man provides the voice of Hesh on Sealab and those of MC Pee Pants, Sir Loin, and Little Brittle on Aqua Teen Hunger Force.Answer: MC Chris3. A homemade Tesla coil, a time machine that's more a dodgeball cannon than a time machine, and ethnic stereotyping are some of the devices used by this resident idiot of Sealab to torment Dr. Quinn. Great hair, though.Answer: Derek "Stormy" WatersBonus 19. Name these Sartre plays, for ten points each.1. The title character Lizzie refuses to turn the Negro in to a lynch mob, and also refuses to let Thomas slide for the murder he commits... that is, until the Senator asks her to do so.       Answer:	The Respectful Prostitute (or La putain respecteuse)2. Hugo is sent by Olga and Louis to kill Hoederer, who is opposing their resistance efforts against the Nazis during World War II. Hugo gets the job done, but winds up with the title affliction.       Answer:	Dirty Hands (or Les mains sales)3. Garcin, Estelle, and Inez all sit in a really hot room that's probably supposed to represent Hell.  And then they realize that hell is other people.       Answer:	No Exit (or Huis Clos)Bonus 20. Answer these questions about a Jewish holiday, for ten points each.1. From the Hebrew for "lots", it celebrates the freeing of Mordecai and of the survival of the Jews in general despite their marking for death by Persian rulers.       Answer:	Purim2. This adopted daughter of Mordecai went to a banquet uninvited to beg for Mordecai's life from the hanging intended to take place on 13th Adar, and did so. The story is in her namesake book of the Bible.       Answer:	Esther3. This is the king that Esther beseeched to save Mordecai's life. Haman was his chief minister.       Answer:	Ahasuerus