The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by Kentucky (Seth Kendall, Gerald Patton, and Chad Money)Tossup 1. With Lindemann, this person is the namesake of an important theory on algebraic numbers, which Lindemann used to prove π and this mathematician used to prove e transcendental. His important work on elliptic functions allowed him to publish a general solution to the quintic in terms of them in 1858, and his namesake matrix normal form is obtained by left multiplication by a unimodular matrix. This man also lends his name to an infinite sequence of orthogonal polynomials which arise in the Froebenius solution of his namesake differential equation, y'' - 2xy' + ky = 0 ["y-double-prime minus two x y-prime plus k y equals zero"]. For 10 points, name this French mathematician who also names the property of an operator that is its own conjugate or, in the case of a matrix, transposed complex conjugate.	Answer: Charles HermiteTossup 2. This word derives from the Greek for "assail" and comes from the fact that composers of scurrilous poems used this measure in their satiric verses. As an adjective, this word describes a scathing form of Greek mocking poem that is also the namesake of French satiric poetry, as set of which was composed by André Chenier. Seven of these units go into a verse called a fourteener, six of them make up an Alexandrine, quatrains alternating four and five of them is the standard ballad form, and five of them comprise a standard line of blank verse. For 10 points name this metrical foot consisting of two measures, a short syllable followed by a long one, that is sometimes considered the natural unit of speech.	Answer: iambicTossup 3. There are known on the order of 30 of the "millisecond" variety of these objects, for which there exists a strong correlation between the magnetic field strength and rotation rate. Plasma ablated from their surfaces and trapped in highly motive fields is probably responsible for the anomalously large high-energy tail of the particle distribution in the interstellar medium. They experience chaotic, step-wise changes in period known as glitches, which may be due to field decoupling due to increases in core conductance, or "starquakes." For ten points, name these astronomical objects that were discovered by Anthony Hewish and Jocelyn Bell in 1967 and that are rapidly rotating neutron stars.	Answer: pulsating radio starsTossup 4. The Greek name of this body was Tyras which is still recalled by a city on its banks, Tiraspil, and by the Turkish name for the river, Turlu. Another city on its banks, Hylich, gave its name to the territory known as Galicia, of which this was the main waterway. Fed on the right bank by such tributaries as the Reut, Byk, and Botna, and on the left bank by the Kalius, Seret, Zbruch and Murafa Rivers, its velocity is swiftest near the village of Vovche, close to where it rises in Mount Rozluch in the Middle Beskid range. Its valley is densely populated as such large cities Lviv and Chisinau lie on tributaries. For 10 points, name this river which flows 840 miles from the Carpathians to the Black Sea near Odessa, the second largest river in the Ukraine and the main waterway of Moldova.	Answer: DniesterTossup 5. This story is the subject of a 1920 film starring John Barrymore, who pulled off one of the main roles almost entirely without cosmetics. An expressionist German version starring Conrad Veidt is called Der Januskopf. A 1941 version starring a miscast Spencer Tracy also features an equally miscast Ingrid Bergman as  "Champagne Ivy," a role whose first appearance on film was done by Miriam Hopkins in the superior 1931 Robert Mamoulian-directed version. That film's metamorphosis sequence was done with blue makeup and filters, and was a breakthrough in special effects. For 10 points, this describes the treatment in motion pictures of what story, the portrayal of whose main character boosted Frederic March into serious star status and earned him the first of his two Oscars. 	Answer: Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (accept equivalents)Tossup 6. In his attempt to get past the gatekeeper into the land of Nuada of the Silver Hand, this man listed his ability to serve the king as a warrior, smith, carpenter, physician, and many other occupations. This led to one of his names: Ildánach, or "Skilled at all the arts," but he was also known as Lamfada, "Long-Armed," which indicated the extensive reach of his divine power. Possessor of the sword Freagarthach, "The Answerer", he nevertheless used a stone to slay the deadly-gazing, one-eyed Fomorian Balor, his own grandfather. He appeared as a "bright-faced" noble man against the armies of Queen Medb for the convalescing Cu Chullain, his son. For ten points name this son of Kian and Celtic god of the sun.	Answer: Lugh (or Lliew)Tossup 6. This person graduated third in class from Brown at age 19, and defeated William Randolph Hearst in the 1906 New York gubernatorial race. This politician declined to serve as Taft's Vice-President and, after a brief career change, his re-entry into electoral politics failed despite the endorsement of both the Republican and Bull Moose parties. He planned and served as chairman of the Washington Conference, but returned to an earlier employment in 1930. For ten points, name this American statesman, Secretary of State under Harding and Coolidge, unsuccessful presidential candidate in 1916, Supreme Court justice from 1910 to 1916, and Chief Justice from 1930 to 1941.	Answer: Charles Evans HughesTossup 8. This can be computed directly by solving Fresnel's equations for a T-mode with zero parallel reflection coefficient. For a randomly polarized ray incident at this, the reflected and refracted rays are perpendicular, so a plate placed in a light beam at it can be used as a polarizer. When light moves is incident on an interfacial discontinuity, the p polarization will not be reflected at one particular angle, about 56º ["fifty-six degrees"] for a glass medium in air at visible wavelengths. For ten points, name this important optical angle, equal in the geometric limit to the proper arctangent of the ratio of the media indices of refraction, and named for a Scottish physicist.	Answer: Brewster angleTossup 9. This skirmish was fought near the site of the earlier Battle of Cynoscephalae. One side began in strong defensive positions on Mount Dogandzis, but eventually elected for a cavalry charge on the opposing left flank. Having been drawn-out by a feint, this charge was met by special forces given instructions to "aim for the face" to take advantage of the opposition's vanity. This paid-off as the cavalry fled and left the loser's left denuded, hit, and rolled up. Fought by the River Epineus, for ten points, name this recompense for the earlier loss at Dyrrhachium where the failed charge of Titus Labienus and the successful left wing charge of Marc Antony played the principal roles in the loss of Pompey the Great to Julius Caesar in 48 BCE.	Answer: PharsalusTossup 10. Some legends tell that, like Peter, this man was ordered crucified upside down, but, unlike Peter, that he died Armenia and became its patron saint. Others describe how he took the gospel to India, where he was martyred by being flayed alive, and it is from this that he became the patron saint of tanners. For ten points identify this apostle, also known as Nathanael, on whose feast day a horrible massacre of Huguenots took place in 1572. 	Answer: Saint Bartholemew (accept Saint Nathanael before it's mentioned)Tossup 11. Four years after this leader's retirement from military service, he was called upon to repel an invading force at the battle of Tarqui in 1829. He then agreed to preside over the "Admirable Congress" of Gran Colombia, which failed to maintain the unity of three constituent nations and would lead to this man's assassination. With only what he had learned from a brief stint at a military school before turning fifteen, in 1810 he joined the revolution from Spain and, after ten years of being slapped around, at he became a skilled general, winning victory at Pichincha. Joining forces with San Martin to win Ayacucho, he helped earn victory at Junin as the right hand man of Simón Bolívar. For ten points, name this commander and politician, the first elected president of Brazil and namesake of its judicial capital.	Answer: Antonio de José de Sucré AlcaláTossup 12. During the Thirties, this man hired by the WPA, which resulted in 1992's America Eats, while the life of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter provided the basis for The Devil's Stocking. He was the editor of his Own Book of Lonesome Monsters, which featured contributions by Heller, Pyncheon, and Bellow. In his early years, he was hospitalized for depression following reviews of his first work, Somebody in Boots. For ten points, name this author who was thrown into depression again by lukewarm reviews of A Walk on the Wild Side, but is best known for The Man with the Golden Arm.	Answer: Nelson AlgrenTossup 13. According to legend, the composer of the opera so identified with the main character of it that he wept while composing his death scene. He and the librettist profoundly altered that character from the original story, making him love a girl whose suicide in a canal was completely invented this opera. It includes a charming retelling of Daphnis and Chloe recast as Prilepa, Zlatogor, and Milovzor in a drawing room scene, and also quotes André Grétry's Richard Coeur-de-Lion when the countess recalls her days in Paris, before she traded her virtue for the secret of a winning at cards. She dies of fright at the demand for that secret, though her ghost finally reveals it to the soldier Herman. For ten points, name this opera based loosely on a poem by Pushkin and heavily altered by Modest and Pyotr Tchaikovsky.	Answer: The Queen of Spades (or Pikovaya Dama)Tossup 14. In 1659, this writer was elected a Member of Parliament from Hull, a post he would hold for the rest of his life. He published the satirical "Last Instructions to a Painter" and a tract advocating tolerance, The Rehearsal Transpros'd, after returning from a European espionage mission in 1665. He wrote "Upon Appleton House" and "The Mower to the Glow-worms" while he was tutoring the daughter of Lord Fairfax, a position possibly gained by his "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland." After serving as an assistant to his friend John Milton, he succeeded him as Latin Secretary to the Council of State and helped shield Milton from the revenge enacted by the Restoration. For ten points, name this metaphysical Cavalier poet best known for his light-hearted "To His Coy Mistress."	Answer: Andrew MarvellTossup 15. The provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment ,upheld in cases like Hurtado v. California, greatly weakened the force of this 1833 case. Indicative of the changing nature of the court, in one of his last opinions, Marshall spoke for a unanimous bench and greatly diminished judicial power by his ruling, whereby a wharf owner whose property had been damaged by Maryland state action to redirect streams lost his suit for damages. For ten points, name this case that held that the Fifth Amendment only restricted Federal, and not State, actions. 	Answer: Barron v. BaltimoreTossup 16. The detached narrator of this brief work describes the thoughts of its unnamed title figure about the good old days of his profession, when his performances would be monitored late at night. That character continued to take pride in a profession that, as the narrator mentions in the first line, had been declining in popularity for some decades. Though he eventually suffers the indignity of signing on with a circus to perform near the foul-smelling animals, his principal degradation comes at the moment of his death, when he admits that it is not pride in his craft but merely a finicky palate that had impelled him to choose his occupation. Such are the humiliations born by, for ten points, what figure, eventually replaced by a panther after he presumably starved to death in a very short piece by Franz Kafka?Answer: A Hunger Artist (or Ein Hungerkunstler)Tossup 17. In this conflict, a mistaken adherence to bayonet charges, which were called stosstaktik, and a government monopoly on breech loading rifles, which prevented the accumulation needle guns, contributed to defeat. Witness to the first European military use of telegraphs and railroads, after the initial victory of the losing side at Trautenau or Langensalza, a defeat of Generals Eduard Clam-Gallas and Ludwig von Benedek at Münchengratz led to a decisive defeat at a battle a battle with largest number of troops then engaged on a European battlefield. Decided by the battle of Sadowa or Königgratz, Prussians under the leadership of Helmuth von Moltke defeated Austria and took over the province of Schlewsig-Holstein in, for ten points, what brief war that took place over two months in 1866?	Answer: Seven Weeks' WarTossup 18. While the main character of this work, the head of a successful Cadillac dealership, seems prosperous, he is actually trapped in an unhappy marriage made worse by his drinking and womanizing. His need to borrow $25,000 from Harry Reilly to cover his death costs ironically contributes to his suicide. Thus, the trappings of a wealthy suburban social scene do not allow him to escape his doom, much as the flight of a slave does not keep him from his date with death in the Islamic legend from which this work gets its title. For ten points, name the novel that relates the demise of Julian English and is one of the best-known works of John O'Hara.	Answer: Appointment in SamarraTossup 19. Following a disastrous loss on May 12, the area where this battle took place saw mostly guerilla action against the enemy until July 25, when a new general was dispatched with 3,000 men. They encountering the enemy three weeks later and despite inferior numbers, that enemy attacked in textbook formation, whereupon the Virginia and North Carolina militias fled, leaving only the Regulars. These were gradually flanked and destroyed, by which point the losing general had already began his headlong 200-mile flight to Hillsboro. This defeat was fairly crushing, as the losers lost their artillery and almost 700 men, including the Baron de Kalb. For ten points, name this August 15, 1780 battle at which Americans under the "leadership" of Horatio Gates were crushed by Cornwallis. 	Answer: Battle of CamdenTossup 20. This school of though began in the 1980s in the attempt to answer why the long-predicted end of the economic upturn had not yet happened, a solution it partially found in the key result that, where a firm relies on innovation and resources more than output cost, the law of diminishing returns no longer holds. In fact, according to the main theorist of this economic theory, objects alone do not drive economic expansion, but rather ideas do. It further follows Schumpeter's conditional bias for monopolies, which are a natural consequence of the high barriers to entry and low production costs resulting from idea-based expansion. For ten points, name this economic theory, the brainchild of Paul Romer, which places a premium on discoveries, through it argues that economic expansion can persist in theory indefinitely.	Answer: New Growth theoryOvertime Tossup. Diogenes Laertius states that this man was the first to draw a map of the earth, that he invented the gnomon-stick sundial for measure of the solstices, the he was the first to use a clock, and that he theorized that the moon shines from light borrowed from the sun. However, only one sentence of his works survives, and that suggests that balance in the elements results when hot and cold "pay reparations" to ona-another, and does not mention the concept for which he is most famous, that of suggesting that the universe derives from a principal substance he called the "apeiron" or "boundless." For ten points, name this prominent member of the Ionian school; a Milesian who is said to have studied under Thales and to have taught Anaximines.       Answer: Anaximander of Miletus
The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteBonuses by Kentucky (Seth Kendall, Gerald Patton, and Chad Money) Bonus 1. Identify some things about the life and times of Moses for ten points each.1. Moses eventually married this daughter of the Midianite Jethro.	Answer: Zipporah2. By Zipporah, Moses had two sons: Eliezer and this one, whose name, meaning "Exile," reflects his father's tenure as a stranger in a strange land. In Exodus 4:24, he is circumcised by his mother to prevent God from killing Moses.	Answer: Gershom3. Moses ultimately does not enter the Promised Land but is allowed to see it from this mountain peak in Moab in Deuteronomy 34.	Answer: Mount PisgahBonus 2. The Colonna family was one of the most important of medieval and Renaissance Italy. Answer these questions about them for ten points each.1. The Colonna were the implacable rivals and enemies of this "bear-like" family, whose members included popes Nicholas III, Benedict XII, and Clement V, the first Avignon pope.	Answer: Orsini2. Stephen Colonna was the implacable enemy of this man whose forces would later kill him at the Battle of Porta San Lorenzo in 1347. Having seized power in Rome and with the mission of restoring Rome's ancient greatness, his "tribunate" ultimately ended with his deposition, return, and murder, and he was the subject of a novel by Bulwer-Lytton and the opera based on it by Wagner.	Answer: Cola da Rienzo (accept Nicola Gabrini or Rienzi)3. Perhaps the most famous member of the Colonna family was this man, whose election at the council of Constance in 1417 ended the Great Schism.	Answer: Martin V (prompt on "Martin")Bonus 3. For ten points each, identify the following types of unemployment.1. This is unemployment caused by the natural fluctuations of a business period.	Answer: cyclical unemployment2. This is the unemployment that arises from normal labor turnover, that is, from people entering and leaving the labor force and from the ongoing creation and destruction of jobs.	Answer: frictional unemployment3. This undesirable type of unemployment arises when changes in technology or international competition change the skills needed to perform jobs or the location of jobs.	Answer: structual unemploymentBonus 4. Though this artist close to Seth's heart recently retired, at least he left Seth with the solace of an album containing "Encore," "99 Problems," and the infuriatingly catchy "Change Clothes." For ten points each...1. Name this rap superstar and former member of Original Flavor.Answer: Jay-Z (or Shawn Carter)2. Jay-Z's final album shares this name, which is also given to a technically untitled 1991 Metallica album, whose offerings include "Enter Sandman," "Unforgiven," "Don't Tread on Me," and, if you listen closely, the wrenching sobs of the ghost of Cliff Burton.	Answer: The Black Album3. Of far greater interest than Metallica's or Jay-Z's Black Album is one made in 1987 by this man in between his Sign o' the Times and Lovesexy. Name this artist who by this point had ousted the Revolution.	Answer: Prince Rogers Nelson (accept either)Bonus 5. "German Dances" were apparently pretty popular in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Identify each composer of them from clues, ten points each.1. Sleigh bells are found in one set of the composer's German Dances, which are assigned Köchel numbers 586 and 600.	Answer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart2. This composer's Opus 33 German Dances have a Deutsch catalogue number 783. His song "Gretchen im Spinnrade" has Deutsch Catalogue number 118, and his Winterreise cycle number 911.	Answer: Franz Schubert3. Thematic compositions by this composer are given Hoboken numbers, such as "German Dances", Hoboken IX.10, and Symphony 103 in E-flat major, the "Drumroll", which is designated Hoboken I.103.	Answer: Joseph HaydnBonus 6. As Andrew Ullsperger always says, "Physical chemistry ain't easy, but somebody's gotta do it." Answer each of the following about an exemplar of that fact, for ten points.1. This German physical chemist is probably best known for his namesake criterion for aromaticity, which states that a cyclic compound is aromatic if it has 4n + 2 π [pi] electrons, for non-negative integer n.	Answer: Erich Armand Joseph Hückel2. Hückel worked under this other notable physical chemist, and they together developed a theory of strong electrolytic solutions that bears their names. This Dutchman is also the namesake of a screening length that is the fundamental characterization of a plasma.	Answer: Peter Joseph William Debye3. Hückel's most important work was probably his derivation of an approximation for these polyatomic electron spatial probability distributions, which he developed for unsaturated molecules in 1937, although his formulation has largely been replaced by that of Pariser, Parr, and Prople.	Answer: molecular orbitalsBonus 7. The flag of this nation consists of a red stripe between two white ones in the lower half, symbolizing the road to progress, on a blue field symbolizing the Atlantic Ocean to which a circle of ten yellow stars was added to represent the ten major islands. For ten points each...1. Name this African nation with a capital at Praia.	Answer: Cape Verde2. Praia is on São Tiago, one of the two main island groups of Cape Verde known as the Sotavento group. Name the other, whose members include Santo Antão, São Vicente, Santa Luzia, São Nicolau, Boa Vista, and Sal, together with the islets of Raso and Branco.	Answer: Windward (or Barlavento)3. Upon independence from Portugal plans were afoot to unite Cape Verde with this county to its east on the African mainland, but a revolution in 1980 ended these plans. Name this nation, whose territory includes the Bijagos Archipelago and has such cities as Gabu, Mansoa, and Farim.	Answer: Guinea-Bassau (neither accept not prompt on "Guinea")Bonus 8. Name each of the following simple but effective techniques or devices from analytical biology for ten points.1. This is the uptake of a plasmid by a given organism. To create copies of a gene of interest, one can simply make a recombinant plasmid, allow this to occur with some simple organism, and let that organism multiply.	Answer: transformation2. When a gene cannot be copied by transformation, this method, in which a strand of DNA of interest, synthases, nucleotides, and cut-up single strands that serve as primers are incubated, is good to use for gene amplification. It was invented by Mullis in 1983.	Answer: polymerase chain reaction3. Once a sufficient amount of genetic material has been created, it can be analyzed via this technique, which involves electrophoresis, setting on a paper through capillary action, hybridization with a radioactice probe, and autoradiography. 	Answer: Southern blotting (or Southern hybridization)Bonus 9. In 33 CE Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa agreed to serve as aedile in Rome, though he had already been consul, in the process greatly improving the city. Answer these questions about his time in that office for ten points each.1. Agrippa's name is still emblazoned on a temple in Rome, though that temple is actually a complete rebuild dating from the time of Hadrian of the structure which had once stood there. Name this temple, built to honor all the gods.	Answer: Pantheon2. In addition to repairing roads and aqueducts, Agrippa cleared the debris that had accumulated in this main drainage artery of Rome. He cleared so well that he could sail in a small boar from it to the Tiber. Name this ditch originally built by the Tarquins.	Answer: Cloaca Maxima3. Agrippa lated adorned the Circus Maximus with a new mechanism mounted on top of tall columns and consisting of shining silver dolphins, which served to count laps. The dolphins were a reference to the battle of Naulocus, in which he had defeated this admiral and pirate.Answer: Sextus Pompeius (or Sextus Pompey; prompt on "Pompeius" or "Pompey"; do not accept "Pompey the Younger" since that's someone else)Bonus 10. Identify these Neolithic archaeological sites from the Middle East for ten points each.1. There are two distinctive periods of occupation of this site, classified as  Pre-Pottery Neolithic A and B. Standing at the place now known as Tell es-Sultan, it is one of the world's oldest cities and is famous for its excavation in the 1950s undertaken by Dame Kathleen Kenyon.	Answer: Jericho2. Famous for its excavations done by James Mellaart, who argued that it was the first real city, it is more likely an overgrown village which covers an area of over 32 acres and is located in modern day Turkey. Consisting of mud brick houses adjoined to create "compounds," it was the center of a Neolithic culture in Anatolia most known for its obsidian industry.	Answer: Çatal Hüyük3. This settlement is located in the Zagros Mountains near modern Kirkuk in Iraq. It contains one of the world's first farming-village communities, and is important in archaeological circles as the first site to be excavated to test the oasis theory of food production.	Answer: JarmoBonus 11. Identify the following concerning a mythological figure for the stated number of points.1. (15 points) This primordial Sumerian god of fresh waters produced the elder gods with his consort. He was thus one of the grandparents of Anu, Bel, and Ea, who killed him when he threatened to destroy all of creation.	Answer: Apsu2. (5 points) Apsu was the first consort of this bloated female dragon, the queen of salt waters whose slaughter by Marduk is described in the Enuma Elish.	Answer: Tiamat3. (10 points) After Tiamat's destruction, Marduk then had to kill this being, her second consort, from whose blood he created mankind.	Answer: KinguBonus 12. Arman is an "accumulation artist" whose work, while irritating, is pretty witty as well. Answer the following about him for the stated number of points.1. (15 points) In 1960, Arman produced Fullness, a refuse-filled room in the exact dimensions of The Void, an empty room passed off as art by this man. This artist also wrote the dedication for Nouveau Réalisme in chalk on a large sheet of ultramarine paper, which he later used in his "monochrome" Anthropometries, in which models rolled around in paint and imprinted themselves on canvases.	Answer: Yves Klein2. (10 points) Another of Arman's works consists of a charred violin encased in resin and is entitled To Hell with this virtuoso and author of the Capricci.	Answer: Nicollo Paganini3. (5 points) Another work essentially consists of a series of paint tubes and a line of paint from them making the rough shape of closed parenthesis and embedded in resin, entitled Tubes in Space, a reference to the most famous "sculpture" of this man whose shape it imitates.	Answer: Constantin BrancusiBonus  13. Answer each of the following about your favorite, graph theory, for ten points.1. For a relation R, this important set is also known as the connectivity relation and is denoted R* ["r-star"]. If Rn ["r-n"] is the set of all element pairs such that there is a path of length n from the first pair to the second in the graph of R, then this is the union of all Rn for positive integer n.	Answer: transitive closure of R (prompt on "closure")2. This is a graph with undirected edges, which allows both loops and multiple edges. These can be very difficult to work with, but are sometime equal to their own transitive closures.	Answer: pseudographs (prompt on "undirected graphs")3. This fundamental property of a vertex in a graph is equal to the number of non-loop edges touching the vertex, plus twice the number of loops touching the vertex. For a pseudograph, the handshaking theorem equates the sum of this over vertices of this to twice the number of edges.	Answer: local degree of a vertex (accept valency)Bonus 14. On the death of her husband young, Lilia leaves her daughter with her husband's family and goes with her friend Catherine Abbot to Italy, where she falls in love with and marries an Italian rogue despite the best attempts of her in-laws to "buy him off." For ten points each...1. Name this novel by E.M. Forster whose title is taken from Pope's Essay on Criticism.	Answer: Where Angels Fear to Tread2. The original title of Where Angels Fear to Tread was the name of this city, where Lilia meets Gino Carella.	Answer: Monteriano3. This first ambassador sent to prevent the marriage and later to "buy" Lilia's second child from Gino is the brother of Lilia's late husband. He falls for Catherine, but ends up the loser when she, in turn, falls for Gino after Lilia dies.	Answer: Phillip Herriton (accept either)Bonus 15. Name these Great things from American history for ten points each.1. Levees were broken in 145 places and 27,000 square miles were inundated in up to 30 feet of water in this 1927 disaster.	Answer: Great Mississippi Flood of 19272. The Great Mississippi Flood was a contributing factor to this mass northward exodus of African-Americans between 1910 and 1950.	Answer: Great Migration3. This series of domestic initiatives was never fully funded but brought about the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.	Answer: Great SocietyBonus 16. Identify the Canterbury Tale from description for ten points each.1. Told by the figure who goes by "Madam Eglantyne", this tale was inspired by the tale of St. Hugh of Lincoln and features a little boy murdered by evil Jews whose head nevertheless sings until his body is discovered.	Answer: Prioress's Tale2. This tale relates the downfalls of such figures as Bernabo of Milan, Ugolino, Pedro of Spain, Pedro of Cyprus, Holofernes, Belshazzar, Antiochus of Syria, Zenobia and other figures who plummeted from high estate. Almost as verbose as Seth Kendall, the teller goes on for 775 lines until stopped by the Knight.	Answer: Monk's Tale3. Told by the brother of the Plowman and probably composed to be the last tale of the completed work, this tale is a sermon on Pride, Envy, Anger, Sloth, Avarice, Gluttony, and Lechery, for which "satisfaction," or atonement through such acts as almsgiving, penance, and fasting is urged.	Answer: Parson's TaleBonus 17. Name each of the following about an important transformation from physics for ten points.1. This transformation is the classical one between a reference frames moving with constant velocity v with respect to one another. For a 4-vector, its canonical form, with rightward motion in x, is simply the 4-identity matrix augmented with a -v ["minus v"] below the upper-right 1.	Answer: Galilean transformation2. A physical system whose governing equations are Galilean invariant generally conserves the product of its initial center of mass vector and this scalar quantity.	Answer: mass3. The original form of this law named for a Frenchman is Galilean invariant, but the addition of the displacement current makes it Lorenz invariant, which it must be for electromagnetic waves to exist.	Answer: Ampere's lawBonus 18. Identify these military commanders from the American Civil War for ten points each.1. He graduated last in his class from West Point in 1861 and served with distinction at First Manassas and Gettysburg, but he is best known for an 1876 defeat.	Answer: George Armstrong Custer2. Widely regarded as the first modern general, he succeeded his friend Grant as top general in the U. S. Army and is famous for a wide swath of destruction wrought through Georgia and South Carolina. His brother John sponsored a famous antitrust act.	Answer: William Tecumseh Sherman3. While troops under his command never lost a defensive position during the war, it was his corps that was obliterated at Gettysburg. Detached to the western theater where he was defeated at the battle of Knoxville, he later rejoined Lee's army to play a crucial role in the battle of the Wilderness, and later served as U. S. ambassador to the Ottoman Empire.       Answer: James LongstreetBonus 19. Identify the American author, 30-20-10.1. (30 points) This writer is responsible for the pedestrian collection of essays Great Battles of the World, the unfinished romance The O'Ruddy, and the collections Men, Women, and Boats and Whiloville Stories.2. (20 points) This man's marriage to former madam Cora Taylor led him to flee to Europe, where he drew on his experience as a correspondent for the satire Active Service and for the poetry collected in War is Kind. 2. (10 points) The sinking of the USS Commodore provided the inspiration for his The Open Boat, while other works include "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky," and The Red Badge of Courage.	Answer: Stephen CraneBonus 20. Identify the American dystopian novel for ten points each.1. In this novel, all people are classified either as wealthy engineers or unskilled laborers. Kurt Vonnegut  gives Paul Proteus, head of industry in Ilium, the choice between achieving great success in his current career or leading a revolt against the technocratic society.	Answer: Player Piano2. Prometheus lives in a dark age where technology and the ego are forgotten, but he gradually rediscovers both electricity and individualism in this Ayn Rand work.	Answer: Anthem3. Journalist Doremus Jessup attempts to use the press to fight the growing dictatorship of President Buzz Windrip in this Sinclair Lewis novel.	Answer: It Can't Happen Here