The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by Dom Ricci and Sudheer PotruTossup 1.  His globetrotting exploits were reflected in such works as A Frenchman in New York, a reply to George Gershwin, and Souvenirs of Brazil, composed after a trip with ambassador Paul Claudel. This teacher of Steve Reich and Dave Brubeck associated with the social circle of Jean Cocteau, with whom he collaborated on the opera The Poor Sailor and the ballet The Do-Nothing Bar. A proponent of polytonality and the musical application of whips and hammers, for ten points, who was this composer of the ballet The Creation of the World, a member of Les Six?       Answer: Darius MilhaudTossup 2. On October 12, 1654, a gunpowder magazine explosion leveled one quarter of this city in a "thunderclap" that could be heard on the island of Texel, seventy miles away in the North Sea. Located on the Schie River, a statue of Hugo Grotius stands in the market of this birthplace of Anton van Leeuwenhoek. William the Silent was assassinated at its Prinsenhof and is buried in its Gothic-style New Church along with the subsequent members of the house of Orange. For ten points, what is this Dutch city immortalized on canvas by its native Jan Vermeer?       Answer: DelftTossup 3. The war this treaty resolved grew out of intervention in the Tonghak peasant revolt. Also known as the treaty of Maguan, in addition to a two hundred million tael indemnity, it granted the victors the Pescadores and Formosa. Out of fear of compromising Port Arthur, the Fengtien province on the Liaotung peninsula was eventually returned to the losers via the Triple Intervention of France, Germany, and Russia. Codifying China's 1895 defeat, for ten points, what was this treaty that settled the Sino-Japanese war?       Answer: Treaty of ShimonosekiTossup 4. In this play, not only is the water-carrier Cob thrashed for speaking out against tobacco, but he is nearly imprisoned by Judge Clement when he seeks a warrant against the braggart soldier Captain Bobadill. With an original cast that included Shakespeare, the plot is motivated by Old Knowell's pursuit of his son Edward to London and the subsequent interference of the ne'er-do-well Wellbred and the protean servant Brainworm. One of the title manifestations is the melancholy rustic poet Stephen in, for ten points, what play by Ben Jonson?       Answer: Every Man in His HumourTossup 5. Ten years before they defeated the Mongols at the battle of Ayn Jalut, their capture of Louis IX signaled the dissolution of the Seventh Crusade. They seized power when Aybak executed the heir of as-Salih, the last Ayyubid sultan, and they returned the caliphate to Cairo during the rule of Baybars I. Subsumed by the Ottoman Empire in 1517, this class lingered in semi-autonomous power until they were massacred by Muhammad Ali Pasha in 1811. For ten points, who were these Muslim slave soldiers and rulers of Egypt?       Answer: Mamluks or MamlukesTossup 6. Never admitted to the Royal Academy on account of his lack of large-scale works, his depictions of the entry of Napoleon into Munich on the Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel were executed in the Neoclassical style that characterized his Post-Revolutionary work such as Homer Attacked by Dogs.  Winner of the 1759 Prix de Rome and a master of detailing clay, he portrayed scenes of fauns, nymphs, and satyrs in his medium of choice, terra cotta. For ten points, who was this Nancy native and quintessential rococo sculptor?       Answer: Clodion or Claude MichelTossup 7. Integral to its development was the advent of the freeze-fracture/freeze etch technique which, when coupled with electron microscopy, permitted the examination of the P and E faces. Tight packing is prevented by a cis double bond that produces a kink in one of its basic unit's fatty acid tails. Held together by hydrophobic interactions, it surpassed the Davson-Danielli sandwich model in its ability to describe the placement of ogliosaccharides and glycoproteins. For ten points, what is this model developed by Singer and Nicholson in which the cell membrane is composed of proteins embedded in a phospholipid bilayer?       Answer: fluid mosaic modelTossup 8. Its second section references the juniper tree under which Elijah sat while wishing for death and it alludes to the leopard from Dante's Inferno, in this case having feasted on the narrator's organs. Published in Selected Poems in 1930, critics rejected its non-secular outlook embodied in "Lord, I am not worthy/ but speak the word only." The shift between the first and the last of its six books from "Because I do not" to "Although I do not hope to turn again" reflects its poet's conclusive conversion to the Church of England three years prior to its writing. For ten points, what is this T.S. Eliot poem named for the first day of Lent?       Answer: "Ash-Wednesday"Tossup 9. This quantity can be negative when bosons are added to a system at near zero temperature with no change in total energy, and it equals zero for a gas of photons. For electrons in a semiconductor, it is the analog of the Fermi level when it falls in the band gap, and for chemical reactions at equilibrium with multiple species, it can be determined from the law of mass action. Characteristic of the grand canonical ensemble among statistical mechanics formulations, for ten points, what is this thermodynamic quantity equal to the partial derivative of the free energy with respect to particle number?       Answer: chemical potentialTossup 10. One of the "handsome" members of this family lost the navel engagement of Drepanum when he threw his magic chickens overboard, while another, appellated Caudex, captured Messana to incite the First Punic War. Its founder immigrated to Rome from Sabine territory around 500 B.C. and this clan earned great fame through the construction of the first Roman aqueduct and the Via Appia during the 312 B.C. censorship of a member known as "the Blind." For ten points, what was this Roman gens that intermarried with the Julians to form the first imperial dynasty and whose name was commonly used by the fourth emperor?       Answer: Claudii (or Claudians or Claudius)Tossup 11. Recent discoveries of the highly specialized family of abelisaurs suggest that it lasted longer than previously believed. Although Alexander duToit's work with mesosaur fossils and Flinders Range sedimentation provided further proof, it was the population distribution of the plant glossopteris across the Karoo, the Santa Catharina, and its eponymous Indian strata that evoked its proposal by geologist Eduard Suess. Composed of the Indian, Australian, African, South American, and Antarctic proto-masses, for ten points, what was this super-continent of the Southern hemisphere?       Answer: GondwanalandTossup 12. Forced to sign a peace treaty with the Conservatives, his suicide attempt by shooting himself in the chest led to his emotional withdrawal. When his friend Gerineldo Marquez rejects an offer to join his thirty-third Liberal uprising, this time against a banana company, this silversmith began to cyclically build and melt twenty-five tiny golden fish. Eventually he forgets the deaths of his child-bride Remedios Moscote and his cross-marked seventeen namesake sons. For ten points, who is this Gabriel Garcia Marquez character that remembers ice while facing a firing squad at the opening of One Hundred Years of Solitude?       Answer: Colonel Aureliano BuendiaTossup 13. It holds that everything is in the empty state of shunyata rather than in a state of dharmic flux, and it draws from sutras such as the Prajna-Paramita and Avatamsaka in addition to the Pali canon. Claiming multiple heavens and hells, Tendai, Nichiren, and Pure Land number among its subgroups. It considers the self-salvation of the arhat to be a limited goal, instead emphasizing the compassion of one who temporarily forsakes nirvana to help others, the bodhisattva. Less orthodox than Theraveda, for ten points, what is this "greater vehicle" sect of Buddhism?       Answer: Mahayana BuddhismTossup 14. This phenomenon, along with solar wind, is the primary cause for comet tails pointing away from the Sun. Measured first by Pyotr Lebedev in 1892 with very light mirrors in a vacuum and later by Ernest Nichols with his namesake radiometer, it scales with the fourth power of temperature and is equal to the ratio of energy flux to the speed of light. Arising from photon momentum change, it is twice as intense for a perfectly reflective surface as for a perfect absorber. For ten points, what is this force per unit area exerted by impinging electromagnetic waves?       Answer: Radiation pressureTossup 15. His tragedies were primarily inspired by those of Euripides, with the notable exception of The Sabines. A speaker of Latin, Greek, and Oscan, Fulvius Nobilior patronized this native of Calabria after Cato the Elder brought him to Rome. While he produced the first Latin elegiac couplets, his most significant work was an epic poem in hexameter that covered the history of Rome from Aeneas through the Second Punic War. FTP, who was this versatile Latin author whose Annales served as the Roman national epic until it was succeeded by the Aeneid?       Answer: Quintus EnniusTossup 16. In a New York Tribune editorial, its sponsors deplored the president's endorsement of military governors, a condition that ironically was included in the hard-line Reconstruction Act three years later. A reaction to the proposed ten-percent plan, it required the disenfranchisement of senior civil and military leaders, the banning of slavery, and a loyalty oath taken by fifty percent of the white adult males before a return to the Union was permitted, but it was pocket vetoed by President Lincoln. For ten points, what was this 1864 bill that set forth harsh conditions for the readmission of Confederate states named for a Maryland representative and an Ohio senator?       Answer: Wade-Davis BillTossup 17. In a non-acidic solution, a pair of these reactions couples with a Friedel-Crafts acylation in the Haworth preparation of phenanthrenes. Requiring a high-boiling alcohol, its variant using a diethylene glycol solvent is the Huang-Minlon modification. This reaction converts one-phenyl-one-propanone to propylbenzene, but when the starting molecule is base-labile, its counterpart Clemmensen reduction is more useful. For ten points, what is this reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone carbonyl group is reduced to a methylene group by means of heating with a strong base and hydrazine?       Answer: Wolff-Kishner reductionTossup 18. Deported in 597 BC to Babylonia, this priest was the first prophet to be called outside of the Holy Land. Although he condemns the guilt of Judah and foretells the fall of Jerusalem to Nebuchadrezzar, he later describes the design of a new Temple. Claiming that his words came from a honey-flavored scroll that God enjoined him to eat, his visions included that of a valley of dry bones, a chariot-throne, and four cherubim with four chrysolite wheels. For ten points, who was this Old Testament prophet?       Answer: EzekielTossup 19. Among its effects was the reduction of the influencing gained by the Soviet Union three years earlier under treaty of Rapallo. Consisting of four sections, the last of which guaranteed French assistance to Poland and Czechoslovakia, this agreement driven by foreign minister Gustav Stresemann led to Germany's admittance to the League of Nations the following year, as it normalized the country's boundaries with Belgium and France. Repudiated when Germany invaded the demilitarized Rhineland in 1936, for ten points, what was this European pact signed in 1925 and named for an Italian-speaking Swiss canton?       Answer: Locarno Pact or TreatiesTossup 20. This novel includes such important symbols as a bowler hat and the smile of the dog Karenin. Nietzsche's concept of "eternal return" is cited at the beginning, and the story of Oedipus is related to communism, as is one character's recurring dream of several women singing while marching naked. The girl with the large glasses attempts to forbid Franz from going to Cambodia, but he does so out of care for the artist Sabina, who eventually moves to America, while Tereza and Tomas respectively come to represent weight and its opposite, the title concept.  For ten points, name this novel set against the background of the 1968 Prague Spring, written by Milan Kundera.       Answer:	The Unbearable Lightness of BeingOvertime Tossup. Among the things that works refutation are paralogisms, fallacious syllogisms based on inadmissible suppositions, and antinomies, pairs of contradictory propositions that apply experiential forms to matters beyond experience. It sets forth "of quantity", "of quality", "of relation", and "of modality" as the four types of categories in its "Transcendental Analytic" section.  Hindered by an opaque formalism inherited from Christian Wolff, a revised edition of this investigation of synthetic a priori judgments was required in 1787. For ten points, what was this logical examination of metaphysics by Immanuel Kant?       Answer: Critique of Pure Reason (or Kritik der reinen Vernunft)
The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by Dom Ricci and Sudheer PotruBonus 1. Answer the following about a concept in economics, for ten points each.1. One necklace will provide happiness to a woman with one necklace, but will provide less happiness to a woman with 50 necklaces, indicating that the first woman has a higher value of this for one necklace.       Answer: marginal utility2. This man's General Mathematical Theory of Political Economy outlined his marginal utility theory of value, which built on the work of Leon Walras.       Answer: William Stanley Jevons3. This Austrian economist also contributed to the marginal utility theory, and helped develop more subjective theories of value.       Answer: Karl MengerBonus 2. Identify the following about the Spanish in the American southwest for ten points each.1. This Franciscan friar built a chain of missions along the California coast beginning with San Diego in 1769.       Answer: Junipero Serra2. In addition to helping the Pima Indians to diversify their agriculture, this Jesuit priest mapped out much of southern Arizona and northern Sonora.       Answer: Eusebio Kino3. In 1680 this Indian tribe led by Pope [PO-pay] revolted against the Spanish conquistadors and drove them out of what is now New Mexico.       Answer: PuebloBonus 3. Identify the following about a jazz composer for ten points each.1. Known for his hats, this pianist and composer's dissonant sound, complex rhythms, and angular style on such songs as "Off Minor", "Straight, No Chaser", and "Brilliant Corners" led him to be ignored until the mid-1950's, when a critical re-evaluation changed his status from "eccentric" to "genius".       Answer: Thelonious Monk2. This Monk ballad was adopted by Miles Davis and its title was adapted for the first album from the original Miles Davis Quintet.       Answer: "Round Midnight" (the album is Round About Midnight)3. The Prophet, a painting by this Italian artist, is featured on the cover of Monk's album Mysterioso.       Answer: Giorgio de ChiricoBonus 4. Identify the Truman Capote works for ten points each.1. This novella describes the narrator's recollections of his neighbor Holly Golightly, a high-priced but ultimately lonely prostitute whose only cure for the "mean reds" is a visit to the title location.       Answer: Breakfast at Tiffany's2. Following the death of his mother in New Orleans, thirteen year-old Joel Knox travels to Skully's Landing, the decaying Alabama mansion of his estranged father, where he meets the latently homosexual cousin Randolph and the tomboy Idabel in this novel.       Answer: Other Voices, Other Rooms3. This novella borders on fantasy in its description of orphan Collin Fenwick's experience hiding in a china tree after his two aunts have a falling out over a medicine recipe.       Answer: The Grass HarpBonus 5. Identify the following about the philosophy of John Rawls for ten points each.1. Rawls's primary statements on ethics and political morality were set forth in this 1971 work.       Answer: A Theory of Justice2. To differentiate it from utilitarianism, which allows for the sacrifice of the one for the benefit of the many, Rawls used this phrase to describe the objective of his theory. It served as the title of Rawls's final restatement in 2001.       Answer: Justice as Fairness3. The key construct in Rawls's method of evaluating fairness is this hypothetical that shields the assessor from knowledge of their own morally irrelevant characteristics and thus permits objectivity.        Answer: veil of ignoranceBonus 6. Identify the ancient Greek lyric poets for ten points each.1. This poet who wrote in the Aeolic dialect of her native Lesbos addressed her poems to Atthis, Anactoria, Gongula, and other girls.       Answer: Sappho2. This Ionian native of Teos celebrated wine, women, song, and young boys. A collection of sixty Greek poems written in his style hundreds of years after his death heavily influenced the Cavalier poets.       Answer: Anacreon3. Referred to by Horace as a surging force of nature, this Theban's forty-four surviving epinician odes were written for the victors of the various athletic contests.       Answer: PindarBonus 7. Identify the animal-headed Egyptian deities for ten points each.1. Both a solar and lunar deity, this cat-headed goddess was considered the wife of Ptah by her cult in Memphis.       Answer: Bastet2. This ibis-headed scribe was the god of wisdom and mediation.       Answer: Thoth3. With a cult based around Arsinoe, this crocodile-headed god symbolized the fertility of the Nile and the authority of the pharaohs.       Answer: Sobek or SebekBonus 8. Identify these United Nations personages for ten points each.1. This American secretary of state set the stage for the formation of the U.N. when he negotiated a pledge among the Allies for postwar cooperation at the 1943 Moscow Conference of Foreign Ministers, an act for which he in part received the 1945 Nobel Prize for Peace.       Answer: Cordell Hull2. This Norwegian diplomat and first secretary-general resigned in 1952 after the Soviet Union refused to recognize him in response to his authorization of U.N. aid to South Korea.       Answer: Trygve Lie3. This American negotiated the 1949 Arab-Israeli truce, a deed for which he earned the Nobel Peace Prize the following year, and served as undersecretary-general from 1967 until his death in 1971.       Answer: Ralph BuncheBonus 9. Identify the regions for fifteen points from the first clue or ten points for the second.1. (15 points) Bordered by Lake Tanganyika to the east, Zambia to the south, and Angola to the west, this area was known as Shaba for twenty-five years due to its large number of copper mines.(10 points) For four years beginning in 1960, it attempted to succeed from the Congo under the leadership of Moise Tshombe.       Answer: Katanga2. (15 points) This region with capital at Enugu is bordered on the west by the Niger River, the east by Cameroon, and the south by the Gulf of Guinea. (10 points) This Igbo-populated province succeeded from Nigeria between 1967 and 1970 under the leadership of Lt. Col. Odumegwu Ojukwu.       Answer: BiafraBonus 10. Identify these members of the Seven Against Thebes for ten points each.1. Claiming that he would climb the walls of Thebes in defiance of Zeus, a lightening bolt struck down this man. He went on to make an appearance in Dante's Inferno for his hubris.       Answer: Capaneus2. Although he did not wear glasses, this son of Meleager and Atalanta presaged the death of Piggy in Lord of the Flies as he was killed by a boulder being dropped on his head.       Answer: Parthenopaeus3. This son of Oedipus was driven to attack Thebes when his brother Eteocles reneged on his promise to share the crown of the city.       Answer: PolynicesBonus 11. Identify the works of Nathaniel Hawthorne for ten points each.1. In this novel based on Hawthorne's experience at Brook Farm, Miles Coverdale observes the disastrous love triangle formed by the haughty Zenobia and her timid half-sister Priscilla around the reformer Hollingsworth.       Answer: The Blithedale Romance2. This novel tells of the loss of innocence, both for the Italian Count Donatello who murders Antonio and for Hilda, an artist who witnesses the crime.       Answer: The Marble Faun3. Hawthorne explored the sins of the Pyncheon family's bloodguilt and the cleansing power of Holgrave's forgiveness in this novel named for the structure owned by Miss Hepzibah.       Answer: The House of the Seven GablesBonus 12. Identify the following related to nuclear magnetic resonance for the stated numbers of points.1. (5 points, 5 points) For five points each, NMR was independently developed in 1946 by these two men who shared the 1952 Nobel Prize for Physics.       Answer: Edward Purcell and Felix Bloch2. (10 points) For ten points, an undisturbed nucleus in a constant magnetic field will precess with this angular frequency, the product of the magnetic field magnitude and the gyromagnetic ratio.       Answer: Larmor frequency3. (10 points) For ten points, this effect was first observed by Erwin Hahn and it occurs when an initial rf pulse at time zero is followed by a 180-degree rf pulse at time t, thus reversing the phase and producing a resonance signal at time 2t.       Answer: spin echo effectBonus 13. A proponent of Social Darwinism, he argued that hard work, thrift, and sobriety led to a good Protestant family life and sound public morality.  For ten points each...1. Name this American sociologist.       Answer: William Graham Sumner2. Considered Sumner's magnum opus, this work argues that customs and morals arise from instinctive reactions to hunger, sex, and fear, emphasizing the resistance that came about from these customs.       Answer: Folkways3. Sumner repeatedly referred to the American middle-class with this term, indicating that the paternalistic government had ignored their needs.       Answer: forgotten manBonus 14. Identify the parts of the inner ear for ten points each.1. This snail shell-shaped structure produces the sense of hearing by focusing sound waves on its organ of Corti.       Answer: cochlea2. Composed of the utricle and the saccule, this structure contains otoliths that interact with hair cells under the influence of gravity to provide static equilibrium.       Answer: vestibule3. This tripartite structure relies upon the inertia of endolymph to produce dynamic equilibrium.       Answer: semicircular canalsBonus 15. Identify the Speakers of the House of Representatives for ten points each.1. This "Napoleon of the Stump" is the only Speaker to go on to become President of the United States.        Answer: James K. Polk2. This Illinoisan who served from 1903 to 1911 was the most powerful Speaker in history, due to his concurrent possession of the chairmanship of the Rules Committee. His despotism eventually led to a bipartisan revolt and reduction in the powers of the office.       Answer: Joseph Cannon3. Holding the position for over seventeen years, this Texan and mentor to Lyndon Johnson was the longest-serving Speaker.        Answer: Samuel RayburnBonus 16. Identify the following about probability distributions for ten points each.1. This inequality states that, regardless of the actual distribution, the minimum probability that a random variable will take a value within c standard deviations of its mean is one minus one over c squared.       Answer: Chebyshev's Inequality2. This is a random variable with only two possible outcomes for which the probabilities are p and 1 minus p.        Answer: Bernoulli random variable3. This is the probability distribution for a series of independent Bernoulli trials in which the probability of success is held constant.       Answer: Binomial distributionBonus 17. Identify these early Italian painters for ten points each.1. This Florentine's work in Rome includes the fresco Pope Boniface VIII Proclaiming the Jubilee and the mosaic Christ Walking on the Water over the entrance to St. Peter's, and he created several large fresco cycles in the Scrovegni, Bardi, and Peruzzi Chapels in Padua.       Answer: Giotto di Bondone2. This creator of the Sta. Trinita Madonna altarpiece in the Uffizi and the Madonna Enthroned with St. Francis in Assisi was the teacher of Giotto.       Answer: Cimabue or Cenni di Pepi3. The Madonna Rucellai altarpiece, which until 1930 was mistakenly attributed to Cimabue, was created by this painter from Siena.       Answer: Duccio di BuoninsegnaBonus 18. Identify the Japanese storywriters for ten points each.1. This author of "In a Grove", "The Nose", and "The Kappa" committed suicide in 1927, but Japan's most prestigious literary prize, awarded to young authors of short works, is named for him.       Answer: Ryunosuke Akutagawa2. Often criticized for a preoccupation with western popular culture, the tales in this author's collection After the Quake are set in the aftermath of the Kobe earthquake while his earlier collection, The Elephant Vanishes, includes such stories as "The Second Bakery Attack" and "On Seeing the 100% Perfect Girl One Beautiful April Morning".       Answer: Haruki Murakami3. Many of this author's early short stories, such as "The Tattooer" and "Whirlpool", drew comparisons in style to Edgar Allan Poe and Oscar Wilde.       Answer: Junichiro TanizakiBonus 19. Identify the following about chemical reactions for ten points each.1. This is the minimum energy necessary to cause a reaction between two colliding molecules; catalysts often operate by lowering this barrier to reaction.       Answer: Activation energy2. This equation relates the reaction rate constant to a negative exponential dependence on activation energy.       Answer: Arrhenius equation3. The multiplicative constant in the Arrhenius equation is proportional to the rate of collisions and to this quantity, which is the fraction of collisions with the correct relative molecular orientations.       Answer: Steric factorBonus 20. Identify these battles in British history for ten points each.1. King George II became the last British monarch to lead his troops into battle at this 1744 encounter of the War of Austrian Succession.        Answer: Battle of Dettingen2. This 1709 victory by the Duke of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy over the French allowed the Anglo-Austrian army to lay siege to and eventually capture the city of Mons.       Answer: Battle of Malplaquet3. In 1066, forces under King Harold Godwinson defeated an invading Viking force led by Harald III at this site in East Yorkshire; exhausted from this battle, Godwinson's forces were unable to repel the Norman invasion at Hastings several weeks later.       Answer: Battle of Stamford Bridge