The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by UIUC (Sudheer Potru and Dom Ricci)Tossup 1. When the Nazis occupied her native country, she was forced to flee, an experience she wrote about in Return to the Future. The daughter of an archaeologist, she included some of his work in her own, using stories of folklore and legends in works like The Snake Pit and The Son Avenger. Early works of hers include Images in a Mirror and Jenny, but she may be most recognized for her Catholic-themed stories, including the historical novel Olav Audusson and a trilogy about a fourteenth-century woman including characters like Simon Darre and Eat Erlend. For ten points, name this author of Kristin Lavransdatter, the first Norwegian woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.       Answer:	Sigrid UndsetTossup 2. Its end unexpectedly, proclaiming a time of restoration and blessing for Israel, leading many scholars to believe it was written by others. Probably addressed to audiences in northern Israel and southern Judah, its namesake was originally a shepherd from Tekoa whose name translates to "burden", and who flourished under the reigns of the kings Uzziah and Jeroboam II before his exile by Amaziah after a famous earthquake. The first book named for a Hebrew prophet, it appears before Obadiah and after a book it quotes often, Joel. For ten points, name this third book of the Minor Prophets in the Old Testament, which shares its name with a "famous" cookie-maker.       Answer:	Book of AmosTossup 3. When used in an amplifier, it can be represented as a voltage-dependent current source in the small-signal equivalent model. Many of its characteristics can be determined by its aspect ratio, although the Early voltage determines the extent of any channel-length modulation occurring within it. Generally operating in either triode or saturation mode, its cheap parts and usual lack of body effect makes it ideal for making integrated circuits. Consisting of a gate, source, and drain, for ten points, name this type of transistor, named for the layers that comprise it.       Answer:	Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field-Effect Transistor [i.e. MOSFET]Tossup 4. A lifelong devotee of the wayang, or plays based on the Hindu epics, he was often known to his countrymen as "Bung Karno". After spending two years in a colonial jail, he defined his Pantjasilla, or "Five Principles" of nationalism, internationalism, democracy, social prosperity, and belief in God. He later ordained his "Guided Economy" and "Guided Democracy" to lead his country, which gained independence in 1949 before he was overthrown in a coup sixteen years later. For ten points, name this father of the woman who took power from Suharto in 1998, the first president of an independent Indonesia.       Answer:	Sukarno Tossup 5. It features a cameo appearance by Jean-Pierre Melville as the novelist Parvulesco who, in an interview, states that his ambition is to become immortal, and then die. In addition to copying dialogue directly from William Faulkner's Wild Palms and overdubbing the movie Westbound with the poetry of Guillaume Apollinaire, it introduced the quick cut and the jump cut. The thematic debate of existential motivation occupies an extended bedroom discussion between Patricia and the Bogart-idolizing car thief Michel Poiccard, portrayed by Jean-Paul Belmondo, in, for ten points, what New Wave film by Jean-Luc Godard?	Answer: Breathless (or A bout de soufflé)Tossup 6. It agreed to provide 10,000 troops and 2,000 knights for its constituent members, which at various points included Constance and Biberach. Forming due to the work of Philip the Magnanimous and John Frederick I of Saxony, it allied with both Denmark and Francis I, although Pope Paul III helped to raise an army that would eventually decimate it at the decisive Battle of Muhlberg, effectively ending it. Also including Bremen, Magdeburg, and Anhalt, it was begun in its namesake city in 1531 and was opposed to Charles V. For ten points, name this league of Protestant princes who fought the Holy Roman Empire.       Answer:	Schmalkaldic LeagueTossup 7. It arose out of a mission that Skirnir was sent on by Odin, and it succeeded where Leyding and Dromi had both failed due to their constitution of iron. Ironically very smooth and soft, it was crafted by the dwarves from bear's sinews, a fish's breath, the beard of a woman, and the noise of a cat's footfall, and its use resulted in both its victim's captivity at the rock Gioll a mile into the earth and the biting off of Tyr's hand. For ten points, name this special silken fetter that will break at Ragnarok, used to bind the wolf Fenrir for a very long time.       Answer:	GleipnirTossup 8. Sometimes synthesized in the gastrointestinal tract by enterochromaffin cells, this molecule is a constituent of many venoms. With chemical formula C-10 H-12 N-2 O, it was first identified as a vasoconstrictor in blood serum. LSD may act by inhibiting its action, and its reuptake is inhibited by cocaine and tricyclic antidepressants, and reduced activity of this molecule is associated with increased levels of bipolar mood disorder and depression. Also given the name of 5-HT, or 5-hydroxytryptamine, for ten points, name this neurotransmitter whose reuptake is also inhibited by SSRIs.       Answer:	serotoninTossup 9. The first mentions of this civilization may be found in a Greek trading guide entitled "Periplus of the Erythraean Sea", and its notable monuments include its underground tomb of Nefas Mawcha and its Tomb of the Brick Arches. Under the leadership of its king Gadarat, it successfully invaded much of southern Arabia, and it also conquered the kingdom of Meroe under its greatest leader Ezana, who converted to Christianity just a few years after coming to power. For ten points, name this African kingdom centered in northern Ethiopia, which ruled mainly from the third to sixth centuries.       Answer:	Aksum  Tossup 10. After working on Arrhenius' dissociation theory, he proposed independently of J.A. le Bel that carbon has a tetrahedral structure. His namesake isochore relates the equilibrium constant to temperature while his book Studies in Chemical Dynamics described his work with electrolytic solutions, namely his so-called "factor" used in calculation of colligative properties. However, he is probably most remembered for his equation relating osmotic pressure to membrane potential and temperature. For ten points, name this Dutch winner of the first Nobel Prize in Chemistry.	Answer:	Jacobus Henricus van't HoffTossup 11. This work suggests that totalitarianism can be imposed on the general populace without terror, and claims that technological rationality continues to suppress free thought. Arguing that only people with knowledge of their own wants and needs are truly free, this work posits that systems like the economy engender so-called "false needs."  Also distinguishing between welfare and warfare states, it details how formerly private spheres of existence are used to socially dominate mankind, removing all other facets of society and providing only a single type of existence. For ten points, name this magnum opus of Herbert Marcuse.       Answer:	One-Dimensional ManTossup 12. He helped to determine a more precise shape for the Milky Way galaxy in his Photometric Researches, and he also provided a definition for the meter using the wavelength of light. His work in logic included review of Venn's Logic of Chance and writing his own work A System of Logic, considered as Semiotic, although he may be better known for expounding on his "New List of Categories", or quality, relation, and representation. These categories appear in his works "Illustrations of the Logic of Science" and a set of lectures subititled "How to Make Our Ideas Clear". For ten points, name this founder of pragmatism.       Answer:	Charles Sanders PeirceTossup 13. Extending to about 1,500 km in length at its widest, the Soper River runs along its southernmost coast, and Auyuittuq National Park lies on the Cumberland Peninsula, which makes up its east coast. The Hudson Strait separates it from the Labrador-Ungava mainland, and it is mostly unhabited except for a few coastal settlements like Iqaluit. Discovered by Martin Frobisher, this island is separated from Greenland by the Davis Strait and a bay of the same name. For ten points, name this fifth-largest island in the world and largest in Canada, named for a British navigator.       Answer:	Baffin IslandTossup 14. The famous soprano Amelita Galli made her operatic debut with this work, during which the title character twice screams one of its former titles, "The Curse". Maddalena, the sister of the "cut-throat of honor" Sparafucile, is yet another victim of the Duke of Mantua's attempted seduction, which causes the title character to plot to kill him for having done the same to his daughter Gilda. Premiering in 1851, its libretto was written by Francesco Maria Piave, based on Victor Hugo's Le Roi s'amuse. Featuring the aria "La donna e mobile", for ten points, name this opera about a buffoon, composed by Giuseppe Verdi.       Answer:	RigolettoTossup 15. Kandula Sastry worked with biological emitters derived from this effect, and it is used in a namesake type of electron spectroscopy. Its namesake also worked extensively with cosmic ray air showers, and its incidence generally decreases with atomic number, although for zinc, the probability of x-ray emission is approximately equal to that of the occurrence of this internal spontaneous photoelectric process. Defined as the readjustment of an atom through the ejection of an electron of the K subshell, this effect is also known as autoionization. For ten points, identify this physical effect discovered in 1925 by a Frenchman.       Answer:	Auger effectTossup 16. Raised at the estate of William Methwold, during childhood he is pushed down a two-story hillock by Evelyn Burns. Later in life, he works in a CUTIA army unit after forgetting who he is, and his sister Jamila Singer refuses to sing for the nation after seeing his condition. By the end of the novel in which he appears, his narrative and his nose have produced thirty special blends of pickles, which Mary Pereira and his lover Padma make into actual flavors. However, on the morning of his 31st birthday, he is killed by his rival Shiva, who was also born at the beginning of August 15, 1947. For ten points, name this protagonist of Midnight's Children, who shares his last name with a mountain where Moses received divine law.       Answer:	Saleem Sinai [accept either]Tossup 17. A.M. Mowry wrote the first landmark book on this event, which is believed to have sparked much anti-Irish sentiment. Partially coming about due to a suffrage requirement of $134 worth of land, its namesake was a lawyer who served as a member of his state's legislature, but failed in his reform efforts. Acting against the orders of Samuel Ward King, he founded a "People's Party", which elected him governor along with King. However, he was imprisoned for treason when this uprising unsuccessfully attempted to capture a weapons arsenal in the capital, Providence. For ten points, name this 1842 rebellion in Rhode Island.       Answer:	Dorr's RebellionTossup 18. He served for a time as governor of Bithynia, and became Nero's "director of elegance" after his time as consul. He was arrested at Cumae in southern Italy after gaining the enmity of Tigellinus and being framed by Scaevinus in Piso's conspiracy, and it is generally agreed upon that he made his fame through laziness. That same laziness is a quality he displayed in a famous work, which uses Menippean satire and tells of the characters Ascyltos and Encolpius and their banquet with the main character Trimalchio. For ten points, name this 1st century CE author of The Satyricon.       Answer:	Gaius Petronius ArbiterTossup 19. His father founded Cozad, Nebraska, but homesteader confrontations forced his family to flee and change their names. His reputation was established in 1899 when the French government acquired his La Neige and reinforced by his 1923 publication of painting philosophy, The Art Spirit. Inducted into the National Academy of Design on the basis of portraits like Young Woman in Black, he organized a 1908 protest exhibition when his students John Sloan and William Glackens were denied membership. For ten points, who was this urban realist leader of the Eight and the Ashcan School?	Answer: Robert HenriTossup 20. This idea built on those in its author's earlier 1937 work The Nature of the Firm, and George Stigler was the first to call it a "theorem" in 1966, just six years after its proposal in the paper "The Problem of Social Cost". Originally analyzed in the context of overlapping radio frequencies, it argues that in the absence of transaction costs and greater information, the private sector will forego litigation and deal with externalities by itself. For ten points, identify this theorem named for the British winner of the 1991 Nobel Prize in Economics.       Answer:	Coase's TheoremOvertime Tossup. This story claims that "every sin is the result of a collaboration," and the cowboy exclaims at the end that he didn't in any way cause the central crime. The gambler is claimed to be "a kind of adverb" by the Easterner, who also reveals that Johnnie wasn't cheating at cards, although the Swede seems to have thought otherwise. His beating of Johnnie in a fight forces him to leave Pat Scully's Palace in Romper, which is also the title establishment. For ten points, name this short story about an inn painted in an odd color, written by Stephen Crane.       Answer:	"The Blue Hotel"
The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteBonuses by UIUC (Sudheer Potru and Dom Ricci)Bonus 1. Identify the following about an explorer for ten points each.1. In 1768 this British navigator sailed to Tahiti in the HMS Endeavour to make a record of Venus's transit across the Sun.       Answer: James Cook2. Two years later Cook landed his ship at this location that he initially named Stingray Harbor.       Answer: Botany Bay3. Although his crew remained free of scurvy due to forced consumption of citrus fruit, over thirty of Cook's men succumbed to malaria and dysentery after they landed at this capital of the Dutch East Indies.       Answer: BataviaBonus 2. Name these alpha stars from descriptions, for ten points each.1. The alpha star of Lyra, it forms the summer triangle with Deneb and Altair.       Answer:	Vega2. This triple star can only be seen from south of about 40 degrees north latitude, and is the third brightest star  seen from Earth behind Sirius and Canopus.       Answer:	Alpha Centauri3. This red, semivariable star is one of the largest known, and it is the brightest in the constellation Scorpius. It has an apparent visual magnitude of about 0.9.       Answer:	AntaresBonus 3. Answer the following about an author and his work, for ten points each.1. His novel Monseiur Bergerot in Paris concerns his own involvement in the Dreyfus affair, and his early story "The Opinions of Jerome Coignard." Love affairs inspired his The Red Lily and Thais.       Answer:	Anatole France2. In this Anatole France novel, the nearsighted Abbot Mael accidentally baptizes the inhabitants of the title location, whose transformations to humans are symbolic of changes in France's history.        Answer:	Penguin Island3. France portrays himself yet again in this novel as the title philologist who is in love with his books, and who screws himself over eventually.        Answer:	The Crime of Sylvester BonnardBonus 4. Answer the following about events which served as impetuses for wars, for ten points each. 1. William Slavata and Jaroslav Martinic were found guilty of violating the so-called "Letter of Majesty" of Rudolf II and were killed in this 1618 event. You know what happened next.       Answer:	Defenestration of Prague2. In September 1931, the Japanese used the pretext of a rigged train explosion in this city to occupy southern Manchuria. You know what happened next.       Answer:	Mukden Incident3. Canton police seized this British-registered ship in October 1856, after which consul Harry Parkes sent a fleet to reclaim it. In case you don't know what happened next, it was the Second Opium War.       Answer:	HMS ArrowBonus 5. Identify the following about Jorge Luis Borges's interest in metaphysical detective stories for ten points each.1. Borges praised the false realities created by G.K. Chesterton in such stories as "The Head of Caesar" and "The Oracle of the Dog" which are promptly deconstructed by this innocuous Roman Catholic priest from Essex.       Answer: Father Brown2. Illusive realities and their psychological origins also drew Borges to this American author-detective's The Egyptian Cross Mystery and The Chinese Orange Mystery, although he panned his The Door Between for relying heavily on chance.       Answer: Ellery Queen3. Borges himself wrote this story in which detective Erik Lonnrot follows a triplet of murders arranged geographically in a triangle, each of which is marked as the uttering of a "letter of the Name", only to be the fourth victim at the shape's apex.       Answer: "Death and the Compass" (or "La Muerte y la Brújula")Bonus 6. Identify the 20th century sculptors for ten points each.1. This Swiss friend of Jean-Paul Sartre produced works that reflected the despair of existentialism with tall, elongated, and rough-textured figures such as City Square and The Forest: Composition with Seven Figures and a Head.	Answer: Alberto Giacometti2. This British sculptor of King and Queen produced many reclining figures such as the 17-foot one that graces the UNESCO building in Paris.	Answer: Henry Moore3. Among this American's stabiles is La Grande Vitesse, a 55-foot tall red work at his namesake plaza in the Vandenberg Center of Grand Rapids, Michigan.	Answer: Alexander CalderBonus 7. Answer these questions related to a Chicago event, for ten points each. 1. Arising from the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company workers' attempts to get an eight-hour workday, this May 4, 1886 scuffle between policemen and workers also involved a bomb.       Answer:	Haymarket Square Riot2. This governor of Illinois pardoned the three surviving anarchists who played a role in the Haymarket Square Riot after four of them were hanged.       Answer:	John Altgeld3. Along with Michael Schwab and Samuel Fielden, this man who supposedly threw the bomb was imprisoned for his role. He committed suicide in prison in 1887.       Answer:	Louis LingBonus 8. Name these things from Super Mario Bros. 3, for ten points each.1. This item is very useful if you ever need to skip a level, assuming that you manage to beat the next one and don't need to go back. The Princess gives you one for beating Desert Land.       Answer:	Jugem's cloud2. Available mostly in Sky Land, it gave Mario the option of whipping stuff with his new-found tail, flying around the level, or turning into a stone to confuse his enemies.       Answer:	Tanooki suit3. At the end of Ice Land, one is forced to battle this Koopa kid who rides around a big circus ball and also throws them at you. He also appears in Super Mario World where he confuses you with his doubles.       Answer:	Lemmy KoopaBonus 9. Electrical engineers may be complete jerks, but they still get stuff named after them sometimes. Therefore, answer each of the following for ten points.1. This law is named for a German high school teacher and simply states that the voltage drop across a resistive network is directly proportional to both the resistance of and current into the network. In other words, V = IR.       Answer: Ohm's law 2. These two equations are charge and energy conservation in the steady state lumped circuit approximation. They state that the net current through any point vanishes and that the sum of voltage changes around any closed loop also vanishes.Answer: Kirchoff's laws (or Kirchoff's rules, or Kirchoff's voltage law and Kirchoff's current law or Kirchoff's loop rule and Kirchoff's current rule, or Kirchoff's first law and Kirchoff's second law, etc.; accept any combination of these)3. This useful transformation theorem states that any two-terminal network of passive elements and independent sources can be completely reduced to a single resistor in series with a single voltage source. It is the natural complement to Norton's theorem.       Answer: Thevenin's theoremBonus 10. Name these battles that took place in Africa, for ten points each.1. Portrayed in the film Zulu Dawn, this 1879 battle saw Cetshwayo's Zulu forces achieve a Pyrrhic victory in defeating the British under Chelmsford.       Answer:	Isandlwana2. Fought on March 1, 1896 between the Ethiopian forces of Menelik II and Oreste Baratieri's Italian forces occupying Eritrea, it resulted in Ethiopia throwing off the white man and getting independence. Good work, that.       Answer:	Adowa3. This 1591 battle saw Moroccan use of firearms overpower and consequently destroy the Songhai Empire, bringing it to its effective end.       Answer:	TondibiBonus 11. Also called spirants, they are produced by causing the mouth to block the passage of the airstream in speech. For ten points each:1. Name these consonant sounds       Answer:	fricatives2. This type of fricative is articulated with the lower teeth and upper lips, and denotes the sound of the "f" in "five" and the "gh" in "cough".       Answer:	labiodental3. Usually representing the "s" sound as in "sit" or "pass", this fricative is articulated with the tip of the tongue against the namesake ridge.       Answer:	alveolarBonus 12. Answer these questions about a dancer, for ten points each.1. The granddaughter of Henry George, she choreographed much of the dance for Oklahoma!, as well as for Brigadoon, Paint Your Wagon, and One Touch of Venus. 	Answer: Agnes de Mille2. Considered to be one of de Mille's most important ballet by many, it is the first to include tap-dancing and also appropriately includes a lot of bronco-riding and steer-roping.	Answer: Rodeo3. De Mille also gained fame for Fall River Legend, a ballet based on the life of this famous murderer.	Answer: Elizabeth "Lizzie" BordenBonus 13. Name these features of Antarctica, for ten points each.1. Fed primarily by large glaciers, this is the largest body of floating ice in the world. It is bordered on the west by McMurdo Sound and lies at the head of its namesake sea.       Answer:	Ross Ice Shelf2. This barren plateau covered by a huge ice sheet includes both the Princess Martha and Prince Harold coasts, and is itself named for a Norwegian monarch.       Answer:	Queen Maud Land3. Discovered in 1935 by Lincoln Ellsworth, this highest mountain on the Antarctic continent rises to 4,897 meters, or about 16.000 feet.       Answer:	Vinson MassifBonus 14. Identify the following about a sixteenth-century Italian composer for ten points each.1. This composer was forced by Pope Paul IV to step down as director of the Julian Chapel choir in 1555 because he was married, but he returned in 1571 with an increase in salary.       Answer: Giovanni Perluigi du Palestrina2. Written for the austere pontiff who reigned in 1555, this Palestrina mass was hyperbolically credited with retaining polyphony in the music of the Catholic Church.       Answer: Pope Marcellus Mass (or Missa Papae Marcelli)3. Near the end of his life, Palestrina arranged these texts attributed to Jeremiah for multiple voices.Answer: Lamentations for the Holy Week (or Lamentations of the Prophet Jeremiah or Lamentationum Hieremiae Prophetae)Bonus 15. Name these amino acids, for ten points each.1. Making up the majority of collagen, this actually-imino acid contains a secondary amine group and ring structure.       Answer:	proline2. It can be synthesized from ribose and ATP, and is an essential amino acid. It includes an imidazole group as its side chain.       Answer:	histidine3. From the Greek for "cheese", it is symbolized Y and is similar to a phenylalanine except for the extra OH group added to the ring.       Answer:	tyrosineBonus 16. Name these people associated with the Time of Troubles, for ten points each. 1. The last monarch of the Rurik dynasty, his death in 1598 began the Time of Troubles.       Answer:	Fyodor II Rurik2. After the assassination of the first false Dmitri, this nobleman was placed on the throne by the boyars, although he was deposed in 1610 with some help from Poland.       Answer:	Vasily Shuysky3. This Polish king led the forces that deposed Vasily Shuysky, and also got a bunch of land stolen from him by Gustavus Adolphus.        Answer:	Sigismund III VasaBonus 17. Answer the following about an author and his work, for ten points each.1. Considered to be the founder and European humanism, his works include Epistulae metrica and the Rime, or Canzoniere. Oh yeah, and he totally idealized his love for this woman Laura.       Answer:	Petrarch2. In this story dedicated to San Sepolcro, Petrarch illustrates the Renaissance humanist spirit of his writing by attempting to scale the titular peak.       Answer:	"The Ascent of Mount Ventoux"3. Petrarch is also well-known for this simply-titled epic poem on the subject of the Second Punic War.         Answer:	AfricaBonus 18. Name these psychologists from things they created or discovered, for ten points each.1. His studies of rote learning and memory led him to construct his "forgetting curve", which indicates that forgetting occurs with passage of time       Answer:	Hermann Ebbinghaus2. This crazy behaviorist invented an "Air Crib," which he though an ideal place to keep human babies, and a namesake box used to effect operant conditioning.       Answer:	Burrhus Frederic Skinner3. This American psychologist and supposed "discoverer" of social learning used his "Bobo Doll" experiments to show how children learned violence from imitating television.       Answer:	Albert BanduraBonus 19. Name these things from Jainism, for ten points each.1. Consisting of right knowledge, right faith, and right practice, these items lead to calmness and virtuous conduct, thus supplying the Jain ethical and doctrinal stances.        Answer:	Three Jewels2. Sanskrit for "noninjury", this is the most fundamental virtue to Jains. Mahatma Gandhi used nonviolent resistance as an attempt to cause it.       Answer:	ahimsa3. Ahimsa means not harming any of this type of living matter, which can consist of humans, animals, plants, and in fact the entire cosmos.       Answer:	jivaBonus 20. Name these works of Ernest Hemingway, for ten points each.1. This novel tells of the fall of two very different protagonists, the writer Richard Gordon and the commercial fisherman Harry Morgan.       Answer:	To Have and Have Not2. Hemingway's first novel, it is a parody of Sherwood Anderson's Dark Laughter, and tells of Scripps O'Neill's and Yogi Johnson's trials and tribulations in Michigan.       Answer:	Torrents of Spring3. Written over a full year, this study of bullfighting has a title referring to Hemingway's witnessing of what happened to some 1500 bulls.       Answer:	Death in the Afternoon