The Illinois Open 2004:  The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by UIUC (Matt Cvijanovich, Dave Kiang, Sudheer Potru, Dom Ricci, and Mike Sorice)Tossup 1. The correctness of this term was a subject of controversy between Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg, who first coined it in the title of a 1952 essay in Art News. The acceptance of the term was helped by a series of photographs by Hans Namuth that show its most famous practitioner creating Lavender Mist. Also called "gestural abstractionism," artists who employed this method include Lee Krasner, Franz Kline, and Willem de Kooning. Usually, it was done by putting a large canvas on the floor and slopping paint on it seemingly at random. For ten points, identify this style of painting whose name emphasized that the artist was at work, and that is most famously associated with Jackson Pollack.       Answer: action painting (accept gestural abstractionism before mentioned)Tossup 2. One of the works produced during this movement was the user-friendly reference work On the Universe by Rabanus Maurus. Agobard of Lyons wrote a number of exegetic works, while poets associated with it included Sedulius Scottus and Walafrid Strabo. A new translation of the works of Dionysius the Pseudo-Areopagite was one of the main projects of its most notable philosopher, who also authored the Periphyseion, John Scotus Erigena. The History of the Lombards was composed by Paul the Deacon while an influential biography was written by Einhard. For ten points, name this intellectual movement whose most notable member was Alcuin of York; a rebirth of learning supported by a Frankish dynasty.       Answer: Carolingian Renaissance (accept close equivalents that have "Carolingian" in them)Tossup 3. There is a long digression near the very end of this work on the story of Pygmalion. Near the beginning, the narrator passes by the pool in which Pygmalion drowned. There is a great deal of anti-clericalism in the speech of False Seeming who, along with Forced Abstinence, is enlisted by Cupid to help storm a castle held by Danger, Shame, and Slander who have imprisoned Fair Welcome. The first four thousand lines were written by Guillaume de Lorris, while the rest was added later by Jean de Meun. For ten points, name this allegorical work about courtly love, which ends with the narrator's conquest of the titular figure.       Answer: The Romance of the Rose (or Roman de la Rose)Tossup 4. He rails against the myth that the Twelve Tables were brought from Athens to Rome in his Principles of Universal Law, as well as in his major work. That work begins with an explanation of the Frontispiece, and also contains Books entitled "Poetic Wisdom" and "On the Discovery of the True Homer." Greatly influenced by the Roman scholar Varro, after nearly a century of obscurity, Jules Michelet's translations renewed interest in the ideas of this 18th century Neopolitan scholar. For ten points, identify this historian who divided history into the "age of gods," "age of heroes," and "age of men" in his New Science.	Answer: Giambattista VicoTossup 5. This person's father and son were both named Cephisodotus, and they all practiced the same trade; in fact, this man's best-known work has the same form as his father's Eirene. Nicias famously embellished this artist's works, and those works are highly praised by Diodorus and by Pliny the Elder, who lists the among them the Apollo Sauroctonus, Aphrodite of Cyrene, and Aphrodite of Cnidus, which Pliny calls "the best sculpture in the whole world." For ten points, name this Attic Greek sculptor of the mid-4th century BCE, who created the "s"-shaped marble figure of Hermes Holding the Infant Dionysus. 	Answer: PraxitelesTossup 6. Liquid ones of low volatility serve as softening agents, and their reduction usually takes place in tetrahydrofuran with the catalyst lithium aluminum hydride. Amines generally react with the methyl or ethyl variety of them to produce amides. Their hydrolysis is crucial to saponification, can be either acid- or base-catalyzed, and produces carboxylic acids and alcohols. A glyceride is a fatty-acid one of these comprised of glycerol. For ten points, name these organic compounds consisting of a carbonyl bonded to an oxygen atom and another alkyl group.       Answer:	estersTossup 7. They had four original cities: Findias, Gorias, Murias and Falias. After they killed Ith, they were defeated by the Milesians and went into exile underground, becoming known as the people of the Sidhe. Among their members was the poet Coirpre and the doctor Dian Cecht, who could revive the dead. They fought two battles at Moytura; in the first they defeated the Fir Bolg, while in the second they overthrew the Fomors. Other members included Brigit and the Dagda. For ten points, name this Gaelic race of gods whose name means "The people of the goddess Danu."       Answer: Tuatha de DanannTossup 8. This literary work is usually performed with a short lute called a biwa-hoshi and is often considered to be a Buddhist allegorical tale. Generally speaking, scenes of sadness and futility follow those of military heroism, exemplified by the death of the knight Atsumori after a spectacular fighting display. With twelve books divided into shoodan, its first chapter details the rise of Kiyomori, but ends with Yoritomo and Yoshitune's great victory at Dan-no-Ura, indicating the defeat of the Taira clan by the Minamoto. Written mostly during the Kamakura period, for ten points, name this Japanese epic attributed to Kakuichi.       Answer: The Tale of the Heike (or Heike Monogatari)Tossup 9. War correspondent Euclides da Cunha chronicled the 1896 event in the state of Bahia upon which this novel was based in his narrative Os Sertoes, and it was referenced in Borges's "Three Versions of Judas."  Among the contrasting fanaticisms it presents are those of Galileo Gall, the British libertarian revolutionary, and Colonel Moreira Caesar, the Republican leader of the failed third assault. The Lion of Natuba, Big Joao, and the Little Blessed One support the messianic Antonio Conselheiro in the revolt of Canudos against the Brazilian government in, for ten points, what novel by Mario Vargas Llosa?       Answer: The War at the End of the World (or La guerra del fin del mundo)Tossup 10. Walther Bothe and Herbert Becker observed the first evidence of it in 1930 when they found a radiation with a greater penetration depth than alpha particles. Possessing the same quark composition as the Delta zero baryon, its absorption is the primary regulator of the rate of nuclear fission in a reactor. When this particle decays, a proton, an electron, and an antineutrino are produced from its up-down-down quarks. Discovered in 1932 by James Chadwick, for ten points, what is this neutral nucleon?       Answer: neutronTossup 11. His right leg was amputated in 1958 due to injuries suffered in a horse riding accident two decades earlier, and the subsequent depression hastened his death six years later. He did not serve in the French army in the First World War, although this myth was propagated by Cary Grant's portrayal of him in Night and Day. A master of the "catalogue song" exemplified in "You're the Top", his Broadway shows included Fifty Million Frenchmen, Kiss Me, Kate, and Anything Goes. For ten points, name this American songwriter of "Begin the Beguine" and "It's Delovely".       Answer: Cole PorterTossup 12. Examples include tetrahydrofolic acid, which transfers single carbon groups, and flavin mononucleotide, or FMN, which aids in the oxidation of L-amino acids. Biotin helps in a particular carboxylation, and lipoamide and thiamine pyrophosphate both work in the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex.  Categorized as either catalytic or stoichometric, crucial ones include FAD and NAD-plus, and the "Q" variety is used in the electron transport chain. Also including the "A" variety that reacts with oxaloacetate in the Krebs cycle, for ten points, name these organic molecules required in the active site for enzyme activation.       Answer:	coenzymes (do not accept or prompt on "cofactors")Tossup 13. With a name translating to "Brilliant Emperor Who Benefits All Nations", this leader began his rise to power by avenging the death of his grandfather Giocanagga and father Taksi at Gure by defeating the chieftain Nikan Wailan. Soon after forming the Eight Banners system of administrative divisions, he proclaimed himself khan and established the Jin dynasty with capital at Mukden, although that dynasty would later be renamed by his son Hong Taiji. For ten points, name this Jurchen tribal leader, usually recognized as the founder of the Qing dynasty.       Answer:	Nurhaci or NurgaciTossup 14. Some of this man's contributions include resolving the "transfer problem" of international trade and developing a social welfare function with Bergson. He also popularized the Allais theory of overlapping generations and was the first to present the Phillips curve to the world, while his macroeconomic output included elucidating a theory of revealed preference and developing a namesake corollary to the Hecksher-Ohlin theorem with Stolper. For ten points, name this author of Foundations of Economic Analysis, a Chicago economist who won the Nobel Prize in 1970.	Answer:	Paul Anthony SamuelsonTossup 15. Among its modern applications are thermal diffuse scattering studies of phonon dispersions and crystal truncation rod analyses of lattice growth. This technique's weak interaction with matter and characteristic Angstrom wavelength optimize it for studying the atomic structure of bulk systems, and the Ewald sphere construction is often used to model its variations like the powder and rotating-crystal methods. More easily understood in reciprocal space in its Laue formulation, for ten points, what is this method pioneered by the Braggs to reconstruct lattice structures from the interference patterns of scattered high-energy photons?       Answer: x-ray diffractionTossup 16. Included in this tome is a set of three facsimiles, the second of which is the Hypocephalus, an Egyptian memorandum for the deceased. It contains a portion of the Gospel of Matthew; the translated Book of Abraham, which explicates the doctrine of exaltation; the revealed Book of Moses; the thirteen Articles of Faith, which were originally written in 1842 for the editor of the Chicago Democrat; and the Joseph Smith-History. For ten points, what is this Mormon holy scripture named for the subject of a parable in which a man sells all his belongings in order to acquire something that makes him infinitely richer?       Answer: Pearl of Great PriceTossup 17. He decried the Puritanism taking over his country in The Drums of Father Ned and Behind the Green Curtains, and detailed the 1911 railway strike in the semiautobiographical Red Roses for Me. Other works include The Star Turns Red and Within the Gates, and he drew up the constitution for the Citizen Army in 1914, although he may be best-known for plays set during the Easter Rising and other battles between the IRA and Great Britain. For ten points, name this Irish author of The Shadow of a Gunman and The Plough and the Stars.       Answer:	Sean O'CaseyTossup 18. He advocated belief in the divine as the most important end in life in his The Way Toward the Blessed Life and discussed the importance of the Enlightenment in his series of lectures entitled "The Characteristics of the Present Age."  The effect of the Schlegels' romanticism can be seen in The Vocation of Man and The Vocation of the Scholar, and he also wrote some Addresses to the German Nation. However, he may be best known for arguing that religious belief requires a practical element necessary to add force to moral law. For ten points, name this German philosopher who wrote as such in his "Critique of All Revelation".       Answer:	Johann Gottlieb FichteTossup 19. An unnamed one is the son of the Old Shepherd who saw Antigonus being eaten by a bear in The Winter's Tale. Named characters given this appellation in their Dramatis Personae include Costard in Loves Labor's Lost and Lancelot in The Merchant of Venice. The two actors that most frequently portrayed them were William Kempe before 1599 and Robert Armin afterward. Although not technically given this title, which often just meant "country bumpkin," Thersites in Troilus and Cresside and Dogberry in Much Ado About Nothing both fill the role. Others include Touchstone in As You Like It and the gravedigger in Hamlet. For ten points, name this character-type in Shakespeare's plays filled by Feste in Twelfth Night which is now better associated with Krusty and Bozo.Answer: clowns (prompt on "fool," "jester," etc.)Tossup 20. His writings include a 35-book exposition of the Book of Job called the Moralia and four books of Dialogues containing saint's lives. He squashed Eutychius's heretical ideas about the Resurrection while a papal legate to the Byzantine court of Tiberius from 579-586. A one time prefect of Rome he turned his own house into a monastery for St. Andrew. The first pope to refer to the position as "servant of the servants of God" he authored a book describing how good bishops should act entitled Pastoral Care. For ten points, name this last of the Four Doctors of the Church who dispatched Augustine of Canterbury to convert England to Christianity.        Answer: Saint Gregory the Great or Gregory IOvertime Tossup. Although he failed in establishing an estate at Sines he eventually did become the Count of Vidigueira. His most despicable act may have been the sinking of the ship Miri despite its passenger's offer of ample compensation for release. He died shortly after replacing Duarte de Meneses as ruler at Goa and was often put forth as the alternative to Afonse Albuquerque. On his most notable voyage he set in at Mozambique, Mombasa, and Malindi before arriving at Calicut. For ten points, name this Portuguese explorer who reached India in 1498 following up on the success of Bartholemeu Dias.       Answer: Vasco da Gama
The Illinois Open 2004:  The Philosophy of SpiteBonuses by UIUC (Matt Cvijanovich, Dave Kiang, Sudheer Potru, and Dom Ricci)Bonus 1. 30-20-10, name the author from works.1. (30 points) Beautification from Area Boy; Madmen and Specialists; Requiem for a Futurologist2. (20 points) Kongi's Harvest; The Bacchae of Euripides; The Trials of Brother Jero3. (10 points) A Dance of the Forests; The Lion and the Jewel       Answer:	Akinwande Oluwole Soyinka Bonus 2. Answer these questions about a philosopher and his work, for ten points each.1. A Hanoverian Tory, he defended his views in the series of sermons Passive Obedience, but may be better known for his work with the philosophies of immaterialism and idealism.       Answer: George Berkeley2. Supposedly addressed to an infidel mathematician, Berkeley argues in this book that anyone who can understand mathematics shouldn't "be squeamish" about a theory of divinity.       Answer: The Analyst3. In this work, Berkeley examines the qualities of sight and touch, along with ocular analysis of magnitude and position, concluding that objects of sight do not exist without the mind.       Answer: Essay Towards a New Theory of VisionBonus 3. Name these reagents, for ten points each.1. Taking the form R-2CuLi, these reagents are most useful for removing halide groups and replacing them with alkyl groups.       Answer: Gilman reagents2. This man's reagent, 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene, is used in amino-terminal sequencing operations in conjunction with acid hydrolysis.        Answer: Sanger's reagent3. Sodium hydroxide, silver nitrate, and ammonia are combined to produce this reagent, which is used in the so-called "silver mirror" test for aldehydes.       Answer: Tollens' reagentBonus 4. Answer the following about the early days of the Mughal Empire, for ten points each.1. The first of three battles that took place at this location saw the forces of Babur decisively defeat those of Sultan Ibrahim Lodi in 1526, thus establishing the empire.        Answer: Panipat2. The second Mughal emperor, this man seized Kabul from his disloyal brother Kamran three times. The father of Akbar, he also captured Lahore in 1555, but died just one year later.       Answer: Humayun  3. Under the advice of his chief minister Bayram Khan, Akbar established this city as the capital of the Mughal Empire in 1571.       Answer: Fatehpur SikriBonus 5. Name these bodies of water around Australia, for ten points each.1, Southwest of the Torres Strait and south of the Arafura Sea, this gulf separates parts of the Northern Territory from those of Queensland.       Answer: Gulf of Carpentaria2. West of Spencer Gulf and Kangaroo Island is this body of water, whose name indicates that it pushes pretty far into the southern end of the continent. Both South and Western Australia have coasts on it.       Answer: Great Australian Bight3. This small strait separates Australia from Tasmania.       Answer: Bass StraitBonus 6. Answer these questions about Americans being right-wing pieces of crap, for ten points each.1. While serving as attorney general under Woodrow Wilson, this man launched a campaign against political radicals and left-wing dissidents which set off the Red Scare soon after.        Answer: A. Mitchell Palmer2. This law passed in 1940 made it illegal to plot and / or advocate a violent overthrow of the government or to take part in any group that did. You'd think they'd have had that down by 1940.       Answer: Smith Act  3. Intended mainly for the French and Irish, this set of three laws increased the period of naturalization from 5 to 14 years and empowered the president to expel any immigrants he found dangerous.       Answer: Alien ActsBonus 7. Name these poems by John Donne, for ten points each.1. The speaker asks his lover to spare the life of the title creature, saying that the mingling of their blood is not "sin, or shame, or loss of maidenhead."       Answer: "The Flea"2. Complete nudity is requested of the title character, who apparently shouldn't need more covering than just a man. Sounds like Donne needed some action.       Answer: "To His Mistress Going to Bed"3. In this famous poem, the speaker refers to the "trepidation of the spheares," and asks his lover to have neither "tear-floods" nor "sigh-tempests" upon the farewell that will soon take place.       Answer: "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"Bonus 8. Name these random things from geology, for ten points each.1. This is a region of oceanic trench area in which the greater density of the oceanic plate causes it to sink under the continental plate.       Answer: subduction zone2. As opposed to felsic rock, this type of igneous rock tends to contain a larger amount of iron, magnesium, and calcium. Basalt is an example of it.       Answer: mafic3. From the Gaelic word for "mound", this is an oval or elongated hill believed to have arisen from the streamlined movement of glacial ice sheets.       Answer: drumlinBonus 9. Identify these twentieth-century American historians from works for ten points each.1. Experience and Nature, Art as Experience, Democracy and Education.       Answer: John Dewey2. "New Foundations for Mathematical Logic,"Word and Object, and From a Logical Point of View.       Answer: Willard Van Orman Quine3. "Minds, Brains, and Programs," Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language, "What is it like to be a bat?"       Answer: John R. SearleBonus 10. Name these buildings designed by Frank Gehry for ten points each.1. Situated on the Nervion River in Spain, this titanium-sheathed structure houses part of a collection belonging to a globe-spanning art museum.       Answer: Guggenheim Bilbao2. This fourth hall of the Los Angeles Music Center is home to the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra and contains a Gehry-designed pipe organ.       Answer: Walt Disney Concert Hall3. Commonly known as Building 32, this complex at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology houses artificial intelligence, computer science, and linguistics labs and divides above the fourth floor into the Gates and Dreyfoos Towers.        Answer: Ray and Maria Stata CenterBonus 11. Name these novels that feature strange or foreign lands for ten points each.1. At one point in this Yann Martel tale, the title character and Richard Parker, a 450-pound Bengal tiger, find themselves stranded on a flesh eating vegetative island populated by meerkats.	Answer: Life of Pi2. Having accidentally turned his father from the "Ocean of Notions" to the "Shah of Blah" by stopping time, Rashid Khalifa's son travels to the far side of the moon on a quest to restore his father's tale-telling skills in this Salman Rushdie work.       Answer: Haroun and the Sea of Stories3. This machine-free island locale reverses the roles of hospitals and prisons in a namesake 1872 work by Samuel Butler.       Answer: ErewhonBonus 12. Name these avatars of Vishnu for ten points each.1. By supporting Mount Mandara on his back in the form of this tortoise, Vishnu permitted the Devas to successfully churn the ocean in search of the nectar of immortality.       Answer: Kurma (or Koorm)2. When the demon Bali laid claim to the universe, this dwarf avatar reclaimed the earth in one step, the heavens in a second step, and pushed the demon into the underworld with his final step.       Answer: Vamana3. This tenth and final avatar will come at the end of Kali Yuga riding a white horse and brandishing a flaming sword that he will use to cleanse the world.       Answer: Kalki (or Kalkin or Kalaki)Bonus 13. The author of Character and Social Structure with H.H. Gerth, he was a major proponent of the ideas of Karl Mannheim and Max Weber. For ten points:1. Name this author of The Sociological Imagination and The New Men of Power.       Answer: C. Wright Mills2. Arguably Mills' most famous work is this commentary on the significance of decisions made by the title group, which usually consists of businessman, politicians, and military leaders.       Answer: The Power Elite3. Subtitled "The American Middle Classes", this Mills work focuses on how members of yet another title group become alienated from their work at boring, routinized jobs. Of course, they don't even expect the eventual "managerial demiurge" that will take place.       Answer: White CollarBonus 14. Answer the following about the physics of paths, for ten points each.1. This term describes any type of force whose work is always path-independent and, thus, reversible. Forces of this type can be associated with potential functions.       Answer: conservative forces2. In classical mechanics, this principle states that of all the possible paths along which a dynamical system may move, the actual path is one that causes the variation of the time integral of the Lagrangian to vanish. In very simple cases, it reduces to the principle of least action.       Answer: Hamilton's principle (or the principle of stationary action)3. This effect is observed when a beam of electrons is split around a solenoid and then recombined. The electrons along each path interact differently with the vector potential in a magnetic-field-free to produce an observable phase difference.       Answer: Aharonov-Bohm effectBonus 15. Name the following minor characters in various Greek tragedies for ten points each.1. This generally mute character startingly has a short speech in which he reminds Orestes of Apollo's commands in Aeschylus's Libation Bearers.       Answer: Pylades2. This herald is the main intercessor between the Greeks and the captive women in Euripides' Trojan Women.       Answer:	Talthybius3. A Mycenaean farmer who is married to the title character - against mythological tradition - has the opening monologue in this Euripides drama.       Answer: ElectraBonus 16. Name the following 19th century British poets for ten points each.1. He authored Dipsychus and "The Latest Decalogue," but this Victorian is best known as the friend of Matthew Arnold who is elegized in Thyrsis.       Answer: Arthur Hugh Clough2. He parodied a Tennyson poem with his "The Higher Pantheon in a Nutshel,l" but is better known for "Hymn to Prosperpine" and Atalanta in Calydon.       Answer: Algernon Charles Swinburne3. This author of "In Praise of Shame," "Two Loves," and "Impression de Nuit" was the lover of Oscar Wilde to whom he addressed De Profundis, in the form of the nickname Bosie.       Answer: Lord Alfred DouglasBonus 17. Name these physical approximations, for ten points each.1. In this approximation used to calculate the properties of an ensemble of magnetic atoms, each spin sees the average magnetization of all the other spins.       Answer: mean field approximation2. In this approximation, a gradual change in external conditions is assumed not to affect the harmonics of a system's solutions, giving rise to namesake invariants such as the magnetic moment of a particle in a plasma.       Answer: adiabatic approximation3. This variant of the adiabatic approximation used in molecular physics posits that, due to their greater mass, the nuclei of atoms can be treated at rest when calculating changes in the electron wave functions.       Answer: Born-Oppenheimer approximation (or Franck-Condon principle)Bonus 18. Name these Mexican leaders, for ten points each.1. President of the Tribunal Supremo and de facto vice-president under Juarez, this man was Mexico's president from 1872 until 1876, when he was overthrown by Diaz.        Answer: Sebastien Lerdo de Tejada2. Briefly ruling as military dictator, he seized power in 1821 with the advocacy of his Plan de Iguala, which promised immediate independence from Spain and equality for Spaniards and Creoles.       Answer: Agustin Iturbide  3. Chief of staff of the army under Madero, he led rebel forces and assumed the presidency in February 1913, although he was later driven out of power in 1915.       Answer: Victoriano HuertaBonus 19. It included the Black Week which saw the eventual losers besiege Ladysmith, Mafeking and Kimberly while the war was ended b the Peace of Vereeniging. For ten points each:1. Name this 1899-1902 war.       Answer: Anglo-Bšer War (or South African War)2. Now, identify this British general, who instituted a scorched earth policy leading to British resurgence after replacing Frederick Sleigh Roberts as commander-in-chief in 1900. Earlier, he had won the battle of Omdurman and captured Khartoum.       Answer: Lord Horatio Herbert Kitchener3. This president of Transvaal from 1883-1900 precipitated the Boer War when he gave an ultimatum forbidding the British to reinforce their garrison in South Africa.       Answer: Paul KrugerBonus 20. Name these pitchers victimized by famous home runs for ten points each.1. The godfather of Bobby Valentine, he threw Bobby Thomson's home run that won the 1951 Pennant for the New York Giants, the so-called "shot heard round the world".       Answer:	Ralph Branca2. Hank Aaron hit home run number 716 off this man, who was playing for the Dodgers at the time.       Answer:	Al Downing3. This Met with a 118-131 career record may be best known for giving up home run number 62 to Mark McGwire in 1999 while playing for the Cubs.       Answer:	Steve Trachsel