The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by Drake University (Joe Benedict, Kristi Ryan, and Quentin Roper, feat. Chris Romero)Tossup 1. This work's central plot revolves around a factory called "Newark Maid."  That factory is owned by the central character, whose idyllic life and wealth are upturned by the harsh realities of 1960s America, and more specifically by a bomb planted by his daughter, Merry. That central character, Seymour Levov, is known by the moniker "The Swede" in Nathan Zuckerman's narrative of his rise and fall. For ten points, what is this work, the winner of the 1998 Pulitzer Prize, the handiwork of Philip Roth?       Answer: American PastoralTossup 2. Cooperation between classes of a rigid social hierarchy is the ideal situation espoused by the social school of this brand of thought, whose foremost prophet is probably Ken Wilber. One of the fundamental tenants common to almost all its forms is Erastianism, the foundation of an "organic" natural church, which it holds to be the correct order of things since ecology dictates a single, ideal religious structure for any given society. This holistic, eclectic school of philosophy is especially popular in Latin America, where it is used to justify dictatorships. For ten points, identify this ham-handed attempt at "a genuine Theory of Everything;" a philosophical hodgepodge incorporating an "existential ethnofascism" best known in its anarchistic variety and through the writings of Christian de Quincey.       Answer: integralismTossup 3. A coup d'etat supported by Yuan Shikai and led by Empress Dowager Cixi eventually ended this period on September 21, 1898. This was done with the support of the ultraconservative ruling elite, most prominent of which were the Manchus. The emperor himself saw it as an opportunity to modernize the country and attempt to reach a level of modernization comparable to Japan's. For ten points, name this program, initiated by the Qing emperor Guangxu to revolutionize China, and lasting from June 11 to September 21, 1898.       Answer: Hundred Days' ReformTossup 4. One major defect of this is that its equations contain 19 free parameters not all of which can be determined in general. The first major experimental deviation from it came in 1998, when the lab at Super-Kamiokande published results demonstrating neutrino oscillation, thereby implying the existence of non-zero neutrino masses. It contains twelve types of fermions and several bosons, including photons, W and Z bosons, Higgs bosons, and eight types of gluons. Often referred to as SU(3) times SU(2) times U(1), this is, for ten points, what model that attempts to address three of the four fundamental forces, but excludes gravity?       Answer: standard model of particle physicsTossup 5. This person's first credit came from "Marie from Sunny Italy" in 1907, which earned him 37 cents. Born on May 11, 1888 in Tyumen, Siberia, he emigrated to the United States in 1893, where he lived for the rest of his life. He would compose several other musical reviews during the early twentieth century as well, including Yip Yip Yaphank and several pro-American and ragtime songs such as "Alexander's Ragtime Band."  For ten points, name this American composer, most famous for "God Bless America" and "White Christmas."       Answer: Irving Berlin (or Israel Baline)Tossup 6. The main character of this work has been fired for stealing boxes, exposing him to the bile of his dog-hating father, who sermonizes from a toilet, and his best friend, who notes "You got to be a stupid motherfucker to get fired on your day off!" The plot is driven by that friend's debt to a highly fashion-conscious peddler named Big Worm, who claims that "playing with [his] money is like playing with [his] emotions," but the film's major antagonist is Deebo, who is shot by the protagonist in the film's conceit. For ten points, name this 1995 movie that relates the adventures of Smoky and Craig on the titular day of the week.       Answer:	FridayTossup 7. One of this publication's chief contributors, Elizabeth Peabody, also used the resources of her West Street bookstore to publish it. It was named by Bronson Alcott at the meeting that conceived it, and its first publisher was Margaret Fuller. Despite the short lifespan of its first incarnation, it saw contribution by such luminaries as Lydia Child, Charles Newcomb, James Lowell, and Henry Thoreau. For ten points, name this literary magazine, the brainchild and medium of Ralph Waldo Emerson and the Transcendentalist movement.       Answer: The DialTossup 8. This person had an unfortunate proclivity for failing important exams, and was sent back from France after his radio electronics scholarship was rescinded for it. This leader then ascended to the head of the Angkar association and worked to oppose Lon Nol's government. Declaring "Year Zero" as a part of his purification project against capitalism, western culture, religion, and foreigners, he was known throughout his Kampuchean Communist Party as Brother Number One. For ten points, name this former Khmer Rouge leader who had directed the execution of over one million people by his third year in office, and was torched with a Bic lighter after his 1998 death.       Answer: Pol Pot (or Saloth Sar; accept Brother Number One before it's mentioned)Tossup 9. This person called his cabin in the Adirondaks "The Loj" ["lodge"], spelled L-O-J and, though this attempt at spelling reform didn't catch on, his dropping the "u" and "e" from "catalog" did. After resigning from Amherst, he created a Journal for his trade with Leypoldt and Bowker in 1877; he had already joined his friend Charles Cutter in founding the ALA in 1866. For ten points, name this director of the New York State Librarian best known for devising a system of book classification around 1877, which is known as his "decimal system."       Answer: Melville Louis Kossuth Dewey (or Melvil Dui)Tossup 10. This malady is caused by a Gram-negative namesake Neisserid, which is especially virulent in columnar epithelium, and has an incubation period on the order of 4 days. Bartholinitis and Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome are rare complications of this disease, which can be diagnosed by a protoscopy demonstrating an enflamed mucous membrane with little to no mucus. Antibiotic treatment of this must generally be followed-up by periodic serologic tests for syphilis, which it is often found in combination with. For ten points, name the sexually transmitted disease that probably received its common nickname, "the clap," from a French slang term for a whorehouse.       Answer: gonorrhea (accept the clap before it's mentioned)Tossup 11. The narrative of this work begins with the fourteen-year-old future grandmother of the title character guiding a wagon through the Ohio River valley. This short segment is followed by an accounting of the main character's reading "Gray's Anatomy" in the office of Doc Vickerson, his mentor, in the small town of Elk Mills. Later in life, the title character must attempt to combat an epidemic on the island of St. Hubert. For ten points, name this book set in Winnemac; a 1925 novel about the namesake hypocrite medical doctor, written by Sinclair Lewis.       Answer: ArrowsmithTossup 12. The floor in this work is comprised of sixteen photorealistic wood beams, with the artist's signature scratched as a tiny graffito into the seventh. A large, gold-framed mirror in front of a cream wall reflects the blank black back of the clock just left of center, which reads 12:43 and stands between two candlesticks. These objects all rest on a marble shelf above what is often described as a fireplace, even though no hearth or flue are visible; in their stead is an eerie green field from which a steaming, miniature locomotive protrudes. For ten points, name this 1939 surrealist work of René Magritte.       Answer: Time TransfixedTossup 13. This author was deeply touched by the birth of a mentally disabled daughter, who is the subject of The Child that Never Grew, and developed an impressively distinct and convincing literary persona in works published as John Sedges, including The Townsman. This philanthropist fictionalized the lives of her father and mother, respectively, in 1936's Fighting Angel and The Exile, while her first novel, East Wind, West Wind, was written to kill time on a long nautical voyage. For ten points, name this author and Nobel Laureate whose Sons and A House Divided completed The House of the Earth trilogy that she began in 1931 with The Good Earth.       Answer: Pearl S. Buck (or Pearl Comfort SydenstrickerTossup 14. This person wrote a dialogue featuring Simonides' discourse on power in Hiero, and showed his love of sport and animals in Cygenticus and De Re Equestri. This son of Gryllus was induced to his greatest adventure by Proxenus, who was in the service of a man whose father this writer would biography in the eight volume Cyropadia. This elected general relates his plunder of the house of Asidates in the seventh book of his best-known work, though he is also well known for his Meorabilia, Apology, and Symposium. For ten points, name this former student of Socrates and leader, after the Battle of Cunaxa, of the retreat of the 10,000, which he relates in his best-known work, The Anabasis.       Answer: XenophonTossup 15. In a binary mixture, the critical radius for this process varies exponentially with the negative reciprocal of the undercooling, which fact can be derived fairly directly by transforming the Avramati equation, and particles smaller than the critical radius are known as kernels, while larger particles are known as the namesake. In a liquid-vapor single substance transition, this mode of boiling has heat transfer characteristics superior to those of film boiling, which begins at the burnout point. In granular solids, the heterogeneous variety of this process occurs preferentially at grain boundaries, where it can dissipate strain energy. For ten points, name this simplest method of second-phase growth, named its creation of small, spherical particles that share their name with the massive centers of atoms.Answer: nucleation (or nucleate transition; accept precipitation, or second phase growth, or other close equivalents before "namesake")Tossup 16. During this event, a general two-hour strike that occurred on November 27 led to an overnight doubling in the number of protesters. Gustáv Husák, the KS? leader, willingly dissolved his government less than a month later, under pressure from such groups as Charter-77. Spurred on by Mikhail Gorbachev's introduction of perestroika and the fall of the Berlin Wall, it began with peaceful demonstrations on November 16, 1989 in Bratislava. For ten points, name this fairly bloodless Czech coup d'état, which led to the election of Alexander Dub?ek and Vávlav Havel.       Answer: Velvet Revolution (or Sametová Revoluce, or Ne?ná Revolúcia)Tossup 17. Thierry Michel's three-part film chronicling this person's life begins with Quest for Power, which includes his childhood, reporting at the 1958 World's Fair, and membership in the MNC. This man was appointed secretary of state for national defense by Kasavubu and, within eight days, had utilized a revolt by the Force Publique to precipitate the ouster of his main rival. This founder of the MPR changed his name in 1972, to one translating as "all-powerful warrior who, because of his endurance and inflexible will to win, will go from conquest to conquest leaving fire in his wake," but he left office under pressure from insurgents led by Laurent Kabila. For ten points, identify this rival of Patrice Lamumba who died in Morocco a few months after surrendering control of the Congo.       Answer: Joseph-Désiré Mobutu Sese Seko Koko Ngbendu Wa Za BangaTossup 18. Major cities on this body of water include Palana, Magadan, Abashiri, and Monbetsu. It was originally given a name meaning "North Sea," but this was changed to a nonsense word produced by confounding the Japanese and Russian terms for North. For ten points, name this sea, surrounded by the disputed Kurile Islands, the Kamchatka Peninsula, and Hokkaido, and connected to the Sea of Japan by the Gulf of Tartary.       Answer: Sea of Okhotsk  [oh-KOTSK]Tossup 19. This creature may be identified by its characteristic cubical dung. In the year 2000, dingoes ate 10% of the Epping Forest species of this animal. Other factors leading to its decline are drought and habitat loss, but the most important factor endangering this animal was the introduction of foreign animals, especially the rabbit, to its Australian environment. The rabbit competes for the underground tunnel systems dug by this animal for its habitat and eats the vegetation needed for survival, leaving this much slower, bulkier animal to starve and die. For ten points, name this flat-nosed, small marsupial of Australia.       Answer: wombatTossup 20. When this artist was 22, his master died and he chose to leave home and roam the countryside rather than seeking a new one. His wanderings are recounted in Records series, which includes those of A Weather-Beaten Skeleton and A Travel-Worn Satchel, and his followers assembled The Monkey's Raincoat after giving him a name in meaning "banana tree," from a plant that grew near his hut. His later journeys led to his most famous anthology, The Narrow Road to the Deep North. "Travelling, sick/ My dreams roam/ On a withered moor" is the very last work of, for ten points, what Japanese author, considered by many to have revolutionized the haiku.       Answer: Matsuo Bash? (or Matsuo Munefusa)Overtime Tossup. The atmosphere of this body, which was estimated to have a pressure of about 15 ?bar ["microbars"] by Voyager II, is currently explained by an "icy volcanism" volatility model, which predicts a polar temperature of about 35 K ["Kelvin"]. It has the same solar axial orientation as Uranus, so a seasonal switching of polar phase occurs every 40 years or so. Ionization of its nitrogenous atmosphere results in a small secondary bow shock in the solar wind near the body that it orbits, and it and all satellites nearer that body than it are in synchronous orbital resonance with it. For ten points, identify this largest satellite of Neptune that is also the largest known moon possessing a retrograde orbit.       Answer: Triton
The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteBonuses by Drake University (Joe Benedict, Kristi Ryan, and Quentin Roper, feat. Chris Romero)Bonus 1. Answer each of the following about a man and his times for ten points.1. This 2002 Nobel Peace Prize winner holds a nuclear engineering degree from the US Naval Academy.	Answer:	Jimmy Carter2. Carter signed this bilateral weapon limitation treaty, which strictly delineated the number of MIRVs, heavy bombers, and strategic launchers that the US and USSR could posess with Brezhnev in 1979.Answer: Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty II (do not accept "Strategic Arms Reduction Talks" or "Strategic Arms Limitation Talks;" prompt on "Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty" or "START")3. This independent candidate ran alongside Carter and Reagan in the 1980 election, capturing about seven percent of the popular vote.	Answer: John W. AndersonBonus 2. Name the following phenomena from modern physics, for ten points each.1. This effect is the transparency of atoms of a noble gas to photons of a low energy, and is a simple example of quantum mechanical probability current resonance.	Answer: Ramsauer-Townsend effect2. Because the recoil energy of photon emission is a small perturbation on the binding energy of a crystal lattice, this effect, the resonant and recoilless absorption and emission of gamma rays, can occur for atoms in one.       Answer: Mössbauer effect3. Two uncharged parallel plates will feel an attractive force when pressed close together, on the order of multiple atomic diameters, due to this effect, named for the Dutch physicist that discovered it.       Answer: Casimir effectBonus 3. Answer the following questions about the geography of Paraguay for the stated number of points each.1. (5 points) This is the capital and largest city.	Answer:	Asunción2. (10 points) This river forms much of the eastern boundaries with both Brazil and Argentina. It also creates a drainage basin for southern Brazil.	Answer:	Paraná River (or Rio de Paraná)3. (15 points) This 850 m ["meter"] peak is the highest in Paraguay, and stands in southeastern Paraguay, north of the Alta Paraná, in its namesake cordillera [core-dee-AIR-uh].	Answer:	Mount San Rafael (or Cerro San Rafael)Bonus 4. Answer each of the following about a British philosopher and his work for ten points.1. This 1913 work in three volumes attempts to axiomatize real analysis consistently in response to one of its authors' namesake paradox, which undid work of Frege [FRAY-guh] in the same vein. It utilizes the theory of types to discuss set theory, and properties of numbers.	Answer: Principia Mathematica2. This British metaphysical logician is known for his development of the philosophy of processes, and co-wrote the Principia Mathematica with Russell.	Answer: Alfred North Whitehead3. This 1931 theorem, which shows that any set of postulates containing Peano arithmetic possesses the namesake property and, therefore, that propositions always exist that can be raised within such a set can be raised but not solved by it. It undid the foundation of Russel and Whitehead's Principia Mathematica.	Answer: Gödel's incompleteness theoremBonus 5. Answer the following about the works of Yasunari Kawabata for 10 points each.1. This novel centers on the aging Shingo who, on learning of his daughter-in-law Kikuko's abortion, fantasizes that the baby might have been his wife's sister incarnate.        Answer: Sound of the Mountain (or Yama no Oto)2. In this story, the namesake of a major 1961 collection, the elderly and impotent Eguchi makes a trip to the namesake establishment, where he satisfies his sexual desires with naked young ladies.        Answer: House of Sleeping Beauties (or Nemureru Bijo)3. This semiautobiographical work was Kawabata's first widely published story, and details the Tokyo adventures of a would-be pedophile.	Answer: The Izu Dancer (or The Dancing Girl of Izu or Izu no odoriko)Bonus 6. Name the following Carribbean religions for ten points each.1. This Jamaican religion believes that Haile Selassie is a living prophet, and will lead all the African peoples to the Promised Land, more or less.       Answer: Rastafarianism2. This religion's belief structure fuses Catholic beliefs with those of the Yoruba. It believes in an unknowable godhead whose worship is mediated by orishas like Shangó and Eleguá.	Answer: Santeria (or La Religion Lukumí, or La Regla de Ocha)3. This name is applied to west-African ancestor-based religious traditions of the Fon-Ewe people. Its name is Fon-Ewe for "spirit." It believes in an unknowable godhead whose worship is mediated by loa.	Answer: Voodooism (or Vodou or Vodun)Bonus 7. Given an excerpt from an American poem, identify the poem and the poet, 5 for one, 10 for both.1. "And they seem not to break; though once they are bowed / So low for long, they never right themselves; / You may see their trunks arching in the woods / Years afterwards, trailing their leaves on the ground..."	Answer:	"Birches" by Robert Frost2. "Does it dry up / Like a raisin in the sun? Or fester like a sore-- / And then run?"	Answer:	"Dream Deferred" by Langston Hughes3. "Thou go not, like the quarry slave at night, / Scourged to his dungeon, but sustain'd and sooth'd / By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave / Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch/ About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams..."	Answer:	"Thanatopsis" by William Cullen BryantBonus 8. Answer each of the following about a certain open question in mathematics for ten points.1. For a complex number s, this special function was defined in an 1859 paper as the natural analytic extension of the sum over all positive integers n of n to the negative s.        Answer: Riemann zeta function2. The zeros of the zeta function are at the center of this infamous open question in mathematics. Specifically, it says that all the non-trivial zeros of the zeta function have real part 1/2.	Answer: Riemann hypothesis3. Residues of the zeta function provide approximations to this important function from number theory, which is symbolized π (x) ["pi of x"], gives the number of positive integers without non-trivial integer divisors, and has the asymptotic form of the logarithmic integral.	Answer: prime counting functionBonus 9. Identify these works of V.S. Naipaul for ten points each.1. This story centers on the titular main character, whose first name is Mohan, and his dealings with the prophecy that he would someday eat up his mother and father.       Answer:	A House for Mr. Biswas2. This sequel to Half a Life is the latest book published by Naipaul. It revolves around Willie Chandran and his work as a guerilla revolutionary, and has been very controversial for its stereotypes and prejudices.       Answer:	Magic Seeds3. After his home and business are destroyed by nationalists, Salim moves to the titular location in this story.	Answer:	A Bend in the RiverBonus 10. Answer the following questions about everybody's favorite Olympic Sport, and track's bastard half-brother, field.1. This American became the first Olympian to win four consecutive gold medals in any sport, doing so in discus in 1956, 1960, 1964, and 1968.	Answer:	Alfred Oerter2. This Ukranian was the first pole-vaulter to clear the 20-foot mark, and his world record of 6.14 meters still holds.	Answer:	Sergey Bubka3. This man broke Bob Beamon's 25-year-old long jump record while dueling with Carl Lewis at the 1993 World Championships. His mark of 29 feet, 4.5 inches still stands.	Answer:	Mike PowellBonus 11. Answer the following about an ancient battle, for ten points each.1. The invading commander did not believe that such a small Greek force would engage them, but the small 6000 Greek contingency defeated wave after wave of Persians going through a narrow pass, the namesake of this 480 BCE battle.       Answer: Battle of Thermopylae2. The king of Sparta was the commander of the defending Greeks.       Answer: Leonidas I3. This Greek traitor showed Xerxes' forces an alternate route around the pass of Thermopylae, which lead to the defeat of the Spartan defenders.  	Answer: EphialtesBonus 12. Name these works of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, for ten points each.1. The love affairs of the Captain, Charlotte, Edward, and Otilia are examined in this novel, which uses their plights to question the existence of human free will.       Answer:	The Elective Affinities (or Die Wahlverwandtschaften)2. A typical Sturm und Drang hero, this titular German knight of the sixteenth century had an iron hand, as did his real-life counterpart.       Answer:	Gotz von Berlichingen3. Set in Ferrara, this drama is about the title author of a work featuring Tancred and Rinaldo.       Answer:	Torquato TassoBonus 13. Given works of art, identify the artist, 30-20-10.1. (30 points) Sharpshooter on Picket Duty, Prisoners From the Front.2. (20 points) Eight Bells, Shoot the Rapids.3. (10 points) Mending the Nets, Harbor Entrance, Gulf Stream.       Answer:	Winslow HomerBonus 14. Name the following organelles, on a 5-10-15 basis.1. (5 points) This organelle is composed of two major subsections, and is the sight of intracellular protein synthesis. Its presence or absence is what defines rough endoplasmic reticulum from smooth.	Answer:	ribosomes2. (10 points) Discovered by Christian de Duve, they possess a singular membrane that separates them from the cytosol in the cell. They degrade fatty acids and toxic compounds through the utilization of hydrogen peroxide.	Answer:	peroxisomes3. (15 points) These structures increase the ability of a eukaryotic structure to absorb, and therefore avoid damage from light. They are generally found within outer layer skin cells.	Answer:	melanosomesBonus 15. For ten points each, name these historical battles or battle locales where it was probably pretty cold.1. Reeling from defeats at Brandywine and Germantown, the Colonial army entered this camp to wait out the winter. Many died of starvation and disease.       Answer:	Valley Forge2. In the Winter War of 1939, the Russians attacked the Finns because of a border incident, known as the Shelling of Mainila. The Finnish army did all it could, and fought valiantly behind this series of fortifications. They were named for their creator, who built them directly after the Finnish civil war.	Answer:	Mannerheim Line3. This battle of the Korean War resulted in 40,000 Chinese casualties and 15,000 UN casualties. About half of those deaths were due to the bitter cold of the environment, which may in fact have been the coldest conditions in which any battle was ever fought. The Chinese crossed the Yalu River to attack the UN troops at the title location, and despite those heavy losses, won the battle.	Answer:	Battle of Choson ReservoirBonus 16. Give the following about a noted composer, for ten points each.1. Name this composer of the Faust Symphony, a number of piano etudes, and the Hungarian Rhasodies.	Answer: Franz Liszt2. This two-part waltz for keyboard from 1862, Sitwell 514, was later the subject of a popular orchestral transcription and is meant to be the trill played by the title character at a dance at an inn.Answer: Mephisto Waltz (I & II), for piano No. 1 (Der Tanz in der Dorfschenke), S. 514 (LW A189)3. This piano etude, whose name translates to "The Little Bell," was written by Franz List as a part of his Grand Etudes de Paganini, and is Liszt's transcription of the Paganini work of the same name.       Answer: La CampanellaBonus 17. Name the following about a member of the Shinto pantheon, for the stated number of points.1. (15 points) This massive jerk of a storm god was created from the nose of Izinagi. His wife is Miyazu-Hime.	Answer: Susanoo no Mikota (or Susanowo no Mikota)2. (5 points) Susanoo is among the better known of these spirits of Shint?, whose name roughly translates as "gods."	Answer: kami3. (10 points) Susanoo cut this pretty awesome sword out of a dragon that he'd killed to rescue Miyazu-Hime. Unfortunately, his bastard son ?kuninushi then absconded with it, and it wound-up among the Go-Shin Tai, the Japanese crown jewels.	Answer: Kusanagi (or Grass-Cutter or Grass-Mower or anything like that)Bonus 18. Name the linguist on a 30-20-10 basis.1. (30 points) He was the author of The Wishram Texts and the Nootka Texts, and also studied the Chinook and Yana.2. (20 points) This student of Boaz titled his most important book simply enough; it's 1921's Language.3. (10 points) This Yale professor is the namesake, with his student Whorf, of a hypothesis that states that there is a systematic relationship between the ones language and ones perception of the world.	Answer:	Edward SapirBonus 19. Answer each of the following about a ruler of Britain for ten points.1. This former Earl of March married the peasant Elizabeth Woodville after acceding to the throne of England in 1460.       Answer:	Edward IV2. Edward IV was the first in this line of kings, which is named for the duchy of his father, Richard.	Answer: Yorkists3. Edward IV's reign was interrupted by the revolt of this kingmaker, his cousin, who, with the aid of Louis XI of France, forced Edward to flee to the Netherlands for a year. He was killed at Barnet in 1471, on the same day that Queen Margaret and Edward, prince of Wales, returned from France.	Answer: Richard Neville, earl of Warwick (accept either)Bonus 20. Given a description, name the character from the Ramayana, for ten points each.1. This is Rama's wife. She is kidnapped, and the story revolves around Rama's quest to get her back.       Answer:	Sita2. This is the villain of the story. A demon granted powers by Brahma, he kidnaps Sita.	Answer:	Ravana3. This half-brother of Rama accompanies him throughout his exile.	Answer:	Lakshmana