The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteTossups by UIUC (Mike Sorice)Tossup 1. The fourteenth of this work's sixteen extant books gives the only reliable account of the life revolt of Boadicea, while section forty-four of book fifteen mentions the crucifixion of Jesus. While it is certain that the years 37 to 41 are missing, this work's original length is unknown, as Pliny notes only that it and the Historiae were 30 books in total length. Near its beginning, it notes the murder of Agrippa Postumus, "the new reign's first crime." For ten points, name this historical work completed around 105 CE and covering a number of years in the reigns of the Julio-Claudian emperors of Rome; the masterwork of Tacitus.       Answer: The Annals (or Annales)Tossup 2. This work ends with the central character shedding tears "not the last she was destined to shed" after she "come[s] away" from a meeting at the Music Hall. That character, a resident of Cambridge, is the daughter of a hypnotist, Sellah, who brings her to a party at Miss Birdseye's early in the novel to speak on the "new morality," and to make the acquaintance of Olive Chancellor. For ten points, name this novel about the complex "modern" love of Basil Ransom and Verena Tarrant; an 1886 novel by Henry James ostensibly about the residents of a certain Massachusetts city.       Answer: The BostoniansTossup 3. Prefixed by Gabby, this names Mac's first opponent in Super Punch-Out! Alucard begins Symphony of the Night equipped with this type of necklace. A Violent person by this name is a member of the unutterably terrible Insane Clown Posse, and it is the nickname of a certain Williams who sucked-up the Bulls' backcourt before turning to motorcycle racing. For ten points, give the common name of these things and people, another former baller who has a Ph.D., a critic by the name of Sherman, and Silent Bob's hetero life mate.       Answer: Jay (or J)Tossup 4. The method of these is sometimes known as Jeans' theorem, can be derived from Lie [LEE] form invariance of a PDE, and is used to transform a PDE into a set of ODE's. Given a set, the function of this name is identically one on that set, and zero elsewhere. This term also names the function that is the Fourier transform of a distribution, and the minimal number of times the identity of a field must be combined to vanish. For ten points, give the mathematical term that, prefixed with Euler, names two minus the twice genus of a surface; and also names the floor of a real number, as distinct from the mantissa; and a polynomial equation for the eigenvalues of an operator or matrix.       Answer: characteristic(s)Tossup 5. The opinion delivered in this case is in three parts, the third of which questions whether a writ of mandamus is the correct remedy, given the circumstances of the case. This suit had its impetus in the Judiciary Act of 1801, the 13th Section of which act is both invoked to justify the suit and struck down due to its violation of Article III. For ten points, name this 1803 case, in which a judicial appointee sued the Secretary of State, and in the decision for which John Marshall established the principle of judicial review.       Answer: Marbury v. MadisonTossup 6. The chief goddesses of the Burmese and Basques share this name. The Granth summarizes a fundamental concept of the same name by saying that "the world is like a dream, and there is nothing in it." In Hinduism, this denotes both the "veil" which one must pierce in order to view Brahman according to Adviata, and also the ephemeral aspect of Devi; and its literal meaning in Sanskrit is "illusion." For ten points, give the shared name of these concepts and deities from various religions, and a queen who dreamt of her child as a little white elephant and died shortly after giving birth to Siddhartha Gautama, the Buddha.       Answer: MayaTossup 7. This series of reactions is accomplished by five complexes of about 1.7 MDa ["megadaltons"], the first three of which complexes function by switching the state of iron-sulfur centers and are often considered to comprise their own pathway, and only the second of which, an oxioreductase, does not change the membrane proton gradient. Walker and Boyer explained the functionality of the fifth complex in this process, ATP synthase, which is found embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane, and this chemiosmotic reaction results in about 34 ATP per glucose molecule processed. For ten points, name this metabolic pathway that uses the products of glycolysis and the Krebs cycle, and which is named for the redox attachment of a phosphorous radical to ADP.Answer: oxidative phosphorylation (or respiratory-chain phosphorylation; do not accept or prompt on "electron transport chain" which, though a part of oxidative phosphorylation, is accomplished by only three complexes and, therefore, disqualified by the lead-in)Tossup 8. This artist's Baldassare Castiglione displays that bearded author in a jaunty black hat, while his masterful Triumph of Galatea draws from, but jokes with, Botticelli. This painter's early works, such as the Madonna della Granduca and 1504's Betrothal of the Virgin display the small-mouthed women characteristic of his master, Perugino, and he has several portraits of Popes, including Julius II and Leo X with two Cardinals. For ten points, name this giant of the Italian Renaissance, the creator of such works as Dispute of the Sacrament, The Sistine Madonna, and The School of Athens.       Answer: Raphael (or Raffaello Sanzio)Tossup 9. These can be derived, in general, by the condition that dielectric functions vanish. For linear electromagnetic waves in an anisotropic, ionized medium, they arise as determinants of coefficient matrices in the homogenous equations generated by the complex form of an assumed wave packet. These fundamental equations from wave mechanics that give the wavenumber k as a function of the frequency ? ["omega"], and their simplest form is that for a free wave with propagation velocity c, k = ?/c ["k equals omega over c"]. For ten points, name these relations that explain their namesake phenomenon, the difference in propagation velocity for waves of different frequencies and, hence, separation of white light into its constituent parts.       Answer: dispersion relationsTossup 10. This work opens with a choral introduction, noting the main character's base birth in Rhodes and education in divinity, before setting the scene by noting, "this the man in his study sits." The title character has a humorous interlude in the form of a visit by his friends, Valdes and Cornelius, after receiving advice about necromancy from a Good and Bad Angel; though the later scenes of personified Sins, especially Lechery, are more hilarious. For ten points, name this "Tragical History" in which the titular German doctor summons Mephistopheles and sells his soul; the masterwork of Christopher Marlowe.       Answer: The Tragical History of Doctor FaustusTossup 11. Supply problems compelled this ruler to conclude the peace of Amasya with the Safavids. In his youth, this man served as sancak beyi of Kaffa under Bayezid II and, later in life, he propped-up a short succession of puppet rulers, beginning with János Zápolya, to consolidate Transylvania. This ruler was compelled to execute his son Mustaffa in 1553, and to allow the execution of his third son Bayezid by his sottish son Selim in 1561. For ten points, name this employer of Khayr ad-D?n and son of Selim the Grim; an Ottoman sultan rightly known as "The Magnificent."Answer: Süleyman I, the Magnificent (accept either, or Süleyman the Lawgiver, or Süleyman Muhtesm, or Süleyman Kanuni; prompt on just "Süleyman")Tossup 12. This work's sequel is Lélio: The Return to Life, and it was the subject of a reputedly impossible piano transcription by Liszt in 1833. This work is in five movements, the second of which is scored for two harps and quoted in Tchaikovsky's Pathetique, and the third of which, appropriately, makes repeated allusions to Beethoven's Pastoral. For ten points, name this musical work, Holoman number 48, which deals with an artist's unrequited love, was inspired by Harriet Smithson, and was written in 1830 by Hector Berlioz.Answer: Symphonie fantastique for orchestra ("Episode de la vie d'un Artiste... en cinq parties), H. 48 (Op. 14)Tossup 13. For very low energies, this phenomenon is broken-up by a high order perturbation known as the Kondo effect. A semi-empirical theory to describe this phenomenon may be derived by considering a purely perpendicular vector potential and minimizing the free energy in terms of an order parameter, and is known as the Ginzburg-Landau theory. The London equation describes the expulsion of magnetic field from a body in which this phenomenon is taking place, which expulsion is known as the Meissner effect. For ten points, name the physical effect best described by the BCS theory, in which the resistivity of a very cold body vanishes.       Answer: superconductivityTossup 14. This person was the original possessor of the infallible dog Laelaps, which later devolved to Prokris, and she was also given Talos as a guardian. She was sought by her family after vanishing, which resulted in the quest of Cilix, though the eventual fate of her other brother is more often told. For ten points, name this daughter of Agenor; wife of Asterion; sister of Cadmus; and mother of Rhadamanthys, Sarpedon, and Minos; who was kidnapped to Crete by Zeus in the form of a white bull.       Answer: EuropaTossup 15. This body never fully escaped the fallout from the Babeuf plot, a threat to it by leftists, and was permanently illegitimated by the "Two thirds Decree" before even being elected. Two fifths of its key members were ousted in the Fructador coup, and it was established with the Corps Législatif in the Year III constitution implemented by the Thermadorians. For ten points, name this last ostensibly democratic revolutionary French government, which was run by the namesake body of five men, and which was overthrown to establish the Consulate in Brumaire of Year VIII by Napoleon.       Answer: The DirectoryTossup 16. This group found its impetus in Bühler's functional trichotomy, and performed research via distinctive-feature analysis, which its members developed. The theory of markedness, which is used to classify similar phonemes, is a fundamental result of this group, and its members are commonly understood to include Trubetskoy and Jakobson. For ten points, name the "school" of linguistics founded by Vilém Mathesius and descended from the Linguistic Circle of a certain Czech city.       Answer: Prague School (or Linguistic Circle of Prague or Pra?sk? lingvistick? krou?ek)Tossup 17. A number of sections in this work are addressed to Sohpie Carnay, and subplots include a ménage a quatre organized by Prévan, and Emilie's taking advantage of a drunken Swiss merchant. Key plot points in this work include the revelation of the "little house" of one of the main characters to her lover, the Chevalier Belleroche, and the forgery of the postmark of Lyons by the other main character. For ten points, name this 1782 novel that purports to detail certain correspondences among Cécile Volange, Madame de Tourvel, the Chevalier Danceny, Madame de Merteuil, and the Vicomte de Valmont; the only work for which Choderlos de Laclos is known.       Answer: Les Liaisons Dangereses (or Dangerous Liaisons)Tossup 18. This municipality was founded as the result of a log toll bridge over the Truckee River that was built in 1860. Originally called Lake's Crossing, this urban area is adjacent to Sparks and it is the home of its state's university, which was moved here from Elko in 1887. For ten points name the seat of Washoe County, a city near Lake Tahoe in western Nevada and the so-called "biggest little city in the world."       Answer: Reno, Nevada (accept Lake's Crossing before it's mentioned)Tossup 19. This work opens with a preface that alludes to a non-existent second part of Principles of Human Knowledge while offering "opposition to skeptics and atheists." In the first section, the second title character underpins the entire argument by literally equating "a great heat" with "a great pain," while the second of the titular interviews foists on the reader an insultingly stupid argument that extension is ab initio incompatible with other "secondary" characteristics. For ten points, name the 1713 work in which a trio of conversations between two dim-witted fellows is passed-off as an explanation of the philosophy of George Berkeley.       Answer: Three Dialogues between Hylas and PhilonousTossup 20. The notes accompanying this work quote Theocritus, saying "I'll sing you a sweeter song another day" by way of detailing the author's plan to finish this "fragment." This work was originally published along with The Pains of Sleep at the urging of Lord Byron in 1816, and its author notes that he regards it as a "psychological curiosity" rather than a poem of merit. This poem discusses a woman's "demon-lover" and  "A damsel with a dulcimer" who makes a song so beautiful that he who can recall it is rendered frighteningly beautiful. For ten points, name this opium-induced variation on a line from Purchas's Pilgrimage; a Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem ostensibly about a Mongol conqueror.       Answer: "Kubla Khan"Overtime Tossup. Immediately prior to this event, the breaking of JN-25 and Jasper Holmes' ingenious feint involving a drinking water plant breakdown allowed one side to determine that an attack was imminent. A critical armaments error by Nagumo left a large number of bombs on the flight decks of carriers Akagi, Kaga, and Soryu, which bombs were then detonated by attacks from Dauntless dive-bombers, destroying those carriers. The USS Yorktown served as Fletcher's flagship in this battle in spite of having returned from the Battle of Coral Sea severely damaged a mere three days prior. Occuring six months, to the day, after Pearl Harbor, for ten points, name the June 4, 1942 major turning point of World War II, at which Spruance defeated the Japanese.       Answer: Battle of Midway
The Illinois Open 2004: The Philosophy of SpiteBonuses by UIUC (Mike Sorice)Bonus 1. Name each of the following concepts from memory psychology for ten points:1. These "basic units of knowledge" are the mental representations of generalizations based on past experience. Their explanation is central to PDP models, and Piaget used acquisition of them to explain infant mental development.       Answer: schemas2. This refers to the impairment of the recall or formation of memories due to the presence of other memories. It has proactive and retroactive varieties.       Answer: interference3. This is a mental disorder wherein damage to the brain causes a loss of memory. It has anterograde, dissociative, and retrograde varieties.       Answer: amnesiaBonus 2. Answer each of the following about a series of related artists for the stated number of points.1. (10 points) In addition to authoring such fine poems as "Trivia; or, The Art of Walking the Streets of London," this Englishman wrote The Beggar's Opera around 1728.       Answer: John Gay2. (5 points, 5 points) These two Germans, a playwright and composer respectively, adapted that play of Gay's into The Threepenny Opera in 1928.       Answers: Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht and Kurt Julian Weill3. (10 points) This unorthodox American composer, encouraged by Brecht, created the "social opera" The Cradle will Rock as an American analog to The Threepenny Opera in 1937.       Answer: Marc BlitzsteinBonus 3. I hope you enjoy crazy religious poetry as much as I do, or you'll have a difficult time answering each of the following for ten points.1. This Persian S?f? mystic and poet wrote several thousand rob?'?y?t, as well as the epic Spiritual Couplets in imitation of 'Attar. He had a... strange relationship with Shams ad-D?n of Tabriz, so his sons had Shams murdered and buried next to a well.       Answer: Jal?l ad-D?n ar-R?m? (or Mawal?n?)2. This S?f?, Qur'?nic scholar, and master of the ghazal spent a lot of his life in Sh?r?z. His greatest work is the D?v?n and modern collections of his works include The Gift and Fifty Poems.       Answer: Mohammad Shams od-D?n H?fez (or Mohammad Shams od-D?n H?fiz)3. This more contemporaneous Lebanese-American loon is known for such works as Sand and Foam, Prose Poems, The Wanderer, and especially 1923's The Prophet.       Answer: Jubr?n Khal?l Jubr?nBonus 4. Name each of the following delicious portions of the human heart for ten points.1. These are the larger, lower chambers of the heart, and are separated from the smaller chambers by AV valves. The output of the right one is sent to the pulmonary arteries, while that from the left one is sent to the aorta.       Answer: left and right ventricles2. This "natural pacemaker" embedded in the right atrium creates a signal causes the contraction of the atria, which forces blood into the ventricles.       Answer: sinoatrial node3. These appendages of the bundle branches in the inner ventricular walls conduct impulses from the AV node, and function as a tertiary pacemaker.       Answer: Purkinje fibersBonus 5. Name each of the following works of Leo Tolstoy for ten points.1. This 1911 play of Tolstoy's details the hilariously Russian adventures of a man, Fedya, who has faked his own demise to allow his wife to run off with her lover, an Imperial courtier.Answer: The Man Who Was Dead (or The Living Corpse, or Redemption, or Zhivoi Trup)2. In this, Tolstoy's final novel, Nekhludov must attempt to overcome his inordinate love for murderous hookers long enough to pass judgment on the murderous hooker Katusha, a former love of his. In this attempt, he fails.       Answer: Resurrection (or Voskreseniye)3. This excellent short story details the role that a piece by Beethoven played in Pozdnyshev's stabbing of his wife and her lover.       Answer: "The Kreutzer Sonata" (or "Kreytserovna sonata")Bonus 6. Answer each of the following about those always plotting British for ten points.1. This scheme of good-for-nothing Catholics to blow up the Houses of Parliament, and with them James I and family, failed when Francis Tresham dropped the dime on Guy Fawkes and company.       Answer: Gunpowder plot2. This Whig conspiracy against the life of Charles II involved Monmoth, Essex, Russel, Sidney, Armstrong, Ferguson, and Howard, and took its name from a small building in Hoddeston, Hertfordshire on a road near which the conspirators intended to murder poor Chuck in 1683.       Answer: Rye House plot3. The Ridolfi and Babington plots were proposed attempts upon the life of this ruler.       Answer: Elizabeth I of England (or The Virgin Queen or Good Queen Bess)Bonus 7. If the maxim that Norse myth is for virgins and metal bands is true, I have a feeling most of you will get each of the parts of this bonus, for ten points.1. Run to the hills when this Vanir sun, rain, and fertility god gets angry, because he owns a chariot that is pulled around by a boar and a pretty cool boat.        Answer: Freyr2. There's an ancient forest of elves in this Norse realm, which is also home to Freyr. It is on the same plane as Asgard and Vanaheim.       Answer: Alfheim3. Freyr underestimated the power of his sword, since he gave it to Skirnir in return his winning for Freyr the hand this giantess and daughter of Gymir.       Answer: GerdBonus 8. Name each of the following pharaohs for ten points.1. This unifier and first pharaoh is credited with establishing the capital at Memphis and, according to Manetho, was killed by a hippopotamus. He may be either of the Thinite kings Narmer or Aha.       Answer: Menes (or Mena or Meni or Min; prompt on "Scorpion")2. This second pharaoh of the 19th Dynasty was the son of Ramses I and father of Ramses II and inhabits the finest tomb in the entire Valley of the Kings. He completed the great hall of Karnak and a mortuary temple at Abydos.       Answer: Seti I (prompt on "Seti")3. This son of Cyrus the Great was also a pharaoh of the Late Period, and took the throne name Mesut-i. He defeated Psamtik III, overthrowing the 27th Dynasty, with the help of treacherous Greeks.       Answer: Cambyses II (prompt on "Cambyses")Bonus 9. Identify each of the following equations from mathematical physics given its standard form for 15 points, or given a description of physical phenomena it describes for 10 points.1. (15 points)  ["the partial derivative of u with respect to t, minus six u times the partial derivative of u with respect to x, plus the third partial derivative of u with respect to x, equals zero"](10 points) This PDE was developed by its namesakes to describe "weakly" non-linear waves, such as those in water in a shallow channel, and has solitons as solutions.       Answer: Korteweg-de Vries equation2. (15 points)  ["i h-bar partial psi by partial t, equals h-bar c over i, times the sum from j equals one to three of alpha-j partial psi by partial x-j, plus alpha-four m c squared psi"], where the ?'s are this equation's namsake's matrices.(10 points) This relativistic generalization of the Schrödinger equation determines the 4-space wavefunction ? of spin-1/2 particles, including the electron.       Answer: Dirac equationBonus 10. Name each of the following people who were the leaders of states that, while not in the United States, occupied land that is currently the United States for ten points.1. This victor at San Jucinto was the first and last, but not only, official President of the Republic of Texas.       Answer: Samuel Houston2. This mapmaker, explorer, and Army Captain got to head the Republic of California for all of 4 days before being arrested and court marshaled in 1848.       Answer: John Charles Frémont3. This hero of King's Mountain went on to become the first Governor of Tennessee in spite of his leadership of the rebellious State of Franklin.       Answer: John SevierBonus 11. Given some popular songs, name the artist who originally performed them for five points, and the album on which they originally appeared for five points.1. (5 points, 5 points) "Love Reign O'Er Me," "The Real Me," and "5:15" ["five fifteen"]       Answers: The Who, from Quadrophenia2. (5 points, 5 points) "The Crystal Ship" and "Break on Through (To the Other Side)"       Answers: The Doors, from The Doors3. (5 points, 5 points) "Tales of Brave Ulysses," "SWLABR," [SWAL-bar] and "Sunshine of Your Love"       Answers: Cream, from Disraeli GearsBonus 12. Answer each of the following about the iron-carbon chemical system, for ten points.1. This is the simplest iron carbide, which forms a line phase at 6.70 m% C ["mass percent carbon"] on a composition-temperature iron-carbon phase diagram. It is named for its similarity to a certain silicated lime construction material.       Answer: cementite (grudgingly accept Fe3C)2. The iron-carbon system has a very important one of these points, at which an invariant transition from Austenite to ferrite and cementite occurs, at 727˚C ["degrees Celsius"] and 0.76 m% C. It is named for its similarity to a binary invariant point at which single temperature melting occurs.Answer: eutectoid point (do not accept "eutectic point," which is the aforementioned similar point)3. This is the lamellar microstructure of a eutectoid iron-carbon mixture. It consists of alternating bands of cementite and ferrite and is named for its microscopic resemblance to the mother of the namesake gem.       Answer: pearliteBonus 13. Name each of the following painters whose works reflect the Low Countries' understandable love of liquor for ten points.1. This prolific fellow's Self-Portrait with Saskia shows him brandishing an enviably large glass of beer. He also created a bunch of other self-portraits, Christ Healing the Sick, and The Night Watch.       Answer: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn (accept either or both)2. Fleming notes the "infectious gaiety" of this Hollander's Lute Player with Wine Glass, which seems to use the same model as Jester with a Lute, but not The Laughing Cavalier.       Answer: Franz Hals3. This genre painter created the ribald Merry Couple and hilarious Quack Doctor, as well as such sottish scenes as The Happy Company, The Merry Party, The Drinker, and The Effects of Intemperance, which includes a drunken parrot.       Answer: Jan SteenBonus 14. Identify each of the following classes of algorithms for ten points.1. An algorithm of this type solves its attendant problem by reducing it to a smaller instance of the same problem, and is generally implemented as a method that calls itself.       Answer: recursive algorithm2. This martial name denotes an algorithm that, for an input n, requires f(n) ["f of n"] steps, such that f(n) = a f(n/b) + g(n) ["f of n equals a times f of n over b, plus g of n"]. Thus, it reduces its input by a factor of b while increasing the number of instances by a factor of only a.       Answer: divide-and-conquer algorithm (accept close equivalents)3. This is an algorithm that makes the locally optimal choice at each of its steps.        Answer: greedy algorithmBonus 15. Name each of the following American compromises for ten points.1. This 1820 meeting of the minds allowed the namesake state to be admitted as a slave state, and was Clay's way of brushing aside the rancor from the Tallmadge amendment.       Answer: Missouri Compromise of 18202. This emergency series of measures was proposed by its namesake, the junior Senator from Kentucky, in 1860 and 1861 in an attempt to avert the Civil War. It was essentially an attempt to re-enact and extend the Missouri Compromise, with a few modifications.       Answer: Crittenden Compromise3. This somewhat euphemistic name is given to the Hayes administration's pusillanimous sell-out of its Republican roots and end of Reconstruction in the namesake year.       Answer: Compromise of 1877Bonus 16. Name each of the following about a bunch of philosophy for ten points.1. This ancient philosophy had three simple tenets: nothing exists; even if anything were to exist, it could not be known; and even if anything could be known, it could not be communicated.       Answer: cynicism 2. This "Socrates gone mad," pupil of Antisthenes, and son of a counterfeiter was the cynic archetype. He is said to have lived in a tub, carried around a lit lantern during the day, and told Alexander the Great to get out of his sunlight.       Answer: Diogenes of Sinope3. Diogenes' greatest work was this now-lost favorite of Zeno of Citium. It advocates an ideal city founded on the principles of simplicity, shamelessness, and equality.       Answer: The RepublicBonus 17. Answer each of the following about a short story for ten points.1. This short story begins "I was sick - sick unto death..." and proceeds to detail an eerie, nightmare-like Inquisitorial trial, and its aftermath.       Answer: "The Pit and the Pendulum"2. The protagonist of "The Pit and the Pendulum" escapes the second of those nefarious devices with the unwitting aid of these voracious creatures.       Answer: rats (accept equivalents)3. "The Pit and the Pendulum" takes place in, or, rather, under, this Spanish city, from which General Lasalle rescues the protagonist in the end.       Answer: ToledoBonus 18. Name each of the following Christian heresies for ten points.1. This heresy of North Africa arose around the lector Majorinus as a result of the consecration of the traditor Caecilian as Bishop of Carthage. It held that the church is the body of the elect only and, therefore, that the validity of the sacraments is dependent upon the uprightness of their administrator.       Answer: Donatism (or Donatist heresy)2. (Pelagianism part cut due to conflict with Chicago B; write new 2nd part)3. This major early heresy abrogated the independence or divinity of the non-Father parts of the Trinity, positing a sole deity in the form of the namesake rules. It had dynamic and modalistic varieties, and adpotionism and Sabellianism and are forms of the former and latter, respectively.       Answer: MonarchianismBonus 19. Name each of the following works of Samuel Beckett for ten points.1. This best-known play of Beckett's has Vladimir and Estragon performing the title inaction.       Answer: Waiting for Godot (or En Attendant Godot)2. This 1953 novel is the sequel to, and culmination of, Molloy and Malone Dies.       Answer: The Unnamable (or L'Innommable)3. This 1930 poem is Beckett's best known and is about René Descartes... sort-of.       Answer: "Whoroscope"Bonus 20. Answer each of the following from the more mathematical side of economics for ten points.1. This fundamental economic quantity is the 0th-order real income derivative of the consumer expenditure, and is often symbolized c ["lower-case c"] or c' ["lower-case c prime"].       Answer: marginal propensity to consume2. This quantity is generally symbolized C ["upper-case c"]. In the Keynesian formulation, it is equal to the sum of the autonomous variety of its namesake and the product of the real disposable income and the marginal propensity to consume.Answer: consumption function (prompt on "consumer expenditure," which was already mentioned)3. For a given economy, this quantity is the sum of the consumption function, private and government investments, and net exports in that economy. On a price level-real income diagram, it is characteristically downward sloping.       Answer: aggregate demand (or effective demand; do not accept or prompt on "demand")