GW JCV 7 Finals Packet Tossups (Packet A: Tim Young, Jon Needle, Edmund Schluessel, J. Brendan McManus, Wesley Reisser)1. A weaver who taught himself mathematics, he formulated the modern representation of Newton's method and extended it to functions of two variables. He's better known, however, for lending his name to a method of approximation he popularized in his 18th-century New Treatise of Fluxions, but that was known to Cavalieri and Gregory in the 17th century. FTP, name this English mathematician, whose eponymous rule for approximating integrals states that the integral of f(x) on the interval (a, b) equals the sum of an infinite series evaluated at n terms, times the length of the interval, divided by 3 times n.A: Thomas _Simpson_2. Adrastus, king of Argos, mobilized an army to assist two men who had married two of his daughters.  One of the men was Tydeus, son of king Oeneus of Calydon, who was to help Polyniceces assume his rightul place on the throne of his city from his brother Eteocles, with whom there was an agreement to alternating rule. Eventually, Eteocles and Polynieces kill each other, fulfilling the curse their father Oedipus had placed on them, and all the title characters perished one way or another. For ten points, name this famous Aeschylus tragedy. Answer: _Seven Against Thebes_ (also accept: _Phoenecian Women_ by Euripides)3. Its radio was broken, its gas tank wasn't large enough for the voyage, and the small craft was overcrowded with ammunition, tanks, not to mention dozens of revolutionaries.  In December 1956 it landed at Niguero, after a voyage of several days from Mexico; among its passengers were Fidel Castro and Che Guevara.  FTP, name this vessel, which shares its name with Cuba's state-run newspaper, a boat originally named in honor of someone's abuela.Answer: La _Granma_4. One of two men of his group to have survived the battle of Gabhra, he returns from Tirnanog, the Timeless Land of Youth, after over 300 years there, to Ireland. He, along with his companion Caolite, help St. Patrick record several legends as Brogan records the tales. Scottish poet James Macpherson took many liberties in allegedly translating his poetry into English. As a member of the Fianna along with Goll Macmorna and Diarmaid, he was said to be responsible for keeping the tales of the Fenian cycle alive. For ten points, name this warrior-poet from Irish myth, the son of Finn mac Cool.  A: _Ossian_ or _Oi'sin_5. Its lesser-known tracks include "Hasta Ma–ana," "What About Livingstone," and "King Kong Song."  Released in 1974, its title track has the female vocalists declaring that, "now it seems my only chance is giving up the fight." They liken their predicament to that of a certain emperor, defeated in 1815, who may have exclaimed "I was defeated, you won the war."  FTP, name this early album released by ABBA.Answer: _Waterloo_6. It was written for Paganini in 1834, who complained, "There are too many rests. I must be playing all the time."  Its composer, like many Romantics, was inspired by Lord Byron and sought to incorporate the viola in a role parallel to that of a literary hero.  FTP, name this symphony in four parts by Hector Berlioz, inspired by Byron's "Childe Harold."Answer: _Harold en Italie_ or _Harold in Italy_7. While serving in the Italian army, he rode a bicycle instead of a horse. He left Italy for the US during World War II because of his Judaism, and in the US founded a group which met annually at Cold Spring Harbor; among his students at his Indiana University lab in the 1940's was DNA discover James D. Watson. A stalwart Socialist, during the 60's, he organized anti-Vietnam rallies, and shared the 1969 Nobel in Medicine with Delbruck and Hershey for discovering how virii reproduce, a result of his work with the bacteriophage. FTP, name this  author of "A Slot Machine, A Broken Test Tube" and "Life: The Unfinished Experiment," inventor of a namesake culture broth.A: Salvador _Luria_8. It is home in part to the largest barrier reef in the Western Hemisphere, its highest point is called Victoria Peak. Several Mennonite communities characterize this country, whose simple ways must stand in stark contrast to its status as a drug-running center, its penchant for hosting offshore Internet gambling casinos, for its increasing number of yuppie eco-tourists, and a sordid TV program being shot there.  For ten points name this only British Commonwealth member that lies in Central America.		Answer:  _Belize_9. The town that was the subject of the battle was eventually burned to the town and evacuated by the British, shortly after having defended it for a second time at the battle known as Hobkirk's Hill in April of 1781. An attempt to recover momentum after the loss of Charleston, the battle was a disaster for the Americans, losing over 1,000 men while the British lost fewer than 350. Weakened by hunger and disease, much of the colonial militia fled at first attack. For ten points, name this August 1780 battle that temporarily enhanced the reputation of Lord Cornwallis and ruined that of Saratoga hero Horatio Gates, fought in in South Carolina, not across the Delaware River from Philadelphia.   Answer: Battle of _Camden_10. First performed in 1905, it was at first rejected by the public for its heroine's disregard for Christian morality; critics panned it for other reasons. Its composer imagined the title character as a "16 year old Isolde," and in one of the opera's final scenes, the heroine is seen passionately kissing a disembodied head, moments after performing the Dance of the Seven Veils.  FTP, name this Richard Strauss opera in one act, its libretto translated from an original text by Oscar Wilde_Salome_ (Sal-Omay)
11. He began his career as a U.S. Naval Officer, but retired from the service to start his own company, CERF Technologies International, a maritime technology corporation.  Although the key prosecution witness has recanted, he remains in prison, facing a twenty year sentence for illegally obtaining torpedo plans.  FTP, name this man, the first American convicted in Russia of espionage since Gary Powers.Edmond _Pope_12. "It is not possible to live pleasantly without living prudently and honorably and justly." The author of this quote studied for three years under a disciple of Democritus, whose work greatly influenced this man's ethical system.  He had a following in Rome long after his death, and was referred to by Cicero and Plutarch.  FTP, name this Greek philosopher, idolized by the poet Lucretius, who believed pleasure the greatest good.Answer: _Epicurus_13. Black-grey smoke overwhelms a cloudy sky in the and the crystal blue water of the deep background is obscured. On the far left, an old man is being attacked by a solider. Shirtless bodies lay dying on the right as several swords are raised. The foreground is occupied by a group of soldiers on horseback, colorful and varied banners held high in hand. The backdrop is of the city that gives the painting, which today sits in the Louvre in Paris. For ten points, name this painting, based on a historical event that took place in 1204, painted in 1840 by Eugene Delacroix.  Answer: The _Entry of the Crusaders into Constantinople_14. Wines bearing this name have appeared as early as the 1880's, though it is often called the "mystery" grape, as its European origins are uncertain.  They grow best in cool coastal locations, and often yield fruity, strongly flavored wines to be served chilled.  FTP, name this most widely planted grape in California, which can yield both red and white wines.Answer: _Zinfandel_15. Of Jewish descent, he fled Europe for the U.S. in 1939, and gained his first teaching position at the New School for Social Research in 1944. He is best known two economic theories, one dealing with corporate finance, the other with savings. The "life cycle" theorem posits that individuals accumulate wealth to use in old age and not to pass on to descendents. A theorem named for him and Merton Miller posits that a company's stock value depends primarily on investors' expectations of future earnings. For ten points, name this MIT economist from Italy, winner of the 1985 Nobel Prize.  A: Franco _Modigliani_17. Having spent his entire career with the same team, he remains its all-time leader in at-bats, hits, and doubles.  He had over 2000 hits in the first ten years of his career, which is a major-league record.  His success in the postseason is also notable, tying a record one postseason with 10 hits in the World Series.  It was an extra-inning home run off Charlie Leibrandt in another World Series that eventually led to his team's second title in five seasons.  FTP, name this Minnesota Twins outfielder and  recent inductee into the Baseball Hall of Fame.Kirby _Puckett_18. After his predecessor left the Papal States in a state of turmoil, he enacted a series of successful reforms showing little tolerance for the armies of bandits running throughout the Roman countryside.  Named Cardinal in 1570, he was also a noted scholar and during his pontificate ordered the expansion of the Vatican library.  He is considered one of the leaders of the Counter-Reformation, and was responsible for the excommunication of King Henry of Navarre in 1585. FTP, name this Pope who served five years, prior to his death in 1590.Pope _Sixtus V_ or Felice _Peretti_19. Located on the Amper River, it is currently a city of 30,000 people.  It is situated on a hill, and its summit contains a castle that once belonged to the Wittelsbachs. The city was forever changed in 1933, when it was chosen as the site of the first Nazi concentration camp.  FTP, name this city northwest of Munich, which housed over 200,000 prisoners during World War II.Answer: _Dachau_20. Reaction to it in the author's home country was so harsh from both ends of the political spectrum that the author fled to Germany shortly after it was published. As the novel opens, the central character accompanies his friend Arkady Kirsanov to the Kirsanov household, and the reader is introduced to the father Nikolai and the uncle Pavel, seen to symbloize the old order, which the younger duo is said to oppose. We follow the wanderings and failed loves of Yevgeny Barzarov, which some believe symbolic for his lack of a belief system. For ten points, name this 1862 novel, which introduced to the concept of "nihilism," the most famous work of Ivan Turgenev.  Answer: _Fathers and Sons_21. A native of Durham, North Carolina, he got his start as a speechwriter in the Nixon White House, and later worked for Presidents Ford and Reagan. His latest book, Eyewitness to Power chronicles his White House career, including the year he spent as Bill Clinton's communications director.  FTP, name this frequent commentator on the Jim Lehrer News Hour, and currently Editor-at-Large of U.S. News and World Report. David _Gergen_22. Although macroscopic, they always contain a Josephson junction where their ringlike structure narrows to a cross-section of one ten-millionth of a square centimeter. By Schroedinger's equation, they can be "tuned" by the application of radio waves to let stand a single wave of electrons. Therefore, in some respects, they can act as a single quantum particle. FTP, identify these rings, invented by Terry Clark, useful for measuring voltages and as switching components in high-speed computers.A: SQUIDs or Superconducting QUantum Interference Devices
23. He was a pupil in Bolgona of Padre Martini, where he composed liturgical music and impressed many with a tact not found among some of his family members; he was further estranged from his Lutheran family with a conversion to Catholicism in 1760 to obtain a job as organist at Milan cathedral. None of his composed works, including symphonies cantatas and Italianate operas, asssoicated with the Rococo style, are particularly famous, but his series of concerts with Karl Fredrich Abel  From 1762 to 1764 led to an appointment as music master in London to Queen Charlotte. For ten points, name this musician, nicknamed the "English" Bach.  A: _C_arl _P_hilip _E_mmanuel _Bach_  (C.P.E. Bach)24. The petitioner was the U.S. attorney in Charlotte; the respondent an employer seeking to challenge the Keating-Owen Act.  Overturned in 1941 by the Darby Lumber case. Justice Day wrote for a 5-4 majority that under the 10th Amendment, Keating-Owen was an unwarranted encroachment on state powers to regulate labor conditions; Justice Holmes' dissent was an argument for the right of Congress to regulate interstate commerce and a passionate criticism of state failures to regulate child labor . For ten points, name this 1918 case, a symbol of the Court's conservatism of the time.  A: _Hammer_ vs. Dagenhart25. Much of his writing deals with criticism of mainstream Western literature, most notably his 1975 work "Beginnings." His first published work dealt with the short stories of Joseph Conrad, which was later integrated into his study "Culture and Imperialism."  For ten points name this controversial scholar, who became a professor at Columbia in 1963 and immigrated from Palestine whose best known work deals with how most academic study of the Middle East relates to European stereotypes and is titled "Orientalism." Answer: Edward W. _Said_26. Pappenheim's forces had been detached on a separate mission, dividing the Austrian army.  Rather than flee, Wallenstein offered battle here, even though his lines of communication with Leipzig had been severed.  Although fog impeded the initial battle, the Austrians were defeated by the advancing Swedes.  FTP, name this battle, where the quick action of Bernhard allowed the Swedish forces to win in spite of the death of Gustavus Adolphus.Answer: Battle of _Lutzen_