We Jumped A Teenage Girl And Stole Her Quizbowl Packet (Waterloo)
Questions by:  Jeffrey Baer, Aaron Dos Remedios, Huma Zafar

Tossups

1. In this singer's highest-charting solo single, he mentions that he has "seen angels fall from blinding heights" and suggests that you "arm yourself because no one else here will save you."  That single, You Know My Name, was the theme to the James Bond film Casino Royale.  However, he is best-known as the frontman of two different bands.  One saw him replace Zack de la Rocha of Rage Against the Machine and is known for hits such as Cochise and Be Yourself while the other won a pair of Grammys in 1995 for their singles Spoonman and Black Hole Sun.  For ten points, name this lead singer of Audioslave and Soundgarden.
ANSWER: Chris Cornell

2. Since 2007, this institution has been headed by a man known as "The Shep," though at one point he was forced to attend sensitivity training when a tape was released where he referred to a boy with Asperger's Syndrome as "a freak."  A fire broke out here during a dance in mid-2004 and in summer 2005 it served as a shooting location for the film Jay And Silent Bob Go Canadian, Eh?  In late 2004, tragedy struck here when a student, Rick Murray, opened fire, shooting and paralyzing fellow student Jimmy Brooks before being killed himself.  For ten points, name this fictional high/junior high school and setting of a "next generation" teen drama.
ANSWER: Degrassi Community School (be lenient and accept Degrassi High but not Degrassi Junior High)

3.  An optional quest for this character involves defeating the Magus Sisters at Remiem temple so that her ultimate weapon, the Nirvana, can achieve its full power.  The daughter of high summoner Braska, she has one green eye and one blue eye to signify her mixed heritage, a fact that she attempts to hide from her Al-Bhed hating guardian Wakka. Her first game appearance revolves around a pilgrimage where she attempts to gain the power of Aeons and banish Sin from Spira while her second sees her become a sphere hunter with allies Paine and Rikku.  For ten points, name this summoner and female protagonist of Final Fantasy X [ten] and Final Fantasy X-2 [ten-two].
ANSWER: Yuna

4. Songs from this film's soundtrack include "By Your Side", "Don't You Want Me", and "Somewhere Only We Know."  Based on a novel of the same name, it follows the intertwined lives of 9 characters including one whose failure to call the central character after their date sets the story in motion.  This rejection by Conor Barry drives the neurotic Gigi to turn to the bartender Alex for help reading the "signs" given by the opposite sex but she eventually finds herself falling for him.  For ten points, name this 2009 romantic comedy set in Baltimore whose stars include Drew Barrymore, Justin Long and Jennifer Aniston.
ANSWER: He's Just Not That Into You

5. Though his parents prevented the media from interviewing him before he turned 18, he held a press conference at age 17 where he declared, "Basketball isn't 5-on-5.  It's 1-on-1, plus the bench."  He gained worldwide recognition after playing on his country's Olympic basketball team in 2008 despite scoring fewer than 10 points per game.  That same year, he also won the title of Mr. Europa as Europe's best basketball player, beating out established NBA stars like fellow Spaniard Pau Gasol.  For ten points, name this 18 year-old point guard who was drafted 5th overall in 2009 by the Minnesota Timberwolves. 
ANSWER: Ricky Rubio

6.  In one episode of this series, four characters find a bag containing $250,000 and one of them dies after he accidently shoots himself in the leg while trying to bury it.  Revolving around a wedding at the title location, the first person to die is Ben Wellington, who gets chopped up by a boat's propellor.  As the series progresses, more people are killed including Marty Dunn, who is sliced in half, and Lucy Daramour, who is doused with gasoline and lit on fire.  This leads the main characters to believe that a serial killer named John Wakefield has resurfaced.  Starring Elaine Cassidy as Abby Mills, name for ten points this 2009 CBS murder mystery series.
ANSWER: Harper's Island

7.  When he is first introduced, he is on a mission to track down the creature that will vindicate Charles Muntz' name. He soon befriends Russell, who is amazed by his ability to speak English, and he constantly refers to Carl as "master", much to his annoyance. Though he is often picked on by the other dogs he lives with, he wins their respect when he unwittingly traps Alpha in the Cone of Shame, and in an earlier scene, he admits to Carl, "I hid under your porch because I love you." For ten points, name this exuberant dog voiced by Bob Peterson in Up.
ANSWER:  Dug
8. First or last name acceptable.  In 1999, he directed a flop entitled The Underground Comedy Movie and he was recently arrested for an altercation with a prostitute named Sasha Harris after she "bit his tongue and would not let go."  In one appearance, he claims that "you're gonna love my nuts" and vows to "make America skinny again" while in another he claims that a certain product can absorb cola that has seeped through a carpet.  Billy Mays claimed that the latter was a rip-off of his absorbant towel brand Zorbeez and challenged him to a "pitch-off" just months before Mays died.  For ten points, name this pitchman and voice behind the Slap Chop and ShamWow.
ANSWER: Vince Offer (accept either, also accept Vince Shlomi)

9.  This team's inaugural season in 1977 was preceded by a parade marking the return of baseball after the original major league team to play in its home city moved to Milwaukee in 1970. This team did not achieve a winning record until 1991, when players like Omar Vizquel, Jay Buhner, and Edgar Martinez helped propel them to a fifth place finish in the American League West.  The winning continued in 1993, when new manager Lou Piniella helped inspire budding stars Randy Johnson and Ken Griffey Jr. to all star seasons. For ten points, name this team based in the Pacific Northwest whose current stars include Felix Hernandez and Ichiro Suzuki. 
ANSWER: Seattle Mariners (accept either)

10.  On the title track to this 2005 album, the singer's new love makes her to feel that life is worth living and she supposes that the title objects "just get lucky sometimes."  On one single from this album, a woman in a bad relationship and an alcoholic resolve to shed their jaded lives and not let the years go by in the title state.   On this album's most well-known single, the singer discovers that her boyfriend is being unfaithful and takes it out on his four wheel drive by carving her name in its leather seats and smashing its headlights with a bat.  For ten points, Wasted and Before He Cheats are tracks on which debut album by Carrie Underwood?
 ANSWER:  Some Hearts

11.  Sonny Mehta, the American publisher of this novel, called it a "brilliant and compelling thriller...well worth the wait." It was originally due to hit bookshelves in 2006 but experienced numerous delays; at that time,  its working title was still The Solomon Key. When it is finally published in September 2009, its expected first printing will be the largest ever by Random House, easily eclipsing those of its two prequels. The protagonist, Robert Langdon, will return to home soil as he deciphers a mystery related to a talisman in Jewish mythology. For ten points, name this upcoming Dan Brown novel, the sequel to Angels and Demons and The Da Vinci Code. 
ANSWER: The Lost Symbol

12.  In one line of this song, the artist states that he is going to slay your crew and then yells the word "damage" four times in a row.  Throughout this song, the artist compares himself to several figures by noting that "just like Muhammed Ali they called him Cassius/watch me bash this beat like a skull" and "I'm blastin'/outlastin' /kinda like Shaft, so you could say I'm shaftin'."  The song begins with a news reporter announcing the artist's "triumphant comeback," leading to the famous opening line "Don't call it a comeback/I've been here for years."  For ten points, name this song by LL Cool J in which a female relative gives him some rather violent advice.
ANSWER: Mama Said Knock You Out

13.  A 2006 television series subtitled Against All Odds followed his attempt to become a professional poker player and in 2007 he was sleighted to host a reality competition entitled Tontine which has not since aired.  In one appearance, he was unable to consume four pounds of meat and was assessed a four-hour time penalty, but convinced several other people to take the penalty as well.  Aside from that appearance on The Amazing Race, he met his wife as members of the Chapera tribe, where he won her a car and proposed to her on a live reunion show.  For ten points, name this second-place finisher on Survivor: All Stars who eventually married the show's winner Amber Brkich.
ANSWER: "Boston Rob" Mariano (accept either, prompt on Rob)

14. In one scene in this film, the title character gets drunk at a party and dances into a candelabra, setting her wig on fire and thoroughly embarassing her husband.  The title character's descendents include Princess Diana, whose comment that "there were three people in my marriage" became the film's tagline.  Major subplots include the title charcter's relationship with Charles Grey who eventually becomes Prime Minister and Lady Bess Foster's live-in affair with the title character's husband. Based on the true story of Georgiana Cavendish, name for ten points this 2008 movie starring Keira Knightley and Ralph [Rafe] Fiennes.
ANSWER: The Dutchess



15.  When this product was first manufactured in 1874, the target audience was cyclists. It was distributed en masse through the Sears and Roebuck catalog in the early 20th century, with ads declaring it to be "medically indicated" for sports. Modern versions of this device are used by players in many contact sports including football, baseball, and hockey. On its own, it provides support during physical activity and offers protection for the kidneys, abdomen, and genitals when combined with a plastic cup. For ten points, name this athletic supporter used to guard the male genitalia. 
ANSWER: Jock Strap (accept Athletic Supporter before it is mentioned)
	
16. Different versions of this game include those subtitled Hoopla and Zigity in addtion to one subtitled Kabookii which was released for the Wii in 2007.  Its board consists of four quadrants, each of which includes an 8-space "scenic route" and 4-space "fast track," and a space in the middle with the game's logo, a large purple brain.  Teams advance around the board by completing tasks in categories such as data head, which involves answering trivia questions, and creative cat, which involves things such as blindfolded drawing and guessing objects sculpted in clay.  For ten points, name this Hasbro party game designed "for your whole brain."
ANSWER:  Cranium

17.  In the first verse of this song, the singer tells her love interest that she has her sights set on him and that her heart will never be tamed.  In the second verse, she believes that her feelings are being reciprocated and states that "I'm not a mind reader, but I'm reading the signs" that he, like her, cannot wait to perform the title action.  In the chorus, we discover that the singer has a best friend named Lesley, who explains that the singer was just being herself when she freaked out, kept looking down and "st-st-stuttered when you asked me what I'm thinking 'bout."  For ten points, name this 2007 song, the first top 10 single by Miley Cyrus.
ANSWER: See You Again

18.  The Double-A team based in Harrisburg has this name, which refers to Harrisburg's status as the capital of Pennsylvania. In 1912, a professional hockey team adopted this name; after becoming part of the NHL, it won four Stanley Cups in the 1920's before moving to St. Louis. It names four different teams in Washington, two of which moved to Minnesota and Texas to become the Twins and Rangers, respectively. Currently, the only major professional sports team of this name embodies the spirit of the name through its logo, the head of a Roman general.  For ten points, name this nickname of Ottawa's current NHL team. 
ANSWER: Senators

19. In Magic: The Gathering, this names half of a card that lets you do two damage divided as you choose, and it is also the superhero alias of Beatriz da Costa in the DC comics universe.  In sports, it names a team that won the MLS cup in 1998 and includes the talents of players such as goalkeeper Jon Busch.  In music, it names one song recorded by both Robert Gordon and the Pointer Sisters in 1978 and another song recorded by The Ohio Players that serves as the theme to the television series Hell's Kitchen.  For ten points, name this entity that is represented in cartoons by Wheeler on Captain Planet and the pokemon Charmander.
ANSWER: Fire

20.  He often used the pseudonym Edmond Dantes in his later work which included 2008s Drillbit Taylor and the Jennifer Lopez vehicle Maid In Manhattan.  His short story Vacation '58 earned him a job at National Lampoon and was the basis for their similarly-titled 1983 box office smash.  In addition to his screenwriting work, he was also a director and his first two films both starred Molly Ringwald, first as the awkward Samantha Baker and then as the spoiled Claire Standish. Often setting his movies in the fictional suburb of Shermer, Illinois, name for ten points this director of Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club who passed away in 2009.
ANSWER:  John Hughes

21. One first-season episode of this series features a dream sequence where Alf, as the guardian of heaven, exiles the title character for dating a geek nicknamed "Pinhead Fred."  Characters in this series include the title character's grandfather Buzz and Vinnie Bonitardi, her primary love interest.  The title character in this series lives with her divorced father Nick, has two brothers named Anthony and Joey, and has a best friend with a penchant for talking too fast, Six LeMuere.  For ten points, name this 1990s television series starring Mayim Bialik which also launched the career of Joey Lawrence.
ANSWER:  Blossom 





22. Stephen Colbert described members of this group as "decent, old-fashioned Americans who just want to overturn a democratic election". They have been defended by such people as Rush Limbaugh, Lou Dobbs, and Liz Cheney, though documents released by Hawaii's Health Department clearly refute their claims. One member, Orly Taitz, compared the target of this group's movement to Nazi leaders, while another refused to take deployment orders from someone who "is not a natural-born citizen". For ten points, name these conspiracy theorists who believe Barack Obama is ineligible to be President of the United States.
ANSWER:  Birthers (accept anything reasonable which mentions Barack Obama, birth or citizenship, and conspiracy before "conspiracy theorists")
Boni

1. Answer the following questions on the romantic entanglements of the Jonas Brothers for ten points each:
[10] Earlier this year, this Jonas brother got engaged to Danielle Deleasa, whom he met in 2007 during a vacation in the Bahamas.
ANSWER:  Kevin Jonas
[10] Due to a comment on Larry King Live, it is strongly believed that Nick Jonas has gotten back together with this ex-girlfriend.  The Jonas Brothers recently collaborated with her for their song Before The Storm.
ANSWER:  Miley Cyrus
[10] Poor Joe seems to be the only one down on his romantic luck.  According to rumours, he broke up with this actress, who starred in the Jonas Brothers' music video for Lovebug, this past July.
ANSWER:  Camilla Belle
2. In the first season of her reality show, she attends FIDM while working as an intern for Teen Vogue.  For ten points each:
[10] Name this Laguna Beach native and star of the first five seasons of MTV's The Hills.
ANSWER: Lauren Conrad
[10] It is working at Teen Vogue where Conrad first meets this other friend.  She would eventually go on and star in a Hills spinoff entitled The City.
ANSWER: Whitney Port (accept either)
[10] In 2009, Conrad put her Hills stardom to good use when she penned this novel about a young girl who moves to Los Angeles and gets her own reality show, proving that just about anyone can write a New York Times bestseller.
ANSWER: L.A. Candy

3.  Answer the following questions about an actor for ten points each:
[10] Sometimes referred to as the "Canadian Zac Efron," name this actor from Woodstock, Ontario who has appeared in such movies as Transamerica, The Jane Austen Book Club, and The Stone Angel.
ANSWER:  Kevin Zegers
[10]  Zegers starred as Mike Manadoro in this 2008 movie about a boy's attempt to start a new life when he wins a partial scholarship from NYU.  It is based on a novel by Tim McLoughlin.
ANSWER:  The Narrows
[10]  This 2006 movie, also starring Samaire Armstrong, featured Zegers as Woody Deane, an aspiring football player who magically switches bodies with his sworn enemy, Nell Bedworth.
ANSWER:  It's A Boy Girl Thing

4.  I wrote you a bonus, but I eated it.  For ten points each:
[10] Providing further evidence that nothing good ever comes out of 4chan, name this internet phenomenon which consists of an taking an image of a certain housepet and attaching a caption written in broken english.
ANSWER: LOLcats
[10] One LOLcat theme revolves around their desire for this fast food item.  A popular site entitled "I Can Has" this item ".com" is devoted to LOLcats and contains literally thousands of them.
ANSWER: Cheeseburger
[10] An internet-based "great translation project" is devoted to translating this book entirely into LOLcat speak.  Its first section is subtitled "Boreded Ceiling Cat makinkgs Urf n stuffs." (note to the editor:  the quote is spelled correctly, including the errant "k")
ANSWER: The Bible

5.  Name these Super Bowl runners-up for ten points each: 
[10] In a Super Bowl arguably more famous for a wardrobe malfunction, the New England Patriots defeated this NFC team led by three Jake Delhomme passing touchdowns. 
ANSWER: Carolina Panthers (accept either underlined part for all three parts of this bonus)
[10] Joe Montana won the battle of the quarterbacks as his San Francisco 49ers defeated this Dan Marino-led team in Superbowl XIX in 1985. 
ANSWER: Miami Dolphins 
[10] Dorsey Levens ran for 90 yards, and Antonio Freeman caught 9 passes, but this team still lost to the Denver Broncos in Superbowl XXXII in 1998. 
ANSWER: Green Bay Packers 


6. Answer these questions about a related set of British pop groups for ten points each:
[10] Tina Barrett, Paul Cattermole, Jon Lee, Bradley McIntosh, Jo O'Meara, Hannah Spearitt and Rachel Stevens were the original members of this group whose hits include Don't Stop Movin' and Never Had A Dream Come True.
ANSWER: S Club 7
[10] Also called S Club Juniors, this spinoff of S Club 7 had four #2 hits in the UK including One Step Closer and Automatic High.
ANSWER: S Club 8
[10] S Club 8's Frankie Sandford and Rochelle Wiseman are currently members of this girl group which released their debut album Chasing Lights in 2008.  Their current single is called Work.
ANSWER: The Saturdays

7. Identify the following board games which won the prestigious Spiel Des Jahres award for ten points each:
[10] One of the most famous Spiel Des Jahres winners, this Mayfair Games game won the award in 1995.  Players collect resources like wheat and wool and build settlements and cities in a race to 10 points.
ANSWER:  The Settlers of Catan
[10]  This 2001 winner from Rio Grande Games sees players customize the board by adding a new tile to it on each turn and score points by placing their "meeple" pieces into cities, cloisters and farms among other things.
ANSWER: Carcassonne
[10] The 2004 Spiel Des Jahres was won by this Days of Wonder game in which players lay train-shaped pieces on a map of the United States and southern Canada.  A European-themed follow-up was released in 2005.
ANSWER:  Ticket To Ride

8.  Answer the following questions about animal parts in sports, for ten points each: 
[10] 14 to 16 goose feathers arranged in a circle with a 5.4 cm diameter surround a piece of cork encased in leather in an official piece of equipment used in this sport. 
ANSWER: Badminton
[10] The oval shape of a rugby ball originated from the use of a leather-covered version of this pig organ. 
ANSWER: Bladder
[10] Hair-stuffed deerskin was often used as the material for this sport's ball until Canadian dentist George Beers standardized the sport's rules in 1860.
ANSWER: Lacrosse

9.  It tells the story of Francis, Peter and Jack Whitman, who meet each other on the titular object.  For ten points each:
[10] Name this 2007 film starring Owen Wilson, Adrian Brody and Jason Schwartzman.
ANSWER:  The Darjeeling Limited
[10] Name this director of The Darjeeling Limited  who was also responsible for such works as The Royal Tenenbaums and The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou.
ANSWER:  Wes Anderson
[10] Anderson dedicated The Darjeeling Limited to this prominent Bengali filmmaker, stating that his work was partly the inspiration for the film.
ANSWER:  Satyajit Ray

10. Identify the following past and present Disney Channel starlets for ten points each:
[10] She had a starring role in the Disney Channel movie Cadet Kelly but is probably better-known for playing the title character in the Disney Channel series Lizzie McGuire.
ANSWER: Hilary Duff
[10] She first appeared as Mitchie Torres in Camp Rock and currently stars alongside Tiffany Thornton and Sterling Knight as Sonny Monroe in the series Sonny With A Chance.
ANSWER: Demi Lovato
[10] She recently starred alongside Demi Lovato in Disney's Princess Protection Program.  She had a recurring role as Mikayla on Hannah Montana before landing the role of Alex Russo on Wizards of Waverly Place.
ANSWER: Selena Gomez







11. The singer refers to the title objects as "nature's candy" and would like them in his hand, can or pie.  For ten points each:
[10] Name this song about a certain fruit that "come from a can" and "were put there by a man in a factory downtown."
ANSWER: Peaches
[10] Peaches is a single from the self-titled album of this Seattle-based rock group.
ANSWER: The Presidents of the United States of America (prompt on partial answer)
[10] The intro to Peaches samples the opening riff from the song Feel Like Making Love by this 70s English rock group.
ANSWER: Bad Company

12. Name these best-sellers of the past 15 years primarily set outside of North America, for ten points each: 
[10] The setting of this 2003 novel moves along with its protagonist, Amir, from Afghanistan, to Pakistan, to California. 
ANSWER: The Kite Runner
[10] Sayuri Nitta narrates this 1997 Arthur Golden novel from her residence in New York City, although all the action of the novel takes place in Japan. 
ANSWER: Memoirs of a Geisha
[10] This 2008 best-seller introduces the Deathly Hallows and tells stories about wizards and warlocks. 
ANSWER: The Tales of Beedle the Bard

13. Answer the following about an 80s synthpop band for ten points each:
[10] Consisting of Vince Clarke and Andy Bell, name this band responsible for hits such as Chains of Love and Blue Savannah.
ANSWER: Erasure
[10] In this Erasure single, Bell starts by singing that "I try to discover/a little something to make me sweeter."  It was covered in 2001 by Wheatus.
ANSWER:  A Little Respect
[10] In 1992, Erasure released this EP consisting of four synthpop covers of songs by a certain Swedish band.  Tracks include SOS and Lay All Your Love On Me.
ANSWER: ABBA-Esque

14. For ten points each, name these athletes who were drafted by multiple professional sports teams:
[10] He was chosen 52nd overall by the New York Yankees in 1981 after playing baseball at Stanford, but the Denver Broncos were fortunate that he chose to play football after they drafted this quarterback in 1983. 
ANSWER: John Elway 
[10] He was drafted 389th overall by the Toronto Blue Jays in 1977.  Switching to basketball four years later, he was drafted 31st overall by the Boston Celtics. 
ANSWER: Danny Ainge 
[10] This outfielder was drafted 4th in the 1973 MLB draft and went on to play for the Padres, Yankees, and Angels among others. In the same year, he was also drafted by the NBA's Atlanta Hawks and the NFL's Minnesota Vikings.
ANSWER: Dave Winfield

15.  Name these Canadian restaurant chains for ten points each:
[10] The last Sunday in May is free original hamburger day at this fast food chain.  Past products include a partnership with Church's Chicken and their popular "frings," a combination pack of french fries and onion rings.
ANSWER: Harvey's
[10] This chicken franchise popular in eastern Canada used to be synonymous with its slogan advertising "the best legs in town."  Nowadays, they go with the less ambiguous "famous chicken and taters."
ANSWER:  Mary Brown's
[10] While their sit-in locations have mostly abandoned it, a logo of a chicken with a fork and spoon can still be seen adorning the "Triple Os" fast-food derivative of this west coast franchise.
ANSWER: White Spot










16. It is based on the true story of bank robber John Wojtowicz.  For ten points each:  
[10]  Name this 1975 crime drama whose most memorable line occurs when Sonny Wortzik chants "Attica!  Attica!" to a group of civilians outside a bank he has just robbed.
ANSWER:  Dog Day Afternoon
[10]  This actor played Wortzik in Dog Day Afternoon.  You may know him better for his role as Michael Corleone in The Godfather.
ANSWER:  Al Pacino
[10]  This man directed Dog Day Afternoon.  He is perhaps most well-known for two other films he directed, 12 Angry Men and Network.
ANSWER:  Sidney Lumet

17.  It is set in the town of Bon Temps, Louisiana.  For ten points each:
[10] Name this HBO series where vampires are free to roam thanks to the invention of a synthetic beverage which eliminates their need to feast on humans.
ANSWER: True Blood
[10]  Portayed by Anna Paquin, this telepathic waitress is the main character on True Blood.
ANSWER: Sookie Stackhouse (accept either)
[10] This is the name of the restaurant where Sookie works.  Its owner and namesake turns out to be a shapeshifter who often takes the form of a dog.
ANSWER: Merlotte's

18.  Name these stadiums that formerly housed professional sports teams, for ten points each: 
[10] Now used by an Inglewood, California megachurch, it housed the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Kings from 1967 to 1999. 
ANSWER: The Great Western Forum
[10] The name of this stadium, home field for the Pittsburgh Steelers and Pittsburgh Pirates from 1970 to 2000, backed onto the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers. 
ANSWER: Three Rivers Stadium
[10] The Bruins and Celtics shared this stadium, built above a train station, for almost 50 years until its demolition in 1997. 
ANSWER: Boston Garden

19.  Identify the following Hollywood directors for ten points each:
[10]  His first feature film, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, was followed soon after with another hit, Beetlejuice. He also directed a biography of "the worst director of all time" and, more recently, the stop-motion film Corpse Bride.
ANSWER:  Tim Burton
[10]  His directorial debut came with Praying with Anger, a coming-of-age film set in India. He is also responsible for the science-fiction thriller Signs and a 2008 movie about killer trees.
ANSWER:  M. Night Shyamalan
[10]  He directed the 1986 action film Heroes Shed No Tears, but you may know him better for such movies as Face//Off, Mission: Impossible II, and Paycheck.
ANSWER:  John Woo

20. This song deals with a girl named "blah-blah-blah" with "long hair and a short miniskirt."  For ten points each:
[10] Name this 1989 song featuring a famous off-key chorus in which the singer croons "Oh baby you...you got what I need."
ANSWER: Just A Friend
[10] Just A Friend was the only top 10 hit for this rapper born Marcel Hall.
ANSWER: Biz Markie
[10] Just A Friend is often credited with popularizing this two-word phrase.  Biz yells it when he enters his supposed girlfriend's dorm room and sees her making out with another guy.
ANSWER:  Oh Snap








21.  Identify these television winners at the recently aired 2009 Teen Choice Awards for ten points each:
[10] The big winner was this CW series which took home four awards including choice TV drama.  Cast members Ed Westwick, Chace Crawford and Leighton Meester also won acting awards for their work on this program.
ANSWER: Gossip Girl
[10] This E! network talk show won the award for choice late night show.  On this program, the host discusses celebrity gossip with a roundtable of comedians and E! personalities and verbally abuses her assistant Chuy [chewy].
ANSWER: Chelsea Lately
[10] Daren Kagasoff won choice summer TV star for his portrayal of Ricky Underwood on this ABC Family series.  It centers around the life and family of 15-year-old Amy Juergens who discovers that she is pregnant.
ANSWER: The Secret Life Of The American Teenager (prompt on partial answer)

22.  Its name comes from the chinese word for sparrow.  For ten points each:
[10] Name this rummy-like game played with 144 cube-shaped tiles.
ANSWER:  Mahjong
[10] The 144 tiles in mahjong include 8 optional tiles known as these.  In games where they are used, players receive one point for each one that they have which corresponds to their player number and one point if they have none.
ANSWER: Flowers
[10] One of the suits in mahjong is the wan or character suit whose tiles represent multiples of this number.
ANSWER:  10,000 (ten thousand)
