The July Crisis
Producto de B. Arthur
Hecho en EEUU
FINALS PACKET

Tossups

1. Herodotus 7.239 reports that it was only this Greek who understood how to read a coded message sent by Demaratus to warn Hellas of the attack of Xerxes by suggesting that the blank wax tablet would have writing on the wood beneath the wax.  Plutarch's Moralia reports that, upon encountering Aristagoras of Miletus having his shoes put on by a servant, this grandchild of Anaxandridas II remarked in disgust that Aristagoras "had no hands", and later foiled an attempt by Aristagoras to bribe Cleomenes of Sparta. This Greek's son Pleistarchus would later become king, and according to Plutarch, when an Attican visitor asked this Greek why only Spartan women can rule men, she replied "because only Spartan women give birth to men". For ten points, name this Queen of Sparta during the Persian Wars, the wife of King Leonidas. 
Answer: Gorgo

2. This dynasty was forced to sign the Treaty of Gulistan and ceded all of its territory north of the Aras River in the Treaty of Turkmenchay. Rulers from this dynasty, which founded the Dar ul-Funun, wore the Kayanid Crown, and one of them hired Morgan Shuster as his Treasurer, while another used an army of Cossacks to briefly return to power after the Constitutional Revolution. Another ruler was assassinated by Mirza Kermani, leading to the accession of Mozaffar-e-din, while their notable Prime Ministers include Prince Amir Kabir, who was executed in 1851. This dynasty moved the capital to a city near the ruins of Ray, and its founder, Agha Mohammad Khan, was a eunuch who overthrew the earlier Zand dynasty. For ten points, name this Persian dynasty that ruled Iran before the Pahlavis. 
Answer: Qajar Dynasty [accept: Ghajar Dynasty, Kadjar Dynasty]

3. Prior to this event, the HMS Porpoise was boarded and its captain, Joseph Short, was court-martialed and his land grants revoked, an act committed by the successor of Philip King. Events leading to it included the firing of the magistrate Thomas Jamieson and the surgeon D'Arcy Wentworth by a protégé of Joseph Banks. One incident during this event involved the judges Richard Atkins and Anthony Kemp threatening to imprison each other for contempt during the trial of John McArthur. Resulting in the succession of Governor Lachlan Macquarie and led by Lieutenant Governor George Johnston, it saw settlers along the Hawkesbury River rise up against a man who had previously been deposed by Fletcher Christian. For ten points, name this 1808 rebellion in New South Wales, named for Governor Bligh's attempt to regulate the namesake drink.
Answer: Rum Rebellion

4. The zen sage Bukko gave advice to one commander in this conflict, and the Hakozaki Shrine was destroyed and rebuilt during this conflict. Shoni Tsunesuke planned an offensive during this conflict, but it was never launched. The first battles of this conflict took place in an area previously targeted by the Toi Invasion and led to the capture of Iki. An account of the battles of Sohara and Akasaka during one part of this conflict was left by Takezaki Suenaga, who also commissioned scrolls with scenes from this conflict. Dazaifu was the target of attacks in both parts of this conflict. After the battles of Bun'ei and Koan the losing side in this conflict was driven from Hakata Bay. For ten points, name this conflict in which the Kamakura Shogunate fended off two amphibious assaults with the help of some typhoons.
Answer: Mongol Invasions of Japan [accept reasonable equivalent, including "Mongol-Japanese Wars", "Mongol Attempt to Conquer Japan", "Japanese Defense Against Mongols", etc.; accept "First Mongol Invasion of Japan" until "and rebuilt"; accept "Battles of Hakata Bay" until "Sohara"; accept "First Battle of Hakata Bay" or "Battle of Bun'ei" until "and rebuilt"; prompt on "Mongol Invasion" or "Invasion of Japan"; do not accept "Kamikaze" or "divine wind(s)"]

5. This ruler was criticized for deporting Olga Prestes, the pregnant Jewish wife of one of his rivals, to Nazi Germany, where she died in a concentration camp. This ruler came to power with the help of the tenentes, disgruntled young military officers, and he fabricated a communist revolutionary plot, the "Cohen Plan", to take dictatorial powers. While he began his career in the Liberal Party this ruler was supported by paramilitary fores who wore the greek letter epsilon and bright green shirts, part of Plinio Salgado's fascist Integralist movement. His downfall came when he bungled the assassination of his rival Carlos Lacerda and killed an army Major instead, causing him to lose military support and driving him to suicide. For ten points, name this man who turned Brazil into an "Estado Novo" during his 1930-1954 rule. 
Answer: Getulio Dornelles Vargas

6. Sub-tribes of these people included the Runi, who lived on an island. One military campaign against these people was led by Anselm of Havelberg and included an army led by a Duke of Saxony named Albert the Bear. That campaign happened at the same time as the Second Crusade. According to Adam of Bremen, these people killed Johannes Skotus, a bishop of Mecklenburg, by sacrificing him in a temple at Rethra dedicated to their god Radegast. Absalon of Lund and King Valdemar I of Denmark more famously destroyed their temple to Svantevit at Arkona in 1168. For ten points, name this Slavic group that once lived on the Baltic coast of modern-day Germany. 
Answer: Wends [accept: Wendi, Vendi, Wenden; grudgingly prompt on "Slavs"; do not accept Sorbs, Polabian Slavs, or Lusatian Slavs; these groups are sometimes called Wends, but none of the clues apply to them. In fact, among the Sorbs it is an insult to call someone a Wend]

7. One member of this school changed jobs after noting that kitchen rats are larger than bathroom rats. The concept of shi in this school of thought was outlined in the forty-two essays of Shen Dao, while the importance of shu was stressed by Shen Buhai. One official who followed it was the eunuch Zhao Gao. Early adherents of this philosophy were influenced by Xun Zi, and fifty-five chapters about this school can be found in the Han Feizi, its magnus opus. Some of its adherents plotted the suicide of Prince Fusu, and the burying of the scholars targeted its opponents. Espoused by Chancellor Li Si and Shang Yang, the books of competing schools were burned on the orders of its most powerful follower. For ten points, name this early totalitarian philosophy, followed by Shi Huang Ti and the Qin Dynasty. 
Answer: Legalism [accept: Fajia]

8. As a Governor, this man signed the Osborne-Egan Act to regulate public utilities and the Geran Act to make elections more transparent.  With the help of his advisor Robert Tumulty, he secured the election of James E. Martine to the Senate, against the wishes of his early supporters Robert Davis and James "Sugar Jim" Smith. This man signed the Keating-Owen Act restricting child labor after being elected President, and much of his economic policies were based on the findings of the Pujo Committee. He appointed Robert Lansing as Secretary of State and late in his term he made Carter Class the Secretary of the Treasury after earlier signing a bill written by him and Robert Owen.  Also the signer of the Clayton Act, for ten points, name this Democratic President who created the Federal Reserve but did not keep us out of World War One. 
Answer: Woodrow Wilson

9. This man, a member of the Qara Qonyunlu tribe, wrote poetry in three languages that was preserved by his son Abd ul-Rahan. This man killed his rival Tardi Beg, whom he claimed was a usurer and a coward. At the Battle of Sirhind, this man personally led a false retreat that lured the enemy out of its fortified positions, leading to their annihilation and the downfall of Sikandher Shah. After his master refused to do so, this man personally executed Samrat Hemu, the Prime Minister of Adil Shah Suri, whom this man defeated at the Second Battle of Panipat, leading to the restoration of the Mughal Dynasty. For ten points, name this general of Humayun, who served as tutor and regent to Akbar the Great. 
Answer: Bairam Khan

10. This man was wounded at the Battle of Dormans, leading to his nickname "the scarred". This man allied with Spain at the Treaty of Joinville. One of his brothers, Charles of Aumale, led an uprising in Picardy. Supporters of this man wore red Lorraine Crosses, a symbol of his family, and another uprising in his favor was the Day of Barricades. His claims were assumed by Cardinal Charles when, after one of his rivals lured him to a dinner party, the forty-five guards killed this man and his brother, Cardinal Louis. For ten points, name this man who led the Catholic League during the French Wars of Religion, a rival of Henry III and Henry of Navarre during the War of the Three Henries. 
Answer: Henry, Duke of Guise [accept: Henry I of Guise; accept Henry the Scarred or Henry Le Balafre on early buzz]


11. According to Voltaire, this ruler "brought down upon Earth the golden age which in all probability never had any real existence but in his dominions". Before coming to power, this man wrote the tract The Sandy Foundation Shaken, for which he was sent to prison. This man reached an agreement with John Roberts that resulted in the so-called "Welsh Tract", and apart from interacting with the Lenape tribe this ruler also proposed giving himself three votes in the legislature with his First Frame of Government. He acquired more land through the Treaty of Shackamaxon, also known as the "Great Treaty" and opened his borders to all believed in God. For ten points, name this son of an Admiral and friend of James Fox, a Quaker who founded a namesake American colony. 
Answer: William Penn

12. After winning a fight to succeed his uncle Urus, this man sacked a capital city to avenge Dmitri Donskoi's defeat another one of his predecessors at the Battle of Kulikovo. Late in his career, this man was defeated by Temur Qutlugh at the Battle of the Vorskla River. After this man conquered the territory of Mamai Khan and lost the Battle of the Kondurcha River, he foolishly invaded Transoxania and lost the Battle of the Kur River and his capital of Sarai was sacked, making him flee to Lithuania and Siberia, where he was eventually killed by agents of his Samarkand-based rival. For ten points, name this Mongol warlord who re-unified the Golden Horde and sacked Moscow, the arch-nemesis of Tamerlane. 
Answer: Tokhtamysh

13. Late in life, he lived under the assumed name of "John Clarke" and earlier had briefly served as chancellor of Oxford while he dealt with George Booth's insurrection and presided over the brief revival of the "Other House" during his tenure in an office he succeeded to under the Humble Petition and Advice. John Thurloe appeared to exercise influence over him, which concerned Charles Fleetwood, though this man appointed Fleetwood to Lieutenant General and made his brother, Henry, Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Agents known as "Commonwealthsmen" spread dissent against him in the army, which this man failed to rally at Whitehall, resulting in his deposition by a force led by General Monk. FTP, identify this man, also known as "Tumbledown Dick," who served as Lord Protector of England for less than a year after his father Oliver.
Answer: Richard Cromwell

14. This man's brother Thomas was killed defending this man's honor in a duel with Congressman Spencer Pettis. Along with Joseph Dennie, this man edited the magazine "Port-Folio". Along with John Armstrong, he represented the United States at Napoleon's coronation. During the Monroe Administration this man wrote a digest of all the trade regulations in the world. An 1834 political cartoon about this man shows him using a large screwing device to crush a crowd of workers, and a subsequent cartoon depicts him as a Roman Emperor in a collapsing temple in Philadelphia. This man drafted Pennsylvania's official response to the Hartford Convention, and replaced Langdon Cheves in the position he's most famous for, where he openly supported Henry Clay in the 1832 election and was accused of manipulating the credit supply. For ten points, name this President of the Second Bank of the United States during the Jacksonian Bank War. 
Answer: Nicholas Biddle

15. In response to this ruler's Nine Point Statement, Osman Salah Sabbe organized a rebellion against him. Late in his reign, this leader of the WPE Party faced an insurrection from the Tigrean People's Liberation Front and created a new legislature called the Shengo. During his "White Terror" period he repressed MEISON, a left-wing student movement who supported this ruler during his "Red Terror" against the EPRP, a group that eventually deposed him after a massive famine, causing him to flee to Zimbabwe where he occasionally advises Robert Mugabe. For ten points, name this leader of the Derg junta who overthrew Haile Selassie and ruled Communist Ethiopia from 1974 to 1991. 
Answer: Mengistu Haile Mariam

16. In his memoirs, this man says he once lost the respect of an Italian cabinet minister by saying he didn't embezzle funds. Marxist thinker Guy Debord credited this man with inventing modern functionalism, but criticized this man's field as an inherently capitalist science, while Robert Herbert claimed to see the effects of this man's work reflected in Manet's "Bar at the Folies-Bergere". After Emile Ollivier forced this man to resign his most famous office, he represented Corsica in Parliament, despite originally being from Alsace. Appointed prefect by the Duke of Persigny, Jules Ferry wrote a witty pamphlet called the "tales of" this man, accusing him of corruption. He expanded the Boulogne Woods while reducing the Luxembourg Gardens. For ten points, name this man who built many boulevards while re-designing Paris during the reign of Napoleon III.  
Answer: Baron Georges-Eugene Haussmann

TB 1. This ruler ordered the assassination of Stefan Foris, an intra-party rival. During World War Two, this former leader of the Gritiva Strike escaped from the Targu Jiu prison camp. Criticized for building an giant inefficient steel plant at Galati, his foreign policy was conducted by Gaston Marin, who fled to Israel after this ruler's death. He came to power by defeating the "Muscovite Faction" of his nation's Communist party, led by Ana Pauker, and he consolidated his power by founding the Securitate secret police force. After a neighboring country's revolution, this ruler controversially agreed to imprison Imre Nagy until his execution could be arranged. For ten points, name this Communist who ruled Romania from 1948 to 1965 and preceded Nicolae Ceausescu. 
Answer: Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej

TB 2. The United Congo Improvement Association unsuccessfully tried to resettle 400 black farmers in this place, but a depression-era program selected 1,000 whites to go here as colonizers. Ernest Gruening delivered an address urging this place to break free from colonialization and James Wickersham and Anothony Dimond were early political representatives of this place.  J.P. Morgan and Guggenheim produced a namesake "syndicate" that controlled much of this place's industry. The Jones and White Acts were perceived as discrimination against this place, which was home to the Battles of Kiska and Attu. This place was the center of the coal mining claims in the Pinchot-Ballinger Affair. In 1976, it established its permanent fund, which was intended to support its government once petroleum reserves ran out, and it still pays people to move here. For ten points, identify this state with the only pieces of American territory captured by the Japanese in WW2. 
Answer: Alaska [accept: Territory of Alaska until "1976"]

TB 3. In Great Britain, this group operates a facility at Rayners Lane. One group of these people publish the newsletter Frashogard. One member of this group who claimed to have met a caravan of 72 wise men formed the Ilm-e-Kshnoom school of esoteric theology. Factions of this group include the Kadmi, who use a different calendar. One controversy in this group is whether one can enter it without direct patrilineal succession from their ancestors, and Malabar Hill is the site of this group's Tower of Silence, which has earned the ire of residents who dislike the smell of corpses, and their adopted country is home to eight Fire Temples. For ten points, name these Zoroastrians who live in India, mostly in Bombay. 
Answer: Parsee [prompt on "Zoroastrian" or equivalent until mentioned] 

Bonuses

1. Identify the following ethnic groups of Africa FTPE.
[10] These nomads who range from Libya to Burkina Faso are best known for repeatedly sacking Timbuktu, most recently in 1997.
Answer: Tuareg Peoples
[10] This tribe of bushmen lives in the Kalahari desert, especially in Botswana; they are closely related ethnically and linguistically to the Khoi people.
Answer: San peoples
[10] These peoples are the majority ethnic group of Benin, and along with the Aja peoples they formed the powerful Dahomey Empire.
Answer: Fon People

2. Identify these Axis warplanes from World War Two FTPE.
[10] Manufactured by Mitsubishi and nicknamed the "zeke", this was the main Japanese fighter.
Answer: A6M Zero
[10] This German divebomber became infamous for the whining noise it made as it hit its targets. It was an essential part of the Blitzkrieg. 
Answer: Stuka (accept Junkers Ju 87)
[10] This German plane was the world's first jet fighter, but came too late to help the Nazi war effort. 
Answer: Messerschmitt Me 262

3. Identify the following lesser-known fascist regimes from European history.
[10] Led by Ferenc Szalasi, this Hungarian fascist party briefly ruled the country after the 1944 overthrow of Admiral Horthy, and took its name from its four-pointed symbol. 
Answer: Arrow Cross Party [accept: Nyilaskereszt Part]
[10] This WW2-era Croatian fascist party took its name from the word for "uprising". Its leader, Ante Pavelic, had a hobby of collecting the eyes of Serbians in jars.  
Answer: Ustashe
[10] At various points in the 1930's, Lithuania was governed by this fascist party, led by Augustinas Voldemaras. 
Answer: Iron Wolf Party [accept: Gelezinis Vilkas]

4. Identify the following about kingdoms that ruled South India FTPE. 
[10] This Tamil-speaking kingdom ruled an empire including Sri Lanka, South India, and much of modern-day Indonesia at its height around AD 1050.
Answer: Chola Dynasty 
[10] After the collapse of the Chola, mastery of South India passed to this Kannada-speaking empire which saw its peak around AD 1200.
Answer: Hoysala Empire
[10] In the early first millennium AD, Sri Lanka was ruled by the Anuradhapura Dynasty, which is only really notable for being converted to Buddhism by this man, a monk who claimed to be the son of Asoka.
Answer: Mahinda

5. Answer the following about the best Peruvian Civil War, the Peruvian Civil War of 1544-46, FTPE.
[10] The war was fought by Spanish settlers against this first Viceroy of Peru. The war ended when he was defeated at the Battle of Anaquito, captured, and executed. 
Answer: Blasco Nunez Vela 
[10] Viceroy Nunez angered settlers by attempting to enforce this unimaginatively named 1542 set of laws that limited the extent to which Indians could be abused. They were supported by Bartolome de las Casas. 
Answer: Las Leyes Nuevas [accept: The New Laws]
[10] The colonist victory in the civil war permitted the continuation of this labor system, originally developed by the Incas. 
Answer: mita

6. Identify the following about the War of the First Coalition FTPE.
[10] The first major victory for a French Revolutionary army was at this 1792 battle. It is widely credited with "saving" the French revolution.
Answer: Battle of Valmy
[10] French victory in the War of the First Coalition was even more impressive because, at the same time, they had to deal with this pro-Catholic Church rebellion in western France.
Answer: Vendee Rebellion
[10] The War of the First Coalition finally ended in 1797 with the signing of this treaty in a small town in northern Italy.
Answer: Treaty of Campo-Formio

7. Identify the following from the history of Indonesia FTPE.
[10] Jakarta was founded in 1619 by this European organization, whose initials in its native tongue are "VOC".
Answer: Dutch East India Company [accept: Verenigde Oostindische Compagnie]
[10] In the 10th and 11th century, this Buddhist kingdom unified Sumatra and conquered parts of Java, Borneo, and the Malay Peninsula before fragmenting into the Singhasari and Majapahit kingdoms.
Answer: Srivijaya Kingdom
[10] After Islam came to Indonesia, this Sultanate ruled much of Java before being conquered by the Dutch.
Answer: Mataram Sultanate

8. Chapters in this work discuss the Alliance for Progress and the Bay of Pigs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1966 work by Arthur Schlesinger that recounted JFK's administration, which approximately lasted the titular amount of time.
ANSWER: A Thousand Days
[10] The Alliance for Progress was established in a charter in this resort city in southern Uruguay.
ANSWER: Punta del Este
[10] This man served as JFK's primary speechwriter, and in a May 2008 autobiography, admitted he had written most of JFK's Pulitzer Prize-winning Profiles in Courage.
ANSWER: Ted Sorensen

9. Name these figures of the English reformation FTPE. 
[10] This German theologian spread the reformation to Strassburg; in 1548 he was invited to come to London and teach the British how to be Protestant. 
Answer: Martin Bucer [accept: Martin Butzer; Martin Bucerus]
[10] Martin Bucer brought this friend of his along to England; he was the foremost German scholar of Biblical Hebrew in the 1540's and taught the subject at Cambridge.
Answer: Paul Fagius
[10] Fagius and Bucer worked with this Archbishop of Canterbury, who led the English reformation while serving Henry VIII and Edward VI. 
Answer: Thomas Cranmer

10. It's not a real tournament without a question on the Battle of Dan-no-Ura. Answer the following about quizbowl's favorite Japanese naval battle FTPE.
[10] The Minamoto clan vanquished this opposing clan at the battle, ending the Genpei War.
Answer: Taira Clan
[10] Dan-no-Ura also saw the death of this boy-emperor, the Taira Claimant to the Imperial Throne.
Answer: Antoku
[10] Dan-no-Ura allowed this leader of the Minamoto clan to found the Kamakura Shogunate and become its first shogun.
Answer: Minamoto no Yoritomo

11. Identify these ministers of Tsar Nicholas II FTPE. 
[10] After success in running private railroad lines, this man oversaw the construction of the Trans-Siberian Railroad.  Finance Minister from 1892-1903 and Prime Minister thereafter, he put Russia on the gold standard and encouraged foreign investment to spur Russian industrialization.
Answer: Sergei Witte
[10] Prime Minister from 1906 to 1911, he successfully suppressed social unrest and increased the nobility's representation in the Duma, but is better known for his land reforms that aimed at created a class of wealth, land-owning peasants.
Answer: Pyotr Stolypin
[10] Harsh, anti-semitic and fond of secret police, as Interior Minister from 1902 to 1904, this German raised in Warsaw crushed liberal and socialist groups indiscriminately and was assassinated by a bomb thrown into his carriage.
Answer: Vyacheslav K. von Plehve

12. Answer the following about the Knights of Labor FTPE.
[10] The Knights were founded in Philadelphia by this man in 1869.
Answer: Uriah Smith Stephens
[10] In 1879, Uriah Stephens resigned as President of the KoL and was replaced by this man, who was the Greenback Party mayor of Scranton, PA at the time. His rule represented the height of KoL power. 
Answer: Terence Vincent Powderly
[10] Due to extensive infighting, the Knights of Labor were long gone by the time this 1916 act of Congress created an eight-hour day, one of the KoL's chief goals.
Answer: Adamson Act

13. Identify the following things from the ancient Chinese economy FTPE.
[10] Prior to the Han dynasty, Chinese lands were subject to this system, where land was divided into nine parts: eight private and one communal. It's named for the Chinese character representing it. 
Answer: Well-field system [accept: jingtian zhidu]
[10] Under the Sui and Tang dynasties, peasants were organized into local militia and called up for military service under this system, which the late Tang abandoned for a professional army. 
Answer: Fubing System
[10] Shi Huang Ti introduced this first unified currency of China in 210 BC. It's famous for having a hole in the middle. 
Answer: Banliang

14. Identify the following battles from 19th century Italian history.
[10] The late 1840's saw the first stirrings of Italian nationalism, but efforts at unification were crushed by Field Marshal Radetzky in this 1849 Austrian victory. 
Answer: Battle of Novara [accept: Battle of Bicocca]
[10] Italy had more luck its second time around when they got the French to intervene, including this 1859 battle where Patrice MacMahon earned a title of nobility by defeating Franz Gyulai and turned the ground bright pink with Austrian blood.
Answer: Battle of Magenta
[10] This 1860 victory for Garibaldi, a culmination of his expedition, forever destroyed the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, resulting in its annexation to Piedmont-Sardinia.
Answer: Battle of Volturno [accept: Battle of Volturnus]

15. Just because John Adams was the second President doesn't mean he had a second-rate cabinet. Name these people he appointed to government office FTPE.
[10] This future Governor of Connecticut, whose father signed the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation, replaced Alexander Hamilton as Secretary of the Treasury.
Answer: Oliver Wolcott, Jr. 
[10] This future leader of the Essex Junto in Massachusetts served as Secretary of State to John Adams after being George Washington's second Secretary of War.
Answer: Timothy Pickering
[10] Raising accusations of nepotism, Adams appointed this 36-year old nephew of George Washington to the Supreme Court. He was also the first President of the American Colonization Society, which sought to send freed slaves back to Africa. 
Answer: Bushrod Washington

16. Archimedes supposedly built a heat ray to defend this city from the Romans. FTPE,
[10] Name this Greek city-state, which fell to the Roman army of M. Claudius Marcellus in 212 BC.
Answer: Syracuse
[10] Archimedes was frequently employed by this Tyrant of Syracuse whose defeat of the Mamertines in 270 got him named tyrant of Syracuse, which he ruled until 216 BCE, but which also got him involved in the first Punic War. He took the name of an earlier Tyrant that patronized Pindar.
Answer: Hiero II
[10] Hiero II was actually an officer from the army of this Grecian commander, who won the battles of Heraclea and Ausculum after invading Italy.
Answer: Pyrrhus



