8 needs a lit tu9 needs a lit tu10 needs a lit tu11 needs one lit and one historyLITHistoryName's the same. One was the head of the Epicurean school in Rome whose work On the Gods was consulted by Cicero. Another was a freed slave of Augustus who wrote a set of Latin verse adaptations of Aesop's fables. The most famous is presumably a fictional character: he features in the Protagoras, and in the Symposium he gives the first of the speeches in praise of Love. He is most famous for a [*] dialogue in which he makes a speech in imitation of Lysias claiming that the best sexual partner is someone who is not in love with you. FTP, name this title figure of a Platonic dialogue set by the banks of the Ilissus in which Socrates makes a much longer speech in which he compares the soul to a chariot drawn by two horses.       Answer: Phaedrus or PhaidrosSix weeks before this battle, the eventual winning side had been forced to retreat from its enemy's capital, which it had captured a week before. The losing general's brother John was on his way with 30,000 men to reinforce the army drawn up on Russbach Brook. By the time John arrived, his brother Charles' army was already in retreat and sustaining [*] 40,000 casualties while inflicting 34,000 thanks to the largest amount of artillery fire in military history to that point. The result of Aspern-Essling was reversed and the treaty of Schšnbrunn was the proximate consequence of, FTP, what battle of July 1809 that saw Napoleon's final defeat of the Austrians?       Answer: WagramAnswer the following about some events in a Texas Town FTPE:A.       Answer: BrownsvilleB.       Answer: Cortina's WarC.       Answer:Answer the following about an American politician FTPE:A.       Answer: Carl SchurzB.       Answer:C.       Answer:Answer the following about a British statesman FTPE:A.       Answer: Edward Hyde, First Earl of ClarendonB.       Answer:C.       Answer:Answer the following about a work of political philosophy and its creatorFTPE:A.       Answer:B.       Answer: Kwame NkrumahC.       Answer:Answer the following about a man who believed in the doctrine of Foquismo FTPE:A.       Answer: Ernesto "Che" GuevaraB.       Answer:C.       Answer:Answer the following about the Opium Wars FTPE:A.       Answer:B.       Answer:C.       Answer:       :Answer the following about 16th century Ireland FTPE:A.       Answer: Poyning's LawB.       Answer:C.       Answer:Answer the following about a Spanish Statesman FTPE:A.       Answer: Manuel de GodoyB.       Answer: Treaty of BaselC.       Answer: Trafalgar       Answer the following about a certain battle FTPE:A.       Answer: Battle of New OrleansB.       Answer:C.       Answer:Answer the following about a British reformer FTPE: A. The son of a farmer near Farnham       Answer: William CobbettB.       Answer:C.       Answer: Answer the following about the history of measuring heads FTPE:A.Answer: Crania AmericanaB.Answer: MortonC.Answer: George CoombeArtWEAKDelacroix once said he was "really amazed" by this man's depiction of sheep. Works produced after his visit to the Middle East include The Finding of the Temple, May Day, Magdalen Tower, and The Scapegoat. [*] Beginning with Rienze, he and his fellow artists sought to depict a detailed and uncompromising truth in their work. His most famous didactic painting was inspired by a scene from David Copperfield, while other works that feature literary characters include Claudio and Isabella, Isabella and the Pot of Basil, and the depiction of a tragic lover from a work by Tennyson. FTP identify this member of the Pre-Raphaelites who painted The Light of the World, The Awakening Conscience, and The Lady of Shallott.        Answer: William Holman Hunt       Identify these works by John Singer Sargent FTPE:A. In this large painting that currently hangs at the Met, the three title sitters have arranged themselves in distinct poses on a couch. Their luxurious gowns barely suggest the presence of bodies.       Answer: The Wyndham SistersB. This 1882 work, inspired by studies of Velazquez, uses an opulent shadowy interior to depict the four young daughters of this man, an American expatriate living in Paris.       Answer: Edward D. BoitC. This simple 1884 work of a certain Mme Gautreau outraged the Salon visitors with its frank sexuality.       Answer: Portrait of Madame XIdentify these painters who did portraits in England FTPE:A. This Elizabethan painted many miniatures and composed the treatise The Art of Limming. His most famous work depicts a lovelorn young man of the court pining amongst some symbolic thorns and roses.        Answer: Nicholas HilliardB. This Dutch-born artist spent his time painting Restoration notables like Charles II's mistress Anna, the Countess of Shrewsbury. He might be best known for his series of paintings of the Duke of York's Admirals.       Answer: Peter LelyC. Perhaps the most famous expatriate to make it in England was this court painter to Charles I.       Answer: Anthony Van DyckSocial scienceMusic       )Stravinsky's Rite of Spring stole the bass melody that accompanies the performance of this work's "duck song," and other pieces that mention animals include the Nurse's ill-fated attempt to cheer Princess Xenia with a song about a flea, which is followed by her brother's ditty about an owl. The tramps Varlaam and Missail [*] make a discovery at an inn near the Lithuanian border that disproves Pimen's claims of foul play. Originally turned down because it had no leading female role, its composer added a new act, set in Poland, that features the sinister Rangoni advising the scheming Marina who then declares her love for the young monk Grigori, a man it turns out is really named Dimitri. Featuring a scene during which the title character hears the insistent tick of a clock as he goes crazy and sees dead babies, FTP, identify this work about an unscrupulous Czar, an opera by Mussorgsky.       Answer: Boris GodunovIdentify the following works of Franz Schubert FTPE:A. This 1823 piece named for the play it accompanied, features a famous Entracte No.3 in B flat, but is better known for the enchanting second dance from the ballet music and the overture.       Answer: RosamundeB. This collection of songs used words by Muller and occupied the last two years of Schubert's life, its 24 sections follow the protagonist's peregrinations through a lonely, snow-bound landscape.        Answer: Winterreise or Winter JourneyC. Commissioned by Ferdinand Troyer who wanted a companion piece to Beethoven's Septet, this work features six movements with the clarinet and violin taking prominent roles.       Answer: the Octet       Not surprisingly, people who lived before the birth of Jesus did use that event as the basis of a dating system. Given a year in B.C. dating that was used to date events in the ancient Greek and Roman world, name the event that was supposed to have occurred in that year, FTPE.A. 776 B.C.       Answer: first Olympic gamesB. 753 B.C.       Answer: foundation of RomeC. 323 B.C.       Answer: death of AlexanderScienceName some types of numbers, FTPE.A.  (10) The Lucas-Lehmer test is often used to determine if one of these numbers is prime.  In binary, they consist of all ones.	Answer: Mersenne NumbersB.  (10) All solutions to Lehmer's totient problem are these odd composite numbers which satisfy Korselt's criterion and are often called "absolute pseudoprimes."	Answer: Carmichael NumbersC.  (10) Paul Erdos supposedly offered $10 for an odd example of these numbers, which are abundant but not semiperfect.	Answer: Weird NumbersName the following from my favorite state physics-solid-state physics, FTPE.A. These theoretical particles are basically quanta of vibrational energy in a lattice structure.	Answer: phononsB.  The nth one of these is defined as the set of points that can be reached from a lattice point by crossing exactly n-1 Bragg planes.  Due to periodicity of the wavefunction, all unique information is found within the first one.	Answer: Brillouin zonesC. This theorem states that the wavefunction as an electron within a periodic potential can be written as the product of a wakelike part and a lattice periodic part.	Answer: Bloch's TheoremThis packet needs more Hans Bethe.  FTPE:A.  (10) Hans Bethe investigated this small shift in the energy levels of a hydrogen atom, caused by the 2p(1/2) energy level being slightly lower than the 2s(1/2) energy level.	Answer: Lamb ShiftB.  (10) Bethe earned his Ph.D studying under this physicist, whose namesake formula approximates the field strength of electromagnetic radiation generated by an antenna at small distances.  He also found that atoms in Bohr's model must have elliptical orbits.	Answer: Arnold SommerfeldC.  (10) Bethe discussed physics with this guy between games of snooker at Tubingen.  His namesake formula states that the range of an alpha particle in dry air is proportional to the cube of its initial velocity.  He's more famous for something he developed with Walther Muller.	Answer: Hans GeigerMyth       Geography and ReligionTheir historic journey from Switzerland back to Piedmontese valleys was led by Henri Arnaud.  The Mennonite book Martyrs Mirror lists them as important the history of the doctrine of Believer's Baptism. These "Poor Men of [*] Lyon" modeled themselves after Matthew 23 and they absorbed the Humiliati and famously denied the sacraments, purgatory and the idea of relics.  Persecuted by the Roman Catholic Church from the 12th to the 16th centuries, the beliefs of Baptists such as the literal interpretation of the Bible and the denial of pedobaptism can be traced to them. FTP name this group of heretics/schismatics named after their founder Peter Waldo.       Answer: WaldensiansNot fully recorded until 1656 at the order of Dara Shakoh, they contain the first and most definitive explications of aum as the divine word and the cosmic vibration that underlies all existence and contains multiple trinities of being.  Teachings based on these members of the [*] Shruti are often called the Vedanta and their fundamental importance in Hindu thought is in the equation of atman (the self) with the Brahman (ultimate reality).  Their title is often translated as "sitting at the feet of a teacher".  FTP name these Hindu spiritual texts that are a commentary on the Vedas.       Answer: Upanishads\Public violence against them was denounced in a radio broadcast by US solicitor general Francis Biddle in 1940. Lark Voorheis, Lou Whitaker, Chet Lemon, Selena, Ja Rule, Prince and Dwight Eisenhower were all  [*] adherents at some point in their lives.  The group took its current name during the period when Joseph Franklin was president of the group.   This name is based on Isaiah 43:10, and they believe their faith is the same as that of 1st century Christians.  This group was originally started in Allegheny, Pennsylvania by Charles Taze Russell and is famous for its doctrine of neutrality in political affairs. FTP name this religious group that publishes The Watchtower       Answer: Jehovah's WitnessesNeo-Paganism  FTPEA.This neo-pagan religion popular amongst ugly high school girls was originally founded by Gerald Gardner.  The name derives from the Norse word meaning "wise one."  The name of this religion is often used interchangeably with witchcraft, but apparently they are not the same thing. They generally believe in two deities the Goddess and the God, sometimes called the Horned God. It is featured in the movie The Craft.Answer:   WiccaB.This is the Wiccan term for being naked outdoors was introduced by Gardner.  The Charge of the Goddes, the closest thing Wiccans have to standard prayer contains an endorsement of this practice during Wiccan rites.Answer: SkycladC.This term from neopagaism denotes a person who believes themselves to be a god but does not deny the existence of other gods.  It is a combination of a Latin and Greek roots that makes etymological purists dry-heave.Answer: SuitheismBook of the Bible from quotes, 15-5:A. (15) "The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place whence he arose."(5) "The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done is that which shall be done, and there is no new thing under the Sun"	Answer: EcclesiastesB. (15) "Righteous art thou, o Lord, when I plead with thee. Yet let me talk with thee of thy judgements. Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper?"(5) "Oh, that my head were waters and mine eyes a fountain of tears."	Answer: JeremiahLying between the Secchia and Panaro rivers, this city was the Mutina of the Boii, a Celtic people, and was subdued by the Romans in 218 BC. Ruled by the [*] Este family from 1288, this city in the Emilia-Romagna region on the south side of the Po valley is the home of the Italian Military academy and its renowned cathedral was begun under the direction of Matilda, countess of Tuscany. Located northwest of Bologna, this city is the birthplace of Pavaroti and is famous as the Mecca of balsamic vinegar production. FTP name this northern Italian city known as the "capital of engines" as it is the headquarters of Maserati and the birthplace of Ferrari.       Answer: Modena