1. An equivalent statement to it involves the probability of a ball falling through an infinitely small hole in a circular billiard table in an infinite amount of time. It is the only one of Hilbert's problems to remain unsolved, and it now holds the position of the fourth Millennium Prize problem. Potentially allowing for a great strengthening of the prime number theorem, name, FTP, this 1859 conjecture concerning zeros of the Zeta function.
ANSWER: Riemann Hypothesis
2. Its namesake observed that enthalpy is a state function, and thus that this law allows for the determination of enthalpy change by measuring the individual steps in a reaction rather than the reaction as a whole. It states that the enthalpy change of a reaction is independent of the pathway taken, thus allowing enthalpies of small reactions to be added together in order to find the net enthalpy of a process. FTP, name this law used to predict the enthalpy change of a chemical reaction.
ANSWER: Hess's Law
3. Her name was not "expressive of her aspect, which had nothing of the calm, white, unimpassioned lustre that would be indicated by the comparison," and her mother often questioned whether she was really a human child. As she grew up she would not talk to other children, but preferred to throw stones at them, and doesn't recognize her mother after she takes off an embroidered piece of cloth. FTP, name this "demon offspring" of Arthur Dimmesdale and Hester Prynne in Nathanial Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter.
ANSWER: Pearl
4. According to myth it was founded by Hercules, but historical evidence points to the Oscans as its original inhabitants. Subsequently occupied by the Etruscans, Pelasgians, Samnites, and finally the Romans, this insignificant town was established on the edge of a lava plateau west of the Sarno River. Architecture during its Tufa period demonstrates a strong Greek influence, but formal peristyle gardens, such as those in the House of the Faun, indicate a stylistic turn towards Rome after its colonization in 80 BC. Located on the Bay of Naples in the vicinity of Misenum, Stabiae, and Herculaneum, this is, FTP, what well-preserved Roman city, destroyed in 79 AD by the eruption of Vesuvius?
ANSWER: Pompeii
5. Its name is a pun in French politely translated as "she has hot pants", and Robert Baron has written of this 1919 work that it "brings a famous work down to the level of vulgar vandalism and cheap reproduction". Certainly, the addition of a goatee and mustache to this postcard-sized work do not complement the famous smile of the woman in question very well. FTP name this "ready made" by Marcel Duchamp in which facial hair is applied to the Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: L.H.O.O.Q. (The pun is "Elle a chaud au cul", or literally "she has a hot ass"-- may not want to read this while the coaches are in the room though)
6. A temple to the cult of this goddess is located in region VIII of Pompeii, where she was worshiped primarily by women and slaves hoping for eternal life. Rituals in the cult often required water from the Nile. Seen as a universal mother goddess, perhaps in part due to her ability to conceive Horus with a man who had already been killed, FTP, name this Egyptian goddess and wife of Osiris.
ANSWER: Isis
7. The novel with this title tells the tale of a crazy US general who declares nuclear war against the Soviets, a bomber crew who misses the recall, and its captain who rides the bomb to its destination. Written by Peter George, it was used as the basis for "Dr. Strangelove" as well as a best-selling computer game by Westwood Studios. FTP, give the name common to this book and to the sequel of the original Command and Conquer.
ANSWER: Red Alert
8. Gaining the pope's forgiveness in the nick of time enabled him to retake the throne from the newly elected King Rudolf. However, breaking the promises he made at Canossa quickly earned him a second excommunication in 1080. His first had resulted from summoning the Synod of Worms to condemn the pope for his decree against lay investiture, resulting in the famed four days of groveling in the snow. FTP, name this Holy Roman Emperor famous for his conflict with Pope Gregory VII.
ANSWER: Henry IV
9. Teeming with over four hundred characters, almost none of them are referred to by name, as it was considered impolite in the society to freely mention the names of nobles. In fact, even the one named character does not go by his real name; that given in the book is an alternate reading of the Chinese for the Minamoto clan, which was not a member of the imperial house but which did not stop the character from fathering an emperor. Often considered to be the first novel, name, FTP, this eleventh-century work of Murasaki Shikibu set in the Heian period of Japan.
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji -OR- Genji Monogatari
10. Their name was given to them at Oxford, making fun of their habit of regularly fasting and visiting the sick. In their early years the Church of England criticized them for their belief in justification by faith alone, and in 1784 they split from the church to found their own. Choosing as their symbol the cross and flame and famous for their hymnal, FTP, name this protestant denomination, founded by John and Charles Wesley.
ANSWER: Methodism -OR- Methodists
11. Canadian-born and of Irish and Scottish descent, this pianist, harpist, and singer released her first album, Elemental, in 1985 under her own label, Quinlan Road. Later albums include The Visit and The Book of Secrets. Otakon 2001 gave an anime music video award to a tribute to Miyazaki set to her her single "Mummer's Dance." FTP, name this Celtic/New Age artist also known for her musical rendition of "The Highwayman". 
ANSWER: Loreena McKennitt
12. Despite religious differences, he fell in love with a Slavic slave girl, to whom he wrote poetry signed "A Lover" and whom he later married. During his 46 year reign, he allied himself with Francis I in an effort to keep Europe divided while conquering Budapest and besieging Vienna. It was his goal to recreate the Garden of Eden at his capitol of Topkapi, and in his own day he was called the second Solomon. FTP, name this longest-reigning Ottoman emperor, known as the Lawgiver.
ANSWER: Suleiman the Magnificent
13. In 2001, Mikhail Lukhin negated it using hot rubidium gas. Empedocles was the first to posit its existence, Galileo tried to measure it with lanterns, and R¿mer achieved a successful measurement using Jupiter's moons. Michelson and Morley showed it to be constant in all directions. Defined by Maxwell's equations as equal to one over the square root of epsilon naught times mu naught, FTP, name this physical quantity, equal to 3 times ten to the eighth meters per second, the universal "speed limit."
ANSWER: Speed of Light (prompt on "c")
14. Her first owners, John and Susannah, purchased her in Massachusetts around 1760 and saw that she she was educated in classical language and mythology. In 1772, she had to prove herself in court for a publication in 1767, as the colonists could not accept that a woman possessed such poetic ability. Criticized by Thomas Jefferson, FTP, name this author of "To His Excellency George Washington", the first African-American female published in America.
ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley
15. He cut corners in a number of ways, using a technique called marcottage to reuse structural elements of previous sculptures, as can be seen in the Ugolino group, the Standing and Kneeling Faunesses and the Three Shades, although there is no merit to the accusations that he took plaster casts directly from the model for his "The Age of Bronze." All of the above are from the "Gates of Hell", produced by, FTP, which Frenchman best-known for "The Thinker"?
ANSWER: Auguste Rodin
16. In quantum mechanics, operators for this quantity are defined in terms of a specific commutation relation, and furthermore Plank's constant has the units of it. As in classical mechanics, its orbital value is given by "r cross p," and arbitrary sums of these are often denoted by the letter "J." Its conservation arises from rotational symmetry and is ensured in systems with zero torque. FTP name this physical quantity, denoted "L," used to describe the rotation of an object.
ANSWER: Angular Momentum
17. The squadron featured in this novel gets its revenge on Himmelstoss, first by beating him up before being sent to the front and later when he proves a coward himself. Among the few things surviving by the end of the story are a pair of boots passed down from Kemmerich to MŸller to the narrator, all classmates who left school to fight for Germany in World War I. The tale ends when Paul Baumer is finally killed while reaching for a butterfly - the newspaper report for that day providing the novel's title. FTP, name this novel by Erich Maria Remarque.
ANSWER: All Quiet on the Western Front -OR- Im Westen nichts Neues
18. Divided into five books, it was first published the year America declared its independence. It critiqued Colbert's ideas concerning mercantilism, but players of Civilization II will better recognize its author from his "Trading Company" upon the discovery of Economics. Often considered to be an early defense of Capitalism and noted for its concept of the "Invisible Hand", name, FTP, this work of Adam Smith.
ANSWER: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations
19. The definition of commerce was clarified by Chief Justice John Marshall in this 1824 supreme court case, and his interpretation of the Commerce Clause has been one of the most influential. It was decided that the state of New York had tread on Congress's turf with regards to regulating interstate commerce, specifically in its requirement of a state permit to navigate its waters. This is, FTP, what significant supreme court case filed by a steamboat owner traveling between New York and New Jersey.
ANSWER: Gibbons v. Ogden
20. Established in a 1972 paper, it grew out of Ernst Mayr's idea of genetic revolutions. An alternate evolutionary theory to that of phyletic gradualism, fluctuating patterns in the fossil record provide strong support for this idea. Most associated with Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould, this is, FTP, what theory that states that species remain relatively constant for long periods of time except for evolution in short bursts.
ANSWER: Punctuated Equilibrium
1. Answer these questions about a certain Shakespeare play FTPE:
[10] Shakespeare's last play, this work follows the events taking place on an island ruled by the sorcerer and rightful Duke of Milan, Prospero.
ANSWER: The Tempest
[10] Prospero had rescued this sprite from imprisonment in a cloven pine, and thus he is bound to serve him throughout the play.
ANSWER: Ariel
[10] Caliban is the deformed son of this witch, who never appears in the play but is mentioned as being exiled to the island about 24 years before the action of the play.
ANSWER: Sycorax
2. Identify these sites around the world related to physics FTPE:
[10] Featured in Dan Brown's Angels and Demons, this particle physics lab on the France/Switzerland border plans to begin operating its 27-kilometer Large Hadron Collider in 2007.
ANSWER: CERN -OR- European Organization for Nuclear Research
[10] This Department of Energy national laboratory located just outside of Chicago specializes in high-energy particle physics. It's Tevatron is currently the world's highest energy accelerator.
ANSWER: Fermilab
[10] This project in Texas would have featured an accelerator 87-kilometers long. However, rising cost estimates and the collapse of the Soviet Union led Clinton to cancel it in 1993
ANSWER: Superconducting Super Collider -OR- SSC
3. Answer the following questions about the history of the protestant reformation FTPE:
[10] Martin Luther was opposed to the sale of these, which drew from the "Treasure of Merit" to free souls from purgatory.
ANSWER: Indulgences
[10] This Dominican friar inspired Luther to write his 95 Theses due to his selling of indulgences in order to raise money for the renovation of St. Peter's Basilica.
ANSWER: Johann Tetzel
[10] Luther originally nailed his 95 Theses to the door of the Castle Church in this German town.
ANSWER: Wittenberg
4. FTPE, given the previous name of a city, give its current name:
[10] Saigon, Vietnam
ANSWER: Ho Chi Minh City
[10] Constantinople, Turkey
ANSWER: Istanbul 
[10] Petrograd, and later Leningrad, Russia 
ANSWER: Saint Petersburg
5. FTPE, identify these artists going back in time:
[10] This American pop artist is best known for works like Whamm! and Blam, where he enlarges comic strip frames to enormous proportions. His Torpedo...Los! set the record for the most expensive art sale at that time.
ANSWER: Roy Lichtenstein
[10] This French artist of The Fifer and Luncheon on the Grass is perhaps best known for his scandalous depiction of a prostitute in Olympia.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet
[10] This German artist is best known for depicting Jesus suffering from the Bubonic Plague in his Isenheim Altarpiece.
ANSWER: Matthias Grunewald
6. Rather than answer more questions about the Kentucky Derby, answer the following about Yu-Gi-Oh, on a 5-10-15 basis.
[5] In Yu-Gi-Oh GX, this main character receives a Winged Kuriboh from the King of Games in the first episode.
ANSWER: Jayden Yuki
[10] Yu-Gi-Oh video games and trading card are all produced in Japan by this company, although Upper Deck Entertainment distributes the cards in the U.S.
ANSWER: Konami
[15] Yu-Gi-Oh was created by this mangaka in 1996.
ANSWER: Takahashi Kazuki
7. All non-avian dinosaurs and most other large vertebrates disappeared from the planet about 65 million years ago in a major extinction event. FTSNOP:
[5 & 5] For 5 points each, name the periods of geologic time occurring before and after this extinction event.
ANSWER: Cretaceous -AND- Tertiary
[10] For 10 points, one of the major causes of the extinction is hypothesized to be a meteor impact. Name the geologist, son of a Nobel-prize-winning physicist, who came up with this hypothesis.
ANSWER: Walter Alvarez
[10] For a final 10 points, Alvarez and his team came up with the meteor hypothesis after discovering a concentration of this element, atomic number 77, in the KT boundary layer.
ANSWER: Iridium
8. Identify the following works of Oliver Goldsmith FTPE.
[10] A romantized account of his journey on the Continent can be found in the story of George Primrose in this novel.
ANSWER: The Vicar of Wakefield
[10] This poem is an idelaization of English rural life, mingled with memories of Goldsmith's youth in Lossoy, Ireland.
ANSWER: The Deserted Village
[10] This play is a classic farce in which Tony Lumpkkin tricks Charles Marlow and Hastings that into thinking that their hosts are actually hotel staff.
ANSWER: She Stoops to Conquer
9. Answer these questions about that "Futile and Meaningless War" that happened to last 30 years. FTPE:
[10] The war began in 1618 when citizens of this Bohemian city threw the emperor's two administrators out of a window. Both somehow survived the 5-story fall.
ANSWER: Prague
[10] In 1929, Ferdinand II issued the Edict of Restitution, seizing Protestant land in Germany in violation of this 1555 agreement that had established cuius regio, eius religio.
ANSWER: Peace of Augsburg
[10] The 30 Years' War finally ended in 1648 with the signing of this treaty.
ANSWER: Peace of Westphalia
10. Lets see how much you really learned about that French philosopher dude Jean-Jacques Rousseau. FTPE:
[10] In this most famous work, Rousseau describes how men must come together and give up their freedom in favor of law, or else perish as savages. In his ideal government, citizens themselves made laws directly, which were then implemented and enforced by magistrates.
ANSWER: The Social Contract
[10] In this work, Rouseau writes about the first 53 years of his own life, and the result was one of the first major secular autobiographies. Its title is the same as that of the religions autobiography of St. Augustine.
ANSWER: Confessions
[10] Rousseau outlines his view of an ideal education in this tale of a young boy brought up in the countryside.
ANSWER: ƒmile: Or, On Education
11. FTPE, identify the Norse god associated with these English days of the week:
[10] Thursday
ANSWER: Thor
[10] Tuesday
ANSWER: Tyr
[10] Wednesday
ANSWER: Odin -OR- Woden
12. Given the war in American history, identify the treaty that ended it FTPE:
[10] The French and Indian War, also called the Seven Years War; signed in 1763.
ANSWER: Treaty of Paris
[10] The War of 1812; signed in 1814.
ANSWER: Treaty of Ghent
[10] The Mexican-American War; signed in 1848.
ANSWER: Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
13. Given its description, identify the numbered law of thermodynamics FTPE:
[10] The entropy of an isolated system not in equilibrium will increase to a maximum over time.
ANSWER: Second law of thermodynamics
[10] The increase in energy of a system is equal to the energy added through heating plus the energy added from work.
ANSWER: First law of thermodynamics
[10] If systems A and B are in equilibrium and B and C are in equilibrium, then A and C are in equilibrium.
ANSWER: Zeroth law of thermodynamics
14. How well do you remember The Jungle? Let's find out with these three questions FTPE:
[10] This socialist author of The Jungle wrote over 90 other books, and also ran for Governor of California under the slogan "End Poverty in California".
ANSWER: Upton Sinclair
[10] The family of immigrants whose tale is told in The Jungle originally came from this Eastern European country with capital at Vilnius.
ANSWER: Lithuania
[10] This protagonist of The Jungle is young and strong, but still no match for the evils of Capitalism. After living as a rural hobo, he joins the Socialist party, which he is convinced is the only way to save others from the fate of his family.
ANSWER: Jurgis Rudkus
15. Space may be the final frontier, but FTPE, identify these outer space firsts:
[10] This Russian Cosmonaut was the first man to fly in outer space and orbit the Earth.
ANSWER: Yuri Gagarin
[10] This was the name of the first manned space mission, which flew Gagarin around the world in 108 minutes.
ANSWER: Vostok 1
[10] This craft made the first privately funded human space flight and won the X Prize in 2004. Its flights all began with a 14-kilometer boost by White Knight.
ANSWER: SpaceShipOne
16. Name these works for wind ensemble FTPE:
[10] This short composition for brass and percussion was written by Aaron Copland in 1942. With regards to its first performance, Copland was all in favor of honoring the title persona at income tax time.
ANSWER: Fanfare for the Common Man
[10] This movement of Gustav Holst's The Planets marches forward like a god of war in 5/4 time.
ANSWER: Mars
[10] This four-part work by Robert W. Smith contains a movement, "The Ascension," not found in the Dante classic it is based on. The oboe solo in the first movement is silenced by a booming timpani solo as the listener steps through the gates of Hell.
ANSWER: The Divine Comedy
17. Answer these questions about that greatest of American generals, Robert E. Lee, FTPE:
[10] Lee graduated second in his class from this academy without earning a single demerit. He later became its superintendent.
ANSWER: West Point -OR- United States Military Academy
[10] In 1859 Lee was called to put down John Brown's slave revolt in this West Virginia city.
ANSWER: Harper's Ferry
[10] At Appomattox, Lee surrendered to this Union general, who, like Lee, had served under Winfield Scott in the Mexican War.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant
18. Name these literary narrators, FTPE.
[10] This sensitive narrator of a Goethe novel shoots himself after realizing that he can never have a relationship with Lotte.
ANSWER: Young Werther
[10] The Sun Also Rises is narrated by this impotent man who cannot consummate his relationship with Lady Brett Ashley. 
ANSWER: Jake Barnes (accept either name)
[10] This narrator of All The King's Men works on his thesis about his ancestor Cass Mastern before becoming Willie Stark's right-hand man.
ANSWER: Jack Burden (accept either name)
19. Given the Wonder of the World, identify the technology in that greatest of strategy games, Civilization II, that allows it to be constructed. FTPE:
[10] Leonardo's Workshop
ANSWER: Invention
[10] United Nations
ANSWER: Communism
[10] Darwin's Voyage
ANSWER: Railroad
20. Identify the following cell junctions FTPE:
[10] These junctions are associated with the keratin-based cytoskeleton and are primarily involved in adhesion.
ANSWER: Desmosomes -OR- Hemidesmosomes
[10] These are sites where the membranes of two neighboring cells fuse together, preventing material from passing between them. This restriction allows the cells to regulate material flow.
ANSWER: Tight Junctions
[10] These junctions provide a channel through the cell membranes, allowing cytoplasm to flow between the two cells. This facilitates communication between the cells, allowing for the coordination of muscle contraction, for example.
ANSWER: Gap Junctions

