n the lower right corner of this painting, the jester Nicolasito playfully steps on a sleeping mastiff. In the center, a chamberlain is framed by an open doorway, while a mirror reflects King Philip IV and Queen Mariana, who might be the subject of the large canvas being painted on the left. In the foreground, the title figures appear on either side of the Infanta Margarita, who wears an ornate white dress. FTP, identify this Diego Velazquez painting about Margarita's maids of honor. 
ANSWER: Las Meninas (accept The Maids of Honor before said)
This orchestral suite is named after a line in Hart Crane's poem "The Bridge". Its composer divided it into eight sections, including "The Revivalist and his flock" and "Solo dance of the Bride", while Martha Graham originally choreographed a ballet based on it, which won its composer the 1945 Pulitzer Prize for Music. Like its composer's earlier pieces Billy the Kid and Rodeo, it borrows heavily from American folk themes, most notably the Quaker hymn "Simple Gifts". FTP, identify this Aaron Copland musical suite set in rural Pennsylvania. 
ANSWER: Appalachian Spring
His work become known to the west through the writings of John B. Watson. Unlike most pre-revolutionary scientists, the Soviet government regarded him highly, and his most famous subjects were stuffed for museum exhibition. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1904 for research pertaining to the digestive system. FTP Name this Russian psychologist widely known for first describing the phenomenon now known as classical conditioning with his expierments with dogs.
ANSWER: Ivan Pavlov
An oil rig worker, a panhandler, an inventor, a car designer, a carnie, a boxer, a food critic, a mascot, death, a grave digger, a bootleger, a missionary, a horse trainer, a web master, a prison snitch, and a grease entrepreneur. FTP, a tomacco farmer, a mountain climber, a snowplow proprietor, a town crier, a monorail conductor, and a nuclear safety inspector are all occupations of what cartoon character? 
ANSWER: Homer Simpson's Jobs (jobs not required after "occupations" is read)
Stephanie Tanner lost a spelling bee because she couldn't spell this word, though she knew what it meant and had one. Cicero's De Oratore includes the first known use of it with the method of loci. It derives its name from the mother of the Muses in Greek myth. SOH CAH TOA, Every Good Boy Deserves Fudge, and "right tighty, left loosey" are just some examples of, FTP, what method of memorization that also provides the last name of a Keanu Reeves character named Johnny. 
ANSWER: Mnemonic
The defenders' numbers were lessened by the lack of support from Thessaly and Thebes. The original plan was to launch a defense in the Tembi valley, but the invading army was warned of this trap by Alexander I of Macedon. While Ephialtes' betrayal caused the 900 defenders to ultimately lose the battle, it allowed Athens to be evacuated and a much larger Greek force to mobilize. FTP, name this 480 B.C. battle where a small army of Thespians and Spartans made a last stand against a much larger Persian force of Xerxes I.
ANSWER: Battle of Thermopylae
Historians still debate whether his 1953 death was a result of assassination, but his chief political rival was most certainly killed in exile in 1940. His real name was Ioseb Jughashvili, and he was born in Georgia in 1878. After seizing power in the 1920s, he instituted social policies such as collective farming and the Five Year Plan which industrialized his country but caused massive famines in the Ukraine in the 1930s. FTP, identify this Russian successor to Lenin.
ANSWER: Joseph Stalin
In the Middle Ages, it was used as a tool to infect besieged castles with the Bubonic Plague. Cortes used one that destroyed itself in the siege of Tenochtitlan because of limited gunpowder. A massive one, nicknamed "Bad Neighbor", was built by Simon de Montfort to lay siege a city during the Albigensian Crusade in 1210. Eventually replaced by the cannon, FTP, identify this medieval siege weapon that used a falling counterweight to launch projectiles over walls from distances of over 300 feet away.
ANSWER: Trebuchet -OR- Trebucket
He accused Robert La Follete Jr. of war profiteering in order to win his highest position. Although he was not directly involved with the case of reserve Air Force Lieutenant Milo Radulovich, the television program See It Now used that case to air a segment of mainly this man speaking to criticize his accusations of "twenty years of treason" amongst the Democratic party. That broadcast by Edward R. Murrow helped sway public opinion against, FTP, this Wisconsin senator notorious for his involvement in the second Red Scare. 
ANSWER: Joseph Raymond McCarthy
Lyman Spitzer first proposed the idea for it in 1946, but it would take almost 45 years for his plan to come to fruition. Its successor, named for James Webb, is scheduled to replace it in 2013, but without repairs it is projected that its orbit will destabilize and it will crash into the Earth's atmosphere three years before that date. In 1993 it underwent its most significant repair to its mirror to correct a spherical aberration. FTP, identify this NASA space telescope launched in 1990.
ANSWER: Hubble Space Telescope
To contrast it from the case of spontaneous moments appearing in materials with more than on ion per primitive cell, a stricter definition has been adopted to limit this label to materials in which all of the ions add a positive contribution to the net magnetization. Applying to all materials with high magnetic susceptibility, FTP, name this phenomena exhibited mainly by items containing iron.
ANSWER: Ferromagnetism
The Australian scientist Howard Florey made progress with this this medicine's use in mice, although the amount in his trials in humans did not have sufficient volume to be effective. Used in the treatment of bacterial infections caused by susceptible, usually Gram positive, organisms, it made a huge difference in World War II with respect to the number of deaths and amputations caused by infected wounds for the Allied Forces. FTP, name this antibiotic discovered by Alexander Fleming in 1928.
ANSWER: Penicillin
Its existence was proven by Clemens Winkler in 1886, but Mendeleev had already predicted that this missing element existed. It is lustrous, hard and silver-white in color and is chemically similar to tin. It forms many important organometallic compounds and is often used in transistors, although unlike most semiconductors it has a small band gap, which allows it to respond to infrared light. FTP, identify this metalloid with atomic number 32, located directly beneath Silicon.
ANSWER: Germanium
This figure is often depicted on Greek Vases with her standard attributes of wreath, jug, phial and a censer. She is typically shown standing alone or pouring libations onto an altar. She presided over athletic as well as military contests which is why her name is attached to a sportswear manufacturer. FTP, name this Greek goddess capable of great speed while running or flying, the goddess that personified triumph and victory.
ANSWER: Nike
Although it may be done at any time, it is typically performed somewhat early in the calendar year. Step 5 depicts Simon of Cyrene, while Veronica shows kindness in step 6, and three of the steps consist of falling. Most of them are drawn from Scripture, and John Paul II created one derived entirely from it. Usually done during Lent and especially on Good Friday, identify, FTP, this Christian tradition in which people visit fourteen depictions of the Passion of Jesus.
ANSWER: Stations of the Cross (or Way of the Cross or Way of Sorrows)
It was one of the last large islands uninhabited by humans until it was discovered between the 9th and 10th century. Dettifoss, the most powerful waterfall in Europe, is located in the North-Eastern part of the country, and it has the northernmost capital in the world. In 980 A.D., a conviction of manslaughter led to Erik the Red's exile from it. With the longest serving legislative body, know as the Althing, FTP, idnetify this island nation located in the northern Atlantic with capital Reykjavik. 
ANSWER: Republic of Iceland
His novel about the friendship between the intellectual Narcissus and the emotional Goldmund came twenty-six years after his first success, Peter Camenzind. Another of his novels was inspired by Carl Jung's theory of individuation and tells of Emil Sinclair's search for identity, while his most ambitious work describes Joseph Knecht's development into Magister Ludi. Besides Demian and The Glass Bead Game, he also wrote a novel about the divided selves of Harry Haller. FTP, identify this German author of Steppenwolf and Siddhartha.
ANSWER: Hermann Hesse
One of this man's novels concerns Adam Krug, who refuses to go along with the totalitarian doctrine of Ekwilism promoted by the pathetic leader Paduk. Another of his novels is narrated by a man who believes himself to be the exiled king of Zembla, and tells of that narrator's misinterpretations of a 999-line poem written by John Shade. Besides Bend Sinister and Pale Fire, he is better known for a work where Charlotte Haze dies in a car accident after learning of the narrator's desire for nymphets. FTP, name this author who created the character of Humbert Humbert in his novel Lolita.
ANSWER: Vladimir Nabokov
This is the name of Dana Scully's dog in The X-Files. In literature, this character is reluctant to go on his most famous voyage, but is convinced by a newfound friend he meets in New Bedford. His religion dictates that he go on extended periods of fasting and silence, and also involves worshipping a tiny idol named Yojo. A native of Kokovoko, the only time he ever had indigestion was after a taking part in a feast of 50 murdered enemies. The first character to meet Ishmael, FTP, name this chief harpooner aboard the Pequod in Herman Melville's Moby Dick.
ANSWER: Queequeg
Roger Ebert claimed that, while in high school, he could write better stories than her. As a young woman, she was a photographer for the Works Progress Administration, where she saw a broad spectrum of economic and social classes that inspired her literary career. Her first collection of short stories, A Curtain of Green, included the stories "A Worn Path" and "Why I Live at the P.O." FTP, name this Mississippi author of "One Writer's Beginnings" and "The Optimist's Daughter".
ANSWER: Eudora Welty
Name some French composers and their works, FTPE.
[10] This composer of "Prelude to the Afternoon of the Faun" also composed the Suite Bergamasque, which includes his piece Clair de Lune.
ANSWER: Claude Debussy
[10] This symphonic poem by Paul Dukas was based on a Goethe ballad about an enchanted broomstick, and notably appeared in Fantasia.
ANSWER: The Sorcerer's Apprentice
[10] This avant-garde composer of Vexations, a short piano piece repeated 840 times, also composed Three Pieces in the Shape of a Pear, Trois Gnossiennes, and Trois Gymnopedies.
ANSWER: Erik Satie
Answer some questions about abstract art FTPE.
[10] Although you may not be aware that this man's best known works have a fractal dimension of about 1.7, this artist of Blue Poles and Lavender Mist is also notable for his technique of dripping paint directly onto the canvas.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollock
[10] This Dutch leader of De Stijl [duh-STILE] painted works such as Broadway Boogie Woogie and the extremely abstract Composition in Red, Blue, and Yellow.
ANSWER: Piet Mondrian
[10] This bronze sculpture by Constantin Brancusi is an abstract depiction of an avian at rest with its wings at its sides.
ANSWER: Bird in Space
Was your eligibility for this tournament threatened by your World of Warcraft addiction? If so, you'll have no problems naming 6 out of the 8 playable races in the game, FFPE. ANSWERS: _Human_, _Dwarf_, _Gnome_, _Night Elf_, _Orc_, _Troll_, _Undead_, _Tauren_ 
FTPE, name the team mascots of the underdogs in this past years NCAA tournament. 
[10] George Mason
ANSWER: Patriots 
[10] Wichita State
ANSWER: Shockers
[10] Bradley
ANSWER: Braves
Identify the following items relating to law, FTPE.
[10] Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution guarantees that this right to be brought before a court to determine if a prisoner is being rightfully held shall not be denied in usual circumstances.
ANSWER: Habeas corpus
[10] This term refers to laws protecting personal property or bodily security. Personal injury as well as land trespasses fall under this category, often a target for reform.
ANSWER: Tort
[10] It literally means "based on law". Jim Crow laws in the south made racial segregation this term, as opposed to non-law based de facto segregation. 
ANSWER: De jure
FTPE, name these English Victories from the Hundred Years War. 
[10] This 1346 battle saw an outnumbered English Army under Edward III defeat Phillip IV's French Knights thanks mainly to the English Longbow. 
ANSWER: Battle of Crecy
[10] The English used almost the same tactics as at the Battle of Crecy in this 1415 victory of Henry V over Charles VI, immortalized in a Shakespeare play.
ANSWER: Battle of Agincourt
[10] By attacking the weakly armored horses, English archers were able to defeat the French in this 1356 rout where Edward The Black Prince captured King John II of France. 
ANSWER: Battle of Poitiers
Even the Paris nightlife wasn't enough to get these wars resolved in The City of Light. Given the treaty that was not signed in Paris, identify the war that it ended, FTPE.
[10] Treaty of Vereeniging
ANSWER: The Second Boer War
[10] Treaty of Portsmouth
ANSWER: The Russo-Japanese War
[10] Treaty of Stockholm
ANSWER: Great Northern War
On August 15, 1914 the Ancon was the first ship to pass through:
[5] For five points, this body of water. 
ANSWER: Panama Canal
[10] For ten points, this senator who co-sponsored a campaign finance reform bill with Russ Feingold was born in the Panama Canal Zone in 1936.
ANSWER: John McCain
[15] For fifteen points, Jimmy Carter signed a treaty with this Panamanian president in 1977 to transfer control of the canal wholly to Panama by December 31, 1999.
ANSWER: Omar Torrijos
Identify the Chinese Dynasty, 30-20-10.
[30] Block printing was developed and the An Lushan Rebellion left it somewhat crippled afterwards.
[20] It followed the Sui Dynasty and preceded the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period.
[10] Li Yuan founded it in 618, and its capital was Chang'an.
ANSWER: Tang
FTPE, given the acronym tell them what it stands for
[10] LASER
ANSWER: Light Amplification by Stimulated Emissions of Radiation
[10] RADAR
ANSWER: Radio Detection and Ranging
[10] QUASAR
ANSWER: Quasi-stellar radio source
F5PE, identify the following compounds as strong acids, weak acids, strong bases, or weak bases.
[5] Alanine
ANSWER: Weak base
[5] Hydroiodic acid
ANSWER: Strong acid
[5] Ammonia
ANSWER: Weak base
[5] Fluoruosulfuric acid
ANSWER: Strong acid
[5] Hyrdofluoric acid
ANSWER: Weak acid
[5] Sodium hydroxide
ANSWER: Strong base
FTPE, Answer these questions on base pairs in DNA and RNA FTSNOP.
[5,5] Name the two base pairs that are held together by two hydrogen bonds.
ANSWER: Adenine and Thymine
[5,5] These two base pairs are part of the doubly ringed chemical structures known as purines.
ANSWER: Adenine and Guanine 
[10] This base pair replaces thymine in RNA.
ANSWER: Uracil
Answer some questions about comets FTPE:
[10] Most long-period comets are believed to come from this area approximately one light year away from the Sun.
ANSWER: Oort Cloud
[10] When a comet passes by the sun, this cloud of vaporized ice and dust surrounds its nucleus.
ANSWER: Coma
[10]Among its many appearances, Halley's Comet is depicted on this cloth commemorating the Battle of Hastings.
ANSWER: Bayeux Tapestry
How well do you remember the Titans? Answer these questions about the Titans, FTPE.
[10] This Titan was punished after the war with the gods by being forced to hold the world and the heavens on his shoulders.
ANSWER: Atlas
[10] This Titan was punished for stealing fire from the gods and giving it to the mortals. 
ANSWER: Prometheus
[10] This Titaness was the wife of Cronus and mother of Zeus, whom she spirited away so Cronus wouldn't swallow him.
ANSWER: Rhea
FTPE, name the Greek philosopher from clues.
[10] This Greek philosopher was killed by drinking hemlock after being found guilty of corrupting youth by an Athenian court. 
ANSWER: Socrates
[10] This Greek philosopher tutored Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Aristotle
[10] Considered the "father of geometry," his most popular work is his "Elements."
ANSWER: Euclid
FTPE Name these different types of governments
[10] In this type of government, most of the political power rests with a small segment of society.
ANSWER: Oligarchy
[10] This type of government allows religion or faith plays the dominant role.
ANSWER: Theocracy or Ecclesiocracy
[10] Authoritarianism, Absolutism and Dictatorships are all examples of this government form in which unlimited power is held by a single individual, much like the Maryland Academic Quiz Team.
ANSWER: Autocracy
Identify these British Romantic poets from works, FTPE.
[10] The Prelude, an autobiographical poem on the growth of the poet's own mind, as well the "Lucy" poems.
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
[10] Lyrical Ballads, along with with William Wordsworth, and the opium-induced Kublai Khan.
ANSWER: Samuel Tyler Coleridge
[10] Ode to the West Wind and Ozymandias.
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley
FTPE, name these literary works whose film adaptations won the Best Picture Oscar. Give the original title of the Thomas Kenneally novel which was made into an Oscar-winning 1994 Steven Spielberg film.
ANSWER: Schindler's Ark
The 1985 winner starred Meryl Streep and Robert Redford and was based on this autobiography of Isak Dinesan.
ANSWER: Out of Africa
In 1984, the winner was this film based on a Peter Schaeffer play, which in turn was based on an Alexsandr Pushkin play about the title character's clash with Salieri. 
ANSWER: Amadeus
Identify the following Pulitzer-Prize winning Dramas FTPE.
[10] This 2005 winner by John Patrick Shanley is set in a Bronx Catholic school and looks at the issue of sexual abuse by priests.
ANSWER: Doubt: A Parable
[10] This 1990 winner by August Wilson focuses on the conflict over a family heirloom between Boy Willie and Berniece.
ANSWER: The Piano Lesson
[10] The 1955 winner was this Tennessee Williams work about the relationship between Maggie and Brick Pollitt set during a birthday party for the Pollitt patriarch "Big Daddy."
ANSWER: Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
FTPE, name the Ernest Hemingway novel from characters.
[10] Manolin and Santiago 
ANSWER: The Old Man and the Sea
[10] Pablo, Pilar, Maria, and Robert Jordan 
ANSWER: For Whom the Bell Tolls
[10] Albert, Wesley, and the smuggler Harry Morgan
ANSWER: To Have and Have Not

