Round 7 Questions by John Kubicek 
Toss Ups: 
1) Its founder was exiled to Thessalonika after he was convicted of plotting against the government. Its main goal was to unite surrounding territories, hence its official name which translates to "Unification or Death." Its most famous plot enlisted fifteen men, though not all showed. That successful assassination was carried out by a 19-year-old Bosnian named Gavrilo Princip. FTP, name this organization responsible for the death of Archduke Franz Ferdinand which started the First World War.
ANSWER: Black Hand
2) The first part includes sections like "Air" and "Bourree", whilw the "Alla Hornpipe" movement occurs in the second part. The third suite is in G-major, though the three are not necessarily played in any specific order. King George I was so fond of it that he ordered it played three times in succession on a trip, and it premiered in the summer of 1717 on a barge in the River Thames, leading to its name. FTP, name this orchestration by George Frideric Handel.
ANSWER: "Water Music"
3) His play Anthropos tells of a man talking to three inferior humans, his novel The Enormous Room recounts his time detained in a French prison during World War I, and his ballet Tom is a retelling of Uncle Tom's Cabin. However, he is most well-known as a poet whose readable poems include "anyone lived in a pretty how town." Most of his poetry is visual, such as "a leaf falls loneliness," which features unconventional punctuation and line breaks that cut the words. FTP, identify this American poet whose name is usually written in all lower case.
ANSWER: e. e. cummings
4) Names the same: a character played by Katie Holmes in a 2003 movie. The surviving Tuna twin on the TV show Popular. Roger's dead ex-girlfriend in the musical Rent. Luke's daughter on Gilmore Girls. Warren's robot girlfriend on Buffy the Vampire Slayer. A reporter for Channel 6 News who befriends the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. FTP, these characters all share what first name that, according to T.S. Eliot, is the cruelest month.
ANSWER: April
5) It can consist of anywhere from three to five vertebrae, though in most people it's formed by four. Its anterior, concave surface helps to support the rectum and the rear border attaches to the gluteus maximus. It still has some purpose as an attachment for muscles, but it is generally regarded as vestigial in humans. It can serve as a shock absorber, but if you sit down too forcefully, it can cause pain. FTP, give this proper term for the tailbone, the final segment of the vertebral column. . 
ANSWER: Coccyx (prompt on "Tailbone" before given)
6) Nearly one-third of its 212 square miles are occupied by US military bases. Snakes snuck onto the island through a military transport near the end of World War II, eliminating most of the bird population and today it is one of the most densely-populated areas of snakes in the world. Similarly, the introduction of frogs leaves concern that the croaking turns away Japanese and American tourists from this southernmost of the Mariana Islands. FTP, name this largest island in Micronesia, a United States territory.
ANSWER: Guam
7) Its current chairman, Bill Baxter, who is the 27th in its more than 70 years of operation, in which it spurred debate as to whether the federal government should be involved, though it became self-financing in 1959. In the late '80s, chairman Marvin Runyon helped save it more than $1.8 billion and energized the interest in nuclear power. Now it owns and operates three nuclear power plants, including one at Brown's Ferry. FTP, name this New Deal initiative, one of the country's largest producers of electricity. 
ANSWER: Tennessee Valley Authority
8) It was discovered in 1978 and a NASA mission named New Horizons will explore it in 2015. It has two pronunciations, the one originally used by its discoverer, James Christy, and the one commonly attributed to the mythological character by the same name. That character was the son of Erebus and Nyx and ferried the dead across the river Acheron. FTP, identify this moon, no longer the sole one of Pluto. 
ANSWER: Charon
9) Last year she was so inundated with interview requests that she stopped granting them as of December 9, 2005 to refocus on her writing. A novel about a man who moves his family to a small fishing village in Newfoundland won her the Pulitzer Prize in 1994, but her award-winning short story about the love between Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist caused her recent surge in popularity. FTP, name this author of The Shipping News and Brokeback Mountain.
ANSWER: E. Annie Proulx [prui]
10) Gunfire began early on November 7, despite an agreed ceasefire for a peaceful meeting. The other side suffered fewer casualties, though it is ironically still called a decisive victory for the United States. The battle ended when American soldiers burned Prophetstown to the ground, fearing the eminent return of Tecumseh. FTP, name this battle of the War of 1812 in which William Henry Harrison defeated the Indian forces, and from which he took his most famous nickname. 
ANSWER: Battle of Tippecanoe
11) It starts on September 4, 2006, although by then it may be called something different as some executives don't like its current name. Rumors are swirling about its schedule, and already model Will Toale has been replaced with soap star Justin Hartley for the role of Aquaman in a potential pilot. Charmed and 7th Heaven are definitely out, while it's likely that America's Next Top Model and Everybody Hates Chris will be in. FTP, name this new television network, a combination of the WB and UPN.
ANSWER: The CW
12) He is a traveling salesman whose only concern at first is getting to work. However, his situation makes this impossible, and he quickly becomes a burden to his family. His father throws apples at him and his sister, Grete, plays the violin, though she won't play it for him. When he realizes that nobody in his family wants him around, he returns to his room and dies. All of this occurs after he awoke one morning to find he had become a giant insect. FTP, name this main character of Franz Kafka's Metamorphosis. 
ANSWER: Gregor Samsa
13) She qualified as a cross-country skier for the 1936 Olympics, but rather than compete, she filmed the event. In 2003 she died at the age of 101, and in her later life she began to regret her actions that began when she attended a 1932 rally and was impressed by Adolf Hitler. This led to her involvement in the Nazi party and her directing several propaganda films. FTP, name this German director of Triumph of the Will.
ANSWER: Leni Riefenstahl
14) Carl Pomerance believes that no odd ones exist, but if one does it must meet many conditions, including having at least 75 prime factors. Currently there are 43 of them known, each one corresponding to the 43 known Mersenne primes. Euclid knew of four with one, two, three, and four digits each, and incorrectly assumed the fifth would have five digits, when it actually has eight. Those four were 8128, 496, 28 and 6. FTP, name this type of number which is the sum of its proper positive divisors.
ANSWER: Perfect numbers
15) The author's brother called it "the work of a psychopath or a huge literary fraud." The Modern Library named it the 77th greatest English-language novel of the 20th century, though the author had the first and third spots as well. It allegedly has a plot and characters, though deciphering them through the constant wordplay and stream-of-consciousness style make it difficult, even in the first five words: "riverrun, past Eve and Adam's". FTP, name this final, practically unreadable James Joyce novel. 
ANSWER: Finnegan's Wake
16) One of the four types is Gregorian, which includes wine, salt and ashes. The per se variety is placed in a stoup, often found near the entrance of the building. It can be created on any day of the year except for Pentecost and Easter Sunday. Most often it will be found in an aspersorium or a font. FTP, name this religious liquid used for baptisms and blessings.
ANSWER: Holy water
17) It was placed in public so no one could plead ignorance, though many were illiterate and could not read it anyway. Thirty-five of them are missing, though the remaining 247 are on display at the Louvre. If a man sleeps with his daughter, he is exiled, but if a woman sleeps with her son, both are burned to death. FTP, these are some of the rules laid out in this ancient Mesopotamian set of laws 
ANSWER: Hammurabi's Code (accept equivalents)
18) The raid that caused them was led by Seymour Pine on June 27, 1969, the day of Judy Garland's funeral. That New York City police raid at a bar was met with resistance by the homosexual patrons who fought back, leading to three days of violence. The struggle resulted in numerous arrests and injuries, but helped lead to the formation of the Gay Liberation Front. FTP, name this event, often called the starting point in the crusade for gay rights.
ANSWER: Stonewall Riots (or something similar)
19) The first was not discovered until 1868, and one that's assumed to exist has yet to be discovered. That one is Ununoctium, and is believed to be relatively reactive. This would set it apart from most of the others, as their complete valence shells limit their reactivity. Most commonly, these members of group 18 are used in lighting fixtures. FTP, name this group on the far right-hand side of the periodic table of elements which includes Krypton and Helium. 
ANSWER: Noble gases
20) It won third place and a $300 prize upon its debut at the Art Institute of Chicago. Nan, the artist's sister, claimed that the recognition it brought her kept her from being known as "world's worst stenographer." It depicts a five-room house located in Eldon, Iowa as well as the artist's dentist, Byron McKeeby, standing with a black coat and overalls and holding a pitchfork. FTP, name this most famous painting by Grant Wood. 
ANSWER: American Gothic
Bonuses: 
1) Bundle up and answer these questions about Antarctic geography FTPE:
[10] This is the southernmost active volcano on Earth.
ANSWER: Mt. Erebus
[10] Mt. Erebus is located on an island in this sea discovered by its namesake in 1841.
ANSWER: Ross Sea
[10] This largest known subglacial lake is located beneath its namesake Russian research station.
ANSWER: Lake Vostok
2) FTPE, identify these Whig presidents:
[10] Known as "His Accidency" for the way in which he became president, he was expelled from the Whig Party four months after becoming the president.
ANSWER: John Tyler
[10] This military man had never held an elected office before becoming president. In fact, he never even became a registered voter and didn't vote in his own election. 
ANSWER: Zachary Taylor
[10] He was the last Whig president and the second to assume the presidency after the death of his predecessor, Zachary Taylor.
ANSWER: Millard Fillmore
3) Name these David Mamet plays from descriptions FTPE:
[10] Three men in a dilapidated junk shop plot rather ineffectively to steal a valuable nickel from a coin collector.
ANSWER: American Buffalo
[10] A college professor and a female student get into a sexual harassment battle while he is preoccupied by phone calls from his wife about buying a house.
ANSWER: Oleanna
[10] Shelly Levine and his coworkers need the effing leads to sell real estate in this profanity-laden, Pulitzer Prize winning play.
ANSWER: Glengarry Glen Ross
4) Name these American athletes from the 2004 Summer Olympics FTSNOP:
[10] FTP, this Maryland native won eight medals, six gold, in men's swimming competitions.
ANSWER: Michael Phelps
[10] FTP, he took home the men's all-around gymnastics gold medal despite falling during the vault and a scoring mishap that should've given the gold to a South Korean.
ANSWER: Paul Hamm
[5,5] F5PE, name the two athletes who won the gold in women's beach volleyball.
ANSWER: Misty May-Treanor and Kerri Walsh
5) Identify the following constellations from a component star FTPE: 
[10] Thuban
ANSWER: Draco
[10] Aldebaran
ANSWER: Taurus
[10] Sirius
ANSWER: Canis Major
6) Answer these questions about "fountains" FTPE:
[10] This famous Italian fountain stands 85 feet high, the largest Baroque fountain in Rome.
ANSWER: Trevi Fountain
[10] This woman wrote about objectivist Howard Roark in The Fountainhead.
ANSWER: Ayn Rand
[10] This artist's "Fountain" is just a urinal and is signed R. Mutt.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp
7) Name these bonds other than James FTPE:
[10] Often formed between non-metals and metals, this bond connects the sodium and chlorine atoms in table salt. 
ANSWER: Ionic bond
[10] Atoms unequally share an electron in this bond exhibited by water and hydrogen chloride.
ANSWER: Polar Covalent bond
[10] Weaker than ionic and polar covalent bonds are this type, whose most common and simple example occurs in water molecules.
ANSWER: Hydrogen bond
8) Identify these recent Broadway musicals from songs FTPE:
[10] "Popular" and "Defying Gravity"
ANSWER: Wicked
[10] "The Song That Goes Like This" and "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life"
ANSWER: Spamalot
[10] "I Speak Six Languages" and "My Friend, the Dictionary"
ANSWER: The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee
9) Name the author from works, 30-20-10.
[30] A Clergyman's Daughter, Down and Out in Paris and London 
[20] Homage to Catalonia, Burmese Days
[10] Animal Farm, 1984
ANSWER: George Orwell (or Eric Blair)
10) Answer these questions about a philosopher FTPE:
[10] This German philosopher, born in Konigsburg, defined the Enlightenment in a 1784 essay as one of its final practitioners.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant
[10] Kant established this concept, a singular moral obligation in which every moral question has a universal answer which must always be applied.
ANSWER: Categorical Imperative
[10] First published in 1781, this Kant work disputes David Hume's empiricism while exploring the relationship between a priori and a posteriori knowledge. 
ANSWER: Critique of Pure Reason
11) Name these political figures who will factor in the 2006 midterm elections FTPE:
[10] As of February 2006, Robert Casey has a double-digit lead in the Pennsylvania senate race over this ultra-conservative sitting Republican. 
ANSWER: Rick Santorum
[10] Montana's Senator Conrad Burns is having a difficult time fighting off allegations that he was involved with this now-infamous Washington lobbyist.
ANSWER: Jack Abramoff
[10] This former Yonkers mayor, who shares his name with the recently deceased co-star of The West Wing, will try to defeat Senator Hillary Clinton in New York.
ANSWER: John Spencer
12) Answer these questions about Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, FTPE:
[10] Subtitled "The Slave of Duty," in this operetta, Stanley is "the very model of a modern Major-General."
ANSWER: The Pirates of Penzance
[10] In that song, the Major-General also announces that he can "whistle all the airs from that infernal nonsense," referring to this earlier Gilbert and Sullivan work.
ANSWER: HMS Pinafore
[10] In this operetta, Nanki-Poo falls in love with Yum-Yum, who along with Peep-Bo and Pitti-Sing, are the "three little maids from school." 
ANSWER: The Mikado
13) Not all Germans are Nazis. That said, name these Germans on a 5-10-20-30 basis: a) He coined the term "final solution" and fled to Argentina after the war, only to be captured with the help of Simon Wiesenthal.
ANSWER: Adolf Eichmann
b) This physician had an interest in experimenting on twins and committed numerous medical acts of sadism at Auschwitz.
ANSWER: Josef Mengele
c) Hitler's Propaganda Minister, he became Chancellor after Hitler's death, but it only lasted a day before he committed suicide after killing his wife and six children first.
ANSWER: Joseph Goebbels
d) This respected military leader led Germany's offense in North Africa and may have been a conspirator in a plot to assassinate Hitler.
ANSWER: Erwin Rommel
14) Given the first line of a famous literary work, name it FTPE. If you need the author, you only get five:
[10] "It was a pleasure to burn."
[5] Ray Bradbury 
ANSWER: Fahrenheit 451
[10] "The boy with fair hair lowered himself down the last few feet of rock and began to pick his way toward the lagoon."
[5] William Golding
ANSWER: Lord of the Flies
[10] "If music be the food of love, play on"
[5] William Shakespeare
ANSWER: Twelfth Night, or What You Will
15) Answer these semi-related math terms FTSNOP:
[5] One of these is formed on the Cartesian plane when you plot the formula x2-y2=1.
ANSWER: Hyperbola
[10] This is equal to (ex-e-x) / 2 [e to the x minus e to the negative x all divided by two] or -i*sin(ix). [negative i times the sine of i x].
ANSWER: Sinh (pronounced "sine-h" or "sinch" or "singe" or "shine") or Hyperbolic sine
[15] A tesseract is a four-dimensional one of these multi-dimensional figures.
ANSWER: Hypercube
16) Given a stupid baby name, name his or her celebrity father FTPE. If you need another clue about the famous dad, you only get five.
[10] Kal-el
[5] This star of Con Air is the nephew of director Francis Ford Coppola.
ANSWER: Nicolas Cage
[10] Moxie CrimeFighter
[5] This comedian/magician produced the 2005 documentary The Aristocrats.
ANSWER: Penn Jillette (accept either name)
[10] Lyric
[5] This former O-Towner can now be seen on the MTV reality show There and Back.
ANSWER: Ashley Parker Angel (any name acceptable, just ask Casey)
17) Answer these questions about the history of Africa FTPE:
[10] With help from the American Colonization Society, this country was established in 1822 by black American slaves.
ANSWER: Liberia
[10] During the Boer Wars, the British Empire fought against two countries that are no longer extant. Name either one FTP.
ANSWER: Orange Free State and South African Republic (or Transvaal Republic, do not prompt on South Africa)
[10] This tiny nation was the last French colony to gain independence.
ANSWER: Djibouti
18) Given characters, name the Anton Chekhov play FTPE:
[10] Olga, Masha and Irena
ANSWER: Three Sisters
[10] Serebrakoff, Helena, Ivan Voynitsky
ANSWER: Uncle Vanya
[10] Shamreyev, Nina, Trigorin
ANSWER: The Seagull
19) Open wide, say "aah" and identify these types of teeth FTPE:
[10] The adult human has 12 of these, with four groups of three.
ANSWER: Molars
[10] Humans normally have eight of these, and in elephants the upper ones become the tusks. 
ANSWER: Incisors
[10] Humans have four of these, and the two in the upper jaw are known as eye teeth.
ANSWER: Canines (also accept Cuspids)
20) Henry VIII had many wives. Given a way in which a marriage ended, name the wives for whom it would apply FTSNOP:
[5/5] For 5 per answer, beheading ANSWERS: _Anne Boleyn_ and _Catherine Howard_
[5/5] For 5 per answer, divorce
ANSWER: Catherine of Aragon and Anne of Cleves
[10] For 10, outliving Henry VIII
ANSWER: Catherine Parr

