Packet X for Maryland High School Classic Questions by Casey Retterer 
1) One of the largest African empires in history, its lands stretched from modern day Mali into Nigeria down the Niger River, although its base was in present-day Niger and Burkina Faso. It rose to power after the Mali Empire fell, and it quickly took over the remnants while retaining traditional animist beliefs and Muslim leadership. For ten points, identify this 15th-16th century African empire with its capital at Gao and famously ruled by Sonni Ali.
ANSWER: Songhai Empire
2) It is one of the three components that form the combined gas law, which in combination with Avogadro's law can be generalized into the ideal gas law. Guillaume Amontons had anticipated it in 1702, a century before it was officially published. Also know with Gay-Lussac's name appended to it, FTP, name this law in which it is stated that at constant pressure, the change in volume of a given gas is directly proportional to its change in temperature.
ANSWER: Charles' Law
3) In this work, the main character's family is from a lower echelon of British society than most of the author's other writings. That character is sent to live with her cousins Tom, Edmund, Maria and Julia at home of her aunt and uncle, the Bertrams. Their aunt, Mrs. Norris, spoils the Bertram children, and the Crawford siblings cause much consternation in young adulthood for those living at the title locale. FTP, name this work about Fanny Price, the third published and one of the least popular works written by Jane Austin.
ANSWER: Mansfield Park
4) Troops under Brigadier General Irvin McDowell advanced against Joseph E. Johnston and PGT Beauregard's men, but eventually retreated back to Washington, D.C. The wealthy elite of Washington had come to picnic and watch the battle, only to add to the confusion in their retreat when the battle got bad for the Union. It was the first major land battle and is where General Jackson got his famous nickname. FTP, identify this early battle of the American Civil War that took place July 21, 1861 in Northern Virginia.
ANSWER: First Battle of Bull Run (or First Manassas)
5) His namesake institute was founded at Indiana University in 1947, although it did not bear his name until he published his findings from research conducted there. His scale attempts to measure one's sexual orientation from an exclusively heterosexual zero to an exclusively homosexual six, and was first published in his study of male sexuality. He later published a book on female sexuality and the two together are his "Reports." FTP, identify this zoologist and human sexuality research scientist recently portrayed by Liam Neeson.
ANSWER: Dr. Alfred Kinsey
6) The titular character of this work ends up hanging herself just as her mother had. The title character's sister refuses to take part in the action that starts a chain of events that result in the death of the titular character and her fiancé, Haemon. That action is burying Polynices despite his rebellion against Eteocles, the former ruler. FTP, identify this Sophocles play, the first written, but last chronologically, of the Theban trilogy about Oedipus and his family.
ANSWER: Antigone
7) The Paris version of it has a ballet added, and the goddess appears on stage at the end. A key theme is the difference between sacred and profane love and redemption through love, something typical in the composer's later work. It is based on two legends of the title figure: a knight and poet who found the Venusburg and spent a year there worshipping the goddess, and a song contest at Wartburg. FTP, identify this Wagner opera about the love between Elizabeth and the title German troubadour.
ANSWER: Tannhäuser
8) One book by this author describes the adventures of Malachi Constant, who reunites with his son Unk and his wife Bea on the title planet. Another tells of a journalist who travels to the island of San Lorenzo where he encounters Bokononism, and ends with the world destroyed by ice-nine. In his best known work, a man who is "unstuck in time" is abducted by aliens from Tralfamadore before living through the firebombing of Dresden. FTP, identify this American author of The Sirens of Titan, Cat's Cradle and Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
9) The term was coined by Paul Ehrenfest in 1911, although the concept dates to 1905. It results from the equipartition theorem of classical statistical mechanics which states that all modes of a system at equilibrium have an average energy of kT/2. So named because the problem appears in the short wavelength of the electromagnetic spectrum, FTP, identify this prediction of classical physics that posits that an ideal black body at thermal equilibrium will emit radiation of infinite power.
ANSWER: Ultraviolet catastrophe (or Rayleigh-Jeans catastrophe)
10) Two of the members had been colleagues for a number of years, but had a strong dislike of each other's politicking. Another member wanted to reconcile these two to his advantage and married his daughter to one of them. One member was defeated and died at the hands of Parthians at Carrhae. Another member was defeated by another member, his former ally, at Pharsalus and later murdered in Egypt. FTP, identify this unofficial political alliance between Marcus Licinius Crasses, Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus and Gaius Julius Caesar.
ANSWER: First Triumvirate
11) This place's most notable feature has a complex system of underground fortifications known as the Great Siege Tunnels. Citizens usually speak to each other in an English-influenced Andalusian dialect called Yanito, and a major political issue in Anglo-Spanish relations is sovereignty over it. The Barbary apes are another popular feature of, FTP, this overseas territory only six and a half square kilometers large, governed by Great Britain and located at the entrance of the Mediterranean Sea.
ANSWER: Gibraltar
12) The first four of these have appeared in the Satya Yuga, which is the first of the four epochs of the current Mahayuga. They include Matsya, the fish, Kurma, the tortoise, Varaha, the boar, and Narasimha, the Man-Lion. The next three will appear in the Treta Yuga, the eighth in the Dwapar Yuga, and the last two will appear in the Kali Yuga. FTP, Vamana, Parashurama, Rama, Balarama, Kalki and Krishna are all what representations of the Preserver of the Hindu Trinity?
ANSWER: the Ten Avatars of Vishnu (or Dasavatara, accept equilvalents)
13) He doesn't sleep... he waits. His two speeds are walk and kill. He beat Lance Armstrong in a "who has more testicles contest"... by 5. If you ask him what time it is, he always says, "Two seconds 'til." After you ask, "Two seconds 'til what?" he roundhouse kicks you in the face. He doesn't churn butter, he roundhouse kicks the cows and the butter comes out. These are all facts about, FTP, what star of Walker, Texas Ranger?
ANSWER: Chuck Norris
14) It is governed by a set of eponymous statistics that describe the distribution of identical particles with integer spin. At the right conditions, many of the atoms collapsed into identical quantum states, resulting in a superfluid. First achieved in 1995 by laser-cooling a gas of rubidium atoms to 170 nanokelvins, identify, FTP, this "fifth state of matter," predicted by two scientists in 1924.
ANSWER: Bose-Einstein condensate
15) This poem's speaker wonders why he and his companion are working, as "here there are no cows." When his coworker wonders "to whom I was like to give offense," the speaker wants to answer "Elves." That coworker, who is identified with "an old-stone savage armed", is not convinced that the speaker's "apple trees will never get across and eat the cones under his pines." Beginning with the line "Something there is that doesn't love a wall," FTP, identify this Robert Frost poem in which the narrator's companion remarks, "Good fences make good neighbors."
ANSWER: "Mending Wall"
16) Upon Bramante's death, he earned the seat of architect of Saint Peter's Basilica for his work on the church of Santa Maria del Popolo. His version of St. George and the Dragon is in the National Gallery in D.C., and one of his portraits of Pope Julius II is in the National Gallery in London. FTP, identify this painter and architect of the Florentine school from Urbino whose works include Madonna and Child, and Sistine Madonna.
ANSWER: Raphael (or Raffaello Sanzio/Santi/da Urbino)
17) Henry Morton Stanley's discovery of the Congo River Basin was one of the precipitating events that let to it. An international prohibition of the slave trade was signed by the 14 signatory powers that would also gain free trade throughout the Lake Niassa as well as the Congo Basin and east of them south of 5°N. The Niger and Congo Rivers were also made free for ship traffic by, FTP, this formalization of the Scramble for Africa that met in the namesake city from 1884-85.
ANSWER: General Act of the Berlin Conference
18) Nathan D. Champion in Heaven's Gate; Harry Nash in Who Am I This Time?; Sergeant Toomey in Biloxi Blues; Johnny Smith in 1983's The Dead Zone; Max Zorin in A View to Kill; Max Shreck in Batman Returns; Captain Koons in Pulp Fiction. These are all roles of, FTP, this dancer and actor whose other appearances include Frank Abagnale, Sr. in Catch Me If You Can and legendary producer Bruce Dickinson on SNL.
ANSWER: Christopher Walken
19) His mother was wed to his father because Zeus learned of the prophecy that if he had married Thetis the son would be stronger than the father, resulting in another overturn of order. The result was that this son of Peleus became the best human fighter ever. Homer does not mention the most famous trait of, FTP, this hero of the Iliad who was killed fighting for Troy who was allegedly invulnerable except for one spot on his body.
ANSWER: Achilles
20) It weighs between 1.3-3 kilograms and is the largest internal organ, and also the largest gland in the human body. It is located directly under the diaphragm on the right side of the upper abdomen, which makes a nice place for the gallbladder as well, and it is one of the few internal organs capable of natural regeneration of lost tissue. FTP, identify this site of glycogen storage, bile and plasma protein synthesis and drug detoxification.
ANSWER: Liver

[repeat] 1) Identify these sculptors from works FTPE. 
[10] The Burghers of Calais, The Gates of Hell
ANSWER: (Francois)-Auguste-(Rene) Rodin
[10] David, Equestrian Monument of Gattamelata, Judith and Holofernes
ANSWER: Donatello or Donato di Niccolo di Betto Bardi
[10] Aeneas, Anchises and Ascanius, Ecstasy of St. Theresa
ANSWER: Gian (or Giovanni) Lorenzo Bernini
2) Answer the following about the life and times of Osiris, FTSNOP.
[10] Osiris was originally killed by Apep in the mythology, but this favorite god of the Hyksos, Osiris's brother, eventually came to be the villain in the myth. 
ANSWER: Set
[5/5] F5PE, these two deities helped out Osiris. One was his wife, who put most of his body back together and the other was their son who avenged his fathers death.
ANSWER: Isis and Horus
[5/5] F5PE, this earth god and sky goddess were Osiris's father and mother.
ANSWER: Geb and Nut
3) This day in history! Identify the following events from American history that all occurred on April 30th FTPE.
[10] Today in 1789, George Washington took the oath of office and became the first elected President of the United States in this city.
ANSWER: New York City
[10] In 1812, nine years to the day after the territory was purchased, this state became the 18th one to join the country.
ANSWER: Louisiana
[10] April 30, 1894 saw this army march on Washington, D.C. to protest the unemployment caused by the Panic of 1893.
ANSWER: Coxey's Army (accept Commonwealth of Christ)
4) Given a country, identify its capital F5PE.
[5] Nigeria
ANSWER: Abuja
[5] Eritrea
ANSWER: Asmara
[5] Botswana
ANSWER: Gaborone
[5] Seychelles
ANSWER: Victoria
[5] Kenya
ANSWER: Nairobi
[5] Rwanda
ANSWER: Kilgali
5) Identify the following concepts from thermodynamics FTPE.
[10] The idea that as a system nears absolute zero all processes stop and the entropy reaches a minimum is also known as this.
ANSWER: Third law of thermodynamics
[10] This law states that the rate of heat transfer is proportional to the difference in temperatures between two systems.
ANSWER: Newton's law of cooling
[10] All or nothing, these are the three ways by which heat can transfer.
ANSWER: Convection, conduction, radiation
6) Given the British monarch, identify who preceded and succeeded that monarch F5PE.
[5/5] Queen Victoria
ANSWER: William IV, Edward VII
[5/5] George VI
ANSWER: Edward VIII, Elizabeth II
[5/5] George II
ANSWER: George I, George III
7) Answer the following related to fear, FTPE.
[10] While some therapists use systematic desensitization, another popular approach is this type of therapy wherein patients recognize unhelpful patterns of thinking and reacting and modify and replace them with better ones.
ANSWER: Cognitive behavioral therapy (prompt on "CBT")
[10] This sociological term, often claimed by those on the left accusing those on the right of manipulation through this, argues that feelings of anxiety predominate contemporary public discourse and relationships.
ANSWER: Culture of fear (prompt on "constructed" or "emergent" fear)
[10] Luposlipaphobia, the fear of being pursued by timber wolves around a kitchen table while wearing socks on a newly-waxed floor and Anatidaephobia, fear that somewhere, somehow, a duck is watching you are both creations of this cartoonist.
ANSWER: Gary Larson
8) Identify the following about mythological weapons with something in common FTPE.
[10] Dvalin created this weapon for Odin that never missed its aim and could not be stopped in mid-throw.
ANSWER: Gungnir
[10] According to John 19:31-37, this was the object that pierced the side of Jesus when he was on the cross.
ANSWER: Spear of Destiny (or Holy Lance or Spear, Lance or Spear of Longinus)
[10] The Gae Bolg was the spear of this hero of Ulster and was given to him by either Aife or Scathach.
ANSWER: Cuchulainn
9) Identify these British prime ministers of the Victorian era, FTPE.
[10] This Tory's notable achievements were purchasing the Suez Canal in 1875 and passing the Great Reform Bills of 1859 and 1867.
ANSWER: Benjamin Disraeli
[10] This liberal opponent of Disraeli was prime minister on four separate occasions.
ANSWER: William Gladstone
[10] He served almost continuously as prime minister from 1855 to 1865. As foreign secretary, he ordered a naval blockade of Greece following the Don Pacifico affair, and was Britain's greatest Prime Minister according to Barney Gumble.
ANSWER: Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount (Lord) Palmerston (either acceptable)
10) Identify the following works of British poetry FTPE from the opening lines, or F5PE if you need another line.
[10] "So. The Spear-Danes in days gone by/ and the kings who ruled them had courage and greatness."
[5] "In off the moors, down through the mist-bands/ God-cursed Grendel came greedily loping."
ANSWER: "Beowulf"
[10] "Lo I the man, whose Muse whilome did maske,/ As time her taught, in lowly Shepheards weeds, / Am now enforst a far unfitter taske,/ For trumpets sterne to cahunge mine Oaten reeds"
[5] "The guilefull great Enchaunter parts/ The Redcrosse Knight from Truth:/ Into whose stead faire falshood steps,/ And workes him wofull ruth"
ANSWER: "The Faeire Queene"
[10] "When Love with unconfined wings/ Hovers within my gates"
[5] "Stone walls do not a prison make,/ Nor iron bars a cage"
ANSWER: "To Althea, from Prison"
11) Answer the following about the works of Miyazaki Hayao, FTPE. [check]
[10] The influence of his mother's treatment for tuberculosis can be seen in this 1988 film about two girls moving to the country and a magical creature they meet.
ANSWER: My Neighbor Totoro (or Tonari no Totoro)
[10] This film was intended to be his last, and it was the highest grossing film in Japan until Titanic hit. It focuses on an epic struggle between animal gods and humans who are trying to exploit the forest.
ANSWER: Princess Mononoke (or Mononoke Hime)
[10] My Neighbor Totoro, Castle in the Sky, Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away were all movies featured on this channel's "Month of Miyazaki" recently honoring the artist.
ANSWER: Cartoon Network (prompt on "Toonami", do not accept or prompt on "Adult Swim")
12) Identify the following concerning ancient battles FTSNOP.
[5] Pheidippides relayed the good news in 490BCE when the Athenians were able to defeat Persian forces here.
ANSWER: Marathon
[10] The Greeks routed a Persian fleet more than three times its size in this 480BCE naval battle off the coast of an island in the Saronic Gulf.
ANSWER: Salamis
[15] Allegedly taking place on the same day in 479BCE as the Battle of Mycale, the largest Spartan force ever helped defeat Persians led by Mardonius at this battle.
ANSWER: Plataea
13) Identify the following asterisms FTSNOP.
[5] Composed of the seven brightest stars in Ursa Major, they delineate the Bear's hindquarters and exaggerated tail.
ANSWER: Big Dipper
[10] Alnitak, Alnilam and Mintaka are the three bright stars in a row from this world-famous asterism.
ANSWER: Orion's Belt (do not prompt on "Orion")
[15] The four central stars in Hercules, Epsilon, Zeta, Eta and Pi form this notable asterism.
ANSWER: Keystone
14) Given a description of the events leading up to the conflict, identify the war involving Russia FTPE. 
[10] France, Austria and Russia formed an alliance against Prussia after Maria Theresa had used the signing of Aix-la-Chapelle to rebuild her military forces, ally with Great Britain and gain control of Silesia.
ANSWER: Seven Years' War (prompt on French and Indian War or Pomeranian War, do not accept "Seven-Year War")
[10] Palmerston and of British leaders came up with the pretext of protecting Catholic holy places in Palestine to weaken the threat of Russian encroachment on India and Afghanistan. Following the Abd-l-Mejid I's rejection of Prince Menshikov's treaty, all hell broke loose.
ANSWER: Crimean War
[10] Following Port Arthur changing hands numerous times after the signing of the Treaty of Shimonoseki, the imperialist attitudes of two Asian nations resulted in an occupation of Manchuria and Korea and this war.
ANSWER: Russo-Japanese War
15) Identify the following about some of Elvis's #1 hits FPTE.
[10] His first #1, and appropriately the first track off of his #1 compilation, was this song that inspired the creation of a real establishment with the same name in Memphis.
ANSWER: "Heartbreak Hotel"
[10] His most recent #1, thanks to Junkie XL's remix, it was quickly added as the 31st track to ELV1S 30 #1 Hits in October 2002.
ANSWER: "A Little Less Conversation"
[10] In this song, he wants a girl to serve as the titular object, choosing her over an old horseshoe, a four-leaf clover, a silver dollar, a rabbit's foot... you should at least be able to guess by now.
ANSWER: "Good Luck Charm"
16) Given a chemical class, identify its functional group FTPE. In the event that there is more than one answer, either will suffice.
[10] Thiols
ANSWER: Sulfhydryl
[10] Alcohol
ANSWER: Hydroxyl
[10] Carbonyl
ANSWER: Aldehyde or Ketone
17) Given works written by Nobel-Prize winning authors, identify the author on a 10-5 basis.
[10] East Wind:West Wind, The Exile, The Fighting Angel
[5] The Good Earth
ANSWER: Pearl S. Buck
[10] The Lost Ones, Murphy, Catastrophe
[5] Krapp's Last Tape, Endgame
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett [repeat]
[10] Strange Pilgrims, Big Momma's Funeral, The Autumn of the Patriarch
[5] Chronicle of a Death Foretold, Love in the Time of Cholera
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia-Marquez
18) Given a description of the politics of the East African nation, identify it FTPE.
[10] Political organizing was banned here until 2003, and the government is facing the reintegration of more than 2 million refugees, including Hutu and Tutsi peoples.
ANSWER: Rwanda
[10] Colonel Azali Assoumani seized power in a bloodless coup in this country in 1999 and has led this country somewhat successfully from Moroni.
ANSWER: Comoros
[10] In 2005 a Senate was reintroduced in this country in which Robert Gabriel Mugabe has led separately (i.e. not at the same time) as Prime Minister and President since 1980.
ANSWER: Zimbabwe
19) Identify the following about Inca civilization FTPE.
[10] This language of the Inca Empire is still spoken in various dialects by about 10 million people.
ANSWER: Quechua
[10] In 1533, this last Inca emperor was killed on the orders of Francisco Pizarro.
ANSWER: Atahualpa
[10] This puma-shaped city served as the capital of the Inca Empire.
ANSWER: Cuzco 
20) Identify the members of the Russian Five (the musicians, not the Red Wings hockey players from the 1990s) from works, FTPE. 
[10] The opera Boris Godunov, the piano suite Pictures at an Exhibition and Night on Bald Mountain.
ANSWER: Modest Mussorgsky
[10] Islamey: an Oriental Fantasy, and Incidental Music for King Lear.
ANSWER: Mily Balakirev
[10] Mussorgsky and Balakirev were both members of the Russian Five. Identify any two of the remaining three composers from it for five points each.
ANSWER: Cesar Cui, Alexander Borodin, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov

