2004 Maryland High School Classic

Round 5

Questions by Dan Greenstein

Tossups

1.  Later in his life he edited two newspapers, one Republican and one Democrat, in Marion, Virginia; some of those works appear in The Buck Fever Papers.  His short story collections include Horses and Men and The Triumph of the Egg.  He earned early fame for the novels Marching Man and Windy McPherson's Son, while his most famous work is a series of vignettes told by various townspeople.  For 10 points, name this author of Winesburg, Ohio.
ANSWER: Sherwood ANDERSON

2.  The last one of these occurred January 6th, 1945, about three months before the speaker's death, although only the first 21 were titled this.  The first one of these lasted 13 minutes, 42 seconds and was titled "On the Bank Crisis."  It occurred only eight days after the speaker's inauguration and just after he had declared a bank holiday to stem the depression; he sought to sooth public fears through mass media.  For 10 points, name these addresses delivered to millions by radio by Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
ANSWER: FIRESIDE CHATS

3.  These events generally occur on the boundaries between geologic time periods.  It is theorized such events occur every 26 to 30 million years when a companion star called Nemesis approaches and disturbs the Oort cloud, sending comets toward earth.  For 10 points, name these events that wipe out significant percentages of the species of the earth, the most famous of which occurred 65 million years ago.
ANSWER: MASS EXTINCTION or EXTINCTION EVENT or EXTINCTION LEVEL EVENT

4.  This person plans to launch Legacy Communications and to produce a documentary about Bobby Bowden's ability to recruit black players at Florida State.  Following his excoriation in front of 28 million viewers, KFC offered him $25000 for a week promoting their oven-roasted chicken, while hours after his termination he was asked to manage one of the portfolios of Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban.  For 10 points, you're fired if you cannot name this runner-up to Bill Rancic on NBC's "The Apprentice."
ANSWER: KWAME JACKSON [either is acceptable]

5.  This painting was the only one the artist signed with his full name.  The figure on the right dons a brown robe, while the figure on the left wears a fur coat and medallion.  The mantle, which features various instruments including a globe, and a wooden table on the marble floor affront a green curtain in the background.  For 10 points, identify this painting whose most unusual component is an anamorphous skull along the bottom of the canvas, a 1533 work by Hans Holbein the Younger.
ANSWER: The AMBASSADORS or The FRENCH AMBASSADORS

6.  The origin of this book's title is a short passage believed to exist in early versions of the Koran.  Like many of the author's works, it concerns Indians in Britain.  The work opens with a Sikh terrorist attack that the two protagonists, Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha, miraculously survive.  The infallibility of the Koran and the prophet Muhammad are plot elements considered blasphemous in, for 10 points, this 1989 work that caused a fatwa to be issued against its author, Salman Rushdie.
ANSWER: The SATANIC VERSES

7.  There were seven failures before Ulysses S. Grant achieved victory at this battle.  The Confederates occupied a well-fortified bluff, making a frontal assault impossible, so on May 18 Grant began a siege while resisting attacks led by Confederate general John C. Pemberton.  For 10 points, name this battle, the site of a siege that ended July 4, 1863, giving the Union complete control of the Mississippi River.
ANSWER: Battle or Seige of VICKSBURG

8.  The process of drawing this geometric shape with solely a compass and straightedge was first described in Euclid's The Elements.  By drawing the diagonals of this polygon, one can create a figure whose lengths are related by the golden ratio.  The faces of a dodecahedron are in this shape, and in the regular version of this polygon, each interior angle is 108 degrees.  For 10 points, name this polygon with five sides.
ANSWER: PENTAGON

9.  Jehovah sent this man to a wicked city to preach and warn of its impending doom should its citizens not repent, but instead he decided to go elsewhere.  While he was on board a ship, a great storm imperiled the crew.  He was cast overboard after admitting it was he who had caused the tempest, and after he repented, he went to Nineveh as Jehovah had ordered him to do.  For 10 points, name this biblical prophet who was swallowed by a great fish.
ANSWER: JONAH

10.  This geographic name has three different spellings in the namesake counties of Maryland, Pennsylvania and New York.  Its namesake front divides the Ridge and Valley Province and its namesake plateau, and was the barrier to settlement noted in the Proclamation of 1763.  The namesake river, the northeastern-most reach of the Mississippi watershed, passes through the Pennsylvania cities of Warren, Franklin and Kittanning.  For 10 points, name this river that joins the Monongahela at Pittsburgh to form the Ohio River.
ANSWER: ALLEGHENY

11.  The author's own experiences, exemplified by a very detailed description of the Italian retreat at the battle of Caporetto, were an inspiration for this 1929 novel.  The protagonist, an American lieutenant in the Italian ambulance service, deserts to Switzerland with his love, the nurse Catherine Barkley, who dies in childbirth.  For 10 points, name this novel featuring Frederic Henry and written by Ernest Hemingway.
ANSWER: A FAREWELL TO ARMS

12.  His bloodline was continued through the royal line of succession until the rise of Peter III in 1762.  Succeeded by his son Alexi following his 1645 death, his father Philaret was regent early in his reign.  The grandnephew of Anastasia, wife of Ivan the Terrible, he was elected czar at the age of 16 by the Zemsky Sobor in 1613 following the Time of Troubles.  For 10 points, name this first ruler of the Romanov dynasty of Russia.
ANSWER: MICHAEL Romanov or Mikhail Federovich Romanov I [prompt on Romanov until it is mentioned]

13.  Since 1983, this unit has been defined in terms of the speed of light.  In 1960, this unit was defined in terms of the number of wavelengths in the vacuum of the orange-red emission line in the spectrum of krypton-86.  In 1889, it was defined using a standard bar of platinum-iridium kept at Sevres, while its original 1795 definition was one ten-millionth the distance between the North Pole and equator.  For 10 points, name this basic unit of length in the SI system.
ANSWER: METER

14.  Originally performed in the Coolidge Auditorium at the Library of Congress, the name of this musical work was taken from the title of a poem by Hart Crane.  Originally named "Ballet for Martha," as it was choreographed for Martha Graham, it accompanies the story of a wedding in rural Pennsylvania.  The end of the piece is a cover of the Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts."  For 10 points, name this 1944 work composed by Aaron Copland.
ANSWER: APPALACHIAN SPRING

15.  This economist examines the vicious cycle of poverty in the third world and its consequences in the first world in The Nature of Mass Poverty and American Capitalism: The Concept of Countervailing Power.  He is, however, best known as a follower of John Maynard Keynes.  He examines how oligopolistic firms desire market power rather than profit in The New Industrial State.  For 10 points, name this economist best known for The Affluent Society.
ANSWER: John Kenneth GALBRAITH

16.  In this poem, we are treated to a card game as a battle and a trip to the Cave of Spleen.  The heroine Belinda attempts to get back her ring but it has been inscribed in the heavens.  The real incident on which this poem is based involved Lord Petre cutting of a piece of Arabella Fermor's hair, causing a feud among the families only resolved by the author.  For 10 points, name this heroic mock epic by Alexander Pope.
ANSWER: The RAPE OF THE LOCK

17.  A marine biologist, he published several papers from the Imperial Palace before his 1989 death.  The son of Sadako and Yoshihito, he advised against attacking the United States and later encouraged his country's unconditional surrender.  He was allowed to retain his throne following World War II.  For 10 points, name this emperor of Japan whose reign included World War II.
ANSWER: HIROHITO


18.  Their second album Get Your Wings did well, but it was the 1975 album Toys In the Attic that made this band internationally known.  Their resurgence in the 1980s consisted of the albums Permanent Vacation, featuring "Dude Looks Like a Lady;" and Pump, featuring "Janie's Got a Gun."  This band fronted by Steven Tyler has been prominent more recently with the song "I Don't Want to Miss a Thing" from the Armageddon soundtrack and a performance at the 2003 NFL Kickoff Concert in Washington.  For 10 points, name this band whose hits include "Walk This Way," "Sweet Emotion" and "Dream On."
ANSWER: AEROSMITH

19.  Alvan Graham Clark discovered this star's companion, a white dwarf, the first such star to be discovered.  The Egyptians associated the rising of this star with the beginning of the annual flooding of the Nile.  This star joins with Procyon and Betelgeuse to form the Winter Triangle.  For 10 points, name this white giant also known as the Dog Star, located 8.6 light years away, the brightest extra-solar star in the sky.
ANSWER: SIRIUS A

20.  During his travels in the Caucasus, he wrote the poetry collections The Gypsies and The Captive of the Caucasus.  After his return to St. Petersburg following the Decembrist revolt, he wrote Tales by Belkin and began Little Tragedies.  His other prose work includes Dubrovsky, The Captain's Daughter, and The Queen of Spades.  For 10 points, name this great Russian laureate of the historical tragedy Boris Godunov and novel Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Aleksandr Sergeyevich PUSHKIN

21.  This king was excommunicated by the Pope for rejecting Stephen Langton for Archbishop of Canterbury.  He earned his nickname Lackland because he would not receive an inheritance, being the fifth son of King Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine.  His attempts to usurp the throne and embezzle while his brother King Richard was fighting in the Crusades were stopped by Robin Hood.  For 10 points, name this king who in 1215 was forced by the nobles to sign the Magna Carta.
ANSWER: King JOHN of England

22.  This emblem appeared with its wings hung if the Danish army was to suffer defeat and erect and soaring if the Danish army would enjoy victory.  In art, this animal is a symbol of providence, as it was these creatures that fed Elijah.  However, this bird is also generally seen as a bad omen.  The ones that sat on Odin's shoulders were named Hugin and Munnin.  For ten points, name this bird that in a work of Edgar Allen Poe famously quoth "Nevermore!"
ANSWER: RAVEN

23.  This element's oxide combines with aluminum to produce aluminum oxide, this metal, and large amounts of heat in the thermite reaction.  An atom of this Group 8 metal is the central atom of the heme molecule.  This metal's sulfide, pyrite, is known as fool's gold.  Its major ores include taconite and hematite.  For 10 points, name this metal that is a major component of the inner core of the earth and steel and has atomic number 26.
ANSWER: IRON

24.  Considered the god of the common man, his wife was Sif and his mistress Jarnsaxa, who bore him three daughters: Magni, Thrud and Modi.  He traveled in a chariot led by goats with his valet Thjelvar.  He lived in the hall of Bilskirnir, enjoyed killing giants, and legend holds he will kill and be killed at Ragnarak by Jormungand.  For 10 points, name this Norse god of thunder and lightning most famous for Mjollnir, his war hammer.
ANSWER: THOR

25.  This work describes examples of the title constructs, including the embarrassment of being naked, the death of loved ones, and other typical instances.  The work also describes the connections to real life, mental disease, external and internal stimuli and distortion within them.  The title concept is also described as a means of wish-fulfillment.  For 10 points, name this work by cigar aficionado Sigmund Freud.
ANSWER: The INTERPRETATIONS OF DREAMS

[end of tossups]




Maryland Classic
Sunday May 2, 2004 - University of Maryland
Bonuses by Daniel Greenstein

1.  Identify the following about provisions of the Compromise of 1850.
[10] To appease Northerners, the slave trade was prohibited in this location.
ANSWER: District of Columbia
[10] To appease Southerners, this bill was passed requiring all U.S. citizens to assist in returning human property to their southern plantation owners.
ANSWER: FUGITIVE SLAVE Act
[10] To appease everyone, the Utah and New Mexico territories were allowed to decide, upon statehood, whether they would be slave or free states.  Name the two word phrase used to describe this power.
ANSWER: POPULAR SOVEREIGNTY

2.  Name these characters from Edith Wharton's The Age of Innocence for 10 points each.
[10] This conventional woman is described both as innocent and conniving as she represents the archetypical woman of the age as she tries to control her protagonist husband.
ANSWER: MAY WELLAND [either is acceptable]
[10] May Welland's cousin, she leaves her brutal husband in Europe to return to New York, which has changed since her youth.  After her affair with the protagonist is discovered, she must return to Europe.
ANSWER: ELLEN OLENSKA [either is acceptable]
[10] This protagonist of the novel is torn between maintaining a conventional relationship with his wife May Welland or defying the rules with an affair with Ellen Olenska.
ANSWER: NEWLAND ARCHER [either is acceptable]

3.  Name these scientists important in the formulation of planetary theory for 10 points each.
[10] This Polish astronomer became the first scientist since ancient times to propose a heliocentric theory of the solar system in his 1543 work On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres.
ANSWER: Nicolaus COPERNICUS
[10] This Danish astronomer with a fake nose constructed the observatory Uraniborg.  He recorded the motions of Mars and observed a supernova in 1572, but maintained the geocentric theory of the solar system.
ANSWER: Tycho BRAHE
[10] This student of Brahe used Brahe's observations to formulate his three laws of planetary motion.
ANSWER: Johannes KEPLER

4.  Name these festivals of lights for 10 points each.
[10] This Christian holiday is considered the end of the Christmas season.  Lying midway between the Winter Solstice and Vernal Equinox, it falls on February 2nd, but it is not Groundhog Day.
ANSWER: CANDLEMAS
[10] This Jewish holiday starts on the 25th of Kislev.  Its name means "dedication" and it is celebrated over "eight crazy nights."
ANSWER: HANUKKAH
[10] This Hindu holiday generally falls in October or November.  The holiday is observed by lighting oil lamps or exploding fire crackers.
ANSWER: DIWALI or DEEPAVALI

5.  Name these quarterbacks who were taken in the first round of last weekend's NFL Draft for 10 points each.
[10] He completed his career by defeating Oklahoma State in the Cotton Bowl in leading Mississippi to its best season since his father Archie was behind center.
ANSWER: Eli MANNING
[10] He declared for the draft early less than an hour after his outstanding game in Miami of Ohio's blowout of Louisville in the GMAC Bowl.
ANSWER: Ben ROETHLISBERGER
[10] He is the ACC's all-time passing leader following a glorious four-year career at North Carolina State.  His only black marks are his choke jobs, including four losses to Maryland.
ANSWER: Philip RIVERS

6.  Name these colorful works of literature for 10 points each. 
[10] In this Stephen Crane work set at the battle of Chancellorsville, Henry Fleming has illusions of being a hero, but is instead a coward until he is marked with the titular object and rejoins his comrades.
ANSWER: The RED BADGE OF COURAGE
[10] This autobiographical novel follows author Richard Wright's journey from a boy in the south, a man in Depression-era Chicago, and 100 pages of Communist meetings I got through as fast as I could.
ANSWER: BLACK BOY
[10] The title character in this Baroness Orczy work, Sir Percy Blakeney, is a rescuer of distressed aristocrats during the French Revolution.
ANSWER: The SCARLET PIMPERNEL

7.  Given an African country's current ruler, name the country, 5-10-20-30.
[x] Hosni Mubarak
ANSWER: EGYPT
[x] Moammar Al Quadafi
ANSWER: LIBYA
[x] Olusegun Obasanjo
ANSWER: NIGERIA
[x] Joseph Kabila
ANSWER: CONGO-KINSHASA or DEMOCRATIC Republic of the CONGO [prompt on Congo; do not accept Congo-Brazzaville or Republic of the Congo; accept former Zaire after prompt]

8.  Answer the following questions about hurricanes for 10 points each.
[10] Hurricanes tend to form in this belt of westerly-flowing winds that occur between 10 and 30 degrees latitude.
ANSWER: TRADE winds
[10] Hurricanes are classified on a scale of 1 to 5 based on wind speed and barometer pressure, among other variables.  Identify this scale named for two meteorologists.
ANSWER: SAFFIR-SIMPSON scale
[10] The word hurricane is used to describe tropical cyclones in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific Oceans.  Give the term for tropical cyclones in the western Pacific Ocean that strike China and Japan.
ANSWER: TYPHOON

9.  Name these famous towers that feature more tourists than office workers for 10 points each.
[10] This futuristic structure was built for the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle.
ANSWER: SPACE NEEDLE
[10] This Toronto landmark is located next to the SkyDome.  It is the world's tallest building.
ANSWER: CN TOWER
[10] This tall structure adorns the south side of downtown Dallas.  It is next to the former home of the Dallas Mavericks.
ANSWER: REUNION Tower

10.  Name these chess moves for 10 points each.
[10] This move involves the king and rook switching their relative sides.  It may occur on the king's side or queen's side, but only if both pieces have never moved.
ANSWER: CASTLING
[10] This move involves a pawn capturing another pawn immediately as the second pawn is advancing two squares on its first move.
ANSWER: EN PASSANT
[10] This term refers to when the king is in imminent danger of being captured but cannot escape the capture on its next move.  It signals the end of a game not ended by draw or stalemate.
ANSWER: CHECKMATE

11.  Name these characters from Charles Dickens' Great Expectations for 10 points each.
[10] The main character, he is mentored first by his brother-in-law blacksmith and then the financier Jaggers.
ANSWER: PIP or PHILIP PIRRUP
[10] Pip meets this convict early in the novel in the swamp.  In the third part of the novel, Pip learns he is his benefactor, his fortune earned while outside of Britain.
ANSWER: MAGWITCH [prompt on Provis]
[10] As a pale-faced teenager, he picks a fight with Pip, but they later become best friends.  The son of a cousin of Miss Havisham, he gives Pip the nickname "Handel" in honor of his blacksmithing heritage.
ANSWER: HERBERT POCKET

12.  Identify the British monarch, 30-20-10. 
[30] This monarch married Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark, who upon marriage was deemed Duke of Edinburgh to match her title.
[20] If not for a 1936 abdication, she would merely be the Duchess of Edinburgh.  In 1945, she joined the Auxiliary Territorial Service because she wanted to assist her country during World War II.
[10] This head of state, who took the throne in 1952, is the second longest serving head of state in the world.
ANSWER: Queen ELIZABETH II or ELIZABETH Alexandra Mary WINDSOR

13.  Identify the following about DNA for 10 points per part.
[10] Adenine, thymine, guanine and cytosine are the four examples of these molecules that are involved in the bonding of the double strand of DNA.
ANSWER: nitrogenous BASE 
[5,5] There are two categories of nitrogenous bases, one that includes adenine and guanine and the other that includes thymine and cytosine.  Name them for 5 points each.
ANSWER: PURINES and PYRIMIDINES
[10] This pyrimidine replaces thymine in RNA.
ANSWER: URACIL

14.  Identify the following Congressional actions for 10 points each.
[10] An example of this process is Smith supporting a cleanup of a toxic waste dump in Jones' state in exchange for Jones supporting a superhighway in Smith's district.
ANSWER: LOGROLLING
[10] Sixty votes are needed in the Senate to invoke this measure, which limits debate and brings up a bill for vote as soon as possible.
ANSWER: CLOTURE
[10] This tactic is an excessively long speech used to delay or derail a vote on a bill. The late, great J. Strom Thurmond gave the longest one ever.
ANSWER: FILIBUSTER

15.  Name these lines of latitude for 10 points each.
 [10] The demilitarized zone between North and South Korea roughly follows this degree of latitude.
ANSWER: 38
[10] The border between the United States and Canada between Lake of the Woods and Puget Sound follows this degree of latitude.
ANSWER: 49
[10] West of Hudson Bay, this degree of latitude separates the provinces of Canada from the territories of Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.
ANSWER: 60

16.  "I am not a crook."  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this U.S. President who resigned at noon on August 9, 1974 in the face of an inevitable impeachment trial for his role in Watergate.
ANSWER: Richard Milhous NIXON
[10] While he was being questioned for questionable campaign practices in 1952, Nixon made an impassioned reference to this cocker spaniel, for which the speech eventually became known.
ANSWER: CHECKERS
[10] Six years after claiming "You won't have Dick Nixon to kick around any more," Nixon defeated this Minnesotan and Vice President under Lyndon Johnson to become the 37th President.
ANSWER: Hubert Horatio HUMPHREY

17.  Name these things related to a solar phenomenon.
[10] These regions on the surface of the sun have intense magnetic activity and have a lower temperature than the rest of the photosphere.
ANSWER: SUNSPOTS
[10] The occurrences of sunspots vary between low activity and high activity over this many years.  You get 10 points for the correct answer, 5 if you are within a year.
ANSWER: 11 years
[10] During the Little Ice Age between 1645 and 1715, there was a dramatic reduction in sunspot activity.  Name this phenomenon described by the namesake British astronomer.
ANSWER: MAUNDER minima

18.  Many artists paint works with the same title.  For 10 points each:
[10] This work features Jesus sitting at a table with his comrades enjoying a succulent Passover seder a few days before his crucifixion.
ANSWER: The LAST SUPPER
[10] This artist's version of The Last Supper completed in 1498 is noted both for its outstanding use of perspective and its many restorations.
ANSWER: LEONARDO da Vinci
[10] This artist presents The Last Supper with the table in a diagonal perspective.  He is also known for the San Rocco frescoes which include The Annunciation and The Agony in the Garden, as well as a side-view crucifixion.
ANSWER: TINTORETTO or Jacopo ROBUSTI

19.  Identify these philosophies that at least one person has mixed up in the history of the world.  You get 15 off a description or 10 if you need some writers.
[15] Immanuel Kant originated this term, which refers to the desire to go beyond the prevailing literature and philosophies of the masses in order to improve society.
[10] Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau
ANSWER: TRANSCENDENTALISM
[15] Soren Kirkegaard originated this philosophy, which emphasizes individuality and stresses humans are free to do what they want and are judged by what they do, not who they are.
[10] Albert Camus, Jean Paul Sartre
ANSWER: EXISTENTIALISM

20.  Name these games you might find in the Start-Programs-Accessories-Games path in your PC for 10 points each.
[10] The goal of this game is to advance from Cadet to Fleet Admiral through such missions as Attack Bumpers and Launch while interacting with the Gravity Well and Hyperspace Ramp.
ANSWER: 3D PINBALL Space Cadet
[10] Although some computers come with the Spider version of this game, everyone gets Klondike, which is the most familiar version that requires you to create piles of each suit from Ace to King.
ANSWER: SOLITAIRE
[10] The beginner screen of this game is a 10 by 10 grid that contains 10 of the eponymous objects.  The object is to flag the eponymous objects while uncovering the other squares.
ANSWER: MINESWEEPER

21.  Name these works of literature with something in common, 15-10.
[15] Lesser characters in this work of 1852 include Eliza and her husband George, Topsy, Miss Ophelia St. Clare and Marks, the slave catcher.
[10] This Harriet Beecher Stowe work features the suffering of the titular slave by Simon Legree.
ANSWER: UNCLE TOM'S CABIN or LIFE AMONG THE LOWLY
[15] Subtitled Scenes from Country Life in Four Acts, this 1890 work features Ivan Petrovich Voinitsky, who longs for Elena, his brother-in-law's wife.
[10] The title character in this Anton Chekov play manages the estate of that brother-in-law, the retired professor Serebryakov.
ANSWER: UNCLE VANYA 

22.  Given the reactants of a reaction, name the products.  You will have 10 seconds per part.
[10] 2FeCl2 + SiF4 --> __________
ANSWER: 2FeF2 + SiCl4
[10] CH4 + 2O2 --> __________
ANSWER: 2H2O + CO2
[10] H2S + 3F2 --> __________
ANSWER: SF6 + H2

23.  Name these American Indian archaeological things for 10 points each.
[10] This site near East St. Louis was once a city of 8 to 40 thousand people.  It contains Monk's Mound, the largest man-made mound in North America.
ANSWER: CAHOKIA
[10] This place, the namesake of a National Park in southwestern Colorado, features lots of cliff dwellings.
ANSWER: MESA VERDE
[10] The bones of this dude found in Washington state are being disputed by the Army Corps of Engineers and Umatilla Tribe, even though the skull suggests a European origin.
ANSWER: KENNEWICK MAN

24.  One of the last surviving hardcore Communist regimes in the world lies in a small Asian country.  For 10 points per answer:
[10] Name this country that borders Russia, China and a similarly named country with capital at Pyongyang.
ANSWER: NORTH KOREA or People's DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC of KOREA
[10,10] North Korea has been ruled by two rulers since its inception.  Name both: one ruled until his 1994 death and the other has some strange phobias.
ANSWER: KIM IL SUNG and KIM JONG IL

25.  Name the following / things related to poem type / for 10 points per part.
[10] The lead-in to this bonus is an example of this Japanese type of poem featuring three lines of five, seven and five syllables.
ANSWER: haiku
[10] This Japanese poet, whose popular pseudonym means "banana tree," raised haiku to its highest form during the 17th century.
ANSWER: Matsuo BASHO or Matsuo MUNEFUSA
[10] A related type of poetry is this type, which consists of 31 syllables over five lines in a 5-7-5-7-7 arrangement.
ANSWER: TANKA

[end of bonuses]
