2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 4TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) An old man with an unusual eye is murdered and buried under the floorboards of his murderer's home.  When the police come, the murder can hear the heartbeat of the dismembered body beating in his mind and he is driven to confess the crime.  For ten points, this happens in what short-story by Edgar Allan Poe?Answer: "The Tell-Tale Heart"2) Despite his reputation, he refused the $30,000 dollars the British offered him and his men to assist in their taking of a major southern port.  Instead, he warned the officials of New Orleans that the British were planning to attack, but they didn't believe him.  He then offered his band of privateers' assistance to General Andrew Jackson.   For ten points, identify this French pirate who aided in the Battle of New Orleans.Answer: Jean Laffite3) Not to be confused with a territory in Canada, this nation owns a region known as the North-West Frontier.  It was founded in 1947 and led by Mohammed Ali Jinnah until his death a year later.  Its mountains include the Nanga Parbat peak as well as Mount Godwin Austin - better known as K2.  For ten points, identify this country currently led by President Pervez Musharref with its capital at Islamabad.Answer: Pakistan4) Believing he is a successor to Jesus, he was imprisoned for his preaching in North Korea and fled to South Korea where he established his church.  In 1973, he relocated his church's headquarters to Tarrytown, New York.  He has since been the source of much controversy including tax evasion, brain-washing, and sexual misconduct.  For ten points, identify this founder of the Unification Church.Answer: Sun Myung Moon5) When her husband was torn apart by his brother, she gathered the pieces of his body, mourned him, and brought him back to life.  She hid their son from her murderous brother-in-law until he was old enough to fight him.  For ten points, identify this mother of Horus whose cult worship was popular in Rome, despite the fact that she was the Egyptian goddess of protection and wife of Osiris.Answer: Isis6) It is said that he blinded himself so that he might be able to think without outside disturbances. He was sometimes called "The Laughing Philosopher" because of his amusement at the weaknesses and flaws in humanity.  Born in Abdera around 460 BC, he believed that pleasure and self control were the ultimate goals in life.  For ten points, identify this man, who first described invisible, indestructible, indivisible units that comprise the universe - particles that he called "atoms."Answer: Democritus7) He first went to sea at the age of 13 and gained a reputation for being an outstanding seaman.  He gained wealth by raiding Spanish colonies, and gained the favor of Queen Elizabeth.  In 1577, he was commissioned to explore South America, and subsequently became the first man to sail his own ship, The Golden Hind, around the globe.  For ten points, identify this Englishmen who would later lead the fleet that defeated the Spanish Armada.Answer: Francis Drake8) The Van't Hoff principle is the best replacement for this law, which suffers from numerous exceptions.  First stated in 1888, it states that a system at equilibrium will displace the equilibrium when a stress or force is applied as to reduce the effects of said force on the system.  For ten points, what is this eponymous principle stated by a French chemist?Answer: Le Chatelier's Principle9) The little that is known about his life comes from the text of his most famous work.  Assuming that it is accurate, he was the son of a poor farmer who began working at sea to make ends meet.  The author himself remained a farmer his whole life.  Known as the father of Greek didactic poetry, his work Theogony is a story of the origins of the universe and of the gods.  For ten points, identify this 8th century BC poet of Works and Days.Answer: Hesiod10) Most of his works have been collaborations with his wife, Jeanne-Claude.  Often billed as an "environmental artist," in 1958 he moved to Paris and created an art style called empaquetage.  His first empaquetage works were small objects such as cans, be he moved on to buildings and landscapes.  His Running Fence was a piece of art in existence from 1972-76 and ran in two counties in California.  For ten points, identify this Bulgarian artist famous for wrapping objects in various materials.Answer: Christo Javacheff11) She is called the liberator of her sex by her husband, Schariah.  Her sister, Dinarzide is the one to whom she tells her tales, but she always makes sure that Schariah is within earshot.  She also makes sure to always leave the story unfinished.  This is because Schariah has decided to take a new wife every night and have her killed in the morning.  After 1,001 nights of story telling, however, For ten points, what woman has convinced the sultan to reverse his decree?Answer: Scheherazade12) Sergei Prokofiev first composed an opera based on this novel in the 1940s.  Characters include Natasha Rostov, Pierre Bezukhov, and Platon Karateyev.  Spanning the years 1805 to 1820, its main focus is Napoleon's invasion of Russia.  Published in 1869, it is considered one of the greatest works of Russian literature.  For ten points, identify this massive book with hundreds of characters, by Leo Tolstoy.Answer: War and Peace13) This term was used abundantly in the writings of 17th century political philosophers and theorists such as John Locke and Thomas Hobbes to refer to any organized political community that exists due to the consent of the governed.  Today, the term is applied to several entities, the most well-known of which is comprised of Great Britain and its current and former dependencies.  For ten points, identify this term that also refers to four states: Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Virginia.Answer: Commonwealth14) Believed to have been of Babylonian origin, they were utilized by in the Middle Ages by merchants throughout Europe and much of Asia and Africa.  Gradually replaced by arithmetic using Arabic numerals was - for ten points - what device consisting of a frame in which beaded wires represented the decimal places?Answer: Abacus15) It was named for the uncle of Muhammad from whom all of its caliphs descended.  This dynasty focused their attention to east of Arabia and moved the capital to Baghdad.  Often referred to as the "Golden Age" of the Muslim Empire, the greatest advances in science and math took place during this period.  For ten points, identify this second Muslim dynasty that succeeded the Umayyads in 750 CE.Answer: Abbasid Dynasty16) In 1846, he was given a patent for his most-famous device.  However, it sold poorly and he moved to England to make improvements on his machine, only to return the next year and find that his devices were being mass produced and selling greatly - a discovery that led to a lengthy patent infringement suit against Isaac Singer.  For ten points, identify this American inventor of the first practical sewing machine.Answer: Elias Howe17) Among its functions are the metabolization of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, storing glycogen and vitamins, and synthesizing coagulation factors.  It also regulates blood volume and destroys old red blood cells.  Blood moves from the gastrointestinal tract to this organ through the portal vein.  For ten points, identify this gland, the largest in the body, which is responsible for the production of bile.Answer: Liver18) Discovered in 1940, it contains pictures of a unicorn-type creature, and story involving a bird-man and a bison that has been stabbed with spears.  Heavy tourist visitation endangered it, and it was closed in 1963.  In 1983, a replica was created and reopened.  Located near Montignac, France is - for ten points - what cave that contains what many consider the greatest collection of prehistoric cave drawings in the world?Answer: Lasceaux Grotto or Cave19) In 1748, a slave trader prayed to God that he would survive a terrible storm.  When the storm passed and he was unscathed, he gave up the slave trade, became a minister and an abolitionist, and wrote this song which describes his conversion.  That man, John Newton, was the writer of - for ten points - what popular hymn that contains the words "I once was lost; but now am found; was blind but now I see"?Answer : "Amazing Grace"20) His lesser-known works include the novels Chance, Victory, An Outcast of the Islands, and Typhoon.  His original last name was Korzeniowski, as he was the child of a Polish patriot who was exiled to Russia.  An orphan by the age of 12, he joined the British merchant navy, where his seagoing would inspire his most famous novels.  For ten points, identify this author of Nostromo, Lord Jim, and Heart of Darkness.Answer: Joseph Conrad (accept Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski before mentioned)21) These types of stars appear in the lower left corner of a Hertzsprung-Russell diagrag.  A star cannot involve into one of these if it has a mass exceeding the Chandrasekhar Limit. Its name is a misnomer in that it can actually be of any color, depending on its temperature.  With a mass only one percent that of our sun and giving off only one ten-thousandth of its light is - for ten points - what type of "dwarf" star?Answer: White Dwarf22) From 1805 to 1834, he was a professor at the East India Company's college at Haileybury.  During this time, he wrote 1820's Principles of Political Economy.  In 1798, he wrote his most famous work, in which he argued that crime, war, disease, and other vices were necessary to keep the titular quantity under control.  For ten points, identify this economist who penned An Essay on the Principle of Population.Answer: Thomas Malthus
BonusesQuestions by Brittany Clark1) For ten points each, give the name of the element derived from Latin names.[10] The Latin name is Plumbum, with symbol Pb.Answer: Lead[10] Comes from the Latin Hydragyrum, with symbol Hg.Answer: Mercury[10] Comes from the Latin Wolfram, with symbol W.Answer: Tungsten2) For ten points each, given the country or countries bordering it, name the African lake.[10] Burundi, Zambia, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo.Answer: Lake Tanganyika[10] Kenya, Uganda, TanzaniaAnswer: Lake Victoria[10] Cameroon, Nigeria, Chad, NigerAnswer: Lake Chad3) For the stated number of points, name the astronaut.[10] For ten, he was a pilot on the crew of Apollo 1, along with Ed White and Roger B. Chaffe.Answer: Virgil I. "Gus" Grissom[5] For five, he was the first man in space.Answer: Yuri Gagarin[15] For fifteen, he was the commander aboard the ill-fated Apollo 13.Answer: James A. "Jim" Lovell Jr.4) For ten points each, name the type of Greek column[10] This is the oldest type of column and has a plain capital.Answer: Doric[10] This type of column is known for its decorated capital with acanthus leaves.Answer: Corinthian[10] The most distinguishable feature of this type is the scroll-shaped capital.Answer: Ionic5) For fifteen points, name the composer. You'll get 5 if you need an easier clue,[15] Music for the Royal Fireworks[5] The Messiah, Water MusicAnswer: George Frideric Handel[15] Pathetique Symphony[5] 1812 Overture, The NutcrackerAnswer: Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky6) For ten points each, give the name of the virus that cause the epidemic[10] This was the main virus that caused massive population death among populations in Africa and the New World upon contact with Europeans.Answer: Smallpox (accept Variola, Variola vera, or Variola major or minor)[10] It was first discovered in 1976 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, formerly Zaire and similar to the Marburg virus.Answer: Ebola hemorrhagic fever (prompt on EHF. Accept Ebola-Zaire)[10] This virus killed 50-100 million people world wide between 1918 and 1919. Many of the worst outbreaks were among soldiers.Answer: Influenza (accept Spanish Flu or the/La Grippe, or The French Flu)7) For the stated number of points, name these things or people related to genetics.[5] For five points, he wrote the paper "Experiments on Plant Hybridization."Answer: Gregor Mendel[5-5] For five points each, name the two discoverers of DNAAnswer: Watson and Crick[15[ For 15 points, in DNA replication, the lagging strands uses these segments named for the scientist who discovered them.Answer: Okazaki segments 8) 30, 20, 10, name the work.[30] This novel takes place in New York, San Francisco, Mexico City, and Denver and every part that was hitchhiked in between by the narrator and his friends.[20] This novel begins in New York City, where Dean Moriarty, meets the narrator, Sal Paradise and they begin their 3 years worth of travels.[10] Name this largely autobiographical work of Jack Kerouac.Answer: On The Road9) A little more than kin and less than kind. For the stated number of points, name the character from Hamlet.[10] He is Hamlet's uncle who killed Hamlet's father.Answer: Claudius[10] He is Ophelia's brother and son of PoloniusAnswer: Laertes[5-5] Name Hamlet's former schoolmates who spy on him for Claudius.Answer: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern10) For ten points each, name the field of anthropology.[10] This is the study of material remains of human cultures.Answer: Archaeology[10] This field studies primate behavior, human evolution, and population genetics.Answer: Physical anthropology (accept biological anthropology)[10] This field observes kinship patterns, religion, production and consumption and gender.Answer: Cultural anthropology (accept social anthropology and socio-cultural anthropology)11) For five points each, and a bonus for all five correct, give the treaty that ended a war.[5] It ended the American Revolutionary War in 1783.Answer: Second Treaty of Paris[5] This treaty ended the War of Spanish Succession in 1713.Answer: Treaty of Utrecht[5] This treaty in 1919 officially ended World War I.Answer: Treaty of Versailles[5] This treaty in 1763 ended the Seven Year's WarAnswer: First Treaty of Paris (accept Treaty of Hubertusburg)[5] This 1814 treaty ended the War of 1812Answer: Treaty of Ghent12) For ten points each, identify these Catholic saints given a description.[10] Archbishop of Canterbury from 1093 to 1109, this Saint first developed the ontological argument for the existence of God.Answer: Saint Anselm of Canterbury[10] The patron saint of just but hopeless causes, his name was often confused with Judas Iscariot.Answer: Saint Jude[10] This "Great" saint served as Pope from 590 to 604, and was best known for sending Augustine of Hippo to Britain to convert the Anglo-Saxons.Answer: Pope Gregory I13) Give facts about a certain unmanned space mission, 5-10-15.[5] Two answers required.  This spacecraft consists of two parts, an orbiter and a probe. It was launched on October 15, 1997 and reached its destination this past July.Answer: Cassini-Huygens (BOTH must be given)[10] The final destination of the Cassini-Huygens spacecraft was this gas giant and its moons.Answer: Saturn[10] Give the name of the moon of Saturn on which the Huygens probe landed on January 14, 2005 near the Xanadu region.Answer: Titan14) For ten points each, name the Dostoevsky novel.[10] This novel follows a St. Petersburg student, Raskolnikov, and his carefully planned murder of a pawnbroker and his subsequent guilt.Answer: Crime and Punishment[10] His last novel follows Dmitrii, Ivan, and Aleksei, also called Mitya, Vanya, and Aloysha, and the trial of Dmitri who is accused of murdering his father.Answer: The Brothers Karamazov[10] This novel follows Prince Myshkin who has been treated for epilepsy and the complicated relationship between Rogozhin and the fallen woman Natassya Filippovna.Answer: The Idiot15) For ten points each, given the artists, name the artistic movement.[10] Renoir, Degas, Manet, Monet, Pissaro.Answer: Impressionism[10] Michaelangelo, Raphael, da Vinci.Answer: Renaissance[10] Caravaggio, Rembrandt, Vermeer, Rubens, Velasquez.Answer: Baroque16) For ten points each, give some information about one of the first African-American regiments during the civil war.[10] This regiment was based in New England state and is most noted for its suicidal charge against Ft. Watson and its depiction in the movie GloryAnswer: 54th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry (accept equivalents)[10] This was the white commander of the 54th. His body was stripped and buried with his men, which was intended as an insult, but his parents made it a symbol of pride.Answer: Colonel Robert Gould Shaw[10] This prominent black abolitionist and statesman, and publisher of the paper the North Star, helped to recruit for the 54th. Answer: Frederick Douglass17) 5-10-15, name the figure from Greek mythology related to dying.[5] This messenger god brought the newly dead souls to HadesAnswer: Hermes[10] He ferries the souls of the dead across the Styx.Answer: Charon[15] This son of the muse Calliope tried to bring his wife back from the underworld but looked back and she was lost.Answer: Orpheus18) For five points each, and a bonus five for all correct, give some information about a certain Nintendo game series.[5] This hero of the series is traditionally dressed in green and is usually young. His most common weapons are the sword, shield, bow and arrow, hookshot boomerang.Answer: Link[5] This is the princess, and sometimes friend, that Link has to continually rescue from danger or kidnapping and gives her name to the series.Answer: Zelda[5] This is the land where Link and Zelda are from and where most of Link's adventures take place.Answer: Hyrule[5] This is the name of legendary relic found in Legend of Zelda games and consists of three parts: Power, Wisdom, and CourageAnswer: Triforce[5] This is the most recent of the Legend of Zelda games and is for Game Boy Advance. It features a transformed sage named Ezlo and an evil sorcerer named Vaati.Answer: Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap19) Name the play by Aristophanes for ten points each.[10] The women of Athens and Sparta barricade themselves within the Akropolis vowing to withhold sex from their husbands until they end the Peloponnesian War.Answer: LysistrataPisthetairos and Euelpides convince the titular characters to help them build a city in the sky after which Pisthetairos takes over the city as a dictator.Answer: The Birds[10] This play tells the story of Dionysus retrieving Euripides from Hades and is named for the chorus of animals that greet him at the river Styx.Answer: The Frogs20) For ten points each, name the amendment based on a court case dealing with it.[10] Youngsteel Sheet & Tube Co. v. SawyerAnswer: 3rd Amendment[10] Furman v. GeorgiaAnswer: 8th Amendment[10] The Amistad CaseAnswer: 13th Amendment21) For the stated number of points, answer these questions about the wars of the roses.[5-5] For five each, these were the two feuding houses.Answer: York and Lancaster[10] For ten, this is the battle in which Henry Tudor defeated Richard III.Answer: Battle of Bosworth Field[10] For 10 points, both York and Lancaster were branches of this royal house which was named for the sprig of the flower worn by King Henry II's father.Answer: Plantagenet