Maryland Classic
Sunday May 2, 2004 - University of Maryland
Tossups by Daniel Greenstein

1.  Most of the particles in these structures are a result of neutron albedo, or the process where solar flare particles interact.  Magnetic fields of greater than 0.3 gauss prevent the solar wind from directly entering them.  Consisting of two donut-shaped regions that lie within the Chapman-Ferraro cavity, they are compressed on the sunward side and extend back three earth radii on the opposite side of the earth.  For 10 points, name these belts of highly energetic ionized particles trapped in the earth's magnetic field.
ANSWER: Van-Allen Belts

2.  This novel's sequel, The Pit, examines an attempt to corner the wheat market at the Chicago stock exchange.  A combination of heavy mortgages, poor harvests and high freight costs has the wheat farmers of the San Joaquin Valley in dire straits.  Osterman proposes bribing the railroad commission to reduce rates, but when land rates become exorbitant, Magnus Derrick becomes head of the league.  Based on the Mussel Shoals conflict, for ten points, name this muckraking novel by Frank Norris.
ANSWER: The Octopus: A Story of California

3.  In 1980 he became a member of Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers and released a self-titled album in 1982.  Founder of the Jazz at Lincoln Center program, he assisted Ken Burns in the production of Burns' miniseries Jazz, de-emphasizing electronic fusion in favor of the acoustic style.  He was the first jazz musician to win a Pulitzer Prize for the oratorio Blood on the Fields.  For ten points, name this trumpeter of a family of musicians, the son of pianist Ellis and brother of drummer Jason and saxophonist Branford.
ANSWER: Wynton Marsalis

4.  This agenda, which was partially overturned by Ronald Reagan's first budget, was never fully funded due to the Vietnam War.  Under it, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Head Start, Upward Bound, VISTA and Job Corps were formed.  Centerpieces of the legislation were the Social Security Act, Voting Rights Act and Economic Opportunity Act of 1964.  For 10 points, name this series of domestic initiatives whose purpose was an "end to poverty and racial injustice" announced in 1964 by Lyndon Johnson.
ANSWER: Great Society

5.  In chapter 10, verse 4 of his namesake book, his promise claims if one sincerely asks if his book is true, God in the form of the Holy Ghost will confirm it.  This prophet, a descendent of the Nephites and Lamanites, lived in North America at the end of the 4th century.  For 10 points, name this prophet who reappeared as an angel in 1827 when he delivered a series of golden plates to Joseph Smith that became part of the Book of Mormon.
ANSWER: Moroni

6.  His books for laymen include Worlds in the Making, Destiny of the Stars and Smallpox and Its Combating, and he theorized why CO2 is important in the atmosphere.  Educated at Uppsala and the Academy of Sciences in Stockholm, he worked with van't Hoff in the study of the colligative properties of electrolytes and created both the activity constant of a solution and a namesake equation that relates temperature and reaction rate.  For 10 points, name this Swede whose theory states acids donate hydrogen ions and bases produce hydroxide ions in water.
ANSWER: Svante Arrhenius

7.  As editor of the National Gazette between 1791 and 1793, he eviscerated Alexander Hamilton.  He collaborated with Hugh Henry Brackenridge on a political work, A Poem on the Rising Glory of America.  His poems about nature include "The Indian Burying Ground," "On a Honey-Bee Drinking from a Glass of Wine" and "The Wild Honey Suckle."  For 10 points, name this poet of General Gage's Confession and The British Prison-Ship, considered the representative poet of the American Revolution.
ANSWER: Philip Freneau

8.  Towns in this English county west of London include Slough, Bracknell Forest and Wokingham.  Its county seat, Reading, is shared by that of a partially eponymous county in southeastern Pennsylvania.  The namesake county in Massachusetts is the second largest by area and contains the towns of Williamstown, Lenox, Pittsfield and Stockbridge.  For ten points, name this common name, also the name of a mountain range in western Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Berkshire

9.  Sites of major conflicts in this event that occurred between December 29, 1895 and January 2, 1896 include Krugersdorp and Doornkop, where the titular man and his 600 men surrendered to Commander Piet Cronjé.  The objective of this offensive event was to support an uprising by Uitlanders in Johannesburg.  Named for the Administrator General of Matabeleland that led it, for 10 points, name this raid that, along with the Kruger Telegram, precipitated the Second Boer War.
ANSWER: Jameson raid

10.  The coach of the French ice hockey team at the 1998 Olympics, he also had stints in the NHL with the Rangers, North Stars, Devils and Penguins.  He also coached at St. Cloud State University and his alma mater, the University of Minnesota, where he won three NCAA championships.  He was a member of the 1964 and 1968 Olympic teams, but being left off the 1960 team for the Squaw Valley Olympics inspired him to his greatest triumph.  For ten points, name this recently deceased hockey coach who orchestrated the 1980 "Miracle on Ice."
ANSWER: Herb Brooks

11.  The Korai Library is located on this island, which claims to be the birthplace of Hippokrates the mathematician, Oenopides and Homer.  Colonized by Ionians, it was subsequently occupied by the Persians, Delian League, Byzantine Empire, the Latin emperors of Constantinople, the Genoese and the Ottoman Turks before finally falling under Greek control in 1912.  For ten points, name this Greek island in the Aegean Sea, the site of an 1822 massacre depicted by Eugene Delacroix.
ANSWER: Chios

12.  In the second scene, the manager witnesses the discovery of the youngest daughter in the fountain and the step-son shooting himself, but is not sure if the actions are real.  The friction among the characters is caused by the mother falling for the father's secretary and marrying him; the mother and her children returning to the city when the secretary dies; and Madame Pace using one of the daughters as a prostitute.  The manager agreed to direct the cast when their characters were left unrealized by their creator.  For ten points, name this play by Luigi Pirandello.
ANSWER: Six Characters in Search of an Author

13.  Lipid rafts and caveolae are more cohesive regions of this structure, which may include microvilli whose function increases surface area.  The cytoskeleton provides anchoring points for the intrinsic proteins while cholesterol assists in regulating fluidity.  Transport across this is achieved through molecular exchangers, transporters and pumps, and through endo- and exocytosis.  For 10 points, name this structure whose construction is governed by the Fluid Mosaic model.
ANSWER: cell membrane or phospholipid bilayer

14.  This document was ratified in December 1857 but it was decisively rejected in August 1858, and the state in question was admitted as a free state in 1861.  The framers of the document, working based on the Kansas-Nebraska Act, gave options for limited slavery or unlimited slavery, a provision that led to the free state people to boycott the vote.  James Buchanan encouraged but Stephen Douglas opposed statehood based on, for 10 points, this September 1857 constitution that would have authorized slavery upon the statehood of Kansas.
ANSWER: LeCompton Constitution




15.  Two answers required.  These two characters also appear in the second part of Goethe's Faust with a contrary demeanor.  In Roman and Greek mythology, they are a poor married couple in Phrygia.  Jupiter and Mercury were traveling through the realm in disguise looking for hospitality and after being spurned by others, they provided the gods with food and entertainment that exceeded their humble means.  For 10 points, name this couple whom Zeus granted their wish to die together; one would become an oak and the other a linden tree.
ANSWER: Philemon and Baucis

16.  Set in the 23rd century, this bildungsroman is set in Castalia, a remote place built for intellectuals who examine the world's body of knowledge and use devices such as a specialized abacus to divine new knowledge.  The main character, Josef Knecht, attempts to master the title discipline, which requires a combination of aesthetics and scientific art, to achieve the title of Magister Ludi.    For ten points, name this 1943 Herman Hesse novel.
ANSWER: The Glass Bead Game or Das Glasperlenspiel

17.  A period of civil war called The Anarchy was a result of a difference of opinion between supporters of this man and Empress Maud, daughter of King Henry I.  Appointed Count of Mortain in 1115, he was married to Matilda.  He laid claim to the English throne by descent from Adela, daughter of King William I of England.  Maud's son Henry II, the first of the Plantagenets, succeeded, for 10 points, this last Norman ruler of England that reigned from 1135 to 1154.
ANSWER: Stephen of Blois

18.  Another form of Euler's Identity states when -1 is put into this function, the result is pi times i.  Irving Stringham invented the two-letter abbreviation for this mathematical function.  The only function of its type to be defined using integrals, it takes it name from its frequent applications in nature, such as in population problems and radioactive decay.  Defined as the integral of 1/x [one over x], for 10 points, name this function that in its most basic form is the inverse function of ex.
ANSWER: natural logarithm


19.  This form of information has been used since Roman times, but its techniques were not scientifically studied until the 20th century by Edward Bernays and Walter Lippman.  Techniques include bandwagon, appealing to authority, slogans, appealing to fear, stereotyping and scapegoating through leaflets, posters and television.  For ten points, name this weapon of psychological warfare, a form of message presentation to serve an agenda, whose major progenitors were Joseph Goebbels and Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf.
ANSWER: propaganda

20.  This emperor spent much of the latter part of his reign on the island of Capri, during which the city of Rome was controlled by the bloodthirsty leader of the Praetorian Guard, Sejanus.  The son of Livia, he was made heir to the empire after the deaths of Julia's sons, Gaius and Lucius.  He was unpopular, especially when his nephew Germanicus died under mysterious circumstances.  For 10 points, name this Roman emperor who reigned from 14 to 37, the predecessor to Caligula and successor to Augustus.
ANSWER: Tiberius Claudius Nero Caesar

21.  Experiments in the Tevatron at Fermilab and in the Large Hadron Collider being built at CERN are likely to discover this particle, which likely requires accelerator energies of 1 tera-electronvolt to be detected.  Sometimes called the God particle, it has a spin of zero. For 10 points, name this exchange particle of the eponymous field named for a British physicist within the Standard Model of quantum mechanics.
ANSWER: Higgs boson

22.  One poet of this name was the lead representative of the May school, which dominated Czech literature in the 19th century.  He is best known for the short story collection Tales of the Little Quarter and poetry collections Cemetery Flowers, Friday Songs and Cosmic Songs.  The other poet with this surname was a militant communist who wrote Extravagaria, Residence on Earth and Canto general.  For ten points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
ANSWER: Jan and Pablo Neruda

23.  He proved his namesake embedding theorem for manifolds while at Princeton, and between 1966 and 1996 he had no publications due to mental illness.  In 1978 he won the John von Neumann Theory Prize for his work on non-cooperative equilibria, which were also the subject of his doctoral dissertation.  For ten points, name this mathematician who shared the 1994 Nobel Prize whose namesake equilibrium is an important part of game theory.
ANSWER: John Forbes Nash

24.  The pain in her works is the projection of the pain from both polio as a child and a bus accident as a teenager.  She created many self-portraits, including Self Portrait with Cropped Hair, Self Portrait with Monday and Self Portrait Dedicated to Leon Trotsky.  Her works contain many symbols of both women and her Mexican heritage.  For ten points, name this Mexican artist who was married to Diego Rivera.
ANSWER: Frida Kahlo

25.  Drawn with a long nose and a huge chin, this character's closet contains scantily clad photos of his best friend's wife, whom he "would do for anything."  Voiced by Seth MacFarlane, this pilot is seemingly immune to mace and rejection, and has some of the most perverted lines in television, including many of which cannot be asked at this tournament.  For ten points, name this perverted next-door neighbor of the Griffins on Family Guy.
ANSWER: Glen Quagmire [prompt on Glen]

[end of tossups]


Maryland Classic
Sunday May 2, 2004 - University of Maryland
Bonuses by Daniel Greenstein

1.  Name these literary figures associated with New Jersey for ten points each.
[10] Born in Burlington, his time at sea led to The Pilot, the first American novel at sea.  His work The Pioneers introduced his character Natty Bumppo.
ANSWER: James Fenimore Cooper
[10] The poem "The Red Wheelbarrow" in his collection Paterson might have actually described the place of his birth, Rutherford.  He also wrote Life Along the Passaic River and In the American Grain. 
ANSWER: William Carlos Williams
[10] This dude with a chick's name is only known for the poem "Trees," which appeared in the appropriately named collection Trees and Other Poems.
ANSWER: Joyce Kilmer

2.  Name these Illinois politicians for 10 points each.
[10] His grandfather served as vice-president during Grover Cleveland's second term and his son was an Illinois senator in the 1970s.  He unsuccessfully ran for the President in 1952 and 1956.
ANSWER: Adlai Ewing Stevenson
[10] Governor between 1893 and 1897, he was publicly scorned for pardoning the Haymarket Square prisoners and refusing to intervene in the 1894 Pullman strike.
ANSWER: John Peter Altgeld
[10] This governor served between 1999 and 2003.  He is controversial for pardoning hundreds of death row inmates as well as December 2003 charges of racketeering, fraud and conspiracy.
ANSWER: George Homer Ryan

3.  Identify the following about a cool scientific instrument, 5-10-20-30.
[x] This instrument is a weight at the end of a long rod that swings back and forth over its central point under the influence of gravity.
ANSWER: gravity pendulum
[x] The pendulum's kinetics can be approximated with this concept of a motion that is neither driven nor damped and is periodic.
ANSWER: simple harmonic or SHM
[x] This type of pendulum was originally placed in the Paris Pantheon in 1851 by its namesake but exists in many places in the world, including the Museum of American History.  It is free to oscillate in any vertical plane and thus demonstrates the Coriolis effect.
ANSWER: Foucault pendulum
[x] This type of pendulum is much less demonstrated.  It consists of a body suspended by a fine wire that executes rotational oscillations as the wire twists and untwists.
ANSWER: torsion pendulum or Cavendish balance

4.  Identify these Presidential music things for ten points per answer.
[10] This President is the only one to win a Grammy award, which he won in 2004 in the spoken word album for children category for "Prokofiev: Peter and the Wolf/Beintus: Wolf Tracks."  He is better known for his non-Grammy worthy saxophone skills.
ANSWER: William Jefferson Clinton
[10,10] Another President is in the name of a three-part opera created between 1985 and 1987 about his groundbreaking visit to a country with which the U.S. had strained relations.  Name both the opera and the composer, the namesake of another President.
ANSWER: Nixon in China and John Adams

5.  Name these rivers of central California for ten points each.
[10] Sutter's Mill was located along this river that meets the Sacramento River at Sacramento.
ANSWER: American River
[10] This river, which drains the southern half of the Central Valley, meets the Sacramento River near Antioch to flow toward the ocean.
ANSWER: San Joaquin River
[10] This river flows through its namesake canyon national park between Sequoia and Yosemite National Parks.
ANSWER: Kings River

6.  Answer the following about the Washington Redskins for the stated number of points.
[5] For five points, name their new head coach, who came out of retirement as a NASCAR team owner to return to the team where he won three Super Bowls.
ANSWER: Joe Gibbs
[10] For ten points, name the quarterback traded to the Redskins in February that saw his playing time for the Jaguars reduced in favor of rookie Byron Leftwich.
ANSWER: Mark Brunell
[5,5,5] Back in March, the Redskins and the Broncos consummated a blockbuster trade.  For five points each, name the two players involved, a running back and cornerback, and the number round of the draft pick the Redskins gave to Broncos as part of the deal.
ANSWER: Clinton Portis, Champ Bailey, second round pick

7.  Identify these literary awards for ten points each.
[10] This award, established by Frederic Melcher and named for a British publisher, is awarded annually to the best children's book written by an American.
ANSWER: Newbery Medal
[10] Awarded by the Association of Library Service to Children, this award is given annually to the most distinguished American children's picture book.
ANSWER: Caldecott Medal
[10] This award, named for the turn-of-the-century publisher of the New York World and St. Louis Post-Dispatch and announced by the president of Columbia University, is given in 21 areas, including print journalism, music, drama and literature.
ANSWER: Pulitzer Prize


8.  Name these countries that have or might have nuclear weapons for 10 points per part.
[5,5] For 5 points each, these Asian countries were the sixth and seventh members of the "Nuclear Club."  These countries are considered to be the most likely place for a nuclear conflict to originate.
ANSWER: India and Pakistan
[10] This Middle East country, which is not a member of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, convicted Mordechai Vanunu for treason in 1986 for disclosing this country's suspected nuclear program.
ANSWER: Israel
[10] This former Soviet republic, a member of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, may still possess several hundred nuclear warheads despite having handed them all to Russia in 1996.
ANSWER: Ukraine

9.  Identify the following about a certain type of number, 5-5-10-10.
[5] First, name these natural numbers whose only factors are 1 and itself.
ANSWER: prime numbers or primes
[5] This type of prime number is of the form 2n - 1.  Forty are known to exist.
ANSWER: Mersenne primes
[10] The prime numbers are deemed the building blocks of natural numbers through this theorem, which states every natural number can be written as a product of primes.
ANSWER: fundamental theorem of arithmetic
[10] List all integers starting with 2.  Mark off the first prime number and eliminate all multiples of said prime.  Repeat.  This describes what algorithm used to find primes within a small set of numbers?
ANSWER: Sieve of Eratosthenes

10.  Answer the following about something philosophical for 10 points each.
[10] This field first developed by psychologists Franz Brentano and Carl Stumpf uses conscious experience as a foundation for extracting the essential features of experiences and the essence of experience.
ANSWER: phenomenology
[10] This pupil of Brentano and Stumpf is sometimes considered the founder of phenomenology.  He penned Logical Investigations.
ANSWER: Edmund Husserl
[10] This pupil of Edmund Husserl is sometimes considered the "court philosopher" of the Nazis.  He wrote Being and Time.
ANSWER: Martin Heidigger

11.  Answer the following questions about the lunar calendar for ten points per part.
[10] The lunar calendar repeats according to this cycle, named for the Greek astronomer who discovered it in 432 BC.
ANSWER: Metonic cycle
[5,5] For five points each, name both the length of the Metonic cycle in years and the number of years in which an extra month is added.
ANSWER: nineteen and seven
[10] In the Hebrew calendar, the extra month is known as this.
ANSWER: Adar 2

12.  Given some works, identify their Japanese author, 5-5-10-10.
[5] Sea of Fertility, Confessions of a Mask, The Temple of the Golden Pavillion
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima
[5] The Sound of the Mountain, Snow Country, Thousand Cranes
ANSWER: Yasunari Kawabata
[10] Nip the Buds Shoot the Kids, A Personal Matter, The Catch
ANSWER: Kenzaburo Oe
[10] The Makioka Sisters, Some Prefer Nettles, In Praise of Shadows
ANSWER: Junichiro Tanizaki



13.  Identify the following about the English Civil War.
[5,5] For 5 points each, name both the nicknames of the royalist forces that supported King Charles I and the forces that supported Parliament.
ANSWER: Cavaliers and Roundheads
[10] Oliver Cromwell formed this military force of professional soldiers in 1645.  Their revolutionary characteristics included promotion based on proficiency and standard daily pay.
ANSWER: New Model Army
[10] This parliament was a remnant of the Long Parliament following Pride's Purge in 1648.  It ordered the execution of Charles I and abolished the monarchy and House of Lords.
ANSWER: Rump Parliament

14.  Answer the following about the laws of planetary motion derived by Johannes Kepler for the stated number of points.
[10] For 10 points, this law states a line joining a planet and its star sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time.
ANSWER: Kepler's second law
[5] For 5 points, Kepler's first law states the orbit of a planet around a star forms this shape.
ANSWER: ellipse
[5 or 15] 5 points for one and 15 for both, fill in the blanks in this statement of Kepler's third law: The BLANK of sidereal period of an orbiting planet is directly proportional to the BLANK of the radius of the orbit.
ANSWER: square and cube [in that order; accept equivalents]

15.  Identify the following works of Bernini for ten points each.
[10] This architectural work contains four rows of Doric columns that form an oval marked by an Egyptian obelisk and two fountains.  This outdoor plaza next to the central church in Vatican City was commissioned by Pope Alexander VII.
ANSWER: Piazza of St. Peter's Basilica
[10] The title figure of this sculpture in the Cornaro Chapel is being punctured by arrows from an angel.
ANSWER: Ecstasy of St. Teresa
[10] This sculpture contains three figures: Vergil's most important hero, the hero's father, and his son by Creusa.
ANSWER: Aeneas, Anchises and Ascanius

16.  Name these South American conflicts for 10 points each.
[10] This war between Chile, Bolivia and Peru was fought over the Atacama Desert between the 23rd and 26th parallels.  It ended with the 1883 Treaty of Ancòn that denied Bolivia access to an important body of water.
ANSWER: War of the Pacific
[10] Bolivia's desire to retain water access to the Atlantic Ocean following their losses in the War of the Pacific contributed to this 1932-35 war that was fought over the titular, sparsely-inhabited region now part of Paraguay.
ANSWER: Chaco War [accept Gran Chaco War]
[10] This nasty conflict raged between Paraguay and Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay between 1864 and 1870.  It was the bloodiest war in South American history.
ANSWER: War of the Triple Alliance

17.  Name these genetic things for 10 points each.
[10] This condition occurs when both recessive and dominant alleles are expressed simultaneously and separately.  Examples include four o'clock flowers with both red and white petals and blood types.
ANSWER: codominance
[10] This condition occurs when both recessive and dominant alleles are expressed in a blended form.  Examples include four o'clock flowers with pink petals.
ANSWER: incomplete dominance
[10] This diagram was developed by Gregor Mendel and named for a British scientist.  Geneticists use it to predict the probabilities of possible genotypes of offspring.
ANSWER: Punnett square

18.  Name these ode poems from lines for ten points each.
[10] "Bold lover, never, never canst thou kiss, / Though winning near the goal, yet do not grieve: / She cannot fade; though thou hast not thy bliss, / Forever wilt thou love, and she be fair!"
ANSWER: Ode on a Grecian Urn
[10] "Thou wast nor born for death, immortal Bird! / No hungry generations tread thee down; / The voice I hear this passing night was heard / In ancient days by emperor and clown:"
ANSWER: Ode to a Nightingale
[10] "Be through my lips to unawakened earth / The trumpet of a prophecy!  O, Wind, / If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?"
ANSWER: Ode to the West Wind

19.  Name the following about the Supreme Court for ten points per part.
[10] In cases for which the United States is a party, this official represents the U.S. in arguments.  The current one is Theodore Olson.
ANSWER: Solicitor General
[10] A request for this document, which declares the Court wishes to review the ruling on a case from a lesser court, must be approved by four of the nine Justices.
ANSWER: writ of certiorari 
[5,5] For five points per part, name the most senior and junior members of the Supreme Court.
ANSWER: William Rehnquist and Stephen Breyer

20.  Name these documents signed in New England for 10 points each.
[10] This 1620 document was signed by 41 passengers of the titular ship who pledged to combine into a "civil body politick."  It was the first governing document of the Plymouth colony.
ANSWER: Mayflower Compact
[10] The Charter Oak was used as a hiding place for this 1639 document created by several Connecticut River towns.  It was the first written constitution that created a government.
ANSWER: Fundamental Orders of Connecticut
[10] Theodore Roosevelt won the 1906 Nobel Peace Prize for mediating this treaty that ended the Russo-Japanese War.
ANSWER: Treaty of Portsmouth

21.  Name these characters from the Purim story, 5-10-15.
[5] This woman saved the Jews of Persia in her namesake book.
ANSWER: Esther
[10] Esther married this Persian king, who was advised by the evil Haman.  He selected her in a beauty contest but she concealed her faith from him until it was necessary to reveal it to save her people.
ANSWER: Ahasuerus
[15] This former wife of Ahasuerus refuses to show herself off at one of the king's banquets, causing their divorce.  This bit of deux ex machina allows Esther to enter the story.
ANSWER: Vashti

22.  Name these archaeological sites in Asia for ten points per answer.
[10,10] These Pakistani sites, found in the 1920s during the building of a railroad, are thought to be remains of the Indus Valley civilization.  Name both.
ANSWER: Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro
[10] This Chinese site, named for what is found there, is located near Xian [shee-AHN].  It is the burial site of Qin [CHIN] Shi Huangdi, who figured he needed some protection in the afterlife.
ANSWER: Terracotta Army [accept equivalents]

23.  Identify these bands with something in common for ten points each.
[10] Their early work, including "Go Now," was R&B, but they became known as a progressive rock band with their first real album, 1968's Days of Future Passed, which contained the hits "Nights in White Satin" and "Tuesday Afternoon."
ANSWER: Moody Blues
[10] Dewey Bunnell, Dan Peek and Gerry Beckley formed this light rock group, whose huge hits included "Ventura Highway," "Sister Golden Hair" and the infamous "A Horse With No Name."
ANSWER: America
[10] In 1984, this Los Angeles hair metal band released the album Out of the Cellar, which contained the hit "Round and Round."  Known for wild shows and other albums like Detonator, this band was ranted about in Raj Bhan's blog.
ANSWER: Ratt

24.  It was a major contributor to its author winning the 1999 Nobel Prize in Literature.
[10] For ten points, name this novel featuring Oskar Matzerath, who protests the cruelties of German history by refusing to grow up, only communicating with the titular object.
ANSWER: The Tin Drum or Die Blechtrommel
[5,5,5,5] For five points each, identify the name of the trilogy of which The Tin Drum is a member, the two other books, and the author.
ANSWER: Danzig Trilogy; Cat and Mouse or Katz und Maus; Dog Years or Hundejaure; Gunter Grass

25.  Given some molecules, identify their molecular geometry, 5-10-20-30.
[x] SF6
ANSWER: octahedral or square bipyramidal
[x] H2O
ANSWER: bent
[x] PF5
ANSWER: trigonal bipyramidal
[x] CH4
ANSWER: tetrahedral


[end of bonuses]
