2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 2TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) The Wagner-Rogers bill was proposed to help victims of this event, but it failed to pass due to isolationist lobbying.  A reactionary event prompted by the assassination of Ernst von Ram by Herschel Grynszpan, it occurred on November 9, 1938, and is more often referred to by the less ironic Pogromnacht.  For ten points, identify this incident named for the broken windows of Jewish shops and synagogues in Germany.Answer: Kristallnacht or The Night of Broken Glass2) Originally published in Godey's Lady's Book in 1846, it is set during a carnival in a city in Italy.  Interestingly, it never tells exactly what the victim has done to offend his friend, but that doesn't keep the Montressor from burying his friend alive in the catacombs.  For ten points, identify this short story in which Fortunato is lured to his death by his friend promising a rare type of wine, one of the most famous of Edgar Allen Poe.Answer: "The Cask of Amontillado"3) In The Frogs, he is credited for the creation of many Athenian traditions by Aristophanes. He killed three infamous bandits on his journey to Athens, where he was to meet his father. Along with his best friend Piritheus, he was captured by Hades and rescued by his cousin Hercules.  For ten points, who was this mythological figure, the husband of Antiope and Phaedra, the son of King Aegeus, and the slayer of the Minotaur?Answer:  Theseus4) His father, Eliel, was the foremost architect of his native country, having designed the railway station of their capital city.  He followed in his father's footsteps after studying at Yale University, where he would later design the Morse and Stiles College.  Other works include the Kresge Auditorium at MIT.  However, he is best known for designing a monument that would commemorate the Lewis and Clark expedition.  For ten points, identify this Finnish architect of St. Louis's Gateway Arch.Answer: Eero Saarinen5) All the elements in this group exist in nature as diatomic compounds.   They share a column on the periodic table which has the most reactive of all elements at its top.  Consisting of the chemical elements with atomic numbers 85, 53, 35,17, and 9, for ten points, identify this group of elements comprised of Astatine, Iodine, Bromine, Chlorine, and Flourine. Answer: Halogens6) It has profound uses in the area of decision making, and has been applied to the fields of business, war, and animal behavior.  Created by the American mathematician John von Neumann, it was integral in the work of John Nash.  For ten points, identify this branch of complex math that was originally developed by analyzing games of poker - from which it got its name.Answer: Game Theory7) On a trip to London, it is revealed to one of the characters that her love is engaged to Sophia Grey.  However, the book ends happily with the two heroines married to Colonel Brandon and Edward Ferrars.  Elinor and Marianne Dashwood appear in - for ten points - what novel by Jane Austen?Answer: Sense and Sensibility8) Originally a co-emperor with his adoptive brother Verus, he was raised by Antoninus Pius.  He opposed Christianity and was a supporter of the persecution of its practitioners.  When Verus died he made his son his co-emperor.  Author of Meditations, a book of his Stoic philosophy that is still regarded as one of the greatest pieces of writing in history, his reign is considered to be the Golden Age of Rome.  For ten points, identify this Stoic philosopher, conqueror of Germanic tribes, Roman Emperor and father of Commodus.Answer: Marcus Aurelius9) A prolific worker, he wrote over fifty plays from 1893 to 1948. Among them: The Apple Cart, Fanny's First Play, and Back to Methuselah.  However, this member of the Fabian Society is better known for Major Barbara and another play with Henry Higgins and Eliza Doolittle.  For ten points, who is this author of Pygmalion? Answer: George Bernard Shaw10) This process's use of variations in relaxations times and concentrations of water allow it to produce a greater contrast resolution than comparable processes such as CAT scans and x-rays.  Highly utilized in scans of the brain and spinal cord, this is - for ten points - what technique that uses pulses of radio frequencies and strong magnetic fields to produce an image?Answer: MRI or Magnetic Resonance Imaging11) At 2,652 feet, the slopes of this limestone ridge have for centuries been considered the most sacred burial ground for those of the Jewish faith.  Mentioned numerous times in The Bible, it is also considered sacred to Christians.  For ten points, identify this mountain just east of Jerusalem that is traditionally believed to be the site of the Garden of Gethsemane.Answer: Mount of Olives12) This psychological school of thought was first introduced by a professor at Johns Hopkins, notable for his "Little Albert" experiment , but its most famous exponent has undoubtedly been the author of Walden Two. Stating that all human behavior is learned or conditioned this is - for ten points - what psychological theory propogated by John Watson and B. F. Skinner?Answer: Behaviorism13) In 2002, Norman Rockwell's famous painting of her sold at Sotheby's for $4,959,500.  His depiction shows her pausing for lunch, grasping a ham sandwich in her powerful hand.  Another famous depiction of her displays the caption "We Can Do It" and shows her flexing her bicep.  For ten points, identify this fictional character seen on various posters during World War II that encouraged women to work outside the home in order to support the war effort overseas.Answer: Rosie the Riveter14) He was the only son of Queen Isabella of Portugal and Holy Roman Emperor Charles V.  He married four times - to Henry II of France's daughter, Elizabeth of Valois; to Emperor Maximillian II's daughter, Anna; to Maria of Portugal; and finally to Mary I of England.  For ten points, identify this King of Spain and rival of Elizabeth I, who sent the Spanish Armada against the British in 1588.Answer: Philip II15) With songs such as "There Is Nothing Like a Dame," "I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out of My Hair," and "Some Enchanted Evening," this musical centers around American nurse Nellie Forbush, and her love for a French planter, Emile de Becque, who has illegitimate children by a native woman. For ten points, what is this Rogers and Hammerstein musical based on a book by James Michener which first opened on Broadway in 1949? Answer: South Pacific16) These members of the genus Serrasalmus derive their name from the languages of the Guarani and Tupi people of South America.  Literally a compound of words meaning "tooth" and "fish," this name is appropriate considering that these vicious predators can quickly rip the flesh off of large creatures when they swarm.  For ten points, identify these meat-eating fish found in the Amazon.Answer: Piranha17) The Arctic Circle passes through the island of Grimsey just off this country's north coast.  It is located nearly perfectly between Scotland and the northeastern tip of Greenland. 570 miles west of Norway, it is separated from Greenland by the 155-mile-wide Denmark Strait. For ten points, identify this island nation ruled by the oldest existing parliament in the world, the Althing. Answer: Iceland18) The libretto was written by David Belasco, and it first premiered in Februrary of 1904 in Milan.  Initially a failure, it was revised and reopened three months later, this time becoming one of the most popular Italian operas of all time.  With characters such as Cho-Cho-Son and Lieutenant Pinkerton, this is - for ten points - what masterpiece of Giacomo Puccini?Answer: Madame Butterfly19) This battle of the War of 1812 began when 10,000 British veterans of the Napoleonic Wars left Montreal to invade New York. However, on September 11,1814, Captain Thomas MacDonough defeated a British fleet on the namesake lake, stopping  the enemy's supply line. For ten points, name this battle which forced a British retreat in the northern theater, named for the large lake between Vermont and New York.Answer: Battle of Lake Champlain20) Einstein erroneously believed it to be a property of the space around an object, as opposed to a property of the object itself. Newton showed it to be a force exerted by all objects on all other objects, an example being that this property of the moon effects the water here on earth. For ten points, identify this fundamental force of nature that causes objects to be attracted to one another.Answer: Gravity21) A former professor at the University of Montana, his adventure begins when he receives orders from General Golz.  In addition to friends like Karkov, and his guide Anselmo, he is joined by Pablo, Pilar, and other loyalists in a mission to destroy a strategic bridge.  For ten points, identify this man who falls in love with Maria - the protagonist in Ernest Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls.Answer: Robert Jordan (accept either name)22) Consisting of commentary on sixty-four hexagrams, it introduced the concept of yin-yang dualism to the Chinese religion. Although considered one of the "Five Great Books" of Confucianism, it is believed not to have been written by Confucius.  For ten points, what is this Chinese book? Answer: I Ching or Book of Changes
BonusesQuestions by Casey Retterer1) Identify the Nobel laureate in literature from the year he or she won the prize and the year of his or her death for points, or from a couple works for five points.[10] Won it in 1969, died in 1989.[5] Endgame, Waiting for Godot.Answer: Samuel Beckett[10] Won it in 1990, died in 1998.[5] Piedra Del Sol, The Labyrinth of Solitude.Answer: Octavio Paz[10] Won it in 1976, died in 2005.[5] Herzog, Humboldt's Gift.Answer: Saul Bellow2) Given a year, identify the conflict that a Treaty of Paris ended on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] 1783Answer: American Revolutionary War[10] 1763Answer: Seven Years War (prompt on "French and Indian War")[15] 1856Answer: Crimean War3) Identify these religious texts on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] Gabriel allegedly revealed these words to Muhammad.Answer: Koran[10] The first few books of this text are the first and second books of Nephi, the book of Jacob and the Enos. The last book in it is the book of Moroni.Answer: Book of Mormon[15] This religious text of the Babylonians described Marduk's creation of the world from the halves of Tiamat.Answer: Enuma Elish4) Given a translation of a legal phrase in Latin, identity the Latin phrase on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] You have the bodyAnswer: habeas corpus[10] Friend of the courtAnswer: amicus curiae[15] Law as retaliationAnswer: lex talionis5) Name the Roman emperors based on the years they reigned for ten points each, or for five each if you need the emperors who ruled before and after them.[10] 14-37 AD [5] Augustus before, Caligula afterAnswer: Tiberius[10] 69-79 AD[5] Caligula before, Titus afterAnswer: Vespasian[10] 117-138 AD[5] Trajan before, Antonnius Pius afterAnswer: Hadrian6) Identify the composer from works on a 30-20-10 basis.[30] Manfred Symphony[20] The Queen of Spades[10] Swan LakeAnswer: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky7) Given a set of Greek plays, identify the playwright for ten points each.[10] Medea, the Bacchae.Answer: Euripides[10] Oedipus at Colonus, Oedipus Rex.Answer: Sophocles[10] The Suppliants, The Libation-Bearers.Answer: Aeschylus8) Answer the following about electrostatics for ten points each.[10] This law gives the relation between the electric flux flowing out a closed surface and the charge enclosed in it.Answer: Gauss's Law[10] Poisson's equation is a special type of this operator symbolized by an uppercase delta or a nabla squared that finds the electrical potential for a given charge distribution.Answer: Laplacian or Laplace Operator[10] This inverse-square law indicates the magnitude and direction of electrical force that one stationary, charged substance exerts on another.Answer: Coulomb's Law9) Identify the source of the following quotes about birth control for ten points each.[10] "Neglect of an effective birth control policy is a never-failing source of poverty which, in turn, is the parent of revolution and crime" in his Politics circa 350BCE.Answer: Aristotle[10] This former Surgeon General said "Abortion opponents love little babies as long as they are in someone else's uterus," although she's more famous for her stance on masturbation.Answer: Joycelyn Elders[10] "Every sperm is sacred / Every sperm is great / If a sperm is wasted / God gets quite irate."Answer: Monty Python's The Meaning of Life10) Given some characters, identify the Mozart opera for ten points each.[10] Rosina, Susanna and a certain barber from Seville.Answer: The Marriage of Figaro (Le Nozze di Figaro)[10] Electra, Ilia, Idamante and his father.Answer: Idomeneo[10] Elvira, Leporello, Donna Anna and the titular libertine.Answer: Don Giovanni11) Identify the following B vitamins by name (not number) from descriptions for ten points each or from their number for five.[10] Once called Vitamin M, it is important in preventing neural tube defects in developing human fetuses.[5] B-9Answer: Folic Acid[10] A lack of this B Vitamin that plays an essential role in cell metabolism causes pellagra.[5] B-3Answer: Niacin[10] It is required for red blood cell formation and respiration, antibody production and regulated thyroid activity.[5] B-2Answer: Riboflavin12) Identify these Hindu gods for 10 points each.[10] She is the destructive aspect of Devi, skulls, blood and cemeteries are associated with her worship.Answer: Kali[10] She is the goddess of wealth, fortune, luck, beauty and fertility.Answer: Lakshmi[10] All or nothing, these three gods make up the Hindu Trinity.Answer: Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva13) For ten points each, identify the speakers of the following quotes from the American Civil War.[10] "They couldn't hit an elephant at this distance," right before being shot dead by a confederate sniper at Spotsylvania.Answer: John Sedgwick[10] "I think I understand what military fame is: to be killed on the field of battle and have your name misspelled in the newspapers"Answer: William Tecumseh Sherman[10] "Find out where your enemy is, get at him as soon as you can, and strike him as hard as you can, and keep moving on!"Answer: Ulysses S. Grant14) Answer the following about statistical distributions for ten points each.[10] Also called a normal distribution or a bell curve, it represents a central tendency towards the mean.Answer: Gaussian Distribution[10] When a distribution has many values at one extreme and a few at the other, the frequencies are not balanced about the mean, resulting in one of these.Answer: Skewed Distribution[10] This special case of a binomial distribution is named for a French mathematician and physicist, regardless of whether or not it looks like an animal.Answer: Poisson Distribution15) Given a country, identify its capital or capitals for five points per Answer.[5-5] BoliviaAnswer: La Paz, Sucre[5-5-5] South AfricaAnswer: Cape Town, Pretoria, Bleomfontein[5] TuvaluAnswer: Funafuti (an atoll)16) Identify the following literary works from plot summaries for ten points each.[10] Monster terrorizes Heorot, Geat kills monster; monster's mother terrorizes Heorot, Geat kills mother; Geat grows old and rules for 50 years, fights dragon to the death.Answer: Beowulf[10] Southern family honors mother's request to be buried in family plot in Jefferson; hijinks ensue.Answer: As I Lay Dying[10] Man pretends to be his own brother in London and courts cousin of a friend who finds out and then pretends to be said brother in country to court the first man's ward; turns out both are actually brothers.Answer: The Importance of Being Earnest17) Given a brief description of the work, name it for 10 points each.[10] Zephyrs gently blow the title figure ashore as one of the Hours awaits with a robe.Answer: Birth of Venus[10] In this Rubens work, Venus, Minerva and Juno stand naked in front of a shepherd with a golden apple "for the fairest."Answer: The Judgment of Paris[10] Melting clocks, et cetera.Answer: The Persistence of Memory18) Name these members of Oedipus's family for the stated number of points.[5] She was Oedipus's wife and mother.Answer: Jocasta[5/5] For five points each, name the two men who Oedipus had as father, the one whom he killed and the one who raised him in Corinth.Answer: Laius and Polybus[5-5-5] For five points each, name any three of Oedipus's four children.Answer: (any 3) Eteocles, Polynices, Antigone, Ismene19) Given a pair of organisms, identify whether their relationship is parasitism, mutualism or commensalism on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] Clownfish and sea anemones.Answer: Mutualism[10] Remoras and sharks.Answer: Commensalism[15] Rhizobia bacteria and legume plants.Answer: Mutualism20) Given a quote, identify the literary character that said it and the work it appeared in for five points per answer.[5-5] "I pray one prayer - I repeat it till my tongue stiffens - Catherine Earnshaw, may you not rest as long as I am living."Answer: Heathcliff in Wuthering Heights[5-5] "Stella!!!"Answer: Stanley Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire[5-5] "A hit, a very palpable hit."Answer: Orsic in Hamlet21) Identify these Chinese dynasties for ten points each.[10] This ancient Chinese dynasty followed the Xia dynasty and lasted from about 1600 BC to 1046 BC.Answer: Shang (or Yin or Zhang)[10] This dynasty is often divided into Northern and Southern periods, separated by the move of its capital from Kaifeng to Hangzhou.Answer: Song[10] Declared the Later Jin dynasty in 1616, in 1636 this last dynasty changed its name to this in 1636.Answer: Qing (prompt on "Manchu", also pronounced "Ching")