2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 7TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) It received its name from Oliver Goldsmith, who dubbed it in honor of Geoffrey Chaucer. Located at the southern end of the southern transept of a famous London landmark, it includes shrines to Milton, Dickens, Tennyson, and Shakespeare. In addition, there is only one American - Longfellow. For ten points, identify this London  location of the tombs of twenty-six masters of the language, a tourist attraction of Westminster Abbey.  Answer: Poet's Corner2) According to him, Thomas Carlyle's Past and Present is "the only work worth reading."  He was a writer for The Volunteer Journal for Lancashire and Cheshire as well as The Manchester Guardian.  A member of the Chartist movement, he was the author of The Condition of the Working Class in England, but is better known for his collaboration with another writer.  For ten points, identify this man who penned The Communist Manifesto with Karl Marx.Answer: Friedrich Engels3) Charlotte Von Stein is believed to have been this author's model for the character of the Princess in his Torquato Tasso and for Iphigenia in Iphigenia in Tauris.  The author of On the Theory of Color and Prometheus, one of his novel's about a depressed young man who kills himself inspired a trend of young German readers to commit suicide.  For ten points, identify this author of The Sorrows of Young Werther and Faust.Answer: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe4) Appointed Andrew Jackson's second attorney general, when Jackson later tried to appoint him to the office of  Secretary of the Treasury, he became the first cabinet nominee to be rejected by the Senate. Three years later, against the opposition of Henry Clay and Daniel Webster, he was confirmed as John Marshall's successor on the Supreme Court.  For ten points, name this controversial Chief Justice who wrote the majority opinion in the Dred Scott decision.Answer:  Roger Taney5) Events in this work, first published in 1969, includes listening the broadcast of a Joe Louis fight on the radio.  The protagonist is sexually molested by Mr. Freeman, but perseveres to become the first African-American to be a conductor of a street car in San Francisco.  For ten points, identify this autobiographical work, which is easily the best-known of Maya Angelou.Answer:  I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings6) He composed a set of twelve concertos for solo violins and strings, called l'estro armonico as well as the operas Orlando Furioso, and Juditha Triumphans.  He was ordained in 1703 and came to be called the "Red Priest" due to the color of his hair. He never actually was a priest, however, but rather a teacher of violin for orphan girls in Venice. For ten points, who was this composer of a set of 1725 concertos called The Contest Between Harmony and Invention, a collection which includes The Four Seasons?Answer: Antonio Vivaldi7) In 1528, after studying in Orleans and Paris, he openly declared his acceptance and support of the doctrines and beliefs of the Protestant Reformation.  Five years later he was exiled from Paris and moved to Basel, Switzerland where he penned Institutes of the Christian Religion.  For ten points, who was this theologian and proponent of predestination?Answer: John Calvin8) His first solo show was not held until 1927, nine years after he graduated from the Brussels Academy of Fine Arts. In that same year, he met his friends André Breton and Paul Éluard, and he became familiar with the work of Max Ernst. The Belgian surrealist of Son of War was, for ten points,  what artist of Time Transfixed?Answer: Rene Magritte9) From 1863 to 1870, its founder organized partnerships in Cleveland and New Jersey, and eventually garnered control of  90% of the oil refining capacity in The United States. By citing the Sherman Anti-trust Act, the Supreme Court split the company into thirty-three pieces in 1911.  For ten points, identify this company, later renamed Exxon, that was founded by John D. Rockefeller.	Answer:  Standard Oil10) In the United States, concert and soprano versions of these are usually tuned to a key of C.    The Tahitian version does not include a sound box, instead it is constructed from a single piece of wood. Consisting of four strings, this small, guitar-like instrument has come to be associated mainly with Hawaii.  For ten points, identify this musical instrument popular with Kermit the Frog and Tiny Tim.Answer: Ukulele11) Called "Min" by Herodotus, it is reported that he reigned for sixty-two years before he was killed by a hippopotamus. Another historian argues he was called Narmer, a fact substantiated by ancient portrayals of Narmer in Slate adorned with two crowns.  For ten points, identify this king of ancient Egypt, credited with the founding of Memphis with uniting Upper and Lower Egypt.  Answer:  Menes12) There are several subgroups of it, including the Anatolian, Celtic and Slavic.  The Anatolian subgroup includes the lanaguages of both the Hittites and Lydians, while the Celtic includes Gaulish, Gaelic, Welsh and Cornish.  More notable though, are the Germanic, Greek, and Italic subgroups, that make up - for ten points - what language family, which also includes Latin, the Romance Languages, and English?Answer: Indo-European language family13) In its matrix, a molecule of pyruvate is converted into a molecule of carbon dioxide, a molecule of NADH, and a molecule of acetyl-coenzyme A.  The Krebs cycle then takes place, creating NADH, FADH2, as well as carbon dioxide.  The NADH and FADH2 then produce ATP in the electron transport chain, which occurs in this organelle's membrane.  For ten points, identify this cellular organelle, whose inner membrane folds are called cristae - the organelle often referred to as "the powerhouse."Answer:  Mitochondria14) Their most important characteristic is formed by synchrotron emission from charged particles located at their magnetic poles. Most of these objects produce only radio waves. However, one of them, known as Vela, is the most intense gamma radiator in the cosmos. Discovered by Jocelyn Bell and Antony Hewish in 1967 using a radio telescope are - for ten points - what rapidly spinning neutron stars which give off regular bursts, or pulses, of radiation?Answer: Pulsars15) Its two regions are known by the Chinese names Shamo and Han-Hal.  Notable to paleontologists as the only place that intact dinosaur eggs have been found, it has recently been suggested that it be considered two entirely different deserts, with the westernmost part being called Taklamakan.  For ten points, identify this coldest desert located in China and Mongolia.Answer:  Gobi16) He is also known by the name Gullintanni due to his golden teeth. He is identified with the ram, and he can hear the sounds of the grass growing and can see for over a hundred miles at night - useful abilities for a watchman of the gods. For ten points, name this Norse mythological figure, who will blow his Gjallarhorn at the end of the world and who guards the bridge Bifrost.Answer: Heimdall17) A basic belief asserted in this work is that while all knowledge originates with experience, it does not always come from experience.  Also, experience may only confer comparative universality to its judgments, as by induction.  For example, space and time are not the products of empirical knowledge, but exist as a consequence of the author's "Axioms of Intuition." Proposing through the use of transcendental logic that philosophy is based on "a priori" knowledge by determining its extent is -  for ten points - what "Critique" of Immanuel Kant.Answer: Critique of Pure Reason 18) They constitute one of the three major classifications of aliphatic hydrocarbons. They may be branched like isobutane, or straight like n-octane. For ten points, what is this simple type of organic compound that contains carbon and hydrogen atoms connected by single bonds - examples of which include propane and ethane?Answer:  Alkanes19) He was devoted to James Joyce, and his "Home Olga" was written for Joyce.  He also parodies Joyce's Dubliners in More Pricks than Knicks. However, he is better known for plays such as Krapp's Last Tape and Endgame, as well as for the novels in the Malloy trilogy. For ten points, identify this absurdist playwright of Waiting for Godot.Answer: Samuel Beckett20) At the time of his birth, his mother was on pilgrimage to a holy place called Ghang Lha in eastern Nepal.  He attempted the feat for which he is most famous numerous times and with several expeditions before finally accomplishing his lifelong goal in 1953.  For ten points, identify this Sherpa mountain climber who reached the top of Mount Everest and served as a guide for Edmund Hilary.Answer: Tenzing Norkay21) Its SI unit is the kilogram meter squared and it depends mainly on two things: the shape of the object and the distribution of mass.  Changes in it allow figure skaters to start spinning slowly with their limbs extended and then speed up as they draw mass inward.  For a cylindrical shell, it equals the mass times the radius squared, and for a solid sphere it is two-fifths the mass times the radius squared.  For ten points, identify the rotational analogue of mass, symbolized by the letter I.Answer: moment of inertia (prompt on "I")22) He became archon around 594 but didn't gain full power for nearly twenty years thereafter.  Born a noble of moderate means, he replaced the harsh code of Draco with more humane laws and set free prisoners who were enslaved for debt and returned their lands to them.  For ten points, identify this Athenian leader known for ushering in democracy when he eradicated the need for noble blood lineage to participate in government.Answer: Solon
BonusesQuestions by Eric Newman and Dan Goff1) Given a continent, name the longest river on it fore the stated number of points.[10] AfricaAnswer: Nile River[10] EuropeAnswer: Volga River[10] AustraliaAnswer: Darling River2) Give the name of these Beethoven symphonies from the number for ten points each.[10] 3rdAnswer: Eroica Symphony[10] 9thAnswer: Choral Symphony[10] 6thAnswer: Pastoral Symphony3) Name the following philosophers associated with the Eleatic school 5-10-15.[5] The school's founder, he denied the reality of change on the ground that things either exist or do not.Answer: Parmenides[10] A disciple of Parmenides, he used a series of paradoxes to show the indefensibility of common-sense notions of reality.Answer: Zeno of Elea (Prompt on Zeno)[15] This other follower of Parmenides systemized the school and commanded the Samian fleet that defeated the Athenians off the coast of Samos in 442 BCE.Answer: Melissus of Samos4) It's everybody's favorite questions about people you can't pronounce - that's right, Aztec mythology! Answer the following for ten points each.[10] In the Aztec creation myth, this god created the world along with his twin Tezcatlipoca, who lost his foot in the process.Answer: Quetzlcoatl[10] This god was the patron of Tenochitlan, as well as the patron of war, fire, and the sun.Answer: Huitzilopochtli[10] This god was believed to have been created by the other gods, and was the recipient of human sacrifices to prevent both droughts and floods.Answer: Tlaloc5) Identify the following chemical functional groups for ten points each.[10] This group consists of a carbonyl carbon bonded to two carbon atoms and double-bonded to an atom of oxygen.  The simplest one is acetone.Answer: ketone[10] This group consists of a nitrogen bonded to both a hydrogen and a carbon atom, and the carbon atom is double-bonded to an oxygen atom.Answer: amide[10] This group consists of an oxygen bonded to two alkyl groups.  The smallest cyclic one of these is ethylene oxide.Answer: ether6) 30-20-10-5 name the author from works.[30] The Celestial Omnibus, Longest Journey[20] Marianne Thornton, Maurice[10] A Room With A View, Howard's End[5] A Passage To India, Where Angels Fear To TreadAnswer: E. M. Forster7) For ten points each, identify the novel from the first line.[10] ''It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking Thirteen...''Answer: 1984[10] "Mother died today or was it yesterday."Answer: The Stranger[10] "A screaming came suddenly across the sky..."Answer: Gravity's Rainbow8) For ten points each, name these "Great" people in history.[10] This president was known as the Great Communicator.Answer: Ronald Reagan[10] This man was known as the Great CompromiserAnswer: Henry Clay[10] This Supreme Court justice was known as the Great DissenterAnswer: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.9) 30-20-10 name the artist from works.[30] Basket of Bread, The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus[20] The Hallucinogenic Toreador[10] Persistence of MemoryAnswer: Salvador Dali10) Name the authors of these poems FPTE.[10] ThanatopsisAnswer: William Cullen Bryant[10] Ode to PsycheAnswer: John Keats[10] The Chambered NautilusAnswer: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.11) Answer the following about an anthropological family, for the stated number of points.[5-5] For five points each, identify the husband and wife pair famous for their discovery of bipedal hominid footprints in Olduvai Gorge.Answer: Louis and Mary Leakey (all parts required)[10] For ten, name the son of Louis and Mary Leakey, notable for his discovery of Turkana Boy.  In 1989, President Daniel Arap Moi named him head of the Kenyan Wildlife Service.Answer: Richard Leakey[10] For a final ten, give the term for the three female researchers - Dian Fossey, Jane Goodall, and Biruté Galdikas - that Louis Leakey handpicked to study human evolution through the observation of primates in their natural habitat.Answer: Leakey's Angels (There's still no sign of Bosley, though.)12) Name these metabolic processes for ten points each.[10] This is the oxidative process in respiration by which pyruvate is completely decarboxylated to C02.Answer: Krebs' Cycle or Citric Acid Cycle [CAC] or Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle [TCA][10] In this process, sugar is changed anaerobically to pyruvate, with the liberation of a small amount of usable energy.Answer: Glycolysis[10] This series of metabolic reactions, occurring in the liver, converts ammonia into the namesake substance while cyclically regenerating ornithine as a carrier.Answer: Urea Cycle13) For ten points each, give the titles of the stories with these literary threesomes in their names.  5 points if the author is needed.[10] Porthos, Athos, and Aramos.[5] Alexander DumasAnswer: The Three Musketeers[10] Olga, Masha, and Irina[5] Anton ChekhovAnswer The Three Sisters[10] David, Saul, and Absalom[5] Gene EdwardsAnswer: A Tale of Three Kings14) Name these treaties none of which took place in Paris, 5-10-15[5] This treaty ended Russia's involvement in World War IAnswer: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk[10] This treaty ended the Russo-Japanese War	Answer: Treaty of Portsmouth[15] This treaty end the Boer WarAnswer: Treaty of Vereeniging15) Name the Composer from works, 30-20-10.[30] Julius Caesar[20] Zadok the Priest[10] Water MusicAnswer: George Frederic Handel16) Answer these questions about differences in the Catholic and Protestant biblical canons, for ten points each.[10] Included in the Catholic Bible but excluded from the Protestant one are these two books - the first tells of the conquest of Palestine by Alexander the Great, while the second provides a historical and theological supplement to the first.Answer: 1 & 2 Maccabees[10] This German Protestant coined the term "Apochrypha", referring specifically to those books that held religious value and significance, but were not part of officially accepted scripture.Answer: Martin Luther[10] Luther also doubted the authenticity of this book, though he ulitmately included it.  It's position at the end of the Lutheran New Testament is due to his opinion of the book, not the subject matter.Answer: The Revelation of St. John17) Answer the following about optics for the stated number of points.[5] Often symbolized by n, it measures how much light is slowed down by a medium.Answer: Index of refraction (also refractive index)[10] Named for a Dutch mathematician, this law relates the indices of refraction between two materials with their incident angles.Answer: Snell's Law[15] A curved piece of glass resting on a flat piece of glass creates colorful concentric bands known as this man's rings.Answer: Newton's Rings18) Those Beatles were some pretty trippy guys. Given the bizarre imagery found in the lyrics of some Beatles songs, name the song for the stated number of points.[5] Plasticine porters with looking-glass tiesAnswer: Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds[10] Images of broken light which dance before me like a million eyesAnswer: Across the Universe[5] A face that she keeps in a jar by the doorAnswer: Eleanor Rigby[10] Yellow matter custard dripping from a dead dog's eyeAnswer: I Am The Walrus19) For ten points each, answer the following about the York dynasty, none of which are Richard III or Bosworth Field.[10] This first king of the House of York was successor to Henry VI.Answer: Edward IV[10] Successor to Edward IV was this king, who took the crown at the age of 12, but was banished to the Tower of London by Richard, Duke of Gloucester, and never heard from again.Answer: Edward V[10] This sister of Edward V married Henry Tudor following his victory at Bosworth Field, effectively ending both the York dynasty and the War of the Roses.Answer: Elizabeth of York20) For the stated number of points, name these processes related to crossing membranes.[10] This is the term for an energy-expending mechanism by which a cell moves a chemical across a cell membrane against the diffusion gradient.Answer: Active Transport[5] This is the term for diffusion across a plasma membrane in which the cell expends no energy.Answer: Passive Transport[15] This is a form of passive transport which uses specific carrier proteins to move specific solutes through a cell membrane.  The source of energy for this process is in the way proteins change shape when they bond to another molecule or ion.Answer: Facilitated Diffusion21)  For ten points each, name the three Roman emperors who immediately followed Augustus Caesar.Answer: Tiberius (Tiberius Claudius Nero Caesar), Caligula (Gaius Julius Caesar Germanicus), Claudius (Tiberius Claudius Nero Caesar Drusus or Tiberius Claudius Drusus Nero Germanicus)