Maryland High School Classic 2004

Semifinals

Questions by Adam Fine

1.  One line of this song notes, "We still got terrorists here livin' in the USA, the big CIA, the Bloods the Crips and the KKK."  Its chorus goes, "People killin', people dyin' / Children hurt and you hear them cryin' / Can you practice what you preach / And would you turn the other cheek / Father, Father, Father help us / Send us some guidance from above."  For ten points, as sung by Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas, what four-word song title do "people got me, got me questionin'"?
ANSWER:  "WHERE IS THE LOVE" 

2.  They can be broken down into a 50S and a 30S subunit.  In prokaryotes, they can be found throughout the cytoplasm, while in eukaryotes, they can also be found in the mitochondria, chloroplasts, and the nucleus.  During their most notable function, they attach to a single messenger RNA molecule and translate genetic information into amino acids.  Often found bound to the endoplasmic reticulum, these are, for ten points, which cellular organelles used for protein synthesis?
ANSWER:  RIBOSOMES

3.  Early tyrants of this city-state included Gelon and Hiero I.  After Hiero's death, a democracy was established, but by the fourth century BCE the tyrant Dionysius the Elder fought with the Carthaginians and the Etruscans.  Originally established as a Corinthian colony in 734 BCE, it repelled an Athenian attack in 413 BCE, leading to that state's loss of the Peloponnesian War.  For ten points, identify this city on the east coast of Sicily, namesake of a central New York university.
ANSWER:  SYRACUSE

4.  He enjoyed some military success, as he expelled the Philistines from the hills and extended his territory into Judah and the Transjordan.  He ultimately killed himself, however, rather than surrender after he was defeated at Mount Gilboa.  The son of Kish of the Tribe of Benjamin, his reign began around 1020 BCE, and is described beginning in Chapter Nine of First Samuel.  For ten points, who was this man succeeded by David, the first King of Israel?
ANSWER:  SAUL

5.  He attended Bellaire High School in Houston, Texas, leading them to a 26-5 record in his senior season.  MVP of the Pittsburgh Hoops All-Star Classic in 2001, where he got a triple-double, he went through college in three years, becoming his school's all-time shot blocker.  A two-time Academic All-American and First Team All-Big East, he earned Most Outstanding Player honors in the 2004 NCAA Final Four.  For ten points, name this 6-9 Connecticut standout who may become the #1 pick of the NBA Draft.
ANSWER:  Emeka OKAFOR

6.  In 1899 chemist Johannes Thiele suggested that this compound's bonds exhibited resonance, oscillating between single and double bonds.  Michael Faraday first isolated it in 1825, but scientists could not make out its structure for forty years.  Used for producing aniline, phenol, and styrene, a German chemist figured out that its atoms were arranged as a planar hexagon.  For ten points, Friedrich Kekule thus discovered the structure of what liquid with formula C6H6?
ANSWER:  BENZENE 

7.  This doctrine was specifically laid out by a 1679 English act with the same name.  The 1628 Petition of Right and the abolition of the Star Chamber also referred to this principle, but both the 1679 act and Article I, Section 9 of the United States Constitution gave in legal power and instructions for enforcement.  The central issue in the case Ex parte Milligan, for ten points, what writ issued by a court determines whether a prisoner is lawfully held, and literally is Latin for "you are to bring the body"?
ANSWER:  Writ of HABEAS CORPUS

8.  Born at Reims in 1619, he played a large role in establishing the Codes of Civil and Criminal Procedure in 1667 and 1670 respectively.  He also built up a large navy and established both the Tuileries Gardens and the Hotel des Invalides (in-vahl-EED), a hospital for war veterans.  Responsible for ousting corrupt minister Fouquet in 1661, his mercantilist policies led to a golden age in France.  For ten points, who was this chief financial minister to Louis XIV until he died in 1683?
ANSWER:  Jean Baptiste COLBERT (kohl-BEAR)

9.  Born in the Bronx, he attended law school at Berkeley in order to distance himself from his overbearing mother Sophie.  He now works for a prestigious law firm, where his old friend Rachel has tried to hit on him, but he remains loyal to his wife and college sweetheart, Kirsten Nichol.  For ten points, identify this Newport former public defender portrayed onscreen by Peter Gallagher, the foster father of Ryan Atwood and father of Seth on Fox's "The O.C.".
ANSWER:  SANDY Cohen

10.  Antoine Galland's 1717 French translation was the first version introduced to Europe, but explorer Richard Burton's 1888 English compilation is more complete.  Spirits named jinni appear in several of the stories, such as "The Merchant and the Jinni," while the tales are framed around the soothing of the misogynist King Schahriah.  Including "Sinbad the Sailor" and "Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves," for ten points, identify this collection of tales told by Scheherazade.
ANSWER:  The THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS (or The ARABIAN NIGHTS or A Thousand and One ARABIAN NIGHTS)

11.  The Treaty of Westminster permanently restored this area to England in 1673.  Settled in 1624, it once included parts of Connecticut, Delaware, and New Jersey, and had four directors-general, the first and last both named Peter, Minuit and Stuyvesant (STY-vuss-ant) respectively.  For ten points, identify this colony captured by England in 1664, originally settled by the Dutch East India Company with capital at New Amsterdam.
ANSWER:  NEW NETHERLAND (accept "New York" in first sentence; prompt on "New York" afterward)

12.  She was a pupil of soprano Elvira de Hidalgo, and debuted in her home country at age 18 in the role of Tosca.  Her performance in La Gioconda in 1947 brought her fame throughout Italy, but she made her greatest accomplishments in bel canto roles such as Lucia di Lammermoor and Norma.  For ten points, name this woman born to Greek parents in New York as Maria Kalogeropoulos, one of the great opera singers of the mid-twentieth century.
ANSWER:  Maria CALLAS

13.  Though born in Germany, he lived in Switzerland after 1912, mainly because he was a devoted follower of Carl Jung (YOONG), with whom he underwent psychoanalysis.  Early novels such as Beneath the Wheel and Rosshalde fell far short of his later works, which examined the clash between social tradition and rebellion, most notably The Glass Bead Game.  For ten points, name this author of Demian and Siddartha, the winner of the 1946 Nobel Prize for Literature.
ANSWER:  Hermann HESSE

14.  The city of Bol lies on this body of water's northeastern shore.  It is fed directly by the Shari and Logone (loh-GOH-nay) Rivers, though a 2000 study determined the feasibility of diverting the Oubangui River into it.  Once 10,000 square miles, frequent droughts have dwindled its size to as low as 580 square miles at times.  For ten points, identify this lake found at the junction of Cameroon, Nigeria, Niger, and its namesake country.
ANSWER:  Lake CHAD

15.  This Frenchman took the first photograph of the Sun in 1845.  He also used a rapidly rotating mirror to measure the velocity of light, and proved that the brain combines colors from both eyes to form a single image, but is best known for inventing two devices that demonstrate rotation around a central axis.  For ten points, identify this physicist who developed both the gyroscope and a namesake pendulum that showed how the Earth rotates.
ANSWER:  Jean FOUCAULT (foo-KOH)

16.  Though published in 1920, this book looks at New York society life in the author's teenage years, the 1870s.  Toward the end of the novel, one of the main characters declines to visit another in Paris, choosing to send his son instead.  That man, a lawyer, is initially drawn to a woman who is separated from Count Olenska, even though the man is engaged to her cousin May Welland.  For ten points, identify this novel centering on Ellen Olenska and Newland Archer, written by Edith Wharton.
ANSWER:  The AGE OF INNOCENCE

17.  Its name means "dreadful mount," and refers either to a god's horse or to the gallows.  It grew near Hvergelmir, a spring where the dragon Nidhogg gnawed at it when he got bored of eating corpses.  It also descended near Mimir's well, where Odin hung from it for nine days in order to gain wisdom.  For ten points, an eagle lived on top of what ash tree of Norse mythology, where he was daily harassed by the squirrel Ratatosk?
ANSWER:  YGGDRASIL

18.  Shortly before his death at age 95, this man became a citizen of Ghana after joining the American Communist Party.  A graduate of Fisk and Harvard universities, his scholarly works included 1899's The Philadelphia Negro and 1903's The Souls of Black Folk, in which he argued that a black elite should lead his race from oppression.  For ten points, name this founder of the Niagara Movement, a forerunner of the NAACP, whose views contrasted with those of Booker T. Washington.
ANSWER:  W.E.B. DUBOIS (doo-BOYZ)

19.  In Egypt, this term was used to denote any court official.  Germaine Greer wrote of a female "one" in her most famous book, while in India some still exist and are known as hijras.  In the Byzantine and Ottoman Empires and in China they had major influence in imperial courts, and boys in Italy also became them in order to preserve soprano voices.  Often serving as guards for palace women, for ten points, identify the term for a man who was often voluntarily castrated.
ANSWER:  EUNUCH (accept "castrati" or "castrated" until the end)

20.  It may in fact be a triple star system, as some astronomers have speculated that a brown dwarf orbits the main star.  The second star, discovered in 1862, is a white dwarf that may have been seen as a red giant in ancient times.  Located 8.7 light years from the earth, it was called Al Shira by the Arabs and Sothis by the Egyptians.  For ten points, identify this object with a negative apparent magnitude, the brightest star in the sky other than the Sun, located in Canis Major.
ANSWER:  SIRIUS

21. As a political journalist, he used his publication The National Gazette to support Thomas Jefferson in the early 1790s.  Late in life he continued to write poetry, such as "To a Caty-Did," but had to earn money as both a farmer and a tinker in order to survive.  Author of "The Power of Fancy," and "The British Prison Ship," for ten points name this American dubbed the "Poet of the American Revolution."
ANSWER:  Philip FRENEAU

22.  He is a trained fencer who "fights by the book of arithmetic," and is also a "courageous captain of compliments."  In Act I of the play in which he appears, he recognizes one of the title characters at his family's ball, but his uncle keeps him from committing any violence at that point.  This did not stop him in Act III, however, as he kills Mercutio Montague in a fight.  For ten points, which Capulet cousin of Juliet is in turn slain by Romeo?
ANSWER:  TYBALT

23.  The winning side lost less than 100 men, 29 planes, and five midget submarines.  97 army planes were destroyed at Hickam and Wheeler fields, while vessels lost included the California, the Virginia, and the Arizona.  At 6 AM on the morning of the attack, Vice Admiral Nagumo used radio silence as he launched his fleet from the Kuril Islands.  For ten points, what American naval disaster of December 7, 1941 led the U.S. into World War II?
ANSWER:  PEARL HARBOR

24.  Its negative space is dominated by a light gray tint, but the right half of the canvas features bright red and yellow colors.  At left, a black-and-white American fighter jet has just shot a missile that runs in a line toward the bottom right, where it strikes an enemy plane, causing an explosion.  For ten points, identify this 1963 painting by Roy Lichtenstein where the five-letter title exclamation appears in yellow at the top right, and has nothing to do with a cheesy 1980s pop duo starring George Michael.
ANSWER:  WHAAM!
  
25.  It is found in two forms:  the thicker type is made of granite, and is 22 miles thick on average, while the thinner version is composed of basalt and is only about four miles thick.  Both forms are separated by a boundary called the Mohorovicic discontinuity, and the transition between the two forms causes continental slopes.  For ten points, identify the thin Earth layer that comes in both oceanic and continental types, and lies just above the mantle.
ANSWER:  CRUST 







   

Bonuses

1.  Identify these chemical laws for ten points each.
a. P times V equals constant; that is, the pressure of a gas varies inversely with its volume.
ANSWER:  BOYLE'S Law
b. In this law named after an Englishman, the pressure exerted by a chemical mixture is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of its components.
ANSWER:  DALTON'S Law of Partial Pressures
c. A German proposed this law that states:  in a chemical reaction the heat absorbed or evolved is the same whether the reaction occurs in multiple steps or a single step.
ANSWER:  HESS'S Law 

2.  Identify the architect from buildings he designed on a 10-5 basis.
a. 10:  The Royal Hospital for Seamen; Whitehall Palace
5:  St. Paul's Cathedral
ANSWER:  Christopher WREN
b. 10:  CBS Building, TWA Terminal at JFK Airport
5:  St. Louis Gateway Arch
ANSWER:  Eero SAARINEN
c. 10:  Canary Wharf Tower, Battery Park City
5:  Petronas Towers
ANSWER:  Cesar PELLI

3.  30-20-10, name the monarch:
30:  After he gained the throne of his country, he used the Hapsburg method to consolidate power - marrying his daughter Margaret to James IV of Scotland and his granddaughter Mary to Louis XII of France.
20:  He also put down revolts by the Yorkists Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck in the late fifteenth century, and sponsored John Cabot's voyages to the New World.
10:  The first Tudor king, he killed Richard III at Bosworth Field in 1485.
ANSWER:  HENRY VII

4.  Characters from The Brothers Karamazov for the stated number of points:
a. First, for five points each, name the three legitimate sons of Fyodor Karamazov.
ANSWERS:  DMITRI, IVAN, and ALYOSHA (or ALEXEY)
b. In the book, Dmitri is principally involved with two women, one his ex-fiancée and the other a local temptress also loved by his father.  Five points for one and fifteen for both, name them.
ANSWERS:  KATERINA Ivanovna; GRUSHENKA

5.  Phil Mickelson finally broke through and won a major.
a. For five points, what April tournament held in Augusta, Georgia did Mickelson win?
ANSWER:  The MASTERS
b. For another five, the winner of The Masters earns what article of clothing?
ANSWER:  GREEN JACKET
c. For ten, Mickelson held off a final round charge by this South African, nicknamed The Big Easy.
ANSWER:  Ernie ELS
d. Mickelson became the second straight southpaw to win The Masters.  For a final ten, name the Canadian who won in 2003.
ANSWER:  Mike WEIR

6. Grand unification theories (or GUTs) attempt to describe three of the fundamental forces in terms of single interaction.
a. For five points each, which three fundamental forces are associated with grand unification theories?
ANSWERS:  ELECTROMAGNETIC force; STRONG nuclear force; WEAK nuclear force
b. Five points for one or fifteen for both, grand unification theories also attempt to describe which two primary constituents of matter as varieties of a single type of subatomic particle?
ANSWERS:  QUARKS; LEPTONS

7. 30-20-10 identify the novel:
30:  J.M. Coetzee's Foe and Michel Tournier's Vendredi are both revamped versions of this work.
20: Based on the life of Alexander Selkirk, this book's title character returns to England with his companion after they capture a mutinous ship.
10: The title character in this Daniel Defoe novel is stranded on an island near the Orinoco River for 24 years, but meets a man he calls Friday.
ANSWER:  ROBINSON CRUSOE

8. Answer these questions about an infamous incident in Indian history for ten points each.
a. In 1756, 43 out of 64 British soldiers suffocated to death when they were put in this tiny airless room in a large Indian city.
ANSWER:  BLACK HOLE OF CALCUTTA
b. Give the five-letter name of the leader of Bengal who shut the British soldiers in the Black Hole of Calcutta.
ANSWER:  NAWAB
c. The following year, which British leader recaptured Calcutta from the nawab of Bengal?
ANSWER:  Robert CLIVE

9. Perform these random math calculations for ten points each.
a. A times F in hexadecimal form
ANSWER:  96
b. The area of a 30-60-90 triangle with hypotenuse 12
ANSWER:  18 TIMES THE SQUARE ROOT OF 3
c. The two real roots of the equation "x squared minus 6x plus 4"
ANSWER:  3 PLUS OR MINUS THE SQUARE ROOT OF 5 

10. Identify these American plays from brief descriptions for ten points each.  If you need the author, you will earn five points.
a. 10:  A retelling of the Orestes trilogy, it tells the story of Christine Mannon's poisoning of her husband Ezra, with the help of her lover Adam.
5:  Eugene O'Neill
ANSWER:  MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRA 
b. 10:  Flashbacks show the title character's failures in both his work and with his family:  sons Biff and Happy and wife Linda.
5:  Arthur Miller
ANSWER:  DEATH OF A SALESMAN
c. 10:  Grover's Corners, New Hampshire prior to World War I is the setting for this play that features the romance between Emily Webb and George Gibbs.
5:  Thornton Wilder
ANSWER:  OUR TOWN

11.  Identify these objects in the solar system other than the planets, 5-10-15.
a. This largest asteroid, named after the Roman goddess of the harvest, was first discovered by Father Piazzi in 1801.
ANSWER:  CERES
b. Galileo discovered this largest moon in the solar system, which is composed of 40% water ice.
ANSWER:  GANYMEDE
c. Short-period comets arise from this inner "belt" of the Oort (ORT) Cloud located within the solar system.
ANSWER:  KUIPER (KY-pur) Belt

12. Given the Canadian province, name the two largest cities by population in that province, for five points each, ten per pair.
a. Manitoba
ANSWERS:  WINNIPEG; BRANDON
b. Saskatchewan
ANSWERS:  SASKATOON; REGINA
c. British Columbia
ANSWERS:  VANCOUVER; VICTORIA 

13. In honor of the upcoming movie "Troy," five points for one, ten for two, twenty for three, and thirty for all four, given a fallen hero in The Iliad, name the person who kills him. If he does not die in The Iliad, say "none."
a. Hector
ANSWER:  ACHILLES
b. Aeneas
ANSWER:  NONE (hence, The Aeneid)
c. Patroclus
ANSWER:  HECTOR
d. Pandarus
ANSWER:  DIOMEDES (die-AH-muh-deez)   

14. Identify these compositions by Ludwig van Beethoven for ten points each.
a. This symphony was originally designed to commemorate the ascension of Napoleon as Emperor of France.
ANSWER:  EROICA (or THIRD) Symphony
b. In this only Beethoven opera, Leonore disguises herself as the title character in order to rescue her husband Florestan.
ANSWER:  FIDELIO
c. In 1810 Beethoven wrote the incidental music for this Goethe (GUR-tuh) drama about a sixteenth century nobleman who opposed the Spanish.
ANSWER:  EGMONT

15. Jack Nicholson has won three Academy Awards.
a. For five points each, name the three movies for which he won acting Oscars.
ANSWERS:  ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST, TERMS OF ENDEARMENT, AS GOOD AS IT GETS
b. Now, ten points for one or fifteen for two, name any two of three characters Jack Nicholson portrayed in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Terms of Endearment," and "As Good As it Gets."  First or last name acceptable.
ANSWERS:  RANDLE Patrick MCMURPHY; GARRETT BREEDLOVE; MELVIN UDALL

16. Given the battle, identify the winning and losing military leaders for five points per part (ten per pair).
a. Poltava
ANSWERS:  PETER THE GREAT (or PETER I) over CHARLES XII
b. Borodino
ANSWERS:  NAPOLEON I over M.I. KUTUZOV
c. Bannockburn
ANSWERS:  ROBERT THE BRUCE (or ROBERT I) over EDWARD II

17. 30-20-10, identify the item:
30: Between 1866 and 1913 it featured first a shield and then the head of Miss Liberty, patterned after the goddess Diana.
20: In 2004, its back will feature either a Peace Medal design or the keelboat that Lewis and Clark used on their voyage.
10: Between 1913 and 2003, this coin had a buffalo and then Thomas Jefferson's profile on the front.
ANSWER:  NICKEL

18. Identify the following Native American tribes of historical importance for ten points each.
a. Known for breeding Appaloosa horses, this northwestern tribe was led by Chiefs Looking Glass and Joseph.
ANSWER:  NEZ PERCE
b. The Prophet and his brother Tecumseh led this tribe located in southern Ohio and Kentucky against Americans at the battle of Tippecanoe in 1811.
ANSWER:  SHAWNEE
c. This tribe's name comes from the Zuñi word for "enemy."  Cochise and Geronimo were leading chiefs who fought guerrilla campaigns against settlers in the 1880s.
ANSWER:  APACHE

19. Identify these psychological studies and their authors for ten points each.
a. He was a gynecologist and she was a psychologist; together they wrote four reports on sexual response, sexual inadequacy, homosexuality, and AIDS.
ANSWER:  MASTERS AND JOHNSON reports
b. The predecessor to the Masters and Johnson reports were a pair of studies of sexual behavior in men and women, published by this man in 1948 and 1953 respectively.
ANSWER:  KINSEY reports
c. In 1927, Elton Mayo began this study that had nothing to do with sex (we hope), but instead examined the relationship between lighting conditions and worker output in the namesake industrial plant.
ANSWER:  HAWTHORNE studies 

20. Given an animal, identify the phylum to which it belongs for five points each.
a. scorpion
ANSWER:  ARTHROPODA (or ARTHROPODS)
b. sea urchin
ANSWER:  ECHINODERMATA (or ECHINODERMS)
c. earthworm
ANSWER:  ANNELIDA (or ANNELIDS)
d. barracuda
ANSWER:  CHORDATA (or CHORDATES)
e. sponge
ANSWER:  PORIFERA
f. octopus
ANSWER:  MOLLUSCA (or MOLLUSKS)

21. Given the year and a description of the participants, identify the Supreme Court case for ten points each.
a. 1962; voter sues Tennessee state official, claiming that he had been deprived of equal protection under the Fourteenth Amendment, since his district was had not been reapportioned.
ANSWER:  BAKER V. CARR
b. 1965; a Planned Parenthood official appealed a fine imposed by a state for a fine imposed on her for dispensing birth control information to married people.
ANSWER:  GRISWOLD V. CONNECTICUT
c. 1966; a 23-year old man's rape conviction was overturned because state police did not read him his constitutional rights when they interrogated him.
ANSWER:  MIRANDA V. ARIZONA 

22. Michael Flatley wasn't the only "Lord of the Dance."
a. For ten points, which Hindu god sometimes manifested himself as Nataraja, the "Lord of the Dance"?
ANSWER:  SHIVA
b. For five, Shiva's role as Nataraja distracts him from what usual role in the Hindu Trimurti?
ANSWER:  DESTROYER (or DESTRUCTION; accept equivalents)
c. For fifteen, as Nataraja, Shiva is sometimes depicted dancing on top of which bull, his mount?
ANSWER:  NANDI

23. Given a pair of short stories or novellas, identify their author for ten points each.
a. "Benito Cerreno," "Bartleby the Scrivener"
ANSWER:  Herman MELVILLE
b. "The Pearl," "The Red Pony"
ANSWER:  John STEINBECK
c. "The Shadow-Line," "The Secret Sharer"
ANSWER:  Joseph CONRAD 

24. Answer these questions about economist Thorstein Veblen for ten points each.
a. Veblen coined this two-word term that is defined as "the ostentatious display of wealth or nonessential goods and services."
ANSWER:  CONSPICUOUS CONSUMPTION
b. Veblen discusses his concept of "conspicuous consumption" in this 1899 book.
ANSWER:  The THEORY OF THE LEISURE CLASS
c. Veblen strongly influenced this other economist, who in 1958 published The Affluent Society.
ANSWER:  John Kenneth GALBRAITH

25. Answer these questions about a French philosopher for ten points each.
a. This man's six-volume Course of Positive Philosophy was the basis of a philosophical system based on science and logic, known as positivism.
ANSWER:  Auguste COMTE
b. The positive stage was the third in Auguste Comte's stages of intellectual development.  All or nothing, name Comte's first two stages.
ANSWER:  THEOLOGICAL and METAPHYSICAL
c. Comte coined this nine-letter term that he used to describe the science of human relations.
ANSWER:  SOCIOLOGY 

 
