2004 Maryland High School Classic

Round 9

Questions by Phil Durkos

Tossups

Most scientists suspect that this object is a rogue comet, snagged from its own elliptical orbit by the gravitational field of a planet, which it now orbits. Of all the natural satellites in the solar system, this one has the closest albedo value to its mother planet. It is also the closest in size to its planet, with diameter between 1/4 and 1/3 that of the planet it orbits. For 10 points, identify this only moon of Pluto, named after a ferryman from Greek mythology. 
ANSWER: CHARON

A disciple of Walter Pater in his early years, he idolized beauty for its own sake. His first literary success was a volume of poems, including "The Sphinx," earned him the editorship of "Women's World" magazine in 1887. After that he published a number of successful comedies, beginning with "Lady Windermere's Fan," but was then jailed for his homosexual affair with Lord Alfred Douglas. For 10 points, identify this author of "The Picture of Dorian Gray."
ANSWER: Oscar WILDE

It began when the Assembly successfully negotiated an alliance with the colony of Corcyra, which violated the Thirty Years Truce since Corcyra was not technically a sovereign city. After ten years, both participants signed the Peace of Nicias, but in 415BCE, Alcibiades had Nicias exiled and resumed the offensive. Thebes attacked Plataea, an Athenian ally, but the war was concluded by the victory of Lysander's navy at Aegospotami. For 10 points, identify this 431-405BCE war between Athens and Sparta.
ANSWER: PELOPONNESIAN War

Lending its name to a famous overture by Richard Strauss, it is better classified as a collection of parables and epigrams, such as "A good Christian is a good slave," than as a philosophical text. The most famous parable tells of the titular prophet as he wanders the streets of a town carrying a lantern to symbolize faith, which he smashes. For 10 points, identify this work of Friedrich Nietzsche whose title character founded Zoroastrianism. ANSWER: THUS SPAKE ZARATHUSTRA or ALSO SPRACH ZARATHUSTRA

The opening scene of this novel is set in the soiree of Anna Pavlovna Scherer, where we are introduced to the upper lip of Princess Lisa, which is too short, and the malcontent of her brooding husband, Andrei, one of the protagonists. The second is Nikolai, who has an intense, atheistic spiritual experience when he is wounded at the Battle of Borodino. For ten points, identify this novel whose third protagonist is the aimless intellectual Pierre Bezukhov, written by Leo Tolstoy. 
ANSWER: WAR AND PEACE

The first was founded by the Club des Cordeliers, because during the early years of their movement, its members met in an abandoned Franciscan monastery. It disintegrated after the Convention of July 27, which is better known by another name, had most of its leaders executed. The second, led by idealistic students, captured the namesake city but couldn't hold it. For 10 points, identify the name given to both these groups, which captured the French capital in 1789 and 1871. 
ANSWER: PARIS COMMUNE

The theme song was performed by Placebo and entitled "Every You, Every Me," but the soundtrack also featured the Counting Crows' "Color Blind" and the Verve's "Bittersweet Symphony." The movie itself was based on Choderlos de Laclos' scandalous masterpiece, "Dangerous Liaisons." The hero, Sebastian, undertakes Catherine's assignment to take Cecile's virginity. For 10 points, identify this movie centering around a love triangle between Reese Witherspoon, Sarah Michelle Gellar, and Ryan Philippe. 
Answer CRUEL INTENTIONS

One theory suggests that these organelles once existed independently from humankind, but that their symbiosis with eukaryote cells made the cells so much more efficient that the eukaryotes simply absorbed them. This idea is supported by the folds in these organelles, called "cristae," and their double membranes. For 10 points, identify these organelles which make possible aerobic respiration. 
ANSWER: MITOCHONDRIA

Nobody expected much of this poem's title hero as a child; he was often considered weak and lazy. After he made his reputation in a swimming contest, which he describes to Unferth, he rides to the rescue of Heorot and its imperiled king, but it would not be safe for long, because its princess Freawaru would marry its destroyer. For 10 points, identify this alliterative epic whose title king, after being killed by the Fire Dragon, is succeed by his nephew Wiglaf. 
ANSWER: BEOWULF

Written between 1719 and 1721, they were dedicated to Margrave Christian Ludwig, who may actually never have listened to them, although he did become the patron for their composer's book, "The Art of Fugue." The fourth is best known for its exultant finale, the fifth for a challenging cymbalo cadenza, and the sixth for its 2 haunting violin solos. For 10 points, identify these six most famous works of JS Bach. 
ANSWER: BRANDENBURG CONCERTOS

The national poet of this nation, known for such poems as "O Cloud" and "Too Spicily Wounded," is Konstantin Yavuruv. However, its more famously exported literary figure, known for "Tower of Babel" and "The Secret Heart of the Clock," is Elias Cannetti. The citizen of this country best-known to Americans, however, is recently eliminated American Idol contestant Leah Labelle. For 10 points, identify the eastern European nation which has capital at Sofia. 
ANSWER: BULGARIA

It was the subject of a study by University of Sweden professor Jacob Grendestadt, although it most famous example was manifested in the 1970's. Members of the idealist revolutionary group called the Symbionese Liberation Army kidnapped the heiress Patty Hearst, and, seduced by their romantic ideology, she became a convert and robbed a bank. For 10 points, identify this psychological phenomenon by which a kidnap victim becomes a willing sympathizer with his or her kidnappers. 
ANSWER: STOCKHOLM Syndrome

Courtiers of this Roman Emperor included Tigellinus, Trimalchio, and Petronius, who attacked him in the Satyricon. His mother, Agrippina, convinced this emperor's predecessor to set aside the legitimate heir, Britannicus, in favor of him, despite rumors that he was conceived in an incestuous union with her brother. He committed suicide during a revolt by the Praetorian guard, and was the successor to Emperor Claudius. For 10 points, identify this emperor who allegedly fiddled while Rome burned. 
ANSWER: NERO

Her hip and several other bones were shattered in a bus accident, which put her in a two-month coma and left her in constant agony for the remainder of her life. She is famous for her extramarital affair with Leon Trotsky as well as her monstrous uni-brow. Among her paintings are a famous series of self-portraits which include "Self-Portrait as a Wounded Hind" and "Self-Portrait in Agony." For 10 points, identify this Mexican artist married to Diego Rivera and played by Salma Hayek. 
ANSWER: Frida KAHLO

"Grave men, near death, can see with blinding sight/ Blind eyes can blaze like meteors and be gay," this poem exults. Written in villanelle form, it forms the model for the modern villanelle, "The Boredom and the horror and the glory." The poem, a meditation on death, is centered on the poet's dying father, "there on that sad height." For 10 points identify this villanelle whose secondary refrain is "Rage, rage against the dying of the light," a work of Dylan Thomas. 
ANSWER: DO NOT GO GENTLE INTO THAT GOOD NIGHT

The Super K project in Japan, designed to search for these molecules, was seriously set back by its 2001 implosion. Other labs designed to detect and count them include Lucerne Laboratories and Batavia, Illinois' famous Fermilab. For many years, the fact that protons maintain constant mass baffled scientists until it was discovered that protons do in fact decay, into these massless particles. For 10 points, identify these massless, neutral subatomic particles. 
ANSWER: NEUTRINOs

On the way home from this battle, Miguel de Cervantes was captured by pirates from the Coast of Barbary, but he was released 5 years later when it was decided that wounds sustained during the fighting had permanently crippled his left hand. It is often cited as the antithesis to the earlier Battle of Mohacs, because unlike Mohacs, it was fought at sea and the Ottomans lost. For 10 points, identify this Spanish naval victory over Turkey in 1571. 
ANSWER: Battle of LEPANTO

A great irony for college quiz bowl players is that the lead singer of this band was named Steve Perry. Some of their lesser hits include "Lonely Fools Believe in God" and  "Only the Young." A power- rock group, they arose in the mid-'70's alongside Styx and Toto. A greater hit was "Separate Ways," whose inspiring chorus begins, "Someday, Love will find you." For 10 points, identify this awesome rock group best-remembered for "Wheel in the Sky" and "Don't Stop Believing." 
ANSWER: JOURNEY

His glyph was tecpatl, the obsidian knife. He is named for his breastplate; his name translates from the Nahuatl as "Smoking Mirror." He kidnapped and raped Xochiquetzal, the Goddess of Love, impregnating her with Coyolxauhquue, the Mother of Treachery. He is the lord of the northern shadow-realm, Mictlan, and the archenemy of Quetzalcoatl. For 10 points, identify this Aztec god of evil. 
ANSWER: TEZCATLIPOCA

His poetry is noted as the most academic of all the British Romantics, and he published a sort of romantic manifesto in his later years, the "Biographia Litteraria." He is thought to have inspired the end of "The Great Gatsby," because he discusses a "Green light that lingers in the west" at the end of his "Dejection:An Ode." The image also occurs in his verse epic "Christabel." For 10 points, identify this collaborator with Wordsworth on "Lyrical Ballads," to which he contributed his most famous work, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." 
ANSWER: Samuel Taylor COLERIDGE

This nation recently experienced a 2-month civil war when its incumbent president, Didier Ratsiraka, was elected down and simply refused to leave. The newly elected president, Marc Ravalomanana, led a revolutionary march from the port of Kerelalavano to besiege the capital city. For 10 points, what nation has a national language of Malagasy and a capital at Antananarivo.
ANSWER: MADAGASCAR

This chemist made his first significant discovery in 1871 when he isolated molybdenum, although in fact he is better known for his collaborations with A.W.K. Tiselius, as a result of which he was able to discover citric acid. For 10 points, identify this Swedish chemist best-remembered for his discovery of chlorine. 
ANSWER: C W SCHEELE

This concept has its deepest roots in ancient Celtic tradition, wherein the maiming, particularly a sexual maiming, of the Fisher King causes the decay of fertility in the land, creating the Wasteland or Otherworld. Other examples include the "Lake Isle Innisfree" by Yeats and Percival's failure to find the grail. For 10 points, identify this ancient social code dictating that the health of the land is mirrored in the health of its king. 
ANSWER: SACRAL kingship

Genghis Khan laid siege to this city when conservative leaders refused to name him Khan. Kublai Khan, in founding the Yuan Dynasty, moved the Mongol capital from this city to Cambaluc. However, this city's name is moe famously given to a mountain range in southern Asia. For 10 points, identify this mountain range whose highest peak is K2. ANSWER: KARAKORAM

Although he was characterized by the pouting upper lip and jutting jaw of the inbred Habsburg monarchs,he was surprisingly intelligent. He learned 8 languages and helped plan his wife's tomb, the Escorial. For 10 points, identify this Spanish monarch best-remembered for building the Spanish Armada.
ANSWER: PHILIP II

BONUSES: 
Given a Shakespeare play, identify the villain, 5-5-10-10.
[5] "The Tempest" ANSWER: ANTONIO
[5] "The Merchant of Venice" ANSWER: SHYLOCK
[10] "Cymbeline" ANSWER: IACHIMO
[10] "Richard III" ANSWER: RICHARD III

Identify the following about the geography of Tolkien's Middle-Earth, 5-5-10-10.
[5] This bucolic corner of Eriador is the home of the Hobbits. ANSWER: The Shire
[5] This land, mentioned in a Jefferson Airplane song, is the home of the sea of Nurnen and the Dark Tower of Barad-Dur.
[10] This tower in the southern reaches of Mirkwood Forest was the previous abode of Sauron, then called "the Necromancer." ANSWER: Dol Guldur
[10] This hidden city, whose name means "Rock of the Music of Water" was eventually razed, but during its fall the hero Ecthelion killed Gothmog Lord of the Balrogs. ANSWER: Gondolin

5-10-15. Given a function, give its derivative function. 
[5] y=14 ANSWER: 0
[10] y= 7 x to the 4th ANSWER: 28x cubed
[15] y=3 cosine (4x-12) ANSWER: -12 sine (4x-12)

Identify the following about an author, for 10 points each.
[10] This Italian academic wrote "Foucault's Pendulum" in 1988. ANSWER: Umberto Eco
[10] This Umberto Eco novel reveals that the Venerable Jorge is murdering his fellow monks to keep secret the last surviving copy of Aristotle's second book of poetics. The movie version starred Sean Connery. ANSWER: The Name of the Rose
[10] In this novel, Roberto della Griva is shipwrecked near the title location, whence he sets out with the help of Father Caspar to unlock the secrets of time and space. ANSWER: The Island of the Day Before
 For 10 points each, identify the following about a song.
[10] This song features such lyrics as "Hold on to your hopes my friend/ That's an easy thing to say/ But if your hopes should pass away it's simply pretend/ That you can build them again." Its chorus every other time is "Look around- the grass is high/ It's the springtime of my life!" ANSWER: Hazy Shade of Winter
[10] This folk-rock duet, also known for "At the Zoo," "Fakin' It," and "Mrs. Robinson," originally performed "Hazy Shade of Winter." ANSWER: Simon and Garfunkel
[10] This all-female rock group, fronted by Susanna Hoffs, scored a Top Forty hit covering "Hazy Shade of Winter" in 1987. ANSWER: The Bangles

Answer the following about a certain war, for the stated number of points.
[15] This war ended the same year that Constantinople fell. You will receive 10 points if you need another clue. ANSWER: 100 Years War
[10] That year was 1453. You will receive 5 points if you need still another clue.
	[5] It was fought between England and France.
	[5] This battle was a decisive victory for he English, led by Henry V. ANSWER: Poitiers
	[5] This was the town where Jeanne d'Arc was burned. ANSWER: Rouen
	[5] This was the war's only significant naval engagement. ANSWER: Sluise

Identify the following modern linguists for 10 points each, none of that Whorf and Sassour crap.
[10] Essentially the founder of modern linguistics, he is a noted anarchist. He wrote "Generative Grammar" and "Words and Rules." ANSWER: Noam Chomsky
[10] This man, after teaching at Harvard, succeeded Chomsky as Chairman of the Linguistics Department at MIT. The foremost expert on syntax-semantics interface, he writes frequent amateur-friendly books, the most famous of which has been "The Language Instinct." ANSWER: Steven Pinker
[10] This man, Pinker's pupil at Harvard writes similar books to Pinker's, such as "A Course in Syntax for the Untrained." He is more famous for, with the help of Juan Uriagereka, formulating the theory of Case as we know it today. ANSWER: Howard Lasnik

Identify the following WH Auden poems from lines for 10 points each. 
[10] "About suffering, the old masters were never wrong." ANSWER: Musee des Beaux-Arts
[10] "Was he happy? Was he free? If anything were wrong, we should certainly have heard." ANSWER: The Unknown Citizen
[10] "This is the end of an era. We, who suffer/ The gnawing pains of guilt over what we do not/ Will birth the monstrous children, who suffer/ for what they are not." ANSWER: The Age of Anxiety

Identify the Bohemian revolutionary painter, 30-20-10. ANSWER: Jean Henri de Toulouse-L'Autrec
[30] This painter once observed, "Life being what it is, one dreams of revenge." He painted a  "L'Absynthe."
[20] The illegitimate son of a whore and a count, he lived in a bordello. One of his more famous works include "The Toilette," "Alone," "The Two Girlfriends," and "At the Moulin Rouge."
[10] Sadly, he is probably best known as the lisping dwarf from "Moulin Rouge." 

5 points each, with an additional 5 point bonus for all correct. Given a planet, identify its largest natural satellite.
[5] Saturn ANSWER: Titan
[5] Neptune ANSWER: Triton
[5] Mars ANSWER: Phobos
[5]Uranus ANSWER: Oberon
[5] Jupiter ANSWER: Ganymede

Identify the following singers from a pair of albums for 10 points each, or from a pair of songs for 5 points each. Here's a hint: They were all born in New Jersey.
[10] Albums: "Born to Run," "Darkness on the Edge of Town." ANSWER: Bruce Springsteen
	[5] Songs: "Prove It All Night," "Born in the USA"
[10] Albums (with his namesake band): "New Jersey," "Slippery When Wet." ANSWER: Jon Bon Jovi
	[5] Songs: "Livin' on a Prayer," "You Give Love a Bad Name"
[10] Albums: "Persephone," "Movin' Out."
	[5] Songs: "Only the Good Die Young," "Piano Man"

Answer the following about one of my favorite authors for the stated number of points.
[5] This writer's epitaph, on his unmarked tomb on the Herakleion, is "I fear nothing. I want nothing. I am free." He wrote "The Last Temptation of Christ."
ANSWER: Nikos Kazantzakis
[5] Nikos Kazantzakis was a native of this country, whose inhabitants call it (in the nominative case) "Ellatho." ANSWER: Greece
[10] This novel is Kazantzakis' best-known. It tells the story of a timid young scholar inspired to get out there and experience life by the wild, adventurous tales of the dying title character. ANSWER: Zorba the Greek
[10] This novel won Kazantzakis the Nobel Prize. Homer wrote an epic, which was continued in a Tennyson poem ending "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." Kazantzakis skipped ahead 2 millennia, and then continued Tennyson's poem in this obviously-titled novel. ANSWER: The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel

Given a description of a famous King Louis of France, give his ordinal number! 5-10-15.
[5] This Louis, who sponsored Lully, was called "Le Roi Soleil." ANSWER: XIV
[10] This Louis was overthrown in 1789, and lost his head  a few years later. ANSWER: XVI
[15] This Louis poisoned the entire House D'Anjou, and was consequently called the "Spider King." ANSWER: XI

Identify the following about a certain Norse myth, 5-5-10-10
[5] Loki arranged for this god of light to be accidentally shot by his brother. ANSWER: Baldr
[5] Baldr's mother Frigg made everything living in the world promise never to harm her son, except for this harmless-looking plant. ANSWER: mistletoe
[10] This blind brother of Baldr shot him. He was the god of darkness. ANSWER: Hod or Hodr
[10] This wife of Baldr flung herself on his funeral pyre. ANSWER: Nanna
For 10 points each, identify the following historical figures who are each the title subjects of songs by German disco supergroup Boney M.
[10] His song calls him "Lover of the Russian Queen" and "Russia's greatest love machine." This mystic, a favorite of Tsarina Alexandra, had to be poisoned, shot, and thrown in a river before actually dying. ANSWER: Rasputin
[10] Her song records, "She didn't want to hang- she died with blazing guns" and "She never learned to cry, but oh she knew how to die." In the early 1930's, she took her 4 sons on a bank-robbing crime spree and became the FBI's Most Wanted Woman. ANSWER: Ma Barker
[10] His song says, "He taught himself to read and to write, awaiting changes for Spain." A 20th century Robin Hood, he was martyred leading his namesake guerrilla forces against Franco's army. ANSWER: El Lute or Eleuterio Sanchez

Answer the following questions about a spectacular novel I really love, "Native Son." 5-10-15.
[5] This author of "Uncle Tom's Children" wrote "Native Son." ANSWER: Richard Wright
[10] This protagonist of "Native Son" receives the death sentence for killing a white woman by accident. ANSWER: Bigger or Bigger Thomas
[15] A wealthy young Communist sympathizer, this is the woman Bigger accidentally suffocates. ANSWER: Mary or Mary Dalton

List the 6 stages of mitosis, in order, for 5 points each.
AnswerS: [5ea] Interphase, Prophase, Metaphase, Anaphase, Telophase, Division or Cytokinesis

18) Identify the following about a certain composer, for 10 points each.
[10] This Hungarian was the mentor of Tibor Serly. He wrote "Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta." ANSWER: Bela Bartok
[10] This 1945 opus was Bartok's last work. It contains a solo for every instrument, an "Elegia" movement, a "Game of Pairs" movement, and an "Interrupted Intermezzo." It features the famous Lehar tune "Going to Maxim's." ANSWER: Concerto for Orchestra
[10] The "Concerto for Orchestra" satirized this man, Bartok's rival. He is best known for his "Leningrad Symphony." ANSWER: Shostakovich

Given the name or names of a child or children resulting from the union, identify the lover of Zeus resulting in them. 10 points each.
[10] Dionysus ANSWER: Semele
[10] Perseus ANSWER: Danae
[10] Apollo and Artemis ANSWER: Leto

Name the following figures in current or relatively recent French politics, 5-10-15.
[5] He is the almost laughably corrupt but very charismatic current president of France. ANSWER: Jacques Chirac
[10] This evil racist xenophobe almost beat Chirac in the last election on the platform of closing the borders and deporting black people. ANSWER: Jean-Marie Le Pen
[15] This man, who was elected in the mid-70s and served until the mid-80s, was probably France's last competent leader. ANSWER:  Valery Giscard- d'Estaing

Identify the following about dead Japanese people whose names start with the letter "Y," 10 points each.
[10] With his brother, he started the Ashikaga government. He died at the Battle of Coxonga. ANSWER: Yoritomo
[10] This author of the "Sea of Fertility" tetralogy committed seppuku on national television in1971. ANSWER: Yukio or or Yukio Mishima
[10] This semi-mythical hero was immortalized in a 1976 samurai western. ANSWER: Yojimbo

Answer the following about a concept in psychology, 10 points  each.
[10] This term, coming partly from the name of a Sumerian city, describes the two basic reactions of humanity to his existential condition. ANSWER: ur-defenses
[10] This is the dominant ur-defense of a strong personality; Frankl famously applied it to Hemingway. It is characterized by competitiveness, renunciation of convention, and, in its most extreme form, megalomania. ANSWER: compulsive heroism
[10] This is the dominant ur-defense of a weak personality. It is characterized by passivity, the desire to blend in, belief in a personal savior, and, in its most extreme form, self-induced helplessness. ANSWER: compulsive victimization

Identify the following statistical analyses, for 10 pointa each. 
[10] The most common type is the least-squares kind. It compares the accuracy of a model to the data on which it was based. ANSWER: regression
[10] This determines the likelihood that variation from expected mean values has occurred by chance. ANSWER: Z-test
[10] Often called the goodness-of-fit test, it uses matrix analysis  to compare observed data to population data. ANSWER: chi-squared tests

Given a Catholic saint, name the monastic order founded by him or her for 10 points each.
[10] St. Francis Xavier and St. Ignatius Loyola ANSWER: Jesuit
[10] St. Berthold the Crusader and St. Theresa of Avila ANSWER: Carmelite
[10] St. Bruno ANSWER: Carthusian

Identify the river, 30-15. 
[30] In the "Just-So Stories," Kipling gives this river the epithet "Purple." 
[15] It forms the boundary between Zambia and Zimbabwe.
ANSWER: Limpopo
