2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 3TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) Because his poetry did not receive recognition until 1954 - the year before his death - he continued to work as Vice-President of Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company until his death.  This is ironic considering today he is considered one of the most significant American poets of the 20th century.  His first book of poems, Harmonium, appeared when he was 44 years old.  FTP, identify this poet of "Early Sunday Morning," "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird," and "The Emperor of Ice-Cream."Answer:  Wallace Stevens2) Originally invented in 1943 by a navy engineer by the name of Richard James to combat vibrations in nautical ship equipment, it was scooped up by Gimbel's Department Store and sold as a toy.  FTP, identify this spring-like invention that, according to its advertisements, can "walk down stairs."Answer: Slinky3) He studied painting and mathematics at Krakow. While residing in  Prussia, he was nominated Canon of the cathedral and practiced medicine. His breakthrough scientific treatise was completed in 1530; however, he didn't publish until he was on his deathbed in 1543 out of fear of the Roman Catholic Church. FTP, name this astronomer who in his On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres put forth the heliocentric view of the universe.Answer: Nicholas Copernicus4) Completed on a wall of the Santa Maria delle Grazie in 1497, it is often considered the first work of art of the High Renaissance in Italy.  Thanks to a recent bestseller, there has been much discussion about who is actually depicted in the painting, with many claiming that the individual to the left of the central figure is actually a woman.  FTP, identify this Da Vinci painting supposedly depicting Christ and his twelve apostles.Answer: The Last Supper5) Shallow and partially frozen in the winter months, it is connected to the Atlantic Ocean by the the Kiel Canal, as well as the Skaggerak and Kattegat. Major arms of this body of water include the Gulfs of Riga, Finland, and Bothnia. FTP, identify this Northern European sea surrounded by Denmark, Poland, Sweden, Germany, and the Russia. Answer: Baltic Sea6) After fighting in the revolutionary armies that defeated the Spanish and gained independence for many South American nations, they went on to fight for the caudillos, Latin American military leaders that were vying for power.  Before this, they were rounding up the herds of horses and cattle that roamed the Andes.  FTP, identify these "Cowboys of the Pampas."Answer: Gauchos7) Born in Russia, he immigrated to the United States with his family at the age of five.  Starting out as a singer in restaurants and cafes, this self-taught pianist would become one of the most popular musicians in the world despite the fact that he never learned to read music.  FTP, identify this American composer of Alexander's Ragtime Band, White Christmas, and God Bless America.Answer: Irving Berlin8) His satirical works include 1734's Causes of the Greatness and Decadence of the Romans.  His most famous work, though, advocated a three-branch form of government, consisting of  Judicial, Executive, and Legislative branches.  Born to nobility, he traveled widely to study differing political practices before writing his work that would lay a basis for the writers of the U.S. Constitution.  FTP, identify this French philosopher and writer of The Spirit of the Laws.Answer: Charles Louis Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu9) Improper metabolization of this amino acid has been implicated as a cause of schizophrenia.  It is also a precursor for production of both seratonin and melatonin, a use that has proven effective for treatment both for sleep disorders as well as seasonal affective disorder.  With chemical formula C11H12N2O2 this is, for ten points, what essential amino acid, most often known for causing sleepiness after a hearty Thanksgiving meal?Answer: Tryptophan10) As a result of this 1881 experiment, in 1905 Einstein was able to determine that the speed of light was a universal constant.  Carried out by the two scientists for whom it is named, it was an attempt to measure the velocity of the earth in respect to the rest of the universe.  FTP, identify this experiment which disproved the existence of ether in the universe.Answer: Michelson-Morley Experiment11) At one point, he was preparing to become a minister, but had a crisis of faith in 1913 and enlisted in the army two years later.  The horrors of World War I made him angry at the civilians and politicians who glorified and perpetuated war, and he lashed out at them in poems such as "Anthem for Doomed Youth."  Dying one week before the end of the war was - FTP - what poet most famous for "Dolce et Decorum Est"?Answer: Wilfred Owen12) Advocated by Secretary of State Philander Knox, this policy was carried out in Central America and in China in 1909 and 1910 respectively.  Basically, it stated that countries that would give political and commercial influence to the United States could borrow large sums of money from the U.S.  FTP, identify this foreign policy initiated by President Taft.Answer: Dollar Diplomacy13) Its regions include Gladsheim, Vingolf, Ydalir, and Valaskjalf.  Said to be located at the center of the Universe, its name literally means "yard of the gods."  Accessible only via the rainbow bridge Bifrost, this is - FTP - what celestial dwelling of the Aesir - the gods of Scandinavian myth.Answer: Asgard14) Its cover was known as the Mercy Seat or as the Propitiation Cover.  Said to measure 1.15 meters long and 0.7 meters tall and wide, it is said to have been made of acacia wood.  According to legend and tradition, it contains manna, the rod of Aaron, and the two tablets of stone that Moses brought down from the mountain.  FTP, identify this long-lost box, described in Exodus as residing in the Holiest of Holies, which was also sought by Indiana Jones.Answer:  Ark of the Covenant15) His collaboration with Roy DeCarava was a pictorial essay which was published posthumously as The Sweet Flypaper of Life. His dramas include Simply Heavenly and Tambourines to Glory. He also wrote a series about the urban folk hero Jesse B. Simple. However, he is best known for his poetry which is collected in such works as The Panther and the Lash and Fine Clothes for the Jew. FTP, identify this figure of the Harlem Renaissance and author of The Weary Blues.Answer: Langston Hughes16) This double-reed instrument has a conical bore and is often constructed in three sections.  With a six finger holes and numerous keys, it has a musical range of around two and a half octaves.  The instrument to which the rest of orchestra traditionally tunes is - FTP - what instrument that, along with the clarinet, flute, and bassoon, makes up the four basic woodwind instruments of the typical orchestra?Answer: Oboe17) Not unlike the Fresh Prince of Bel Air, she was born and raised in Philadelphia.  Five years after her death in 1978, Derek Freeman published a work subtitled The Making and Unmaking of an Anthropological Myth, challening all of her major conclusions.  A pupil of Franz Boas, FTP, who was this author of Coming of Age in Samoa?Answer: Margaret Meade18) This word originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts, but was introduced into common English in designation of the followers of William Walker and his 1855 expedition to Nicaragua. In the United States, this tactic has been used on both Tidelands Oil legislation, as well as the Civil Rights Act of 1957.  FTP, identify this term, used today in government to refer to tactics by senators to delay a vote on a bill.  Answer:  Filibuster19) Among this class's members are cuttlefish.  They have large eyes and central nervous systems, but are most noted for their tentacles that grow directly out of their heads.  FTP, the chambered nautilus, the squid, and the octopus are all members of what class of mollusks, named from the Greek for "head-footed"?Answer: Cephalopoda or Cephalopods20) During a time when society was still focused on Victorian values, this playwright challenged the realities behind many of those facades.  One of this man's plays focuses on the sculptor Rubek, who is killed, along with his spouse, in an avalanche.  That play, When We Dead Awaken, came after works such as Pillars of Society and Peer Gynt.  FTP, identify this Norwegian playwright of Hedda Gabbler, Ghosts, and A Doll's House.Answer:  Henrik Ibsen21) He learned guerilla war tactics from liberation movements in Brazil and Uruguay while in exile in South America from 1836 to 1848.  When he returned to his home nation, he led a small band of revolutionary fighters against Austria and France.  FTP, identify this Italian fighter for unification, the leader of the "Red Shirts."Answer: Giuseppe Garibaldi22) The granddaughter of John White, the first governor of the Roanoke Island colony of Virginia, her parents were among the 120 original settlers of the colony.  In 1590, three years after her birth, a relief expedition discovered that she - along with her parents and the entire population of the colony - had disappeared without a trace.  FTP, identify this first English child born in America.Answer:  Virginia Dare
BonusesQuestions by Ali Daniels and Dan Goff1) For 10 points each, answer these questions about Norse mythology:This god was considered the most beautiful of the Norse gods, and was perhaps apersonification of the sun.  His death is the first event that will lead to Ragnarok.Answer: BalderBalder was killed by the blind god Hoder, at the bidding of this playful trickster god.Answer: LokiFrigga forgot to make this object promise not to kill Balder, and when Hoder struck him with it, Balder dropped dead.Answer: mistletoe2) Give the technical term used in poetry for 10 points given only an example, for 5 points given the example and the definition:[10] Whack[5] a figure of speech that employs a word or a group of words that imitates the sound it makesAnswer: onomatopoeia[10] Is it blunt and flat?[5] the repetition of consonant sounds in a short sequence of wordsAnswer: consonance[10] Why I oughta...[5] A figure of speech in a particular form of ellipsis in which the speaker breaks of suddenly in the middle of speakingAnswer: aposiopesis3) Given the name of a symphony or symphonies, name the composer.  [10] Surprise, Military, LondonAnswer: Franz Joseph Haydn[10] Symphony of a Thousand, Titan, ResurrectionAnswer: Gustav Mahler[10] Linz, Prague, JupiterAnswer: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart4) The 15th century was rife with territorial disputes in western Europe.  For 10 points each:[10] This imaginary longitude line was drawn to divide Portuguese and Spanish territory in1493, hoping it would lead to peace between the two powersAnswer: the Line of Demarcation[10] The Line of Demarcation was the result of this Treaty, sighned June 7 1494.Answer: Treaty of Tordesillas[10] This Pope was responsible for the drawing of the Line of DemarcationAnswer: Pope Alexander VI5) For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the namesakes of everyone's favorite Teenaged Mutant Ninja Turtles:[10] Michelangelo completed this sculpture of the Virgin Mary holding Jesus in 1499Answer: the Pieta[10] Counted among this artist's friends were both Niccolo Machiavelli and Cesare Borgia, for whom he worked as a military engineer and architect.Answer: Leonardo da Vinci[10] Raphael was chief architect of St. Peter's Basilica in 1514 under this PopeAnswer: Pope Leo X6) For 10 points each, name the phase the cell is undergoing in mitosis from the description of its action:[10] As microtubules attach to the kinetochores, the chromosomes line up in the middle of the spindle.Answer: metaphase[10] Sister chromatids are separated and pulled to opposite ends of the cellAnswer: anaphase[10] The nuclear membrane dissolves in eukaryotes, and kinetochores form in both eukaryotes and prokaryotesAnswer: prometaphase7) Answer these questions about Richard Wagner for the stated number of points:[5] For 5 points, Wagner epitomized the use of these musical themes associated with certaincharacters or events in his operasAnswer: leitmotif[10] For 10 points, Wagner's mature operatic creations consist most of this four-part "cycle."Answer: The Ring Cycle[15] For 15 points, name any two four operas in the Ring cycleAnswer: Das Rheingold (The Rhinegold), Die Walkure (The Valkyrie), Siegfried, and Gotterdammerung (Twilight of the Gods) (accept any TWO)8) Answer these questions about ancient Babylonia for ten points each:[10] This man was the sixth ruler of the Babylonians, who established their empire in Mesopotamia and established a famous code of laws.Answer: Hammurabi[10] This empire, home to the cities Ur and Uruk and known for its wedge-shaped writing, was eventually absorbed into the Babylonian empire.Answer: Sumeria[10] This 6th c. BCE Babylonian ruler supervised the construction of both the Ishtar Gate and the Hanging Gardens.Answer: Nebuchadnezzar9) Identify the court case given a legal description and a date.[10] 1866, Habeas corpus could only be suspended during a time when civilian courts are forced closed.  Military tribunals can not try civilians in any other circumstance.Answer: Ex Parte Milligan[10] 1925, The Fourteenth Amendment extended the provisions of the First Amendment to the governments of the states, forcing them to abide by the First Amendment.Answer: Gitlow v. New York[10] 1964, The Fourteenth Amendement extended the provisions of the Fourth Amendment to the governments of the states, and information obtained during an illegal search could not be used for prosecution.Answer: Mapp v. Ohio10) Answer the following questions about fictional literature for 10 points each:[10] The wildly anticipated release date of this book is July 16th, 2005.Answer: Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince[10] J.K. Rowling has published all six of the Harry Potter books with this publisher.Answer: Bloombury[10] The initials in Rowling's name stand for what?Answer: Joanne Kathleen11) Identify these South American poets for 10 points each.[10] The first Latin American Nobel Laureate, this Chilean woman won the Nobel for Literature in 1945.Answer: Gabriela Mistral[10] Nobel Laureate in 1971, this Chilean poet is most well known for his works Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair and Residence on Earth.Answer: Pablo Neruda (also accept Neftali Ricardo Reyes y Basualto)[10] This Argentinian though a poet, is probably best known for his short stories Ficciones and The Aleph.Answer: Jorge Luis Borges12) For 10 points each, name the Intolerable Act given its description:[10] This act ended shipping of goods to the namesake location until restitution was made to the King's treasury and the East India Company.Answer: Boston Port ActThis act set up governing procedures for the namesake region north of the St. Lawrence River.Answer: Quebec ActThis act outlawed the election of councilors and assistants in the Bay Colony, instead making them positions appointed by the King's governor.Answer: Massachusetts Government Act13) For 10 points each, answer the following questions about Sikhism:This man founded Sikhism in the 15th centuryAnswer: Guru Nanak DevBeyond the belief in one God, the teaching of the Ten Gurus, the core teachings of Sikhism are found in this main work.Answer: Guru Granth Sahib[10] In India in the 1980s those who followed the Sikh religion faced persecution after theassassination of this woman by her Sikh bodyguards.Answer: Indira Gandhi14) The Great Lakes of North America are bordered by one Canadian province and eight states.  For five points each, name any SIX of them:Answer: Ontario, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York15) For 10 points each, name these Stephen King works:[10] After bringing his daughter's cat back to life, Louis Creed considers using an ancient burial ground to resurrect his sonAnswer: Pet Sematary[10] This 1999 story about a small town caught in a blizzard with a strange murderer was King's first ever work written specifically as a miniseriesAnswer: Storm of the Century[10] Also written in 1999, this novella depicts a young baseball fan lost in the same area of woods depicted by King in Pet SemataryAnswer: The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon16) For 10 points each, answer these questions about the city of Pompeii:[10] This patron deity of the city did not stop it from being consumed by the eruption of Mt.Vesuvius in 79 AD.Answer: Venus[10] Pliny the Younger provided the only eyewitness account of the eruption in his letter to thisRoman historianAnswer: Tacitus[10] The cloud that Pliny the Younger wrote of was actually a cloud of this, made ofsuperheated gas, ash, and rockAnswer: pyroclastic flow17) Answer the following about an element for 10 points each.[10] In 1898, a French couple discovered this radioactive element, whose most stable isotope eventually decays into radon gas.Answer: radium[10] Name the couple who discovered both radium and radon, one French, the other Polish.Answer: Pierre and Marie Curie[10] Finally, both Marie and Pierre Curie received the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1903, along with this man, for their work with radiation and radioactivity.Answer: Henri Becquerel18) Name the principle of geology for 10 points each:[10] A sedimentary rock layer in a tectonically undisturbed sequence is younger than the one beneath it and older than the one above itAnswer: The Law of Superposition[10] The Law of Superposition is used primarily in dating geologic rock layers known as what?Answer: strata[10] The high levels of iridium in the strata dating from 65 million years ago helps provide credence to the theory that an asteroid strike caused this mass extinction.Answer: the KT boundary19) Identify the following about some Eastern philosophers for ten points each.[10] This 5th - 6th c. BCE Chinese sage and philosopher, known as "The Lord Propagator of Culture Ultimate Sage and Great Accomplisher".Answer: Confucius[10] This other Chinese philosopher lived along with Confucius during the Hundred Schools of Thought period, though his authorship of the Tao Te Ching is debatable.Answer: Lao Tzu (also Lao Zi or Lao Tse).[10] This Indian spiritual leader reportedly came across the Four Encounters at the age of 29.Answer: Buddha (also accept Siddharta Gautama)20) For 10 points each, answer the following questions about postmodernist literature:[10] This author became a household name after the publication of his second work, The Order of Things, in which he proclaimed the death of ManAnswer: Michel Foucault[10] Arguably Foucault's most famous work, he devoted the last decade of his life to the three volumes of this book, published in 1976 and 1984.Answer: The History of Sexuality[10] This 1975 Foucault work studies the history of French prisons and compares varying "technologies" of the titular concept.Answer: Discipline and Punish21) For 10 points each, answer these questions about sociology.[10] Considered one of the fathers of modern sociology, this man's works include The Divisionof Labor in Society and Rules of the Sociological MethodAnswer: David Emile Durkheim[10] Durkheim's work advocated the explanation of the existence and quality of different partsof a society by reference to what purpose they served in keeping society healthy andbalance, which came to be known by this termAnswer: functionalism[10] Durkheim's studies led him to hypothesize that forms of deviant behavior, especiallysuicide, are caused by this state of confusion and normlessnessAnswer: anomie