2004 Maryland High School Classic

Round 7

Questions by Dan Goff

Tossups

1. 3 years and 7 days is the longest period of time that the United States has gone without experiencing one of these.  The strongest ones typically have a barometric pressure lower than 27.17 inches of mercury or 920 millibars, and are capable of inundating New Orleans in over 20 feet of water.  FTP, name these meteorological events, rated on the Saffir-Simpson scale, and that have names such as Andrew or Camille.
Answer: hurricanes

2. Replicas of this tower can be found can be found in Tokyo, Prague, Guatemala City, and Doswell, Virginia, among others.  Originally built for the 1889 Exposition Universelle , it was dedicated on March 31st of that year.  Remarkably, only one person died during construction, and its elevator cables were reportedly cut when Hitler visited Paris to force him to use the steps to reach the top.   FTP, identify this Parisian tower, named for its designer.
Answer: Eiffel Tower

3. Younger brother to Oliver, this eventual Admiral of the US Navy once was offered a commission in the Russian navy while in port there, which he declined.  He also helped to create the curriculum for the Naval Academy, and led the Gulf Fleet during the Mexican-American War.  FTP, who is this Admiral, who led a fleet of ships to Tokyo and opened Japan to free trade; someone who shouldn't be confused with Chandler?
Answer: Matthew Perry

4. These literary awards were first given in 1965.  There are four recognized categories: novel, novella, novelette and short story.  A fifth - best dramatic script - has been awarded since 1999, however the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America are debating about the continuance of this award.  FTP, identify these literary awards, which includes among its first winners Frank Herbert's Dune.
Answer: The Nebula Awards (Do not accept Hugo, as they are awarded by fans and not fellow writers)

5. Generally marked as a time of reconciliation, on this Islamic holiday women and children are also usually given special gifts or money.  It falls on the first day of Shawwal, and fasting is forbidden on this day.  FTP, identify this day, the celebration of the end of Ramadan.
Answer: Eid ul-Fitr (Eid al-Fitr)

6. Statistics have indicated that up to 2% of the American population suffers from this disease, and the risk of occurrence increases sharply after age 40.  Poorly timed opening of the lower esophageal sphincter allows partially digested food and gastric fluids back into the esophagus, although secondary peristalis returns about 90% of the mixture to the stomach.  Left untreated, this disease can lead to esophageal erosions, ulcers, and potentially even cancer.  FTP, identify this disease that is often treated with proton pump inhibitors.
Answer: Gastro-esophageal reflux disease (Also accept: "GERD", "acid reflux" disease or equivalent - answer must include "reflux")

7. Currently the only major Spanish city with a Marxist mayor and home of the 3rd largest mosque in the world, this seat of a namesake province in the Andalusian region was first conquered by the Moors in 711.  It became the see of the Muawiya (MOO-uh-whee-yuh) Caliphate, was retaken by the Christians during the Reconquista, and was also the birthplace of the Roman philosopher Seneca.  FTP, identify this Spanish city, where Christopher Columbus received permission to voyage to the Indies.
Answer: Cordoba
 
8. Originally settled by the Dutch and named New Netherland for the first time in the early 17th century, they lived in this region among the native Mahican tribes that lived in the area.  The northern end was a main point of defense for the British during the French and Indian War, and the river valley was a flashpoint during the American Revolution.  FTP, what is this New York river valley, home to the Tappan Zee Bridge, the Roosevelts' estate, and Washington Irving's Sleepy Hollow.
Answer: The Hudson Valley

9. Though untitled in the original Olde English manuscript, this 3182-line epic poem represents about 10% of all alliterative verse composed in the language, and is the oldest surviving poem in anything resembling English.  The only surviving manuscript of this poem currently resides in the British Museum.  FTP, identify this epic poem, whose titular protagonist kills a troll and his mother, but loses his life to a fire-breathing dragon.
Answer: Beowulf

10. While he lost his "freakishly long legs in the War of 2012," according to Matt Groening, in 2004 he's still alive and well.  He's been at his current job since 1993, after getting his start as a writer for The Simpsons.  His bandleader was drummer for Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band, but now leads his eponymous "Seven."  FTP, name this comic who has his own late night show following The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.
Answer: Conan O'Brien

11. This toxic transition metal is one of the 12 to have an alchemical symbol.  While only mildly toxic in its elemental state, this element's organic compounds are extremely lethal.  So much in fact, that only a few drops of the dimethyl variety can cause death if exposed to the skin.  While not very common in the elemental state, it is most often found in cinnabar and other minerals.  FTP, identify this element that is a liquid at room temperature, having atomic number 80 and also known as quicksilver.
Answer: mercury

12. It is often said that this man's inspiration to become a pianist came from the Paris concert by Paganini that he attended, and drove him to become the greatest pianist of his time.  He also fraternized with Chopin, Schumann and Richard Wagner, whom his daughter later married.  FTP, identify this Hungarian pianist whose works include the Mephisto waltz, La Campanella piano solo, and his nineteen Hungarian Rhapsodies.
Answer: Franz Liszt 

13. In 1667, the author sold the copyright to this work for £10, and cites among his influences for the work Virgil, Edmund Spenser, and his own Puritan childhood along with the Bible.  The story begins after Satan and his minions have been defeated and cast into hell, and follows Lucifer's efforts to tempt man.  FTP, name this epic poem by John Milton.
Answer: Paradise Lost

14. In 2003, the original petitioner of this case, Norma McCovey, filed to have this case reopened.  She cited, among other things, her conversion to Catholicism, and that she was used by young and ambitions lawyers to have the questionable laws overturned in the original ruling.  FTP, name this 1973 Supreme Court decision, that guaranteed a right to abortion in the first trimester.
Answer: Roe v. Wade

15. The name's the same.  One was a New Testament prophetess in the city of Thyatira.  In Revelation 2, she was accused of inducing members of the church to commit inappropriate sexual acts and eat food that was sacrificed to false gods.  The more familiar one died after being killed by Jehu, and her body devoured by dogs.  She was accused of turning her husband King Ahab away from the true God, and led him to Baal.  FTP, name this woman, whose name has become synonymous with wickedness.
Answer: Jezebel

16. Though Pope Callixtus III eventually overturned her conviction posthumously, she was executed as a heretic in the summer of 1431.  She claimed to have heard the voices of St. Michael, St. Catherine and St. Margaret, and led the French in an effort to restore Charles VII to the crown.  FTP, name this Maid of Orleans who was burned at the stake during the Hundred Years' War.
Answer: Joan of Arc (also Joan d'Arc, Jeanne d'Arc)

17. "There is nothing intelligent you can say about a massacre."  Explanations for the main character's affliction in this novel center on a possible bout with post-traumatic stress disorder, caused by his involvement in World War II.  Subtitled The Children's Crusade, this popular novel helped bring awareness to a vicious WWII firebombing that the author witnessed firsthand.  FTP, what is this Kurt Vonnegut novel, in which the main character becomes "unstuck in time?"
Answer: Slaughterhouse-Five

18. None have been lost at sea, though several have been sunk in port or for target practice after being decommissioned.  Plans have been made for a grand total of 71 of these vessels, though only 57 of them have been commissioned and launched.  Indiana was the first, and Montana has had two planned separately, though neither was ever launched.  FTP, identify this class of warship, all except one of which have been named for states.
Answer: battleship
  
19. Brig. Gen. McDowell was reluctant to attack at this battle, believing that his recently called-up volunteers were still very green.  A unit of troops under Confederate Col. Nathan Evans bought time for Gen. Johnston's Army of the Shenandoah to arrive and support Gen. Beauregard, routing the Union right flank and clogging the roads back to Washington with sightseers.  FTP, identify this first land battle of the Civil War held in nearby Prince William County, Virginia.
Answer: First Battle of Manassas (also accept First Battle of Bull Run - though if a school from Virginia says Bull Run, I'll beat them senseless)

20. Originally created by James Gosling and released in November 1995, this object-oriented programming language was designed as a replacement to C++ (see-plus-plus).  Microsoft, after paying $20m in damages to the developing company following a lawsuit, decided that any implementations of this language in Windows were inadequate, and left out of future versions of Windows.  FTP, name this programming language, known for its capability to be run from remote sources, and developed by Sun Microsystems.
Answer: Java

21. This index is a way of measuring purchasing power parity in conjunction with current exchange rates.  The idea is that if the exchange rates are on target, then the cost of a "basket" of goods in one country should be equal to the cost of goods in another country - in particular it compares the price of this eponymous object - and the ratio of the two is compared to the exchange rate.  FTP, what is this index named after a popular McDonald's sandwich, older brother to the "tall latte index"?
Answer: Big Mac index

22. Among the engineers that worked for this man before founding their own aviation companies include William Boeing and Donald Douglas.  He abandoned his original factory in Cleveland in 1929 in favor of a new location near Baltimore, producing B-10 and B-26 bombers as well as the China Clipper and PBM boats.  In 1961 his company merged with American Marietta, and in 1996 merged again with Lockheed Aviation.  FTP, name this man, whose gift established the namesake Institute of Technology at the University of Maryland.
Answer: Glenn L. Martin

23. A prominent plank in the Presidential campaigns of both Dennis Kucinich and Howard Dean, in this election method candidates are ranked according to preference, and the candidate with the fewest votes is removed in each round until a candidate with a majority is reached. FTP, identify this voting system, similar to the method used in the Associated Press college football and basketball polls.
Answer: instant runoff voting (IRV)


Bonuses

1. Identify the state from geographic features, 30-20-10.
[30] Big Cypress National Preserve, Merritt Island
[20] St. John's River, Okeefenokee Swamp
[10] Everglades, Tampa Bay, Lake Okeechobee
Answer: Florida
 
2. Identify these former leaders of Prussia, F15PE.
[15] This first chancellor of Germany, the "Iron Chancellor", also served two different terms as Minister of Prussia.
Answer: Otto von Bismarck
[15] This founder of the Gestapo also served as the last Minister of Prussia.
Answer: Hermann Göring
 
3. From the 1960s to the 1980s, most new Major League Baseball stadiums were designed in a strikingly similar style, featuring a standard circular, multi-level stadium, and often with a field made of artificial turf.  FTPE, identify --
[10] The term for these stadia, that shares its name with a popular holiday baking implement.
Answer: cookie cutter stadiums
[10] This recently demolished cookie cutter stadium was most notorious for its inhospitable fans and equally inhospitable turf, prompting Baltimore coach Brian Billick to refuse to play a 2001 NFL preseason game here.
Answer: Veteran's stadium
[10] Another multi-use cookie cutter stadium was this Cincinnati park, where the Reds used to play before moving to the Great American Ballpark.
Answer: Riverfront stadium (also accept Cinergy Field)

4. Pencil and paper may be needed.  5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for 3, and 30 for 4 - identify whether the reaction is a combination, decomposition, single displacement or double displacement.
[5] 2Na(s) + Cl2(s) -> 2NaCl(s)
Answer: combination
[5] HCl(aq) + NaOH(aq) -> H2O(l) + NaCl(s)
Answer: double displacement
[5] 2H2O(l) -> H2(g) + O2(g)
Answer: decomposition
[5] 2Al(s) + Fe2O3(aq) -> 2Fe(s) + Al2O3(aq)
Answer: single displacement
 
5. 30-20-10, name the artist.
[30] Referred to by Henri Matisse as "the father of us all," this French artist served as inspiration for both the Cubist and Fauvist movements.
[20] Starting as an impressionist, this man was also a good friend of Émile Zola, until their break over Zola's portrayal of him in L'Oeuvre.
[10] Known more commonly as the father of modern painting, some of his more famous works include Mont Sainte-Victoire and a portrait of his wife.
Answer: Paul Cézanne

6. Identify the following parts of the knee, FSNOP.
[10-10] Two answers required.  For 10 points each, name the two types of ligaments that both exist in pairs in the knee, and are commonly injured by athletes.  
Answers: Cruciate and Collateral ligaments
[10] These c-shaped pieces of stabilizing tissue are found between the femur and the tibia and fibula on the inside and outside of both knees.
Answer: Meniscus (also accept "meniscal cartilage"; prompt on "cartilage")

7. Identify the poets from lines, FTPE.  If you need some of their works, you'll get 5 points.
[10] "he was a handsome man/and what i want to know is/how do you like your blueeyed boy/Mister Death"
[5] "in Just-"; "Buffalo Bill's"; "next to of course god america i"
Answer: e. e. cummings
[10] "Call the roller of big cigars,/The muscular one, and bid him whip"
[5] "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"; "The Emperor of Ice Cream"
Answer: Wallace Stevens
[10] "April is the cruellest month, breeding/Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing"
[5] "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"; "The Wasteland"
Answer: T. S. Eliot

8. Identify the following related to naval vessels named after people that were alive at the time of their commission.
[10] Two currently commissioned vessels are of this largest class, carrying the designation CVN.  The two honorees are Carl Vinson and Ronald Reagan.
Answer: aircraft carrier
[10] Jimmy Carter is the honoree of a type of boat designated SSN.  Carter's is a Seawolf class boat, scheduled to be launched next month.
Answer: submarine
[10] A noncombatant pre-positioning ship was named for this comedian, who died in 2003 and was famous for his involvement with the USO.
Answer: Bob Hope

9. Identify these mythological figures also used as named for moons of Saturn, 5-5-10-10.
[5-5] These two Greek figures, one a bringer of fire to man and the other the first woman, who curiosity couldn't keep her namesake box closed.
Answers: Prometheus and Pandora
[10] This Roman god of beginnings and endings was sometimes depicted as having two or four faces.
Answer: Janus ( also accept Janus Geminus, Bifrons, Janus Quadrifons)
[10] This sea nymph kept Odysseus captive on her island for seven years, and died of grief after being forced to release him.
Answer: Calypso

10. Identify the following about an absurdist playwright FTPE.
[10] This absurdist Irish playwright cited James Joyce and René Descartes as two of his major influences.  At the foot of this man's grave in France stands one lone tree.
Answer: Samuel Beckett
[10] In this Beckett play, the two main characters spend their time awaiting the arrival of the eponymous character, only to be informed at the end of each act that he will arrive tomorrow.
Answer: Waiting for Godot (En Français: En Attendant Godot)
[10] This one-act Beckett play for four characters includes one who can't stand up, and one who can't sit down, living in a house with no exterior by the sea.
Answer: Endgame

11. Identify these famous prisons, 15-15.
[15] Henry Wirz, commandant of this Confederate prison, was the only Civil War soldier executed for war crimes.  During his watch, over 13,000 Union prisoners died, mostly from neglect.
Answer: Andersonville
[15] This New York prison was the third one built in the state, and counted Julius and Ethel Rosenberg among its occupants.  In 1983, over 600 inmates took 17 officers hostage in a standoff that lasted for 53 hours.
Answer: Sing Sing

12. Identify the following related to telescopes, FTPE.
[10] Featured in the movie Contact, this group of 27 radio telescopes with an aptly fitting name is located in New Mexico.
Answer: Very Large Array
[10] Dr. Arroway, Jodie Foster's character in Contact, bought time at the Very Large Array as part of this project, designed to find alien life.
Answer: Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence
[10] Parts of both Contact and the James Bond movie Goldeneye were filmed at this radio telescope dug into the ground in Puerto Rico, which has also been used with SETI.
Answer: The Arecibo radio telescope

13. Given a list of French Kings, identify the family FTPE.
[10] Charlemagne, Charles Martel, Pepin III
Answer: Carolingian
[10] Phillip VI, Charles VIII, Henry II
Answer: Valois
[10] Louis XIII, Louis XIV, Henry IV
Answer: Bourbon

14. [SCI] Identify the following subclasses of mammals, F15PE.
[15] Only two species in this order still exist, mostly in Australia and New Guinea.   Previous evidence suggest that more cousins of the platypus and echidna existed at one point.
Answer: Monotremes (monotremata)
[15] A majority of these mammals reside in either Australia or South America, however one species, the Virginia Opossum, lives in North America.
Answer: Marsupials

16. Identify these people that have had Belgian stamps issued in their honor, 5-10-15.
[5] Though he could have become Field Marshal in the British Army, he took King Edward VII's advice and focus on promoting Scouting.
Answer: Robert Baden-Powell
[10] This Flemish baroque painter's best-known works include "The Adoration of the Magi" and "Portrait of Marie de' Medici."
Answer: Peter Paul Reubens
[15] This Belgian painter and architect was one of the founders of Art Nouveau, along with Victor Horta, and founded an art academy in Weimar, predecessor to the Bauhaus.
Answer: Henry Van de Velde

17. Identify these quantum particles FTPE.
[10] Interacting with other particles via only the weak nuclear force, this group of particles has been rumored to be the mythical "dark matter" of the universe.
Answer: neutrino
[10] Confinement, a principle of the strong nuclear force, causes these particles to join together groups of quarks & anti-quarks to create larger particles.
Answer: gluon
[10] These larger particles, composed of groups of quarks and antiquarks joined together by gluons, are considered to be unstable because the quarks and associated antiquarks will annihilate each other.
Answer: meson

