Maryland High School Classic
Questions by Phil Durkos

1)  The  graph  of the function y=x! (read y equals x factorial) allows a curve to join all the points, as long as x is positive.  This function gives a precise way of defining and calculating the intermediate points on the graph.  This function shows that f evaluated at some number equals f evaluated at 1 less than that number factorial.  FTP, what is this function whose name is the same as the third letter of the Greek alphabet?
ANSWER:  gamma function

2) Originally a short story written in 1947 under the title "Bright Phoenix," its author expanded it into a full novel in 1953, at the height of the McCarthy era. Matthew Arnold's poem "Dover Beach" plays a central thematic role, and the main character recites it to Mrs Bowles and Mrs Phelps, but they only want to talk about C-sections. The Book of Ecclesiastes is taught by Faber to the hero, Guy Montag. FTP, identify this dystopic novel by Ray Bradbury, named for the temperature that burns paper.
ANSWER: Fahrenheit 451

3) "The anchors brake/ and the top-masts lap/ 'Twas such a deadly storm/ And the winds reaved o'er the broken ship/ Till all her sides were torn," recounts the Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens of her tragic voyage. The only heiress to Alexander III of Scotland, the Treaty of Birgham betrothed her to the eldest son of Edward I, who died in 1288. For 10 points, identify this "King's daughter o' Norrowayland," a widowed queen at the age of 7 who drowned when Sir Patrick Spens' ship sank in the Skagerrak in 1290.
ANSWER: Margaret Maid of Norway

4) "The highway's jammed with broken heroes, on a last-chance power drive! Everybody's out on the run tonight, and there's no place left to hide. Together, Wendy, we can live with the sadness; I'll love you with all the madness in my soul. Someday, girl, (I don't know when) we're gonna get to that place where we really wanna go, and we'll walk in the sun" is the final verse to, for ten points, what amazing Bruce Springsteen 1978 hit whose title alludes to a perambulatory destiny?
ANSWER: Born To Run

5) Selections from it appear in the lyrics to the Doors' hit single, "Show Me the Way to the Next Whisky Bar," and Jim Morrison called it an "absurdly universal tragedy." The plot centers around Polly Peachum's efforts to run away with and redeem the protagonist, Mack the Knife, and the proletarian despair of an abused tavern waitress who styles herself "Pirate Jenny" in her wild, vengeful daydreams. For 10 points, identify this opera remembered for "Pirate Jenny's Revenge Song" and "The Ballad of Sexual Obsession," written by Berthold Brecht and set to music by Kurt Weill.
ANSWER: The Three-Penny Opera



6)  His birth, around the year 1120, only promised him the title Duke Von Swabia.  In 1155, he became king of Italy and used this office to launch his campaign to be Holy Roman Emperor. Unfortunately he fell from his horse and drowned in the Saleph River on his way to the Holy Land during the Third Crusade.  FTP, name this king of Germany who instituted the line of Antipopes.
ANSWER:  Frederick Barbarossa or Frederick I

7)He was the mentor to many among the subsequent generation of great poets, including Amy Lowell, Wilfred Owen, and, most famously, TS Eliot. His poems are among the most erudite in existence; they often focus on historical and mythological figures. Examples include "I am thy soul, Nikoptis," and "Homage to Sextus Propertius." For 10 points, identify this Montparnasse-dwelling poet, best known for his "Cantos." ANSWER: Ezra Pound

8) Initially theorized in 1924 by its two namesake scientists, it was not actually constructed until 1995, when Eric Cornell and Carl Wieman finally created one. In 1997, stable ones were created through the use of the laser cooling technique, which won the 1997 Nobel Prize in Physics. Made of rubidium atoms a millionth of a degree above absolute zero, its properties are all heavily quantized. For ten points, identify this construct which traps light passing through it.
ANSWER: Bose-Einstein condensate

9) When his plane crashed and the entire non-smoking section drowned, he commented, "I always knew smoking was good for me, but until now I never knew how good." Some of his philosophical works include "A History of Western Philosophy" and "Is Modern Marriage a Failure?" He himself had 4 wives, including Dora, with whom he ran a new kind of school, which was censured by the British government. Better known as a mathematician is, for 10 points, what author of "Why I Am Not A Christian" and "Principia Mathematica?" ANSWER: Bertrand Russell
10)  This character compares himself to an anvil at one point, but despite the abuses heaped on him by the world, he manages to be the strongest member of his famil;y on their long journey to California. Although he does not appear in the end of the novel, where Rosasharn smiles mysteriously, he has already experienced his apotheosis to superhumanity and become a defender of the downtrodden, after his "I'll be there" speech. FTP, identify this protagonist of "The Grapes of Wrath." 
ANSWER: Tom Joad

11) Born in Lincolnshire in 1366, he was a son of John of Gaunt. Known as Bolingbroke, he became the first Lancastrian king of England by usurping the throne of Richard II. In Shakespeare's interpretation, he is a power-hungry despot who helps Sir Peirce Exton kill his cousin at sword-point. For 10 points, name him.
ANSWER: Henry IV 



12) According to the "New Republic," this can no longer be considered a classical piece of music because too many people have heard of it.The theme of the last movement of this symphony was made into the hymn "Joyful, Joyful, We Adore Thee."  For 10 points what is the number of this Beethoven symphony whose text was written by Friedrich von Schiller, in the poem "Ode To Joy".
ANSWER: 9th Symphony

13) He was executed by Theodoric the Great, the Gothic ruler of Rome in the late 5th century.  He is known to have famously inspired Chaucer and was often credited with passing on the Roman scheme of dividing education into the seven liberal arts which were later adopted, along woth Peter Lombard's "Sentences," as the basis of the Medieval system of learning.  For 10 points who was this famous Roman who wrote The Consolation of Philosophy.
ANSWER: Boethius

14) She was called "Stagecoach Mary" by a folksong named after her, and was a woman stagecoach driver on a U.S. mail route. She was born a slave in Tennessee, and escaped to Ohio.  Later she helped found a mission school for native American girls in Montana.  She was a crack shot with a shotgun, smoked thick black cigars, and drove two teams of horses. For 10 points name this eccentric folk American folk heroine.
ANSWER: Mary Fields

15) It currently afflicts 4 million in the U.S., a figure expected to double by the year 2000.  Its neurofibrillary tangles were first described in 1906 by the German neurologist after whom it was named.  For ten points, name this disease of the elderly, with no known cause, treatment, or cure.
ANSWER: Alzheimer's disease

16) The author of this poem sees its subject as a fallen ideal, which "topples round the dreary west in looming bastions fringed with fire." He glosses over most of the non-Victorian components of this legend, including the part where King Arthur gets his sister pregnant with Mordred. For 10 points, identify this retelling of the King Arthur Saga, which begins with "Of Ulster" and ends with "Of Camlann and the Passing," a work of Sir Alfred, Lord Tennyson. ANSWER: Idylls of the King

17) Supposedly from a cursed family, this Alcmaeonid an enemy of his fellow aristocrats, and turned to the common people to fulfill his power-hungry ambitions.  He then instituted ostracism, expanded the Athenian council to 500 members, and reformed the Athenian tribes, abolishing the four old ancestor tribes in favor of ten new ones composed of three trittyes each. FTP, name this Athenian who sought to build on Solon's democratic reforms, generally acknowledged as the founder of Athenian democracy.
ANSWER:Cleisthenes 

18) His signatures include shifting scenes through dream sequences, and almost always casting  a rock musician in a supporting roll (these have included Sting, David Bowie, and Marilyn Manson.) Though his debut film, Eraserhead, was unsuccessful until later works were released, he later gained public appeal with the recruitment of Kyle MacLachlan, Laura Dern, and Alicia Witt as recurring protagonists in his films. His affair with Isabella Rossellini was scandalously publicized in the late 1980's. For 10 points, identify this avant-garde director of Wild At Heart, Blue Velvet, Dune, and, most recently, Mulholland Drive.
ANSWER: David Lynch



19) He was banished to the desert lands by his brother, but in a fit of jealousy, as well as lust for a woman they both loved, he killed his brother and hacked him into numerous pieces. Fortunately, despite his alliance with the lion goddess Sekhmet, Anubis and Ma'at opposed him, and Isis was able to resurrect his slain brother Osiris. FTP, identify this god of evil from the Egyptian pantheon. ANSWER: Set

20) "Lips that would kiss form prayers to broken stone," concludes the third and shortest section, bitterly parodying the first sonnet exchanged between Romeo and Juliet. The fourth part ends with the lamentation of the title characters, who "huddle together on the nether shore/ the broken jaw of lost our kingdoms." The fifth section has the most famous ending, which was taken by Gore Vidale as an essay title. For 10 points, identify this TS Eliot poem which begins by noting the inescapable mortality of Conrad's Colonel Kurtz and ends "This is the way the world ends/ Not with a bang but a whimper."
ANSWER:The Hollow Men.

21)First exemplified in 1968, it is a natural extrapolation of Keynes' idea that unemployment represents an excess of labor. Though the recent research of DR. Paul Krueger of MIT suggests that it in fact is more complicated than the old model would suggest, it is still held to be the most valid measure of the relationship between unemployment and inflation. For 10 points, identify this planar curve in economics which posits an inverse relationship between unemployment and inflation.
ANSWER: Phillips curve

22) Though present in humans, it plays a far more integral role in the biology of insects. In humans, it delivers oxygen from the oral cavity to the bronchioles, and the bloodstream is circulated up to the lungs to receive oxygen. However, insects lack a circulatory system and instead have a system of these, which runs throughout their entire body for the delivery of oxygen. For 10 points, identify these major respiratory passages whose name comes from the Greek for "pathway."
ANSWER: trachea

BONUSES:



For ten points each, identify the following terms from genetics, given a definition.
When a single allele controls a single trait, this term bears the name of its discoverer. ANSWER: Mendelian differentiation
When many alleles are needed to govern a single trait. ANSWER: Epistasis
When a single allele governs multiple traits, such as finger and toe length. ANSWER: Pleiotropy



For five points each, and a bonus five for all correct, identify the five Kings to whom Eleanor of Acquitaine was related in one degree, either by blood or by marriage. ANSWERS: Vincent d'Acquitaine, Louis VII of France, Henry II of England, Richard the Lionhearted, and John the Incompetent.
Identify the following characters from The Picture of Dorian Gray based on Wilde's thoughts about their role in his life, for ten points each.
Wilde felt that others often saw him as this witty, sophisticated, Mephistophelean nobleman, whose cynical influences contribute to Dorian's spiritual decline. ANSWER: Lord Henry Wotton
Wilde secretly dreamed of being this incarnation of human beauty who inspires the suicide of a young actress and eventually murders his best friend, and reflected, "Perhaps in another life shall I be a star so bright." ANSWER: Dorian Gray
At heart, Wilde believed himself to be this young painter of Dorian's picture, a great spirit torn by self-doubt and unable to see the beauty within his own character, but who is eventually apotheosized by his noble sacrifice. ANSWER: Basil Hallward
Identify the following works which share a common theme, ten points each.
This 1995 Ace of Bass hit denounces the relentless advance of technology and modernity at the expense of human emotion, whispering, "We're traveling in time" and "Tell 'em we've gone too far." ANSWER: Happy Nation
This 1951 Sylvia Plath poem decries, "Backwards we travel to reclaim the day/ Before we fell, as Icarus undone/ Now all we find are altars in decay/ And profane words scrawled black across the sun." ANSWER: Doom of the Exiles
This 1983 independent film is merely a montage of images choreographed to the music of Philip Glass and Native American chanting. It ends with the footage of a spaceship exploding as a symbol for the ultimate doom of nature's desecrators, and its name is a Hopi word meaning "life out of balance." ANSWER: Koyaanisqatsi
Identify the following about the work of my favorite mathematician, 10 points each.
This Frenchman was a protégé of Gauss and Cauchy, but died at the age of 23 in a duel for the hand of the local baron's daughter. ANSWER: Evariste Galois
This concept is Galois' most important discovery; it is the term for any collection of polynomials whose roots exist in the same algebraic form. Permutations of these are the building blocks of Galois theory. ANSWER: symmetric group
4(x^2 - 5) is a polynomial function defined for all real numbers. How many of its root permutations form a symmetric group? ANSWER: 6

Identify the following America songs from lyrics, 5-10-15.
"It felt good to be out of the rain/ In the desert, you can remember your name/ 'Cause there ain't no one for to give you no pain." ANSWER: Horse With No Name
"Where the days are longer/ the nights are stronger than moonshine/ You're gonna go, I knoooooow/ "Cause a free wind is blowin' through your hair/ And the day surrounds your daylight there." ANSWER: Ventura Highway
"When the last eagle flies/ Over the last crumbling mountain/ And the last lion roars/ At the last dusty fountain/ And it seems like all is dying/ And will leave the world to mourn/ In the distance, hear the laughter." ANSWER: The Last Unicorn
Identify the author of each of the following books of the Bible, 10 points each. God is, of course, an unacceptable answer.
Ecclesiastes. ANSWER: Solomon
Acts of the Apostles. ANSWER: Saint Luke the Evangelist
Revelations. ANSWER:  John of Patmos or John the Divine or John the Witnesser
You might have noticed that since I don't know anything about history, all the history questions in this packet are secretly other kinds of questions. To continue the tradition and win 10 points for each clue, identify the following historical figures who appear in the movie Quo Vadis.
This bulbous Roman emperor eventually kills himself when he is told that the Praetorian Guard are in revolt. ANSWER: Nero
This courtier of Nero wrote the Satyricon, but kills himself at his own party in Cumae when he falls under Nero's suspicion. ANSWER: Gaius Petronius
This courtier of Nero reveals to the Emperor that Petronius keeps spies in the imperial palace and has a Christian concubine. ANSWER: Tigellinus
Time to return to 7th grade and the tutelage of a bazillion scary nuns! Identify the following things from grammar, 5-10-15.
This grammatical no-no is impossible in Latin and so should obviously be illegal in English, exemplified by Marlowe's "to ever-youthful dance." ANSWER: split infinitive
If your teacher accused you of this, it doesn't mean your fly was unzipped, it just means that the subject of your sentence doesn't match the subject of one of its present progressive tense verbs. ANSWER: dangling participle
Although Richard Wright frequently invoked this technique to evoke contrast, it's grammatically illegal because it gives a preposition two objects where one is concrete and the other abstract. An example is: "and afterwards, red-faced Mrs. Fisher was carried home in a lawn chair and a high dudgeon." ANSWER: epizuxis
Answer the following about early versions of the King Arthur legend, 10 points each. 
This collection of Welsh legends was first written around the beginning of the second millennium and equates Merlin with the Celtic god Brynioch and Morgan le Fay with the fairy Queen Mab. ANSWER: the Mabinogion
This 1261 work of Geoffrey of Monmouth introduces most of the characters modern readers are familiar with as well as Excalibur and Avalon. Though its historical value is limited due to gross inaccuracies even in its coverage of recent centuries, it is written in vernacular prose, greatly enhancing its accessibility. ANSWER: History of the Kings of Britain
Written in 1470 while its author was in prison for abducting and forcibly marrying the daughter of a prominent duke, this romance by Sir Thomas Malory is the first truly modern version of the tale. ANSWER: Le Morte d'Arthur
Identify the following psychological phobias from a definition, 5 points each.
Fear of open spaces or marketplaces. ANSWER: Agoraphobia
Fear of spiders. ANSWER: Arachnophobia 
Fear of trees. ANSWER: Dendrophobia
Fear of the truth. ANSWER: Alethiophobia
Fear of clowns. ANSWER: Coulurophobia
Fear of the number 13. ANSWER: Triskaidekaphobia.

Identify the chemical compound, 30-20-10. ANSWER: Silver nitrate
For 30 points, it is the active reagent whose consumption powers flamethrowers.
For 20 points, it is an oily black substance which stains the skin but which is used in the development of photographs.
For 10 points, its chemical formula is AgNO3.

Identify the Wagner opera from the Ring des Nibelungen sequence from a plot summary, 10 points each.
The giants demand the goddess Freya in payment for a new palace, but will accept the gold of three beautiful maidens who sing the introductory piece. The dwarf Alberich yields it, including a magic ring and helm he has forged, but the gods hold back the ring, which is cursed, from the greedy giants. ANSWER: Das Rheingold
Mime finally reforges the sword Nothung which Siegfried uses to kill the dragon Fafnir. Mime tries to drug Siegfriend, but Alberich has warned him and he kills Mime instead. Finally Siegfried wins through to the entrapped valkyrie Brunnhilde, and she falls in love with him, renouncing her immortality. ANSWER: Siegfried
Hagen and Gunther enchant Siegfried to forget Brunnhilde so Gunther can marry her; Siegfried married Gunther's sister. When Brunnhilde arrives she knows nothing of the spell but begins to suspect, and Gunther and Gutrunn arrange for him to die hunting. Brunnhilde learns all from her sister and, in despair, rides her horse onto Siegfried's funeral pyre. At the end, her sacrifice sets fire to Valhalla, and the death of the gods frees the world from the ring's curse. ANSWER: Gotterdammerung
Given a play performed for Elizabeth 1, give its author. 5,5,10, 10 points each.
Tamburlaine the Great ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe
Campaspe ANSWER: John Lyly
The Spanish Tragedy ANSWER: Thomas Kyd
The Tragedy of Mariam, Fair Queen of the Jews ANSWER: Elizabeth Cary
Given a historical figure, tell whether they died in battle, in bed, by suicide, or none of the above. Ten points each.
Attila the Hun. ANSWER: Bed
Zachary Taylor. ANSWER: None
Boadicea. ANSWER: Either suicide or battle. Reports are conflicting.
Eurodance forever! Identify the following Eurodance or Eurodisco bands from the '90s, 5-10-15.
This Danish pop group featuring the vocals of Lene Grawford Nystrom won international fame in the mid-90's and scored 2 US hits with "Candyman" and "Barbie Girl" ANSWER: Aqua
This Eurodance sensation which took its name from a legion of gay guys who defended Thebes in ancient times featured two Israelis, a Swede, and a Frenchman, and had a US hit in 1996 with "Crucified." ANSWER: Army of Lovers
These glittery Norwegians are only remembered for "Cryin' At the Discotheque" and split up immediately after singing it. ANSWER: Alcazar
Science bores me, so we're going to do a fun multidisciplinary bonus instead. I'll give you a Shakespeare play, and you tell me how many moons of Uranus are named after characters from it. Since there's a Stephano in 2 different plays, you can count him both times. 5 points each.
A Midsummer Night's Dream. ANSWER: 3
The Taming of the Shrew. ANSWER: 2
King Lear. ANSWER: 1
The Tempest. ANSWER: 6
The Merchant of Venice ANSWER: 1
Hamlet. ANSWER: 1
Identify the poet from lines, for 10 points each; 5 points if you need the poem's title.
"What the anvil? What dread grasp/ Dared its deadly terrors clasp/ When the stars threw down their spears/ And watered heaven with their tears" ANSWER: Blake
		a) The Tiger
B) "O Young Mariner/ Down from the haven/ Call thy companions and/ Canvass thy sails/ After it, follow it, ere it vanishes o'er the marge/ After it, follow it!" ANSWER: Tennyson
		a) Merlin and the Gleam
C) "Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight/ Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay/ Rage, rage against the dying of the light!" ANSWER: Dylan Thomas
		a) Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night
19) Given two paintings, identify the artist.
	A) Geopoliticus Child and Impressions of Africa ANSWER: Dali
      B) Moroccan Notebook and The Massacre at Chios ANSWER: Delacroix
      C) Portrait of Dora Mar and Guernica ANSWER: Picasso
20) Given an actor and actress, give a movie directed or written by Oliver Stone, in which they starred.
	A) Al Pacino and Cameron Dias. ANSWER: Any Given Sunday
      B) Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sandahl Bergman ANSWER: Conan the Barbarian
      C) Michael Douglas andDaryl HannahANSWER: Wall Street















