2004 Maryland High School Classic

Round 2

Questions by Kara Mohler

Tossups

1. His family name can be translated as "grocer," after his family's historical profession.  His statue stands outside the Ferry Building in San Francisco.  He advocated Satyagraha, often translated "way of truth." He corresponded with Tolstoy and led the Dandi March and worked closely with the Indian National Congress.  Name this leader, who advocated non-violent ahimsa, and helped gain independence for India.
ANSWER: Mahatma GANDHI

2. This name most often applies only to those organisms with blunt (lobose) or tapering (filose) pseudopods. These are found in sluggish waters, fresh and salt, all over the world, as well as in soils and as parasites. They readily make appearances in putrefying infusions, carried aerially, and are generally able to form protective cysts.  When capitalized and italicized it refers to a particular genus that is found in freshwater, typically on decaying vegetation from streams, but is not especially common in nature.  Name this descriptive term for various single-celled organisms which move about by means of temporary projections.
ANSWER: AMOEBAS

3. His mother committed suicide by drowning herself in the Sambre in 1912.  He studied at the Academy des Beaux-Arts in Brussels, and produced his first surrealist painting in 1926.  He practiced representational surrealism by challenging perceptions, and his paintings are often witty and amusing.  Name this Belgian surrealist, one of who's most famous works is a painting of a pipe, with the French words for "This is not a pipe" painted underneath.
ANSWER: Rene MAGRITTE

4. This work drew widespread attention to the problem of bioaccumulation and the effects of toxins on human health.  It attracted hostile attention from certain industries, and claimed that its subject was extremely carcinogenic. It called for a ban on a certain insecticide in the United States.  Name this environmental indictment, published in 1962, which actually did lead to a ban on DDT, the most famous work of Rachel Carson.
ANSWER: SILENT SPRING 

5. This quantity describes the amount of children too young to work, plus the amount of people too old to work, divided by the productive sector of the population.  As it increases, there is increased strain on the productive part of the population to support those who do not work. Name this economic quantity that has direct impacts on financial elements like social security.  
ANSWER: DEPENDENCY RATIO

6. He is said to be the son of Oeagrus, King of Thrace, but he may be the son of Apollo.  He joined the Argonauts, and was brutally killed and subsequently dismembered by bacchantes on the banks of the Hebrus. The most famous story about this man involves his wife, who died after being bitten by a serpent.  He went into the lower world, softened Hades heart, and convinced Hades to allow him to take his wife back with him, but on the condition that he not look behind him.  Name this lyre-playing figure in Greek myth, whose mother was Calliope and whose wife was Eurydice.
ANSWER: ORPHEUS

7. The son of a tanner, his early work in chemistry resolved a problem concerning the nature of tartaric acid.  His doctorate thesis on crystallography helped him resolve the tartaric acid problem, and got him a job on the faculty at the University of Strasbourg.  He helped to disprove the popular theory of spontaneous regeneration, but is most famous for his pioneering work in microbiology, which resulted in a namesake process for ridding liquids such as milk of bacteria by heating them.
ANSWER: Louis PASTEUR

8. It was ceded to France in 1697.  This country made a commitment to end slavery everywhere, but slaveholding countries such as the U.S. implemented sanctions against it.  It is now the poorest country in the Western hemisphere.  Name this island nation, where the UN has recently sent in a peacekeeping force and whose Revolutionary Artibonite Resistance Front recently revolted against corrupt president Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
ANSWER: HAITI

9. He was born in Mondovi, and his father Lucien died at the Battle of the Marne in 1914.  He contracted tuberculosis in 1930, ending his hobby of playing soccer.  He was denounced as a Trotskyite for forming an opposition Communist party in his home country in 1936, and his marriage ended because his wife was a morphine addict.  Name this man, author of L'Expresse, The Rebel, The Plague, and the quintessential existentialist novel The Stranger.
ANSWER: ALBERT CAMUS

10. It formed part of Ptolemy's list of 48 constellations and is also one of the 88 modern constellations approved by the IAU.  It is surrounded by the Dragon Draco, the Roman hero Hercules, the Little Fox Vulpecula and the Swan Cygnus.  The "Ring Nebula" is also located inside it.  Name this constellation, which contains the second brightest star in the northern hemisphere, Vega.
ANSWER: LYRA

11. He held the place of commander of the host of the Israelites at their great battle against the Amalekites in Rephidim.  He became Moses' minister, and accompanied him part of the way when he ascended Mount Sinai to receive the Ten Commandments.  He is most famous, however, for fighting in Jericho in his wars of conquest and for bidding the sun to stand still.
ANSWER: JOSHUA

12. The losers in this conflict called it a "freedom war."  Conflict between the British and the losing group was intensified after the failed Jameson Raid, a coup d'etat.  Lord Kitchener responded to guerrilla fighters by constructing blockhouses, destroying farms, and placing civilians in concentration camps.  Name this conflict, whose eponymous losers were also called Voortrekkers or Afrikaners, and which took place in South Africa from 1899 to 1902.
ANSWER: Second BOER WAR

13. This opera takes place shortly after Christmas, and concerns a poor, crippled boy who loves to play the flute.  Its composer studied at the Verdi Conservatory and founded the Festival of the Two Worlds and its American counterpart, Spoleto Festival U.S.A.  Name this first opera ever broadcast on television in 1951, composed by Gian Carlo Menotti.
ANSWER: AMAHL AND THE NIGHT VISITORS

14. The scientist who performed it later worked on cosmic rays, after transitioning from classics to physics.   It helped to win the scientist the Nobel Prize for Physics.  Name this experiment,  carried out by carefully balancing the gravitational and electric forces on tiny charged droplets of the namesake substance suspended between two metal electrodes, that sought to determine the value of the charge on the electron.
ANSWER: Millikan OIL-DROP Experiment

15. He was born into a wealthy family, but was terrified by his emotional, abusive mother.  He studied in St. Petersburg, and then Berlin until 1841.  He was not interested in religion, which strained his relationship with Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, though he was friends with Flaubert.  For ten points, name this Russian novelist and poet who wrote First Love, A Month in the Country, and Fathers and Sons.
ANSWER: Ivan TURGENEV

16. Its hills only rise above the plains in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, and it straddles the tropic of cancer.  Cyclone-driven tidal waves threaten it, and some of the heaviest rainfall on the planet causes annual flooding.  Calcutta sits near its border, and it is essentially a huge delta formed around the Ganges and the Brahmaputra, and three other rivers.  Name this nation with an exploding population and capital at Dhaka.
ANSWER: BANGLADESH

17. His early work spawned a new style of beat, characterized by a short snare and a non 4/4 time signature.  In the late 1990s he incorporated Bhangra music into his beats, and is known for interjecting soft-spoken lyrics in between the verses of others.  Name this hip hop producer, who has produced such songs as "Cry Me a River," "Try Again," and "Ugly," but is most famous for his collaboration with Missy "Misdemeanor" Elliot.
ANSWER: TIMBALAND 

18. This refers to a cultural exchange between the US and China.  It led to a thaw between US-China relations and Richard Nixon's visit to Beijing in 1972.  Name this foreign policy that featured the US and Chinese table tennis teams, and let the first Americans set foot in China since Mao took over 32 years earlier.
ANSWER: PING PONG DIPLOMACY

19. Once two attitudes, emotions, beliefs or values are held and there is a conflict of interests between them, the individual falls into this state.  It describes a conflict of perceptions in psychology, and can be resolved by seeking consonance, though this can be uncomfortable because one must admit that they are wrong.  Name this state of individual imbalance.
ANSWER: COGNITIVE DISSONANCE

20. He was converted to Christianity after a stay in Norway, and he bought Bjarni Herj—lfsson's boat when he returned home.  He sailed off, and named the first land he found Helluland (Land of the flat stones), and the second land he found Markland (Woodland).  When one of his men, Tyrkir, found grapes on another piece of land, he dubbed it Vinland.  Name this Viking explorer, son of Eric the Red.
ANSWER: Leif (Ur) ERIKSSON

21. She crossed the ocean 66 times during her life, and married a man 12 years older than her, whose first name was Teddy.  She worked for the Red Cross in Paris, and her best known work won her a Pulitzer Prize in 1920.  Two of her novels were on the American Modern Library Top 100 List.  Name this author of the societal criticisms The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence.
ANSWER: Edith WHARTON

22. The author wrote this novel in confinement for 18 months.  It chronicles an enduring family who almost daily has magical opportunities for transformation.  but is also a philosophical reflection on the nature of time and isolation.  It is often described as magical realism, but lacks the prerequisite folkloric content.  Name this novel, whose main characters are the Buendia family, and which is the 1967 masterpiece set in Macondo, written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
ANSWER: ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF SOLITUDE

23. This post-World War II conference decided on the administration of Germany after its unconditional surrender, attended by the victorious allies, represented by Truman, Stalin, and Churchill and later Atlee.  Here Stalin devised a plan to give 15% of Poland to the USSR.  Name this conference that was mostly concerned with the division of Germany and Austria into four occupation zones.
ANSWER: POTSDAM

24. This compound directly affects an important cycle that provides the earth with a sort of "sun screen."  Scientists once believed that this compound would only rise to the troposphere, but when research was being conducted on the safety of SSTs in the 1970s, scientists found large numbers of these compounds in the stratosphere.  Name this molecule, whose one chlorine can react with ozone to destroy it thousands of times, and is thought to be mainly responsible for the hole in the ozone layer.
ANSWER: CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS (ACCEPT CFCs)

25. Within a few months of their beginning, they involved the neighboring areas of Andover, Salisbury, Haverhill, Ipswich, Charleston, Beverly, Reading, Woburn, and Boston.  Increase Mather ended them by issuing a decree entitled "Cases of Conscience Concerning Evil Spirits."  Name this event, touched off by accusations from Betty Parris and Abigail Williams, that implicated townspeople in "evil" magical acts, the subject of Arthur Miller's The Crucible.
ANSWER: SALEM WITCH(craft) TRIALS 
Bonuses

1. Name these Chinese dynasties from descriptions FTP each.
[10] During this dynasty, a centralized, nonhereditary bureaucratic system was imposed on the Empire by Ying Zheng.  It lasted from 221 BC to 206 BC.
ANSWER: QIN or CHIN Dynasty
[10] This dynasty saw the advent of Buddhism, block printing, and expanded territory.  It was interrupted by the Zhou dynasty, but lasted from 618 to 907 AD.
ANSWER: TANG Dynasty
[10]  This was the first alien rule of China, also called the Mongol Dynasty.  It lasted from  1271 AD to 1368.
ANSWER: YUAN Dynasty
 
2. Given a description of a short story from James Joyce's realist collection Dubliners, name it FTP.
[10] In this story, two young men wander the streets, and Joyce plays with double meaning when the men follow a girl around to ask her for "a favor," which ends up being a little pocket money.
ANSWER: "TWO GALLANTS"
[10] The title character in this story faces the prospect of staying home with her old, threatening father, or beginning a new life outside of Ireland.
ANSWER: "EVELINE"
[10] This story revolves around Gabriel Conroy and his wife Gretta, whose old love Michael Furey died for her.
ANSWER: "THE DEAD"

3. FTP each, name these items from Aztec legend and mythology.
[10] He is part of one creation myth, which says that the earth formed with the creation of him and his twin brother, Tezcatlipoca, who lost his foot. 
ANSWER: QUETZALCOATL
[10] He is the god who guided the Aztec down from Atlan in the north to found Tenochtitlan.
ANSWER: HUITZILOPOCHTLI
[10] According to legend, Tenochtitlan was founded when the wandering Aztec saw this type of bird perched on a nopal cactus eating a snake.
ANSWER: EAGLE

4. Given the definition of a legal term from Black's Law Dictionary, name the term FTP.
[10] Latin: To stand by things decided, the doctrine of precedent, under which it is necessary for a court to follow earlier judicial decisions.
ANSWER: STARE DECISIS (stahr-ee)
[10] The doctrine that a criminal suspect in police custody must be informed of certain constitutional rights before being interrogated.
ANSWER: MIRANDA RULE
[10] Evidence lacking in probative value or evidence offered to prove a matter that is not an issue.
ANSWER: IMMATERIAL EVIDENCE

5. Given the animals, give the biological family, FTP each.
[10] Dogs, Wolves, Foxes
ANSWER: CANIDAE
 [10] Bears
ANSWER: URSIDAE
[10] Kangaroo
ANSWER: MACROPODIDAE

6. Name the Civil War General from a description FTP each.
[10] He commanded the Union IX at Antietam, and formulated a plan to capture Richmond that led to Union defeat at Fredericksburg in 1863.  He is perhaps best known for his raucous facial hair.
ANSWER: Ambrose BURNSIDE
[10] He received a severe wound at the Battle of Frazier's Farm, but he recovered by Second Bull Run and made the only break through the Confederate lines at Fredericksburg.  He replaced Joseph Hooker as commander of the Army of the Potomac three days before Gettysburg.
ANSWER: George MEADE
[10] He replaced Beauregard as commander of the Confederate Army of Tennessee in June 1862 and fought at Chickamauga and Chattanooga.
ANSWER: Braxton BRAGG

7. Name these teams from the 2004 Men's NCAA Basketball Tournament, 5-10-15.  Give the name of the school, team name optional.
[5] This Big East team, coached by Jim Calhoun, won the Big Dance.
ANSWER: UCONN (accept U of Connecticut in its entirety) HUSKIES 
[15] This Cinderella upset Michigan State and favorite Gonzaga before falling to Georgia Tech.  Kirk Snyder and Todd Okeson were standouts.
ANSWER: NEVADA WOLFPACK 
[10] This 2 seed garnered attention for practicing in football pads to get used to being physical inside, and featured the son of former Maryland star John Lucas.  They made it to the Final Four
ANSWER: OKLAHOMA STATE COWBOYS 

8. Give the element given the preceding and following elements on the periodic table FTP each.
[10] Iridium before, Gold after.
ANSWER: PLATINUM (Pt)
[10] Scandium before, Vanadium after.
ANSWER: TITANIUM (Ti)
[10] Germanium before, Selenium after.
ANSWER: ARSENIC (As)

9. Name the poem given a first line FTP, 5 if you need the author.
[10] "Let us go then, you and I/When the evening is spread out against the sky/Like a patient etherised upon a table"
[5] T.S. Eliot
ANSWER: "The LOVE SONG OF J. ALFRED PRUFROCK"
[10] "Whose woods these are I think I know/His house is in the village though"
[5] Robert Frost
ANSWER: "STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING"
[10] I met a traveler from an antique land/Who said: - Two vast and trunkless legs of stone/Stand in the desert
[5] Percy Bysshe Shelley
ANSWER: "OZYMANDIAS"

10. Answer these questions about The French Revolution and Jacques-Louis David's Tennis Court Oath FTP each.
[10] He may be the figure standing in the window in the upper left-hand corner with his back turned.  He was murdered by Charlotte Corday in 1791.
ANSWER: Jean MARAT
[10] This central figure, with arms splayed, was the head of the Committee of Public Safety.
ANSWER: Maximilien ROBESPIERRE
[10] The three figures embracing in the foreground of the drawing represent the members of these three "classes," the clergy, nobles, and everyone else
ANSWER: ESTATES or ETATS, accept ESTATES GENERAL

11. Given a description of a battle from the Persian Wars of Greek history, name it FTP.
[10] This battle between the Persians, led by Xerxes I, and the Greeks ended in the defeat of Leonidas, though the Greeks fought valiantly to keep the Persians from advancing further.
ANSWER: THERMOPYLAE
[10] This was the legendary culmination of Darius I's first attempt to conquer Greece, and resulted in a Persian retreat to the sea after a timely warning from Athenian soldier Pheidippides
ANSWER: MARATHON
[10] This naval battle saw the Greeks, led by Themistocles, best the Persians by keeping the large Persian fleet from maneuvering into the small gulf off the namesake island where the battle took place.
ANSWER: SALAMIS

12. Name these characters from The Great Gatsby 5-10-15 each.
[5] She is a friend of Daisy Buchanan's, athletic, a pathological liar, and has an affair with Nick.
ANSWER: Jordan BAKER
[10] He becomes depressed and enraged when his wife is hit by a car and killed.  He later murders Gatsby and himself.
ANSWER: George WILSON
[15] He is the only person who attended Gatsby's parties as a guest to show up at Gatsby's funeral, besides Nick.
ANSWER: OWL-EYED MAN or OWL EYES

13. Given the country, given the capital [5 each, 5 for all correct]
[5] Sri Lanka
ANSWER: COLOMBO
[5] Australia
ANSWER: CANBERRA
[5] Lithuania
ANSWER: VILNIUS
[5] Zambia
ANSWER: LUSAKA
[5] Ecuador
ANSWER: QUITO

14. Name these Impressionists from works and/or description, FTP each.
[10] "Woman with Fan," "The Luncheon of the Boating Party"
ANSWER: Pierre Auguste RENOIR
[10] "The Child's Bath," she first exhibited at the 1872 salon.
ANSWER: Mary CASSATT
[10] "L'Enfant au Tablier Rouge," married Eugene Manet
ANSWER: Berthe MORISOT

15. Name the Authors who won the Nobel for Literature from Works [10 for a harder book(s)/5 for more well-known title(s)]
[10] East Wind: West Wind 
[5] The Good Earth
ANSWER: Pearl S. BUCK
[10] The Loss of Eldorado, The Mystic Masseur
[5] A House for Mr. Biswas, A Bend in the River
ANSWER: Vidiadhar Surajprasad NAIPAUL
[10] From the Diary of a Snail, Dog Years
[5] Cat and Mouse, The Tin Drum
ANSWER: Gunger GRASS

16. Give the name of the compound given the chemical formula FTP each.
[10] C6H5CH3.
ANSWER: TOLUENE
[10] C6H12O6
ANSWER: GLUCOSE
[10] NaHCO3
ANSWER: SODIUM BICARBONATE or BAKING SODA

17. Given a description of its independence, name the African country FTP.
[10] It was the first colonial African country to gain its independence in 1957.
ANSWER: GHANA  
[10] It became independent from Belgium in 1960 under populist Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba.
ANSWER: CONGO
[10] After gaining independence from Britain this nation formed from Tanganyika and Zanzibar, and was led by Joseph Nyerere.  
ANSWER: TANZANIA

18. Answer these questions about works by Richard Wright 5-10-15
[5] This work's subject is Bigger Thomas, and chronicles his life before and after he kills a white girl whose family he works for.
ANSWER: NATIVE SON
[10] This autobiographical work describes the author's early life, including his move from Roxie, Mississippi to Chicago and his involvement with the Communist Party.
ANSWER: BLACK BOY
[15] This work consists of four novellas, published in 1938.  Zora Neale Hurston called the collection "so grim that the Dismal Swamp of race hatred must be where [the characters] live."
ANSWER: UNCLE TOM'S CHILDREN

19. Name these prophets from the bible FTP each.
[10] He prophesied the downfall of the Edomites and the glory of Zion, and his chapter in the Bible is the shortest, containing 21 verses.
ANSWER: OBADIAH
[10] He appears abruptly on the scene of history to announce to Ahab that God had determined to avenge the apostasy of Israel and her king by bringing a long drought on the land, and denounces the prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel.  He went to heaven without dying.
ANSWER: ELIJAH
[10] He threatens that Judah will be punished, and was in Jerusalem when Nebuchadnezzar besieged it.  When he predicted that the Babylonians would come with fire, he was thrown into prison, and when they actually did come with fire, he was released.
ANSWER: JEREMIAH

20. Name the fields of physics given a description FTP each.
[10] The physics of the EM fields, including their effects on electrically charged particles.
ANSWER: ELECTROMAGNETISM
[10] The study of energy, its conversions between various forms, the ability of energy to do work, and the spontaneity of processes. It is closely related to statistical mechanics from which many of its relationships can be derived.
ANSWER: THERMODYNAMICS
[10] A physical theory that describes the behavior of matter at short length scales. It provides a quantitative explanation for three types of phenomena that classical mechanics and classical electrodynamics cannot account for.
ANSWER: QUANTUM MECHANICS or QUANTUM PHYSICS

21. Given a description, name the character on the TV show Family Guy, 5-10-15
[5] He is the Griffin's wisecracking, articulate dog, who has a secret crush on Lois.
ANSWER: BRIAN Griffin
[10] He's extremely creepy, also has a crush on Lois, and is known for saying, "Giggidy giggidy giggidy, alllright."
ANSWER: Glenn QUAGMIRE
[15] He's a former TV Star who is now the mayor of Quahog (pronounced KOH-HOG).
ANSWER: Adam WEST

22. Name these famous Italians from a description FTP each.
[10] He was briefly the ruler of Florence and preached against the Renaissance.  He was simultaneously burned and hanged after he was excommunicated.
ANSWER: Girolamo SAVONAROLA
[10] He was the most famous soldier of the Risorgimento, unifying Italy under the Red Shirts.
ANSWER: Giuseppe GARIBALDI
[10] His bronze, Perseus holding the Head of Medusa stands in the Loggia dei Lanzi, just past the Uffizi Bridge.
ANSWER: Benvenuto CELLINI

23. Given periods within it, name the era FTP each.
[10] Permian, Carboniferous, Devonian
ANSWER: PALEOZOIC
[10] Cretaceous, Jurassic
ANSWER: MESOZOIC
[10] Archaen, Hadean
ANSWER: PROTEROZOIC

24. Name these items "discovered" by Sigmund Freud FTP each.
[10] He called these "the royal road to the unconscious" and interpreted them in a famous work.
ANSWER: DREAMS
[10] It acts as the conscience to counterbalance the id.
ANSWER: SUPEREGO
[10] Freud did little known early work on this neurological disease that disrupts motor skills.
ANSWER: CEREBRAL PALSY

25. Name these J.S. Bach works given a description for fifteen points each.
[15] One of his most famous fugues, written while organist at Weimar, comprised of 48 preludes and fugues.
ANSWER: The WELL-TEMPERED CLAVIER
[15] He presented this collection to the Margrave of the eponymous city.
ANSWER: BRANDENBURG CONCERTOS
