2004 Maryland High School Classic

Round 3

Questions by Sandeep Vaheesan

Tossups

1. Born in Siberia, he studied chemistry at the University of St. Petersburg. While studying at Heidelberg, he met Stanislao Cannizzaro whose theories of atomic weights greatly influenced him. He attempted to organize all the known elements on the basis of their chemical properties. For ten points, identify this scientist who published the first periodic table.
ANSWER: Dmitri MENDELEYEV

2. Some have credited them with diminishing hockey's appeal with their highly successful but humdrum, neutral zone trap. Their head coach was recently diagnosed with colon cancer and, in spite of his illness, may soon be fired. They were a playoff disappointment this season as they lost in the first round to the Philadelphia Flyers. For ten points, identify this 2003 Stanley Cup champion led by defenseman Scott Stevens and goaltender Martin Brodeur.
ANSWER: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (accept either)

3. In the background, a brilliant beam of sunlight pierces the scene, illuminating it in reddish-orange light. The captain of the ship depicted in this work has thrown 132 sick slaves overboard to collect insurance money. Though a strongly abolitionist work, its focus is the awesome and terrifying power of nature. For ten points, identify this master seascape of JMW Turner.
ANSWER: SLAVE SHIP 

4. Einstein gained renown for mathematically modeling this phenomenon in 1905. The namesake Scottish botanist discovered it in 1827 while studying the motion of pollen grains in water. For ten points, identify this random movement of tiny particles suspended in liquids and gases.
ANSWER: BROWNIAN MOTION

5. The leader of his show's band is a former drummer for the E Street Band. In February he was censured by the Canadian parliament after a canine correspondent made offensive comments about Quebec and its residents. His regular "guests" include Vomiting Kermit, the Masturbating Bear and Preparation H Raymond. For ten points, identify this gangly Irish-American who hosts Late Night.
ANSWER: Conan O'BRIEN

6. Occurring in the present day Somme department, it saw an English force of 20,000 engage 12,000 French knights, 6,000 Genoese mercenaries, 20,000 militiamen and a division of Bohemian cavalrymen. Despite making 16 charges, the French knights could not make any advances, as they were continually repulsed by English archers. The outcome of this encounter decisively proved the longbow's superiority over the crossbow. For ten points, identify this 1346 battle - the first major clash of the Hundred Years War.
ANSWER: CRECY

7. Last month an Iraqi, with a picture of this man in his car, was beaten to death by American soldiers. The Coalition Provisional Authority wants him captured dead or alive and has encircled his home city of Najaf. He has, in response, threatened to unleash waves of suicide bombers against American forces if Najaf is invaded. For ten points, name this radical Shiite cleric who is leading the uprising in central Iraq.
ANSWER: Moqtada al-SADR

8. It unifies three laws that were discovered independently - one by a Scotsman in the 17th century and two by Frenchmen in the 18th and 19th century. It assumes that collisions between molecules are elastic and that these molecules occupy negligible space. For ten points, name this law that is represented by the equation PV = nrT.
ANSWER: IDEAL GAS LAW

9. Though playing on losing teams in Philadelphia, he established himself as one of the National League's elite pitchers in the mid-1990s. In 2001, his second season with the Arizona Diamondbacks, he won 22 games and was named co-MVP of the World Series with Randy Johnson. For ten points, identify this veteran pitcher who along with Pedro Martinez now anchors the Red Sox starting rotation.
ANSWER: Curt SCHILLING

10. The son of a wealthy Kashmiri lawyer, he was educated at Harrow and Cambridge. He articulated India's struggle for independence to the West through writings such as Toward Freedom. In 1919 he joined the Indian National Congress and became a follower of Mahatma Gandhi whom he succeeded after World War II. For ten points, identify this first prime minister of India.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal NEHRU

11. This doctrine began with Democritus and Leucippius who theorized that the universe was comprised of tiny, indivisible atoms. Marx is famous for his dialectical version of it. Kant attempted to reconcile it with its antithesis, idealism. For ten points, name this philosophical doctrine that holds that matter is the basis of all reality.
ANSWER: MATERIALISM

12. Depicting the July Revolution of 1830, it reflects the artist's liberal political views. A bare-breasted woman is shown with a group of Parisians hoping to restore the French Republic. For ten points, identify this most renowned work of Eugene Delacroix.
ANSWER: LIBERTY LEADING THE PEOPLE

13. He was killed in 1942 in an American air ambush while touring the Solomon Islands. He was educated at the Naval War College and Harvard and served as naval attaché to the United States from 1925-1928. In the 1930s he helped develop Japan's naval aviation strategy and was appointed Commander of the Combined Fleet at the end of the decade. For ten points, identify this admiral who planned the attack on Pearl Harbor.
ANSWER: Isoroku YAMAMOTO

14. He joined the British merchant marine in 1885 and changed his surname to sound more English shortly thereafter.  He is most famous for his detailed accounts of sea life and examinations of the social and moral consequences of imperialism. His experiences in Malaya and the Congo provided the inspiration for two of his most famous novels. For ten points, identify this author of Lord Jim and The Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph CONRAD

15. She graduated from Radcliffe in 1933 and covered the Spanish Civil War for The Nation. She won the Pulitzer Prize twice; the second time for her book Stilwell and the American Experience in China: 1911-1945. Her most famous work examines political events in Europe during the months leading up to the First World War. For ten points, identify this historian who wrote The Guns of August.
ANSWER: Barbara TUCHMAN

16. Though a member of the generally pacifist Bloomsbury group, he served in the British Treasury during World War I. A delegate to the Paris Peace Conference, he prophetically contended that punitive reparations would sow the seeds for an even more devastating future conflict. For ten points, name this man who revolutionized macroeconomics with his General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.
ANSWER: John Maynard KEYNES

17. At the age of 10, he amazed his elementary school teacher by summing the numbers 1 through 100 in under a minute. In his doctoral thesis, he put forth the fundamental theorem of algebra, which states that every algebraic equation has at least one root. For ten points, name this German mathematician and physicist whose namesake law describes the relationship between electric flux and charge in a closed surface.
ANSWER: Carl Friedrich GAUSS

18. The influence of his mentor Saint-Simon is evident in his philosophy. He divided history into three stages: the theological, the metaphysical and the scientific. Though an atheist, he recognized the social value of religion and called for a creed based on the worship of humanity. For ten points, identify this French thinker, the founder of positivism.
ANSWER: Auguste COMTE

19. The novel revolves around the simple question: Can Indians and Englishmen be friends? Its protagonist, Dr Aziz, is accused of raping Adela Quested during a visit to the Marabar Caves but is eventually acquitted of the charge. For ten points, name this E.M Forster work that looks at the tensions between ruler and subject during the British Raj.
ANSWER: A PASSAGE TO INDIA

20. In an argument with Barney at Moe's Tavern, Wade Boggs contends that this man, and not Lord Palmerston, is England's greatest prime minister. He acquitted himself admirably in the Seven Years War as Britain expanded its empire in North America and gained a foothold in India. In 1766, George III made him the Earl of Chatham. For ten points identify this man whose son served as prime minister during the Napoleonic Wars.
ANSWER: William PITT THE ELDER

21. She was educated at Vassar and Columbia and became a professor at the latter institution in 1923. Her notable works include The Chrysanthemum and the Sword: Patterns of Japanese Culture and Zuni Mythology. For ten points, identify this cultural anthropologist renowned for her studies of Native American culture.
ANSWER: Ruth BENEDICT

22. Following the ouster of Louis Philippe, he relied on name recognition to win the 1849 legislative election. In 1851, he overthrew the republic and declared himself emperor. He was frequently tyrannical but did have some successes - most notably the reconstruction of Paris in the 1860s. For ten points, name this nephew of Napoleon who ruled France until his nation's defeat in the Franco-Prussian War.
ANSWER: LOUIS NAPOLEON or NAPOLEON III

23. Its secondary characters include Sophia Western and Blifil. The novel opens with Squire Allworthy's discovery of the titular foundling in his bed. It traces this character's progression from a lusty rascal into a devoted husband. For ten points, identify this eighteenth century comedy, the most famous work of Henry Fielding.
ANSWER: TOM JONES

24. The architect's experience in greenhouses greatly influenced his design of this structure. Noted for its innovative use of glass and wrought iron, it was destroyed by fire in 1936. For ten points, identify this hall built for the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London.
ANSWER: CRYSTAL PALACE

25. The origins of this conflict can be traced back to the seizure of a British vessel off the Spanish Main in 1731. Tensions between Spain and Britain came to a head in 1738 following further outrages against British sailors. For ten points, identify this conflict lasting from 1739-1741 named in honor of a British seaman's sensory organ.
ANSWER: WAR OF JENKINS'S EAR
















Bonuses

1. Identify the following players who recently joined the Evil Empire a.k.a. the New York Yankees, 5-10-15.
[5] This All-Star shortstop - baseball's highest paid player - was acquired from the Texas Rangers and moved to third base.
ANSWER: Alex RODRIGUEZ
[10] This 39 year-old starting pitcher, who has been plagued by injuries the past few years, was obtained in a trade from the Dodgers.
ANSWER: Kevin BROWN
[15] One of baseball's most promising young pitchers, he was acquired from the Montreal Expos in November.
ANSWER: Javier VAZQUEZ

2. Identify the following World War I battles for ten points each.
[10] This encounter saw Anglo-French forces halt the German advance in 1914. All may have been lost if not for the use of Paris taxicabs to transport French troops to the front.
ANSWER: FIRST Battle of the MARNE
[10] This battle in the forests of East Prussia witnessed the Germans annihilate the Russian Army in September 1914.
ANSWER: TANNENBERG
[10] This naval engagement off the coast of Denmark, though ending in deadlock, allowed the Allies to maintain their dominance over North Atlantic sea lanes.
ANSWER: JUTLAND

3. Identify the recent hit songs that are collaborations between multiple artists for ten points each.
[10] This song from Usher's album Confessions topped the Billboard Hot 100 for over a month and features Ludacris and the lyrically "gifted" Lil Jon.
ANSWER: YEAH
[10] On this R. Kelly single, Cassidy claims to be staying at the titular location and "not the motel or the holiday inn."
ANSWER: HOTEL
[10] This Twista tribute to R&B and Motown greats features Jamie Fox and Kanye West and includes two memorable lines concerning Michael Jackson's pigmentation.
ANSWER: SLOW JAMZ

4. Identify these figures involved in the Protestant Reformation, for ten points each.
[10] This Frenchman became a leading spokesman for Protestantism after he published his Institutes of the Christian Religion. He reformed the church in Geneva and helped defend the town against Catholic invaders.
ANSWER: John CALVIN
[10] Greatly influenced by liberal humanism, he settled in Zurich where he helped establish theocratic rule.
ANSWER: Ulrich ZWINGLI
[10] This Dominican friar outraged Martin Luther by aggressively hawking indulgences all across Germany.
ANSWER: John TETZEL

5. Identify these leaders of the Philippines, for ten points each.
[10] She is the current president of the Philippines. She has been a strong supporter of President Bush's foreign policies and has launched an aggressive military campaign against Muslim extremists in Mindanao.
ANSWER: Gloria ARROYO
[10] This American-backed dictator ruled the nation from 1965 until 1986. Emblematic of the excesses of his administration, his wife, Imelda, is rumored to have owned over 500 pairs of shoes.
ANSWER: Ferdinand MARCOS
[10] She became the leading opponent of Marcos, following the assassination of her husband, Benigno, in 1983. She led the popular uprising that toppled Marcos in 1986 and was elected president in the subsequent elections.
ANSWER: Corazon AQUINO

6. Identify these early twentieth century art movements for ten points each.
[10] This Italian movement whose members included Umberto Boccione and Gino Severini sought to glorify contemporary life and militarism.
ANSWER: FUTURISM
[10] A manifestation of the widespread disillusionment with the status quo, this movement was named after the French word for hobbyhorse and members like Man Ray and Kurt Schwitters frequently produced works that were shocking and unintelligible.
ANSWER: DADA
[10] This Russian school, founded by Kasimir Malevich, espoused art based on simple geometric shapes.
ANSWER: SUPREMATISM

7. Identify the following dynasties that held the Islamic caliphate for ten points each.
[10] This family of merchants ruled the Islamic world from 661 until 750.
ANSWER: UMAYYAD 
[10] Descendants of one of Muhammad's uncles, they shifted the empire's capital to Baghdad and ruled for nearly five centuries.
ANSWER: ABBASID
[10] Claiming descent from Muhammad's daughter, these Shiites ruled most of North Africa, Syria and Sicily from their capital in Cairo.
ANSWER: FATIMID

8. Name the scientist, 30-20-10.
[30] He received a scholarship to pursue postgraduate study at Cambridge in 1895. The scholarship fell to him after a fellow chemist decided to get married and remain in New Zealand.
[20] While at the Cavendish Laboratory under J.J Thomson, he named both alpha and beta rays. 
[10] He discovered the positive nucleus of the atom in his famous gold foil experiment.
ANSWER: Ernest RUTHERFORD

9. Name the following Chinese rivers, 5-10-15.
[5] The third longest river in the world, it is currently being dammed at the Three Gorges.
ANSWER: YANGTZE
[10] It originates near the Gobi desert, flows eastward and empties into the East China Sea near Tianjin. 
ANSWER: YELLOW or Huang He
[15] It originates in Central Asia and forms the Sino-Russian border for nearly 1,000 miles.
ANSWER: AMUR

10. Identify the African writer, for ten points each.
[10] The first African and black writer to win the Nobel Prize in literature, he has often drawn the ire of the Nigerian government with his outspokenness. Poems from Prison, The Credo of Being and Nothingness and Kongi's Harvest are among his works.
ANSWER: Wole SOYINKA
[10] Of Jewish descent, this South African's works address apartheid and reflect her frustration and anger towards the racism and inequality that plagued her country.
ANSWER: Nadine GORDIMER
[10] The first Arab to win the Nobel Prize in literature, this Egyptian's Cairo Trilogy looks at life in the teeming metropolis during the first half of the twentieth century. He was stabbed in 1994 by an assailant who objected to his unfavorable portrayal of Islam.
ANSWER: Naguib MAHFOUZ

11. Name all six strong acids. Five points for each correct answer:
ANSWER: SULFURIC, NITRIC, HYDROCHLORIC, PERCHLORIC, HYDROIODIC, HYDROBROMIC

12. Identify the following Alfred, Lord Tennyson poems from lines, 5-10-15.
[5] Cannon to right of them / Cannon to left of them / Cannon in front of them / 
Volley'd and thunder'd
ANSWER: THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE
[10] It little profits that an idle king / By this still hearth, among these barren crags / Match'd with an aged wife, I mete and dole / Unequal laws unto a savage race
ANSWER: ULYSSES
[15] 'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all
ANSWER: IN MEMORIAM

13. Answer the following questions relating to the macroeconomic price level, 5-10-15
[5] The United States experienced this phenomenon in the mid-1970s when both unemployment and inflation rose simultaneously. It effectively discredited Keynesian macroeconomic policies and led to widespread acceptance of monetarism.
ANSWER: STAGFLATION
[10] Germany in the 1920s and many Latin American nations in the 1980s witnessed this rapid rise in prices. It often results in the complete collapse of the economic system.
ANSWER: HYPERINFLATION
[15] This occurs when the rate of inflation is decreasing but still remains positive. It is considered the goal of most central banks and should not be confused with deflation.
ANSWER: DISINFLATION

14. Corruption is the signature of politics around the globe. Identify the following American political scandals from the given clues, 5-10-15.
[5] The namesake company, a subsidiary of Union Pacific, inflated construction costs and allowed Congressmen to purchase stock on attractive terms. The ensuing investigation implicated Vice President Schuyler Colfax and Representative James A. Garfield.
ANSWER: CREDIT MOBILIER
[10] Interior Secretary Albert Fall secretly leased government-owned oilfields in Wyoming to the Pan-American Petroleum Company and Mammoth Oil Company in exchange for a $100,000 "loan" and $300,000 in kickbacks.
ANSWER: TEAPOT DOME
[15] For fifteen: Many of these financial institutions failed after rules and regulations on them were eased in the early 1980s. The federal bailout of them cost taxpayers over $50 billion. Prominent figures involved in this scandal include Neil Bush, Charles Keating and John McCain.
ANSWER: SAVINGS AND LOAN

15. Identify the American military figure, 30-20-10
[30] He gained notoriety for his heavy-handed tactics in dispersing the Bonus Army.
[20] In 1935, he became chief military advisor to the Philippines, a position he held until 1941.
[10] As Supreme Commander of Allied forces in the Southwest Pacific, he brilliantly led the "island hopping" campaign.
ANSWER: Douglas MACARTHUR

16. Identify the following Nobel Prize winners in physics for ten points each.
[10] For his work on radioactivity, this Frenchman shared the 1903 prize with Pierre and Marie Curie.
ANSWER: Antoine Henri BECQUEREL
[10] This German won the 1901 prize for his discovery of X-rays six years earlier.
ANSWER: Wilhelm ROENTGEN
[10] The first American to win the Nobel Prize, he did so for disproving the existence of ether in the famous namesake experiment with Edward Morley.
ANSWER: Albert MICHELSON

17. Identify the Russian novel from plot description, 5-10-15.
[5] After killing a detested old pawnbroker, the protagonist, Raskolnikov, is consumed by guilt and eventually confesses to the crime.
ANSWER: CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
[10] The titular character reflects on the spiritual emptiness of his life as he dies of cancer.
ANSWER: THE DEATH OF IVAN ILYICH
[15] For fifteen: Structurally similar to Don Quixote, it follows the disreputable Chichikov in his attempts to purchase serfs through all sorts of unscrupulous ways.
ANSWER: DEAD SOULS

18. Name these early twentieth century thinkers, 5-10-15.
[5] This Spanish-American who wrote Skepticism and Animal Faith and is best remembered for the saying that "Those who forget the past are doomed to repeat it."
ANSWER: George SANTAYANA
[10] This Englishman led the revival in empiricism and was also a noted socialist and pacifist.
ANSWER: Bertrand RUSSELL
[15] A student of Russell, this Austrian set forth logical positivism in Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Ludwig WITTGENSTEIN

19. Identify these battles of antiquity, 5-10-15.
[5] A Persian force perhaps as large as 2.6 million men under Xerxes I defeated 7000 brave Greeks led by Leonidas at this mountain pass.
ANSWER: THERMOPYLAE
[10] Hannibal defeated the Romans and gained a foothold in Italy at this 216 B.C. battle.
ANSWER: CANNAE
[15] In 52 B.C. Julius Caesar finally crushed the Frankish chieftain, Vercingetorix, at this site near modern-day Dijon, France.
ANSWER: ALESIA

20. Identify the following 19th century French paintings, 5-10-15.
[5] This Manet work's depiction of two smartly dressed men picnicking with two nude women sparked public outrage when first displayed in 1863.
ANSWER: LUNCHEON ON THE GRASS
[10] Destroyed in the firebombing of Dresden in 1945, this Courbet masterpiece portrayed the drudgery of the titular occupation and epitomizes realism.
ANSWER: The STONEBREAKERS
[15] This Monet painting depicts one of Paris's busiest railways stations.
ANSWER: ST. LAZARE RAILWAY STATION (Accept variants)

21. Name the following European leaders, five for one, ten for two, twenty for three and thirty for all four.
(a) The president of France
ANSWER: Jacques CHIRAC
(b) The prime minister of Italy
ANSWER: Silvio BERLUSCONI
(c) The chancellor of Germany
ANSWER: Gerhard SCHROEDER
(d) The prime minister of Spain
ANSWER: Luis ZAPATERO 

22. Identify the following Mogul emperors for the stated number of points.
[5] This third and greatest of Mogul rulers expanded his realm south to the Deccan. He also endeared himself to Hindus by lifting the oppressive jizya.
ANSWER: AKBAR
[10] He was a brilliant administrator and military leader but also alienated Hindus and Sikhs with his religious intolerance.
ANSWER: AURANGZEB
[15] His reign ended ignominiously when he was imprisoned by his son Aurangzeb. It was, however, distinguished by its architectural splendor, most notably the Taj Mahal.
ANSWER: SHAH JAHAN

23. Neoconservatives have recently been receiving much of the blame for distorting intelligence and greatly exaggerating Saddam Hussein's power. Identify the following neocons, 5-10-15.
[5] This Deputy Defense Secretary has stated that occupying Iraq is central to his long-term vision of reforming Islam.
ANSWER: Paul WOLFOWITZ
[10] This former head of the Defense Policy Board performed a critical role in persuading the Bush Administration that Iraq posed an imminent threat to the US.
ANSWER: Richard PERLE
[15] This editor of The Weekly Standard is the academic face of the pro-war faction. His father, Irving, is considered the father of neoconservatism.
ANSWER: William KRISTOL 

24. Identify the chemical equation for ten points each.
[10] pH = pKa - log(HA]/[A-])
ANSWER: HENDERSON-HASSELBACH Equation
[10] Ptotal = P1 + P2 + P3 + ... Pn (Total pressure equals pressure of gas 1 + pressure of gas 2...)
ANSWER: DALTON'S LAW OF PARTIAL PRESSURES
[10]       [C]c [D]d
    Q = ------------- (Concentration of C raised to its coefficient c in a balanced equation)
           [A]a [B]b 
ANSWER: LAW OF MASS ACTION

25. Identify the scientist, 30-20-10
[30] He coined the term regression after noticing that the heights of males tended to converge towards a mean.
[20] A cousin of Charles Darwin, he shared Darwin's interest in biology and genetics.
[10] A proponent of selective breeding, he is the father of the eugenics movement.
Answer: Francis GALTON
