2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 5TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) He was a close friend and contemporary of Dietrich Buxtehude, and was also the teacher of Johann Christoph Bach, who in turn taught Johann Sebastian Bach.  Considered very conservative, he wrote a huge amount of music, including a number of sacred concertos on sacred texts as well as a number of Magnificat for the service of Vespers.  However, he is best remembered today for only one piece, which many speculate he didn't even write.  For ten points, identify this supposed composer of Canon in D.Answer: Ludwig Pachelbel2) Originating in Louisiana, the famous dissent in this case came from Justice John Marshall Harlan, who stated that the Constitution was colorblind.  However, it was ruled that the separate rail cars for blacks and whites was legal.  For ten points, what was this case that established the rule of "separate but equal" in 1896?Answer: Plessy vs. Ferguson3) A combined Roman force and Numidian force under Masinissa was able to overwhelm the Carthaginian army that was returning from Italy.  The Roman army, led by Scipio, was able to defeat the Carthaginians under Hannibal, thus earning Scipio the name "Africanus."  For ten points, identify this 202 BC battle that ended the Second Punic War.Answer: Zama4) In 1491, he was born with the recorderd name Inigo Lopez de Recalde.  While recovering from wounds inflicted while fighting in the 1521 siege of Pamplona, he decided to dedicate his life to the service of the church.  After a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, he founded a new religious order in 1539.  The author of The Spiritual Exercises he is -for ten points - what saint best known as the founder of the Society of Jesus, better known as the Jesuits?Answer: Saint Ignatius Loyola5) The sad looking man with a red shirt over his head is sitting with his back to the scene. Some passengers have removed their clothes and are waving them at the distant boat in the upper right, while the foreground is littered with the bodies of the dead. Ill received upon its 1819 debut due to its depiction of the decimated survivors of a French shipwreck was - for ten points - what masterpiece of Theodore Gericault?Answer: The Raft of the Medusa6) Some scholars argue that it was the site of a sickly Franklin Roosevelt being manipulated and taken advantage of by Josef Stalin.  It was decided that Russia would join the Americans in the fight against Japan after Germany was defeated and that Stalin would allow democratic elections in Eastern Europe after the war.  However, when Roosevelt died two months later, Stalin reneged on his promises.  For ten points, this was what 1945 conference held at a resort on the Crimean Peninsula to discuss the fate of Germany after World War II?Answer: Yalta Conference7) Born in Greece, he stood out in military school and he fought in the Gallipoli campaign in World War I, helping defeat the allies.  When the British, French, and Italian troops came to Anatolia, he incited the people against them.  When the Turkish republic was established in 1932, he took his new name and led to the Westernization of his new country.  For ten points, identify the founder of modern Turkey whose name means "father of the Turks."Answer: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk8) Designated from "A" to "G," they were first observed by Walloston.  However, they were named for the German physicist who plotted over 500 of them.  When observing stars, such as the sun, with a spectroscope, these are caused by the selective absorption of its radiation at specific wavelengths. For ten points, what name is given to these dark lines in a star's spectrum?Answer: Fraunhofer Lines9) He was born with the first name Pearl; but got his more well-known name from the Ohio city in which he lived.  Starting his career as a dentist, he visited the American West in 1906 which inspired his first novel, 1910's The Heritage of the Desert.  A pioneer in the creation of the western genre, he wrote over 80 novels before his 1939 death.  For ten points, identify this author born in Zanesville, Ohio whose most famous work is Riders of the Purple Sage.Answer: Zane Grey10) Because of the various subtleties included in the creator's theory, many critics of psychological theory have concluded that this term is merely nothing more than psycho-babble.  Some characteristics of people distplaying this trait include a fully internalized sense of morality, as well as a closeness to people and a general appreciation for life.  For ten points, what is this term, the apex to Abraham Maslow's pyramid of needs?Answer: self-actualization (prompt on early "pyramid of needs" or "hierarchy of needs" buzz)11) The son of a freed slave, his father paid for him to receive the absolute best education possible.  He fought in the army of Marcus Brutus after the assassination of Caesar, but later gained favor in the eyes of Brutus's conqueror and nemesis, Octavian.  His writings while in the service of Octavian gained him a status similar to today's Poet Laureates.  A writer of various Epodes and Satires, was - for ten points - what Roman poet best known for laying down the rules for writing poetry in his masterpiece, Ars Poetica?Answer: Horace or Qunitus Horatius Flaccus12) The name's the same.  One usurps the power of his brother the duke and sets him and his daughter afloat on a rotting bark.  The other risks his own life to borrow 3,000 ducats to help his friend Bassanio.  For ten points, these are both Shakespearean characters of what name - one is the treacherous brother of Prospero in The Tempest - the other is the title character of The Merchant of Venice.Answer: Antonio13) He was the son of Aeolus, the father of Glaucus and the grandfather of Bellerophon.  He gained revenge upon Autolycus, who stole his cattle, by stealing Autolycus's daughter. Due to his revelation of Zeus's rape of Aegina to her father, he was condemned to an eternity of punishment.  For ten points, who is this mythological figure forced to roll a huge stone up a hill, only to have it roll back every time he reaches the top?Answer:  Sisyphus14) In 1954, American doctors Enders, Robins, and Wellers were awarded a Nobel Prize for their collaborative discovery that the virus that causes this disease can grow in cultures of various tissues. An inflammatory disease of the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, this is -for ten points- what illness that no longer affects many people due to the vaccines of Salk and Sabin.Answer: Polio15) Discovered in 1516, it was first explored by Magellan in 1520 and Cabot from 1527 to 1529.  About 170 miles long, it is about 60 miles  wide at Montevideo and reaches a width of 140 miles at it mouth.  The first permanent settlement near it was established at Asuncion in 1537.  For ten points, identify this South American river who name means "River of the Silver."Answer:  Rio de la Plata16) It was discovered in 1769 by an expedition led by Gaspar de Portola.  Known for its "pitch springs," the George C. Page Museum contains over a million specimens that have been discovered at this site.  During the Pleistocene Epoch, mammals such as mastodons, mammoths, and saber-toothed tigers became stuck here and preserved.  Located in Hancock Park is - for ten points - what famous "tar pit" of Los Angeles?Answer: La Brea Tar Pit17) Originally titled "Lil Folks," it debuted in 1950 and has been featured in over than 2,600 newspapers in 75 countries.  At first, this strip featured several characters such as Rerun, Franklin, and Woodstock.  For ten points, name this comic strip, retired due to the death of its creator, Charles Schultz. Answer:  Peanuts18) Quentin Tarantino claimed that James Best, an actor most notable for this television series, taught him how to act.  Coy and Vance replaced the two leading characters in the spring of 1982 during a contract dispute, but were replaced as soon as the dispute was resolved.  All told, the show went through 229 different 1969 Dodge Chargers, about twenty of which still exist.  For ten points, identify this CBS series about "two good ol' boys" from a fictional county in Georgia. Answer: The Dukes of Hazzard 19) Often used for determing the internal energy of a system in an open container at constant pressure, this concept is calculated by subtracting the product of temperature and energy change from the change in enthalpy in a given system.  The quantity of energy available for doing useful work is - for ten points - what "free energy" symbolized by the letter "g"?Answer: Gibbs Free Energy20) Appearing as a group of paired membranes which constitute a number of flattened sacs known as cisternae, it is present in cytoplasm.  It is responsible for such specialized secretions as cell wall materials in plants.  For ten points, identify this cell organelle that packages large molecules for transport which is named for its Italian discoverer.Answer: Golgi apparatus or body21) The idea behind it is to align the human body and spirit with the forces of the cosmos.  On a large scale, ideal sights would be near bodies of water or mountains.  However, the recent insurgence popularity in the West is on a smaller scale, generally affecting interior design.  For ten points, identify this ancient Chinese method, associated with the Qi and the Yin and Yang, that states that the positions of objects can affect the soul.Answer: Feng-Shui22) He wrote The Ides of March and his play The Matchmaker was the inspiration for the Broadway musical Hello, Dolly!  The creator of Brother Juniper in his The Bridge of San Luis Rey, he is best known for his Pulitzer Prize winning drama that is staged with no scenery and no props.  For ten points, who is this writer of Our Town?Answer: Thornton Wilder
BonusesQuestions by Sandeep Vaheesan1) Name the following nineteenth-century chemists, for ten points eachE.[10] This Englishman was a pioneer in atomic theory and developed the Law of Partial Pressures.Answer: John Dalton[10] He postulated that equal volumes of gases at the same temperature and pressure contain the same number of particles and lends his name to a famous constant.Answer: Amedeo Avogadro[10] Though he incorrectly arranged elements on the basis of atomic weights, he is credited with creating the first periodic table. Answer: Dmitri Mendeleev2) Identify the element, for the stated number of points[5] This halogen is a reddish-brown liquid at room temperature.Answer: Bromine[10] Thirty percent of the world's supply of this metal, known as "white copper," is mined in Ontario. It has atomic number of 28 and is one of the five ferromagnetic metals.Answer: Nickel[15] This highly radioactive "Gallic" alkali metal is the least electonegative element.Answer: Francium3) Identify the following Asian bodies of water from clues, for ten points each.[10] An arm of the Indian Ocean, it is bordered on the east by Burma and Thailand an on the west by India.Answer: Bay of Bengal[10] With a depth as great as 1637 m, it is the deepest lake in the world. This Siberian body of water is also Asia's largest fresh water lake.Answer: Lake Baikal[10] Located between China and the Korean peninsula, its name is derived from the rich sediment in its water.Answer: Yellow Sea4) Identify the following things relating to Impressionism, for ten points each.[10] This 1872 seascape of Monet earned the derision of critics and was the first work to be identified with the movement.Answer: Impression: Sunrise[10] Many Impressionist works debuted at this exhibition of "rejects" held throughout the 1860s and 70s in Paris.Answer: Salon des Refuses[10] Depicting a popular Parisian dance garden, it is one of the most renowned works of Pierre-Auguste Renoir.Answer: Moulin de la Galette5) Identify the following things pertaining to Islam, for ten points each.[5] Supposedly built by Abraham, this large masonry structure at the center of the Great Mosque in Mecca represents the House of God.Answer: Kaaba[10] This term refers to mandatory practice of almsgiving and is the third of Islam's five pillars.Answer: Zakat[15] This wealthy merchant was the first female convert to Islam and Muhammad's first wife.Answer: Khadijah6) Identify the following French leaders, for ten points each.[10] Although democratically elected in 1848, he assumed dictatorial powers in 1851 and ruled autocratically until 1871.Answer: Napoleon III or Louis Napoleon[10] Nicknamed the Tiger, he represented France at the Paris Peace Conference following World War I.Answer: Georges Clemenceau[10] The leader of Free French forces during World War II, he granted Algeria independence and establish the Fifth Republic.Answer: Charles De Gaulle7) Identify the Tennyson poem from lines, FTNSOP.[5] Cannon to right of them / Cannon to left of them / Cannon in front of them / Volley'd and thunder'd.Answer: The Charge of the Light Brigade[10] Match'd with an aged wife, I mete and dole / Unequal laws unto a savage race / That hoard, and sleep, and feed, and know not me. Answer: Ulysses[15] From the bank and from the river / He flashed into the crystal mirror / "Tirra lirra," by the river / Sang Sir Lancelot.Answer: The Lady of Shalott 8) Name the following American art galleries, for the stated number of points.[5] The East Wing of this Washington, DC gallery was designed by IM Pei.Answer: National Gallery[10] This Los Angeles gallery was founded by a noted oil magnate and houses several Rembrandts.Answer: Getty Center[15] This small New York museum is located in the former residence of the namesake partner of Andrew Carnegie.Answer: Frick Collection9) Name the following economists, for the stated number of points.[5] This British economist revolutionized macroeconomics with the publication of his General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.Answer: John Maynard Keynes[10] This long-time University of Chicago professor challenged Keynesian ideas with his monetarist theories.Answer: Milton Friedman[15] The author of Globalization and Its Discontents, this American economist has been a critic of many of Friedman's "neo-liberal" ideas.Answer: Joseph Stiglitz10) Identify the following types of stellar objects, for ten points each.[10] Stars with a mass greater than the Chandrasekhar limit or 1.4 solar masses become one of these densely packed objects once they've exhausted their supply of nuclear fuel.Answer: Neutron Star[10] Most small and medium-sized stars eventually become one of these remnants that are typically the size of the Earth and consideraly less dense than neutron stars.Answer: White Dwarf[10] Prior to becoming a white dwarf, the sun will expand to become this type of star that fuses hydrogen outside of its core.Answer: Red Giant11) Identify these events and figures relating to communism in China, for ten points each.[5] This purge of Communist Party bureaucrats by the Red Guard lasted from 1968 until 1976 and threw Chinese society into disarray.Answer: Cultural Revolution[10] This program sought to rapidly build Chinese industry but instead starved agriculture of labor and resulted in perhaps as many as 30 million deaths.Answer: Great Leap Forward[15] He served as Mao's foreign minister from 1949 until his death in 1976 and was instrumental in re-establishing diplomatic relations with the United States.Answer: Zhou Enlai12) Identify the following British artists, for the stated number of points.[10] One of Britain's greatest landscape artists, he is best remembered for Salisbury Cathedral and The Haywain.Answer: John Constable[10] His sitters are noted for their elaborate, carefully rendered attire. He is most renowned for his portrait of the young Jonathan Buttall, better known as The Blue Boy.Answer: Thomas Gainsborough[10] This eighteenth century painter and satirist depicted the seedy side of British society in works like Gin Lane and The Rake's Progress.Answer: William Hogarth13) Identify the writer, 30-20-10.[30] Born in Normandy, he received literary guidance from Flaubert and was friends with Turgenev and Zola. [20] He often wrote about prostitution and the Franco-Prussian War, two themes covered in his first masterpiece, Boule de Suif.   [10] His arguably most famous creation is Mathilde Loisel, the vacuous protagonist of the The Necklace.Answer: Guy de Maupassant14) Identify these Knights of the Round Table with something in common, for ten points each.[10] Son of Sir Lancelot, this purest knight was one of the three to see the Holy Grail.Answer: Galahad[10] He is most famous for his battle with the Green Knight.Answer: Gawain[10] This youngest brother of Gawain acts chivalrously towards Lynette despite her abuse of him.Answer: Gareth15) Identify the following about background radiation on a 15-10-5 basis[15] George Gamow and his students predicted the background radiation, but two scientists at Bell Laboratories accidentally discovered it, name either for 15 points.ANSWER: Arno Penzias or Robert Woodrow Wilson[10] Penzias and Wilson discovered the radiation while working with these types of waves.ANSWER: Radio Waves[5] Cosmic background radiation represents energy left over from this event.ANSWER: Big Bang16) Identify the following Hindu gods and goddesses, for ten points each.[10] Nataraja, the god of dance, is one of his incarnations. Often worshiped in the form of a linga, he is the destroyer of the Hindu trinity.Answer: Shiva[10] Consort of Shiva, she is black and emaciated and wears a cross of skulls. She embodies the fierce spirit of the goddess Devi.Answer: Kali[10] This Hindu god of wisdom and education only has one tusk.Answer: Ganesh17) Identify the following Major League Baseball players who switched teams during the past offseason, for ten points each.[10] Considering he weighs 240 pounds, his last name is rather ironic. He bolted Toronto and became Florida's new first baseman in January.Answer: Carlos Delgado[10] Known for regularly urinating on his hands in order to prevent calluses, this outfielder left the Cubs and joined his manager father, Felipe, in San Francisco.Answer: Moises Alou[10] An ex-boyfriend of Alyssa Milano, he ditched the Marlins and signed a four-year, $40 million contract to pitch for the Yankees.Answer: Carl Pavano18) Identify the following German philosophers from clues, for ten points each.[10] He attempted to reconcile rationalism and empiricism in his Critique of Pure Reason and developed the concept of the categorical imperative.Answer: Immanuel Kant[10] Having a profound influence on the young Karl Marx, he argued that history progressed in a series of theses, antitheses and syntheses that he called the dialectic.Answer: GWF Hegel[10] Often dubbed the "Nazi philosopher" for kowtowing to Hitler, he had tremendous influence on existentialistist thought.Answer: Martin Heidegger19) Identify the following Romantic poets, for ten points each.[10] Also a noted painter, he wrote the collections Songs of Innocence and the Songs of Experience. The most famous poem of the latter work is The Tyger.Answer: William Blake[10] Dying of a fever while fighting for Greek independence, he wrote Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Don Juan amongst other poems.Answer: Lord Byron[10] Succumbing to tuberculosis at the age of 25, he is the subject of Percy Shelley's Adonais. He is remembered for the line "beauty is truth, truth is beauty, that is all ye need to know."Answer: John Keats20) Identify the sociologist, 30-20-10.[30] Religion was a recurring theme of his studies and is exemplified in works like The Religion of India: The Sociology of Buddhism and Hinduism and Ancient Judaism.[20] He attended Heidelberg in the 1880s and was associated with economists in the Historical School.[10] He is best known as the author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.Answer: Max Weber21) Identify the following things relating to the presidency of Warren G. Harding, for the stated number of points.[5] This laconic former governor of Massachusetts served as Harding's vice-president.Answer: Calvin Coolidge[10] Greatly hurting Harding's popularity, this scandal involved illegally leasing naval oil reserves in Wyoming to private companies.Answer: Teapot Dome[15] This company, based in Salt Lake City, was at the heart of the Teapot Dome scandal.Answer: Sinclair Oil