2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 6TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) This Vassar College graduate entered graduate school at Columbia University in 1919.  Though she wrote poetry under the name Anne Singleton through most of the 1920s, her first academic work was Patterns of Culture, published in 1934.  A pupil of Franz Boas, FTP, identify this instructor of Margaret Mead and author of The Chrystanthemum and the Sword?Answer: Ruth Benedict2) The first written references to it appear in 15th century tablets from Egypt.  Biblical sources attribute it as the capital of the Aramaeans, though it has changed hands numerous times throughout history.  In 635 it was taken by the Arabs and it flourished as capital of the Ummayad dynasty.  Believed to be the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world is - FTP - what current capital of Syria?Answer: Damascus3) He was the first Czar to use Siberia as a place of exile.  Originally an advisor to Ivan the Terrible, he gained the throne after the death of Fyodor, who had no heir.  The father of Fyodor II, who was unable to defend the throne against the rebellion of the false-Dmitri, this is - FTP - what Czar who is the subject of both a drame by Pushkin and an opera by Mossourgsky?Answer: Boris Godunov4) The namesake of this phenomenon shared the 1958 Nobel Prize with Igor Tamm and Ilya Frank, fellow scientists who helped interpret the effect.  One example of this occurrence is the bluish glow in the water around chemical reactors.  The explanation is that the electrons from a nuclear reactor travel through the water at a rate greater than light can travel through the water.  FTP, identify this type of radiation which occurs when charged particles move through a medium and a speed faster than the speed of light through said medium.Answer: Cherenkov Radiation5) 2,500 of the 10,000 men that camped here died.  Located along the banks of the Schuylkill River, the men received "no pay, no clothes, and no rum."  However, those he were able to survive emerged a much stronger army.  FTP, identify this location in which George Washington's Continental Army spent the winter of 1777-78.Answer: Valley Forge, PA6) His career began when he made a bet with his wife that he could write a better book than the one he was then reading.  The book that resulted from this wager, Precaution, sold poorly; however, his follow-up The Spy did well enough to allow him to quit farming and write for a living.  Noted for works of pioneer life, at age 34 he published the first American sea tale, The Pilot.  FTP, who is this author infinitely better-known for The Prairie, The Pioneers, The Pathfinder, The Deerslayer, and The Last of the Mohicans?Answer: James Fenimore Cooper7) Consisting of one-fifth of its nations total area, it includes the Belcher Islands as well as Baffin Island.  Though the area has been continuously populated for approximately 4000 years, the actual boundaries were delimited in 1993, and it was established in 1999 in order to give the native Inuit more say in the Canadian government.  FTP, identify this territory with its capital at Iqaluit.Answer: Nunavut8) It begins with the line "When Earth is rocked in her last convulsion; when Earth shakes off her burdens and man asks 'What may this mean?'- on that day she will proclaim her tidings, for your Lord will have inspired her."  Said to have been revealed by the archangel Gabriel to the Prophet Muhammad, this is - FTP - what most sacred book of Islam?Answer: Koran9) Works by this architect include major commissions for the Civil Rights Museum in Birmingham, Alabama and an earth sculpture for the University of Michigan.  She also designed Eclipsed Time, a giant translucent clock installed on the ceiling of New York's Penn Station.  However, her most famous work came as a result of winning a contest while at Yale in 1981.  FTP, identify this Asian-American designer of the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial in Washington, D.C.Answer: Maya Lin10) This German-born American arrived in the U.S. in 1846 at the age of 6.  His work at Harper's Weekly yielded one of the most recognized images of Santa Clause; and, President Lincoln called him "our best recruiting sergeant" due to his drawings in support of the Union cause during the Civil War.  FTP, identify this man whose cartoons helped bring down Boss Tweed and who created the Republican elephant and Democratic donkey.Answer: Thomas Nast11) He originally worked as a foreign correspondent, but later turned to writing comic short stories and sketches.  Collections of his works include 1904's Reginald and 1910's Reginald in Russia.  Known for satirizing the Edwardian society, his famous stories include "Tobermory" and "The Open Window."  FTP, identify this Scottish writer who was killed in World War I and who shared his penname with a popular Japanese drink. Answer: Saki or Hector Hugh Munro 12) The first mention of this character appears in Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the Kings of Britain.  According to the Annales Cambriae, he carried the cross of Christ on his shoulders at the Battle of Mount Badon.  The son of Uther Pendragon, he is -FTP - what legendary king who lived at Camelot?Answer: King Arthur13) When captured by Muslims following the Fifth Crusade, it is said that he convinced them to release him by offering to walk through fire as proof in the divinity of Christ and the truth of the Catholic faith.  Blessed by Innocent III, the prayer attributed to him states "Lord, make me an instrument of your peace."  FTP, identify this man, who founded the Order of Friars Minor in the 13th century.Answer: Saint Francis of Assisi14) Known as the epiphysis cerebri, it is largest in children, shrinks during puberty, and calcifies with age.  In birds it contains magnetic materials that are used in flight navigation.  In humans it plays a pivotal role in sleep patterns and in sexual maturity.  A photosensitive gland, it increases its release of melatonin in the winter, leading some to believe it is the cause of Seasonal Affective Disorder.  FTP, identify this gland, named for its pine-cone shape, that is often referred to as the "third eye."Answer: Pineal Gland (prompt on "Third Eye")15) Her first novel, The Third Life of Grange Copeland, was concerned with many of the same themes as her short-story collections You Can't Keep a Good Woman Down and In Love and Trouble.  Also a poet and essayists, her poems are collected in volumes such as Horses Make a Landscape More Beautiful and Good Night, Willie Lee, I'll See You in the Morning, whereas her essays were colleted in In Search of Our Mother's Gardens.  FTP, name this author better known for her work about Celie and Shug Avery, The Color Purple.Answer: Alice Walker16) It was based on the constitutions of Virginia and New Hampshire and it consisted of seventeen articles which drew upon the writings of Montesquieu, Locke, Rousseau, and Voltaire. Serving as a preamble to the constitutions of 1791, 1793, and 1795, its first article states: "All men are born free and equal in rights." FTP, what is this "credo of the new world," the basic statement of human freedom written during the French Revolution?Answer: Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen17) According to the QED theory, this is the exchange boson which carries the electromagnetic force.  With a mass of zero and a spin of 1, one of these is emitted from an atom when an electron falls to a lower orbital.  According to quantum theory, its energy is equal to Plank's constant.  FTP, identify this packet of energy, the smallest portion of light.Answer: Photon18) Along with other Roman deities, Jupiter and Juno, she was a member of the Capitoline triad.  Her shrine in Rome was a meeting place for members of various craftsmen's guilds.  Her worship reached its peak under the rule of Domitian, who claimed that this goddess gave him special protection.  FTP, identify this Roman goddess whose worship began when the Etrurian cult of Athena was introduced to Rome.Answer:  Minerva19) He was the NCAA basketball player of the year in 1958, becoming the first sophomore ever to receive that honor. It was not until after he graduated that his alma mater, the University of Cincinnati, won back-to-back national championships in 1961 and '62.  After becoming the 1961 NBA rookie of the year with the Cincinnati Royals, he would go on to hold the NBA's all-time assist record.  FTP, identify this star known as "The Big O."Answer: Oscar Robertson20) This term was first used at the Salon d'Automne by an anonymous art while making a comparison between a Donatello-like sculpture to the paintings that surrounded him   Though the phrase was meant to be derogatory, the central figures of this movement, such as André Durain, adopted it to name their style of art which utilized raw color and bold outlines.  FTP, what is this art movement of the very early 20th century which was mainly associated with Henri Matisse?Answer:  Fauvism21) His early works such as, The Song and Dance Man, The Governor's Son, and American Born are expounded upon in his 1925 autobiography, Twenty Years on Broadway and the Years It Took to Get There.  He won a medal in 1940 for the song "Over There," and James Cagney portrayed his life in Yankee Doodle Dandy - a filmed named for one of his famous works.  FTP, name this songwriter who is also known for "Give My Regards to Broadway."Answer: George M. Cohan22) Discovered in 1836 by Edmund Davy, it was originally used in early gas lamps.  Its combustion produces more heat than virtually any common fuel source, hence this gas's most common use.  The simplest of the alkynes, this is - FTP - what chemical with formula C2H2 that is used in wielding torches?Answer: Acetylene (prompt on C2H2 before mentioned)
BonusesQuestions by Brad Houston and Dan Goff1) Oh noes! Your time machine has malfunctioned, sending you into an indeterminate period of prehistory! Luckily, since you play quizbowl you can figure it out. For ten points each, given a description of where you've landed, identify the geologic period.[10] You arrive just in time to see some weirdo fish prop itself up on fins and lurch out of the water. Of course, the insects and seed-bearing plants have been on land since the beginning of the period.Answer: Devonian[10] Ouch. A huge meteor crashes into the earth, killing 95% of all life on the planet, though some weird little reptiles called thecodonts survive the event. Those guys might be worth watching.Answer: Permian[10] The great-great-great grandchildren of the thecodonts are making it big now-in the case of Brachiosaurus, maybe the biggest ever. But now some of the reptiles are growing feathers and developing hollow bones in an attempt to fly. The weirdness never ceases.Answer: Jurassic2) By traditional count, the "Warring States" period in China had 1000 states. We'll ask you about three of the more important ones. For ten points each:[10] This state was the birthplace of Confucius, who would become its prime minister around 500 BCE before quitting in protest of the king's hedonism.Answer: Lu[10] When Zhi Yao's uprising against the Zhao king in 403 BCE failed, the three leading families in this state obtained the king's permission to partition the state into the Zhou, Han, and Wei states.Answer: Jin[10] The Tian family seized control of this state from the Jiang family in 389 BCE, and held onto the reigns of power there until becoming the last state to succumb to Chin in 221 BCE.Answer: Qi (Chi)3) It famously ends with a double suicide attempt that kills neither person, but leaves one paralyzed and the other in eternal mental anguish. For ten points each:[10] Identify this novel, and you will have also named its protagonist, a Massachusetts farmer with a hypochondriac wife.Answer: Ethan Frome[10] Ethan shares a mutual attraction with this person, his wife's cousin, who ultimately persuades him to undertake the suicide attempt.Answer: Mattie Silver[10] This is the method of attempted suicide which Ethan and Mattie undertake, referred to 20 years later as "the big smash-up."Answer: Crashing into a Tree on a Sled (Accept clear-knowledge equivalents)4) Members of the order Rodentia-cute little scampery things or bringers of death, disease, and evil? For ten points each, identify these Rodents.[10] This only member of family Hydrochoeridae is also the largest living rodent in the world, weighing in at anywhere from 35 to 65 kilograms.Answer: Capybara or Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris[10] This rodent with a not-so-creative scientific name is thought to have spread the Black Death to Europe and Asia during the 13th and 14th centuries via its fleas.Answer: Black Rat or Rattus rattus (Somewhere Charles Linnaeus is spinning in his grave)[10] Ironically, the red variety of this rodent, with a name meaning "Shadow-tail", has been almost completely wiped out by their cousins of this color due to superior competition. They're evil, I tells ya.Answer: Grey Squirrel or Scurius carolinensis5) Dostoyevsky's The Brothers Karamazov, features, shockingly, the four brothers of the title family. Given a description, identify the brother, 5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four.[1] The eldest brother, he is haunted by sin throughout the book, though his act of ditching his fiancée probably didn't help his standing with God. He didn't commit the murder he's accused of, though, so that's good.Answer: Dmitri Fyodorovich or Mitka[2] The novel's ostensible protagonist, at the novel's beginning he is a student in a monastery under the great sage Zosima; at the end of the novel, he gives a speech about the importance of love.Answer: Alexei Fyodorovich or Alyosha[3] The proponent of logic and reason in the book, at Dmitri's trial he goes mad and falsely confesses to their father's murder, which some literary critics have seen as Dostoyevsky's indictment of a rational outook.Answer: Ivan Fyodorovich or Vanya[4] The fourth, unacknowledged brother, after a philosophical discussion with Ivan about the malevolent, amoral nature of God he feels that he has a sound basis to ACTUALLY murder the Karamazov patriarch.Answer: Pavel Fyodorovich Smerdyakov6) Now that Pope John Paul II has died, how much do you know about the process used to select his successor? Answer the following about papal succession for ten points each.[10] This is the word used to describe the meeting of all Cardinals aged 80 or younger to select a new papal candidate. To break the secrecy surrounding it means instant excommunication.Answer: Conclave[10] This man, who is the head of the College of Cardinals, is responsible for verifying the Pope's death, mourning, and burial, as well as for calling the Conclave.Answer: Camerlengo[10] Given that there are 113 voting members of the Conclave, it took this many cardinals to agree on the choice of Joseph Ratzinger as Benedict XVI.Answer: 77  (2/3 of the voting members plus one; note that a pope can be selected by simple majority only after 12 days have passed)7) Given an example of a chemical reaction, identify the type of reaction being undertaken for ten points each.[10] One atom of Zinc and 2 molecules of Hydrochloric Acid produce Zinc Chloride plus a hydrogen molecule.Answer: Single Displacement[10] Napthaline plus 12 oxygen molecules produces 10 carbon dioxide molecules plus 4 water molecules.Answer: Combustion[10] Hydrobromic acid and Sodium Hydroxide produce Sodium Bromide plus water.Answer: Acid-Base neutralization (prompt on "double displacement")8) The author of this bonus has been doing research on, of all things, bears in mythology and literature. (Don't ask.) For ten points each identify these prominent bears.[10] A devotee of Artemis, like so many before her she slept with Zeus, and after she bore his child, Hera turned her into a bear, at which point Zeus enshrined her as the constellation Ursa Major.Answer: Callisto[10] In Iroquois myth, this bear controls the power of the North Wind; his breath is said able to freeze the world.Answer: Ya-O-Gah[10] In a more contemporary work, Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy features this Panzerbjorn, or armored bear, who helps the main character rescue her uncle.Answer: Iorek Byrnison9) Many Tsars had defining events early in their reigns that would set the pace for the rest. For ten points each, given the event, name the Tsar.[10] This Tsar was continually overwrought by his mother Natalya, brother/co-Tsar Ivan, and half-sister Sophia; luckily for him, the first two died, while he had the latter overthrown as he came of age.Answer: Peter I or Peter the Great (Accept Pyotr Velikii)[10] Technically, as a German princess this Tsar was not in the line of succession, but no matter; her lover, Grigori Orlov, had her husband Peter III murdered, throwing the crown to her.Answer: Catherine II or Catherine the Great (Accept Ekaterina II)[10] When his brother Alexander died without an heir in 1825, this Tsar inherited the unrest that would culminate in the Decembrist Uprising, which he bloodily repressed and spent much of the rest of his reign continuing to repress anti-state sentiment.Answer: Nicholas I (Accept Nikolai I)10) For the stated number of points, identify the landmark Supreme Court decisions relating to civil rights.[5] FFP, this 1954 case argued by Thurgood Marshall effectively ended segregation in public schools, though of course the speed of implementation varied across the country.Answer: Brown vs. Board of Education of Topeka[10] FTP, the court decided in this 1932 case that due process had been denied to the so-called "Scottsboro Boys", establishing a precedent that defendants in capital cases should be assigned attorneys if unable to provide their own.Answer: Powell vs. Alabama[15] The plaintiff in this 1944 case sued to be allowed to vote in the Democratic primary, which he argued was the only meaningful election in his state; the Court agreed and reversed the decision of the lower court.Answer: Smith vs. Allwright, Election Judge, et al.11) You didn't honestly think I wasn't going include a French lit bonus in here, did you? For ten points each, identify the French poet by description.[10] This author of such poems as Demain, Des l'Aube and the collection Autumn Leaves may be better known for his novels, one of which became a Disney cartoon and the other a long-running Broadway musical.Answer: Victor Hugo[10] His parents attempted to dissuade him from a literary career by sending him on a voyage to Africa, but luckily for the literary world he jumped ship and returned to Paris to write such collections as the Flowers of Evil and Spleen of Paris.Answer: Charles Baudelaire[10] This symbolist had a number of his poems set to music in the opening years of the 20th Century, most notably his "Afternoon of a Faun" by Claude Debussy.Answer: Stephane Mallarmé 12) 30-20-10, name the French Revolutionary from clues.[30] Born in Arcis-sur-Aube, rumor attributed his facial disfigurement to a childhood kick by a bull, though apparently he was at least attractive enough to marry his 15-year-old babysitter Louise Gely in 1793.[20] Never one to mince words, he called for "audacity" in the face of the Brunswick Ultimatum, prophesized that "Robespierre will follow me," and his last words, to his executioner, were "Show my head to the people. It will be worth it."[10] This member of "The Mountain" is probably best known for two 1793 events: the instigation of the riots leading to the expulsions of the Girondins from the Convention and the formation, with Robespierre, of the Committee of Public Safety.Answer: George Jacques Danton13) Identify the Impressionist or Neo-Impressionist painters from works, for ten points each. You'll get five if you need a more famous work.[10] Le Chahut, Circus, Sideshow[5] Sunday Afternoon on the Isle of La Grande JatteAnswer: Georges Seurat[10] Les Grenouillers, Gare Saint-Lazare, Studies on Rouen Cathedral[5] Impression, soleil levantAnswer: Claude Monet[10] La Promenade, Moulin de la Galette, Girl with Watering Can[5] Luncheon of the Boating PartyAnswer: Pierre-Auguste Renoir14) Stuff about big rocks, for the stated number of points.[5] While it's not the Washington Monument, this big red rock 400 km southwest of Alice Springs is the second largest monolith in the world.Answer: Ayer's Rock or Uluru[10] This 50 ft. high granite structure in Makkah surrounds the Hajar el Aswad.Answer: Ka'aba or Kaaba[15] Known as the Stone of Destiny to those native to the land, this is the stone upon which all kings of Scotland were crowned, though since 1296 is has resided in Westminster Abbey.  I doubt you can find it at Starbucks.Answer: The Stone of Scone15) It arose in 1910 out of its namesake's conjecture that it should be possible to proportionately relate a star's temperature to its luminosity, then was confirmed independently 3 years later. For ten points each:[10] Name this type of diagram, named for a Englishman and a German, that plots the temperature and luminosity of stars.Answer: Herzsprung-Russell  Diagram[10] Approximately 90% of all stars lie on this continuum, running from the high heat and luminosity blue giants to the low heat and luminosity red dwarf stars.Answer: Main Sequence[10] A horizontal line of stars at the top right of the Herzsprung-Russell Diagram, with luminosity classes Ia and Ib, the largest main-sequence stars enter this phase when they exhaust their supply of hydrogen for fusion.Answer: Supergiants16) Some of the most famous philosophers of the 19th Century moonlighted as historians. For ten points each, name the erstwhile philosopher-historians from clues.[10] This man championed a teleological approach towards history, arguing in his Introduction to the Philosophy of History that World-Historical figures, guided by the World-Spirit, were responsible for driving all history towards a final goal.Answer: Georg Friedrich Hegel[10] In The Civil War in France, he argued that the Paris Commune represented the first real example of the proletariat rising up against the bourgeoisie, even if they were betrayed by members of the lumpenproletariat working for Adolphe Thiers.Answer: Karl Marx[10] Considered the father of the Objectivist School of history, he sought in his Critique of Modern Historical Writing to write "History as it Actually Was."Answer: Leopold von Ranke 17) Euripides is the author's favorite Greek Tragedian, but during his lifetime some of his most famous creations were overlooked at the Dionysia festival for which they were written. For ten points each, identify the Euripides plays from descriptions.[10] Probably Euripides' most famous play, it only won 3rd prize at the 431 BCE dramatic festival despite the pathos of the titular character's murder of her own children and of her ex-lover's new wife.Answer: Medea[10]  Euripides fared better at the festival in 415 BCE with this play about the travails of Hecabe, Cassandra, and Andromache, but still only managed to take away second place.Answer: The Trojan Women[10] Euripides finally managed to pull off a victory in 405 BCE, with this play about Pentheus' refusal to acknowledge Semele's son as a god. Unfortunately, by this time he had died, and the award was given posthumously.Answer: The Bacchae18) Identify the school of psychology given some famous members, for ten points each.[10] Carl Rogers, Abraham MaslowAnswer: Humanism (or Humanistic)[10] Sigmund and Anna FreudAnswer: Psychoanalytic[10] Leda Cosmides, Richard DawkinsAnswer: Evolutionary (prompt on EP)19) Amadeus: Not particularly historically accurate, but the soundtrack is AMAZING. For ten points each, identify the works of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart from clues.[10] When Mozart sits down to play Salieri's welcome march, he reworks it into part of the overture for this opera, adapted from a Beaumarchais play.Answer: The Marriage of Figaro or Le Nozze di Figaro K. 492[10] Salieri goes to Mozart's house and spies on him while he is performing this piece for Emperor Josef II; it is notable for its prominent bassoon solo in its third movement.Answer:  Piano Concerto No, 22 in E Flat, K. 482[10] An anonymous "Man in Grey" was in fact the commissioner of this work, Mozart's last, but there is no historical evidence that the man was actually Salieri, as the film implies.Answer: Requiem in D minor, K. 62620) 30-20-10, Name the architect.[30] This man served as professor of astronomy at Oxford until his resignation, along with designing 2 dormitories there.[20] Among his numerous designs were for the Royal Naval Hospital at Greenwich and the Royal Observatory.[10] His most famous creation was Saint Paul's Cathedral, along with many other churches and cathedrals following London's Great Fire.Answer: Christopher Wren21) For ten points each, answer the following questions about parts of the Jewish liturgy.[10] Hebrew for "Hear", this prayer is considered the central creed of Judaism and is usually coupled with a reading of the Torah portion from which it comes, the V'Ahavta.Answer: Shema[10] Used as a divider between different segments of the service, this is also the prayer that is said in memory of the dead, as well as a poem by Allen Ginsburg.Answer: Kaddish[10] The common name for these 19 blessings means "standing", and they begin with a praise of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. On Saturdays the 13 blessings requesting favors from God are omitted out of respect for the Sabbath.Answer: Amidah or Shemoneh Esrei