2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 1TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) At first it was derived from an historic region comprised of the departments of Isère, Hautes-Alpes, and Drôme. It was used as a name when King Charles V of France bestowed his former title on his son, the future Charles VI. For ten points, identify this title bestowed upon the heir to the French throne until the time of Louis XVI. Answer: Dauphin2) Completed in 1831, this novel set in medieval times, features as its main characters Captain Phoebus and Claude Frollo, an evil archdeacon who loves the heroine.  However, the heroine loves Phoebus and is accused of being a witch. Set in the titular Paris cathedral, it features the gypsy Esmerelda. For ten points, identify this classic by Victor Hugo whose protagonist is Quasimodo.Answer:  Hunchback of Notre Dame3) Discovered in 1887 by Hertz, it commonly occurs with ultraviolet light; however, it can also sometimes occur with sunlight.  It takes place when a stream of photons is emitted from a surface that has been exposed to electromagnetic radiation.  For ten points, identify this "effect," the explanation of which won Albert Einstein the Nobel Prize.Answer: Photoelectric effect4) His early career included collaborations with W. H. Auden, including their Hymn to Saint Cecilia.  His comic opera Gloriana was written for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.  His 1945 opera, Peter Grimes established him as a leading operatic composer, and was followed by other works, such as The Turn of the Screw and Billy Budd.  His magnum opus was subtitled Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell.  For ten points, identify this British composer of A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.Answer: Benjamin Britten5) Located in East Coconino County, east of the Colorado and Little Colorado Rivers, it stretches about 150 miles from the Grand Canyon to the Petrified Forest National Park.  With an area of about 7,500 square miles, it received its name in 1859 when a government explorer used the term to describe the iridescent region where erosion has worn away the sand.  For ten points, identify this Arizona area known for its brilliantly colored rocks.Answer: Painted Desert6) First appearing in the Precambrian era, these invertebrates possess a central digestive cavity, and radial symmetry.  They are divided into four major groups - anthozoa, hydrozoa, cuboza, and scyphozoan.  Their name is derived from them Greek for "stinging nettle" and they are characterized by the presence of stinging cells called nematocysts.  For ten points, identify this phylum that includes siphonophores, medusas, hydroids, and jellyfish.Answer: Cnidaria (Also accept Coelenterata, though technically colenterates include animals that Cnidaria does not)7) His election to the House of Representatives in 1892 was his final successful attempt to gain elected office; however, he remained an important leader in American politics for more than twenty-five years afterwards. For ten points, identify this newspaper editor from Omaha who took the 1896 Democratic national convention by storm with his "Cross of Gold" speech.Answer: William Jennings Bryan8) Born in the mountain village of Shikoku in 1935, he often featured it in his work. Early accolades came from The Catch, and Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids. Awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1994, his later works include Dojidai gemu and An Echo of Heaven. For ten points, name this author who's greatest work is generally considered Man'en gannen no futtoboru, known in English as The Silent Cry.Answer: Kenzaburo Oe9) He wrote Regulae, or Rules for the Direction of the Mind, during his twenty years in the Netherlands. He would also write Le Monde, based on  the studies of Copernicus, which he hid after learning of the persecution of Galileo. He wrote Passions of the Soul in French while he was in Sweden tutoring Vasa Queen Christina. For ten points, identify this philosopher, who, in the fourth part of Discourse on Method, made the assertion "Cogito, ergo sum" or "I think, therefore I am."Answer: Rene Descartes10) The angular momentum of a system is conserved when this quantity is zero. According to Newton's second law concerning rigid bodies, the sum of this force on a body is equivalent to the product of said body's moment of inertia and its net angular acceleration. For ten points, what is this physical quantity with units of newton-meters - the rotational analogue of force?Answer:  Torque11) Though outnumbered 2 to 1, Miltiades' forces managed to kill almost one quarter of the invading Persian forces.  The Greek and Persian armies spent the first 8 days of the battle in a stalemate, though on the ninth the Greeks drove the main Persian army back to the sea, marched back to Athens and routed the secondary Persian army there as well.  Though the modern version has been mangled from the original story, For ten points, identify this 490 BCE battle that involved Phidippides' run from the namesake battlefield to Athens.Answer: Marathon12) Those devoted to him are strict ascetics.  Usually depicted with four arms and three eyes, his consort was Parvati and he rode on the great bull, Nandi.  For ten points, who is this Hindu deity of destruction as well as restoration whom must be appeased by flattery according to Hindu tradition?Answer: Shiva13) The stage for this battle was set when Emperor Napoleon III of France sent troops to Mexico under the premise that they were to collect money from President Juarez.  However, the troops were actually there to invade, and they took the city of Veracruz.  In defense of the namesake city, General Ignacio Zaragoza led the Mexican troops against Lorencez's much larger French army.  For ten points, identify this battle of May 5, 1862- a battle commemorated annually as Cinco de Mayo.Answer: Battle of Puebla14) In the novel in which he is the protagonist, he goes against the wishes of his mother and joins the army. During his first battle, he becomes a deserter. Upon finding another Union soldier, he gets into a fight during which he is hit with the butt of a gun, earning him titular injury. For ten points, identify this Stephen Crane character, subject of the 1895 novel The Red Badge of Courage. Answer: Henry Fleming (accept either)15) Samuel Morse taught this man how to produce a daguerreotype, and he opened his first studio in New York, where he became famous for the portraits of famous individuals.  Three years later, he moved the studio to Washington, D.C and achieved international fame with A Gallery of Illustrious Americans.  For ten points, identify this photographer of eighteen presidents, who is best remembered for his photographic record of the American Civil War.Answer: Matthew Brady16) First stated in the 18th century writings of Turgot, Malthus, and Ricardo, this economic principle describes a technologically determined relationship involving resource inputs and output.  For ten points, identify this principle that states that over time, the incremental increase of output per added unit of input will begin decreasing.Answer: Law of Diminishing Returns17) We learn that this character had planned to invade Denmark, but was deterred by Claudio and his uncle, and invades Poland instead. A man of action, he is a direct contradiction to the title prince who hesitates to take action against Claudius.  He arrives at the end of the play to claim the throne of Denmark after Gertrude, Claudius, and the title character have all been killed. For ten points, identify this Prince of Norway in Shakespeare's Hamlet.Answer: Fortinbras18) Though a one-time collaborator of Freud's, following this man's publication of Symbols of Transformation he broke away and developed the original model of analytical psychology.  He was the first to propose the concepts of introversion and extroversion, as well as the existence of psychological complexes.    For ten points, identify this Swiss psychologist who developed the theory of the collective unconscious.Answer: Carl Gustav Jung19) During this geologic period, invertebrates flourished and the bony fishes evolved.  Flowering plants began to develop on land, and insects, such as bees, began their symbiotic relationships with them.  Mammals and birds were still relatively few, and the dinosaurs reached their peak.  For ten points, identify this period of the Mesozoic Era, between 62 and 144 million years ago.Answer: Cretaceous Period20) Born in North Africa to a woman named Monica, he adopted Manichaeism until moving to Milan where he was converted to Christianity by Saint Ambrose in 387.  His theological writings, such as On Christian Doctrine and On the Trinity, contained the first systematic synthesis of Christianity and the philosophies of Plato.  For ten points, identify this Bishop of Hippo who wrote Confessions and City of God.Answer: Saint Augustine of Hippo21) Originally coined by British art critic Laurence Alloway, this art movement celebrated the post-war consumer boom and the materialism of Americans.  A rejection of abstract expressionism, its name was first used in an issue of Architectural Digest from 1958, though it didn't catch on until the 1960s, and was referred to as "neo-Dada" in the interim.  For ten points, identify this school of art whose most notable proponent was Andy Warhol.Answer: Pop Art22) Because they object to swearing an oath to the British Monarch, this party's four members of the House of Commons do not take their seats.  A 1984 assasination attempt on Gerry Adams has not deterred them from evolving into a true political party and signing the Belfast Accords.  For ten points, identify this group, once identified as the political arm of the Irish Republican Army.Answer: Sinn Fein (Prompt on early "Irish Republican Army")
BonusesQuestions by Mike Bentley1) Identify these ancient meso-American cultures for the stated number of points.[5] They were conquered by Cortes in the 16th century.  Answer: Aztec[10] Known for their realistic Colossal Heads, this culture thrived during the first millennia BCE in Mexico.Answer: Olmec[15] Around at the same time as the Maya, this culture centered around a namesake Metropolis in Central Mexico.Answer: Teotihuacan2) Identify the following from Computer Science for the stated number of points.[5] Common types of this data type include integers, characters and Strings.Answer: Variables[10] Identified with brackets in C++, this term identifies any collection of variables.Answer: Array[5] This language developed by Sun has a syntax similar to C and extensive libraries.Answer: Java (do not accept Javascript)[10] This language popular with beginners partly shares a name with a British comedy troupe.Answer: Python3) Identify these Presidential first, for ten points each.  If you need an additional fact, you'll receive five points.[10] He was the first president to throw out a baseball to start aseason.[5] He was the heaviest president weighing in at 322 pounds.Answer: William Howard Taft[10] He was the first president to use a telephone in office, doing soin 1879.[5] He was the second president to be the son of another president.Answer: Rutherford Birchard Hayes[10] This Michigan native was the first president to be an Eagle Scout.[5] He was the first president to come to office without being electedto either the presidency or the vice presidency.Answer: Gerald Rudolph Ford Jr.4) Identify the composer from works for ten points each.[10] Zadok the Priest, Ode for the Birthday of Queen Anne and The MessiahAnswer: George Friedric Handel[10] The Bells of Zlonice, Symphony Number 9 From the New WorldAnswer: Antonin Dvorak[10] The London Symphony, The Surprise SymphonyAnswer: Joseph Hadyn5) Enjoy going to the opera?  Neither does this question writer.  Nevertheless, identify the following about a certain opera for ten points each.[10] Parts of this opera, Ludwig van Beethoven's only one, explored Beethoven's ideas about the struggle for political liberty.Answer: Fidelio[10] This Wagner opera involves one title character being charged with bringing the other to King Mark of Cornwall.Answer: Tristan and Isolde (also accept Tristan und Isolde)[10] This Rossini opera is most famous for its namesake overture.  The opera also identifies a Swiss hero.Answer: William Tell (also accept Guillaume Tell)6) Identify the following about a certain Shakespeare play for ten points each.[10] The title character of this play receives a prophecy from three witches that tells him that he will become king.Answer: Macbeth[10] This character, who is with Macbeth when the prophecy is given, is told that his sons will reign after Macbeth.Answer: Banquo[10] Macbeth hails from this country, which joined the United Kingdom through the Act of Union in 1707.Answer: Scotland7) Identify these concepts from Physics, for ten points each.[10] This is the property of water that allows some insects, like Jesus, to walk on water.Answer: Surface Tension[10] The first of his namesake laws states that all planets move in elliptical orbits with the Sun at one focus.Answer: Johannes Kepler[10] This law states that the force on a stretched or compressed spring is equal to the distance stretched times the spring constant.Answer: Hooke's Law8) For ten points each, identify the French monarch from the events during his reign.[10] The Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, The War of the Spanish Succession.Answer: Louis XIV[10] The Battle of Tours that stopped the expansion of Islam into Europe in 732.Answer: Charles Martel (also accept Charles the Hammer and Karl Martell)[10] The regency of Phillipe d'Orleans, The Seven Years WarAnswer: Louis XV 9) Identify the following from a certain Steinbeck work, for ten points each.[10] This Pulitzer Prize winning novel depicted the struggles of the Joad family moving west to California.Answer: The Grapes of Wrath[10] The Joads and other migrating families in the Grapes of Wrath make up this group of people from the Dust Bowl in the 1930s.Answer: Okies[10] Steinbeck got the title for The Grapes of Wrath from this poem.Answer: The Battle Hymn of the Republic10) Tax Day was only a few weeks ago and in remembrance of that solemn day answer the following questions relating to Economics, for ten points each.[10] This is the point on the graph where the Supply and Demand curves meet.Answer: Equilibrium Point [10] This is any disturbance in the market that causes a shift in equilibrium.Answer: Externality[10] This cost is defined as the amount of revenue lost through not entering a market.Answer: Opportunity Cost11) Identify the following about a certain novel for ten points each.[10] In this novel, black minister Stephen Kumalo must come to terms with white landowner James Jarvis after Kumalo's son murder's Jarvis's son.Answer: Cry, The Beloved Country[10] Cry The Beloved Country was written by this author of Tales From a Troubled Land and Too Late the Phalarope.Answer: Alan Paton[10] Most of Alan Paton's novels are concerned with the racial and social problems of this country that was torn apart by apartheid until the 1990s.Answer: South Africa12) Identify the chemical compound from its description for ten points or for five if you need its formula. [10] For ten, This compound is used in fertilizers but it's use as a refrigerant has decreased as resulting freons have been shown to damage to ozone layer.[5] For five, NH3Answer: Ammonia (Do not accept Ammonium)[10] For ten, This compound was a precursor to modern baking soda.[5] For five, NH4HCO3Answer: Ammonium bicarbonate[10] For ten, it is the most widely used industrial chemical and was first mass produced using the Lead Chamber Process found by John Roebuck in 1746.[5] For five, H2SO4Answer: Sulfuric Acid13) Sega no longer makes consoles, but that's no reason not to remember some of its past achievements.  Identify these Sega-related things for the stated number of points.[5] For five, this 16-bit system featured "Blast Processing" and the debut of Sonic the Hedgehog.Answer: Sega Genesis[15] For fifteen, this failed add on to the Sega Genesis plugged into the top of the console and attempted to add another 16 bits of power to it.Answer: 32X[10] For five, this was tragically the last Sega system. It was released on 9/9/99 and featured launch games such as NFL2K and Soul Caliber.Answer: Sega Dreamcast14) Identify the Chinese Dynasty from clues for ten points each.[10] This dynasty saw the Opium Wars, the Boxer Rebellion and the fall of Pu-yi, the last Chinese emperor.Answer: Qing[10] This 7th and 8th century dynasty saw the arrival of Christian and Muslim converters but also the mass persecution of Buddhists.Answer: Tang[10] During this dynasty construction of the Forbidden City began and the first Portuguese Settlement was established.Answer: Ming15) Identify the following about a certain environmental danger, for ten points each.[10] This type of precipitation often occurs near industrial factories and can lower the pH level of nearby soils and water systems.Answer: Acid Rain[10/10] For ten points per answer, identify both of the principle types of acids found in acid rain.Answer: Sulfuric Acid and Nitric Acid16) Identify the following Impressionist painters from their works for ten points each.[10] A Girl with a Watering Can, Girl With a HoopAnswer: Pierre-Auguste Renoir[10] The Cotton Exchange at New Orleans, La Classe de DanseAnswer: Edgar Degas[10] Bathing at La Grenouill`ere, Water LiliesAnswer: Claude Monet17) Identify the state from the National Parks for five points each and a bonus five for getting all correct.[5] Sequoia National Park, YosemiteAnswer: California[5] Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park, Big Bend National ParkAnswer: Texas[5] Dry Tortugas National Park, Biscayne National ParkAnswer: Florida[5] Grand Canyon National ParkAnswer: Arizona[5] Poverty Point National Park, Cane River National Heritage AreaAnswer: Louisiana18) Identify the philosopher for ten points each.[10] The Scottish philosopher tackled the problems of Causation and Induction in his An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.Answer: David Hume[10] This English philosopher also wrote an Essay Concerning Human Understanding in which he stated that "man is born free but everywhere he is in chains".Answer: John Locke[10] This Jewish philosopher argued that God was a mechanism of nature and the universe and that the Bible was a metaphorical work.Answer: Baruch Spinoza19) Identify these people from the Old Testament, for ten points each.[10] The last of the minor prophets, his book is a criticism of the lax religious policies of the Israelites at the time.Answer: Malachi[10] This favorite son of Jacob is famous for interpretation of the dreams of the Egyptian Pharaoh in Genesis. Answer: Joseph[10] Even though this son of David was a great king of Israel, his reign was blotched by a departure from a monotheistic kingdom.Answer: Solomon20) Identify the philosophy school from clues, for ten points each.[10] The basic tenet of this philosophy is that whatever causes pleasure is right.Answer: Hedonism[10] John Stuart Mill espoused this philosophy that strives to do the greatest good for the greatest number of people.Answer: Utilitarianism[10] Not to be confused with cynicism, this school of thought calls for the objective examination of a situation.Answer: Skepticism 21) For ten points each, identify these Hindu gods and goddesses.[10] This merciful god is known as the lord of protection, sustenance and maintenance.  He is perhaps best known for his multiple arms.Answer: Vishnu[10] This goddess of wealth is a consort of Vishnu.  She is also known as the possessor of beauty.Answer: Lakshimi[10] Along with his consort Saraswathi, this god introduces the soul into the cycle of life.  He is Hindu god of creation.Answer: Brahma