2004 Maryland High School Classic

Round 8

Tossups by the University of Virginia

1.  The fact that he wears a pink shirt is cited as evidence that this character is not in fact an Oxford man, as he claims to be.  This man's shirts play a role in another scene, as his ex-lover cries over their beauty.  He is killed in his swimming pool by George Wilson, right by where he could often be found staring at a glowing green beacon while fantasizing about Daisy Buchanan.  For 10 points, name this title character of an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel.
ANSWER: Jay GATSBY [accept The Great Gatsby]

2.  William English Walling, Oswald Garrison Villard, and Mary Ovington were among its founders.  A 1908 riot in Abraham Lincoln's hometown sparked these individuals to convene a national conference, and they appointed W.E.B. DuBois as its first black member.  Its current chair is Julian Bond and President is Kwesi Mfume.  For 10 points, name this civil rights organization.
ANSWER: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People

3.  A trivial version of it was created in order to bootstrap operating systems onto network-computers. Originally providing two modes, binary and ASCII, later modifications to the standard enabled encryption to protect passwords, which in the original were distributed in plain text.  Using well-known port TCP/21, for 10 points, name this protocol abbreviated FTP.
ANSWER: FILE TRANSFER PROTOCOL (accept FTP before mention)

4.  Twenty-one year old Jann Wenner founded it 1967, after being involved in the Free Speech Movement at Berkeley.  Dr. Hook and the Medicine Show sings he will buy his mother five copies of it, if he can get his smiling face on its cover.  Among its most famous historical contributors include P.J. O'Rourke, Lester Bangs, and Hunter S. Thompson.  For 10 points, name this quintessential rock magazine.
ANSWER: ROLLING STONE

5.  "Morning Song" is essentially an ode to motherhood, and "Cut" is an almost surrealist look at a sliced finger.  She is known for the collections Ariel and The Colossus, and her most famous poem begins, "You do not do, you do not do" and ends "Daddy, daddy, you bastard, I'm through."  Perhaps more famous is a novel about Esther Greenwood.  For 10 points, name this suicidal author of The Bell Jar.
ANSWER: Sylvia PLATH

6.  It was introduced circa 1780 by Sebastian Zerezo.  In two-four or three-four time for solo or duo dancing, it resembles the fandango and is to be accompanied by guitar, castanets, and the voices of the dancers.  For 10 points, name this famously repetitive dance, on WHICH a number of composers have written pieces, including a ballet by Chopin, and a more famous piece sharing the title of the dance by Ravel.
ANSWER: BOLERO	

7.  There are five different kinds of these found in the human body, called isotypes.  Two isotypes are distinguished only by differences in splicing of the mRNA that codes for them.  The most common, IgM, occurs as a pentamer, while IgA is a dimer that can cross epithelium in search of its matching antigen.  For 10 points, name this class of protein, sometimes called immunoglobulins, that has a trademark 'Y' shape and binds foreign particles starting up an immune response.
ANSWER: ANTIBODIES [accept immunoglobulin before it is mentioned; prompt on gamma globulin]

8.  In addition to his first wife, he had at least four other wives and a large harem. He liked to claim that he had over 100 sons. One of his temples, at Abu Simbel, had four enormous statues of him carved out of a rock-wall. He fought the battle of Kadesh, after which the Hittite king agreed to split the disputed territory between them.  For 10 points name this son of Seti I and husband of Nefertiti. 
ANSWER: RAMSES II (accept RAMSES THE GREAT)

9.  Jude Wannisiki coined this term in 1975, and was partly an attempt to account for the failures of the dominant thought at explaining historical economic changes.  It sprang from a monetarist critique of Keynsian economics, and argued that production is the central key to economic wealth.  Famously adopted by Reagan in the 1980s, for 10 points, name this school of economic thought.
ANSWER: SUPPLY-SIDE economics [do not accept Reaganomics or voodoo economics]

10.  He served as a general practitioner and nerve specialist for 30 years after graduating from his hometown University of Vienna in 1895.  He felt that sexual drive was less important than the Nietzschean "will to power" in explaining human behavior, and in 1911 broke with Freud.  For 10 points, name this psychologist, author of Practice and Theory of Individual Psychology and Understanding Human Nature, and inventor of the term "inferiority complex".
ANSWER: Alfred ADLER

11.  Along with Pierre Laplace, this man proposed the first modern theory of solar system formation. Housewives would set their watches by his daily walks at 3:30 p.m. in his hometown of Königsburg. His most famous idea states that a single moral obligation explains all other duties that a person has, regardless of one's will or desires.  For 10 points, name this German philosopher, creator of the categorical imperative and author of Critique of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel KANT

12.  This is governed by the Bunsen-Roscoe law and is more easily seen in early developing tissue than fully differentiated tissue.  Understood to be caused by auxin, there is still no good evidence for the mechanism by which auxin levels are altered in one part of the tissue but not another.  For 10 points, name this plant growth response to light, which can be positive or negative depending on whether the plant grows toward a light source or away from it. 
ANSWER: PHOTOTROPISM

13.  After three years of joint rule with his brother, Carloman died, leaving him the only king. After the siege of Pavia he retook the Papal States from the Lombards and returned them to the Pope. He began construction of a cathedral in the Byzantine style for his capital of Aachen in 792.  For 10 points, name this man, crowned by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day, 800. 
ANSWER: CHARLEMAGNE

14.  It was formed when the Titan Asteria hurled herself as a flaming meteor into the sea.  It was under the control of Naxos during the seventh and sixth centuries BC, but was seized by Athens for its strategic position on the Aegean Sea.  Leto fled here after being forced by Hera to find a place to give birth.  Since Hera blocked off terra firma and the sea, this was the only locale Leto could find.  The most famous of the Cyclades, for 10 points, what is this floating isle in the Aegean, the birthplace of Apollo and Artemis?
ANSWER: DELOS

15.  The illegitimate son of his father Ambrose and his mother Isabel, he used his mother's last name as his surname for many years. Adopting his father's surname before returning to his father's estate in 1802, he led the revolutionary army at the battle of Rancagua in 1814. After that defeat he joined forces with Argentine general Jose de San Martin and won the battle of Chacabuco, defeating the Spanish forces.  For 10 points, name this liberator of Chile. 
ANSWER: Bernardo O'HIGGINS

16.  The son of a cobbler, this author wrote a tragedy about a gay king in Edward II, and a long erotic poem called "Hero and Leander."  His mysterious death has led some to believe that he was linked to a spy network, but before his death at 29, he had already written The Massacre at Paris, The Jew of Malta,, and Tamburlaine the Great.  For 10 points, name this English playwright, author of  The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus.
ANSWER: Christopher MARLOWE

17.  Transformers fans may know that the alternate title for their 1984 movie was "super BLANK robot force."  Arundati Roy wrote of one of small things, and Madalyn Murray O'Hare was sometimes referred to as its greatest enemy. In a Zora Neale Hurston work, their eyes watched it.  For 10 points, name this religious entity, whom Nietzsche famously declared dead.
ANSWER: GOD

18.  Its name means "farthest land of the setting sun" in Arabic, and their currency is the dirham.  This country's largest city contains the Hassan II Mosque, built in 1993, the world's third largest religious monument.  Perhaps this country's most famous geographic landmark is the Atlas Mountains.  For 10 points, name this country that includes Tangier, Marrakesh, Rabat, and Casablanca.  
ANSWER: MOROCCO

19.  Several of his characters include the Tooth Fairy, a sumo wrestler, a pimp, a member of Osama's harem, a German dancer, and General Lee.  His parent is a hermaphrodite who pampers and feeds him far too much for his own good.  He lights his pet Kitty on fire after a certain flatulent incident involving an anal probe.  His favorite foods include chocolate chicken pot pies and the ever popular cheesy poofs.  For 10 points, name this rather pudgy star of Comedy Central's animated series South Park.
ANSWER: ERIC CARTMAN

20.  The leaders of this movement forbade polygamy, prostitution, and the use of opium.
It wrested much of southern and Central China from the Ching dynasty, establishing their
capital at Nanjing.  The head of this uprising, Hong Xiuquan, believed he was the brother
of Jesus, and decreed that land would be communally owned and farmed by the
peasantry.  For 10 points, name this 1850-1864 rebellion.
ANSWER:  TAIPING REBELLION

21.  Notes on the origins of this poem can be found in Biographia Literaria, and one of its famous final lines is, "He prayeth well, who loveth well, / Both man and bird and beast."  The teller is saved by a Pilot and his son, after a series of strange, metaphysical encounters, and it was the author's friend Wordsworth that suggested adding dead men boarding and steering the ship, and the fatal shooting of the albatross.  For 10 points, name this poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
ANSWER: RIME OF THE ANCIENT MARINER

22) These stars' spectra show lines for ionized and neutral helium, weak hydrogen lines,and not much else.  Their temperature can be as high as 60,000 Kelvin, and they often appear blue.  Examples of this rare class include Meissa, the star that forms Orion's head.  For 10 points, name the spectral class of stars ranked highest in terms of temperature and luminosity, that starts out the now infamous mnemonic.
ANSWER: O class 

23.  Born in 1875, he went on to be arguably one of the most influential American chemists ever.  Working at MIT and Berkeley, he molded the latter's Chemistry Department to his vision, allowing free exchange among students and emphasizing fundamentals.  He pioneered the idea that electron pairs are shared between two atoms, something represented in one of his namesake diagrams.  For 10 points, name this man, who also posited an acid-base theory based on accepting or donating electron pairs.
ANSWER: Gilbert Newton LEWIS

REPEAT
24.  This opera was first performed at La Scala in Milan in 1926. It begins as the Prince of Persia is being escorted to the execution block, having failed to ANSWER the title character's three riddles. Another suitor of the title character, prince Calàf, correctly responds to the questions and poses the counterchallenge that he will kill himself if his identity is discovered by dawn. The slave girl Liù is the only one who knows Calàf's identity, but she refuses to divulge his name and instead commits suicide.  For 10 points, name this opera about a legendary princess of Peking, written by Giacomo Puccini.
ANSWER: TURANDOT

REPEAT
25.  No Longer at Ease is often referred to as this novel's sequel, and its title is taken from Yeats' "The Second Coming". The main character was initially famous for his wrestling prowess, including beating a man with the epithet "The Cat."  Trouble starts when that main character is involved in the ritual murder of his adopted son, earning this novel a comparison to the great Greek tragedies.  For 10 points, Okonkwo is at the center of this novel by Chinua Achebe.  
ANSWER: THINGS FALL APART

[end of tossups]
Bonuses

1. A Tennessee schoolteacher was found guilty of teaching evolution in 1925.  For 10 points per part:
[10] Name this part-time school teacher, the center of his eponymous "Monkey 	Trial."
ANSWER: John T. SCOPES
[5,5] For 5 points each, name the main lawyers for the prosecution and defense.  	One was a three-time presidential candidate, and the other a lawyer famous for 	defending Eugene Debs and Leopold and Loeb. 
ANSWER: William Jennings BRYAN and Clarence DARROW
[10] This Baltimore Sun reporter and author of The American Language came out 	to cover the trial, but left before Darrow dramatically called Bryan to the stand. 
ANSWER: H. L. MENCKEN

2. Name the painter from works for 10 points each.  
[10] Madonna of the Meadows, School of Athens
ANSWER: RAPHAEL
[10] The Oath of the Horatii, The Coronation of Napoleon
ANSWER: Jacques-Louis DAVID
[10] Liberty Leading the People, The Women of Algiers
ANSWER: Eugene DELACROIX

3. Give the authors of these works written in English with foreign titles.
[10] "La Belle Dame sans Merci"
ANSWER: John KEATS
[10] "Dulce et Decorum est"
ANSWER: Wilfred OWEN
[10] "Ars Poetica," which includes the lines "A poem should not mean, but be" 
ANSWER: Archibald MACLEISH

4.  Answer the following about regions of France for 10 points each.
[10] This section of France nearest to England was a favorite home of Gauguin, 	and includes historical cities like Nantes.  
ANSWER: BRITTANY
[10] This region, often contested with Germany, is on the western edge of France, and includes the home of the European Parliament, Strasbourg.   
ANSWER: ALSACE-LORRAINE
[10] Marseille is probably the most famous city in this region, whose name lends 	itself to the language used by medieval troubadours.  
ANSWER: PROVENCE

5.  Given some representative organisms, name the animal phylum, 5-10-20-30.
Snails, clams		
ANSWER: MOLLUSCA OR MOLLUSKS
Tapeworms, Planaria
ANSWER: PLATYHELMINTHES [prompt on flatworms]
Lampreys, toads
ANSWER: CHORDATA or CHORDATES
Ants, Crabs
ANSWER: ARTHROPODA or ARTHROPODS

6. Answer the following questions about forces in physics for 10 points each.
[10] This is the term for a force that is applied perpendicular to a surface, usually 	in response to gravity.  An example would be the force exerted on a book by the table below it in order to counter the force of gravity.
ANSWER: NORMAL force
[10] Which of Newton's laws makes the observation that force is equal to mass times acceleration?
ANSWER: SECOND law or law number TWO
[10] The SI and mks unit for force is the Newton. What is the cgs unit of force?
ANSWER: DYNE

7.  For 10 points each, name these authors from books sitting on the question writer's floor.
[10] Babbitt, Main Street
ANSWER: Sinclair LEWIS
[10] One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, The Gulag Archipelago
ANSWER: Alexander SOLZHENITSYN
[10] A Pale View of Hills, The Remains of the Day
ANSWER: Kazuo ISHIGURO

8.  Given a constellation, name its alpha star for five points each.
[5] Leo	
ANSWER: REGULUS
[5] Canis Minor
ANSWER: PROCYON
[5] Taurus
ANSWER: ALDEBARAN
[5] Carina
ANSWER: CANOPUS
[5] Gemini
ANSWER: CASTOR
[5] Ursa Minor
ANSWER: POLARIS

9.  Answer the following about a poker game for 10 points each.
[10] Both The World Poker Tour and Celebrity Poker Showdown feature this type of poker, where there are five community cards, and two are dealt to each person.
ANSWER: Texas HOLD 'EM
[10] The first three of the community cards are known as this; they are shown 	after the first round of betting.
ANSWER: FLOP
[10] The last community card is known as this; its appearance starts the last round of betting.
ANSWER: RIVER

10.  For 10 points each, name these people involved in affairs with Zeus.
[10] Zeus transformed himself into a swan to seduce this Spartan queen.  The result of this endeavor was the birth of Castor, Pollux, Clytemnestra, and Helen.
ANSWER: LEDA
[10] Zeus either sent an eagle or became one to abduct this Trojan prince who then became cupbearer to the gods.
ANSWER: GANYMEDE
[10] Zeus, showing his awesome virility, coupled with this woman, the titaness of memory, for nine consecutive nights, thus producing the nine muses.
ANSWER: MNEMOSYNE

11.  Answer the following questions about anthropology for 15 points each.
[15] Often called "the father of American anthropology," he studied the Kwakiutl 	Indians and taught many anthropologists, including Benedict.
ANSWER: Franz BOAS
[15] Boas taught at this school and founded the first PhD program in anthropology there, making it the intellectual center of American anthropology.
ANSWER: COLUMBIA University

12. Name the novel from clues, 30-20-10.
[30] Towards the end of the novel, a drunk Sybil wanders aimlessly throughout the city, and Ras the Exhorter becomes Ras the Destroyer.
[20] One of the earliest scenes is the famous "Battle Royale" one, where the black protagonist is forced to fight other black youth for money. 
[10] The reader never learns the name of the protagonist of this Ralph Ellison novel.
ANSWER: INVISIBLE MAN

13.  Name these African freedom fighters for 15 points each.
[10] This Kenyan was arrested for helping to organize the Mau-mau revolt, but 	later ended up as the first prime minister of his country. 
ANSWER: Jomo KENYATTA
[10] This man was ordained in 1960 and started to work against Apartheid. He 	won the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize. 
ANSWER: Desmond TUTU

14.  Pencil and paper may be needed. Morgan is wearing special friction-less ice skates.  He masses 50 kilograms.
[10] If his kinetic energy is 250 joules, what is his speed, in meters per second?
ANSWER: SQUARE ROOT OF 10 meters per second [accept equivalents like root 10, etc.]
[10] Dan accelerates up to 5 meters per second and then stops accelerating and coasts at that constant velocity. What is his kinetic energy at his new velocity? 
ANSWER: 625 joules
[10] Dan then slows down, over the course of 10 meters, to zero velocity. If he accelerated in a constant fashion, what is the magnitude of his acceleration vector during that period?
ANSWER: 1.25 meters per second squared [accept equivalents like 5/4, etc.]

15. Name the psychologist from works, 5-10-15.
[5] Genetic Epistemology, The Construction of Reality in the Child
ANSWER: Jean PIAGET
[10] The Behavior of Organisms, Walden II
ANSWER: Burrhus Frederic SKINNER
[10] Client-Centered Therapy, On Becoming a Person
ANSWER: Carl ROGERS

16.  For 10 points each, name the tennis player.
[10] This Omaha native finished the 2003 season at the top with his first grand slam title coming at the US Open highlighting his year.  He also holds the record for fastest serve at 152 miles per hour.
ANSWER: Andy RODDICK
[10] This Russian superstar made a splash on the tennis circuit in 1998, taking out Andre Agassi and Gustavo Kuerten in the French Open.  His only Grand Slam 	title was his demolition of Pete Sampras in the 2000 U.S. Open.
ANSWER: Marat SAFIN
[10] This Russian entered the tennis scene by reaching the fourth round of 	Wimbledon in 2003 at the young age of thirteen.  However, she is more well known for her stunning looks.  Many compare her to Anna Kournikova, only with more potential.
ANSWER: Maria SHARAPOVA

For 10 points each, give the essayist from works.
[10] Tale of a Tub, A Modest Proposal
ANSWER: Jonathan SWIFT
[10] Essay on Criticism, Essay on Man
ANSWER: Alexander POPE
[10] Lives of the Poets, Rambler
ANSWER: Samuel JOHNSON

18.  Name these Chinese dynasties, 10 points each. 
[10] This longest running Chinese dynasty ruled from the 11th Century BCE to 	256 BCE, though during the Eastern period from 770 BCE to the end, the government had very little power. 
ANSWER: ZHOU
[10] This dynasty ruled from 206 BC to 220 AD. 
ANSWER: HAN
[10] This dynasty, ruling from 618 to 907, saw the only female Emperor in Chinese history, Wu Zetian. 
ANSWER: TANG

19.  Given works, name the composer, 10-5. 
[10] Slavnoic Dances
[5] New World Symphony
ANSWER: Antonin DVORAK
[10] Scheherazade
[5] Flight of the Bumblelbee
ANSWER: Nikolai RIMSKY-KORSAKOV
[10] Akenaton
[5] Einstein on the Beach
ANSWER: Phillip GLASS

20.  Answer the following questions about Mendelian genetics, 5-10-15.
[5] What is the term for an allele which can be masked by its counterpart, the dominant allele?
ANSWER: RECESSIVE
[10] What is the term for an organism which carries two different alleles for one 	trait?
ANSWER: HETEROZYGOUS
[15] Name the term for improper segregation of chromosomes during meiosis, leading to one daughter cell having two copies of the same chromosome, and the other daughter, none.  It leads to rare cases like male calico cats.
ANSWER: NONDISJUNCTION

21. Answer the following about acids, 5-10-15.
[5] Bronsted and Lowry defined an acid as a donor of this functional group, consisting of a single nucleon.
ANSWER: PROTON [accept H+ or hydrogen nucleus or hydrogen cation]
[10] What is the term given to an acid that can release more than one proton into solution?
ANSWER: POLYPROTIC
[10] What organic molecule, formula C20H14O4, is commonly used as an indicator in acid-base titrations?  The molecule causes solutions to turn pink in basic conditions.
ANSWER: PHENOLPHTHALEIN

22.  Name these naval battles from world history for 15 points each.
[15] In this 1805 naval battle, the Franco-Spanish fleet under Admiral Villeneuve 	was decisively defeated by the British led by Admiral Horatio Nelson. 
ANSWER: TRAFALGAR
[15] In this inconclusive 1916 battle, the German High Seas Fleet under Admiral Scheer evaded the British Grand Fleet under Admiral Jellicoe. 
ANSWER: JUTLAND  

23. Name the philosopher from works for 10 points each.
[10] Tractatus Logico Philosophicus, Blue and Brown Books
ANSWER: Ludwig WITTGENSTEIN
[10] On the Jewish Question, Das Kapital
ANSWER:  Karl MARX
[10] The Poverty of Historicism, The Open Society and Its Enemies
ANSWER: Karl POPPER 

24.  This year, a certain nation passed a law outlawing a divisive idea in its recent past.  For 10 points each, name:
[10] This country, whose nation was ravaged by Hutu led violence.
ANSWER: RWANDA
[10] The Hutus led their genocide against this minority people.
ANSWER: TUTSIs
[10] In order to break with the past, the government of Rwanda has begun a re-education process to eliminate this highly divisive concept from the Rwandan mindset. 
ANSWER: ETHNICITY

25) Given lines, name the poem and poet, ten for one and fifteen for both.
[10 or 15] "Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest / Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood."
ANSWER: ELEGY WRITTEN IN A COUNTRY CHURCHYARD by Thomas GRAY
[10 or 15] "And you, my father, there on the sad height / Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray"
ANSWER: Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night by Dylan THOMAS

