Maryland High School Classic 2004

Round 9

Questions by Guy Jordan

Tossups

1. Their separate identity was discovered in the late 1970s by Dr. Carl Woese at the University of Illinois. There are two main groups of them, the Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota.  Their lipid bilayers consist of branched chain hydrocarbons linked by ether linkages to glycerol, and they live in extreme environments, frequently near undersea thermal hot spots that eject sulfurous compounds on which many of them feed.  FTP, name these primitive versions of true bacteria.
ANSWER:  ARCHAEA or ARCHAEABACTERIA

2. He obtained an annulment of his first marriage, and devoted himself to his mistress Gabrielle d'Estrée until her death in 1599.  Although raised a Huguenot, he renounced Protestantism, claiming that "Paris is worth a mass," in order to help bring about a cessation of the Wars of Religion.  FTP, name this first Bourbon King of France who signed the Edict of Nantes.
ANSWER:  HENRY IV [accept HENRY of NAVARRE]

3. The author of a famous text on orchestration, he was well known for finishing and re-orchestrating works by other composers, such as Modest Mussorgsky's Boris Gudunov.  This member of the Mighty Handful wrote a tone poem called Sadko and the programmatic symphony Antar, but is best known for his operas.  FTP, name this composer of Mozart and Salieri, The Snow Maiden, and The Golden Cockerel.
ANSWER:  Nicolai RIMSKY-KORSAKOV 

4. It includes thousands of square feet of mosaics, but no animals or human beings are depicted on its walls.  Constructed on the spot where Muhammad ascended to heaven on his magical horse, Buraq, it was commissioned by Abd al-Malik in 691.  Suleyman the Magnificent fitted its exterior with blue tiles, and King Hussein of Jordan guilded its dome in gold.  FTP, name this shrine on the Haram al-Sharif in Jerusalem that stands across from the Al-Aqsa Mosque.
ANSWER:  DOME OF THE ROCK or QUBBAT AS-SAKHRAH 

5. The title character's half-brother tries to locate him so he can steal his inheritance.  A burglar, who is complicit in this scheme, tries to entice the young boy to commit a robbery because any record of criminal activity would make him ineligible to receive the money.  Nancy, the kind girlfriend of Bill Sykes, shows the boy kindness but pays with her life.  FTP, name this novel by Charles Dickens whose title character famously asks for "more gruel."
ANSWER:  OLIVER TWIST

6. Its foremost proponent was Antisthenes, a disciple of Socrates, and followers were suspicious of any deviation from natural law, seeking independent determination of their own fate above all else.   Diogenes of Sinope, who lived on the southern coast of the Black Sea, added to Antisthenes' ideas, but it never coalesced into an organized movement.  FTP, name this school of philosophy that takes its name from the Greek for "dog," and whose modern adherents adopt an attitude of pessimistic disillusionment.
ANSWER:  CYNICs or CYNICISM

7. Born in Bolton-Le-Moor, England, he lived in Ohio and painted portraits before John Trumball discovered one of his landscapes in a New York Gallery in 1825.  His home, Cedar Grove, was recently designated a National Historic Site, and was opened to the public, and is located just across the Hudson River from Olana, the home of his pupil, Fredric Church.  FTP, name this painter of The Course of Empire, the founder of the Hudson River School.
ANSWER:  Thomas COLE

8. Typical designs consist of two electrodes or plates, each of which stores an opposite charge. These two plates are conductive and are separated by an insulator or dielectric. The charge is stored at the surface of the plates, at the boundary with the dielectric. Because each plate stores an equal but opposite charge, the total charge in the device is always zero.  FTP, name this device originally known as a condenser which stores energy in an electric field.
ANSWER:  CAPACITOR

9. Plots involving serial killers roaming around and gunning people down have much in common with the 1554 anonymous novel Lazarillo de Tormes, which was the first of its kind.  Other variations include Henry Fielding's Jonathan Wild the Great and Daniel DeFoe's Moll Flanders, all of them bound together by the intention that the reader sympathize with a character with some criminal proclivities.  FTP, name this type of plot whose most famous example is Don Quixote, taken from the Spanish word for "rascal."
ANSWER:  PICARESQUE

10. He brewed beer for a living, but his early instruction by John Dalton instilled in him an interest in electricity, and he spent much of his life trying to design an electric motor to replace steam engines in locomotives.  His best-known experiment involved the use of a falling weight to spin a paddlewheel in an insulated barrel of water, whose increased temperature he measured.  FTP, name this man who helped refute the caloric theory of heat, and whose name has been given to the SI unit of work.
ANSWER:  James JOULE

11. To rebuke Luther, he appeared before the Diet of Worms.  In 1522, his teacher Adrian of Utrecht became pope -- not surprising, since this man had used funds from the Fugger bankers to secure the throne as Holy Roman Emperor over his main rival Francis I.  He claimed to speak "Spanish to God, French to men, Italian to women, and German to my horse," and captured Halq al-Wadi and Tunis, but could not defeat the pirate Barbarossa.    FTP, name this Hapsburg monarch, the son of Philip the Handsome and Joanna the Mad.
ANSWER:  CHARLES V

12. Its chemical formula is C10H8 and its structure consists of two benzene rings joined at one side.  It can destroy red blood cells in humans, and its vapors are highly flammable, sometimes acting to accelerate fires that begin in rooms with wardrobes.  FTP, name this substance manufacture from coal tar whose most well-known application is as an insecticide in mothballs.
ANSWER:  NAPHTHALENE

13. At his death, he left behind his unfinished autobiographical "Duluoz Legend Project."  Born in Massachusetts, he is famous for leaving Massachusetts and traveling around the country as a vagabond with Neil Cassidy.  His journeys produced works such as The Town and the City, and the death of his older brother resulted in the publication of Visions of Gerard.  FTP, name this Beat Generation author of On the Road.
ANSWER:  Jack KEROUAC 

14. He has written many critical studies of US foreign policy, including "American Power and the New Mandarins," published in 1969. In his work on linguistics and the mind, he has attacked the theories of BF Skinner, positing that the complex cognitive performance of human beings cannot be entirely the product of learned abilities. For 10 points, identify this scholar and longtime professor at MIT who wrote "Cartesian Linguistics" and "Syntactic Structures." ANSWER: Noam CHOMSKY

15. We learn in the second stanza that the title object features a youth playing the pipes under a tree as he mourns for his deceased love interest.  Desmond Skirrow famously 'summarized' this poem as: "Gods chase/Round vase./What say?/What play?/Don't know./Nice, though."  Written in 1820, its last lines extol the equality of truth and beauty.  FTP, name this meditation on a piece of Attic pottery by John Keats.
ANSWER:  ODE ON A GRECIAN URN


16. Its backbone is the Barisan mountain chain.  Volcanic activity endowed it with fertile land and beautiful scenery, including Mount Toba.  Cities on it include Medan and Palembang, and it is separated from Java by the Sunda Strait, and from the Malay Peninsula by the Straits of Malacca.  FTP, name this island of Indonesia, the 6th largest on Earth.
ANSWER:  SUMATRA

17. The study of these are an important part of solid state physics, because they contribute to many of the physical properties of materials, such as thermal and electrical conductivity.  Their propogation is responsible for the conduction of heat in insulators, and long-wavelength varieties give rise to sound in solid objects.  FTP, name this quantized mode of vibration occurring in a rigid crystal lattice.
ANSWER:  PHONONs

18. Gus regrets his choice of profession, haunted by visions of the last girl he killed.  He keeps asking Ben questions, but Ben refuses to answer him.  The intercom over the title device in the background relays orders for food that soon arrive up the pulley-system, and finally, according to plan, relays instructions that Ben's next target is none other than Gus himself.  FTP, name this 1957 play by Harold Pinter.
ANSWER:  The DUMB-WAITER

19. It occurred primarily on tablets dated from the 14th and 13th centuries BC, and was rediscovered on clay tablets excavated by Arthur Evans in 1900.  Its predecessor is still unreadable, but it was deciphered by amateur architect Michael Ventris in 1951.  FTP, name this ancient script used for writing the Mycenean language.
ANSWER:  LINEAR B

20. It was formed from a collection of several revolutionary groups, including the Tongmenghui, and gained a majority in the First National Assemby.  In 1913Yuan Shikai dissolved the body, and assasinated one of its leaders, Sung Chiao-Jen.  It currently participates in the pan-blue coalition along with the People First Party and supports the reunification of Taiwan with China.  FTP, name this movement and political party that was formed in 1912 and led by Sun Yat-Sen.
ANSWER:  KUOMINTANG or NATIONAL PEOPLE'S PARTY OF CHINA or KMT

21. It differed from other group portraits of the day because it depicted its subjects in action, rather than a static pose.  During the 18th century, the copal varnish began to oxidize, which gave the painting its nickname.  FTP name this large work depicting the militia company of Captain Franz Banning Cocq, painted by Rembrandt in 1642.
ANSWER:  The NIGHT WATCH

22. In 1920, one of them united Bessarabia and Romania.  Another in 1951 established the European Coal and Steel Community.  A more famous one was signed along with the Treaty of Hubertusberg in 1763, which ended the French and Indian War.  FTP, give the common name to these treaties, the most well known of which took effect in 1783, forcing the British to recognize the United States of America.
ANSWER:  Treaties of PARIS


23. Like many Greek Gods, he owed lots of alimony, fathering Oenomaus by Sterope, Ascalaphus by Astyoche, and Diomedes by Cyrene.  He also fathered at least eight children by Aphrodite, including Eros, Phobos, and Priapus.  FTP, name this father of Romulus and Remus, the Greek God of War.
ANSWER:  ARES (accept MARS after "Romulus.")

24. Johnny Burgoyne sent a small force of 800 men under Friedrich Baum from Fort Miller to raid a colonial supply depot.  Four miles west of his target, Baum was engaged by 1,500 New Hampshire militia under General John Stark who rallied his troops by claiming that he would make his wife sleep outside if they had not taken the redcoats by nightfall.  FTP, name this August 1777 battle near a town in southern Vermont.
ANSWER:  The Battle of BENNINGTON

25. Its highest point in the aptly named "High Point," located in Sussex County.  Its longest river, the Mullica, flows through Wharton State Park on its way to the Atlantic Ocean.  Jenny Jump State Park features the scenic Kittery Mountains, and is not too far from the Delaware Water Gap.  FTP, name this densely populated state whose cities include Elizabeth, Camden, and the capital, Trenton.
ANSWER:  NEW JERSEY
  
26. Born in San Francisco in 1971, her relationship with Francine Patterson of Stanford University proved productive, as her skill in American Sign Language has now allowed her to understand and communicate over 100 simple commands.  Some question whether she actually learned the language, and claim she is only responding to operant conditioning.  FTP, name this Gorilla who hosted a live chat on America Online in 1998.
ANSWER:  KOKO

Bonii:

1. Name the following about a transcendentalist FTPE:
[10] He gave a comprehensive summary of transcendentalism in his first book, Nature, in 1836.
ANSWER:  Ralph Waldo EMERSON
[10] Probably Emerson's most famous essay, it encourages the reader to form a personal relationship with God, and to trust his or her own judgment above all else. 
ANSWER:  SELF-RELIANCE
[10] This 1850 Emerson work features essays on Napoleon, Plato, Montaigne, Shakespeare, and Goethe.
ANSWER:  REPRESENTATIVE MEN

2. 12% of the Earth's volume is made up of this mineral.  FTPE:
[10] Name this mineral of trigonal-crystallized silicon dioxide.
ANSWER:  QUARTZ
[10]This is a generic name for any cryptocrystalline quartz, although it is 	generally only used to identify opaque, white, or lightly colored material.
ANSWER:  CHALCEDONY
[10]This purple, transparent variety of quartz is used to ward off drunkenness.
ANSWER:  AMETHYST

3. From 1577 to 1581, he circumnavigated the globe.  FTPE:
[10] Name this man, the first Englishman to accomplish this feat.
ANSWER:  Sir Francis DRAKE
[10] Drake sailed around the world on a ship that he re-named in mid voyage. Give either the first or second names of Drake's ship.
ANSWER:  The PELICAN or The GOLDEN HIND
[10] Drake sailed up the coast of what is now California, claiming it for England 	and giving it this name.
ANSWER:  NEW ALBION (accept NOVA ALBION)

4. It's just a book about a whale.  Name these things, 5-10-15:
(5) This 1851 novel is about a mad sea captain obsessed with just one thing.
ANSWER:  MOBY DICK
(10)  Captain Ahab pursues Moby Dick aboard this vessel.
ANSWER:  The PEQUOD
(15)  This cheerful, slightly hyper sailor is the Pequod's first mate.
ANSWER:  STARBUCK

5. They cause an electrical stimulus or impulse that enables the heart to contract in a sophisticated and coordinated fashion.  F15PE:
[15] Name these fibers.
ANSWER:  PURKINJE Fibers
[15] Purkinje Fibers work in tandem with one of two nodes that function to either increase or decrease heartrate.  For 15 points, name either of these nodes.
ANSWER:  SINOATRIAL node (or SA node) and the ATRIOVENTRICULAR node (or AV node)

6. Name these things about a literary personage who makes a deal with the devil FTPE:
[10] Name this title character of a work by Johann von Goethe.
ANSWER:  FAUST (do not accept "Dr. Faustus.")
[10] This woman who likes to work at her spinning wheel is Faust's love interest.
ANSWER:  GRETCHEN
[10] This German retold Faust's story in the 20th century, as narrated by Serenus Zeitblom.
ANSWER: Thomas MANN

7. Name these things about the state of Maine FTPE:
[10] This mountain is Maine's highest point, and the northern terminus of the Appalachian Trail.
ANSWER:  Mount KATAHDIN
[10] This island off the coast of northern Maine where Franklin Roosevelt caught 	polio is administered jointly by the U.S. and Canada.
ANSWER:  CAMPOBELLO
[10] This city on Casco Bay is Maine's largest.
ANSWER:  PORTLAND

8. Name these layers of the atmosphere, 5-10-15:
[5] This is lowest level of the atmosphere where weather takes place.
ANSWER:  TROPOSPHERE
[10] Léon Teisserenc de Bort discovered this layer of the atmosphere, and it is subject to periodic warming due to the absoption of Rossby Waves.
ANSWER:  STRATOSPHERE
[15] Named after an English physicist, tt acts as a dependable reflector of radio signals as it is not affected by atmospheric conditions, although its ionic composition varies with the sunspot cycle.
ANSWER:  APPLETON Belt or Layer

9. It chronicles the eventual destruction of the world by Ice-9, a kind of water that freezes as room temperature.  FTPE, name this book that takes its title from a game played with two hands and some string, and its Indiana-born author.
ANSWERS:  CAT'S CRADLE and Kurt Vonnegut
For a final 10 points, name the family central to "Cat's Cradle." The scientist Felix invented Ice-9, his daughter Angela is a lonely clarinetist, and his son Newt is a bitter midget who loves to paint.
ANSWER:  HOENIKKER

10. Name the painting, 30-20-10.
[30] Its original frame was inscribed with a quotation from Ovid about love and fidelity.
[20] It features a chandelier with a single lit candle, and a mirror in the 	background in which the artist of the painting is reflected.
[10] This 1434 painting by Jan Van Eyck shows the title character with his bride, 	Jeanne Cenami.
ANSWER:  The ARNOLFINI WEDDING (accept equivalents)

11. The Bear clan is their most important societal group.  FTPE:
[10] Name this Native American Tribe whose Arizona reservation is completely surrounded by that of the Navajo.
ANSWER:  HOPI
[10] These masked dolls, which symbolize departed souls, are a vital part of Hopi religious rituals.
ANSWER:  KUCHINA Dolls
[10] This man spent much of his life studying the language of the Hopi, and formulating his hypothesis of how language structures human thought patterns 	with his teacher Edward Sapir.
ANSWER:  Benjamin WHORF 

12. Name the authors of the following odes FTPE:
[10] Ode: Intimations of Immortality
ANSWER:  William WORDSWORTH
[10] Ode to the West Wind
ANSWER:  Percy Bysshe SHELLEY
[10] Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College
ANSWER:  Thomas GRAY

13. Name the philosopher from works, 30-20-10.
[30] "The Concept of Irony," and "The Concept of Dread."
[20] "Fear and Trembling," and "Sickness Unto Death."
[10] "Either/Or"
ANSWER:  Soren KIERKEGAARD

14. Members of the Pazzi family in allegiance with Pope Sixtus IV and the Archbishop of Pisa had Giuliano murdered in 1478, leading to Lorenzo the Magnificent's beneficent sole rulership on an Italian city-state.  FTP each, identify:
[10] The family to which both Lorenzo and Giuliano belonged.
ANSWER: MEDICI
[10] The city-state ruled by the Medici.
ANSWER:  FLORENCE
[10] Lorenzo the Magnificent's grandfather, who tried to pursue a political course of maintaining a balance of power between Florence, Venice, and Milan.
ANSWER:  COSIMO de Medici  

15. Name the composer, 30-20-10.
[30] He wrote the music for Gott Erhalte Franz den Kaiser, the national anthem of Austria.
[20] His oratorios include "The Creation" and "The Seasons," and he was a court composer for the Esterhazy family.
[10] His symphonies have nicknames such as "Clock," and "Farewell."
ANSWER:  Franz Josef HAYDN

16. Talcott Parsons described this social unit as a factory that produces individual self-consciousness.  FTPE, name:
[10] This social group that can be described as "extended."
ANSWER:  FAMILY
[10] This descriptive term is given to families that consist of a mother, father and their direct offspring.
ANSWER:  NUCLEAR
[10] From the Hebrew for "group," this is a utopian extended community in Israel whose first historical example was Yam Kinneret, near the Sea of Galilee.
ANSWER:  KIBBUTZ

17. In the 19th century, a Frenchman observed that salts of tartaric acid collected from wine production vessels could rotate plane polarized light, but that salts from other sources did not.  FTPE:
[10] This was the first recorded of what foundational property of optical stereochemistry.
ANSWER:  ISOMORPHism
[10] This man, better known for killing lots of microbes, made the discovery.
ANSWER:  Louis PASTEUR
[10]The tartaric acid observed by Pasteur was the by-product of a fungus used to 	cause fermentation in this product.
ANSWER:  WINE 

18. Name the treaties the accomplished the following things in American History FTPE:
[10]This treaty ended the Mexican War.
ANSWER:  Treaty of GUADALOUPE-HIDALGO
[10] This treaty ended the short-lived Arostook War that ruffians from northern 	Maine waged against Canada.
ANSWER:  WEBSTER-ASHBURTON Treaty
[10]This 1795 treaty also known as the Treaty of San Lorenzo guaranteed 	America's right to deposit goods at the port of New Orleans.
ANSWER:  PINCKNEY's Treaty

19. Name the highest mountains in these European nations FTPE:
[10] Great Britain
ANSWER:  BEN NEVIS
[10] Germany
ANSWER:  ZUGSPITZE
[10] Austria
ANSWER:  GROSSGLOCKNER

20. Its nickname is the "Dragon Lady," and although it can fly at over 70,000 feet, one of them was shot down over Soviet airspace on May 1, 1960.  FTSNOP, name:
[5] The letter and number designation of this aircraft built by Lockheed Martin.
ANSWER:  U-2
[10] The pilot of the ill-fated U-2 Flight who was shot down, and later died in a 	1977 Los Angeles helicopter crash.
ANSWER:  Francis Gary POWERS
[15] Powers mission aboard the U-2 was to track railroad shipments to this center of Soviet space exploration, located in the modern-day nation of Kazahkstan.
ANSWER:  BAIKONUR Cosmodrome

21. Name these Philadelphia Phillies FTSNOP:
[5] This third baseman holds the franchise record for home runs.
ANSWER:  Mike SCHMIDT
[15] This center fielder had more hits during the 1950s than anyone else in baseball.
ANSWER:  Richie ASHBURN
[10] This relief pitcher gave up a home run to Joe Carter of the Toronto Blue Jays to seal the Phillies' doom in the 1993 World Series.
ANSWER:  Mitch "Wild Thing" WILLIAMS

22. Boston Corbett is credited with shooting him dead.  FTPE:
[10] Name this actor whose last words were "Useless, Useless."
ANSWER: John Wilkes BOOTH
[10] John Wilkes Booth assassinated Abraham Lincoln in this Washington Theater.
ANSWER:  FORD's Theater
[10] Booth at the time was acting in this otherwise insignificant play.
ANSWER:  OUR AMERICAN COUSIN

23. His wife is Sif on the golden hair.  FTSNOP:
[5] Name this Norse God of Thunder.
ANSWER:  THOR
[15] Thor rides a chariot pulled by Tanngnjóstr and Tanngrisnir, which are these 	kinds of animals.
ANSWER:  GOATs
[10] Thor is able to throw this magic hammer that always returns to him.
ANSWER:  MJOLLNIR

24. Its title was taken from the William Butler Yeats poem "The Second Coming."  FTPE:
[10] Name this novel by whose sequels are No Longer At Ease and The Arrow of 	God.
ANSWER:  THINGS FALL APART
[10] Now, name the author of Things Fall Apart.
ANSWER:  Chinua ACHEBE
[10] Things fall apart follows the adventures and misfortunes of this leader of a 	tribe of the Ibo People.
ANSWER:  OKONKWO  

25. They are most often used for the study of electrons in solids, and when quantum mechanics were investigated using them, advances such as the transistor became possible.  For fifteen points each, name the two physists, one Italian-American and one British, who invented a mode of statistics that Arnold Sommerfeld famously applied to metals in 1927.
ANSWER:  FERMI-DIRAC Statistics (accept DIRAC-FERMI, or separate answers of Enrico FERMI and Paul DIRAC)


