2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 9TossupsQuestions by Casey Retterer, Lee Henry and Sandeep Vaheesan1) Her article in an October, 1998 issue of The New Yorker stated that Bill Clinton "is our first black president."  It goes on to say that Clinton "displays almost every trope of blackness: single-parent household, born poor, working-class, saxophone-playing, McDonald's-and-junk-food-loving boy from Arkansas."  For ten points, name this Nobel Prize-winning author whose works include Jazz, Song of Solomon, Sula, The Bluest Eye, Beloved, and Tar Baby.Answer: Toni Morrison2) The first edition of this poetic autobiography was published in 1855 and was followed by nine revised and expanded editions. Including "Sea Drift", "Birds of Passage", "Children of Adam", "Drum Taps", and "Memories of President  Lincoln," this was - for ten points - what collection of poetry, the magnum opus of Walt Whitman?Answer: Leaves of Grass3) This Australian singer and actress rose to stardom with her role as Charlene Mitchell on the soap opera Neighbors in the 1980s.  With Stock, Aitkin and Waterman in the late 1980s, she had much success outside of the United States with her good girl image with songs like "Especially for You" and "Locomotion," which reached number 3 in the States.  Her largest accomplishment in the movies was her role as the green fairy in Moulin Rouge.  For ten points, identify this artist who has sexed herself up in recent years with the album Body Language and the hit "Can't Get You Out of My Head."Answer: Kylie Minogue4) One of this city's greatest annual ceremonies was created by Pope Alexander III, after the city aided his forces against those of Frederick Barbarossa.  On Ascension Day, it was traditional for the head of state to be rowed out to sea in the official barge, known as the Bucentaur.  In the presence of this city's nobility and foreign diplomats, the head of state would throw a ring into the Adriatic, symbolizing the marriage of the city to the sea.  For ten points, name the city-state whose leader was called the Doge and where one is most likely to ride a gondola.Answer: Venice5) Triangular in shape, they are also known as suprarenal since they are located on top of the kidneys.  Cushing's syndrome and Addison's disease are the results of malfunctioning ones.  For ten points, identify the glands that are chiefly responsible for regulating the stress response through the synthesis of corticosteroids and catecholamines, which include cortisol and epinephrine.Answer: adrenal glands (accept "suprarenal" before mentioned and have the player ask Casey about earning some pie if answered as such)6) According to Anna, "on one side lie the towns of the Gaetulians, a race invincible, and the unbridled Numidians and then the barbarous Syrtis.  And on the other lies a barren country, stripped by the drought and by Barcaean raiders."  Other causes of trouble for this town covering the area of an oxhide included the wars that boiled in Tyre and the ruler's brother. For ten points, identify this North Africa city led by Dido in Virgil's Aeneid.Answer: Carthage7) He was a cooper by trade, but was also one of Athens's most respected educators. This philosopher was a friend of Alcibiades, a teacher of Plato, and was finally condemned by the Athenian council of 500 for corrupting the youth of Athens.  For ten points, who is this man who was forced to drink hemlock?Answer: Socrates8) The son of an inventor, he studied music under Arnold Schoenberg and Henry Cowell.  He began his career as a twelve-tone composer, but his conversion to Zen Buddhism led to his avant-garde "sonic experiments."  Works like Imaginary Landscape No. 4 and Roaratorio are less famous than his most widely-known piece, which consisted of silence.  For ten points, identify this American composer of 4' 33'.Answer: John Cage9) These types of molecules are typically encountered as sweet smelling organic compounds commonly produced by many plants and fruits, but the most common ones are fats and vegetable oils.  Their functional group consists of an alkane united with the residue of any oxygen acid.  For ten points, identify the compounds resulting from the condensation of a carboxylic acid and an alcohol characterized by the functional group R-COO-R'.Answer: esters10) Aristotle believed that it did not exist, and Empedocles was the first to say that it had a value.  The letter representing it is reputedly derived from the Latin word celeritas, rather appropriate for what it means.  Also known as Einstein's constant, is it a definition, not a measurement, as many people believe.  For ten points, identify this physical quantity denoted "c" from Latin word meaning speed, approximately 3x108 meters per second.Answer: speed of light (in a vacuum) prompt on "c"11) The framing of a "hand" by a schoolteacher obsessed with facts serves as a major focus of this novel set in Coketown.  The hand is earlier denied the right to a divorce by the man who he works for, despite his abusive wife and love for Rachel.  Showing the hypocrisy of the middle classes, the boss later gets a divorce from his friend's daughter Louisa.  For ten points, identify the relatively short work of Charles Dickens concerning the lives of the Grangrinds and Bounderby.Answer: Hard Times12) When referring to an impossibility, it is called an adynaton. Its opposite is called meiosis. This literary device is utilized to emphasize the truth of a statement, such as saying that someone ate a ton of food.  For ten points, name this deliberate overstatement or exaggeration, which is not intended to be taken literally.Answer: hyperbole13) The intent of his third voyage was to conquer the kingdom of Saguenay.  On his first voyage, he ventured from St. Malo to the Strait of Belle Isle and then down the coast of Newfoundland. For ten points, identify this French explorer whose second voyage explored the St. Lawrence River and the interior of North America as far as what is present-day Montreal.Answer: Jacques Cartier14) It is said that a man and a woman were born out his left arm and that sons grew from his feet.  Fed by the milk of Audhumla, a more popular legend says that Vili, Ve, and their brother slew this creature and threw his body into Ginnungagap.  This resulted in his blood forming the waters, his bones the mountains, his skull the heaven, his teeth the rocks, his hair the plants, and his brain the clouds.  For ten points, identify this primeval giant of Norse Mythology.Answer: Ymir15) Teaching at the London School of Economics in the 1930s and 1940s, his defenses of a laissez-faire economic system were largely ignored at the time. The free market ideas of Milton Friedman and this man experienced a resurgence with the elections of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. For ten points, identify this Austrian-born economist who wrote The Road to Serfdom, who shares his last name with Mexican actress Salma.Answer: Friedrich von Hayek16) In 1927 he purchased over 2.4 million acres in the state of Para, Brazil.  He hoped to turn the land into a rubber plantation that would be invulnerable to the Japanese war machine. However, his plan failed, despite his associate, W.J. Cameron, planting fake stories about it in the press.  His earlier anti-Semitic statements printed in the Dearborn Independent and his use of a violent security force in his plants changed him from a public hero into a figure of controversy.  For ten points, identify this man who once stated that his customers could buy his best-selling product in "any color they wanted, as long as it was black," the inventor of the Model-T.  Answer: Henry Ford17) The one from Locris was shipwrecked and was able to swim ashore with the help of Poseidon. However, he drowned in the sea when he spurned Poseidon by claiming  that he survived alone, without divine intervention. The one of Salamis killed himself when he did not receive the armor of Achilles. For ten points, give the name shared by these two figures of the Trojan War.Answer: Ajax18) Jean-Baptiste Lamarck was one of the first people to use this term in the modern sense, and according to Peter Griffin, math is merely its lesbian sister.  Evolution and genetics are sub-branches of it, as are anatomy, physiology, botany and zoology.  For ten points, identify the branch of science that is the study of life.Answer: biology19) Influenced by Claude Monet and Eugene Delacroix, this painter studied at the academy of Swiss artist Charles Gabriel Gleyre in Paris from 1862 to 1863.  His works include Girl with Watering Can, The Bathers, The Dance at Bougival, and The Umbrellas.  And, although not Fragonard, he did create a painting known as The Swing.  For ten points, identify this French Impressionist of The Luncheon of the Boating Party.Answer: Pierre Auguste Renoir20) In 1975, he directed the film The Magic Flute, based on the Mozart opera.  The son of a clergyman, he began his work in the theatre in 1938 and his films, such as Through a Glass Darkly, are often full of symbolism.  Considered the leader of psychological cinema - for ten points - is this Swedish director of Wild Strawberries and The Seventh Seal.Answer: Ingmar Bergman21) She founded the Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart of Jesus in 1880 - nine years before Pope Leo XIII sent her to the United States to work with Italian immigrants.  In 1947, thirty years after her death, she was canonized in a ceremony presided over by Pope Pius XII.  For ten points each, identify this woman, the first U.S. citizen to be made a saint.Answer: Mother Frances Xavier Cabrini22) This book is divided into five parts.  The first, second, and fifth parts are traditionally attributed to Solomon; whereas the third and fourth parts are titled "The Words of the Wise" and "The Sayings of the Wise" respectively.  For ten points each, what is this book of the Bible, a collection of sayings such as the one that begins "A wise man shall hear, and shall be wiser"?Answer: Proverbs
BonusesQuestions by Casey Retterer1) Identify these famous Puerto Ricans from their cultural contributions for ten points each.[10] Before succumbing to cancer in 1994, he was able to portray M. Bison in the Street Fighter movie as well as patriarch Gomez in the Addams Family movies.Answer: Raul Julia[10] She is one of the few people to win a Grammy, Tony, Emmy and an Oscar, which she won for her portrayal of Anita in the movie adaptation of West Side Story.Answer: Rita Moreno[10] He was able to parody his role as Ponch on CHiPs through his providing the voice of First Mate Marco Rodrigo Diaz de Vivar Gabriel Garcia Marquez on Sealab 2021.Answer: Erik Estrada2) Given a mythology, identify its god of thunder for ten points each.[10] Japanese mythologyAnswer: Raiden (or Susanoo also Susanowo)[10] Norse mythologyAnswer: Thor (also Donner)[10] Chinese mythologyAnswer: Lei Gong3) Identify the composer from works for ten points each, or for five if you need easier clues.[10] The Creation and the Clock Symphony[5] Surprise SymphonyAnswer: Joseph Haydn[10] Mazeppa and Totentanz[5] Hungarian RhapsodiesAnswer: Franz Liszt[10] The operas La belle Helene and Les Bergers[5] Bagatelle and The Tales of HoffmanAnswer: Jacques Offenbach4) Answer the following about the Schršdinger wave equation for ten points each.[10] This is the Greek letter that wave is symbolized by.Answer: Psi[10/10] For ten points per answer, these two letters that represent numbers appear in the wave equation.  One is the square root of negative one, the other is Planck's constant divided by 2¹.Answers: i and h-bar (do not accept "h", accept knowledgeable equivalents)5) Identify the following concerning ancient battles for the stated number of points.[5] In 490BCE Athenians were able to defeat Persian forces at this location about 26 miles from Athens.Answer: Marathon[5] In 480BCE, this naval battle off the coast of an island in the Saronic Gulf saw the Greeks rout a Persian fleet more than three times its size.Answer: Salamis [10] In 480BCE, the Battle of Thermopylae saw 300 heroic Spartans led by this man defend Greece.Answer: Leonidas[10] Allegedly taking place on the same day in 479BCE as the Battle of Mycale, the largest Spartan force ever helped defeat Persians led by Mardonius.Answer: Plataea6) Identify the Shakespeare play from lines on a 30-20-10 basis.[30] "We would not die in that man's company that fears his fellowship to die with us."[20] "O! for a muse of fire, that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention; a kingdom for a stage, princes to act and monarchs to behold the swelling scene."[10] "And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by, From this day to the ending of the world,But we in it shall be remembered, We few, we happy few, we band of brothers. For he to-day that sheds his blood with me Shall be my brother."Answer: Henry V7) Time for a literature bonus that's not about dead white males, for ten points each.[10] This winner of the 1994 Nobel Literature Prize authored such works as A Personal Matter and An Echo of Heaven.Answer: Oe Kenzaburo[10] While those who captured him called him Tobie, this main character of the first half of Alex Haley's Roots never gives up his dreams or heritage.Answer: Kunta Kinte[10] While the list of people who want him dead is long, he is still the renowned author of Shame and Midnight's Children. Answer: Salman Rushdie8) Given a cultural achievement, identify the Chinese dynasty for 10 points each.[10] The poets Li Bai and Tu Fu mastered both calligraphy and graceful language during this dynasty.Answer: Tang[10] A certain type of glaze was perfected for pottery during this dynasty.Answer: Ming[10] Following its relocation, the more defined ink landscapes of this dynasty changed into ink washes now treasured by art collectors.Answer: Song9) Given a country, name its capital for five points each.[5] MaliAnswer: Bamako[5] GuyanaAnswer: Georgetown[5] DominicaAnswer: Roseau[5] Kt. Kitts and NevisAnswer: Basseterre[5] Antigua and BarbudaAnswer: St. John's[5] The United States of AmericaAnswer: Washington, District of Columbia10) Answer the following about the house of Atreus for the stated number of points.[5/5] For five points each, these were the two sons of Atreus who later ruled Sparta and Mycenae.Answers: Menelaus and Agamemnon[10] For ten, Atreus got revenge against this brother of his by feeding his own children to him and then taunting his brother with their feet.Answer: Thyestes[10] For another ten, the feeding of humans is a recurring theme in the family, since this father of Atreus and Thyestes was served to the gods at a banquet of his father, Tantalus.Answer: Pelops11) Given the formula for an acid, name it for ten points each.[10] CH3COOHAnswer: acetic acid (also ethanoic, do not accept or prompt on "vinegar")[10] C6H8O7Answer: citric acid[10] H2SO4Answer: sulfuric acid (not "sulfurous")12) Identify the Nobel laureate in Physics from the year and description of his or her contribution to the field for 10 points each.[10] 1929, "for his discovery of the wave nature of electrons."Answer: Louis de Broglie[10] 1967, "for his contributions to the theory of nuclear reactions, especially his discoveries concerning the energy production in stars."Answer: Hans Bethe[10] 1923, "for his work on the elementary charge of electricity and on the photoelectric effect."Answer: Robert Millikan13) For five points per answer, identify any six of the original seven members of DC Comics' Justice League.Answers: [5 each] Aquaman, Batman, The Flash, Green Lantern, The Martian Manhunter, Superman, Wonder Woman (any 6, prompt on any real names, if any problems arise from this, have Casey resolve it)14) Identify the philosopher from works for ten points each.[10] Critique of Judgment, Critique of Practical ReasonAnswer: Immanuel Kant[10] Phenomenology of Spirit, or Phenomenology of MindAnswer: Georg Hegel[10] An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals, An Enquiry Concerning Human UnderstandingAnswer: David Hume15) For ten points each, name the historical individuals that might be considered sex symbols if "power is the greatest aphrodisiac."[10] This first female Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is an oft-cited example of power making an otherwise unattractive person a sex symbol.Answer: Margaret Thatcher[10] Despite being the opposite of the ideal of blonde hair and blue eyes he espoused, this Nazi had the young German girls in a furor during his Third Reich.Answer: Adolf Hitler[10] Lastly, this former Secretary of State once said, "power is the greatest aphrodisiac."Answer: Henry Kissinger16) Given a war, identify the treaty that ended it on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] The American RevolutionAnswer: Treaty of Paris, 1783[10] The War of Austrian SuccessionAnswer: Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle[15] The First Sino-Japanese WarAnswer: Treaty of Shimonoseki17) Given the Vice President, identify the chief executive for ten points each.[10] Schuyler ColfaxAnswer: Ulysses S. Grant[10] Elbridge GerryAnswer: James Madison[10] Hannibal HamlinAnswer: Abraham Lincoln18) Characters from Death of a Salesman who are not named Willy Loman, for five points each.[5/5/5/5] For five points per person, name the other four members of the Loman family who appear in Death of a Salesman.Answers: (5 each) Linda, Biff, Happy, Uncle Ben[5/5] For five points each, name Willy's neighbor who plays cards and offers him a job as well as his intelligent son who grows up to become a successful lawyer despite being deemed "anemic" by Willy earlier in life.Answers: (5 each) Charley and Bernard19) As much as it pains Casey to write, here's the inevitable bonus on the works of *shudder* Jane Austen, for ten points each.[10] The first of Austen's books to be published, its only saving grace is Alan Rickman's portrayal of Marianne Dashwood's love interest Colonel Brandon in the 1995 movie.Answer: Sense and Sensibility[10] After falling asleep numerous times while reading about the escapades of the Bennet sisters, Casey stayed awake through the movie version starring Colin Firth as Darcy.Answer: Pride and Prejudice[10] Both Northanger Abbey and Persuasion take place in this historic city and Roman-era health resort.Answer: Bath20) Given a mineral, identify its value on the Mohs hardness scale on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] DiamondAnswer: 10[10] QuartzAnswer: 7[15] ApatiteAnswer: 5