2005 Maryland HS Classic: James Ewell Brown Rides AgainRound 8TossupsQuestions by Lee Henry and Dan Goff1) Jim Burden arrives in Black Hawk, Nebraska as a young boy.  He grows up on a farm neighboring the Shimerdas family who have immigrated from Bohemia.  The book is a recollection, according to the perspective of Jim, of the title character's heroism as she becomes the driving force behind the Shimerdas family.  For ten points, what is this 1918 novel by Willa Cather?Answer: My Antonia2) Constructed in 1778 to replace the Regio Ducal Teatro, it got its name from the church that had previously been located on the site on which it was built. The site of many of Rossini's premiers, it was ruined by bombings during World War II, was rebuilt in baroque style, and reopened in 1946. For ten points, identify this world-famous opera house in Milan, Italy. Answer: La Scala3) A scholar of theology and medicine, he was determined to abolish the slave trade and to open Africa's interior to colonization.  By 1842, he had ventured further north of the Cape Colony than anyone before.  He discovered Lake Ngami in 1854, and the next year he became the first person to reach Luanda from the interior.  For ten points, identify this Scottish missionary who refused to return with Henry Stanley despite his declining health - the discoverer of Victoria Falls.Answer:  David Livingstone4) This highly controversial theory was put forth mainly by British chemist James E. Lovelock and American biologist Lynn Margulis in the early 1970s.  It states that all living things regulate the earth's environment, promoting an life-sustaining condition.  Hence, the earth itself is considered a complex system of interacting  life.  For ten points, identify this theory that the earth is actually a single living organism, a theory named for the Greek goddess of the earth.Answer:  Gaia Hypothesis or Theory5) He has been ortrayed on the silver screen by Tim Curry, Charlton Heston, Orson Welles and Jack Palance, among others.  He was only cook aboard the ship Hispanolia, but his greed and missing appendage has made him one of the most well-known characters in English literature.  For ten points, identify this owner of the parrot Cap'n Flint and central character in Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island.Answer: Long John Silver6) This biennial plant's scientific name is Allium cepa, and it is a member of the lily family.  It has been claimed to cure colds, laryngitis, earaches, and other maladies, though none of these claims have been medically substantiated.  Probably native to southwestern Asia, it is now grown the world over, and it is a close relative to garlic.  For ten points, identify this common plant that will often make your eyes water when cutting it.Answer: Onion7) At 9,925 square miles, this island is home to many small rivers, the longest of which is the Simento.  Separated from the mainland by the Strait of Messina, its entire eastern portion is taken up by the largest active volcano in Europe.  For ten points, identify this Mediterranean island, the home of Mount Etna.Answer: Sicily8) The tester will ask various questions, and answers will be given by two sources - one a human and one a computer.  The tester must try and determine which answer came from the computer and which one came from the human.  This constitutes - for ten points - what test developed a famous English mathematician to test the "thinking" ability of computers?Answer: Turing Test9) He wrote The Crack-Up in 1936 before moving to Hollywood where he spent the last four years of his life writing for the big screen.  While in Europe in the late twenties, his beautiful young wife suffered from a series of mental breakdowns from which she never recovered.  For ten points, identify this man, who left his last novel, The Last Tycoon, unfinished - but who is best known for his 1925 masterpiece, The Great Gatsby.Answer: F. Scott Fitzgerald10) Among the rulers of this dynasty was Humayun, the son and successor of the founder, and Aurangzeb, whose intolerance led to its ultimate downfall. Its leadership oversaw the persecution of the Jains, as well as constrcution of the Taj Mahal.  This dynasty consisted of descendents of the Mongols Timur and Genghis Khan, including Shah Jahan.  For ten points, identify this Indian dynasty founded in 1526 by Babur.	Answer: Mughal or Mogul Dynasty11) Though he wrote many comic operas as well as one symphonic poem, these are seldom performed today. Born in 1854 to an immigrant Portuguese father and a German mother, he followed his training as a violinist by becoming the leader of the United States Marine Band in 1880. For ten points, identify this American composer whose 136 military marches including Simper Fidelis and The Washington Post March earned him the nickname "The March King."Answer: John Philip Sousa12) Used commercially as a source of sulfur, it is mined in Japan, Spain, Canada, Italy, and the United States, and was popular in early firearms for it's sparking ability when struck by steel.  Occurring naturally as a shiny-colored, iron disulfide mineral, it made * "fools" out of many miners when they found it and believed that they had struck gold.  For ten points, identify this substance known as "Fool's Gold."Answer: Iron Pyrite (accept Fool's Gold before the * - Prompt on Fool's Gold after the * until mentioned)13) Proponents of this philosophy strove to do away with the idea of god, the idea of right, and the institutions of marriage, property, justice, and morality.  Seen prevalently in 19th century Russian literature, Dostoyevsky portrayed it in The Possessed and The Brothers Karamazov.  However, it actually got its name from another Russian author.  For ten points, identify this extreme for of revolutionary anarchy that received its name in Ivan Turgenev's Fathers and Sons - a name that literally means "nothing."Answer: Nihilism14) One of his short stories is about a boy who can predict horse races by riding on his rocking worse.  However, this English novelist is better known for his sex-driven novels that stirred much controversy and were often banned for being obscene.  For ten points, identify this man whose works include The Rainbow, Sons and Lovers, and Lady Chatterley's Lover.Answer: David Herbert Lawrence15) The evil that this demon puts forth towards children could be repelled by wearing an amulet engraved with the names of the angels that opposed her.  In Jewish folklore, she is the mother of the wicked children of Adam after he left Eve in the Garden of Eden.  For ten points, who is this supposed send wife of Adam that is perceived as an evil demon?Answer: Lilith17) First established in 1903, it was a part of the Department of Labor until 1913 when the two split into separate cabinet departments.  Formerly lead by Herbert Hoover and William Daley among others, The Bureau of Mines, the Census Bureau, NOAA, and the patent office all fall under this department.  For ten points, identify this department currently headed by Carlos Gutierrez.Answer: Department of Commerce18) He fought in the Battle of New Orleans during the Civil War, 47 years after the more-famous battle of the same name.  Here he captured the port through which the Confederate troops were receiving most of their supplies.  However, it was in another naval battle that he became famous.  In 1864, he successfully led a his ships through mines, proclaiming "Damn the torpedoes!"  For ten points, identify this hero of the Battle of Mobile Bay.Answer: David Farragut19) They are divided into two groups: old world varieties and new world varieties.  Most species are arboreal, tending to differ from apes in that they run across the branches of trees as opposed to swinging hand-over- hand. Highly social creatures - some live in organized clans of several hundred which are led by a single old male.  Mothers generally give birth to one baby at a time and care for it for many years.  For ten points, identify these primates such as Marcel and Curious George.Answer: Monkey20) Soon after being born, he lived at Mount Helicon.  There he created two fountains, Aganippe and Hippocrene, which were said to inspire those who partook of the waters to write great poetry.  One day while drinking from the fountain of Pereine in Corinth, he was subdued and taken on a quest to kill the Chimera.  For ten points, identify this steed of Bellerophon who was born of Medusa's blood.Answer: Pegasus21) Though Grant was outnumbered 2-1 at this May 5-7, 1864 battle, his goal for engaging Grant at this location was to limit the range of Union artillery.  Lee ordered Generals Ewell and Hill to engage Grant at this location north of the railroad junction at Gordonsville.  Ultimately the battle ended in a draw, though Grant refused to retreat, and ordered the Union troops to advance on to Spotsylvania Court House.  For ten points, identify this battle, the first of Grant's Overland Campaign, named for the dense forested area where the battle took place.Answer: Battle of The Wilderness22) Created in 1931, it now resides in the Museum of Modem Art in New York City. The background is a landscape of Catalonia at Cape Creus.  Featuring insects such as ants and a fly on the central elements, this surrealist masterpiece depicts a bleak landscape scattered with melting watches. For ten points, what is this painting by Salvador Dali?Answer: The Persistence of Memory
BonusesQuestions by Phil Durkos1) Identify each of the following battles from European history based on their appearances in famous works of literature for ten points each.[10] In War and Peace, Nikolai Rostov is wounded at this September 1812 battle between the Russians under General Kutuzov and the forces of Napoleon.Answer: Borodino[10] In Thackeray's Vanity Fair, George Osborne is shot dead during this 1815 battle, the final defeat of Napoleon.Answer: Waterloo[10] In Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms, Lieutenant Henry deserts during the aftermath of this 1917 battle during which Italian forces were brutally defeated by the Germans and forced to swim the Tiber in order to retreat.Answer: Caporetto2) Identify the following 1970's rock bands with 1-word names from a lead singer for ten points each. If you need a trio of hit songs, you will receive only 5 points.[10] Nancy Wilson[5] "Magic Man," "Barracuda," "Crazy on You"Answer: Heart[10] Dennis DeYoung[5] "Come Sail Away," "Mister Roboto," "Too Much Time on My Hands"Answer: Styx[10] Steve Perry[5] "Remember Me," "Don't Stop Believin'," "Wheel in the Sky"Answer: Journey3) Identify each of the following works of Claude Debussy, 5-5-10-10.[5] This overture, remembered for its flute solo, was inspired by a Mallarme poem which it is intended to introduce.Answer: Prelude a l'apres-midi d'une faune or Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun[5] Directly following the "Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun" is this piece, whose name translates from the French as "moonlight."Answer: Claire de lune[10] "Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun" and "Claire de lune" are both components of this most famous Debussy suite.Answer: Suite Bergamasque[10] Debussy only composed one opera, which takes its title from a Paul Valéry poem and is often considered the first piece composed in the Symphonic Impressionist style. Identify it.Answer: La Mer or The Sea4) For ten points each, identify each of the following Emperors of Rome from their last words. If you need their predecessor, successor, and years of reign, you will receive only 5 points per item.[10] "What a showman the world is losing in me!"[5] Predecessor was Claudius, successor was Galba, ruled 51-68 CE.Answer: Nero[10] "Oh dear! Titus my son, I fear I am turning into a god!"[5] Predecessor was Vitellius, successor was Titus, ruled 69-79 CE.Answer: Vespasian[10] "I fail, for thou hast conquered, Galielean!" (where "thou" refers to Christ)[5] Predecessor was Constantius II, successor was Jovian, ruled 361-363 CE.Answer: Julian Apostate5) Identify each of the following members of the "Cambridge Critics," a group of early 20th century philosophers, based on their works, for ten points each.[10] This philosopher and mathematician is famous for writing "A Free Man's Worship,"  "A History of Western Philosophy," "Why I Am Not a Christian," and, with Whitehead, "Principia Mathematica."Answer: Lord Bertrand Russell[10] This German-born philosopher and logician wrote "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus" and "Philosophical Investigations." Answer: Ludwig Wittgenstein[10] This philosopher was the first to outline the core beliefs of the Cambridge Critics; he did so in his 1907 masterpiece "Principia Ethica."Answer: G.E. Moore6) Identify each of the following related to a certain American poet, 5-5-10-10.[5] Among his most famous poems are "Hyperion," "Song of Hiawatha," "The Wreck of the Hesperus," and a translation of the Divine Comedy. Answer: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow[5] Longfellow's most famous poem is probably this one, which concerns the nocturnal activities of a certain 18th century patriot.Answer: Paul Revere's Ride[10] "Paul Revere's Ride" is found in this most famous collection of Longfellow poems.Answer: Tales of a Wayside Inn[10] This Longfellow epic concerns the expulsion  of the title heroine from Acadia and her quest to find her lost lover, Gabriel Lajeunesse, which she does just before they both die.Answer: Evangeline7) For ten points each, identify from clues each of the following mountain ranges which the writer of these questions visited last summer on a journey from St. Tropez to Marrakech.[10] This range in which Robinson Crusoe and Friday fought off the wolves contains the cities of Cerbere and Andorra-la-Vella.Answer: Pyrenees Mountains[10] This range, immortalized by the "Gypsy Ballads" of Federico Garcia-Lorca, surrounds Granada and shares its name with a California mountain range.Answer: Sierra Nevada[10] Marrakech is located in the foothills of these North African mountains named for the father of the Hesperides.Answer: Atlas Mountains8) Identify the following about the west wall of the Sistine Chapel for ten points each.[10] The west wall is covered by this Michelangelo fresco depicting a scene from the Revelation of St. John the Divine.Answer: The Last Judgment[10] "The Last Judgment" depicts the final battle between good and evil, which takes place on this barren plain.Answer: Armageddon[10] Seated to the left of God the Father in the "Last Judgment" is this Apostle who holds his own skin, which is a self-portrait of Michelangelo,  because he is said to have been skinned alive in India.Answer: Saint Bartholomew9) Answer each of the following questions about events transpiring in Japan during the 12th century, for ten points each.[10] Not to be confused with his brother Yoshitsune, who is favored by the literature of the period, this samurai won the 1166 Battle of Dan-no Ura, completing the first creditable attempt at Japanese unification, under his family, the Minamoto Clan.Answer: Minamoto Yoritomo[10] Minamoto Yoritomo founded this regime, which ruled Japan for almost 3 centuries.Answer: Kamakura[10] In 1181, Minamoto Yoritomo became the first legitimate holder of this title, indicating sovereignty over the daimyo and exclusive rulership of all Japan.Answer: Shogun10) Identify each of the following women related to the Trojan War and the House of Atreus for 5 points each and a 5 point bonus for all correct.[5] This daughter of Agamemnon was sacrificed to gain fair winds en route to Troy.Answer: Iphigeneia[5] This wife of Hector is the subject of a Racine tragedy.Answer: Andromaque[5] This youngest daughter of the Priad House was cursed with prophecies no one would believe.Answer: Cassandra[5] This wife of Agamemnon was jealous of the attention her husband gave his slave Cassandra.Answer: Clytemnestra[5] This sister of Orestes killed Clytemnestra and Aegistheus, lending her name to a psychological complex.Answer: Elektra11) Name the following works of Thomas Mann 5-10-15.[5] Mann's most famous novel, it chronicles the stay of Hans Castorp at the title sanitarium.Answer: Magic Mountain[10] This Mann novel describes four generations of the decline of the titular merchant family.Answer: Buddenbrooks[15] This novella relates the title event as the culmination of Gustav von Aschenbach's unholy passion for a young boy named Tadzio.Answer: Death in Venice12) For the stated number of points, answer each of the following questions about linguistics.[5,5,5] Linguistics is most easily divided into 3 sub-disciplines, one pertaining to the structure of language in the mind, one to the physical production of speech, and one to the meaning and decipherment of language. For 5 points each, name all 3. Answer: syntax and phonology and semantics[5] Identify the anarchist and MIT emeritus who outlined the foundations of syntax as it is studied today in his seminal 1977 work, "Aspects of the Theory of Syntax."Answer: Noam Chomsky[10] This protégé of Chomsky and department chair of linguistics at MIT is well-known for popularly accessible linguistics texts such as "The Language Instinct."Answer: Stephen Pinker13) Identify each of the following plant hormones for ten points each.[10] Triggered by overabundant levels of sugar and oxygen, these hormones which are often paired with gibberellins are released to promote growth.Answer: auxins[10] These hormones, as their name might suggest, promote cell division in plants.Answer: Cytokinins[10] This gas is released by plants to induce the rapid ripening of fruits.Answer: ethylene14) Identify each of the following women who led revolutions a very long time ago, 5-10-15.[5] Mark Antony divorced Octavia in order to marry this Queen, who committed suicide after she lost the Battle of Actium to the fleet commanded by Marcus Agrippa in 31 BCE.Answer: Cleopatra VII[10] This redhead, whose name means "Spear of Victory," was a Queen of the Iceni who recaptured about half of Britannia before losing the Battle of Atherstone in 61 CE.Answer: Boudicca or Boadicea[15] The wife of King Odenathus, she declared Syria an independent state with herself as Empress in 271, but was captured and deposed by Emperor Aurelian at the 274 CE Battle of Palmyra.Answer: Zenobia of Palmyra15) Identify each of the following works of Oscar Wilde, 5-5-10-10.[5] Wilde's only novel was this one, whose title object is painted by Basil Hallward and hidden in an attic to hide its slow degeneration, representing the decay of its owner's soul.Answer: The Picture of Dorian Gray[5] Wilde's most famous comedy was this play which features the illegitimate child of Miss Prism and the sport of Bunburying.Answer: The Importance of Being Earnest[10] Wilde's greatest tragedy, in which John the Baptist is renamed Jokanaan, portrays the title character as a tragic heroine, was first written in French, and became the libretto for a Richard Strauss opera of the same name.Answer: Salome[10] Wilde's greatest poem was this one, written  in the title penitentiary, where Wilde was imprisoned for sodomy and published under his cell number, C33. Its refrain famously echoes,"Each man kills the thing he loves/ Yet each man does not die."Answer: Ballad of Reading Gaol16) Answer each of the following questions about a certain economist for ten points each.[10] The first economist to incontrovertibly refute the theory of the Invisible Hand, this American taught at the University of Chicago and founded a namesake school of thought.Answer: John Maynard Keynes[10] Identify the magnum opus of J.M Keynes in which he outlined the body of his economic thought.Answer: The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money[10] Keynes warned against the excessive economic retribution exacted against Germany by the Treaty of Paris in this 1919 treatise.Answer: Economic Consequences of the Peace17) Answer the following questions about a related pair of chemicals, for ten points each.[10] This amine with chemical formula C10 H15 NO is related to ephedra; its hydrochloride salt is the active ingredient of Sudafed and similar decongestants.Answer: pseudoephedrine[10] This compound, which also has the formula C10 H15 NO, is prescribed to narcoleptics in the form of dexedrine, and often sold on the street in its "crystal" form.Answer: methamphetamine[10] This term identifies the circumstance by which pseudoephedrine differs from methamphetamine; it is colloquially defined as the "left- and right- handedness of molecules."Answer: chirality18) Identify each of the following pertaining to a certain painter for ten points each.[10] This Flemish master known for his landscapes painted "The Fall of the Rebel Angels," "Peasant Wedding," and "The Way to Calvary."Answer: Pieter Brueghel the Elder[10] This Brueghel the Elder masterpiece features a hawk in the upper right and the title figures, responsible for feeding Antwerp in the wintertime, in the foreground.Answer: Hunters in the Snow[10] Peasants on a cliffside and mariners on the caravel "Astyanax" both ignore the title mythological event, inspiring W.H. Auden's poem "Musee des Beaux-Arts."Answer: Landscape with the Fall of Icarus19) Answer the following questions concerning fluid dynamics for ten points each.[10] Identify the type of fluid flow often assumed by physics students, which is contrasted with turbulent flow and represents movement characterized by the absence of internal friction.Answer: Laminar flow[10] Identify the equation, named for its Italian discoverer, which states that a half a fluid's velocity squared plus the product of elevation and gravitational acceleration plus the pressure on it over its density necessarily equals a constant.Answer: Bernoulli's Equation[10] Name the set of non-linear partial differential equations, named for its Belgian and Irish co-formulators, which model a fluid's flow rate.Answer: Navier-Stokes Equations20) 5-5-10-10, answer each of the following questions related to elegies written in English.[5] The earliest of the English language's great elegies, it was written by Milton for Edward King and named after a shepherd in Virgil's Third Eclogue.Answer: Lycidas[5] Percy Bysshe Shelley's most famous elegy is this one, named after a beautiful Greek youth.Answer: Adonais[10] Sir Alfred, Lord Tennyson composed this elegy after the death of his brother-in-law Arthur Henry Hallam.Answer: In Memoriam A.H.H.[10] This poet wrote an elegy for a friend and colleague entitled "In Memory of W.B. Yeats."Answer: WH Auden21) FFPE and a bonus 5 points for all correct, identify the King or Queen of Great Britain.[5] She was famously the Queen for less than a week.Answer: Lady Jane Grey[5] You can still see the bloody sword that the Roundheads used to behead him on the wall of Buckingham Palace.Answer: Charles I[5] The only ruler from the House of Blois; his right to the throne was contested by Matilda Plantagenet, whose son, Henry II, succeeded this King.Answer: Stephen[5] He famously abdicated to marry the so-called "Bitch from Baltimore" in 1936.Answer: Edward VIII[5] This 11th-century king is often called "the Unready" because England fell to the Danes during his reign.Answer: Æthelred II22) Answer each of the following questions about a certain Apostle, 5-5-10-10.[5] Identify the only Apostle who was neither a martyr nor an Evangelist, whom Dante placed at the center of the frozen plain of Judecca, in Cocytus, the 9th Circle of his "Inferno."Answer: Judas Iscariot[5] Judas sold his knowledge of Jesus to the Pharisees in exchange for what?Answer: thirty pieces of silver[10] Judas used his 30 pieces of silver to buy this field in which he hung himself.Answer: Aceldama[10] After the Crucifixion, this Saint won a dice game to replace Judas and become the new 13th Apostle. As such, he is the patron saint of gamblers.Answer: Saint Matthias