Round 7 written by CWRU7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "S" part II:All answers will begin with the letter S (again).  ±10, no bounce backs1) The largest organ of your body is this, which weighs about 5 kilograms and is 2 square meters in adult males.  Its two layers are the dermis and epidermis.ANSWER: Skin2) "The O.C." is an example of a primetime one, while some of the more popular daytime ones include "Guiding Light", "General Hospital" and "All My Children".ANSWER: Soap Opera3) He's the cat that won't cop out when there's danger all about, would risk his neck for his brother man, and is a complicated man but no one understands him but his woman.ANSWER: John Shaft (you're damn right)4) Formerly called unnilhexium, it was the first element named after a living person when element 106 was renamed in 1997.ANSWER: Seaborgium5) Somnambulism is the smarter sounding name for this unconscious phenomenon.ANSWER: Sleepwalking6) Located in northern Africa, this is the largest desert in the world.ANSWER: Sahara7) Although sometimes extended to include Iceland and Finland, this is the term that describes Denmark, Norway and Sweden collectively.ANSWER: Scandinavia8) Landlocked republic in Central Europe with capital at Bratislava.ANSWER: Slovakia9) Gayane was the ballet that featured this song, by far Aram Khachaturian's most famous piece.ANSWER: Sabre Dance10) They generally refer to themselves as Lakota, Nakota or Dakota in reference to their being a group of tribes rather than one specific Native American tribe from the Great Plains.ANSWER: SiouxUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penaltiesTeam 1:1. He is one of the few men to have a country named after him, identify this South American revolutionary nicknamed "The Liberator".ANSWER: Simon Bolivar2. This 19th century poet wrote "To Some Ladies", "A Song of Opposites", and "To Autumn".ANSWER: John Keats3. The 20 of these are the building blocks of proteins, and include lysine, proline and tyrosine.ANSWER: Amino acids4. Armed with a quiver and bow, she went down to the underworld to free her brother and lover, Tammuz.  Name this Babylonian goddess of love, creation, and fertility.ANSWER: Ishtar5. This French-romantic composer created the opera Les Troyens and the work Symphonie Fantastique.ANSWER: Hector Berlioz6. This former Soviet republic has its capital at Dushanbe.ANSWER: Tajikistan Team 2:1. In response to Andrew Jackson's famous toast to "Our federal Union-it must and shall be preserved," he countered, "to our Union; next to our liberties most dear."  Name this Southern senator, Jackson's, as well as John Quincy Adams', vice president.ANSWER: John C. Calhoun2. A friend of Henry James, this author won the 1921 Pulitzer for The Age of Innocence and also wrote The House of Mirth.ANSWER: Edith Wharton3. This amine affects the dilation of blood vessels and lowers blood pressure when released, and many over-the-counter medicines, such as Benadryl, help block its production due to allergic reactions.ANSWER: Histamine4. Originally a minor god, he became the leader of the pantheon after the defeat of Tiamat.  Name this Babylonian god of heaven, sky, and light.ANSWER: Marduk5. This Russian nationalist composed the opera Boris Godunov and the pieces The Great Gate of Kiev and Night on Bald Mountain.ANSWER: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky (accept reasonable pronounciations)6. This former Soviet Republic is bordered on the west by the Caspian Sea and has its capital at Ashgabat.ANSWER: TurkmenistanCategory Round: Hit Me Baby One More Time Answer the following questions about violence.  ±10, no bounce backs1) This Harvard graduate and former Berkley math professor injured 23 people and killed 3 more from 1978-1995 using homemade bombs, thus his being the Unabomber.ANSWER: Theodore "Ted" John Kaczynski (ka-zin-ski) prompt on "Unabomber"2) "Go ahead, make my day" and "you've got to ask yourself a question: 'Do I feel lucky?' Well, do ya' punk?" are memorable quotes from this Clint Eastwood character.ANSWER: Dirty Harry (prompt on Clint Eastwood)3) Mary Ann Nichols, Annie Chapman, Elizabeth Stride, Catherine Eddowes, and Mary Jane Kelly were the five prostitutes killed by this man in 1888 London.ANSWER: Jack the Ripper4) Albert DeSalvo is the alleged identity of this murderer active in the early 1960s in Beantown who sexually assaulted and then asphyxiated his victims.ANSWER: Boston Strangler5) Stephen Sondheim wrote the music and lyrics to this musical about the "Demon Barber of Fleet Street".ANSWER: Sweeney Todd6) The Alfred P. Murrah Building in this city was the target on April 19, 1995 of Timothy McVeigh's truck bomb.ANSWER: Oklahoma City7) Born Theodore Cowell, it is estimated that he murdered over 100 people from Washington to Florida in the 1970s; he shares his last name with the father on "Married... With Children".ANSWER: Ted Bundy8) It started on August 24, 1572 and similar events occurred for months, resulting in the murder of at least 70,000 French Huguenots.ANSWER: St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre9) Necrophilia and cannibalism were additional actions taken by this Midwestern serial killer who was killed by a fellow inmate in 1994.ANSWER: Jeffrey Dahmer10) Three weeks in October 2002 saw ten people killed by these two Beltway Snipers.ANSWER: Lee Boyd Malvo and John Allen MuhammadTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1:1. This Native American tribe passes down the legend of Sedna, Mistress of the Underworld, describing the creation of whales, seals, and the underworld, Adlivun.ANSWER: Eskimo (accept "Inuit")2. Listed last alphabetically of all presidents, by last name, is this man who ran in 1916 under the slogan "He kept us out of war."ANSWER: Woodrow Wilson3. In this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story, the title character is led into the forest late at night by his wife, Faith and sees most of the town worshiping the devil... or does he?  The ambiguity of the events leaves him doubting everyone and everything until his death.ANSWER: Young Goodman Brown4. Its smaller, cheaper, more reliable and more heat efficient design brought this item to widespread use though many electronics that amplified the human voice. Name this invention that was created as a more practical alternative to the vacuum tube in 1947.ANSWER: Transistor5. This 1494 treaty divided the New World between Spain and Portugal.ANSWER: Treaty of Tordesillas6. This Austrian composer and friend of Mozart created the Paris and London Symphonies as well as The Creation.ANSWER: Joseph Haydn7. General John Abizaid usually conducts his teleconferences from this city, as leader of Central Command for the Iraq War.  What is this middle-eastern city, the capital of Qatar?ANSWER: Doha8. Born in Muncie, Indiana, his comic characters include John Arbuckle, Odie and Garfield.ANSWER: Jim DavisTeam 2:1. This Native American tribe, a group of the Pueblo and based in Arizona, created the creation legend beginning with Tokpela: The First World.  According to the myth, Taiowa, the infinite, created S—tuknang, the creator of the seven worlds.ANSWER: Hopi2. Listed first on an alphabetical list all of the presidents by last name is this man, the second chief executive.ANSWER: John Adams (do not accept "John Quincy Adams")3. The Martian Chroniclesü Dandelion Wine and Fahrenheit 451 are works by this American author.ANSWER: Ray Bradbury4. This invention eventually took the place of the vacuum tube as a circuit rectifier, and is mainly known for allowing current to pass only one way through it.  Optical mice and touch-screens use light-emitting ones.ANSWER: diode (do not accept or prompt on "LED")5. Also known as the Treaties of MŸnster and OsnabrŸck, this peace ended the Thirty Years War.ANSWER: Peace of Westphalia6. This German's masterly overture to A Midsummer Night's Dream was composed when he was only 17, however the "Wedding March" and the rest of the music was composed 17 years later.ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn7. This city's name means "gardens" and it serves as the capital of Saudi Arabia.ANSWER: Riyadh8. One of his most popular panels features a student pushing on a door that says "pull" on a school for gifted children; name this creator of "The Far Side".ANSWER: Gary Larson Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1. The first resulted in the cession of Sicily to Rome.  In the second the Romans lost at Cannae, but Scipio Africanus managed to defeat Hannibal at Zama.  And the last ended in the destruction of Cathage.  Name the series of wars fought between Rome and Carthage.ANSWER:  Punic Wars2. This artist captures scenes of life in blurry forms in his paintings.  Responsible for such works as Magpie, The Beach at Trouville, and La Promenade he also painted Water Lilies and helped name a movement with Impression: Sunrise. ANSWER: Claude Monet3. Dr. Livesey and Squire Trelawney outfitted the Hispaniola for their expedition in this novel also featuring Captain Smollett, Israel Hands, Captain Flint (a parrot), Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver in the Robert Louis Stevenson work.ANSWER: Treasure Island4. Though the myelin sheath of a nerve cell is crucial for proper conduction along the axon, the action potential would decay over its length if not regenerated at certain intervals. What are these points, the gap between two myelin sheaths?ANSWER: Nodes of Ranvier5. Brian goes back out into the wild in order to visit a psychologist named Derek.  Brian goes to give Derek survival tips and later tries to save Derek when he gets struck by a bolt of lighting.  What is this Gary Paulsen sequel to The Hatchet?ANSWER: The River6. Described in eight verses of the book of Revelation, these creatures made their first appearance when Jesus opens the first four seals of a scroll. They also appear in artworks by Victor Vasnetsov and Albrecht Durer.  Give the collective name of Civil Strife, War, Famine, and Death.ANSWER: The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (accept Civil Strife et al before read)7. In 1789, this was the first country to recognize the United States of America as a nation.  Its history includes Arab rule, Spanish, Portuguese and French influence and a 1943 meeting between Churchill and Roosevelt to discuss the Allies' plans for North Africa in Casablanca.ANSWER: Morocco8. Born in West Chester, PA in 1910, he entered the Curtis Institute of Music at age 14.  Who was this American, whose works include Antony and Cleopatra, two symphonies, a piano concerto, and the work oft-used in movies like The Elephant Man and Platoon, Adagio for Strings?ANSWER: Samuel Barber9. Appearing in the late medieval period, it was unique in its ability to play notes at any pitch.  What is the name of this predecessor to the modern trombone, which literally translates to "push-pull" despite its funny-sounding name.	ANSWER: sackbut10. In Melville's classic Moby Dick, Captain Ahab, First Mate Starbuck, Second Mate Stubb, Third Mate Flask, harpooners Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo, Fedallah, and Ishmael are all members of the crew of this whaling vessel.ANSWER: The Pequod11. His second best-known role is as the voice of the Joker in Batman: The Animated Series, and others include Gargoyle in The Incredible Hulk and Maximus in Fantastic Four.  The co-writer of the comic The Black Pearl, identify this man best-known for his role as a farm boy from Tatooine turned Jedi Luke Skywalker.ANSWER: Mark Hamill12. This physical principle was first stated in 1842 by the Austrian it is named after.  Red shift is an example of it, as the speed of the stars changes the wavelength observed by earth.  Other examples include sound waves coming from passes planes, trains and automobiles, as the constant pitch emitted changes for stationary observers.ANSWER: Doppler effect13. His godfather was Ralph Waldo Emerson and he was also considered a great philosopher.  Name this man, the brother of another author and creator of the first American psychological textbook, which was entitled Principles of Psychology, who also is considered the father of pragmatism.ANSWER:  William James14. In Roman mythology, he was the god of doors, entrances, archways, and beginnings in general.   Name this two-faced god, also the syndicate from Goldeneye.ANSWER: Janus15. In 1864 he proved that an electrical disturbance could produce an effect at a considerable distance from the point at which it occurred.  Name this man that predicted that electromagnetic energy could travel outward from a source as waves, whose four equations are often printed on shirts with the phrase, "Let there be light."ANSWER:  James Clerk Maxwell16. This raw element must be kept in a special solution because when it is mixed with water there is a large explosion. Name this group I element found in carnalite, feldspar, saltpeter, greensand and bananas, designated by K.ANSWER: Potassium (prompt on "K" or "element 19")17. Kansas, Iowa, Wyoming, Colorado, South Dakota and Missouri all border what Cornhusker state with capital at Lincoln.ANSWER: Nebraska