Round 3 by Dan7 pages totalThis round brought to you by the letter "P":All answers will begin with the letter P.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Three word phrase used to describe the five concepts of profession of faith, prayer, almsgiving, fasting and pilgrimage.ANSWER: Pillars of Islam2) 1986 Oliver Stone film starring Charlie Sheen about the Vietnam conflict.ANSWER: Platoon3) The most eminent south German organist-composer in the generation before Bach, his most popular work today is his Canon.ANSWER: Johann Pachelbel 4) Son of Tantalus served to the gods at a banquet and later restored minus his left shoulder.ANSWER: Pelops5) Lord Chamberlain of Denmark and adviser to Claudius in Shakespeare's Hamlet.ANSWER: Polonius6) A symbol of Hera, this bird is said to have gotten its eyes from the slain Argus.ANSWER: Peacock (accept peafowl)7) Tower common in Buddhist temples in China, India, Myanmar and Japan.ANSWER: Pagoda8) Percussionist and bandleader famous for his work on the timbales.  In a Simpsons episode, he is hired as the new music teacher when Springfield Elementary strikes oil.ANSWER: Tito Puente9) Vast treeless plains of central Argentina used for grazing.ANSWER: Pampas10) Midway between Australia and South America is this island where the mutineers of the HMS Bounty settled.ANSWER: PitcairnUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penaltiesTeam 1:1) Though first acquired from the Treaty of Paris of 1898, this archipelago was granted independence afterwards.  What is this island group, where Magellan was killed with capital at Manila?ANSWER: The Philippines2) What Southern Pulitzer-winning author created a series of novels about the residents of fictional Yoknapatawpha County, including the Bundrens?ANSWER: William Faulkner3) One example of this geographic effect is the fact that San Francisco receives much more rain than the valleys to the east.  What is this effect, caused when rain-laden clouds must release their moisture before being able to cross mountains?ANSWER: Orographic effect4) Which of Jesus' 12 disciples became the first Pope of the Roman Catholic Church, and was eventually crucified on an upside-down cross?ANSWER: Saint Peter5) Along with his Florentine David, what Italian sculptor also created The Feast of Herod for the Siena Cathedral and a statue of Mary Magdalene?ANSWER: Donatello6) Gloria, Felix, Georges, Camille and Hugo are names of what type of storm system that forms in Atlantic tropical waters with winds over 74 mph?ANSWER: Hurricane Team 2:1) Differences between the groups of peoples inhabiting this island could go back as far as the 2nd millennium BC.  Recent legislation has allowed trade between them on what Mediterranean island, inhabited by Greeks and Turks?ANSWER: Cyprus2) Mark Twain's story about a fantastic leaping amphibian took place in what California county?ANSWER: Calaveras County 3) Extensive damming has reduced annual floods, lessening the amount of material carried downstream and reducing these geographic features, the accumulation of material deposited at the mouth of a river, also the this fourth letter of the Greek Alphabet.ANSWER: delta4) What man converted to Christianity at Tarsus and wrote many of the epistles contained in the New Testament of the Christian Bible?ANSWER: Saint Paul (accept "Saul of Tarsus")5) Also found in Florence, another Renaissance statue of David as he encounters Goliath was created by which Italian sculptor?ANSWER: Michelangelo6) They're called hurricanes when tropical cyclones form in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific oceans, but when they form in the western Pacific, they're known as these.ANSWER: typhoons Category Round: By the Numbers  All answers will have a number in them.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Located at Sanduping, when completed it will become the largest dam in the world.ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam2) Armed conflict between Israel and Egypt, Syria and Jordan in 1967, lasting June 5-10.ANSWER: Six-Day(s) War3) Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and Utah meet at this geographic location.ANSWER: Four Corners4) The Fourth Noble Truth is this way to enlightenment: right understanding, thought, speech, action, livelihood, moral effect, mindfulness and concentration.ANSWER: Eightfold Path5) Proteus and Valentine are the title characters of this Shakespearean work.ANSWER: The Two Gentlemen of Verona6) "I'll Be There", "I Want You Back", "Candy Girl" and "ABC" were some of the hits of this Motown quintet.ANSWER: The Jackson Five7) Although Homer claims that anything this long isn't worth it, AA has advocated this program to help people overcome alcoholism.ANSWER: Twelve-Step Program8) Dodie Smith wrote the book that was the basis for Disney's 1961 animated feature about the numerous offspring of Pongo and Perdita.ANSWER: 101 Dalmatians9) The League of Nations was the result of the final intention of this brainchild of Woodrow Wilson.ANSWER: Fourteen Points10) Pride, avarice, lust, anger, gluttony, envy and sloth are collectively known as these.ANSWER: Seven Deadly SinsTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 11) This Egyptian deity is known the son of either Ra or Set, and assisted Osiris in judging the souls of the dead, name this ibis-headed scribe of the gods.Answer: Thoth (Tot)2) Spurred by high debt loads and increasing tax burdens, small farmers in Western Massachusetts began what rebellion on August 29, 1786?ANSWER: Shays' Rebellion3) Number three in the list of the top 100 banned books of 2003 is this collection of autobiographical tales about a black poet growing up in Arkansas, written by Maya Angelou.ANSWER: I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings4) Though marketed as a laxative, this compound with formula C20H14O4 is more often used in chemistry labs as an indicator that turns pink in basic solutions.ANSWER: Phenolphthalein5) This treaty, signed in the Netherlands, kept Philip V on the throne of Spain and ended the War of the Spanish Succession.ANSWER: Treaty of Utrecht6) "Springtime for Hitler" is the name of the flop being planned in this Mel Brooks film/musical.  The film won an Academy Award, and the musical won 12 Tonys.ANSWER: The Producers7) This northern English county is known both as home of one of the houses in the War of the Roses, and home of a savoury pudding. ANSWER: Yorkshire (prompt on York)8) This country artist, whose first hit was "She Thinks my Tractor's Sexy", is more notably known for his recent duet with Uncle Kracker.ANSWER: Kenny Chesney Team 21) This Egyptian deity was the goddess of the sky and queen of heaven, patron of women and marriage, and was often depicted with the head of a cow.ANSWER: Hathor2) The first of the treaties signed in this city ended the Seven Years' War. The third was signed following Waterloo, and the second ended the American Revolution.ANSWER: Treaties of Paris3) The 13th most banned book in 2003 was this coming-of-age tale about a cynical adolescent who gets expelled from prep school and rebels against the phoniness of the world, written by JD Salinger.ANSWER: The Catcher in the Rye4) This scale, which is calculated by taking the inverse log of the concentration of H+ (read H-plus) ions, and assigns values such a 7 for water and 13.5 for lye.ANSWER: pH scale5) More than 230 foreigners, thousands of Chinese Christians and others were killed in this 1900 revolt against Western influence in China.ANSWER: Boxer Rebellion6) This Broadway musical, which had the second-longest run behind Cats, is adapted from a French novel about the life of Jean Valjean written by Victor Hugo.ANSWER: Les Miserables7) The name of this English county, where the Angles first settled on the eastern coast, is probably more famous as a Virginia naval base.ANSWER: Norfolk8) This husband and wife couple sang together on her 1999 album and are planning an entire duets album to be released later this year. Apparently starring together on MTV's "Newlyweds" isn't enough togetherness for them.ANSWER: Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey (prompt on first names, or only one name) Grab Bag Round± 20, no bounce backs1) He released his latest CD, entitled "License to Chill," in July.  Who is this musician, whose fans are known as 'Parrotheads' and is famous for his hit song "Margaritaville"?ANSWER: Jimmy Buffett2) One of the biggest mars on the Kennedy administration was the CIA-sponsored attempt to remove Fidel Castro from power that called for hundreds of expatriated Cubans to invade Cuba via this namesake body of water.ANSWER: Bay of Pigs3) The first virus, Cabir, was released for this technology standard this summer.  What is this standard, which is designed to integrate different devices such as cell phones and PDAs into a personal area network?ANSWER: Bluetooth4) Gerard Depardieu and Steve Martin have both played this character in movies.  He courted Roxane on behalf of a much more attractive friend, this Edmond Rostand character was bashful about his large proboscis.Answer: Cyrano de Bergerac5) Blood, skulls and cemeteries are associated with the worship of this goddess, the consort of Shiva.  Known as the mother goddess, she represents both creation and destruction, and was worshipped by the Thuggee.ANSWER: Kali6) He originally joined the Kirov Ballet at the age of 18, but disappeared while on a tour of Canada in 1974, and defected to the United States. He has since spent time with several companies including the American Ballet Theatre and the New York Ballet.ANSWER: Mikhail Baryshnikov7) This man's The Economic Consequences of Peace successfully predicted that Germany's WWI reparation payments would cause their economy's collapse. His works also include Treatise on Probability and The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money.ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes8) Bonfire Night, November 5, is the traditional date of celebration and remembrance of this failed plot to destroy the Houses of Parliament and most of Westminster by Guy Fawkes and company.ANSWER: Gunpowder Plot (prompt on Guy Fawkes)9) In England they are only used in cases of criminal libel or some instances where the state is the defendant.  In America, the right to one is guaranteed in both the Sixth and Seventh Amendments.  What is this type of trial?ANSWER: Trial by jury (accept equivalents, do not accept "fair")10) Chest pain, weakness, nausea and vomiting, sweating and tingling in the extremities, especially the left arm, are all typical symptoms in men of this medical emergency, known in medical jargon as a 'myocardial infarction'.ANSWER: heart attack (accept myocardial infarction early)11) Second in importance only to Athena by the citizens of Athens, this Greek god was the major catalyst of events in Homer's Odyssey.  Known in Rome as Neptune, who was this Greek god of the sea?ANSWER: Poseidon12) These electrical devices are usually classified as either fast- or short-blow, and usually contain a small metal strip that melts when heated by an excess electrical current.ANSWER: fuse (prompt on 'circuit breaker')13) Johnny Depp is slated to star as the chocolate magnate in a re-release of what classic Roald Dahl novel about a boy, a candy bar, and a golden ticket?ANSWER: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory14) After being deserted by her husband for a younger version, she exacted revenge by murdering the King of Corinth, her husband's lover and their two children.  Who is this wife of Jason, whose story is told in a play by Euripides?ANSWER: Medea15) The background of this painting, though hardly discernable, is of Oslo, and astronomers claim that the vivid sunset captured in the painting was caused by the eruption of Krakatoa.  What is this recently-stolen Edvard Munch painting?ANSWER: The Scream16) This computing concept was originally developed by IBM, using several numerical implementations, with the ultimate goal of data integrity. This concept is achieved by using multiple identical hard drives to replicate data.ANSWER: RAID (Redundant Array of Independent Disks)17) Though Napoleon returned to power in March 1815, and the Duke of Wellington left to meet Napoleon at Waterloo, this group that met to redraw the map of Europe continued meeting and eventually created the Netherlands and granted Switzerland neutrality.ANSWER: Congress of Vienna