Round 4 by Noah7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "L":All answers will begin with the letter L.  ±10, no bounce backs1) A 1980's movie starring David Bowie and some Muppets, or the maze designed to hold the Minotaur by Daedalus.ANSWER: Labyrinth2) Based in Bethesda, Maryland, this aerospace, electronics, and defense company sells two thirds of its products to the U.S. government.ANSWER: Lockheed Martin Corporation3) African country with capital at Maseru and embedded in South Africa.ANSWER: Lesotho4) Thomas Jefferson, James Polk, Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses Grant, William Harrison and James Garfield were all born in this type of structure.ANSWER: Log cabin5) Milk and dairy products provide difficult digestion for those intolerant of this sugar.ANSWER: Lactose6) Absolutism is defended in this 1651 work by Thomas Hobbes.ANSWER: The Leviathan7) The ancient name for Portugal, it also identifies the ship sunk on May 7, 1915 by a German submarine.ANSWER: Lusitania8) Every November, this meteor shower occurs in the 5th zodiac sign.ANSWER: Leonids (do not accept or prompt on "Leo")9) Both The Cure and Billy Joel have songs titled with this type of song often sung to children at bedtime.ANSWER: Lullaby10) Field game played by two teams with netted sticks, of Native American origin.ANSWER: LacrosseUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penaltiesTeam 1:1.  Considered 'the loneliest man in Vienna' was this man, who was assassinated by Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo in 1914.ANSWER: Archduke Franz Ferdinand 2.  Sam I am doesn't like this titular food in a house, with a mouse, in a box, with a fox, neither here, nor there nor anywhere.ANSWER: Green Eggs and Ham3.  About 61 people die each year in the US from it, though there are harmless strains within us.  Usually found in uncooked or undercooked beef is what bacteria that can cause severe abdominal pain and diarrhea?ANSWER: Escherichia Coli4.  Madonna, or Esther as she has come to be known, has recently popularized what facet of Judaism, known as Mysticism but commonly misrepresented as black magic?ANSWER: Kabbalah5.  Though often ridiculed, he had the honor of being the first Western artist to perform in Beijing's Forbidden City.  A native of Greece is this man known by only his first name, a pioneer of new age music.ANSWER: Yanni6.  This port city on the Mediterranean is home to about 1.5 million people.  Located in Eastern Spain is what city, home of the 1992 Olympics?ANSWER: BarcelonaTeam 2:1.  Considered the father of his country, he was known as 'The Humane King' and was the longest serving head of state in the world when he died in 1999 at the helm of Jordan.ANSWER: King Hussein2.  Go Tell it on the Mountain, Native Son and Giovanni's Room are all works by this African American author.ANSWER: James Baldwin3.  Einstein won the Nobel Prize in Physics for his efforts on what scientific property that involves the nature of light and its reflection in metals.ANSWER: Photoelectric Effect4.  This son of Zeus was struck by Cupid's arrow of love but his object of desire, Daphne, was struck by the arrow of disgust and eventually turned into the laurel tree.ANSWER: Apollo5.  He only composed one opera, and his temperament is reflected in symphonies 3, the Eroica Symphony, 5, and 9.  Who is this composer of Fur Elise and Moonlight Sonata?ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven6.  It is connected to the Artic Ocean via the Foxe Channel.  What is this Canadian Bay that is named for a man who searched for the Northwest Passage?ANSWER: Hudson Bay Category Round: True Colors  All answers will have a color in them.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Albert, Celie, Shug Avery, Harpo and Sofia are some of the main characters in this Pulitzer-Prize winning Alice Walker work made into a movie in 1985.ANSWER: The Color Purple2) Scottish-American detective, the first city detective for Chicago, and organizer of the Secret Service during the Civil War.ANSWER: Allan Pinkerton3) The most effective chemical herbicide used by the US during the Vietnam conflict.ANSWER: Agent Orange4) 1850 novel concerning Pearl, Arthur Dimmesdale, and Hester Prynne by Nathaniel Hawthorne.ANSWER: The Scarlet Letter5) Although it is actually the third of four full ones in a season, a misunderstanding in 1946 has led to the common misconception that it is the second full moon in a month.ANSWER: Blue moon6) Seizing British forts at Crown Point and Ticonderoga were high points for this group of soldiers led by Seth Warner and Ethan Allen.ANSWER: Green Mountain Boys7) An old star that has exhausted its available nuclear fuel and collapsed, but still emits light from thermal energy trapped in it during its collapse.ANSWER: White dwarf8) South African Max Theiler developed a vaccine for this disease for which Walter Reed did extensive work.ANSWER: Jungle yellow fever9) A great-granddaughter of Henry VII, she was Queen of England from July 6-14 1553, ruling only nine days until Mary Tudor contested the succession.ANSWER: Lady Jane Grey10) An idealized object that absorbs all of the radiation that strikes its surface without reflecting any of it or emitting any radiation of its own.ANSWER: BlackbodyTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1:1.  This German thinker altered the philosophical landscape with his "Categorical Imperative" and Critique of Pure Reason.ANSWER: Immanuel Kant2.  Few people have heard of Charles Dickenson, but the man who killed him was very famous, mostly because he became the President.  Who is this man, who was also wounded in the duel but was better known for being our 7th President?ANSWER: Andrew Jackson3.  'Our fearful trip is done, the ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won...'  These lines are from this Walt Whitman poem about Abraham Lincoln.ANSWER: O Captain! My Captain!4.  In which phase of mitosis would you find spindle fibers pulling the chromosomes apart, and each chromatid move to a daughter cell?ANSWER: Anaphase5.  It began on August 13, 1940, and the Germans called it "The Day of the Eagle."  What was this WWII battle, designed to destroy the Royal Air Force but instead culminated with a Blitzkrieg and ended October 31?ANSWER: Battle of Britain6.  Called "The Devil in Music," is this musical interval, featured repeatedly in West Side Story, especially in the song Maria, which the song begins with such an interval.  What is this interval, one example of which would be from C to F sharp?ANSWER: Augmented Fourth7.  This mountain lies in the Karakoram Range and was given one of its names because it was the second mountain measured in that range.  What is this mountain the 2nd tallest mountain in the world?ANSWER: K2 (or Godwin-Austen)8.  One brother only hit 13 home runs in his career, but together they have set the record for lifetime homers hit by brothers.  Who were these siblings, one of which had "Hammering" often added to his name.ANSWER: Hank and Tommy AaronTeam 2:1.  This is the fifth pillar of Islam, characterized by a pilgrimage to Mecca and the Kaaba.ANSWER: Hajj2.  This two-word term used in the Compromise of 1850, was promoted by Stephen Douglas as a way to ease tensions over the expansion of slavery by letting the people in each territory decide whether or not to allow slaveryANSWER: Popular Sovereignty3.  This woman wrote the lines, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free" in "The New Colossus", which appears on the Statue of Liberty.ANSWER: Emma Lazarus4.  Among the functions of this structure are providing a site for enzymatic binding and signal transduction. It is composed of a phospholipid bilayer in animals and regulates travel in and out of the cell.ANSWER: Cell Membrane5.  In what year did the United States reject a suggested Olympic boycott and let Jesse Owens sprint past the competition in Berlin?ANSWER: 19366.  He was born in 1928 in Pittsburgh, and started out as an illustrator for commercial purposes, doing shoe ads and the like.  Who was this man, one of the most famous artists of Pop Art?ANSWER: Andy Warhol7.  Sensorimotor, Preoperational, Concrete Operational and Formal Operational are the stages of cognitive development espoused by this Swiss psychologist.ANSWER: Jean Piaget8.  In real life, the President's Chief of Staff is Andrew Card, but in President Barlet's cabinet in The West Wing, John Spencer plays this character, Card's TV counterpart.ANSWER: Leo McGarry Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1.  They were executed in 1927, and their trial was a display of anti-radicalism in the US.  Though one was later exonerated, the other's guilt was never established.  Who were these Italian American anarchists?ANSWER: Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti2.  It is he who utters the line "A plague o'er both your houses" upon his murder by Tybalt in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet.ANSWER: Mercutio3.  These are essential for the transfer of information between neurons, and are lined with receptors.  Some are covered with spines.  What are these structures, thin fibers responsible for accepting information from other neurons?ANSWER: Dendrites4.  He was the son of Isaac and Rebekah, and his birth name means "Grabber."  Later, he received the name "You have struggled with God."  Who is this patriarch of the 12 tribes of Israel, who wrestled with an angel in order to receive a blessing?ANSWER:  Jacob (accept Israel)5.  He has written songs for many movies, and even appeared in Hook.  Who is this singer/songwriter who has written songs for Tarzan, Brother Bear, and, prior to going solo, was the drummer for Genesis?ANSWER: Phil Collins6.  Its governor is Frank Murkowski, and his daughter is a senator from the same state.  Its total population is only around 640,000 even though it is the largest state and was known as "Seward's Folly" upon its purchase.ANSWER: Alaska7.  Any Seinfeld aficionado knows that he is the man pictured on the front of the TV Guide edition that Elaine spills her Gyro on.  Who is this man, an African American weatherman famous for his recent, well-publicized stomach stapling and weight loss?ANSWER:  Al Roker8.  At its height, 20,000 people lived in this small city at the Bay of Naples.  Pliny the Younger was 17 when he recounted the event that destroyed the city.  What was this city, the destroyed but also preserved by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius?ANSWER: Pompeii9.  John Quincy Adams, Daniel Webster, Daniel Hart Benton, Sam Houston, Edmund Ross, Lucius Lamar, George Norris and Robert Taft are the eight Senators featured in which Pulitzer-Prize winning book written by then Senator John F. Kennedy.ANSWER: Profiles in Courage10.  Venturi tubes are used to demonstrate the effect of this idea, that an increase in the speed of a fluid decreases its pressure.  What is this scientific notion, named for a Dutch/Swiss scientist, and also used to explain how planes generate lift?ANSWER: Bernoulli's Principle11.  His argument boiled down to the fact that he couldn't be sure of anything, except for his own cognition.  This man also invented the standard plane on which equations are graphed.  Who was this philosopher, most famous for writing, "I think, therefore I am?"ANSWER: Rene Descartes  12.  Its name is derived from the French for 'high wood.'  It used to have many versions, though only the Soprano one is played today in modern bands and orchestras.  What is this double-reeded woodwind to which an orchestra tunes?  ANSWER: Oboe13.  Its original name is Uluru, and is located in the Kata Tjuta National Park.  It is roughly 318 meters tall, and its circumference is about 8 kilometers.  What is this natural landmark, composed of a type of Sandstone and named after a South Australian head of state?ANSWER: Ayers Rock14.  On August 25, 1875, Matthew Webb became the first person in history to perform this feat, doing so in 21 hours 45 minutes.  What is this nautical feat, which saw Webb travel close to 39 miles from Dover to Calais?ANSWER: Swimming the English Channel15.  He lived from 1809 to 1849, and both his parents died before he was 3.  When he died in Baltimore, his obituary said that he had "congestion of the brain."  Who was this master storyteller, notorious for marrying his 14 year old cousin and famous for such works as Annabelle Lee and The Raven?ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe16.  A smaller organism, sensing a predator, becomes bioluminescent and attracts the attention of a larger creature, which, in turn, scares away the predator.  This is a description of what biological effect, so named because it is as if the big creature comes to scare away an intruder.ANSWER: Burglar Effect17.  Born in 1912, this figure in American history died on the same day as Sam Dash, another key player in the Watergate hearings.  Who was this Solicitor General under President Kennedy, who later became special prosecutor and subsequently was fired by President Nixon for requesting secret tapes?ANSWER: Archibald Cox