 Round 8 written by Kara8 pages This round brought to you by the letter "M":All answers will begin with the letter M.  ±10, no bounce backs1) This Native American tribe of the Iroquoian language family is best remembered by most people today for their hairstyle.ANSWER: Mohawk2) Shakespearean comedy about more than the title would suggest, such as the antics of Hero, Claudio, Beatrice, Benedick and Dogberry.ANSWER: Much Ado About Nothing3) This bay in southwestern Alabama was the site of Farragut's greatest naval victory.ANSWER: Mobile Bay4) This administrative region of China was the last European colony in Asia, under Portugal's rule from 1556 until 1999.ANSWER: Macao5) The process of cell division essential to mating that yields two gametes.ANSWER: Meiosis6) The second-generation charged lepton.ANSWER: Muon7) This African island nation had its capital at Antananarivo.ANSWER: Madagascar8) It was the decisive naval engagement that gave the U.S. sea power over Japan during World War II.ANSWER: Midway9) Dissident members of the Republican party in the 1884 presidential election who supported Grover Cleveland over James G. Blaine.ANSWER: Mugwumps10) This Austrian physicist and philosopher didn't intend his name to be attached to a razor after his work in aeronautics led the speed of sound to be named for him. ANSWER: Ernst MachUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 11.  This group's role diminished after the Eaton Affair.  It included William B. Lewis, Amos Kendall, and Duff Green, who edited the United States Telegraph.  Name this group, unofficial advisors to Andrew Jackson, who held more power than the real cabinet.ANSWER: Kitchen Cabinet2.  He currently teaches at Bard College, and was paralyzed from the waist down in a car accident in 1990.  He studied English, history and theology at University College, and worked for the Biafran government.  Name this writer, author of A Man of the People, Arrow of God, and most notably, Things Fall Apart.ANSWER: Chinua Achebe3.  When light rays pass through a concave lens horizontally, they bend and emerge in different directions.  When light rays pass horizontally through a convex lens, they bend inward to create a focal point behind the lens.  Name this phenomenon from physics, which occurs when light passes from one medium to another.ANSWER: Refraction4.  He owned the largest ship ever built, Hringham.  His death, probably the only one ever due to mistletoe, is seen as the first in a chain of events that will lead to the destruction of the gods at Ragnarok.  Name this second son of Odin, god of innocence, beauty, joy, purity, and peace.ANSWER: Baldur5.  Raised in Zaragoza, he first gained recognition with his prints, Los Caprichios, and designed tapestries.  His "black paintings" prefigured expressionism and he enjoyed painting the majas of his native Spain.  Name this artist, perhaps most famous for his protest to Napoleon, 3rd of May 1808.ANSWER: Francisco Goya6.  Its highest point is El Cerro del Aripo, and it is located in the southern Caribbean Sea off the coast of Venezuela, placing it outside the normal path of hurricanes.  Cities include San Fernando and Pointe-a-Pierre, though the city with the largest population is the capital, Port-of-Spain.ANSWER: Trinidad and Tobago (prompt on Trinidad)	 Team 21.  Its name is derived from a land formation in Wyoming.  Oil rights were illegally conferred to Sinclair Oil by a man appointed by Attorney General Harry Daugherty, Albert Fall, in this scandal of Warren G. Harding's presidency.ANSWER: Teapot Dome scandal2.  This novel is a collection of memories of the main character as she slowly becomes a poet.  Name this novel, which centers on Esperanza, the oldest child, who struggles with death, poverty, and sexuality when she moves to and away from the title location in this work by Sandra Cisneros.ANSWER: The House on Mango Street3.  When vesicles leave the rough ER, they are transported here, where they are modified, sorted, and shipped toward their final destination.  Name this cell organelle, discovered by namesake scientist Camillo, whose primary function is to process ribosomal proteins and sort them within the vesicles.ANSWER: Golgi Apparatus/Body/Complex (any one of the three)4.  He was a young man from Abydos, and is best known for his partnership with his love.  His strength could not save him one night when he drowned at sea.  Name this mythical lover who swam the Hellespont every night, guided by a light in the tower, lit by his lover Hero.ANSWER: Leander5. He was born at Saint Maurice-en-Chalencon, and was trained by David.  He illustrated various works of William Shakespeare, Sir Walter Scott, and Goethe.  Name this romantic painter, opposed to the neoclassical style of Jean Dominique Ingres, who is perhaps most famous for "Liberty Leading the People".ANSWER: Eugene Delacroix6.  It is divided into 13 states and 3 federal territories, and is made up of two distinct parts, separated by the South China Sea.  Its highest point is Mount Kinabalu, and its administrative capital is at Putrajaya.  Name this place, partly located on Borneo, whose capital is Kuala Lumpur.ANSWER: Malaysia Category Round: Sympathy for the Devil Answer the following relating to devils. ±10, no bounce backs1) Paprika is what gives this protein-rich dish its red color.ANSWER: Deviled eggs2) Beelzebub would be an appropriate alternative title to this William Golding work.ANSWER: Lord of the Flies3) His 1937 short story collection Thirteen O'Clock includes "The Devil and Daniel Webster".ANSWER: Stephen Vincent Benét4) Henri Charriere's escape attempts from Devil's Island provide the basis for this 1973 Steve McQueen-Dustin Hoffman movie.ANSWER: Papillon5) Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida is the home of this baseball team.ANSWER: Tampa Bay Devil Rays (either set is acceptable)6) Once common throughout Australia, this carnivorous, scavenging marsupial is now only found on the island found in its name.ANSWER: Tasmanian Devil (prompt on Tasmania)7) Lot 1 at UMD is missing a parking space with this number, the number of the beast.ANSWER: 6668) Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini issued a fatwa declaring that this author of The Satanic Verses be put to death.ANSWER: Salman Rushdie9) Devil's Tower National Monument is located in this Equality State.ANSWER: Wyoming10) While some Maryland basketball fans may consider him to be the Devil, he's actually the coach of the Duke Blue Devils. ANSWER: Mike Krzyzewski (Sha-shev-ski, but accept reasonable attempts)  Timed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.  Team 11.  Allegedly a native of Kerioth, he served as steward to Jesus and the other apostles before identifying him to Roman soldiers for 30 pieces of silver.ANSWER: Judas Iscariot2.  Established by Public Law 601 in 1948, its name was changed to the Committee on Internal Security in 1969, before its abolishment in 1975.  It first investigated Nazi and KKK activities, but this committee then investigated "communist" activities and led to blacklisting in the McCarthy era.ANSWER: House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC)  3.  It takes place during the few days leading up to the title event.  The main character conflicts with secular authority and is tempted by those who tell him to avoid martyrdom.  Name this T.S. Eliot drama in verse that depicts the martyrdom of Thomas a Becket.ANSWER: Murder in the Cathedral4.  It occurs in about 1/850 male births, and was identified by its namesake doctor in 1942.  Incurable but treatable with hormone therapy, this genetic disorder, characterized by a nondisjunction of X chromosomes, causes men to have XXY sex chromosomes.ANSWER: Klinefelter's Syndrome (it is not the same as "Tuner's Syndrome")5.  He revolted when Nur Jahan schemed to secure the throne the same year that a Persian revolt at Kandahar lowered the prestige of his dynasty, but he is perhaps most famous for the monument he had erected to his wife Mumtaz in Agra, the Taj Mahal.ANSWER: Shah Jahan6.  J.S. Bach composed them, and probably performed the harpsichord solo in the fifth concerto.  F Major, F Major, G Major, G Major, D Major, and B Flat Major are the keys of these, "a microcosm in baroque music".ANSWER: Brandenburg Concertos7.  Horizontal supply and demand curves have perfect this, and vertical curves have none.  Name this economic term, the measure of an incremental percentage change in one variable with respect to an incremental percentage change in another.ANSWER: elasticity8.  Born July 1, 1889 to parents Henry and Anna, he knows 27 languages, studied archaeology at the University of Chicago under Abner Ravenwood and twice thwarted Nazis seeking the Ark of the Covenant and the Holy Grail.  Name this character played by Harrison Ford in a George Lucas-produced trilogy.ANSWER:  Indiana Jones (accept "Henry Jones, Jr.")   Team 21.  He was born to Manoah and his barren wife, as foretold by an angel.  He married a woman from Timnah, murdered men and lit a group of sheep on fire.  Identify this Old Testament man who meets Delilah at a brook, is captured by the Philistines and blinded.ANSWER: Samson2. Precipitated by the yellow journalism of William Randolph Hearst and the explosion of the U.S.S. Maine, this conflict's battles included Manila Bay and San Juan Hill.ANSWER: Spanish-American War3.  This novel containins the story of the Grand Inquisitor. Name this story of Dmitri, Ivan, Alyosha, and Smerdyakov (smear-ne-I-a-kov), who is the real killer of the brothers' father, Fyodor, a work by Dostoevsky.ANSWER: The Brothers Karamazov4. Brightest near Sagittarius, near the galactic center, it appears as far north as Cassiopeia and as far south as Crux.  From the Latin "via lactea," which in turn comes from the Greek, it divides the night sky into two separate hemispheres.  Name this band of white light across the celestial sphere, our home galaxy.ANSWER: Milky Way5.  He was exiled in 1964 for his resistance to the government, and fled to Iraq during that time.  He named himself Head of State for life after his seizure of power and approved Banisadr as the first president of his country.  Name this man who overthrew Shah Reza Pahlavi in 1979 to become leader of Iran.ANSWER: Ayatollah Khomeini6.  It is made up of a number of shimmering squares of bright color that leap from the canvas, then appear to shimmer, drawing you into those lights.  Name this influential piece of abstract geometric painting, executed by Dutch de Stijl artist Piet Mondrian.ANSWER: Broadway Boogie Woogie7.  Proposed by Leon Festinger in 1957, he conducted an experiment paying subjects $1 to convince others to do a task that they hated, which produced insufficient justification for rating the task favorably.  Name the psychological concept that refers to a state of imbalance between emotions or attitudes and actions.ANSWER: Cognitive dissonance8.  It features the Mako Shark, the Regal Tang, the Anglerfish, the Manta Ray, the Pufferfish and the Moorish Idol.  Name this feature, whose characters are voiced by Allison Janney, Willem Dafoe, and Albert Brooks, the highest grossing animated film of all time, which most notably skyrocketed clownfish into the fish spotlight.ANSWER: Finding Nemo Grab Bag Round± 20, no bounce backs1.  Six soldiers were found not guilty, two were convicted of manslaughter, and Thomas Preston, the commander, was acquitted.  Apprentice Edward Gerrish accosted an officer, and returned with some friends to pelt the soldier with trash and snow.  Name the 1770 event that saw the deaths of five Americans including Crispus Attucks.ANSWER: The Boston Massacre2.  An ancestor-based religion with roots in the Fon-Ewe people of West Africa, it includes a god who created everything, "Bondje," but participants mostly turn to spirits and saints for help.  Name this religion, called Sevis Gane in its creolized Haitian form, which, outside New Orleans, generally excludes pricking pins into namesake dolls.ANSWER: Voodoo (accept "Sevis Gane" before it is mentioned)3.  Born in Pentonville, London in 1806, and educated by his father and another famous philosopher to whose ideas he subscribed, he formulates the five methods of induction in his works, but is better known for another.  Name this philosopher, who wrote about the harm principle in On Liberty and Utilitarianism.ANSWER: John Stuart Mill4.  The film version won Academy Awards for best supporting actress and best original score in 1984, but the novel was written in 1924.  Name this book that chronicles colonial tensions when a white woman accuses Dr. Aziz of rape, by E.M. Forster.ANSWER: A Passage to India5.  It helps to explain Kepler's laws of planetary motion, and was published in Principia Mathematica in 1687.  Name the law that states a body at rest remains at rest unless acted upon by an outside force, also called the Law of Inertia or Gallileo's principle.ANSWER: Newton's First Law of Motion (accept "Law of Inertia" early)6.  Workers lived in a company town on Lake Calumet on Chicago's south side, where it kept them in a kind of debt slavery.  When company owners cut wages but did not decrease rent, workers joined the American Railway Union led by Eugene Debs.  Name this 1894 event, executed by railway workers in Illinois.ANSWER: Pullman Strike 7.  The Sierra San Pedro Martir is a major mountain range in the northern part of the state, and the Sierra de la Laguna forms an isolated mountain range.  Name the Mexican state that separates the Sea of Cortes from the Pacific Ocean and extends from Tijuana in the north to Cabo San Lucas in the south.ANSWER: Baja California8.  The son of a vintner and later page to Edward III, he married Philippa Roet.  His early work includes a translation of Troilus and Criseyde, and he is often credited with introducing continental accentual-syllabic metre to English verse.  Name this man, best known for The Parliament of Fowls and The Canterbury Tales.ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer9. It is a hard, ferromagnetic silver white element.  Its artificially produced 60 isotope is a radioactive tracer and treats cancer, and its oxidation states include +3 and +2, though +1 is seen less often.  Name this element, known in ancient times for its compounds, which created a brilliant blue in glass, with atomic number 27.ANSWER: Cobalt10.  A painter, lithographer, weaver and carpet designer, he is best known as a sculptor.  He was a fireman in a ship's boiler room when he had an artistic epiphany.  He became friends with abstract artists Joan Miro and Marcel Duchamp as his career blossomed.  Name this man, most famous for the creation of mobiles as sculpture.ANSWER: Alexander Calder11.  The figures of casualties from this city were around 25,000 dead, but Holocaust denier David Irving used a falsified document to claim that 250,000 were killed.  Located on the Elbe and the administrative capital of Saxony, name this German city, subject of a Kurt Vonnegut novel and Picasso work, which was infamously firebombed in 1945.ANSWER: Dresden12.  It is a popular tourist island for birdwatchers, and the Cabrera archipelago is grouped with it administratively. Located in the Mediterranean Sea, it is a part of Spain, and is part of the Balaeric Islands. Name this island, whose capital faces the Bay of Palma, and whose name comes from the Latin for "major island."ANSWER: Mallorca (my-or-ca)13. The main characters in this novel were modeled off of longtime friends of the author's, Gerald and Sarah Murphy, but the tragic twists in the marriage more accurately reflect the author's marriage to his own wife, Zelda.  The story of a promising young psychoanalyst Dick Diver and his wife Nicole, is this 1932 work by F. Scott Fitzgerald.ANSWER:  Tender is the Night14. Its surface temperature is -218 degrees C, but it seems to have an internal source of heat.  Galileo observed it in 1613 when it was close to Jupiter.  Name this planet, with moons Proteus, Nereid and Triton, home to the Great Dark Spot and is normally 8th from the sun.ANSWER: Neptune15. The movie ends with a ride off into the sunset on white horses.  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar was initially offered the role of the giant, but declined.  It follows the inconceivable kidnapping of Buttercup by Vizzini, Fezzik, and Inigo Montoya, and her love Westley who follows her captors and vows to get her back.  Name this great 1987 Rob Reiner film starring Robin Wright and Cary Elwes.ANSWER: The Princess Bride16.  He was accepted as a master in the painter's guild at Antwerp in 1551.  Bosch's influence made his work interesting, despite its simplicity for the time.  Identify this "peasant" painter, whose paintings include Netherlandish Proverbs, The Blind Leading the Blind, Peasant Dance and Peasant Wedding.ANSWER: Pieter Brueghel the Elder17. An Egyptian territory for 150 years, the battleground defected to Hittite territory, placing it in a contested zone.  As Hittites began to expand to the south, Ramases II prepared an attack and nearly lost his armies, but both sides withdrew in a stalemate in this important 13th century BCE battle, which led to one of the first modern peace treaties.ANSWER: Kadesh