Round 5 by CWRU7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "D":All answers will begin with the letter D.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Both Rex Harrison and Eddie Murphy have starred in movies as this Hugh Lofting character.ANSWER: Dr. Dolittle2) This British author wrote such children's classics as Matilda, James and the Giant Peach, and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.ANSWER: Roald Dahl3) Mythical fire-breathing beast often depicted in paintings as the foe of St. George.ANSWER: Dragon4) Known for speaking in the third person, this Kansas Senator and 1996 presidential candidate has more recently been a spokesman for Viagra.ANSWER: Robert "Bob" Joseph Dole5) "The old lie" in this Wilfred Owen poem roughly translates to "It is sweet and proper to die for one's country".ANSWER: Dulce et decorum est6) There may be a strong relationship between obesity and Type 2 of this disease in which the body's ability to produce and use insulin goes awry.ANSWER: Diabetes7) Unlike the Bactrian breed, this type of camel has one hump instead of two.ANSWER: Dromedary8) Caribbean nation with capital at Santo Domingo.ANSWER: Dominican Republic9) The phase transition from gas to solid.ANSWER: Deposition10) This is the largest city in and capital of Senegal.ANSWER: DakarUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 1:1. The first president to throw the opening pitch for the baseball season, he was the only U.S. President to become Chief Justice of the United States.ANSWER: William Howard Taft2. Major Major and John Yossarian are two of the characters in this Joseph Heller work about the inanity of war.ANSWER: Catch-223. April 17th, 1970 saw this mission make it back to earth despite the famous utterance "Houston, we have a problem", by Jim Lovell.ANSWER: Apollo XIII (prompt on "Apollo")4. This large collection of books concerned the funerary practices of ancient Egypt and included guides to passing the 42 tests of Osiris as well as proper mummification techniques.ANSWER: Book of the Dead (accept "Books of the Dead")5. If you are in the key of C major, what type of chord is made by combining C, E, and G sharp?  This chord is generally formed by taking a major chord and raising the 5th a half-step.ANSWER: Augmented6. Formerly Fort-Lamy, this city is the chief economic center, administrative, cultural center and capital of Chad.ANSWER: N'DjamenaTeam 2:1. Until George H. W. Bush succeeded in the 1988 election, he was the last man to be elected to the presidency while he was still vice-president, doing so in 1836.ANSWER: Martin van Buren2. "It was nothing at all unusual for Mr. Micawber to sob violently at the beginning of one of these Saturday night conversations." This quotation comes from what book by Charles Dickens, which, contrary to what some people may think is not about a magician?ANSWER: David Copperfield3. Not only did she bear the first child born from two people who had been in space, she was the first woman in space following Vostok 6's successful launch.ANSWER: Valentina Tereshkova4. There is a prose one and a poetic one.  Identify these collections of Icelandic literature and Norse mythology. ANSWER: Edda5. This man composed the music to the movies The Sum of All Fears, Hoosiers, and Forever Young.  Who is this man who died a few months ago and composed the score for Rudy?ANSWER: Jerry Goldsmith6. Situated on the navigable Niger River, this is the largest city and capital of Mali.ANSWER: Bamako Category Round: "Rock" Rock On  All answers will have the word "Rock" in them. ±10, no bounce backs1) The nickname of the Astros' Roger Clemens.ANSWER: The Rocket2) Blackboard Jungle featured this hit by Bill Haley and the Comets.ANSWER: Rock Around The Clock3) In an 1863 Civil War battle, general George Thomas earned this moniker.ANSWER: The Rock of Chickamauga4) The lead singer of Van Halen, Sammy Hagar, has this nickname.ANSWER: The Red Rocker5) In Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, he was the mutated Rhinoceros.ANSWER: Rock-Steady6) The American industrialist who founded the Standard Oil Company.ANSWER: John D. Rockefeller7) Brendon Small's Wizard's Baker and The Who's Tommy are examples of this musical art form.ANSWER: Rock Opera8) The mountain chain that forms the United States' western continental divide.ANSWER: Rocky Mountains (accept Rockies)9) In 1620, the landing site of the Pilgrims.ANSWER: Plymouth Rock10) The capital of Arkansas.ANSWER: Little RockTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1:1. Two of the twelve traditional apostles had the same name, which they also shared with the British king who commissioned a new revision of the English Bible.ANSWER: James2. In President Clinton's line of succession, this Czech-born Secretary of State, the first female in that position, could not succeed him as president.ANSWER: Madeline Albright3. The first African American to win a Pulitzer Prize, she wrote Annie Allen and Children Coming Home and succeeded Carl Sandburg as poet laureate of Illinois in 1968.ANSWER: Gwendolyn Brooks4. In this type of engine, heat caused by air compression causes the fuel to ignite, and since the fuel ignites immediately after injection, there is no need for a spark plug.ANSWER: Diesel engine5. After its larger country emerged in 1945 after 36 years of suppression by Japan, this nation split from it's other half in the 1950s and established its capitol at Seoul.ANSWER: South Korea6. It begins with the right hand alternately playing an E and D sharp at the top of the staff.  The right hand then starts to trade sixteenth note runs with the left hand.  What is this Beethoven work, also known as "Bagatelle in A Minor."ANSWER: Fur Elise7. British Honduras was the former name of this Central American country with capital at Belmopan.ANSWER: Belize8. This Namco fighting game introduced the 8-way run, individualized weapons, and characters such as Astaroth, Cervantes, Inferno, Ivy, Kilik, Maxi, Taki and Voldo.ANSWER: Soul Calibur (also accept with 1 or 2)Team 2:1. Founder of the Order of the Sisters of the Sacred Heart, this Italian-born American was the first citizen of the United States to be canonized.ANSWER: Saint Frances Xavier Cabrini2. The $10 bill contains the visage of this principle author of The Federalist papers and first Secretary of the Treasury.ANSWER: Alexander Hamilton3. The leading poet of the beat generation, he gained fame with Kaddish and Howl and Other Poems.ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg4. In this type of engine, all available energy is utilized, thus resulting in 100% efficiently.ANSWER: Carnot engine5. During its history, this country was under the control of the Chinese from 1407-1428, the French in 1883, and oddly enough was freed by Japan in 1945.  Name this country with capitol at Hanoi.ANSWER: Vietnam6. He only lived to be 35, but his operas Idomeneo, Cossi Fan Tutte, Don Giovanni and The Magic Flute stand among the best in their genres.ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart7. Northern Rhodesia was the former name of this African nation with capital at Lusaka.ANSWER: Zambia8. The arcade system initially used hydraulic buttons to determine the ferocity of an attack, but abuse led to the six-button layout associated with this combat game title featuring Ken, Ryu, Chun-Li, Blanka, Zangief, Dhalsim, E. Honda, Guile and M. Bison.ANSWER: Street Fighter (accept with I, II or III, deny protests about it having to be II) Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1. If you wanted to visit this state, you could probably make a stop at Silver Falls, the largest state park, or visit Mount Hood, which stands as the tallest peak.  This U.S. state also contains Crater Lake and has its capitol at Salem.ANSWER: Oregon2. What is the mathematical theorem that states that if a function is differentiable and continuous on the interval (a, b), then there is at least one point c contained in (a, b) where quantity [read: f of b] f(b) - f(a) divided by quantity b - a equals the derivative of c?ANSWER: Mean-Value Theorem (do not accept equivalents of "mean")3. Chevy Chase declared in a fake news broadcast that he was "still dead."  His early dreams of joining the navy of his country were stopped due to budget cuts, but he was able to join the armed forces and rose to prominence as he ruled Spain for 36 years following the Spanish Civil War from 1939-1975.ANSWER: Generalisimo Francisco Franco4. Jurgis Rudkus comes to America to pursue the classic American dream; instead, he works in a meat-packing plant in Packingtown where he loses everything that he has until he discovers Socialism.  Identify this stomach-upsetting and muck-raking novel by Upton Sinclair.ANSWER: The Jungle5. In "Dance Dance Revolution", his Revolutionary Etude serves as the basis for Kakumei; however, you'll more easily recognize his numerous Impromptus, Polonaises, Mazurkas, and Fantasy on Polish Airs.  Who is this Polish-born composer of the first half of the 19th century?ANSWER: Frederic Chopin6. It rests upon the law of definite proportions, as the laws of conservation of mass and energy must always be preserved or the reaction will not go forward.  Name this "study of the combination of elements" which chemistry students use to balance equations, the process where calculation errors often occur on tests.ANSWER: Stoichiometry7. He has the distinction of holding no political office before running for president, hoping that America would still vote for him because of his military prowess.  Who was this commander-in-chief who led the Allied forces in WWII before leading the United States as president from 1953-1961?ANSWER: Dwight David Eisenhower8. With an emphasis on hierarchy in both political and social spheres, it created a structured society in Imperial China as the government took this philosophy and used its concepts for its model.  What is this philosophy created in about 500 BCE that is named after its purported founder, the author of The Analects?ANSWER: Confucianism (do not accept or prompt on "Confucius")9. Its defeat has generally been pointed to as the turning point for its home country's decline in power.  It was dispatched as an escort for an army led by the Duke of Parma, but was eventually repulsed by the English.  What was this historical fleet that succumbed to the English navy in 1588?ANSWER: Spanish Armada (prompt on "Armada")10. While its name is part of the phrase meaning that one attacks the point that is the most vulnerable, it is a vital part of the circulatory system, as these sets of veins return blood from the head to the heart.ANSWER: Jugular vein/s11. This musical opens with the author of the novel it was adapted from telling a story to fend off his fellow prisoners.  Its most famous song is "The Impossible Dream".  The narrator changes into the main character and his sidekick, Sancho Panza, soon appears. Name this musical based on Don Quixote.ANSWER: Man of La Mancha12. Magic abounds in this play, whether it's Caliban's mischief, Ariel using her abilities to create the titular event or Prospero forcing Ferdinand to do his will.  Name this Shakespearean play about nobility shipwrecked on an island.ANSWER: The Tempest13.  Among the factors that influence this are the supply of funds for loans and the demand from borrowers as well as how the Federal Reserve feels about the rate of inflation.  What is this economic term that is specifically the price for borrowing money, a low one often results in a preponderance of mortgage refinance commercials?ANSWER: federal interest rate14. This king was 2/3 god and 1/3 human, but his subjects thought he was too harsh, so Anu created Enkidu to subdue him, however they became friends.  Identify this Babylonian king, subject of the earliest known epic.ANSWER: Gilgamesh15. It is designated by h, and is measured in Joule-seconds.  Named after the German physicist who discovered it after further developing quantum theory in 1900, it allowed for light to travel in quanta.  Identify this constant, which is approximately 6.626x10-34. ANSWER: Planck's Constant16. In this sequel, Obi Okonkwo, the grandson of the protagonist in the first book, is the pride of Umuofia.  Educated in England, he now bears the burden of his village's expectations because of his education.  What is this book, the sequel to Things Fall Apart?ANSWER: No Longer at Ease17. Unlike the rest of the stadium, seating here consists of bleachers.  Its name original in 1984 when the team's defensive players, including Hanford Dixon, gave this name to the fans.  What is the name for the east end of Cleveland Browns stadium, not to be confused with where canine catchers take their prey.ANSWER: Dawg Pound