Round 6 written by CWRU7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "S"... part I:All answers will begin with the letter S.  ±10, no bounce backs1) One of the oldest Japanese martial arts, weight is often the deciding factor in this sport.ANSWER: Sumo wrestling2) The largest island in the Mediterranean, it is separated from Italy by the Strait of Messina.ANSWER: Sicily3) Due to a knife cut on his cheek, Al Capone had this nickname.ANSWER: Scarface4) This Shoshone woman's image is printed on the gold dollar coin.ANSWER: Sacagawea5) American composer of "Semper Fidelus", "Washington Post March" and "Stars and Stripes Forever".ANSWER: John Philip Sousa6) This Thracian slave became a gladiator and led a revolt against the Roman Empire in the late 70sBCE.ANSWER: Spartacus7) On May 5, 1961, he became the first American in space.ANSWER: Alan Shepard8) The firebombing of Dresden is the basis of this Kurt Vonnegut work.ANSWER: Slaughterhouse-Five9) Also known as bluebeat, this precursor to reggae emerged in the early 1960s in Jamaica, bands of this genre include The Mighty Mighty Bosstones and Reel Big Fish.ANSWER: Ska10) She was an American expatriate living in France and wrote The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas.ANSWER: Gertrude SteinUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 1:1. This man passed on the opportunity to play professional football to pursue greater things, which eventually included being Vice President under Richard Nixon and the only US President never elected.ANSWER: Gerald Ford2. "Exterminate all the brutes." Was written by Kurtz in this novel by Joseph Conrad set in the African jungle along the Congo River.ANSWER: Heart of Darkness3. Aside from the sugar buzz, Gatorade helps athletes perform better because it helps replace these, which are lost in sweat, with the sodium and potassium in its mix.ANSWER: Electrolytes4. This hunter was torn apart by his own hounds when Artemis turned him into a stag when he saw her bathing.ANSWER: Actaeon5. This musical scale proceeds through semitones, includes twelve notes, making it neutral and goes through half-step increments.ANSWER: Chromatic scale6. Recently under fire for genocide, this African nation's largest city and capital is Khartoum.ANSWER: SudanTeam 2:1. Despite losing the popular vote by 250,000, he won 185-184 in the electoral college after a 15-member commission gave him the edge in 1876 presidential election over Samuel J. Tilden.ANSWER: Rutherford B. Hayes2. "Silly things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way." - This quotation comes from what matchmaking novel by Jane Austen about the self-delusion of the title character?ANSWER: Emma3. The ionic bonding of some metals with hydrogen, resulting in a negatively charged hydrogen and a positive metal, results in one of these, an example being NaH.ANSWER: Hydride4. In Greek myth, this beautiful youth was loved by Aphrodite and Persephone but was tragically killed by wild boar while hunting.ANSWER: Adonis5. This musical scale has half-steps between the 2nd and 3rd degrees and the 5th and 6th degrees and overall has a "sad" sound to it.ANSWER: Minor scale6. The four largest cities in this African country are Bafoussam, Nkongsamba, its capital Yaounde, and Douala.ANSWER: Cameroon Category Round: Jacks-of-all-trades People with "Jack" in their names, ±10, no bounce backs1) American author A Century of Dishonor.ANSWER: Helen Hunt Jackson2) Martial artist, director, and movie star from China who does all of his own stunts.ANSWER: Jackie Chan3) American boxer known as the "Manassa Mauler".ANSWER: Jack Dempsey4) Nursery rhyme character who could eat no fat.ANSWER: Jack Sprat5) The bassist for Cream.ANSWER: Jack Bruce6) American writer, coined the term "beat generation".ANSWER: Jack Kerouac7) Baseball legend who broke the color barrier.ANSWER: Jackie Robinson8) Athlete who played both baseball and football professionally from 1987-1990.ANSWER: Vincent Edward "Bo" Jackson9) Physician notorious for his support of assisted suicide.ANSWER: Dr. Jack Kevorkian10) Civil rights activist and political leader, founder of Operation PUSH and the National Rainbow Coalition.ANSWER: Rev. Jesse JacksonTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1: 1. This religious group, which advocates personal faith in God rather than ritualism, broke with Christian tradition in the 16th century in believing that only willing adults should be baptized.ANSWER: Anabaptists2. What organization headed by Nicholas Biddle had its re-charter attempt vetoed by President Jackson in 1832, creating much controversy between the Whigs and Jacksonian Democrats?ANSWER: The Bank of the United States (accept "National Bank" or "Second National Bank")3. The cruelties of 18th century life in "the best of all possible worlds" are satirized in which signature Voltaire novel?ANSWER: Candide4. Traditionally overlooked in favor of the neurons they surround, what 'glue' cells physically and chemically support the nervous system?ANSWER: glial cells5. This major naval engagement of World War I resulted in a German defeat at the hands of the British navy in 1916.ANSWER: Battle of Jutland6. The Darwin Martin house, Fallingwater, and the Guggenheim museum in New York were all designed by this architect.ANSWER: Frank Lloyd Wright7. Ithica, Hudson, oughkeepsie, Saratoga Springs and Corning are all cities in this state with capital at Albany.ANSWER: New York8. Introduced in 1962 as children's pets, this product is really a breed of shrimp that can survive out of water for long periods of time.  What are these misleadingly named water creatures that can be purchased in 'replacement packets'.ANSWER: Sea MonkeysTeam 2:1.  Which largest Anabaptist group was named in honor of the priest Menno Simons?ANSWER: Mennonites2.  What present-day government organization was created in 1913 to foster a sound banking system and a healthy economy; Alan Greenspan is currently its chairmanANSWER: Federal Reserve System (prompt "The Fed")3. This French comedic dramatist produced, directed and sometimes acted in the plays he wrote, which include The School for Wives and The Misanthrope.ANSWER: Molière4. The History Channel ranks him as the 9th most influential person in the last 1000 years.  Name this Polish astronomer who wrote On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres and espoused the heliocentric theory of the solar system.ANSWER: Nicolaus Copernicus5. 1949 saw this man become the head of the newly established People's Republic of China 15 years after leading Chinese Communists on the Long March.ANSWER: Mao Zedong (or Tse-tung). 6. The Walt Disney Concert Hall, the Guggenheim Bilbao museum in Spain, the Pritzker bandshell in Chicago and the Experience Music Project in Seattle were all designed by this architect.ANSWER: Frank Gehry7. Great Bend, Dodge City, Salina, Russell, Larned, Abilene and Topeka are all found in this state.ANSWER: Kansas8. These small collectibles were a major fad.  Alf made an appearance on The Simpsons as a character on one.  Identify these milk cap sized discs that players stack and try to flip over with a slammer.ANSWER: Pogs Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1. Electric defeats water but is weak against rock.  Rock is generally strong against all types but is weak against water.  Psychic is also generally strong with the exception of ghost.  These battle relationships are all found in what monster-catching game from Nintendo, whose characters include Totodile, Charizard and Pikachu?ANSWER: Pokémon (accept "Pocket Monsters")2. Throughout this play, the main characters quarrel, make up, contemplate suicide, try to sleep, eat a carrot and gnaw on some chicken bones.  Another character comes onstage to tell Vladimir and Estragon that their time spent for the day is for naught, as the title character doesn't appear.  Identify this play by Samuel Beckett.ANSWER: Waiting for Godot3. Even though it's slightly smaller than Alaska, it's the largest land-locked country in the world.  Sandwiched in between China and Russia, identify this nation with a capitol at Ulaanbaatar, the ancestral home of the Khans.ANSWER: Mongolia4. Identify the speaker of this quote: "May she wake in torment!... How can I live without my life? How can I live without my soul?"  He said this upon the death of Catherine Linton, formerly Earnshaw, in Emily Brontë's Wuthering HeightsANSWER: Heathcliff5. This novel takes place on the single day of June 16, 1904.  The book describes the relationships of protagonist Leopold Bloom with his wife Molly and surrogate son, Stephan Daedalus.  What is this masterpiece by James Joyce?ANSWER: Ulysses6. Sometimes, publico is added to the end of this common legal phrase.  It is a term used to designate legal work undertaken without payment.  Name this Latin phrase meaning "for the good."ANSWER: pro bono7. Organisms sharing this taxonomic classification share a large number of similarities but still cannot produce fertile offspring between members of different species.  The second most specific, name this classification which is Homo for humans.ANSWER: genus8. It is the symbol of life in hieroglyphics, it is widely used as an amulet, it was later adapted by Coptic Christians as their cross.  Name this Egyptian symbol associated with Doctor Fate in the DC Comics, resembling a looped cross.ANSWER: ankh9. The main character's first appearance wasn't in this title book, but in the book of children's poems entitled When We Were Very Young.  A bedtime story the author wrote for his son, Christopher Robin, was made into the first chapter of what book by A. A. Milne?ANSWER: Winnie-the-Pooh10. General Joseph Mobutu took this country over in 1970 and changed its name.  His reign lasted until May of 1997, when Laurent Kabila launched a seven-month campaign that ousted Mobutu.  Name this country that was formerly called Zaire.ANSWER: Democratic Republic of the Congo (prompt on "Zaire" before it is read, prompt on "Congo" or "DRC")11. He began his political career when George Clinton named him the Attorney General in 1789.  Elected a senator in 1791, he ran in the election of 1800 and ended up as the vice-president to Thomas Jefferson.  Name this man who shot Alexander Hamilton in a duel.ANSWER: Aaron Burr12. This is equal to 0 for any element in its elemental state.  For Hydrogen, it is usually +1, though it can be -1.  For Oxygen, it is most often equal to -2.  What is this quantity, used in chemistry to determine the transfer of electrons in a reaction?ANSWER:  Oxidation Number (or equivalents to number, i.e. state)13. In 1774, he succeeded Gassmann as court composer and conductor of the Italian opera and added Kapellmeister in 1788.  Name this Italian composer who, while his greatest work is Tarare, is probably remembered for his supposed rivalry with Mozart.ANSWER: Antonio Salieri14. The alteration of motion is ever proportional to the motive force impressed; and is made in the direction of the right line in which that force is impressed.  So says what physical law, which yields the equation force equals mass times acceleration?ANSWER: Newton's second law of motion15. This period was based on a strict class hierarchy originally established by Toyotomi Kideyoshi, with samurai at the top.  Established in 1603, name this period in Japanese history which lasted until the Meiji Restoration which shares its name with the old name for Tokyo.ANSWER: Edo period (accept "Tokugawa" before "shares its name")16. 48, 55, 73.  48, 575, 577.  8, 15, 17.  5, 12, 13.  3, 4, 5.  Each of these sets of numbers has a special relation involving the sides of a polygon, name it.ANSWER: Pythagorean triples (accept reasonable equivalents)17. It preaches that God progressively reveals his will through each successive messenger, from Moses to Krishna to Mohammed.  Name this second most widespread of the world's independent religions, started in 1844 by the Persian prophet, Siyyid Ali-Muhammad.ANSWER: Bahá'ì (accept "Bahaiism")