Round 2 written by Casey7 pages totalThis round brought to you by the letter "T":All answers will begin with the letter T.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Japanese word meaning "harbor wave," they are often the result of undersea earthquakes and can reach heights over 30 meters.ANSWER: Tsunami2) Winner of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize for his promotion of peaceful methods in the struggle in South Africa against apartheid.ANSWER: Desmond Tutu3) Plant commercially grown for its leaves and stems, which are ground into snuff, processed for chewing and shredded for use in cigarettes and pipes.ANSWER: Tobacco4) Siege engine that derives its power from gravity rather than torsion.ANSWER: Trebuchet5) The third longest river in Italy, which flows through Rome.ANSWER: Tiber River6) Egyptian pharaoh of the 18th dynasty most famous today for the discovery of his intact tomb by Howard Carter in 1922.ANSWER: Tutankhamun7) Native Mesoamerican tribe of Mexico from 650 until about the 12th century.ANSWER: Toltec8) Battle of the American Revolution where George Washington surprised Hessian troops by crossing the Delaware River on Christmas Eve.ANSWER: Battle of Trenton9) Chinese dynasty from 618-907, also an orange flavored drink developed by NASA.ANSWER: Tang10) Legendary Celtic hero who after winning the bride for his uncle, fell in love with Isolde.ANSWER: Tristan (accept Tristram)Untimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 1:1) The first one started in 1096, and resulted in Christian forces capturing Jerusalem in 1099.ANSWER: Crusade2) In 1999, this German author of The Tin Drum won the Nobel Literature Prize.ANSWER: Günter Grass3) Although some call classes in this subject "rocks for jocks", the study of the earth and its minerals, known as this, is complex.ANSWER: Geology4) He sacrificed an eye to gain wisdom from Mimir, fought with his spear Gungnir, and rode atop his 8-footed horse Sleipner while leading the Norse pantheon.ANSWER: Odin5) Madonna of the Goldfinch and School of Athens are some of the more popular works by this Italian Renaissance painter.ANSWER: Raphael Sanzio/Santi6) The easternmost capital on the African continent is this capital of Somalia.ANSWER: MogadishuTeam 2:1) Tomas de Torquemada was the first and most notorious grand inquisitor of this movement sponsored by Ferdinand and Isabella.ANSWER: Spanish Inquisition2) In 1991 this female South African author of My Son's Story, July's People and The Conservationist won the Nobel Literature Prize.ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer3) Literally "the study of life" is this science, where students learn about organisms and their life processes.ANSWER: Biology4) Following the fall of Saturn and the Titans, this lightning god became head of the Roman pantheon.ANSWER: Jupiter (do not accept or prompt on Zeus)5) Nine scenes from the book of Genesis, including the Creation of Adam, are a part of this Michelangelo masterpiece.ANSWER: Ceiling of the Sistine Chapel6) The westernmost capital on the African continent is this capital of Senegal.ANSWER: DakarCategory Round: Are You Nyctophobic? Given a technical name for a fear, name the object of it. ±10, no bounce backs1) While it's not the fear of dinosaurs, brontophobia is fear of this.ANSWER: Thunder2) Derived from the Greek marketplace, agoraphobia is fear of these.ANSWER: Open spaces/Public places (either one, or something similar)3) The Know-Nothing party was likely made up of xenophobes, people afraid of these.ANSWER: Strangers/Foreigners4) Peter the Great was a noted pogonophobe, however he sported a mustache.ANSWER: Beards (accept facial hair)5) It is unlikely that genophobia is inherited, as people with it are afraid of this.ANSWER: Sex (accept similar answers)6) Thanks to an early 1990s movie with John Goodman, most people know that arachnophobia is fear of these.ANSWER: Spiders7) According to a Ben Franklin adage, thanatophobes will certainly face their fear of this.ANSWER: Death8) Storm, from the X-Men, could tell you that claustrophobia is the fear of this.ANSWER: Closed spaces/Confinement9) Acrophobia is the fear of this.ANSWER: Heights10) If anybody smells particularly bad today, it might be because they have aquaphobia, fear of this.ANSWER: WaterTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1:1) The god of light, goodness and the sky in Egypt, this hawk-headed deity was the son of Osiris.ANSWER: Horus2) "If you think you can or think you can't you're probably right."  So noted this early automobile manufacturer and early pioneer of the assembly line.ANSWER: Henry Ford3) Identify the John Keats poem from which the following lines are taken: "Beauty is truth/Truth beauty/That is all ye know on earth/and all ye need to know."ANSWER: Ode on a Grecian Urn4) Little Timmy had a drink, but now he drinks no more, for what he thought was H2O was H2SO4, also know as this, a sharp contrast to water.ANSWER: Sulfuric Acid5) The Yucatan Peninsula was the home of this advanced Native American culture that thrived from 300 to 1521CE.ANSWER: Mayan civilization6) Auguste Rodin's the Gates of Hell was inspired by this first section of Dante's Divine Comedy.ANSWER: The Inferno7) The Constitution forbids enactment of these types of laws, which are written and passed after the incident in question occurs.ANSWER: Ex post facto laws8) Rufus, Brint and Meekus meet their untimely demise in a freak gasoline fight accident in this 2001 comedy starring Ben Stiller as the titular "really really ridiculously good-looking" male model.ANSWER: ZoolanderTeam 2:1) The twin of Apollo, this Greek goddess was in charge of childbirth, nature and the hunt.ANSWER: Artemis2) "Instead of the question 'What must I do for my employer?' substitute 'What can I do?'.  These words are attributed to this Scottish-born American steel magnate.ANSWER: Andrew Carnegie3) "Some say the world will end in fire,/some say in ice", answer this question correctly and name the poet of "Fire and Ice".ANSWER: Robert Frost4) NaHCO3, sodium bicarbonate, is also known as this common baking ingredient also used to keep refrigerators smelling fresh.ANSWER: Baking Soda5) Great Empire of the western Sudan in the 9th century, specializing in salt and gold, which included Mauritania and Mali, but not the area of the country that shares its name.ANSWER: Kingdom of Ghana6) This American sculptor's works include equestrian statues of General Grant and General Washington as well as the over-sized marble statue of Abraham Lincoln in the Lincoln memorial.ANSWER: Daniel Chester French7) Pleading "nolo contendere" to criminal charges is called pleading this; while not an admission of guilt, it prevents subsequent civil lawsuits from using it as an admission of fault.ANSWER: No contest8) Alex Winter and Keanu Reeves star in this 1989 flick about two high school slackers who end up being messiahs following time travels and encounters with Napoleon, Socrates, and Genghis Khan, among others.ANSWER: Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure Grab Bag Round± 20, no bounce backs1) This British theoretical physicist's main field of work is singularities, however he has also made complex ideas available to the public through works like A Brief History of Time, although many people simply know him as a smart guy with ALS in a wheelchair.ANSWER: Stephen Hawking2) The Kirgiz Steppe, Caspian Depression, and Aral Sea, which it shares with Uzbekistan, are some of its defining geographical features. This large former Soviet Socialist Republic also borders China, Russia and Kyrgyzstan, and now has its capital at Astana.ANSWER: Kazakhstan3) One of the most important French composers of the early 20th century, he contributed such works as Piano Concerto in D, for the left hand, Gaspard de la nuit and Bolero.ANSWER: Maurice Ravel4) Nebuchadnezzer II conquered Jerusalem in 586BCE and then deported the Jews to the namesake city until King Cyrus of Persia released them 48 years later.  Identify the historical term also applied to the residence of popes in Avignon from 1309-1377.ANSWER: Babylonian Captivity (accept "Babylonian Exile")5) Its sister projects include a dictionary, a quote collection and textbooks.  It has articles available in dozens of languages, and in a few short years it has become the largest encyclopedia ever compiled.  Identify this online "open source" encyclopedia where anyone can contribute an article about anything.ANSWER: Wikipedia6) Raising the temperature of a gas will cause it to expand so long as the pressure remains constant, so says this gas law, mathematically expressed as V = kT.ANSWER: Charles' Law7) She suffered from mental illness throughout her life and ended it by drowning herself in the Ouse River near her home in Rodmell, England in 1941, but not before she influenced many with her stream-of-consciousness style of writing in such works as To the Light House, A Room of One's Own and Mrs. Dalloway.ANSWER: Virginia Woolf8) Alfred Adler came up with this psychological concept, which replaced Freud's emphasis on one's actions being based on sexual drives with feelings of inadequacy compared to others.ANSWER: Inferiority complex9) Constantly at odds with the restrictions imposed by life in any given society, he experimented in his writings with almost every aspect of grammar, syntax, and diction, as exemplified in his poems, "anyone lived in a pretty how town" and "am was"; he also wrote The Enormous RoomANSWER: E.E. Cummings10) Aerobic respiration, including the citric acid cycle, is the primary function of this structure, providing ATP and energy for cellular functions.  Name this organelle, known as the powerhouse of the cell.ANSWER: Mitochondrion (accept mitochondria)11) Often in crossword puzzles, this style, popular in the 1920s and 30s, characterized by sleek, streamlined forms, geometric patterns, and experimentation with industrial materials was typically used for interior décor and buildings; examples include the Daily News, Chrysler and Empire State buildings.ANSWER: Art Deco12) A city and seaport in northwestern Turkey, it was captured by the Ottomans in the mid-14th century, but its more famous military history involves the military campaign there during World War I involving French, British, New Zealand and Australian troops, including Mel Gibson in a 1981 movie based on it.ANSWER: Gallipoli13) Fawkes, Professor Dumbledore's pet in the Harry Potter series, is an example of this mythological being, which allegedly lived in Arabia and burst into flames every 500 years to spring anew from the ashes.ANSWER: Phoenix14) Legislation on March 12, April 10 and June 19 1862 were precursors to this document, the last of which defied the Dred Scott decision.  On September 22, a preliminary announcement foretold of its arrival 100 days later.  January 1, 1863 was that date, when this presidential declaration was announced and took effect, freeing slaves in rebel states.ANSWER: Emancipation Proclamation15) Located at about 7°S and 14°W is this island dependency of the United Kingdom, whose extreme remoteness in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean made it the ideal place of exile for Napoleon after Elba proved insufficient.ANSWER: St. Helena16) The Schwarzschild radius around a black hole marks this, past which light can enter but not escape.  It also titles a work by Stephen McDonald made into a movie starring Lawrence Fishburne and Sam Neil.  Identify this border region that could also be called and occurrence where the land meets the sky.ANSWER: Event horizon17) This was Anton Chekov's last play.  It centers on the story of Lyubov Ranevskaya and the people around her upon her return to the family estate, which needs to be sold to pay her debts.  Her favorite memories are of the titular locale, which will be cut down to for the land to build summer homes for the new Russian middle class.ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard