Championship Match written by CWRU7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "V":All answers will begin with the letter V.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Sanskrit for "knowledge", these are the most ancient and sacred works in Hinduism.ANSWER: Vedas2) "Come On Let's Go", "Donna", and "La Bamba" were a few of the hits this rock and roller had in his short career before it ended in a plane crash with Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper.ANSWER: Ritchie Valens (Richard Valenzuela)3) Until 1971, this minimum was left up to individual states, and most had it set at 21 with a few at 18 until the 26th Amendment established it uniformly.ANSWER: Voting age4) "Wrestling is ballet with violence."  So noted this man, an actor in "Predator" who won on the Reform Party ticket in 1998 and was elected governor of Minnesota.ANSWER: Jesse Ventura5) Southern Alaskan city, terminus of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline and namesake of an oil tanker that ran aground in the Prince William Sound in 1989. ANSWER: Valdez (accept Exxon Valdez)6) On April 12, 1961, Yuri Gagarin became the first man in outer space while aboard this spaceship.ANSWER: Vostok I7) From the Latin for "popular edition", the Council of Trent declared that this version was the "authentic" Bible.ANSWER: Vulgate Bible (accept vulgata editio)8) A chemical number representing the capacity of a single atom or radical to combine with others; it is an expression of the number of electrons that an atom can give or accept.ANSWER: Valence9) Approximately 26 light-years from Earth, this is the first-magnitude star of Lyra.ANSWER: Vega10) Italian-born movie star of such 1920s films as Camille¸ Blood and Sand, Monsieur Beaucaire and The Sheik.ANSWER: Rudolph ValentinoUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 1:1. William Kemmler has a footnote in history because he was the first prisoner to die by this execution method, in which 2000 volts are passed through the body.ANSWER: electric chair (accept equivalents)2. "He lives, he wakes - 'tis Death is dead, not he," comes from "Adonais", a work by this Romantic poet who also wrote "Ozymandias."ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley3. This paleontologist, evolutionary biologist and historian of science was the most influential and widely-read writer of research-based popular science.  With Niles Eldredge he proposed the theory of punctuated equilibrium.ANSWER: Stephen Jay Gould4.This was a legendary serpent or dragon that could petrify people with a glance, one was featured in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.ANSWER: basilisk (accept "cockatrice")5. At $100 million, it is the most valuable object ever insured.  Identify this Leonardo Da Vinci work featuring a female figure with a notorious smile.ANSWER: Mona Lisa (accept "Gioconda" or "Joconde") 6. This volcanic island in French Polynesia is located 260 kilometers northwest of Tahiti and Vaitape is its main settlement.ANSWER: Bora BoraTeam 2:1. "Let them eat cake."  These were allegedly the words uttered by Marie Antoinette before having her head lopped off by this device popular during the French Revolution.ANSWER: Guillotine2. "He makes a solitude and calls it - peace" comes from "The Bride of Abydos," a poem by what Romantic poet who also wrote "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage"?ANSWER: Lord Byron  (accept "George Gordon")3. German physician Franz Joseph Hall developed this pseudoscience that claimed to be able to determine character and personality traits, as well as intelligence, based on the shape of one's head.ANSWER: Phrenology4. In Arabian mythology, this bird was so enormous that it could carry elephants back to its nest and devour them.ANSWER: Roc5. One theory about this Da Vinci painting is that the figure to the left of Jesus is actually Mary Magdalene and not John, which means that one apostle is missing at the feast.ANSWER: The Last Supper (accept "Il Cenacolo" or "La Ultima Cena")6. Home of Nagasaki, Hiroshima and Tokyo, this is the largest of Japan's islands.ANSWER: HonshuCategory Round: My Favorite Octogenarian People who did notable things in their eighties and beyond. ±10, no bounce backs1) At age 86, copulation with Hagar resulted in his first son, Ishmael.ANSWER: Abraham2) He published a collection of The Atlantic Monthly essays at 80 in 1889, well after "The Chambered Nautilus" and "Old Ironsides".ANSWER: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.3) In 1974, this 82 year-old ruler was deposed after 58 years of rule in Ethiopia.ANSWER: Haile Selassie4) In 1940, at 84, the German invasion of France prompted the recalling of this hero of Verdun to active duty to serve as an advisor.ANSWER: Henri Philippe Pétain5) Although he did not join the communist party until he was 93, this political activist had run and lost the presidential election 5 times on the Socialist ticket.ANSWER: Eugene Debbs6) This former president celebrated his 80th birthday by going skydiving in 2004.ANSWER: George H.W. Bush (or "the elder")7) He sculpted Head of a Woman for the city of Chicago at 86 in 1967, 30 years after Guernica.ANSWER: Pablo Picasso8) Although he started in his 70s, this man continued to be president of Kenya until his death in 1978 at 84.ANSWER: Jomo Kenyatta9) This son of Enoch and grandfather of Noah died in the flood at 969 years old.ANSWER: Methuselah10) He was elected to the Senate for his 6th full term at 82, 7th term at 88, and 8th term at 94.ANSWER: Strom ThurmondTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct Team 11. This woman was the daughter of King Minos of Crete. She helped Theseus kill the Minotaur and escape from the labyrinth; in return for her troubles, she was by dumped by Theseus on the isle of Naxos, where Dionysus took her in.ANSWER: Ariadne2. Until George W. Bush became president in 2000, he was the only son of a President to become PresidentANSWER: John Quincy Adams3. Although this precocious 19th century French poet gave up writing before he had even turned 20, he is credited as being one of the creators of free verse and revolutionizing the way poetry was written. His works include Sonnet of the Vowels, A Season in Hell, and A Sleeper in the Valley.ANSWER: Arthur Rimbaud4. This organic chemistry functional group is a derivative of carboxyloic acid. It contains a carbon attached to two oxygens, formula R-COOR'.ANSWER: ester5. In this January 1972 incident, a civil rights march against the internment of Irishmen in British occupied Northern Ireland went awry. What is the name given to day on which twenty-seven of the marchers were killed by British soldiers in Derry, Northern Ireland?ANSWER: Bloody Sunday 6. This 16th century French school of Mannerist painting is noted for its exuberant ornamental and figurative style and use of a combination of stucco relief and painting. It is named for the palace of King François I where it originated.ANSWER: Fontainebleau School7. Name the concept that refers to the set of distinctive spiritual, material, intellectual, and emotional features of society or a social group.  The band that was a club of it featured Boy George and hit it big with "Do You Really Want To Hurt Me?".ANSWER: culture8. One of the 4 "pop queens", she will probably be remembered for getting married to her childhood friend for 55 hours in addition to songs like "Toxic" and "Hit Me Baby One More Time."ANSWER: Britney SpearsTeam 2:1. This clever man designed the labyrinth that contained the Minotaur that Theseus had to navigate while on Crete.ANSWER: Daedalus2. He was an avid Federalist until he became president, member of the continental congress and has been called the "master builder of the constitution." Name this man who served both as Secretary of State to Jefferson and as President after him.ANSWER: James Madison3. This 19th century French poet led a fairly tumultuous life, including an affair with the young Arthur Rimbaud, and is hailed as the leader of the Symbolist movement in poetry. The best known of his poems is Song of Autumn (Chanson d'automne), which was used as a code message for the Allies during WWII.ANSWER: Paul Verlaine4. This organic chemistry functional group is a type of carbonyl group. It contains a carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, formula RCHOANSWER: aldehyde5. In this 1916 Irish rebellion members of the Irish Citizen Army, led by Patrick Pearse, took control of the Dublin Post Office before being quelled by the British, as well as having most of its leaders put to death. Name the insurrection that happened on a Christian holiday.ANSWER: Easter Uprising (accept "Easter Rising")6. This school of art developed in the 15th century and revolved around light and color, as well as a distinctive style of smooth brushwork. Some of its members include El Greco and Titian.ANSWER: Venetian School7. Hippies are often used as an example of this kind of dissenting group within a culture. It is defined as having a set of values and lifestyles that are in opposition to the established culture.  Other examples include punks and beatniks.ANSWER: counterculture8. The youngest of the 4 current "Pop Queens", this star of Chasing Liberty won an MTV Movie Award in June 2002 for her role in A Walk to Remember.ANSWER: Mandy Moore Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1. He was one of the most well known of the naïve artists, or artists who have not received formal training.  Nicknamed 'le douanier,' or customs officer, name the painter who painted "The Dream" and "The Sleeping Gypsy" who shares his last name with another famous Frenchman.ANSWER: Henri Rousseau2. A businessman and politician, he comes from a political family, as his father served in the Canadian House of Commons for 33 years.  Sworn in December 12, 2003, as the 21st man to hold the position, name the current Prime Minister of Canada.ANSWER: Paul Martin3. This spiritual leader of the Buddhist faith used to live in the Potala Palace in Lhasa, Tibet before he was forced to flee to Dharmasala, India when the Chinese seized direct control of Tibet.  Name this holy man.ANSWER: Dalai Lama (accept "Tenzin Gyatso")4. This famous work of literature is still read by millions across the globe, not so much for its literary value as for its pragmatic and wise advice. In an episode of "Family Guy," Stewie is scolded for reading it.  This book by Sun Tzu documents how armies should fight and gather information.ANSWER: The Art of War5. The volume of a given mass of gas is inversely proportional to its pressure at constant temperature, according to what law of chemistry named after the Scottish scientist who discovered it?ANSWER:  Boyle's Law6. He became a member of the "Sons of Ben," a group of Cavalier poets that admired the works of Ben Johnson.  As the Vicar of Devon he was able to write some of his best work including the poem that tells young ladies to "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may" in "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time."ANSWER: Robert Herrick7. The outside parts of a spinning object have to move much faster than inside parts near the axis.  The more of this quantity an object has, the less it responds to being spun.  Name this physical quantity that is defined as a resistance to change of rotation.ANSWER: rotational inertia8. In the 1970s, the United States began easing relations with the People's Republic of China, while still maintaining relations with Taiwan.  Name the American president who famously went to China to enter into dialogue with the Chinese before asserting to his fellow Americans that he was "not a crook".ANSWER: Richard Nixon9. At the age of 76, this author has published The Last Don, a continuation of the saga of the Corleone family.  Name this author of The Godfather. ANSWER: Mario Puzo10. It's not so rare a condition in this day and age to see re-runs of what sitcom, which got its start as a spin-off from "Perfect Strangers", that stars Reginald VelJohnson as Carl Winslow and Jaleel White as Stephen Q. Urkel?ANSWER: Family Matters11. The culture of this group was influenced by Plains Indians living east of the Rocky Mountains.  Two failed treaties with the U.S. government led to a war in 1877 between 5000 U.S. troops and a band of 250 warriors of what people lead by Chief Joseph who were given a name by the French meaning "pierced nose".ANSWER: the Nez Percé Indians12. Name this man who, during his four terms as a liberal Prime Minister of Great Britain in the second half of the 19th century, was responsible for the first state aid to elementary schools, introducing the secret ballot and Irish reforms that included two failed Home Rule Acts.ANSWER:  William Ewart Gladstone13. This archipelago, composed of seven principle islands about 60 miles from the northwest coast of Africa, forms an autonomous community of Spain.  What is this island group whose name is derived from the Latin for "dog" contrary to what one might think?ANSWER: Canary Islands14. Using positive or negative reinforcement and punishment to either enhance or remove various stimuli, a subject undergoing this process learns to associate behaviors and consequences.  Name this method of associative learning developed by the American psychologist B. F. Skinner.ANSWER:  Operant conditioning (prompt on "conditioning")15. This river runs through the 4th circle of Dante's Inferno and fully submerges the Sullen.  Name this river ferried by Charon in which Achilles was dipped to give him invulnerability--the river that serves as the entrance to Hades in Greek mythology.ANSWER:  Styx16.  As interesting as the circle is in mathematics, one of the only places where it occurs in biology is in what highly specialized whip-like organelle that joins the body of a euglena and acts as a propeller for many microscopic species.ANSWER:  Flagellum (accept "flagella")17. This Swiss born member of expressionist Der Blaue Reiter group produced paintings that often included numbers and letters, and is characterized by thick, crayon-like lines.  Name this artist, who created "Twittering Machine" and "Death and Fire."ANSWER: Paul Klee