Round 9 written by CWRU7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "R":All answers will begin with the letter R.  ±10, no bounce backs1) R&B singer of the Miracles who wrote such hits for others such as "Ain't That Peculiar", "My Guy" and "My Girl".ANSWER: William "Smokey" Robinson2) Prior to Carly Patterson's performance at Athens, she was the only US female gymnast to win the all-around Olympic gold medal in gymnastics.ANSWER: Mary Lou Retton3) Armed conflict between 1904-1905 ended by the Treaty of Portsmouth.ANSWER: Russo-Japanese War4) The first native-born Israeli prime minister, he won the 1994 Nobel Peace Prize and was assassinated a year later.ANSWER: Yitzhak Rabin5) "Cops" was an early show in this genre, which now includes "The Real World", "Big Brother" and "Survivor".ANSWER: Reality shows/TV6) Controversial 1973 Supreme Court case in which it was ruled a woman has the constitutional right to an abortion during the first 6 months of pregnancy.ANSWER: Roe v. Wade7) In the Egyptian pantheon, he was the sun god with a human body and head of a hawk.ANSWER: Ra (accept Re)8) Unit of measure equal to 5.5 yards, 40 of them is equal to a furlong.ANSWER: Rod9) Acronym short for Radio Detection And Ranging.ANSWER: Radar10) A square is a special type of this polygon, with equal bisecting diagonals, four sides, and 90º corners.ANSWER: RectangleUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 1:1. 1989 saw this long-time Emperor of Japan die after leading the country through World War II and since 1926.ANSWER: Hirohito2. The protagonist, Dorothea Brooke, is stuck in a loveless marriage but eventually finds happiness with the free-spirited Will Ladislaw in this George Elliot novel, a portrait of a fictional English town.ANSWER: Middlemarch3. In the visible spectrum of light, this color has the shortest wavelength and highest energy.ANSWER: Violet (accept "Purple")4. This gum resin containing volatile oils diffuses a strong fragrance in burning.  The Oriental kind is known as olibanum, is yellow in color, is used for embalming and incense and was allegedly one of the three gifts of the Magi.ANSWER: frankincense5. Ma Vlast and The Bartered Bride are both works by this founder of the Czech national school?ANSWER: Bedrich Smetana 6. This city is the capital of Northern Ireland.ANSWER: BelfastTeam 2:1. In 1989, this Prince became emperor of Japan after the death of his father, Hirohito.ANSWER: Akihito 2. William Sydney Porter was the real name of this author of short stories like "The Gift of the Magi" and "The Ransom of Red Chief."ANSWER: O. Henry3. Although black holes do not allow light to escape, they do emit this type of radiation, more often used to examine bones.ANSWER: X-rays4. This reddish-brown aromatic gum resin with a bitter slightly pungent taste that was allegedly given to Jesus Christ at his birth; today the gum resin is used as an antiseptic in mouth washes and dentifrices.ANSWER: myrrh5. This 20th-century composer of The Medium also wrote the first opera for television, Amahl and the Night Visitors.ANSWER: Gian-Carlo Menotti6. This city is the capital of Scotland.ANSWER: EdinburghCategory Round: The French Connection All answers are about something "French". ±10, no bounce backs1) This is the national anthem of France.ANSWER: La Marseilles2) The French equivalent of Independence Day, it is celebrated July 14.ANSWER: Bastille Day3) Known in Europe as the Seven Years War, it lasted from 1754-1763.ANSWER: French and Indian War4) The Jura Mountains are a northwestern outlier of the French branch of this range.ANSWER: Alps5) Before adopting the Euro, this was the basic monetary unit of currency for France.ANSWER: Franc6) The titular characters of this novel are Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.ANSWER: The Three Musketeers7) 1971's The French Connection starred this man as Jimmy "Popeye" Doyle.ANSWER: Gene Hackman8) In 1642, this Frenchman invented the adding machine.ANSWER: Blaise Pascal9) Brothers Joseph and Jacques Montgolfier pioneered this form of travel.ANSWER: Hot-air balloon10) In 1819, René-Théophile-Hyacinthe Laënnec invented this medical device used by doctors to listen to ones heart and lungs.ANSWER: StethoscopeTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1:1. The trickster in Norse Mythology, he was bound by the gods until Ragnarok for his misdeeds.Answer: Loki2. This 1862 Civil War battle in Maryland between McClellan and Lee was the bloodiest day in American History.ANSWER: Antietam (accept "Sharpsburg")3. Paris during the French revolution creates problems for Charles Darnay and Dr. Manette in this Dickens work.ANSWER: A Tale of Two Cities4. Denoted by a lowercase m with a small e, what is this physical constant involving an electron, which is 1,836 times less than the corresponding aspect of a proton?ANSWER: the electron's mass5. This civilization, founded in 1325 on islands in Lake Texcoco, thrived untilthe early 16th century, conquered by Hernan Cortes.ANSWER: Aztec6. "De-Lovely" was a 2004 movie starring Kevin Kline as this American songwriter, whose works include "Anything Goes" and "Kiss Me, Kate."ANSWER: Cole Porter7. "Neurosis seems to be a human privilege." This remark was made by what early 20th century psychoanalyst famous for his The Interpretation of Dreams?ANSWER: Sigmund Freud8. This Australian swimmer has won the most gold medals out of any Australian, including golds in the 200- and 400-meter freestyle in Athens in 2004.ANSWER: Ian ThorpeTeam 2: 1. This Norse god of thunder wields the magical hammer Mjolnir.ANSWER: Thor2. In July 1863 Ulysses Grant finally overtook this sieged city, a vital Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi.ANSWER: Vicksburg3. Pip suddenly becomes a gentleman of fortune and pursues unrequited love forEstella in this novel by Charles Dickens.ANSWER: Great Expectations4. The letter c represents this constant, a velocity that relates energy to mass.  It is approximately 3x108 meters per second.ANSWER: speed of light 5. They thrived from 1200 until 1535 and were ended by the conquistador Francisco Pizarro, this civilization had its capital at Cuzco.ANSWER: Inca6. One of Rex Harrison's signature roles was Henry Higgins in this Lerner and Loewe musical based on George Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion.ANSWER: My Fair Lady7. Carl Jung espoused that this existed, which would explain why many archetypes and symbols appear to have to same meaning and appear to many groups of people.ANSWER: collective unconsciousness8. Having won over 90 straight matches Misty May and Kerri Walsh won AthensOlympic gold for America in this sport, great for spectators who may not be watching the game itself.ANSWER: Beach Volleyball Grab Bag Round± 20, no bounce backs1. He went to Harvard at age 17, and then went to study conducting at the Curtis Institute of Music. Who was this former director of the New York Philharmonic and composer of such works as On the Waterfront, Trouble in Tahiti, and West Side Story?ANSWER: Leonard Bernstein2. Perhaps the most famous type of this is when plants grow toward a particular direction due to stimuli such as light, touch and temperature.  Name this biological phenomenon where an organism reacts to either a positive or negative stimulus.ANSWER: tropism (accept with "thermo", "photo" or "thigmo" prefixes)3. A journeyman gets robbed and injured by robbers.  Even though he is dying in the road, two people pass him by without stopping to help him.  Name this parable by Jesus Christ or the third person that passes the injured man and helps him up; also what Boy Scouts try to be.ANSWER: The Good Samaritan4. Known as the "Father of the Republic" (guo fu), he established the Chinese Republic in 1912 after the collapse of the Qin dynasty.  Name this Chinese revolutionary, founder of the Kuomintang party.ANSWER: Sun Yat-sen (accept "Sun Zhong-san" or "Sun Yi-xian")5. Belle Watling is the manager of an Atlanta brothel.  Charles Hamilton appears in the beginning chapters, but then is killed during the Civil War.  Frank Kennedy owns a store in Atlanta after the war ends.  These characters are in what 1937 epic novel of Southern life by Margaret Mitchell?ANSWER:  Gone With the Wind6. What country is bounded by Germany, Liechtenstein, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, and Italy and has its capital at Vienna?ANSWER: Austria7. The dark and overcast skyline is broken by a small crucifix carried on a pole, under which a group of village people are witnessing the title event while clustered around a hole in the ground at the bottom of the frame.  Name this work, created in 1850 by French realist painter Gustave Courbet.ANSWER: "Burial at Ornans"  (original French: "L'enterrement à Ornans")8. This character's nemeses would usually get away with their crimes if there weren't one minor detail that they had forgotten to take care of.  With the charge of only a quarter, any case is solved in what series of books where the main character's nickname comes from the book that he seems to have memorized?ANSWER: Encyclopedia Brown9. The Chinese were the first to develop this mixture of saltpeter, charcoal, and sulfur, but they used it primarily for fireworks. Europeans, however, saw the value in it, and began using to make powerful weapons.ANSWER: Gunpowder10. Kids in America.  Boys.  Butterfly.  Paranoia.  Brilliant 2U.  Tsugaru.  Strictly Business.  Boom Boom Dollar.  These songs all part of what Konami game that you play with your feet?ANSWER: Dance Dance Revolution (prompt on "DDR") 11. The Nazi's wanted to ensure that they wouldn't have to fight a war on two separate fronts.  However, the ink wasn't even dry on the agreement before Hitler broke his part of the bargain.  What is this pact that ensured that Russia and Germany would not go to war with each other?ANSWER: The Nazi-Soviet Non-aggression pact (also "Molotov-Ribbentrop")12. The patron god of ancient Thebes, this Greek god was the son of Zeus and Semele, and was oft spotted at parties, enjoying the food and booze. Name this Greek god of grapes, wine and revelry.ANSWER: Dionysus (do not accept or prompt on "Bacchus")13. This is title of the Indian government's chief legal advisor, and its primary lawyer in the Supreme Court of India.  It shares its name with a US governmental position currently held by John Ashcroft.ANSWER: Attorney General14. The intrigue begins with the murder of Bartholomew Sholto and the theft of his Indian treasure.  Mary Morstan will gain half a million pounds if the treasure can be regained, a task at which Dr. Watson and Sherlock Holmes fail in this novel, in which Mary becomes Watson's wife.ANSWER:  The Sign of Four15. The Sunken Road, The Peach Orchard, The Hornet's Nest, and Bloody Pond. These are all sites on which Civil War Battlefield, where Grant defeated Confederate General Albert Sidney Johnston in a two day battle on April 6 and 7, 1862?ANSWER: Shiloh (or "Pittsburgh Landing")16. The refresh rate for a computer is measured in this physical unit.  However, you will probably remember it more as the unit of frequency with units of cycles per second.  Name this unit with a periodic interval of one second.ANSWER: hertz17. What is the name of the model that states that behavior is the result of the combination of both environmental factors and genetic factors, commonly referred to as "nature and nurture?"ANSWER: diathesis-stress model (accept "nature-nurture" before given)