Sweet 16 written by Casey and Noah7 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "W":All answers will begin with the letter W.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Term used to describe the German state that lasted from 1919 until the Nazis took over in 1933.ANSWER: Weimar Republic (vie-mar)2) Life in the Woods was the subtitle of this Thoreau work about his experience on the pond of the same name.ANSWER: Walden3) The only confederate officer hanged for his actions in the Civil War, he was the superintendent of Andersonville.ANSWER: Major Henry Wirz4) Polished shell beads traditionally used as currency and sign of rank by Native Americans.ANSWER: Wampum5) American painter from Iowa whose most famous work is American Gothic.ANSWER: Grant Wood6) Texas city where the Branch Davidians held a 51-day stand-off with law enforcement in 1993.ANSWER: Waco7) Longtime drummer for the E Street Band, most teens know him today for being the leader of the house band on "Late Night With Conan O'Brien".ANSWER: Max Weinberg8) Rap collective of great influence in the 1990s whose members include Method Man and Ol' Dirty Bastard.ANSWER: Wu-Tang Clan9) British Statesman commonly regarded as Great Britain's first prime minister.ANSWER: Robert Walpole10) Person who is transformed into a lycanthrope usually due to a full moon.ANSWER: WerewolfUntimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties Team 1:1) This Portuguese navigator was the first to round the Cape of Good Hope, doing so in 1488.ANSWER: Bartolomeu Dias2) This son of Ecgtheow gained fame by slaying Grendel, its mother and a dragon.ANSWER: Beowulf3) It entered orbit around Saturn July 1, 2004. Identify this satellite named after an Italian scientist who studied the rings of Saturn, whose namesake gap is located there.ANSWER: Cassini-Hyugens4) Following Zeus adopting the guise of her husband Amphitryon and their subsequent copulation, Alcmene gave birth to this hero.ANSWER: Heracles (accept "Hercules")5) This Russian goldsmith and jeweler was in the service of many European monarchs, though his most famous works are the eggs he crafted for the tsars.ANSWER: Peter Carl Fabergé6) This British dependency only has a land area of 2.5 square kilometers and is located on the Iberian Peninsula at the entrance of the Mediterranean Sea from the Atlantic Ocean.ANSWER: GibraltarTeam 2:1) In 1513, this Spanish explorer was the first European to see the Pacific Ocean.ANSWER: Vasco Núñez de Balboa2) This Arthurian knight was renowned for his skill as a warrior, as the green knight found out.ANSWER: Sir Gawain3) Currently, it is the farthest manmade object in the solar system; identify this satellite actually launched second despite its name, which originally studied the four outer planets. ANSWER: Voyager I4) Hermes' fornication with Penelope resulted in this satyr's birth, the god of shepherds and flocksANSWER: Pan5) Alessandro di Mariano Filipepi was the real name of this Florentine artist of Birth of Venus and Primavera.ANSWER: Sandro Botticelli6) This archipelago at the southern extremity of South America is co-owned by Argentina and Chile.ANSWER: Tierra del Fuego Category Round: People with Places in Their Names Some of these might be people with places named after them. ±10, no bounce backs1) Before his death in a plane accident in 1997, this country star had hits with "Sunshine on My Shoulders" and "Thank God I'm a Country Boy".ANSWER: John Denver2) African-American actor known for starring roles in Malcolm X and Training Day.ANSWER: Denzel Washington3) British general who defeated Napoleon at Waterloo.ANSWER: Arthur Wellesley, First Duke of Wellington4) American author of Billy Budd and Moby Dick.ANSWER: Herman Melville (Melville is a city in New York, North Carolina and Australia)5) NFL quarterback who in 1982, 1985, 1989 and 1990 led the 49ers to Super Bowl wins.ANSWER: Joe Montana6) This rising star who gained notice with roles in Stand By Me and My Own Private Idaho died of a drug overdose in 1993.ANSWER: River Phoenix7) Abstract painter nicknamed "The Dripper".ANSWER: Jackson Pollock8) During the Crimean War this "lady with the lamp" was a notable nurse.ANSWER: Florence Nightingale9) American pop superstar known for her gospel-based vocals, as well as her cocaine troubles and husband Bobby Brown.ANSWER: Whitney Houston10) Teenage girls everywhere are swooning over this rising star who portrayed Paris in Troy and Legolas in the Lord of the Rings Trilogy.ANSWER: Orlando BloomTimed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.Team 1:1) Mummification was important in ancient Egypt because although the body was dead, this soul-like counterpart to it required a host.ANSWER: Ka2) The only Constitutional Amendment to be ratified by special state conventions was this one, ratified December 5, 1933, repealing an earlier Amendment.ANSWER: 21st Amendment3) One of the greatest short-story writers of all time, this Frenchman's works include "Boule de suif" and "The Necklace".ANSWER: Guy de Maupassant4) This English physicist's law of springs states that the elastic objects stretch in proportion to the forces put upon them.ANSWER: Robert Hooke5) This 5th century BCE Greek is generally called the "Father of History"; he wrote about Egypt, Greece, North Africa and the Middle East.ANSWER: Herodotus6) The "First Lady of Song," this jazz singer won 14 Grammy Awards throughout her life and set standards for "The Man I Love" and "How Long Has This Been Going On?".ANSWER: Ella Fitzgerald7) The Galapagos Islands were where this naturalist observed many divergent species and furthered his evolutionary ideas on natural selection.ANSWER: Charles Darwin8) This word play on the genre and a well-known Japanese word names the programming block on Cartoon Network from 7-11pm on Saturdays and includes "Yu Yu Hakusho", "Justice League Unlimited" and "Dragon Ball GT."ANSWER: ToonamiTeam 2:1) The Hindu concept of a soul, the atman, is identified as a part of this, the impersonal principle and first cause of the universe.  It is beyond all material forms and consists of knowledge and bliss; the priestly caste in India derives its name from it.ANSWER: Brahman2) This Amendment to the US Constitution guarantees all citizens the right to reasonable bail and freedom from cruel and unusual punishment.ANSWER: 8th Amendment3) Marie-Henri Beyle used this pseudonym, and is known for writing works like The Charnel-house of Parma and The Red and the Black.ANSWER: Stendhal4) This German mathematician developed infinitesimal calculus independent of Isaac Newton.ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibnitz5) This Greek historian is best known for his History of the Peloponnesian War.ANSWER: Thucydides6) This American saxophonist, combo leader and composer of the bebop and free jazz styles, he hit it big with Giant Steps and played with Miles Davis on Kind of Blue.ANSWER: John Coltrane7) It turns out monkey business was the business of this British ethologist who set up camp in the Gombe Stream Chimpanzee reserve for ten years to observe chimp life.ANSWER: Jane Goodall8) Staples of this late-night Cartoon Network programming block include "Cowboy Bebop", "Trigun", "Futurama", "Family Guy" and "Inuyahsa".ANSWER: Adult Swim Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1.  Occurring in 1890, this was the last battle of the Indian Wars.  The Sioux were vanquished at which site that saw Big Foot get killed by army troops, and is the titular location of Dee Brown's famous book about the Indian Wars. ANSWER:  Wounded Knee2.  He was born in Siberia in 1834, and studied science at St. Petersburg.  Who was this chemist, best known for his organization of 63 elements into a periodic table?ANSWER:  Dmitri Mendeleev3.  "Call the roller of big cigars/The muscular one, and bid him whip/In kitchen cups concupiscent curds..."  So begins this poem by Wallace Stevens, the penultimate line of which is "Let the lamp affix its beam?" ANSWER:  The Emperor of Ice Cream4.  She was the goddess in charge of protecting the city, and so it is fitting that the Parthenon was built as a temple to her.  Who was this goddess of wisdom, from whose name is derived the capital city of Greece?ANSWER:  Athena5.  The conflict you are most likely experiencing right now is between identity and role confusion.  Your coaches are probably conflicted between intimacy and isolation.  Who is the psychologist who defined psychosocial development as a series of 8 conflicts?ANSWER:  Erik Erikson6.  It was rumored that Schumann had this note stuck in his head and went crazy.  What is this note, whose major key has three sharps, F#, C# and G#, and is usually the tuning pitch on electric metronomes?ANSWER:  A7.  The bases are loaded and there is one out.  The batter hits a sky-high popup that the second baseman can get to.  What rule stipulates that the batter is out, even if the second baseman drops the ball?ANSWER:  Infield Fly Rule8.  Governor Orval Faubus used the National Guard to prevent them from entering, but this failed when President Eisenhower sent U.S. troops to guard them.  What was this group of people, the members of which were integrated into an Arkansas high school?ANSWER:  Little Rock Nine9.  Andrew Wiles made mathematical headlines a few years ago by proving that there can never be any n greater than 2 such that a^n + b^n = c^n, the so-called last theorem of this mathematician?ANSWER:  Pierre de Fermat (accept "Fermat's last theorem)10.  Its structure was a mystery following its discovery in 1825.  A chemist named Kekul claimed to dream about a snake eating its own tail, which led him to the idea that it had a ring structure.  What is this compound, used in some plastics and synthetic rubber, with formula C6H6?ANSWER:  Benzene11.  'God is that than which nothing greater can be conceived.'  This is the backbone of what philosophical argument espoused by St. Anselm that seeks to prove God's existence?ANSWER:  Ontological Proof/Argument12.  It was first called "Providence," then "Anne Arundel's Towne," and then received its current name.  What is this city, home to the U.S. Naval Academy and capital of Maryland?ANSWER:  Annapolis13.  Its revival starred Jerry Lewis, and features songs such as Six Months Out of Every Year, Goodbye Old Girl, and the sultry Whatever Lola Wants, Lola Gets.  What is this musical, in which Joe Hardy sells his soul to the devil to play baseball?ANSWER:  Damn Yankees14.  On this Disney Channel show, the mother is a state senator.  What is this show that features Nick Spano as a dimwitted older brother Donnie to Cristy Carlson-Romano and Shia LaBeouf as sibling rivals Ren and Louis?ANSWER:  Even Stevens15.  It began on September 5, 1914, and the French troops in it were commanded by Gen. Michel-Joseph Maunoury.  What was this battle that saved Paris near its namesake river, and was the first major victory for the Allies?ANSWER:  First Battle of the Marne16.  He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1958, even though his only novel was banned in his home country.  Who was this Russian-born author who had to reject the prize to avoid exile, most famous for works like Second Birth, Over the Barriers and Dr. Zhivago?ANSWER:  Boris Pasternak17.  Written in 712 AD during the Nara period, this text praises the Yamato clan and is recognized as the first major literary text in Japanese history.  What is this work? ANSWER:  Kojiki