 Elite Eight written by Kara and Sandeep8 pagesThis round brought to you by the letter "Z":All answers will begin with the letter Z.  ±10, no bounce backs1) Formerly Southern Rhodesia, African nation with capital at Harare.ANSWER: Zimbabwe2) American director of Who Framed Roger Rabbit?, Contactü Back to the Future and Forrest Gump.ANSWER: Robert Zemeckis3) This 202BCE battle saw the Romans defeat Hannibal.ANSWER: Zama4) Temple-tower form and principle religious edifice in Mesopotamia.ANSWER: Ziggurat5) Mostly Native-American group of southern Mexican rebels who launched a coup in 1994.ANSWER: Zapatistas (accept Zapatista National Liberation Army)6) The best-known work in English by Nikos Kazantzakis.ANSWER: Zorba the Greek7) American actress who starred in Chicago and Bridget Jones' Diary.ANSWER: Renee Zellweger8) This city is the capital of Croatia.ANSWER: Zagreb9) Also known as Chan, fusion of Taoism and Mahayana resulted in this branch of Buddhism popular in Japan today.ANSWER: Zen10) The fourth-longest river on the African continent, it forms the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe.ANSWER: Zambezi Untimed Individual Round: 5 seconds per answer, +20, no penalties   Team 11.  He invaded New Mexico in 1916 in response to the US's support of Mexico's new president Carranza; identify this revolutionary sought by Pershing in 1917.ANSWER:  Francisco "Pancho" Villa2.  Important in the transition from Enlightenment to Romanticism, name this German man, perhaps best known as the author of The Sorrows of Young Werther [pronounced Ver-ter] and Faust.ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (pronounced Ger-tuh, kind of)3.  Discovered around 800 C.E. by an Islamic chemist this acid composes, in part, human digestive fluids, and ionizes completely in aqueous solution; name this highly acidic aqueous solution of hydrogen chloride.ANSWER:  Hydrochloric acid (accept "HCl")4.  Name the figure of Greek myth who sacrificed his daughter Iphigenia to gain wind to sail to Troy, and who was murdered upon his return from the Trojan War by his wife Clytemnestra.ANSWER: Agamemnon5.  Identify the Flemish Baroque painter whose works include Portrait of Marie de Medici, and Judgment of Paris; he had a taste for large naked women.ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens6.  This city hosted the 1984 Winter Olympics, and is the largest city in and capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina.ANSWER: Sarajevo Team 21.  His empire stretched from the Black Sea to Central Europe until his death in 453.  His name remains popular in Hungary and Turkey, though it is seen pejoratively in most of western culture, thus the nickname "The Scourge of God."ANSWER: Attila the Hun2.  Born to a French mother and a Romanian father, this playwright is known for Rhinoceros, The Lesson, and The Bald Soprano, and was one of the foremost playwrights of the theater of the absurd.ANSWER: Eugene Ionesco3.  Though the precise value is unknown, this number has been approximated by 6.022 x 1023 per mole of any substance, and was named after an early 19th century scientist with first name Amedeo.ANSWER:  Avogadro's number4.  With the help of Hermes and Athena, this mythological figure was able to get the head of the Gorgon Medusa by looking at a reflection in a special shield.ANSWER: Perseus5.  He studied at the studio of Bellini, however this late Renaissance painter had a famous school of his own, and his own shade of red, and is known a series of portraits of Charles V, and Rape of Europa.ANSWER: Titian6.  It is remarkably flat with over 50% of it below sea level.  Provinces under the sea are known as polders, and it is divided into two sections by the Rhine the Waal, and the Meuse.  Name this nation with its official capital at Amsterdam.ANSWER:  The Netherlands (accept "Holland") Category Round: Alliterative Answers As the category is alliterative answers, the answers given must be alliterative; i.e. just "Daffy" would not be acceptable if the answer is "Daffy Duck". ±10, no bounce backs1) Colorado mountain sighted by Zebulon that bears his name.ANSWER: Pike's Peak2) American poet, author of "Song of Myself" and "Leaves of Grass".ANSWER: Walt Whitman3) Imaginary New England village created Edwin Arlington Robinson.ANSWER: Tilbury Town4) The largest city in and capital of Ethiopia.ANSWER: Addis Ababa5) Irish author of Chamber Music, Dubliners and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.ANSWER: James Joyce6) English author of Captain Singleton, A Journal of the Plague Year, Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe.ANSWER: Daniel Defoe7) David Bowie portrayed this Roman procurator of Judea from 26 to 36, in The Last Temptation of Christ.ANSWER: Pontius Pilate8) African American farmer, self-taught mathematician and astronomer and surveyor of Washington DC.ANSWER: Benjamin Banneker9) Simple game consisting of nine spaces alternatively marked off by X's and O's.ANSWER: Tic-Tac-Toe10) Slogan used by Democrats in the 1844 election regarding their stance on the Northwest Boundary dispute. ANSWER: Fifty-four forty or fight Timed Individual Round: 90 seconds to answer up to 8 questions per team, 5 seconds to answer after each question.  +20, no penalties, +25 for all 8 correct.  Team 11.  Critics claim that it says humans are a "blank slate" rather than products of human nature.  Heidegger, Hegel, Husserl, Simone de Beauvoir, Camus and Sartre were all proponents of this philosophical school.ANSWER: Existentialism 2.  In this 1777 battle, the British forces under Gentleman Johnny Burgoyne lost to colonial troops under the command of Horatio Gates.ANSWER: Saratoga3.  He became Poet Laureate late in life, but his early work is considered his best.  Name this man, best known for his collaboration with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on the collection Lyrical Ballads.  ANSWER:  William Wordsworth4.  A change in this physical quantity is called impulse.  Name this vector quantity, usually symbolized p in classical mechanics, which is the product of mass and velocity.ANSWER: Momentum5.  A peace treaty was signed October 30, 1980, which led to negotiation of the border dispute before the International Court of Justice.  Name this conflict between El Salvador and Honduras, enflamed by a riot at the 1970 World Cup game.ANSWER: The Soccer War or the Futbol War6.  He was born at Bolton, Lancashire and emigrated to the U.S. when he was eighteen, and he was the most prominent painter in America in his day.  Name this man, best known for teaching Frederick Edwin Church, and starting the Hudson River School.ANSWER: Thomas Cole7.  The association of one thing with another that generally occurs with it, the most famous type of this psychological training is associated with Ivan Pavlov and his dogs.ANSWER: Conditioning (accept "conditioned response" or "Classical conditioning")8.  He hails from Laurel, Mississippi and was a standout at the University of Miami, where he guided his team to a win over Nebraska in the Rose Bowl.  Name this player, traded from the Denver Broncos for Champ Bailey, a new star running back for the Washington Redskins.ANSWER: Clinton Portis Team 21.  Identify the philosopher who wrote of Sickness unto Death, who bridged Hegelian philosophy with existentialism, better known for Fear and Trembling and Either/Or.ANSWER: Soren Kierkegaard2.  Name the Revolutionary War battle that took place in South Carolina in which General Morgan and his cavalry led by William Washington wiped out the legion of Benaistre Tarleton.ANSWER: Cowpens3.  Ordained in 1615, his work darkened after the death of his wife two years later.  Name this man, perhaps the greatest of the metaphysical poets, who penned "Valediction Forbidding Morning" and "Death be not proud."ANSWER: John Donne4.  This experiment used a half-silvered mirror to split a beam of light into two beams traveling at right angles to one another.  Name this 1887 experiment, one of the most famous in the history of physics, and the first to produce strong evidence against luminiferous ether.ANSWER: Michelson-Morley Experiment5.  Identify the conflict over the New World, predecessor to the War of Austrian Succession, enflamed by the captain of the ship Rebecca's claim that Spanish guards had cut off a body part in 1731.ANSWER: War of Jenkins' Ear6.  Name the man who gained fame in the 1790's by executing portraits of the most important Americans of the day, including one of George Washington that can still be seen on the one-dollar bill.ANSWER: Gilbert Stuart7.  Famous people who had it include Hans Christian Andersen, Charles Darwin, and Hitler, and it is often associated with obsessive-compulsive disorder and anxiety.  Name this condition, a burden on the medical system, which is the unfounded belief that one is suffering from a serious illness.ANSWER: Hypochondria (or hypochondriasis)8.  He played his first four years with the Ravens, and after he was traded to Kansas City in 2001, he made an impact as a running back and gained a Pro Bowl berth.  Name this stellar Chiefs RB, who broke the record for season touchdowns in the 2003 season.ANSWER: Priest Holmes Grab Bag Round ± 20, no bounce backs1. Together with William Thomson, he discovered that the temperature of a gas falls when it expands without doing any work. He posited the mathematical relationship between heat and mechanical energy, which led to the First Law of Thermodynamics. Identify this English physicist who the SI energy unit is named after.ANSWER: James Prescott Joule2. Oddly enough, Aerosmith and The Red Hot Chili Peppers have performed at this small, dank venue. Despite having a degree in bartending and winning a bartending contest, the owner once openly wondered "Gin and tonic? Do they mix?". Name this Springfield locale, the favorite watering hole of Barney Gumbel and Homer Simpson.ANSWER: Moe's Tavern3. With his wife Rose, he wrote the libertarian treatise Free to Choose that calls for the decriminalization of drugs and prostitution. He is better renowned, however, for arguing that fluctuations in the money supply are responsible for inflation and deflation. Identify this long-time University of Chicago economist and founder of monetarism.ANSWER: Milton Friedman4. Upon publication in 1888, it provoked outrage with its criticism of marriage and led to its author renouncing the novel form. The titular character's love interests are the lusty barmaid Arabella Donn and his intellectual cousin Sue Bridehead. Identify this Thomas Hardy novel about the humble Mr. Fawley.ANSWER: Jude the Obscure5. This is the common name given to the three agreements made in 1929 over an issue that had arisen in 1870 when the kingdom of Italy united and settled what had been deemed "The Roman Question."  Identify this treaty that settled the relationship between Italy and the papal state that made Vatican City a sovereign state.ANSWER: Lateran Treaty6. His first name meaning victory has been especially apt over the past two years. In 2003, he became the first player not named Tiger Woods to win the PGA Tour's money title in seven years. Name this Fijian who won the 2004 PGA championship and recently became the world's number one ranked golfer.ANSWER: Vijay Singh7. Ptolemy theorized epicycles to explain this occurrence but its existence led to the eventual rejection of the geocentric model of the universe. Planets exhibit this behavior while stars do not. Name this phenomenon in which celestial bodies appear to move backwards relative to Earth.ANSWER: Retrograde Motion8.This American dramatist's early plays helped shift the focus from elegant parlor dreams to gritty naturalism.  In 1936 he became the first American dramatist to win the Nobel Literature Prize after he won Pulitzers for Beyond the Horizon, Anna Christie and Strange Interlude, but before earning one for Long Day's Journey Into Night.ANSWER: Eugene O'Neil9. He studied in Cologne under Albertus Magnus who advocated the coexistence of science and religion. He defended the Roman Catholic Church and synthesized Christian doctrine with Aristotelian principles. Name this Scholastic philosopher, the author of Summa Theologica.ANSWER: Saint Thomas Aquinas10. It divides society into a "predatory" class that owns businesses and an "industrious" class that creates wealth. It condemns the "pecuniary" values of the wealthy and coined the term "conspicuous consumption." Name this turn-of-the-century economic treatise written by Thorstein Veblen.ANSWER: Theory of the Leisure Class11. His most famous work was destroyed in the firebombing of Dresden in 1945. A pioneer in the realist style, he honestly depicted the toil and suffering of the working class. Identify this Frenchman who painted Burial at Ornans and The Stonebreakers.ANSWER: Gustav Courbet12. In 1835, he published Paracelsus, a lengthy dramatic poem that earned him entrance into London's literary circles. He settled in Florence in 1846 due to the ill-health of his wife, also a respected literary figure. Name this poet noted for Fra Lippo Lippi and My Last Duchess.ANSWER: Robert Browning13. This doctrine has been used to justify torture when the supposed benefits to society are immensely large. It contends that the only two absolutes in the world are pleasure and pain. Identify this philosophy whose proponents have included Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill.ANSWER: Utilitarianism14. Building on the ideas of countryman Charles Lyell, he rejected catastrophism which held that only major catastrophes could alter the earth's surface. Name this nineteenth century Scottish geologist who developed the theory of uniformitarianism.ANSWER: James Hutton15. The petitioner had been tried and sentenced to prison for circulating a flyer urging resistance to the draft. This 1919 Supreme Court case validated restrictions on freedom of speech during wartime, and in upholding the conviction, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes set out the clear and present danger standard.ANSWER: Schenck v. U.S.16. Color televisions and computer monitors rely on a technique similar to this style to generate images. Dots of primary colors are packed together to create an illusion of secondary colors at a distance. Name this Post-Impressionist artistic movement associated with Georges Seurat.ANSWER: Pointillism17. It was dissolved in 1866 because of the south German states support for Austria in the Seven Weeks War. Established in 1834, it increased the volume of internal trade and helped bring about the unification of Germany. Name this customs union formed between the thirty-eight states of the German confederation.ANSWER: Zollverein