



Michigan MLK Tournament
2004

Round by 


UC-Berkeley

Michigan MLK Tournament 2004

Packet by Berkeley (Eok Ngo, Larissa Kelly, Jeff Hoppes, Seth Teitler, Jerry Vinokurov)

Tossups

1. The majority opinion cited, among others, Griswold v. Connecticut and Eisenstadt v. Baird as decisions establishing and strengthening the right to privacy. It also rejected an earlier court's reasoning that "proscriptions have ancient roots," while in his dissent, Antonin Scalia claimed that the court had taken sides in the "culture war." FTP, identify this recent Supreme Court decision which held that states could not criminalize the private conduct of homosexuals, thereby overturning Bowers v. Hardwick.

Answer: Lawrence v. Texas




2. This man's tomb is a free-standing structure traditionally called the Tomb of the Mother of Solomon, located at Pasargadae. He succeeded to the throne of Anshan in 559 BCE. He left his general Harpagus to complete the conquest of Anatolia after capturing Sardis, and his general Ugbaru supposedly captured Babylon without a battle. FTP name this man who defeated the Medes to found the Achaemenid Persian empire.

Answer: Cyrus the Great 





3. This work discusses the paradigmatic actions of the author's grandson Ernst in his nursery, and compares human instinctual life with the sexual behavior of protozoa. The theory of repetition compulsion is connected with an instinct based on observations of hate and destructiveness. FTP name this work by Freud which introduces the concept of the death instinct, Thanatos, in opposition to the titular concept, called Eros.

Answer: Beyond the Pleasure Principle or Jenseits des Lustprinzips




4. The title discipline comprises, among other things, the moral law, heaven, earth, and method. The author claims to forecast success or failure on the basis of seven criteria, claims that nine types of ground influence the outcome, and counsels that the good commander must know both himself and his enemy. The reader is further advised on being flexible, capturing territory, and strategic and tactical planning, by FTP, what ancient war manual in which every chapter begins, "Sun Tzu said?"

Answer: Art of War



5. The Bell Harry tower was finished in 1498 and was the last element of the rebuilding started by William of Sens in 1175. That was the third cathedral on the site, since in 1067 the one that St. Augustine built burned down. Lambeth Palace in London is the full-time residence of Rowan Williams, the current archbishop in, for 10 points, what cathedral in Kent that houses a shrine where St. Thomas Becket was murdered?

Answer:	Canterbury Cathedral



6. The aggressors in this war won an early victory at Bloody Brook. Despite the loss of Captain Turner's company at Deerfield, Major Talcot, aided by 200 Mohegans, won decisive victories at Hadley and Marlborough, after which the conflict's instigator was apprehended and shot. FTP, identify this 1675-1676 conflict between New England colonies and an alliance of Indian tribes, named for the chief of the Wampanoags.

Answer: King Philip's War or Metacom War


7. Her last name is Cavatica, and one of her daughters takes the name Aranea from her middle initial. Templeton brings her a soap ad with the word "radiant," while a newspaper clipping yields "humble." Together with "terrific" and "some pig," her writing saves her friend, who wins a special prize at the fair. FTP name this friend of Wilbur the pig, the title spider in an E. B. White story.

Answer: Charlotte A. Cavatica




8. The title character is eventually shot by the crippled Peter Doyle, the husband of Fay, with whom the title character becomes involved. Between his involvement with Fay, he makes advances toward Betty, to whom he had proposed months earlier, and the wife of his cruel boss at the New York Post, the editor Shrike. FTP, give the pen name of the title character, a love-starved advice columnist, that gives a  title to this Nathanael West novel.

Answer: Miss Lonelyhearts




9. Australian forces landed at Balikpapan on its east coast in 1945 to seize the island's oil wells from the Japanese. Mount Kinabalu, in the northern state of Sabah, is the highest point. The southern region known as Kalimantan is separated from Celebes by the Strait of Macassar. FTP, most of the world's remaining orangutans are found on what island shared by Malaysia, Brunei, and Indonesia?

Answer: Borneo




10. By applying Bose-Einstein statistics to them, it is possible to derive an expression which approximates the Dulong-Petit law at high temperatures and the T cubed law at low temperatures. In the first Brillouin zone, their allowed frequencies have an optical and an acoustical branch. One method of obtaining their dispersion relation is to inelastically scatter neutrons with energy in the same range as the lattice vibrations of the material. FTP, identify these quasi-particles, the elementary carrier of vibration in solids.

Answer: phonons



11. During his ten-year stint as foreign secretary, he managed to get all the Great Powers to guarantee Belgian independence in the 1831 Treaty of London. His fear of Russia led him to start the First Afghan War and prolong the Crimean War. He was prime minister when the Trent was captured, and he sent troops to Canada as a bluff to get the Confederate ministers released. For 10 points, name this prime minister from 1855 to 1865, beloved by the public for his "you-be-damnedness."

Answer: Henry John Temple, 3rd. Viscount Palmerston




12. Kits for this character class include border runner and bounty hunter, and examples in the Forgotten Realms include Montolio DeBrouchee and Dove Falconhand. Under first edition AD&D rules, they can gain magic-user spells; in the second edition they can gain priest spells. They also gain some thieving abilities with a penalty for attempting them in an urban setting, as well as tracking skills. FTP name this outdoor warrior class which counts Aragorn among its numbers.

Answer: ranger



13. Eugene Bozza composed a 1936 aria for this instrument, which is also featured in Darius Milhaud's Scaramouche. It appears in Ravel's orchestration of Pictures at an Exhibition only for a solo representing a troubadour in The Old Castle. Current performers on this reed instrument include David Sanborn and Joshua Redman. FTP name this instrument played by Cannonball Adderley, Paul Desmond, and Charlie Parker.

Answer: alto saxophone (prompt on "Saxophone")



14. Ruderman and Sutherland invoked a vacuum gap due to ion trapping in the crust of these objects in a polar cap model for their emission process. Some exhibit carousel subbeam systems rotating about the magnetic axis. Ones with millisecond periods are believed to be sped up by accretion from a companion star. Pair production and synchrotron radiation contribute to their radiation patterns, which caused the first one to be named LGM-1. FTP name these spinning neutron stars whose beams periodically sweep Earth.

Answer: pulsars or pulsating radio sources


15. Proverbs 30:27 claims that they "have no king, yet all of them march in rank." In the book of Revelation, they appear "like horses arrayed for battle; on their heads were what looked like crowns of gold; their faces were like human faces." Along with wild honey, they served as food for John the Baptist in the desert near the River Jordan. FTP, name these insect pests, brought as a crop-devouring plague onto Egypt.

Answer: locusts




16. Barry's friend David wants to exterminate the title characters but Ezra Lieberman refuses to hand over the list of names. A clue to the ultimate plan is provided in the form of the nurse who handled the original adoptions through the title country, prompting Lieberman, played by Laurence Olivier, to travel to Pennsylvania and face down Josef Mengele, played by Gregory Peck. FTP, what is this 1978 film about a Nazi plot to clone Hitler and recreate the environment of his youth?

Answer: The Boys From Brazil


17. This dimensionless quantity is given by the ratio of the forward and backward rate constants, multiplied by an appropriate power of the reference concentration. The van't Hoff equation gives its temperature dependence, and the law of mass action expresses it in terms of the activities of products and reactants. The reaction quotient always approaches, FTP, what value which characterizes the final state of a reversible reaction?

Answer: equilibrium constant




18. At its center lies the plain of Idavoll. Its walls were built by Blast or Hrimthurs with the help of the magical stallion Svadilfari. The residents meet regularly in the halls Vingolf and Gladsheim, and at the well of Urd. Located on an upper level of the universe with Alfheim and Vanaheim, it is connected to the mortal realm by the rainbow bridge Bifrost. FTP name this Norse world, home to Valhalla and the Aesir.

Answer: Asgard


19. Portions of it depict the creation of the world and the images of strawberries are ubiquitous inside. The central panel depicts such activities as horseriding and fornication, while the right panel depicts devastation, complete with a hollowed out body and a severed ear. In the left wing, animals lie down together in peace, but the painting is dominated by pleasure and torture. FTP, identify this most famous tryptich of Hieronymus Bosch, thought to depict the state of Man on the eve of the Flood.

Answer: Garden of Earthly Delights or Garden of Delights




20. One character with this name is the common-law wife of Nicholas, the brother of Konstantin Levin in Anna Karenina, while another is the wife of Nicholas Kirsanov in Fathers and Sons. In Chekov plays, one character with this name has an affair with Vershinin and is married to the schoolteacher Kuligin, and another marries the schoolteacher Medvedenko but loves Treplyev. FTP, give the name of the sister of Olga and Irina in Chekov's play Three Sisters.

Answer: Masha or Marya



21. One of its formulators introduced it in the course of trying to show that Hilbert's decision problem is unprovable for the predicate calculus if this statement is assumed to be true. An alternate version was formulated by another man using lambda-definability instead of computability, and his version states that a function of positive integers is effectively calculabe only if it is recursive. FTP, identify this statement which claims that "logical computing machines can do anything that could be described as... purely mechanical."

Answer: Church-Turing thesis




22. It lasted from 1889 to 1914, and its 1900 congress featured a defense of Millerand's joining the French government, given by Jean Juares. August Bebel got the 1904 Amsterdam Congress to condemn Eduard Bernstein for advocating gradualism over revolution. It broke up over the issue of support for the war, as its predecessor had ended in the conflict between Marx and Bakunin. FTP, name this would-be governing body of world Socialism.

Answer:	The Second Socialist International



23. With "mare" it's the nickname given to Henry VIII's fourth wife, Anne of Cleves. It names a medieval county that was controlled by the Burgundians until about 1482, when the Habsburgs took over. The "fields" there are the resting place of Allied soldiers in a poem by John McCrae. FTP, give this historic region of the Low Countries, famous as the surname of the man who donated a princely sum to "Bibles for Belgians."

Answer: Flanders



24. His second play, The Indian Queenâ coauthored with Robert Howard, marked his attempt to found a new genre of "heroic tragedy." After this was viciously mocked by the satirist George Villiers, he turned to comedies such as Marriage a la Mode and histories such as his adaptation of Antony and Cleopatra, All for Love. FTP, name this author of "Absalom and Achitophel," poet laureate of England during the Stuart Restoration.

Answer: John Dryden




25. The "two thousand words" manifesto was published on June 27th, one day after the end of press censorship. Its call for the revival of the Social Democratic Party was too radical for the government, which instead continued with the April "Action Program" for a "unique experiment in democratic communism."  An August invasion by Warsaw Pact troops restored a hardline government, ending Alexander Dubcek's attempt to create "socialism with a human face." FTP, name this failed 1968 movement for a more liberal Czechoslovakia.

Answer: the Prague Spring


26. She seems reasonably affluent from the little we know about her, since she lives in a house with a pool and travels on business. She is also fairly uninhibited, at one point coming out "with just a towel on." This attire is heartily approved of by the narrator, who claims that this single mother of a school-age daughter "has got it going on." FTP name this fantasy object who is the subject of a song on the CD Welcome Interstate Managers, by the band Fountains of Wayne.

Answer: Stacy's Mom


27. This poem tells of "an angel throng" that sits "in a theatre to see/A play of hopes and fears...And much of Madness, and more of Sin,/And Horror the soul of the plot." The actors are "Mimes, in the form of God on high." Then "A blood-red thing" intrudes, "and seraphs sob at vermin fangs/In human gore imbued." FTP name this Poe poem in which the angels "affirm/That the play is the tragedy, 'Man,'/And its hero, the" title creature.

Answer: The Conqueror Worm



28. Born in Hilla, near Karballa, at various times he has served as his country's ambassador to Sweden, Burma, the United Nations, and Italy, before becoming Foreign Minister in 1992. In his more famous role, his pronouncements earned him the nicknames "Comical Ali" and "Baghdad Bob." The deliverer of such now-classic lines as, "The Americans are going to surrender or be burned in their tanks," and "There are no American infidels in Baghdad," FTP, who is this former Iraqi Information Minister?

Answer: Mohammed Said al-Sahaf 
(prompt on "Comical Ali" and "Baghdad Bob" before mentioned)




Bonuses

1. Who needs democracy anyway? Identify these political theorists who wrote about elitism FTPE.

10) This man held in his Mind and Society that political influence lay with a small elite that needed periodic revitalization by talented lower-class persons.

Answer: Vilifredo Pareto

10) His The Power Elite depicted a small number of key people from upper-class backgrounds who more or less run the military, economy and government.

Answer: Charles Wright Mills

10) This Italian theorized in The Ruling Class that elite minorities can, by coming up with religious or moral rationalizations, easily get the masses to cede them power 

Answer: Gaetano Mosca




2. Identify these successors of Genghis Khan, FTPE.

10) Although younger than his brother Jagatai, this son of Genghis Khan became the grand khan after his father's death until dying in 1241.

Answer: Ogadai

10) This grandson of Genghis commanded the Golden Horde and by 1240 ruled both Moscow and Kiev but went no further after going back home in 1242.

Answer: Batu

10) In 1256, this other grandson of Genghis destroyed the Assassins in Persia, and in 1258 he sacked Baghdad and executed the last Abbassid caliph. His western advance was halted by the Mamelukes at the Battle of Ayn Jalut.

Answer: Hulagu




3. Name these Hitchcock films FTPE.

10) Based on a John Buchan novel, this film focuses on Richard Hannay, on the lam after a counterespionage agent is murdered in his flat.

Answer: The 39 Steps

10) Cary Grant plays Johnnie Aysgarth, a man with a strange interest in untraceable poisons. His wife begins to believe he murdered his partner and is planning to kill her.

Answer: Suspicion

10) Richard Blaney goes on the run following the murder of his ex-wife by the Necktie Strangler.

Answer: Frenzy



4. Identify these works of 20th century German literature, FTPE.

10) Along with Cat and Mouse and Dog Years, this book, detaling the adventures of Oscar Matzerath and his most prized possession, completes Gunter Grass's Danzig Trilogy.

Answer: The Tin Drum or Die Blechtrommel

10) The title of this Max Frisch novel refers to both the protagonist's name and his status as a "technological man" who believes he is an advanced being until he unwittingly has an affair with his daughter.

Answer: Homo Faber: A Report or Homo Faber: Ein Bericht

10) This novel of Heinrich Boll shows how the title character's integrity is destroyed by the press when the criminal record of a man she is seeing is revealed.

Answer: The Lost Honor of Katarina Blum or 
Die verlorene Ehre der Katarina Blum



5. Name these Mexican states, FTPE:

10) This southern state is home to the Mayan ruins at Palenque as well as the Zapatista Liberation Army.

Answer: Chiapas

10) With a name meaning "true crossâ" it's where Cortes landed on his arrival in Mexico.

Answer: Veracruz

10) Forming most of the eastern shore of the Gulf of California, this state lends its name to the vast desert that covers most of it.

Answer: Sonora



6. Answer the following on cultural anthropology, FTSNOP.

10) The leaders of this group achieve status through competitive exchange, giving away vast amounts of wealth in the traditional potlatch feasts.

Answer: Kwakiutl

15) Ruth Benedict described the social configuration of the people on this island of Papua New Guinea as paranoid, operating in conjuction with a limited-good approach to life.

Answer: Dobu

5) Benedict compared the Kwakiutl, Dobu Islanders, and Zu–i Indians in this seminal work of cultural relativity.

Answer: Patterns of Culture




7. Questions about recent events in Colombia, FTPE

10) Colombia's armed forces recently captured Simon Trinidad, the most senior leader captured by government forces during their war against this Marxist militant group.

Answer: FARC 
or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Columbia 
or Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia

10) The capture is good news to this man, who won the presidency in the first round of elections in part on a promise to bash FARC.

Answer: Alvaro Uribe Velez (accept "Velez")

10) Although FARC is militarily the most powerful of Colombia's insurgent groups, this other militant group is the biggest kidnapper in Colombia. Despite this, their numbers are on the wane, in part due to their slowness to enter the drug trade.

Answer: ELN or National Liberation Army or Ejercito de Liberacion Nacional





8. Name these theorems in group theory F15PE.

10) Given a group G, there is a set S such that the set of all one to one mappings of S onto itself is isomorphic to G.

Answer: Cayley's Theorem

10) If G is a finite group and H is a subgroup of G, then the order of H divides the order of G.

Answer: Lagrange's Theorem





9. "You know it's a real revolution when they reset the calendar." Name these French Revolutionary months, FTPE.

10) The "reaction" of this month in summer 1794 resulted in the execution of Robespierre.

Answer: Thermidor

10) The coup on the eighteenth of this month in 1799 brought Napoleon to absolute power.

Answer: Brumaire

10) The harsh laws passed on the 22nd of this month announced the height of the Jacobin terror with their assertion that "Every citizen has the right to seize conspirators and counterrevolutionaries."

Answer: Prairial



10. MicroProse produced the best games ever, period. Given the terrible sequel to a great MicroProse game, identify the original product FTPE.

10) The highly disappointing Aftermath is the sixth sequel to this original 1993 game in which you manage a team of soldiers that repels an alien invasion.

Answer: X-COM: UFO Defense

10) Another failed attempt at modernizing the perfect was the second sequel to this 1994 exploration game, in which your goal was to get control of the title star system.

Answer: Master of Orion

10) The third incarnation of this 1990 Sid Meier original has pretty graphics, but any game in which bronze age legions defeat tanks is just stupid. Plus, what happened to gunpowder by 800 B.C.?

Answer: Civilization




11. Name these gods F15PE.

15) This brother of Quetzalcoatl was the Aztec god of lightning, guided the dead to the Mictlan and accompanied the sun through the underworld every night.

Answer: Xolotl

15) This gatekeeper is the first loa invoked in any Voodoo ceremony, because his permission is required for any communication with loas.

Answer: Papa Legba




12. Name these special temperatures associated with boiling points of substances, FTPE.

10) As ambient pressure decreases, the boiling point decreases until this point is reached; the boiling temperature can't be decreased below this point.

Answer: triple point

10) A liquid in contact with a mass at a temperature above this point, which is higher than a liquid's boiling point, produces an insulating vapor layer which prevents it from boiling rapidly.

Answer: Leidenfrost point

10) The boiling point of a substance can't be increased past this point. At this point, a meniscus will dissappear.

Answer: critical point




13. Name the Sherlock Holmes stories which introduced the following characters, FTPE.

10) Watson first hears of Professor Moriarty in this story, which ends with the apparent death of both Moriarty and Holmes at the falls of Reichenbach.

Answer: The Final Problem

10) Irene Adler outwits Holmes in this story, but burns her photograph of the king of the title country; in return he refers to her ever after as the woman.

Answer: A Scandal in Bohemia

10) In this story, Holmes comes back from his apparent death in "The Final Problem" and lays a trap in the title building for Colonel Moran, Moriarty's old henchman.

Answer: The Adventure of the Empty House




14. Given a major key, give the number of sharps or flats in the key signature FTPE.

10) D major

Answer: 2 sharps

10) F major

Answer: 1 flat

10) C# (read: C sharp) major

Answer: 7 sharps



15. Lowlights of American economic history, FTPE.

10) William Cullen Bryant wrote a poem denouncing this piece of 1807 legislation, an attempt to respond to British and French interference in overseas trade.

Answer: the Embargo Act

10) This 1878 act was denounced by both hard-money and free-silver advocates until it was replaced by the Sherman Silver Purchase Act in 1890.

Answer: the Bland-Allison Act

10) This 1930 act's two Republican sponsors forged a compromise by selecting the highest tariffs from both the Senate and House versions of the original limited bill. 

Answer: Hawley-Smoot Tariff (accept if names reversed)




16. Name these multi-volume works, given the volumes, FTPE.

10) Spring Snow, Runaway Horses, The Temple of Dawn, Five Signs of A God's Decay.

Answer: The Sea of Fertility or Hojo no umi tetralogy (Mishima)

10) Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, Sugar Street

Answer: Cairo or al-Thulathiyya trilogy (Mahfouz)

10) The Jewel in the Crown, The Day of the Scorpion, The Towers of Silence, A Division of the Spoils.

Answer: Raj quartet (Scott)



17. Answer the following questions about what's going on in the Georgia where Atlanta isn't, for 10 points each.

10) Identify the man recently ousted from power after 8 years as President of Georgia.

Answer: Eduard Amvrosiyevich Shevardnadze

10) This Western-educated young businessman will take power on 25 January as Sheverdnadze's successor.

Answer: Mikhail Saakashvilli

10) The peaceful transfer of power already has a nickname, which was purposefully chosen to underline similarities between the recent events and the 1989 movement in Czechoslovakia which led to the resignation of Gustav Husak.

Answer: Rose Revolution (after the Velvet Revolution)




18. Name the color, 30-20-10.

30) It's the national color of Gillikin Country in Oz and the name given to a Dutch coalition government that came to power in 1994 under the leadership of Wim Kok.

20) A highly prized dye of this color was produced in Tyre from the secretions of members of genus Murex.

10) It's the typical color of amethysts.

Answer: purple


19. Name these movies with bizarre accidents, FTPE.

10) One title character of this comedy earned his nickname through a smelting accident which left him naturally equipped to turn on a tractor beam.

Answer: Austin Powers in Goldmember (prompt on Austin Powers 3)

10) In this film we learn that the title band's original drummer, John "Stumpy" Pepys, died in a bizarre gardening accident and was replaced by Eric "Stumpy Joe" Childs.

Answer: This is Spinal Tap

10) While trying various feminine products, advertising exec Nick Marshall falls in a bathtub with a hair dryer and electrocutes himself. When he wakes up, he can read the minds of females, including poodles.

Answer: What Women Want



20. Name these schools of sociological theory FTPE.

10) Competition plays a key role in this theory, which holds that societies and organizations function so that each participant struggles to maximize their benefits, resulting in revolutions.

Answer: conflict theory

10) George Mead was a predecessor to this school whose adherents include Herbert Blumer and Erving Goffman. It focuses on symbolic processes of communication and the social construction of personal identity.

Answer: symbolic interactionism

10) Talcott Parsons and Robert Merton were adherents of this school, which assumes that social systems are characterized by homeostasis, and postulates that social structures evolve to fill social needs. 

Answer: structural-functionalism




21. Answer some questions about superconductivity FTPE.

10) This theory of Type I superconductivity is named for its three discoverers and relies on the formation of electron pairs which give rise to a band gap. At thermal energies less than the band gap, resistivity falls to zero.

Answer: Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory

10) Type I superconductors exhibit the complete version of this effect, in which the perfect diamagnetism of the superconducting state expels magnetic fields from the superconductor.

Answer: Meissner effect

10) This is the state of a Type II superconductor when the applied field is between its first and second critical fields, so that it turns into normal cores surrounded by superconducting regions?

Answer: vortex state




22. Answer some questions about U.S.-Mexico diplomatic relations in the 19th century FTPE.

10) Named for the man who negotiated and signed the treaty, this was the acquisition of a large portion of land south of the Gila River for about $10 million. 

Answer: Gadsden Purchase

10) This Chief Clerk of the State Department was chosen by Polk to secretly negotiate a peace with Mexico in August of 1847. 

Answer: Nicholas Trist

10) This Louisianian's attempt in 1845 to negotiate the dispute over Texas broke down due to his insistence on also trying to purchase California and New Mexico. 

Answer: John Slidell



23. Given some mountain ranges, name the US state, 5-5-10-10.

5) Adirondacks, Catskills

Answer: New York

5) Wind River Range, Grand Tetons

Answer: Wyoming

10) Guadalupe Mountains, Davis Mountains, Chisos Mountains

Answer: Texas

10) Dragoon Mountains, Huachuca (pron. WahCHOOka, as if sneezing) Mountains

Answer: Arizona


24. Answer some questions about the Bhagavad Gita FTPE.

10) The Bhagavad Gita is part of this larger national epic of India, which depicts the struggle between the Pandavas and the Dhritarashtras.

Answer: Mahabharata

5 each) The Gita consists of a dialog between these two characters; one is a great hero, the possessor of the bow Gandeeva, and the other is his advisor and charioteer, an incarnation of Vishnu.

Answer: Arjuna and Krishna

10) Throughout the Gita, Krishna uses this term, which refers collectively to the indestructible soul and consciousness of a person.

Answer: Atma



25. Identify these cities, which threatened to file lawsuits after being negatively depicted on a Fox network television show, for fifteen points each.

15) The mayor of this California city contemplated a suit against Fox's The O.C., which has portrayed it as beset by gang violence and poverty. The website Television Without Pity has joked that this place, from which the character Ryan Atwood escapes, is depicted as lacking amenities such as mattresses, music and sunshine.

Answer: Chino

15) This city's tourism agency filed suit after an episode of The Simpsons represented it as a crime-ridden locale in which monkeys trouped through the streets. In a later episode, Krusty mentions that Mr. Teeny's uncle is the Tourism Bureau's head monkey.

Answer: Rio de Janeiro


26. Name these recipients of Canadian literature prizes FTPE.

10) His book of poetry, There's a Trick With a Knife, and his novels Anil's Ghost and The English Patient all won the Governor General's Award.

Answer: Michael Ondaatje

10) Her novel Alias Grace won the Giller Prize, and she won the Governor General's Award for The Blind Assassin, but she's probably best-known for The Handmaid's Tale.

Answer: Margaret Eleanor "Peggy" Atwood

10) He won the Giller Prize for Barney's Version, and the Governor General's Award for Cocksure and St. Urbain's Horseman. He also wrote The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz.

Answer: Mordecai Richler



