2003 Moc Masters-UTC's little-known Macon CampusQuestions by John Kilby, Charlie Steinhice, and Stephen Taylor with a few from Paul Nelson & David MooreToss-Ups:1.	 This Bavarian spent most of his early career in low-end teaching positions.  That is quite a step down from his later career, in which he won the Copley Medal in 1841 and was given the Professor of Physics Chair at the University of Munich in 1849.  His most famous finding came in his 1827 book The Galvanic Chain, Mathematically Treated.  FTP, name this scientist whose namesake law says that current multiplied by resistance equals voltage.	Answer:	 Georg Simon Ohm2.	She was born in Oak Park, Illinois, educated in England, and eventually lived in Canada.  Her first novel, Small Ceremonies, was published when she was 40.  Her last novel, Unless, was a finalist for the Booker prize in Britain.  FTP, name this 1995 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for The Stone Diaries who passed away last July.	Answer:	 Carol Shields3.	Founded as Alexandria Arachiosiorum in the 4th century BC, it was captured by Babur in the early 16th century AD, then by Shah Abbas I of Persia in 1625.  Its connection with the city of Quetta across the Chaman pass gives it access to many trading opportunities, with primary exports being wool and fruit.  Though it still lacks the ability to land aircraft at night, it is now the second largest city in Afghanistan.  FTP name this city, site of a recent airline hijacking crisis.	Answer:	Kandahar4.	On Aug. 21, baseball's Class A Lowell Spinners will give the first 1,000 fans a bobblehead doll of this hometown hero.  Ironically, his athletic success was in football, which got him a scholarship to Columbia.  Though he dropped out, Columbia professors helped get a publisher for his first novel, The Town and the City.   FTP name this author of Big Sur, The Dharma Bums, and On the Road.	Answer:	Jack Kerouac5.	They've made 6 trips to the World Series, winning three times.  Twice they lost to Pittsburgh, in 1971 and 1979.  They defeated the Dodgers in 1966, the Phillies in 1983, and the Reds in 1970.  FTP name this American League franchise, whose best team may have been the one defeated by the Miracle Mets in 1969.	Answer:	Baltimore Orioles (accept either)6.	Elizabeth Hooper wants to know its cause and notes that it appeared just before the funeral for a young lady in Milford.  Goodman Gray fears it to be a symbol of madness.  The Reverend Clark tries to remove it from its wearer on the deathbed, but the wearer will not let it be removed.  FTP, what is this titular object that hides the face of Parson Hooper in a Nathaniel Hawthorne tale?	Answer:	 The Minister's Black Veil   7.	In 1913, he became professor of Constitutional law at Yale.  While serving as a federal judge in 1901, he was appointed civil governor of the Philippines.  From 1904-8, he served as Teddy Roosevelt's Secretary of War.  In 1921, he was appointed Chief Justice, the only former President to thus serve.  FTP, name this man who succeeded Teddy Roosevelt as President in the 1908 election.	Answer:	 William Howard Taft 8.	Born in Bristol, England, he studied mathematics at the University of Bristol and later at Cambridge. He became interested in quantum theory and in Heisenberg's Uncertainty principle, both of which he discussed in his 1927 dissertation, Quantum Mechanics. His 1933 paper on lagrangian quantum mechanics was the foundation for Feynman's ideas for path integrals. FTP name this mathematician who was inclined to turn down the 1933 Nobel Prize in physics for his 1930 work, The Principles of Quantum Mechanics but accepted in order to receive less publicity.        Answer:	Paul Dirac 9.	In the upper right, tire tracks wind through the golden-brown field to the dilapidated house.  On the horizon in the center top, an old barn lies, brown against the gray sky.  The rest of the image is filled with the golden brown fields, except for the light pink dress of the brunette woman lying in the field and looking toward the house.  FTP, what is this 1948 painting by Andrew Wyeth?	Answer:	 Christina's World
10.	His 1988 novel Fiasco has yet to be translated.   His first novel Fateless, fictionally described his experiences in Auschwitz.  In 2001, he published The Exiled Language, which detailed not only the loss of Hebrew & Yiddish in Europe, but also of the decline of Magyar. FTP, name this author who also wrote Kaddish for  a Child Not Born, winner of the 2002 Nobel Prize for Literature. 	Answer:	 Imre Kertész (ker-TEZH)11.	He apparently suffered from erectile dysfunction as his briefcase they found in the last house he was in contained Viagra.  He often called himself "Abu Sarhan," which is Arabic for wolf.  He was head of his home country's Olympic Committee and was known for torturing and jailing athletes.  FTP, name this Iraqi leader who was killed on July 21 along with his brother Qusay.	Answer:	 Uday Hussein12.	He did much to introduce modern management techniques and institutionalize civilian control over the U.S. Defense Department.  He wrote The Essence of Security (1968) and One Hundred Countries, Two Billion People (1973), but neither garnered the attention of his daring 1995 work The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam.   In that work he  acknowledged his own culpability in the flawed decision process that led to the escalation of the Vietnam War.  FTP name this former chairman of Ford Motors and Secretary of Defense under Kennedy and Johnson.	Answer:	Robert Strange McNamara13.	John Ashcroft has asked for powers similar to those granted but never used under two of these.  Joseph Priestley's partner in research, Thomas Cooper, was convicted, imprisoned, and fined $400 under one of the other two, and over all four of them.  Also convicted by their authority was Matthew Lyon, a sitting U.S. Representative from Vermont.  William Duane was luckier - he was acquitted under one, then charged under another but had the charges dropped when Jefferson took office and they all expired or were repealed. FTP give the collective name for four 1798 laws aimed at curbing political dissent, especially from foreign-born Americans. 	Answer:	the Alien and Sedition Acts14.	One produced by an isolated, monochromatic and non-relativistic source is proportional to the second derivative of the quadrupole moment of the energy density at the point where the past light cone of the observer intersects the cone, but weak fields of these can be considered perturbations on the flat Minkowski metric. The first evidence for their existence was in the observation of Pulsar 1913+16 by Taylor and Weisberg, for which they won the 1993 Nobel Prize. Two gigantic interferometers are being build in Washington and Louisiana by Caltech's LIGO project to finally confirm one of the major implications of Einstein's General Theory. For ten points identify this manifestation of the weakest of the four fundamental forces. 	Answer:	 Gravity Waves   (Accept graviton)15.	His greatest work was published in 5 sections over 32 years, a long satire on the French institutions of the 16th century. An ordained Franciscan monk and doctor, the early parts of his great work about two giants with ravenous appetites were condemned by those French institutions as obscene and heretical. FTP, identify this author of Gargantua and Pantagruel.       	Answer:		Francois Rabelais16.	Roberta, after she blabbed that Caraddo Soprano went down on her. Jean Chretien,  leaving the Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island Civic Center after the PM authorized the sale of genetically engineered foods in Canada. John Pepper, the CEO of Procter and Gable, with a tofu version after accusations of poisoning animals in the company's experiments. Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling with a blueberry one after claiming the 2001 power crisis was not Enron's fault. Bill Gates with a cream one in Belgium. FTP all of these people were hit by what common Vaudeville pastry? 	Answer:	 Hit by a pie  (accept equivalents)17.	Early on, he had a hard time balancing the musical revolutions of his time with his desire to give voice to revolutionary socialism, a combination most notable in his second and third symphonies, "to October" and "The First of May."  The major achievements of his early years though were his operas.  FTP name this composer who used the freedom created by Stalin's death to attack anti-Semitism in his Symphony #13, and who is responsible for the Operas The Nose and The Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District.       Answer:	Dmitri Shostakovich18.	The main character's grandparents met in New York, and his grandmother's marriage to an up-and-coming engineer is recounted through letters to August and the recollections of her grandson. Lyman Ward, a historian just past middle-age, suffers from a debilitating bone disease and is confined to a wheelchair. Unlike the steadfast marriage Ward is researching, Ward's wife eventually leaves him and he endures the rest of his days trapped in his childhood home, fading memories, and regret. Like the snow of an avalanche, his life has collapsed into its final state. For ten points, give this Pulitzer Prize winning work by Wallace Stegner with a geologic title. 	Answer:	 Angle of Repose19.	His early exposure to philosophy at the University of Vermont was mainly in the school of Scottish Realism, which he soon rejected.  He went on to study at Johns Hopkins University, where the noted American psychologist, G. Stanley Hall, impressed upon him the importance of scientific methodology.  His early writing, such as Psychology, showed his commitment to Hegelian idealism, but this later gave way to the empirical foundations of the American School of Pragmatism.  FTP, name this man whose contributions to Education are considered his most significant, and who wrote Democracy and Education.       Answer:	John Dewey20.	A band described as instrumental jazz rock funk or " parliament meets black Sabbath at mile's davis' house' is named after this two word body part. Calcification of this body part can occur as the result of diabetes, TB, or just aging. It has thick muscles that help it perform its primary function from one place to another at the right moment. FTP name this tube that transports semen from the testicles to the prostate just before ejaculation        Answer:	vas deferens21.	While Durant wanted Ogden to be chosen, Huntington would rather buy the right of way to the land just up to Ogden in order to build a new Gentile community and deprive the Mormons of the economic benefits. Brigham Young, already slighted for not being paid for the contracting he did, chose not to attend and instead built his own railroad. For ten points , identify this sleepy town where the Central Pacific Railroad and the Union Pacific Railroad met, the central junction of the transcontinental railroad. 	Answer:	 Promontory Point 22.	It was a gift of Sergeant-Major Morris, who got it from an old fakir who had wished for his own death. It was given to the White family for a trifle after Morris cast it into the fire and Mr. White saved it. The next day, Herbert was caught in the machinery at Maw and Meggins, for which the White family received two hundred pounds in compensation. It then prompted Herbert to make his final journey home, but Mr. White returned Herbert to the grave with a final wish. For ten points , identify this titular object of a W. W. Jacobs short story that grants three wishes to three men. 	Answer:	 The Monkey's Paw23.	The origins of the name are obscure.  As a Spanish surname it may derive from the Visigothic word for "forest dweller."  The town in North Carolina, however, clearly got its name from the thirteenth-century religious sect which rejected the need for educated clergy and was headed by Peter Waldo.  FTP give this name which also applies to the southern terminus of the Alaska Pipeline.	Answer:		Valdez (or Valdese)
2003 Moc Masters-UTC's little-known Macon Campus -- Boni:1.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: Your genial quizmaster found it very amusing that the Sinclair Lewis Interpretive Center shares its building with and is run by the Sauk Centre, Minnesota, Chamber of Commerce.  FTPE answer the following:a)  Lewis didn't mean it to be reflect well on this title character when he had him say, "All labor agitators who try to force men to join a union should be hanged. In fact, just between ourselves, there oughtn't to be any unions allowed at all; and as it's the best way of fighting unions, every business man ought to belong to an employers' association and to the Chamber of Commerce. In union there is strength. So any selfish hog who doesn't join the Chamber of Commerce ought to be forced to."		Answer:		George Babbitb)  In 1960 the Sauk Centre Chamber of Commerce successfully lobbied to add the words "The Original" to this central thoroughfare, apparently not realizing that Lewis had immortalized the term as a synonym for bland, conventional, stifling and shallow.		Answer:		Main Streetc)  In this Lewis work, a memorable passage describes Nautilus, one of the cities visited in it, as "one of the first communities in the country to try to develop the Weeks habit.  A Week [capital W] is not merely a week.  If an aggressive, wide-awake, live-wire, and go-ahead church or chamber of commerce or charity desires to improve itself, which means to get more money, it calls in those few energetic spirits who run any city, and proclaims a Week...The only variation is the Weeks in which the object is not to acquire money immediately by the sale of tags but by general advertising to get more of it later."		Answer:		Elmer Gantry2.	Bonus: Move over, Elmer Gantry.  Much of the media attention focused on Baptists in the twentieth century has, of course, been directed at the conservative wing of the denomination.  But how much do you know about the other side?  Identify these left-leaning Baptists FTPE.A Kentucky theologian, he founded Koinonia (coy-nuh-NEE-uh) Farm outside Americus, Georgia.  His best known works, the so-called "Cotton Patch" translations of the Gospels, formed the basis of a musical composed by Harry Chapin.	Answer:		Clarence JORDANA Georgian and resident of Koinonia Farm, he left Koinonia in 1969 to found another Americus institution, Habitat for Humanity.	Answer:		Millard FULLERA former ghostwriter for Jerry Falwell, he broke with Falwell over the latter's position on homosexuality.  He then divorced his wife of 25 years, took a male partner, and founded the Metropolitan Community Church in Dallas, Texas.	Answer:		Mel WHITE3.	[MODERATOR: Distribute handout] These paintings are all French and painted during the 1880's.  Give the title and artist of each painting, 5 points per answer.  You have 15 seconds.Answers:	(1) Luncheon of the Boating Party by Pierre Auguste Renoir(2) A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte by Georges Seurat(3) A Bar at the Folies-Bergeres by Edouard Manet4.	Recycling can be very effective, even if you're an author.  FTPE answer the following about derivative works:(a)  Among this Nobel laureate's most acclaimed works is the epic poem Omeros, a retelling of the Odyssey using contemporary fishermen from the island of St. Lucia.		Answer:		 Derek Walcott(b)  In this Pulitzer-winning novel, Larry Cook decides to will his farm to his three daughters; misery ensues.  Jane Smiley drew heavily from King Lear but moved the action to another corrupt patriarchal society - contemporary rural Iowa.		Answer:		A Thousand Acres (accept One Thousand Acres) (c)  While The Women of Brewster Place is better known, critics speak more highly of this author's ambitious Linden Hills, a novel themed and structured after Dante's Inferno and set in an affluent African-American suburb with 9 circles. 		Answer:		 Gloria Naylor 
5.	Bonus: Answer these questions about apologists for the "southern way of life"A pro-union Whig who became a pro-secession Democrat, he proudly announced in 1861 that the Confederacy was founded upon the "cornerstone" of slavery and white supremacy.  Five years later, testifying before the U.S. Congress, he insisted that secession was really about states' rights after all.	Answer:	:	Alexander STEPHENSThis work setting forth the philosophy of the so-called Nashville Agrarians was drawn up largely by Donald Davidson and John Crowe Ransom, and its authors simply signed themselves "Twelve Southerners."  It takes its title from a line in a song by Daniel Decatur Emmett.	Answer:	:	I'LL TAKE MY STANDThis document was drafted in 1955 by North Carolina Senator Sam Ervin and signed by 100 southern members of Congress.  It pledged "massive resistance" to the Supreme Court's decision in Brown vs. Board of Education.	Answer:	:	THE SOUTHERN MANIFESTO6.	Bonus:  Let's see how well you know the pH scale.  Answer the following about it FTSNP.5) This is the number that represents the strongest base.	Answer:	 145) This is the number that represents the strongest acid.	Answer:	 05) The scale measures the concentration of what type of ions?	Answer:	 hydrogen15) This is the Danish chemist who is credited with inventing the pH scale.	Answer:	 Sören Sörenson7.	[MODERATOR: Distribute handout] The Crescent Moon is used frequently as a symbol of Islam.  Name the country that flies each of the flags shown FFPE.  You have 20 seconds.Answers:	(1) Algeria	(2) Tunisia	(3) Turkey	(4) Pakistan	(5) Singapore	(6) Malaysia 8.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: When the founder of the Museum of Questionable Medical Devices retired in 2002, he donated his collection to the Science Museum of Minnesota.  FTPE answer the following about items Charlie saw there:a)  The Psycograph, invented by Henry Lavery, automated the process of mapping variations in the skull's surface to aid practitioners of this already-discredited pseudoscience.		Answer:		phrenologyb)  Another item on display was the Vibrating Chair, part of the "mechanotherapy" at this man's Battle Creek Sanitarium.		Answer:		John Harvey Kelloggc)  Also on display was the Orgone Box, basically a metal-lined cabinet designed to trap and concentrate a hitherto-unknown form of psychic energy.  It was declared a fraud by the FDA, and as a result its inventor, this onetime chief associate at Freud's Psychoanalytic Clinic, died in prison.		Answer:		Wilhelm Reich9.	Bonus: FTPE, answer the following about Civil War literature.10) This winner of the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction was later turned into the film Gettysburg.	Answer:	 The Killer Angels10) This prequel to The Killer Angels was written by the original author's son and also became a film.	Answer:	 Gods and Generals10) Give the shared last name of The Killer Angels author Michael and Gods and Generals author Jeff.	Answer:	 Shaara 
10.	Bonus: What office did all of the following hold?Sven Forkbeard, Olaf Hunger, and Erik the Very Good	Answer:	:	KING OF DENMARKRollo the Unsteady, Robert the Devil, William the Bastard	Answer:	:	DUKE OF NORMANDYCharles the Fat, Louis the Simple, Louis the Pious	Answer:	:	FRANKISH KINGS (acc. CAROLINGIAN KINGS or KING OF THE FRANKS; do not accept KING OF FRANCE or HOLY ROMAN EMPEROR)11.	Bonus:  Answer the following about a math problem FTPE.10) This problem is named after a German town where two islands separated by the Pregol'a River are connected with seven bridges.	Answer:	 Konigsberg Bridge problem (accept equivalents)10) This was the mathematician who solved the problem and developed the field of topology.	Answer:	 Leonhard Euler10) The solution to the problem lies in whether or not there are no more than this many vertices, or points, with an odd number of edges, or bridges. 	Answer:	 212.	Imagine being an also-ran running mate.  Name these losing Vice Presidential nominees on a 10-5 basis:a)  10 pts.: He was Charles Evans Hughes' running mate in 1916 and thus went to bed on election night believing he'd been elected.       5 pts.: Namesake of an Alaska town, he'd already served a term as V.P. for Teddy Roosevelt.  (Yet he still wanted to run again?)		Answer:		Charles Fairbanksb)  10 pts.: A popular governor of California, he also went to bed on Election Night having been declared the winner on Thomas E. Dewey's ticket in 1948.       5 pts.: Eisenhower later appointed him Chief Justice to the Supreme Court, only to be disappointed when he found out this man actually formed and acted on his own opinions.	Answer:	 	Earl Warrenc)  10 pts.: Well at least he knew he'd lost, as George McClellan's running mate in 1864.  We use the term "running" loosely since McClellan never did anything in a hurry.         5 pts.:  He's best remembered for the landmark 1883 Civil Service Act that bore his name.		Answer:		George Pendleton 13.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: At American Mensa's 2003 Annual Gathering in St. Paul, the keynote speaker was Randi Kaye, a local news anchor.  Ms. Kaye mentioned a book she'd recently read about how the innovator's mind worked, as if to prove that she may be a bleach blonde that comes on at 5, but she isn't bubble-headed.  Name these three individuals she casually mentioned FTPE from achievements:a)  His many contributions in the field of high-voltage electricity include an eponymous induction motor, system of arc lighting, and alternating current transmission.		Answer:		Nikola Teslab)  This recluse also did electrical research, anticipating some of the discoveries of Coulomb and Faraday, but is better remembered for the discovery of a gas he labeled "inflammable air," known today as hydrogen.		Answer:		Henry Cavendishc)  Independently of Arthur Kennelly, he asserted that there was a layer in the upper atmosphere responsible for altering the path of certain radio waves, thus permitting their long-distance transmission.		Answer:		Oliver Heaviside
14.	FTPE, identify these musical instruments you squeeze.Although it's a wind instrument, the person playing the instrument has to squeeze the main body of this instrument to play notes out of 4 sounding pipes called "drones."		Answer:			BagpipesThis instrument popular in varieties of polka and Cajun music is often called "the squeeze box."		Answer:			AccordionIt looks like an accordion, it plays like an accordion, it even sounds like an accordion, but it's not. The main differences between an accordion and this instrument is that it's smaller, usually plays with plugs as opposed to keys, and has a higher pitch.		Answer:			Concertina15.	It is sometimes said that the farther south you go, the more southern the location--until you get to Florida, where the trend reverses itself.  Answer these questions about that least southern of southern states, FTPE.This Florida town, with a virtually all-black population, used to be in Levy County, until nearby whites burned it down.  Later, some folks made a movie about it.	Answer:		ROSEWOODThis Florida town hosted the first convention of the Populist Party, which attempted to rally southern and western farmers around an anti-industry, anti-capitalist platform.  Now, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, it has the dubious distinction of hosting more hate groups than any other Florida city.	Answer:		OCALASociologist John Shelton Reed used information culled from business directories and phone books to identify this Florida city as the least southern place in the South.  Predictably, it's the seat of Dade County.	Answer:		MIAMI16.	In his more serious works, Mark Twain often used the introduction of a mysterious stranger into a situation to see what happens when their beliefs and values are challenged.  Answer the following FTPE: a) In this work, the outsider is the central character, Hank Morgan.		Answer:		A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Courtb) We don't know the real name of the gambler who left the supposed treasure pivotal to this story, but he sent letters under the name Howard L. Stephenson.		Answer:		The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg [be lenient; accept "who" instead of "that"]c) As seen through the eyes of young Theodor Fischer, Philip Traum comes to the town of Eseldorf and messes with people's destinies in this posthumously published Twain work.  Spoiler coming: Traum turns out to be Satan himself.		Answer:		The Mysterious Stranger17.	Given a once-trendy work of 20th century philosophy, name the author FTPE:a) The Structure of Scientific Revolutions	Answer:		Thomas Kuhnb) The Open Society and Its Enemies		Answer:		(Sir) Karl Raimund Popperc)  Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance		Answer:		Robert Pirsig18.	Name the following relating to earthquakes and volcanoes FTPE.10) These compressional seismic waves travel faster than S waves. They are the first to arrive at seismograph stations.	Ans: _P_rimary waves10) Located along the rim of the Pacific, this zone sees intense earthquake and volcano activity.	Ans: _Ring of Fire_10) Most Hawaiian volcanoes are of this type. They have a broad, low dome shape formed by lava flows from relatively gentle eruptions.	Ans: _shield_	
19.	FTPE answer the following about modern literature that's good for your heart:a)  One of the most honored science fiction authors, major characters in his best known series include Ender and Bean		Answer:		Orson Scott Cardb)  The Poisonwood Bible, Prodigal Summer, and Pigs in Heaven are among the works by this acclaimed Kentucky-born writer, whose first novel was The Bean Trees		Answer:		Barbara Kingsolverc)  FTP name either the author of the acclaimed 1974 novel The Milagro Beanfield War or the author of the acclaimed 1985 novel The Beans of Egypt, Maine		Answer:		either John Nichols or Carolyn Chute20.	Answer the following about Dutch geography FTPE:a. This is the term for the lands below sea level that have been reclaimed from the sea in Holland.	Answer:	 poldersb. This is the largest city not to be one of the Dutch national capitals.	Answer:	 Rotterdamc. This major European river flows into the North Sea near Rotterdam.	Answer:	 Rhine 21.	Bonus: Identify these late medieval African kingdoms FTPE.The rivalry between the Sosso and Mandinka people ended when Sundiata, leader of the Mandinka, consolidated his power around the capital city of Timbuktu, forming the nucleus of this empire which shares its name with a modern African republic.  Emperor Mansa Musa converted the empire to Islam in 1324.	Answer:		MALIEmperor Sunni Ali controlled this empire, a successor to the Mali Empire, from 1464 to 1492.  It reached its peak under Emperor Askia Daud, who ruled from 1549 to 1582, and fell to Moroccan forces just in time to avoid falling to the Portuguese instead.	Answer:		SONGHAILittle influenced by Islam and Christianity, this kingdom was ruled by a monarch called the Oba.  Expanding in the fifteenth century to encompass the Niger River valley, the Yoruba territories, and the coast of the Gulf of Guinea, it was noted in Europe for its bronze sculptures.  It was the most important center of the slave trade during the seventeenth century, and today gives its name to the former kingdom of Dahomey.	Answer:		BENIN22.	Identify these recent economic theories, TPE.One of the base components of Reaganomics, this theory said that by helping the rich, they will re-invest their money and will eventually reach down to help the poor.		Answer:			Trickle-down theoryOriginally written on a cocktail napkin in a restaurant, this semi-circle shows that the higher taxes are, the less motivation there would be to work and make tax revenue, although if local revenue increased, so would governmental income.		Answer:			Laffer curveA combination of trickle-down theory and other ideas, the basic idea of this greater theory is that tax cuts stimulate economic growth by encouraging entrepreneurs to reinvest tax savings.		Answer:			Supply-side economics23.	Identify these authors who got involved in politics, TPE.This author of The Executioners Song and Armies of the Night ran for mayor of New York City in the 1970s.		Answer:			Norman MailerThis author of The Souls of Black Folk toured the Soviet Union late in life and became convinced Communism was the best way to eradicate racism, eventually moving to Ghana shortly before his death.		Answer:			W.E.B. DuBoisCalling America a "half-savage nation," this author of Cantos and Personae lived in Europe from 1908 until after WWII, becoming a leading supporter of Benito Mussolini's Facist dictatorship in Italy.		Answer:			Ezra Pound