Moc Masters 2003Packet by Stephen WebbTOSSUPS1. 	An army comprised of peasants and the children of noblemen trained with him at his home at Preobrazhenskoe, his father Alexis' favorite hunting lodge. In 1697, a year following his brother's death, he mobilized that toy army against the Crimean Tatars, capturing the ports of Taganrog and Azov on the Black Sea. For ten points, identify this Tsar, who interrupted his Grand Embassy to put down a revolt of the Streltsy, and whose ambitions for the modernization of Russia earned him the title "The Great."	Answer:	 Peter I the Great or Peter Alexeivic Romanov (accept Peter the Great on early buzz)2. 	One character in this 1932 novel has his wife take a dive out of a hotel window in Memphis, after which allegations fly and he is eventually forced to resign his ministry. Gail Hightower then meets frequently with Byron Bunch, who works in a planing mill where two strange friends arrive, taking the job of shoveling sawdust, as well as falls in love with the pregnant Lena Grove, who is seeking on of the strangers, Lucas Burch. For ten points, identify this novel by William Faulkner which sees the death of Joe Christmas.	Answer:	 Light in August3. 	This law's formulator worked as an assistant to John Wilkins, John Willis, and Robert Boyle, and in 1662 became first curator of experiments at the Royal Society. It is applicable to any system so long as a critical level of deformation is not exceeded. Any system which obeys this law will undergo simple harmonic motion when disturbed, so long as damping and driving is negligible. For ten points, identify this law, which states that the restoring force in a spring is linearly proportional to how stretched the spring is.	Answer:	 Hooke's Law4. 	In 1998 he published a collection entitled Two Times Intro: On the Road With Patti Smith and worked on Single Cell, a film company that released Being John Malkovich and American Movie. While studying photography and painting at the University of Georgia, he met his future comrades and that year Peter Buck, Bill Berry and Mike Mills released their first single, "Radio Free Europe." For ten points, name this political activist and front man for REM.	Answer:	 Michael Stipe5. 	Despite the arguments of the defendant, the Supreme Court ruled that commerce could be defined as "intercourse between nations, and parts of nations...and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse." Expanding the power of Congress under the Commerce Clause, the High Court struck down a law in New York granting private transit monopolies on interstate travel with New Jersey. For ten points, name this 1824 Supreme Court case concerning the monopoly of a steam boat operator.	Answer:	 Gibbons v. Ogden6. 	This island's European name is a misinterpretation of the Manchu name, meaning "peak of the mouth of the Amur River", while its proper Ainu name is Karafuto. Its cold climate is due to its location in the Sea of Okhotsk, and early European explorers regarded it as a peninsula until the Japanese explorer Mamiya Rinzo discovered the Strait of Tartary. For ten points, name this island, located off the coast of East Siberia, which along with its neighboring Kurile Islands are still disputed between Russia and Japan.	Answer:	 Sakhalin Island7. 	The name of this Greek or Roman figure comes from the Semitic word meaning "lord" and was often used to refer to Yahweh in the Old Testament. Born of the incest of Myrrha with her father Theias, to prevent Myrrha's death at the hands of her father, the gods turned Myrrha into a myrrh tree, allowing the trunk to burst open for his birth. For ten points, name this handsome mortal who was split between Persephone and Aphrodite, until finally being fatally wounded by a wild boar at the behest of Artemis.	Answer:	 Adonis8. 	It is a crystalline white solid hydrocarbon which is shown to cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, blood in the urine, and a yellow skin color when exposed to humans in large doses. It is manufactured from coal tar, and converted to pthalic anhydride for use as an antiseptic and insecticide. For ten points, identify this aromatic hydrocarbon with empirical formula C10H8, and is two connected benzene rings, commonly found in mothballs.	Answer:	 naphthalene or tar camphor or white tar or albocarbon or naphthene9. 	Since 1786 supernumerary members have been allowed beyond the twenty-six normal to include certain ex officio personages, including the sons of sovereigns, while membership has also been extended to a few non-Christian heads of state. Members wear on their left leg the buckled blue strap carrying the order's motto, "Honi soit qui mal y pense." For ten points, name this knightly order that has had its residence in Saint George's Chapel in Windsor Castle since their founding in 1348 by Edward III of England.	Answer:	 Most Holy Order of the Garter10. 	This opera takes its premise from some 13th century manuscripts found at a monastery in Bavaria and compiled in 1847 by Johann Andreas Schmeller. Premiering at the Frankfurt Opera on June 8, 1937, its lyrics include a wide range of hedonism, and fragments of it are commonly used in movies, particularly O Fortuna. For ten points, name this Latin and German opera by Carl Orff.	Answer:	 Carmina Burana11. 	His 1950 work Jacques, or Obedience, was followed the next year by its sequel, which demands prolific reproduction, The Future Is in Eggs. In 1985 he received the T.S. Eliot Prize by the Ingersoll Foundation, while his writings on theatre have been collected in Notes and Counter Notes and his 1968 memoir appeared as Present Past, Past Present. For ten points, name this Absurdist dramatist who in 1950 penned his first play, The Bald Soprano.	Answer:	 Eugene Ionesco12. 	As a preliminary step, a three carbon acid is oxidized, taking the carbonyl group and converting the pyruvic acid into carbon dioxide and a two-carbon acetyl group. During this cycle, the two-carbon acetyl group is combined with oxaloacetic acid to produce a six-carbon compound, regenerating NAD+ from NADH. For ten points, identify this cycle of energy production, which takes its name either from the man who discovered it or the six-carbon acid produced in its beginning, and requires no oxygen.	Answer:	 Krebs cycle or citric acid cycle13. 	His father's family was from the Beauce region around Chartre, which he fictionalized as Combray in his A la Recherche, while following a near-fatal asthmatic attack at the age of nine, he frequently made therapeutic trips to Cabourg, which he fictionalized as the town of Balbec in his work. For ten points, name this author who, in the first part of his seven volume masterpiece, had a flash of memory due to a sponge cake dipped in tea, prompting the writing of his Remembrance of Things Past.	Answer:	 Valentin-Louis-Georges-Eugene-Marcel Proust14. 	Supposing there exists nothing in the title animal's causal history to determine a preference, such a paradoxical situation is very likely to occur, assuming that there exists no free will. Falsely attributed to a fourteenth-century philosopher who wrote extensively on such paradoxes, it is a thought experiment in causal determinism versus free will. For ten points, identify this paradox where the namesake animal starves to death with two tables of food and water before him because neither table is a superior choice to the other.	Answer:	 Buridan's Ass15. 	Elected as a Republican from Minnesota he served in the Senate from 1917 to 1923, and was an associate judge on the Permanent Court for International Justice from 1930 until 1935. Serving as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Great Britain from 1923 until 1925, the election of Calvin Coolidge elevated him to a cabinet post. For ten points, identify this recipient of the 1929 Nobel Peace Prize whose work as Secretary of State resulted in a universal peace pact named for him and his French counterpart.	Answer:	 Frank Billings Kellogg16. 	Each year the Loebner Prize, a $100,000 cash prize and a gold medal, is up for grabs for the group that passes this test, while a bronze medal and $2000 is awarded to the group whose response resembles a human the most. Inspired by a party game in which guests try to guess the gender of the person in another room by the response of a series of questions, it was proposed in 1950 by its namesake mathematician. For ten points, name this test which is the standard for determining if a machine is truly intelligent.	Answer:	 Turing Test17. 	One of the first American novels to explicitly deal with the subject of lesbianism, its theme was suggested in Alphonse Daudet's Evangeliste. In it, two women struggle for the domination of the impressionable Verena Tarrant, as Basil Ransom and Olive Chancellor battle for control. For ten points, name this 1886 novel by Henry James strongly censured for its portrayal of the title location.	Answer:	 The Bostonians18. 	He challenged Schiller's poetic ode to women, Würde der Frauen, in his essay Über die Weiber, expressing what he called "Teutonico-Christian stupidity" with regards to female affairs. Considering himself a Kantian, he outlined his system of ethics in such works as On the Basis of Morality and On the Freedom of the Will. For ten points, name this Gdansk born philosopher and author of The World as Will and Idea.	Answer:	 Arthur Schopenhauer19. 	On advice she made for Egypt and the Nile, where she bear for Zeus the son Epaphus, who would after many generations be an ancestor to Heracles. An Argive princess and the daughter of Inachus, she was deposited after her tryst with Zeus under the watch of Argus, and, though rescued by Hermes, was continually stung by a gadfly sent by Hera. For ten points, name this lover of Zeus who was transformed into a white heifer in an attempt to conceal her from Hera.	Answer:	 Io20.	He began his career working under his father, Pietro, who for a time had himself worked with Camillo Mariani. Gaining the patronage of Cardinal Maffeo Barberini, he designed for him a palace, and upon his installation as Pope Urban VIII, he was put in charge of building operations at Saint Peter's Basilica, designing the canopy over the high altar and the bronze and stucco Chair of Saint Peter. For ten points, name this Baroque artist whose Cornaro Chapel contains as its centerpiece The Ecstacy of Saint Teresa.	Answer:	 Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini or Giolorenzo Bernini21.	His father taught him the violin at an early age, while his brother Ignaz learned the pianoforte. His education quickly outstripped his teachers, and he was placed under the tutelage of Michael Holzer, Kapellmeister of the Lichtenthal Church, at the age of seven. In 1808 he entered the Convict, the top Viennese music school, and six years later composed his first mass, and his first opera, Des Teufels Lustschloss. For ten points, name this composer of such catchy tunes as The Trout Quintet.	Answer:	 Franz Peter Schubert 22.	His mother was the grand-daughter of Ibraham Petrovich Gannibal, an Abyssinian slave who became the Engineer-General under Peter the Great. Exiled to southern Russia for his political satire, there he published two poems, The Fountain of Bakhchisaray and The Captive of the Caucasus. Because many of his poems were found among the insurgents in the Decembrist Uprising, his publication and travel was heavily restricted, preventing him from publishing his most famous play until five years after its completion. For ten points, name this author of Boris Godunov and the verse drama Eugene Onegin.	Answer:	 Aleksandr Pushkin23.	He died of food poisoning after eating foul lampreys at St. Denis le Fermont in Normandy, and was buried at Reading Abbey, and following his death his nephew usurped the throne from his daughter, who at the time was married to Henry V, the Holy Roman Emperor. Matilda fought back, and the fighting was finally resolved when her son was named Stephen's heir in 1153. For ten points, name this fourth child of William I who succeeded his older brother William II Rufus in 1100.	Answer:	 Henry I Beauclerc24.	Studying medicine in Berlin under Johannes Mueller, in 1836 he discovered and prepared the first enzyme from animal tissue, pepsin. Two years later he became a professor at the University of Louvain in Belgium, and his research into sugar and starch fermentation led to his coining of the term metabolism, while his studies of nerve cells led to the naming of a particular type after him. For ten points, name this German physiologist who, along with Matthias Schleiden, founded modern cell theory.	Answer:	 Theodor Schwann25.	The starting reagent is heated with platinum as a catalyst in air to produce the oxide of the central element, and is then further oxidized to produce a dioxide, which reacts with water to produce the oxide and the resulting chemical. This reaction's creator, born in Riga, also has a law of dilution named after him, and received the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1909 for his work on catalysis. For ten points, name this industrial process, which run backwards is the Haber process, which produces nitric acid.	Answer:	 Ostwald Process
Moc Masters 2003Packet by Stephen WebbBONI1. 	Name the Renaissance artist from works for ten points each.(a) The Cupola at Santa Maria del Fiore and Crucifix at Santa Maria Novella.	Answer:	 Filippo Brunelleschi(b) The Naming of Saint John the Baptist and Christ the Judge at the Chapel of San Brizio, Duomo, Orvieto	Answer:	 Fra Angelico(c) The Bronze David and Mary Magdalene	Answer:	 Donato de'Bardi detto Donatello	2. 	Identify the following things that happened in European history in 1513 for ten points each.(a) Christian II became the king of Denmark and Norway and the last ruler of this Scandinavian political body.	Answer:	 Kalmar Union(b) By the Treaty of Mechlin, Maximilian I, Henry VIII, Pope Leo X and Ferdinand of Aragon agree to invade this country.	Answer:	 France(c) This Scottish monarch was victorious over the English at the Battle of Flodden, but died, leaving the throne to his son, whose mother Margaret Tudor acted as regent.	Answer:	 James IV of Scotland3. 	Identify the following related things from independent film for ten points each.(a) In this 1997 black and white film Sean Gullette portrays mathematician Maximilian Cohen, on the brink of discovering the numerical pattern of the stock market and pursued by a Wall Street firm and a Kaballah sect, and is subtitled "Faith in Chaos."	Answer:	 Pi(b) In this 2000 film Academy Award winner Ellen Burstyn portrays a diet pill junky, Jared Leto and Marlon Wayans are heroin addicts and Jennifer Connelly portrays Leto's girlfriend, all of which are close to achieving their goals but they all collapse in the end.	Answer:	 Requiem for a Dream(c) Both Pi and Requiem for a Dream were directed by this man.	Answer:	 Darren Aronofsky4. 	Identify the following works by Nikolay Vasilyevich Gogol for ten points each.(a) This incomplete novel relates the adventures of Pavel Chichikov, who intends to purchase the title objects that belonged to serfs which nobles must still pay taxes on, then defraud others to acquire real estate.	Answer:	 Dead Souls or Myortvye dushi(b) In this comedy, the title character, Khlestakov, who is mistaken by corrupt officials for another government official sent to investigate them.	Answer:	 The Inspector General or Revizor(c) Collegiate Assessor Kovalyov wakes up one day to find the title anatomical object missing in this short story.	Answer:	 The Nose or Nos5. 	Identify the following relatives of Njord for ten points each.(a) This giantess, the embodiment of winter, was his wife, but eventually left him for Ull.	Answer:	 Skadi(b) This goddess of love and fertility had such possessions as the necklace of the Brisings, which she had to sleep with four dwarves to acquire, is Njord's daughter by his sister.	Answer:	 Freya or Freyja(c) This god of the sun and rain was also a child of Njord and his sister, and is married to the giantess Gerd.	Answer:	 Freyr or Frey or Yngvi6. 	Given a brief description of their accomplishments and the year, name the winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics for ten points each.(a) For his discoveries and contributions to the classification of elementary particles, this man earned the prize in 1969.	Answer:	 Murray Gell-Mann(b) In 1939 this man won for the development of the cyclotron and the study of artificial radioactive isotopes that followed from it.	Answer:	 Ernest Orlando Lawrence(c) For elucidating the quantum structure of the electroweak force this man split the 1999 prize with Martinus J.G. Veltman.	Answer:	 Gerardus t' Hooft
7. 	Answer the following about William McKinley for ten points each.(a) McKinley was a member of Congress from this state, where he is interred.	Answer:	 Ohio(b) This anarchist shot McKinley in 1901, allowing Theodore Roosevelt to ascend to the presidency.	Answer:	 Leon Czolgosz(c) McKinley was shot by Czolgosz while attending this convention in Buffalo, New York.	Answer:	 Pan American Exposition8.	Identify the following winners of the Booker Prize from the year and work for ten points each, five if you need more information.(10) 1971 for In a Free State(5) This author went on to win the Nobel in 2001, while he penned other works like A Bend in the River.	Answer:	 Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul(10) 2000 for The Blind Assassin(5) Other works include Oryx and Crake, her latest, as well as Cat's Eye and The Handmaid's Tale.	Answer:	 Margaret Eleanor Atwood(10) 1986 for The Old Devils(5) He also penned the work Lucky Jim in 1954.	Answer:	 Sir Kingsley Amis9. 	Name the capitals of the following former Soviet Republics for ten points each.(a) Estonia	Answer:	 Tallinn(b) Tajikistan	Answer:	 Dushanbe(c) Azerbaijan	Answer:	 Baku10. 	Given a description name the organic functional group being described for ten points each.(a) This is an hydroxyl group bonded to an aromatic compound, as with benzene.	Answer:	 phenol(b) This group has a carbon single bonded to one functional group and double bonded to an oxygen, like a ketone, and also single bonded to another oxygen, which is then bonded to another functional group.	Answer:	 Ester(c) Nitrogen acts as a hub as three functional groups are single-bonded to the nitrogen.	Answer:	 amine (do not accept amide which is which is specifically a carbon double bonded to an oxygen then single bonded to the nitrogen, which is in turn bonded to two hydrogens)11. 	Name the following kings of England from a brief description of their reign for ten points each.(a) Coming to reign after Stephen's turbulent tenure, and his French holdings included Normandy and Anjou following the death of his father and doubled followed his marriage to Eleanor of Aquitaine.	Answer:	 Henry II Curtmantle(b) A daughter of James II, she sided with her sister and brother-in-law during the Glorious Revolution, and reigned following the death of William III. Her marriage to George, Prince of Denmark, yielded no heirs and the throne went to the Hanoverians.	Answer:	 Anne(c) Ascending to the throne at the age of 12, members of his half-brother's faction killed him at Corfe Castle in 978, paving the road for Aethelred the Unready to take the throne.	Answer:	 Edward II the Martyr (reginal number is unimportant, the Martyr is uniquely identifying)12. 	It stretches 400 miles from Mount Lassen in the North to the Tehachapi Mountains in the south, and are bounded on the West by California's Central Valley and on the East by the Great Basin. For ten points each(a) Name this California mountain range.	Answer:	 Sierra Nevada(b) This mountain, at 14,494 feet, is the tallest mountain in the continental US, and can be found in the Sierra Nevada range.	Answer:	 Mount Whitney(c) Second only to Crater Lake in depth (as far as the US goes) is this lake, located in the northern reaches of the Sierra Nevadas.	Answer:	 Lake Tahoe
13. 	Given a plot summary name the Richard Wagner opera for ten points each.(a) The title character is a minstrel named Heinrich von Ofterdingen, and his love is divided between Venus, the pagan goddess, and Elisabeth, thus having to choose between sin and redemption.	Answer:	 Tannhäuser(b) With the aid of Sachs, Walther von Stolzing competes with Beckmesser for the heart of Eva in a song contest.	Answer:	 Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg or The Mastersinger of Nüremberg(c) The title character is rebuked by Gurnemanz for killing a swan, whose purity and innocence aids in the Grail quest.	Answer:	 Parsifal14. 	Identify the following philosophers works for TEN points each.(a) An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding	Answer:	 David Hume(b) Being and Time	Answer:	 Martin Heidegger(c) Philosophical Investigations	Answer:	 Ludwig Wittgenstein15. 	For ten points each identify the following about a certain Czech statesman.(a) This advocate for Czechoslovak freedom served in the Austrian Parliament from 1891 until 1893 and, in 1920 was elected as the first president of an independent Czechoslovakia.	Answer:	 Tomá? Garrigue Masaryk(b) In 1918 Masaryk visited the United States, were he convinced this president of the justice of his cause.	Answer:	 Thomas Woodrow Wilson(c) After his health began to decline in 1935, he deferred much of his power to this man, who succeeded Masaryk as president of Czechoslovakia, leading the Czech government-in-exile just before his country was dismembered for the Nazis.	Answer:	 Eduard Benes16. 	Identify the following parts of the mitochondria for ten points each.(a) The interior of the mitochondria is full of this folded inner membrane, studded with proteins such as ATP synthase as well as various cytochromes, and function in cellular respiration.	Answer:	 christae or christa(b) This word, the Latin for "pregnant animal", is used to designate the internal fluid of the mitochondria.	Answer:	 matrix(c) A name generally applied to a group of diseases caused by Rickettsiae, are believed to be related to the highly symbiotic bacteria that evolved into the mitochondria. Types include epidemic, endemic and scrub.	Answer:	 typhus17. 	Identify the following about a certain mythological hero 5-10-15.(5) This equestrian utilized the aid of Pegasus to slay the Chimera.	Answer:	 Bellerophon(10) This king of Lycia dispatched Bellerophon on the quest to kill the Chimera, and, upon his victorious return, he gave his daughter to Bellerophon in marriage.	Answer:	 Iobates(15) Bellerophon was referred to Iobates by this man, who sent Bellerophon to Iobates, his son-in-law, with a message to have him executed.	Answer:	 Proteus18. 	Identify the following twentieth century Irish writers for ten points each.(a) Appointed Poet Laureate in 1968, works include From Feathers to Iron and A Time To Dance and Other Poems.	Answer:	 Cecil Day-Lewis(b) This figure of the Irish literary Renaissance penned the plays The Well of the Saints and The Playboy of the Western World.	Answer:	 John Millington Synge(c) The Shadow of the Gunman was the first play by this man to be produced, while other works include The Plough and the Stars and Juno and the Paycock.	Answer:	 Sean O'Casey
19.	Name the biologist from clues 30-20-10(30) In 1899 a British Institute formerly named for Edward Jenner was renamed after this man.(20) He advocated his surgical precautions in a series of articles published in 1867 in the journal The Lancet.(10) That series of articles, entitled Antiseptic Principles of the Practice of Surgery described the use of carbolic acid to sterilize surgical instruments.	Answer:	 Joseph Lister20.	Name the following things involving Alexander the Great from a brief description for ten points each.(a) Immediately following the Battle of the Granicus River, this 333 BC battle saw Alexander soundly defeat a vastly superior Persian force led by Darius III, and took place on both sides of the Pinarus river.	Answer:	 Battle of Issus(b) In the aftermath of this battle, occurring two years after Issus, Darius was again forced to flee, this time being pursued to Arbela and finally escaping to Media, but was later killed by Bessus. Afterwards, Alexander was crowned King of Asia.	Answer:	 Battle of Gaugamela(c) A plot to assassinate Alexander included the son of this general, and, in 330 BC, he had both his son and this general put to death.	Answer:	 Parmenion21.	Given a brief description, identify the following shows on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim for ten points each.(a) Characters include Shake, Frylock and Meatwad, as well as Carl, the next-door pervert who "works out of his home."	Answer:	 Aqua Teen Hunger Force(b) Phillip J. Fry awakes after a thousand years after being cryogenically frozen in this Matt Groening creation.	Answer:	 Futurama(c) The Griffins share their exploits with an evil genius toddler and a highly cultured talking dog.	Answer:	 Family Guy22.	Identify the following things about a matrix (the mathematical object, not the inside of a mitochrondria) for ten points each.(a) This is the value equal to the sum of the elements along the diagonal of a square matrix.	Answer:	 trace or character(b) Resulting as the solutions of the characteristic polynomial of a matrix, this set of scalar constants exist with corresponding vectors, and when the vectors are multiplied by the matrix, the effect is only to multiple the vector by the scalar constants.	Answer:	 eigenvalues(c) A singular matrix, one which has a determinant of zero, lacks one of these in the multiplicative, which when multiplied with the matrix yields the identity matrix.	Answer:	 multiplicative inverse23.	Name the composer from works on a 5-10-15 basis.(5) Sleeping Beauty and The Nutcracker	Answer:	 Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky(10) Sabre Dance	Answer:	 Aram Ilich Khachaturian(15) La Docteur Miracle (which won the Prix de Rome)	Answer:	 Georges Bizet24.	Given the title of a shitty contemporary pop song that can be voted onto MTV's ever-shitty Total Request Live at the time this bonus was written (July 15) name the jackass no-talent musician that created it for ten points each.(a) "Faint"	Answer:	 Linkin Park(b) "Deliverance"	Answer:	 Bubba Sparxxx(c) And an exception to the rule "Just Because"	Answer:	 Jane's Addiction [Note to Charlie: That last bonus is something I'm particularly ashamed of, but my brain is completely crapped out right now. I apologize, and pray that God has mercy on my soul for submitting it]
25.	Identify the following members of the Beat Generation for the stated number of points each.(5) Poems by this poet include Kaddish and Howl, which put him in the court room for publishing obscene material.	Answer:	 Allen Ginsberg(5) Works by this novelist include Junkie and Naked Lunch, both of which deal with the world of drug addicts.	Answer:	 William Seward Burroughs(10) This man was founder of the City Lights Bookshop, while volumes of poetry include Open Eye, Open Heart and A Coney Island of the Mind.	Answer:	 Lawrence Ferlinghetti(10) A translator as well as poet, he has provided Oriental poetry translations such as One Hundred Poems from the Japanese and One Hundred Poems from the Chinese. Original works include The Signature of All Things, and The Morning Star.	Answer:	 Kenneth Rexroth