UTC Moc Masters 2003Rutgers Freelance Packet (Elliott Almanza, Vishal Desai, Larry Goldman, & Emily Hartmann)Tossups 1.	His Charter of Human Rights, discovered in 1879 and residing in the British Museum, is widely considered the first such declaration in history.  He also issued the first decree of liberation to the Jews, concerning which Daniel had prophesized.  Additionally, his edict for the rebuilding of Jerusalem marked a great epoch in the history of the Jews, though due to the meddling of Ahasuerus and Artaxerxes, it was not completed until the reign of his son-in-law, Darius I.  FTP name this first significant king and founder of the Persian empire.Answer:	Cyrus the Great/Elder (to distinguish from Cyrus the Younger, son of Darius II)2.	He has especial trouble getting out of bed in the morning, but he eventually manages to rock himself out, landing on the floor.  He notices that, overnight, his voice has become high-pitched and shrill when he tries to talk to the Chief Clerk outside his locked bedroom door.  His angry father throws an apple at him, lodging it in his back and causing great harm.  Grete, his little sister, seems most sympathetic to his case, and provides him with rancid food which is now more to his taste.  FTP name this main character of Kafka's The Metamorphosis.Answer:	Gregor Samsa 3.	In 2001, he became the first player in major league history with 100 extra base hits in back to back seasons.  The 8th overall pick of the 1995 draft, and Baseball America's college player of the year for the same year, he also played quarterback for the University of Tennesee's football team.  A two time Gold Glover who leads all active players in career batting average and slugging percentage, FTP, name this Colorado slugger, the starting first baseman for 2003's NL All-Star team.Answer:	Todd Helton 4.	Receiving its name from the French in the 19th century, the word characterizes the old shellwork style, regarded as Old Frankish.  Not so much a real style as a kind of decoration, it is best exemplified by the resolution of interior architectural forms by arbitrary ornamentation.  Flourishing after the death of Louis XIV, it spread to Germany, where it was further perverted into the unnatural and unsymmetrical.  FTP name this decorative architectural style that reigned from 1715-1760, often considered the climax and degeneration of the Baroque.Answer:	Rococo5.	Despite being outnumbered nearly 3-1, the English forces were aided by two factors: their strategic location in the landscape's defile, and the heavy rain and mud hindering the advance of French forces under d'Albret.  As fighting began three hours after sunrise, the English were beaten back and nearly made to retreat, but the tide turned when their 6,000 archers dropped their bows and wielded axes and swords.  FTP name this 1415 battle between the English and the French, known best for the St. Crispin's Day speech of King Henry V.Answer:	Battle of Agincourt6.	This reaction extended World War I because its product can be oxidized to nitric acid, enabling Germany to make more munitions.  It obeys Le Chatelier's principle; increasing pressure will give a higher product yield since 4 gas molecules are transformed into 2.  The reaction was developed in 1909 and would earn its creator the 1918 Nobel Prize in chemistry.  FTP, name this process that synthesized ammonia from elemental hydrogen and nitrogen.Answer:	Haber process or Haber-Bosch process7.	Harry Houdini, JP Morgan, Emma Goldman, Booker T. Washington, and other historical figures manage to make appearances.  Though adapted as a successful Broadway musical, several characters were left out, including Mameh, the wife of Tateh.  Depicting the lives of three families in early 20th century New York - poor Jewish immigrants, an upper middle-class white family, and an unmarried black couple - FTP, name this musically-titled novel by E.L. Doctorow.Answer:	Ragtime8.	A prion infection of this organelle can lead to Gerstmann-Strauscher-Scheinker disease, in which a person has trouble controlling muscle movement.  In muscle cells, one variety stores calcium ions, which are released to start contractions, while the other variety contains imbedded ribosomes that make proteins which are then delivered to the Golgi apparatus.  FTP, name this organelle that comes in rough and smooth varieties, a series of interconnected tubules whose primary purpose is storage and transport of molecules.Answer:	endoplasmic reticulum (prompt on ER, accept smooth or rough endoplasmic reticulum early)
9.	Born in what was then French Indochina, he removed to Paris in 1949 to study radio engineering and joined the emergent political group with which he became most associated.  He did not come to power, however, until 1976, when he deposed Prince Sihanouk.  During his tenure as prime minister, he attempted to deurbanize society and abolished all forms of industry, education, religion, private possessions, and families.  FTP, name this man who organized the killing of nearly 2 million Cambodians between 1976-79.Answer:	Pol Pot or Saloth Sar10.	Written in less than two months, this book sold well but was not very profitable because of its fine binding and 5-shilling price.  Fred, the main character's nephew and only living relative, has a minor part, while Belle, the main character's former fiancée, had been completely forgotten until a trip into the past.  One of the most dichotomously lively and depressing scenes shows the Fezziwig ball, in which the main character is an affable, sociable youth.  FTP, name this Dickens work which shows the effects of severe poverty through the Cratchit family, starring Ebenezer Scrooge.Answer: 	A Christmas Carol11.	In this work, modern society is compared with Bentham's "Panopticon" design for prisons, in which few guards are able to supervise many prisoners, while they themselves remain unseen - a state the author refers to as "The Gaze".  The work goes on to explain that, since the birth of the prison system, it has been considered almost the exclusive solution for criminal behavior.  FTP name this work which follows the evolution of overt control through fear in pre-modern times, to modern use of covert, psychological controls, written by Michel Foucault.Answer:	Discipline and Punish12.	Imagine a box with a door in the middle.  A microscopic person can sit next to the door and open it whenever a molecule approaches from one side.  Eventually, all of the molecules will end up in half of the box, a very ordered state.  Since the person did not expend as much energy in opening and closing the door, the net decrease in entropy violates the Second Law of Thermodynamics.  FTP, name this paradox, named for the Scottish physicist who first thought of it.Answer:	Maxwell's Demon13.	Reforms of this period included abolition of censorship, the right of citizens to criticize government, and a free press that published revelations about corruption in high places, including stories about Antonin Novotny.  To spur the sagging economy, Alexander Dubcek also introduced labor reforms, including increased rights for trade unions.  Unfortunately, all this did was frighten the USSR into thinking Czechoslovakia would abandon the Warsaw Pact.  FTP name this 1968 period of Czechoslovakian liberalization that caused the Soviet invasion.Answer:	Prague Spring14.	Ernie Sabella played Donald "Twinkie" Twinkacetti, and Jo Marie Payton-Noble originated the role of Harriet Winslow on early seasons of this show, which later spun off Family Matters.  Jennifer and Mary Anne were the long-time love interests of the title characters, who when extremely happy, would perform the "dance of joy."  FTP, name this sitcom airing from 1986-1993, starring Bronson Pinchot and Mark Linn-Baker as "cousins."Answer:	Perfect Strangers15.	His father, he said, ruined his childhood by impressing on him a firm vision of the suffering Christ, leading him to be "a child insanely travestied as a melancholy old man."  He soon realized that he was destined to be a religious educator for society, using his skills as a writer to defend Christianity.  However, his 1850 novel Training in Christianity offended the clergy.  Spending the rest of his life fighting the Church because of its perceived corruption and ignorance, FTP name this existential Danish philosopher who is famous for Either/Or.Answer:	Soren Kierkegaard16.	When she met her first husband, she was the daughter of the head of the architectural firm he worked for.  Her second husband gave her first husband a commission in exchange for her, and her third husband was the man she had loved all her life.  FTP, name this character in The Fountainhead whose last names were, in order, Francon, Keating, Wynand, and Roark.Answer:	Dominique (accept any or all of the above last names before mentioned)17.	One tradition says that he came from Thessaly and was welcomed by Camese in Latium, with whom he had the child Tiberinus, the river god.  During his tenure as first king of Latium, he sheltered a fleeing Saturn from furious Jupiter, introduced coined money, cultivation of fields, and laws.  After his death he was deified, and supposedly aided Romulus during the Sabine attack on Rome.  FTP name this Roman god of beginnings and endings, who has two faces pointed in opposite directions.Answer:	Janus
18.	The girl in this painting was based on the pose of a well-known Montmartre model nicknamed 'Nini gueule en raie,' while the man in the painting was posed by the artist's brother Jean.  After it found no takers, it was sold to a dealer for 425 francs, just enough to cover the artist's rent.  Though it appeared in the First Impressionist Exhibition in 1874, it used a good deal of black in the woman's striped dress, and the man's suit and binoculars.  FTP, identify this Renoir painting named for where the play-going couple is sitting.Answer:	La Loge or the Theater Box19.	The 2-variety includes everything in the 1-variety, as well as short-time deposits, overnight repos at commercial banks, and non-institutional money market accounts.  The 3-variety adds long-time deposits, long-term commercial bank repos, and all money market accounts.  The 0-variety is the narrowest definition, consisting of only notes, coins, and retail banks' balances.  FTP identify this economics term represented by the letter "M" that quantifies the amount of a country's legal tender in circulation at a given point.Answer:	money supply (accept "M" before it is mentioned)20.	In the early 1950s, he had the distinction of being the only bassoonist in Fargo, and later the only music major upon his 1957 graduation from Swarthmore.  He narrated Sneaky Pete (a.k.a. Peter) and the Wolf, and he currently composes and hosts radio programs.  His alter ego, a professor, teaches at the University of Southern North Dakota at Hoople and has discovered many of the works of P.D.Q. Bach, the youngest of J.S. Bach's children.  Perhaps best known for arranging a musical segment for Fantasia 2000 and Where the Wild Things Are, FTP, name this multitalented "musicalologist."Answer:	Peter Schickele21.	This language might have been named for the beta star in the constellation Perseus, meaning "the head of Medusa."  Although it was invented in 1958, more famous versions were introduced in 1960 and 1968.  It is considered the ancestor of most modern computer languages as it was the first to include block structure and object-oriented programming.  FTP, name this language, whose name is short for "algorithm language."Answer:	ALGOL22.	Narrated entirely as a reminiscent journal entry by Ángela Carballino, it takes place in the tiny, made-up village of Valverde de Lucerna.  The nearby lake, which figures prominently, is modeled off of the Lago Sanabria, where the author spent much time.  Upon being assigned a new priest from the archdiocese, the small town becomes instantly enamored of his caring, compassionate, pious nature, and many believe he is responsible for local miracles.  However, no one knows the title priest's troubled past -he is actually a fraud who struggles with his spirituality.  FTP name this early 20th century Spanish existentialism work authored by Miguel de Unamuno.Answer:	San Manuel Bueno, Mártir23.	The inventor of this test worked for Guinness' brewery, but had to publish his results under a pseudonym because of competition from other companies.  It makes the assumption that 2 populations are equivalent, and then calculates the probability that any differences are due to chance.  Used when the sigma standard deviation of a population is unknown, groups are classified as significantly different if its score is below a given critical alpha value.  FTP, name this statistical test, which sounds like it might be used by high schoolers.Answer:	Student's t-Test24.	Her father Will has made guest appearances on British TV shows like Cracker and a Touch of Frost, while her mother is the Scottish playwright Sharman MacDonald.  She made her film debut at the age of 9 in A Village Affair, but her first major role was playing the decoy of Natalie Portman's Queen Amidala in Star Wars Episode 1, which many believed was played by Portman herself.  More recently, she received a starring role as Juliette in Gurindher Chadha's Bend it Like Beckham.  FTP, name this British actress currently starring alongside Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp in Pirates of the Carribean.Answer:	Keira Knightly25.	When he was elected mayor, he had only eight fingers.  Once called an "illiterate, tax cheating, wife swapping, pot smoking spend-o-crat," he has an illegitimate son, and he was even caught by his wife in the bed of another woman.  His campaign slogans have been "This time he's the lesser of the two evils," and "If you were running for Mayor, he'd vote for you."  FTP name this mayor of Springfield.Answer:	Mayor QuimbyBoniLiterature1.	Time to play ESPN's NBA2Night game "Name That Import."  FTPE, identify the foreign player recently taken in the NBA draft.[10] This 18 year-old head case of a 7-footer from Serbia was drafted #2 by the Pistons, though new coach Larry Brown preferred Carmelo Anthony.Answer:	Darko Milicic[10] Considered the "steal of the draft," the Knicks snatched up this talented Polish center with the first pick in the 2nd round.  Unfortunately, he is still contracted for next year by his previous team, Real Madrid, meaning the Knicks will need to use some of their mid-level exception to buy him out.Answer:	Maciej Lampe[10] Dubbed the "Michael Jordan of Europe," this 6-6 French shooting guard was chosen 11th by the Golden State Warriors.Answer:	Mickael Pietrus2.	Time for some Smush-style literary before-and-after FTPE.[10] Yukio Mishima's character Kochan is homosexual, and struggles for acceptance in postwar Japan.  Just when he thinks he's out of the woods, he gets caught by the satan-worshipping Prince Prospero, who enjoys treating him sadistically, but then dies of a title disease.Answer:	Confessions of a Mask(Masque) of the Red Death[10] E.M. Forster's work about Lucy Honeychurch, who visits Italy, falls in love, then runs into James Bond, who's investigating a security leak at Zorin Industries, only to discover that Max Zorin has devised a plot to corner the world's microchip market.Answer:	A Room With a View To a Kill[10] Arundhati Roy's Booker Prize-Winning 1997 tale of Rachel Kochamma, who gets to commiserate with Okonkwo, a great man in African society that can't adapt to profound sociological changes during British colonial rule.Answer:	The God of Small Things Fall Apart 3.	Identify these early hominids, FTPE.[10] These hominids lived from around 3 to 4 million years ago.  The most famous example of them is Lucy, discovered by Donald Johanson in 1974.Answer:	Australopithecus afarensis[10] This species lived from about 1.5 to 2 million years ago.  Nicknamed handy man, they were this first to make stone tools.Answer:	Homo habilis[10] Peking man, which lived in China around 400,000 years ago, is a member of this species.Answer:	Homo erectus4.	30-20-10 Name the Biblical prophet.[30] He once had a vision of a valley full of dry bones which the Lord restored to life.[20] While hiding from Ahab and Jezebel, he was fed by a widow in Zarephath.[10] His follower Elisha saw him taken up to heaven in a chariot.Answer:	Elijah.5.	Identify the following from the French Revolution FTPE.[10] After failed attempts in 1788 to tax the nobles, King Louis XVI called the first meeting of this council since 1614 in order to resolve the dispute.  This endeavor failed, however, because the council was itself divided into the factions of nobles, clergy, and bourgeoisie.Answer:	Estates-General[10] This term, meaning "without knee-breeches," was used during the early years of the French Revolution to refer to the poorly-equipped volunteers of the Revolutionary Army.Answer:	sans-culottes[10] The Committee of Public Safety, lead by this man, instituted the Reign of Terror to root out counterrevolutionaries.Answer:	Maximilien Robespierre6.	Name these characters from The Libation Bearers, 5-10-15.[5] His mission throughout the play is to avenge his father's death, which he does by killing Clytamnestra at the end.Answer:	Orestes[10] Orestes also murders this man, his mother's lover.Answer:	Aigisthos[15] He only speaks when Orestes hesitates to kill Clytamnestra, although he is present for most of the play.Answer:	Pylades7.	Give these definitions of acids and bases from chemistry, FTPE.[10] In this earliest system developed by the 1903 Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, acids are proton donors, while bases donate hydroxide ions to solution.Answer:	Arrhenius Theory[10] In this system developed by 2 scientists, an acid is a proton donor, while a base is a proton acceptor, thus ammonia is a base.Answer:	Bronsted-Lowry Theory[10] In this generalized system, an acid is an electron pair acceptor, while a base is an electron pair donator, therefore aluminum chloride is an acid.Answer:	Lewis Theory8.	Identify the described character from Joseph Heller's Catch-22, on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] The paranoid main character and bombardier, who thinks everyone is trying to kill him.Answer:	Yossarian[10] The bitter flight surgeon who avoids his medical duties, he is the first to introduce Yossarian to the concept of Catch-22.Answer:	Doc Daneeka[15] The main antagonist of the novel, this colonel volunteers his men for dangerous missions and constantly raises the number of missions in a tour of duty.  He desperately wants to be a general, carries a cigarette holder to make himself look sophisticated, and is obsessed with getting his picture in the Saturday Evening Post.Answer:	Colonel Cathcart9.	Identify the following relating to early models of the atom, FTPE.[10] This physicist's gold foil experiment showed that the atom had a dense nucleus.  He likened the atom to a miniature solar system, with electrons orbiting the nucleus.Answer:	Ernest  Rutherford, Lord Nelson[10] In Bohr's model of the atom, electrons are confined to discrete energy levels whose angular momentums are integral multiples of this number divided by 2 pi.Answer:	Planck's Constant (prompt on "h", do not prompt on "h-bar")[10] In this early, "edible" model devised by J.J. Thomson, the atom is a uniform positive charge, with electrons sprinkled throughout.Answer:	Plum Pudding Model 10.	30-20-10 Name the historical figure responsible for these quotes.[30] "The God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the same time," from Summary View of the Rights of British America.[20] "Indeed, I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just," from Notes on Virginia.[10] "We hold these truths to be self-evident, -- that all men are created equal..." Answer:	Thomas Jefferson11.	Name the poet and poem from lines, five points per answer.[5,5] "Of cloudless climes and starry skies / And all that's best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes"Answer:	She Walks In Beauty by George Gordon, Lord Byron[5,5] "The time you won your town the race / We chaired you through the market-place / Man and boy stood cheering by / And home we brought you shoulder high"Answer:	To an Athlete Dying Young by A.E. Housman[5,5] "And nodding by the fire, take down this book / And slowly read, and dream of the soft look / Your eyes had once, and of their shadows deep"Answer:	When You Are Old by William Butler Yeats12.	Identify the Chinese dynasty from a description FTPE.[10] Ruling from 1600 BCE to 1000 BCE, information about this dynasty comes from bronze artifacts and oracle bones - turtle shells on which are written the first Chinese characters.Answer:	Shang[10] During this dynasty's reign, paper was invented, and Confucianism was adopted under Emperor Wu.Answer:	Han[10] This dynasty, which ruled from 1636-1911, saw 4 wars: the First and Second Opium Wars, the Franco-Chinese War, the First Sino-Japanese War; and 2 rebellions, the Taiping and the Boxer.Answer:	Manchu or Qing (pronounced "Ching"-do not accept Chin or Qin) 
13.	Name the Henrik Ibsen work from plot description, FTPE.[10] Helen Alving tries to ignore her husband's infidelities and the disease he passed to their son, but she is ultimately forced to confront all those problems that have kept her from enjoying life.Answer:	Ghosts[10] Universally condemned upon its publication in 1890, the title character forgoes an exciting fling with a writer in favor of a conventional but loveless marriage with someone else.  Unable to experience vicarious fulfillment through her husband's career, she struggles with bourgeois life.Answer:	Hedda Gabler[10] When Dr. Stockmann tries to expose a water pollution scandal in his hometown, the mayor conspires to suppress the story and ruin his life.  Stockmann's character is slandered and reviled, and he is labeled with this title.Answer:	Enemy of the People14.	Identify the psychological disorder from a description, FTPE.[10] A type of anxiety disorder, it is the result of a severe and extraordinary stressor that may be due to environment, war, or violent crime.  Symptoms are categorized no less than 3 months after the event; before that time, symptoms are classified as Acute Stress Disorder.Answer:	post traumatic stress disorder/syndrome[10] A type of dissociative disorder, a person adopts a new identity after leaving his or her previous living arrangements, forgetting about previous identity.  Caused by a specific stressor, it may last from several days up to one month, and when it ends the person is unable to recall what happened during this state.Answer:	dissociative fugue[10] A type of personality disorder, the person is always calling attention to him/herself.  They are overly dramatic, and minor situations can cause wild swings in emotions.  They easily become bored with routine, and crave new excitement.  Relationships are formed quickly, but are shallow.Answer:	histrionic personality disorder15.	5-10-15 Identify these concepts in sociology from information.[5] A postmodern method of analysis, its goal is to undo all that is permanent, objective, and determinative.  It shows unexamined assumptions, reveals contradictions, and highlights the subject's refusal to deal with such.Answer:	deconstruction(ism)[10] A term coined by Durkheim to describe a state of normlessness.  It is also used to describe a type of suicide occurring because of and during such a state.Answer:	anomie[15] Coined by George Ritzer, it refers to the effort to control all aspects of production and distribution via a highly organized set of rules.  It embodies the bureaucracy which Weber calls an "iron cage": all employees must wear the same specified clothing, use rehearsed words, work hours set for them, and produce things exactly the same no matter the geographical separation. Answer:	McDonaldization16.	Identify the following American icons who have recently passed away FTPE.[10] Nicknamed "King", this preeminent jazz saxophonist was responsible for bringing the instrument to prominence.  He is known for his excellent arrangements, and in 2000 was awarded the National Medal of Arts by President Clinton.Answer:	Benny Carter[10] He spent his summers in Scott Island, Maine, which became the setting for three of his children's books: Blueberries for Sal, One Morning In Maine, and Time of Wonder.  He is best known as the author and illustrator of Make Way for Ducklings.Answer:	Robert McCloskey[10] The full title of his 1995 autobiography sums up what he had seen during his legendary career: "11 Presidents, 4 Wars, 22 Political Conventions, 1 Moon Landing, 3 Assassinations, 2,000 Weeks of News and Other Stuff on Television and 18 Years of Growing Up in North Carolina."Answer:	David Brinkley17.	Identify these mythical creatures from descriptions FTPE.[10] With wings so colossal they can eclipse the sun and claws so large they could carry off elephants, this is the mythical Arabian bird on whose foot Sinbad was carried off to a mountain.Answer:	Roc[10] With a name meaning "tearer of corpses", this monstrous serpent of Norse mythology perpetually gnaws at the deepest root of the World Tree Yggdrasil.Answer:	Nidhogg[10] In Greek myth, this sea monster lives underneath a dangerous rock at one side of the Strait of Messia.  She threatens passing ships, and eats six of Odysseus' companions.Answer:	Scylla
18.	Identify the battle from the War of the First Triumvirate 15-10-5.[15] This 53 BCE battle saw the Roman Army crushed by the Parthians under Orodes.  Marcus Licinius Crassus was executed after this battle, touching off the power struggle between Caesar and Pompey.Answer:	Carrhae[10] Fought in the title old Phoenician colony on the North African coast in 49 BCE, Caesar's forces under command of Gaius Curio defeated Pompey's forces.Answer:	Utica[5] Caesar had the help of Mark Antony at this 48 BCE battle which definitively established him as the sole Roman emperor.  His forces utterly overran those of Pompey, and Pompey subsequently fled to Egypt, where he was murdered.Answer:	Pharsalus19.	Identify these terms you might find in their respective fantasy worlds FTPE.[10] In the world of Harry Potter, this is the term used to beings without any magical power.Answer:	muggle(s)[10] In Middle-earth, this is the tasty, revitalizing cordial brewed by the Elves.  Elrond gives some to Gandalf before the Quest, and it saves the hobbits' lives in the snows of Caradhras.Answer:	miruvor[10] In Discworld, this word has many meanings.  Its primary definition is the exclamation made when dying of a heart attack during sex, it also is the sound you make when hit very hard in the stomach with a bowling ball.  Lastly, it describes the state of your eyes after countless hours fixing a hard disk problem.Answer:	urt20.	It's about time that Hollywood actors realize they can't play music, and stick to making movies.  Given the name of a band with a celebrity lead-singer, name the celebrity frontman; 5 for 1, 10 for 2, 20 for 3, 30 for all 4.[5] DogstarAnswer:	Keanu Reeves[10] 30 Odd Foot of GruntsAnswer:	Russell Crowe[20] Phantom PlanetAnswer:	Jason Schwartzman[30] The AcceleratorsAnswer:	Bruce Willis21.	Name these paintings from descriptions FTPE.[10] This influential work by Velasquez uses chiaroscuro to highlight the figures in the foreground , including the painter, girls, and dog.Answer:	Las Meninas[10] John Singer Sargent did studies of Las Meninas, an effort which culminated in this painting of the daughters of a Boston millionaire living in Paris.Answer:	The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit[10] Sargent tamed this portrait after its initial display, putting a shoulder strap back onto the subject's shoulder.Answer:	Madame X22.	Name these female South American writers, FTP each.a. Born in Lima in 1942, she has published several works about the fictional Eva Luna.  Her novel, The Infinite Plan is set in the United States, where she now lives.Answer: Isabel Allende b. In 1914 Lucila Alcayaga published her "Sonnets of Death under this pen name.  She also wrote Desolación and Tala. Answer: Gabriela Mistralc. Before dying of cancer in 1977, she published such fluid works as The Hour of the Star and Água Viva.Answer: Clarice Lispector23.	Given a description, identify these sorting algorithms, FTPE.[10] The least efficient sort, each pair of elements is compared and swapped if they are out of order.Answer:	Bubble or Sinking or Exchange Sort[10] This sort takes each element and puts it into the correct spot in the final list.Answer:	Insertion Sort[10] The most efficient algorithm for large lists, this sort splits the list into 2 halves, based on whether each element is larger or smaller than a pivot element.  This is recursively repeated until the list is in order.Answer:	Quick Sort
24.	Given the election year, provide the second place finisher FTP, or for 5 if you need the president victor.[10] 1884[5] Grover ClevelandAnswer:	James Blaine[10] 1852[5] Franklin PierceAnswer:	Winfield Scott[10] 1964[5] Lyndon JohnsonAnswer:	Barry Goldwater