TOSSUPS - PASSOVER FREE AGENT ALL-STARS			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UTCQuestions (mostly) by Stephen Webb1.	Under this dynasty, the capital was moved to Damascus, and Byzantium was sieged unsuccessfully twice. In spite the failures, the Islamic empire continued to expand westward, conquering Carthage and, in 711, the Visigoth kingdom in Spain. The expansion continued until a failed siege of Byzantium ended in 718 and the defeat at Tours in 732. FTP identify this first Islamic dynasty, named for a leading wealthy Meccan family.	Answer:	Umayyad Caliphate2.	Calculations indicated that galaxies were all rotating much faster than expected, and according to relativity should be flying apart. Although x-ray telescopes detected large clouds of gas, the mass was insufficient to account for the observed behavior. Candidates for this include MACHOs such as brown dwarfs or black holes, hydrogen gas, or weakly interacting massive particles, WIMPs. FTP identify this type of matter, undetectable by any direct observation currently used.	Answer:	dark matter3.	The title character desires from youth to become a learned scholar. Purchasing Latin texts, he is dismayed to realize that there is no magical formula to translate English to Latin, and that he must learn an entire new language. Later in life, he attempts to enter a university, but is forced to work as a stonemason and educate himself. This is complicated by his relationship with Arabella, and later the fathering of various children by his cousin Sue Bridehead, all of which are killed "because there are too many" by Father Time. FTP identify this 1895 novel, the last one written by Thomas Hardy.	Answer:	Jude the Obscure4.	He was put to death for his most infamous deed by Vali, the son of Odin born for revenge. Despite his infamous standing amongst the other Norse gods, he will be reborn after Ragnarok when the new world is born. His most infamous deed came by trickery from Loki, and involved a game with his almost invincible brother. FTP identify this Norse god of blindness who accidentally killed his brother Baldur with a fig of mistletoe.	Answer:	Hod or Hoder5.	He took his name from his birthplace in the Netherlands; his real surname was van Aken. His surreal paintings, influential to all surrealist movements since, were a sharp contrast to the realism of his contemporaries. Following his death, much of his art, which incorporated complex symbols from popular belief and astrology, were purchased by Phillip II of Spain. FTP identify this artist who shared his idea of hell in his work The Garden of Earthly Delights.	Answer:	Hieronymus or Jerome Bosch (accept van Aken on early buzz)6.	It was a direct violation of the Teller Amendment to the declaration of war on Spain. It restricted the nation from signing a treaty with a foreign power that restricted its independence, prevented the build up of an excessive public debt, permitted US intervention to maintain order, and allowed the US to maintain a naval base for a cheap rent, which is still paid today. FTP identify this 1901 amendment, which permits US use of Guantanamo Bay, forcibly added to the Cuban constitution.	Answer:	Platt Amendment7.	Most unsaturated hydrocarbons undergo rapid addition reactions, but this one usually undergoes replacement reactions, more similar to saturated hydrocarbons. This unique property and chemical stability makes this compound the universal nonpolar solvent, its polarity coming from the various resonance structures that result in a delocalized pi orbital. FTP identify this compound of formula C6H6, the simplest of the aromatic hydrocarbons.	Answer:	benzene8.	His autobiographical essay Taiyo to tetsu reveals that his greatest lifelong concern was the dichotomy between mind and body that exists within modern civilization. His attempts to resolve this begins with Kamen no kokuhaku and ending with the tetralogy Hojo no umi, The Sea of Fertility. Believing that the key to resolving this dichotomy is anti-intellectuals, his novel The Sound of Waves features the success of these anti-intellectuals. FTP identify this Japanese novelist who committed ritual suicide in 1970.	Answer:	Yukio Mishima
9.	With Dorothee Gunther in 1924 he founded a school for gymnastics, music and dance, and later he provided materials for children to make music themselves using simple percussion instruments and their voices. His works for the stage are designed to be pageants for the stage, and include several versions of Greek dramas and Bavarian comedies. FTP identify this Munich born composer of Carmina Burana.	Answer:	Carl Orff10.	Born in 1928, his first important film was 1956's The Killing, a story comparable to Hitchcock. Immigrating to England in 1962, he went on to produce many films of various topics, adapting novels for material, the first of which was Nabokov's Lolita. One of his most famous films, an adaptation of Gustav Hasford's The Shot-Timers, is a nihilistic view of the Vietnam War. FTP identify this director of Full Metal Jacket.	Answer:	Stanley Kubrick11.	It is an ironic twist on a patriotic quote from Horace, as the poet refutes his statement by declaring: "If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood | come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs | bitter as the cud | Of vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues, --" that people would stop quoting to children with such ardent pride this title line. Describing a gas attack, FTP identify this poem, whose title is a fragment of the line "It is sweet and becoming to die for one's country" written by Wilfred Owen.	Answer:	Dulce et Decorum Est (the full line is "Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori")12.	Conservative and usually a Republican, he was a strong opponent of racial prejudice, income tax, inflation, and the reduction of the armed forces. Born in Germany, his first works began appearing in Harper's Weekly in 1862. He threw his support, and his drawings, in support of Grant for his two terms in office, and successfully attacked Boss Tweed with his caricatures. FTP identify this cartoonist, credited for creating the donkey and elephant as symbols of the democratic and republican parties.	Answer:	Thomas Nast13.	He wrote volumes on his unorthodox views on politics, war, and religion, and as a lifelong pacifist works such as Common Sense and Nuclear Warefare and Has man a Future? relates his concern with nuclear Armageddon. Awarded the British Order of Merit in 1944, his works up to that time had been focuses upon his philosophy and mathematics. FTP identify this author and philosopher, who, along with Alfred Whitehead, published the Principia Mathematica.	Answer:	Bertrand Arthur William Russell14.	If a microwave beam is shot into a prism at the critical angle, the beam will experience total internal reflection and be deflected away from the edge. If two prisms of the same design are lined up to form a square, the microwave will pass straight through. Logic dictates therefore that if any distance separates the prisms the microwave will experience total internal reflection, but at certain distances there is a possibility that the microwave will pass straight through. FTP what quantum phenomenon  accounts for this, in which particles and waves spontaneously gain more energy.	Answer:	quantum tunneling15.	They should be shiny and pliant, with no signs of mold. Often sold sealed in airtight glass tubes, storage in a cool dark place will extend their storage life for up to one year.  Those from Indonesia can have a smoky flavor, those from Mexico have a complex character. The Tahitian ones have a fruity aroma, but the ones from Madagascar are the most prized, for their intensity. Costing from three to five dollars apiece, for 10 points, what is this product of a Central American orchid?	Answer:	vanilla beans16.	She won her third Tony Award for Contact, an original production which she had conceived, but did not become well-known outside of Broadway circles until she and husband Mike Ockrent began work on Mel Brooks' restyling of his first film, The Producers. FTP name this choreographer, who earned yet another Tony for her efforts on the smash hit.	Answer:	Susan Stroman
17.	It recounts the authors travels around Europe, describing the hallowed landmarks and historic monuments of the continent in the author's own irreverent style. Poking fun at both European and American customs, the author burlesques the travel books of the 19th century. The work itself is a compilation of his letters to San Francisco and New York newspapers as a correspondent from the field. FTP identify this 1869 Mark Twain work, subtitled The New Pilgrim's Progress.	Answer:	The Innocents Abroad (prompt on the New Pilgrim's Progress on early buzz)18.	Police, suspecting that a serial bomber was living in a house, entered that house without a warrant and found only illegal pornography. The owner of the house was brought up on charges and convicted, but the Supreme Court held that illegally obtained evidence could not be used in a court case, as this violates right to privacy and a Constitutional clause forbidding the federal government's use of illegally obtained evidence. FTP, identify this 1961 case.	Answer:	Mapp v. Ohio19.	They were established in 1190 as a hospital order, but eight years later Pope Innocent III made it a knightly order, bypassing the local bishops and making it directly answerable to him. They became very influential in Germany, and after the Crusades they turned their attention to spreading Christianity throughout Eastern Europe. Springing from the Hanseatic Knights Hospitaller, these are, FTP, what German order of knights?	Answer:	Teutonic Knights 20.	Martin Gardner wrote a short story based upon these entitled "The No-sided Professor," and many of M.C. Escher's works utilize them. This anomaly was generated by a German mathematician, a pioneer in the field of topology, and its unique properties have found a great number of uses in practical industry. FTP, identify this object, created by taking a band and giving it a half twist before connecting the ends, that has only one side and one edge.	Answer:	Mobius strip (or loop, band, whatever)21.	The title character's name literally means "she who disbands armies." Written in 411 BC, it opens up in front of the Acropolis, and tells how, during the Peloponnesian War (*), the women of Sparta and Athens strike for peace by practicing celibacy. FTP, identify this play, the most controversial work of the author, written by Aristophanes.       Answer:	Lysistrata22.	He is an open critic of the process by which the war on terror is being conducted, declaring that the strategy is confused and may take years to carry out. He received his Ph.D. from Oxford in 1975, and served as professor of divinity there from 1986 to 1992. In 1991 he was elected bishop of Monmouth, and eight years later archbishop of Wales. FTP identify this Welsh theologian, set to succeed George Carey as the 104th Archbishop of Canterbury.	Answer:	Rowan Williams23.	Due to monetary constraints, the early years of the project were set back, while research was done to improve existing techniques. Scheduled to be finished by spring 2003, as the project completes its study of the euchromatic portions of the DNA molecule. For ten points, identify this project, whose goal is to catalogue the more than 30000 genes of the average homo sapien.	Answer:	Human Genome Project
BONI - PASSOVER FREE AGENT ALL-STARS		MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions (mostly) by Stephen Webb1.	Identify the following Russian czars for ten points each.(a) Following the assassination of his father he, he took the throne in 1881, and led a series of counter-reforms which increased state censorship and encouraged or ignored the first pogroms against Jews. Answer:	Alexander III(b) He began his political career in Ivan the Terrible's oprichnina, and attained the throne through political intrigue and the murder, and became the subject of a play by Pushkin.Answer:	Boris Godunov(c) A grandnephew of Ivan the Terrible's wife Anastasia and son of the patriarch Filaret, a zemskii sobor elected him czar at the age of sixteen, creating stability at the end of the Time of Troubles.Answer:	Mikhail Romanov or Michael Romanov2.	Given a brief description of the work, identify the following literary contributions by James Joyce FTPE:(a) This autobiographical novel follows the development of Stephen Dedalus, from his youth to his conflicts with society to his eventual self-imposed exile from Ireland.Answer:	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man(b) This 1914 work is an account of a series of incidents and stories, the titles of the stories including The Sisters, Clay, and The Dead.Answer:	Dubliners(c) This 1918 naturalistic play centers around Richard Rowan and his romantic entanglements involving his common law wife Bertha and his friends.Answer:	Exiles3.       Identify these Seattle bands of the early '90's from anecdotes about their lead singer FTPE or from his name for 5:(a) 10:   This band's lead singer was born in a lumbering town outside Seattle, and when the band's breakthrough album came out, he was living on the street, having been evicted for not paying rent.       5:  Kurt CobainAnswer:	Nirvana(b) 10:  When Metallica got new haircuts, this band's guitarist wrote "Friends don't let friends get haircuts" on his guitar in concert.      5:   Layne StaleyAnswer:	Alice in Chains(c) 10:  This band's lead man released a solo album, Euphoria Morning, but it never matched up to the success of earlier group albums such as Superunknown.       5:  Chris Cornell - who unlike the others, as of Friday 8/2/02 is still alive.Answer:	Soundgarden4.	Identify the following from industrial chemistry for ten points each.(a) This industrial process, discovered in 1839, involves crosslinking sulfur into rubber.Answer:	vulcanization(b) This is the more common name for the defoliate which is a 50:50 mix of the butyl esters of 2, 4, 5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid and 2, 4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid.Answer:	Agent Orange(c) This other controversial substance, the first successful organic pesticide, is technically designated 1,1-bis(4-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2,-trichloroethane.Answer:	DDT or Dichlorodiphenyl Trichloroethane
5.	Identify the following Secretaries of State for ten points each.(a) His tenure began under Kennedy and continued through Johnson.Answer:	Dean Rusk(b) This man was the first secretary of state, but resigned promptly to take a post on the Supreme Court. His career was also marked by a highly unpopular eponymous treaty.Answer:	John Jay(c) This firm silver advocate and perennial presidential office seeker resigned from the post under Wilson over US involvement in World War I.Answer:	William Jennings Bryan6.	Identify the following modern artists from a brief description for ten points each.(a) This Spanish surrealist spent most of his life in Spain, and contributed his artwork in a mural on the UNESCO building, as well as the paintings Maternity and Painting.Answer:	Joan Miro(b) The first important work of this German's surrealist phase is Celebes, and he was a founder of both Surrealism and Dada. He invented "frottage" as an art form.Answer:	Max Ernst(c) Between 1971 and 1985, he compiled a series of 240 paintings and drawings of his neighbor, Helga Testorf. In 1948, he released his most successful and famous work of realism, "Christina's World."       Answer:	Andrew Newell Wyeth7.	Identify the Nobel laureate in literature from a brief description of their life FTPE, five if you require a work.(10) This Italian won the 1934 award; his works create issues of what is truth and reality, usually with extreme pessimism.(5) Six Characters in Search of an AuthorAnswer:	Luigi Pirandello(10) As a youth he served in Hitler's National Labor Service and later fought in World War II, which led to his militant hatred of fascism an aggressive nationalism. His literary works center heavily upon the disillusionment in Germany following the war, which earned him a Nobel in 1972(5) The ClownAnswer:	Heinrich Boll(10) After studying in England he returned to Nigeria to establish the indigenous theatre, which resulted in two companies, the 1960 Masks and the Orisun Repertory. His prize was awarded in 1986.(5) The Road, Ake: The Years of Childhood (an autobiography)Answer:	Woly Soyinka8.	Identify the following things from quantum theory for ten points each.(a) This constant, roughly equal to 6.626 x 10^-34 J*s, relates the amount of energy a photon carries to its frequency.Answer:	_Planck's Constant_(b) This is the name given to the spectrum of hydrogen when there is a quantum leap down to the second energy level.Answer:	_Balmer_ series(c) It states that f(?, T) = 8?kT?^-4, and relates spectral distribution of black-body radiation to wavelength at varying temperatures. It was modified by Planck to acquire Planck's law.Answer:	_Rayleigh-Jean's_ Law9.	Identify the following deities from Egyptian mythology, none of whom is Nephthys, FTPE.(a) This king of the gods was a patron of the Pharaohs and a god of fertility. He is often displayed with either a human or ram head and with a plumed crown.Answer:	_Amon_(b) The sky goddess, depicted arched over her brother Geb as either a woman or a cow.Answer:	_Nut_(c) The scarab beetle god who rolled the sun before him through the sky and symbolized the idea of rebirth and eternal life.Answer:	_Khepri_
10.	Oh no, it's opera! For 10 points each, given a partial cast of characters from a major opera, you name the title character. If you require the composer's name to get it right, you'll only earn 5 points.(10) Zerlina, Leporello and the Commendatore, whose statue later comes to life.(5) Wolfgang Amadeus MozartAnswer:	Don Giovanni(10) Princess Marina of Poland and The False Dmitri(5) Modest MussorgskyAnswer:	Boris Gudunov(10) Mario, Scarpio and Cavaradossi(5) Giacomo PucciniAnswer:	Tosca11.	While 2 out of 3 may suffice in most endeavors, in this case, we'll give you the first two members of a Biblical trio, and you must name the third. You know..... like Shadrach, Meschach and Abednego.(a) Melchior, Balthazar and.....	Answer:	Caspar [the three wise men, the Magi](b) Moses, Aaron and.....	Answer:	Miriam [the children of Amram and Jochebed](c) Dismas, Gestas and....	Answer:	Jesus of Nazareth (or the Christ) [they were crucified together]12.	Answer the following about the Hundred Years War for ten points each.(a) The war began partly over claim to the French throne, a lineage issue with this English monarch's mother being Philip the Fair's daughter, while Philip of Valois claimed the throne as Philip the Fair's brother.Answer:	Edward III(b) Following a series of defeats by the English and disunity between Orleans and Burgundy, this uncrowned French king was the one who gave Joan of Arc command of the French army.Answer:	Charles VII(c) Henry V, after a series of military victories beginning with Agincourt, married Catherine of Valois and become the rightful heir to the French throne as per this 1420 treaty.Answer:	Treaty of Troyes13.	We all love our lipids, so let's identify them for ten points each.(a) The most common type of lipid, these are esters composed of polyhydroxy alcohol glycerol and long-chain carboxylic acids. An example of this type of substance is tristearin.Answer:	_fat_s(b) Similar to fats in that they are esters of glycerol, they contain only two fatty acids, and can be broken down into a nonpolar "tail" and a polar "head".Answer:	_phospholipid_s(c) Like fats and phospholipids, these are esters, bonded to monohydroxy alcohols instead of glycerol.Answer:	_wax_es14.	So many bizarre clues to choose from...  Name this performer 30-20-10:	30) Among his credits: Goin' Coconuts, which was designed to launch a film career for Donny and Marie; The Poppy Is Also a Flower, a bizarre anti-drug thriller hosted by Grace Kelly and featuring an all-star cast offset by Senta Berger and Angie Dickinson; and the TV series your genial quizmaster considers the worst major network offering he ever saw, Highcliffe Manor.  Horror Safari and The Ninja Strikes Back were released in 1982, the same year he died of cancer.20) This native of Hawaii won the light-heavyweight silver medal for weightlifting in the 1948 Olympics before turning to wrestling, often as a heel under the name "Tosh Togo." 10)  His lasting claim to fame is as Oddjob in the 1964 Bond classic Goldfinger.	Answer:	Harold Sakata
15.	Identify the following about a certain Russian author FTSNOP.(5)  This Russian native propounded a new philosophy of ultracapitalism in her works The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged.Answer:	Ayn _Rand_(5)  The name of her philosophy, which declares that looking out for one's own self-interest is the best way to achieve happiness for everyone.Answer:	_objectivism_(5)  This man, modeled on Frank Lloyd Wright, is the title character of The Fountainhead, and serves as the ideal objectivist man.Answer:	Howard _Roark_(15) Ayn Rand's first novel, published in 1936, in which she first propounds the ideas of objectivism.Answer:	_We The Living_16.	In 1986 things in the Soviet Union started to heat up. For the stated number of points, identify:(5)  The nuclear reactor that melted down, resulting in the worst nuclear disaster in world  history.Answer:	_Chernobyl_(10) The Chernobyl reactor is located in what former Soviet state?Answer:	_Ukraine_(15) The absence of what structure, a requirement on US plants, could have possibly prevented the wide spreading of the radiation?Answer:	_containment building_ (accept clear knowledge equivalent)17.	Identify the following characters from Candide FTSNOP.(5) Well, OK, so he's not a character, but he's the real-life philosopher Dr. Pangloss' optimism is designed to mock.Answer:	Gottfried Wilhelm von _Liebnitz_(10) The name of Candide's love, who turns ugly with age and gets Candide kicked out of the castle for having sex with her.Answer:	_Cunegonde_(5) Candide hides with this order of priests who are warring with Portugal and Spain, an order that Cunegonde's brother has become a member of.Answer:	_Jesuits_ or _Society of Jesus_(10) The name of Candide's faithful companion who he picks up in Argentina and who follows him throughout the novel.Answer:	_Cacambo_18.	Name the island from clues 30-20-10.30.In 1077, the bishop of Pisa was given control over the island; in 1284, Genoa took over, and was to retain control over the island for almost five hundred years.20. From 1755-1769, the island was ruled as a republic by Pasquale Paoli, who founded a university, repressed the vendetta, and founded a navy. He also ruled the island from 1792-1794.10. France bought the rights to the island from Genoa in 1768, and soon conquered the island. With capital at Ajaccio, today it consists of two departements of the French Republic.       Answer: Corsica19.	Answer the following about superstring theory for ten points each.(a) Superstring theory depends heavily upon this theory, named for the two scientists who postulated it, which declares there are one or more spatial dimensions above the three visible one.Answer:	Kaluza-Klein Theory(b) These extra dimensions would be curled up and extremely small, and their geometry is believed to be these kinds of higher dimensional topological spaces.Answer:	Kalabi-Yau Spaces(c) Superstring theory postulates the existence of what obvious factor in the universe, a conclusion that is not reached by other quantum theories?Answer:	gravity
20.	Name the following figures from the Carolingian Renaissance for ten points each.(a) This poet-historian from the Benedictine house of Monte Cassino wrote History of the Lombards, providing an account of the Lombard presence in Italy.Answer:	Paul the Deacon(b) Later to become bishop of Orleans and abbot of Fleury, this Spaniard was a talented poet and supporter of Charlemagne's educational reforms. Answer:	Theodulf(c) The last significant mind from the earlier Northumbrian Renaissance, he edited the Bible and removed various scribal errors. At the end of his life he served as abbot of St. Martin of Tours.Answer:	Alcuin21.	Identify the following about the League of Nations FTPE.(a) This Senate Republican led the opposition to ratification, despite early questions as to his position.	Answer:	Henry Cabot _Lodge_(b) It was this article, which required of members military intervention in defense of other members, which caused the most controversy.Answer:	Article _10_(c) This former president, a supporter of the League, threw his support to Lodge's desire for reservations, ending any chance that an unmodified treaty would pass through the Senate.Answer:	William Howard _Taft_22.	Identify the following physicists who contributed to the field of quantum theory FTPE.(a) He received the 1965 Nobel Physics Prize for his work on quantum electrodynamics along with Sin Itiro Tomonaga and Julian Schwinger.Answer:	Richard Phillips _Feynman_(b) His quadratic equation, a relativistic version of quantum mechanics, predicted the existence of antiparticles such as the positron.Answer:	Paul Adrien Maurice _Dirac_(c) In 1969 he received the Nobel Physics prize for his work on elementary particle interactions and postulated in 1964 the existence of quarks.Answer:	Murray _Gell-Mann_23.	Identify the following Japanese dramatists for fifteen points each.(a) This dramatist, whose career began with kabuki but moved on to bunraku theater, wrote such works as Love Suicide at Sonezaki and Battles of Coxinga.Answer:	_Chikamatsu_ _Monzaemon_ (accept either or both)(b) He helped to elevate No drama to an artform, and, as a critic, established the aesthetic standards that Japanese plays are subject to.Answer:	_Zeami_ _Motokiyo_ (accept either or both)24.	Many modern literary works are based upon the happenings of the classical world. For fifteen points each, identify these works based in a classical setting.(a) This work by Jean-Paul Sartre centers around the Orestia and features the unique titular punishment for the people of Argos.Answer:	The _Flies_ or _Le Mouches_(b) This work of Albert Camus centers around an insane Roman emperor who attempted to drive the already insane world he perceived further into madness.Answer:	_Caligula_