MOC MASTERS 2003 -- UTCBlind round by Paul Nelson and Robert Trent1.	The narrator of this work saw as one possible benefit "lessening the number of papists among us," whom he claimed flooded the market 9 months after Lent. If the subjects couldn't be eaten, he said, they could always be turned into hats and gloves. FTP, identify this 1729 satirical "solution to the Irish Question" by Jonathan Swift.	Answer:		A Modest Proposal2.	Fought in and around Ambion Hill, close to Sutton Cheney, 4000 troops under the Stanley brothers actually stayed out of the fighting, switching allegiances and the tide of battle. In addition, the Earl of Northumberland failed to bring up his reserves and the defending Richard III was forced to withdraw. FTP, what is this 1485 battle that brought the Tudor dynasty to the English throne?	Answer:		Battle of Bosworth Field3.	Most often noticed in the US, variations are witnessed in Europe under titles like Old Wives and St. Martin's, even God's Gift To Poland. The Native Americans who enjoyed it called it a gift of the god of the Southwest, Cautantowwit. It's caused when warm tropical air stays stagnant over the country in late October or early Nov. before the onset of winter, FTP, identify this period of fair weather seen in autumn.	Answer:		Indian Summer4.	With fellow Briton William Bateson in 1905, he published papers on gene interaction and genetic linkage in Mendel's sweet peas.  He worked to introduce statistics in the study of genetics, including asking G.H. Hardy to work out a formula for inheritance.  FTP, name this English geneticist, who created a square for statistically determining the genotypes of offspring. 	Answer: 	Reginald Crundall Punnett5.	Born in 1942, he has held his current position since 1969. As a military officer, he organized a coup against King Idris I, and promptly took over command of the army and became the head of the Revolutionary Command Council. He outlawed alcohol and gambling, nationalized all foreign oil equipment and called for a return of Sicily and Spain to Muslim control. FTP, identify this dictator of Libya.	Answer:		Muammar al-Qaddafi6.	Toronto and Montreal have hosted the Summer Olympics, but this was the last Canadian city to host the Olympics. This city on the banks of the Bow River hosted the 1988 Winter Olympics. Rapid growth due to the oil and meat packing industries has propelled this city where it's now the 3rd largest in Canada. FTP, identify this largest city of Alberta.	Answer:		Calgary7.	Born in New Orleans, many of his works center around shadowy or otherwise strange Southern characters. These were the basis of his early works including A Tree of Night and Other Stories, The Grass Harp and Other Voices, Other Rooms. FTP, identify this author best known for his nonfiction novel In Cold Blood.	Answer:		Truman Capote8.	The name of this mineral is derived from its dark color, like that of tar and has a similar luster. Often containing oxygen, major reserves are found in Wyoming, Canada and Russia. In 1898, the Curies used this mineral to obtain radium. FTP, identify this mineral, the chief ore of uranium.	Answer:		Pitchblende9.	Born in Paris in 1819, he made improvements in reflecting telescopes by improving the mirrors. Much of his work combined light and mirrors, although he also conducted a famous pendulum experiment to demonstrate to demonstrate the Earth's rotation. In 1850, he proved that light travels slower in water than in air. FTP, identify this French physicist, who used mirrors to become the first man to accurately calculate the speed of light.	Answer:		Jean Bernard Foucault10.	It has been shown to help the absorption of calcium and may thus help prevent osteoporosis. Baylor University study showed that this -- a popular home remedy -- is also effective in reducing the chances of recurring outbreaks of herpes. But since large amounts can lead to increased cholesterol levels, gallstones, and diarreah, it is not encouraged for long term use. Those wishing to keep their infections under wraps can simply consume large amounts of Brewer's yeast, legumes, soybeans, dairy, fish, or eggs. For ten points identify this essential amino acid.	Answer:		Lysine11.	Her plays often focused on the weaknesses of the human condition, although her later plays of the 1950s and 60s, such as The Autumn Garden and Toys In The Attic focused less on societal ills than her major works of the 1930s. FTP, identify this Southern playwright, best known for Watch On The Rhine and The Little Foxes.	Answer:		Lillian Hellman
12.	Written for the Bicentennial, it began with The Bastard in 1972 and ended with The Americans in 1980. The series traces French youth Phillipe Charboneau as he makes his way to Boston in 1772 and fights in the Revolution down through five generations of his descendents to 1890. FTP, identify this massive 8-volume John Jakes series named for the English last name taken by Philippe Charboneau.	Answer:		Kent Family Chronicles13.	Originally from Texas, this Confederate general saw his first major action at the Battle of Antietam when his troops, held in reserve, viciously beat back Joseph Hooker's attack. He is better remembered though for the disastrous battles of Franklin and Nashville in the fall of 1864. FTP, identify this commander, best known for his spirited but failed defense of Atlanta from William Tecumseh Sherman.	Answer:		John Bell Hood14.	Born in Bar Harbor, Maine, he graduated from Dartmouth College and entered government service under FDR as undersecretary of state and served in a similar capacity under President Eisenhower. As Vice President, he led a committee that investigated Richard Nixon's surveillance of half a million Americans for so-called "subversive" activities. FTP, identify this long-time Republican governor of New York and Vice President under Gerald Ford.	Answer:		Nelson Rockefeller15.	Born in Oklahoma, her singing talents propelled her to a 3rd place finish at the Miss America Pageant in 1958. The next year, she had her first chart topper on the pop charts with "Till There Was You" from The Music Man. A young Marie Osmond had huge hits in the early 70s covering this popular vocalist's "Paper Roses" and "In My Little Corner Of The World." FTP, identify this singer, beauty queen, orange juice pitchperson and leading 70s and 80s opponent against homosexuality.	Answer:		Anita Bryant16.	An estimated 900 trillion cubic feet of natural gas lie beneath this tiny island nation. This emirate in the Persian Gulf has long been a favorable position for trade;  for this reason it was a British protectorate for 110 years. FTP, identify this small Arab nation with capital at Manama.	Answer:		Bahrain17.	Perhaps the first example was Shakespearean actor Richard Burbage in the first production of Othello, circa 1610. Various forms were popular in early America, thought it hit it's height with the zenith of vaudeville in the 1910s and 20s. FTP, identify this now-discredited theatrical form typically associated with minstrel shows and known for its use of dark makeup.	Answer:		Blackface18.	In Testaments Betrayed, he discusses everything from Stravinsky to Rabelaise to Rushdie in his defense of the european novel as a vital art form.  This is a fitting theme considering he has spent his entire career writing novels such as The Joke and Slowness that attempt tospan eastern and western europe both in language and in sesibilities.  FTP name this Franco-Czech author of Laughable Loves, The Book af Laughter and Forgetting, and The Unbearable Lightness of Being.Answer:	Milan Kundera 19.	In recent interviews, this singer defended his latest single, July 2003's "That's The News," a tinctured criticism of the media for broadcasting glamorous sports and crime stories while the US military was fighting in Iraq. He also defended fellow country artists The Dixie Chicks, saying it was disgraceful for them to be criticized for expressing a dissenting opinion. FTP, name this country music legend who recorded similar songs during Vietnam, especially "The Fighting Side Of Me."	Answer:		Merle Haggard20.	He's chained up by a couple of giants and imprisoned in a bronze vessel for thirteen months and is only saved by Hermes. He's wounded by one of Odysseus's drinking buddies, Diomedes, during the Iliad after this god is encouraged to help the Trojans by Apollo. Athena later knocks him out with a rock at one point and takes him out of the battle. When he's not making a complete idiot of himself in battle, he's screwing every human female he can get his hands on, and--get this--his sons Phobos and Demos are what we would today call serial killers. For ten points identify this less than capable Greek god of war. 	Answer:		Ares Accept Mars before Hermes. Note: This question was adapted from a diatribe in Neal Stephenson's Cryptonomicon 21.21.	As a young boy, he displayed a natural aptitude for music; he published his first song, "Open Thy Lattice, Love" at age 16 in 1842. He hit his peak beginning in 1846 with "Oh! Susanna," which was the favorite song of the California gold rush. FTP, identify this popular composer of such staples as "Camptown Races," "My Old Kentucky Home," and "Old Folks At Home."	Answer:		Stephen Foster
22.	It may not look it, but this plant is distantly related to the domesticated cereal grains like wheat and oats. Some may grow over 100 feet high and scientists consider them the most primitive of the grasses. Often found in warm tropical and semitropical climes, the small kinds found in the Southern US grow in groups called canebrakes. FTP, identify this woody stem, the natural food of the panda bear.	Answer:		Bamboo23.	Geologically, they are defined as areas of steep gullies and hills caused by long periods of erosion. Very little vegetation can grow in these areas as sand and gravel heavily predominate the landscape. The one in west Kansas contains amazing formations like the Monument Rocks, while the one in northwest Nebraska is home to "Carhenge." FTP, identify this kind of land region, the most famous being the one in South Dakota near the Black Hills.	Answer:		Badlands24.	This town's explosive growth began in the 1940s as it became a tourist center for a nearby booming metropolis across international lines. The city's population has doubled again in the last 20 years, especially since the passage of NAFTA. FTP, identify this Mexican city, the largest in the state of Baja California Norte.	Answer:		Tijuana25.	She caused a stir during her 2002 campaign by describing her return home from Ohio after 9-11, describing Interstate 70 through Missouri as scarier than the terrorists. Her father is former Ohio Democrat governor Ted Gilligan, and she served as state insurance commissioner of another Midwestern state before election to her current post. FTP, identify this governor of Kansas.	Answer:		Kathleen Sibelius26.	Examples are often found in areas where softer rock formations meet harder rock formations. Rivers in these areas cause erosions that wear away the softer rock. Perhaps the most famous is one in the eastern US along the foothills of the Appalachians near such urban areas as New York City, Philadelphia and Washington DC. FTP, what is this imaginary line connecting streams and waterfalls in such a geologic formation?	Answer:		Fall Line27.	One commentator noted that this work, like others by its author, were heavily influenced by the thinking of German philosopher Georg Hegel, especially Hegel's idea that the world is always in transformation to a higher order. The author somehow found an ability to convert this idea to economics, which the author believed was the "engine of history." FTP, identify this masterpiece of Karl Marx.	Answer:		Das Kapital28.	His biggest advantage was that he was a Progressive Conservative in the staunchly Liberal province of Quebec. As a lawyer and business executive, he won recognition and high praise for his work on behalf on workers. Despite never having held political office, he became party leader in 1983. FTP, identify this Prime Minister of Canada in the 80s and early 90s.	Answer:		Brian Mulroney
MOC MASTERS 2003 -- UTCBlind round by Paul Nelson and Robert Trent1.	British North America was the place to be if you enjoyed religious upheaval.  FTPE identify these figures prominent in the religious revivalism of the early-to-mid-18th century colonies.  As an additional hint, all may be found on adjoining pages of Samuel S. Hill's Encyclopedia of Southern Religion.The first of the three, both alphabetically and chronologically, this Englishman was largely responsible for promoting antislavery ideology in colonial Georgia.  Preaching a doctrine of holiness achieved through disciplined study of scripture, he founded what is today the second largest Protestant denomination in Georgia.  He left the colony and returned to England after participating in one of that colony's first publicized sex scandals.	Answer:		John WESLEYThis preacher, a disciple of Jonathan Edwards, preached up and down the coast from Georgia to New England, and is widely credited with the backcountry revivals collectively known as the "Great Awakening."  He broke with John Wesley over Wesley's rejection of predestination and became identified with a group calling itself "Calvinistic Methodists."	Answer:		George WHITEFIELD (pron. "Whitfield)This leader of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in South Carolina from 1768-1771 described the backcountry Baptists and Methodists as ignorant, uncouth, and downright uncivilized.  His most famous complaint concerned a worship service during which fifty-seven canines commenced a brawl, with the congregants betting on the outcome.	Answer:		Charles WOODMASON 2.	Identify these former Ohio mayors 5-10-15.5: He served as the Democratic mayor of Cincinnati in the late 1970s until he got caught writing checks to prostitutes and was forced to resign. He is today much better known as a controversial Chicago talk show host.	Answer:		Jerry Springer10: This Democrat served as mayor of Cleveland in the late 1970s when the long-beleaguered city went into loan default during his administration. This Congressman has recently been famous as a harsh anti-Bush critic and Democratic Presidential candidate.	Answer:		Dennis Kuchinich15: This man was elected mayor of Cleveland in 1967, making him the first black mayor of a major US city.  (Unless you count Gary.)	Answer:		Carl Stokes3.	Given the name of a particular surgery, name the organ being removed, 5-10-155:: Nephrectomy	Answer:		Kidney10: cholecystectomy	Answer:		gall bladder15: Oophorectomy	Answer:		Ovary4.	Given a philosophical work of the Englishtenment, identify the author, TPE.The Social Contract	Answer:		Jean-Jacques RousseauThe Spirit of the Laws	Answer:		Baron Montesquieu (or Charles-Louis Secondat for the showoffs among us)Reflections On The Revolution in France	Answer:		Edmund Burke5.	Answer the following about the exploits of the prophet Elijah, FTP each.On its peak, Elijah challenged 450 priests of Baal to see who was the true God of the Israelites.  	Answer: 	Mount CarmelAlthough Elijah spoke against king Azariah, too, his spoke most bitterly against this king, husband of Jezebel.	Answer: 	AhabBefore he was taken into heaven in a whirlwind, he leaves his mantle with this successor.	Answer: 	Elisha6.	Given a brief description, identify these literary "fathers," TPE.This ancient Greek author is called the Father of Comedy.	Answer:		AristophanesThis other ancient Greek author is known as the Father of Greek Tragedy.	Answer:		AeschylusThis English monk is known as the Father of English History for his influential work Ecclesiastical History of the English Nation.	Answer:		The Venerable Bede
7.	Answer these questions about the history of Illinois, TPE.A young Abraham Lincoln enlisted but never fought in this 1832 Indian against the Sauk and Fox Indians.	Answer:		Black Hawk WarKnown as "The Little Giant," this longtime Democratic U.S. Senator from Illinois devised the notion of "popular sovereignty" for territories to decide the slavery issue for themselves in the 1850s.	Answer:		Stephen A. DouglasOne of the hottest moments of 1880s labor unrest, this tragedy occurred in Chicago in 1886 when a bomb was thrown into an anarchist-led protest against police tactics against strikers.	Answer:		Haymarket Square Riot8.	Given a work by a Beat Generation author, name the author TPE.Naked Lunch			Answer:		William BurroughsHowl, and Other Poems	Answer:		Allen GinsbergA Coney Island Of The Mind	Answer:		Lawrence Ferlinghetti  9.	Give these terms used in graph theory, FTPE.[10] This is a set of vertices that all have direct paths to each other, like the cool kids in high school.	Answer:		Clique[10] This is a graph that has no cyclical paths between vertices and for any 2 vertices, there is only 1 path between them.  It is used as a data structure in computer science.	Answer:		Tree[10] Named for the Swiss mathematician who investigated them, this is a path that transverses each edge exactly 1 time.  The Konigsberg bridges are not one of these.	Answer:		Eulerian Path10.	Identify these terms associated with musical theory FTPE.[10] Indicated by a dot over a note, it means that the note should be played in a clipped, detached manner.	Answer:		staccato[10] Literally meaning "pinched," it is to pluck the strings of an instrument.	Answer:		pizzicato[10] This term indicates an additional instrumental part that cannot be omitted.	Answer:		obbligato11.	Identify these wars of the 1850s, TPE.This war from 1853 to 1856 took place between the allies of Britain, France, Turkey and Sardinia against Russia on the Black Sea.	Answer:		Crimean WarThis series of rebellions began in China in 1851 and lasted until 1864. It was named for the people who rebelled against the Manchu dynasty, a semi-religious group that combined Christianity with older Chinese philosophies.	Answer:		Taiping RebellionAfter the US Congress allowed newly formed territories to decide the slavery question for themselves via popular vote, this mini civil war resulted in one of the territories where the question was to be decided.	Answer:		Bleeding Kansas12.	Answer the following questions about corn, TPE.What Midwestern state leads the nation in the production of corn?	Answer:		IowaThis hybrid corn makes up 90% of the US corn crop; its name comes from the small hole on the top of each kernel.	Answer:		Dent cornThe medical industry often uses injections or IV's of this, the name for refined corn sugar, for patients in hospitals especially after major surgery as it's a quick source of energy.  An isomer of glucose, it's also the main ingredient in Sweet Tarts.	Answer:		Dextrose
13.	Answer these questions about Italian movie actors and directors, 5-10-15.5: This legendary Italian director is best known for 1959's La Dolce Vita and 1963's 8 1/2.	Answer:		Federico Fellini10: This internationally popular movie star, director and screenwriter was well known in Europe for 1991's Johnny Stecchino and 1994's The Monster before becoming a hit in America with Life Is Beautiful.	Answer:		Roberto Benigni15: This director was the famous master of the 1960s "Spaghetti Westerns," including A Fistful of Dollars and Once Upon A Time In The West.	Answer:		Sergio Leone14.	Identify these early nuclear physicists, TPE.In 1938, this famous German physicist, along with Fritz Strassmann, became the first scientist to conduct nuclear fission.	Answer:		Otto HahnThis Hungarian-born physicist led the development of the hydrogen bomb for the US.	Answer:		Joseph TellerThis Russian scientist developed the hydrogen bomb for Russia before becoming a leading critic of the Soviet Union.	Answer:		Andrei  Sakharov15.	Answer these questions about famous fountains, TPE.The largest fountain in the world is Buckingham Fountain in this Midwestern city.	Answer:		ChicagoThis European capital contains the famous Manneken-Pis, the statue of a young boy peeing.	Answer:		BrusselsThis famous fountain in Rome is legendary for bringing good luck for those who toss coins into it; this legend was the basis of the 1954 Audrey Hepburn classic Three Coins In The Fountain.	Answer:		Trevi16.	TPE, identify these leaders of Communist China.This former #2 Chinese military commander has superseded Jiang Zemin as overall ruler of China.	Answer:		Hu JintaoThis legendary figure succeeded Mao Tse-Tung as China's ruler, doing so through the 1980s and 90s.	Answer:		Deng XiaopingThis man served in a diplomatic capacity during the last years of Mao's rule and was the chief architect of détente with the US.	Answer:		Zhou Enlai17.	The recent war in Iraq has brought some political dinosaurs back to life. Identify them, TPE.This 85 year old Democratic Senator from West Virginia became the leading anti-war spokesman on Capitol Hill.	Answer:		Robert ByrdThis former attorney general under Lyndon B. Johnson was so incensed by the war that he drew up articles of impeachment against Bush and is working with several Internet groups to push them.	Answer:		Ramsey ClarkThis former US Senator from South Dakota and 1972 Democratic nominee for President wrote several scathing op-eds against Bush and the war.	Answer:		George McGovern18.	Identify this city, 30-20-1030: A US Mint was housed in this Western city from 1870 to 1894, in correlation with some of the biggest mining booms of all time, including the nearby Comstock Lode.20: In his last film, 1976's The Shootist, it's to this city that John Wayne limps to in order to find out he's dying of cancer.10: This city in northwestern Nevada is that state's capital.	Answer:		Carson City, Nevada19.	Given a work of literature of the Renaissance, identify the author, TPE.The Prince	Answer:		Niccolo MachiavelliThe Book Of The Courtier	Answer:		Baldassare CastiglioneThe Praise of Folly	Answer:		Desiderius Erasmus
20.	Given a Latin constellation name, give its English equivalent, 5-10-15.5: Libra	Answer:		The Scales10: Eridanus	Answer:		The River15: Delphinus	Answer:		The Dolphin21.	Identify these animal food sources for native peoples, 5-10-15.For 5: This large relative of the ox roamed wild in the Western US and were very resourcefully used by Native American tribes of the region.	Answer:		Buffalo (or bison)For 10: In South Korea, the recent movement to legalize the trade and consumption of this mammal is a source of great controversy. This movement has been sharply criticized in the West, where they are often kept as pets.	Answer:		DogFor 15: About 20 different species of this type of bird were found in New Zealand, where the native Maoris hunted them for food. They looked like ostriches and some grew to 10 feet in height; most kinds were extinct by the end of the 1600s.	Answer:		Moa22.	In recent years, books by entertainment stars have become popular reading and Christmas gifts. Given a list of books by a Hollywood author, identify the star, TPE.The Third Time Around, How To Live To Be 100 Or More, All My Best Friends.	Answer:		George BurnsFatherhood, Love And Marriage, Kids Say The Darndest Things	Answer:		Bill CosbyMy Life In Jokes, I Owe Russia $1200, The Last Christmas Show	Answer:		Bob Hope23.	Identify these events from the Canadian drive for independence, TPE.In 1864 in this city, the capital of Prince Edward Island, representatives of the Atlantic Provinces were dissuaded of a plan to form their own separate union apart from Ontario and Quebec.	Answer:		CharlottetownIn 1867, this act of the British Parliament, abbreviated the BNA Act, established Canada as a self-governing Dominion within the British Empire.	Answer:		British North America ActIn 1931, this piece of legislation in the British Parliament granted full independence to Canada and other autonomous Dominions, including Australia and New Zealand.	Answer:		Statute of Westminster  24	In light of recent events, the US flag is very commonly seen nowadays. Answer these questions about ways of displaying the flag, TPE.The only time the flag should be displayed this way is during a severe emergency.	Answer:		Upside down (or similar)When displaying the flag at half staff, what should you do with it first before lowering it for the day?	Answer:		Raise it to full staff (or similar)In time of peace, never display what kind of flag below the US flag on a flagpole?	Answer:		any other National flag (or similar)