TOSSUPS - FLORIDA					MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  Born in Belfast, he moved to England at 10 when his mother died, leaving a big old house full of books, which he called a major character in his autobiography Surprised by Joy.  Excelling in languages, he eventually became a Fellow of Magdalen College, publishing early works under the name Clive Hamilton, including Spirits in Bondage.  His philosophical side produced essays like "Miracles," God in the Dock, and The Allegory of Love.  FTP, name this author more famous for the works produced by his creative side, works like That Hideous Strength, The Screwtape Letters, and The Chronicles of Narnia.	Answer:	 C. S. Lewis (or Clive Staples Lewis)2.	In 1939, Louis Calder was visiting Hosick Falls, New York, where he saw this artist's paintings hanging in a drugstore. After buying 15 of the paintings, three were shown at a Museum of Modern Art exhibit called Contemporary Unknown Painters. Her works include Catching the Thanksgiving Turkey, Apple Pickers, and Sugaring-Off in the Maple Orchard. FTP, name this centenarian American folk painter.	Answer:	 Anna Mary Robertson Grandma Moses; accept Robertson 3.  It is an intensive variable, and at constant volume, it equals one over the number of moles, times the partial derivative of energy with respect to temperature.  For a solid, the law of Dulong and Petit said that it equals 3R, which was later modified by Debye and Einstein.  It equals 3/2 times R for an ideal monoatomic gas and 5/2 times R for an ideal diatomic gas.  FTP, what is this quantity, equal to the amount of thermal energy needed to change a unit mass of a substance by one degree in temperature?	Answer:	 specific heat or specific heat capacity or molar heat or molar heat capacity (do not prompt on "heat capacity" alone because of first clue)4.  	After being approached by the Royal Navy and offered $30,000 for his services, he warned Louisiana Governor W.C.C. Claiborne who ordered him arrested and his ships captured.  Following his service in the battle of New Orleans, he received a Presidential pardon and organized a community known as Campeche on the future site of Galveston.  Following an attack on U.S. vessels by his men, he abandoned the village and continued pirating along Spanish America.  FTP, name this smuggler.	Answer:	Jean Lafitte5.	After playing at Cal Poly- San Luis Obispo, he was selected by the Philadelphia Eagles in the 1958 draft, though a knee injury ended his career. After coaching at Hancock Junior College and San Diego State, he led the Oakland Raiders to five straight AFC championship games, winning Super Bowl XI [11]. Pitchman for Tinactin, ACE and Outback Steakhouse, FTP, name this Monday Night Football commentator slated to move to NBC in 2006.	Answer:	 John Madden6.  Its final book argues that the general will is indestructible, and it considers the role of several forms of government in properly reflecting that will.  The opening book points out that the word city is derived from citizen, and it contends that each person becomes an indivisible part of a community by placing himself and his power under the direction of the general will.  In considering the relation between the individual and the state, it opens with the words, "Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains."  FTP, name this 1762 work by Jean-Jacques Rousseau.	Answer:	 The Social Contract, or Principles of Political Right7.  Sometimes called the well-beloved, this king suffered from fits of madness throughout his life.  During one attack, he nearly burned to death when a costume he wore caught on fire.  Through his daughter Catherine, he passed his disease onto his grandson, Henry VI of England.  After the battle of Agincourt, he was forced to sign the disastrous Treaty of Troyes, which recognized Henry V as his successor.  FTP, identify this mad French king, ruling from 1380-1422, the father of the Dauphin Charles VII.	Answer:	Charles VI 8.  Most likely a member of the sciarri, his name comes from the Aramaic for "son of the teacher" or "son of the father".  Par Lagerkvist's 1950 novel explores his later life and a 1962 movie adaptation placed Anthony Quinn in that title role.  In Matthew 17:26 he is called a "notorious prisoner" while the other Gospels declare that he "committed murder in the insurrection".  FTP, name this criminal pardoned by Pontius Pilate in lieu of Jesus Christ.	Answer:	Barabbas 
9. The importance of these stars lies in the conversion of Helium plus to Helium 2 plus, which has a lower transparency.  This process causes the atmosphere of the star to heat and expand, increasing luminosity, then cooling and de-ionizing back to Helium plus.  Observations of them in the Magellanic Clouds led Henrietta Leavitt to discover that they can be used as a standard candle for measuring intergalactic distances.  FTP, what are these variable stars whose period is related to their luminosity?	Answer:	Cepheid variables10. Several of his novels were very autobiographical, including his first, with sections where the hero is described progressively as an Egoist, then a Personage.  After his most famous novel, he paid the bills with short stories like "Babylon Revisited" and the collection All the Sad Young Men, while spending 10 years on the follow-up novel about Nicole and Dick Diver.  His mature works include Taps at Reveille and The Last Tycoon, and he wrote This Side of Paradise when he was only 22.  FTP, name this author of  Tender is the Night and The Great Gatsby.	Answer:	 F(rancis) Scott (Key) Fitzgerald11. Caution: element and isotope needed.  This isotope is capable of Pomeranchuck cooling because the heat of solidification is negative below a certain temperature, such that increasing the pressure to form a solid actually cools the liquid instead of heating it.  Unlike the heavier isotope of the same element, it becomes a quantum fluid, and it has a phase transition that can be described by BCS theory.  FTP, name this isotope that becomes superfluid at about 2.6 milliKelvin, the lighter cousin of the second most abundant element in the universe.	Answer:	 Helium 312.	It's not the New Testament, but it does tell about the son of a carpenter.  He begins to have an affair with Madame de Renal, whose children he is tutoring. Eventually he goes to seminary, and then becomes secretary to the Marquis de la Mole. While there, Julien gets Mathilde, the Marquis' daughter, pregnant; the Marquis was going to let Julien marry Mathilde until he got a letter from Madame de Renal, laying out his villainy. Julien Sorel then goes and shoots de Renal, and is executed. FTP, name this novel by Stendhal. 	Answer:	 The Red and the Black  [accept Le Rouge et Noir]13. 	Elected a Senator from New York as a Whig in 1848, he was an outspoken opponent of the Missouri Compromise and in 1854 was re-elected as a Republican.  Defeated by John Fremont for the party's first Presidential nomination, he expected the 1860 nod but concerns over his Anti-Masonic past kept him from the ticket.  Criticized for his irresponsible handling of the Trent affair, FTP, name this Secretary of State also derided for his purchase of Alaska.	Answer:	William Seward14.	Warning: first and last name required. A former captain in the army of Virginia during the Civil War, he struck it rich in Arizona.  After his discovery, he was forced to hide from pursuing Apaches in a cave.  Upon emerging, he found himself on the surface of Barsoon where the low gravity gave him extra strength.  During his time there, he married Dejah Thoris, the titular Princess of Mars.  The hero of eleven novels by Edgar Rice Burroughs, FTP, identify this Warlord of Mars, who shares his name with Noah Wylie's character on E.R.	Answer:	John Carter15.	The Ona, Yahgan, and Alacaluf Indians live here, and there was little colonization until the introduction of sheep farming in 1880 and the discovery of oil at Manantiales in 1945. Mountains include Sarmiento and Darwin, both extensions of the Andes, and the boundary between Chile and Argentina goes from Cape Espiritu Santu in the Atlantic, along the Beagle Channel. FTP, name this archipelago at the southern tip of South America, which means Land of Fire.	Answer:	 Tierra del Fuego16.	Through the Russell Trust Association this group owns Dear Island on the St. Lawrence River. Started in 1833, each year the group's seniors choose 15 juniors to replace them. Known to members as Lodge 322, it has been theorized the group is an offshoot of a German order and that members dine on Hitler's china at special events. FTP, name this Yale secret society whose members include John Kerry and George W. Bush.	Answer:	 Skull and Bones do not accept "The Skulls"
17.	The spinal accessory goes to the shoulder. The glossopharnygeal connects to the pharynx, parotid gland, and taste buds. The trochlear connects to the muscles of the eyeball. The trigeminal connects to the skin of the face. The vagus connects to many internal organs. Three of them are only sensory, and five are primarily motor. FTP, name this collection of twelve related items of the human anatomy, which also includes the olfactory, auditory, and optic.	Answer:	 cranial nerves [prompt on "nerves" before "twelve", but do not accept or prompt after "twelve"]18.	In June 2005 Queen Elizabeth II bought one at the suggestion of her son Andrew. First and second generation devices include the game "Brick," while the current fourth generation models are one millimeter thinner and use updated software to increase battery life to up to 12 hours. Originally compatible with only Mac OS software, since 2002 a Windows compatible version has been available. FTP, name this portable audio player manufactured by Apple.	Answer:	 iPod19.	One of the leaders of the Parnassian movement, he sought to restore balance to poetry after Romanticism. After an early flirtation with Romanticism, seen in The Broken Vase and Trials, his poems became more objective, as shown by such titles as Justice and Happiness. FTP, name this first winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	 (Rene) Sully Prudhomme20.	In July 2005 Jordanian officials stopped publication of his fourth novel, Get Out, Damned One, which like his previous books The Fortified Castle and Zabibah and the King contains metaphorical treatment of perceived Arab struggles against the rest of the world. Pictures of him in his underwear in The Sun aroused controversy in May, while interviews with his guards revealed he misses President Reagan, who supported him in his war with Iran and detests both President Bushes, who led wars against him. FTP, name this deposed Iraqi dictator.	Answer:	 Saddam Hussein al-Tikriti21.	Five men have held this position since 1958; four of the five were members of center-right parties. The only one to be defeated for reelection was Valery Giscard d'Estaing, who lost to Francois Mitterand in 1981. Others to hold this post include Georges Pompidou and Charles de Gaulle. FTP, name this position, currently held by Jacques Chirac.	Answer:	 President of France22.	 The inscription above its entrance reads "Aux Grand Hommes La Patrie Reconnasissante" or "For Great Men The Grateful Nation."  This was true until 1995, when Marie Curie was introduced here.  Commissioned by King Louis XV as a church for Saint Genevieve, the Revolutionary government later converted it to a mausoleum dedicated to some of France's greatest minds, including Voltaire, Rousseau, and Rene Descartes.  FTP, identify this Parisian temple that one may think has been dedicated to all the gods.	Answer:	Pantheon
BONI - FLORIDA						MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  Speaking of C.S. Lewis, FTPE identify these other names associated with the Oxford English school in the 1920s.A.  This writer who singlehandedly revived interest in fairy tales for adults is known for works like The Silmarillion, Tales of Tom Bombadil, and ... oh, come on, that should be plenty.	Answer:	 J. R. R. TolkienB.  This student of Tolkien, like Lewis, went through a period of atheism and homosexuality, collaborating with Christopher Isherwood.  He may be best known for the Pulitzer-winning The Age of Anxiety.	Answer:	 W(ystan) H(ugh) AudenC.  This group was comprised of Lewis, Tolkien, and friends, with Dorothy Sayers claiming honorary membership.  They met at Chez Lewis, or at a pub they called the "Bird and Baby," sometimes reading aloud their manuscripts.	Answer:	 The Inklings2.  Answer the following about residents of Raj Dhuwalia's hometown of Davie, Florida, FTP each:A.  Danny Joe Brown, lead singer of this Southern rock band best known for "Flirtin' With Disaster," died in Davie in March 2005.	Answer:	 Molly HatchetB.  Another longtime resident was this sculptor of extremely lifelike "ordinary Americans," such as Tourists, Housewife, and College Student.	Answer:	 Duane HansenC.  Occasionally seen at the Shoney's up the street from Raj is this steroid-inflated jackass, the ex-Oakland slugger who wrote the 2005 book Juiced. 	Answer:	 Jose Canseco3.	Answer these questions about the Teapot Dome scandal, FTPE.(10) This Secretary of the Interior became the first Cabinet official ever indicted for his role in illegally leasing the oil fields at Teapot Dome.       Answer:	 Albert Fall(10) This was the company to which the leasing rights were sold.       Answer:	 Sinclair Oil(10) This Secretary of the Navy was acquitted of all charges, though he personally signed all of the illegal leases.       Answer:	 Edward Denby4.  Identify these medical conditions whose names start with "A," FTP each:A.  In this sleep disorder, breathing is interrupted for longer than 10 seconds, sometimes much longer.	Answer:	 sleep apneaB.  Sometimes occurring in response to medication, this is a severe allergic reaction accompanied by release of histamine into the circulatory system, causing a form of "shock."	Answer:	 anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shockC.  Caused by gradual blockage of the coronary arteries, this is chest pain which usually occurs during exercise or stress.	Answer:	 angina5.	For 10 points each-name the Verdi opera.(10) Germont loves Violetta, she leaves him to protect his sister, they get back together shortly before she dies.	Answer:	   La Traviata(10) He is originally engaged to Elisabeth of Valois, she marries his father instead, his friend Rodrigo is shot by the Inquisition to protect him, and eventually a dead monk takes him to a monastery to avoid being killed after he is found smooching with his mom.	Answer:	  Don Carlos(10) She is an Ethiopian princess who loves Radames, gets him to give her secrets, then they die together as he is executed for treason.	Answer:	  Aida
6.	Answer these questions about modern Kenya FTPE.(10) Baptized Johnstone Kamau, a 1930 letter on Kenya to the London Times led him to prominence. He also wrote Facing Mount Kenya and served as Kenya's first president.	Answer:	 Jomo Kenyatta(10) Kenyatta was associated with this Kikuyu terrorist group, which led a revolt againt the British in the 1950's.  	Answer:	 Mau Mau(10) Founded in the 1890's, this city's name means "Cold Water" in Masai. It has served as Kenya's capital since 1963.   	Answer:	 Nairobi7.	Name these writers of the restoration period in English literature, FTSNOP.A. F5P, the playwright of Marriage a la Mode and All for Love, and poet of "Annus Mirabilis," he was the first official Poet Laureate of England.	Answer:	 John DrydenB. FTP, this master of the heroic couplet created such famous lines as "to err is human, to forgive divine" and "a little learning is a dangerous thing".	Answer:	 Alexander PopeC. For 15 points, in the second edition of Pope's Dunciad, this Poet Laureate becomes the mock hero.  He wrote such works as Love's Last Shift, but was more famous as an actor in the fop roles of many Restoration Comedies.	Answer:	 Colley Cibber8.	Name these sects of Muslims from clues FTPE.(10) The smaller of the two branches of Islam, they assert the legitimate authority of Ali, Mohammad's son-in-law and the fourth caliph.   	Answer:	 Shi'a or Shiites(10) Constituting 90% of all Muslims, they recognize the first four caliphs as Mohammad's rightful successors.  	Answer:	 Sunni or Sunnites(10) This fringe Islamic group is the majority in Saudi Arabia, and Osama bin Laden is a member.   	Answer:	 Wahabites9.	Answer these questions about aldehydes, FTSNOP:A.  F5P, used in preservation of lab specimens, what is the simplest aldehyde?	Answer:	 formaldehyde or methanalB.  FTP, an aldehyde has one hydrogen attached to its carbonyl group.  If an alkyl group is substituted for that hydrogen, the result is a member of what class of compounds?	Answer:	 ketone(s)C.  For 15 points, what common lab test distinguishes between aldehydes and ketones by the deposition of a silver "mirror" on the test tube if an aldehyde is present?	Answer:	 Tollens' test (accept "Tollens' reagent")10.	Identify these figures who all met their demise in bar fights, FTPE.(10) This playwright of The Jew of Malta and Faustus met his demise after an argument over the tab in a Deptford tavern.	Answer:	  Christopher Marlowe(10) This man served as personal secretary to Thomas Jefferson and explored the Lousiana Territory before being shot in Grinder's Stand, a Nashville tavern.	Answer:	  Meriwether Lewis(10) His 1963 rape conviction was initially overturned, but this plaintiff of a 1966 Supreme Court case served 10 years in prison and in 1976 was stabbed in a Phoenix bar.	Answer:	  Ernesto Miranda11.	Answer the following about atomic radii, FTSNOP: (5) This noble gas predictably has the smallest atomic radius. 	Answer:	 hydrogen (10) This element's properties closely resemble those of cesium, and it has the largest atomic radius. 	Answer:	 francium (15) As one travels across the rare earth elements, the radius decreases; this trend is known by what two-word term? 	Answer:	 lanthanide contraction
12.	Answer these questions about the novel A Confederacy of Dunces FTPE.(10) The novel is set entirely in this U.S. city.  	Answer:	 New Orleans(10) This author committed suicide before the novel's publication and received a posthumous Pulitzer Prize.  	Answer:	 John Kennedy Toole(10) The book centers around this figure, obsessed with his valve, fomenting a gay revolution, and quoting Boethius to all who will listen.  	Answer:	 Ignatius J. Reilly13.	Answer these questions about African geography FTPE.(10) Discovered in 1858 by Burton and Speke, it occupies the southern end of the Western Rift Valley and forms the border between Tanzania and the Congo.  	Answer:	 Lake Tanganyika(10) Likoma Island is in the middle of this lake, mainly located in Malawi. South of Lake Tanganyika, it serves as part of Malawi's border with Tanzania and Mozambique.  	Answer:	 Lake Nyasa(10) Located by Speke in 1858, it is Africa's largest lake and the chief reservoir of the Nile.	Answer:	 Lake Victoria14.	Given a battle between the English and French, identify the two kings involved, for five points per correct answer.A. [10]  Bouvines	Answer:	John & Philip II Augustus (accept Philip Augustus)B. [10]  Poitiers	Answer:	Edward III & John II (The Good)C. [10] Battle of the Spurs	Answer:	Henry VIII & Louis XII15.	FTP each, given a significant jazz album, identify the musician who recorded it.A. Giant Steps			Answer:	John ColtraneB. The Clown			Answer:	Charles MingusC. Sketches Of Spain		Answer:	Miles Davis16.	Name these American writers from clues FTPE.(10) This abolitionist's poems include Maud Muller, Barbara Frietchie, The Pennsylvania Pilgrim, and Snow-Bound.  	Answer:	 John Greenleaf Whittier(10) This editor of the New York Evening Post wrote Thanatopsis, To a Waterfowl, and The Embargo.     	Answer:	 William Cullen Bryant(10) The leader of the Hartford Wits, his works include The Hasty Pudding and The Columbiad.	Answer:	 Joel Barlow 17.	Name these 20th century American painters from clues FTPE.(10) Born in Russia in 1903, his works include the depressing Subway series of the 1930's, his involvement with Abstract Expressionism, and 14 large canvases now at a nondenominational chapel in Houston.   	Answer:	 Mark Rothko(10) Known as Jack the Dripper because of his technique of pouring paint on to a canvas; he spoke of this process as "veiling the image." Works include Full Fathom Five, Summertime, and Lavender Mist.  	Answer:	 Jackson Pollock(10) Born in Armenia, his somewhat Surrealist works include The Liver is the Cock's Comb, The Diary of a Seducer, and How My Mother's Embroidered Apron Unfolds in My Life.    	Answer:	 Arshile Gorky
18.	Answer the following about chemical isomers, FTP eachA. From the Greek for "hand," this property of "handedness" arises when four different groups are attached to a single carbon.	Answer:	 chirality or chiral ["ky-RAL-i-ty" or "KY-ral"]B. This is the term for a pair of chiral molecules which are mirror images of each other.	Answer:	 enantiomersC. This type of isomer is the result of rearrangement around only one center of chirality in a molecule that contains more than one chiral atom.	Answer:	 epimer19.	Questions about the Intolerable Acts, FTPE.(10) This fourth act renewed a previous act by the same name which provided for the housing of British soldiers in colonists homes.       Answer:	 Quartering Act(10) The Massachusetts Government act repealed the colonial charter and instead setup Massachusetts as a crown colony under this man, who later led the British at Bunker Hill.       Answer:	 General Thomas Gage(10) This act required repayment for the damages caused by the Boston Tea Party.       Answer:	 Boston Port Act20.	Name these 20th century American philosophers from works FTPE.(10) The Essential Tension, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions    	Answer:	 Thomas Kuhn(10) Political Liberalism, Justice as Fairness, A Theory of Justice.       	Answer:	 John Rawls(10) The Nature of Rationality; Anarchy, State, and Utopia.               	Answer:	 Robert Nozick21.	Given two characters, name the Thomas Hardy novel they are featured in, FTP each.A. [10] Clym Yeobright & Eustacia Vye	Answer:	Return Of The NativeB. [10] Bathsheda Everdene & Gabriel Oak	Answer:	Far From The Madding CrowdC. [10] Sue Bridehead & Arabella Donn	Answer:	Jude The Obscure22.	Given a Cabinet department, name the U.S. President who created it FTPE.(10) Department of EducationAnswer:	Jimmy Carter(10) Department of LaborAnswer:	Woodrow Wilson(10) Department of the InteriorAnswer:	Zachary Taylor