TOSSUPS - INDIANA/RUSSELLVILLE			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Indiana U. (Jerry Hagen, Wesley Mathews, Kevin Pearce) with Russellville High & alums1.	Its author makes reference to its chief influence Boccaccio in the title poem, in which the central Sudbury edifice is called a "region of repose," with "weather stains upon the wall" and a "red horse" that "prances on its sign." A youth, a Sicilian, a Spanish Jew, a theologian, a poet and a musician are introduced in passages that recall the Canterbury Tales, followed by poems including the "Tale of Azrael," "The Bell of Atri" and "The Saga of King Olaf." FTP, name this poetry collection of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, most famous as the source for "The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere."	Answer: Tales of a Wayside Inn2.	Consisting of a pyrrole ring nucleus, the presence of a methyl or aldehyde group distinguishes the A and B forms of this molecule from one another, effecting the absorption of 460 and 620 nanometer radiation. Coordinated by a single metallic atom, FTP, name this molecule, a magnesium-containing porphyrin responsible for gathering and storing energy for photosynthesis.	Answer: chlorophyll3.	It replaced a rigid punitory code called the "Laws Divine, Morall and Martiall." Comprised of 22 elected landowners and a Governor's Council, Speaker and Secretary John Pory and then Governor Thomas Yeardley presided over its first session, when it passed a law requiring compulsory church attendance and a poll tax requiring payment of representatives in tobacco. FTP, name this legislative assembly founded by the Great Charter of 1618 in Jamestown.	Answer: the House of Burgesses4.	Holding court under a palm in the country of Ephraim, this spouse of Lappidoth's first prediction was vindicated at the Battle of Kadesh, where the army of Jaben was defeated by Barak when the opposing commander's chariots were stuck in the mud and rendered useless. Her best-known prophesy came true when General Sisera was "delivered into the hands of a woman" with a tent-peg through the brain. FTP, name this prophetess and Judge of Israel.	Answer: Deborah 5.	The first device of this name was employed to prevent misalignment of colored inks due to the change in dimensions of printing paper at the Buffalo Forge Company in New York City. In 1921, centrifugal compressors replaced the first unsafe piston-driven reciprocating compression pump models that used ammonia to gather water vapor and thus decrease humidity. FTP, name this CFC-producing climate-control device, invented by Willis Carrier.	Answer: air conditioner6.	Works showing the influence of this group of artists include Oak Trees in the Gorge of Apremont and The Hamlet of Optevoz. Inspired by Dutch landscape painters like Cuyp and Ruisdael, its earlier members Narciso Diaz de la Pena and Constant Troyon rejected Academic tradition to achieve a truer representation of the countryside around their namesake Seine-et-Marne residence. FTP, name this school of painting perhaps best represented by The Banks of the Oise, a work of Charles Daubigny.	Answer: the Barbizon School7.	The first of this author's archetypal characters appears in his short story "The Pursuer," published in his 1958 collection Las Armas Secretas. Other such characters, who typically fail to achieve artistic perfection, include Manuel in his Libro de Manuel, and an existentialist artist named Horacio Oliveira who returns to Buenos Aires to search for his telepathic mistress. FTP, name this Argentine author whose master work asks the reader to skip and reread chapters as a child would play its title game, the open novel Hopscotch.	Answer: Julio Cortazar8.	Evaporation caused by a fierce wind that originates at this body's surface has created a nebula that may soon overlap with that of its apparent neighbor Rho Ophiuchi. Up to one million years remain in the life of this source of infrared radiation, whose surface temperature of 3400K suggests it may contain an iron core. Greek astronomers were confused by its red color and position in the zodiac, giving it a name meaning "like Mars." FTP, name this class M4 supergiant, located in Scorpio.	Answer: Antares (accept Alpha Scorpio) before "like Mars" is read.
9.	Initial versions of this bill, touted as "the best bill the Republican party ever passed," by the president who signed it, drastically cut rates to stimulate international trade, and were opposed in the house by Joe Cannon. Insurgents under Bob LaFollette fought a protectionist replacement bill authored by a Rhode Island senator, prompting a compromise restricting coal and iron ore. FTP, name this 1909 act, a replacement for the Dingley Bill, that angered supporters of Taft with only a small reduction in rates.	Answer: Payne-Aldrich Tariff Act10.  He has a career average of 23.4 points per game, 223 career assists, and a .651 Field Goal Percentage in his total of 122 games.  He ranked 2nd in scoring with 32.4 points per game and 19 rebounds per game in the 2001-2002 season of the CBA.  He played in the 2000 Olympics in Australia and will compete in the 2002 World Championship in Indianapolis, IA this summer.  He's done all this without playing a single game in the United States -- it's the other CBA.  FTP Identify this man chosen 1st round, 1st pick by the Houston Rockets in the 2002 NBA draft.	Answer.  Yao Ming11.  This short story is an example of the Dramatic Third Person point of view, in which there is a third person narrator that only reports what is seen and heard.  The pivotal bone of contention in the story is never mentioned explicitly.  Jill's husband wants her to get an abortion, and his constant nagging leads to the end of their relationship.  For ten points, name this Hemingway Short Story, which ends with the line "There's nothing wrong with me.  I feel fine."	Answer:  Hills like White Elephants12.	The classical algorithm for multiplying these requires cubic time, and, while simplest for humans to perform with pencil and paper, is not the fastest for large ones. Faster for size 30 and above is Strassen's algorithm, which requires each multiplicand to be split into four constructs of half dimensions, requiring only time proportional to n2.86. FTP name these common mathematical constructs, which can represent systems of equations with their numbers stored in rows and columns. 	Answer: matrices13.	His exact canon is unknown, though two commentaries on the Sentences of Lombard as well as his best known work, in which he pioneered the use of the "formal distinction," are extant. His doctrine of the "univocity of being," in which an ultimate abstraction called "thisness" forms the distinction of individuality, as well as his assertion that God's existence can be proven, clashed with his rival Aquinas. FTP, name this scholastic philosopher and author of On the First Principle, also known as Doctor Subtilis. 	Answer: John Duns Scotus14.	The ruling name of this monarch translates to "bird," a reference to the belief that his country's people descended from eagles. Coming to power through coalition building between landowning beys and northern bajraktars, he was briefly overthrown by westernizers led by Bishop Fan Noli, but he returned with Yugoslav arms and Italian money, and his claim to the throne was cemented in 1926 by the Treaty of Tirana. FTP, name this king of Albania. 	Answer: Ahmed Bey Zegu or King Zog15.	It contains the suprachiasmatic nucleus, a terminus of the optic nerve which regulates circadian rhythms. The amygdula, olfactory cortex and circumventricular organs project to this nerve center. It has two outputs, neural signals to the parasympathetic vagal nuclei and endocrine signals to the pituitary, through which it regulates the release of vasopressin and oxytocin. FTP, name this portion of the autonomic nervous system responsible for homeostasis, located below the thalamus.	Answer: Hypothalamus16.	He became the last king of his nation to lead his troops in person, doing so at the battle of Dettingen. His political appointments of the duke of Newcastle and Henry Pelham were opposed by his son Frederick Louis, who sought to curb the influence of his wife Caroline of Ansbach. Other events of his reign included the defeat by the Duke of Cumberland of Jacobites at the Battle of Culloden Moor. FTP, name this Hanoverian monarch who promoted Robert Walpole to Prime Minister, and who ruled from 1727-1760.   	Answer: George II
17.	Also known as the Devil's Waltz, it is an extreme form of hypochondria. Patients who suffer from this disorder often will actually make themselves physically ill through the careful use of drugs, poisons and occasionally their own feces. In very rare cases, designated "by proxy", patients will use a small child or infant in place of themselves. FTP identify this disorder, named after one of literature's most notorious liars.        Answer: Munchhausen syndrome18.	It considers a particle at rest with spin zero, which spontaneously decays into two high speed fermions. The collapse of the wave function determines the spin of the first, and quantum mechanics states that the second must instantaneously assume the opposite spin, no matter where in the universe it is. FTP, name this problem that suggests information transfer is not limited by the speed of light, named for three physicists.	Answer: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Paradox (EPR Paradox or EPR Effect)19.	In 1843 and 1895, earthquakes of magnitude 6.0 and 6.2 were recorded along this fault.  Since then, there have been seven other seismic events of magnitude 5.0 or greater.  In 1990, Iben Browning predicted a major seismic event along this fault (which never occurred). Between 1811-1812, four earthquakes of magnitude 7.0 or greater were felt.FTP, identify this fault named for a Missouri settlement, the most populous at the time of the 1811-1812 quakes.         Answer:  New Madrid Fault20.	Based upon Pandosto, by Robert Greene, it contains a reference to the seacoast of Bohemia, although Bohemia is a landlocked region of Europe.  Polixenes, the King of Bohemia, is told that he may only remarry a statue of supposedly dead Hermione, the wife of Leontes, king of Sicily, but it turns out that the statue actually is Hermione.  For ten points, name the William Shakespeare play which contains the famous stage direction:  "Exit Antigonus pursued by a bear."  	Answer:  The Winter's Tale21.	Considered sacred by the Ngai Tahu clan who gave this peak a name meaning "cloud in the sky," its twelve thousand, three hundred forty-nine foot summit is covered by the Hooker and Tasman Glaciers. Resting atop the Alpine Thrust Fault, its foothills rise westward from the Canterbury Plain. Located 201 miles west of Christchurch, FTP, name this mountain known as Aoraki to the Maori, the highest point in New Zealand.	Answer: Mt. Cook (accept Aoraki before that clue is given)22.	The Glass Mountains form the standard stratigraphic section of this geologic period, which saw the formation of the El Capitan Reef Core on the western edge of its namesake Texas basin. The ocean Panthalassa and the landmass Pangaea existed in, FTP, what period, which shares the largest known mass extinction with the Triassic?       Answer: Permian23.	His debut was inauspicious, as he hit only .161 with seven homeruns in 1959-perhaps the result of spending too much time drinking and too little time training, as he wrote in his autobiography. He finally broke out in 1962, hitting 38 homers and driving in 85, becoming the Central League's model of consistency thereafter. Never again hitting fewer than 30 home runs, FTP name this star who retired after the 1980 season who used his one-legged swing to hit 868 home runs for the Yomiuri Giants in Japan. 	Answer: Sadaharu Oh24.	The son of Tiy and Amenhotep III, he became pharaoh after the death of Ikhnaton and proceeded to marry his third daughter. He had done nothing to distinguish himself as a ruler before he died at age 18. The burial of Ramses VI immediately above him covered his tomb in rubble, which proved to be a stroke of luck in the evasion of the grave robbers. FTP, name this Egyptian king whose tomb and golden mask were discovered by Howard Carter in 1922.       Answer: Tutankhamen       
BONI - INDIANA/RUSSELLVILLE			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Indiana U. (Jerry Hagen, Wesley Mathews, Kevin Pearce) with Russellville High & alums1.	Answer the following about a guy named Humayun FTPE:A: As the second emperor of this Indian dynasty, Humayun defeated Bahadur Shah of Gujarat.Answer: the Mughal dynasty.B: Humayun's rule was interrupted by this Afghan ruler of Bihar, who defeated him at the battle of Khanauj. He shares his name with a character from Kipling's The Jungle Book.Answer: Sher Khan (who is also known as Sher Shah).C: Humayun was succeeded by this greatest of the Mughal emperors who moved the empire's capitol to Fatehpur Sikri.Answer: Akbar2.	Answer the following about a superconducting chunk of Niobium-Titanium alloy F15PE.A: If cooled below critical temperature in a magnetic field, its magnetic flux drops off to near zero according to this effect.Answer: Meissner EffectB: According to BCS theory, the electrons in our niobium-titanium alloy form these groups that function as a single unit. Imperfections in the metal cannot break them apart at low temperatures, leading to the absence of resistance to the flow of electrons and the condition of superconductivity. Answer: Cooper Pairs3.	Time for a modern art bonus. Answer the following from surrealist painting FTPE:A: Magritte's "Time Transfixed" features one of these things exiting a fireplace beneath a mirror with no reflections.Answer: locomotive (accept train or anything else that shows similar knowledge).B: This is that 1931 painting with the ants and the soft watches draped over a naked tree with a stark landscape in the distance by Salvador Dali.Answer: "The Persistence of Memory."C: This surrealist painted images like "Ubu Imperator," "Here Everything is Still Floating" and "Mary Chastising the Infant Jesus before Three Witnesses."Answer: Max Ernst4.	Given descriptions of events, name the Jane Austen novel for ten points each. A: Marianne Dashwood, her heart having been broken once by John Willoughby, marries Colonel Brandon at this book's conclusion. Answer: _Sense and Sensibility_ B: Catherine Morland has visions of Gothic romance, adventure, and mischief, but Henry Tilney disabuses her of these notions on a visit to his home. Answer: _Northanger Abbey_ C: Lydia, the youngest Bennet daughter, causes a scandal when she runs off with a military officer named Wickham. Answer: _Pride and Prejudice_ 5.     Their origin is traced to the uninhabited island of Aegina, whose king prayed for Zeus to populate the island. FTPE:A: Name this warrior-people of Greek myth created from ants.Answer: the MyrmidonsB: The king of Aegina, this father of Telemon was the first king of the Myrmidons.Answer: AeacusC: During the Trojan War, this warrior led the Myrmidons into battle commanding ships with 50 warriors each.Answer: Achilles 6.	Answer the following about jellyfish FTPE.A: Jellyfish belong to this phylum of aquatic invertebrates that also includes corals and hydra.Answer: Cnidaria (accept coelenterate)B: This is a tough, fibrous gelatinous layer of the medusa or "float" that separates the endoderm from the ectoderm.Answer: mesogleaC: This is the proper name for the stinging part of a cnidarian thread cell. It consists of a fluid-filled sac which contains a long, hollow coiled thread, which fires when triggered by a sensory hair.Answer: nematocyst
7.   Barry Sonnenfeld's 1995 film "Get Shorty" starred numerous superb character actors.  Name them from clues FTPE.(A) This former cop played Miami mobster Ray Barboni.  He has also appeared in "Striking Distance", "Out of Sight", "Snatch", and the failed television show "Buddy Faro".	ANSWER: Dennis _Farina_(B) He played L.A. mobster Bo Catlett.  Other films: "The Cider House Rules", "Ransom", and "Gone in Sixty Seconds".	ANSWER: Delroy _Lindo_(C) He portrayed the stuntman Bear.  He has played characters in "Fallen", "The Last Castle", "The Man Who Wasn't There", and a hit HBO series.	ANSWER: James _Gandolfini_8.	Identify the following about a document FTPE A: Drawn up when aggressive threats and intrigues by Pierre Soule failed to convince Spain to sell Cuba to the United States to appease southern slaveholders, this 1854 document suggested that Cuba should be taken by force if offers to buy were unsuccessful.Answer: Ostend ManifestoB: Pierre Soule used this earlier incident in which a steamer bound for Mobile via Havana was seized and fined $6,000 for violating customs laws to justify the writing of the Ostend Manifesto.Answer: Black Warrior AffairC: This future president, a minister to Great Britain, co-authored the manifesto along with Soule and John Marcy.Answer: James Buchanan 9.	For 10 points each, identify the following Norman Mailer works.1.  His first novel, published in 1948, was a harrowing portrayal of soldiers in the Pacific in World War II..Answer: The Naked and the Dead2.  This story of the 1967 Peace March on Washington won the Pulitzer Prize.Answer: Armies of the Night3.  This mystery is about drunken writer Timothy Madden, who can't seem to remember if he's a murderer or not.Answer: Tough Guys Don't Dance10.	Given an HTML tag, tell what it does, FTPE.(A) <U> (Note: just say "U", they'll know what it means.)	ANSWER: _Underline_(B) <UL>	ANSWER: _Unordered List_(C) <TH>	ANSWER: _Table Heading_ (accept Table Header or anything else close)11.	Answer the following about a hypothetical expanding gas FTPE:A: First, this law predicts that the rate of diffusion of the gas is inversely proportional to the square root of its density.Answer: Graham's LawB: If the gas expands through a porous membrane into a region of lower pressure, it must do work to overcome intermolecular forces and expand, explaining why its temperature drops according to this effect.Answer: Joule-Thompson EffectC: These are forces that may account for the non-ideal behavior of an expanding gas along with dipole-dipole and induced dipole interactions. They arise because of small, instantaneous dipoles in atoms. London forces are an example.Answer: dispersion forces12.	Identify the following about a religion FTPE:A: Involving animal sacrifice rituals, this Caribbean religion developed by Yoruba slaves in Cuba was at the center of a 1993 Supreme Court ruling in which its practices were ruled constitutional. Answer: SanteriaB: These are African deities commonly fused with Christian Saints in Santeria.Answer: orishasC: Invoked only during serious illness or when transformation is necessary, this Santeria warrior-deity represents female power and is the goddess of wind, fire and the thunderbolt.Answer: Oya
13.	Given events (and backhanded slaps at Hollywood), name these works by E.L. Doctorow FTPE:A: Doctorow's only Western, this first novel of his focuses on a cowboy called "The Bad Man from Brodie," who steals a horse, kills a man, then runs the population out of the title Dakota town, setting it ablaze.  Hollywood shortened the title by 2 words for the film version.Answer: Welcome to Hard Times B: Inspired by the execution of the Rosenbergs, this political novel is about a violent character who burns his wife, but who joins the New Left after receiving a kiss from Selig Mindish.  Hollywood shortened the title by 3 words for the film version.Answer: The Book of DanielC: Coalhouse Walker is driven to steal a car in vengeance as a result of racism and insults from upper-class citizens of New York. Real-life figures included in this 1975 work include Booker T. Washington. Hollywood couldn't shorten this title for the film version.Answer: Ragtime14.	Identify the following from 1917 Russia FTPE.A: His failure to deal with land distribution problems and insistence that Russia remain in World War I as head of the provisional government got him overthrown by Bolsheviks in the October Revolution of 1917.Answer: Aleksandr Feodorovich KerenskyB: Replaced by Kerensky as head of the provisional government, this prince was the chairman of the zemstvos during World War I. Answer: Georgi Yevgenyevich LvovC: He partnered with Mikhail Frunze in gaining control of Moscow for the Soviets during the provisional government's rule. Initially an ally of Stalin, his later execution was the inspiration for Arthur Koestler's Darkness at Noon.Answer: Nikolai Ivanovich Bukharin15.	Name these Spanish-born philosophers FTPE.A: This Harvard-educated author of The Life of Reason investigates the mind's ability to define itself in a relationship to its natural context, advancing the notion of animal faith as its basis against Cartesian skepticism. Answer: George SantayanaB: The source of the quotation "I am I and my circumstances," this founder of Perspectivism predicted the Spanish Civil War in his The Revolt of the Masses.Answer: Jose Ortega y GassetC: Though he never used the words "great chain of being," this 11th century Jewish philosopher argued that matter becomes less pure progressing from angels through humans to animals in his sole work, Fons Vitae.Answer: Avicebron or Ibn Gabirol or Salamo bin Jehuda bin Gabirol   16.	Answer the following about musical works relating to various Saint Johns, 5-10-15.A: For five, his Saint John Passion was first performed in 1724.Answer: Johann Sebastian BachB: For ten, this opera portraying Hans Sachs opens in the interior of Saint Katherine's Church, as the congregation sings a chorale to Saint John the Baptist.Die Meistersinger von NŸrnberg or The Mastersingers of NuremburgC: For fifteen, this Estonian's Saint John Passion was written in 1982.Answer: Arvo PŠrt17.	Name these geographical features of Southeast Asia FTPE:A: Forty miles wide, it separates the Gulf of Siam from the Andaman Sea and connects the Malay Peninsula to the rest of mainland Asia.Answer: Isthmus of KraB: Although shorter than the Salween, this navigable river flows through Mandalay past river-ports near Yangon, making it much more important to the economy of Myanmar. Its name means "river of cows."Answer: IrrawaddyC: Located at the northern end of the Annamese Cordillera, this flat-lying region of northern Laos is covered with 3 to 10 foot high 270-pound mysterious containers up to 2,000 years old.Answer: Plain of Jars
18.	FTPE, name these peoples the Romans would have called barbarians.A: Crossing from Spain to Africa under the leadership of Gaiseric in 428, they sacked Carthage in 439 and built a powerful kingdom based on piracy. They were defeated by Belisarius in 533AD.Answer: the VandalsB: Led by kings like Alboin and Theodelinda, they invaded northern Italy, establishing Pavia as their capital city. The Donation of Pepin was comprised of lands taken from these people.Answer: the LombardsC: The modern Ossetians claim descent from this tribe. Like the Vandals, they were known for wreaking havoc in Spain and North Africa. Their kings, called Kundajiqs, included Askhkadar.Answer: the Alans  19.	FTPE, name these particularly depressing Ibsen plays.A: The idealist Werle convinces his weak, na•ve schoolmate that his daughter is not his own. That daughter, Hedvig, sacrifices her most beloved possession to bring him back. Failing, she kills herself.Answer: The Wild DuckB: The sculptor Rubek fears falling in love with the model of his masterpiece, Irene, who convinces him to climb high into the mountains with her to gain a new spirit. Unfortunately, they are swallowed by a snowstorm.Answer: When We Dead Awaken C: Beata, the invalid wife of the title character, commits suicide to allow him to marry Rebecca. When it is discovered that Beata's suicide was at Rebecca's instigation, he and Rebecca commit suicide to prove their love to one another.Answer: Rosmersholm20.	Name the mineral from clues about its formation process for 10, or from another clue for 5 points each. A: 10: Precipitates when hot spring water enriched in hydrogen sulfide encounters pockets of mercury enrichment concentrated by recent volcanic processes, causing pH to rise.For 5: The largest deposits of this red sulfide mineral occur at Almaden, Spain.Answer: cinnabarB: Forms when the most soluble components of bentonitic ash are leached by rainwater and redeposited below the water table, especially in caves.For 5: This important aluminum ore is commonly recovered from Jamaica.Answer: bauxiteC: Occurs as a late stage mineral in fluorine-enriched granitic melts from the reaction of aluminum silicate phases with hydrofluoric acid.For 5: With formula Al2SiO4(F,OH), this birthstone of November is mined only for its aesthetic value.Answer: topaz21.	Answer the following from the career of David Faustino FTPE:A: David Faustino plays this character on the television series "Married...With Children."Answer: Bud BundyB: David Faustino also owns a night club with this name shared by the rap album featuring him.Answer: "Balistyx "C: As a child, Faustino plays Corwin on this cheesy 1986 Halloween movie featuring a decayed corpse named William Hanover who is defeated by Gag City owners the Davis Family using a vacuum cleaner.Answer: Mister Boogedy 22.	One of the most influential concepts in modern education is the theory of multiple intelligences. A: (10 points) This Harvard researcher, through Harvard Project Zero, developed the theory in the early 1980s. Answer: Howard Gardner B: (10 points) Gardner's seminal text, it is the book which introduced the theory to academia at large. Answer: Frames of Mind C: (10 points) In recent years, Gardner has added naturalistic and existential intelligences to his original seven. Name two of these original seven intelligences for 5, and an additional two (four total) for a full 10 points. Answers:  linguistic or verbal, _logical-mathematical_ (accept either part), _spatial_, bodily-_kinesthetic_, _musical_, _interpersonal_, _intrapersonal_ 
23.	Name these American authors given lesser-known works FTPE, or for 5 if you require easier clues: A: 10 Points: Colonel Starbottle's Client and Sappho of Green Springs5 Points: The short story "The Outcasts of Poker Flat."Answer: Bret HarteB: 10 Points: A Boy's Town.5 Points: A Hazard of New Fortunes and A Modern InstanceAnswer: William Dean Howells C: 10 Points: The House Beyond The Cedars5 Points: The Conjure WomanAnswer: Charles Chesnutt 24.	Answer the following from ancient sculpture FTPE:A: First, this sculpture, a collaboration of Hagesandros, Polydorius of Rhodes, and Athenodorus shows a Greek Prophet and his sons being crushed to death by snakes sent by Apollo.Answer: "Laocoon and His Sons"B: Dedicated at Pergamum by Attalus I, this statue of a warrior lying on the earth complete with blood oozing from an open wound was found in gardens which had belonged to Sallust. It commemorates a Hellentistic victory over Celts who invaded Asia Minor in 239BCE.Answer: "The Dying Gaul"C: The first Greek sculptor to use casts as a mold for his forms, this sculptor of "The Wounded Bitch," and "Apoxyomenos," was a favorite of Alexander the Great, whom he famously portrayed "with a lance."Answer: Lysippus25.	For ten points each, name the amino acid, given the chemical formula.1. CH2CO2H2. (CH2)2 CO2H3. (CH2) 4 NH2Answers:  1.  Aspartic Acid  2.  Glutamic Acid  3.  Lysine