TOSSUPS - BLIND ROUND #4				MOC MASTERS 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Cal-Berkeley's Jerry Vinokurov and Ray Luo1. The poet's "sole resource" and "only plan" was "haply by abstruse research to steal from [his] own nature all the natural man."  Beginning with the ballad of Sir Patrick Spence, it hopes that the sounds of the gust "which oft have raised" him "might startle this dull pain, and make it move and live!"  Derived from Wordworth's "Ode on Intimations of Immortality," and confronting the poet's sense of diminishing power, FTP name this ode by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.	Answer: "Dejection: An Ode" 2. In 1998, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison for tax code violations and mail fraud, of which he served 5 years.  In 1969, he formed the National Caucus of Labor Committees by grouping ex-SDS activists and ex-Trotskyists. Some of the more outrageous claims this man has made are that Lagrange and Laplace were Satanists, that Reagan used him for high-level negotiations with the Soviet Union, and that the world is on the brink of financial collapse and therefore he should be President of the United States. A 1999 ruling allowed the DNC to keep this man out Democratic primaries, even though he claims to be the true heir of Franklin Roosevelt. Obsessed with the Synarchists and lately with Dick Cheney, FTP, identify this raving lunatic and 8-time presidential candidate. 	Answer:	Lyndon Hermyle LaRouche 3. To join them, the candidate had to demonstrate the gift of poetry and pass numerous tests, such as having to deflect spears thrown at him by the other members. Some of their more famous members included the son and nephew of their most famous leader, and their main task was to protect the High King at Tara. The cycle which tells of them includes the story of the pursuit of Diarmuid and Grainne, and at the Battle of Gabhra, all but twenty of them were killed, with only the heroes Cailte Mac Ronan and Oisin surviving. Led at one point by Cuchulain, FTP, identify this group of warriors from Irish myth, most famously led by Finn MacCumhail. 	Answer:	Fianna (or Champions of the Red Branch 4. A town which shares part of its name with it is called Aldeigjuborg in Swedish, and according to the Primary Chronicle was its country's first capital. Its largest island, Valamo, was the site of a monastery until the Winter War, and it is home to an endemic species of ringed seal that takes its name from this body of water. Its two major tributaries are the Svir and the Vuoksi and from 1617 until 1721, it served as part of the border between Russia and Sweden. It was deceptively dubbed "the river of life" when it froze over in the winter of 1941, providing the only supply route to the besieged city of Leningrad. Located near the Russian border with Finland in what used to be Karelia, FTP, identify this Russian lake that empties into the Gulf of Finland through the Neva. 	Answer:	Lake Ladoga5. The spectroscopy of this name utilizes its namesake effect and the Doppler effect in combination with isomer shifts, quadrupole splitting, and magnetic field splitting to achieve a high resolution. All three of those influences work by detuning the receiver from the source, and in the 1960s, Pound, Rebka, and Snyder utilized this effect to measure the gravitational redshift. First observed in solid iodine, it occurs when emitted radiation lacks the momentum to excite a phonon in the crystal lattice, causing the whole system to recoil. Most famously occurring in iron-57 with an energy of 14.4 keV, FTP, identify this eponymous effect, in which a recoil-free gamma-ray emission occurs, and which won its discoverer Rudolf the 1961 Physics Nobel Prize. 	Answer:	Mossbauer effect 6. There is some speculation that they were not produced by the man to whom they are usually attributed, but by his son, and that his grandson later propagated the rumor of their origin. Less famous works in this collection are Old Men Eating Soup and Pilgrimage to St. Isidro's Fountain, which hung with 12 others in the artist's home, known as Quinto del Sordo. In a more famous work from this collection, a goat-like shadow can be seen on the left hand side, and their subject matter is similar to that of a later series of etchings, Disparates. Painted between 1819 and 1824, FTP, identify this set of 14 bleak Goya paintings that includes The Sleep of Reason Breeds Monsters and Saturn Devouring His Children. 	Answer:	Black paintings 
7. Robert Nozick's Anarchy, State, and Utopia was a direct response to this work. According to this work, civil disobedience is justified if the problem is substantial and clear, normal appeals to the majority have failed, and there are not too many minority groups with equally valid claims. It advances an idea that its author called the "difference principle," according to which no redistribution of resources is allowed unless it makes all the parties involved better off, and it prioritizes liberty and its titular concept above all others. Most famously, it advances the argument that all of its positions would be accepted if people were to consider them based on general principles, a concept known as the "original position." Best known for its concept of the veil of ignorance, FTP, identify this 1971 work by John Rawls. 	Answer:	A Theory of Justice 8. In the end, a statue is erected in memory of the main character by the National Revolutionary Party run by former President Shagpoke Whipple, who had earlier sent the main character to New York. Betty Prail is repeatedly raped and is forced to work in a Chinese brothel, while the main character loses his teeth in prison, his eye in a street robbery, and his leg in a bear trap, only to be shot on stage by a member of the Third International. Taking its title from the amount of money John D. Rockefeller would supposedly give to "have a stomach like yours," FTP, identify this Nathanael West parody of Horatio Alger, subtitled The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin. 	Answer:	A Cool Million 9. Hard skeletons evolved at the end of this period which saw the drifting of the plates, resulting in several continental masses, the largest of which was Gondwana.  Fossils of the Burgess Shale in British Columbia indicate that O_2 levels approached their current concentration, allowing diversification of algae.  FTP name this geological period lasting from 540 to 500 million years ago, the first period of the Paleozoic era.	Answer: Cambrian10. At the time of its design, it relied on resources that did not exist and on expansions that never happened. Its implementation ended up sacrificing offensive qualities for defensive ones, and it's architect thought that an agreement could be reached with the Netherlands to cross Limburg. Instead of the original design, von Moltke stengthened the Alsace wing and rejected the notion that France would end up violating neutrality by taking up defensive positions in the Meuse valley. Projected to begin with the fall of Liege, FTP, identify this German World War I scheme to sweep through Belgium and capture Paris. 	Answer:	Schlieffen Plan 11. Aided by a Ford Foundation grant, this man collaborated with anthropologist Edmund Carpenter to produce eight issues of a periodical called explorations.  He applied Emerson's idea that "the human body is the magazine of inventions... and all the tools... are only extensions of its limbs and senses" to problems of mass communication,  and Finnegan's Wake may have been the source for a term he coined, "global village."  He appears in the film Annie Hall to say, "Young man, you know nothing of my work," which work includes The Guttenberg Galaxy and Understanding Media.  FTP, identify this Canadian media critic, most famous for The Medium is the Message. 	Answer:	Herbert Marshall McLuhan 12. Drafted into the Young Fascists in 1940, he escaped and joined the Communist resistance, an experience he used in one of his early short stories, The Argentine Ant. His short novel, Smog, was a criticism of modern industrial society, and  The Watcher is an examination of an election day in a Turin cathedral. But a more famous novel involves a dialogue between Marco Polo and Kubla Khan in which all the titular locations are named for women. FTP, identify this Cuban-born Italian author of Cosmicomics and If on a Winter's Night a Traveler 	Answer:	Italo Calvino 13. In 1479, Gentile Bellini traveled to the site of this man's most famous conquest to paint his portrait. His father abdicated in his favor when he was only 12, but returned after two years and ruled until this man was 19. After the death of his father, he murdered his father's widow's infant son, and his military exploits, including the annexation of Bosnia and the repulsion of the Hungarians, earned him the nickname Fatih. He achieved his most famous feat when he was only 21; that battle was famous for its seven-ton cannon, and following it, Pope Nicholas V called for a crusade that never materialized. Called the Conqueror, FTP, identify this son of Murad II, whose greatest achievement was taking Constantinople in 1453. 	Answer:	Mehmet II (I believe Mohammed II is also acceptable) 
14. Late in this movie, the title character takes a trip to Hell to rescue his lover, only to discover that he and the Devil, played by Billy Crystal, actually have a lot in common. Tobey Maguire make a brief appearance as Mendel Birnbaum, a creation of the title character who receives a visit from the Grim Reaper, while Robin Williams plays a man who is out of focus. In the end, he kidnaps his son from Joan, played by Kirstie Alley, and together with a black prostitute named Cookie and his friend Richard who dies en route, sets off to visit his alma mater where he's supposed to be honored. FTP, identify this 1997 movie centering on the fiction and neuroses of Harry Block, played by Woody Allen 	Answer:	Deconstructing Harry 15. In vertebrates, this process is performed by granulocytes, and mycobacteria are protected from it by a protein called TACO. The speed of this process is regulated by the Fc and complement receptors, and the acceleration of this process is termed opsonization. Its first stage is called chemotaxis, and is followed by adherence, while its final phase involves an oxidative burst, which results when a pseudopod and a lysosome combine around the prey. Anthrax spores cause septicimia when neutrophils attempt to destroy them through this process, and in the immune system, antibodies such as IgG serve to mark invading cells that are to undergo it. FTP, identify this process in which one cell completely engulfs and consumes another. 	Answer:	phagocytosis 16. In the beginning of this play, the Captain tells the title character how long he has to live, and the accuses the title character of having no morals. In the next scene, Margret accuses the title character's lover of making eyes at soldiers on parade, and after that, the title character is berated by the Doctor for urinating in the street. His crime is uncovered by Kate, whose inn he visits after killing his mistress with a knife following her statement that she'd rather have a knife in her belly than his hand on it. Centering on the relationship between Marie, the Drum Major, and the title character Friedrich Johann Franz, who drowns attempting to wash off Marie's blood, FTP, identify this play by Georg Buchner that was turned into an opera by Alban Berg. 	Answer:	Woyzeck 17. This band formed after its two founding members placed a classified ad looking for musicians whose influences included Husker Du and Peter, Paul, and Mary. Their demo tape was picked up by 4AD, a British label, and some of the songs from that tape made it onto their first EP, Come On Pilgrim. In 1988, they released their first full album, Surfer Rosa, and songs such as Debaser, Monkey Gone to Heaven, and Here Comes Your Man helped Doolittle reach the top 100 in the U.S. However, egos clashed when the lead singer left bassist Kim Deal out of the writing of the next album, Bossanova, and the band finally broke up after releasing Trompe Le Monde. Kurt Cobain confessed that in writing Smells Like Teen Spirit, he was trying to imitate, FTP, what band, comprising Dave Lovering, Kim Deal, Joey Santiago, and Black Francis? 	Answer:	The Pixies 18. In The Laughing Man, the narrator describes the stories told to him at camp by the Chief about the title character's struggles against detective Marcel Dufarge and his daughter, while the Chief's own relationship with his girlfriend is under strain. Teddy concerns a precocious child who knows about reincarnation, while De Daumier Smith's Blue Period concerns the narrator's time spent as an art teacher at a correspondence school. More famous is the story about an American soldier's encounter with British children, For Esme, With Love and Squalor, but this collection is most famous for the story involving Sybil and the suicide of Seymour Glass. FTP, identify this short story collection by J.D. Salinger, best known for A Perfect Day for Bananafish. 	Answer:	Nine Stories 19. This law is utilized in separating uranium isotopes, and explains why helium-filled balloons deflate faster than air-filled ones.  Assuming that the mean free path of molecules is greater than the diameter of the orifice, and that the pressure of the destination chamber is low, it states that the rate of effusion of a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of its molar mass.  FTP name this law of effusion named for its discoverer.	Answer: Graham's law of effusion
20. Its passage was preceded by the resignation of Governor John Geary after a bill calling for a census enumeration and the election of delegates to a constitutional convention was passed over his veto. Geary's replacement, Robert Walker, opposed it but was undercut James Buchanan, and it first passed with 6,226 votes in favor, of which 2,720 were later proven fraudulent. Its seventh section was controversial because it called only for the article regarding slavery to be brought to the popular vote, and the document itself was constructed so that even if it passed without slavery, the right of property in slaves already present would still be protected. Also specifying that no free Negro could live in the state, FTP, identify this attempt at a Kansas constitution, eventually rejected by over 10,000 votes on January 4, 1858. 	Answer:	Lecompton Constitution 21. Its construction was initiated due to a king's fulfillment of his vow to go on a pilgrimage, and it originally housed Benedictine monks. The shrine to its founder and its first reconstruction were mostly the work of Henry Yevele, and Henry VII added its perpendicular chapel to it dedicated to the Virgin Mary in 1503. During the Dissolution of the Monasteries, it was seized by Henry VIII, and Oliver Cromwell was exhumed from its crypt so he could be hanged. Other famous burials in this structure include Ben Jonson, Isaac Newton, and the Unknown Warrior, as well as the remains of its founder, Edward the Confessor. With towers designed by Christopher Wren and Nicholas Hawksmoor, FTP, identify this cathedral boasting the highest Gothic vault in England and located in London next to a palace that shares its name. 	Answer:	Westminster Abbey 22. Beginning in the Operations Research literature, Edmonds first captured its essence by telling the story of any assistant trying to convince her supervisor.  Formally introduced by Levin in a paper on universal search problems, its usefulness was demonstrated by Karp.  Timetable, independent set, and knapsack are discussed in a catalog by Garey and Johnson.  FTP name this class of problems polynomially reducible to SAT.	Answer: nondeterministic polynomial complete; prompt to give more on NP23. Formed as a Second Division team in 1905, this club won its only league trophy in 1955 under Ted Drake. Its managers have included Geoff Hurst from 1979 to 1981, and Glenn Hoddle, under whom they finished in their lowest position in the 1990s. They achieved top-of-the-table stability under Ruud Gullit and Gianluca Vialli, and despite a recent influx of cash, they delayed offering Gianfranco Zola a new contract, resulting in his leaving to play for Cagliari. That influx of money came when the club, its debt, and all its holding were bought out by Roman Abramovich, and a year later, manager Claudio Ranieri was replaced with Jose Mourinho. Known in England as the Blues for the color of their uniforms, FTP, identify this English club which shares its name with a former First Daughter. 	Answer:	Chelsea Football Club 
BONI - BLIND ROUND #4				MOC MASTERS 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Cal-Berkeley's Jerry Vinokurov and Ray Luo1. Identify the following related people, FTPE [10] Maria Clementina, the granddaughter of this man best known for his battles with the Turks, married James Francis Edward Stuart, the Old Pretender to the English and Scottish thrones. 	Answer:	Jan (John) Sobieski [10] Maria gave birth to this man, known as the Young Pretender, whose forces were defeated by the Duke of Cumberland in 1746 at Culloden Moor. 	Answer:	Charles Edward Louis Philip Casimir Stuart (accept Bonnie Prince Charlie) [10] Jan Sobieski's daughter, Therese Kunigunde, married this man, who fought with Sobieski against the Turks in 1683 and fathered the Holy Roman Emperor Charles VII. 	Answer:	Maximilian II Emmanuel 2. Tom Lehrer is a funny man. Identify the Tom Lehrer song from lyrics, FTPE. [10] If you're looking for adventure of a new and different kind/ And you come across a Girl Scout who is similarly inclined/ Don't be nervous, don't be flustered, don't be scared. 	Answer:	Be Prepared [10] It stinks. Metro-Goldwyn-Moskva bought film rights for six million rubles, changing title to 'The Eternal Triangle', with Ingrid Bergman playing part of hypotenuse. 	Answer:	Lobachevsky [10] There's sulfur, californium and fermium, berkelium/ And also mendelevium, einsteinium, nobelium/ And argon, krypton, neon, radon, xenon, zinc and rhodium/ And chlorine, carbon, cobalt, copper, tungsten, tin and sodium. 	Answer:	The Elements 3. Identify these Irish plays performed at the Abbey Theatre, FTPE. [10] The first play to be performed at the Abbey, this William Butler Yeats play centers on Cuchulain and Concobar. 	Answer:	On Baile's Strand [10] This John Millington Synge play about Michael Flaherty, his daughter Pegeen, and the titular character, Christy Mahon, set off a riot on its first performance after mentioning women's undergarments. 	Answer:	The Playboy of the Western World [10] Resulting in a riot almost as violent as the one over Playboy of the Western World because it was perceived as anti-nationalist, this Sean O'Casey play focuses on the Clitheroe family before and during the Easter uprising of 1916. 	Answer:	The Plough and the Stars 4. Answer some questions about superfluidity, FTSNOPE. [10] This is the term for the discontinuity of the graph of the specific heat of a superfluid and its temperature. It derives its name from its resemblance to a greek letter. 	Answer:	lambda point [10] First proposed by Laszlo Tisza, this model of superfluidity is based on the coexistence of the normal and the superfluid phases. 	Answer:	two-fluid model [10] The transition between the normal and the superfluid state of a mixture of Helium-3 and Helium-4 is the basis for this type of ultracold refrigerator. 	Answer:	dilution refrigerator 
5. Identify these works of Emile Durkheim, FTPE. [10] Focusing on animism, naturism, and totemism, this 1912 Durkheim work attempted to discover the most primitive religion known to man. 	Answer:	Elementary Forms of the Religious Life [10] In this 1893 work, Durkheim attempts to define the value to civilization of the titular concept and asks to what degree does the solidarity produced by the titular phenomenon contribute to the general integration of society. 	Answer:	Division of Labor in Society [10] Published in 1897, in this, his most famous work, Durkheim describes the egoistic, altruistic, and anomic forms of the titular act, the frequency of which is inversely proportional to the integration of society. 	Answer:	Suicide 6. Identify these architectural landmarks of Russia, FTPE. [10] Built from the designs of Francesco Rastrelli, this central building of the Hermitage was formerly the residence of the Tzars. It was stormed in October 1917 by the Bolsheviks. 	Answer:	Winter Palace (in Russian: Zimniy Dvoretz) [10] Ivan the Terrible blinded the architect of this building to prevent him from constructing anything so beautiful again. Commissioned to commemorate Ivan's successes against the Tartars in 1552, this cathedral's nine onion domes are a familiar sight around the Red Square. 	Answer:	St. Basil's Cathedral (accept St. Vasiliy's (in Russian: Hram Svyatovo Vasiliya [10] The tallest freestanding structure of its kind anywhere, this 600-ton granit monolith in St. Peterburg's Palace Square is topped by a cross-bearing angel. It was designed by French architect Auguste Montferrand to commemorate the victory over Napoleon and was commissioned by Nicholas I. 	Answer:	Alexandrian Column (or Alexander's Column) (in Russian: Alexandriyskaya Colona 7. Identify the American short story from plot, FTPE. [10] Confederate spy Peyton Farquhar is captured while attempting to burn down the titular structure and is hanged as he imagines himself escaping. 	Answer:	An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge [10] In the end, the narrator and Bill Driscoll are forced to perform the titular action in reverse which sets them back $250 in this O. Henry short story. 	Answer:	The Ransom of Red Chief [10] One of the title characters saves Jabez Stone from the other one with his eloquent defence in this story by Steven Benet. 	Answer:	The Devil and Daniel Webster 8. Answer some questions about a famous historian, FTPE. [10] What American historian published in 1965 The Paranoid Style in American Politics, based on a Harper's Weekly article of the same name that denounced Joseph McCarthy? 	Answer:	Richard Hofstadter [10] Hofstadter won his second Pulitzer for this 1964 book, which traced the roots of the title concept from the populism of the Great Awakening to the present day. 	Answer:	Anti-Intellectualism in American Life [10] In addition to that book and The Age of Reform, which won him his first Pulitzer, Hofstadter is best known for this 1948 work, a series of miniature biographies of important American political figures. 	Answer:	The American Political Tradition: And the Men Who Made It 9. Identify these geographic features of Argentina, FTPE. [10] This southern region of Argentina consists mostly of vast steppe-like plains and is divided into four provinces, among which are the Santa Cruz and the Neuquen, which extends south to the Rio Colorado. 	Answer:	Patagonia [10] This river, the namesake of one of the Argentine provinces of Patagonia, is generally considered the northern border of Patagonia, at about 41 degrees latitude. 	Answer:	Rio Negro or Black River [10] Guarani for "plain," this is the name for the fertile region south of Buenos Aires. It has come to represent the entire biome that matches its characteristics as well. 	Answer:	Pampa 
10. There was one on Nixon's Presidency.  Answer the following about cancer.  FTPE.(10)  Unlike carcinomas that arise in surface tissues, this is the type of cancer that invades tissues like bone, blood vessels, and muscle.	Answer: sarcomas(10)  This type of tumor resembles the tissue it came from, grows slowly, and remains localized, unlike malignant tumor, which is dedifferentiated and expresses telomerase.	Answer: benign tumors(10)  This is the spreading of cancer cells by digesting their way to a blood vessel and traveling to a suitable organ for further growth.	Answer: metastasis11. Identify the poem from lines, FTSNOPE. [10] Ah, love, let us be true/ To one another! for the world which seems/ To lie before us like a land of dreams,/ So various, so beautiful, so new,/ Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light,/ Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain; 	Answer:	Dover Beach [10] About suffering they were never wrong/ The Old Masters: how well they understood/ Its human position 	Answer:	Musee dex Beau Arts [10] His state is kingly; thousands at his bidding speed/ And post o'er land and ocean without rest/ They also serve who only stand and wait. 	Answer:	On His Blindness 12. Nothing like a little 19th century German diplomacy to set the blood and iron pumping. FTPE: [10] One of Otto von Bismarck's greatest triumphs was this 1881 pact between Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Russia, which ensured that if any one of the signatories were to go to war with another Great Power, the other two would remain benevolently neutral. 	Answer:	Three Emperors' League (or Federation or Alliance) (in German: Dreikaiserbund [10] Bismarck managed to goad France into war in 1870 by releasing this letter to the French press, which he had rewritten to make it seem as though Kaiser Wilhelm I had brusquely dismissed French minister Count Benedetti. 	Answer:	Ems dispatch (or telegram, or letter) [10] After dismissing Bismarck, Kaiser Wilhelm II adopted this policy, which strove to make Germany a great military and naval power and called for German colonial expansion. 	Answer:	Weltpolitik, or World policy or World politics 13. Answer some questions about Indian mythology, FTSNOPE. [5 points each]The Mahabharata tells the tale of the war between these two factions 	Answer:	Kauravas and Pandavas [10] This is the section of the Mahabharata in which Krishna consoles Arjuna and reminds him of his duty. 	Answer:	Bhagavad Gita or Song of the Lord [10] The Bhagavad Gita is generally considered the primary source for teachings of this religious activity, which exists in Raja, Bhakti, Karma, and Jnana forms. 	Answer:	yoga 14. Answer the following about water.  FTPE.(10)  Liquid water molecules form about 3.4 of these bonds with each other, strongest at 180 degrees, resulting from partial negative charges on electronegative oxygens.	Answer: 	hydrogen bonds(10)  Water is effective in screening electrostatic interactions between dissolved ions because it has a high value of this constant, symbolized epsilon, reflecting the numer of dipoles in solvent, given by product of charges divided by force times r^2.	Answer: 	dielectric constant(10)  This is the name for polar molecules like glycine, glycerol, and salts that dissolve easily in water, hence the Greek for "water-loving."	Answer: 	hydrophilic
15.	Given the soccer competition, identify the last club or national team to win it, F5PE. [5] European Championship 	Answer:	Greece [5] Champions' League 	Answer:	FC Porto [5] World Cup 	Answer:	Brazil [5] UEFA Cup 	Answer:	Valencia [5] German Bundesliga title 	Answer:	Werder Bremen [5] Carling Cup 	Answer:	Middlesborough 16.	Identify the mathematical theorems, FTPE. [10] The first of a set of three theorems, this theorem states that if a group G is divisible by some prime power p raised to the n, then it contains its namesake's subgroups with orders of up to p raised to the n. 	Answer:	First Sylow Theorem [10] This theorem states that given a field and a nonconstant polynomial over the field, there exists an extension of the field such that the polynomial is zero for some element in the extension. Its formulator is better known for his namesake delta. 	Answer:	Kronecker's theorem [10] First proved by Gauss, this basic theorem guarantees the existence of n roots of an n-degree polynomial over the complex numbers. 	Answer:	Fundamental Theorem of Algebra17. 	Identify these people important in the Mexican-American war, FTPE. [10] On March 9, 1847, he gave the order from his flagship Massachussetts, for 12,000 troops to disembark at Vera Cruz. 	Answer:	Winfield Scott [10] Although his diplomatic powers were revoked by Polk after Scott took Mexico City, this man decided to stay anyway and successfully negotiated the treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo. 	Answer:	Nicholas Trist [10] Departing from Santa Fe, this man led 800 men on a 3,500 mile march into Mexican territory, where he thumped the Mexican army at the Battle of Sacramento and seized Chihuahua, making him a war hero second only to Zachary Taylor. 	Answer:	Colonel Alexander Doniphan18. Identify these things from biology, FTPE. [10] This is the general term for a technique which can detect one type of RNA in a mixture of RNA or one type of DNA in a mixture of DNA. 	Answer:	blotting [5 points each] The two examples given above are what kind of blots? 	Answer:	Northern and Southern [10] This type of blot is used to determine the amount of a specific RNA or DNA in a mixture. Samples are spotted onto a hybridization membrane and hybridized with a radioactive probe. 	Answer:	dot blot 19.	Identify the ancient sculpture, FTPE. [10] An example of its sculptor's namesake curve, this Praxiteles statue of the messenger of the gods with another divine infant is missing an arm. 	Answer:	Hermes with the Infant Dionysus [10] Polykleitos demonstrated his Canon in this statue, depicting a warrior walking and carrying a stabbing weapon 	Answer:	Doryphorous or Spear-bearer [10] In the time that Lysippus wasn't busy sculpting busts of Alexander the Great, he found time to create this statue of a great Greek hero leaning on his club. 	Answer:	Herakles (do not accept "Hercules") 
20. Identify the Gunter Grass novel, FTPE. [10] The most famous novel of Gunter Grass is this work of the Danzig Trilogy which concerns Oscar Matzerath and the title instrument. 	Answer:	The Tin Drum (or Die Blechtrommel) [10] Spanning human history from prehistoric matriarchy to modern times, this novel is based on the story "The Fisherman and His Wife" and is centered on the titular talking fish. 	Answer:	The Flounder (or Der Butt [10] In this novel, a couple take a trip to Asia, partly retracing the steps of Grass's own trip the same year, and struggle with the decision to have a baby. In it, Grass imagines what the world might be like if there were only 80 million Chinese but 980 million Germans. 	Answer:	Headbirths, or the Germans are Dying Out (that's a subtitle, not an alternative title) 21. Nothing fills a pop culture distribution quite like a bonus on the Hithchiker's Guide to the Galaxy. FTPE: [10] Powered by the Infinite Improbability drive, Zaphod Beeblebrox steals this spaceship from the government, and it is this ship which picks up Arthur and Ford. 	Answer:	Heart of Gold [10] Ford, Arthur, Zaphod, Trillian, and Marvin are welcomed to Magrathea by this old man, who has kept it going for the mice. 	Answer:	Slartibartfast [10] During Arthur's stint as the great Sandwich Maker, he prepares his crown dish out of these animals, on which Arthur and Ford eventually escape. 	Answer:	Perfectly Normal Beast 22.	Identify these ideas that have earned economists Nobel Prizes, FTPE. [10] Ragnar Frisch and Jan Tinbergen received the first Nobel Prize for their work in this field, the general mathematical treatment of economics. 	Answer:	econometrics [10] Robert Lucas received the 1995 Nobel Prize for developing this hypothesis, which assumed that recessions were self-correcting and that government intervention is either ineffectual or harmful. 	Answer:	rational expectations [10] George Akerlof, Michael Spence, and Joseph Stiglitz won the 2001 Nobel Prize for their work on this phenomenon, which Akerlof demonstrated with used car sales. 	Answer:	asymmetrical information23.	Answer some questions about philosophy, FTPE. [10] "Consider a planet, indentical to our own in every respect, except that the place of water is occupied, not by the chemical compound H20, but by another compound, XYZ." This quotation refers to what series of though experiments, which argue for an externalist epistemology? 	Answer:	Twin Earth [10] The Twin Earth experiments were proposed by this Harvard philosopher. 	Answer:	Hilary Putnam [10] Putnam proposed the Twin Earth experiments in this 1975 paper. 	Answer:	The meaning of meaning 24. Answer some questions about Alexander the Great and his empire, FTPE. [10] After Alexander's death, his generals, including Antigonus, Seleucus, and Ptolemy, fell to fighting over the spoils. What was the collective name given to those generals? 	Answer:	Diodochi [10] At this 326 B.C.E. battle, Alexander decisively defeated the Indian king Porus, thereby gaining control of the Indian empire. 	Answer:	Hydaspes River [10] After suffering defeat at Gaugamela, Darius III fled to this city, only to be forced to flee again and finally to be assassinated by Bessus. It was also here that Alexander's friend and advisor Hephaestion died. 	Answer:	Ecbatana 