TOSSUPS - BEVILL STATE					MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Bevill State with one or two by Travis Vitello1.	A Whig politician from Massachusetts, this man, a professor of Greek, served as President of Harvard from 1846-1849.  As a member of the Constitutional Union Party, he was an unsuccessful vice presidential candidate as the running mate of John Bell.  Upon the death of Daniel Webster, he served as Secretary of State under Millard Fillmore.  The most popular speaker of his day, he is now remembered best for being the other guy who spoke.  FTP, identify the man who spoke for two hours before Abraham Lincoln gave a more famous two minute speech at the dedication of the Soldier's National Cemetery in Gettysburg.	Answer:  	Edward Everett2.	 This term's etymology is Middle English and Middle French and was taken from a Late Latin word meaning humpbacked.  In modern terms, it is an adjective meaning marked by convexity or swelling.  Pertaining to astronomy, it means to be seen with more than half but not all the apparent disk illuminated.  FTP, identify this seven-letter term that is often used to describe a three-quarters moon.	Answer:	Gibbous3.	He now works for the energy research firm of Howard Weil, Labouisse and Friedrichs Inc., trading oil and gas stocks.  He was an All-State receiver in his senior season at Isidore Newman High, on the receiving end of passes from sophomore quarterback Peyton Manning.  He got a football scholarship to Ole Miss but never played a down there before he was diagnosed with spinal stenosis and had to give up football.  FTP name this oldest and least known of the Manning Brothers.	Answer:	Cooper Manning4.	 The last track on Iron Maiden's Powerslave album, it has been made into a 14-minute song considered to be one of the greatest epics in "metal history".  It also ties into the plot of Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency.  It may have been inspired by James Cook's second voyage to the South Seas and Pacific where William Wales, the author's tutor, served as an astronomer on the HMS Resolution.  First published in 1798, it was updated and included in Sybilline Leaves in 1817, and a statue of its central character was unveiled in 2003 in Watchet, Somerset, England.  FTP, identify this poem, which first appeared in Lyrical Ballads, the longest significant work of Samuel Taylor Coleridge.	Answer:	The Rime of the Ancient Mariner5.	Technically, it can be defined as the limit as x approaches infinity of the quantity 1 plus 1 over x all raised to the x power - giving an indeterminate form of 1 to the infinity power.  Quite useful in differential equations, powers of this numbers appear quite naturally when you solve linear ordinary differential equations and find that the characteristic equation has real roots.  Having been discovered by the early 1600s, the area under the square hyperbola from 1 to this number is the unit value of 1.  Euler first used the modern notation for the number in 1731 and had by thens also calculated the value to 18 decimal places by the use of a Taylor series.  FTP, identify this transcendental number that is commonly known today as the base of the system of natural logarithms.	Answer:	e6.	 It was given the working title "The Malediction" to avoid drawing the attention of the censors in then-Austrian-controlled northern Italy.  Francesco Maria Piave wrote the libretto based on the Victor Hugo work Le Roi s'amuse, a novel which faced heavy censorship in France.  Its opening was a huge success and La Donna è Mobile, the Duke's aria, was sung in the streets the next morning.  FTP, identify the Verdi opera which revolves around a curse placed upon the Duke of Mantua and his titular hunchbacked Jester.	Answer:	Rigoletto7.	The first occurred on July 30, 1419, and involved the deaths of seven members of the namesake city's governing council at the hands of Hussite rebels.  The second and more famous event of this name occurred on May 23, 1618, and involved the attempted execution of Vilem Slavata and Jaroslav Martinic, two high officials of the Holy Roman Empire who had violated the Letter of Majesty of 1609, and is considered a cause of the Thirty Years' War.  FTP, identify the shared name of these events which describes the dis-windowing of the current capital of the Czech Republic.	Answer:	The Defenestration(s) of Prague     
8.	Fred Allison claimed to have discovered this rare element by means of his "magneto-optic effect" in 1931 while working at the Alabama Polytechnic Institute - now Auburn University.  He named it Alabamine.  However, his methods were later discredited by the larger scientific community, and it would be 1940 before D. R. Corson would get credit for the discovery of element number 85.  FTP, by what name from the Greek for "unstable" do we know this halogen?	Answer:	Astatine9.	The story, told nearly in its entirety through dialogue, is a conversation between a young woman and a man waiting for a train in Spain.  As they talk, it becomes clear that the young woman is pregnant and that the man wants her to have an abortion.  At the end of the story, their relationship is unclear, as is whether or not a decision has been made.  FTP, give the title of this 1927 Hemingway short story, part of his Men Without Women collection.	Answer:	Hills Like White Elephants10.	Many believe that it takes its name from a Persian word for Ahura Mazda, the Zoroastrian "good God".  In some dialects, however, it comes from a local word meaning "datepalm".  It was the site of one of the most controversial tragedies in aviation history when Iran Air Flight 655 was shot down by the USS Vincennes, killing all 290 passengers, and prompting President Bush to award the commander of the Vincennes a Legion of Merit award.  On its north coast are the Greater and Lesser Tunbs, as well as the Abu Masa and Kish islands.  FTP, identify this narrow stretch of ocean located between Iran, an enclave of Oman, and the United Arab Emirates, which links the Gulf of Oman to the Persian Gulf.	Answer:  	Strait of Hormuz11.	First becoming known in 1726 for his illustrations in Samuel Butler's novel Hudibras, this artist helped secure the copyright act of 1735, an act sometimes named for him because of the artistic piracy of his engravings.  Generally known as the greatest pictorial satirist in England, he was appointed Sergeant Painter to King George II two years after one of his most famous works, a series of six scenes about a Harlot, was destroyed by fire.  FTP, identify the artist whose most famous work, depicting the decline and fall of Tom Rakewell, inspired a Stravinski Opera and whose Marriage a-la Mode is featured in the National Gallery.	Answer:	William Hogarth12.	One of the central themes in the novel is the difficulty of inter-racial friendships in the British Empire.  Ronny Heaslop, the city magistrate, is engaged to Adela Quested, a girl who hallucinates and accuses a local doctor of assaulting her in the Marabar Caves, which causes some interracial tension in the city of Chandrapur.  Heaslop breaks off the engagement, however, when Adela admits that she was hallucinating and that Dr. Aziz didn't actually assault her in, FTP, which 1929 E.M. Forster novel?	Answer:  	A Passage to India13.	Notable personalities with an affiliation to this government entity include John Forbes Nash, John Von Neumann, Condoleezza Rice, and Donald Rumsfeld.  Founded in 1945 by the Air Force, according to a 1994 report two-thirds of this entity's recent research has focused on national security issues, however, past credits include research and development for the American space programs and for ARPANET.  FTP, identify this government corporation that employed Daniel Ellsberg, the source of the Pentagon Papers.	Answer:	The RAND Corporation14.	In this device, an excitation voltage is applied to its P+ and P- terminals, which are located at opposite corners.  At its other corners, the S+ and S- terminals are connected by a galvanometer running through its middle, which measures the signal output.  Often used to measure length changes in a strain gauge, this device contains three resistors of known quantity and one of unknown quantity all arranged together in a diamond-shaped formation.  FTP, name this "bridge circuit" designed to measure precise changes in resistance, named for a British scientist.	Answer:	Wheatstone Bridge15.	The turning point in the battle was when General Kellerman's cavalry charged the left flank of the main Austrian pursuit column, which led 2000 Austrians ahead of the column to surrender, including Major General Anton Zach.  Considered by many to be one of the most important battles of the Napoleonic Wars, it forced Austria to the bargaining table and brought several years of peace.  Namesake of a county in Alabama and a chicken dish, FTP, name this June 14, 1800, battle in northern Italy.	Answer:	Marengo
16.	It is the third closest star to Earth after Alpha Centauri 3 and Bernard's Star, and resides in the constellation Leo.  In 2000 the Hubble Space Telescope was used to search the area around this main sequence red dwarf star for signs of a stellar or sub-stellar companion, of which neither was found.  Too dim to be seen with the naked eye, it was discovered only after intense "dry plate" photographic examination by its namesake in 1880.  FTP, identify this star system better known by "Trekkies" as the site of a cataclysmic space battle which saw the destruction of a Federation fleet by the Borg.	Answer:	Wolf 35917.	Living in the Gnipa-cave, its howling will signal the beginning of Ragnarok.  Often likened to the Greek Cerberus, he stands guard at the entrance of Helheim with his four eyes and a blood covered chest.  Siding with the Giants at Ragnarok, FTP, identify this monstrous dog from Norse mythology that will kill and be killed by the war god Tyr.	Answer:	Garm18.	The twelve chapters are marked "monthly installments", and labeled with months of the year.  Tita and Pedro's love is forbidden by Mama Elena , who even comes back as a ghost to try to extinguish their passion.  In the end, finally unencumbered by any others, Tita and Pedro are so consumed by passion that a tunnel to the afterlife opens, allowing them to spend eternity together.  Thus ends, FTP, what first novel by Laura Esquivel?	Answer:	Like Water for Chocolate19.	Contrary to what the name implies, it does not cause hair growth.  This glycoprotein has a biologic half-life of 3 - 4 hours, and works synergistically with testosterone to stimulate sperm production.  FTP, identify this hormone, which is best known for causing development of ova (eggs) within the follicles of the ovaries.       Answer	:	Follicle Stimulating Hormone (accept FSH)20.	This native of New Orleans spent his youth in Fort Worth, Texas.  He joined the US Marine Corps in 1956, and served until 1959, when he moved to the Soviet Union.  However, he returned to the US with his Russian wife and their child, and in October of 1963, took a clerical job at the Texas State School Book Depository.  For ten points, name this man who was shot and killed on November 24, 1963, by Jack Ruby; and was the accused assassin of John F Kennedy.	Answer:	Lee Harvey Oswald21.	This statue and its namesake park reopened in the spring of 2004 after an eleven million dollar restoration necessitated by the statue's crumbling.  The park was built in the 1930's by the Works Progress Administration, while the statue was cast by Giuseppe Moretti for display at the 1904 World's Fair in St Louis.  At 56 feet tall, it is the world's largest cast iron statue.  FTP, name this symbol of Birmingham's steel industry, the Roman god of the forge.	Answer:	Vulcan22.   He was born in New York to a family of Jewish immigrants from Russia. After graduating from Columbia University, he wrote scripts for Fred Allen until joining the U.S. Navy during World War II.  His first novel was 1947's Aurora Dawn, but he would later more famously write of the Henry family and carry on their story in 1978's War and Remembrance.  Known for employing highly qualified historians to ensure the validity of his stories, he is better known as, FTP, what author of The Caine Mutiny and The Winds of War?	Answer:	Herman Wouk 23.	He was born Vilyam Genrikovich Fischer in 1903 the son of Russian-German parents who had fled to England during the Russian pogroms of the late 19th Century.  After the revolution, he returned to the Soviet Union and joined the NKVD, a predecessor to the KGB.  After being dismissed for Trotsky-ist leanings during WWII, he rejoined the service in 1946 and took on his most famous assignment, that of stealing U.S. nuclear secrets.  FTP, identify this man who was arrested for espionage in 1957 and exchanged for downed U.S. spy plane pilot Gary Powers in 1960.	Answer:	Rudolph Abel   (a.k.a. Emil Goldfus) 
BONI - BEVILL STATE					MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Bevill State with one or two by Travis Vitello1.	Speaking of Gettysburg, FTSNOP answer the following concerning the pivotal battle fought there:F5PE, name the commanders of the Union and Confederate armies that met at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863.	Answers:	Maj. General Robert E. Lee and Maj. General George Gordon MeadeFTP, name the small rocky hill located on the Union left which was to become the site of a crucial battle for the survival of the Union effort on the second day of the battle.	Answer:	Little Round Top [prompt on Round Top; do not accept Big Round Top]FTP, name the commander of the 20th Maine Regiment who won one of the First Congressional Medals of Honor for his masterful coordination of the defense of Little Round Top.  He later wrote arguably the most compelling first-hand accounts of the battle. 	Answer:	Col. Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain2.	FTPE identify the following Thomas Hardy novels given a short description.Originally published under the titles The Simpletons, and Hearts Insurgent, this novel revolves around a young stonemason who falls in love with his cousin.	Answer:	Jude the ObscureClym comes to Egdon Heath and marries Eustacia Vye.  Clym goes blind, and finds out that Eustacia is indirectly responsible for his mother's death.  Eustacia drowns, and Clym becomes a preacher.	Answer:	Return of the NativeThis novel, the basis of a 1997 film of the same name starring Rufus Sewell, revolves around Giles Winterbourne's attempts to win the heart of Grace Melbury.  Giles dies from falling ill after letting Grace sleep in his house during a storm, while he slept outside.	Answer:	The Woodlanders3.	Give the names of these metabolic processes for 10 points each.This is the process of splitting glucose into two molecules of pyruvate	Answer:	glycolysis (gly CALL iss iss)This process occurs in the liver, is driven by insulin, and polymerizes glucose.	Answer:	glycogenesis (GLY-co-genesis)This is the process by which non-carbohydrates like protein and lipids are converted into new glucose.	Answer:	gluconeogenesis (Gluco-neo-genesis)4.	The name's Fleming...Ian Fleming.  Answer the following about the James Bond series and its creator FTPE.This was the first James Bond novel and is slated to be the subject of the next Bond movie.	Answer:	Casino RoyaleThis was the last James Bond movie based on a Fleming work; all those since have been original stories.	Answer:	The Living DaylightsIdentify the shared name of a 1995 James Bond film and Ian Fleming's estate on the island of Jamaica.	Answer:	Goldeneye5.	FTPE, identify the following questions relating to art.Strongly influenced by Daumier, this French painter is noted for his scenes of peasant farmers, and his most famous work, The Gleaners, is a prime example.	Answer:	Jean Francois MilletConsidered by many to be the greatest American artist of the 19th century, his most famous works, such as The Gross Clinic, are often compared to Rembrandt.	Answer:	Thomas EakinsBoth Millet and Eakins were members of this school of painting named for a village near Fontainebleu Forest in France.	Answer:	the Barbizon school 6.	Time to make Romulus and Remus proud.  For 5 points each, name any 6 of the 7 hills of Rome.	Answers:	any six of Palatine, Capitoline, Quirinal, Viminal, Esquiline, Caelian, Aventine	
7.	Use VSEPR [vesper] theory to predict the molecular geometries of the following molecules, FTSNOP:5 points:  Water 		Answer:	angular or bent (NOT linear OR tetrahedral)10 points:  Ammonia				Answer:	trigonal pyramidal15 points:  Iodine Pentafluoride		Answer:	square pyramidal8.	Identify the following Henrik Ibsen works from the characters, FTP each.Nils Krogstad, Torvald and Nora Helmer	Answer:	A Doll's HouseRegina Engstrand and Oswald Alving	Answer:	GhostsHovstad, Peter Stockmann, Dr Thomas Stockmann	Answer:	An Enemy of the People9.	Here's a quick bonus concerning treaties of the 18th Century. FTPE:This 1748 treaty gave Silesia and Glatz to Prussia.	Answer:	Treaty of Aix-la-ChapelleIn this commercial treaty, England agreed to favor Portuguese wine in exchange for a trade advantage on English textiles in the Portuguese market.	Answer:	Treaty of MethuenFrance ceded numerous territories to England in this 1713 treaty that ended the War of Spanish Succession.	Answer:	Peace (or Treaty) of Utrecht10.	OK, so it's barely August.  FTSNOP identify these things associated with the December holiday season:(5) While modern neopaganism claims it as a Sabbat, the only definition for it in the Oxford English Dictionary is as an archaic term for Christmas.	Answer:	Yule(10) These toy "tops" have Hebrew letters on them, and a song that repeats their name is sung as they are spun. 	Answer:	Dreidels (dray-dulz)(5) This candlestick holds nine candles. One for each of the 8 nights of Chanukah, and one to light the others. 	Answer:	Menorah or Hanukiyah(10) This candle holder is often mistaken for a menorah, but has 7 candles (3 red, 3 green, one black) for celebrating Kwanzaa. 	Answer:	Kinara11.  Some say today's movie music will become tomorrow's classics.  FTPE name the composers of these films' scores: Titanic, Field of Dreams, We Were Soldiers	Answer:	James HornerThe Hours, Hamburger Hill, The Thin Blue Line	Answer:	Phillip GlassThe Untouchables, The Mission, Kill Bill Vols. I and II	Answer:	Ennio Morricone12.	FTPE identify these 20th century British authors:The critically acclaimed Life Without Armour is the autobiography of this author of The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner	Answer:	Alan SillitoeThis author of The James Bond Dossier is said to have helped finalized the manuscript for The Man With the Golden Gun, in addition to winning the Somerset Maughm award for Lucky Jim.	Answer:	Kingsley AmisGrouped along with Sillitoe and Amis as a member of the "Angry Young Men," this playwright's last play, Déjà vu, is a sequel to the more famous Look Back in Anger.	Answer:	John Osborne	
13.	FTP each, identify the following from the civil rights movement of the 1960's.The Memphis motel where M.L. King, Jr. was assassinated, since made into a civil rights museum.	Answer:	the LorraineThe Selma, Alabama bridge where marchers were tear-gassed by police on what became known as "Bloody Sunday".	Answer:	the Edmund Pettus BridgeThe Birmingham, Alabama church that was bombed on September 16, 1963.	Answer:	16th Street Baptist Church14.	When excited hydrogen electrons return to their ground state, they emit electromagnetic radiation.  FTPE, identify the collective names of the following emissions:These are the ultraviolet waves emitted when electrons return to n=1	Answer:	Lyman seriesThese are the visible emissions created when electron drop back to n=2	Answer:	Balmer seriesThese are infrared emissions due to smaller transitions at higher principle quantum states.	Answer:	Paschen series. (Pfund is also acceptable, although they are far IR)15.	FTSNOP, answer the following about the orchestral suite The Planets:(10) This composer did not regard The Planets as his best work and later complained it overshadowed his other works.	Answer:	Gustav (von) HolstFor 5 for one, 10 for two, or 20 for all three, given a planet, supply the alternate title for its movement.  For example, if I said Mercury, you would give "The Winged Messenger."(5) Mars	Answer:	"The Bringer of War"(5)  Jupiter		Answer:	"The Bringer of Jollity"(X)  Saturn	Answer:	"The Bringer of Old Age"16.	FTPE identify the following processes involved in the production of proteins in eukaryotic cells:This is the word for the synthesis of proteins by ribosomes using messenger RNA as a "blueprint"	Answer:	translationThis is the process of copying DNA into the form of mRNA	Answer:	transcriptionThis is the process by which DNA is copied to make more DNA	Answer:	replication17.	It's late and we're tired.  FTPE, name the three works that comprise John Dos Passos' USA trilogy.	Answers:	42nd Parallel, 1919, The Big Money		(ANY ORDER)18.	Identify these people from unconnected fields of study FTP each.This was the third son of Jacob, who helped sell his brother Joseph into slavery.  His descendants through his sons Gershon and Merari became the temple servants.	Answer:	LeviThis Frenchman's major work was entitled Structural Anthropology	Answer:	Claude Levi-StraussHe moved to San Francisco in 1853 to open a branch of his brother's dry goods business, but his collaboration with tailor Jacob Davis lead to the invention of denim jeans.	Answer:	Levi Strauss
19.	Let's look at an ancient Egyptian history bonus FTSNOP.For 10 points:  He relocated the Egyptian capital away from Thebes as part of his effort to promote monotheistic worship of the sun god Aten.	Answer:	Akhenaton or Akhenaten (accept Amenhotep IV)For 5 points:  The son of Akhenaton, he moved the capital back to Thebes and restored the power of the priesthood.  Of course, he is better known for the tomb Howard Carter excavated.	Answer:	Tutankhamun (prompt on "Tut")For 15 points:  This name is given to the period in which Akhenaton and Tutankhamun rules.  It is named for the city that Akhenaton built as his new capital.	Answer:	Amarna Period20.	How well do you know the bastions of national defense?  FTPE given the name of a U.S. Army unit, give the name of its home base.101st Airborne Division (The Screaming Eagles)	Answer:	Fort Campbell, Kentucky1st Infantry Division (The Big Red One)	Answer:	Fort Riley, Kansas10th  Mountain Division	Answer:	Fort Drum, New York21.	Answer the following questions about everyone's favorite author, Tom Clancy, FTP each.Your humble author's favorite Clancy character is this former Navy SEAL and current leader of the Rainbow Counter- Terrorism team that was first introduced in Without Remorse.	Answer:	John ClarkOften considered a minor character, this former Army Ranger and crack shot first appeared in Clear and Present Danger.	Answer:	Sgt. Domingo "Ding" Chavez [accept just Domingo or "Ding"]In 1995, Clancy entered the world computer game creation and marketing with the release of this game based on Clancy's love of the submarine world.	Answer:	SSN