TOSSUPS - Team Florida: Suck Our CAC			MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Billy Beyer, Matt Alford, Grant Hutchinson and Evan McMullen (with some from the West Coast team of Marcy LaViollette, Kelvin Haire, Tom Bole, Joel Grus, Andrew Lim, and Paul Trevillion)1.	A rare form of this disorder occurs in patients in their twenties and early thirties and is characterized by unsteadiness of gait and progressive neurological deterioration. Infants with the more common version of this disease appear to develop normally for the first few months of life. Then, however, a relentless deterioration of mental and physical abilities occurs and the child becomes blind, deaf, and unable to swallow. In the U.S. today, about one in every 27 Jews have this disease and patients have a "cherry-red" spot in the back of their eyes. FTP, identify this fatal genetic disorder in which harmful quantities of ganglioside GM2 accumulate in the nerve cells of the brain.	Answer:	Tay-Sachs Disease (accept TSD )2.	After this 1704 battle, the French allies of Savoy and Portugal changed sides. Taking place in a small Bavarian village, the English commander in this battle was the Duke of Marlborough. Also resulting in the English and Austrians pushing the French back across the Rhine, FTP, identify this major battle from the War of Spanish Succession.	Answer:	Battle of Blenheim3.	Emigrating to America aboard the Arabella, she was the daughter of one governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony and wife to another. A collection of aphorisms for the instruction of her son was entitled "Meditations, Divine and Moral" and her autobiographical sketch was entitled "Religious Experiences." Her only edition of poems published in her lifetime was "The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America." FTP, identify this first published American woman writer.	Answer:	Anne Bradstreet4.	Once receiving a grade of a C+ in his home economics class, this man's favorite movie of 2003, according to his website, was "Lost in Translation." Growing up in Seoul, South Korea, his father worked for an international law firm. Currently a software engineer for a health care-placement firm, he is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. FTP, identify this former BYU quiz bowl player who has won over a million dollars recently on Jeopardy!	Answer:	Ken Jennings5.	Educated at home until his admission into Jesus College, this man's views were largely developed in reaction to the optimistic views of his father and his associates, such as Rousseau and Godwin. Julian Simon is one 20th century economist who has criticized this man's ideas. While at the East India Company College, he developed a theory of demand supply mismatches called gluts. FTP, identify this English demographer known for his "An Essay on the Principle of Population."	Answer:	Thomas Malthus6.	Created in 1937 by Emilo Segre and Carlo Perrier via the bombardment of molybdenum with deuterons, the most common isotope of this element has a mass number of 98. Compounds and alloys containing the oxide of this element are used to prevent the corrosion of iron by water. In 1988, despite scientific doubt of its natural existence, minute quantities of this element were detected in ore from a deep molybdenum mine in Colorado. FTP, identify this radioactive metallic element which was the first to be artificially created and has a chemical symbol of Tc.	Answer:	Technetium7.	Published in 1960, the protagonist of this novel shares many similarities with the author. Both were the son of a catechist and both men received generous scholarships to study at the university level. However, unlike the author who attended college in Africa, the protagonist of this novel studies in England where he meets Clara, a fellow Nigerian, with whom he would attempt to pursue a relationship. Yet, with Clara, "things fall apart" and soon, the protagonist, Obi Okonkwo is faced with his mother's death and the embrace of corruption. FTP, identify this novel of Chinua Achebe, the first sequel to "Things Fall Apart."	Answer:	No Longer At Ease8.	At the age of twelve, this man left school to educate himself, specifically in the area of concert piano. However, in 1916, he was given a camera while visiting Yosemite National Park, a gift that would change his life. FTP, identify this American inventor of the zone system, famous for his black and white landscape photographs of national parks, specifically in the west.	Answer:	Ansel Adams
9.	After failing to seize Stalingrad from the Soviets, German Field Marshal Gunther von Kluge planned to strike the city for which this battle was named. When Soviet General Markian Popov's army captured Orel from the Nazis, it was apparent that von Kluge was defeated. Fought between July 5 through August 6, 1943, this battle cost Germany more than 100,000 men and irreparable losses to its previously invincible tank divisions. FTP, identify this World War Two battle considered the greatest tank battle in history and the last general Nazi offensive on the central Eastern Front.	Answer:	Battle of Kursk10.	This man drowned on his way to Sicily after being charged with impiety. Considered by some to be the first Sophist, this man was also one of the first, if not, the first to give instruction in grammar, rhetoric, and interpretation of poetry in exchange for a salary. His doctrine was refuted by Plato in the dialogue entitled "Theaetetus" and his own surviving works include "Truth" and "On the Gods." FTP, identify this ancient Greek proponent of agnosticism famous for saying "Man is the measure of all things."	Answer:	Protagoras11.	He published his first scientific paper at the age of 15 and had received his Ph.D. in theoretical physics from Caltech by the age of 20. In recognition of his early work, he became, in 1981, the youngest recipient of a MacArthur Prize Fellowship. His namesake company pays Eric Weisstein to work on his math encyclopedia called "MathWorld" and in 2002, he published a 1200-page book entitled "A New Kind of Science." FTP, identify this mathematical and programming prodigy who developed the computer algebra system Mathematica but has no apparent connection to the element tungsten	Answer:	Stephen Wolfram12.	After contracting AIDS, he went to great lengths to make others believe his symptoms were the result of a bite from a Chinese bat. In 1958, he joined the London art auction house Sotheby's. However, his interest soon turned to architecture and after an interview with 93 year old architect Eileen Gray, he traveled to South America and wrote the book "In Patagonia." Other works of his include "The Viceroy of Quidah", "The Songlines" and "What Am I Doing Here?". FTP, identify this British travel writer most noted for fictional take on the obsession which leads people to collect, entitled, "Utz."	Answer:	Bruce Chatwin13.	This plan for devolved government in Northern Ireland, together with the establishment of commissions for Human Rights and Equality, was established shortly after British Prime Minister Tony Blair took office. The two architects of the agreement, David Trimble and John Hulme, were awarded the Nobel peace prize. The accord, which called for paramilitary organizations to maintain a ceasefire and to "decommission" their weapons, was approved by referendum.  For ten points, give the more common name for this agreement, also known as the "Belfast agreement," signed on Friday, 10 April 1998.	Answer:	 The Good Friday Agreement (accept Belfast Agreement before it is mentioned)14.	Although not a plant, they are named after a terrestrial flower and form an important symbiosis with certain single-celled green algae species which reside in the animals' gastrodermal cells.Belonging to the order Actinaria, this group of ocean-dwelling, filter feeding animals usually consist of a solitary polyp with stinging cell in its tentacles. Having a foot which attaches itself to rocks or anchors in the sands, FTP, identify this sea creature able to form symbiotic relationships with crabs and clown fish.	Answer:	Sea anemone15.	Born in Plympton, Devon as the son of a clergyman-schoolmaster, this artist was influenced by Anthony Van Dyck. After spending two years in Italy from 1750-1752, this man aimed to elevate art to its level of the Italian Renaissance masters. Elected first president of the Royal Academy, he delivered 15 discourses on art there. FTP, identify this man who, during his lifetime, was considered to be the finest portrait painter in England. 	Answer:	Joshua Reynolds16.	Liza Weil was originally scheduled to play the main character on this television dramedy but instead played the role of Paris Geller. For its first three seasons, this show was set in Stars Hollow, but during its fourth season, much of its action took place at Yale. Featuring characters including Lorelai and Rory, FTP, identify this WB show about a mother and daughter who have the last name of Gilmore. 	Answer:	Gilmore Girls17.	Published in 20 monthly parts from March, 1852 through September, 1853, it begins "London. Michaelmas term lately over, and the Lord Chancellor sitting in Lincoln's Inn Hall. Implacable November weather." Including one of the first detectives to appear in English fiction, Mr. Bucket, and a court case entitled Jarndyce v. Jarndyce, the protagonist of this novel is Esther Summerson. FTP, identify this ninth novel of Charles Dickens.	Answer:	Bleak House18.	 When given in Mega Pascals, the measurement of this in a diamond is 1,172,150 while the soft cuticle of pregnant locusts measures .21. Determined from the slope of a stress-strain curve generated during tensile tests on a material, this is defined as the limit for small strains or the rate of change of stress with strain. Practical applications of this include determining tension in a given material or to predict when a material will compress beyond its elastic limit. FTP, what is this measure of a material's resistance to deformation, a fundamental concept in solid mechanics?	Answer:	Young's Modulus (accept modulus of elasticity or elastic modulus )19.	Some Christian theologians believe that this man must return to physically die on earth and some believe John the Baptist fulfilled this expectation. The namesake of a Felix Mendelssohn oratorio, he was first introduced in 1 Kings 17:1 as delivering a message from the God to Ahab. FTP, identify this prophet, who was taken up to heaven in a chariot of fire.	Answer:	Elijah20.	Serving as a combat infantry officer with the 10th Mountain Division in Italy during World War II, he was wounded twice and was hospitalized for thirty-nine days. Receiver of two Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star, this man, after the war, became county attorney of Russell County. Elected as a Republican to the U.S. Senate, he was the running mate for the unsuccessful 1976 campaign of Gerald Ford, and he was defeated for the 1988 GOP Presidential nomination by George H.W. Bush. FTP, identify this Kansas politician who lost the 1996 presidential race to Bill Clinton. 	Answer:	Bob Dole21.	The name is the same. On the fifth season of the Amazing Race, the first name of the partner of Karli. On the South African version of Sesame Street, the name of the HIV positive character. In Dragon Ball, the name given to the individual protectors of planets. FTP, identify this shared name, also the Japanese word for god.	Answer:	Kami22.	The second book in this series was entitled "The Valley of Horses" and the fourth book was entitled "Plains of Passage." Admired for their setting in prehistoric Europe, the series explores interactions of Cro-Magnon people with Neanderthals. Also including "The Clan of the Cave Bear", FTP, identify this series of books, written by Jean Marie Auel.	Answer:	Earth's Children23.	Reluctant to call any of his works just operas, he called his work "The Moon" a fairytale opera, and "Antigone", a musical setting of an ancient tragedy. Also noted his "Music for Children," much of this composer's life was spent working with youth, where he used music as a tool for education. FTP, identify this German composer famous for his scenic cantata entitled "Carmina Burana" which features the piece"O Fortuna."	Answer:	Carl Orff
BONI - Team Florida: Suck Our CAC			MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Billy Beyer, Matt Alford, Grant Hutchinson and Evan McMullen (with some from the West Coast team of Marcy LaViollette, Kelvin Haire, Tom Bole, Joel Grus, Andrew Lim, and Paul Trevillion)1.	Identify these titular characters from works of Herman Melville, FTP each.(10) When asked to identify titular characters from works of Herman Melville, he would likely respond "I should prefer not to." He dies of starvation while in prison. 	Answer:	Bartleby the Scrivener(10) This character is accused of planning a mutiny by John Claggart. He kills Claggart with a punch to the forehead and as a result, is sentenced to hang.	Answer:	Billy Budd(10) This tall, thin, Chilean is the former captain of the San Dominick. His ship was taken over by slaves led by Babo and Atufal.	Answer:	Benito Cereno2.	Identify these clues about racist people during the U.S. civil rights movement, FTP each.(10) This Arkansas governor's opposition to school integration at Little Rock Central High School in 1957 forced Eisenhower to use the National Guard.  Historical apologists say his acts were more from expediency than true racism.	Answer:	Orval Eugene Faubus(10) This sheriff of Dallas County, Alabama loosed his deputies on "Bloody Sunday" marchers and personally menaced other protesters in Selma.  Historical apologists say his acts were as much from stupidity as from true racism.	Answer:	Jim Clark (10) This Public Safety Commissioner of Birmingham, Alabama in the 1960s became infamous for using fire hoses and police attack dogs against unarmed, nonviolent protest marches.  Even historical apologists agree he just hated blacks.	Answer:	Theophilus Eugene "Bull" Connor3.	Identify these early Nobel Prize winners in physics, FTP each.(10) 1904 - Winning "for his investigation of the densities of the most important gases and for his discovery of argon in connection with these studies."	Answer:	Lord Rayleigh (accept John William Strutt )(10) 1906 - Winning "in recognition of the great merits of his theoretical and experimental investigations on the conduction of electricity by gases."	Answer:	Joseph John Thomson(10) 1907 - Winning "for his optical precision instruments and the spectroscopic and metrological investigations carried out with their aid."	Answer:	Albert Abraham Michelson4.	Identify these Hindu gods, FTP each.(10) This god of wisdom has the head of an elephant.	Answer:	Ganesh (accept Ganesha or Ganesa )(10) Wielding a thunderbolt, this rider of Airavat is the god of rain, thunder and war.	Answer:	Indra(10) Having the head of a monkey, this son of of Vaayu and Queen Anjana mistook the sun as a fruit and swallowed it.	Answer:	Hanuman5.	Identify these Ben Stiller movies, FTP each.(10) In this 2004 summer hit, a group of misfits attempt to save their cherished local gym from the onslaught of a corporate health fitness chain.	Answer:	Dodgeball : A True Underdog Story(10) This movie includes the line "Rufus, Brint and Meekus were like brothers to me. And when I say brother, I don't mean, like, an actual brother, but I mean it like the way black people use it which is more meaningful, I think."	Answer:	Zoolander(10) Ben Stiller's first major film was this 1987 movie in which he plays Chris Honeywell. The film's plot revolves around Dan Bartlett, unable to follow his rich girlfriend's family to the Caribbean because he must take a chemistry test.	Answer:	Hot Pursuit
6.	Identify these clues about sexual reproduction, FTP each.(10) Coming from the Greek for "virgin birth", this form of reproduction occurs mostly among insects and arthropods and includes an unfertilized egg developing into a new individual.	Answer:	Parthenogenesis(10) This special form of parthenogenesis, the manner in which salamanders of the genus Ambystoma reproduce, has the egg activated by sperm, but without fusion of the egg and sperm nuclei.	Answer:	Gynogenesis(10) This is the alteration between parthenogenesis and sexual reproduction. An example is a flowering plant species in which both the male and female parts of the flower mature at the same time, so that the individual flower can pollinate itself.	Answer:	Heterogamy7.	Identify these mountain ranges, with at least one thing in common, FTP each.(10) This main mountain range of Afghanistan has its highest peak at Tirich Mir.	Answer:	Hindu Kush(10) This mountain range of northern Germany is located on the border between the states of Lower Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt and is also the setting of Humperdinck's "Hansel und Gretel."	Answer:	Harz(10) The name of these mountains come from the Sanskrit for "abode of snow."	Answer:	Himalayas(In case they ask, all of the answers started with an H.)8.	Identify these works of author Philip Roth, FTP each.(10) This first novella of Roth won the National Book Award in 1960 and concerns the problems and concerns of second-generation Jews as they leave the ethnic ghettos of their parents.	Answer:	Goodbye Columbus(10) This work is a continuous monologue narrated by Alexander to his psychoanalyst, Dr. Spielvogel.	Answer:	Portnoy's Complaint(10) Subtitled "A Confession," this novel follows the narrator, coincidentally a Jewish novelist named Philip Roth, during a journey to Israel where he attends the trial of accused war criminal John Demjanjuk [dem-YAN-yook]. 	Answer:	Operation Shylock9.	Identify these famous Filipinos from history, FTP each.(10) This independence leader led resistance to the Spanish and American occupation until he was captured in 1901 by US General Frederick Funston. 	Answer:	Emilio Aguinaldo(10) Ruling from 1965 to 1986, this tenth President of the Philippines declared martial law and assumed dictatorial control after being warned of an imminent Communist takeover.	Answer:	Ferdinand Marcos(10) This second female Filipino president has come under fire from the current Bush administration for recalling troops from Iraq to save a hostage's life.	Answer:	Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo [accept just Macapagal -- if they can actually pronounce it]10.	Identify these clues about Gershwin's opera "Porgy and Bess", FTP each.(10) Most of the action in the opera takes place in this place, once an aristocratic mansion, but now a crowded waterfront tenement.	Answer:	Catfish Row(10) In the end of the opera, Bess runs off to New York with this drug dealer.	Answer:	Sportin' Life(10) The opera was based on this person's novel "Porgy."	Answer:	DuBose (or Dorothy) Heyward
11.	Identify these things associated with the Andrew Jackson administration, FTP each.(10) This executive order allowed US land offices to accept payment in gold or silver.	Answer:	Specie Circular(10) This 1832 Supreme Court case ruled that Cherokee Indians were entitled to federal protection from the actions of state governments. 	Answer:	Worcester vs. Georgia(10) The first ever presidential assassination attempt occurred against Andrew Jackson in 1835 by this man. The pistol misfired and President Jackson proceeded to beat the man over the head with his cane.	Answer:	Richard Lawrence12.	Identify these eponymous reactions from organic chemistry, FTP each.(10) This is the rearrangement of an oxime to the corresponding amide in concentrated sulfuric acid. The oxime is formed by the reaction of a ketoen with hydroxyamine.	Answer:	Beckmann Rearrangement(10) This reaction is between a conjugated diene and a substituted alkene to form a substituted cyclohexene system.	Answer:	Diels-Alder Reaction(10) This nucleophilic substitution reaction produces an ether using an alkyl halide and an alkoxide in an alcohol solvent.	Answer:	Williamson Ether Synthesis13.	Identify these ancient Greek tragedies that won Aeschylus 1st place at the Dionysia, FTP each.(10) This tragedy takes place in Susa and opens with the chorus and Queen Atossa awaiting news of the battle.	Answer:	The Persians(10) Its titular characters are Adrastus, Amphiaraus, Capaneus, Hippomedon, Parthenopeus, Polynices and Tydeus.	Answer:	Seven Against Thebes(10) The only surviving trilogy of ancient Greek plays, it concerns the end of the curse on the House of Atreus.	Answer:	Oresteia14.	Identify these cyclists, FTP each.(10) Winner of the 1997 Tour de France, this German has finished in second place five times.	Answer:	Jan Ullrich(10) This Italian won the white jersey in the 2002 Tour de France, finished 7th overall in 2003, and 3rd overall in 2004.	Answer:	Ivan Basso(10) Lance Armstrong is the second American to win the Tour de France.  Name the first.	Answer:	Greg LeMond15.	Identify these philosophers associated with phenomenology, FTP each.(10) This founder of the phenomenological movement had early works entitled "On the Concept of Number" and "Philosophy of Arithmetic."	Answer:	Edmund Husserl(10) This German wrote "The Phenomenology of the Spirit" along with "The Philosophy of Right."	Answer:	Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel(10) Phenomenological thought influenced the development of existentialism in Germany as seen in this man's uncompleted work "Being and Time."	Answer:	Martin Heidegger16.	Identify these writers who wrote primarily in Spanish, FTP each.(10) This Communist Chilean is most noted for his "Twenty Poems of Love and a Song of Despair."	Answer:	Pablo Neruda(10) Winner of the 1956 Nobel Prize, this man, most noted for his "Platero y Yo", left Spain during the Civil War to become a citizen of Puerto Rico.	Answer:	Juan Ramon Jimenez(10) This Argentine writer is most famous for works such as "The Aleph", "Ficciones" and "Labyrinths."	Answer:	Jorge Luis Borges 
17.	Given a time period, identify the Chinese dynasty that ruled during that period, FTP each.(10) 900 BC to 256 BC	Answer:	Zhou (accept Chou )(10) 618 AD to 907 AD	Answer:	Tang(10) 1368 AD to 1644 AD	Answer:	Ming18.	I hope you enjoy watching the Weather Channel. Identify these types of weather fronts, FTP each.(10) Rapidly moving, this type of front occurs when a colder air mass approaches a warmer air mass. It can produces thunderstorms, high winds and even tornadoes.	Answer:	Cold Front(10) More numerous in summer months, this type of front is a boundary between two different air masses, neither of which is strong enough to replace the other.	Answer:	Stationary Front(10) Usually associated with stratus clouds and light precipitation, this type of front is formed where a slower moving warm front is followed by a more rapidly moving cold front.	Answer:	Occluded Front19.	Identify these studies from theoretical linguistics, FTP each.(10) The study on how words combine to form grammatical sentences.	Answer:	Syntax(10) The study of patterns of a language's basic sounds.	Answer:	Phonology(10) The study of the internal structure of words.	Answer:	Morphology20.	Answer the following about Constantin Brancusi, FTP each.(10) This modernist series of avian-themed sculptures has its first seven pieces carved in marble and its other nine in bronze.	Answer:	Bird in Space(10) This Brancusi sculpture shares its name with an 1886 sculpture by Rodin and a 1907 painting by Klimt.	Answer:	The Kiss(10) Brancusi was born in this country.	Answer:	Romania21.	 Are you smarter than Ken Jennings? Let's find out. Identify these clues from Jeopardy! that Ken answered incorrectly, FTP each.(10) Most bar recipes for the Stinger call for the white version of this potent potable, not the green.	Answer:	Creme de Menthe(10) Before Dover took over, you had to carry your coals to this capital of Delaware.	Answer:	Newcastle(10) This scientist, a model for Dr. Strangelove, passed away in September at age 95.	Answer:	Edward Teller22.	Identify these clues about a certain 1839 Russian novel, FTP each.(10) After a visit to Saint Petersburg, this Russian author wrote "A Hero of Our Time."	Answer:	Mikhail Lermontov(10) This protagonist of "A Hero of Our Time" is regarded as the quintessential "superfluous man."	Answer:	Gregory Pechorin (accept either name)(10) Gregory Pechorin kills his friend Grushnitsky via this method, the same manner in which Lermontov died.	Answer:	(a) duel (ing)
23.	Identify these abolitionists, FTP each.(10) This evangelical Protestant statesman led the antislavery movement in England and in 1807, helped persuade Parliament to pass a bill outlawing the slave trade throughout the British Empire.	Answer:	William Wilberforce(10) Born in Nigeria, he was taken as a slave to the New World but later bought his freedom. In London, he wrote an "Interesting Narrative" about himself.	Answer:	Olaudah Equiano (accept Gustavus Vassa )(10) This 1st Earl of Mansfield believed that slavery had no basis and famously wrote "the air of England is too pure for a slave to breathe, and so everyone who breathes it becomes free. "	Answer:	William Murray24.	Identify the fruit or vegetable given its four number product code. For example, if I said 4011, you would hopefully say banana.(10) 4030	Answer:	Kiwi(10) 4081 	Answer:	Eggplant(10) 4031	Answer:	Watermelon