TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Georgia Tech (Nicholas Bendler, Robert Scott, Donald Allex, Ehren Bendler, and Stephen Webb) with a few boni by Auburn, Shorter College, and Casey Retterer1.	It and gallium are used to form a tape used in superconducting magnets.  Like chromium and manganese, it is definitely a metal but has the property of having valency oxides with acid properties.  Named after an alternate name of the Norse goddess Freya, this chemical element has a number of uses as a steel additive and in nuclear reactors.  FTP, what is this soft, ductile metal, number 23 on the periodic table with symbol V?       Answer:	Vanadium2.	Much like works of Shakespeare, quotes from this work, such as "the actions of mankind move us to tears and touch our hearts" entered the language in which it was written. That passage, from the first book, would have been written in dactylic hexameter, much like the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer, and the epic poem itself is divided into twelve books, all of which are extant today. Ending with the title character slaying Turnus, king of the Rutuli, FTP name this work written in the first century BC by Virgil. 	Answer: 	Aeneid3.	 In 1899, this man was declared an "outlaw bandit" by the McKinley administration, and he evaded capture until 1901.  The leader of the Philippine uprisings against the Spanish and Americans, he was forced to make pro-Japanese speeches during World War II under the threat of having his family murdered.  FTP name this man, considered by some to be the first President of the Philippines.       Answer:	Emilio Aguinaldo4.  The project's design was approved unanimously on May 6, 1981, and work began on it on March 26, 1982, with dedication in November. The 250 feet of black granite came from Bangalore, India, and one of the walls points in the direction of the Washington Monument, the other towards the Lincoln Memorial. FTP name this war monument, designed by 21 year old Yale architecture student Maya Lin.       Answer:	Vietnam Veterans Memorial  [accept it if they say "Monument" instead of "Memorial"; prompt on "Vietnam Memorial" or "the Wall", etc.]5.	The formatting program TeX and original Macintosh operating system were written in it. Based upon the Algol language, its author also developed Modula-2 and Oberon. Early implementations of it compiled into an intermediate code form that could be run using virtual machines on many platforms. FTP identify this procedural, strongly typed language invented by Niklaus Wirth, that is used mainly for instruction.       Answer:	Pascal6.	He once cut off part of one finger in a failed bid to impress a lover who'd jilted him, an event he recounted in a story logically titled "The Finger."   His more recent works include the memoir My Education: A Book of Dreams and Queer, a sequel to his 1953 novel about the life of a drug addict, originally published under the pen name William Lee.  FTP name this character of the Beat Generation who was the last author to be taken to court in the United States for obscenity when Massachusetts sued him over Naked Lunch.       Answer:	William S. Burroughs7.	His mother was born a serf, and one of the people she kept house for was a Gori Jew named David Papismedov. Papismedov would give him money and books, and after his rise, Papismedov visited him, much to the surprise of his advisors. He used this education when, in 1912, he co-opted to the Bolshevik Center Committee at the Prague Party Conference and by 1917 was editor of Pravda. FTP name this Soviet leader who, despite declining to publish Lenin's papers in Pravda, succeeded him in 1922.       Answer:	Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin 8.	Mixing this chemical with sodium hypochlorite creates a toxic gas, and it can form an explosive mixture in air, burning in oxygen with a pale yellow-green flame. Prior to World War I, it was primarly obtained from the dry distillation of nitrogenous vegetable and animal products, but today it is mostly produced by the method developed by Fritz Haber. FTP name this chemical, common in household cleaners, with chemical formula NH3.	Answer:	ammonia
9.	Some of the titles attributed to him are Agoraios, the guardian of the agora, Xenios, the patron of hospitality to guests, and Horkios, the keeper of oaths. His many roles also came with various forms of cults in his worship, including cults that regarded him as an earth deity, such as at Knossos. Possessing oracles dedicated to him at Dodona and Siwa, among others, FTP name this Greek deity whose humble beginnings being raised by the goat Amalthea ended when he overthrew his father Cronus.	Answer:	Zeus10.	It is actually a series of five marches taking its title from the third act of Othello. Inspired by the Boer War and the lack of marching music at the time, it premiered in London in 1901 with a performance that required two encores for the audience.  Modified and re-titled as "The Land of Hope and Glory" for the coronation of King Edward VII, FTP name this piece that is inseparable in identity with commencement ceremonies in the United States.       Answer:	Pomp and Circumstance [sorry, can't take it if they say Circumstances]11.	Less popular with audiences in its own time, its revival in the late 20th century could be due to a public more accustomed to violence in movies.  Some scholars have claimed that its first act is the work of George Peele.  After a string of initial revenges against the title character, he kills Tamora's sons and serves them to her in a pie, then is killed by Saturninus, who is killed by Lucius.  FTP name this bloodbath play about a Roman general.       Answer:	Titus Andronicus12.	In 1903 his family settled down in Los Angeles, were he graduated from the Throop Institute, which would later be called Cal Tech. In 1961 he directed his final film, Pocketful of Miracles, although his last Academy Award was given twenty-three years alter for You Can't Take it With You. FTP name this Sicilian-born director, who won his first Academy Award for Directing in 1934 for It Happened One Night.	Answer:	Frank Capra13.	For a long period of time following this event, fungi were the dominant life forms on Earth.  Theories on the cause of this event include a nearby supernova and methane gas release caused by global warming, but the leading theory at this time is a mass volcanic eruption in Siberia.  FTP, what is this extinction event of 252 million years ago, known by either its casual name or for the names of the geological periods it borders?       Answer:	Great Dying or Permian-Triassic Extinction Event [accept P-T Event]14.	Admitted to the bar in 1829, his defense of escaped slaves earned him the nickname Attorney General for Fugitive Slaves. Elected to the US Senate from Ohio in 1849 as a Free Soiler, eleven years later he ran for the Republican Presidential nomination, eventually becoming the Secretary of the Treasury until 1864. Serving during the Ex Parte Milligan through Bradwell v. Illinois rulings, FTP name this successor to Roger Taney as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, serving from 1864 until 1873.       Answer:	Salmon Portland Chase 15.	The Seven Foot Knoll lighthouse sits on its waterfront, having been moved from a nearby shoal to serve as a maritime museum.  A slave-owning city in the Union during the Civil War, rioting in 1861 led to Union troops occupying the city and the entire state coming under Federal control until the end of the war.  Beginning in 1873, the Preakness Stakes has been run in this city's Pimlico Race Course, although much of the city was destroyed in a February 7, 1904 fire. Founded in 1729 by Caecilius Calvert, the first Proprietary Governor of Maryland, FTP name this city, the home of Fort McHenry and baseball's Orioles.	Answer:	Baltimore, Maryland[EDITOR'S PERSONAL INDULGENCE: The museum in the Seven Foot Knoll lighthouse devotes much of its space to a heroic lighthouse keeper who in 1933 rescued five sailors from a sinking ship in a hurricane.  That would be Thomas Jefferson Steinhise, grandfather of your genial quizmaster.]16.	He is responsible for the national anthems of both India and Bangladesh.   He also founded Visva-Bharati University to spread his educational ideals.  He had taken up the ideals of bridal mysticism, and in his book Sadhana he discussed one's path to divine consciousness.  Knighted in 1915, he renounced the honor four years later to protest the massacre at Amritsar.  His Gitanjali helped him become the first non-European to win the Nobel Prize for literature in 1913. FTP name this Bengali poet.	Answer:	Rabindranath Tagore (accept also Gurudev)
17.	Mathematically, this quantity is defined as the double integral of the density function over a region. Used in all major branches of physical science, this physical quantity was thought to always be conserved, but at significant fractions of the speed of light this quantity decreases.  FTP, what is this quantity, essentially a measure of the amount of matter in an object?       Answer:	Mass18.	QUOTE: "As the traveler who has once been from home is wiser than he who has never left his own doorstep, so a knowledge of one other culture should sharpen our ability to scrutinize more steadily, to appreciate more lovingly, our own" she remarked once, regarding her sociological work. Earning her Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1929, having already begun her field work in Polynesia. FTP name this student of Franz Boas and author of Coming of Age in Samoa.	Answer:	Margaret Mead19.	His specialty in research was geometric function theory and his Ph.D. dissertation in 1967 at the University of Michigan was awarded best thesis in math for the year. He went on to become an associate professor at Berkeley before leaving unexpectedly in 1969 to found what he called the Freedom Club.  FTP name this author of the essay "Industrial Society and Its Future" who sent his first malevolent package to a Northwestern University professor in 1978 and continued his mail-bombing career until his capture in 1996.       Answer:	Ted Kaczynski [prompt on Unabomber]20.	The narrator of this work retreats to the mountains to be helped by symbolic animals and proclaim a new faithfulness to the earth and the human body. It uses the philosopher Zoroaster to attack the virtues of pity and compassion and is remembered for its statement, "God is dead." FTP name this work that proposes the concept of the Ubermensch.       Answer:	Thus Spake Zarathustra [or Also Sprach Zarathustra, or even Thus Spake Zoroaster]21.	The best-known version is a tempera painting on cardboard, while the other three versions are mixes of tempera, oils, and pastels. The artist wrote of it that he drew its inspiration from a walk with two of his friends, and in 2003 astronomers claimed they could prove the background color came from intense red sunsets brought on by the eruption of Krakatoa in 1883. FTP name this Expressionist painting depicting the Oslofjord whose more literal English translation is "Shriek".       Answer:	The Scream or The Cry [10 points and mad props if they say The Shriek before it's said]22.	She acquired her famous last name solely because her husband adopted it for political reasons. After attending Cambridge, she was elected to her country's Parliament and became Party leader in 1966. Actor Peter Ustinov was preparing to interview her and was therefore present at her death.  Remembered for her socialist platform and near-acceptance of Soviet aide in a war against her country's longtime US-backed neighbor, FTP name this woman who infamously ordered the assault on the Golden Temple of Amritsar and was thus assassinated by her own Sikh bodyguards.       Answer:	Indira Gandhi [prompt on Gandhi]
BONI - GEORGIA TECH					MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Georgia Tech (Nicholas Bendler, Robert Scott, Donald Allex, Ehren Bendler, and Stephen Webb) with a few boni by Auburn, Shorter College, and Casey Retterer1.	FTPE name the works of Gabriel Garcia-Marquez.a) It covers six generations in the town of Macondo including a multiple different characters sharing the names Arcadio and Aureliano.       Answer:	One Hundred Years of Solitudeb) It's about the fifty year love triangle among Fermina Daza, Florentino Ariza, and Doctor Juvenal Urbino.       Answer:	Love in the Time of Cholerac) This is the title of Garcia-Marquez's fictional account of the last months in the life of Simon Bolivar.       Answer:	The General in His Labyrinth2.	Rumor has it there's a team sport that'll be played on ice this winter.  FTPE name the Hockey hall-of-famers.a) He held the career goals title until Wayne Gretzky passed him in 1989. Known as "Mr. Hockey", he played his best seasons with the Detroit Red Wings before finally retiring at the age of 52.        Answer:	Gordie Howeb) Inducted into the NHL Hall of Fame in 2004, when he retired he was second only to Gretzky in assists.  A longtime Boston Bruin, he won the Stanley Cup with the Colorado Avalanche in his 23rd and final season.       Answer:	Raymond Bourquec) This guy known as "The Golden Jet" has the distinction with his son Brett of being the only father-son duo in NHL history to score 500 goals each.       Answer:	Bobby Hull3.	Given clues, name the saints FTPE.a) One was the author of "The Confessions". The other was the first archbishop of Canterbury.       Answer:	Saint Augustineb) This native of Padua is the patron of lost articles and miracles. He was proclaimed a saint less than a year after his death in 1232.       Answer:	Saint Anthonyc) Legend says he received his name as an infant from Saint Francis. Declared a doctor of the church, he presented the Platonizing mode of speculation.  He now lends his name to a university in New York.         Answer:	Saint Bonaventure4.	Given a CGS unit from physics, F5PE name the SI unit it corresponds to with a bonus five for all correct.(a) Erg	Answer:	Joule(b) Barye	Answer:	Pascal(c) Dyne	Answer:	Newton(d) Gauss	Answer:	Tesla(e) Franklin	Answer:	Coulomb5.	FTPE, name these U.S. Supreme Court cases.This case in 1819 determined that the Constitution grants Congress implied powers in order to create a functional government and that state action cannot impede any valid federal action.	Answer:	McCulloch v. MarylandThis 1857 case determined that no "negro" could ever become a citizen of the United States.	Answer:	Dred Scott v. Sanford (accept "Dred Scott Case")The plaintiff in this 1963 case submitted from jail his ultimately successful petition -- written in pencil.  Overturning Betts v. Brady, it guaranteed a defendant's right to counsel.	Answer:	Gideon v. Wainwright 
6.	Given a plot summary name the Aristophanes comedy FTPE.(a) The title character and her female cohorts withhold sex until the end of the Peloponnesian War.	Answer:	Lysistrata(b) A criticism of Cleon, it represents the body public as Demos, who is not particularly bright, and has his slaves Nicias and Demosthenes, being disgruntled about the way Paphlogonian (Cleon) has treated them all.	Answer:	The Knightsc) Dionysus descends to Hades to bring back the playwright Euripides, but after hearing from Euripides and Aeschylus in the under world, he brings back Aeschylus instead.       Answer:	The Frogs7.	Name the following artists who were all featured at the first Armory Show.a) This painter of "The Green Stripe" and "The Open Window" was the leader of the Fauves.       Answer:	Henri Matisseb) This Russian abstract artist painted "The Blue Mountain" and "Riding Couple". He had neurological overlapping of sound and sight and therefore name several of his pieces "compositions" and "improvisations".       Answer:	Wassily Kandinskyc) This Romanian sculptor's works include "The Table of Silence" and "Bird in Space".       Answer:	Constantin Brancusi8.	Answer the following about your skin for ten points each.[10] This portion of skin consists of four or five sublayers that range from the stratum corneum to the stratum basale.	Answer:	 Epidermis[10] Fibers of this protein allow skin to return to its original position when stretched.	Answer:	 Elastin (or elasticin)[10] These glands secrete an oily substance that protects and waterproofs skin and hair, and are usually contained in hair follicles.	Answer:	 Sebaceous glands9.	FTP identify the following concerning that nemesis of Snoopy, the Red Baron.1.  This was the real name of thar German pilot, known to his fellow aviators as "the ace of aces."	Answer:	Manfred von Richthofen [prompt on von Richtofen - his brother Lothar was quite the ace too]2.  Before being given command of his own unit, von Richtofen was hand-picked for Jagdstaffel 2 by this man, considered the father of the German air force and the first to formalize the rules of air fighting.	Answer:	Oswald Boelcke3.  This future Nazi war criminal succeeded the Red Baron as leader of the Flying Circus and later led the Luftwaffe.	Answer:	Hermann Goring10.	Identify these data structures from computer science FTPE:a) These are compact, simple structures that store a fixed number of equally sized elements and are indexed by integers.       Answer:	arraysb) These work on the idea of "last in first out" and its two main operations allow one to push items onto it or pop them off.       Answer:	stackc) In this tree, each node's left child has a value less than the node, and each child to the right has a value greater than the node.Answer:	binary search tree (prompt on binary tree)       11.	Identify the following artists or groups from their disco classics FTPE.(a) "I'm Coming Out" and "Love Hangover"	Answer:	Diana Ross(b) "San Francisco", "In the Navy", and "Can't Stop the Music"	Answer:	The Village People(c) "Funkytown"	Answer:	Lipps Inc.
12.	Answer the following stuff about the War of 1812 FTPE.(a) Ensuring American control of the Northwest Territory was this 1813 naval engagement between nine US ships and six British, in which Oliver Perry took two ships, two brigs a schooner and a sloop.	Answer:	Battle of Lake Erie(b) In the aftermath of the Battle of Lake Erie, Colonel Henry Proctor was retreating from For Malden against the advise of his ally Tecumseh when William Henry Harrison arrived, crushing the vastly outnumbered British force near the namesake river.	Answer:	Battle of the Thames(c) The sacking of this city in Ontario on April 17, 1813 provided supplies for the victory of Lake Erie, but also prompted the burning of Washington D.C. the next year.	Answer:	York, Ontario13.	Answer the following about Catch-22 FTPE.(a) The novel follows the life of this fictional officer in the US Army Air Corps.	Answer:	Captain Yossarian(b) Yossarian is stationed on this island south of Italy.	Answer:	Pianosa(c) Joseph Heller published this sequel to Catch-22 in 1994, and revisits some of the characters in 1990s New York, among them Yossarian and Milo Minderbinder.	Answer:	Closing Time14.	Name these Russian composers FTSNOP:(5) His "Night on Bald Mountain" was used in Disney's "Fantasia". His other works include "Pictures at an Exhibition" and "Songs and Dances of Death".       Answer:	Modest Mussorgsky(5) He revised many of Mussorgsky's works after the composer's death and his students included Stravinsky and Prokofiev. His compositions include the opera "The Legend of Tsar Saltan" and the suite "Scheherazade".       Answer:	Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov(10) His primary profession was chemistry, but he is now known for his music such as the symphonic poem "In the Steppes of Central Asia" and the opera "Prince Igor".       Answer:	Alexander Borodin(5/5) For 5 points each, name the other two composers besides the three above in the Russian Five.	Answers:	Cesar Cui and Mily Balakirev15.	Identify the functional groups of the following for ten points each.[10] Alcohol	Answer:	 Hydroxyl (or OH)[10] Alkane	Answer:	 Methyl (or CH3)[10] Primary amines	Answer:	 NH216.	FTPE name the following works of literature whose titles all begin with the same word.a) A novel about the immigrant Shimerda family and their life on the Nebraska prairie, by Willa Cather.       Answer:	My Antoniab) A poem about conversation between a duke and a count about an arranged marriage that takes place while they view a portrait of the duke's former wife written by Robert Browning.       Answer:	My Last Duchessc) A work of Anton Chekhov about Poleznev, a member of the intellectual elite who leaves his position to become a laborer.       Answer:	My Life
17.	Given a peak in the United States, name the state in which it can be found FTPE.(a) Mount Hood	Answer:	Oregon(b) Lincoln Peak and Mount Wilson	Answer:	Vermont (they are in the Presidential Range of the Green Mountains)(c) Mount Mitchell, the highest point of the Appalachian Mountains	Answer:	North Carolina18.	Name the astronomers from their contributions, 5-10-15.(5) Generally credited with discovering the red shift of the universe, his constant relates the speed at which galaxies are receding to their distance.	Answer:	Edwin Powell Hubble(10) His work The Dragons of Eden won a Pulitzer Prize for Nonfiction, as well as hosting the 13-part PBS series Cosmos. He also advocated adding the Golden Record to the Voyager Space Probes.	Answer:	Carl Sagan(15) In 1967 he invented twistor theory, penned the work The Emperor's New Mind, and contributed to astrophysics by his work on black holes with Stephen Hawking in the 1970s	Answer:	Sir Roger Penrose19.	Answer the following about the Salem witch trials.1.  One reason for the increased stress during time of the incident was the loss of the royal charter of Massachusetts, thanks to this political shift in Britain which occurred in 1688.	Answer:	the Glorious Revolution2.  Some of those accused of witchcraft fled to this state to avoid arrest.	Answer:	New York3.  One of the first three people to be accused of witchcraft, this Caribbean slave was never hanged and eventually released from jail despite admitting to being a witch.	Answer:	Tituba20.	FTSNOP, name these psychology schools of thought.(5)  Its main proponent was John B. Watson, who aimed to study behavior without focusing on links to any other consciousness.	Answer:	behaviorism or behavioralism(10) This school associated with Emile Durkheim attempts to explain how social institutions fulfill individual biological needs.	Answer:	functionalism(15) This school features an approach that grew to become one of the most widely used methods of analyzing language, culture, philosophy of mathematics, and society and seeks to explore the inter-relationships through which meaning is produced within a culture.	Answer:	structuralism21.	FTPE name the operas by Giacomo Puccini from clues.a) The musical "Rent" is based on the plot of this opera with AIDS substituted for tuberculosis as the disease that kills Mimi.       Answer:	La Bohemeb) An American naval officer has a child with a 15 year-old girl over seas and then returns later with his wife to claim the baby. The girl commits suicide.       Answer:	Madame (or Madama) Butterfly [do not accept "M. Butterfly"]c) Left unfinished by Puccini at his death, the plot centers around the competition for the hand of the title character. Suitors must correctly answer three riddles or else lose their heads for failure.       Answer:	Turandot