Moc Masters 2003 - UTC - packet by Andrea Comiskey, John Paul Hampstead, Jonathan Henderson, Tom Young, with special assistance from Jordan Boyd-Graber, Gaius Stern & your genial quizmasterTossups1.	Discovered in 1937 by Carlo Perrier and Emilio Segre, this radioactive element was predicted by Mendeleev, which he gave the  name ekamanganese.  Falsely discovered as masurium in 1925, this element was eventually found 12 years later in a sample of molybdenum bombarded by deuterons.  FTP, name this chemical element, the first artificially produced element, number 43 on periodic table, whose name reflects its man-made nature. 	Answer:	Technetium2.	He executed 460 Confucian monks because they had attacked his practice of consulting magicians before major undertakings such as his attempted invasion of Japan in 219 BC. He then ordered all books not dealing with agriculture, medicine, or astrology -- mostly Confucian tomes -- to be burned in 213 BC to cleanse the minds of his kingdom. He created a unified system of defense against the barbarians that eventually became the great wall, but the power vacuum after his death was so great that most of our knowledge of his reign only comes through later Han scholars, who often disparaged the anti-confucian emperor. Before the Chi'in empire dissolved however, a massive tomb was constructed for the emperor who had united China. FTP identify this first emperor of a unified China buried with his terra-cotta army. 	Answer: 	Shi Huang-ti  (Prompt on Cheng Hsiang, his name before he assumed the title of first emperor)3.	At the age of 16, he made his first trip to Paris by running away from home.  At the age of 19, he was shot in the arm by Paul Verlaine, finished his masterwork, and quit the poetry game forever.  By 1887, he was a gun-runner in Somalia, and by 1891, he was dead at the age of 37.  For 10 points, name this absinthe-loving boy genius of French poetry, author of "The Drunken Boat" and "Vowels" best known for A Season in Hell.	Answer:	Arthur Rimbaud4.	After a New York concert sold out in 1980, this band vowed to play as many show as people wanted to attend - and ended up staying for 15 days.  Although purists claim that punk music "died" in 1977 when the band signed with a major record label, it is responsible for legendary songs such as "Janie Jones," I'm So Bored with the U.S.A.," "Rudy Can't Fail," "Police and Thieves,' and "Rock the Casbah."  Name this pioneering punk group for 10 points, led by the recently deceased Joe Strummer, whose genre bending record London Calling was named the best album of the 1980s by Rolling Stone, even though it was released in 1979.	Answer:	The Clash5.	Its author said producing it took 11 years of mental gestation, one year of uninterrupted writing, and 12 dozen pencils, which explains why he said it left him with a rock-hard callus on the middle finger of his right hand.  Don't rely on the film for a plot summary - it starts at around Chapter 37.  The novel covers three generations of the Hamiltons, an allegorical "universal family," and their "universal neighbors" the Trasks, whose sons provide the Cain-and-Abel part of the saga.  FTP name this John Steinbeck novel, the surprise #1 book on the New York Times' paperback fiction list this summer, thanks to its mention as the first choice for the revived Oprah's Book Club.  		Answer:	East of Eden6.	Tony attempts to help Constance and her lover escape with a case of jewels. Her lover, Hastings, is unable to speak to girls of his own station, but is a smooth operator with barmaids, and only a case of mistaken identity allowed the romance to fall into place and displace Tony. Tony Lumpkin was the initial suitor of Constance, prodded on by the machinations of Squire Hardcastle's second wife but has to find love elsewhere. For ten points , identify this case of mistaken identity subtitled The Mistakes of a Night by Oliver Goldsmith.        	Answer:	She Stoops to Conquer (accept The Mistakes of Night before it's said )7.	He listens to rap on his morning commute, but locks his doors when he sees an African American selling flowers by the side of the road. He got an idea from Superman III, but was too scared to implement it until he responded badly to the Bobs' to his name. You see, when he was twelve years old, a no talent ass-clown ruined his name forever. For ten points , identify this Initech employee who shares his name with the artist of the album Only A Woman Like You from the movie Office Space. 	Answer:	 Michael Bolton
8.	This Egyptian god of air held up the sky, and was represent with an ostrich feather on his head.  His sister and wife, Tefnut (I know, sounds gross), was a goddess of dew and rain.  For 10 points, who was this son of the sun god Ra?	Answer:	Shu9.	``The National Revolution has begun! No one may leave. Unless there is immediate quiet I shall have a machine gun posted in the gallery. The Bavarian and Reich governments have been removed and a provisional national government formed.'' These words were spoken by an aspiring political leader as Göring secured the potentates gathered for the business meeting. For ten points , identify this coup staged by Laudendorff and Hitler in 1923 during a meeting of business and government leaders in Munich. 	Answer:	Munich Beer Hall Putsch accept Hitler-Putsch before Hitler is mentioned or der Marsch auf die Feldherrnhalle, but not ``Bierhalle''10.	Upon the pretext of going on a fishing retreat, he boarded the yacht Oneida. While underway, a small portion of his jaw was removed and replaced with a rubber prosthesis. News of the oral cancer was not revealed to the nation, which was suffering from the aftermath of the collapse of the Reading Railroad, the spending of the Billion Dollar Congress, and the gold drain caused by the Sherman Silver Purchase Act.  However, his handling of the panic and the Pullman strike further eroded his popularity; despite his desire for a third term, his party decided to run William Jennings Bryan instead. FTP , identify this president who endured the Panic of 1893 after being reelected to his second non-consecutive term . 	Answer:	 Grover Cleveland 11.	Charles Bonnet discovered this biological phenomenon during the 18th Century.  Jacques Loeb observed the first clear case of this artificially involving frog eggs in 1900.  In 1936, the same phenomenon was discovered with rabbit eggs, and later in nearly all mammalian cases.  For 10 points, name this form of reproduction in which an ovum develops into a newborn without male fertilization.	Answer:	parthenogenesis or parthogenesis12.	Colin Smith is a working class teen in post World War II Britain, where he lands himself in a reform School whose governor is desperate to win an upcoming track meet.  Smith proves himself a disaffected, Antisocial, rebellious hero when he defies the  system by purposely losing the race at the last moment. An integral part of the "Angry Young Man" movement of British literature, this describes, for 10 points, what title story of a 1959 collection by Alan Sillitoe,?	Answer:	The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner13.	In the summer of 1907, he had is nieces and friends dress up as whores, in what historians describe as his ``exotic harem fixation.'' He painted the Simplon Pass, which separated Switzerland and Italy, and served as the entry point for English visitors like himself into Italy. While in Venice, he painted the famous actress Elanore Duse. Even though she only gave him an hour to paint the portrait, he still managed to capture the power and the beauty of the actress. His renown made him the most sought after portraitist in Britain and the United States, but his hopes to gain fame in Paris where dashed with the exhibition of a bosomy 23 year-old with bare shoulders. For ten points , Identify this American expatriate British painter of Madame X. 	Answer:	 John Singer Sargent14.	As a young man, this writer worked for an abolitionist newspaper and also served in the Civil War.  He is responsible for numerous works that blend his trademark cynical humor with elements of horror, earning him the nickname "Bitter."  Name this author of  "The Boarded Window," "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," and "The Devil's Dictionary," who disappeared in Mexico in 1913, never to be seen again.	Answer:	Ambrose Bierce15.	 "You can't fight in here, this is the war room!"  This film's director originally wanted to end it with a giant pie fight between the Americans and the Russians, but instead went for closing shots of the world ending in nuclear war.  Characters include General Jack D. Ripper, General Buck Turgidson, President Merkin Muffley, Premier Kissoff, and Major T.J. "King" Kong.  For 10 points, name this 1964 Stanley Kubrick film in which Peter Sellers plays three separate roles, including the memorable wheelchair-bound title character.	Answer:	Dr. Strangelove (or, How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb)
16.	Although in 1949 the cover of Life Magazine asked if he was the greatest living painter in the United States, this alcoholic still felt underappreciated, misunderstood, and most of all, depressed.  He studied under Thomas Benton during his apprenticeship, but never achieved any recognition until he brought his canvasses to the floor and developed his signature style of dripping, splattering, and throwing paint.  You'll get 10 points if you name this painter from Wyoming, also the title of the 2000 Ed Harris biopic.	Answer:	Jackson Pollock17.	He was a physics professor at Graz and a professor of inductive philosophy at Vienna.  He asserted a positivistic philosophy based upon the actual physiology of sensations.  His  theories, which regarded the fixed stars as a gravitational reference frame, attracted Einstein's early interest and he tried unsuccessfully to fit his theory of relativity to this man's ideas.  For 10 points, identify this man, best remembered for determining a number relating speed to the velocity of sound which came about from this experiment on airflow.	Answer:	Ernst Mach18.	This substance has its highest content in foods such as liver, milk, and greens.  It is a yellow crystallinepowder and is primarily concerned with the metabolism of all living cells.  Deficiencies of  vitamin are most common in the southeastern United States, the West Indies, and Asia.  Name this vitamin for 10points, also known as B2.	Answer:	Riboflavin19.	In a grave oversight on the defending armies, a long wall stood between the armies and the river Nairn, where the the night before the defenders staged a surprise attack on Cumberland's army. A line of dragoons and Campbell's militiamen advanced toward the wall and attempted to flank, but were repulsed. Nevertheless, the militiamen managed to get into enfilade position and trap the Athollmen. Clan Chattan had no choice but to attack, but were decimated by the government artillery; the veteran troops from Falkirk held again and then mopped up against the Scots and Irish soldiers in the service of Louis XIV. For ten points identify this 1746 battle near the town of Inverness that saw the last stand for the Stuart pretender Bonnie Prince Charles. 	Answer: 	Culloden Moor 20.	A certificate signed by Hassan Nasrallah is the reward for completing the first stage of a computer game created by this organization in response to a negative depiction of Arabs in computer games, instead placing the heads of Israeli leaders on the target range. Although Special Force is the group's first computer game, the agency runs schools, clinics, and orphanages in addition to policing the Lebanese border with Israel, which Lebanon's army has refused to do. For ten points , identify this paramilitary organization named responsible for the 1983 bombing of American Marines in Beirut. 	Answer:	 Hezbollah21.	His large hands get in the way as he makes sandwiches and he fidgets constantly because of his nervousness around the Hollywood types he meets. He was told to come to California for his health, and is living off of a small inheritance and the money he saved as a diligent -- if dim-witted -- hotel clerk. He falls unhappily in love with an aspiring actress and supports her after her father Harry Greener, who had been peddling ointments from the trunk of their Jalopy, dies. After he realizes that Faye doesn't actually love him, he tries to return to Iowa, but vents his pent up sexual frustration and anger on Adore, a child actor. For ten points identify this main character from Day of the Locust by Nathaniel West who is murdered by a faceless crowd in Hollywood. 	Answer: 	Homer Simpson 22.	This author retained his college rivalry long after graduation and inserted it into one of his most famous novels.  He downrided Yale since he himself went to Princeton, and so did one of his charatcers, Nick  Carroway.  FTP, who was this author of The Great Gatsby?	Answer: F Scott Fitzgerald23.	This is probably the only nation to have a Hapsburg monarch, since Austria and Hungary have long since abolished theirs.  Itself only 61 square miles, it is situated between Switzerland and Austria and relies on the former to handle its international relations.  FTP, what is this tiny principality whose capital is Vaduz?	Answer: Liechtenstein
Moc Masters 2003 - UTC - packet by Andrea Comiskey, John Paul Hampstead, Jonathan Henderson, Tom Young, with special assistance from Jordan Boyd-Graber, Gaius Stern & your genial quizmasterBoni1.	Idiot Man-Children of Southern Literature!  Given a brief description of an Idiot Man Child from a work of Southern literature, provide the character's name for 10 points each, 30 for the total.  [First or last name is sufficient.]This reclusive idiot man-child of To Kill a Mockingbird lives in his mother's house, finally emerging to rescue Scout & Jem.	       Answer:	Arthur "Boo" RadleyIn The Sound and the Fury, this Faulknerian Idiot Man-Child is castrated as a teenager.       Answer:	Benjy CompsonName EITHER of the two Idiot Man-Children in Carson McCullers' The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.  Both are deaf-mutes; one the book's main character and the other is his Greek friend who is taken away to a mental hospital.	Answer:	John Singer OR Spiros Antonapoulos 2.	Given a list of former rulers of a nation, identify the nation FTPE. If you need the current leader, you'll only get 5. [(10)] Ibrahim Babangida, Ernest Shonekan, Sani Abacha, Abdulsalam Abubakar [(5)] Olusegun Obassanjo 	Answer:	 Federal Republic of Nigeria [(10)] Babrak Karmal, Mohammad Najibullah, Burhanuddin Rabbani [(5)] Hamid Karzai	Answer:	 Islamic State of Afghanistan [(10)] John Joseph Curtin, John Malcolm Fraser, Paul John Keating [(5)] John Winston Howard 	Answer:	 Commonwealth of Australia 3.	FTPE, demonstrate your modern art prowess and gain thirty points by naming these three painters from clues:This Dutch abstract painter loved perfectly vertical and horizontal lines, and was fond of red, blue and yellow to the point of excluding all other colors.  Major works include "New York City" and "Broadway Boogie Woogie."	Answer:	Piet MondrianWith titles like "BLAAM!" and "Crying Girl," along with his use of Ben Day dots, this pop artist examined American life through a comic book lens.	Answer:	Roy LichtensteinOne of the founders of abstraction, this Russian painter created memorable music-influenced paintings with titles like "Improvisations," "Impressions," and "Compositions." 	Answer:	Wassily Kandinsky4.	Rockers-turned-serious actors!  For the stated number of points, name the following rock 	musicians who gave credible performances in dramatic films.For 5 points: Many were outraged when this lead singer of Hole failed to receive an Oscar Nomination for her performance as Larry Flynt's AIDS-afflicted, drug-addicted, bisexual wife Althea in The People vs. Larry Flynt.Courtney LoveFor 10 points: Last year, this Rolling Stones member received generally positive reviews for his portrayal of a gigolo alongside Andy Garcia in The Man From Elysian Fields.Mick JaggerFor 15 points:  This drummer for The Band earned stellar reviews for playing Loretta Lynn's hardworking, caring father in Coal Miner's Daughter.Levon Helm5.	Identify the number of carbon atoms in each of the following molecules below FTPE:.	Methane.       	Answer:	 1	Butane.		Answer:	 4	Caffeine.	       	Answer:	 8
6.	Identify the S.I. units for each of the following items.  10 points each, 30 for the total.1)  Power.		Answer:	Watts2)  Magnetic Field.		Answer:	Tesla3)  Inductance.			Answer:	Henry7.	Identify these morbid poets from clues given for ten points each.Beginning in 1949, a cloaked figure in black has visited this poet's Baltimore grave, always leaving three roses and a half empty bottle of cognac at the site between the midnight and dawn of January 19th, the date of birth of this inventor of the mystery story.	Answer:	Edgar Allan PoeEven though six of the more scandalous poems had been cut from the text before publication,his Flowers of Evil still caused quite a stir in 19th Century Paris, as his "To the Reader" claimed that "Stupidity, delusion, selfishness and lust torment our bodies and possess our minds."	Answer:	Charles BaudelaireEveryone blamed English Laureate Ted Hughes' infidelity for this poet's notorious death-by-oven, but when her only novel, The Bell Jar, was released, they found that this beekeeper's daughter had been a psycho all along.	Answer:	Sylvia Plath8.	Romeo and Juliet inspired many musicians to write music. For ten points , each, identify each of the following great musicians who created works based on Shakespeare's work. Jerome Robbins' idea for this composer's work was originally going to be a conflict between Catholics and Protestants, but moved it across town and turned it into a schism between a Puerto Rican gang and an Anglo gang. 	Answer:	 Leonard Bernstein In 1827, he saw Romeo and Juliet and Hamlet performed in Paris and married the actress who Ophelia and Juliet. He wrote a piece for solo voices, chorus, and a huge orchestra, but notably had all of the love pieces without words. 	Answer:	 Hector Berlioz This spoken word artist created a work including a version of the balcony scene entitled Insensatez on his Transformed Man album. 	Answer:	 William Shatner 9.	AAH!!!!!!!  Who can forget the music of the 1980s?  Given a popular 1980s song title, provide the bizarrely-named band for 10 points each, 30 for the total.  For example, if I gave the title, "I Touch Myself," the correct response would be, "Divinyls.""Cruel Summer."	Answer:	Bananarama"Too Shy."		Answer:	Kajagoogoo"The Killing Moon."		Answer:	Echo and the Bunnymen10.	Don't you hate it when the title of the book gives away the ending of the book or doesn't appear until the last page? Identify the following books whose strange titles don't appear until the end of the book. Marian becomes so alienated from society through her engagement that she becomes unable to eat anything until she bakes up an effigy of herself in this work by Margaret Atwood. 	Answer:	 The Edible Woman In a giant postal conspiracy, Oedipa Maas seeks to find out who is bidding on the stamp collection of her late boyfriend. 	Answer:	 The Crying of Lot 49 This location is not mentioned until the last page of this Stendahl work, which is the final resting place of Fabrizo after the death of his beloved Clélia. 	Answer:	 The Charter-house of Parma   (Accept La Chartreuse de Parme )
11.	Identify these amino acids for 10 points each, 30 for the total.This amino acid is represented by A-U-G codon and is the first one laid down in protein synthesis in all eukaryotes.		Answer:	MethionineContaining an imidzole side group, deficiency of this is one of the primary control factors used in the Ames test.		Answer:	HistidineStructurally the simplest of the amino acids, this compound contains only a hydrogen side chain and is the amino acid that is not optically active.			Answer:	Glycine12.	Identify the following Italian poets. His Latin works include Africa, an homage to Scipio Africanus, but he is better known for his series of Italian poems and sonnets I Trionfi, dedicated to Laura. 	Answer:	 Petrarch Accept Francesco Petrarca A distinguished aviator during World War I and member of the Italian Parliament, his volumes of poetry include Canto Novo and Primavera. 	Answer:	 Gabriele d'Annunzio Accept Gaetano Rapangnetta Although born in London, he was the son of an Italian exile and changed the order of his names in order to show his kinship with a great Italian poet. His works include The House of Life, a sequence of 102 sonnets. 	Answer:	 Dante Gabriel Rossetti13.	Show us what you know about "existence before essence" by identifying these important existentialist works, for fifteen points each.This excessively long, hard-on-the-stomach philosophical novel by Sartre begins with an existential crisis during a bus ride and contains a phenomenological analysis of a class of beer.  	Answer:	Nausea  Perhaps the father of absurdism's most famous essay, this 1940 piece by Camus takes the eternal torment of a Greek in the underworld as its central metaphor.	Answer:	The Myth of Sisyphus14.	Ah ha!  You thought you would get away without answering more questions about the different Egyptian deities.  For 10 points each, 30 for the total, name each of these gods and goddesses according to the description.He was the god of learning, a benefactor to the gods and men.  He was the sacred scribe and was shown as a man with an ibis head.	 	Answer:	ThothShe was the goddess of joy and love who also protected women.  She was represented as a cow.	Answer:	HathorHe was the king of the gods, and was a patron of the Pharoahs and a god of fertility.  He had a plumed crown and was shown with either a ram's head or a human one.		Answer:	Amon15.	Identify the following unrelated things from history. This battle preceded the Battle of Hastings and saw the defeat of a Viking forces by King Harold. 	Answer:	 Stamford Bridge Elected governor of California in 1861, this former lawyer who struck it rich selling supplies to miners kept California loyal to the union. 	Answer:	 Leland Stanford She was a speechwriter for Susan B. Anthony, and composed A History of Women's Suffrage and Woman's Bible. 	Answer:	 Elizabeth Cady Stanton
16.	Given an author's contribution to the literature as seen on the Simpsons, give the author. The work I'm Going to Kill You, which Bart was rehearsing for a school play. 	Answer:	 Edward Albee He was the ghost writer for Krusty's autobiography. 	Answer:	 John Updike He wrote the forward to Mr. Burns's book, Yes, I am a Vampire. 	Answer:	 Steve Allen17.	You know, the scriptures can be pretty violent. Answer the following questions about beheading. Although it conflicts with the account given by Josephus, both agree that Herod was responsible for ordering the beheading of what hermit? 	Answer:	 John the Baptist This woman, whose name means ``female Judean'' seduced the Assyrian general Holofernes and removed his head after getting him suitably drunk, thus delivering her city. 	Answer:	 Judith This son of Lehi removed the head of Laban and then donned LabanÕs armor in order to gain access to the brass plates. 	Answer:	 Nephi 18.	China experienced much social and political upheaval during the 20th Century.  For 10 points each, 30 for the all three, answer these questions about China during the 20th Century.This was the  year that the last emperor of China reigned and the beginning of Sun Yat-sen's new government. 			Answer:	1912Trek around China which lasted from October, 1934, through the autumn of 1935 in which the Communists, out of necessity of survival, abandoned the remote Jianxi province and traveled to northern mountains in order to regroup and plan new offensives.	Answer:	The Long MarchPolitical group developed by Mao's wife, Jiang Qing, that included Shanghai Propaganda Department official Zhang Chunqiao, literary critic Yao Wenyuan, and Shanghai security guard Wang Hongwen.  They rose to power during the Cultural Revolution and dominated Chinese politics during the 1970s.		Answer:	The Gang of Four19.	Identify each of the following fishes as belonging to the class Agnatha, Chondricthyes, or Osteicthyes for 10 points each.1) Moray Eel.		Answer:	Osteicthyes2) Lamprey.		Answer:	Agnatha3) Ratfish.		Answer:	Chondricthyes20.	I will give you the name of a film and the name of an author.  You give the name of the author's novel or novella of which the film is a modern-day adaptation for 10 points each.Film: Clueless; Author: Jane Austen.  	Answer: 	EmmaFilm: Apocalypse Now; Author: Joseph Conrad.  	Answer: 	Heart of DarknessFilm: A Place in the Sun; Author: Theodore Dreiser.  	Answer: 	An American Tragedy21.	Given the names of three books from the 1990s, give the names of the authors for 10 points each.A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.  	Answer:	Dave EggersInfinite Jest.	 	Answer:	David Foster WallaceBarrel Fever.	  	Answer:	David Sedaris
22.	World War II was by far the bloodiest war in human history.  For 10 points each, 30 for the total, name the battle or the occasion with the clues given to you.May-June, 1940: Evacuation of 337,131 Allied troops from a town on the French coastline known by one name as Flanders across the English Channel.  	Answer:	DunkirkAugust, 1942: Germany attacks this town in the Soviet Union.  This battle would last until January of the following year, which proves to be the bloodiest battle in human history.	Answer:	StalingradDece, 1944: Germany launches a massive counteroffensive against the Western Allies in the Belgian Ardennes Forest.		Answer:	Battle of the Bulge23.	It's time to test your knowledge about language families.  For 10 points each, 30 for the total, answer each of the following about language families.Family which includes English, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Italian, Russian, Greek, Hindi and Bengali, as well as the classical Latin, Sanskrit and Persian languages.		Answer:	Indo-European FamilyA family spread from Europe (Turkish) through Central  Asia (Uzbek), Mongolia (Mongolian), to the Far East (Korean, Japanese).  These languages have the interesting property of vowel harmony.		Answer:	Altaic FamilyAn important Asian family that includes the world's most spoken language, Mandarin.  These languages are monosyllabic and tonal.	Answer:	The Sino-Tibetan Family