Moc Masters 2003Packet for "Haterade"Written by Seth KendallTossups1. Fame came to her on publication of The Land, which won the 1926 Hawthornden Prize, while All Passion Spent is an autobiographical account of a marriage evolving into a sexless but loving friendship such as the one between herself and her diplomat husband. FTP name this author, a close friend of Virginia Woolf, who inspired the title character of Orlando but  is perhaps best known as the author of The Edwardians.	Answer:	 Victoria Mary Sackville-West2. Inheriting fantastic wealth from an uncle, his policy of strict neutrality began in his youth, when his extended period of study in Athens during the dictatorship of Sulla earned him his famous nickname, and it enabled him to be the protector of Antony's wife Fulvia as well as be the best friend of one of Antony's worst enemies to whose severed head Fulvia would later direct considerable abuse. FTP name this man, whose generosity and usefulness enabled him to avoid the fate that would befall his dear friend and constant corrspondant Cicero.	Answer:	 Titus Pomponius Atticus3. Among the interesting features of this constellation are the M2 and M72 globular clusters, the Saturn and Helix Nebulae, and an asterism formed by its zeta, eta, pi, and its gamma star. The latter star is named Sadalachbia, or "lucky star of the tents", while other named stars include its epsilon named "Albali",  or "swallower",  and its beta "Satalsuud" or "luckiest of the lucky", which, like its alpha star, is a supergiant. FTP namethis constellation whose alpha star is "Sadelmelik" or "lucky star of the king", a member of the zodiac whose kappa star, "Situla" or "the Urn", refers to its image as "the Waterbearer".	Answer:	 Aquarius4. About to be burned alive for the crime of prostitution, she saves herself by producing the seal, cord, and staff of the man who had impregnated her and was thus allowed to live and bear the twins Perez and Zerah. Originally married to Er and widowed when he was killed by God for some unnamed wickedness, she was promised another mate when Er's brother Shelah grew up, but the promise was broken by Judah who feared the death of yet another son,.  This forced her to disguise herself as a harlot at the entrance to Enaim where Judah himself acquired her services and fathered her children. FTP name this woman described in the 38th chapter of Genesis at last given two sons which her second husband, Onan, denied her by withdrawing and "spilling his seed".	Answer:	 Tamar5. As one of the unnamed main characters in this story contemplates his own life he has extensive thoughts on Nothingness that culmainates in a version of the Lord's prayer which substitutes the word nada for most of the nouns in it, and after a stop at a rather dark bar he goes home to wait for sunrise, when he can get to sleep. Earlier that character had had an extensive conversation with a younger colleague in which the latter could only think about getting home before 3 AM and could not muster pity for the last customer in a café, a deaf old man drinking brandy who had earlier tried to kill himself but was rescued. FTP name this powerful short story in which the café represents the title location, one of the stories in Winner Takes Nothing written by Ernest Hemingway.	Answer:	 "A Clean, Well-lighted Place"6. Brigadier General Henry Lawton  was dispatched to capture the hamlet of El Caney and then rejoin the frontal assault. The use of black powder instead of smokeless powder by its artillery revealed to the enemy the position of General Kent's infantry and the dismounted cavalry led by Samuel Sumner, but a machine gun regiment led by Lieutenant Parker helped drive away the 1700 defeners stationed by General Linnares. FTP name this battle of July 1, 1898 at which American forces under the command of the enormous General William Shafter ultimately pushed back the Spaniards at the cost of over 1300 casualties and which featured the charge of the Rough Riders up Kettle Hill.	Answer:	 San Juan hill7. Its name is ultimately derived from the Latin for "willow", and while it is found in nature in plants of the Spiraea family, it is most often obtained commercially by means of heating sodium phenolate with carbon dioxide followed by treatment with sulfuric acid, a method known as the Kolbe synthesis. A white, crystalline solid whose methyl ester is the chief constituent of oil of Wintergreen, a principal use of it is for food flavoring, though it is far more often used medicinally as treatment of warts as well as for the analgesic derived from its treatment with acetic anhydride. FTP name this compound also known as ortho-hydroxybenzoic acid, the principal source of Aspirin.	Answer:	 salicylic acid 
8. The Küsten canal connects this river to the Dortmund-Ems canal, while the Mittelland Canal connects it to the Ruhr District and the Rhine River near the city of Minden, which it flows past after emerging from the Porta Westfalica gorge in the Wiehen mountains. Fed by such tributaries as the Lesum, Geeste, Diemel, Ochtum, and Hunte, major cities along its banks include Hamelin, Kassel, and Muenden, which is siituated near where the river is formed by the confluence of the Fulda and the Werra. FTP name this major river of Western Germany which also flows past the cities of Bremerhaven and Bremen where it is joined by its chief tributary the Aller some 43 miles before emptying into the North Sea.	Answer:	 Weser River9. Its open mockery of  the stately classical myth of its subject created a scandal when it opened, as did the performance of the notorious courtesan Cora Pearl in the role of Cupid. Famous for its galop infernale in the form of a can-can, its title character is despised by his fiancée for his horrible violin playing and is glad when her lover, in disguise as the bee-keeper Aristaeus, whisks her to his realm, and though Public Opinion compels him to beg her return, he is glad when Jupiter sends a thunderclap to make him look back at her and lose her forever. FTP name this comic opera famous for its melody "J'ai perdu mon Eurydice"which satirises and even includes excerpts from Gluck and was written by Jacques Offenbach.	Answer:	 Orphée aux Enfers (Orpheus in the Underworld)10. Its original title was Al Azif from the Arabic for the nocturnal sound made by insects supposed to be the howling of daemons.  Ruthlessly suppressed in its Greek version, Olaus Wormius made a Latin translation for which he was burned alive, and though John Dee translated it into English, that version was never printed and thus the known copies in the British Museum, the Bibliothèque Nationale, the University of Buenos Ayres, the Widener Library at Harvard, and in the library of Miskatonic University at Arkham are all from the Latin. FTP name this fictional book composed by the mad poet from Sinaa Abdul Alhazred containing the famous line "That is not dead which can eternal lie/ And with strange aeons even death may die", the potent tome of forbidden lore in the Cthulhu mythos created by H.P. Lovecraft. 	Answer:	 Necronomicon11. It consists of  2,530 lines in long-lined alliterative stanzas of varying length, each ending with a two-syllable line followed by a quatrain  called a "bob and wheel", and itss divided into four "fitts". Found only on the Cotton Nero Ax manuscript along with three other poems, it may have been composed to honor the founding of the Order of the Garter, as it ends with England's knights adopting the sash worn by the hero of the work who had earlier failed to surrended the sash to his host in an exchange of gifts. FTP name this poem in which the hero kept the sash because he was told it will make him invulnerable to beheading in his confrontation with the other title character, who had himself been beheaded by the hero in the beginning of the poem.	Answer:	 Sir Gawain and the Green Knight12. Through his cooperation with Hitler had led to territorial gains like Ruthenia and Transylvania, his attempts to negotiate with the hated Russians and, ironically, his eventual reluctance to deport all of his country's Jews and led to the dispatch of Otto Skorzeny, who captured his son and forced this man to abdicate in 1944. As an Admiral during World War I his numerous defeats of the Italian navy and his breaking of trhe Mediterranean blockade had earned the trust of Franz Joseph and the admiration of the people such that even when his job became obsolete he was appointed regent of his country, a position he maintained by holdng off several efforts of Hapsburg Charles I to regain the throne despite the thousands executed by his men during the White Terror. FTP name this ruler of Hungary who gained his posiotion after he drove out the Red Terror of Bela Kun.	Answer:	 Nicholas Horthy13. Polymorphic with aragonite and vaterite, crystals of this mineral are hexagonal-rhombohedral, though actual rhombohedrons of it are rarely found. Colorless in pure forms though shades of gray, red, yellow, green, blue, violet, brown, or even black exist when charged with impurities, the it can exhibit phosphorescence or fluorescence, though its most telling optical property, especially exhibited in the variety known as Iceland Spar, was discovered by Erasmus Bartholin. FTP name this mineral, third ionn the Mohs scale of hardness above gypsum and talc perhaps best known for its ability to produce double refraction	Answer:	 calcite14. With a name meaning "Hidden One", he was originally part of the Hermopolite Ogdoad and god of the breeze and air whose statues were painted blue to signify his invisibility and who was worshipped for his omnipresence and impartiality. He achieved prominence as the national god during the XVIIIth dynasty when his worship was extended to Cush and Libya, who maintained his famous sanctuary at Siwa later consulted by Alexander the Great, having been adopted at Thebes and transformed into the all powerful sun-god. FTP name this husband of Mut and father of Khonshu, a ram-headed god often syncretised with Ra.	Answer:	 Amon (accept reasonably similar pronunciation)
15.  As the novel progresses two of the main characters, a worthless Parisian socialite dressmaker and her equally worthless lover, an independently wealthy Argeninean dilettante painter, find redemption, she in breaking off the affair to become a nurse in the Great War and to tend to her blinded husband, he in becoming an infantrymen nominated to the Legion of Honor before dying in battle. In the meantime, his father, who had returned to France after years spent in Buenos Aires in flight from the Franco-Prussian wars, endures the destruction of his beloved estate Villeblanche and the death of his son at the hands of the Germans but nevertheless finds peace in his son's reform and the rescue of France, even if he could not stop Tchernoff's Biblical vision from coming true. Such are the developments in the lives of Margeuerite Laurier and Julio and Marcelo Desnoyers in, FTP, what novel, perhaps the best of Vincente Blasco Ibáñez?	Answer:	 The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (accept Los cuatro jinetes del Apocalipsis from fellows with giant schlongs who have to show off)16. In order to relieve a siege that had lasted since October of the previous year, the walls surrounding the Park of Mirabello were knocked down under cover of nightfall and Imperial forces were assembled, but they were detected and at dawn the besiegers trained a devastating artillery barrage on them which should have ended the battle. Instead, in a moment of supreme stupidity the barrage was called off and a cavalry charge was ordered which was utlimately repulsed by Spanish arquebusiers, leading to the capture by Charles de Lannoy of the French commander who was shortly thereafter compelled to sign the humiliating Treaty of Madrid. FTP name this battle of February 24, 1525, at which by his own admission all had been lost save honor by Francis I.	Answer:	 Pavia17. At the death of his first wife this scientist became a morphine addict and when his second wife contracted typhoid he himself tried to kill himself by injecting himself with a relapsing fever to see whether it was transmittable by blood, though the fever did not kill him. In later life he joined the Pasteur Institute at the invitation of Pasteur himself, collaborated with Émile Roux to prove that syphilis can be transmitted to monkeys, and attempted to show that drinking sour milk could ward off senility, but he is most famous for a discovery made in starfish larvae of certain cells which he believed acted to destroy infection. FTP name this man, who shared the 1908 Nobel Prize in Physiology and medicine for his discovery of these cells, which he named phagocytes.	Answer:	 Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov18. In the year after this case the Court decided to hear Ex Parte Yerger based on powers granted in the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789, showing that the recent act of Congress crippling a section of an 1867 Act did not divest the courts entirely of appellate jurisdiction in certain types of cases as this earlier decision had suggested. Nevertheless in this case the Court bowed to the will of Congress and threw out the appeal of a Mississippi editor charged with sedition for his criticism of the Military governor of Vicksburg and convicted in a military Court. FTP name this 1868 case in which Chief Justice Chase temporarily accepted diminution of the Court's ability to decide Habeas Corpus appeals.	Answer:	 Ex parte McCardle19. Well-known anecdotes involving this structure include the secret assembly and surprise installation of its spire added to spite the former partner of its architect, H. Craig Severance, and to beat out his recently constructed building as the largest edifice. Notable for its triangular windows lined up in seven overlapping cured rows, the takeover of the original owner William J. Reynolds's firm led to the addition of its most famous features, including the eight eagles which project from its sixty-first floor which resemble, appropriately enough, hood ornaments. FTP name this building designed by William Van Alen, the masterpiece of art deco construction beaten out as the world's tallest building in 1931 by the Empire State building.	Answer:	 Chrysler Building20. Some of its terms were inspired by awkwardness between member nations over the mutiny on the ship "Creole", while others were inspired by jurisdictional disputes such as those which had arisen concerning a case of arson perpretrated by Alexander MacLeod. These were resolved by establishing protocols for indictment of those acting under orders of a foreign power, and while other terms included agreement to help suppress coastal slave trade, most of its terms settled border questions which had been extant since the so-called Arostook war of 1839. FTP name this 1842 treaty between England and The United States which smoothed over tensions caused by the Caroline Affair and settled the boundary between Maine and New Brunswick. 	Answer:	 Webster-Ashburton21. . He once irascibly suggested that Homer and Archolochus be chased out of the curriculum and beaten with rods, and refused to tutor Darius the Persian, who, like so many others, found his writings inscrutable. This inscrutability might actually have been caused by what would now be diagnosed as depression, as Theophrastus states that he could not finish his work On Nature because of melancholy and he was known even in antiquity as "the Weeping Philosopher". FTP name this student of Xenophanes known for his devotion to the understanding of hidden reasons for things, or "logos", perhaps most famous for a cryptic comment that "a man cannot step in the same river twice".	Answer:	 Heraclitus 
22.  During the thrities this man hired by the WPA for the Illinois Writers Project's regional guideswhich resulted in  an unfinished description of American foods, recipes, and stories based on local dining customs published in 1992 as America Eats, while the life of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter provided the basis for another posthumously published work entitled The Devil's Stocking. As an established author he was editor and collaborator on a book of short stories also featuring contributions by Heller, Pyncheon, and Bellow entitled his Own Book of Lonesome Monsters, though in his early years he was hospitalised for depression following reviews of his first work, originally titled Finnerty's Ball but published as Somebody in Boots. FTP name this man thrown into depression again by lukewarm reviews of his reworking of Somebody in Boots entitled A Walk on the Wild Side, perhaps best known for The Man with the Golden Arm.	Answer:	 Nelson Algren23. A close contemporary of Van Eyck, a detail of whose Arnolfini Wedding he installs in one of the most famous works attributed to him, like seemingly every renaissance artist this man painted a Nativity and an Annunciation which both feature the same plumb, sandy blonde model who appears in his "Virgin Before a Firescreen". One of his most famous works, once a tryptych whose center has been lost, is named for the donor who appears in the left wing while Saint Barbara appears in the right reading before a fire, a common theme also echoed in what may be his most famous work which also features Joseph making a mousetrap to catch the devil. FTP name this artist of the Werl Altarpeice and the Meróde Altarpiece, who might also be the same man who taught Rogier van der Weyden.	Answer:	 The Master of Flémalle or Robert Campin24.  A cold snap which prevented the temperature from rising too much above fifty degrees Fahrenheit, later attributed by William Humphreys to the colossal eruption of Mount Tambora the previous April, resulted in the labelling of this year as the "Year Without A Summer". During it, Indiana was admitted to the Union, and at the Congress of Tucumán the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata declared itself independent in what would become Argentina, while the almost unanimous election of an American president ushered in an eight year period of political harmony. FTP name this year, during which the defeat of Rufus King by James Monroe initiated the Era of Good Feelings.	Answer:	 181625.	Though not a practicing Jew as revealed by his habit of referring to God as the Supreme Fascist, he was a fervent believer in what he called "The Book" in which he believed were contained the shortest, most beautiful proof for every conceivable mathematical problem. He himself might have found some pages in it with his elegant proof of Chebyshev's theorem discovered at age eighteen and through his work on Ramsey's theory with George Szekeres,and though his proof of the prime number theorem with Alte Selberg would help him win the Cole Prize, Selberg's treacherous early publication of the results screwed him out of the Fields medal, which Selberg won. FTP name this Israeli-Hungarian mathematician, whose work in combinatorix and number theory was elucidated in the over 1500 collaborations with other mathematicians and who is now the subject of a mathematical game similar to the Kevin Bacon game regarding separation from him.	Answer:	 Paul Erdös
Moc Masters 2003Packet for "Haterade"Written by Seth KendallBonusesEDITOR'S NOTE: THIS PACKET ORIGINALLY CONTAINED A BONUS WITH THE LEAD-IN "GESTALT CAN BE FUN."  YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.1.	In 1804 a chess playing automaton named the Turk was taken on a tour by its new owner, who had purchased it from the estate of its inventor, Wolfgang von Kempelen. It was eventually discovered that the Turk was hollow and a human chess player was inside, but it had some interesting adventures before that came to light. Answer these questions about the robot, 10 points each.1. This man was the new owner of the Turk, though he is better remembered for his friendship and subsequent feud with Beethoven, for inventing the Panharmonicon, and for being given credit for inventing the Metronome, which in actuality he only perfected.	Answer:	 Johann Maelzel2. In 1809 this great strategist "lost" to the Turk when he deliberately made three illegal moves, leading the machine to knock all the pieces onto the floor. His stepson, Prince Eugene de Beauharnais, would later buy the Turk from Maelzel but would later sell it back to him again.	Answer:	 Napoleon I Bonaparte3. The Turk was not unbeatable, as seen in 1827 when this man, then 89 years old, played the Turk and won; he was at that time the last surviving signer of the Declaration of Independence and the only one to have placed the name of his hometown, Carrollton, next to his name.	Answer:	 Charles Carroll  [an ancestor for whom, we feel compelled to add, your genial quizmaster is named]2.	Identify the literary figures from clues, 30-20-10.1. (30 points) Some of his poetry includes "The Lay of the last Minstrel" and "Marmion", while his novels include The Talisman, Peveril of the Peak, and his own favorite, The Antiquary.2. (20 points) Other poems include a narrative about Ellen Douglas entitled "The Lady of the Lake", as well as poems colleted in his Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border. Other novels include Guy Mannering, Kenilworth,  and The Heart of Midlothian.3. (10 points) His best known novels include Rob Roy, The Bride of Lammermoor, and Ivanhoe.	Answer:	 Sir Walter Scott3. . 	Identify the mythological figure, 30-20-10.1. (30 points)He is variously known as Aithon, a son of Deucalion or Castor of Crete who had been driven out for killing Orsilochus son of Idomeneus, and sometimes as Eperitus son of Polypemon from Sikonia. He is also once called Outis, a name that helped him out of a jam. 2. (20 points) Hs more famous name literally means "distasteful" and was given to him by his maternal grandfather Autolycus; it was while hunting with Autolycus on Parnassus that he was gored by a boar and received a scar that almost got him in trouble.3. (10 points) Fortunately, his cover was not blown by the nurse Eurycleia, who had recognised the scar and later used it to help prove to his wife Penelope that he had returned to Ithaka.	Answer:	 Odysseus (note that "Outis" means "Nobody")4.	Though a historian, the author of this packet loves it when wildly-inaccurate Hollywood movies about historical subjects come out, providing him with an instant bonus. This one concerns The Patriot; identify figures misportrayed in that film from historical information on a 5-10-15 point basis.1. (5 points) Mel Gibson's character was originally scripted to be this real historical figure, but, as the Internet Movie Database puts it, "after historians informed the filmmakers of some of the more sordid aspects of <his> life (slaughtering Indians, raping his female slaves) they decided to create a fictional story and a more likeable hero". Nevertheless, the character clearly bears several resemblances to this South Carolina guerilla warrior and hero of Parker's Ferry, down to him hiding in the swamps from which the real man received his famous soubriquet.	Answer:	 Francis Marion2. (10 points) Pretty decently depicted by Tom Wilkinson is this man, negotiator of the Treaty of Amiens, enlightened governor of India and Ireland, and victor of Camden, whose loss at Yorktown is shown at the end of the film.	Answer:	 Lord Charles Cornwallis (Charles Cornwallis, 1st Marquess and 2nd Earl, Viscount Brome, Baron Cornwallis Of Eye)3. (15 points) In almost everything but name and eventual death the character played by Jason Isaacs is this feared cavalryman, whose alleged brutality included slaughter of American prisoners after their surrender at the Waxhaws. Name this man, whose "Legion" was defeated at Cowpens but who actually survived the battle to return to England and ultimately fade into obscurity.	Answer:	 Banastre Tarleton
5.	Set during a filming of The Odyssey under the direction of Fritz Lang, not even an appearance of that director playing himself is enough to save this dreadful film about a screenwriter who earns the title emotion from his wife when she mistakenly believes he has handed her off to the American financier of the film as a sex toy. FTP each:1. Name this film featuring the then-red-hot sex kitten Brigitte Bardot.	Answer:	 Contempt (Le Mépris)2. Contempt was directed by this man, perhaps more famous for Alphaville and Breathless.	Answer:	 Jean-Luc Godard3. The boorish American producer Jerry Prokasch is played by this man, star of such films as Batman and winner of a best Supporting Actor Oscar for his role in City Slickers...believe it, or not.	Answer:	 Jack Palance6.	Identify the following American authors from lesser known works for 10 points each; if you need the novels for which they are better known, 5 points will be awarded.1. (10 points) The play The Vegetable; the autobiographical The Crack-Up      (5 points) The Great Gatsby; This Side of Paradise	Answer:	 F. Scott Fitzgerald2. (10 points) The plays The Royal Family and Stage Door     (5 points) Giant; Show Boat	Answer:	 Edna Ferber3. (10 points) The plays Garbage Man and Airways Inc.     (5 points) The three novels in The USA Trilogy.	Answer:	 John Dos Passos 7. 	Identify the plays of Anton Chekhov, 10 points each.1. Chekhov cut his mammoth The Wood-Demon into this play about a second rate academic and the title character, the brother of his deceased first wife, who falls in love with his second wife and unsuccessfully tries to kill his former brother-in-law when he proposes to sell the estate on which he has worked for so long .	Answer:	 Uncle Vanya (look up the Russian yourself, dammit)2. The title character was once an energetic young estate owner who has succumbed to a profound malaise, becoming a "superfluous man" who spends all his time at the Lebedev house, ignoring the devotion of his young wife, who eventually dies of tuberculosis. All set to marry the Lebedev's daughter, in the end he backs out and shoots himself.	Answer:	 Ivanov3. The loutish but lively Smirnov visits the widow Popova to demand payment of a debt incurred by her late husband, who turns out to have been a liar and a cheat but is staunchly defended by Popova. An insulting match insues and a duel is about to be fought between the two, but both succumb to passion instead and end up in each other's arms.	Answer:	 The Bear8. 	Fought between 1778-79, this war was occasioned by the death of the Wittelsbach Maximilien Joseph and the desire of Joseph II of Austria to make up for the loss of Silesia  by securing area for the Austrians and was ultimately decided, after little fighting, by the treaty of Teschen, which restored the status quo. For 10 points each:1. Name this war, fought over the present-day German state which contains the city of Munich.	Answer:	 War of the Bavarian Succession 2. Bavaria was kept from Austria by this third king of Prussia, who had inflicted the loss of Silesia in the War of Austrian Succession but whose rule was on the decline. 	Answer:	 Frederick II or Frederick the Great (Friederich der Grosse)3. Because there was little actual gunplay involved and most of the action of each army was designed to cut off the supplies of the other, the War of Bavarian Succession is occasionally known by this derisive, tuber-inspired nickname.	Answer:	 the Potato War9. 	Identify the following about the muscle structure of the human back, 10 points each:1. Consisting of major and minor parts, these muscles, named for the geometric shape the collectively somewhat resemble, are located behind each scapula and function to bring the scapula in towards the spinal column, essentially squeezing the shoulder blades together both sides are used at the same time.	Answer:	 Rhomboids2. Beginning at a small point on the humerus and extending to the entire lower half of the spine, this muscle extends, adducts and medially rotates arm, helps pull the trunk upward, and raises the lower ribs in forced breathing. As its name implies, it is the most wide muscle of the back.	Answer:	 latissimus dorsi3. Beginning at a tendon attached to the crest along the centre of the sacrum and dividing into the spinalis, iliocostal, and longissimus columns in the small of the back, as its name implies these muscles raise and straighten the spine, in addition to controllong its lateral movement.	Answer:	 Erector spinae10. 	This region is 1,200 mile-long stretch of desert lying along the Atlantic coast of Africa extending from Angola to South Africa and encompassing much of its namesake country in between. For the stated number of points.1. 10 points: Name this desert.answer: Namib desert2. 5 points: The souther portion of the Namib merges with this 360,000 square mile desert of the interior plateau of southern Africa which occupies a third of Namibia, the Northern cape province of South Africa, and almost the entirety of Botswana.answer: Kalahari desert . 3. 15 points: The Namib reaches amost 100 miles inland from the coast to the foot of this Southern African plateau which lies predominantly within South Africa and Lesotho.answer: the Great Escarpment11.	Identify the composers of the following "Dances", 10 points each; if you need another work of his, you'll only get 5.1. 10 points: Lachian Dances      5 points: The opera The Makropolous Affair.answer: Leos Janacek2. Romanian Folk Dances      5 points: The opera Duke Bluebeard's Castleanswer: Bela Bartok3. 10 points: "Polovtsian" Dances      5 points: These are from Act II of his opera Prince Igor.answer: Aleksandr Borodin12. 	Answer the following mythological questions for ten points each.1. In Vedic legend this deity was the chief god, lord of thunder and slayer of Vritra with a column of foam.	Answer:	 Indra2. Indra is associated with this heavenly realm where the blessed live until their next rebirth with its mobile capital Amaravati built by Visvikarma and its court Sudharma.	Answer:	 Svarga (Swarga)3. Svarga is located on a peak of this golden mountain supposedly 80,000 leagues high which serves as the axis of the universe.	Answer:	 Mount Meru13. 	He was once thought the author of a number of Anglo-Saxon poems including Andreas, The Phoenix, and all of the riddles in the Exeter Book, but modern scholarship now holds that he is only the author of four poems each of which containing a an epilogue asking for prayers for the author and containing runic characters spelling his name. For the stated number of points:1. (15 points) Name this man long held the greatest of Anglo-Saxon poets, the author of The Fates of the Apostles, Juliana, and The Ascension.	Answer:	 Cynewulf2. (5 points): Cynewulf was also the author of a piece called Elene about the finding of the True Cross by Saint Helena, mother of this man who converted to Christianity after conquering by the sign he saw in the skies before the battle of the Milvian Bridge.	Answer:	 Constantine I the Great3. (10 points) Cynewulf was once thought the author of this poem found in complete form in the Vercelli book in 1822 once known only by the fragment of it carved in runes on the Ruthwell cross. Name this poem, which describes in a dream how the True Cross tells its story of suffering the agonies of the cricifixion with Jesus.	Answer:	 Dream of the Rood14. 	One of Marvel Comics most interesting characters has been Dr. Henry Pym, inventor of the Pym particles which could decrease the size of people but enable them to keep all of their physical strength. Pym used these particles to become a costumed crimefighter and a founder of the Avengers. For the stated number of points:1. 10 points: Pym initially assumed this Myrmidon-sounding secret identity, aided in his adventures by a cybernetic helmet which enabled him to speak the language of insects. 	Answer:	 Ant-Man2. 10 points: Pym discovered that he could use the Pym particles in reverse, increasing his stature to fifteen feet and gaining superhuman strength. He used this ability to take on two other secret identities, one a literal reflection on his height, the other with Biblical connotations. For five points each, name these two other Pym identities.	Answer:	 Giant-Man, Goliath3. 10 points: Mental problems, which were later discovered to be a side-effect of the Pym particles, led Pym to retire from the superhero business, and for a time his Goliath identity was taken up by this man, better known for his skills as an archer. Name this hero or the his marksman secret identity.	Answer:	 Clint Barton or Hawkeye15. 	The "X-Club" was a private scientific dining club of Victorian London whose membership included a number of enormously important British Scientists. Identify them for the stated number of points.1. (5 points) A founding member was this man, who demonstrated that molecules in the atmosphere explained why the sky is blue.	Answer:	 John Tyndall2. (10 points) Another member of the X Club was this champion of evolutionary theory, famous for his debate with Samuel Wilberforce and his close friendship with Charles Darwin, whose "bulldog" he was.	Answer:	 T.H. Huxley3. (15 points) Another member was this physical chemist perhaps best known for coming up with the concept of valency.	Answer:	 Edward Frankland16. 	Identify the following about religious movements in the seventeenth century for the stated number of points.1. (15 points) Originating in the writings of Miguel de Molinos and developed into a doctrine of "pure love" by the Madame de Guyon, this doctrine advocated assuming an utterly inert pose of contemplation and to surrender all wish to act and do  and even desire for slavation to God, who would take care of the person once he or she had achieved perfect passivity.	Answer:	 Quietism2. (5 points) Though a personal friend of Molinos, this pope, who served from 1676 to 1689, condemned Quietism as heretical and had Molinos imprisoned for life, though he is perhaps better known for his sympathy with Jansen and the Ultramontanists and his conflicts with Louis XIV who provided the basis for Browning's The Ring and the Book.	Answer:	 Innnocent XI3. (10 points) In particular, Innocent and the Ultramontanists opposed this doctrine, which received a modern exposition in Bishop Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet's four Articles and whose central tenet was the diminsihment of papal secular power in favor of local, and in particular French, customs over the naming of high ecclesiastical offices.	Answer:	 Gallicanism17.	Isolating new elements is a difficult task, as many chemists have indicated. In fact, no less than three elements have been given names which in some way allude to the difficulty inherent in discovering them. For 10 points each, name these three elements, two of whose names means "hidden" and the other means "hard to obtain", whose atomic numbers are 36, 57, 66.answer: lanthanum, Krypton, Dysprosium	18. 	Darius II Ochus of Persia had two sons, and while his wife Parysatis preferred the younger, Cyrus, the older was elevated to the throne on the death of Darius. For 10 points each:1. Identify the name given to Arsaces, the king who succeeded Darius notable for his arbitration of The King's Peace during the Peloponnesian War and known as "Mnemon", the mindful.	Answer:	 Artaxerxes II (prompt on partial answer)2. Cyrus revolted from the rule of Artaxerxes II and they fought it out in this 401 BCE battle, in which the death of Cyrus resulted in a rout of his army despite the success of the Greek mercenaries under Clearchus against the Persian left.	Answer:	 Cunaxa3. After Clearchus and the other Greek commanders were seized by menas of treachery, the mercenaries elected this Athenian exile and former student of Socrates to lead them home; their march to the sea is chronicled in his Anabasis.	Answer:	 Xenophon19. 	The narrator of the poem laments that at a game of Euchre the antagonist,  who allegedly "did not understand" the game, had been able to cheat him and Bill Nye due to his ability to surpass Nye at hiding cards. For 10 points each:1. Name this poem, featuring what is by no means unconvoluted speech from a narrator not actually named in the poem itself.	Answer:	 "Plain Language from Truthful James"2. Name the poet of "Plain Language from Truthful James".	Answer:	 Bret Harte3. Name the antagonist of the story, either by his name (which later became the title of a play Harte wrote in collaboration with Twain based on the poem) or by the epithet by which James refers to him, by which the poem itself is sometimes known.	Answer:	 Ah Sin or the Heathen Chinee20. 	In 1859 the United States barely averted war with Great Britain when Lyman Cutlar shot and killed an animal belonging to the Hudson's Bay Company which was rooting in his garden. For the stated number of points:1. 5 points: Give the name usually assigned to this incident, named for the porcine offender who was its only casualty.	Answer:	 Pig War2. 15 points: The "Pig War" took place in this archipelago which includes the Orcas, Lopez, and the namesake Islands, part of present day Washington lying in the upper Puget Sound south of the Strait of Georgia and east of Juan de Fuca Strait.	Answer:	 San Juan Islands3. 10 points: In response to the threat of the British to arrest Cutlar, the American settlers of the San Juan Islands asked for protection and were sent a unit under the command of this man, then a captain, who would be most famous for an exploit performed at Gettysburg.	Answer:	 George E. Pickett21 	This bonus will test your knowledge of the career of physicist Val Lodgson Fitch. Answer these questions about him, 10 points each.1. Fitch is most famous for his observation that K mesons decay into pi mesons in a fraction of the proposed time, suggesting that the decy violates this type of symmetry.	Answer:	 charge conjugation and parity (accept "CP").2. For his work in detection of the breakdown of CP symmetry Fitch shared the 1980 Nobel prize in physics with this man, with whom he conducted the experiment.	Answer:	 James Watson Cronin3. Earlier, Fitch and this man studied muonic X-rays which gave the first indications of the radius of nuclei. He would share a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1975 for his development of the collectivbe model of nuclei with Aage Bohr and Benjamin Mottelson.	Answer:	 James Rainwater22. 	Among this language's virtues include its ability to compile to a single executable, simplifying distribution and reducing dll versioning issues, its ,ultiple platform native code from the same source code, and its support for latest technology and standards. One of the first Rapid Application Development tools, it was originally designed for Windows but a version of it called Kylix also now exists for Linux. For 10 points apiece:1. Identify this computer language produced by Borland name for the most famous of classical oracles.	Answer:	 Delphi2. Delphi was designed by the Dane Anders Hejlsberg who intended to add Object Orientation and thus supercede this earlier language he had created, one of the first integrated development environments created for the IBM PC based on an older language invented by Niklaus Wirth.	Answer:	 Turbo Pascal 3. Hejlsberg is also the leader of the team which developed this musically-named object-oriented programming language based on Java and C++ for the Microsoft .NET initiative	Answer:	 C# (C Sharp)23.	 Answer the following questions about the Second Boer War, 10 points each.1. During the course of the so-called "Black Week" this city was surrounded, along with Mafeking and Kimberly, and while all three endured a prolonged siege the British came off the worst here, with British General Sir George White suffering over 3000 casualties from battle and disease.	Answer:	 Ladysmith2. On January 19, 1900 an attempt to relieve Ladysmith was launched and this strategic height was captured; unfortunately, the sides were too steep to bring up cavalry and afforded no cover, and in the Boer counterattack General Louis Botha inflicted over 1600 casualties on the British before a retreat was called.	Answer:	 Spion Kop3. This man led the British at Spion Kop. The former commander-in-chief during the war, he would eventually relieve Ladysmith, but only after so many defeats at places like Vaal Krantz and earlier debacles like Stormberg, Magersfontein, and Colenso had earned him the soubriquet "Reverse", a pun on his first name.	Answer:	 Redvers Buller24. 	A rival of Rosso Fiorentino, this mannerist is known for his Vertumnus and Pomona fresco at the Medici villa at Poggio a Caiano and his decoration of the Cappella Capponi in Santa Felicità in Florence, which contains his Deposition.  For the stated number of points:1. (15 points) Name this man, born with the surname Carrucci,  perhaps best known for his Portrait of  Lady in Red and Joseph in Egypt.	Answer:	 Jacopo Pontormo2. (5 points) Pontormo's Joseph in Egypt contains a depiction of a staircase on which a young man sits talking to a cherubim. This young man is his pupil and adopted son, later an artist who is himself famous for Venus, Cupid, Folly, and Time. 	Answer:	 Angelo Bronzino3. (10 points) Pontormo himself was taught by this man, painter of the Pietà in the Pitti Palace and  Madonna of the Harpies whose other famous pupils include Georgio Vasari.	Answer:	 Andrea del Sarto