TOSSUPS - MISSISSIPPI STATE				MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA
Questions by Mississippi State University, Dan Finley, University of Oklahoma, and Seth Kendall


1.	In part it was allowed to happen because the men responsible for it had connections to the brother-in-law of the nation's leader, who wielded such influence that he was able to have a former general and the composer of "Taps" placed in the Treasury department. Daniel Butterfield was thus in a position to alert Abel Corbin about any sudden releases of specie in exchange for a payoff, but when this fact finally became known to the President, he ordered Secretary George S. Boutwell to release reserves without Butterfield's knowledge, causing an abrupt reverse in bullion prices that had been artificially stimulated by hoarding by two railroad magnates. For 10 points name this event of September 24, 1869 during the Grant administration which ended the artificial scarcity in gold orchestrated by James Fisk and Jay Gould but caused a stock market collapse in the process. 
Answer:	Black Friday

2.	In the animal kingdom rabbits possess a duplex form of these, while cows possess a bipartite one and pigs a bicornuate one, though the human one is the simplest. Developing as a consequence of the differentiation and maturation of the Mullerian ducts, it is divided into four parts of which the uppermost receives the product of the organ with which this organ is most concerned and it is lined by the endometrium, while it is connected to the tube from which it receives the other substance with which it is concerned and out of which it releases its own product by means of the cervix.. For 10 points name this inverted pear-shaped muscular organ located between the bladder and rectum which functions to nourish and house the fertilized egg until the unborn child is ready to be delivered.
Answer:	Uterus

3.	While he inherited from his father a more vast domain, this Greek god claimed as his special domain a lake in Libya where some legends say Athene was raised, and it was he who was the father of Pallas whom Athene accidentally killed. Briefly making an appearance in the story of the Argo, where disguised as one Eurypylus he shows the heroes the proper path around the Mediterranean and gives his brother Euphemus a lump of earth which, when cast into the sea, becomes the island of Thera, he is famous for his trumpeting which leads him to fling Misenus into the sea when, in the Aeneid, the latter is fool enough to claim that he can defeat the noise this god makes on his conch shell. For 10 points name this sea divinity, the eldest son of Amphitrite and Poseidon.
Answer: 	Triton

4.	Among his wide circle of friends was Ellery Channing, with whom he made a vacation north chronicled in "Excursion to Canada" and, later, in his larger work A Yankee in Canada, with Anti-Slavery and Reform Papers.  An earlier boating vacation to the White Mountains made with his brother John was chronicled in a work written at the same time as he was writing his best known piece and which sold so poorly that he had to shop that best known work around for five years. That work, A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers, illustrates that this former pencil-maker and tutor was by no means a hermit during the two years he spent in rustic semi-isolation motivated by his hearing of the "beat of a different drummer", to evade the life of "quiet desperation" and to "live deliberately... and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived". For 10 points name this author of such essays as Civil Disobedience and Walden.
Answer:	Henry David Thoreau

5.	The man who first studied and named this phenomena later came into great public disfavor of the Angela Canning case, in which his famous "Law" which states that one case of SIDS is a tragedy, two are suspicious, and three is murder, was elucidated. Studied extensively by Dr. Marc Feldman as well as Roy Meadow, who first mentioned it in the medical journal Lancet in 1977, those afflicted with it are usually women who appear to be wonderfully compassionate and attentive mothers and who exhibit extensive medical knowledge which they use to help doctors diagnose the ailments of their children, ailments which unsurprisingly elude diagnosis, as they are in fact being manufactured by the loving parent. For 10 points identify this disorder ultimately named for a legendary 18th century German Storyteller, whose "sufferers" gain attention caring for their sick children whom thy themselves are making ill.
Answer:	Munchhausen by Proxy Syndrome (accept any arrangements of key words; accept also Fabricated and Induced Illness or FII)


6.	Dio Cassius and the anonymous Historia Augusta are the firsts writer to mention these people by name in reference to their conflict with Caracalla, who claimed a cognomen for his alleged defeat of them in battle, and they soon combined with the more ancient Suebi so thoroughly that the territory named for them was interchangeably known by the more common name of Swabia. Absorbed after the battle of Tolbiac into the demesnes of Clovis I, these people came under the rule of Louis the German after the treaty of Verdun, and they soon became almost identified with "German Speaking", as the most common mention of them today suggests. For 10 points name this Germanic tribe from whose name the modern French and Spanish words for both "Germany" and "German" are derived.
Answer:	Alamanni

7.	Among the critics of this work as it was being created was Pietro Aretino, which may be why his features are chosen for the figure of St. Bartholomew who holds his own flayed skin whose face is that of the artist, indicating that Aretino's harsh words had cut him deeply. The scandal it caused led to some creative "additions" made to it by Daniele da Volterra as commissioned by Pope Pius IV, whose offense was aroused by the exposed genitals of the mostly nude figures as they either fall to Hell or Return to Life with Christ. For 10 points name this fresco decorating the walls of the Sistine Chapel, painted by Michelangelo.
Answer:	The Last Judgment

8.	The most important use of this element industrially is in its pentoxide form, which has the ability to deliver oxygen to various compounds and is thus used in the preparation of sulfuric acid, though it is also used commercially to harden steel and create surgical equipment, the engines, and heat-resistant tubing, wire, and foil. Its discovery was claimed first by Andres Manuel del Rio at Mexico City in 1803, who prepared a number of salts from "brown lead" and found that because most of them turned red on hearting he named the element erythronium, but later withdrew his claim after a dispute and only thirty years later, after a student of Berzelius named Nils Sefstršm "rediscovered" it, did the fellow Berzelius pupil Friederich Wšhler confirm that Rio's research had been right, even thought the Swedish name ended up being the one used. For 10 points name this element named for an epithet of the Norse love goddess Freya, whose atomic number is 23.
Answer:	Vanadium

9.	In the late sixties and early seventies this man perpetrated such annoying pieces of "avant-garde" as Breath, a play which is thirty-seconds in duration and which consists only of a cry and heavy breathing, and Not I, featuring a dark stage on which only the mouth of an actress confusingly relates the story of something unpleasant. More interesting is his Happy Days, in which a Winnie who is buried up to her waist is cheerfully optimistic and protective of her bag of various items, while a blind and wheelchair-bound Hamm learns from his servant Clov that the world is slowly vanishing in Endgame. For 10 points name this playwright, perhaps most famous for Krapp's Last Tape and Waiting for Godot.
Answer:	Samuel Becket

10.	Among the bombs on this album are a song about a drug pusher, a sitar-drenched sex proposition, and a dreamy lost-love song written about Jane Asher, while slightly more palatable is the last track, an ode to transcendental meditation and Buddhism. Far better is track 8, a exuberant barrel-house describing a bright day outside, track 5, which is a far superior love song, and track number 3, a dreamy ode to somnolence which is perhaps the best song on the album, though the most recognised is track 2 about several lonely people and track 6 about a fantastic ride in a magic u-boat. "Doctor Robert", "Love You To", "For No One", "Good Day Sunshine", "Here, there, and Everywhere", "I'm Only Sleeping", "Eleanor Rigby", and "Yellow Submarine" are all, for 10 points, songs on what major album by the Beatles?
Answer:	Revolver

11.	Its passage led to some discoveries of scientific importance, including the detection of large amounts of deuterium in its core whose abundance suggests that, if it is typical, that comets could not be the sole source of the Earth's water supply, while its pronounced sodium tail suggests that comets can give off neutral sodium atoms by means of radiation pressure. First discovered by its namesake scientists, one of whom without even a telescope of his own but borrowed from a friend, it appeared just one year after Hyakutake which it surpassed in brightness.  It simultaneously presented the largest cometary nucleus to be observed, was discovered the furthest out from the sun, and was the longest visible. For 10 points name this comet of 1996 and 1997, which despite the predictions of some "theorists" neither had a double nucleus nor hid a spaceship in its tail, Heaven's Gate cult notwithstanding.
Answer:	Hale-Bopp

12.	Among the famous quotables from this novel is one which occurs when the main character and the pessimist to whom free ship-passage from Suriname was given because he was the saddest man in Suriname visit England, where they are about to witness the execution of a naval officer because in England they sometimes have to kill an Admiral "to encourage the others". By this point the title character has already committed two murders, killing the Jewish magnate Don Issachar and the Grand Inquisitor in order to free his lady love, and believes he has killed another, the brother of his girl and son of the lord of Thunder-ten-tronckh who has since become a Jesuit, and yet he remains in god spirits even in the end, having failed to renounce the "Optimism" of the subtitle in the face of Martin's cynicism, the destruction of Cunegonde's good looks, and even the disillusionment of Pangloss. For 10 points identify this novel which comes to the conclusion that it is best to "cultivate our garden", the most famous work of Voltaire.
Answer:	Candide

13.	In part the disaster here was due to criminal underestimation of the winning commander by the loser, who had been told by the man he was relieving that the enemy was little more than a "non-commissioned officer learning how to handle men" and thus would not be able to supply enough men to threaten the losing army, and in the meantime he ignored the protests of his subordinates that his air force was ill-prepared and that the area he wanted to occupy was in a basin and proceeded with Operation Castor. Everything then proceeded to go wrong, in that his tanks got bogged down in the mud and underbrush, his enemy did not use the "human wave" attacks that they had employed at the Red River, and his three artillery bases named for his mistresses did not have the range to support his army, such that gradually his forces were besieged and compelled to surrender. Having completely misjudged Vo Nguyen Giap, Henri Navarre was eventually defeated at, for 10 points, what campaign in 1954 that practically ended French involvement in Vietnam?
Answer:	Dien Bien Phu

14.	It is comparable in size to Lake Ontario and is supersaturated with oxygen, containing about fifty times the oxygen levels of normal lakes, though it is not for this that it is one of the most oligotrophic lakes on Earth. What accounts for that is its unique position, one which separates it from sunlight, from its location, and from its temperature, which is about negative 3 degrees Celsius but nevertheless remains liquid due to pressure of the 13,000 feet of ice above. Discovered by Russian and British scientists in 1996, for 10 points name this largest of Antarctica's subglacial lakes.
Answer: Lake Vostok

15.	Defense of her was publicly championed in popular science works by the slightly-crackpot Bryan Sykes and the more-credible "Selfish Gene" proponent Richard Dawkins, though detractors have pointed out that her existence is predicated on two possibly mistaken assumptions, one involving the use of the "molecular clock" and the implied steady rate of mutation by the man who helped describe her, the other regarding heredity from the mother. Believed to have existed in East Africa about 150,000 years ago, she was certainly not the only woman nor the only one with traceable descendants, though she remains the earliest who, if the science holds, has provided an unbroken chain of descent. Proposed by Rebecca Cann, Mark Stoneking, and most importantly Allan Wilson, for 10 points identify this theoretical woman from whom the namesake DNA of an organelle had given her the disputed title of the ancestor of all humans through the maternal side, and as a result was given a Biblical name.
Answer: 	Mitochondrial Eve (prompt on partial answer)

16.	This book of the Bible is written in three distinct sections, of which the middle, from Chapters 7 - 13 which tells of the those accompanying Zerubabbel on his return, the first celebration of Sukkoth since the time of Joshua, and a revision of Israelite marriage laws, abandons the first person that marks the earlier section and the brief last bit. This middle part, in the third person, is possibly the missing section of an earlier book of which this book is sometimes labeled Part II describing the activities of the son of Seriah, while the other two more properly relate the tenure of the son of Hadaliah in Jerusalem and his conflicts with such men as Shanballat the Horonite and Tobias the High Priest as he engages in his important construction project. For 10 points name this book written by the cupbearer to Artaxerxes who is given permission to go oversee the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem, which follows and is sometimes considered a continuation of the Book of Ezra.
Answer:	 Nehemiah


17.	The word-of-mouth success of this work inspired later collaborations of composer and librettist for such pieces as Happy End and The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahogany. The piece is entirely tongue in cheek, with such absurdist "arias" as the nauseatingly saccharine "Cannon" song in which a groom-to-be and a policeman share their reminiscences of service in the Indian army , as well as a piece sung by a prostitute about the betrary the main character, "The Ballad of Sexual Dependency." The music for it was written less for trained operatic voices and more for the range of everyday actors, as seen by the terrifically popular but less-than-challenging piece most associated with this work whose English version provided a Number One Hit for Bobby Darin. Opining with the piece "Die Moritat von Mackie Messer", or "Mack the Knife", for 10 points name this musical collaboration of Bertholt Brecht and Kurt Weill.
Answer:	The Threepenny Opera (accept "Der Dreigroshenoper")

18.	Douglas Freeman postulates that at one point this battle might have been saved if the gap that opened up in A.P. Hill's men between Generals Lane and Archer near Maxcy Gregg's unit had been exploited, but instead the maneuver which may have initially been designed as a feint continued with murderous effects. It had begun badly, with a lack of pontoon boats causing a delay in the crossing of the river needed to get at the enemy by the losing side, and even when that was finally effected the losing side had to fight its way through the namesake city only then to make ready to assault a position so well covered by artillery that the artillerist of the winning army was able to predict, correctly, that "A chicken could not live on that field when we open up". Covered thus by Porter Alexander, Confederates under Cobb in the Sunken Road were able to mow down fourteen separate advances to Marye's Heights at, for 10 points, what December 12, 1862 battle in which Ambrose Burnside was soundly whipped by Robert E. Lee?
Answer: 	Fredricksburg

19.	In the last sixty years scientists have made a great deal of progress in their investigations as to the defense mechanisms of these animals, including the observation that their mucilaginous scales help their bodies release a laxative oil which makes them virtually inedible and that their eyes have a tapetum lucidum, rendering them so sensitive that it is virtually impossible to catch them in the day or during a full moon. Possessed of a "hollow spine" which gives them their names, and the name of their genus is latimeria, reflecting the initial research of Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer who was the first to recognise their unusual properties, while they are the only representative of the order Crosspterygii, the others presumably died out millions of years ago. For 10 points name this lobe-finned fish from the Cretaceous period also presumed to be extinct until one was found off the east coast of South Africa in 1938.
Answer:	Coelacanth [SEE-leh-KANTH]

20.	In later life this man won Pulitzer Prizes for poetry collections like A Witness Tree, which he won in 1942 six years after he had on A Further Range in 1936 and seventeen years after he had won his first for a work subtitled "A Poem With Notes and Grace Notes", the same collection which includes a poem describe "nature's first green", another which describes how the result of subzero temperatures "will suffice" to destroy the earth, and another which describes how a puzzled horse "gives his harness bells a shake" and urges on a narrator from a sylvan reverie. In addition to that collection, New Hampshire, another entitled Mountain Interval includes a poems describing how a chance choice of roads means so much, while the even earlier North of Boston contains what are perhaps his best-known pieces, including one discussing the value of excellent lines of property demarcation and another in which a couple debates resuming the employment of an old farmhand. "Nothing Gold Can Stay", "The Death of the Hired Man", "Mending Wall", "After Apple-Picking", "Fire and Ice", "The Road Not Taken", and "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" are all pieces by, for 10 points, what poet?
Answer:	Robert Frost


21.	The earliest usage of this term, in its present context, appears in an article from The Economist from 1930, however most believe that its present meaning was coined in a work by W.T.R. Fox, who defined them as nations whose interests extend beyond "a single theater of... conflict". Currently, it is understood that there is only one, but that three others are vying for the title as well, while historically there have never been more than three, if the United Kingdom is included. For 10 points, what is this term for a nation which can project its influence across the globe in numerous ways?
Answer:	Superpower 


BONI - MISSISSIPPI STATE				MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA
Questions by Mississippi State University, Dan Finley, University of Oklahoma, and Seth Kendall

1.	In Greek mythology it was here that Heracles, whose skin was burning from the shirt poisoned by the blood of Nessus, jumped into the waters in the attempt to cool down, producing the warm springs from which the place derives its name. It is more important historically, however, as the place where the Persian armies encountered 700 Boetians and 300 Spartiates and were temporarily stopped by them, allowing for the evacuation of Athens. For the stated number of points:
1. (5 points) Name this battle of 480 BCE fought at a mountain pass where the narrows enabled the Spartans to hold on until their betrayal.
Answer:	Thermopylae
2. (10 points) Name the Spartan king who held off the Persians and perished at the battle.
Answer:	Leonidas 
3. (15 points) The Spartans were betrayed when this man showed the Persians a path around the Spartan flank.
Answer:	Ephialtes

2.	Identify the American authors of these short works, 10 points each.
1.  "The Pearl"
Answer:	John Steinbeck
2.  Looking Backward
Answer:	Edward Bellamy 
3. Anthem
Answer: 	Ayn Rand

3.	Answer the following about the Academy Awards' Best Picture of the Year on a 10-5 basis. 
1. (10 points) Among the films also nominated in the year that this film won were Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, The Wizard of Oz, Wuthering Heights, and Stagecoach, the last of which saw an Academy Award for best supporting actor go to Thomas Mitchell, who was also in this film.
     (5 points) The winner in 1939, its stars included Best Supporting Actress Hattie McDaniel and Best Actress Vivien Leigh.
Answer:	Gone With the Wind
2. (10 points) Competition for the Oscar won by this film included Bonnie and Clyde, Doctor Doolittle, The Graduate and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?, which also starred one of the stars of this film.
     (5 points) It would not be that star, Sidney Poitier, but rather Rod Steiger who would win Best Actor for his role in this film, though Poitier did get to do the line about "They call me MISTER TIBBS!"
Answer:	In the Heat of the Night
3. (10 points) This film beat out The Goodbye Girl, Julia, Star Wars and The Turning Point.
     (5 points) In addition to Best Picture, this film also saw decorations for Best Director go to Woody Allen and Best Actress to Diane Keaton.
Answer:	Annie Hall

4.	For 10 points each, identify each of the following noun cases which appear in at least one major Indo-European language.
1. This case, which usually marks the person or thing being addressed, but occasionally also is used for determiners, is found in Latin, Greek, and most Slavic languages, though it only appears in archaic usages in Russian. Its name comes from the fact that the addressee is in a sense being "called"
Answer:	Vocative (prompt on Fifth Case) 
2. This case, used to show possession, origin, composition, and sometimes combined with the partitive case, is found in most inflected Indo-European languages and in a few archaisms in English, such as in personal pronouns; in Greek it also handles the absolute construction which would be handled by the Ablative in Latin.
Answer:	Genitive (prompt on Second Case) 
3. In Latin the Ablative handles the absolute as well as the "separation" functions and much of the Locative; it also handles the function of this case, which denotes the means, abstract or concrete, which are used to accomplish a task.
Answer:	Instrumental (prompt on Eighth Case) 


5.	Name the following molecular shapes from VSEPR Theory 10 points each.
1. This shape involves 3 atoms clustered around a central atom and the orbitals are usually sp2 . Common examples include formaldehyde and boron hydride. 
Answer:	Trigonal Planar 
2. This shape has a central atom with one atom above it, one below it, and three atoms spread out horizontally from it at 120¡ angles, for a total of 6 atoms.  Phosphorus pentachloride is a well-known example.
Answer:	Trigonal Bipyramidal 
3.  This shape has a central atom connected to two other atoms, which are separated from each other by 104.45 degrees. The angle results from 2 pairs of valence electrons around the central atom.  Water is the most well-known example.
Answer:	Bent

6.	In 1886 a demonstration against the use of force by police in Chicago responding to a strike erupted in violence when an anonymous assailant threw a bomb, killing seven policemen and injuring over fifty others. For 10 points each:
1. Name this event.
Answer:	Haymarket Square Riot
2. The strike to which Haymarket had been the sequel had been to obtain an eight-hour workday from what agricultural company?
Answer:	McCormick Harvesting Machine Company
3. In 1893 the remaining men convicted of murder where pardoned by what Illinois governor, later famous for his run-ins with Federal use of force in the Pullman strike?
Answer:	John Peter Altgeld

7.	The novel concerns a girl who is kept from the man she loves by a family tradition in which the youngest daughter is supposed to take care of her mother until that mother dies, leading instead to channel her passions into her food which causes the people who eat to feel her emotions. For 10 points each:
1. Name this work, the first novel by Laura Esquivel.
Answer:	Like Water for Chocolate or Como Agua para Chocolate
2. Name the main character of Like Water for Chocolate.
Answer:	Tita
3. Like Water for Chocolate is a prime example of this type of primarily South American literature, in which the fantastic is told very matter-of-factly; Jorge Amado and Jorge Luis Borges are other practitioners of the style.
Answer:	magic realism

8.	Identify each planet by a few of its moons on a 10-5 basis.
1. (10 points) Mab, Cressida, Perdita
     (5 points) Titania, Oberon
Answer:	Uranus
2. (10 points) Rhea, Enceladus, Hyperion
     (5 points) Titan
Answer:	Saturn
3. (10 points) Thalassa, Galatea, Despina
     (5 points) Nereid, Proteus
Answer: Neptune

9.	Identify these explorers for 10 points each:
1. An Italian sailing for France, he explored along the Atlantic Coast from South Carolina to Newfoundland in 1524 or 1525 and was the first to enter New York Harbor, where the bridge connecting Brooklyn to Staten Island is named for him.
Answer:	Giovanni da Verrazano
2. Beginning in Florida in 1539, this Spaniard wandered around the Southeast for three years burning Indian villages looking for phantom treasure. What he did discover was the Mississippi River.
Answer:	Hernando de Soto
3. This Dane exploring for Russia landed in Alaska in 1741 and died in the Commander Islands later that year. The strait separating Alaska and Russia is named for him.
Answer:	Vitus Bering


10.	Identify these Lord of the Rings characters For 10 points each.
1.  This Elf created Lorien using the ring Nenya
Answer:	Galadriel
2. He is Boromir and Faramir's father, the Steward of Gondor
Answer:	Denethor
3.  This Prince of Dol Amroth fought at the Pelennor Fields
Answer:	Imrahil

11.	Its characters include Walter, male protagonist who frequently seeks to get-rich-quick and who ultimately ends up losing most of his father's insurance money to a shady con man, and his wife Ruth, who struggles to maintain her apartment while confiding in Walter's mother Lena. However, the rest of the money has been spent on a down payment for a house, which causes great consternation to the whites who live in the neighborhood. For 10 points each:
1. Name this play, whose title is taken from a Langston Hughes poem.
Answer: 	A Raisin in the Sun 
2. Name the playwright behind A Raisin in the Sun.
Answer:	Lorainne Hansberry
3. Walter has not only squandered his share of his father's inheritance but has also spent that supposed to go to this sister of his, a young woman attending college who dreams of being a doctor and occasionally considers going back to Africa.
Answer:	Beneatha Younger

12.	Identify the following from geology for the stated number of points.
1. (5 points) This is the outermost layer of a rocky planet consisting of the crust and the upper mantle.
Answer:	lithosphere
2. (10 points) Because the lithosphere is quite thick, when two tectonic plates meet one is forced under the other into the mantle, a process known as this.
Answer:	subduction
3. (15 points) At convergent plate boundaries, the zone along the subducted plate at which earthquakes occur is named this, from the scientists who discovered them.
Answer:	Wadati-Benioff zone

13.	After a brief term at William and Mary this man decided that law school wasn't for him and joined the army instead, ultimately rising to the army's highest rank based on his success in the Mexican war. For 10 points each:
1. Name this American soldier, an unsuccessful candidate for president in 1852 perhaps most unfortunately remembered by the nickname of "Old Fuss and Feathers" for his attention to decorum.
Answer:	Winfield Scott
2. Following a brief cease-fire after Contreras-Contrabusco during the Mexican War Scott led an assault on Mexico City that culminated in this September 13-14th, 1847 battle notable for the courage of Los Ninos, the military cadets who perished to a man, but which finally resulted in capture of the city.
Answer:	Chapultepec
3. Shortly before retiring from the Army during the Civil War Scott came up with this much-derided plan whereby the army and navy would bottle up the Confederates by taking control of its rivers and harbors and "Squeeze" it into submission, a plan which the Union forces ultimately ended up following.
Answer:	"Anaconda" Plan

14.	His second symphony was nicknamed "Iron and Steel" for its dissonance, while his fifth was believed to be a declaration of solidarity with Shostakovich who had been recently criticised for his own eighth symphony. For 10 points each:
1. Name this composer also famous for the opera Love for Three Oranges and for Peter and the Wolf.
Answer:	Sergei Prokofiev
2. Composed while he was studying the style at the St. Petersburg Conservatory, this work in D, Opus 25, was Prokofiev's only attempt at emulating the style of the likes of Joseph Haydn, as reflected in its more commonly-known nickname. 
Answer:	Symphony No. 1  or The Classical 
3. The editor's favorite piece by Prokofiev is the piece sometimes labeled "Dance of the Knights" from this ballet, the composer's Opus 64; that piece is also sometimes labeled "Montagues and Capulets".
Answer:	Romeo and Juliet

15.	Identify the following about Church councils, 10 points each.
1.  This council was summoned by Pius IX in 1869 and among other things fixed the doctrine of papal infallibility 
Answer: 	First Vatican Council
2. During the eighteen years it met between 1545 and 1563 various topics were discussed, including a standardized Mass called the "Tridentine", and it declared that Protestantism was heretical.
Answer:	Council of Trent
3. Summoned by Alexander III in 1179, this council restricted the election of Popes to Cardinals.
Answer:	Third Lateran Council

16.	Answer the following questions about these writers whose common thread is that they were the only persons from their nations to win Nobel Prizes in literature as of 2006, 10 points each.
1. One of his best known works is Children of Gebelawi, which was banned in Egypt for its portrayal of Mohammad and which resulted in the author being attacked in Cairo in 1994, though he is better known in the West for The Cairo Trilogy. 
Answer:	Naguib Mahfouz 
2. Guatemala's lone recipient, his works include Mulata, The President, Men of Corn, and The Eyes of the Interred, part of his "Banana Trilogy".
Answer:	Miguel Asturias
3. The anthems of Bangladesh and India are based on poems by this man, India's only laureate, perhaps most famous for his collection Gitanjali.
Answer:	Rabindranath Tagore 

17.	Identify these thermochemistry concepts 10 points each.
1. This type of thermal radiation is suspected to emit from black holes when a particle-antiparticle pair is annihilated near the event horizon, thus providing a means by which a black hole may evaporate.
Answer:	Hawking radiation
2. This thermodynamical theorem states that at temperature T, the average energy of any quadratic degree of freedom is 1/2 kT (, where k is 1.380 6505(24)?10?23 joule/kelvin
Answer: 	the equipartion or equipartition theorem [grudgingly accept equipartation, used in a handful of papers]
3. This is a thermodynamical model of a solid in which each atom can oscillate in three independent directions. The solid is a collection of such identical oscillators with quantized energy units.
Answer: 	Einstein solid

18.	After the ouster of Alexander Cuza in 1866, a recently united country consisting of the former countries of Wallachia and Moldovia took the advice of Napoleon III and elected to its throne a German princeling and army officer who took the throne as Charles the I. For 10 points each:
1. Name this country, which would be ruled by Charles and his descendants until the ouster of Michael I in 1947 under pressure from Communists which would ultimately lead to the dictatorship of Nicolae Ceaucescu (chow-chest-chew).
Answer:	Romania
2. Carol or Charles I had been of the Swabian line of this German family, whose Franconian line had led to such kings of Prussia as Frederick William and Frederick II the Great.
Answer:	Hohenzollern
3. In 1871 the Hohenzollerns became Kaisers of the united Germany beginning with this man, who ruled until his death in 1888.
Answer:	Wilhelm I (accept equivalents)


19.	He is a common archetype in various myths, the sort of being who operates outside the known rules of the universe, sometimes to the fury of the rest of the gods and to the sorrow of men, but often to divine delight and to great assistance to human kind. He is especially popular in Native American myth, where his manifestations include Kokopelli amongst the Zuni and Rabbit of the Cherokee. For the stated number of points:
1. (5 points) Name this type of god, whose activities are usually limited to pranks played for their own amusement.
Answer:	Trickster
2. (10 points) Perhaps the most famous native American trickster god is this one, a sometimes companion to Raven, who performs such feats as forming the first man from a lump of clay and travelling to the underworld in an unsuccessful attempt to retrieve his wife. He is often the foil of his more noble brother, Wolf.
Answer:	Coyote 
3. (15 points) One of the most famous mythological trickster is this one from African myth, who once famously turned an ear of corn into 100 followers for the king of the Gods and bagged the sun and the moon. The divine king later turned him into a spider, the form for which he is best known.
Answer:	Anansi 

20.	Identify the country that controls each of these dependencies:
1.  Its dependencies include Tahiti and Martinique.
Answer: France
2.  Bouvet Island, Konk Karls Land, and Svalbard are owned by this Scandinavian country.
Answer:	Norway
3.  Socotra, Abd Al Kuri, and two islands known as the Brothers are owned by this country on the southern edge of the Arabian peninsula.
Answer:	Yemen


