MOC MASTERS - UTCTossups by Athens State (Lee Henry and Kivin Childers)1) He was excommunicated in 1208 when he and Pope Innocent III disagreed over who should become Archbishop in his country.  He feared his barons would revolt and in 1213 ended his quarrel with the Pope.  FTP, name this son of Eleanor of Aquitaine, brother of Richard I,  the youngest son of Henry II, nicknamed "Lackland."	Answer:	King John2) He was born in St. Petersburg but his family fled to Western Europe in 1919 to escape the Bolshevik Revolution.  He attended Cambridge University and lived in Berlin and Paris for many years.  He wrote his novels in Russian, and most were later translated to English.  His novels, which were often satirical, include The Real Life of Sebastian Knight, Invitation to a Beheading, Pale Fire, and Ada.  FTP, who was this Russian author of Lolita?	Answer:	Vladimir Nabokov3) As President he signed the bill providing that the number of stars on the U.S. flag coincide with the number of states in the Union.  Earlier in his career, he served as special envoy to France under Jefferson, where he and Robert Livingston negotiated the Louisiana Purchase. His reputed expertise in diplomacy, however, was largely due to his gifted Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams.  FTP, identify this man, U.S. president from 1816 to 1824.	Answer:	James Monroe4) Born with severe physical and mental deformities, he was an outcast as a child. Much to his mother's dismay, he drowned at camp while the lifeguards were having sex.  However, he somehow managed to transcend death and murder dozens of teenagers.  Identify this character, who in 1989, "Took Manhattan" and who in 2003, "versus Freddy."	Answer:	Jason Vorhees5.	Two of his most famous maxims are "Learn to Love, Respect, and Enjoy Other People" and "Believe that You Will Succeed and You Will."  He wrote famous books including  How to Stop Worrying and Start Living and Public Speaking and Influencing Men in Business, which became a standard text.  FTP, who was this pioneer in public speaking and personality development, who became famous by showing others how to be successful and whose best known book is How to Win Friends and Influence People?	Answer:	Dale Carnegie6) Born in 1776, in 1811 he developed the law that bears his name.  It states that equal volumes of gasses under identical pressure and temperature conditions contain the same number of molecules.  FTP, identify this Italian whose law also helped determine the amount of molecules in one mole of a substance.	Answer:	Avogadro7) Ciudad Bolivar is the center of trade on this river.  Traveling almost 1,300 miles it has two known sources, both in the Parima Highlands near the border of Brazil and Venezuela.  FTP, what is this river,  described in an Enya song, the longest in Venezuela?	Answer:	Orinoco8) It has a simple structure consisting of one chromosome containing a large DNA molecule and two smaller rings of DNA called plasmids.  It is within these plasmids that DNA from other organisms is spliced, making this simple intestinal bacteria the most commonly utilized in the manufacture of recombinant DNA. Commonly used in genetic engineering, FTP, what is this bacterium, whose H:07:157 variety causes a deadly type of food poisoning?	Answer:	E. coli (Escerichia coli)9) Oddly enough, the letters in the French title of this painting can be rearranged to spell "vile, meaningless doodles."  The features of the three figures on the left of the painting were inspired by ancient Iberian sculpture.  The heads of the two figures on the right were influenced by the artist's increasing interest in African art and culture.   FTP, identify this 1907 Picasso painting depicting some seriously ugly cubist girls.	Answer:	Le Demoiselles d'Avignon (really must have the French name because of the anagram mentioned)10) Though he wrote numerous comic operas and a symphonic poem, they are rarely performed today. Born in 1854 and trained as a violinist, he became the leader of the United States Marine Band in 1880. FTP, identify this American composer known as "the March King."	Answer:	 John Philip Sousa11) He defeated the Magyars at the Battle of the Lech River in 955.  As a result, the Poles and Bohemians were forced to accept his rule.  He replaced rebellious German Princes with members of his own family and thus he ruled most of Germany.  He then married the widow of an Italian king and defeated a rival for the throne.  FTP, who was this German king, crowned by Pope John as Holy Roman Emperor in 961?	Answer:	Otto I12) Though they are frequently mined by gullible tourists in western North Carolina, they are found in commercially significant quantities only in Burma, Thailand, and Sri Lanka.  Synthesized by the Vernueil flame-fusion process since 1902., they derive their color from a minute proportion of chromium ions. FTP, identify these deep red precious gems.	Answer:	 Rubies13) He lost an eye while fighting the Moors in North Africa.  In 1552 he was thrown in jail for injuring a court official in a street fight.  After sailing to India the next year, he was imprisoned again, this time in Macao for alleged embezzlement.  Finally, in 1570 he returned to Lisbon and two years later published his epic poem that focused mainly on Da Gama.  FTP, name this poet who penned Os Lusiadas, the national epic of Portugal.	Answer:	 Luis Vaz de Cam›ens14) A reference to him appears in a spoken word piece on the Moody Blues' Days of Future Passed.  His sisters were Selene, and Eos and there was a famous statue of him on Rhodes.  His son was struck down by Zeus for attempting to drive his fathers chariot.  FTP, who was this Greek counterpart of Aton and god of the Sun?	Answer:	Helios15) He was named Supreme Dictator of his country after he led them to Victory over the Spanish in 1817.  He joined forces with Argentine general Jose de San Martin and defeated the Spaniards at Chacabuco, near Santiago.  FTP, name this Irish-born chief liberator of Chile.	Answer:	Bernardo O'Higgins16) He was famous during his lifetime for his reform of the Islamic Calendar.  About 100 years after his death, collections of poems appeared bearing his name.  FTP, name the Persian astronomer, mathematician, and poet who wrote the Rubaiyat.	Answer:	Omar Khayyam17) The optimal interval for this is approximately 150 milliseconds.  This interval will produce a "pure, irreducible experience of motion," according to Max Wertheimer.  This is, FTP, what occurrence proposed by Wertheimer and Koffka, which describes the apparent movement produced when two stationary lights are flashed in succession?	Answer:	Phi phenomenon18) She starred in Broadway revivals of A Long Day's Journey into Night and The Glass Menagerie among others.  In the 1930s she starred in Mary of Scotland and Victoria Regina.  FTP, identify this winner of two Academy Awards for The Sin of Madelon Claudet and Airport, the woman known as the "first lady of the American Theatre."	Answer:	Helen Hayes19.	Like Schopenhauer, he wrote a work titled Freedom of the Will.  Other well-received works include his Religious Affections.  However, he is best-known for sparking the Great Awakening with perhaps the most-studied sermon in American Literature.  FTP, identify this author of "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."	Answer:	Jonathan Edwards20) He married his cousin Hermione, the daughter of Menelause and Helen of Troy.  Following the order of Apollo he killed his mother and her lover to avenge his father.  FTP, who was this son of Agamemnon, the title character in a trilogy by Aeschylus?	Answer:	Orestes21) Originally a hawk on the Vietnam War during his days as a defense analyst for the Rand Corporation, he switched positions after being assigned to draft an internal review of U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.  After leaving government service, he gave the press details about top secret documents concerning the U.S. role in Indochina from World War II to 1968.  FTP, identify this man, who leaked the Pentagon Papers to The New York Times.	Answer:	 Daniel Ellsburg22) It was discovered in 1804 by British chemist Smithson Tennant.  It occurs naturally in Alaska, Borneo, South Africa, and in meteorites.  FTP, what is this dense, hard metallic element used to tip pen points, with atomic number 76.	Answer:	Osmium23.	In 1981 his grave was opened and medical experts identified the body as his and not that of a Soviet Agent.  He tried to become a Soviet citizen in 1959, but was denied and tried to kill himself.  FTP, who was this New Orleans born man, who the Warren Commission determined, acted alone?	Answer:	Lee Harvey Oswald24.	The U.S. captured it during WWII and held it until 1972.  Naha, its largest city, is the capital of the Ryukyu prefecture of Japan.  FTP, name this island in the North Pacific, the location of strategic U.S. air bases, and birthplace of Mr. Miyagi.	Answer:	Okinawa25	He was born in Beaver Falls, PA and was one of the most successful QBs in the NFL.  He played his final season as a L.A. Ram.  He attended Alabama and was drafted by the AFL's New York Jets in 1965.  FTP, who was this quarterback who guaranteed victory in Super Bowl III?	Answer:	Joe Namath
MOC MASTERS - UTCBonuses by Athens State (Lee Henry only - I get no help on bonuses...)1) Name these parts of the "female anatomy" of a flower, FTP each.a. This is the general term for the female part of a flower, which contains the ovary.       Answer: pistil b. This is the part of the pistil that receives the pollen, located at the tip of the pistil and often hairy or sticky.       Answer: stigmac. This elongated part of the pistil links the stigma to the ovary.       Answer: style2) FTPE, identify the German authors of the following.a) The Magic Mountain			Answer:	Thomas Mannb) The Prince of Homburg			Answer:	Heinrich von Kleistc) Reisebilder				Answer:	Heinrich Heine3) Identify the following characters from Norse mythology, FTPE.a) This God of Poetry and Eloquence had a tongue adorned with runes.	Answer:	Bragib) The wife of Bragi, she is the Goddess of Eternal Youth,	Answer:	 Idunc) This is Odin's son, who at Ragnarok will tear Fenris Wolf apart with is bare hands.	Answer:	Vidar4) ) Identify the following milestone cases of the US Supreme Court  for 10-points each.a)   This 1961 case said that the Fourth Amendment's rules regarding search and seizures applied to state authorities as well as federal government	ANSWER:	  Mapp vs.  Ohiob)   This 1967 case said that laws outlawing interracial marriages had no basis other than racial discrimination and thus violated the Fourteenth Amendment.	ANSWER:	 Loving vs. Virginiac)   This 2002 case said that applying the death penalty to mentally retarded individuals would constitute cruel and unusual punishment, and therefore violates the Eighth Amendment.	ANSWER:	 Atkins vs. Virginia 5) Identify the following "Great" things from astronomy, FTPE.a) Also known as the Northern Coalsack, it is a dark nebula in the local arm of the Milky Way.  It shares its name with a geographical feature of Africa.	Answer:	The Great Riftb) A theoretical concentration of matter, it is believed to be pulling all galaxies towards the center of the universe.	Answer:	Great Attractorc) A two-dimensional cluster of Galaxies located between 200 and 600 million light years away, it also shares its name with a famous landmark.	Answer:	Great Wall6) Martin Luther wrote 95 of them, but he's not the only writer of Theses.  Identify these other Thesis writers FTPE.a) He wrote 122 Counter-Theses which argued against Luther's original 95.	Answer:	Johann Tetzelb) He wrote 67 Theses and spread the Reformation to Switzerland.	Answer:	Ulrich Zwinglic) Perhaps the most prolific writer of Theses, he penned the 900 Theses which were posted in 1486 in Rome to defend math, logic, and the sciences.  He is best known for his defense of humanism in "On the Dignity of Man."	Answer:	Giovanni Pico della Mirandola (be lenient on last name)
7) Identify the authors of these Pulitzer Prize winning works FTPE.a) Empire Falls (2002)					Answer:	Richard Russob) The Executioner's Song	(1980)				Answer:	Norman Mailerc) The Able McLaughlins (1924)				Answer:	Margaret Wilson 8) FTPE, identify the country in which the following dances originated.a) Rumba		Answer:	Cubab) Quadrille		Answer:	Francec) Samba		Answer:	Brazil9) Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix sold nearly two million copies in its first 24-hours of release.  That means that the odds are high that at least one person one your team has read it... let's find out.  Answer the following concerning Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix for 10-points each.a) This bitchy new teacher eventually replaces Professor Dumbledore as Headmaster at Hogwarts.  She gets what coming to her, though, when she is taken away by a herd of pissed-off centaurs.		Answer:	Professor Delores Umbridgeb) As Harry's hormones begin to kick in, he finally gets a date with this Chinese girl who is a year ahead of him at Hogwarts.  		Answer:	Cho Chang (accept either name)c) JK Rowling made it very well-known that a certain major character would be killed in The Order of the Phoenix, and she made good on this promise.  For a final 10 points, what character is killed in a battle with Lord Voldemort's Death Eaters? If you have not yet read the book and don't want to hear this spoiler, I suggest you cover your ears and hum as the answer is given :)!		Answer:	Sirius Black (again, accept either name)10) 30-20-10-5, name the actor from roles.30) He was Slip, the leader of the Nasties, in The NeverEnding Story 3 20) He was Titus Telesco in I Still Know What You Did Last Summer10) He was Barry in High Fidelity.5) He is the lead singer of Tenacious D.		Answer:	Jack Black11) At the 1900 Paris Conference of the International Congress of Mathematicians, a famous German mathematician put forth a list of significant unsolved problems that he believed should be the focus of the 20th century, many of which are still unproven.  Answer the following concerning this list, FTPE.a) What man put forth this list of problems?		Answer:	David Hilbertb) How many problems were on Hilbert's list?		Answer:	23c) In 1970, Matiyasevich answered #10 on Hilbert's list by proving that there is no algorithm for determining whether this type of equation, named after a third-century AD Greek mathematician, is solvable.  Its distinguishing characteristic is that only integer solutions are sought.		Answer:	Diophantine Equation12) Given a famous Opera, identify the composer for 10-points each.a) Dido and Aeneas		Answer:	Henry Purcellb) The Queen of Spades		Answer:	Peter Tchaikovskyc) The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahogany		Answer:	Kurt Weill
13) Identify the following scientists FTPE.a) This French scientist shared the 1903 Nobel Prize in Physics with Marie and Pierre Curie.		Answer:	Antoine Becquerelb) This English inventor improved upon Arkwright's water frame and Hargreave's spinning jenny to produce the first spinning mule.		Answer:	Samuel Cromptonc) He won the 1908 Nobel Prize in medicine for his work in the treatment of syphilis.  He was also a German bacteriologist and a pioneer in chemotherapy.		Answer:	Paul Erlich14) The largest city in the world by population - a distinction that seems to change every time we blink.  However, the 2003 World Almanac (pg. 858) and the Encyclopedia Britannica 2003 Almanac (page 721) both concur as to the ranking of the four largest cities on earth by population.  You will get 30 points if you can get them all in descending order, 20 if you get the largest and miss the order of any of the other 3, or 10 if you name them all, but out of order.  At any rate, in order to get points, you MUST name them all.  Here's one final tip: one is in Asia, two are in Latin America, and one is in the USA.	Answer:		1 - Tokyo       	2 - Mexico City       	3 - Sao Paulo       	4 - New York 15) Identify the authors of the following philosophical works for 10-points each.a) 1846's Concluding Unscientific Postscript		Answer:	Soren Kierkegaardb) 1903's Principia Ethica		Answer:	G.E. Moorec) 1901's Logical Investigations		Answer:	Edmund Husserl16) How much do you know about seismic plates?  Answer the following questions for 10-points each.b) On what plate in Puerto Rico located?  						Answer:	Caribbean c) On what plate is Easter Island located?  						Answer:	Nazca Plated) What relatively small plate is located southeast of the southern tip of South America?  		Answer:	Scotia Plate17) 30-20-10. Identify the Shakespearean play from characters.30) Snout20) Mustardseed10) Bottom		Answer:	A Midsummer Night's Dream18) Identify the following concerning the French Revolution, FTPE.a) This 1789 manifesto served as a "preamble" to the Assembly's 1791 constitution			Answer:	Declaration of the Rights of Manb) This was the number of days in a year according to the Revolutionary calendar.			Answer:	360c) This group of moderates opposed the Jacobins.  Charlotte Corday was a member.			Answer:	Girondists19) Identify the founders of the following religions or religious sects.a) Zoroastrianism		Answer:	Zoroasterb) Jainism		Answer:	Mahavirac) Church of the Foursquare Gospel		Answer:	Aimee Semple McPherson
20) Classify each of the following quantities as irrational, complex, rational, or transcendental, FTPE.a) 6 + 4i					Answer:	Complexb) Pi					Answer:	Transcendental c) 3/5					Answer:	Rational21) Identify the following states when given their highest points for 10-points each.a) Mt.  Hood				Answer:	Oregonb) Charles Mound			Answer:	Illinoisc) Mt. Rogers				Answer:	Virginia22)	FTPE, fill in the blank in the titles of the following paintings of John Singer Sargent.a) The {BLANK} Sisters			Answer:	Wyndhamb) {BLANK} X		Answer:	Madamec) Carnation, Lily, Lily, {BLANK}		Answer:	Rose 23.	The Da Vinci Code is a kick-ass book. Answer the following concerning it and its author for the stated number of points.a) (5) He is the author of The Da Vinci Code.		Answer:	Dan Brownb) (10) The Da Vinci Code is a sequel to what 2000 novel which also kicked ass?		Answer:	Angels and Demonsc) (5) The plot of Angels and Demons deals with an ancient cult's plans to destroy the Vatican using what substance, first theorized by Paul Dirac, and created at CERN research facility in Geneva?		Answer:	Antimatterd) (10) What Harvard Professor of Religious Symbology is the protagonist of both Angels and Demons and The Da Vinci Code?		Answer:	Robert Langdon24.	Identify the alphanumerical military designations for the following US Aircraft for the stated number of points.a) (5) Stealth Bomber		Answer:	B-2b) (10) Panther		Answer:	B-3c) (15) Condor		Answer:	C-3025.	FTPE, stuff about one of history's biggest SOBs.a) In 1938, Hitler's annexation of Austria became known as this.		Answer:	Anschlussb) This was a 1944 plot to assassinate Hitler.		Answer:	July Plotc) This Nazi official instigated the July Plot.		Answer:	Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg