TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH				MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Stephen Webb1. It was expanded in article 2 paragraph 4 of the United Nations charter, which states that "All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state..." Proclaimed to into effect July 24, 1929. it was quickly nullified by the Japanese invasion of Manchuria and the Italian invasion of Ethiopia. Initially signed by eleven nations, FTP name this treaty, named for the US Secretary* of State and the French foreign minister who developed it, which renounced the use of war as an instrument of foreign policy.	Answer:	Kellogg-Briand Pact [before *, accept Pact of Paris but not Treaty of Paris]2. One book by this name is the Bardo Thodol, which differentiates the intermediate states between lives. The more famous work had its name invented by Richard Lepsius, who published a selection of the work in 1842. Partly incorporating two previous texts, the Coffin Texts and Pyramid Texts, it was at first engraved on the sarcophagus, but was later copied into papyrus and buried with the mummy for easy access and portability. For ten points, name this funerary text of ancient Egypt.	Answer:	Book of the Dead or The Book of Coming [or Going] Forth by Day3. The most common form of the process is the Embden-Meyerhof process, although alternative pathways such as the Entner-Doudoroff pathway also exist. The only metabolic pathway common to almost all living organisms, it begins with the phosphorylation of glucose by hexokinase, and concludes with the production of two NADH, two pyruvate, two ATP and some water and hydrogen ions. For ten points, name this process of metabolism, the initial pathway of carbohydrate catabolism, whose name means "sweet dissolving."	Answer:	glycolysis4.  The author defines one part of the title as the habits that favor rational pursuit of profits, and that heroic entrepreneurs could not by themselves establish a new economic order. Citing observations by the likes of Montequieu, Buckle, and Keats, that doctrines of the Reformation produce a desire for worldly activity and advancement, and that the religious change helped liberate the Western world from magic. For ten points, name this collection of essays about the Reformation and profit by Max Weber.	Answer: The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism or Die protestantische Ethik und der 'Geist' des Kapitalismus5. Ernest Vaughan and Georges Clemenceau were editors of L'Aurore when his most famous work was published there on January 13, 1898, and Clemenceau decided to aim that work at then-President Felix Faure. Convicted of libel for that work on February 23, but the work had hit home, and on the 100th anniversary of the work's publication, the Gallican Church issued an apology in La Croix for its anti-semetic editorials at the time of the incident. For ten points, name this French novelist who chose to take on the injustice of the Dreyfus Affair in his essay J'accuse.	Answer:	Emile Zola6. Station X, originally centered here, was moved south to Waddon Hall to divert attention from the location, and Montgomery credited it for his ability to "know what the Jerries are having for breakfast." Established in 1939 when the Government Code and Cypher School moved there, and eventually all the decrypts produced there were dubbed "ULTRA." For ten points, name this now-museum which, during and immediately prior to World War II, served as the site of British military intelligence.	Answer:	Bletchley Park7. While in France she met the Marxian mystic Walter Benjamin, and when the Nazis invaded she fled to the US with the help of the American journalist Varian Fry. Her works with anti-Semitism and authoritarian governments appeared in her work The Origins of Totalitarianism and in her covering of the Eichmann trial for the New Yorker. For ten points, name this German political theorist whose work on the Eichmann trial evolved into her work Eichmann in Jerusalem and also penned the work The Human Condition.	Answer:	Hannah Arendt
8. The rebuffed Tatyana visits the title character's estate, browses through his library, and finds out that he is in fact an artificial man. Years later, they meet again, as Tatyana has become a prominent member of St. Petersburg society and is married to a prince. The title character professes his love for her, but she rebuffs him because of her sense of duty to her husband. For ten points, name this 1831 verse novel of the Byronic hero, written by Aleksandr Pushkin.	Answer:	Eugene Onegin or Yevgeni Onegin9. Vince Vaughn, Tim Robbins, Jack Black and Ben Stiller are all uncredited in this movie for their roles, while Bill Kurtis is the unseen narrator of the film, Bill Lawson. Steve Carrell kills a man on horseback with a randomly acquired trident after discarding the grenade he somehow acquired during the movie's main fight scene, but the main plot is best illustrated by a large erection involving Christina Applegate. For ten points, name this new film cowritten by Will Farrell.	Answer:	Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy 10. He attained a B.Sc. in physics from University College London in 1937, and during World War II worked on magnetic and acoustic mines. Shifting to biology, he made a great deal of contributions to the study of protein synthesis and published the works What Mad Pursuit and Of Molecules and Men. For ten points, name this Nobel prize winner who died on July 28, 2004, and whose greatest work involved building on the X-ray work of Rosalind Franklin along with James Watson.	Answer:	Francis Harry Compton Crick11. Two thousand soldiers led by General Johann de Kalb was sent down to reinforce an army raised from Virginia and North Carolina for this battle, all under the command of Horatio Gates. Gates led this force to oppose the British forces under Cornwallis, who promptly routed the Americans, killing 683 while suffering only 68 casualties himself. For ten points, name this August 16, 1780 battle that took place near the namesake town in South Carolina.	Answer:	Battle of Camden12. The libretto was written by Chester Kallman and W.H. Auden, and the work premiered in Venice in 1951. In it, the central character abandons his love, Anne Trulove, for the joys of London with Nick Shadow, who turns out to be the Devil, and, through a series of misadventures, finds himself in Bedlam. For ten points, name this opera in three acts, based upon a series of Hogarth paintings, and composed by Igor Stravinsky.	Answer:	The Rake's Progress13. They can be arrived at by a change of coordinates and the assumption that every atom in a crystal lattice is sitting in an harmonic oscillator potential. The resulting Hamiltonian produces the normal modes of the crystal lattice, with results similar to those of the quantum harmonic oscillator, namely the quantization of the vibrational modes. For ten points, name these particles, similarly named to the mediators of the electromagnetic force, which are the mediators of vibrations, such as sound, in solids.	Answer:	phonons14. At the age of eleven her school teacher submitted a recording of her singing Tina Charles' "I Love to Love" to Radio One, and when it was played nationally a representative of the Fálkinn record label signed her. Forming the band KUKL, they released such albums as Holidays in Europe and Söngull before she began her solo career anew with 1990's Gling-Gló. For ten points, name this batshit insane Icelandic musician whose other solo works include Live Box and 2004's Medulla.	Answer:	Björk Gu?mundsdóttir15. The central character's daughter is the source of his downfall, despite having inherited his father's successful glove factory "Newark Maid," and marrying a gentile Miss New Jersey. Nicknamed "the Swede" for his blond hair, he is idolized by the narrator of the work, Nathan Zuckerman. For ten points, name this novel about the rise and fall of Seymour Levov, which earned the 1998 Pulitzer Prize for its author, Philip Roth.	Answer:	American Pastoral16. A small spike in this quantity occurs in the middle of the transition elements, but the general trend across a period is increasing from left to right. The Mullikan scale utilizes the average of the ionization potential and the electron affinity, while the Allred-Roschow scale simply uses Coulomb's law, but the most widely used scale is an empirical one developed in 1932 by Linus Pauling. For ten points, name this measure of the attraction an atom has for electrons in covalent bonds.	Answer:	electronegativity17. For a brief time after high school he played with Charlie Parker in Billy Eckstine's band, then went to Julliard, where he failed out and began tracking down his idols, amongst them Parker, Thelonious Monk and Coleman Hawkins. His first quintet included John Coltrane, Sonny Rollins and Charles Mingus, but it was in March of 1959 with a newly formed quintet that he would make history with an album recorded in two sessions. For ten points, name this jazz musician who revolutionized the genre with his Kind Of Blue.	Answer:	Miles Davis18. Prior to the works of Evariste Galois, most of what was known about these mathematical sets were in the form of permutations, with some aspects appearing in the theory of quadratic forms. By definition, a set that contains a binary operation that is associative, contains an identity and inverse, and is closed under the binary operation, is one of these. For ten points, name this object, for which commutative ones are called Abelian and which is a general case of a field.	Answer:	group19. Located six miles southwest of the river Aufidus, it is found in the Apulia region of southeast Italy, and in later times became a municipium, and later a bishopric, until its 1276 destruction. Considerable debate still exists about the location of the most famous event of this site, where Paullus and Varro lost some fifty to sixty thousand Roman soldiers to only six thousand of the Carthaginians. For ten points, name this site of a 216 BC victory for Hannibal in the Second Punic War.	Answer:	Cannae20. His last major publications are found in the To The Ends of the Earth series, which includes Rites of Passage, Close Quarters and Fire Down Below. His second novel tells of the death of the Neanderthals at the hands of the newly evolved Homo sapiens, but he is best remembered for his first novel, published in 1954, in which the rotten pig's head is confronted by Simon, the incarnation of good. For ten points, name this recipient of the 1983 Nobel prize and author of Lord of the Flies.	Answer:	William Gerald Golding21. It is believed that he may have been Ambrosius Aurelianus, who led the Roman forces at the Battle of Mons Badonicus against the Saxons, while another possible identity is Riothamus, a leader of the Germanic tribes active during the reign of Anthemius. Around 830, the time of Mons Badonicus, the Welsh monk Nennius wrote the Historia Britonum, an early reference to this figure, although the most well known portrayal of him comes around 1133. For ten points, name this man of myth, whose potential burial site at Glastonbury Abbey was discovered by monks in 1191.	Answer:	King Arthur22. His experiences in a prison camp during the Nigerian Civil War are recorded in his novel A Man Dead, and he is currently a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador. Detained briefly in 2004 for heading anti-government demonstrations in Lagos, he is responsible for introducing the 1960 Masks and the Orisun Repertory theater companies to his native land. For ten points, name this author of A Dance of the Forests and The Lion and the Jewel, the recipient of the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Akinwande Oluwole Soyinka23.	In October of 1773 a reward of 500 roubles was put out for the death of the leader of this uprising, but at the end of November the promised amount was increased to 28,000, and by 1774 all the forts of the Volga and Ural rivers had fallen into rebel hands, and the Bashkirs had joined them, and the leader took Kazan. Ended when the namesake instigator was defeated by his former commander, Peter Panin, near Tsaritsyn, for ten points, name this revolt under Catherine II led by a man claiming to be Peter III.	Answer:	Pugachev's Revolt or Uprising
BONI - GEORGIA TECH				MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Stephen Webb1. Among his extant poems are a mock threnody on the death of Lesbia's parrot, and the miniature epic on the marriage of Peleus and Thetis. For ten points each(a) name this Roman lyric poet.	Answer:	Gaius Valerius Catullus(b) Catullus' Lesbia was this matron, the sister and alleged lover of the Senator who forced Cicero to retire to Greece when he.declared anybody who executed a Roman without trial an outlaw, 	Answer:	Clodia(c) Returning to Rome from Asia he passed his brother's grave near Troy, which may have prompted him to pen the poem that concludes Frater, ave atque vale. This translates as what in English?	Answer:	Brother, hail and farewell2. Identify the Italian artists who executed these Renaissance works, 5-10-20-30.(a) Disputation on the Blessed Sacrament	Answer:	Raphael or Raffaello Santi(b) Deposition of Christ at the church of the Holy Trinity in Florence	Answer:	Fra Angelico or Giovanni da Fiesole(c) Mary Magdalen, Equestrian Monument of Gattamelata	Answer:	Donatello(d) Tempietto of San Pietro in Montorio, Palazzo Caprini	Answer:	Donato Bramante3. Answer the following about the loving care Mao took of China for ten points each.(a) From 1956 until 1957, Mao graciously allowed the Chinese people greater freedom of expression in this movement, until people got too expressive and Mao promptly cracked down again with a death toll of perhaps 30 million killed.	Answer:	Hundred Flowers Campaign(b) This effort to rapidly industrialize China using its vast supply of cheap labor resulted in somewhere between four and forty million deaths due to famine, perhaps the largest famine in history.	Answer:	Great Leap Forward(c) In 1966, power was removed from the Communist hierarchy and given to the Red Guards in an effort to remove Mao's political enemies. It ended in 1976 with the arrest of the Gang of Four.	Answer:	Cultural Revolution4. Name the following linguists from a description for ten points each.(a) He recognized the significance of the Turin King List, but he is better known for deciphering the Rosetta Stone.	Answer:	Jean-François Champollion(b) His work Course on General Linguistics was published posthumously in 1916, and he was the first to emphasize the structure of language at a given time rather than the historical study of language that was accepted at the time.	Answer:	Ferdinand de Saussure(c) Alice Kober's clue about word endings allowed this British man to decipher Linear B from the clay tablets uncovered by Sir Arthur Evans.	Answer:	Michael Ventris5. Answer the following about electrodynamics for ten points each.(a) Because of the nature of electromagnetic potentials, this kind of transformation of the vector and scalar potentials alters the nature of the potentials without altering the physical electromagnetic fields.	Answer:	gauge transformation(b) In rationalized cgs units, the electric and magnetic fields are measured in the same units, and every time there is the occurrence of the magnetic field B, it is divided by this physical quantity in Maxwell's equations.	Answer:	c or speed of light or equivalent(c) Because of the peculiar nature of the Lorentz force law, this three by three matrix must be introduced as a measure of the momentum flux density of the electromagnetic system.	Answer:	Maxwell stress tensor
6. Identify the following about the founding of the Confederacy in the Civil War for ten points each.(a) This city was the original capital of the Confederacy, from February 4 to May 29 of 1861, when the capital was moved to Richmond, Virginia.	Answer:	Montgomery, Alabama(b) The constitution of the Confederacy specifically allowed the President this ability, which was granted to the US president in 1996 and used once before being declared unconstitutional in 1998.	Answer:	line-item veto(c) This Georgian was the first, and only, Vice-President of the Confederacy.	Answer:	Alexander Stephens7. State capitals from landmarks, ten points each.(a) Evergreen State College	Answer:	Olympia, Washington(b) RCA Dome	Answer:	Indianapolis, Indiana(c) "The T," the first underground metro in North America	Answer:	Boston, Massachusetts8. Identify the following American authors who met each other from clues for ten points each.(a) This founder of the magazine The Pioneer penned the works The Vision of Sir Launfal and The Biglow Papers.	Answer:	James Russell Lowell(b) James Russell Lowell received this fellow writer whose works include A Modern Instance and The Rise of Silas Lapham.	Answer:	William Dean Howells(c) James Russell Lowell got the name for The Atlantic Monthly from this man, who penned The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table to contribute to the magazine.	Answer:	Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.9. Name the different kinds of plastic from a description for ten points each.(a) John Wesley Hyatt developed this material as an improvement upon Alexander Parkes' "synthetic ivory," and it was used as a replacement in billiard balls.	Answer:	celluloid(b) Unlike nylon, it absorbs water, making it more comfortable for clothing.  It was developed by Charles Cross, Edward Bevan and Clayton Beadle, who patented "artificial silk" in 1894.	Answer:	rayon(c) In 1931 German scientist Hermann Staudinger developed one the first successful synthetic rubbers, based on polychloroprene, and is often used in wetsuits or as electrical insulation.	Answer:	neoprene10. Identify the following contributors to the theory of evolution for ten points each.(a) His pre-Darwinian theory of evolution stated that animals acquired traits during their lifetime that they passed down to the next generation.	Answer:	Jean-Baptiste Lamarck(b) This Jesuit present at the uncovering of the Peking Man, and while in China completed his manuscript for The Phenomenon of Man.	Answer:	Pierre Teilhard de Chardin(c) Known as "Darwin's Bulldog," he coined the term agnosticism and defended Darwin's views on evolution despite his disagreement with various ideas included in it, such as gradualism.	Answer:	Thomas Henry Huxley
11. The protagonist of the work discovers runoff from a tannery in a coastal town's baths, and orders them shut down. Hilarity ensues. For ten points each(a) name this work by Henrik Ibsen in which the community turns against the doctor in favor of the prophets of the tourism the baths bring.	Answer:	An Enemy of the People(b) This man is the doctor who is labeled an Enemy of the People at a town hall meeting in the end of the play.	Answer:	Doctor Thomas Stockmann(c) Dr. Stockmann's father or grandfather in law (depending upon translation) is this man, who owns several of the tanneries Stockmann implicates in the water pollution report.	Answer:	Morten Kiil12. Identify the game from the Final Fantasy series from clues for ten points each.(a) The only game in the series to have a true sequel is this most recently released singleplayer twosome.	Answer:	Final Fantasy X(b) The first game with 3D graphics, it is also the best-selling game, and begins when the terrorist group AVALANCHE blows up a Mako reactor.	Answer:	Final Fantasy VII(c) This game was the first to be introduced in the US after the first game in the series, and introduced the Active Time Battle system that became a staple of the series.	Answer:	Final Fantasy IV13. Name the composers of the following works for ten points each.(a) Orfeo ed Euridice and Iphigenie en Aulide	Answer:	Cristoph Willibald Gluck(b) The Three Pinto and Der Freischütz	Answer:	Carl Maria von Weber(c) Armida, Les Denaïdes and Palmira, regina di Persia	Answer:	Antionio Salieri 14. FTPE answer the following about things that will precede Ragnarok.(a) The details of Ragnarok, before, during and after the battle, are outlined in the Younger Edda, written by this man.	Answer:	Snorri Sturluson(b) This winter of all winters, lasting three straight winters with no summer in between, will occur, causing feuding and the end to all morality.	Answer:	Fimbulwinter(c) This wolf will devour the sunl, and his brother Hati will consume the goddess of the moon, Mani.	Answer:	Skoll15. Given a brief description, name the people who attended the Congress of Vienna for ten points each.(a) This man represented Britain until February of 1815, when the Duke of Wellington took his place until he met Napoleon, and was replaced by Lord Clancarty.	Answer:	Robert Stewart, 2nd Marquess of Londonderry, Viscount Castlereagh(b) Managing to survive in a position of power throughout the entirety of the French Revolution and the Age of Napoleon, this French diplomat represented France at the Congress.	Answer:	Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord(c) Austria was represented by this grand statesman of the time, who chaired the event.	Answer:	Prince Klemens von Metternich16. Identify the following characters from The Great Gatsby for ten points each.(a) The narrator, who lives next door to the title character.	Answer:	Nick Carraway (accept either)(b) Nick's cousin, who is married to the rather blockheaded Tom Buchanan, and is the subject of Jay Gatsby's infatuation.	Answer:	Daisy Buchanan(c) Daisy kills this woman, Tom's mistress, while driving Gatsby's car the way women do.	Answer:	Myrtle17. Given a football player, name the team that lost him and the team that picked him up during the offseason for five points for each team.  You must specify which is which. (READER: accept either location or team name)(a) Terrell Owens (who coincidentally went to UTC)	Answer:	from San Francisco 49ers to the Philadelphia Eagles (b) Eddie George	Answer:	from Tennessee Titans to the Dallas Cowboys(c) Antowain Smith	Answer:	from New England Patriots to the Tennessee Titans18. Answer the following about a rarely attained US army rank for ten points each.(a) The rank of five star general, or General of the Army, was created by an act of Congress on December 14, 1944. This man, senior to all other US generals at the time, was appointed to the post, having commanded the US expeditionary force in World War I.	Answer:	John Joseph Pershing(b) On September 20, 1950, this "GI General" was made a five-star general, the last man to achieve this rank.	Answer:	Omar Nelson Bradley(c) Responsible for selecting Eisenhower as Supreme Commander in Europe, he designed Operation Overlord and became Secretary of State in 1947, and was the first in the 1944 appointment of General of the Army to receive his stars.	Answer:	George Catlett Marshall19. Constellations from their alpha star, for ten points each.(a) Sadalmelik	Answer:	Aquarius(b) Alpheratz	Answer:	Andromeda(c) Spica	Answer:	Virgo20. Answer the following about Apcryphal books of the New Testament for ten points each.(a) This set of Gospels give an idea of the desire for miracle literature in the early Church, and tell of many of the miracles performed by Jesus as a child, and include a Gospel of James.	Answer:	Infancy Gospels(b) The name given to a Coptic manuscript discovered at Nag Hammadi in Egypt, this apocryphal book is distinct from the Acts of the same author and Infancy Gospel attributed to the same author. It contains a variety of sayings attributed to Jesus, and was likely expunged due to its emphasis on individual spirituality.	Answer:	Gospel of Thomas(c) Known also as the Gospel of Nicodemus, it purports to be a written report of Jesus' crucifixion and his deliverance of the righteous Old Testament patriarchs with the aid of Saint Dismas.	Answer:	Acts of Pilate 21. It is a satire of Robert Walpole and the court of George II, and tells the story of Peachum, a receiver of stolen goods who receives most of his business from Captain Macheath, who secretly weds his daughter, Polly. For ten points each(a) name this ballad opera of 1728.	Answer:	The Beggar's Opera(b) Who composed The Beggar's Opera?	Answer:	John Gay(c) Macheath is carted off to Newgate Prison, where this woman, the warden's daughter, falls in love with him and helps him escape.	Answer:	Lucy 
22. Identify the following battles involving the rise of Alexander the Great for ten points each.(a) This 334 BC battle was the first military victory of his Persian campaign, occurring in Northwestern Asia Minor near the site of Troy.	Answer:	Battle of the Granicus River(b) Following this battle one year after Granicus River, Alexander took Tyre and Gaza. In the battle, Alexander defeated the main Persian army under Darius III despite being outnumbered nearly 4 to 1, and took Darius' wife, mother and children captive.	Answer:	Battle of Issus(c) The last show of resistance by the Persian army, this 331 BC battle saw Alexander again win in a pitched battle, outnumbered some five to one. After the battle, Darius III was assassinated by his general Bessus while fleeing from Alexander's advancing forces.	Answer:	Battle of Gaugamela23. Identify the following people who wrote some social commentary book from the work for ten points each.(a) Slouching Towards Bethlehem	Answer:	Joan Didion(b) Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Answer:	Robert Bork(c) Skipping Towards Gomorrah	Answer:	Dan Savage or Keenan Hollahan