TOSSUPS - USF						MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA
Questions by Ahmad Ragab with Dan Finley, University of Oklahoma, and Seth Kendall

1.	The playwright of this work would revisit Tudor England in his later piece Vivat! Vivat Regina!, while the tension between signing a document and keeping to one's scruples is also part of the plot of his The Tiger and the Horse. The play itself centers on a crisis in the family of a theologian and lawyer who cannot acquiesce to the divorce his superior desperately wants but about which he keeps silent in spite of imprisonment and abuse, deftly evading thereby accusations of treason until he is betrayed by the lies of a former friend and would-be employee Richard Rich. Perhaps best known as a stage hit which in turn won an academy award for Paul Scofield, for 10 points name this play by Robert Bolt about the trial and condemnation of Thomas More.
Answer:	A Man for All Seasons

2.	While both of the participants of this event had been headed here for some months, the one side which consisted of some 150 soldiers reached here first because the other had had to delay while winning a massive campaign against the Mahdists at Omdurman. Looking to secure an area that would be vital to a potential north-south rail axis that had been in the works, when the other side arrived with a small squadron of ships, open fighting was averted when the occupants were ordered by Foreign Minister Theophile Delclasse agreed to stand down based on the ultimate promise of access to the Nile, taking advantage of the distraction of newspapers with the Dreyfus affair. For 10 points name this event which nearly led to an armed clash between the French under Captain Major Jean-Baptiste Marchand and the British under Lord Kitchener in the namesake region of the Sudan in 1898
Answer:	Fashoda Incident

3.	Winner of a Peabody award in 2006, among the highlights of this documentary are the attention paid to such figures as Dave Van Ronk, Allen Ginsburg, the Clancy Brothers, and Woody Guthrie. Made by a director who had been an admirer of the documentary's subject ever since he had had the opportunity to film him for The Last Waltz, it focuses mostly on the early career of its subject and great footage from his performance at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival. Premiering on PBS as part of the American Masters series in 2005 and deriving its title from the name of a biography of its subject written in 1986 by Robert Shelton which itself derived from one of the songs written by its subject, for 10 points name this documentary directed by Martin Scorsese featuring and about the early days of Bob Dylan.
Answer:	 No Direction Home

4.	Though its namesake formulated the law totally from empirical observations in 1893, it has been shown that it can be derived analytically from a Planck's Law of radiation. By taking the derivative with respect to wavelength and setting it equal to zero in order to find the extrema, it can be reduced to an equation that can be solved using Lambert's Product Log Function. Giving the frequency or wavelength at which the intensity of the radiation of a blackbody is a maximum for a given temperature, for 10 points name this law named after a German Physicist who won the 1911 Nobel Prize for Physics.  
Answer:	Wien's Displacement Law [pronounced "Veen" but accept plausible alternate pronunciations]

5.	Given the nature of his later works and their celebration of action, of which the most famous is immortalised on the 20 cent euro coin, it is perhaps somewhat morbidly ironic that this man was killed when he was thrown from a horse during a cavalry training exercise and trampled in 1916. After a flirtation with a Post-Impressionist style studying under Giacomo Bella this man began to frequent the Famiglia Artistica in Milan and there joined the company Carlo Carra and Luigi Russolo, who alike fell under the influence of the new aesthetic of Filippo Marinetti, and it is from this period that his triptych States of Mind and the paintings Dynamism of a Soccer Player and The City Rises come.  FTP name this turn-of-the-century Italian Futurist painter and sculptor best known for his bronze, Unique Forms of Continuity in Space.
Answer: 	Umberto Boccioni 

6.	First widely explored by William Bruce in 1902, it is thought to be starting point of the break-up of the Gondwana continent some 170 million years ago, its southern part up to Elephant Island is permanent ice, for now, and consists of the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf. Around 2.8 million square-kilometers in area, it is part of the Argentinean claim in the area in which it is located and is named for the British captain of the Jane, who was looking for new seal breeding grounds in the region in 1824 but found no seals. For 10 points name this part of the Southern Ocean of Antarctica as exemplified by the fate of Ernest Shackleton's Endurance which was trapped and crushed by ice there in 1916.
Answer:	Weddell Sea

7.	After service as a lieutenant in the Chaco War this man rose rapidly through the ranks of his nation's armies and became one of the youngest generals in South America, during service as which he perhaps developed the interest in infrastructure that would later lead to his role in the supporting and ultimate construction of the Itaipu bi-national dam. His initial unfriendliness to Communists won him American support, but that soon turned sour after he enthusiastically participated in Operation Condor, and while he particularly favored West Germany he lost their support by his willingness to harbor Nazis like Josef Mengele. Ultimately toppled from power and sent into exile by a coup led by Andres Rodriguez, for 10 points name this son of German emigrès who from 1954 to 1989 ruled as dictator of Paraguay.
Answer: 	Alfredo Stroessner

8.	In spite of the reputation of its author as an apologist for the repressive regime under whom he wrote there is no indication that the novel's protagonist will eventually choose the "correct" side for which he had fought early on after a wartime stint which saw him decorated with the Cross of St. George, a side which he deserted when its men ravage the countryside near his hometown of Tartask. Taking fourteen years to produce, it tells the story of a man whose loyalty is divided between the two Revolutionary factions competing for his country and his similar divided loyalty between his wife Natalya and his mistress Aksinia, both of whom he eventually loses.  It was so powerful that a former countryman of its author claimed plagiarism due to the inexperience of its author, whose later works like The Virgin Soil Upturned and They Fought for theit Country show none of the fire as this work. Telling the story of the Cossack Gregor Melekhov, for 10 points name this novel which played a large role in winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1965 for its author, Mikhail Sholokov.
Answer: 	The Quiet Don (accept And Quiet Flows the Don, but prompt on The Don flows)

9.	In the most striking legend about her she is faithfully served by her vizier Ninshubur, while in another she weighs a choice between the farmer god Enkimdu and the shepherd god she ultimately chooses at the behest of her brother Utu the sun god. In the earlier myth, she feels the urge to visit the realm of her sister and buys passage through the that realm's seven gates by progressively stripping naked, after which she is killed and hung on a stake or hook, and though she is later restored to life by Enki she must find a substitute, who turns out to be her husband. Later notorious for taking human lovers who come to bad ends when she deserts them, for 10 points name this sister of Ereshkegal and wife Dumuzi or Tammus, the Mesopotamian goddess of both war and love.
Answer:	Inanna or Ishtar

10.	Experimental types which include VX950 and BILN 2061, are being used to treat Hepatitis C, while natural ones include the Cysteine, Aspartic and Metallo types, all which utilize hydrolysis in order to prevent unwanted degradation of proteins during isolation and characterization. Other manmade ones include the antiretroviral classes such as Saquinavir, Ritonavir, and Indinavir are used to treat patients with HIV. Fcor 10 points name these molecules which as their name suggests hinders the function of enzymes that break peptide bonds between amino acids of proteins.
Answer:	Protease inhibitors

11.	It took its name because the supporters of a deposed king of one of the constituent lands had, with the help of pirates, captured that land's capital which it would hold until the year after this entity was created, forcing it to be named for smaller coastal port instead. It coalesced around a ruler who had inherited one throne from her father Valdemar IV Atterdag and held as regent another one of two which was theoretically due to her son Olaf from her husband Haakon VI, though by the time she had wrested the other from Albert of Mecklenburg Olaf had died, forcing her to will the combined territory to her sister's grandson Erik of Pomerania. Lasting until the Stockholm Bloodbath resulted in ill-will that completed the secession of one of its three pieces in 1523 and finally ended by the treaty of Kiel in 1814, for 10 points name this association which had briefly united Sweden, Denmark, and Norway under one ruler in 1397.
Answer:	Kalmar Union

12.	Born to a fantastically wealthy Jewish family near Berlin as the son of a wealthy financier, his brother Wilhelm was an astronomer who created the first exact map of the moon and the first globe of the planet Mars, while he himself was given the best musical training under such giants as Muzio Clemente and Antonio Salieri, and soon turned to compositions which such German works as Jephtha's Vow before taking Europe by storm with the Italian Opera The Crusader in Egypt. He soon found the librettist Eugene Scribe with whom he wrote his most famous works, including a huge piece on John of Leyden that briefly started a craze in Paris for roller skating, entitled The Prophet. For 10 points name this composer of Grand Opera most famous for The African Girl, Robert the Devil, and The Huguenots.
Answer: 	Giacomo Meyerbeer

13.	After graduating from the University of Turin he joined the staff at the Brera Observatory in 1860, and it was while working there, which he did for the next forty years until his death in 1910, that he was able to link the appearance of the Perseids with the Swift Tuttle. He then turned is attention to objects within the solar system and discovered an albedo feature he called the Nix Olympia which was later rechristened Olympus Mons when it was found to be the largest mountain in the solar system, which he placed on his detailed map of the planet on which it appears which became a standard in planetary cartography. For 10 points name this man, whose observations of the Martian surface also included the curious network of linear markings which he named the "canals". 
Answer:	Giovanni Schiaparelli

14.	It was the first play by its author to be performed, albeit in Berlin.  Its main character, of a sort, is described as "a man in his late thirties, not poorly dressed, but carelessly... what was once a trim and lightly muscled body has begun to go to fat,  and while he is no longer handsome, it is evident that he once was", and as the play unfolds he relates such episodes from his life as his stay in a boarding house with a bizarre landlady and her repulsive dog, whom he has unsuccessfully tried to poison. All of this is visited quite unwillingly upon a man who only wants to read his book quietly in the park, but as the encounter increasingly gets ugly he is baited to taking a knife which his antagonist gives him, shortly before that antagonist impales himself on it. A play in which nothing really happens until Jerry uses Peter to commit suicide, for 10 points name this play by Edward Albee which draws its name from the menagerie which Jerry has announced he has visited before the action unfolds.
Answer: 	The Zoo Story

15.	In a sense this case involved two issues, one of which was dexterously sidestepped by stating that political corruption was a matter for the polls, not the court, leaving to the Chief Justice the main issue, one of contracts. The result of a collusive suit in which a buyer sued the seller over a piece of property that was about to be taken away by a state government, it was ruled that a contract made in good faith on the part of both buyer and seller under laws that were binding at the time it was made could not be invalidated by later law, even if the law permitting the sale had been effected through foul means, such as the bribery of the state legislature which applied in this case. For 10 points name this 1810 decision in which the Supreme Court upheld the sale of land from the Yazoo Land Fraud scandal in Georgia.
Answer:	Fletcher vs. Peck

16.	Critics of this work point out that its first volume contains a ludicrous description of Athens as a loose, free civilization in counterbalance to the totalitarian Spartans which ignores the crushing fact that it was rife with human slavery and that women did not have any citizenship rights whatsoever, and that this was hardly an Eden ruined by a serpent with his "Spell" about philosopher-kings, which the author calls "monument of human smallness". This "Spell" was in distinct contrast to what the author calls "the simplicity of humanness of Socrates" and easily lends itself to totalitarianism, as do the ideas of the two men described as heralding the "High Tide of Prophecy" in the second volume, and along the way the author expresses his deep distrust of any attempt to engineer or tamper with the natural functions of the community, which are looser and will sort out problems on their own. Taking aim at Plato, Hegel, and Marx, who are ranked with the second of the two parties mentioned in its title, this is for 10 points what work written by Karl Popper?
Answer: 	The Open Society and Its Enemies

17.	Later in this man's career he began to devote his creative energies to gentleman farming and to designing and redesigning of a "Persian" villa in New York begun in 1869 in collaboration with the London-born architect Calvert Vaux called Olana, which now serves as a museum. In 1848 he took a studio in New York City and accepted his first student William James Stillman, with whom he traveled widely through New England and the Mid-Atlantic states and produced such works as The Natural Bridge, while in April 1853, he and his close friend Cyrus Field set up an adventurous trip through South America which led to the creation of such works as Cotopaxi, Morning in the Tropics, and Twilight in the Wilderness. For 10 points name this figure in the Hudson River School, creator of such works as Heart of the Andes.
Answer:	Frederic Edwin Church

18.	Although long known for its toxicity, the responsible agent was not isolated and named until 1888 by Herman Stillmark. Consisting of two large protein chains with masses of almost 30 kiloDaltons each, its "A" chain interferes with protein synthesis by inhibiting ribosomes, such as barley contain the A chain large quantities of these can nevertheless be ingested without danger since they lack its "B" chain, which is what assists in interfacing with the surface components of cells to allow its "A" chain access to do its damage. For 10 points name this toxin whose LD50 is .2 milligrams, which can cause massive organ failure and death, and is derived from the castor bean.
Answer:	Ricin

19.	After an early life which included serving as a pilot of a B-24 Liberator pilot during WWII and teaching history at Dakota Wesleyan he entered politics and was a Representative from 1957 to 1960, when his electoral defeat in his first senatorial campaign allowed him the leisure to direct the Food for Peace program at which he developed his farm-relief programs that won him the Senatorial election in 1962. His opposition to Vietnam, which he sought to end by Senatorial decree, led to sufficient popularity that he was nominated to run for President, but when his running mate was revealed to have pursued electroshock therapy the campaign stalled, and even though Thomas Eagleton was replaced by Sargent Shriver this man lost to the incumbent President. For 10 points name this man crushed by Richard Nixon in the 1972 election.
Answer: 	George S. McGovern

20.	A similar poem likewise inspired by both archaeology and by Diodorus Siculus Book 1 Chapter 47 was published the month after this one by Horace Smith, the last six lines of which explicitly suggesting the pathos of a similar occurrence happening in some time far in the future encountering the ruins of London. This poem, however, is more subtle, and while Smith's suggest time has been unfair to the subject, this one contrasts his pathetic broken obscurity to the arrogance displayed by the "wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command" whose cunning rendition suggests that the sculptor "well those passions read". Ostensibly the brief retelling of a "traveller from an antique land" who observed a "half-sunk" visage near "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone" atop a pedestal on which the namesake "king of kings" bids "look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair", for 10 points name this poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
Answer:	Ozymandius

21.	It was to be by its own standard an exhaustive study of every aspect of life of the people mentioned in its subtitle, and by its completion it ran to two volumes and had included the finding of an army of writers and researchers including Ralph Bunche and Kenneth Clark such that its thoroughness led it to be cited in general terms in Brown vs. Board of Education, the case most central to the message it ultimately advocated. Commissioned in 1938 by the Carnegie Corporation, it came to the conclusion that the disparity between the ideals of the country and the actual realities of a sizeable segment of its population came less from entrenched bigotry and more because local, state, and national authorities and courts refused to enforce the Constitution, and made the optimistic claim that democratic principles would eventually win out over entrenched racism if segregation were ended by government action. For 10 points, name this sociological work subtitled "The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy" a study in race relations authored by the Swedish economist and future Economics Nobel Laureate Gunnar Myrdal.
Answer:	An American Dilemma



BONI - USF							MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA
Questions by Ahmad Ragab with Dan Finley, University of Oklahoma, and Seth Kendall


1.	Answer these questions about a phylum of bacteria, 10 points each.
1. These gram-negative bacteria which have long helically coiled cells and are distinguished by flagella running lengthwise between the cell wall and the cell membrane which are known as axial filaments.
Answer:	Spirochaete (pro. Spiro-kete)
2. One important member of the phylum Spirochete is the Treponema pallidum which causes this sexually transmitted infection, initially treated effectively in 1910 by Salvarsan developed by Paul Ehrlich.
Answer:	Syphilis 
3. William Burgdorf discovered that a member of the Spirochaete phylum which is now named for him was the causative agent of this disease borne by deer ticks.
Answer:	Lyme Disease

2.	Name these similarly-themed works of literature on a 5-10-15 point basis.
1. (5 points) In this frame narrative written by a Lord Chancellor of England, the traveller Raphael Hythloday discusses the ideal society found in this fictional place set in the New World, which derives from the Greek for "no place."
Answer:	Utopia
2. (10 points) In the Utopian novel Herland an ideal civilization is described built entirely by women who have managed to eliminate war, disease, and poverty. On the other hand, all the women are lily-white Aryans, which is less than awesome, and reproduce parthenogenically, perhaps spared thereby of the post-partum depression which this author suffered and describes in her "Yellow Wallpaper".
Answer:	Charlotte Perkins Gilman
3. (15 points) In this dialogue set between a Genoese Sea Captain and the Knight, a theocratic utopia describes a commonwealth, where everything is shared among its citizens, including women and children. It was written by the Dominican Philosopher Thomaso Campanella in 1602, who was imprisoned shortly thereafter for heresy and sedition.
Answer:	The City of the Sun (acc. Civitas Solis or La citta del Sole)

3.	An accomplished portraitist who nevertheless hated the form, he opted only to paint portraits of close friends and relatives in such works Portrait of Diego Martelli as well as the piece he made of his blind, pregnant sister-in-law made while visiting New Orleans. He was also a pioneer of pastel as reflected in his Prima Ballerina. For 10 points each:
1. Name this impressionist painter.
Answer:	Edouard Degas
2. In this 1871 work Degas work, a group of young girls awaits instruction from an old man holding a violin who is almost indistinguishable from the piano he is sitting near. The mirror in the middle seems to reflect other girls not in the scene.
Answer:	The Dance Class 
3. In this work two forlorn characters are sitting in a bar, with the title drink sitting on the table. The man sitting on the woman's left, smoking a pipe, seems to be suffering from a skin condition.
Answer:	L'absinthe 

4.	Identify the following about an episode in early 20th Century Mexican Politics, 10 points each.
1. After a brief lull out of office this man served as Mexico's president from 1884-1910 in what was tantamount to a dictatorship, based on his platform of  "Bread or the Stick." A premature announcement of retirement led to an election scandal that boiled into revolution, during which this man went into exile in France from 1911 until 1915 when he died.
Answer:	Porfirio Diaz
2. That retirement announcement had led this man to run against Diaz, only to lose so badly that fraud was suspected. Following the military successes of such supporters as Pancho Villa, he was elected to succeed the provisional government of Francisco León de la Barra, but in 1913 a revolt broke out in Mexico City that led to this man's ouster and assassination at the hands of a trusted general.
Answer:	Francisco Madero
3. The general who was responsible for the death of Madero was this man, who set up a brief dictatorship which wilted in the face of rebellions led by Villa, Carranza, and Zapata. American occupation of Veracruz forced this man to flee, and he died in American custody. 
Answer:	Victoriano Huerta

5.	The Greeks and Romans did not attach a great deal of importance to these, as there are almost none that are named other than those belonging to Aegeus and Hector.  Their importance in other cultures can be seen by such famous examples as Fragarach, belonging to the Celtic god Nuada, and Kusanagi or "Grasscutter", the instrument of Shinto god Susanowo. For 10 points each:
1. Name these bladed weapons which are also of great importance in Norse and Arthurian legends.
Answer:	swords 
2. The aforementioned sword of Hector figures largely in the legend of Roland where it goes by this name. 
Answer:	Durendal (accept "Durindana")
3. This was the magical sword given to Beowulf by Unferth, though it did not last long in battle with Grendel's mother.
Answer:	Hrunting

6.	Name these Cabinet Members from the various FDR Administrations, 10 points each.
1. Secretary of State from 1933-1944, he served longer than any other individual in that office and received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1945 for his efforts in creating the United Nations.
Answer:	Cordell Hull
2. This man served as FDR's Agriculture and Commerce Secretary before becoming his Vice-President in 1941. In the 1948 election he ran for President under the Progressive Party ticket.
Answer:	Henry A. Wallace
3. Secretary of War under William Howard Taft, this man returned to serve as both FDR's and Truman's Secretary of War from 1941 to 1945. His eponymous doctrine, formulated during his tenure as Secretary of State during the Hoover administration, enunciated non-recognition of territorial changes brought about by force.
Answer:	Henry L. Stimson

7.	Identify the following about some works of Thomas Wolfe, 10 points each.
1. Published posthumously in 1939, this novel introduces us to George Webber, a writer from North Carolina who relocates to New York City, and its title object refers to the tradition, ancestry, and experience which ensnares hero on the one hand and the monolithic strength he tries to claim for himself. The novel describes the hero's messy affair with Esther Jack and his flight to Europe to recover.
Answer:	The Web and the Rock
2. The sequel to The Web and the Rock is this work, in which Webber belies his own statement in the earlier novel and returns to North Carolina.
Answer:	You Can't Go Home Again
3. George Webber bears striking resemblances to this character, the hero of Wolfe's Look Homeward Angel and Of Time and the River.
Answer:	Eugene Gant (accept either name)

8.	Name these Platonic Dialogues, FTPE.
1. Though it is derailed into a lengthy discussion about whether it is better to do wrong than suffer it, this dialogue with a famous sophist had begun in an attempt to define the nature of rhetoric.
Answer:	Gorgias
2. One of the many dialogues that focuses on the notion of virtue, it features a scene where the title character's slave boy is given basic clues in order to elicit a geometrical formula that the boy had never considered before thus suggesting that true knowledge is never really learned but reactivated or recollected.
Answer:	Meno
3. In this rather unique dialogue in terms of its focus, Socrates discusses with the title character, a rhapsode, the nature of poetic inspiration. Plato presents the poet as a rather mad, figure possessed by a muse, and Socrates suggests as he does in the Republic his ambivalence towards the form of poetry.
Answer:	Ion


9.	Name these chemical and industrial processes, 10 points each.
1. This chemical process developed by a German chemist is used to produce nitric acid from ammonia and hence is closely associated with the Haber process.
Answer:	Ostwald Process
2. Titanium is extracted from its ore usually by means of the process named for this Luxembourg-born chemist, which replaced the Hunter process.
Answer:	Kroll Process
3. In this process alumina is dissolved in cryolite and electrolysed to produce pure aluminum. It was discovered independently and contemporaneously by its French- and American-born namesakes.
Answer:	Hall-Héroult Process 

10.	Name these modern Chinese films, FTPE.  English titles, please.
1. This 1994 film, directed and co-written by Ang Lee, tells the story of a retired and widowed master chef living in Tapei and focuses on the importance of romantic relationships and in some way equates them with the basic actions of human life as the title might suggest.
Answer:	Eat Drink Man Woman
2. Initially banned by Chinese censors in 1991, director Zhang Yimou adapted the novel Wives and Concubines by Su Tong, to make this movie, Oscar-nominated for Best Foreign Language Film in 1992. It focuses on the fourth wife taken by a wealthy Chinese warlord and the intense competition for luxurious treatment which is signalled by lifting of the title objects by the master.
Answer:	Raise the Red Lantern
3. Another one of the so-called Fifth Generation Chinese films, this 1993 Palme d'Or winner is named after the play which is performed often within the movie. Tracing the complex relationship between Duan Xiaolou and the effeminate Cheng Dieyi played by the brilliant Leslie Cheung, it covers and comments on over 50 years of Chinese history from the Second Sino-Japanese War to the Cultural Revolution.
Answer:	Farewell, My Concubine 

11.	Answer the following questions about some ethnologists, 10 points each.
1. This American ethnologist observed gorillas for several years in Rwanda and wrote Gorillas in the Mist about her experience before her murder, allegedly by poachers, in 1986.
Answer:	Dian Fossey
2. This British-born ethnologist and primatologist is best known for her 45-year study of chimpanzee life in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania.
Answer:	Dame Jane Goodall
3. Because both Dian Fossey and Jane Goodall received encouragement from this man, both have been given, along with Birute Galdikas, the rather sexist collective name of his "Angels". This anthropologist famous for such discoveries as the "Zinjanthropus" skeleton he made with his wife Mary in the Olduvai Gorge.
Answer:	Louis Leakey [prompt on Leakey - there's a raft of them.  HAR!]

12.	Answer the following questions about European authors with something in common on a 10-5 basis.
1. (10 points) Lesser known works by this author include The Vizier's Elephant and The Damned Yard, though he first became famous due to a collection of prose poems somewhat suitably entitled Ex Ponto. He is more famous for a trilogy which includes The Day of the Consuls and The Woman from Sarajevo.
     ( 5 points) he is perhaps most famous for the middle volume of the trilogy, The Bridge of the Drina. He is the only Nobel Laureate in Literature from Yugoslavia.
Answer:	Ivo Andri?
2. (10 points) Among his more autobiographical works are Under the Holy Mountain, while works considered to be of great importance are his trilogy consisting of Salka valka, Independent People, and Light of the  World. Also famous is his Great Weaver from Kasmir.
     (5 points) Also known for another trilogy, the cycle Iceland's Bell, he is thus far the only Nobel laureate from Iceland.
Answer:	Halldo Kiljan Laxness
3. (10 points) Interestingly, the infallible Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia  has no entry on this man allegedly referred to by Harold Bloom as the best living writer. He caused a stir with his The Gospel According to Jesus Christ, though he is perhaps better known for his allegory about the unique role his country plays in Europe, entitled The Stone Raft.
     ( 5 points) Also known for his work Blindness, he is thus far the only Nobel laureate from Portugal.
Answer: 	 Jose Saramago 

13.	Among his many operas are The Thieving Magpie, Moses in Egypt, Semiramis, and Tancred. For 10 points each: 
1. Name this Italian composer also known for William Tell and its famous overture.
Answer:	Giachino Rossini 
2. This 1817 comic opera by Rossini with libretto by Jacob Feretti features the title character Angelina and her father Don Magnifico, who in this instance replaces the wicked stepmother usually found in the fairy tale from which this opera is based. The two mean stepsisters, Clorinda and Tisbe, are still present.
Answer:	La Cenerentola (accept "Cinderella")
3. Though it premiered in 1816 under the title Almaviva, or the Useless Precaution, this most famous Rossini comic opera is based on a play by Pierre Beaumarchais and centers on Figaro, a character with the title occupation.
Answer:	The Barber of Seville

14.	Identify the following defensive lines from the Second World War for the stated number of points. 
1. (5 points) Named after a French minister of Defense this was a line of fortifications along the borders with Italy, and Germany after WWI. Interestingly, it didn't seem to take into account that soldiers, tanks, and planes can do things like move and go around it, which is exactly what the Germans did.
Answer:	Maginot Line
2. (5 points) Unlike the Maginot line, this chain of fortifications which the Germans called the "Westwall" was meant less to stop an invasion cold than merely to slow it down. Breached ultimately by the campaign of the battle of the Bulge, it was about this line that George S. Patton suggested that "Fixed fortifications are monuments to the stupidity of mankind".
Answer:	Siegfried Line
3. (10 points ) A defensive fortification along the Karelian Isthmus, this line named for a Finnish Field Marshall saw much action during the Winter War with the Soviet Union.
Answer:	Mannerheim Line
4. (10 points) Like the Maginot line, this Greek fortification was meant to keep out the Bulgarians but was not anchored competely on an impenetrable natural barrier, and thus didn't seem to take into account that soldiers, tanks, and planes can do things like move and go around it, which is exactly what the Germans did.
Answer:	Metaxas Line

15.	Name these Hellenistic astronomers for 10 points each.
1. A Hellenized Egyptian, he produced a star calendar based on the appearances and disappearances of stars though he is probably better known as the author of The Almagest.
Answer:	Ptolemy (acc. Claudius Ptolemaeus)
2. Most of what is known about this Nicaean Astronomer comes from Ptolemy's Almagest.  Considered the greatest astronomer of antiquity, he discovered precession, compiled the first star catalogue, was the first to plot earthly distance by latitude and longitude, and developed a reliable method to predict solar eclipses.
Answer:	Hipparchus
3. This Greek Astronomer of the Alexandrian school, known for his writings on conic sections, developed a hypothesis of eccentric orbits known as deferents and epicycles to explain the apparent motion of the planets. He also gave the ellipse, the parabola, and the hyperbola those names.
Answer:	Apollonius of Perga (acc. Apollonius Pergaeus)

16.	Name these battles of the Crimean War, 10 points each.
1. A key battle despite the inconclusive result of the action, this October 1854 battle was the first of two attempts to break the Siege of Sevastapol. The resistance of the 93rd Highlanders under Colin Campbell was the original British "Thin Red Line", but the most famous action of the day was an infamous Charge by the Light Brigade.
Answer:	Balaklava
2. In a weird event in this battle, the 67 year-old British overall commander casually sauntered through a gap in the Russian lines, mounted Telegraph Hill in the center, and brought up a single cannon, which then proceeded to blow up a Russian ammunition wagon and caused the whole line to retreat. This first major land battle of the Crimean War, this September 1854 battle took place near its namesake river and saw a decisive French and British Victory against General Menshikov's troops.
Answer:	Alma
3. Savage personal animosity between Russian generals Menshikov and Dannenburg played a large role in this disaster in which a heavily outnumbered British army was to be driven between the pincers of a frontal assault and a troop buildup in the rear, but instead faulty orders led to a British victory of November 1854 battle.
Answer:	Inkermann

17.	Name these things about the companions of Muhammad, 10 points each.
1. Though not identical to the term Apostle, this term in Islam refers to the companions of the Prophet Muhammad and they in many cases represent the men whose testimony give greatest weight to many Hadith or traditions. 
Answer:	Sahabas (acc. Sahibs, Sahabi or other close equivalents)
2. The Sahabas attended this meeting named after the roofed building in which it was housed on June 8th 632, the day of the prophet's death. During this meeting the next leader of the fledgling religion was determined.
Answer:	Saqifah Bani Saeda
3. This was the man whom they appointed the first Caliph of the Muslims, despite contentious debate which eventually led to the Sunni and Shiite split.
Answer:	Abu Bakr

18.	A one-time diplomat and soldier, he established himself as a literary figure, publishing a spirited rebuttal to Stephen Gosson's School of Abuse with his Defense of Poesie and achieved lasting renown with his book pf poems in praise of the Lady Penelope Devereux before fighting the Dutch and famously perishing at Zutphen. For 10 points each:
1. Name this Elizabethan poet.
Answer:	Sir Philip Sidney
2. Name the cycle of 108 sonnets and 11 songs, one of the most famous works of Sir Philip Sidney, which discusses the literally star-crossed love of the title characters.
Answer:	Astrophel and Stella 
3. Another famous Sidney work is this rambling Romance of Gynecia and Basileus and the courtship of their daughters by two young men in disguise in the namesake area of the Peloponnese.
Answer:	Arcadia

19.	Name these types of particle statistics for 10 points each.
1. This type of particle statistics is used for classical systems when the temperature is high enough and the density low enough to render quantum effects negligible, and is named after a Scottish and an Austrian physicist. 
Answer:	Maxwell-Boltzmann statistics or distribution
2. This determines the distribution of "indistinguishable" bosons over particular energy states in thermal equilibrium, it is also named after two physicists, this time Indian- and German- born ones.
Answer:	Bose-Einstein statistics
3. Introduced in 1926 by its Italian and Swiss-British namesakes, among other things it can find the expected distributions of electrons in metals, as shown by Arnold Sommerfeld in 1927. 
Answer:	Fermi-Dirac statistics

20.	Name these island nations in the Indian Ocean from clues FTPE or from the capital for 5 pts.:
1. (10) This republic is a group of 26 atolls and has a primarily Sunni Muslim country with population of 300,000. It lays 700 miles southwest of Sri Lanka, and the language spoken there is Dhivehi, which is related to Sinhalese.
    (5) Malé 
Answer:	Maldives 
2. Gaining its independence from France in 1975, this country consists primarily four islands located in the northern end of the Mozambique Channel. 
    (5) Moroni
Answer:	Comoros 
3. An archipelago nation of some 115 islands, this republic northeast of Madagascar gained its independence from the United Kingdom in 1976, and its current President is James Michel. 
    (5) Victoria
Answer:	Seychelles

