TOSSUPS - UTC						MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Jacob Vannucci, Dan Finley, University of Oklahoma, and Seth Kendall1.	The last stanza of the poem suggests that the narrator and his interlocutor "at once our time devour", followed by the somewhat suggestive invitation to "tear our pleasures with rough strife / Thorough the iron gates of life" in contrast to their current restrained activities, lest the addressee wake up one morning to discover that "her beauty shall no more be found, / Nor, in thy marble vault, shall sound / My echoing song", at which point she will die alone and " then worms shall try / That long preserv'd virginity, / And your quaint honour turn to dust". He would not ordinarily be impatient, and if it were up to him they could dally "Till the conversion of the Jews", but the approach of "Time's wing'd chariot" effectively precludes too much waiting, and the poet urges his lover to, well, get on with it. For 10 points name this work lamenting that neither speaker nor his woman have "world enough and time", perhaps the most popular by Andrew Marvell.Answer: "To His Coy Mistress"2.	Later in his career this man became interested in the Crab Nebula and was able to prove that light emitted from it was strongly polarized and the result of synchrotron radiation. He first made a major name for himself in 1925 after seeing a paper explaining star streaming by means of the differential rotation of the galaxy around a distant center by Bertil Lindblad, and confirmed it with two formulae describing the local effects of galactic rotation which used two constants that now referred to with his name, and it was through study of stellar movement and its effect on certain celestial phenomena that he achieved his greatest name. For 10 points name this Dutch astronomer who suggested that it was the approach of other stars to our solar system that excited comets to depart from posited a reservoir of debris where they were usually found, a "cloud" which bears his name.Answer:	Jan Oort3.	It was sparked in part because one of the parties involved feared the diminution of a recently defeated power due to that party's involvement in Egypt and out of fear that this party's shipping interests might be damaged by the extension of power of another of the attendants into Constantinople. Another wanted to increase its influence in the Balkans with mixed results, and so as a result Russia was forced to break up the Bulgaria it had helped to create and cede Bosnia and Herzogovina to the Austrians. Convened by Count Gyula Andrassy but actually dominated by Otto von Bismarck, for 10 points name this gathering of 1878 at which the Treaty of San Stefano was largely revised?Answer:	Congress of Berlin4.	In one myth it is believed that the world rests upon his back and that earthquakes are the result of him falling asleep, and in some stories his wife is Rohe, a daughter of the sun god and renowned for her beauty who becomes a goddess of night and the underworld when this god steals her beauty for himself, either by killing her or by switching faces with her. By enraging Mahui-Ike he accidentally burned the world, though he obtained fire for mankind in the process, but his attempt to conquer the power of Hina the goddess of death by crawling through her vagina and emerging through her mouth was unsuccessful when she woke up and she crushed him inside her. Notable for starving his grandmother to death to obtain her jawbone which he used to dredge up New Zealand and for bringing fire to mankind, for 10 points name this Polynesian trickster after whom the second largest island of Hawaii is named.Answer: 	Maui5.	Notable ones include one by Etienne Marcel Falconet of a Russian Czar that was the subject of a famous Pushkin poem, while Emmanuel Frémiet created a famous one of Joan of Arc in Paris of which casts were also made for Philadelphia and, later, New Orleans, which both gave her an irreverent nickname. Two by Clark Mills were among the first in America depicting Andrew Jackson and George Washington, respectively, though other famous Americans such as Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson featuring Traveller and Little Sorel are shown in this way on Monument Avenue, and none exist from the Middle Ages, only returning with a famous one of Donatello depicting the mercenary captain Gattamelata. For 10 points name this type of sculpture of which one of the most famous is that of Marcus Aurelius on the Capitoline, featuring a man and a living means of conveyance?Answer: 	Equestrian Sculpture
6.	The delta of this river is continually growing, as evidenced by the fact that the town of Amposta, its outlet and a seaport in the 4th century, is now quite a ways inland, and its source is a point of contention, as some say it's at Fontibre and others at the Pico de los Tres Mares in the Cantabrian Mountains. As it moves to the southeast, this river forms its namesake Depression and passes through cities like Lograña and Zaragoza in its 565 mile length, making it its country's second-longest river, but first in amount of flow and discharge. For 10 points name this river in Spain and the only one of its major rivers not to flow into the Atlantic, from whose Latin name the name of the entire peninsula is derived.Answer: 	The Ebro7.	A set of fibers called the Schaffer collaterals are given off here by CA3 pyramidal cells to be used in the Papez circuit. Generally said to consist of two sections, the dentate gyrus and the cornu ammonis, it is often the first region of the brain to be damaged by Alzheimer's disease, while damage to it can result in both anterograde and retrograde amnesia, and in addition to memory formation, it seems to play a great part in navigation and spatial memory, such as in a study where cab drivers have a larger one of these than the general public. For 10 points name this oddly-shaped section of the brain, part of the limbic system, that is located in the central lobe and whose name is Greek for "seahorse".Answer:	Hippocampus8.	The second section of this work deals with a man known only as a drummer who is visiting the Weary Gentleman saloon and learns that there will soon most likely be fighting when as the barkeep bolts the doors. Its antagonist is a drunk who routinely terrorizes the town who has arrived spoling for a fight only to discover that his normal adversary isn't there, as he had been in San Antonio with the title figure, and when that enemy finally returns with his new wife, the antagonist is disgusted to learn that his opponent no longer even carries a gun, signalling to him that the old days are over. Featuring the enmity of Scratchy Wilson and marshal Jack Potter, for 10 points name this short story about the arrival of the unnamed woman in the Texas town by Stephen Crane.Answer:	"The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky"9.	Less famous but important events from this war include the campaign to capture Derna, led by former ambassador William Eaton and his second in command Presley O'Bannon, and it was this action which eventually led to a peace negotiated by Tobias Lear.  More attention has usually been directed at such naval operations as those conducted by Edward Preble, which was almost derailed when the ship and crew of Captain William Bainbridge was captured but was put right again when that ship, the Philadelphia, was burned in a night raid by Lieutenant Stephen Decatur. Starting when Yussif Karamanli ordered the removal of the flag in front of the US consulate's office in Algiers and Tunis, for 10 points name this conflict fought between the United States and the Pirate kingdoms of Northern Africa between 1801-1805.Answer:	First Barbary War or Tripolitan War 10.	It is commemorated on August 6th in the Eastern Orthodox Church's calendar as one of the Great Feasts of the liturgical year. Traditionally believed to have taken place after Jesus's sojourn in Caesarea Philippi, it is mentioned in all three Synoptic gospels as well as the books of 2nd Peter and John, who were witnesses to the event and who decided to build three tents for their guests, Moses and Elijah. Describing Jesus's face "shining as the sun" and his garments as "white as snow," For 10 points name this event from the New Testament in which God manifests as a cloud on Mount Tabor to speak and describe Jesus as his son, in whom he was well pleased, causing him to undergo he "change of shape" of the title.Answer: The Transfiguration of Christ (accept "Metamorphosis", since that was the Greek)11.	Among his less commonly remembered studies is this man's "small world experiment" which popularised the phrase "six degrees of separation" even if the data returned showed that the phenomena is far less universal than typically thought. This was while he was at Yale, where he was ultimately denied tenure due to an experiment which had ultimately been inspired by his Harvard days, where he took note of an experiment in which test subjects were asked to view lines of length and report which ones were different to see if the obviously wrong answers given by experimenters posing as subjects would affect the report, the Asch experiment, and its findings led him to see just how far people would go to produce conformity. For 10 points name this man who tested the hypothesis in 1961, when he asked to see to what extent participants would administer fictional lethal shocks in obedience to authority.Answer:	Stanley Milgram
12.	A reference to these events is sometimes found in the alleged suicide of a lawyer and politician in 1948 later found during the Velvet Revolution to have been murdered by Soviet agents. This event did not end happily, nor did an event in 1419 in which Jan Tzizka helped aid the rapid exit of anti-Hussite town councillors from the New Town Hall which ended with them being skewered on spearpoints, though the most famous one ended more happily through the timely intervention of angels and a huge pile of manure in 1618. For 10 points name these events from Czech history which involved people being hurled from windows.Answer:	Defenestration of Prague13.	While discussing the protagonist's love interest, his best friend utters the memorable quote that "All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy. No man does. That's his." That best friend decides to engage in a little "Bunburying" in order to meet Cecily Cardew, the ward of the protagonist, who is himself in turn in love with that his friend's cousin, Gwendolen Fairfax, and a real mess comes about involving Algernon's adoption of a false name, John's consternation that Gwendolyn cannot love him under his own name, and that Gwendolyn's aunt opposes the match in the first place. For 10 points, name this satire, one of the most famous plays by Oscar Wilde.  Answer:	The Importance of Being Earnest14.	An independent discoverer of this law was a Priest who published it in his Discourse on the Nature of Air, in which he also coined the word "barometer", and the law is sometimes known by his name, while the more common namesake strenuously asserted himself to prove that he did not, in fact, discover the principle. It was he, however, who described the law in his New Experiments physico-mechanical in 1662 in which he also described how he and his instrument-maker used a pump which the latter had built to confirm its existence experimentally. Known in France as Mariotte's law, for 10 points name this law usually named for the employer of Robert Hooke which states that pressure and volume are inversely proportional at constant temperature and number of moles?Answer:	Boyle's Law or Mariotte's Law or Boyle-Mariotte Law or Mariotte-Boyle Law15.	It was directed by Gordon Parks Jr. two years after his father had directed a monster hit in the same genre, and it has the additional distinction of being the only film which was ever outgrossed by its soundtrack. Its main actor would later claim dissatisfaction with his role in this film due to typecasting of which his later role in Red Dawn was more the exception than the rule, finding himself trapped playing pimps and drug pushers along the lines of Youngblood Priest, a cocaine dealer trying to make enough money to quit the business. For 10 points name this film starring Ron O'Neal who fights the Mafia and the police to the music of Curtis Mayfield.Answer:	Superfly16.	In the opening chapter of this work, its author derides some modern reformers by referencing Comte's Traite de Politique Positive, noting that it "establishes a despotism of society over the individual", and that this danger, what the author calls "tyranny of the majority," is even greater than the tyranny found in governments in suppression of the title concept. Written to combat the idea that his philosophy was harmful to the individual, the author does qualify that "utility [is] the ultimate appeal on all ethical questions". FTP, name this philosophical work discussing freedom by J. S. Mill.Answer:	On Liberty17.	One of his works was originally a woman arching her head forward to look at herself in the mirror but when he was dissatisfied with how it looked, carved most of the detail out of it, leaving it look like a giant phallus. That work, Princess X, shows his fascination with the distorted human figure, also shown in works like Torso of a Young Girl, which is just a spherical base that grows and plateaus at an angle, and his Sleeping Muse that features only a head on its side shaped like an eggplant. For 10 points, name this artist known for a series of sculptures he described as something that "fills the vault of the sky", a tall, thin and tapered work that tries to convey flight instead of an animal, Bird in Space.Answer:	Constantin Brancusi18.	The specific tyope of glycosidic bonds which connect the monomers of this polysaccahride differentiate it from other, similar substances, and its formation of crystals with a number of hydrogen bonds makes this substance practically insoluble in aqueous solutions. Separated into alpha, beta, and gamma varieties based on the extent to which they will dissolve and precipitate in a 17.5 percent solution of sodium hydroxide at 20 degrees Celsius, they are indigestible to humans though edible to ruminants and termites, but they do have a variety of helpful uses, such as their role in the creation of guncotton, rayon, and paper. For 10 points name this substance, the principal material found in the cell walls of plants.Answer:	Cellulose 
19.	He never got around to writing the History which his friends urged on him, and after a brief disaster with a poem about his consulate he left off that medium, as well. A work of advice on how to construct speeches, the Rhetorica ad Herennium, was once attributed to him but ins now thought to be work of another, possibly one Cornificius, while the manual on running for office, the Commentariolum Petitionis, is now thought to be the work of his brother Quintus, but what are known to be his are such works of philosophy as De Officiis, De Amicitia, and De Oraore, along with the numerous letters to his friend Titus Pomponius Atticus. This is, for 10 points, some of the literary output of what famous Roman, also known for the many texts of speeches given as a lawyer and political orations at which he had no equal?Answer: 	Marcus Tullius Cicero 20.	Prior to this battle, major fighting had taken place twenty miles east at Champions Hill where the attacking army pushed the eventual losers over the Big Black River bridge to the place where they would make their stand. On the first day, May 19th, the XV corps under Sherman performed a frontal assault but were quickly repulsed, and three days later a larger assault was launched but was repulsed by the forces under the command of John C. Pemberton, but after 3,000 casualties, the ultimate winning commander realized that attack would be less useful than envelopment. For 10 points name this site where, after six weeks of starvation without any help able to be rendered from Joseph E. Johnston, the Confederates surrendered on July 4th, 1863 the namesake town that gave the Union control of the Mississippi River.Answer: 	The Battle and Siege of Vicksburg 21.	A recent debate in the magazine North and South between D.H. Rule and Gene Salecker dispute the validity of the deathbed claim of one Robert Louden, who claims to have caused this disaster by sabotage, though the official explanation was given as equipment failure. Due to the circumstance of the event, which occurred just after the conclusion of a peace treaty and the assassination of the country's leader, it did not receive the press it deserved, though the events around it were fairly lurid, as the enormous amount of death caused by it were attributed to the presence of huge numbers of men who had recently survived incarceration at Andersonville who were on their way home when it occurred. Often considered to be the worst maritime disaster in U. S. history, for 10 points name this disaster taking place on the Mississippi just north of Memphis, on which the namesake steamboat exploded and killed most of those aboard.Answer.	Sultana
BONI - UTC						MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Jacob Vannucci, Dan Finley, University of Oklahoma, and Seth Kendall1.	Its name literally means "lots" in its original language and is celebrated on the 14th in the month of Adar. For 10 points each:1. Name this Jewish holiday that tells the story of the defeat of a Persian vizier by Jews during the Babylonian captivity, the second Rabbinical Festival, which often involves a large meal and the drinking of wine.Answer:	Purim2. A ceremonial reading of this book, the last of the twenty-four books of the Tanakh, is often performed during Purim in a ceremony called the Megillah. Answer:	The Book of Esther3. The aforementioned Persian vizier is this man, the villian in the Book of Esther, who plotted to kill all the Jews in Persia but was thwarted by Mordechai and Esther and ended up being hanged along with his ten sons.Answer:	Haman 2.	It carries the dubious subtitle of The Children's Cruside: A Duty-Dance with Death, and it features a character who, after being captured by German soldiers in World War II, becomes "unstuck in time" and is kidnapped by aliens from the planet Tralfamadore. For 10 points each:1. Name this novel, arguably Kurt Vonnegut's most famous, which also notable for discussing the Dresden fire bombingsAnswer:	Slaughterhouse-Five2. Identify the main character of Slaughterhouse Five.Answer:	Billy Pilgrim3. According to the keen analysis of Harold Bloom, George Will, and Larry the Cable Guy, this is a major theme in Slaughterhouse-Five. Since the Tramalfamadore aliens can see into the future they know they do not possess this, and say that out of the 131 inhabited planets they have visited, only Earth believes in it.Answer:	Free will 3.	Its development won the 1924 Nobel Prize in Medicine for Willem Einthoven, who fashioned it from a device of his invention consisting of a long, taut conducting filament passed through a magnetic field, which Einthoven found could illustrate the electrical currents of the heart. For 10 points each:1. Name this device.Answer:	electrocardiogram (accept EKG) 2. Einthoven's electrocardiogram was really a string version of this device, an electromechanical transducer which produces a rotary deflection, through a limited arc, in response to electric current flowing through its coil.Answer: 	galvanometer3. EKGs currently use a monitor to display their results and in the process employ this device, which produces a narrow stream of electrons, guided by means of alternating voltage, that traces patterns on a fluorescent screen. Its invention earned Karl Ferdinand Braun a share in the 1909 Nobel Prize in physicsAnswer:	Cathode Ray Oscilloscope4.	Answer the following about automobile logos, 10 points each; if you need another clue, you'll get 5.1. (10 points) Anyone who's watched Finding Forrester ("You're the man now, dog!") will recall its main character's speech on this company's logo, a stylized, rotating air-screw with blue representing the sky recalling the fact that this company that originally built engines for military planes.     (5 points) Its vehicles include the luxury cars from the 7 series as well as the X 5 SUV.Answer:	BMW or Bayerische Motoren Werke or Bavarian Motor Works2. (10 points) This badge is a revised version of the coat of arms of Stuttgart, which was built on the site of a stud farm, hence the horse; The antlers and red-and-black stripes are part of the arms of the Kingdom of Wurttemberg.     (5 points) Its models have included the 911, 996, Cayenne, and the 550 Spyder.Answer:	Porsche3. (10 points) The company name is the Japanese word for the star cluster Pleiades, as reflected in the six stars of its logo representing the five companies that came together after World War II to merge into this one.      (5 points) Among its vehicles are the Outback, Forester, and Legacy.Answer:	Subaru
5.	It was introduced in a speech in Ann Arbor in which the president would establish several task forces to try and improve the quality of life in America. For 10 points each:1. Name this series of domestic programs led by President Lyndon B. Johnson during the 60's.Answer:	The Great Society2. One of the most pronounced projects of the Great Society was this agenda with a militaristic name, with its focal legislation being the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 and introducing the Upward Bound, Food Stamp, and Head Start programs.Answer:	The War On Poverty3. Johnson's plans were partially based on this, Kennedy's social program that aimed to boost the economy through tax cuts and might have gotten its space-age name from the presidents promise to put a man on the moon.Answer:	The New Frontier6.	Name these composers who told the story of Orpheus, 10 points each. 1. Perhaps the earliest opera that is still performed with regularity is this Italian's pre-Baroque masterpiece simply titled Orfeo. Answer:	Claudio Monteverdi2.  This German composer of the Classical period composed Orfeo ed Euridice, a retelling of the story in three acts contains the famous Che farò senza Euridice? aria in strophic form.Answer:	Christoph Willibald Gluck3. This contemporary minimalist composer composed the opera Orphée to complement Jean Cocteau's film of the same name, like he also did with other Cocteau films. He is also famous for works like Einstein on the Beach.Answer:	Phillip Glass7.	For 10 points each, name these constellations from objects found in them, five points if an additional is needed1. (10 points) Objects in this include such galaxies as M86 and M87, as well as the Sombrero Galaxy.     (5 points) Its brightest star is SpicaAnswer:	Virgo 2. (10 points) It includes Kuiper 90, a red dwarf 26 light years from the sun, and M57, the so-called Ring Nebula.     (5 points) Its brightest star is VegaAnswer:	Lyra3. (10 points) It containts NGC 7000, the North America Nebula, as well as the nearby Pelican Nebula.     ( 5 points) Its brightest star is Deneb.Answer:	Cygnus8.	It was according to legend the only thing that ever made Philip II of Spain smile in public, and Pope Gregory XIII had a medal struck to celebrate the event. Launched in part by the growing popularity of a military officer with king Charles IX, it ended up taking the life of that admiral as well as close to 100,000 others all over France. For 10 points each1. Name this massacre of Huguenots which had begun on August 24, 1572 on the occasion of the wedding of the future king Henri IV.Answer:	St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre 2. Name the instigator of this massacre, the mother of Charles IX.Answer:	Catherine de Medici3. Name the commander so well-liked by Charles, who had earlier survived an assassination attempt but who was killed on the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre.Answer:	Gaspard de Coligny9.	Published in the poet's first collection Harmonium, it exhorts "Let be be finale of seem" in reference to the old woman at whose wake a group of insincere mourners gather, among whom the cry is given "Call the roller of big cigars, / The muscular one, and bid him whip".1. Name this poem in which the banality of life is revealed by the desire for the title confection.Answer: 	"The Emperor of Ice-Cream"2. This American poet wrote "The Emperor of Ice-Cream".Answer: Wallace Stevens3. Alongside the "Emperor of Ice Cream" in Harmonium is this poem which is mostly impenetrable and describing the images presented by the title Avian as he is in a tree, is against the snow, and reflects on a river.Answer:	"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
10.	They claim that they achieve ataraxia, or peace of mind, by suspending all judgments about claims to truth. For 10 points each:1. Name this ancient philosophical school at one point based in the Academy opposed to all dogmatism and in many cases claimed that truth was impossible to ascertain.Answer:	Skepticism2. This man from Elis, originally a Stoic, later in life decided that he could not ascertain which philosophical school was right and is the father of skepticism, with his name eventually becoming synonymous with skepticism.Answer:	Pyrrho3. Stephen Jay Gould, S. Epatha Merkeson, and Seth Green all agree with Jacob Vannucci that the period of modern philosophy from Descartes to Hume to Kant, which widely discusses epistemology and claims to truth, can be attributed to Montaigne's revival of skepticism through his work on the ancient writings of this skeptic, the author of Outlines of Pyrrhonism.Answer:	Sextus Empiricus11.	UTC's theater department recently gave a performance of a musical based on this jaunty little tale, in which the protagonist is at a party thrown by his aunts where he carves the turkey and gives a speech, but he ends up distraught when his wife seems to be depressed at the end. For 10 points each:1. Name this short story by James Joyce in which it comes out that Gretta, the protagonist's wife, was reminded by music she heard at the party of her childhood sweetheart Michael Furey, who had died on his way to see her. The protagonist then behaves like a bastard.Answer:	"The Dead"2. Name the protagonist of "The Dead", who seems to have come to the shocking conclusion at the end that his wife may have loved someone else before him.Answer:	Gabriel Conroy (accept either name)3. "The Dead" is the final piece in this collection of short stories by Joyce which are meant to paint a picture of Irish life, or something.Answer:	Dubliners12.	Identify the political groups from American history, 10 points each.1. Coming from the Algonquin for "big man", this term originally referred to Republicans who supported Grover Cleveland for the presidency in 1880 because they could not support James Blaine, whom they saw as sitting on the wrong side of the patronage issue. Answer:	Mugwumps 2. A pejorative term applied to the men who ordinarily called themselves "Peace Democrats" or "Butternuts", this was the term for northern Democrats who opposed military action prior to and during the Civil War. They later wore medallions of the namesake metal as badges, and their most famous member was Clement Vallindigham. Answer:	Copperheads3.  Led by John C. Calhoun and Henry Clay, this was a group of prominent, young Republicans or Democratic-Republicans who supported war with Britain before and during the War of 1812.Answer:	War Hawks 13.	It is a thin layer of neural photoreceptive cells that lines the internal posterior surface of the eye ball containing rods and cones in a "net", from the Latin term for which its name is derived. For 10 points each:1. Name this part of the eye.Answer:	Retina2. Name of the depression in the retina that contains only cones and whose sensitivity to light provides sharpness of vision.Answer:	Fovea3. The fovea is located near the center of this yellow spot in the retina reponsible for central vision.Answer:	Macula
14.	She is the daughter of king Ithobaal of Tyre who is ultimately slain by Jehu, who has her hurled from a window. For 10 points each:1. Name this queen of Israel who was applying cosmetics just before her murder, hence the term "painted" which usually accompanies her name in its modern use.Answer:	Jezebel2. Name Jezebel's husband, incited by her to seize the fields of Naboth and ultimately dying in battle.Answer:	Ahab 3. Many legends regard Jezebel as the grand aunt of this queen and wife of Sichaeus who aroused the lust of Pygmalion of Tyre, who had Sichaus killed; fleeing, she settled in northern Africa and founded Carthage.Answer:	Dido (accept "Elissa")15.	Identify the following influential works from anthropology for 10 points each.1. One of its primary features was the theory of the life-death-rebirth god, in which category its author included Jesus Taking its name from Book VI of the Aeneid, this work by Sir James Frazer began as a study of the Rex Nemorensis, but developed into a full comparative analysis of myth and religion.. Answer:	The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion 2. Though criticized by some for its "study from a distance" approach which made use of cultural artifacts more than direct observation and interviewing , this work by Ruth Benedict is considered an important source of information about Japan prior to and during World War II. Answer:	The Chrysanthemum and the Sword: Patterns of Japanese Culture 3. By use of such prominent examples as the potlatch, this work by Marcel Mauss discusses the important of reciprocity and of presents of practical or symbolic items as a means of developing social solidarity. Answer:	The Gift or An Essay on the Gift: The Form and Reason for Exchange in Archaic Societies 16.	When he is confronted by the country doctor Astrov in Act IV about the bottle of morphine he stole, presumably to commit suicide with it he gives it back and breaks down, just as he had earlier failed to shoot and kill his former brother-in-law Serabryakov, who plans to sell the estate he had made profitable. For 10 points each:1. Name this title character of a play who competes with Astrov for the unreturned affections of Serabryakov's wife.Answer:	Uncle Vanya (or Ivan Petrovich Voynitsky; accept any one of these names)2. Name the playwright behind Uncle Vanya.Answer:	Anton Chekov3. This is the name of Serabrykov's wife, the love interest of Vanya, a beautiful woman who doesn't love her husband but stays with him out of duty.Answer:	Yelena Andreevna 17.	For 10 points each name the following nations of Oceania from a brief description. 1. Given the name Friendly Islands by James Cook, this nation is the only member of the Commonwealth of Nations with its own monarchy, and it is ruled from Nukú alofa by T?ufá ?hau Tupou IV. It was recently in the news due to the deaths of one of its princes and a princess in San Francisco due to a drunk driver.Answer:	Tonga 2. Formerly known as the New Hebrides, this country was discovered in 1605 by Pedro Fernandez de Quirós and was governed jointly by the British and French until independence in 1980. It has a capital at Port Villa and recently become home to file-sharing companies, WinMX and KaZaA. Answer:	Vanuatu 3. This nation to the southeast of Papua New Guinea gained independence from Great Britain in 1978. Its capital is Honiara, on the island of Guadalcanal.Answer:	Solomon Islands
18.	For 10 points each, identify each of the following proposed elementary particles, all of which have yet to be discovered. 1. This particle, predicted by the Standard Model, is responsible for the mass of all subatomic particles and has a spin of 0 and a parity of 1. Its detection is a major motivation for the construction of the LHC. Answer:	 Higgs Boson 2. This particle, predicted by the Peccei-Quinn theory and necessary for string theory, has a spin of 0 and a parity of -1. Though it would appear nearly undetectable to normal matter, the CAST experiment at CERN is currently looking for it. Answer:	Axion 3. These two bosons, predicted by GUT, are thought to govern phenomena such as proton decay and they appear as supermassive counterparts to the W and Z bosons. All or nothing, name both.Answer:	X and Y Bosons19.	With an estimated 400,000 casualties, it ranks below only the American Civil War in the number of deaths for a war in the Western Hemisphere, especially for the losing side that lost close to three-fifths of its population. For the stated number of points:1. (5 points) Name this war fought in South America in the 1860's in which Paraguay was utterly defeated in such conflicts as the Battle of Jatai.Answer: 	War of the Triple Alliance 2. 5 points for 2, 10 for 3, Name the members of the Triple Alliance that would begin the war with fewer combined troops than Paraguay but would eventually invade and defeat Paraguay.Answer:	Uruguay, Argentina, and Brazil3. (15 points) The turning point of the war is usually considered this naval battle on June 11, 1865 in the Rio de la Plata basin, in which nine steamers on each side met on the Paraña River with Brazil crushing the Paraguayan force.Answer:	Battle of Riachuelo20.	A sheep's head seems to be protruding from the left side of the painting while a large green face seems to be staring back at the sheep. For 10 points each:1. Name this painting which also features a small town at the top with a man carrying a scythe on his shoulder and a woman next to him seemingly hanging upside down.Answer: 	I and the Village2. This Jewish painter born in Belarus created I and the Village as well as such works as Bride with a Fan, The Soldier Drinks, and a stained glass window at the United Nation Building in New York.Answer:	Marc Chagall3. This work by Chagall features a familiar Christian scene but surrounding the title event are depictions of destruction and mayhem, most likely to protest the treatment of Jews by the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany.Answer:	The White Crucifixion 