TOSSUPS - BLIND ROUND #1				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions  mostly by Travis Vitello with a few from Jason Keller and your genial quizmaster, Charlie Steinhice1.	Its name was coined by Ralph Fowler.  Formulated much after its counterparts, it simply states that if systems A and B and systems B and C are each in thermodynamic equilibrium, then A and C will also be in thermodynamic equilibrium.  FTP, what is this law of thermodynamics that more sensibly should have been called the fourth?	Answer:	Zeroth law of thermodynamics2.	After the performance of this man's play, The Robbers, he was arrested and forbidden to publish further works.  However, with Goethe's encouragement, he continued to write, authoring such works as The Maid of Orleans and Wallenstein.  Other works became the inspiration for many composers, as his Nanie was set to music by Brahms and his William Tell was transformed by Rossini.  FTP, name this German writer, whose poem Ode To Joy found its way into Beethoven's Ninth Symphony.	Answer:	Friedrich Schiller3.	His investment in a Standard Oil subsidiary in Venezuela led this Dartmouth grad to a lifelong interest in Latin America.  In 1940, FDR appointed him assistant secretary of state and coordinator of inter-American affairs.  Eisenhower tapped him to chair an advisory committee whose plans led to the establishment of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.  In all three Presidential races in the 1960's, he tried and failed to get the GOP's presidential nomination.  FTP name this liberal Republican  and three-time Governor of New York, appointed by Congress to serve as Gerald Ford's Vice President after Nixon's resignation.	Answer:	Nelson Rockefeller4.	Tonci Huljic's, written in homage to Croatia, is less than four minutes long, while Debussy finished one of these compositions unique for featuring only one alto sax and one piano in 1911.  Goethe's Harzreise in Winter provides the basis for one by Brahms which features an alto.  Vaughan Williams composed a set dedicated to Norfolk, while Dvorak wrote a set of Slavonic ones, and Liszt wrote a set of Hungarian ones.  FTP, give the term for an epic piece of music for a large orchestra, one of which was famously composed "in Blue" by Gershwin.	Answer: 	rhapsody5.	Valencia's Chris Borglum was really impressed when Tiki Barber referenced this psychological concept during an interview after a Giants' Offensive Coordinator was replaced.  Would the change make a difference? Tiki said yes, but that it was just a consequence of this.  FTP, what is this effect which implies that changes in work conditions will increase productivity in workers, like changing the intensity of the lighting or temperature in a workroom?	Answer:	Hawthorne Effect6.	A polysaccharide, it is composed of units of acetylglucosamine that are linked in a beta 1,4 fashion.  Very similar to cellulose, it differs by having one hydroxyl group on each monomer replaced by an acetylamino group.  This configuration allows for increased hydrogen bonding, which can be seen in the material's strength.  Derived from the Greek for "tunic," FTP, what is this main component of an insect's exoskeleton?	Answer:	chitin7.	The subterranean fighting beneath the city was dubbed the Siege of the Moles, as tunneling Turks attempted to detonate mines beneath the Salt and Carinthian Gates.   Under the leadership of Nicholas, Graf von Salm, the defense made many notable attacks against the aggressors, including an October 6th bombing run of the Ottoman camp and a surprise cavalry charge led by Eck von Reischach.  However, this didn't deter Suleiman the Magnificent, who was determined to capture the city despite suffering nearly 25,000 casualties.  FTP, what was this failed 1529 attempt by the Ottomans to capture a key Austrian city?	Answer:	Siege of Vienna [prompt on Vienna; do not accept Battle of Vienna]8.	J.W. Mackail's Select Epigrams from the Greek Anthology had a direct influence on this literary work.  The work takes place in a small Midwestern town, likely based on Lewistwon, Illinois, where its author grew up.  In it, the town's occupants express themselves in eponymous short poems, like Lillian Stewart, Isa Nutter, and Perry Zoll, despite the fact that all of the speakers are dead. FTP, what is this free verse collection beginning with The Hill, the most notable work of Edgar Lee Masters?	Answer:	Spoon River Anthology 
9.	Located to the left of the Propylaea is this temple whose construction spanned 421 to 407 BC.  On its south side is its famous "porch of the maidens" consisting of six Caryatids as supporting columns.  Within the foundations lived the sacred snake of Cecrops, who was fed honey-cakes by the priestesses of Athena Polias.  Sitting upon the site of a salt water lake allegedly formed from the strike of Poseidon's trident, FTP, what is this Athenian temple located on the north side of the Acropolis?	Answer:	Erechtheum 10.	Famous alumni of this university include politician Mel Martinez, fitness guru Richard Simmons, and acclaimed actor Burt Reynolds.  The first appearance of its school colors on football jerseys was in a 14-6 loss to Stetson on October 18, 1947, while more recently the dedication of its stadium's football field saw a 20-13 loss to the University of Florida.  FTP, identify this ACC school whose garnet and gold couldn't defeat the Florida Gators during the 2004 christening of Bobby Bowden Field.	Answer:	Florida State University or FSU (also accept Free Shoes University)11.	During the Thirty Years War, Anna Frieling had established herself as a traveling saleswoman who profited from the tragedies of others.  But by this play's end, it is Anna who may be the most tragic figure, as the war brings about the deaths of Swiss Cheese, Eilif, and her daughter Kattrin, leaving her childless as she pulls her wagon.  FTP, what is this work of Epic Theater, the most famous of Bertolt Brecht?	Answer:	Mother Courage and Her Children12.	It begins its flow at Lake Ladoga and eventually empties into the Gulf of Finland after flowing through the Carelian Isthmus and the city of St. Petersburg.  The Hermitage, the Winter Palace, and the Summer Gardens are all situated along its banks, as was the Swedish fortress Nyen.  Only 46.25 miles in length, FTP, name this historic Russian river where Rasputin was finally drowned.	Answer:	Neva River13.  Benoit Mandelbrot offered a resolution to this by noting that instead of a uniform distribution, things may behave like Cantor dust thus justifying the existence of darkness.  A more conventional resolution is offered by the Big Bang theory, which explains that in a finite amount of time, only the light of a finite number of stars has reached us.  FTP, these are both possible solutions to what paradox which states that in a static infinite universe the sky would be infinitely bright?	Answer:	Olber's paradox14.	When an Indian nicknamed the Turk told this man about Quivira, he should have known it was too good to be true.  Traveling all the way to present day Lindsborg, Kansas, the supposed splendor he was seeking was ultimately nonexistent.  But this wasn't the first failure in seeking limitless fortune, as Friar Marcos de Niza duped him earlier with the rumor of the golden city of Cibola.  FTP, who was this gullible Spanish conquistador whose only real accomplishment was governing New Galicia?	Answer:	Francisco Coronado15.	Ideas from this philosophy influenced such figures as Sandro Botticelli, C.S. Lewis, and Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite.  Followers hold that evil does not exist and that human perfection and happiness are obtainable in this world.  Beginning with the philosopher Plotnius, FTP, what is this school of philosophy dating back to the 3rd century AD and inspired by the teachings of a certain ancient Greek philosopher?	Answer:	Neoplatonism16.	As a trained sculptor, this man entered a contest to design the doors for the Florentine Baptistry but lost to Lorenzo Ghiberti.  Disheartened, he turned his attention towards architecture, and constructed the Hospital of the Innocents, the Church of San Lorenzo, and the Pazzi Chapel, as well as his most famous endeavor completed in 1434.  FTP, who is this Florentine architect responsible for designing the Santa Maria del Fiore's Duomo?	Answer:	Filippo Brunelleschi
17.	In 2001, if you googled this band's name, the first hit would have been for a Hawaiian bait and tackle shop.  Signing with Mojo Records after the release of their debut album, Everything Sucks, other albums include Cheer Up, Turn the Radio Off, and their most recent We're Not Happy 'Til You're Not Happy.  In the film BASEketball, they appeared both on the silverscreen and on the soundtrack, with Beer and a cover of A-ha's Take on Me.  FTP, name this ska punk band fronted by Aaron Barrett, perhaps best known for the singles Sell Out and She Has a Girlfriend Now.	Answer:	Reel Big Fish18.	Training as a research chemist before law school helps explain why this Conservative's first Cabinet portfolio was Secretary of State for Education and Science.  Specialization in tax law helps explain the unpopular 1989 poll tax which led to her resignation.  The unpopularity of her fierce clash with coal miners and her sharp cuts in government spending programs was offset by the praise she won for her determination in the Falklands War.  FTP name this woman, Britain's first and only female Prime Minister.	Answer:	Margaret Thatcher19.	In 1935, this virus was crystallized by Wendell Stanley, under whom Rosalind Franklin worked.  Franklin designed and built a model of the virus for the 1958 World's Fair, nearly 70 years after it was first described by Adolf Mayer.  Different strains of it can affect tomatoes, peppers, and its namesake plant, leaving characteristic discoloration patterns as a sign of infection.  FTP, what is this artistically named virus, the first ever to be discovered?	Answer:	Tobacco mosaic virus (accept TMV)20.	The first image in this film is a statue of a perched eagle.  Much like in the same director's short film, Day of Freedom, images of young men at camps singing, playing, and eating are prevalent.  It begins with a plane ride through the city of Nuremberg and transitions to a meeting where Rudolf Hess is the first speaker.  FTP, identify this 1935 Nazi propaganda film by Leni Riefenstahl.	Answer:	Triumph des Willens (accept Triumph of the Will)21.	Some of its features include the ability to launch UAVs, a 30-foot bow-mounted microphone array, and a unique "wasp waist" useful in the deployment of unmanned underwater vehicles.  Commissioned at Groton on February 19, 2005, it is powered by a General Electric S6W nuclear reactor and is the Navy's largest Seawolf-class submarine. FTP, identify this $3.2 billion ship named after the only submariner to have served as Commander in Chief.	Answer:	USS Jimmy Carter (SSN-23)22.	It always occurs on a new moon day sometime in either October or November.  Celebrated by the Jains to commemorate Mahavira's establishment of dharma, it is also celebrated by Sikhs to commemorate Guru Hargobind Singh's rescue of 52 Hindu princes.  Corresponding with the return of Rama from his exile and Krishna's defeat of Narakasura, it is also an important holiday to Hindus.  FTP, identify this festival of lights that falls on the final day of the Vikram calendar.	Answer:	Diwali or Divali or Deepavali or Dipavali (prompt on Festival of Lights)
BONI - BLIND ROUND #1				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions  mostly by Travis Vitello with...1.	Given the following, state whether you would eat it, wear it, play it, or find it on a list of Star Wars planets, F5PE:(5) hurdy gurdy	Answer:	play it(5) Mustafar	Answer:	find it on a list of Star Wars planets(5) gazpacho	Answer:	eat it(5) pickelhaube 	Answer:	wear it(5) sackbut	Answer:	play it (5) Mon Calamari	Answer:	find it on a list of Star Wars planets2.	Name these generals from the Revolutionary War on a 10-5 basis:a)	10 pts.:	Lost to Cornwallis at Camden	5 pts.:	The victor at Saratoga, the Conway Cabal tried to replace Washington with him.  Washington was, understandably, somewhat displeased and objected when Congress sent him south, but took him back as a subordinate after the buttkicking at Camden properly humbled him.	Answer:	Horatio Gatesb)	10 pts.:	Lost to Cornwallis at Guilford Courthouse	5 pts.:	This Rhode Islander nonetheless did enough damage to Cornwallis' forces at Guilford Courthouse that Cornwallis headed north, while this man and Daniel Morgan did mop-up duty ending with the retaking of Charleston.	Answer:	Nathanael Greenec)	10 pts.:	Lost to Cornwallis at Brandywine	5 pts.:	He also failed in his defense at New York, lost at Germantown, and fought Clinton to a costly draw at Monmouth. OK, so he did win at Trenton and Princeton, and on paper he was the winner at Yorktown, which wasn't really much of a battle.	Answer:	George Washington3.	Identify the following laws of physics, FTPE:(10) It states that the electric force between two charges is proportional to the product of the charge magnitudes over the square of the distance between them.	Answer:	Coulomb's law(10) The magnetic equivalent of Gauss's law, it relates the circulating magnetic field in a closed loop to the electric current passing through the loop.	Answer:	Ampere's law(10) Simply expressed as V = I R, this law is useful in circuit theory for determining the voltage drop across a resistor.	Answer:	Ohm's law4.	In the history of the Academy Awards, few decisions have been as hard as the choice voters faced for Best Actor for 1964.  From the given information, name the five contenders in that classic race F5PE or 30 for all 5 correct: a)  Already with two Oscars for Best Supporting Actor, he got his first Best Actor nomination in '64 for Zorba the Greek.	Answer:	Anthony Quinnb)  His nomination for Dr. Strangelove was unique in that he played three roles in that film - President Merkin Muffley, Group Capt. Lionel Mandrake, and the title character.	Answer:	Peter Sellersc) and d)  These two acclaimed but hard-drinking British actors still share the record for futility among performers - each has 7 nominations but zero Oscars.  In '64 they were both up for Best Actor for Becket, which diluted their support.	Answer:	Richard Burton and Peter O'Toolee)  And the winner is... this other British veteran for his tour de force as Henry Higgins in My Fair Lady.	Answer:	Rex Harrison
5.	Name that metaphysical poet from works, FTPE:(10) The Garden, To His Coy Mistress	Answer:	Andrew Marvell(10) The Flea, Death Be Not Proud	Answer:	John Donne(10) Mary Magdelene, A True Hymn	Answer:	George Herbert6.	Almost every quizbowl question includes non-unique clues, but some are less distinct than others --  "silvery-white metal," "flu-like symptoms," "served with distinction in the Mexican War."  Here's another: "precursor of existentialism."  Given a work, on a 5-10-20-30 basis name the author who is at least sometimes thus identified.a)  Fear and Trembling       Answer:	Soren Kierkegaardb)  Beyond Good and Evil       Answer:	Friedrich Nietzschec)  Ideas for a Pure Phenomenology       Answer:	Edmund Husserld) Notes from the Underground       Answer:	Feodor Dostoyevsky7.	Its basic function is to regulate water and soluble substances in the body by filtration and reabsorption.  FTPE:(10) What is this basic structural and function unit of the kidney?	Answer:	nephron(10) Enclosing the glomerulus is this capsule at the beginning of the nephron.  Its process of ultra-filtration prevents cells, platelets, and large proteins from passing into the nephron.	Answer:	Bowman's capsule(10) This section of the nephron uses a countercurrent mechanism in the medulla to reabsorb water and ions from urine.  Its four parts include the descending limb and the thin ascending limb.	Answer:	loop of Henle8.  By the end of World War II, over 10 million people had died in Nazi concentration camps.  You may have thought the figure was around 6 million, but that was the loss of Jewish lives alone.  FTPE, identify these camps from clues:(10) Located about 30 miles southwest of Krakow, this camp (actually a complex of three camps) saw the experiments of Josef Mengele and the deliberate extermination of more than 1.5 million Jews, Gypsies, Soviet POWs, and others.	Answer:	Auschwitz-Birkenau(10) This camp in Lower Saxony was not primarily an extermination camp, and most sources maintain there was no gas chamber.  Nonetheless, over 50,000 died there, among them Anne Frank and her sister Margot who both died of typhus.	Answer:	Bergen-Belsen(10) Organized in 1933, this camp northwest of Munich was the primary medical research center for the SS.  It included a special "priest block" and housed many Communists and other political dissidents.  The death toll there may have been as low as 30,000, but it remains infamous because it was the first concentration camp and only the second to be liberated.	Answer:	Dachau9.	Identify the following before and after literary titles, from descriptions of what these pseudo-books might be about, FTPE.  For example, if I said, "Name this work, a collaboration of Kundera and Sartre," you'd say, "The Unbearable Lightness of Being and Nothingness."(10) After the loss of Snowden, Yossarian must protect himself from H.A.L. 9000 while on a mission to Saturn in this Joseph Heller and Arthur C. Clarke collaboration.	Answer:	Catch-22001: A Space Odyssey(10) A Cuban fisherman named Santiago gets picked up by the captain of the Ghost where he serves as its cabin boy in this tandem by Ernest Hemingway and Jack London.	Answer:	The Old Man and the Sea-Wolf(10) John Steinbeck and Edwin Abbott teamed up for this tale of two-dimensional paisanos on a quest to find a Sphere during the Great Depression.	Answer:	Tortilla Flatland 
10.	Given a list of paintings, identify the Spanish-speaking artist responsible for them, FTPE:(10) Henry Ford Hospital, What Water Gave Me	Answer:	Frida Kahlo(10) The Surrender of Breda, Pope Innocent X	Answer:	Diego Vel‡zquez(10) The Hallucinogenic Toreador, The Great Masturbator	Answer:	Salvador Dal’11.	Hannibal was a busy guy thwarting those pesky Romans during the Second Punic War.  FTPE, identify the battle in which:(10) Gaius Flaminius and his troops were thoroughly trounced after being driven into the namesake lake.	Answer:	Battle of Lake Trasimene(10) Roman consul Lucius Paullus's men were slaughtered, despite vastly outnumbering the Carthaginian forces.  Hannibal's masterful flanking of the Romans allowed his calvary to sweep in from behind, bringing death to nearly 60,000 Roman soldiers.	Answer:	Battle of Cannae (10) Hannibal met Scipio Africanus.  The Carthaginian general was finally defeated in this victory for the Romans which also ended the Second Punic War.	Answer:	Battle of Zama12.	So the Fantastic Four is out in theaters, but how much do you remember from the original comic book? Identify the following, FTPE:(10) First appearing in issue #48 is this massive Devourer of Planets.  With the help of Uatu and the Silver Surfer, the Fantastic Four eventually defend the Earth from his warpath.	Answer:	Galactus(10) Along with Jack Kirby, this man was responsible for creating the Fantastic Four comic.	Answer:	Stan Lee(10) Though only spoken once in the film, this was the Thing's staple catch phrase whenever a smack-down was about to be given.	Answer:	"It's clobberin' time!"13.	Identify some related stuff from astronomy, FTPE:(10) The brightest star in Ursa Minor, it is the current north pole star.	Answer:	Polaris(10) Polaris is an example of what type of star whose varying luminosity can be used to determine astronomical distances.	Answer:	Cepheid variable(10) Cepheid variables were discovered in 1912 by what female astronomer?	Answer:	Henrietta Leavitt14.	Occurring on a midsummer night in Sweden, it tells the tale of a relationship between an aristocrat and her servant.  FTPE:(10) What is this play by August Strindberg about a woman and her struggles with love and class?	Answer:	Miss Julie(10) This valet is Miss Julie's lover.  A sadist, he decapitates Julie's pet canary and revels in her ultimate fall from grace.	Answer:	Jean(10) The action of Miss Julie takes place entirely in what room of her father's manor?	Answer:	kitchen (accept obvious equivalents)15.	Name that Sumero-Babylonian deity, FTPE:(10) In the Enuma Elish, this god earned supreme power after vanquishing Tiamat.	Answer:	Marduk(10) The father of Marduk, he was the god of sweet waters. He formed a triad with fellow gods Anu and Ellil.	Answer:	Ea(10) This daughter of Anu was the goddess of love and fertility.  In one tale, she is directly responsible for the death of Gilgamesh's buddy Enkidu.	Answer:	Ishtar
16.	It centered on the 1894 treason conviction of a Jewish artillery officer in the French army.  FTPE:(10) What was this infamous political scandal?	Answer:	Dreyfus Affair(10) This writer exposed the affair in his 1898 letter, J'accuse!.	Answer:	Emile Zola(10) This was the French officer discovered to be guilty of the crime of which Alfred Dreyfus had been wrongfully convicted.	Answer:	Ferdinand Esterhazy17.	A suite in five parts, it was written to depict a day at a certain geological landmark.  FTPE:(10) What is this work whose movements include The Painted Desert and Sunrise?	Answer:	Grand Canyon Suite(10) This man composed the Grand Canyon Suite.	Answer:	Ferde Grofe(10) This is perhaps the best known movement of the Grand Canyon Suite.  Its theme recurs in the final movement, Cloudburst.	Answer:	On the Trail18.	Given a list of elements, arrange them in increasing electronegativity, FTPE:(10) Germanium, Francium, Cobalt	Answer:	Francium, Cobalt, Germanium(10) Lead, Mercury, Hafnium	Answer:	Hafnium, Mercury, Lead(10) Nitrogen, Oxygen, Sulfur	Answer:	Sulfur, Nitrogen, Oxygen19.	Identify the following economics terms, FTPE:(10) Usually a result from an adverse supply shock, this is a condition where the price level increases and output decreases.	Answer:	stagflation(10) This is the market situation where a product or service of several sellers is sought by only one buyer.	Answer:	monopsony(10) This is the type of monopoly that exists because for that specific good, the average cost curve is downward-sloping.	Answer:	Natural monopoly20.	How well do you know your Nigerian authors?  FTPE, identify the following writers from works, none of whom are Wole Soyinka:(10) Flowers and Shadows, The Famished Road	Answer:	Ben Okri(10) Sozaboy: A Novel in Rotten English, On a Darkling Plain	Answer:	Ken Saro-Wiwa(10) Anthills of the Savannah, Arrow of God	Answer:	Chinua Achebe21.	Admired by Ralph Waldo Emerson, this 1833 work is professed to be a commentary on the fictional German philosopher Diogenes Teufelsdrockh.  FTPE:(10) What is this work whose title literary translates to "The tailor retailored"?	Answer:	Sartor Resartus(10) This man wrote Sartor Resartus.	Answer:	Thomas Carlyle(10) This aptly named philosophy of Diogenes Teufelsdrockh holds that meaning is to be derived from continually shifting phenomena, like fashion.	Answer:	Philosophy of Clothes