TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY (NON-SETH)			MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Gerald Patton1.	One of the lesser known poems by this man, the subject of Rose Macauley's critical work They Were Defeated, contains only two lines and describes the title appendages as "...white and hairless as an egg." This poem is but one of many themed around the author's infatuation with a woman named Julia.  He also wrote two poems about a strong Spanish white wine: "The Welcome to Sack" and "The Farewell to Sack," as well as His Noble Numbers, religious poems published with his Hesperides.  FTP name this Cavalier poet of "Delight in Disorder," "Corinna's Going a-Maying," and "To the Virgins to Make Much of Time."	Answer:	Robert Herrick2.	This chemist earned his Ph. D. from the University of California, Berkley where he was a member of the faculty from 1933 to 1945. While working with the Manhattan project he helped develop a method of separating uranium isotopes. In 1964 he proved that tritium was produced by cosmic radiation. However, he is most famous for his discovery that carbon-14 can be used for age determination. FTP name this man who won the 1960 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for carbon dating.	Answer:	Willard Frank Libby3.	This event's primary cause was a form of debt-slavery the company practiced to keep from having to pay its employees. This problem of debt facing the workers was increased greatly when the company owner, George, decided to cut wages, but left the rent and prices at the company store the same. A result of this event was the imprisonment of Eugene V. Debs. Ultimately 13 strikers were killed and 57 were wounded when it was broken up by 12,000 troops sent by President Cleveland, under the pretext that the strike was disrupting the delivery of mail. FTP name this strike which began when 3,000 railroad car workers went on strike in Illinois on the 11th of May 1894.	Answer:	The Pullman Strike4.	The Bolivians call the smaller part Huinaymarca and the larger part Chucuito. Its average depth ranges from 140m to 180m and sometimes is as deep as 280m. These depths are easily imaginable considering that 25 rivers empty into this lake and is fed by rainfall and meltwater from glaciers on the sierras that lie adjacent to the Altiplano. With a surface area of aproximatly 8300 square kilometers, FTP name this lake, the world's highest commercially navigable lake and the largest in South America.	Answer:	Lake Titicaca5.	He saw that every culture is materially-based and dependent on tools and skills to support the "life process", while at the same time, every culture appeared to have a stratified structure of status that ran entirely contrary to the imperatives of the "instrumental" aspects of group life. This dichotomy was a variant of the "instrumental theory of value" of John Dewey, with whom this social scientist and economist came into contact with at the University of Chicago. His social theories are somewhat overshadowed by his economic works, however. FTP name this man who wrote "Theory of Business Enterprise" and "Theory of the Leisure Class".	Answer:	Thorstein Bunde Veblen6.	The sixth chapter of this work is titled "Vacuity and Substance' and contains such sound advice as: "To travel a thousand li without becoming fatigued, traverse unoccupied terrain." and "... critically analyze them to know the estimations for gain and loss." Other chapters of this work are titled "Initial Estimations" and "Nine Changes".  The principles found in these chapters and the rest of the book were used to great effect by such leaders as Giap, Yamamoto, and Mao Tse-tung. FTP name this famous book of military strategy by Sun Tzu.	Answer:	(The) Art of War or Sun Tzu's Art of War7.	He is much nicer, more gullible, and more innocent than the vast majority of the other characters. However, many of the things this character does results in him being grounded. Also his parents don't have very much faith in him. This lack of faith shows itself when he finally gets a girlfriend and we find out that his parents had had a bet on whether or not he was gay. This character was also chosen as a replacement for Kenny, but was fired shortly thereafter in favor of Tweek. FTP name this character from South Park sometimes known as Professor Chaos.	Answer:	Leopold "Butters" Stotch
8.	She was born at Bradgate Park, daughter of Francis Brandon and the Marquess of Dorset. She probably would never have come to power if it hadn't been for the faction led by the Duke of Northumberland, who feared the religious intolerance that would be promoted under the reign of a Catholic Monarch. It also helped matters that this Queen of England was married to one of the Duke's sons, Guilford Dudley. Unfortunatly for the Protestants Mary had more popular support than this queen which would result in her immediate removal from office as well as the end of her life. FTP name this English queen who only ruled for nine days before her grandmother Mary Tudor succeded her.	Answer:	Queen Jane or Lady Jane Grey9.	This classical piece has recently been given an electronic treatment by William Orbit, a remix of which by Ferry Corsten sold well in both the United Kingdom and the United States. The piece uses an arch form, employing and then inverting, expanding, and varying a stepwise descending melody. It has been played at the funerals of Princess Grace, Franklin Delano Rosevelt, and John F. Kennedy. Perhaps the composer's most recognizable work, it has been used in films such as The Elephant Man and Platoon. FTP name this work by Samuel Barber, his own arrangement of his String Quartet No.1, Op. 11, a piece of classical music for string orchestra.	Answer:	Adagio for Strings [accept w/ stunned expression an early buzz with Barber's String Quartet #1]10.	These glands are tiny masses of tissue that release a hormone that stimulates and regulates calcium metabolism in the body by increasing calcium reabsorption in the kidneys, and by increasing the uptake of calcium from the digestive system. These glands also stimulate the release of calcium from the bones into the bloodstream. They get there name from the glands they are adjacent to in the neck. FTP name these glands that release the hormone parathormone.	Answer:	Parathyroid Glands11.	These people came from four northern cities Falias, Glorias, Murias and Finias. Upon reaching their new home they burned their boats so they could not return. The exploits of this group of people is described in a 12th century manuscript titled the Book of Invasions. They defeated both the Formorians and the Firbolg to claim dominion over their new island home. However, these invaders were eventually defeated by the Milesians. Despite their defeat they were able to escape underground into the Sidhe mounds with the help of the Dagda. FTP identify this race from Ireland's pre-history whose name means "the people of the mother goddess Danu."	Answer:	Tuatha de Danaan12.	When the main character of this works wife moves out he, ""marveled at how an empty space could be so full of a person." Macon, the main character, spends most of his time coming up with strategies for doing things efficiently. For example he comes up with the idea to wear next day's underwear to bed so he wouldn't have to wash pajamas. One of these ideas results in him meeting Muriel, a replacement for his wife and an amateur dog trainer who works at the local Meow-Bow Animal Hospital. FTP, name this novel by Anne Tyler about an author of a travel guide that gives its name to the title of this work.	Answer:	The Accidental Tourist13.	They were sometimes referred to as "long-haired kings' by their contemporaries. They came into prominence under Childeric I with his victories against the Visigoths, Saxons, and Alamanni. They continued to exert their dominance under Clovis I, son of Childeric I, who united most of Gaul north of the Loire in 486, and adopted Roman Catholicism in 496. They are also known for the use of major-domos and a well-organized feudal system utilizing counts, magnates and knights. Lasting from the fifth to eighth centuries AD, FTP name this Frankish dynasty which owes its name to the leader of the Salian Franks from about 447-457, Merovech.	Answer:	The Merovingians or The Merovingian Dynasty14.	This theory attempted to unite five separate theories under this one heading. It accomplishes this act by knitting together a web of relationships between the theories known as dualities. The reason these dualities exist is because the five seprate theories are all just approximations of an underlying equation that has yet to be discovered. This theory also states that unlike its predecessors the equation will involve 11 dimensions rather than ten. FTP name this theory developed in 1995 by Edward Witten that initiated what is known as the Second Superstring Revolution.	Answer:	M-theory
15.	He was the model for Dr. Pangloss in Candide because of his optimism. This philosopher believed in a preestablished harmony between matter and spirit. He also maintained that the divine order of the universe is reflected in each of its parts in his work Monadologie. However, most of his works on philisophy were only published after his death. He is perhaps more famous for his work in mathamatics. FTP name this German philosopher-mathmatician who developed a system of integral and differential calculus independent of Newton. 	Answer:	Baron Gottfried Wihelm von Leibnitz16.	English art critic John Ruskin held this artist up as an example of an artist who presented nature as an expression of a divinely created world. An early painter of the Italian Renaissance his works are known for their refined elagance, spirituality, and serene compositions. A student of the Florentine painter Fra Filippo Lippi, FTP name this 'master of the line" whose best known paintings are The Magnificant and The Birth of Venus.	Answer:	Sandro Botticelli17.	In the mid-1890's this author joined with other prominent artists, including Emile Zola, to form a group known as the Dreyfusards. This French novelist is also known for introducing such elements to fiction as multiple themes, innovative treatment of time, and elements of pyschological analysis. In his most well known work he also showed that he was a creative stylist as well as a crude social observer. FTP name this author of A la recherhce du temps purdu, published in English  as Remembrance of Things Past. 	Answer:	Marcel Proust18.	In a letter written to Secretary of War William Marcy this American military figure stated "at about 6 PM as I sat down to take a hasty plate of soup," a statement that would haunt him the rest of his life in political cartoons. This American figure began his military career in the war of 1812 where he was captured during the Battle of Queenston Heights in 1813. He then later led the the Army's First Brigade in the Niagara campaign. Later, he earned the nickname Grand Old Man of the Army because of his use of only core army regulars in his campaigns. FTP name this U.S. General who commanded the U.S. Army's southern forces in the Mexican-American War and devised the Anaconda Plan for use in the Civil War.	Answer:	General Winfield Scott19. The end result of this process yeilds NADH and flavin adenine dinucleotide, and a small amount of ATP.  This process uses pyruvic acid molecules that are altered to become acetyl-coenzyme A, which is then 	combined with a four carbon molecule called oxaloacetic acid. The end result of which is a six-carbon acid which then undergoes a series of enzyme-catalyzed conversions. FTP name this multistep process 	following glycolisis in the process of cellular respiration.	Answer:	Kreb's Cycle or Citric Acid Cycle or Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle20.	The vast majority of problems with computers in the year 2000 were a result of this programing language. In contrast to languages such a C and Pearl this language is extremely wordy. It's use of an English-like syntax also made it popular. However, its record processing and database access allowed it to become not only popular, but succesful in the financial sector. FTP name this second-oldest high-level programing language developed in 1959 by CODASYL under the direction of Rear Admiral Grace Hopper.	Answer:	COBOL (Common Business Oriented Language)21.	In his acceptance speech for the Nobel Prize in literature he stated that the fundamental theme of his ficition was "the human heart in conflict with itself." He explored this theme by employing a wide variety of narrative techniques, including an intersting way of expressing the thought process of his characters. A veteran of the Canadian Air Force he is most remebered for his exploration of the alienatioin and loneliness of the 20th century man. Known for works such as: Sartoris, Go Down Moses, Requiem for a Nun, and A Fable; for which he won a Pulitzer Prize in literature. FTP name this southern author, creator of Yoknapatawpha County.	Answer:	William Faulkner22.	As a fertility god he was often depicted with a large sexual organ. His cult included songs and actions that shocked christians, who condemned them as indecent. This god had his home in Alfheim a name meaning "elf-home". Dvalin, the dwarf built his ship Skidblanir, which could fold together and fit in his pocket. Also he obtained his love Gerda with the help of his right hand man Skirnir. FTP name this god of the Vanir race whose sister was Freya.	Answer:	Frey
23.	The fourth member of the Holy League, Russia, made its own successful treaty in 1700, independent of the treaty made by the other members of the League. This treaty signaled the rise of Austria and the decline of the Ottomans. Its terms included the Turkish cession of Hungary, Croatia, and Slavonia to Austria, Podolia to Poland, and the Peloponnesus and most of Dalmatia to Venice. Signed near Belgrade by three of the four members of the Holy League, FTP what was this treaty signed on January 26, 1699, ending the 1683- 1689 Turkish War?	Answer:	Carlowitz, Treaty of24.	This era came to an end when our universe reached the age of approximentaly one millisecond. Also because the tempeture of the universe had fallen to 10^12 Kelvin it was no longer possible to spontaneouly produce protons and antiprotons. Another result of this tempeture drop was the inabilty of quarks to exist on their own causing them to combine to form protons and neutrons. FTP name this era named because the tiny units of matter were as numerous as photons.	Answer:	Particle Era25.	This poem is written in 156 lines in alliterative verse. The full version of this work wasn't discovered until 1822. However a fragment of this work exists inscribed on a stone cross from the 9th century in Scotland. The title object tells the narrator of it's story in lines such as; "Then I saw the lord of mankind hurrying with great eagerness, wishing to mount me." and, "I could have felled all the enemies - yet I stood fast." FTP name this religious poem written in old English about a dream the narrator has of the True Cross.	Answer:	The Dream of the Rood
BONI - KENTUCKY (NON-SETH)			MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Gerald Patton1.	Answer the following bonus about the Impeachment of Andrew Johnson. FTP eachWhat act passed by congress did Johnson violate causing him to be impeached?	Answer:	The Tenure of Office ActWhich of his cabinet member did Johnson dismiss in violation of the Tenure of Office Act?	Answer:	Edwin StantonFinally, what position did Edwin Stanton hold when he was dismissed?	Answer:	Secretary of War2.	Name the following elements from their atomic masses FTP each.72.59	Answer:	Germanium4.003	Answer:	Helium12.001	Answer:	Carbon3.	Identify these minor Shaekspearen plays from characters FTP each.Lucius, Sempronius, Alcibiadies, and Ventidus	Answer:	Timon of AthensSaturninus, Tamora, Aaron, and Bassianus	Answer:	Titus AndronicusTitus Lartius, Menenius Agrippa, and Caius Marcius	Answer:	Coriolanus4.	Name these following architects FTP each.He designed the Fagus Factory and the Pan American Building but is better known for founding the Bauhaus.	Answer:	Walter GropiusHe is known for redesigning St. Paul's Cathedral after the London fire in 1666.	Answer:	Sir Christopher WrenThis architect is mainly known for the extraordinary octagonally-based dome of the Santa Maria del Fiore (also known as the Florence Cathedral), which dominates the Florentine skyline. 	Answer:	Filippo Brunelleschi	5.	Name the following countries from capitals FTP each.Riga	Answer:	LatviaTallinn	Answer:	EstoniaBishkek	Answer:	Kyrgyzstan6.	Name these parts of a cell from descriptions FTP each.The primary function of this organelle is to process ribosomal proteins and sort them within vesicles	Answer:	Golgi Apparatus or Golgi Complex or DictyosomeBuilt in the Golgi Apparatus they contain digestive enzymes to digest macromolecules	Answer:	LysosomeThis organelle is not formed in the Golgi Apparatus. Its main job is to detoxify the cell by splitting hydrogen peroxide	Answer:	Peroxisome
7. 	Name these bands your question writer is currently listening to from an album and songs from that album FTPE.The album is titled Contraband and some songs are Slither, Fall to Pieces, and Super Human	Answer:	Velvet RevolverThe album is titled Thirteenth Step and some songs are Weak and Powerless, The Nurse who Loved Me, The Outsider	Answer:	A Perfect CircleC. The album is titled Sailing the Seas of Cheese and some songs are Los Bastardos, Sgt. Baker, and Jerry was a Race Car Driver	Answer:	Primus8.	Name the following British Monarchs from the years of their reign and the monarch they succededHe ruled from a 1100 to 1135 and replaced William II	Answer:	Henry IHe ruled from 1830 to 1837 and replaced George IV	Answer:	William IVHe ruled from 1483 to 1485 and replaced Edward V	Answer:	Richard III9.	Name the following Pulitzer Prize winners in fiction from the year they won and the work FTP each.2004, The Known World	Answer:	Edward P. Jones1954, The Town	Answer:	Conrad Richter1943, Dragon's Teeth	Answer:	Upton Sinclair10.	Identify the following economics terms that begin with the letter W FTP each.Organization committed to getting countries to agree not to impose new tariff's or other trade restrictions except under certain limited conditions	Answer:	World Trade Organization or WTOA geometric representation of the Welfare cost in terms of misallocated resources that are caused by a donation from a supply/demand equilibrium.	Answer:	Welfare Loss TriangleThe value of the things individuals own less the value of what they owe	Answer:	Wealth11.	Give the number for Kepler's laws from descriptions FTP each.The square of the sidereal period of an orbiting planet is directly proportional to the cube of the orbit's semimajor axis.	Answer:	3rdThe orbit of a planet about a star is an ellipse with the star at one focus.	Answer:	1stA line joining a planet and its star sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time.	Answer:	2nd12.	FTPE identify these cooks or chefs from the Food Network that this question's writer and his roommate both despise.The one this writer most despises, this Chef hosts the show Boy Meets Girl and even arranged an American version of Iron Chef, which this writer thinks was rigged.	Answer:	Bobby FlayThe host of $40 Dollars a Day and 30-Minute Meals, this female cook smiles too much and makes too many "yum that's good" noises for this writer's taste.	Answer:	Rachel RayThe most hated of all chefs, in my roommate's opinion. He is known for such catchphrases as "I don't know where you got your water, but where mine comes from it don't come seasoned" and yells "BAM" whenever he dashes on some of his namesake essence.	Answer:	Emeril Lagasse [accept Lagasse]
13.  Identify the following music terms that begin with the letter T FTP each.A short musical passage that states an idea. It often provides the basis for variations.	Answer:	ThemeThe quality of a musical tone that distinguishes voices and instruments.	Answer:	TimbreThis term simply means all or whole	Answer:	Tutto or Tutta; accept tutti14.	Name these following works by Thomas Hardy FTP each.This novel concerns Bathsheba Everdene and her three suitors, Gabriel Oak, Sergeant Troy, and William Boldwood.	Answer:	Far From the Madding CrowdIt tells of the Paris jeweler Clym Yeobright, who settles in Egdon Heath and marries Eustacia Vye	Answer:	The Return of the NativeMichael Henchard becomes very drunk and sells his wife and baby for five guineas to the sailor Newson. Later, his wife returns when he becomes a prosperous mayor.	Answer:	The Mayor of Casterbridge15.	Name the treaty that ended the following wars FTP each.The Russo- Japanese War	Answer:	The Treaty of PortsmouthThirty Years War	Answer:	Treaty of WestphaliaFranko-Prussian War	Answer:	Treaty of Frankfurt16.	Name the following dinosaurs from descriptions FTP each.A Theropod during the late Cretacous found in Argentina, in 1995 it replaced Tyrannosaurus rex as the largest known carnivorous dinosaur.	Answer:	Giganotosaurus [accept Gigantosaurus, which many popular sources incorrectly use]Small bird-like dinosaur that lived in modern day Eastern Europe during the late Jurassic. It is the first dinosaur to be discovered with fossilized feathers and its name means "ancient wing".	Answer:	ArchaeopteryxOne of the most primative of all known dinosaurs. This very primitive ancestor of the later theropods, lived during the late Triassic and was about half the size of its only known contemporary, Herrerasauros.	Answer:	Eoraptor17.	Name these generals from American history FTP each.This Union General was very good at organizing, but always seemed reluctant to use his forces.	After the battle of Bull Run, Lincoln appointed him in command of the Army of the Potmac.	Answer:	George McClellanA firm believer in reincarnation, there is much anecdotal evidence that showed he thought he was  Hannibal, a Roman Legionnaire, and a Napoleonic Field Marshall.  In WW2 he commanded the 1st US Armored Corps in campains in Africa, Italy, and Central Europe.	Answer:	General George Smith Patton, JrThis general attended the same high school as Laura Bush, in Midland. He is most remembered for leading operation Desert Storm.	Answer:	Tommy Franks18.	Identify the following Egyptian deities FTP each.Son of Ra, he held up the sky and was represented with an ostrich feather on his head	Answer:	ShuHe was the god of learning, a benefactor to gods and men. He was the sacred scribe and was shown as a man with an ibis head.	Answer:	ThothThe scarab beetle god, he rolled the sun before him through the sky and symbolized the ideas of rebirth and eternal life.	Answer:	Khepri
19.	Identify the following authors, from works, who were a part of the Harlem Renaissance FTP eachMules and Men, Tell My Horse, and Their Eyes Were Watching God	Answer:	Zora Neale Hurston"Yet Do I Marvel" and "Incident"	Answer:	Countee Cullen"Motto", "Cross", and "A Montage of a Dream Deferred"	Answer:	Langston Hughes20.	For five points each and a five point bonus for naming all five, name the group of Russian composers known collectively as the Five.	Answers:     Modest Mussorgsky, Mily Balakirev , Alexander Borodin, Cesar Cui, Nikolay Rimsky-Korsakov.21.	Name the following Chinese Dynasties from descriptions FTP each.A. They followed the legendary Xia Dynasty and it was this dynasty that the oracle bones are from	Answer:	Shang Dynasty or Yin DynastyB. This dynasty lasted from 618 to 907 AD.  During this dynasty Nestorian Monks arrived with Christianity, and the An Lushan rebellion took place.	Answer:	Tang DynastyC. The construction of the forbidden city began under this dynasty that lasted from 1368-1644AD.	Answer:	Ming Dynasty22.	Name the following Cavalier Poets from poems FTP each."A Divine Mistress", "To Penhurst", and "An Elegy upon the Death of the Dean of St. Paul's, Dr. John Donne"	Answer:	Thomas Carew"Why so pale and wan, fond lover?", "Tis now, since I sate down before" and "A Soldier"	Answer:	Sir John Suckling"To Althea, from Prison", "Winter", "The Grasshopper" and "Lucasta Laughing"	Answer:	Richard Lovelace23.	Name the following Nobel Prize Winners in Physics FTP eachHe won in 1992 for his invention and development of particle detectors, in particular the multiwire proportional chamber.	Answer:	Georges CharpakHe won in 1938 for his demonstrations of the existence of new radioactive elements produced by neutron irradiation, and for his related discovery of nuclear reactions brought about by slow neutrons.	Answer:	Enrico FermiHe won in 1968 for his decisive contributions to elementary particle physics, in particular the discovery of a large number of resonance states, made possible through his development of the technique of using hydrogen bubble chamber and data analysis.	Answer:	Luis W. Alvarez