TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT 					MOC MASTERS 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Adam Brosius, late of FL Atlantic, with Amanda Hartman, Ray Luo, Jerry Vinokurov, & Paul Lujan1.	Friends with Ralph Waldo Emerson, he married Jane Welsh, a direct descendant of John Knox, and in 1843, he unsuccessfully applied for a professorship of astronomy at Edinburgh.  He wrote Shooting Niagara in response to the Reform Act, and backed Prussia during the War of 1870-71.  In 1874, he was awarded the high Prussian Order; however, he refused the Grand Cross of the Order of Bath from Disraeli.  FTP, name this author known for such works as The Life of Schiller and Sartor Resartus. 	Answer:	Thomas Carlyle2.	She made her recording debut on Different Strokes, an album produced by her brother.  In 1993, she became the youngest member inducted into the Grand Ole Opry.  A child prodigy, she was playing the violin at 5 and won the Illinois State Fiddle Championship at 12.  Grammy nominated for Two Highways in 1989, she won the award in 1990 for I've Got That Old Feeling.  FTP, name this bluegrass musician who performs along with her band, The Union Station.	Answer:	Alison Krauss3.	Historians such as D.C. Munro doubt it actually occurred, citing its omission from contemporary accounts and noting that most sources on it postdated it by fifty years.  Peter Raedts suggests there was a small one started in Germany that later accounts blended with more reliable accounts of gangs of landless young men roaming France.  The irreverent journal History House says the precursor of today's "Are we there yet?" was the reported cries when they reached Marseilles of "Is this the Holy Land?"  We aren't even sure Stephen of Cloyes, its alleged instigator, even lived.  FTP name this movement allegedly started in France in 1212, which some say ended with most of its 30,000 members sold into slavery.	Answer: 	the Children's Crusade4.	It results from the differing electronegativities of atoms in polar covalent bonds, which polarize the distributions of electron density in the bonds.  Often depicted by an arrow with a cross at its tail, pointing from the delta plus to the delta minus end, it represents the separation of opposite charges in a molecule.  FTP give the term describing the net polarity of a molecule.	Answer: 	dipole moment5.	The French first established a foothold there in 1862 and organized it as a full-fledged colony in 1896.  It gained territorial status in 1946 and was renamed The French Territory of the Afars and Issas in 1961.  The country became independent in 1977 under the rule of the Issas.  Tensions between the two factions reached a head in 1991 when a decade long Afar lead revolt occurred.  Currently led by Ismail Omar Guelleh, this is, FTP, what country, located between the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, bordered by Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia?	Answer:	Djibouti6.	This commander organized the first use of tanks, artillery, aircraft, and men in an integrated offensive for his encirclement of the Japanese Kwantung Army in August 1939 at the battle of the River Halha. Appointed the head of his nation's German sector after the end of the war, he was removed from central planning and given the task of capturing Berlin in November 1944 after he and Vasilevsky succeeded in defeating the Germans at Kursk. FTP name this Soviet tank commander, the first Red Army marshal. 	Answer:	Georgi Zhukov 7.	He organized an exhibition of German expressionists in 1922 in his homeland, but all of his works given to the National Gallery in Berlin were destroyed in the Nazis' purge of degenerate art. Before he took up painting at the age of 70, he managed his family estates while living on a houseboat in close contact with the village laborers. His The Gardener, Lyrics of Love and Life show the power of youthful emotions while S‰dhan‰: The Realisation of Life is a more contemplative look at the nature of faith. Awarded the 1913 Nobel Prize, FTP name this Bengali author of Gitanjali,. 	Answer:	Rabindranath Tagore or Rabindranath Thakur 
8.	His first symphony completed in 1925 is a graduation composition.  His 15th and final was finished in 1971, four years before his death.  He set many of Yevtushenko's works to music, but his success varied with the political climate, even being condemned by Stalin himself for his Katerina Ismailova.  Patriotic suites composed after and during World War 2 did gain favor, especially for the Leningrad Symphony.  FTP name this Russian composer.	Answer:	Dmitry Shostakovich9.	His earlier escapades are documented in the series Shadow Hunter.  A Zabrak from Iridonia, some reports suggest that his birth name was Khameir Sarin.  Trained in the ways of the Dark Side, he has no emotion aside from bloodlust and rage, and as with all Force-users, he is skilled with the light-saber.  FTP, name this Dark Lord of the Sith, who is defeated at the Battle of Naboo by a young Obi-Wan Kenobi.	Answer:	Darth Maul10.	He began his own experimental work in the school physics laboratory after he had learnt of Oersted's discovery of electromagnetism in 1820.  From his studies, he published his major electric theory in 1826, but it was scorned and he was forced to resign his teaching post in Cologne. He was also mired in controversy with his 1843 fundamental principle of physiological acoustics, which is concerned with the way in which one hears a combination of tones.   FTP, name this physicist, whose titular law gave a mathematical description of conduction in circuits, and which stated that current varies in direct ratio to a wires resistance.	Answer:	Georg Simon Ohm11.	In 1710, a group of Germans and Swiss established a settlement on the Neuse River, and. New Bern rapidly became a prosperous community, but these local natives became enraged by encroachment on their lands as well as frequent unfair trading practices. In 1711, under Chief Hancock they attacked several settlements in North Carolina, and it was not until 1713, when Captain James Moore, supplemented by Yamasee warriors, defeated them at their village of Neoheroka. FTP, give the name of this Indian tribe that eventually ended up in New York, and who became the sixth nation in the Iroquois Confederation.	Answer:	Tuscarora12.	He came to the US in 1872, and his most important work from this visit was his Portraits in a New Orleans Cotton Office.  But it was The Suffering of the City of New Orleans, with which he made his salon debut in 1865.  Although his Spartan Girls Challenging Boys was also drawn in the early 1860's, he exhibited it only once, at the fifth Impressionist show held in 1879, and then kept it in his studio the rest of his life.  FTP, name this artist, known for his propensity toward drawing and sculpting ballerinas and horses.	Answer:	Edgar Degas13.	Derived from the Indo-European word meaning horn, it is used in the formulas of some progesterone creams. With two main forms, alpha and beta, the beta form is mostly present in birds and reptiles. Helically-shaped, these molecules contain a high percentage of sulfur-containing amino acids, largely cysteine, which form disulfide bridges between the individual molecules resulting in a fairly rigid structure. FTP, name this fibrous protein, a component of baleen, reptile scales, feathers and human teeth, hair and skin.	Answer:	keratin14.	Rising to prominence following the Sumerian decline, a dragon representing this deity is located on the Ishtar gate.  His consort was Sarpanitu, the planet Venus, and one of his sons was Nabu, the god of wisdom.  Following the defeat and the wresting of the Tablets of Destiny from Tiamat and Kingu, the dragons of chaos, he created the universe and humankind, in order to have workers so that the gods could lead a life of leisure.  FTP, name this god of light and life, the successor of the Sumerian earth god Enlil, and chief god of Babylonia.	Answer:	Marduk (or Bel)15.	He argued that the effect of poor laws was ``not, as the legislature benevolently intended, to amend the condition of the poor. ...Instead of making the poor rich, they are calculated to make the rich poor.'' He linked the depreciation of the pound with increased lending in his The High Price of Bullion, and fought against the Corn Laws, urging Britain to make use of its comparative advantage. FTP name this author of Principles of Political Economy and Taxation known for his ``Iron Law of Wages.'' 	Answer:	David Ricardo 
16.	The first handheld game console to have a color display, a brand of woman's deodorant, the name of a former WNBA team, a text-based browser commonly found on Unix workstations, a programming language utilized for large networks using remote procedure calls, all share, FTP, this name, also a constellation, which Hevelius said was so small you would need the eyes of this wild cat to see it.	Answer:	Lynx17.	With guidance from Peace Corps members, he enrolled at the University of San Francisco in 1962, and later completed his bachelor's degree in economics by obtaining a partial soccer scholarship, and by working part-time pumping gas.  After working for 20 years for various international organizations, such as the United Nations and World Bank, he founded the Peru Possible party in 1999.  FTP, name this world leader who, following the ouster of Alberto Fujimori, defeated former Peruvian president Alan Garcia in 2001	Answer:	Alejandro Toledo18.	The starting material for this process is recycled in an intermediate step, reacting with alpha-ketoglutarate to form GTP and succinyl coA, which is oxidized to fumarate when coupled with the reduction of FAD.  Fumarate reacts with water to form malate, which is oxidized to oxaloacetate.  Beginning with the reaction of acetyl coA and oxaloacetate, FTP, name this cycle that generates 1 ATP and 3 NADHs for the electron transport chain.	Answer: 	citric acid cycle; or tricarboxylic acid cycle; or Krebs cycle19.	In the second section, the narrator relates the loss of his necktie and recalls how he laid in "lovely muck." That transpired following a trip to Ludlow fair, from which the narrator "staggered home... with pints and quarts of Ludlow beer." The third section counsels the speakers of the first that since "the world has still/ much good, but much less good than ill," to "face it as a wise man would." In the last stanza, the story of a ruler who became immune to poison is related, ending with the lines "I tell the tale I heard told/ Mitradates, he died old." Famous for asking why Burton was built on Trent and for the lines "malt does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man," FTP, identify this most famous poem of A. E. Housman, whose narrator "eats his victuals fast enough." 	Answer:	Terrence, This is Stupid Stuff 20.	The first Mersenne prime exponent, it is also the number of candles lit on Finnish Independence Day.  In rugby, it is the number of the player referred to as the hooker, and is the designation of the Trans-Canadian Highway in most of the province of New Brunswick.  . FTP, give the number, which shares its name with a character played by Robert Wagner and Rob Lowe, and coincidentally is a euphemism for defecation.	Answer:	221.	A folk instrument similar to the trombone, it has a less wide range, and was popularized in a 1930's radio show by comedian Bob Burns. It is also the nickname of a military invention designed by Colonel L.A. Skinner, and designated the M1A1.  So effective was Skinner's invention, the Germans copied it outright as the Panzerschreck.  Replaced during the Vietnam War by the LAW, a light anti-tank weapon, give the name of this instrument and weapon, which is also a type of chewing gum.	Answer:	bazooka22.	Largely an arid plateau, the Sultan Ali Dinar gained rule of the region in 1899, but lead a revolt against the British Empire, was killed, and in 1917, this region was the last to be incorporated into the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan.   Occupied by camel nomads in the north, and black cattle herdsman to the south, FTP, name this region once ruled by el-Rashid during the Napoleonic invasion of Egypt, and which is more recently experiencing United Nation inspections for evidence of Khartoum-government led ethnic cleansing.	Answer:	Darfur23.	According to the Thidrekssaga, after the death of its most famous owner it passed to Hildebrand. Its original owner refused to sell it to Siggeir for any price, which led to the downfall of its owner's family and the caputre of his sister. That owner originally extracted in from Branstock, where it was stuck by an old man, and it was shattered on the day of Sigmund's death when Odin struck it with Gungnir. It was subsequently reforged for Sigmund's son by the dwarf Regin, and that son, its most famous owner, subsequently used it to kill Fafnir and obtain the Rhinegold. Forged by Volund the Smith, FTP, identify this weapon also known as Balmung and Mimung, the sword of Sigurd. 	Answer:	Gram (accept Balmung or Mimung before they're mentioned) 