TOSSUPS - Questions by Billy Beyer				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. In Hindu mythology, this is the form of the third avatar of Vishnu, Varaha, who rescued the earth from the depths of the ocean and defeated Hiranyaksha. In Norse mythology, one named Gullinbursti had bristles in its mane that glowed in the dark, and the meat of another fed the warriors of Valhalla, Saehrimnir. In Greek mythology, Adonis was killed by the tusks of one of these. FTP name this animal that can come in Erymanthian and Calydonian varieties.	Answer:	boar [prompt on hog, pig, etc.]2. Many Republicans and Democrats dismissed it as "an old gentlemen's party," with its head planted firmly in the sand. John J. Crittenden set up a meeting among fifty men in Baltimore to nominate this party's candidate for president, and surprisingly, Sam Houston was defeated by a man from Tennessee for the nomination. Along with former Know-Nothings, this party was made up of conservative Whigs who wanted to avoid disunion over the slavery issue. FTP name this political party who nominated John Bell in 1860.	Answer:	Constitutional Union Party3. Its most common example has recently been used in spectroscopic techniques as a quantum solvent. The two fluids model was once attempted to explain this, which is reached at values below the lambda point. Exhibiting the creep effect, some examples of this phase of matter, such as helium-3 and helium-4, have the ability to defy gravity and move up and out of a beaker holding it. FTP name this type of fluid, which exhibits a frictionless flow at temperatures close to absolute zero.	Answer:	superfluidity4. Every Tuesday afternoon, she is expected to receive visitors in her home, and she often goes to the racetrack with Mrs. Highcamp and Alcée Arobin, who satisfies her sexual needs. The old pianist Mademoiselle Reisz adopts her as a sort of protégé, and she spends much of her time with friend Adèle Ratignolle since her husband Léonce, is preoccupied with work. This gives her the opportunity to engage in a non-sexual, but still intense, relationship with Robert Lubrun while in Grand Isle. FTP name this protagonist of Kate Chopin's The Awakening.	Answer:	Edna Pontellier (prompt on Pontellier or The Awakening)5. The soundtrack to this film features a number of songs by David Bowie, most of which are sung by Seu Jorge in Portuguese. Minor cast members include a three-legged dog named Cody, pilots who work for Air Kentucky, and unpaid interns from the University of Alaska. More important cast members include the title character's estranged wife, a pregnant journalist, and a man who may or may not be the title character's son, played by Owen Wilson. The plot centers around the title character's attempt to seek revenge on the monstrous creature that ate his partner, a fellow oceanographer. FTP name this late 2004 movie directed by Wes Anderson that stars Bill Murray as Steve Zissou.	Answer:	The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou6. Although it did not prevent the capture of Cyprus, more than 12,000 Christian prisoners were freed as a result of this battle. Fought at the northern edge of the entrance to the Gulf of Corinth, this October 7th battle saw the squadron led by Andrea Doria be saved by the timely arrival of Santa Cruz's reserve force. The buccaneer Chulouk Bey of Alexandria supported Ali Pasha, while their opposition featured a coalition fleet, comprised of Spain, Venice, Naples, and the Papacy, commanded by Don John. FTP name this battle in which the Holy League defeated the Ottomans, thus ending the supremacy of the Turks in the Mediterranean, fought in 1571.	Answer:	Battle of Lepanto7. In its opening chapter, the author makes a Biblical reference when saying, "the bland lead the bland", concerning the generally accepted notions held to be the norm in economics. Its author believes that, in order to be successful, the U.S. needs to make large public investments in items such as highways and education, and that the conquest of illiteracy should come before any economic development. In the preface to this work, about the "economics of abundance", its author writes that the goal of this work is to understand the shift from a past, in which nearly all were poor, to a new era, characterized by the titular phrase. FTP name this 1958 work which coined the term "conventional wisdom", written by Canadian-born economist John Galbraith.	Answer:	The Affluent Society 
8. After releasing critically panned literary works such as Barnaby Shore and Deer Park, he revived his reputation with works such as Advertisement's for Myself and An American Dream. Pharaonic Egypt was the setting of his Ancient Evenings, and Harlot's Ghost is a complex Cold War spy novel. He won his first Pulitzer Prize for an account of the 1967 peace march on Washington entitled The Armies of the Night, and won again three years later for the novel The Executioner's Song. FTP name this American author best known for The Naked and the Dead.	Answer:	Norman Mailer9. Norwegian chemist Odd Hassel won a Nobel Prize for work on the development of the concept of conformation for this molecule and its derivatives. Able to be reduced by the reduction of benzene using three moles of hydrogen, its most stable conformation has C-C bond angles close to 105 degrees. Its axial hydrogens exchange positions with the equatorial hydrogens in a process known as ring flipping in its chair form, while other conformations include twist and boat. FTP name this hydrocarbon with formula C6H12.	Answer:	cyclohexane10. He began his musical career as a chorister in the Chapel Royal and he wrote many odes, including "Ye tuneful Muses" and "Come ye sons of Art." The Zimmerman catalogue is used to organize this man's works, which includes the operas The Fairy Queen and King Arthur. His Te Deum and Jubilate was written for St. Cecilia's Day, and his most famous opera includes the aria "When I Am Laid In Earth." FTP name this English composer of the Baroque era who worked with Nahum Tate for the opera Dido and Aeneas.	Answer:	Henry Purcell11. Its namesake, the owner of a laundry, was fined $10. This case featured the first use the of Brandeis brief, which introduced social data to law. In the court's unanimous opinion, Justice David Josiah Brewer wrote "the physical well-being of a woman becomes an object of public interest and care in order to preserve the strength and vigor of the race." FTP name this 1908 Supreme Court decision that did not overrule Lochner v. New York, but did uphold an Oregon law limiting the working hours of women.	Answer:	Muller v. Oregon 12. The work Research on the Trajectory of the Projectiles in the Resistant Mediums "launched" his career. His work on roots of polynomials inspired Galois theory and the polynomials named after him are orthogonal harmonics usually defined on the closed interval from minus one to positive one. His conjecture of the prime number theorem was proved sixty years after his 1833 death, and he is best remembered for his work on number theory and elliptic integrals. FTP name this French mathematician whose namesake transform is used to go from the Lagrangian to the Hamiltonian formulation of mechanics.	Answer:	Adrien-Marie Legendre (lah-ZHAN-drah)13. The origin of its name is disputed, with possible meanings being "comes from the other side" or "stone sentinel." A relatively easy mountain to scale if approached from the north, it was first climbed in 1897 by Mathias Zurbriggen. Almost twenty-three thousand feet tall, its best climbing month is January, appropriate since its summer in the Southern Hemisphere at the time. FTP name this highest peak in the Western Hemisphere, found in the Andes Mountains.	Answer:	Aconcagua (AH-kon-KAH-gwah)14. A parody of "Orlando Furioso" is found in its fifth and final part with the lines "some thought it mounted to the lunar sphere / since all things lost on earth are treasur'd there." Its third part features the card game ombre, and minor characters include Brillante, Momentilla, and Crispissa, who are sylphs. Written at the request of John Caryl, the character of The Baron refers to Robert, Lord Petre, who commits the titular act. Its opening line, "what dire offence from am'rous causes springs", refers to the snipping of a piece of Belinda's hair. FTP name this mock epic written by Alexander Pope.	Answer:	"The Rape of the Lock"15. In contrast to monogeneans [MON-ah-JEE-nee-ans], members of this class - that's class, not phylum - have their entire surface covered with minute projections called microtriches, which greatly amplify the surface area of its tegument. The Diphyllobothrium [die-FILL-o-BAWTH-re-um] species interferes with vitamin B-12 absorption and cysticercosis [SIS-tih-ser-KO-sis] is a potentially fatal syndrome associated with this species. Their reproductive structures are held within proglottids [pro-GLOT-ids] and the scolex [SKO-leks] of the worm attaches to the intestine of the host. FTP name this endoparasitic class of Platyhelminthes [PLAT-e-HELL-min-theez], of which the tapeworm is a member. 	Answer:	Cestoda (or Cestoidea or Cestodes) (prompt on tapeworms)
16. This work of literature opens with a character retrieving a stepladder and looking out two windows, then saying "Finished, it's finished, nearly finished, it must be nearly finished." The father of the protagonist of this drama repeatedly tells a story involving a tailor who keeps botching and delaying a customer's order for trousers. The father, Nagg, often attempts to kiss his wife, Nell, and both are contained in an ashbin. The servant of the protagonist, Clov, performs tasks for his master, Hamm, who is immobilized in a wheel chair. FTP name this Samuel Beckett play, not about the final stage of chess.	Answer:	Endgame17. A West Highland Terrier carpeted in bedding plants, Puppy, designed by Jeff Koons, can be found outside of it. A large portion of this structure is sheathed in paper-thin titanium panels, and like many of its creator's works, this structure has radically sculpted, organic contours. Shaped like a ship, the creator of this museum claims it does not have a single flat surface in its entire structure. Situated on the Nervión River, it opened to the public in 1997. FTP name this art museum designed by Frank Gehry located in the Basque area of Spain.	Answer:	Guggenheim Museum Bilbao 18. Brian Cook broke this man's hand during "garbage time" in the last postseason game of his rookie year, stalling his development and taking the luster off his becoming the youngest player ever to appear in an NBA Finals game.  Also hindering his development was a protracted contract wrangle that made him unavailable in the months before his rookie season. Last season saw a 28% increase in his points per game, impressive till you realize that meant up from 1.4 to 1.8.  Dubbed "The Human Victory Cigar", his selection before Carmelo Anthony and Dwyane Wade has been criticized by many, although his team did win the 2004 championship. FTP name this Detroit Pistons bust, taken with the second pick in the 2003 Draft.	Answer:	Darko Milicic19. Divided into six zonal flow regions call cells, its name comes from the Greek for "turning." This densest layer of Earth's atmosphere also has the largest change in  temperature with height. Jets fly near the top of this region, where clouds and weather form. FTP name this lowermost portion of Earth's atmosphere, directly below the stratosphere.	Answer:	troposphere 20. Born in the Kakwa tribe, he joined the King's African Rifles of the British colonial army as a private in 1946 and saw action during the Mau Mau revolt in Kenya. Partly on the basis of his visions, such as the one he had in which God told him to expel South Asian inhabitants, some believed he suffered from neurosyphilis. After overthrowing Milton Obote (oh-BOH-tay), the Nile Mansions Hotel in Kampala became infamous as his torture center. FTP name this former military dictator of Uganda who ruled from 1971 to 1979. 	Answer:	'Big Daddy' General Idi Amin Dada21. In chemistry, this term is used to designate an aliphatic [AL-ah-FAT-ic] hydrocarbon having a straight and unbranched chain of carbon atoms, or a solution having one-gram equivalent weight of solute per liter of solution. In math, it can describe a matrix, which commutes with its conjugate transpose or a line that is perpendicular to a surface. FTP give this six-letter term that can also be defined as the usual or expected state.	Answer:	normal 22. The Cabalists and the Gnostics embraced elements of this thought, although the modern version of it is based largely on the writings of Jakob Böhme. It believes the number seven orders the universe, reincarnation is universal, man is provisionally immortal, and that nature does not operate by chance. Henry Steel Olcott and William Quan Judge helped found a society in 1875 to advance this philosophical religious doctrine. FTP name this belief system that provides a complete belief in the existence of God as all knowing, developed from the writings of Helena Blavatsky. 	Answer:	theosophy23.	Like his mom and aunt, he was in the American Field Service exchange student program while in high school and stayed in Vienna. He once got some advice from Helen Gurley Brown concerning his girl friend Valeri, and has watched television at Ramstein Air Base. Originally from Ridgewood, New Jersey, he is fluent in German and currently studies international relations in Berlin. FTP name this man, known for rabidly trying to find the Daily Double, the annoying current holdover Jeopardy! champion.       Answer:	David Madden
BONI - Questions by Billy Beyer				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. FTPE name these short stories.(10) At the end of this Saki short story, Framton Nuttel flees in horror when three men enter through the titular object. His niece had told him that the three men had never come back from a hunting excursion three years earlier. 	Answer:	"The Open Window" (10) In this John Updike coming-of-age tale, David grapples with the concept of death. He is given the task of shooting the titular creatures that have infested the barn, which deepens his understanding of human death. 	Answer:	"Pigeon Feathers"(10) Laura betrays Eugenio by refusing his offer of love, then delivers to him the drugs he uses to commit suicide, in this Katherine Anne Porter work, set during the Obregon Revolution in Mexico.	Answer:	"Flowering Judas"2. FTPE name these Christian heresies.(10) In response to this heresy, which denied that Jesus was of the same substance as God, and holding instead that he was only the highest of created beings, the Nicene Creed was written.	Answer:	Arianism(10) In this dualistic worldview, which rests on personal religious experience, members valued the revealed knowledge of God and of the origin and end of the human race, as a means to attain redemption for the spiritual element in humans.	Answer:	Gnosticism(10) Arising in North Africa in the fourth century A.D. and strongly opposed by Saint Augustine, this hersey glorified martyrdom and held that only those who led a blameless life belonged in the church or could administer the sacraments.	Answer:	Donatism3. F5PE, with a five-point bonus for all five correct -- given a molecule, name how many carbon atoms it contains. (5) Glucose	Answer:	6(5) Cyanide	Answer:	1(5) Buckminsterfullerene	Answer:	60(5) Naphthalene [NAP-thuh-leen]	Answer:	10(5) Cholesterol	Answer:	274. FTPE name these important figures from civil rights history.(10) He organized the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and served as its first president.	Answer:	A. Philip Randolph(10) He helped organize the Montgomery Bus Boycott and assumed the presidency of the SCLC after the assassination of MLK.	Answer:	Ralph Abernathy(10) Despite the wishes of Gov. Ross Barnett, he became the first black student at the University of Mississippi in 1962.	Answer:	James Meredith5. FTPE answer the following about ancient Greek fine arts.(10) The Temple of Artemis at Ephesus uses this type of architectural order, whose columns were topped by large scrolling spirals.	Answer:	Ionic(10) This Myron sculpture shows a well-muscled athlete about to hurl a round projectile.	Answer:	Discus Thrower (or Discobolos)(10) In 1877, his Hermes with the Infant Dionysus was discovered at Olympia.	Answer:	Praxiteles
6. It seems that everyone has fallen under J.K. Rowling's spell with the release of her latest installment of Harry Potter...everyone except for your question writer. FTPE name these things your question writer would personally prefer experiencing instead of jumping onto the Half-Blood bandwagon.(10) Also known as hari-kiri, this was a samurai warrior's means of avoiding shame through self-inflicted disembowelment. Japanese author Yukio Mishima allegedly performed it after anticipating the rise of Harry Potter.	Answer:	seppuku(10) First described by Hippolytus de Marsiliis in the 16th century and sharing a name with a type of "cell" used by Harry Houdini, this type of aquatic torture might seem bad, but it's still a step up from reading all six episodes in the Harry Potter series.	Answer:	Chinese water torture(10) This was the full penalty in England for treason until 1870. The entire process consisted of being dragged on a hurdle, suspended by the neck, disemboweled, and finally beheaded. Then, your entrails are torched and your mutilated corpse is subdivided into four pieces. It is often considered the epitome of cruel punishment: I hold that reading Harry Potter is even worse.	Answer:	hung, drawn and quartered (prompt on drawn and quartered)7. FTPE answer the following about an African writer.(10) Plays by this Nigerian writer include A Dance of the Forests, The Trials of Brother Jero, The Swamp Dwellers, and The Lion and the Jewel. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1986.	Answer:	Wole Soyinka(10) In this work, the British colonial leader, Mr. Pilkings, intervenes in the ritual suicide attempt of Elesin. As a result, cosmic order is disrupted until Elesin's son, Olunde, commits the ritual suicide. 	Answer:	Death and the King's Horseman(10) The former President of Ghana, Kwame Nkrumah [n-KROO-mah], was parodied in this play, in which an egomaniacal dictator attempts to impose a new holiday.	Answer:	Kongi's Harvest8. On a 5-5-10-10 basis -- name these scientists who as of this May can now be found on U.S. postage stamps.(5) On the side, he played drums and translated Mayan hieroglyphics, but he is best known for his work in the field of quantum electrodynamics. His stamp features eight of his namesake diagrams.	Answer:	Richard Feynman (5) This Hungarian mathematician made many advances in the field of game theory and helped with the Manhattan Project.	Answer:	John von Neumann(10) This woman won a 1983 Nobel Prize for her discovery of mobile genetic elements called transposons.	Answer:	Barbara McClintock(10) A pioneer in the study of vector analysis and thermodynamics, this professor at Yale has a namesake phase rule that can be expressed F = c ? p + 2 	Answer:	Josiah Gibbs 9. FTPE name these rebellions which occurred during the Qing [ching] Dynasty.(10) This uprising against Western commercial and political influence in China is named for the revolutionary society known as the Fists of Righteous Harmony. 	Answer:	Boxer Rebellion(10) Led by Hong Xiuquan, this mid-nineteenth century revolt against Manchu power led to the death of up to 30 million people. 	Answer:	Taiping Rebellion (10) Beginning in 1796 and lasting for eight years, this rebellion was begun as a tax protest. The namesake secret religious society advocated restoration of the native Chinese Ming dynasty and promised personal salvation to its followers. 	Answer:	White Lotus Rebellion
10. FTPE name these 20th century philosophical works.(10) Proposition 7 ends this Ludwig Wittgenstein work in dramatic fashion: "What we cannot speak of we must pass over in silence."	Answer:	Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (or Logisch-Philosophische Abhandlung)(10) Subtitled A Phenomenological Essay on Ontology, this 1943 work sought to divide being into two divisions: being-in-itself and being-for-itself.	Answer:	Being and Nothingness (or L'Etre et le Néant)(10) In this W.V.O. Quine magnum opus, the meaning of Gavagai, associated with the sighting of a rabbit, is analyzed. While most linguists might assume Gavagai means "rabbit", other plausible definitions include "let's go hunting" or "there will be a storm tonight."	Answer:	Word and Object11.	FTPE name these computer-related items that Al Gore may have helped develop.(10) Invented in the late 1960s, this seven-letter acronym was the world's first operational packet switching network, and is a direct ancestor of the modern Internet. 	Answer:	ARPANET (or Advanced Research Projects Agency Network)(10) Developed by Robert Metcalfe in the mid 1970s, this most common type of networking technology for local area networks is standardized as IEEE's 802.3.	Answer:	Ethernet(10) All the way back in 1999, this music file sharing service was created by Shawn Fanning. It led to rampant piracy, which drove groups such as Metallica to a life of poverty. 	Answer:	Napster12. FTPE name these Supreme Court justices.(10) After voting against the president in the case challenging the Sherman Antitrust Act, Teddy Roosevelt said of this appointee, "out of a banana I could carve a firmer backbone." Known as the The Great Dissenter, his own quotes include "three generations of imbeciles are enough."	Answer:	Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. (10) Mentored by Holmes, this FDR appointee and most outspoken advocate of judicial restraint clashed with other liberal members over issues such as legislative redistricting.	Answer:	Felix Frankfurter(10) After he sided with the majority in favor of the Kelo v. New London decision, Logan Clements began a campaign to seize one of this man's homes and convert it to a hotel. 	Answer:	David Souter13. FTPE answer the following about a certain organelle.(10) A typical plant cell might contain as many as fifty of these chlorophyll-containing plastids. 	Answer:	chloroplasts(10) The fluid within the chloroplast is given this name. It contains all the enzymes needed to carry out the dark reactions of photosynthesis.	Answer:	stroma(10) The photosynthesis reaction takes place on the surface of one of these, of which a stack is called a granum. 	Answer:	thylakoid14. FTPE answer the following about a work of literature.(10) This novel begins "A throng of bearded men, in sad-coloured garments and grey steeple-crowned hats, inter-mixed with women, some wearing hoods, and others bareheaded, was assembled in front of a wooden edifice."	Answer:	The Scarlet Letter(10) In The Scarlet Letter, this is the name of Hester Prynne and Roger Chillingworth's illegitimate child.	Answer:	Pearl(10) Symbolizing the ability of nature to endure and outlast man's activities, this shrub is found beside the prison door.	Answer:	rosebush
15. FTPE answer the following about the always disappointing and heart-breaking Orlando Magic basketball team.(10) When the Orlando Magic fired Johnny Davis after losing six games in a row, this man became interim coach.	Answer:	Chris Jent(10) The Magic went 1-2 without this leading scorer, who was suspended for three games for kicking a cameraman.	Answer:	Steve Francis(10) Tragically, the Magic lost to this expansion franchise three out of the first four times they have played.	Answer:	Charlotte and/or Bobcats16.	The National Statuary Hall Collection in the United States Capitol is comprised of statues donated by individual states to honor persons notable in their history. For five points each -- given a famous historical figure, name the state that the person represents.(5) James Garfield	Answer:	Ohio(5) Lewis Cass	Answer:	Michigan(5) Hannibal Hamlin	Answer:	Maine(5) Robert M. La Follette	Answer:	Wisconsin(5) Alexander Stephens	Answer:	Georgia(5) William Jennings Bryan	Answer:	Nebraska17. FTPE name these British authors.(10) His most famous novels were set in the imaginary court of Barsetshire. Examples include Barchester Towers and Framley Parsonage.	Answer:	Anthony Trollope(10) His short biographies of Nelson, Wesley, and Cowper are not as famous as his ballad, The Battle of Blenheim.	Answer:	Robert Southey(10) He painted portraits of Ezra Pound, with whom he edited Blast magazine. His solo literary contributions include the novels Tarr, Snooty Baronet, and The Apes of God.	Answer:	(Percy) Wyndham Lewis18. FTPE name these eponymous numbers from physics.(10) Defined as the ratio of speed to the speed of sound in the given medium, values of over one for this number are termed supersonic.	Answer:	Mach number(10) When low, this dimensionless number results in laminar flow, and when high, it results in turbulent flow.	Answer:	Reynolds number(10) Named for the discoverer of argon, this other dimensionless number, associated with the heat transfer within a fluid, determines whether heat transfer is via conduction or convection.	Answer:	Rayleigh number19. FTPE answer the following about a psychologist.(10) Having many circus performers as clients, this Austrian psychologist was a disciple of Freud, but rejected Freud's emphasis on the libido.	Answer:	Alfred Adler(10) Adler is most noted for coining this two-word term, used to describe the neurotic reaction by which one either succumbs to, or overcompensates for feelings of inadequacy.	Answer:	inferiority complex(10) In the 1920s, Adler published this major work which introduced the idea of the inferiority complex.	Answer:	The Practice and Theory of Individual Psychology 
20. FTPE name these Claude Debussy works.(10) In its sixth and last movement, "Golliwogg's Cakewalk", Debussy pokes fun at Richard Wagner's opera Tristan und Isolde. Written for his daughter, this piano suite includes sections such as "Jimbo's Lullaby" and "The Snow is Dancing." 	Answer:	Children's Corner Suite(10) The plot of this ballet was described in a letter by Debussy to a friend as "There is a park, a tennis court; there is a chance meeting of two girls and a young man seeking a lost ball."	Answer:	Jeux(10) This extended stand-alone solo piano piece of approximately five minutes was composed in 1904. The central relationship in the work is the material between the whole-tone scale, the Lydian mode, and the diatonic scale.	Answer:	The Isle of Joy (or L'Isle Joyeuse)21.	FTPE answer the following about Ragnarok.(10) As the first of the gods to see the enemies approaching, he will blow his Gjallarhorn in order to alert the other gods.	Answer:	Heimdall(10) Meaning "battle shaker", this is the giant plain where Ragnarok will be fought.	Answer:	Vigrond(10) Ragnarok will be preceded by this event, three successive winters without any intervening summer.	Answer:	Fimbulwinter (or Fimbulvetr)22.	FTPE answer the following about weird stuff in the news.(10) A visit to the White House by the women's lacrosse team of this university resulted in controversy, as many of the females were wearing flip-flop sandals. *gasp*	Answer:	Northwestern(10) This Minnesota high school basketball player won the ESPY for Best Play for his last second shot that was taken sitting down.	Answer:	Blake Hoffarber(10) Considered an abstract expressionist and nicknamed "the Cezanne of the ape world", this chimpanzee recently had three paintings sell for over $26,000 at a London auction.	Answer:	Congo