TOSSUPS - "ESPECIALLY CRINGEWORTHY"		MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAPacket by Seth Kendall with one or two by Chris Borglum and Casey Retterer1. The first sign that she erred in marrying a widowed physician comes on her wedding night, when she finds the dried wedding bouquet of his first marriage still in his bedroom.  After relocating to Yonville she is seduced by Rodolphe Boulanger and in Rouen she meets Leon Dupuis, who becomes her lover.   Fearing discovery of the massive debts she runs up to buy gifts for Leon, she commits suicide. These are the brief adventures of, FTP, what title character of the best known work of Gustave Flaubert?	Answer:	Emma Bovary (accept either name as well as "Madame Bovary", but prompt on "Bovary")2. His distaste for sharing power was shaped by early experiences with nobles, such as his capture in the "Ruthven raid." The Black Acts, which briefly placed the Church under his control, as well as the possibly-forged treatise Basilikon Doron and his The True Law of Free Monarchies, demonstrated his advocacy of the Divine Right of Kings.  FTP name this monarch whose excellent education and stunning inability to accomplish any of his objectives led to the nickname "The Wisest Fool in Christendom", the first Stuart King of England.	Answer:	James I (James VI of Scotland)3. Significant objects in this constellation include Supernova 1604, also known as Kepler's Star, as well as the NGC 6240, a double galaxy known as the starfish galaxy. Among its named stars include Rasalhague, a triple star known as Marfiq, and Barnard's Star. Representing perhaps Laocošn or Apollo wrestling Python, for 10 points name this constellation known as the "Snake Charmer", the only one of the Zodiac not counted as an astrological sign.	Answer:	Ophiuchus4. With his sister Anath he sires a great bull and it is she who slays his greatest enemy after it is thought this god was killed, though both revive and eventually make peace with each other. The son of El, personification of fertility, and lord of the rain, this is, for 10 points, what Canaanite god, the slayer of the seven-headed dragon Lotan and the enemy of sterility god Mot?	Answer:	Baal5.  This 1866 work, the composer's opus 64, includes "Ye That Now Are Sorrowful," written as a tribute to the composer's deceased mother. The text was written by the author himself, adapted from the Lutheran Bible, and presented in his native tongue, not the Latin usually used for such works. Also commemorating the death of the composer's mentor Robert Schumann, FTP what is this mourning composition by Johannes Brahms?	Answer:	A German Requiem 6.	 Confessing his love for the girl, Lucie Manette, and vowing he would willingly sacrifice his life to save the life of one she loves, he gets the chance when his doppelganger is recongized as coming from a French noble house and is about to be executed, prompting this character to drug him, smuggle him out of prison, and take his place on the guillotine. For 10 points namr this man who does a far finer thing than he had ever done before by trading his life for that of Charles Darnay in Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities.	Answer:	Sidney Carton (accept either name)7.   Rene Descartes called it the "seat of the soul," as its location deep in the brain seemed to indicate importance; it was also the last endocrine gland to have its function discovered.  As the eyes register darkness, this portion of the brain secretes a hormone that aids the sleep-wake cycle of the body.  For ten points, name this pea-sized gland located between the thalamic bodies that is responsible for the production of melatonin.	Answer:	 Pineal gland or body (also epiphysis)8. In the southwest of this nation is the Karst, part of the Dinaric Alps, and Koper, its only major port. The Subpannonian region contains the Mura, Sava, and Drava rivers, the latter two of which appear on the crest of the Counts of Celje which, set upon vertical bars of the pan-Slavic colors of white, blue, and red, make up this nation's flag. For 10 points name this country bordering Croatia, Austria, and Italy, whose capital is Ljubljana (Lyoo-blee-anna).	Answer:	Slovenia9.  Their music reached rock bottom in such songs as the reggae-inspired "Follow Your Daughter Home" and the pseudo-country "Clap for the Wolfman." With the departure of Chad Allan and the addition of a new lead singer they released top ten hits like "These Eyes", "No Time", "Undun", and the song that made them the first Canadian band to score a number one hit in America in 1970. With a revolving lineup mostly centered around Burton Cummings and Randy Bachman, for 10 points name this group perhaps most famous for "American Woman."	Answer:	The Guess Who 10. Though it had enjoyed a few notable successes such as the election of Joseph Ritner to the governorship of Pennsylvania, after the defeat of its last Presidential nominee William Henry Harrison and Francis Granger it finally collapsed and merged with the Whigs. During its first Presidential run it boasted as a candidate a former attorney-general and published author of Letters of the British Spy, but despite that and such innovations as holding the first ever national nominating convention and party platform, it still could not escape the fact that it was mostly a one-issue party whose central theme was negative. FTP name this party formed around the death of former bricklayer William Morgan which ran William Wirt as its first presidential candidate and was built on opposition to secret societies.	Answer:	Anti-Masonic Party 11. The death scene in which the main character of this novel stands up facing the setting sun and calls out "Here!" was imitated by William Makepeace Thackeray in The Newcomers. After a run-in with a corrupt leader of a party of emigrants, which he helps guide to safety, that main character is joined by the soldier Duncan Middleton, and together they go in search of Middleton's fiancee Dona Inez who had earlier been kidnapped by pioneer leader Ishmael Bush.  Together they free the girl and evade numerous captures by Sioux, a prairie fire, a buffalo stampede, and the machinations of Bush before they reach the safety of the US Army. For 10 points this is a brief outline of what James Fenimore Cooper work, the first published but the last in the internal chronology of the Leatherstocking Tales?	Answer:	The Prairie12. Known in their native language as "kanai", they banned payments, prayer, or any other form of homage offered to a temporal figure. Among the more famous of their leaders were John of Gischala,  Simon bar Gioras, and Eleazar ben Simon.   Their members may have included the Christian disciple Simon "the Canaanite." For 10 points name this Ancient Jewish movement alongside the Pharisees, Essenes, and Sadducees known to the Romans as "sicarii", of whom Judas "Iscariot" may have been a member and which lends its name to any overly enthusiastic partisan of something.	Answer:	Zealots (accept "sicarii" before that word is read)13. One form of it is ideal for armor-piercing shells, since it is tends to disintegrate into an extremely hot ball of dust and gas in the interior of a tank, killing the crew and igniting fuel and ammunition. Discovered by Martin Klaproth in 1780, it continues on occasion to be used to make brilliantly colored yellow or green ceramics even though one of its more interesting properties was discovered in 1896 by Antoine Becquerel. The heaviest element which occurs in nature, for 10 points name this element found in pitchblende best known for its radioactivity and for its use in nuclear weapons.	Answer:	uranium (acc. Tuballoy before "Klaproth")14. The Book of the Mountains and Seas was produced during this dynasty known for its adherence to education, leading to a learned class of gentry and many encyclopedias. The break-up of fiefs and the downfall of the imperial nobility was mostly completed during the reign of Wu Ti, who also improved the Silk Road. Officially two separate dynasties separated by the reign of Wang Mang, FTP name this ruling house that was established after the overthrow of Shih Huang Ti and the collapse of the Ch'in.	Answer:	Han Dynasty15. In the so-called "lost" episode of Family Guy Peter visits a synagogue and is shocked to find that this other cartoon hero is Jewish. Apparently killed twice, one in the feature film and once during the two-part last episode of third season, according to the episode "War Dawn" he was repaired and refitted by Alpha Trion and at that time apparently also given the Matrix of Leadership. Capable of becoming a big-rig, FTP name this once and future leader of the Autobots and implacable enemy of Megatron, perhaps the most recognisable of the Transformers.	Answer:	Optimus Prime (accept "Optimus" but prompt on "Prime"; do not accept "Rodimus Prime")
16.. After its initial failure, inventor Daniel Bushnell shelved this invention in favor of ship-launched torpedoes,  but had his most famous invention been equipped with a drill that could piece the copper sheathing of the H.M.S. Eagle it might have succeeded in its aim and predated the success of the C.S.S. Hunley by 98 years. For 10 points name this weapon piloted by Sergeant Ezra Lee which uiltimately failed to destroy a target but which may still be counted as the first American military submarine.	Answer:	American Turtle (prompt on "submarine" before the words "C.S.S. Hunley")17.  It is why rising fastballs do not sink as much as a normally thrown projectile.  It is usually referred to in the context of sport, and the motion of golf balls, footballs, cricket balls and baseballs.  The boundary layer about the objects reacts with the windstream, creating uneven pressures due to constructive and destructive velocity vectors.  For ten points, identify the reason why curveballs curve, a result of a spinning object moving through air and Bernoulli's principle.	Answer:	 Magnus force/effect18. Faring unexpectedly well against Walcott and suddenly brutally fouled, the protagonist figures out that his bet-makers have fixed the contest aware that he has bet against himself, but in a moment of quick thinking the protagonist persuades the umpire that the foul was accidental and then fouls Walcott himself, guranteeing his lost. First published in the collection Men Without Women, for 10 points name this story featuring the boxer Jack Brennan whose title comes from the amount he wagers on his own defeat.	Answer:	"Fifty Grand"19.  Significant for its development of pipes enabling the output of one program to be used as input for another, it was given serious attention when its developers added a text formatting program called runoff and a text editor, having begun its life as the pet project of Bell Labs scientists reworking the system devloped by the GE-645 mainframe. FTP name this operating system guilt primarily by Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie, whose spelling was changed to avoid suggestion that its simplicity merely made it an emasculated version of the Multiplexed Information and Computing System of which it was a descendent.	Answer:	UNIX20. He sought to break from representation early on as seen in paintings such as Moon Woman Cuts the Circle, executed when he was under psychiatric evaluation. He later eschewed descriptive titles like She Wolf, Totem, and Cathedral in favor of sequential and chronological titles, like Number 29, 1950 and Number 30, 1950, both painted while being filmed by Hans Namuth, the pressure of which eventually drove him back to alcohol and to his untimely death. FTP name this painter most commonly associated with Abstract Expressionism and for his "Action Painting" technique, the execution of which gave him the nickname "The Dripper".	Answer:	Jackson Pollack  21. It was the site of the old Roman fortress town known as "African Babylon" and a later Arab fortress known as Al-Fustat, which was later burned to drive off Crusader armies.  The center of the Ayyubid dynasty and the Mamluk empire and located slightly to the north of the ancient city of Memphis, for 10 points name this city, the largest in Africa and current capital of Egypt.	Answer:	Cairo 22. At the end of the film a frightened captive girl is forced to sing for a rowdy assembly, but her rendition of "The Faithful Hussar" leads the group to hum along and reinforces the common humanity that the girl and her captors share. Part war film and part coutroom drama which was banned for 18 years in France for its negative portrayal of its army during World War I, for 10 points name this film, the first collaboration of main actor Kirk Douglas and director Stanley Kubrick.	Answer:	Paths of Glory 23.	Anna Landolt is believed to be the painting's central figure draped over a couch beside a bedside table containing a mirror and bottles, one of which may have contained opium, and despite the ghostly central figure it is clear that the title refers to the evil fairy perched atop the woman's midriff in the original and almost entirely on her bosom in the second version. For 10 points, this describes what painting which does not refer to the horse, thought that may have been added by the painter, John Henry Fuseli, to make it clear that the painting represented a bad dream?	Answer:	The Nightmare
BONI - "ESPECIALLY CRINGEWORTHY"		MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAPacket by Seth Kendall with one or two by Chris Borglum and Casey Retterer1. In the projection scene of Sunset Boulevard Norma Desmond views a silent film which was actually the unfinished Queen Kelly, which apparently would have been a masterpiece had it been finished but which was killed when the leading lady ordered the firing of the director. For 10 points each:1. Name the actress and star of Queen Kelly as well as such Cecil B. DeMille films as You Can't Have Everything, Male and Female, and For Better, For Worse but who may be perhaps most famous for her role as Norma in Sunset Boulevard.	Answer:	Gloria Swanson2.  This acclaimed German was the director Swanson had sacked.  Appropriately enough, he appears in Sunset Boulevard as her devoted butler, whom we learn was also one of her former directors.	Answer:	Erich von Stroheim2. Gloria Swanson never won an Academy Award, losing out in the first Best Actress race in 1928 and again for Sunset Boulevard in 1950.  FTP name either of the two actresses who took the prize instead of her, the former for Sunrise in 1928 and the latter for Born Yesterday.	Answer:	either Janet Gaynor or Judy Holliday2. Given the following world capitals, identify the major river which flows through it, 5 points each.1. Belgrade, where it is joined by the Sava	Answer:	Danube2. Montevideo	Answer:	Ri— de la Plata3. New Delhi	Answer:	Ganges4. Budapest	Answer:	Danube5. Vientiane	Answer:	Mekong6. Baghdad	Answer:	Tigris3. Name the George Bernard Shaw play from descriptions on a 10-5 point basis.1. 10 points: One of the Three Plays for Puritans along with Captain Brassbound's Conversion, characters in this play include the maidservant Phtatateeta (tat-ah-teet-ah) whose name almost noboby can pronounce and Britannus, and it features some home remedies such as a cure for bladness actually recommended by one of the main characters, as recorded by Galen.   5 points: The play concerns the conquest of Alexandria and the initial resistance and finally acquiescence to it undertaken by the two main characters, a great general and a Macedonian-bred queen.	Answer:	Caesar and Cleopatra 2. 10 points: Minor characters in this play are the unnamed Captain, the likewise unnamed Caesar, the "apostate" Spintho, the huge man-mountain Ferrovius who fears no man but who can barely control his urge to kill, and the lovely well-bred Lavinius.   5 points: The struggles of a group of Christians about to be killed in the Colosseum form the basis for this play, whose title character is a cheerful Greek tailor with a habit for befriending animals and which shares its name with an Aesop fable.	Answer:	Androcles and the Lion3. 10 points: A side plot in this play involves the attempts of Mr. Praed to introduce one of the main characters to beauty and art to no avail, as she is only interested in mathematics.   5 points: That character, Vivie, becomes an accountant and permanently parts ways with her mother when it turns out that not only is her mother a former prostitute and madam but that she has not given the business up.	Answer:	Mrs. Warren's Profession
4. In 1999 the family of a murder victim won a paltry sum of $100 in a wrongful death suit brought against one Loyd Jowers, who claims the Mafia had given him $100,000 to procure the dead man's assassination. For 10 points each:1. Name the man, whose killing - irrespective of Jowers's involvement - was at any rate accomplished on April 4, 1968.	Answer:	Martin Luther King, Jr.2. A Justice Department Investigation launched by Attorney General Janet Reno nevertheless concluded that King's assassination was the result of the lone actions of this man, who died in prison in 1999.	Answer:	James Earl Ray3. This site of King's murder was turned into the Civil Rights Museum in Memphis in 1987.	Answer:	Lorraine Motel5. Given a description of its causative agent identify the disease FTPE:1. A wide variety of names for this disease exist, including Phthisis, Lupus vulgaris, Pott's disease, and scrofula. Caused by a species of mycobacterium, it is commonly treated with a four-drug combination, with streptomycin as a further resort.	Answer:	tuberculosis2. New medicines from the Artemisia plant are being investigated to combat this disease produced by various strains of the Plasmodium bacteria. This will lessen the dependence on quinine and chloroquine, to which a resistance is developing.  Once believed caused by "bad air" such as that around swamps, it is carried by the insects of anopheles genus who live in those swamps.	Answer:	malaria3.  Produced by the pneumphilia species of a bacterium whose genome was completelty unraveled in 2004, its genus name comes from the veterans organisation at whose 1976 convention this disease first broke out.	Answer:	Legionnaire's disease (accept Pontiac disease, which is caused by the same pathogen but has less severe symptoms)6. Answer the following questions about the mythological figure Nephele, 10 points each.1. Nephele means "cloud" because according to legend she was originally exactly that, a cloud formed into the shape of Hera which became the object of an effort at seduction by this man, whose attempt to bed Hera while a guest of Zeus only resulted in him fathering the Centaurs in Nephele and him being thrown into Tartarus, where he was bound to a wheel.	Answer:	Ixion2. Nephele was then given in marriage to Athamas king of Boetia, who fathered two children on her but tired of her in favor of Ino. When Ino connived to have Nephele's children killed, Hermes sent a Golden ram which rescued the boy and took his sister too, though she died when but she lost her grip on the ram and fell into the strait connecting the Aegean Sea with the Sea of Marmara which bears her name. Name these two children saved by the Golden Fleece-bearing ram.	Answer:	Phrixus and Helle7. A chance discovery of an old parchment by an impoverished South Carolina gentleman and amateur entomologist leads him to discover the secret buried fortune of Captain Kidd. For 10 points each:1. This is a very brief synopsis of what mystery and adventure tale by Edgar Allen Poe, so named for the scarab whose capture requires the parchment and also provides a vital clue ?	Answer:	"The Gold Bug"2. Name the main character of "The Gold Bug", who persuades the narrator to help him find the treasure.	Answer:	William Legrand3. Legrand and the narrator are helped by this freed slave of Legrand despite the latter's torrents of abuse levelled at him.	Answer:	Jupiter
8. One can learn a great deal about early nineteenth-century British history from the third season of the British comedy series Blackadder. Identufy the following figures which play a role in that show, 10 points each.1. In the the third season Edmund Blackadder is reduced to serving as the consummate gentleman's gentleman for this man, played as a crashing imbecile by Hugh Laurie.  He was then the de facto ruler of England while his father suffered from porphyrea-induced insanity; he would himself rule England as king from 1820-1830.	Answer:	George IV2. In the final episode the Prince Regent is set to fight a duel with this man, the victor of Waterloo and Prime Minister from 1828 to 1830.	Answer:	Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington3. Constant fun is poked at Emma Hamilton, femme fatale and mistress of this naval hero, whom Blackadder asserts suffered his characteristic wounds when issuing the challenge to the French that "Lady Hamilton is a virgin, and if I'm wrong you can shoot out my eye and cut off my arm". Name this victor of Trafalgar.	Answer:	Lord Horatio Nelson9. Thermionic emission is the flow of electrons from a metal or metal oxide surface, caused by thermal vibrational energy overcoming the electrostatic forces holding electrons to the surface. Answer these questions about it, 10 points each.1. "Thermionic" was the term given to the phenomena by Owen Richardson, who related the current density to the temperature by the equation capital J equals capital A capital T squared lowercase e to the negative capital W over lowercase k capital T (J=AT2e-W/kT), named for him and this Russian-American scientist with whom he worked on the problem.	Answer:	Saul Dushman2. Thermionic emission is sometimes known as the eponymous effect named for this American scientist and inventor who in 1883 first oberved the passage of electricity to a plate from, appropriately enough, a filament in an incandescent lamp.	Answer:	Thomas Alva Edison3. The Edison effect was later observed by British physicist John Ambrose Fleming, who went on to patent the two-electrode radio rectifier, a form of this device which allows an electric current to flow in one direction, but blocks it in the opposite direction.	Answer:	diode10. Given artists who were prominent members of it, name the American artistic movement, 10 points each.1. Jaspar Johns, Michael Hamilton, Ray Liechtensthien, Andy Warhol	Answer:	Pop Art2. John Sloan, Robert Henri, William Glickers, George Bellows	Answer:	Ashcan School3. Asher Durand, Thomas Cole, John Trumball, Frederic Churney	Answer:	Hudson River School11. Because the packet author's wife is addicted to reality programming on TLC, he knows way more than is proper about these shows.  Name such shows from a description of the eye-pleasing regulars, 10 points each; you'll only get five if a second clue is needed.1. (10 points) This show was once hosted by the lovely Teresa Strasser, a former writer for "Win Ben Stein's Money" who is not only luscious, but Jewish, too. It also features the fairly sexy seamstress Leslie Segrete (suh-GRETTY).    (5 points) The premise of the show is that a person is taken away from her home for two days and comes back to find a room that has been completely renovated in her absence.	Answer:	While You Were Out2. (10 points) An acquired taste is Stacy London, the co-host of this show which also features the fairly pretty make-up artist Carmindy.    (5 points) Stacy and her co-host use a variety of insults and a 360-degree mirror to convince people on their show that everything they believe looks good on them as far as clothing is in fact horrible, then give them $5000 to but new clothes in New York.	Answer:	What Not to Wear3. (10 points) This show was originally hosted by the on-fire hot Alex Macleod, and on occasion still features the lovely carpenter Amy Wynn Pastor and the bombshell interior decorator Genevieve Gorder.    (5 points) Irritating but beloved host Paige Davis was recently removed from this show on which couples exchange living quarters and completely redesigning rooms in each other's houses on a fixed budget.	Answer:	Trading Spaces
12. First extensively described by the 16th century Italian anatomist whose name they bear, these structures essentially serve as connecting tunnels between the ovaries and the uterus which serves to transport the ovum from one to the other and is the site of fertilization. 10 points each:1. Name these structures.	Answer:	Fallopian tubes2. Occasionally the embryo will not implant into the endometrium of the uterus but will instead attach itself to the wall of the Fallopian tube, a condition known as this.	Answer:	Ectopic pregnancy3. Ectopic pregancy is often the result of damage to these structures, small, "eyelash"-like filaments which serve to move the egg to the uterus; they are also present in the trachea.	Answer:	cilium or cilia13. Posthumously published by the poet's husband in 1966 after her suicide in 1963, this collection of poems features such pieces as "Tulips", "Lady Lazarus", and "Daddy" and the title piece. For the stated number of points:1. 10 points: Name this collection of poems	Answer:	Ariel2. 5 points: Name the poet of Ariel as well as The Colossus and the prose work The Bell Jar.	Answer:	Sylvia Plath3. 15 points: One of the most widely misunderstood poems in Ariel is this one depicting a biting attack on another woman which Plath's daughter Frieda states was about a couple living in Cornwall and not about Anne Sexton. Name this poem named for a Greek island which has nothing to do with Terpander or Sappho.	Answer:	"Lesbos"14. Identify the following about a piece of legislation from the Wilson Administration, 10 points each.1. Named for the Alabama Congressman and rival to Wilson for the Democratic Presidental nomination in 1912 who drafted it, Wilson personally addressed Congress to secure passage of this trade law which lowered the overall duty rate from 41 to 27 percent and put iron, sugar, and raw wool on the free list..	Answer:	Underwood Tariff2. The Underwood tariff thus lowered the high protective rates of this predecessor from 1909, which started out as a bill sponsored by a New York Representative to lower tariff rates but was appended by the Senate under a member from Rhode Island which actually led to some increases instead.	Answer:	Payne-Aldrich3. The Underwood Act also levied the first of income tax due to the recent passage of this Amendment.	Answer:	Sixteenth Amendment15. Identify the members of the family of Moses, 10 points each.1. Name Moses's mother and father according to Exodus 6.	Answer:	Jochabed and Amram2. Name Moses's brother his mouthpiece because Moses apparently had a speech impediment.	Answer:	Aaron 16. Identify the works of Lord Byron, 10 points each:1  This Romantic travelogue introduces the tortured, talented figure known as the Byronic Hero in the form of its protagonist, a sensitive nobleman who hopes to escape the decadence of a life of pleasure by experiencing faraway lands. Its reception stunned the poet, who wrote that after its publication he "woke up one morning and found myself famous".	Answer:	Childe Harold's Pilgrimage2. One of Byron's more popular works is this closet drama set in the High Alps featuring a hero brooding over an unnamed sin, interpreted to be incest with his sister, and consorting with various supernatural figures like witches, Spirits, and fairies.	Answer:	Manfred3. Two of Byron's most famous pieces, "She Walks in beauty" and "Destruction of Sennacherib", are actually lyrics written to accompany a collection of ancient Israelite folk music published by Isaac Nathan, which was given this title.	Answer:	Hebrew Melodies
17. In November of 1717 the invasion of Sardinia prompted the Holy Roman Empire to join France, England, and Holland in a war to restrain the ambitions of the king of Spain. For 10 points each:1. Name this war which lasted until 1720 and was named for one side of the conflict.	Answer:	War of the Quadruple Alliance2. Name the King of Spain whose desire to inherit the throne of France which had belonged to his grandfather Louis XIV contravened the settlement ending the War of the Spanish Succession and brought about the War of the Quadruple Alliance.	Answer:	Philip V3. Spain's lack of success led Philip to sign this treaty named for the administrative capital of the Netherlands which ended the war.	Answer:	Treaty of the Hague18. Identify the following about a well-known flammable, 10 points each.1. A colorless hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, this chemical has a formula CH3CH2CH3 or C3H8 and is often used commercially as a propellant for aerosols, but it is perhaps best known for its application in barbecues and gas grills for which it is sometimes sold as "Liquid Petroleum gas".	Answer:	propane2. Gas-grill propane is often sold in combination with this chemical of empirical formula C4H10, which comes in two isomers, the "i" or "iso" variety with formula CH3CH(CH3)2 now often used as a refrigerant, and the normal or "n" variety of formula CH3CH2CH2CH3, whose most common use is in cigarette lighters.	Answer:	butane3. Because propane is odorless the odorant C2H5SH is often added to it. As the SH implies, this chemical is one of these types of compounds similar to alcohols save with a sulfur replacing the oxygen atom of the hydroxyl group and known for their strong smells.	Answer:	thiol (accept mercaptan)19. One of the interesting things about the excellent film Garden State is its soundtrack. Name some of the artists found on it from clues, ten points each.1. The only artist to contribute two songs to the soundtrack is this band, from whose first big album Oh, Inverted World were taken "Caring is Creepy" and "New Slang", the song which Sam's character tells Large will "change your life".	Answer:	The Shins2. Garden State also made use of "The Only Living Boy in New York" from this duet's last album Bridge Over Troubled Water.	Answer:	Simon and Garfunkel3. "One of These Things First" from this troubled musician's album Bryter Layter was used in Garden State. He can also be recognised for "Black Eyed Dog" from the Practical Magic soundtrack and for "Pink Moon" recently used in a Volkswagen commercial.	Answer:	Nick Drake20. Identify the following psychological tests which can also, it seems, be easily folded into origami from descriptions, 15 points each:1. Developed by Florence Goodenough as an intelligence test and later adopted into a projective test in the 1940s, this technique relies on the way test subjects render artistically first any human being, then a human of the opposite gender, then themselves.	Answer:	Draw A Man (accept "Draw A Person", "Figure-drawing", "Drawing of Self-Concept") 3. A derivative of the Draw a Man technique, this test, designed by John Buck, involves having the subject render their own persons, a building, and another natural object as suggested by the name of the test.	Answer:	House-Tree-Person 
21. First proposed by Georg Cantor, the continuum hypothesis states that there is no set whose size is strictly between that of the integers and that of the real numbers. Answer the following questions about this concept, 5-10-15 points each.1. (5 points) Cantor also expressed the continuum hypothesis using this character, which he employed to represent the cardinality of infinite sets. Identify this letter.	Answer:	aleph2. (10 points)mCantor's many endeavors to prove the continuum hypothesis were unsuccessful, and thus in 1900 it was placed at the very top of the famous list of twenty-three unsolved problems put forth by this man.	Answer:	David Hilbert3. (15 points) Kurt Gšdel showed in 1940 that the continuum hypothesis cannot be disproved by means of the Zermelo-Fraenkel system even if this rule is adopted. Discovered by Ernst Zermelo, it states that g iven any set of mutually disjoint non-empty sets, there exists at least one set that contains exactly one element in common with each of the non-empty sets.	Answer:	axiom of choice  22. Identify the following from the Roman world, 30-20-10-5.1. (30 points) According to Livy, Gnaeus Fulvius Flaccus refused one which had been offered to him by the Senate, for which he was apparently condemned at public trial and exiled for offending religion, and they could only be given to men who had gained imperium through election to a magistracy.2. (20 points) They could never be given for deeds which resulted in the loss of ground, nor for repairing earlier losses, while Cicero states they they were never given for the results of a civil war, and they could only be granted to those proclaimed imperator on the field.3. (10 points) According to Oriosius, they were only awarded to generals for engagements which cost the enemy 5,000 men or more.4. (5 points) At the end of the film Patton quotes the introduction to Robert Payne's book on these, describing them as processions of musicians, strange animals from the conquered territories, carts of spoil, and prisoners before a general in a chariot, and "A slave stood behind the conqueror, holding a golden crown, and whispering in his ear a warning: that all glory is fleeting".	Answer:	triumph 