TOSSUPS - Matt Alford et al.				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Matt Alford with Ray Luo, Jason Keller, Chris Borglum, Casey Retterer, and your genial quizmaster1. In the west his achievements in science have been overshadowed by his poetry. Among his exploits were a series of astronomical tables, and a study of The Difficulties of Euclid's Definitions. The work most famously ascribed to him was modestly translated and forgotten, only to be rediscovered by the Pre-Raphaelites. FTP, name this author, from whose works H.H. Munro took his pseudonym Saki.	Answer:	Omar Khayyam2. It is named for the two people who postulated it in the 1920's, based on the statistical mechanics of photons. The basis of its discovery came in 1938 when Don Misener and John Allen discovered that helium-four displayed many unusual properties as a superfluid, including zero viscosity; which results in the collapse of atoms into a single quantum state. This state is, FTP, what year 2000 discovered state of matter?	Answer:	Bose-Einstein Condensate3. This war began with minor skirmishes at Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma. In terms of percentage, it would become the deadliest war in the history of the nations who fought it, with one hundred ten dying out of every thousand participating. It was the first war in which West Point graduates played a major role, and was the first time an enemy capital was captured. FTP, name the war that prompted Emerson to quip: "Most of the great results of history are brought about by discreditable means."	Answer:	Mexican-American War [prompt on Mexican War]4. Until the ultimate codename was finally adopted there were several names for intelligence from this source, including Boniface. The people who made this operation work were a combination of crossword lovers, chess enthusiasts, and seminal computer scientists, including Alan Turing and Max Newman. FTP, name this British effort to decode German Enigma Machines, which made Bletchley Park famous.	Answer:	Ultra5. This man achieved martyrdom in a very unusual manner. He was placed on a grill near the field of Verano, and is noteworthy for his sarcasm unto death. Shortly before he expired, a centurion inquired whether Christ was with him. The reply was: "I'm done on this side." Patron Saint of tanners and librarians, his feast day is August 10th, but is best known for his namesake river, the major water system of Canada, which connects the Great Lakes to the Atlantic.	Answer:	St. Lawrence6. Either the son of a police actuary named Frederich, who died soon after his birth in 1811, or of his mother's friend Ludwig Geyer, some of his early operas include Die Feen and Das Liebesverbot, the second which was produced in 1836. Because of his involvement in the semi-revolutionary group "Young Germany", he was forced to flee the country for 11 years, and his flight from Germany to Norway at sea was later a basis for one of his most famous operas. FTP Name this man, who organized the first Beyreuth Festival and wrote the Niebelung Cycle.	Answer:	Richard Wagner7 .His prolific literary career began with a bet with his wife when he exclaimed "I can write a story better than that." And he did, which became his first work, Precaution, though it was not well received upon publication in 1820. Three years later The Pioneers sold well enough to allow him to become a fulltime writer, and also introduced America to its first folk hero Natty Bumppo, who would later appear in the rest of, FTP, what man's Leatherstocking Tales?	Answer:	James Fenimore Cooper8.	Major types include the IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE and IgM. These proteinaceous molecules mirror stimulating antigen and have two major purposes: antibody formation and memory. FTP name the immune system cells that create and secrete antibodies.	Answer:	B Cells
9.	The first with this name was founded in 1919 as a Georges Latécoère company in the early, risky days of flight, let alone going postal, after World War I. Some of its pilots included Jean Mermoz, who would later preside over the creation of Air France, and Antoine St.-Exupery, who wrote the novel Night Flight about his experiences. The second company with this name was founded in 1987 and has since been a retailer of clothes in malls and the bane of fathers of 13 year old girls since, FTP; give the shared names of these companies, which is translated as "Air Mail" 	Answer:	Aeropostale10.	It saw the invention of block printing and contact with India and the Middle East.  With capital at Chang'an, its government was supported by scholar-officials selected by civil service examinations.  Followed by fragmentation into 5 northern dynasties and 10 southern kingdoms, this dynasty saw the spread of Buddhism and a rebellion by An Lushan.  FTP name this Chinese dynasty ruling from A. D. 618 to 907, the high point of Chinese civilization.	Answer:	Tang11.	Demuth's I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold displays it, and it was first postulated in 1842's On the Colored Light of Binary and Other Stars. The hypothesis was tested three years later using sound waves, and it was discovered independently using electromagnetic waves in 1848. It would require Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity to apply it to light waves, as there is no medium required for the transmission of light. FTP name this apparent change in frequency or wavelength of a wave that is perceived by an observer relative to the source.	Answer:	Doppler Effect12.	The author and the protagonist of this work share a name, and has been compared to Slaughter-House Five because of the commonalities of author insertion into the narrative. The stories, taking place both in America and overseas, range from "The Dentist," in which a man has a perfectly good tooth pulled, and the story of Curt Lemon, who died while playing catch with a grenade. FTP, name this series of interconnected short stories by Tim O'Brien that was a finalist for both the National Book Award and Pulitzer.	Answer:	The Things They Carried13.	This desert is dried by the Benguela current, and its aridness and proximity to the coast are responsible for dense fogs, which have resulted in many shipwrecks on the nearby Skeleton Coast.  Also home to the tallest sand dunes in the world, including the Matterhorn and Dune 7, Walvis Bay lies at its northern end. FTP, name this desert of Southwestern Africa, named in part for the country in which it lies.	Answer:	Namib Desert14 Created in 1834 during the Industrial Revolution, its initial purpose was to transport goods between East and West Prussia, and to thwart Austrian industrial ambitions. FTP, what is this entity, German for "Customs Union" which effectively made Germany the strongest industrial power on the Continent, and set the stage for German unification.	Answer:	Zollverein15.	Born in 1935 in Zurich, he was convicted at the age of 32 for large-scale embezzlement, forgery and tax evasion, which he claimed was a conspiracy of the Catholic hierarchy in Switzerland. While in jail he wrote his second book Gods From Outerspace, expanding the three premises laid down in his first book. FTP, name the author who advanced the theory that aliens made contact with Paleolithic man and early civilizations in his book, Chariots of the Gods?	Answer:	Erich von Daniken16.	In Greek myth, several women shared this name. One was a daughter of Oceanus and Tethys and mother to Dardanus, Iasion and Harmonia with Zeus. Another one was an Oceanid, or Pleiade, who was the mother of Iris and the Harpies by Thaumas. The most famous one was also known as Laodice, who, for ten points, was the sister of Chyrsothemis, Iphigenia and Orestes.	Answer:	 Electra17.	Their discovery led to the 1912 Nobel Chemistry Prize for their namesake.  It is vital in their reactions that no water be present because it makes them decompose, thus the use of ether or tetrahydrofuran. If oxygen is present, it may get inserted between the carbon base and magnesium halide group, causing many reactions to be carried out in nitrogen or argon atmospheres. Alcohols are byproducts of their reaction with compounds containing carbonyl groups. FTP name the reagents that are akly- or aryl- magnesium halides important in the synthesis of carbon-carbon bonds.	Answer:	 Grignard reagents
18.	This 1912 short story begins with a wizened sea captain recalling a strange experience at sea some years ago, in which a naked swimmer is hauled aboard his ship at night. The swimmer, named Leggatt has been charged with killing a seaman who panicked on a nearby ship. The superstitious Leggatt drowns himself to forestall bad fortune for the ship, the symbolic maturation of the protagonist. FTP, name this Conrad work that shows the strong influence of German doppelgangers and French Realism in exploring the duality of mankind.	Answer:	The Secret Sharer19.	Gaylord Nelson played a large role in the creation of this holiday, which is actually celebrated on two different days in the United States in any given year.  The first celebration saw more than 12,000 schools participate nationwide in 1970, and Secretary General U Thant signed a proclamation a year later that set the official date for the world celebration to the vernal equinox.  The Peace Bell is rung at UN headquarters at the start of the international version of, for then points, this holiday often overlooked by environmental policymakers, also celebrated by the United States on April 22.	Answer:	 Earth Day20.	No mutation, no migration, no selection, infinite population, sexually reproducing members, diploid gametes, and random mating are assumptions that lead to this condition in population. FTP, name this basic principle of population genetics that states that under these conditions, after one generation, the frequencies of genotypes at a single gene locus will be fixed at a particular equilibrium value named after the two scientists who postulated it.	Answer:	Hardy-Weinberg Principle21.	His works have been seen as exploration of sexual and political freedom, and is known for his maxim that the essence of novelistic representation lies in the writer's incestuous relationship with nature. At the age of 51, he published his most famous work, and managed to secure his property and released from prison for writing and eloquent eulogy for Marat. Supposedly "the freest spirit who ever lived," FTP name this author of Justine and hedonistic Frenchman, whose name entered the dictionary in 1834.	Answer:	Marquis de Sade22.	The term was coined by Oliver Heaviside in 1886 and the concept has significance in any system involving an oscillator, including auditory systems. This general expression can be used to denote a resistance or a pure reactance. FTP name this physical constant denoted by the symbol Z which measures the degree a component resists the flow of electrical current.	Answer:	Impedance
BONI - Matt Alford et al.				MOC MASTERS 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Matt Alford with Ray Luo, Jason Keller, Chris Borglum, Casey Retterer, and your genial quizmaster1.	Name the following Founding Fathers from clues FSPE.5: Considered "the American Sophist" this man was 81 years old at the time of the Constitutional Convention, and was too frail to be appointed its president. His health was so bad that four convicts from the local Philadelphia prison had to carry him through the streets on a Chinese divan because the bouncing of carriage wheels was too painful for him. 	Answer:	Benjamin Franklin10: Supposedly the only man to play the violin worse than Thomas Jefferson, the phrase "If this be treason, then make the most of it" is attributed to him.  His best-known quote concluded a speech he gave to the Virginia Provincial convention.	Answer:	Patrick Henry15: This lawyer represented Pennsylvania in the Continental Congress, then Delaware at the Constitutional Convention.  Opposed not only to the oppressive policies of the British but also the radical ideas of Samuel Adams, he was responsible for the drafting of the Olive Branch Petition.	Answer:	John Dickinson2	Complete the following biology analogies. For instance, if I were to say chemokinesis are to amoeba as "blank" are to sprinters, you would answer "brick wall."10: A stomate is to a plant leaf as a ________ is to a grasshopper	Answer:	Spiracle10: Flame cells are to platyhelminthes as the  __________ is to mammals	Answer:	Anus10:  Diabetes is to the pancreas as gigantism is to the ________.	Answer:	Pituitary 3.	Given a description, identify the poetic form FTPE.10: Coming from the Greek word for "mourning" it is a reflection on death or on sorrow in general. Literary example's include Tennyson's In Memoriam and Milton's Lycidas.	Answer:	Elegy10: Robert Bly has recently published a book of poems in this form called My Punishment was 1,000 Years of Joy, and Goethe made this form popular in 19th century Germany. Three lines with a shared rhythm and meter are considered complete of themselves, but usually four of these triplets are included on light-hearted topics, as its name literally means "speaking to women"	Answer:	ghazal10: Reach deep into your old-fashioned high school AP goody-bag-of-terms for this one; a three-line stanza using chain ryhme in the pattern of a-b-a, b-c-b, c-d-c, d-e-d is used. The form is generally acknowledged to have been invented by Dante, as he used it as the basis for his Divine Comedy, and was introduced to English by Chaucer and used with great effect in Shelley's Ode to the West Wind.	Answer:	terza rima4.	SI.com recently presented its choices for the top 20 steals in NBA draft history.  FTSNOP: (5/5)  #1 and #2 were by the same team in back-to-back years, the 16th pick of round 1 in 1984 and the 13th pick of Round 1 in 1985. F5PE name the two players chosen, a point guard from Gonzaga and a power forward from Louisiana Tech.	Answer:	John Stockton and Karl Malone(5/5)  #3 and #5 were also by the same team in back-to-back years.  With the 18th pick of Round 1 in 1985, the Pistons picked a guard from McNeese State - who remains with the franchise today as the GM.  With a 2nd rounder in 1986 that was the 27th pick overall, they took an undersized power forward from Southeastern Oklahoma State.  Name them F5PE.	Answer:	Joe Dumars and Dennis Rodman(10)  Manu Ginobili was ranked #4, and SI.com ranked at 6th the man they called the prototype for Ginobili.   FTP name this Lithuanian, picked by the Warriors in the 6th round (back when they HAD a 6th round), whose hardnosed play helped shake the image of European players as soft.	Answer:	Sarunas MarciulionisEDITOR'S NOTE: Also picked in 1985 was #18 on the list, picked by the Knicks in the 2nd round: Gerald Wilkins of UTC.
5.	Given a description, name the tempo from music.10: Meaning "slowly" this term is also used in ballet for the section of a pas de deux in which a ballerina is lifted and twirled by her partner.	Answer:	Adagio10: Slower than both adagio and largo, this term means "as slow as reasonably possible."	Answer:	Larghissimo10: Technically denoting a change in tempo, this term is abbreviated "rit." And means slowing down.	Answer:	Ritardando6.	You're at a party and a bunch of Norse Gods show up, but then again you're a little bit trashed, and drinking liquor, not mead. You try and identify them from the following descriptions.10: The least threatening of the new guests, these are the first man and the first woman created, they're naked and she's hot in a Northern European varicose-veined kinda way. What are their names?	Answer:	Ask and Embla [or Ash and Elm]10: He's not actually a god, but giant-kin, but he's the Norse Party's equivalent of the guy that sits in the corner with a Sharpie waiting for someone to pass out so he can write "Fag" on their forehead. Name the trickster god.	Answer:	Loki10: You suddenly notice all the girls in the room have flocked to a single deity, the fairest of the Aesir, just because he's the god of light, joy and beauty doesn't necessarily mean that he's a better lay than you, so you conspire with Loki to off him with a dart of mistletoe.	Answer:	BaldurEDITOR'S NOTE: When Ask met Embla, did that lead to the first woodie?7.	As you well know, Dorothy Gale and her aunt's house were picked up by a tornado and transported to the land of the Munchkins. FTPE:10: Dorothy doesn't fit in, not only because she was taller than they were, but also because their customs and dress seemed so radically different. She is suffering from what 1958 coined term for someone experiencing stress in a new environment?	Answer:	Culture Shock10: The Munchkins might well have Inquisitioned Dorothy and Toto had they stayed because Toto was black. This would imply the munchkins adhere to this doctrine, believing their culture the benchmark against which all others are judged, and by implication Dorothy and Toto's dress and thought were aberrant. 	Answer:	Ethnocentrism10: In the Director's cut of the Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion mauls each of his traveling companions. Adler would have most likely have deemed it a result of this condition, which in severe cases causes paranoia and feelings of persecution or inadequacy.	Answer:	Inferiority Complex8.	Name the physicist based on the achievements, 5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for three and 30 for all four.[A] Italian responsible for wireless telegraphy.	Answer:	 Guglielmo Marconi[B] The discovery of his namesake scattering demonstrated the particle concept of electromagnetic radiation.	Answer:	 Arthur Compton[C] Hans Falkenhagen had also discovered the neutron at the same time as this man, but modestly declined to share the Nobel Prize with him.	Answer:	 James Chadwick[D] The uncle of fellow Nobel Laureate Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, his namesake effect is the inelastic scattering of a photon that creates or annihilates an optical phonon.	Answer:	 Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman 
9.	Identify these Spanish explorers of the New World FTPE.A. In 1565 this man founded St. Augustine and later took Fort Caroline from the French; he served as Florida's governor until his 1574 death.	Answer:	Pedro Menendez de AvilesB. After helping Pizarro conquer the Inca, this man explored the Southeastern US and led the first European expedition to the Mississippi River.	Answer:	Hernando de SotoC. He was one of four survivors of the failed Florida expedition of Panfilo de Narvaez who resurfaced seven years later in western Mexico.  His narrative got him appointed governor of La Plata in what is now Argentina.	Answer:	Alberto Nunez Cabeza de Vaca10. The Booker Prize is handed out to the best book published in the Commonwealth during a given year. Given a novel, name the nationality  of the winner FTPE; if the author is needed you'll get only five.10: Disgrace5: J.M. Coetzee	Answer:	South Africa10: In A Free State5: V.S. Naipaul	Answer:	Trinidad and Tobago10: Life of Pi5: Yann Martel	Answer:	Canada11.	Given the name of a serial killer, give the popular moniker FTPE:10: Albert DeSalvo	Answer:	Boston Strangler10: David Berkowitz	Answer:	Son of Sam10: Richard Ramirez	Answer:	The Night Stalker12 Given a chemical formula, give the more commonly known name for the compound.10: NaHCO3	Answer:	Baking Soda (acc. Sodium Bicarbonate)10: C6H4, Benzene,CO2H; or acetylsalicylic acid	Answer:	Aspirin10: C2H4O2	Answer:	Vinegar 13 On a 5-10-20-30 basis, name the candidate given the "third party" and the year of their presidential bid:a: National Unity Party, 1980	Answer:	John Andersonb: States Rights Democratic Party, 1948	Answer:	Strom Thurmondc: American Independent Party, 1968	Answer:	George Wallaced:  Progressive Party, 1924	Answer:	Robert LaFollette14.	 FTPE, given a Faulkner novel, name the family central to that novel:10: The Sound and the Fury 	Answer:	the Compsons10: As I Lay Dying 	Answer:	the Bundrens10: Absalom, Absalom 	Answer:	the Sutpens
15.  They all follow the predictable format of: we were persecuted, let's feast.  FTPE name these Jewish holidays:10: Though not mentioned in scripture until the Book of Exodus, elements of it were most likely observed in earlier times. A Seder dinner is held and unleavened bread eaten in honor of the flight from Egypt.	Answer:	Pesach (oh, all right, accept Passover)10: So I lied in the lead-in, no direct persecution in this one. It is known as the Feast of Weeks and honors the giving of the Torah to the Jewish people.	Answer:	Shavuot10: Commemorates the deliverance of the Persian Jews from the plot of Haman to exterminate them. The Book of Esther is read from, and charity and feasting abound.	Answer:	Purim16.	Given the female assassin or would-be assassin, name her target FTPE.10: Judith	Answer:	Holofernes10: Charlotte Corday	Answer:	Jean-Paul Marat10: Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme	Answer:	Gerald Ford  17.	FTP, all or nothing: There are three types of muscle tissue in the body, for voluntary movement, circulation and involuntary movement, name them.	Answer:	Skeletal (accept Striated), Cardiac, Smooth10: The plasma membrane of a muscle fiber.	Answer:	Sarcolemma10: The protein that makes up the contractile unit of the cell.	Answer:	Myosin18.	PRIZE TIME. Given a prestigious prize name the field. For instance, if I said Darwin Award, you'd say "human stupidity"10: Pritzker Prize	Answer:	Architecture10: Hugo Award	Answer:	Science Fiction Writing (do not prompt on "fiction" or "writing)10: Fields Medal	Answer:	Mathematics 19.	Name the national epic from descriptions FTPE.10: Supposedly compiled from folk sources, this Finnish epic tells the tale of a shamanistic hero who was born of the Maiden of the Air goes on various quests, as it chronicles various creation myths, a long wedding ceremony, the right words of spells of healing and the theft of the Sampo, a magical mill of the north.	Answer:	Kalevala10: In this epic of Mali, a warrior-king is born but shortly thereafter crippled by a curse and exiled, but years later with the help of his generals and his sister Sugulun Kulukan he wrests his kingdom back from Sumamuru and begins conquering an empire.	Answer:	Son Jara10: This epic of the Byzantine Empire opens with the Arab incursions into the empire, followed by reconciliation through marriage of the two leading figures and sees the triumph of Christianity over Islam when a leading emir is converted and it is the accepted beginning of writing in the country's vernacular.	Answer:	Digenis Acritus
20.	Given a mythological bombshell name the monster associated with her.10: Ariadne	Answer:	Minotaur10: Leda	Answer:	Swan (yes, they're monsters)10: Andromeda	Answer:	Sea Monster (accept variations21.	Provided a description, name the color associated with that description.10: A theoretical absorber of all incident radiation.	Answer:	Black10: The "cake" also known as urania or uranic oxide obtained through the milling of uranium ore and then later in the enrichment of uranium.	Answer:	Yellow10: On the color wheel, it is the complement of magenta, and the human eye can distinguish more shades of this color than any other.	Answer:	Green)