TOSSUPS -- "Kill the Man Who Questions"			MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall with one pinch-hit appearance by Ray Luo1. When the title character of this novel falls ill, his doorkeeper Cibot conspires with the pawnkeeper Remonencq and the Jewish art fancier Elie Magus to defraud him of his priceless pieces by convincing his roommate, the appropriately-named Schmucke, to sell them to pay for his medical bills. Earlier the title character had been turned away from the dinner table of his relative Marville, having alienated Marville's wife and failed to find their daughter Cecile a husband. Ending like most of the novels in the series with vice rewarded, FTP name this work about the betrayals of the conductor Sylvain, part of La Comedie Humaine by Honore de Balzac	Answer:	Cousin Pons2. It would ultimately end the Baton Rouge rebellion and relieve one of its parties of damages amounting to $5 million from claims of the citizens of the other parties. It would further establish borders between the two parties that began at the mouth of the Sabine River and followed the 42nd parallel to the Pacific.  But its primary impact was the cession of part of the territory gradually encroached upon since the beginning of the 19th century and partly conquered by the renegade Andrew Jackson. FTP name this agreement negotiated in 1819 between the Spanish Minister and an American Secretary of State and future President, which gave Florida to the United States.	Answer:	Adams-Onis or Transcontinental Treaty3.  He took the graph of y equals one over x with range of x greater than or equal to one and rotated it in three dimensions, which produced a figure with infinitely long surface area but finite volume, called "Gabriel's Horn" or this man's namesake "trumpet".  During his lifetime he was known for his calculations of cycloids and his work on fluid mechanics, including his principle relating the speed of a liquid flowing out of an opening in a tank to both the force of gravity and the vertical distance between the liquid surface and the centre of the opening.  Briefly a secretary to Galileo, FTP name this man, the first to create a sustained artificial vacuum, which he used in his most famous invention, the barometer.	Answer:	Evangelista Torricelli4. While still a youth he mastered the the Bridge of Leaping and was given access to all of the secrets of the warrior-goddess Scathech (Ska-tha) including the secrets of the deadly spear Gae Bolg. In fact, it was his youth that prevented him from succumbing to the Curse of Macha and enabled him to perform some of his most famous exploits.  But his use of the Gae Bolg would lead to his killing of his son Connla, of his bosom companion Ferdiad, and ultimately to the death of his horse, his charioteer, and himself when used on him by his enemy Lewy. Son of Lugh of the Long Arm, FTP name this hero of the Red Branch of Ulster originally named Setanta, who got his name when after killing the guarddog of a Smith he vowed to serve in its place.	Answer:	Cu Chullan (coo-coo-lain)5. One of his later works is a semi-autobiographical dialogue between Mr. Attentive and Mr. Wiseman entitled The Life and Death of Mr. Badman. Another work, written while he was in prison for preaching without a license, describes the author's terror of the Judgment including seeing a face looking down from the clouds asking him about his soul and is entitled Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners. While the tractarian Differences in Judgment about Water-Baptism no Bar to Communion and the allegorical The Holy War followed in the 1670s and 80s, he is best known for narrating the voyage of Christian and his wife Christina from the "Wicked Gate" to the celestial city. FTP name this man, best known for his two-part Pilgrim's Progress.	Answer:	John Bunyan6. According to its director, this film's extended opening shot was shot in Osaka, Japan, which looked advanced enough to look futuristic in the country where it was released, and the slow scene of car traffic was deliberately made to be slow and boring "so that the idiots leave before the actual movie starts". Made in response to Stanley Kubrick's 2001 and relying mostly on feelings of claustrophobia, menace, and isolation, the plot is confusing but centers on an analyst sent to investigate the death of a scientist at a space station on a mysterious planet, who starts to doubt his sanity when his wife shows up despite having committed suicide seven years before. Based on a Stanislas Lem novel, FTP name this 1972 film by Andrei Tarkovsky, later remade into a George Clooney vehicle by Stephen Soderbergh.	Answer:	Solaris
7. In the opening stages of this battle, one side was deceived by false intelligence that his enemy was in Aleppo, and though captives informed him of the true situation he soon found his first division attacked along the road by the Orontes river while another wave stormed his camp. Taking advantage of his opponent's breaking formation to loot his camp, the attacked general committed his reserve and extricated himself while the enemy retreated into the city, leading to a stalemate and the first known recorded peace treaty between the combatants. FTP name this battle fought in 1275 BCE whose draw did not keep Pharoah Ramses II from claiming complete victory over the Hittites under Muwatallis.	Answer:	Kadesh8. Taking its current name from the Islamic governor's palace built there in 1461, the city is located on the river Miliaca on the foothill of Mount Trebevi?, part of the Dinaric Alps. The main suburb of this city is Ilidza, which contains the remains of Roman town of Aqua Sulphurae and is the only place on earth except Jerusalem where a mosque, a cathedral, and a synagogue can be found within 100 meters of each other.  Other significant sites include the Gazi Husrev-Beg Mosque and a street named the Appel Quay on which its most significant historical event took place.  FTP name this city, currently the capital of Bosnia-Herzegovina, where in 1914 Franz Ferdinand was assassinated to start World War I.	Answer:	Sarajevo9. The Naegleria variety has a flagellated stage and causes a fatal disease of the nervous system, while the testate type lives in shells made by cementing sand grains together.  A polyphyletic groups often called rhizopods, they move using cytoplasmic streaming with pseudopods.  Including E. histolytica, the cause of dysentery, FTP name these protists that engulf particles by pseudopodia.	Answer: amoebas10. A small one-act scene during a comedy festival takes up the character during the cavalier years, where his willingness to turn over Charles I to the Roundheads for a reward might explain his descent from the aristocracy. At the end of his third and perhaps best incarnation it appears he will become King of England when he changes places with his daft employer only to survive the cannon duel with the Duke of Wellington while his employer is shot for his insolence.  But by the final season he is literally back in the trenches and apparently perishes along with George, Darling, and his faithful if idiotic friend during the First World War. Accompanied throughout the centuries by the imbecile Baldrick, this is, FTP, what slimy son of mad King Richard the IV; a courtier of Queen Elizabeth; butler to Prince George; and captain in the British army during World War I, played with detached cynicism and cruelty by Rowan Atkinson?	Answer:	Black Adder11. Among this man's works were dramas like Richelieu and the satire Money, inspired by the financial distress that helped sour his marriage to Rosina Doyle Wheeler. A long-time member of Parliament and friend of Disraeli, he generally left politics to his well-known relative and concentrated on works like Pelham, Rienzi, and the Caxtons.  But he is perhaps best known for a turgidity of prose that produced lines like "Ho, Diomed! Well met!" and "It was a dark and stormy night". FTP name this author, considered one of the best and worst ever for works like Paul Clifford and The Last Days of Pompeii, and brother of the negotiator of a famous Panama Canal-related treaty.	Answer:	Edward Bulwer-Lytton 12. Though the elector of Saxony, whose wife was a daughter of Joseph I, would continue to abide by it, Charles Albert of Bavaria, husband of another of Joseph's daughters, would not, and this breaking of his oath would cost the estate of its promulgator Silesia, part of the Duchy of Milan, and the duchies of Parma and Piacenza. Essentially, it had provided for the succession of the descendants of Joseph I to all the lands of its framer should he die without issue, but mandated that all Hapsburg lands would go to his descendants, which in this case was a daughter, Maria Theresa. FTP name this document which provoked the War of Austrian Succession on the death of its writer, Charles VI.	Answer:	Pragmatic Sanction13. Unhydrolyzable forms of these compounds, known as the "condensed" variety, sometime take the name pro-antho-cyanidins and consist of polymer flavonoid units which can precipitate into phlobaphenes, while the hydrolyzable varieties contain polyol carbohydrates esterified with phenolic groups such as gallic or ellagic acids. Metal ion chelators which demonstrate high styptic and astringent properties, substances high in these compounds include tea, although green tea does not release them, hence its color.  The word itself is Celtic for "oak", the source which yields the variety employed in its most common use. FTP name identify this class of  plant polyphenols that bind and precipitate proteins, used to clarify wine, treat internal bleeding, and color and treat leather, a process which derives its name from them.	Answer:	tannins
14. In 1840 three more of them in F Minor, A-flat Major, and D-flat Major were published as part of Fetis and Moscheles's Method of Methods for Piano, though most musicologists count them as separate from the 24 original pieces issued by the composer. Published in two sets of twelve, the composer's Opus 10 and 25, respectively, and originally unnamed, each of them dealt with a specific technical issue but were of such quality and complexity that the critic Edward Dannreuther asserted that they have "no didactic purpose". Including "Winter Wind", "Butterly", "Aeolian Harp", "Black Key", and "Revolutionary", FTP name this series of instructional compositions by Frederic Chopin.	Answer:	Études15. As one of the speakers tries to convince the other to be merciful to the title figure, she relates how in his age-rattled conversation the latter brought up Harold, his former workmate who left four years ago to teach at college, but whom the title figure thinks he can make worthwhile by making him give up Latin studies and learn hay-baling. He is apparently disliked by his brother, a wealthy bank executive, and thus is forced to return to the couple whose service he earlier left to ditch their field.  While Mary waits to see if the small sailing cloud will hit the moon, Warren relents and goes in only to discover his intent to rehire him is rendered unnecessary by the title action. FTP name this Robert Frost poem describing a conversation outside about the old laborer Silas, who has in the meantime perished indoors.	Answer:	"Death of the Hired Man"16. Suddenly out of an engineering job when the Compagnie Universelle du Canal Interocéanique failed in 1889, this man first signed on with the United States as a facilitator of negotiations which would help the US resume the task that he and Ferdinand de Lesseps had left off.  But when diplomacy failed, he helped foment the revolt that severed from Colombia the land where the job-site was located, and he was then hired as an ambassador by the newly-independent Panama to renegotiate the treaty that Colombian Tomas Herran was unable to complete. FTP name this man, who with the U.S. Secretary of State attached his name to the 1903 treaty that gave the United States the Panama Canal Zone.	Answer:	Phillipe-Jean Bunau-Varilla17. This psychological phenomenon is an important element of the James Bond film The World is Not Enough and it is explained pretty well by 007 himself in the film, who describes how it usually occurs in kidnapped women, often young and sexually inexperienced, whose dependence on their captors leads them to sympathize with and even love them. Patty Hearst is probably the most famous sufferer, but it actually takes its name from a 1973 bank robbery in which women held hostage by the robbers resisted rescue, testified on behalf of the robbers, and even got engaged to one of them. FTP name this condition, named for the Swedish city in which the robbery took place.	Answer:	Stockholm Syndrome 18. Details in this work which immediately catch the eye include a figure on the lower mid-right with one hand covering his face in horror as he is dragged downwards, where he will join a boatman seen in the lower left flogging his passengers with an oar.  A figure around whom a snake is coiled is said to resemble the Biagio da Cesena, who had disparaged the nudity in its artist's work.  Another of its artist's critics, Pietro Aretino, is alleged to be the inspiration for Saint Bartholomew in the upper left holding his flayed skin whose features are that of the artist. The largest single fresco of the 16th century, it was commissioned by Pope Clement VII and finished under his successor.  FTP name this decoration for the altar wall of the Church whose ceiling had also been completed by the artist, Michelangelo.	Answer:	Last Judgment of the Sistine Chapel (prompt of "Last Judgment", and accept "Michelangelo's Last Judgment" or reasonable equivalents until last clue)19. In writing of his own accomplishments this man mentions seeing his two sons become consul and his association with his father-in-law, Quintus Symmachus,  while a biography by his senatorial colleague Cassiodorus notes his pastoral poetry and philosophical translations.  These include a commentary on the Isagoge of Porphyry which launched the problem of universals and a translation of the bulk of the works of Aristotle.  He may be better known for defending the senator Albinus from charges of inciting Justinian to overthrow Theodoric,  at which point he was cast into prison and sentenced to death. FTP name this man who spent his incarceration meditating on the fleeting nature of Fortune and the permanent benefits of wisdom, which he described in his Consolation of Philosophy.	Answer:	Anicius Manlius Servius Boethius
20. Among its features include its epsilon star "Mebsuta", rare because it is a cool Class G Supergiant, while "Mekbuda", its zeta star, is one of the few easily visible cepheid variables and near its eta star, Propus, is the open cluster M35. Also near Propus is the so-called "Eskimo Nebula", NGC 2392, which was discovered by William Herschel who also located the planet Uranus in the vicinity of Propus, while Clyde Tombaugh found Pluto near its delta star Wasat. Located at Right Ascension 7h and declination 20 degrees, FTP name this constellation between Taurus and Cancer in the zodiac most famous for its alpha and beta stars, Castor and Pollux.	Answer:	Gemini21. Depictions of this Saint frequently contain images of three wounds on her neck, illustrating the three sword cuts on her neck that still could not kill her after an attempt to suffocate her in her bath also failed.  She is also frequently depicted with lilies and roses, referring to the invisible wreath of roses with whose heavenly aroma she was able to convert to Christianity her brother-in-law Tiburtius.  Venerated at least since the fourth century, her story is told in the Martyrology of Jerome, which tells how her bridegroom Valerian agreed to let her keep her virginity when she revealed the angels who sang the hymns she composed, though her other famous attribute, a musical instrument, stems from a misreading of the text. FTP name this Saint often held to be the inventor of the organ with which she is most frequently pictured, the patron saint of musicians.	Answer:	Saint Cecilia22. Set on Independence Day dring World War II, the action of this work begins as Ambose, his parents and and uncle, his older brother Peter, and Magda, a girl Ambrose likes, are en route to Ocean City, Maryland. Ambrose is given money and he, Peter, and Magda go to the Boardwalk, but before Ambrose can tell Magda he loves her, she and Peter leave him in the Hall of Mirrors while they go off to visit other parts of the title structure. Such is a sketch of the plot of, FTP, what 1968 story, one of the most famous of John Barth?	Answer:	Lost in the Funhouse23. At the University of Lund this man he became a research assistant to Johannes Rydberg and succeeded him as professor of physics in 1920. In 1924 he showed that X rays passing through prisms are refracted and later studied the weaker X rays that lie near the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, but he is best known for his earlier discovery of several new groups of wavelengths in X-ray emission spectra, which he labeled K through P. FTP name this man, whose work in X-ray spectroscopy earned him the Nobel Prize in 1924, also the father of the 1981 winner.	Answer:	Karl  Manne Georg Siegbahn24. According to Livy, one man by this name was finally hunted down and defeated by Marcus Furius Camillus, who recaptured from him the treasure he had taken from the Romans. This treasure was given to him as payment to end his siege of the Capitoline after having defeated the Romans at the Allia River, and though he cheated in weighing down the scales with the weapons from his troops, he got away with it after laconically remarking "Vae Victis", or "Woe to the Conquered". FTP name this semi-legendary leader of the Gauls who supposedly sacked Rome in 390 BCE, who shares his name with another Gaulish chieftain driven to suicide in 279 BCE after heavy losses at Thermopylae.	Answer:	Brennus25. The daughter of a prominent painter, this woman was apprenticed under Gustav Kilmt and had attracted the attention of Oscar Kokoschka but turned away from painting to music, sturying composition under Alexander von Zeminsky. Though not herself known for any musical or artistic works of her own, she was friends with many of the major artistic figures of the early twentieth century, including Arnold Schoenberg, Alban Berg, Franz Werfel, Walter Gropius, and Gustav Mahler, the latter three of whom she married. FTP name this woman, whose amatory exploits are celebrated by Tom Lehrer.	Answer:	Alma Schindler Mahler Gropius Werfel
BONI -- "Kill the Man Who Questions"			MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall with one pinch-hit appearance by Ray Luo1. This bonus will discuss architecture seen by the packet author during his expedition north to the Chicago Open in July. FTP each:1. On their first evening in town Seth had dinner with his teammate Gerald, Raj Dhuwalia, Chris Borglum, and the rest of the Valencia CC crew at the Pegasus in Greektown which offered him a direct view of this building designed by chief architect Bruce Graham, from whose completion in 1973 until the construction of ther Patronas towers in 1997 reigned as the tallest building in the world.	Answer:	the Sears tower2. During Lunch on Saturday Seth decided to hit Powell's Used Bookstore and while walking down 58th Street he passed this residence designed by Frank Lloyd Wright and completed in 1908. A multilevel Prairie style home, it is made of brick and notable for its sweeping horizontal lines, stretches of art glass windows and open floor plan.	Answer:	Robie House 3. While driving in from the O'Hare Marriott for the Lit Singles on Sunday Gerald, Raj, Borglum, and Seth passed the Lake Shore Drive apartments, the first building to use an all glass and steel curtain wall in its construction and built by this man, the chief proponent of the International Style also famous for the Barcelona Pavilion and the Seagram Building in New York.	Answer:	Ludwig Mies van der Rohe (prompt on "van der Rohe" because the author isn't  a complete bastard, though note that his name is actually "Mies van der Rohe")2. Identify the following about a band, 10 points each..1. Hits by this band include "Marrakesh Express", "Our House", "Carry On", and "Suite: Judy Blue Eyes", which they played during their CSNY2K tour.	Answer:	Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young (prompt on "Crosby, Stills and Nash")2. Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young came from three other bands, one of which included both Stephen Stills and Neil Young.  Name these bands F5PE or 20 for all 3 correct.	Answer:	The Hollies, the Byrds, Buffalo Springfield3. After some time at Cambridge, where he gained some fame for his poem ""On the Morning of Christ's Nativity", this author retired to Horton where he produced the poems "Il Penseroso" and "L'Allegro" and the dirge "Lycidas" about the death of his friend Edward King. For 10 points each:1. Name this poet, who published his "Horton poems" in the same volume as his Paradise Regained.	Answer:	John Milton2. Also written at Horton was this Masque based on Peele's Old Wives' Tale in which two brothers and a sister become separated in a forest at night and the sister is captured by the title character, the god of revelry but she is rescued by her brothers and an "attendant spirit" in the guise of their father's shepherd.	Answer:	Comus3. In that volume in which Milton published Paradise Regained and his "Horton Poems" he also published this closet drama about the wretchedness of this son of Manoah now eyeless in Gaza, where he is taunted by the giant Rapha but is nevertheless able to summon strength to bring down a temple on the Philistines.	Answer:	Samson Agonistes 4. In 1105 he forced the abdication from German throne of his father and assumed the crown of the Holy Roman Empire in 1111 and ruled until 1125. For the stated number of points:1. 15 points: Name this ruler, the last of the Salian emperors of the Holy Roman Empire.	Answer:	Henry V2. 10 points: In 1122 Henry V finally came to an agreement with Pope Calixtus II in the Concordat of Worms which ended this long struggle begun under Henry IV concerning whether or not spiritual or secular officials could appoint bishops and give them power.	Answer:	The Investiture Controversy or Contest (or reasonable equivalents)3. 5 points: In 1114 Henry married this daughter of Henry I of England dispossessed by King Stephen, and while they had no children she would eventually marry Geoffrey of Anjou and give birth to Henry II of England.	Answer:	Mathilda (Maud)
5. Discovered in the red blood cells of birds in 1884, their name is derived from the Greek for "mast" and they act as spools around which DNA winds and play a role in gene regulation, during which they can undergo posttranslational modifications. For 10 points each:1. Name these compounds of which the globin of hemoglobin is one, which also play a role in the shutting off of gene activity as discovered in the 1960s by James Bonner.	Answer:	histones2. This winding of DNA and histones are known by this name, coming from their ability to be seen by staining.	Answer:	chromatin3. Histones were discovered and named by this man, who also discovered with a team of research assistants adenine, cytosine, guanine, thymine, and uracil and was awarded the 1910 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his efforts.	Answer:	Albrecht Kossel6. Identify the religious observance, 30-20-10.1. 30 points: Traditions surrounding this holiday including the theft and ransom of the Afikomen by the children of the house and is often preceeded by Ta-anit Be-kho-rim, a fast on the Erev. Occasionally observers engage in the mek-hi-rat cha-metz , during which prohibited material is sold to non-believer and what is left over is destroyed in the bed-hi-kat. 2. 20 points: During the first night the prophet Elijah is invited and is made welcome by a cup of wine left for him. During that first night the ritual meal is accompanied by reading of the Haggadah, during which the story of the holiday's significance is told by means of the Maggid during which the Nach Mish-ta-nach or "Four Questions" are asked.3. 10 points: Begun with the eating of the ceremonial meal called the seder, in remembrance of the flight from Egypt unleavened bread or matzo is eaten for a week.	Answer:	Pesach ("Passover" for the goyim )7. Among the works which could be classified by this name are Tommaso Campanella La città del sole (City of the Sun) written in 1602, as well as James Harrington's The Commonwealth of Oceana from 1656, while later novels like Theodor Herzka's Freiland from 1890 also qualify. For 10 points each:1. Name this type of novel set in an ideal place, which derives its name from the most famous example written by Thomas More in 1516.	Answer:	Utopian novels2. Perhaps the most influential Utopian novel of modern times is Looking Backward, written by this man.	Answer:	Edward Bellamy3. Another Utopian work centers around J. Rogers, Steve Jamnik, and Professor Burris along with their girlfriends and their investigation of the community founded by Frazier. Name this work written by B. F. Skinner.	Answer:	Walden Two8. On April 18th the forces of the United States under Winfield Scott and David Twiggs engaged the Mexicans at a battle of Cerro Gordo. For the stated number of points: 1. 5 points: The Mexicans defeated at Cerro Gordo were under the command of this General and Former President of that nation who used the war as a pretext to seize power again but was deposed when the war was over.	Answer:	Antonio López de Santa Anna Pérez de Lebrón2. 15 points: "Cerro Gordo" or "Fat Hill" is actually a corruption of "Sierra Guarda", or "Mountain Fortress" which was another name for this elevation, named for the signalling station on top of it. Give the name of this hill, similar to named hills which played their parts in the battles of Fredericksburg and the Crimean War Battle of the Alma.	Answer:	Telegraph Hill (El Telegrafo)3. 10 points: The approach to Telegraph Hill was gained through the nearby smaller hill of La Atalaya covered by artillery fire directed by this man, who later fell at the battle of South Mountain before Sharpsburg. FTP name this man, for whose heroism the second largest city in Nevada after Las Vegas would later take his name.	Answer:	Jesse Lee Reno
9. Essentially this effect can be described as the method whereby a current passes through a force barrier because per quantum mechanics one can never predict exactly where an individual electron is, which in practice means that at least some particles will appear on the other side of the barrier. For 10 points each:1. Name this effect, sometimes also known as Barrier Passing.	Answer:	tunneling2. Experiment with tunneling as chief physicist for Sony in the 1950s, this man devised ways to modify the behavior of solid-state semiconductors by doping, leading to the development of the double diode which is known by his name.	Answer:	Leo Esaki3. Along with Esaki and Brian Josephson, this Norwegian-born physicist shared the 1973 Nobel Prize in Physics.  During the 1960s he managed to "marry", as he put it, tunneling and superconductivity with a device consisting of a sandwich of an insulated piece of superconducting metal and a normal, which allowed electrons to pass like waves of radiation through "holes" in solid-state devices. 	Answer:	Ivar Giaever10. Now for a horrible Social Science question, as if there were another kind: identify the following interestingly named economic phenomena, 10 points each1. This is the term for money in the form of foreign investments which a country receives when it has a favorable rate of interest but which will be taken out should a more favorable interest rate be found elsewhere.	Answer:	Hot Money2. This phenomenon is the movement of wealth from hard currency to interest bearing assets due to expectations of price increases or of a fall in the interest rate.	Answer:	flight from cash3. This refers to the desire of those on whom an unfair tax is levied to harm those who levy the tax; an example is the decrease in work effort made by those on whom an unpopular income tax is imposed with the hope that revenue raised by the tax will diminish, and that the feeling of revenge achieved will compensate the taxpayer for his own losses.	Answer:	spite effect11. Given the second party and year a president tried to regain the Oval Office, name him, 10 points each; if you need the year and party o which he belonged when he first took office, you'll only get 5.1. 10 points: This man unsuccessfully ran as a member of the Free Soil party in 1848. 5 points: He took office as a democrat in 1836.	Answer:	Martin Van Buren2. 10 points: This man unsuccessfully ran as a member of the Progressive Party in 1912 5 points: In 1901 he took office as a Republican upon the death in office of his predecessor, and was re-elected as a member of that party in 1904.	Answer:	Theodore Roosevelt3. 10 points: This man unsuccessfully ran as a member of the American party in 1856. 5 points: In 1850 he took office as a Whig upon the death in office of his predecessor.	Answer:	Millard Fillmore12. Identify the type of clouds, 10 points each.1. Named for the Latin for "stretched out flat", the clouds are characterized by horizontal layering with a uniform base and are usually flat and featureless, forming at low altitude and varying in color from dark gray to nearly white. They are essentially fog that rose above ground level and are formed either through the lifting of morning fog or when cold air moves at low altitudes over a region.	Answer:	stratus2. Characterized by globular masses or rolls in layers or patches, these clouds are of medium height, forming between 8000-20,000 ft. In the sky they often resemble ridges in a plowed field ot lines of corduroy.	Answer:	altocumulus3. This new cloud type consists of long clouds formed by jet exhaust or precipitate on aircraft wings which can eventually coalesce into cirrus clouds. These have recently come to be of some concern, as NASA experiments confirm that they lower ground temperature by day and warm it by night, thus creating frontal zones in areas like the U.S. Great Plains.	Answer:	contrail (condensation trail)
13. At the end of the first World War Jean Cocteau gathered together a group of Parisian composers who shared his ideas that music should be practical, anti-earnest, and fun, a group which came to be known simply as Les Six. For five points each, name the members of Les Six.	Answer:	Georges Auric, Louis Durey, Arthur Honneger, Darius Milhaud, Francis Poulenc, Germaine Tailleferre 14. To help him combat evil, the God Thor assembled a team of Marvel super-heroes. Answer the following questions about this team for the stated number of points.1. First, name each of the four other members Thor assembled, five points for each correct answer.	Answer:	Iron Man, Hulk, Ant-Man, Wasp2. For an additional five points, against what menace did Thor, Hulk, Ant Man, Wasp, and Iron Man fight?	Answer:	Loki3.For a final five points, what was the name by which this team would be known?	Answer:	Avengers  15. Name the author from clues, 30-20-10.1. 30 points: This author published her first collection of stories, The Troll Garden, while a teacher. Its success led to her appointment as managing editor of McClure's magazine, which she left in 1912 to devote herself to novels, publishing Alexander's Bridge, her first, that year.2. 20 points: Later works include One of Ours, for which she won a Pulitzer, Obscure Destinies, and Song of the Lark.3. 10 points: She is best known for such works as O, Pioneers! and  My Antonia.	Answer:	Willa Cather16. Their movement began in 1688 with the Glorious Revolution and soon erupted into military conflict with Battle of Killiecrankie and the battle of the Boyne. For 10 points each:1. Identify this partisan movement whose name derives from the Latin name of the deposed monarch it supported deposed in favor of William of Orange and Mary II.	Answer:	Jacobite movement2. The Jacobite rebellion perhaps might most suitably apply to this conflict which culminated in the battle of Preston. Led by the Earl of Mar on behalf of James Edward Stuart, the Old Pretender, it is most commonly referred to by this name, taken from the year in which it was launched.	Answer:	Fifteen Rebellion3. Thirty years later a new stage of the Jacobite rebellions was inaugurated with the Forty Five rebellion, finally quashed at the battle of Culloden, when Scots under this man, son of James Edward Stuart and labelled the "Young Pretender", were crushed. Smuggled out of Scotland by Flora Macdonald, he eventually died broke and alcoholic in Rome.	Answer:	Charles Edward Stuart (accept "Bonnie Price Charlie"). 17. Given a Canadian province, name its capital, 5 points each.1. Saskatchewan	Answer:	Regina2. Manitoba 	Answer:	Winnipeg3. Prince Edward Island 	Answer:	Charlottetown4. British Columbia 	Answer:	Victoria5. New Brunswick 	Answer:	Frederickton6. Alberta 	Answer:	Edmonton
18. Identify the scientist from clues, 30-20-10-5.1. 30 points: Anthony Leeuwenhoek's letters to the Royal Society were initially spurred on by a book published by this man, and he himself taught himself Dutch to translate those letters along with Oldenberg.2. 20 points: Notoriously jealous of his reputation as the best instrument maker in England, he spent most of his career as technical assistant to Robert Boyle. He also helped Wren survey London after the Great fine and himself invented the scotoscope, a light condenser used for microscopic investigations3. 10 points: A fine draughtsman apprenticed to a painter's workshop in his youth, he left because the smell of solvents nauseated him, but was able to use his drawing skills to illustrate his book of microscope drawings entitled Micrographia.4. 5 points: It was in an effort to solve longitude at sea by perfecting a stationary clock that he came up with the law named for him, originally discovered while perfecting elastic springs for a pocketwatch.	Answer:	Robert Hooke19. Plutarch describes how the first bid for the praetorship of this man failed to win him an election, though he would later become praetor through heavy bribery and go on to serve in the Social War, winning election to consul in 88 and Dictator in 82 following the defeat of the supporters of his enemy and former commander, Marius. For 10 points each:1. Name this "lucky" man, one of history's greatest bastards, with whom the word "proscription" is inseparably linked.	Answer:	Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix2. Part of the reason Sulla suffered his initial electoral repulse was because of his over-familiarity with this man, king of Mauretania who enraged Marius by setting up a bronze group on the Capitol showing his handing over to Sulla his son-in-law Jugurtha.	Answer:	Bocchus I3. After Sulla's praetorship he was sent into Cappodocia to check the machinations of this man, king of Pontus, whom Sulla would defeat in 85 but who would not cease to bother the Romans until ultimately brought down by Pompey in 63.	Answer:	Mithridates VI Eupator, The Great20. According to apparent magnitude, the brightest star in the heavens, aside, of course, from the sun, is Sirius. For five points each identify the next five brightest, with a five point bonus for putting them in correct order.	Answer:	(in order) Canopus; Alpha Centauri; Vega; Arcturus; Capella  21.	First written of in the early fourteenth century by Jean de Longuyon in his Wishes of the Peacock, they consist of a selection of three warriors from the Classical, "Old Testament", and Christian eras thought best to personify the ideals of Chivalry. For 10 points each:1. Name this collection of mythical and historical heroes.	Answer:	Nine Worthies2. From the "Old Testament" times the selection was this warrior king, who "had slain his tens of thousands" among which were a giant and his jealous father-in-law and former king Saul.	Answer:	David3. From the Christian era this man was chosen, the master of such men as Ogier the Dane and Roland and Emperor of the Franks.	Answer:	Charlemagne22. Identify the following psychologists from clues, 10 points each.1. Though he contributed to study of childhood sexual trauma in relation to schizophrenia, symbols and myths, and dreams as wish-fulfillment, this man may be best known for his identification of the earlier oral, oral-sadistic, anal expulsive, anal retentive, phallic, and adult genital stages of the development of the libido in works like A Short Study of the Development of the Libido, Viewed in the Light of Mental Disorders.	Answer:	Karl Abraham2. A student of Abraham, this author of The Neurotic Personality of Our Time, Our Inner Conflicts, and Neurosis and Human Growth argued against Freud's theories, such as death instinct, the Oedipus complex, and penis envy; after all, penis envy is ridiculous, but "womb envy", which she proposed in its stead, makes much more sense.	Answer:	Karen Horney3. Invited by Abraham to join the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute, she theorized that a child relates to parts rather than to complete objects-for example, to the breast rather than to the mother - which she termed a paranoid-schizoid position, and how anxiety caused by a child's destructive urges led to imbalances during the following depressive period.  Her works include The Psychoanalysis of Children, Envy and Gratitude, and  Narrative of a Child Analysis.	Answer:	Melanie Klein23. It was composed by a man who referred to himself as "Galfridius Monemutensis" and who claimed its source was a "very old book in the English tongue" given to him by Archdeacon Walter of Oxford, though the existence of this book had been doubted by men like William of Newburgh. For 10 points each:1. Name this work which certainly drew from Nennius and Bede in its description of Arthur's time and covering 1900 years up to the reign of Cadwallader, written by Geoffey of Monmouth.	Answer:	Historia Regum Britanniae or Historia Regum Britonum or History of the Kings of Britian2. The Jersey poet Wace turned into French verse the Historia Regum Britanniae in his work Geste des Bretons which is also known by the Gallicized name of this man, allegedly the grandson of Aeneas from which "Britain" derives its name. Name this man whose name was also the cognomen of two Roman regicides from the Junius family.	Answer:	Brutus (accept Brut, the name of the work)3. Wace added to the Arthurian legend this object which passed to Arthur's possession as the dowry of Guinevere from her father Leodegrance. Name this object, attached to which was the Siege Perilous.	Answer:	the Round Table24.	Identify the painter from works, 30-20-10.1. 30 points: Stream in a Ravine, The Source of the Loue, The Bathers2. 20 points: Interior of My Studio, A Real Allegory Summing Up Seven Years of My Life as An Artist (frequently called The Artist's Studio)3. 10 points: The Stone Breakers, Burial at Ornans		Answer:	Gustave Courbet25. Eight winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature have come from the United States. For 5 points apiece name any six of them.	Answer:	Sinclair Lewis, Eugene O'Neill, Pearl S. Buck, William Faulkner, John Steinbeck, Ernest Hemingway, Saul Bellow, Toni Morrison