TOSSUPS - UTC									MOC MASTERS 2005Questions by Jacob Vannucci, David Moore, Nikki Poarch, John Kilby, Jimmy Beilstein, and Charlie SteinhiceExtra boni as noted by David Jackson, Chris Borglum, Ray Luo, Ahmad Ragab, Travis Vitello, & Casey Retterer1.	The narrator in the song "Goodbye Mrs. Durkin" by the Irish Rovers.  Hernan Cortes after he defeated the Aztecs.  Led Zeppelin on their fourth album. The Griswolds in National Lampoon's Vacation.  Thousands of Asian immigrants during the 19th and 20th centuries. The Joads in The Grapes of Wrath.  Thousands of speculators in 1849.  FTP, tell what all these groups were doing at some point in time.	Answer:	Going to California (prompt on just "California"; accept equivalents - we didn't ask for a title) 2.	These were first discovered in 1825 when Friedrich Woehler was experimenting with cyanic acid. Berzelius, however, introduced the term and first described the phenomenon. Some different forms of these are the structural kind and the stereo kind, and some examples include propanoic acid and methyl aethanoate, urea and ammonium cyanate, and butane and isobutene. FTP, give this term that denotes two molecules with the same chemical formula and bonds but are arranged differently and have different properties.	Answer:	isomer3.	At the age of 19, he seems to have the perfect life.  He is very well liked, is about to become captain of a ship, and can now marry.  However, the ship's treasurer, Danglars envies the protagonist's success, and Fernand Mondego is in love with his fiancee Mercedes.  The protagonist is imprisoned by his supposed friend in order to keep his father's actions and identity a secret from the public.  This triggers his transformation from the unfortunate Edmond Dantes to the respected title character.  FTP name this classic tale of payback by Alexandre Dumas.	Answer:  	The Count of Monte Cristo; accept Edmond Dantes before it's said.  (Do not accept "the count of *the* Monte Cristo")4.	In an apparent bid for a Nobel Peace Prize, he acted as a mediator between PLO and Israel, tried to help African nations like Congo, and reduced his army by 5% to try and make peace. Such diplomacy helped him to be heavily praised in the West, but in reality he was a genocidal dictator, even making plans to create a Dacian master race, using gypsies for slaves. FTP, name this infamous Romanian dictator who was deposed and executed in 1989.	Answer:	Nicolae Ceau?escu (pronounced chah-oo-SHESS-koo, but accept anything close) 5,	This city was the location of an important palatinate of the Frankish Empire and is today an industrial center, famous for its local wine called liebfraumilch. It also is an important European center for Jews and contains one of the oldest Jewish cemeteries in Germany. It was influential within the Holy Roman Empire, with a Concordat signed there in 1122 and a Reichstag was formed in 1492. The most important event to happen here, however, was the trial of a heretic. FTP, name this place where the diet and resulting edict excommunicated Martin Luther.	Answer:	Worms (pronounced varms, but accept anything close)6.	While researching a book on what important people were doing at the moment Hiroshima was bombed, the narrator of this book wrote to Newt Hoenikker, whose father was a Nobel Prize winner and one of the fathers of the atomic bomb.  John continues his research in Ilium, where the Hoenikkers lived during WWII and where he met Frank, whose peers called him "Secret Agent X-9."  As the result of a plane crash and Monzano's body falling into the sea, all of the Earth's water is transformed into ice-nine.  FTP, name this 1963 novel by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.	Answer:  	Cat's Cradle7.	Its existence was first postulated in 1950 by the man for whom it would be named, who had earlier determined the rotation of the Milky Way.  It extends three light years from the Sun, which is considered to be the extent of the Sun's gravitational field.  Typical noontime temperatures are 4 degrees Celsius above absolute zero.  The total mass of material inside it is estimated to be 40 times that of Earth.  FTP, name this area that surrounds the planetary field, a collection of comets on the fringes of the solar system.       Answer:	Oort Cloud
8.	It lies over the River Forth, and though it collapsed, it was rebuilt using stone instead of the original wood. One of the theories as to why it collapsed is that a carpenter pulled out pins supporting it at a key strategic moment which led to a decisive victory for Andrew de Moray, the leader of the Scottish forces, as well as another man. FTP, name this site of a 1297 battle which won favor for William Wallace, a battle in the Wars for Scottish Independence.	Answer:	Stirling Bridge (acc. Battle of ...)9.	Originally drafted by the Brewers in 1991, he opted to go to Georgia Tech where he spent three years as a management major.  He was called up from the minors in 1996 and in his first complete season in 1997, he won his team's Thomas A. Yawkey award as well as AL Rookie of the Year honors.  Contrary to some media reports, he has gratefully accepted the offer of a 2004 World Series ring despite not playing in the series.  FTP, name this shortstop, now in his first full season with the Chicago Cubs after a midseason 2004 trade from the Boston Red Sox. 	Answer:	Nomar Garciaparra10.	Among his works is a self-portrait that looks as though he is gazing into a convex mirror as he paints himself.  A native of Parma, he died in 1540 after his return from Rome.  1535 was a good year for him, featuring one of his finest prints, The Entombment, as well as his best-known painting.  FTP, name this Mannerist artist who painted The Madonna with the Long Neck.	Answer:  	Parmigianino  (or Francesco Mazzola)11.	Her most recent English translation publication is Nonrequired Reading. Prose Pieces.  Born in Kornik, Poland in 1923, she has lived in Krakow since 1931.  During 1953-1981 she worked as poetry editor and columnist in the Kraków literary weekly "Zycie Literackie."  Some of her volumes of poetry in English have included View With a Grain of Sand, Nothing Twice, and Miracle Fair.  FTP name this polish poet who in 1996 was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Wislawa Szymborska12.	They are very similar to their counterparts, but contain an imidazole ring that the others do not. Other differences between them is that they don't break during degradation, while the others do, and that they are synthesized on a ribose sugar, while their counterparts are synthesized before being attached to a ribose sugar. FTP, name this type of heterocyclic aromatic organic compounds that includes caffeine, adenine, guanine, and uracil, the DNA bases that form hydrogen bonds with their complementary pyrimidines. 	Answer:	Purine(s) 13.	When it was discovered that he could not hold two city offices, he organized a write-in campaign to get John Reichman elected sheriff, and years later, many of the illiterate in the city could spell only one word, Reichmann. He ran for governor of his state several times, but could not get the eastern Republicans to vote for him, and the Senate seat he sought was not to be either. FTP, name this man who held supreme political power during the early 10th century as the political boss of Memphis.	Answer:	Boss Edward Hull Crump, Jr.14.	One of a series of consonant sound shifts that the Germanic family has undergone over the course of its evolution, the first and most dramatic one involved the shift of voiceless stops becoming voiceless fricatives, voiced stops becoming voiceless stops, and voiced aspirated stops becoming voiced stops.  FTP name either the man that codified this shift in 1882, or his namesake law of linguistics.       Answer:	Jakob Grimm / Grimm's Law15.	This man's first credit was for the main title theme for the television version of "The Paper Chase."  His other TV show themes include "Boston Public" and "Six Feet Under".  Some of his early movie credits are the scores for Revenge of the Nerds, Desperately Seeking Susan, and Real Genius.  More recently, he has worked on Lemony Snicket's a Series of Unfortunate Events and the upcoming Cinderella Man.  FTP name this musical composer who has yet to take home an Oscar despite six Oscar nominations, including two in 1994 for Little Women and The Shawshank Redemption, as well as 1998's American Beauty, 	Answer:	Thomas Newman
16.	Born a child prodigy, as he could read English, Italian, Latin, and Swedish by the age of 12. At 18 he was appointed court translator, and several years later he was appointed an ambassador to Russia. Catherine the Great didn't take to him, however, and declared him persona non grata, so the French sent him to his next job where he would again not be appreciated by his host nation. FTP, name this "Citizen" who commissioned privateers and tried to get the US to make war against Britain and Spain.	Answer:	Edmond-Charles (Citizen) Genêt17.	It opened in 1953 as a facility for pure physics research concentrated on understanding the inside of the atom.  Over time, the facilities primary focus has shifted to particle physics, resulting in the construction of the LHC or Large Hadron Collider, which at this time is still not in operation.  According to Dan Brown's novel, Angels and Demons, the World Wide Web originated here and antimatter is produced here, both of which are true.  FTP name this nuclear and particle research facility on the border of France and Switzerland near Geneva.	Answer:	CERN or "Organisation européenne pour la recherche nucléaire" or "European Organization for Nuclear Research" or "Conseil Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire" do not accept "Centre Européen pour la Recherche Nucléaire"18.	According to Herodotus, this man was of Phoenician descent. We can assume he was familiar with Egyptian knowledge as he sent Pythagoras there to further his studies. His namesake theorem states that if line AC forms a diameter, triangle ABC forms a right triangle. He is more famous, however, for predicting the solar eclipse of 585 BC and founding the philosophical school based in Miletus. FTP, name this legendary figure who thought the world was composed of water and is said to have been the first philosopher and scientist.	Answer:	Thales19.	Due to its Urban Growth Boundary legislation, it is often cited as a model for a well-planned city.  After a coin toss, it was named after the founder's hometown in New England.  The seat of Multnomah County, it is divided into five "quadrants" that contain such attractions as the Rose Garden and Cascade College.  FTP name this city straddling the Willamette River, the titular place of a recent Loretta Lynn and Jack White song, the largest city in Oregon, and home of the NBA's Trailblazers.       Answer:	Portland, OR 20.	As with the original publication, many contemporary editions append the poem "A Lover's Complaint" to these.  Some say the last two, which deal with universal themes, are intended to sum things up; others think they were just tacked on needlessly at the end.  Henry Wriothesley and William Herbert are two suggested identities for the male friend addressed in numbers 1 through 126.  Numbers 127-152 deal with a "dark lady" who may be a friend or mistress.   FTP, name these works published by the Bard of Avon, # 18 of which is known as "Shall I compare thee to a Summer's Day?"	Answer:	Shakespearean Sonnets  (prompt on partial answer; accept in any order)21.	This two-word phrase appears as the title of tracks on Beck's Sea Change and Spoon's Kill the Moonlight, but it originates as an ancient Chinese metaphor. It is thought to have entered the English vocabulary in 1850, but we first have on record in 1956. It is now used by many American and British newspapers to disparage China or its economy, which is ironic given its most famous usage. Most notably used by Mao Zedong as he insulted the United States, FTP, give this term that could possibly be confused with an origami design of the animal it describes.	Answer:	Paper Tiger 22.	Soon after the election on 1941, the President reaches an agreement with Germany, the Iceland Understanding, and with Japan, the Hawaii Understanding, that guarantee U.S. non-intervention in the European conflict and the Sino-Japanese War, while at the same time make the U.S. and unofficial ally of the Axis Powers.  By this time Walter Winchell is already reporting on potential sites for concentration camps scouted by the department of the interior.  Of course, all of this came about after the defeat of FDR by Charles Lindbergh in FTP what novel, the newest by Philip Roth?       Answer:	The Plot Against America
BONI - UTC										MOC MASTERS 2005Questions by Jacob Vannucci, David Moore, Nikki Poarch, John Kilby, Jimmy Beilstein, and Charlie SteinhiceExtra boni as noted by David Jackson, Chris Borglum, Ray Luo, Ahmad Ragab, Travis Vitello, & Casey Retterer1.  This bonus is brought to you by the letters C, I, and A.  FTPE name these ousted world leaders:a) Initially supported by the U.S., this Prime Minister of South Vietnam fell from favor, due less to his corrupt rule than to his inability to squelch the Communist rebels.  In 1963 he was ousted and killed in a coup with covert CIA help.	Answer:	Ngo Dinh Diemb) This Chilean socialist, the popularly-elected president, died in a 1973 coup, supposedly at his own hand (or in the words of the National Lampoon, "the victim of a self-inflicted air strike.")  His CIA-backed ouster may have been due less to his moderate leftist sympathies than to his longstanding opposition to American copper interests.        Answer:	Salvador Allende Gossensc) He enjoyed such wide public support that the Shah had to appoint him Prime Minister of Iran in 1951.  His CIA-backed ouster may have been due less to vague leftist sympathies than to his longstanding opposition to foreign oil interests.	Answer:	Mohammed Mossadeq or Mossadegh2.	FTPE answer the following seemingly-unrelated questions:a)  Before writing such plays as Blithe Spirit and Private Lives, he made his mark writing stage comedy songs such as "Has Anybody Seen Our Ship?", which contains the lines "We've pooled our money, spent the lot / The world forgetting, by the world forgot."	Answer:	Noel Cowardb)  This 2004 film directed by Michel Gondry with screenplay by Charlie Kaufman got an Oscar nomination for Kate Winslet, but to the dismay of many critics, not Jim Carrey.	Answer:	Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mindc)  His 1717 poem "Eloisa to Abelard" contains the passage, "How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! / The world forgetting, by the world forgot / Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind / Each prayer accept'd, and each wish resign'd."	Answer:	Alexander Pope 3.	(RL) Identify these random-ass chemicals, FTPE. [10] Containing a carbon-carbon double bond and having the general formula C2H2n, these compounds are also known as olefins. 	Answer:	alkenes [10] This is the term for chemicals like the sterate ion which accumulate at the interfaces between two liquids and modify their properties. 	Answer:	surfactants (or surface-active agent [10] This is the term for a type of polymer in which the groups attached to the backbone are not in any particular geometric order. 	Answer:	atactic 4.	FTPE, stuff about a psychologist:A.  Name the theorist behind the five-level hierarchy of human needs, who maintained that if one of the lower needs cannot be attained, then the higher needs are forgotten.  	Answer:	Abraham MaslowB.  Maslow originally considered transcendence as the highest level of the pyramid, but was introduced to this concept by Kurt Goldstein and popularized it by putting it at the apex of his hierarchy.	Answer:	self-actualizationC.  Shortly after graduation, Maslow went to Columbia University to work for this man, best known for his research on cats escaping from puzzle boxes and his subsequent formulation of the Law of Effect.	Answer:	Edward L. Thorndike5.  	VISUAL BONUS: FTPE name the correct form for the Hindu deity pictured.        Answers:	a) Ganesh or Ganesha; b) Kali [do not accept Durga or Parvati], c) Shiva or Siva
6.   When Mascots Attack...  FTPE name these sports mascots, all from the state of Florida, from not-so-lovable antics:a)  He cost the Hurricanes a 15-yard penalty for running onto the field after a touchdown and taunting Florida players - at the 2001 Sugar Bowl.  In Sept. 1989, he was also forcibly stopped by five police officers from using a fire extinguisher on Florida State's flaming spear.	Answer:	Sebastian the Ibisb)  In 2000 this Florida Marlins mascot launched a wadded T-shirt out of a pressurized gun right into an elderly man's eye, knocking him unconscious.	Answer:	Billy (the) Marlinc)  He was convicted of aggravated assault and sued for $1 million after an exhibition game in San Juan, where he dragged a female spectator onto the court by her legs.  (She was the wife of a justice of Puerto Rico's Supreme Court.)  In a 1997 playoff game, he squirted the Orlando Magic cheering section with a water gun; one of his victims, 69-year-old NBA Hall of Famer Dolph Schayes, clocked him with a right hook. 	Answer:	Burnie (of the Miami Heat) 7.  TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: One county west of Indianapolis, IN, is Hendricks Co., named for the first post-Civil War Democrat elected governor of a Northern state. FTPE answer these questions about Hendricks' national campaigns:a) In 1872 Hendricks received 42 of the 62 electoral votes which otherwise would have been cast for this unsuccessful Democratic Presidential candidate, who died after the election but before the Electoral College convened.	Answer:	Horace Greeleyb) Some would argue that Hendricks was rightfully elected Vice President in 1876 as the running mate of this Democratic candidate, who lost to Rutherford B. Hayes only after initial results were overturned in three states - including Florida.	Answer:	Samuel Tildenc) Hendricks was elected Vice President in 1884 but died a year later, making him the first of three different running mates on the ticket with this man in successive elections.       Answer: 	(Stephen) Grover Cleveland 8.	 (CB) Answer the following about a cool class of chordates FSNOP.A. (10 pts.) This class of parasitic marine chordates lack paired fins and hinged jaws.	Answer:	agnathaB. (5 pts. each) The two existing creatures in class agnatha are these two suckers.	Answer:	lampreys and hagfish (any order)C. (10 pts.) The only other members of agnatha were over 200 species of tiny fish of this subclass that became extinct over 200 million years ago.	Answer:	ostracaderms9.	FTPE, stuff about a particular author:World's Fair, Loon Lake, and Welcome to Hard Times are among this New Yorker's historically-themed novels.      Answer:	E.(dgar) L.(awrence) DoctorowThis 1971 Doctorow novel inspired by the Rosenberg case is set in the Cold War.  In it, a young man tries to cope with his identity issues after the tragic death of his parents.	Answer:	The Book of Daniel: A NovelArguably Doctorow's most important novel is this 1975 work about one family's interaction with many of the key figures in pre-World War I America, including Harry Houdini, Stanford White and Booker T. Washington.	Answer:	Ragtime10.	 (DJ) Given the name of a composer, give the subtitle of his ninth symphony.1.  Anton Dvorak.	Answer:	From the New World2.  Ludwig van Beethoven.	Answer:	Choral3.  Franz Shubert (pronounced SHOO-BERT).	Answer:	Great
11.	FTPE, name these Namco arcade games that you might have stumbled across in the previous decade.10) This 1993 racing game spawned several arcade sequels and home console sequels, which in the latter group included Revolution and Type 4.	Answer:	Ridge Racer10) This shooting game is considered innovative for its use of a timer and a foot pedal that, when released, allowed players to duck behind objects.	Answer:	Time Crisis10) An early arcade port for the PlayStation, this futuristic tank-style game featured twin joysticks and head-to-head play.	Answer:	Cyber Sled12.	I once had a bonus, or should I say it once had me.  Answer the following about Norwegian history FTPE:(a) It took over 400 years for Norway to regain status as a sovereign nation after this 1397 edict united all three Scandinavian kingdoms under Danish control.	Answer:	the Kalmar Union(b) In 1814 Norway was established as a (mostly) independent nation in perpetual union with the Swedish crown.  In 1905 this body, the Norwegian parliament, voided the union and installed Prince Charles of Denmark as King Haakon VII.	Answer:	the Storting(c) From 1942 to 1945 the occupying Nazis installed as premier this Nazi collaborator so weaselly that even the Nazis didn't trust him.	Answer:	Vidkun Quisling 13.	Identify the following about electrical circuits FTSNP.5) A quantitative statement of this law is the voltage equals current divided by resistance.	Answer:	Ohm's Law10) This man has a current and voltage law named after him.  The voltage version states that the sum of the voltages in a closed loop of a circuit equals zero and the current version states that the total amount of current entering a node equals the amount of current leaving a node.	Answer:	Gustave Robert Kirchoff15) This theorem can be used to simplify a complex circuit.  It states that any combination of voltage sources and resistors with two terminals is equivalent to a single voltage source and a single resistor.	Answer:	Thevenin's Theorem14.	(CR) Identify the British poets from lines for 10 points each, or the source of the lines for 5.[10] "It happened in that season that one day/In Southwark, at The Tabard as I lay"[5] The Canterbury Tales	Answer:	 Geoffrey Chaucer[10] "Queen Virtue's court, which some call Stella's face,/Prepared by Nature's chiefest furniture,/Hath his front built of alablaster pure;/Gold is the covering of that stately place."[5] Astrophil and Stella	Answer:	 Sir Philip Sidney[10] "On Hellespont, guilty of true-loves' blood,/In view and opposite two cities stood,"[5] Hero and Leander	Answer:	 Christopher Marlowe 15.	Philosophy Bonus: FTPE...A.  This theory states that no universal can exist outside of the mind.  It is based on the belief that theories of universals are incoherent because they are self-contradictory.  The only universals accepted are those in language.         Answer:	NominalismB.  This medieval Franciscan monk and influential nominalist is best known for a concept often expressed at "Don't multiply entities beyond necessity."         Answer:	William (of) OckhamC.  A later form of nominalism was espoused by this 18th century philosopher, author of Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge.  His dictum was "Esse est perpici" [To be is to be perceived"]       Answer:	George Berkeley [pronounced Barkley, but be lenient]
16.	FTPE, name these departments of the Federal government from information about their founding:a)  It was upgraded from an independent administration to a Cabinet-level department by George H.W. Bush in 1989.  One of its responsibilities is administering the National Cemetery System.	Answer:	Department of Veterans Affairs [sorry, do not accept just Veterans or Veterans Administration]b) Formed in 1977 by President Carter in response to a then-ongoing crisis, it assumed control over several formerly independent agencies.	Answer:	Department of Energyc) Created in 1979, also by President Carter, it was split out of another Cabinet department formerly called  "H.E.W.", which was then retitled Health and Human Services. 	Answer:	Department of Education17.	Name these modern explanations of the universe FTPEA. This set of principles tell how dynamic systems behave, generally with great sensitivity to initial conditions illustrated by the butterfly effect.	Answer:	Chaos TheoryB. This theory holds that the universe is made of tiny one-dimensional objects rather than zero-dimensional points, but has yet to provide any testable hypotheses.	Answer:	(super)String TheoryC. The project of Gene Ray, this concept can be "explained" on his website which shows that most things in the universe can be broken down into cycles of four. More importantly, creation is cubic, but you are educated singularity stupid by academic bastards. 	Answer:	Time Cube18.	Identify the map projection FTPE.A.  This commonly used projection keeps the compass directions intact, but distorts areas of the map, typically the poles.  It is a type of cylindrical projection, specifically designed for nautical navigation in 1569.	Answer:	Mercator projectionB.  This type of projection shows the Earth in a flattened ellipse, in which, the lines of latitude are parallel to the equator, and the lines of longitude are elliptical arcs, except for the central meridian, which is straight.  Area is represented accurately, but direction and distance are distorted.  It was introduced in 1963 and adopted by the National Geographic society in 1988	Answer:	Orthophanic or Robinson ProjectionC.  This pseudo-cylindrical projection was devised by a Dutch cartographer in 1921 by averaging the coordinates of the equidistant cylindrical and Aitoff projections.  The lines of both latitude and longitude are curved, except the central lines of each.  The National Geographic Society adopted it in 1998 because it offers less distortion than the Robinson Projection.	Answer:	Winkel Tripel projection19.	(AR) Name these lesser-known, and by lesser I mean virtually unknown, Nobel Prize in Lit winners, FTPE(10)The second woman and first Italian to win the prize was this Sardinan won the prize in 1926Best known for her After the Divorce, and Reeds in the Wind other works include Flowers of Sardinia, The Mother. 	Answer:	Grazia Deledda(10)Known for his stream of consciousness style, no punctuation and 1,000 word sentences this 1985 winner born in Madagascar this French-language author is known for his works The Grass and the Trickster	Answer:	Claude Simon(10)This co-winner of the 1917 prize with his countryman Karl Gjellerup he won for his "authentic descriptions of present day life in Denmark." This Dane wrote many short-stories, but may or may not be known for his novels, The Village Pictures, From the Cottages, and the Clouds. 	Answer:	Henrik Pontoppidan
20.	(RL) Rene Magritte painted coffins in place of this artist's rendition of two girls and a man looking out from the balcony.  FTPE.(10)  Name this student of Thomas Couture who served in the Franco-Prussian war after painting Luncheon on the Grass, a depiction of two dressed men with a naked woman.	Answer:	Edouard Manet(10)  This Manet nude based on Titian's Venus of Urbino shows a woman leaning on her bed with her hands over her privates while her black servant brings flowers.	Answer:	Olympia(10)  Manet in turn based his Balcony on a painting by this Spanish artist.	Answer:	Francisco de Goya  21.	Identify the following fluid concepts FTPE.10) This states that pressure that is applied to an enclosed liquid is applied to every point of the fluid and the walls of the container.  This question's author did a demonstration as a high school project that used a bottle of ketchup... don't ask.	Answer:	Pascal's Principle10) This equation states that pressure plus quantity rho times g times y plus quantity one-half times rho times velocity squared is equal to a constant, where rho is the fluid density, g is the acceleration due to gravity, and y is the height of the liquid.	Answer:	Bernoulli's Equation10) This effect indicates that a fluid tends to flow along a surface, rather than flow through free space. 	Answer:	Coanda effect
UTC VISUAL BONUS - MOC MASTERS 2005A.	B.	C.	