TOSSUPS - IOWA STATE FREELANCE			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions (mostly) by Michael Falk and Matt Cvijanovich with some help from Florida1.	The narrator started by paying a visit to Simon Wheeler to ask about one Leonidas W. Smiley.  Wheeler has never heard of the  man, but did know of a Jim Smiley, and regaled the narrator with several tales about him, his gambling compulsion, his bull pup named Andrew Jackson, and another animal by the name of Dan'l Webster.  This story was published in 1865 and became the  first well-known work by its author.  FTP, name this Mark Twain short story about a forty-dollar bet on a leaping contest.	ANSWER: "The _Celebrated Jumping Frog_ of Calaveras County" (the short title is occasionally used)2.	Its chemical formula is C-20-H-14-O-4 and it exists in white or pale yellow crystals.  It may cause purging, collapse, and fall of blood pressure if ingested, not to mention that it's suspected of causing cancer.  Perhaps it's not surprising that it's no longer the active ingredient in Ex-Lax.  Though clear in acidic solution, FTP name the chemical indicator which turns pink in a basic solution.	ANSWER: _phenolphthalein_ (pronounced FEE-nl-THAH-lee-un or FEE-nl-THAY-leen or anything close)3.	The idea of botanist Dr. Henry J. Moore, it was dedicated in 1932 and is visited every year by a quarter of a million people.  Its 2,300 acres in the Turtle Mountains are an official wildlife refuge, but it is more notable for the 150,000 flowers planted there every summer.  Part of its dedicatory plaque reads "We [...] pledge that as long as men shall live, we will not take up arms against one another."  Located between Manitoba and North Dakota, FTP name this symbol of eternal harmony between the U.S. and Canada.	ANSWER: _International Peace Garden_4.	A combination of Late Byzantine and Venetian Mannerism styles, it clearly separates the heavenly and earthly realms.  At the top is Christ and below him the virgin Mary and St. John.  Near the bottom Saints Stephen and Augustine lower the armor-clad title figure into the church of Santo Tome in Toledo.  FTP name this 1596 masterpiece of El Greco.	ANSWER: _Burial of Count Orgaz_5.	Machiavelli described him as "a new prince, because from a weak king he has become, for fame and glory, the first king in Christendom."  In 1512 he annexed most of Navarre and in 1508 he formed the League of Cambrai with Pope Julius II, the Emperor Maximilian, and Louis XII of France in order to fight the Venetians who were a threat to his lands in Naples and Sicily.  FTP name this Spanish king, known as "The Catholic", who presided over the conquest of Grenada and the voyages of Columbus.	ANSWER: _Ferdinand of Aragon_ or _Ferdinand II_6.	It was supposedly invented in 1875 by a Sir Neville Chamberlain, a soldier in India.  The playing area measures eleven feet, eight-and-a-half inches by five feet, ten inches. The fifteen red balls start out in a triangle, with six balls of other colors spotted at other points on the table.  Points are awarded for putting the colored balls in pockets.  FTP name this billiards game, the number one sport on English television.	ANSWER: _Snooker_7.	They are bounded by a double membrane, each a phospholipid bilayer.  The inner membrane has many folds and thus a greater surface area, increasing the efficiency of cellular respiration.  They are able to divide themselves and have their own DNA.   FTP name the power producers of eukaryotic cells.	ANSWER: _Mitochondria_8.	The main assault force was led by General William Howe, who lost 40 percent of his troops but still managed to achieve victory and take the high ground.  On the other side, Colonels Prescott and Putnam had managed to inflict such severe losses with an inexperienced, ill-prepared, poorly supplied force.  They were so short on ammunition, in fact, that they gave the famous order not to "fire until you see the whites of their eyes".  FTP, name this famous, misnamed 1775 battle, which actually took place on Breed's Hill.	ANSWER: The Battle of _Bunker Hill_ (or _Bunker's Hill_) (accept _Breed's Hill_ before it's mentioned)
9.	While still a young man, he worked as a race car driver and a sports writer. Becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1947, he had moved to Switzerland in 1932, a year before Hitler banned his books for their pacifistic leanings.   His novels include "Arch of Triumph", about a refugee German doctor, and "The Road Back", about Germany's post World War I experience, which acts as a sequel to his most famous novel.  FTP, name this author of "All Quiet on the Western Front".	ANSWER: Erich Maria _Remarque_10.	One of the Spartoi and the son of the nymph Chariclo and the nobleman Eueres, he died before the attack of the Epigoni after he drank from the well of Telphusa.  In Euripides' "Bacchae" he advises Pentheus to accept Dionysic worship, and in "The Phoenician Women" he reveals that the Seven will be beaten so long as Menoecas (men-OY-kus)sacrifices himself.  In "Oedipus Rex" he pisses off Oedipus and in "The Antigone" he criticizes Creon.  FTP name this man who advises Odysseus in the Underworld, the blind prophet of Thebes.	ANSWER: _Tiresias_11.	Take a set of elements E and a binary operation f.  For all elements, verify that the inverse of the element under f is in E.  Check that for any two elements a and b, their product under f is a member of E.  Check that for any three elements, their multiplication under f is associative.  And finally, verify that there exists an element i such that the product under f of any element a with i is a.  FTP, you've created what mathematical entity, which could be described as Abelian if all its  elements commute?	 ANS: group12.	He died a highly ironic death; while playing a hypochondriac onstage, he suffered a hemorrhage and passed away later that night.  The character was Argan, the play was "The Imaginary Invalid", and the playwright was none other than himself.  In fact, he often directed his own shows and, at the same time, played the leading roles.  His biting satires criticized society, religion, and even the monarchy in such works as "The School For Wives", "The Miser", "The Misanthrope", and "Tartuffe".  FTP, name the 17th-century French satirist.	ANSWER: _Molière_ or Jean-Baptiste _Poquelin_13.	He was imprisoned in 1945, but his wife, Evita, fought successfully for his release.  Unfortunately, in the 1950s, Evita died, he was excommunicated by the Catholic Church, and he was removed from power by a military junta (pronounced HOON-ta).   He fled to Spain but returned to power in 1973 for one year before his death.  FTP, name this leader of a 1943 coup who was twice elected President of Argentina.	ANSWER: General Juan Domingo _Perón_14.	Originally trained as a mathematician, his first major work was the "Philosophy of Arithmetic", which combined math, formal logic, and psychology.  In his mature works he argued for a focus on a descriptive analysis of essences without any "bracket" judgments on them; his student, Martin Heidegger, later formed an Existentialist philosophy from these ideas.  FTP name this German Philosopher and author of "Cartesian Meditations" and "Ideas: General Introduction to Pure Phenomenology".	ANSWER: Edmund _Husserl_15.	Track 3, by the Teen Idols, is called "Ketchup Soup".  Track 11 is "Doin' Laundry" by Nerf Herder.  Track 23 is Blink 182's "Family Reunion".  "Dirty Needles" by Screeching Weasel is track 48, and the last track is Wizo's "The Count".  FTP, name this 1999 punk rock compilation album, on the label Fat Wreck Chords, which features 101 bands playing 101 songs which are all about 30 seconds long.	ANSWER: _Short Music for Short People_16.	According to "The Mysterious Affair at Styles", "The neatness of his attire was almost incredible; I believe a speck of dust would have caused him more pain than a bullet wound."  He himself said, in "Death in the Clouds", "Mon cher, practically speaking, I know everything!"  Such actors as Tony Randall and Peter Ustinov have played this Belgian policeman-turned-British detective on the big screen.  FTP, name the fictional sleuth and star of "Elephants Can Remember",  "Death on the Nile", and "The Murder on the Orient Express", who was created by Agatha Christie.	ANSWER: Hercule _Poirot_
17.	The author of two travelogues on his journeys to North America, he was responsible for the division of the Tertiary Period into the Eocene, Miocene, and Pliocene.  He also arranged the compromise between Wallace and Darwin that led to their joint publication in 1858.  However, Darwin's intellectual debt to him was even greater.  FTP, name this author of "Principles of Geology" and "The Antiquity of Man" who convincingly proved Hutton's uniformitarian views.	ANSWER: Sir Charles _Lyell_18.	Headquartered in Bangkok, it was based on the principle, set forth in the Pacific Charter, that Asian and Pacific peoples had the right to equality and self-determination.  Established in 1954 and disbanded in 1977, its primary purpose was to legitimize U.S. involvement in Vietnam, despite the fact that it had only three non-westernized members; Pakistan, the Philippines, and Thailand.  FTP name this Asian anti-Communist alliance.	ANSWER: _SEATO_ or _South East Asian Treaty Organization_19.	They run software such as Weather Central's Genesis package, Imagevision, Shotmaker, Alias, and Wavefront.  It took more than 230 of these systems, which run operating systems such as IRIX and Linux, to do the CGI animation in "The Lord of the Rings"  trilogy.  Available in such models as Indy, Indigo, and Onyx, FTP, name the computer company based in Mountain View, California, the "world's leading provider of high-performance computing".	ANSWER: _Silicon Graphics_ Incorporated or _SGI_ (the quote comes from their website)20.	Its first performance was in Vienna in 1805, but it's set in 18th century Seville.  Pizarro has, for political reasons, imprisoned Florestan.  Florestan's wife Leonore, determined to rescue him, disguises herself as a man and becomes the jailer's assistant.  With libretto by Josef Sonnleithner, FTP, name the only opera by Beethoven.	ANSWER: _Fidelio_21.	A staunch Italian Catholic and father of nine children, he graduated as valedictorian of his class at Georgetown and went on to Harvard, where he edited their law review and earned the Sheldon Fellowship to study in Europe.  Once called "The Arnold Schwarzenegger of American jurisprudence", his 1986 nomination to the Supreme Court by Reagan surprisingly went uncontested.  He opposes affirmative action and judicial activism, believing in a strict interpretation of the Constitution.  FTP name this ultra-conservative justice who is working to strike down Roe v. Wade.	ANSWER: Antonin _Scalia_22.	With a privately raised army he helped Sulla win the Civil War against the Marians.  Later he was given special commands against Sertorius in Spain, the pirates in Cilicia, and against Mithridates in Asia Minor whom he defeated at Nicopolis in 66 B.C. In his last war he won a victory at the siege of Dyrrachium but was defeated at Pharsalus in 48, after which he fled to Egypt, where he was assassinated.  FTP name this "over-mighty" general who led the senatorial forces in the Civil War against Julius Caesar.	ANSWER: _Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus_ or _Pompey_23.	Set in the 1930's, it features Jake Blount, a wandering and unstable drunk, Copeland, a frustrated African American doctor, Biff Brannon, a sexually confused cafe owner, and Mick Kelly, a sensitive young girl trying to write a symphony.  All these characters group around Mr. Singer, a deaf man who they believe understands their obsessions.  However, Singer himself commits suicide when another friend dies in, FTP, what novel by Carson McCullers?	ANSWER: "The _Heart is a Lonely Hunter_"24.	It is often exhibited by pregnant women, but more often by young children.  Sometimes it's merely a craving for a certain texture in the mouth.  Sufferers of this disease have been known to ingest ice, dirt, sand, chalk, or even feces.   FTP, name this disorder where a person eats non-food items, named for the Latin word for "magpie".	ANSWER: _Pica_ (PIE-ka)
BONI - IOWA STATE FREELANCE			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions (mostly) by Michael Falk and Matt Cvijanovich with some help from Florida1.	On December 3, 1984, a gas leak at a chemical plant in India killed thousands of people.  FTPE,(A) Name the company which operated the chemical plant.	ANSWER: _Union Carbide_(B) Name the Indian city where the disaster occurred.	ANSWER: _Bhopal_, India(C) Name the deadly chemical released, which was a common ingredient in pesticides.	ANSWER: _Methyl Isocyanate_ (prompt on MIC)2.	Name the Edgar Allan Poe work from quotes FTPE.(A)  "With these materials and with the aid of my trowel, I began vigorously to wall up the entrance of the niche."	ANSWER: "The _Cask of Amontillado_"(B)  "But first let me tell of the rooms in which it was held. There were seven -- an imperial suite."	ANSWER: "The _Masque of the Red Death_"(C)  "And now, some days of bitter grief having elapsed, an observable change came over the features of the mental disorder of my friend."	ANSWER: "The _Fall of the House of Usher_"3.	Oh boy, it's time for fun with phyla!  FTSNOP, name the phylum.(A) (5) Sponges	ANSWER: _Porifera_(B) (5) Octopi	ANSWER: _Mollusca_(C) (10) Roundworms	ANSWER: _Nematoda_(D) (10) Jellyfish	ANSWER: _Cnidaria_4.	Now is the time to show off your mad West Coast Rap knowledge.  Name the hits from lyrics FTPE.(A) "One, two, three and to the fore / Snoop Doggy Dogg and Dr. Dre is at the door"	ANSWER: _Nuthin' But a "G" Thang_ (by Dr. Dre)(B) "Even saw the lights of the Goodyear Blimp / and it read 'Ice Cube's a pimp' / yeah"	ANSWER: _It Was a Good Day_ (by Ice Cube)(C) "I'm tryin' to make a dollar out of fifteen cents / it's hard to be legit and still pay the rent"	ANSWER: _Keep Ya Head Up_ (by Tupac Shakur)5.	Identify the following about the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood FTPE.(A) The painter of Proserpine, Beata Beatrix, and Pandora and the poet of "The Blessed Damozel", he used his sisteras the model for Mary in the "Ecce Ancilla Domini!"	ANSWER: Dante Gabriel _Rosetti_(B) Probably the greatest Pre-Raphaelite until he sold out to commercialism, his works include The Boyhood of Rayleigh, The Huguenot, and Ophelia.	ANSWER: John Everett _Millais_(C) The decade in which the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was founded.	ANSWER: _1840s_ (1848 to be exact).6.	Name these entities relating to Thor FTPE:(A) This was Thor's second wife, an Aesir renowned for her golden hair.	ANSWER: _Sif_(B) Thor killed and was killed by this offspring of Loki at Ragnarok.	ANSWER: _Midgard_ Serpent or _Iormangandr_(C) This giant stole Thor's hammer, Miolnir, and demanded Freya in exchange for its return.  Instead Thor impersonated Freya at the wedding and killed the giant and all his guests after they were sufficiently drunk.	ANSWER: _Thrym_
7.	Identify the Mexican Presidents from clues FTPE.(A) The son of a wealthy landowner he ran for president against Porfirio Diaz, lost in the rigged elections, overthrew Diaz and was elected president in 1911.  Too much, of an idealist he was overthrown and killed by Victoriano Huerta in 1913.	ANSWER: Francisco _Madero_(B) He supported Madero against Diaz and overthrew Huerta after Madero's ouster.  Elected president in 1917, he was thrown out of power in 1920 by Obregon when he tried to install his own candidate as president.	ANSWER: Venustiano _Carranza_(C) President from 1934-40, he was supposed to be the tool of the Calles regime but instead struck out on his own.  His platform included the nationalization of oil, the return of communal lands, furthering education, and supporting worker cooperatives.	ANSWER: Lazaro _Cardenas_8.	Answer these vitriolic questions FTSNOP.(A) (5 each) Name the two chemists who independently posited that an acid should be defined as a substance which transfers a proton to another substance.	ANSWER: Johannes Nicolaus _Bronsted_ (or _Brønsted_) and Thomas Martin _Lowry_(B) (10) Of the seven most common strong acids, only one is diprotic.  Name it.	ANSWER: _Sulfuric_ acid or (H-2-S-O-4)(C) (10) FTP, What is the name for a substance which can act either as an acid or a base?	ANSWER: _amphoteric_9.	Identify the sexy Shakespeare women from clues, FTPE.(A)  Her home is Belmont where Bassanio wins her by picking the correct casket.  She later disguises herself as a lawyer and cleverly saves Antonio from Shylock, in "The Merchant of Venice".	ANSWER: _Portia_(B) Niece of Leonato, she has great battles of wits with Benedick before marrying him at the end of "Much Ado About Nothing".	ANSWER: _Beatrice_(C) This sister of Katherine, who has to be married before she does, is wooed by Hortensio, Gremio, and Lucentio, whom she eventually marries at the end of The Taming of the Shrew.	ANSWER: _Bianca_10.	Works of Aristotle FTPE.(A) This tract on how to lead the good life contains books dedicated to "Happiness," "Virtues of Character," "Continence and Incontinence," and "Ethics and Politics."	ANSWER: _Nichomachean Ethics_(B) It puts forth the theory that tragedy is great for katharsis.  It has an in-depth analysis of Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, which Aristotle uses as an example to explain the nuances of tragedy.	ANSWER: _Poetics_(C) This work deals with predication and ontology.  It provides a list of ten fundamentally different types of things that exist, the most important of which is Substance, the fundamental kind of entity.	ANSWER: _Categories_11.	The St. Paul Saints had a promotion in its aftermath, giving away ties bearing a caricature of Bud Selig.  Answer the following about the 2002 Major League Baseball All Star Game, 5-10-15.(A) (5) What was the final score?	ANSWER: _7 to 7_(B)  (10) What National League catcher struck out to end the game?	ANSWER: Benito _Santiago_(C) (15) 5 points for 1 or 15 for both, name the young pitchers - both usually starters - that the respective managers claimed couldn't go one more inning.	ANSWER:  Freddy Garcia and Vicente Padilla
12.	Name the Nobel Prize-winning physicists from their experiments, FTPE.(A) In 1909, this University of Chicago physicist measured the charge of an electron by imparting charges to drops of oil.  He won the prize in 1923 in part for this experiment, which proved that charge is quantized.	ANSWER: Robert Andrews _Millikan_(B) He won the 1938 prize for discovering that bombarding elements with neutrons, new radioactive elements are produced.	ANSWER: Enrico _Fermi_(C) He won the very first Nobel prize in physics.  While messing with a Hittorf tube, he noticed that a sheet of paper which had been treated with a metallic salt had started to glow, which marks the first discovery of X-rays.	ANSWER: Wilhelm Conrad (or Konrad) _Roentgen_ (or _Röntgen_)13.	Your friendly bonus writer recently saw a production of Madama Butterfly in Rome. Answer these questions about the opera FTPE.This is the title character's name. 	ANSWER:   Cio-Cio-SanCio-Cio-Sanis comforted in Pinkerton's absence by this faithful servant. 	ANSWER:   SuzukiAt the end of the opera, Pinkerton, his wife, and this American consul in Nagasaki come to reclaim the baby.  	ANSWER:   Sharpless14.	Answer the following questions about a playwright and his works, FTSNOP.(A) (10) Name the play which contains this quote: "You can't eat the orange and throw the peel away.  A man is not a piece of fruit."	ANSWER: _Death of a Salesman_(B) (5) Who wrote "Death of a Salesman"?	ANSWER: Arthur _Miller_(C) (15) Name Miller's first successful play, which is about Joe Keller, a manufacturer who sacrifices his integrity to support his family.	ANSWER: _All My Sons_15.	Answer these questions about World War I in the air FTPE.1.  Begun in April 1916 and commanded by Georges Thenault, this unit of U.S. volunteers claimed to have destroyed 199 German aircraft before it was transferred to the US Army Air Force as the 103rd Pursuit Squadron on January 1, 1918. 	ANSWER: _Lafayette Escadrille2.  A close friend of Jean Cocteau, who dedicated his "Cape of Good Hope" to him, after his death this leading French ace had the tennis stadium that hosts the French Open named for him. 	ANSWER: Roland Garros3.    The leading American ace of the air, he was the commander of the Flying Circus and was later the owner of the Indianapolis Speedway. 	ANSWER: _Eddie Rickenbacker16.	FTPE, Name these meteorological terms relating to moisture.(A)  Defined as the mass of water vapor divided by the mass of dry air in a certain parcel, it's usually listed in grams per kilogram.	ANSWER: _mixing ratio_(B)  It's the temperature to which air must be cooled at constant pressure to saturate it with respect to a water surface.	ANSWER: _dew point_ temperature(C)  Finally, this is the temperature to which air is cooled by evaporating water into it until it saturates.  It's measured with a sling psychrometer (sy-KROM-uh-ter).	ANSWER: _wet bulb_ temperature17.	FTPE answer the following about Animal Farm.(A) & (B) Orwell's novel starred, among others, "two young boars named".. well, FTPE, what were there names? 	ANSWER:  Snowball and Napoleon(C) This raven, interpreted to represent the Church was the only animal on the farm who did not work.	ANSWER: _Moses_
18.	Identify these members of the genus Australopithecus FTPE.(A) This species of early bipedal man was first discovered by Raymond Dart in Tuang, South Africa.  Most of the fossils are from 3 to 2.3 million years ago.	ANSWER: Australopithecus _Africanus_(B) Fossils of this species were found in an eponymous region of Ethiopia by Donald Johnson and include the "Lucy" fossil.  They are bipedal, sexually dimorphic and probably the earliest australopithenes.	ANSWER: Australopithecus _Afarensis_(C) Found in Olduvai Gorge by Mary Leakey, it was contemporaneous with homo habilis, and at first thought to be more advanced than Australopithecus and given a different genus, Zinjanthropus.  However, it is now believed to be an offshoot of afarensis. 	ANSWER: Australopithecus _Boisei_19.	Identify the Spartan kings FTPE.(A) This king is most famous for dying in defense of the pass of Thermopylae against the Persians.	ANSWER: _Leonidas_(B) This king controlled Sparta during his hegemony of Greece until his colleague Cleombrotus was defeated at Leuctra.  He led many expeditions against the Persians in Asia Minor and died on the way back from campaigning in Egypt.	ANSWER: _Agesilaus_(C) This king revolutionized the Spartan constitution, making it a tyranny.  He was overthrown after his defeat by the Macedonians and Achaeans at Sellasia in 222 B.C.  He escaped to Egypt where he died leading a revolution.	ANSWER: _Cleomenes III_20.	Answer the following about Medieval Universities FTPE.  (A) This University in a Northern Italian town was renowned for its law school.  It had such scholars as the legal commentator Irnerius and Gratian, the great codifier of canon law.  It also had two well-developed student guilds, the Ultramontane and the Cismontane.	ANSWER: _University of Bologna_(B) This college, now a major Parisian monument, was given to the University there in 1258 by Louis IX's confessor.  Located in the Latin Quarter, it now houses the University's Arts and Human Sciences faculty.	ANSWER: La _Sorbonne_(C) This was the first course of study that a student took after being admitted to a University.  Appropriately named, it consisted of grammar, rhetoric, and logic.	ANSWER: _Trivium_21.	Identify the poem from lines FTPE.(A) "But Lancelot mused a little space;/ He said, 'She has a lovely face;/ God in his mercy lend her grace."	ANSWER: "The _Lady of Shalott_" (By Tennyson)(B) "And we are here as on a darkling plain/ Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight/ Where ignorant armies clash by night."	ANSWER: _Dover Beach_ (By Matthew Arnold)(C) "Nay, we'll go/ Together down, sir, Notice Neptune, though, / Taming a sea horse, thought a rarity, / Which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze for me."	ANSWER: _My Last Duchess_ (By Robert Browning)22.	Identify the important works in the history of science F15P or FFP if you need the authors.(A) (15) Dedicated to Pope Paul III, it contained an anonymous preface by Andreas Osiander that asserted that the model presented within should only be treated as a mean to compute more accurate mathematical predictions.(5) Nicholas Copernicus	ANSWER: "_De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestium_" or "_On the Revolutions of the Celestial Orbs_"(B) (15) This was one of the first works proposing a scientific method with the statement "Scientific speculation is worthless unless it is supported by experimental evidence".  It also heavily criticized Aristotle's views of the four elements, arguing for further subdivision.(5) Robert Boyle.	ANSWER: _Skeptical Chemist_