TOSSUPS - packet on behalf of Jim Baker's team		MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall1.	In his On Music chapter 16 Plutarch cites Aristoxenus in recording that this poet invented the Mixolydian meter, and may have shared the face of follow-countryman Alcaeus who was exiled to Syracuse when Pittacus took over the government of Mytilene. Fragmentary biographies like the Suda and the some of the Oxyrynchus Papyri record at least one brother whose affair with the courtesan Rhodopsis was the subject of at least one fragmentary poem, while others include a Hymn to Aphrodite begging the goddess to reverse the lack of affection displayed by a nameless girl who is perhaps the Anaktoria of other poems. For 10 points name this poet who probably did not commit suicide over the boatman Phaon but who probably was at least bisexual, which is why many of the poems that caused Plato to label her the "Tenth Muse" deal with her sexual passion for several girls on her home island of Lesbos.Answer:	Sappho2.	In 1973 it was shown that phenyl sulfones can be reacted with aldehydes to produce these, a reaction named for its discoverer Marc Julia, while one can be produced along with a tertiary amine by means of treating an amine with methyl iodide and then with silver oxide, water, and heat via the Hofmann elminiation. During a study of carbanions it was discovered that a substituted phosphine oxide as well as these compounds can be produced by reaction of certain ylides [ill ids] react with carbonyl compounds these compounds, set of reactions known as Wittig reactions, and a law describing how halogens are fixed to unsymmetrical ones through a carbon atom is known as Markovnikov's Rule. Classified either by the number of double bonds per molecule or as either cyclic or acyclic, in which the double bond is located between carbon atoms forming part of an open-chain grouping, for 10 points name these compounds which consist of any unsaturated hydrocarbon containing one or more pairs of carbon atoms linked by a double bond.Answer:	olefin (accept alkene)3.	Among the works of this philosopher are a series of encomia on Leibniz entitled Philosophical Speeches. His other works include Letters of Feeling and Evidence in Metaphysics. Originally holding the surname Dessau, the name by which he is better-known is a Germanized patronymic, he was once driven to a nervous breakdown by J.C. Lavater's challenge that he convert to Christianity unless he could successfully refute Charles Bonnet's arguments in favor of it.  On recovering, he reasserted his faith in works like On the Civil Improvements of Jews and Jerusalem, though his son Abraham would raise this man's famous grandson a Christian. The model for his friend Gotthold Lessing's Nathan the Wise, for 10 points name this philosopher and author of the platonically-inspired Phaedo and a defense of Leibniz's theism entitled Morning Hours, also the grandfather of the composer Felix.Answer: 	Moses Mendelssohn4.	The economic prosperity of this empire was aided by the Dyula and Wangara traders and by its own abundant mineral resources, as illustrated by a famous pilgrimage by one of their leaders which briefly crippledd the trade in precious metals in Cairo for much of the 1320s. Its origins lay in the activity of their founder, who defeated his uncle the king of the Susu at the Battle of Karina, moved his people's capital to Niana, and converted to Islam, a faith strongly embraced by his famous grandson. Eventually toppled by internal revolts of peoples like the Taureg and ultimately the Songhai, for 10 points name this people most notable for their activities in the reigns of their kings Sundiata and Mansa Musa.Answer: Mali5.	Some of its historical inaccuracies are real howlers for the discriminating viewer, including one in which an appeal for a correct vote is made to a man "who handed down so many wise decisions from the bench" even though in reality he had never yet served as a judge, as well as a climactic scene in which an all-night ride was attributed to absence due to cancer, when in fact the man in question was serving as a general of the Delaware militia at the time. The DVD version restored a scene originally cut by Jack Warner himself at the request of Richard Nixon, the number "Cool, Cool Considerate Men". Fortunately most of the film is left as is, including such great numbers as "Yours, yours, yours", "Mamma, Look Sharp", and "Molasses to Rum". Featuring the fine acting and singing of Ken Howard, Howard da Silva, and William Daniels as Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, and John Adams, for 10 points name this musical named for the year of the signing of the Declaration of Independence.Answer:	1776
6.	Some have argued that the nervousness exhibited in this man's works was the result of a childhood which one critic described as being filled with a "half-mad father who terrified him with fear of the devil", and it is true that there are very few of his works which do not have an undercurrent of the macabre, even ones as ostensibly about love as Woman in Three Stages, Cupido, and Amor and Psyche. More evident of his outlook on life can be found in Jealousy, Love and Pain which features a woman literally devouring a lover and for that reason is sometimes called The Vampire, and Spring Evening on Karl Johann Street, while even paintings which were less stark in the original he managed to alter in the woodcuts he made of them, greatly altering his otherwise lovely Madonna by adding a sickly fetus to it. For 10 points name this painter, also known for Puberty and Anxiety but far and away better known for his many versions on canvas or wood of The Scream.Answer:	Edvard Munch7.	It has been invoked to explain the unfortunate incident of battery memory that prevents full charging, since the chemicals in some batteries do not deplete fully and thus ordinary charge cannot get them to overcome their "medium power" setting.  Positive uses of this effect include the so-called Schmitt trigger, which has settings for high and low output based on input but will continue to use the high-output setting even if the input is gradually decreased, as well as certain kinds of brakes on vehicles made by rubber, since the jolt of a landing is not immediately transferred by a sudden decompression of the rubber. Variable melt and freeze rate liquids such as agar will also display this property, such as occurs when agar is brought to 40 degrees Celsius and will remain either solid or liquid depending on whether it is being cooled or raised to that temperature, and ferromagnetic materials display it best in the form of remanance, whereby these materials will retain a magnetic charge for a time even after the magnetic field has been removed. For 10 points name this term which can essentially be defined as the lag in certain materials in their return to their original state after the forces affecting that state has been removed.Answer: 	Hysteresis8.	Among his more eclectic publications are The Bond Affair and studies of Peanuts and Charlie Brown.  His recent works include The Search for the Perfect Language and The Aesthetics of Thomas Aquinas, as well as a sequel to a more famous work that discusses the reaction of linguistic and perceptual meaning when confronted with the unencountered. This is the substance of 1997's Kant and the Platypus, and critical to his approach to literature is the proper relationship of the work of art to those who encounter it which he explores in his The Role of The Reader, and he is likewise a staunch opponent of Deconstruction, which he attacks in his Interpretation and Overinterpretation. Perhaps best known for theories found in works like The Open Work, The Limits of Interpretation, and A Theory of Semiotics, for 10 points name this critic and novelist, whose more purely literary works include The Island of the Day Before, The Name of the Rose and Folcault's Pendulum.Answer: 	Umberto Eco9.	Its final action was a rout largely led by Colonel Henry Dodge which turned into a massacre, with even those attempting to flee that engagement slaughtered by rivals across a branch of the Mississippi where it was fought.  A few days later its overall leader was captured and led East under guard by a young Jefferson Davis, who apparently impressed his captive. Hostilities were precipitated by the unauthorised occupation by the village Saukenuk during the hunting season, and hostilities began at Stillman's Run, where a misunderstanding about a surrender flag was misinterpreted and did much to precipitate the final battle fought shortly after the battle of Wisconsin Heights. Led on the one hand by General Henry Atkinson and ultimately decided when a gunboat fired on a party raising the surrender flag that resulted in the Battle of the Bad Axe River, this is, for 10 points, what 1832 war which saw the defeat of the Sauk and Fox under the Illinois chieftain for whom the war was named?Answer: 	Black Hawk War10.	His name means "Hanged", a reference to his early identification with Odin who was once offered sacrifices of men and animals hanged from trees and who in some myths is this god's son, though in others he is the son of the giant Hymir. Named by a rune which essentially is an up-arrow, symbolic of a spear which shows his status as a god of war, Loki's hatred of him caused him to taunt this god by claiming to have fathered a child on his wife, an enmity that likely began when this god played a key role in binding one of Loki's offspring and in the process earned a permanent wound. For 10 points name this god who will slay Garm at Ragnarok presumably with his left hand, having had his right bitten off by Fenris while the gods bound him with Gleipnir.Answer:	Tyr (or "Tiu", "Tiwaz"; if it sounds close and begins with a "T", accept it)
11.	His most famous discovery was later investigated more fully by Luis Valcarcel in 1934 and by Paul Fejos seven years later, though his belief that he had actually found the main object of his quest has since come to be disbelieved in deference to another site known as Espiritu Pampa. Sparked by his initial interest to provide topography for the history courses he was then teaching at Yale, this man developed a determination to find the place known in legend as as Choquequirau, the "Cradle of Gold" which he believed to be near the Urubamba River valley, and while he did make a mammoth discovery near the so-called "Old Peak" modern scholars have come to believe that this was not Vilcabamba. For 10 points name this archaeologist, who nevertheless made his mark for his discovery of Macchu PichuAnswer:	Hiram Bingham12.	Among his earlier works are a bitter exposé of the motion picture industry featuring the character Sergius O'Shaughnessy who also figured in an abandoned novel Advertisements for Myself on the Way Out, which he later turned into a collection of autobiographical pieces. In addition to Deer Park, poetry collections like Deaths for the Ladies, and a novel about everyday life in Pharaonic Egypt entitled Ancient Evenings, he is notable for such personal exploits as running for Mayor of New York on the "No More Bullshit" platform.  But he is far better known for his New Journalism account of a 1967 Peace March on the Pentagon, another about a killing spree in Utah and the trial of the killer, and a vivid fictional account of the survival of men from a platoon storming a Japanese island during World War II. For 10 points name this author of Armies of the Night, Executioner's Song, and The Naked and the Dead.Answer:	Norman Mailer13.	In comparison to non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs this drug has a higher tendency towards causing rebound headaches, has a lower therapeutic index such that a helpful dose is very close to being a poisonous one, and in particular is subject to becoming toxic in the presence of alcohol which helps its metabolic product Cytochrome P450 2E1 produce a lethal compound, and hence should not be used to reduce handgovers. A metabolite of phenactin also known as para-hydroxyacetanalide and paracetamol, an isolated study in the European Journal of Pharmacology has suggested its analgesic properties are due to its elevation of the availability of serotonin, though it is most commonly accepted that it acts as a pain reliever by raising the body's overall pain threshold and a fever-depressant by tinkering with the brain's temperature regulator. For 10 points name this painkilling drug, usually sold under the name Tylenol.Answer: 	Acetaminophen14.	At the end of his life this man was serving a former bitter enemy as governor of Magnesia, where his service there was so admirable that they worshipped him as a god there and later struck coins showing him with a drinking dish in one hand and a knife with which he has killed a bull in the other, possibly giving rise to the account later much ridiculed by Roman authors that this man ended his life by drinking bull's blood. Among his accomplishments is employing the first town planner in history, Hippodamus of Miletus, to lay out the Piraeus, also in line with his other major accomplishments, which was to build a vast navy with revenue from Athenians silver mines and command it at a naval battle where he won his greatest fame. For 10 points name this man, actually the subordinate of Eurybiades when he used trickery to convince Xerxes, to whom he was later exiled, to give battle and ultimately lose at Salamis.Answer:	Themistocles15.	He was cripplingly shy and according to his daughter Imogen, herself later a composer and arranger of note, he was prone to depression, which is audible in such pieces as Ode to Death, Hymn to Jesus, and Fugal Overture. But he was not without a sense of humor, as seen in his parody of Wagnerian opera The Perfect Fool and the Shakespeare-inspired opera At the Boar's Head. His interest in eastern mysticism is apparent in such works as Hymns from the Rig-Veda as well as his opera Savitri, and while his own favorite work was Egdon Heath, his most popular is a suite briefly inspired by his interest in astrology. For 10 points name this composer of The Planets.Answer:	Gustav Holst16.	Among her later children are the scorpion man and centaur, while among her earliest are the pair Lahmu and Lahamu as well as her firstborn who becomes her husband after the death of her first husband at the hands of Ea. That first husband was killed when his royal counsellor, Mummu, advised him on a dangerous course of action with which she did not agree, and she was likewise reluctant to avenge the slain Apsu but was pressured by Kingu into a second attempt to destroy the younger gods that led to her own death at the hands of Ea's son who used her body to create the sky and the sea. For 10 points name this salt-water goddess of Babylonian myth, a central figure of the Enuma Elish which describes her death at the hands of Marduk.Answer:	Tiamat
17.	The terminus of their western expansion was perhaps Milan, which they briefly occupied in 899 before leaving upon receiving sufficient bribes, and they were successful first because western heavy cavalry did not initially succeed against their light cavalry armed with a slightly curved sword adopted from the Alans, maces, and straighter bows. Despite the legend of their Middle Eastern origin, in reality these people were of Finn-Ugaric origins who were driven into Europe by the Petchenegs and Bulgars, and among their famous rulers were Duke Geyza and Stephen, who defended his homeland from takeover by the Holy Roman Empire and was later canonised, though it was under their chieftain or "gyula" named Lél that they suffered their most famous defeat in 955. Beaten at Lechfeld in that year by Otto the Great just as they had been defeated at Riade in 933 by Otto's father Henry the Fowler, For 10 points name this people whose most famous ruler, Árpád, led them into the area where their "Ten Arrows" Confederacy, or "Onagur", still names their homeland, Hungary. Answer:	Magyars18.	One of the men by this name worked on the function of the hypothalamus and showed how stimulating it with electricity could produce changes in body temperature, hunger, thirst, and sexual arousal, for which he shared the 1949 Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine with Egas Moniz. Another demonstrated that the radiation intensity in the atmosphere increased with height during hot-air balloon tests and won the 1936 Nobel Prize in physics with Carl Anderson for his discovery of cosmic rays, while another was a Swedish-born Russian chemist who formulated the law of constant heat summation. For 10 points give the surname of Walter, Victor, and Germain, the latter of whom is namesake of the law stating that "heat developed in a given chemical change is constant independent of whether the changes occur in one stage or many".Answer: 	Hess 19.	Vita Sackville-West chose the title of her autobiography All Passion Spent from the last line of this work. As it was being composed in the 1640s its author was just beginning to suffer from the malady that afflicts the main character. In it, he is visited in his bonds by his father, who longs to see him released but is met with the prisoner's refusal to go, by a giant whose son would also be of epic size who taunts him but does not accept a challenge to unequal combat, and by the woman who betrayed him and who begs his forgiveness, which he gives from a distance lest she come to close and he tear her apart. For 10 points name this closet drama which begins with its title figure "eyeless in Gaza at the mill with slaves", with such characters as Manoah, Harapha, and Dalila in the story of the final hours of a Biblical strongman written by John Milton.Answer: 	Samson Agonistes 20.	Among the geographical features of this region is its merging with the Namib as well as the remnants of Lake Makgadikgadi (MACK-GAD-ICK-GAD-EE) which has now become an enormous salt-pan and which was formerly the outlet of the Boteti river known locally as the Okavango, which forms a namesake swamp near this region. The area near the Okavango is thus well-vegetated, which means that only in the south is this area truly a desert; the rest is more accurately labeled a "thirstland", appropriately enough, since its name is derived from the Khoisan term meaning "thirst". For 10 points name this 360,000 square mile arid region of the interior plateau of southern Africa which occupies a third of Namibia, the Northern cape province of South Africa, and almost the entirety of Botswana.Answer:	Kalahari (accept "Botswana" before "well-vegetated")21.	A number of variant myths about this nymph exist.  In one she evades the fate usually assigned to her and gets spirited to Crete where she takes the name Pasiphae, and in another Laconian tale she has a suitor named Leucippus who joins her hunting party disguised as a girl before another more divine suitor informs her of this fact and she tears Leucippus apart. In some legends she is a daughter of Zeus, but in most stories she is either the daughter of the river god Ladon or of the river Peneius in Thessaly who catches the eye of a god when he foolishly taunts the archery of Eros, and that god's pursuit of her leads to a change of shape to evade him. For 10 points name this mythical figure, whose desire to avoid becoming a conquest of Apollo causes her to be changed into a laurel tree.Answer:	Daphne
BONI - packet on behalf of Jim Baker's team		MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall1.	Initially a goldsmith, after becoming trained in painting he produced such works as Mystic Nativity and the Saint Barnabas Altarpiece, and he was a favorite of Lorenzo the Magnificent, one of whose cousins raised him, he painted his most famous works for that family and pictured them in his Adoration of the Magi holding the Christ child's foot, while the monk looking at the viewer in that painting may be his own self-portrait. For 10 points each:1. Name this painted born with the surname Filipepi, this man's more famous name is said to have come from a nickname originally given to his older brother meaning "little barrel".Answer:	Sandro Botticelli2. Botticelli was for a time a pupil of this master known for his Adoration in a Wood, The Madonna Enthroned or Tarquinia Madonna, and the Confirmation of the Rule but also known for his inability to stay in a monastery before eloping with the nun Lucrezia Buti, who bore his son Filipino, also a painter.Answer:	Fra Lippo Lippi3. One of Botticelli's best known works, it is notable for its depictions of varieties of flowers and for the blue Zephyr, Chloris with flowers coming from her mouth, and Venus -- who would all later reappear in his Birth of Venus.Answer:	Primavera2.	After service in the navies of France and Denmark this man defeated the Turks in the Battle of Liman in 1788 while serving as a Rear Admiral in the Russian Navy. Born in Scotland in 1747, he began his naval career on a slaving vessel, but after being held in suspicion of murdering a crewmate he was forced to change his name and flee to America, where he served in the Revolutionary War. For 10 points each:1. Name this naval officer famous for his actions at Carrickfergus where he defeated the HMS Drake in the Irish Sea.Answer: 	John Paul Jones2. Jones is perhaps best known for commanding this old warship, the former Duc De Duras, rechristened and given a French name complimenting the famous Almanac of Benjamin Franklin.Answer:	USS Bonhomme Richard3. It was at the helm of the Bonhomme Richard that Jones fought and destroyed this ship in 1779, despite a rough beginning that had led to a call of surrender and the famous reply of "I have not yet begun to fight".Answer:	HMS Serapis3.	He is a wealthy plantation owner who has difficulties expressing love other than through gifts and material possessions, and who, unbeknownst to himself and his wife, is dying of cancer. His oldest son, Gooper, is a grasping corporate lawyer, while his favored son Brick is a former star football player who has become an alcoholic following the death of his friend, quarterback, and probable homosexual lover. For 10 points each:1. Name this character, the most memorable in the play Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.Answer:	Big Daddy Pollitt (prompt of "Pollitt")2. Name the playwright responsible for Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.Answer:	Tennessee Williams (scowl at anyone who says "Thomas Lanier Williams", but take it)3. Big Daddy is most notably averse to this specific type of lie, which he claims to see everywhere about his house.Answer:	mendacity (accept "bull", since Big Daddy does say that from time to time)4.	Among his accomplishments, he was the first to determine a solution for separable differential equation, which he did by means of his invention the isochrone, and he coined the term "integral". He gives his name to "trials" of which there are only two probable outcomes, and along with his brother and detested rival Johann he developed the calculus of variations. For 10 points each:1. Name this Swiss mathematician.Answer:	Jakob Bernoulli2. In 1689 Jakob Bernoulli had published a paper elucidating his "Law" which essentially states that "If an event of probability p is observed repeatedly during independent repetitions, the ratio of the observed frequency of that event to the total number of repetitions converges towards p as the number of repetitions becomes arbitrarily great", a law that is usually known by this name.Answer:	Law of Large Numbers3. Johann Bernoulli had humiliated Jakob by solving where his brother could not the equation for this curve, which is that made by a chain hanging from two points.Answer:	catenary
5.	In a former swampland formerly called Lake Merom in the Hula valley the Hasbani, Dan, and Baniyas streams of Mount Hermon combine to form this river, which en route to its terminus it receives the tributaries Yabis and Harod and spreads out in a plain known as Ghor, having already received its principal tributaries the Jabbok and Yarmuk. For 10 points each:1. Name this river which empties into the Dead Sea and is notable for its hotly disputed West Bank.Answer: 	Jordan River2. Part of the upper reaches of the Jordan flow out of this large freshwater lake whose distinctive harp-shape gives it its Hebrew name.Answer:	Sea of Galilee (accept "Yam Kinneret" or "Lake Tiberias")3. The Jordan forms part of the border between Israel and the Palestinian territories and these other two countries. Name them, five points each.Answer:	Syria and Lebanon6.	Born in France, this woman spent her teens in New York before returning to Paris in 1927, where she began her literary career with D.H. Lawrence: An Unprofessional Study. Famous for works as Ladders to Fire, Solar Barque, and Spy in the House of Love, her work is known for the intense poetic and erotic power with which her own life was apparently full, as her Diaries reveal. For 10 points each:1. Name this author.Answer:	Anaïs (Ann-ah-ees) Nin2. Maria de Medeiros and Fred Ward starred in a hot hot hot 1990 film, the first to be released under an NC-17 rating, depicting the love affair of Anaïs Nin and this American author of Tropic of Capricorn.Answer:	Henry Miller3. The culmination of Nin's erotica is this collection of stories, her first, which featured such striking stories as "The Hungarian Adventurer" and "The Ring". Its classical name refers less to a geographical region and more to an anatomical one.Answer:	Delta of Venus7.	According to legend its director was working for Columbia Pictures and almost couldn't get the film made when the female lead was turned down by Miriam Hopkins, Myrna Loy, Constance Bennett, and Margaret Sullivan. When the female lead was found, though only agreeing to do it on her four-week vacation from Paramount at twice her usual salary, the male lead was then rejected by Robert Montgomery until L. B. Mayer, who had a "got a bad boy down here I'd like to punish", sent him to work on this film. For 10 points each:1. Thus got made what 1934 Academy Award winning film directed by Frank Capra about a socialite looking to make her way back to New York by bus?Answer:	It Happened One Night2. It Happened One Night swept the Oscars, winning Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Actor and Actress for these two leads in the film.Answer:	Claudette Colbert, Clark Gable8.	According to one legend he was born to his father Hyreius in payment for the latter's hospitality to Zeus and Hermes but was not conceived by a woman but rather formed after Hyreius urinated on a bull's hide; another legend states that Zeus, Hermes, and Poseidon were the ones whose urine formed him in this way. For 10 points each:1. Name this mythological figure, a hunter whose birth is perhaps symbolic of the bad luck he would have all his life, such as being blinded after ridding the kingdom of Chios of wild beasts by King Oenopion and later accidentally shot by his almost-lover Artemis.Answer:	Orion2. In some legends Artemis was tricked into shooting Orion as he fled from a scorpion sent after him by Apollo because he was aware that Orion had once been the bedmate of this goddess of the dawn.Answer:	Eos3. By some unnamed mother Orion was the father of the nymph Menodice and thus the grandfather of this friend of Heracles, whose disappearance caused Heracles to go off searching for him and quit the expedition of the Argo.Answer:	Hylas
9.	Its name is Greek for "leather" due to the adherent membrane which its forms of the tonsils, nose, and pharynx, which can cause suffocation in addition to the sore throat and fever it produces. For 10 points each:1. Name this disease for which the Schick test provides indicator of susceptibility now almost eradicated from industrialised countries due to the DPT immunization.Answer:	diphtheria2. In addition to diphtheria and pertussis, the DPT vaccine also prevents against this infection notable for producing muscle tension, especially in the jaw.Answer:	tetanus3. Serum therapy for both diphtheria and tetanus were both discovered wholly or in collaboration by this man, who won the first Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discoveries.Answer:	Emil Adolf von Behring	10.	Identify the historical figure, 30-20-10.1. (30 points) In later years the mythology of this figure has grown a little greater than her actual historical importance, attributing texts on gynaecology, love potions, and, importantly, poisons and venoms to her. Her beauty has likewise been amplified; according to coins struck, her appearance is best likened to what Richard Zacks compared to "Angelica Huston on a good day". 2. (20) The Romans ridiculed her for her drunkenness, which she certainly encouraged in the second of her most famous lovers whom she met on a famous barge in Tarsus. She had earlier met the first of her famous liaisons by being smuggled into the royal palace from which he had been exiled in a bag, or, some say, in a carpet.3. (10 points) Famous for committing suicide by means of snakebite shortly after the defeat of Actium, she was at one point the lover of Julius Caesar and, later, Marc Antony.Answer:	Cleopatra VII11.	In this film a young woman arrives in the big city looking to be star and falls for The Kid, a musician who is troubled by his father's abuse of his mother and by friction in his band, caused by his unwillingness to let the group perform any music he has not written. About to be fired from First Avenue, his band's venue, things come to a head when his father attempts suicide, and in his grief The Kid finally uses the music his bandmates have written to come up with a song that secures his spot in First Avenue and wins back the girl. For 10 points each:1. This is the plot of what 1984 film set in Minneapolis, whose real draw is the music performed by The Time, the Apollonia 6, and the Revolution?Answer: 	Purple Rain2. The ostensible star of Purple Rain is this musician, the frontman of the Revolution.Answer:	Prince 3. A rather unpleasant scene in Purple Rain occurs when Prince performs this song designed to humiliate Apollonia. Featuring a title character about whom "you could say she was a sex fiend" whom the narrator meets in a hotel lobby "masturbating with a magazine", it caused Tipper Gore to go thermonuclear when she first heard it, leading her to launch the PMRC.  It was covered in 2003 by the Foo FightersAnswer:	"Darling Nikki"12.	In the majority opinion for this case the Supreme Court first ruled that the plaintiff, referred to several times as an "eelemosynary" institution, was a private corporation which could not be subjected to meddling by the legislature. This was a de facto victory for the plaintiff which was then bolstered by acknowledging that the Royal Charter in essence consisted of a contract between the government and the plaintiff which, according to Article I section 10, could not be impaired by the actions of a state, in this case New Hampshire. For 10 points each:1. This is a summary of the majority opinion in what 1819 case argued by Daniel Webster on behalf of a college which claimed the right to appoint its own governing body independent of the action of the state to modify it?Answer:	The Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward2. Dartmouth College was represented by what advocate, a New Hampshire lawyer who also defended Aaron Ogden in Gibbons v. Ogden and later to enjoy a prominent political career in the Senate.Answer:	Daniel Webster3. Webster's passionate defense of Dartmouth was said to have brought tears to the eyes of this man, the Chief Justice who rendered the decision.Answer:	John Marshall
13.	Identify the following about a play, for the stated number of points:1. (10 points) Though warned of the evils of flatterers by Apemantus and cautioned about his dwindling finances by his steward Flavius, the title character of this work spends lavishly on his friends, but when his money finally runs out these so-called friends desert him and he becomes embittered, bestowing the gold which he discovers digging for roots to anyone wishing ill towards his home city, including the renegade general Alcibiades. Answer:	Timon of Athens2. (5 points) Name the playwright responsible for Timon of Athens.Answer:	William Shakespeare3. (15 points) Shakespeare is considered by some to have written Timon of Athens in collaboration with this man, who also teamed with Thomas Dekker for The Roaring Girl and William Rowley for The Changeling but is usually considered to have written The Revenger's Tragedy himself.Answer:	Thomas Middleton14.	In laboratories that make use of it chemical, polyethelene glycol is often kept nearby to deal with splashes due to the skin irritation this chemical can cause, though somewhat ironically one of its first notable modern uses was as the favored antiseptic of Joseph Lister. It can be acquired through partial oxidation of benzene as reflected in one of its other names, benzenol. For 10 points each:1. Name this chemical with formula C6H5OH, the simplest of a group of organic compounds characterized by a hydroxyl group attached to a carbon atom that is part of an aromatic ring by whose name this chemical is also sometimes called.Answer: 	carbolic acid or phenol (accept "benzenol" before it is said)2. The process by which a Phenol is obtained from benzene and propene is usually known by this name, taken from another name of the chemical isopropyl benzene whose formation is the intermediate step.Answer:	cumene process3. A phenol and a formaldehyde were brought together by heat and pressure to form this first artificial plastic.Answer:	Bakelite 15.	Among the miscues which contributed to the losing side's defeat in this conflict was its adherence to human wave and bayonet charges which it called the Stosstaktik and the fact that a government-granted monopoly to manufacturers of breech-loading rifles effectively prevented the losing nation from accumulating rapid-fire needle guns like those possessed by the winning side. Witness to the first European military use of telegraphs and railroads, it was ultimately decided by the battle of Sadowa or Königgratz. For 10 points each:1. Name this conflict between Austria and Prussia which took place over two months in 1866, also known as the Austro-Prussian or the "German War".Answer: 	Seven Weeks' War2. Prussian efforts in both the Seven Weeks War and the earlier German-Danish War of 1864 had been masterminded by this German chief of Staff, who had modernized the Prussian army.Anwer:	Helmuth von Moltke3. Von Moltke's tactics and his strategy would also later be employed to achieve victory in this conflict of 1870-1871 notable for such battles as Gravelotte-St. Privat, Metz, and ultimately Sedan.Answer:	Franco-Prussian War16.	Less-famous work of this physicist is his research on the production of interference by rays of hydrogen and helium and his experimental verification of Maxwell's law of velocity distribution in gases. Better-known is his measurement of the magnetic moment of the proton, accomplished with a molecular beam which he also used in an experiment wherein it was found that a beam of silver atoms shot through a non-uniform magnetic field onto a glass plate split into two distinct beams instead of broadening into a continuous band. For 10 points each:1. Name this man, awarded the 1943 Nobel Prize for this experiment.Answer: 	Otto Stern 2. Otto Stern conducted this experiment with this assistant, who did not win a prize in part because he helped spearhead Nazi nuclear reaction experiments during the War.Answer:	Walter Gerlach3. Stern and Gerlach had been working in the labs headed by this man whose later work in crystals includes his formulation of his namesake cycle by which the lattice energy of a crystalline halide could be calculated.  He is better known for his explanation of quantum physics by means of matrix mechanics with his student Pascual Jordan, for which he won a Nobel of his own in 1954.Answer:	Max Born 
17.	Among the critical tenets of this philosophy are the practice of the "eidetic reduction" wherein one tried to distinguish between non-essential aspects of a thing and those very things which, if removed, would cause the thing being perceived to be destroyed or changed into something else. Enormously influential on such later thinkers Maurice Merleau-Ponty, its name is used in the title of several early collections by Martin Heidegger, who studied under the man who "invented it". For 10 points each: 1. Name this philosophical movement.Answer:	phenomenology2. Name the author of as Logical Investigations and Cartesian Meditations, widely considered the founder of Phenomenology.Answer:	Edmund Husserl3. Crucial to the eidetic reduction is the suspension of preconceived notions until the very notions themselves can be observed before returning observation to any thing. Identify this state of suspension or the grammatical-sounding process by which one arrives at it.Answer:	époche (ay posh) or bracketing18.	The main character of this novel is the brutal miner Esteban Trueba who strikes it rich but loses his beautiful fiancee Rosa when she accidentally drinks poison.  After fathering an illegitimate son with his servant girl Pancha he marries Rosa's clairvoyant sister Clara, who surrounds herself with mediums and fellow psychics. For 10 points each:1. Name this novel in which Clara first communes with and upon her death joins the ghosts which haunt the namesake abode. Answer:	House of the Spirits (La casa de los espirítus)2. Name this author of The House of the Spirits as well as such other works as Daughter of Fortune, Aphrodite, and Portrait in Sepia, the niece of a deposed and assassinated Chilean president.Answer:	Isabel Allende3. Allende's latest work is this one, in which the Californian nobleman Diego de la Vega meets George Sand and is captured by Jean Lafitte before returning to take up a sword and mask as "The Fox."  It's a prequel to the Johnston McCulley novella which introduced him in 1919 in time for him to be made into films starring Tyrone Power Answer: 	Zorro 19.	The last of this line was the Emperor Chieh, whose devotion to a beautiful but cruel mistress led to misery and a revolt by T'ang. Notable for the advances made in irrigation under it, its founder was Yu the Great, who was so devoted to duty that he only visited his palace once during his reign. For 10 points each:1. Name this dynasty, traditionally dated from 2205 to 1766 B.C.E., a semilegendary house and the first alleged ruling dynasty of China.Answer:	Xia dynasty (Hsia; pronounced like the "s" in "vision")2. The Hsia dynasty was supplanted by this house, which governed China according to the chroniclers from 1766 to 1122 BCE and is the first dynasty which can be validated by artifacts, such as the oracle bones and other remains from their capital at Anyang.Answer:	Shang or Yin dynasty3. The Hsia dynasty followed the reign of these mythical rulers who themselves succeeded the Three sovereigns; their number includes Huang Ti, Gaoyang (gow-yang), Ku, Yao, and Shun.Answer: 	Five Emperors 20.	After the slaughter of his family by Siggeir, the treacherous husband of his sister Signy, this man lives in the forest where he unwittingly conceives a son, Sinfiolti, with his sister, who helps him take his vengeance on Siggeir. After the murder of Sinfiolti by his first wife Borghild, who then dies, he marries Hiordis before dying in battle with Lyngvi. For 10 points each:1. Name this Norse hero, who nevertheless managed to father a son, the dragon-slayer Sigurd, before his death.Answer:	Sigmund2. Sigmund was the youngest son of this king and owner of the fortress Barnstokk, who gives his name to the Saga chronicling the deeds of Sigurd and Sigmund.Answer:	Völsung3. Both Sigmund and, eventually, Sigurd make use of this sword thrust by Odin into the tree that supports Barnstokk, which came in to Sigmund's possession after he proved the only one who could withdraw it. Answer: 	Gram 