TOSSUPS - TENNESSEE/MARYLAND FREELANCE	MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Carol Guthrie and Daniel Greenstein with an assist from Florida & James Washick1.	In describing it, a New York Times reporter wrote: "Wednesday morning, Sept. 17, the sun rose in a cloudless sky, and all nature seemed to smile as if the world were filled with the elect of God. But its splendors were soon dimmed with the smoke rising from the battle-field. . . . Gen. Sedgwick's horse was killed, and he was wounded twice, but remained on the field until he was ordered to the rear with his command." During this battle, 23,100 were killed, wounded or captured, making it the bloodiest day in United Sates military history.  FTP, name this 1862, battle in which Union forces hurled back a Confederate invasion of Maryland.       Answer:	 Antietam2.	Three of them are meta-stable, meaning if an object holds steady it will remain in its "halo" orbit.  Two of them are truly stable; the object would perform like a ball in a bowl.  Satellites have been discovered at the truly stable variety, and the Trojan asteroids orbit at these truly stable points relative to the Sun and Jupiter.  For ten points, name these points discovered in 1722 by their namesake French mathematician in his study of the Three-Body problem.	Answer:	 LaGrange points3.	The works of Boccaccio, Cervantes and Rabelais were thought to be considerably influenced by this work; the work itself was considerably influenced by a work by Lucius of Patrae.  The curious main character, also known as Lucius, has a maid steal him a potion to turn him into an owl, but instead imbibes a potion turning him into the eponymous creature.  Also known as Metamorphoses, for ten points, name this satirical romance by Lucius Apuleius.       Answer: The Golden Ass (accept Metamorphoses early)4.	For his doctoral thesis in philosophy, he wrote about a sleepwalking girl who claimed to be a spiritualist medium. Over the door of his Kuessnacht home was carved the Latin inscription:  Vocatus atqua non vocatus deus aderit. ("Called or not called, God is present.")  In 1937, he became the Terry lecturer at Yale, where he expanded upon his theory that "a natural religious function" exists in humans, which, if ignored, will result in a loss of psychic health. In 1911 he co- founded the International Psychoanalytic Society.  FTP, name this psychologist who pioneered the concept of a "collective unconscious."       Answer:	 Carl G. Jung5.	The poetic variation consists of one to four strophes of three lines followed by a two-line strophe called a ritornello.  Its most famous creators were Giovanni da Cascia (also known as Giovanni da Florentia) and Jacopo da Bologna.  The classical 16th century version were usually for five voices in a polyphonic and imitative style. In the last part of the 16th cent. composers such as Luca Marenzio, Carlo Gesualdo, and Monteverdi intensified the expression of their text by the use of chromaticism, word painting, and declamatory effects.  FTP, what is this musical form?	Answer:	 madrigal6.	Enzymes involved in its intermediate stages include enolase, aldolase, and hexokinase, while intermediates of this process include fructose-6-phosphate and PGAL. It can proceed under aerobic and anerobic conditions, and its end product is often reduced to lactic acid in muscles. FTP, name this process in which two ATP are produced by the splitting of glucose into two molecules of pyruvate.       Answer: 	glycolysis  7.	First mentioned in 297 A.D. by the Roman writer Eumenius, their language is thought to have been a superimposition of Celtic on a pre-Celtic and non-Indo-European language, but there is no undisputed interpretation of it or their culture. By the early 7th cent. they had unified kingdom north of a line from the Clyde to the Forth rivers. It apparently had a matrilinear system of succession and had probably adopted Celtic Christianity. Between 843 and 850 Kenneth I , king of Dalriada, established himself as their king , paving the way for the formation of the kingdom of Scotland.  FTP, name this people, described by contemporaries as having painted themselves blue.	Answer:	 Picts
8.	Three versions of it reached the Top Twenty in 1939 including Larry Clinton's #1 hit.  First featured in the short film "A Song Is Born," the tune was used for voice practice for Anthony Quinn.  In 1961 both the Cleftones and Jan & Dean had top forty hits with it, but in 1988 it was used in the memorable piano scene in "Big."  FTP, name this Hoagy Carmichael tune that shares its name with 80s pop hits by Huey Lewis and T'Pau.       Answer:	Heart and Soul9.	It might be based on a folk-tale and was probably composed in Palestine during the Hasmonean period (c.160-37 BC). The identification of Nebuchadnezzar as king of Assyria (he was king of Babylon) may indicate that the book is not intended as literal history.  Included in the Septuagint, but not included in the Hebrew Bible, and placed in the Apocrypha of Protestant Bibles, it recounts an attack on the Jews by an army led by Holofernes, Nebuchadnezzar's general. FTP, what is the name of this Biblical book, named after the heroine who seduces then beheads Holofernes.	Answer:	 Judith10.	Dissatisfied with English translations of Ibsen, he learned Norwegian when he was 19 so that he might read his literary god in the original.  When he first met William Butler Yeats he remarked: "We have met too late; you are too old to be influenced by me."  For years he was almost totally blind, and much of his later writing was done with red crayon on huge white sheets of paper. His first published work- except for a screed against Tim Healy published in his youth- was "Chamber Music."  FTP, name this author famed for his stream of consciousness in such stories as "The Dead."       Answer:	 James Joyce11.	His theorem on arithmetical progression states that if two positive integers a and b have no prime factor in common, the arithmetic progression an + b contains infinitely many primes.  His theorem on Diophantine approximation is a consequence of the pigeon-hole principle, while his problem, very important in complex function theory, is also known as the Neumann problem.  For ten points, name this 19th century French-born German mathematician whose namesake theorem states that if a function f is continuous its Fourier series converges to f.	Answer:	 Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet12.	He had Top 40 success with covers of  "Love Me Tender" and "All I Have To Do Is Dream," but his highest charting song was "The Stars Will Shine Tonight," the theme song to a drama in which he starred.  Better known as an actor, he had minor roles as Pete in an episode of Gunsmoke and as "Clay Pine" in Alfred Hitchcock Presents, but went on to play Jason Bourne in a 1988 version of the Bourne Identity and Nigel Wick's mother on The Drew Carey Show.   FTP, name this star of Dr. Kildare and Shogun.       Answer:	Richard Chamberlain13.	Upon its finalization, Premier Syrovy, announced "We have been abandoned."  General Krejci told his army to obey orders and allow the cession to take place as ordered.  President Benes, who had not been a participant, resigned in protest after it was Poland and Hungary, for whose minorities promises had been made at Munich, were allowed to seize, respectively, the Teschen district and parts of Slovakia.        Answer:	 Munich Agreement or Pact14.	Born in 1933, the novel in which this main character appears is a very long confession to Dr. O. Spielvogel.  His many sexual partners include his girlfriend at Antioch College, Kay Campbell; his girlfriend in Washington, Sarah Maulsby; his longtime companion in New York whom he calls The Monkey; his own hand and a piece of organ meat.  For ten points, name this afflicted character, whose fictitious namesake disorder is the title of a 1967 Philip Roth novel.       Answer: 	Alexander Portnoy15.	Its existence was verified by analysis of the waves resulting from an earthquake in Chile in 1960.  Lying from about 100 to 350 kilometers beneath the Earth's surface, it flows slowly, allowing the movement of the plates above it.  FTP, name this layer, lying between the crust and the stiffer portion of the mantle.	Answer:	 asthenosphere
16.	Keynes challenged its applicability to modern markets, and Thomas Sowell performed a 1972 historical analysis on this law that forms a basis for supply-side economics.  How governments respond to high unemployment or underemployment is a reflection on this law that basically implies that supply creates its own induced demand and thus over-production is impossible.  For ten points, name this law of economics that states an economy is self-regulating if all prices are flexible enough to maintain it in equilibrium.	Answer:	 Say's law of markets17.	When he departed for England on December 27, 1882, he responded to newspaper critics by saying, "They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris. I would add that when bad Americans die, they stay in America." Of his literary philosophy, he once opined Awe should never talk of a moral or an immoral poem. Poems are either well written or badly written. That is all."   His journey to America had been finance by Richard d'Oyly Carte, who wanted to promote the American debut of Patience, a Gilbert and Sullivan operetta which spoofed this man's aesthetic movement that espoused the ideal of beauty and art for art's sake.  FTP, name this witty author.	Answer:	 Oscar Wilde18.	He joined the free-love utopian commune of Oneida, New York, where he lived during the Civil War years, and afterward worked on Horace Greeley's presidential campaign.  He then turned to religion, ushering at Dwight Moody revivals and writing a religious book called The Truth.  In early March 1881, he moved to Washington, D.C. and began pestering Senator John Logan and Secretary of State James Blaine, asking them to have him appointed French ambassador.  FTP, name this wacky assassin who shot President James Garfield.       Answer:	 Charles Guiteau19.	This concept is one of the more poorly named rules in chemistry since it is broken as often as it is followed.  The rule forgets about paramagnetic compounds such as nitrogen monoxide.  On the low end, the rule does not take into account lack of p sub-orbitals, while on the high end, the rule does not take account the d sub-orbitals.  For ten points, name this theory also known as the Lewis-Langmuir theory that states the most stable valence electron shell contains eight electrons.	Answer:	 octet rule20.	He was assisted in his studio by his daughter Marietta and by his sons Domenico (who served as foreman) and Marco.  Following his father's death, Domenico continued to create portraits of prominent Venetians, including a portrait (now lost) of Cardinal Patriarch Federico Cornaro.  Of this painter's Crucifixion, Henry James wrote: "Surely no single picture in the world contains more of human life; there is everything in it, including the most exquisite beauty." His The Miracle of the Slave (1548) is sometimes called the painting that made his reputation.  FTP, name this Mannerist master who also painted Marriage at Cana (1561). 	Answer:	 Tintoretto or Jacobo Robusti21.	Educated at the University of Pittsburgh and Youngstown State University, from 1971 to 1981, he served as director of the Mahoning County Drug Program.  His record in Congress reflects his main concerns of drugs, homeowner assistance and, ironically, IRS reform.  For ten points, name this Ohio Democrat convicted of bribery, tax evasion and fraud who was recently expelled from the House of Representatives.	Answer:	 James Traficant22.	In 1881 he founded a college of organists at Brno, shortly before the premiere of his first opera, Sarka. Later operas include From the House of the Dead and Mr. Broucek's Excursion to the Moon. His 1926 Glagothic Mass is written in Old Slavonic, though it cannot be performed in Orthodox churches because it uses instruments. Other works include the song cycle Diary of One Who Vanished and the opera Kata Kabanova and the Cunning Little Vixen. FTP, name this composer of the Makropolous Case and Jenufa, longtime professor of composition at the Prague Conservatory.	Answer:	Leos Janacek  23.	In 1930, U.S. Customs seized Harvard-bound copies of this critically hailed satire, claiming obscenity. Two Harvard professors defended the work, and it was later admitted in a different edition. In 1944, the US Post Office demanded the omission of from a mailed Concord Books catalog.  But, this was nothing new, as the work had been banned in its own day, written under the most famous pen name of its author, Francois Marie Arouet.  FTP, name this Voltaire classic.	Answer: 	Candide
BONI - TENNESSEE/MARYLAND FREELANCE	MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Carol Guthrie and Daniel Greenstein with an assist from Florida & James Washick1.	It's August 4. Let's test your knowledge of events which occurred on August 4 past, 5 pt. each. a. In 1735 a jury acquitted this editor of the New York Weekly Journal of seditious libel.       Answer:	  John Peter Zengerb. It began service on August 4, 1790 as the Revenue Cutter Service.       Answer:	 the Coast Guardc. On August 4, 1964, the bodies of 3 missing civil rights workers were found buried in an earthen dam in Mississippi.  Name them.       Answer:	  Michael H. Schwerner, Andrew Goodman and James E. Chaneyd. On August 4, 1892, a husband and wife with this last name were brutally murdered in Fall River, Mass., axed to death.       Answer:	 Borden2.	Identify these unusual or rare animals, 10 pts. each.a. The smallest member of the camel family, it is 30 in. high at the shoulder, with a long, slender neck and pale, fawn coloring. They live in herds on high plateaus of the Andes.	Answer:	 vicuna or vicunnab. This strange and endangered member of the zebra family is native to the rainforests of northern Zaire.	Answer:	 okapic. When the last one in captivity died in 1979, this species of carnivore of the family Mustelidae was thought extinct until a colony was found in Wyoming 5 years later.  Only 18 survived a plague to be taken into captivity; there are now 300, not counting some that have been reintroduced into the wild.	Answer:	 black-footed ferret3.	FTPE, identify these characters in a 1919 Herman Hesse Bildungsroman.[10] This title character mysteriously appears and enlightens the protagonist through isolated encounters.  The protagonist later sees him in a vision but discovers he holds the understanding he thought lay only in the title character.	Answer:	 Max Demien[10] Name the young protagonist of Demien.	Answer:	 Emil Sinclair[10] This devil-god whom Demien introduces to Sinclair is simultaneously good and evil, a creator and destroyer.	Answer:	 Abraxas4.         2002 marked the 25th anniversary of the first broadcast of Roots. FTPE name the actors who played the following:    1. Toby AKA the older Kunta Kinte				Answer:	John Amos    2. Fiddler							Answer:	Louis Gossett, Jr.    3. Chicken George						Answer:	Ben Vereen5.	Given a description, name the work by Charles Ives FTPE.a) This 1908 work consists of a string quartet repeating simple harmonies- placed apart from them, a trumpet reiterates a theme commented on by flutes. 	Answer:	The Unanswered Questionb) Consisting of four sections, Emerson, Hawthorne, the Alcotts, and Thoreau, it honors Thoreau's wish to hear flute music over Walden Pond. 	Answer:	Concord Sonata or 2nd Piano Sonatac) This 1909 symphony consists of five parts: Washington's Birthday, Decoration Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving, and Forefather's Day. 	Answer:	New England Holidays
6.	Answer these interrelated questions about Greek mythology for 10 pts. each.a. The son of Poias, he acquired, by gift, the bow and arrow of Hercules by lighting the pyre on which the hero was consumed alive. On his way to the Trojan War, he was bitten by a snake. Because the smell of his wound and his cries made him offensive, his companions left him on the desolate island of Lemnos.	Answer:	 Philoctetesb. When an oracle declared that Troy could not be taken without the weapons of Hercules, Philoctetes was brought to Troy by what two Greek heroes?	Answer:	 Neoptolemus (or Diomedes) and Odysseus or Ulysses7.	Identify these "legal" works of literature, 10 pts. each.a. This Dickens novel includes the line "Jarndyce and Jarndyce drones on. This scarecrow of a suit has, in course of time, become so complicated that no man alive knows what it means."	Answer:	 Bleak Houseb. The purpose of this Aristophanes play was to satirize the love of litigation common to the Athenians, whose delight it was to spend their time in the law-courts and to live on the judicial fees which Pericles had established, and which Cleon was pledged to maintain	Answer:	 The Waspsc. Tom Robinson is wrongfully accused of rape in this novel and is defended by Maycomb's best attorney, or so his daughter thinks.	Answer:	 To Kill a Mockingbird8.	Fluid mechanics: Identify the following types of flows for ten points each.[10] This type of flow occurs when the Reynolds number is less than the critical Rayleigh number, usually less than 30.	Answer:	 laminar flow or Poiseuille flow[10] This type of flow occurs at low Reynolds numbers where the viscous forces are so much greater than inertial forces that the latter are ignored in the partially eponymous fundamental fluid mechanics equations.	Answer:	 Stokes flow[10] This type of flow occurs in an annulus between two concentric spinning cylinders.  There are no body forces present and the Navier-Stokes equations are solved in cylindrical coordinates.	Answer:	 Coulette flow9.	Answer these questions about the twentieth century Middle East FTPE:(10) All or nothing, name the month and year in which the Six Day War occurred.	Answer:	June 1967(10) This one-eyed Israeli general became a folk hero during that war.	Answer:	Moshe Dayan(10) Because it was an ideal place for the enemy's artillery, Israel took control of the Golan Heights from this country.	Answer:	Syria10.	For ten points each:[10] Ivan Turgenev popularized this term meaning the rejection of all traditional values.	Answer:	 nihilism[10] This man expelled from the 1872 First International gave the term its association with anarchy in many of his works, including 1842's Reaction in Germany.	Answer:	 Mikhail Bakunin[10] This 19th century German author of Human, All Too Human, Der Antichrist and Ecce Homo used the term as a loss of faith in God and/or man.	Answer:	 Friedrich Nietzsche
11.	Answer the following about new wet-shave razor technology FTPE.(A) This is the most up-to-date wet shaver for men.  It features three anti-friction blades and an ultra soft skin guard, and is an upgrade from its company's previous triple-bladed razor.	ANSWER: 	_Mach3Turbo_(B) This women's wet shaver features three blades, soft protective cushions surrounding the blades, an oval shaped cartridge, a lubrication strip with aloe, and a clip for easy storage in the shower.	ANSWER: 	_Venus_(C) This company makes both the Mach3Turbo and the Venus, as well as the comfort blades and the Sensor Excel.	ANSWER: 	_Gillette_12.	Name these colonial ruler bad-asses for ten points each.[10] This man ruled with an iron grip over the Dominion of New England between 1686 and 1689.	Answer:	 Edmund Andros[10] A 1998 book by Patricia Bonomi attempts to dispel the myth of this infamous governor of both New York and New Jersey in the early 18th century.  He is rumored to have been corrupt, bigoted and a transvestite.	Answer:	 Lord Cornbury[10] This Governor of Virginia held a steady course in trying to appease both the Indians and colonists that were at odds with one another that may have led to Bacon's Rebellion in 1676.	Answer:	 Sir William Berkeley13.   Last month, a groundbreaking June 1999 discovery at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory was retracted.  FTSNOP:[10] Give the numbers of both elements that were thought to have been discovered.	Answer:	 116 and 118[10] Elements 116 and 118 were postulated to be members of this region, so named for having comparatively longer half-lives than previously discovered elements in the triple digits.	Answer:	 Island of Stability[5/5] Atoms of these two elements were combined in a cyclotron to produce the super-heavy element 118.	Answer:	 Lead and Krypton14.	Identify these characters in Nathaniel Hawthorne's House of the Seven Gables for ten points per part.[10] This man killed Hepzibah and Clifford's uncle, but managed to get Clifford convicted and put in prison for the crime.  A well-respected member of the community with many private vices, he is found dead next to Clifford when he visits the house.	Answer:	 Judge Jaffrey Pyncheon[10] This man was hanged after being accused of witchcraft by Colonel Pyncheon generations ago.  As he hangs, he curses the Pyncheon family line.	Answer:	 Matthew Maule[10] This man falls in love with the visiting country cousin Phoebe.  The last remaining descendent of Matthew Maule, his marriage to Phoebe breaks the family curse.	Answer:	 Holgrave15.	Name these Wyoming rivers for ten points each.[10] This river rises in the Wind River Range and flows south through Flaming Gorge National Recreation Area.	Answer:	 Green[10] This river led the travelers of the Oregon Trail from Devils Gate on the north branch of the Platte to South Pass.	Answer:	 Sweetwater[10] This river's source is Heart Lake in Yellowstone National Park; it flows south through Grand Teton National Park before turning west for its journey to the Columbia River.	Answer:	 Snake
16.	Evolve and answer these questions for ten points each.[10] This predecessor to Darwin's theory of evolution, created by a French naturalist, postulated evolution based on inheritance of acquired characteristics or habits.  An example of such a characteristic is a giraffe's long neck.	Answer:	 Lamarckism[10] This 20th century revival of Lamarckism by a Russian geneticist was spurred by the Marxist doctrine of individual improvement through training and environment.	Answer:	 Lysenkoism[10] This theory, named for an American psychologist, explained the genetic assimilation of a phenotype.  This controversial theory stated that an individual could be endowed with the advantageous trait without environmental input.	Answer:	 Baldwin effect17.	Name these Greek philosophers for ten points each.[10] This philosopher put forth the belief that all was made up of air, and his Law of Nature stated that an excessive contrary tends to crowd out its opposites.	ANSWER:	 Anaxamenes of Miletus[10] This philosopher believed that the world is cylindrical, the heavenly bodies are wheels of fire, and that the indivisible thing that made up all things was the unbounded or limitless.	ANSWER:	 Anaxamander of Miletus[10] The teacher of Thucydides, Euripides, Pericles and Socrates, he believed in a dualistic universe containing both tiny particles and a force to bind them, and in the field of astronomy he predicted eclipses and studied the phases of the moon and meteors.	ANSWER:	 Anaxagoras of Clazomenae18.	Answer the following questions about the 1611 tragedy The Maid's Tragedy.[5,5] For five points each, name the two English dramatists who collaborated on The Maid's Tragedy.	Answer:	 Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher[10,10] Amintor wants to marry Aspatia but the king forces him to marry the sister of his closest friend.  For ten points each, name Amintor's forced wife-to-be, who eventually kills herself when Amintor refuses to forgive her, and Amintor's friend, who is the only character still alive at the end of the tragedy.	Answer:	 Evadne and Melantius19.	Given that your inputs are 0 and 1, tell whether the result returned from each of these basic logic gates is 0 or 1, 5 pts. each.  You must get three correct to accrue points.A) AND		Answer:		0B) OR			Answer:		1C) XOR		Answer:		1D) NOR		Answer:		0E) NAND		Answer:		1F) XNOR					Answer:		020.	Answer the following about the Sino-Japanese Wars for ten points each.[10] This 1894 Korean peasant insurrection, led by Choe Si-Hyong, marked the beginning of the first Sino-Japanese War.	Answer:	 Tonghak uprising[10] This episode on a river crossing near Beijing caused full-blown war to erupt between defensive China and expansionist Japan.	Answer:	 Marco Polo Bridge incident[10] Japan still has trouble admitting its part in the deaths and sexual violations of thousands of residents in the titular city on the Yangtze River in the titular event in early 1938.	Answer:	 Rape of Nanking or Nanking Massacre
21.	From what literary work are the following quotations taken?  30-20-10.a.  30 PTS: "Men are never so Serious, Thoughtful, and Intent, as when they are at Stool."  b.  20 PTS: "Here was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth in the art of proving by words multiplied for the purpose, that white is black and black is white, according as they are paid." c.  10 PTS: "My Reconcilement to the Yahoo-kind in general might not be so difficult if they would be content with those Vices and Follies only, which Nature has entitled them to."  	Answer:	 Gulliver's Travels22.	It is the world's best-selling book.  For ten points each, identify these specific versions of the holy Bible.[10] Baker and Lucas of London were fined 300 pounds for printing this 1632 bible in which the word not is omitted from the seventh commandment.	Answer:	 Wicked Bible or Adulterous Bible[10] This version is named either for its maker or the French library in which it was found.  Alternatively named the Forty-Two Line Bible, it was printed at Mainz in 1455.	Answer:	 Gutenberg Bible or Mazarin Bible [10] Printed for Cardinal Jiménez at Alcalá between 1513 and 1517, this version in six folio volumes contains the Greek and Hebrew texts, a Latin translation of the Pentateuch, a Hebrew dictionary and much more.	Answer:	 Complutensian Polyglot