TOSSUPS - blind round #1				MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Anthony de Jesus with one or two from your genial quizmaster1.	Set near St. Ouen, this work's creator claimed that its subject matter was light.  Two men, one holding a cane, converse, oblivious to their surrounding, which include a pile of crumpled clothes, a woman bathing in the river behind them, and a nude woman sitting right beside them.  Controversial for placing clothed men and nude women together, this is--for 10 points--what Impressionist work by Edouard Manet?	Answer:	The Luncheon on the Grass or Le Déjeuner sur l'Herbe2.	At his death, he was working on a translation of a minor Martin Buber work into his native tongue.  He is believed to have been the driving force for Saint-John Perse and Boris Pasternak being given Nobel Prizes in Literature, after he replaced his father on the Swedish Academy, but he won his own Nobel for something other than literature.  For 10 points-what man had being going to meet Moise Tshombe when his plane crashed, a dead UN Secretary General?	Answer:	Dag Hammarskjöld [HAM-ahr-shuld]3.	Its northern boundary is deeply indented by the Pedicle, which belongs to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, while, on its southwest border, it appears to touch three other countries, including Botswana and Zimbabwe, at the eastern end of the Namibia-owned Caprivi Strip.  For 10 points--name this south-central African nation whose population is concentrated along the railway linking the Copperbelt mining region, Livingstone, and Lusaka.	Answer:	Republic of Zambia4.	It takes the energy of three molecules of ATP and five molecules of G3P to produce three molecules of this.  A carbon dioxide acceptor in carbon fixation, it catalyzes the attachment of a carbon dioxide molecule to a five-carbon sugar, but the product immediately splits into two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate.  For 10 points--name what is probably the most abundant protein on Earth, an enzyme used in the Calvin cycle.	Answer:	rubisco or RuBP carboxylase or ribulose biphosphate carboxylase5.	Its title character is hated by the Portuguese clerk Cornelius because he married the clerk's stepdaughter, Jewel, and took away his status as the only white man in the area.   Cornelius helps pirates ambush the village, leading to the death of Doramin's son and of the title character, once the chief mate of the Patna.  For 10 points--name this tale of an Englishman in Patusan by Joseph Conrad.	Answer:	Lord Jim6.	He claimed that physics, or natural philosophy, and ethics, or moral philosophy, were the two material branches of knowledge, while logic is the formal branch of knowledge in the preface to Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of Ethics.  In a different work, he held that physics, mathematics, and metaphysics were the three theoretical sciences, which he separated from the practical sciences.  For 10 points--what philosopher also separated logic, or methodology, from the theoretical and practical sciences in the preface to the second edition of his Critique of Pure Reason?	Answer:	Immanuel Kant7.	His 2001 trip to Moscow took nine hours by train, supposedly because he is afraid of flying.  Believed to be responsible for a 1983 bombing in Rangoon and a 1987 attack on an airliner, he believes in a philosophy of self-reliance, or Juche, which is also the name of the tower that he supposedly designed in Pyongyang.  For 10 points--name this leader of North Korea.	Answer:	Kim Jong-Il8.	The subject of John Updike's poem "Cosmic Gall," they were first detected in a laboratory by F. Reines and C.L. Cowan in 1953.  One product of electron capture, they are the subject of an experiment in the Homestake mine in North Dakota, while about ten of them were detected in Japan in 1987 from supernova SN1987A in the Large Magellanic Cloud.  For 10 points--name these elementary particles with no charge, the subject of a debate as to whether they have mass or not.	Answer:	neutrinos
9.	His experience coaching Apache high-school basketball players is recounted in the 2000 book ~A Season on the Reservation~.  A one-time assistant to Jim Todd with the Los Angeles Clippers, his coaching career highlight may be winning the league title in his only season as head coach of the Oklahoma Storm of the USBL.  As a player, he led his first team to an NBA title after three national college titles.  For 10 points--name this center for the Milwaukee Bucks and UCLA, as well as the Lakers.	Answer:	Kareem Abdul-Jabbar or Lew Alcindor10.	The title character is amused that two men who had tried to kill her were both assigned to the Londonderry, a steamer going to Capetown, South Africa.  The coal barge Simeon Winthrop is where Irishman Mat Burke finds himself. Burke gets into a fight with the captain, Chris Christopherson, over the title character, the captain's daughter, who lived in St. Louis as a prostitute in--for 10 points--what Eugene O'Neill play?	Answer:	Anna Christie11.	They involve particles of a size between roughly 10 and 20,000 angstroms in diameter.  The particles are larger than molecules, but not so large as to be separated by gravity from the dispersing medium, and so lie between solutions and heterogeneous mixtures.  The Tyndall effect explains light scattered by--for 10 points--what mixtures, which include foams, emulsions, and aerosols?	Answer:	colloids12.	Born with the name Constantine, he was the librarian at the Church of Santa Sophia in Constantinople.  Dying months after becoming a monk, he is best known as the namesake of something he created with his brother while on a mission to Moravia.  For 10 points--name this Apostle to the Slavs and brother to Methodius, whose namesake alphabet is used in Russian.	Answer:	St. Cyril13.	He wrote over seventy one-act sacramental dramas, including The Great World Theater and Belshazzar's Feast, which he wrote after being appointed honorary chaplain to the king. His secular plays include The Prodigious Magician, The Doctor of His Own Honor, and The Mayor of Zalamea.  For 10 points--name this Spanish playwright, whose best-known work is Life Is a Dream.	Answer:	Pedro Calderón de la Barca y Heneo14.	Lynn K. White and John N. Edwards debunked conventional wisdom concerning this "syndrome," showing there were positive psychological effects with what White and Edwards termed instead the "post launch honeymoon."  Parents exhibit increased marital happiness and satisfaction with life after children move out rather than--for 10 points--what alleged phenomenon which gave its name to a '90s Richard Mulligan sitcom?	Answer:	empty nest syndrome 15.	Bishops were ordered to reside in their dioceses and seminaries were to be established in every diocese.  The clergy have supernatural powers given to them by God.  Justification is equally by both faith and good works.  Veneration of the saints, the seven sacraments, transubstantiation, and the existence of Purgatory were all upheld, and corrections were ordered to the abuses of indulgences as a result of--for 10 points--what 16th century Church council?	Answer:	Council of Trent16.	The terraces at its sides conceal the stables, laundries, and servants' quarters. Containing 35 rooms, this building is red brick trimmed with white wood and, influenced by Palladio, has a Greek portico and a Roman style dome. With a name meaning "little mountain," it introduced the Classical style to America. For 10 points--name this Virginia home of Thomas Jefferson.	Answer:	Monticello17.	Drawing upon ornithologist Phil Lutley Sclater's map of faunal regions for birds, this man generalized the regions to other animals, dividing the Earth into six biogeographic regions: the Nearctic, Neo Tropical, Palearctic, Ethiopian, Oriental, and Australian.  Though most of the regions have approximate borders, the latter two have a discontinuity which is--for 10 points--what man's namesake line separating the fauna of Indonesian and Australia?	Answer:	Alfred Russel Wallace
18.	If the titular event does indeed take place, there's a special irony to it.  The title character, on his way from "his hillside" to pace "up and down... near the old courthouse" or linger by his old homestead, would be likely to pass by the grave of the second most famous person buried in Oak Ridge Cemetery -- this poem's author.  FTP name this Vachel Lindsay poem about the restless post-mortem stirrings of "the prairie-lawyer, master of us all."	Answer:	"Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight (In Springfield, Illinois)"19.	The perched variety is common in glacial outwash, and involves lenses of clay forming in small glacial ponds.  Typical made up of rock units that include sandstones, limestones, dolomites, basalt flows, and fractured plutonic and metamorphic rocks, they may be confined or unconfined, depending upon the intrinsic permeability of material overlaying them.  For 10 points--name these geologic units, which are sufficiently permeable to permit the transmission of water to wells and springs.	Answer:	aquifers20.	His constant reversals led George Crook to ask to be relieved. In 1882 he surrendered in Mexico's Sierra Madre Mountains.  In 1885 he returned to Mexico, surrendered, and fled back to the mountains again.  He surrendered for a last time in 1886 at Skeleton Canyon, Arizona to Nelson A. Miles.  But he was never a chief.  For 10 points--name this Apache known for his guerilla raids.	Answer:	Geronimo or Goyathlay21.	His amorous pursuit of Gerd is described in the Skírnismál.  In order to get his servant Skírnir to act as a go-between, he gives Skírnir his sword and so ends up weaponless when he faces the fire-giant Surt, dying at Ragnarök.  For 10 points--name this owner of the golden boar Gullinborsti and the ship Skídbladnir, a Vanir fertility god who came to dwell among the Aesir.	Answer:	Freyr22.	In 1992, Mikhail Gorbachev visited this city, where he warned against the dangers of nationalism and the growing economic inequality between nations in a speech at Westminster College. The same city became famous 46 years earlier for another speech, which Joseph Stalin deemed a "call to arms." For 10 points--in what Missouri city did Winston Churchill warn that Europe was divided by an "iron curtain?"	Answer:	Fulton, Missouri23.	Consisting of three parts-- "Spring," "In the Tavern," and "The Court of Love"-- it is the first in a trilogy of "scenic cantatas" ending in the Trinfo di Afrodite. Its text, partly in Medieval Latin, is based on anonymous poems found in the archives of a monastery in Upper Bavaria.  Opening with a 97-measure chorus invoking the Goddess Fortune, this is--for ten points--what vivid choral work partly in medieval German by Carl Orff?	Answer:	Carmina Burana [Songs of Buren]
BONI - blind round #1				MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Anthony de Jesus1.	For 10 points each--name these Biblical priests:A.	The lesser priesthood of the LDS Church takes its name from this priest, three years older than his brother Moses.	Answer:	AaronB.	Abraham paid a tithe to this Canaaite priest who blessed him and gave him bread and wine following a battle in which Abraham rescued the kidnapped Lot.  The higher priesthood of the LDS Church is called by his name.	Answer:	MelchizedekC.	Historically, this man held the high priesthood from AD 18 to 36.  Biblically, he presided over the trial of Jesus before the Sanhedrin, which explains why the LDS Church didn't name squat after him.	Answer:	Caiaphas2.	For 10 points each--what English poet wrote these World War I poems:A.	"Anthem for Doomed Youth" and "Dulce et Decorum Est."	Answer:	Wilfred OwenB.	"And There Was a Great Calm" and "Channel Firing."	Answer:	Thomas HardyC.	"Counter-Attack" and  "The Dug-Out."	Answer:	Siegfried Sassoon3.	He sided with the Good Parliament against his brother, John of Gaunt, but he died before he could be come king.  For 10 points each--A.	Name this man whose son, Richard II, did become king.	Answer:	Edward, the Black PrinceB.	Edward's gallantry at age 16 was so obvious that he was knighted on the field of this battle.	Answer:	CrécyC.	At the Battle of Poitiers, Edward captured this French king.	Answer:	John II4.	For 10 points each--name these peaks in the Cascades:A.	Named for George Vancouver's navigator, it is the highest peak in the Cascades.Answer;	Mount RainierB.	This center of a national forest is Oregon's tallest mountain.	Answer:	Mount HoodC.	The southernmost of the Cascades, it is the center of a volcanic national park and was the site of eruptions between 1914 and 1921.	Answer:	Lassen Peak5.	For 10 points each--name these things concerning the movement of stars:A.	A star's distance can be calculated by measuring this apparent shift relative to other stars.	Answer:	stellar parallaxB.	This movement of a star is determined by measuring the angular displacement relative to more distant background stars.	Answer:	proper motionC.	The Doppler effect causes this change in the radiation of a receding star, as the wavelength of radiation received is longer than that of the radiation emitted.	Answer:	redshift (do not accept "blueshift")
6.	For 10 points each--name the composers of these geographically-named symphonies:A.	The "Paris" symphonies and the "London" symphonies.	Answer:	Franz Joseph HaydnB.	The "Scotch" and "Italian" symphonies.	Answer:	Felix Mendelssohn-BartholdyC.	The "Paris" and "Prague" symphonies.	Answer:	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart7.	For 10 points each--name these Democrats who became Republicans:A.	He went from Democratic Senator from California to the first-ever Republican presidential candidate.	Answer:	John Charles FrémontB.	As a Democrat, he served Maine in both houses of Congress before becoming Abraham Lincoln's first vice-president.	Answer:	Hannibal HamlinC.	Lincoln's Postmaster General, he also argued Dred Scott's case before the Supreme Court.	Answer:	Montgomery Blair8.	For 10 points each--name these Buddhism movements:A.	Also called Tantric Buddhism, this movement, whose name means "Diamond Vehicle," includes Tibetan Buddhism.	Answer:	Vajrayana or Mantrayana or GuhyamantrayanaB.	Zen, Tendai, and Pure Land Buddhism are schools of this Buddhist movement that emerged in the first century AD and which idealizes the goal of becoming a bodhisattva.	Answer:	MahayanaC.	With a name meaning "way of the elders," this conservative form of Buddhism was pejoratively called "Hinayana," meaning "Lesser Vehicle," by the more open Mahayana Buddhists.	Answer:	Theravada9.	Also known as an essayist, his works include The Pumpkinification of the Divine Claudius.  For 10 points each--A.	Name this Roman tragedian whose death followed his implication in the Piso conspiracy.	Answer:	Lucius Annaeus Seneca the YoungerB.	Based on a play by Euripides, this Seneca play has a title hero returning to Thebes to save his wife, children, and father from the tyrant Lycus, only to kill his family in a frenzy.	Answer:	Mad Hercules or Hercules FurensC.	Some critics suggest that Seneca wrote the plays to further this philosophy, which is also found in his Moral Essays.	Answer:	Stoicism10.	For 10 points each--name these materials used in lasers:A.	The first optical laser made use of this aluminum oxide gemstone, which is made red by chromium impurities.	Answer:	rubyB.	Name either of the gases in the type of gas laser commonly used in bar-code scanners.	Answer:	helium or neonC.	A more recently-developed laser uses light emitted by the electric discharge-induced break-down of this type of unstable compound composed of two molecules.	Answer:	excimer or excited dimer11.	For 10 points each--name these things associated with Max Wertheimer:A.	Wertheimer founded this school of psychology with Wolfgang Köhler and Kurt Kaffka.	Answer:	GestaltB.	The Gestalt school began with Wertheimer's investigation of this perceived motion of a stationary object illuminated by flashing lights.	Answer:	phi phenomenonC.	German for "precision," this term was used by Wertheimer to describe neural and perceptual organization.	Answer:	Prägnanz
12.	For 10 points each--name the authors of these French novels:A.	Pere Goriot and Cousin Bette.	Answer:	Honoré de BalzacB.	Cheri and Gigi.	Answer:	Sidonie-Gabrielle ColetteC.	Salammbo and Madame Bovary.	Answer:	Gustave Flaubert13.	For 10 points each--name these people opposed by the CIA:A.	The CIA offered to assassinate this man, fearing he was a communist agent. Instead, he was merely arrested in 1962 and imprisoned for 28 years, including time spent at Robben Island.	Answer:	Nelson Rolihlahla MandelaB.	Allen Dulles authorized several plans to eliminate this man who advocated the independence of the Belgian Congo.  He was eventually killed by Colonel Joseph Mobutu.	Answer:	Patrice LumumbaC.	ITT encouraged the CIA to help it support a military coup that put Augusto Pinochet in power, replacing this Argentine president who allegedly died of suicide.	Answer:	Salvador Allende Gossens14.	For 10 points each--name these Asian and Asian-influenced games.A.	Based on a game called Halma, players of this game seeek to move from one point of a star-shaped board to the opposite point.	Answer:	Chinese CheckersB.    In this increasingly popular casino game, a player splits 7 cards into a regular 5-card poker hand and a 2-card hand.	Answer:	Pai Gow PokerC.	Based on a game used to teach Hindu morality, this board game may have been the origin of the expression "back to square one."	Answer:	Chutes and Ladders or Snakes and Ladders15.	For 10 points each--name these concepts from thermodynamics:This thermodynamic law states that two systems which are each at thermal equilibrium with a third system are also at equilibrium with each other.	Answer:	zeroth law of thermodynamicsThis chemical principle describes the trend towards which a system tends if its equilibrium is displaced.	Answer:	Le Châtelier's principleThis principle holds that for a mechanical system to be at equilibrium, the virtual work of the applied forces must vanish.	Answer:	d'Alembert principle16.	For 10 points each-name the following from Toni Morrison's Beloved:	A.	Beloved begins prior to the Civil War on the plantation of Mr. Garner in what state?	Answer:	KentuckyB.	This mother of three escapes the Garner plantation, and when her owner approaches, tries to kill her children, but only succeeds in killing her daughter, Beloved.  Later, she is haunted by Beloved's ghost.	Answer:	Sethe Suggs (prompt on "Suggs")C.	At the time, Sethe Suggs was pregnant with this daughter. At first, she isolates herself when she finds out what happened to her sister. Later, she seeks help for her mother.	Answer:	Denver17.	Animals require a compound to carry oxygen through the blood.  For 10 points each--A.	What compound serves this purpose in humans?	Answer:	hemoglobinB.	Instead of hemoglobin, crustaceans make use of this copper-containing compound.	Answer:	hemocyaninC.	Because it contains copper rather than iron, hemocyanin makes crustacean blood this color.	Answer:	blue
18.	For 10 points each--name these people and groups associated with David E. Lilienthal:A.	Lilienthal was the first chairman of this New Deal organization for flood control.	Answer:	TVA or Tennessee Valley AuthorityB.	Lilienthal was also the first chairman of this civilian agency created in 1946 to oversee the development of nuclear weapons as well of peaceful uses for nuclear technology.	Answer:	AEC or Atomic Energy CommissionC.	Lilienthal had proposed international control of nuclear power in a 1946 report issued with this man who served as Truman's secretary of state from 1949 to 1953.	Answer:	Dean Gooderham Acheson19.	Formalism tried to ground math in logical foundations. For ten points each:A.	This leader of the formalist movement is better known for his set of 23 problems for mathematical investigation.	Answer:	David HilbertB.	This Austrian-born mathematician blew apart formalist aims by showing that any theory involving the natural numbers was neither complete nor consistent in his Incompleteness Theorem.	Answer:	Kurt GödelC.	A third desire of formalism, the ability to decide whether any statement belongs in a theory, was shown to fail by the Undecidability Theorems of this American and the Brit Alan Turing.	Answer:	Alonso Church20.	For 10 points each--name these art collectors.A.	As ambassador to Turkey, he was given permission by the Turkish government to save Greek marble statues, which he transported to London, where he convinced the government to purchase and place in the British Museum.	Answer:	Thomas Bruce, Earl of Elgin and KincardineB.	The third wife of Max Ernst, this heiress was one of the first major collectors of abstract and surrealist art. 	Answer:	Peggy GuggenheimC.	Jean-Léon Gérôme led the conservative opposition to this man's bequest of his Impressionist collection to the French government. He is also known as the painter of Floor Scrapers and Paris Street: Rainy Weather.	Answer:	Gustave Caillebotte21.	For 10 points each--name the following related to the Battle of Austerlitz.A.	Alexander I overruled this general and engaged the French at Austerlitz. This nominal commander of 90,000 troops at Austerlitz was blamed and removed from command.	Answer:	Mikhail Illarionovich Golenishchev-Kutunov [Later Prince Kutunov]B.	The battlefield of Austerlitz is now in this country.	Answer:	Czech RepublicC.	After Austerlitz, France made this treaty with Austria, and pretty much dissolved the Holy Roman Empire.	Answer:	Treaty of Pressburg22.	His six-hour opera Mefistofele was less than successful.  For 10 points each--A.	Name this man better known as the librettist for Verdi's Otello and Falstaff.	Answer:	Arrigo Boito [BOH-ee-toe]B.	Boito used this the annagrammatical pseudonym Tobio Gorrio to write the libretto for this composer's La Gioconda.	Answer:	Amilcare PonchielliC.	Boito's second opera, Nerone, was finished by this Italian better known as the conductor of the New York Philharmonic and the NBC Symphony.	Answer:	Arturo Toscanini
23.	For 10 points each--ID these poems by Archibald MacLeish:A.	Ecbatan, the mountains over Persia, Kermanshah, Baghdad, Arabia, Palmyra, Lebanon, Crete, Sicily, Spain, and Africa are places mentioned in this poem addressed to another poet.	Answer:	"You, Andrew Marvell"B.	Sharing its name with a work of Horace, it holds that "a poem should not mean / but be. . . ." 	Answer:	"Ars Poetica"C.	The first of three Pulitzer Prize-winner works by MacLeish, this poem uses Cortes and the Aztecs as a symbol of the American experience.	Answer:	Conquistador24.	For the stated number of points--name these people associated with Andromeda:A.	For 5 points--Andromeda was rescued from a sea monster by this bearer of Medusa's head.	Answer:	PerseusB.	For 5 points for one, 15 points for both--name the king and queen of Ethiopia, the parents of Andromeda.	Answer:	Cepheus and CassiopeiaC.	For 10 points--Andromeda had been promised to this brother of Cepheus, who was turned to stone when he tried to intervene in the marriage of Andromeda and Perseus.	Answer:	Phineus"Andromeda," Cassell Dictionary of Classical Mythology, Jenny March, 199825.	For 10 points each--given an inexact definition, name the decidedly non-SI unit of length:A.	From the tip of the nose to the farthest fingertip of an arm stretched out to the side.	Answer:	yardB.	From elbow to fingertip on the same arm, which is approximately 17 to 25 inches.	Answer:	cubitC.	The distance between one set of fingertips to the other if both arms are stretched horizontally, this unit is used nautically.	Answer:	fathom