TOSSUPS - THE ULTIMATE PARADOX			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions (mostly) by Kelly McKenzie1.	This deity's great festival is Imbolc, commemorating the time when the ewes begin to lactate after the Cailleach Winter, during which the shadow of her snake determines how much longer winter will last. The wife of Bres and one of three identically named daughters of the Dagda, she is goddess of the Sacred Flame of Kildare. With a name meaning "one who exalts herself", FTP, who is this Celtic goddess of poetry and inspiration, some of whose lore became associated with the 5th century Irish saint of the same name?	Answer: Brigid or Brigit2.	The penultimate section of this work suggests that the life of the tree is superior in felicity to human destiny, while earlier the poet holds that the best lives are led by heroes and women in love, citing Samson and Gaspara Stampa as examples. The final poem contains a satirical portrait of the City of Pain, while the fifth uses Picasso's painting "Les Saltimbanques" to symbolize the human condition. Its most famous section is the first, which first invokes the angels that dominate the work's imagery. FTP, what is this ten-part poem, the masterpiece of Ranier Maria Rilke?        Answer: Duino Elegies3.	The "temperate" variety often end up in a state known as lysogeny in which their nucleic acid remains unexpressed. Discovered independently by F. W. Twort and Felix d'Herelle, they consist of a hollow protein tail, a head composed of protein, and an inner core of nucleic acid. They work by first attaching to the target using the tail, which then contracts like a syringe, forcing the nucleic acid into the target, sometimes resulting in lysis, or dissolution of the cell. FTP, what are these viruses that attack and often kill bacteria?	Answer: bacteriophages4.	Late in his life this explorer was made governor of the Rio de la Plata, but conflict with the popular Domingo Martinez de Irala resulted in his arrest and return to Spain. Coming to the New World as treasurer in the expedition of Panfilo de Narvaez, he was soon stranded on a Texas island and enslaved by Native Americans. Escaping with three compatriots, they traveled through much of what would become the southwest United States, detailing his adventures in the famous account "Los naufragios", or "The Shipwrecked Men", one of whose tales gave rise to the myth of the Seven Cities of Cibola. FTP, who was this 16th century Spanish adventurer whose inherited family title means "cow's head"?	Answer: Alvar Nunez or Cabeza de Vaca5.	This musical work unfolds without interruption, with sections like the alto solo "Grief and Pain" and the arias "O Grief, There Throbs the Racked and Bleeding Heart" and "My Savior Now is Dying from Love Unbounded" reaching a climax with the closing chorus "In Deepest Grief We Sit Here Weeping". More reverent than a related work by the composer, it takes its story from the Gospels with supplementary material by the postal clerk Christian Henrici and poetic insertions by Picander. Famously revived in an 1829 Berlin performance produced by Mendelssohn, FTP, what is this passion by J.S. Bach?	Answer: the St. Matthew Passion or the Passion According to St. Matthew6.	Earlier in his life this man was known as William the Bloody, not for his temperament but rather for his bloody awful poetry. An ardent Manchester United fan, at one point he was confined to a wheelchair, but more important is a computer chip that was placed in his head by the Initiative which prevents him from harming humans. FTP, who is this moody vampire who recently fell in love with Buffy the Vampire Slayer?	Answer: Spike7.	This sociologist detailed how ethnographers could reconstruct cultural history in the absence of historical records in his work "Time Perspective in Aboriginal Culture". Founder of the anthropology department at Yale, he introduced the concept of linguistic drift in his seminal 1921 work "Language". A student of Franz Boas, FTP, who was this thinker whose name is now associated with a theory of linguistic determinism developed by Benjamin Whorf?	Answer: Edward Sapir
8.	This compound produces the primary alcohol CH3 CH2 OH when reacted with Grignard reagents, which differentiates them from other aldehydes, which react with Grignard reagents to give secondary alcohols. Its reaction with proteins leads to its use in the tanning industry, while with phenol polymer it is used to make Bakelite. With formula HCHO, FTP, what is this simplest aldehyde, whose acidic form takes its name from its presence in ants?	Answer: formaldehyde (or methanal)9.	A former Undersecretary of the Interior, this man entered private law practice, expanding the legal definition of insanity with his arguments in the Durham case and defeating a legal challenge to Lyndon Johnson's 1948 Senate victory. Gaining fame for his success with Gideon v. Wainwright, he was picked by LBJ to replace Arthur Goldberg on the Supreme Court in 1965, but in 1968 a filibuster prevented his elevation to Chief Justice. FTP, who was this justice who, due to acceptance of funds linked to individuals under indictment for securities fraud, became the first to resign his post?	Answer: Abe Fortas10.	Born in France to parents of Spanish-Cuban descent, this woman left school at age 15 to become a fashion and artist's model, but soon returned to Europe, where she studied Spanish dance and underwent psychoanalysis with Otto Rank. Short story collections like "The Hunger" and "Cities of the Interior" revealed her intense interest in unraveling women's inner lives. Author of the novel "House of Incest", she gained notoriety for two volumes of erotica, "The Delta of Venus" and "Little Birds". FTP, who is this U.S. author best known for her introspective "Diaries"?	Answer: Anais Nin11.	One of its more hazardous regions in the so-called southern Atlantic Anomaly, where it dips to a lower level than usual. First discovered using data collected for the Explorer 1 satellite during the International Geophysical Year, it is believed to originate from solar flares, whose charged particles become trapped by the earth's magnetic field. Responsible for the aurora borealis, FTP, what are these two belts of radiation extending from 400 to 40,000 miles above the Earth's surface and named for their discoverer?	Answer: Van Allen belts12.	Legend holds that this thinker's only meeting with Karl Popper led to a fight between the two involving red-hot pokers. Turning to philosophy after reading Bertrand Russell's "Principles of Mathematics", he studied under Russell at Cambridge. After a 15 year period in which he abandoned the formal study of philosophy he gained a cult following at Cambridge, where his collected lecture notes, often called the "Blue and Brown Books", served as an introduction to his "Philosophical Investigations". FTP, who is this thinker whose idea that "a proposition is a picture of reality" is found in "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus"?	Answer: Ludwig Wittgenstein13.	Interesting commentary on the action of this novel is provided by the Whitmanesque "shepherd prophet" Vanamee, while its climax is said to have been inspired by the so-called Mussel Slough massacre. The plight of ranchers like Annixter and Harran Derrick is narrated by Pressley, an outsider who has come to California to write a great poetic epic. Opposing the ranchers are characters like Behrman, an agent of the railroad which dominates every aspect of the lives of the wheat farmers dependent on it. FTP, what is this naturalistic novel, perhaps the finest by Frank Norris?	Answer: The Octopus14.	When open, the right panel of this artwork depicts the resurrected Christ with nail and lance wounds on his hands and feet, but with his other wounds healed, which was intended to bring comfort to the plague victims who often inhabited the building in which it was executed. A carved shrine with two sets of movable wings, when closed it shows Golgotha transported to an desolate mountaintop, and is noteworthy for the pitiful body and twisted limbs of Christ on the cross, executed with the same expressive color and sense of movement for which the whole work is famous. FTP, what is this altarpiece of the Anthonite Abbey in Alsace, the best-known work of Mathais Grunewald?	Answer: Isenheim Altarpiece15.	The original center of power for this revolt was the Thistle Mountain region. Early in the conflict imperial resistance was dependent on the forces of Zeng Guofan, having lost much of the central and lower Yangtze Valley. With the aid of the Ever-Victorious Army, the Qing empire was able to retake Nanking, thus preventing its leader, Hong Xiuquan, from ushering in the "Heavenly Kingdom of Great Peace" from which the revolt gets its name. FTP, what was this major 19th century Chinese revolt?	Answer: Taipeng rebellion
16.	In the final act of this play, the moon, personified by a young woodcutter with a white face, expressed his hope to be warmed by the blood about to be spilled. Opening with the revelation that the Felix clan have killed the husband and all but one child of the mother, it goes on to describe the bride's acceptance of the remaining son's proposal, only to run away with her first love Leonardo, prompting a knife fight between Leonardo and the bridegroom which leaves them both dead. Supposedly modeled on the Cantata #140 of Bach, FTP, what is this play preceding Yerma and The House of Bernarda Alba by Federico Garcia Lorca?	Answer: Blood Wedding (Bodas de Sangre)17.	This body of water is separated from the Syvash marsh system by the Arabat Spit sandbar. At the Taganrog Gulf it is fed by the Kuban and Don rivers, while the Kerch Strait connects it to the Black Sea. An inland sea between Ukraine and Russia, FTP, what is this sea whose maximum depth of 46 feet makes it the shallowest sea in the world?	Answer: Sea of Azov18.	At one point the hosts of this show were replaced by Anfernee and Deswaun, who promised to make it 50 percent less gay. Recently they have begun the search for a new sponsor to replace their original sponsor Sobe's, so that they can continue to produce this show, in which they repeatedly express their hatred for Tony Hawk and maintain that anyone who likes Final Fantasy X is stupid. FTP, what is this Burly Bear TV show about the world of video games?	Answer: Dave and Steve's Video Game Explosion19.	In 1828 he was elected to the Commons from County Clare, despite the fact that, as a Catholic, he could not take his seat. The implications from his victory led the Duke of Wellington, then Prime Minister, into forcing the Catholic Emancipation Act through Parliament. A leading supporter of Lord Melbourne, he overthrew Robert Peel's ministry in 1835 after supporting the "Lichfield House Compact" which promised peace in Ireland. One of the founders of the Catholic Association in 1823, he supported emancipation, and, after 1839, the repeal of the Anglo-Irish legislative Union. After his arrest for sedition in 1844 he faded from power. FTP, name this Irish statesman.       Answer: 	Daniel O'Connell20.	A longtime scientist at the Carnegie Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, she received a doctorate in botany from Cornell in 1927. In her research, she observed and experimented with variations in the coloration in kernels of maize. After isolating two control elements, she discovered that not only did they move, but that that change in position affected the behaviour of the neighboring genes. For this discovery she was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology in 1983. FTP, name this discoverer of mobile genetic elements.       Answer: 	Barbara McClintock21.	Prosecuted by Samuel W. Buell and Andrew Weissmann, its defense team was led by Rusty Hardin.  Federal judge Melina F. Harman oversaw the proceedings, while David B. Duncan, who admitted to obstructing justice, is the star witness.  FTP, name this guilty party, the accounting firm implicated in the Enron collapse.       Answer: 	Arthur Andersen22.	Works by this thinker include "Man and Technology" and "Year of Decision". Believing that Western civilization was characterized by the triumph of the "Faustian will to power", he argued that it was about to enter into a period of "Caesarism" which would mark its final stage. Holding that each culture behaves like an organism which will eventually decay, FTP, who was this German best known for his work "The Decline of the West"?	Answer: Oswald Spengler23.	The first of these conflicts was a bloodless fiasco for the king, who failed to call a Parliament to secure funds, forcing him to quickly make peace at Berwick. In the second of these wars, the Irish Parliament provided money for a royal army after the "Short Parliament" refused, but the Scottish Coventanters nevertheless routed Charles I's forces at Newburn, forcing Charles to make peace at Ripon in September 1641. FTP, what were these wars sparked by attempts to impose Anglicanism on the Scots, named for certain members of the church?	Answer: Bishops' Wars
24.	The parts of it considered authoritative consist of six collections, including ones attributed to ibn Maja, al-Hajjaj, al-Sijistani, and al-Bukhari. Each complete formulation found in it begins with the isnad, or chain of transmitters, an elaborate list detailing the passage of the original statement from its conception to the time of its recording, and is followed by the text proper, a statement concerning Islamic religious law or morality. Taking its name from the Arabic for "news" or "story", FTP, what is this collection of the spoken traditions attributed to Mohammad?	Answer: Hadith25.	This man's contributions to welfare economics include the seminal "compensation test" developed with Kaldor, the test's fellow namesake. In the general theory of distribution he introduced his "elasticity of substitution" in his first book, "The Theory of Wages", while he introduced a new indifference theory in a classic paper written with R.G.D. Allen entitled "A Reconsideration of the Theory of Value". He expounded the true meaning of Keynes with his "IS-LM diagram" in the famous paper "Mr. Keynes and the Classics" and held that economic forces do not simply reflect cyclic trends but rather balance each other in his classic 1939 work "Value and Capital". FTP, who was this British economist who shared with Kenneth Arrow the Nobel Prize in 1972?	Answer: John R. Hicks26.	Many critics claim that this work holds true to its Book I observation that "good aims not always make good books." Containing a notable subplot concerning forced prostitution, it tells of the titular figure's childhood in Italy and England and her self-education in her father's hidden library. Determined to become a successful author, she eventually abandons that goal and accepts the marriage proposal of the failed social reformed Romney. FTP, what is this 9-book blank verse novel, the most ambitious work of Elizabeth Barrett Browning?	Answer: Aurora Leigh27.	After opening a law practice in Newburyport, Massachusetts, this man sat in Congress, where he introduced the clause to bar slavery by the Northwest Ordinance, while late in his career he proposed a scheme to end slavery by compensating masters with sales of the public domain. A director of the First Bank of the United States, he became a leader of the Federalist party after relocating to New York, running for vice-president in 1804 and 1808. FTP, who was this politician who carried only three New England states as the Federalist presidential nominee in 1816?	Answer: Rufus King28.	This chemist conducted important research into the nature of color, collecting his results in "Colour Science". Author of the highly influential "Textbook of General Chemistry", he co-founded with van't Hoff the seminal journal "Zeitschrift fur physikalische Chemie"and reprinted many groundbreaking scientific results in his series "Papers in Exact Science". In 1888 he discovered his law of dilution for electrolytes, and six years later gave the first modern definition of a catalyst, winning the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on the subject. FTP, who was this German physical chemist known for his process converting ammonia to nitric acid?	Answer: Wilhelm Ostwald
BONI - THE ULTIMATE PARADOX		MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions (mostly) by Kelly McKenzie1.	FTPE, name the following about some politicians who were really hot.1. (10 points) This was the name for Southern politicians like Edmund Ruffin, Robert Rhett, and William Yancey who used fanaticism and rabid demagoguery to panic the South into secession.	Answer: fire-eaters2. (10 points) This group of New York Democrats led by Martin Van Buren endorsed abolitionism and opposed the Albany Regency. Opposed by the Hunkers, they went on to help found the free soil party.	Answer: barnburners3. (10 points) In 1834 this group of Jacksonian Democrats emerged to oppose government acts investing certain groups with special rights like monopolies. They were named for an incident at Tammany Hall in which other Democrats left them in the dark after adjourning, forcing them to meet by lighting candles with sulfurous matches.	Answer: loco-focos2.	Which Ed would you prefer for your art bonus - Edvard Munch [MOONK] or Edward Hopper?  Choose now.IF MUNCH: Edvard Munch did a lot of important paintings not named "The Scream". Name these, FTPE.1. (10 points) In this late self-portrait, a aged and frail Munch stands in his room to the left of center. Also noteworthy is the red and black design on the cover on the far right.	Answer: Self Portrait: Between the Clock and the Bed2. (10 points) Using seemingly the same setting as "The Scream", this painting features a number of figures in black with almost glowing green faces standing somberly on a bridge or pier that extends back and to the left.	Answer: Anxiety3. (10 points) In the background of this painting are numbers of couples. In the foreground is another dancing couple flanked to one side by a happy woman in white and a sad woman in black.	Answer: The Dance of LifeIF HOPPER:  He wasn't just an artistic one-hit wonder.  FTPE, name these paintings of Edward Hopper.1. (10 points) Part of this work's title can be seen in a sign through the central window, while a man is seated at a table in the left background. The foreground is dominated by two women talking at a restaurant table.	Answer: Chop Suey2. (10 points) Hopper's innovative use of light is seen in this work. A barber's pole stands out in the vacant street before a two-story red and green building, depicted at the title time of the week.	Answer: Early Sunday Morning3. (10 points) Four people are seen at night in a dinner featuring an advertisement for Phillie's Cigars in this work.	Answer: Nighthawks3.	FTPE, name these diseases.1. Often occurring in young women and characterized by a butterfly-shaped rash on the face, this disease causes the body's own antibodies to attack other cells, resulting in a wide variety of symptoms because any organ is subject to attack.	Answer: lupus erythematosus2. Occurring in infants, it results from deletion of information on chromesome 5. A partial list of symptoms includes appearance of a single line in the palm known as a simian crease, small head, low set ears with skin tags set just in front, and a characteristic sound produced by the infant from which it gets its common name.	Answer: cri-du-chat sundrome or Cat Cry Syndrome3. Similar to Tay-Sach's, this disease sees accumulation of lipids due to the absence of beta-glucocerebrosidase. Type III is found in Swedes, while Type I occurs most often in Ashkenazi Jews of Eastern Europe, and can be treated by Ceridase.	Answer: Gaucher's disease4.	Given a work of science fiction, name its author for 10 points each:(10) Callahan's Crosstime Saloon	Answer: Spider Robinson(10) The Ophiuchi Hotline	Answer: John Varley(10) Make Room! Make Room!	Answer: Harry Harrison
5.	FTPE, name these works by Simone de Beauvoir.1. (10 points) This roman-a-clef concerns the psychologist Anne Dubreuilh and her husband Robert, based on Sartre. Anne's affair with the American Lewis Brogan is a thinly veiled account of her affair with Nelson Algren.	Answer: Les Mandarins (The Mandarins)2. (10 points) In this 1949 treatise Beauvoir made a scholarly and impassioned plea for the abolition of what she called the myth of the "eternal feminine".	Answer: The Second Sex (Le Deuxieme Sexe)3. (10 points) The first and best-known part of her four volume autobiography, this Beauvoir memoir uses travels stories, intimate portraits, and philosophical musings to describe her early years, which she described as a period in which she tried to "get other people interested in her soul".	Answer: Memoirs of a Dutiful Daughter (Memoires d'une jeune fille rangee)6.	FTPE, answer the following related to a big-ass mountain.1. (10 points) Found in the Himalayas, this 28,169 foot high peak is the third highest mountain in the world.	Answer: Kanchenjunga2. (10 points) This Indian town features majestic views of both Mount Everest and Kanchenjunga. Originally developed as a sanatorium for British troops, it is most famous for its namesake tea.	Answer: Darjeeling3. (10 points) Darjeeling is found in this state of India whose capital is Calcutta, and which is the remnant of a larger region now divided between several countries.	Answer: West Bengal7.	FTPE, name the following about an economist and his work.1. (10 points) This theory holds that since individuals and businesses make decisions for the future based on reason, any government intervention in the economy will likely only duplicate actions already taken by the private sector, thus producing unintended results.	Answer: theory of rational expectations2. (10 points) A native of Yakima, Washington, this man's theory of rational expectations won him the 1995 Nobel Prize in Economics.	Answer: Robert E. Lucas, Jr.3. (10 points) Lucas also criticized this curve for its failure to account for the dampened expectations of companies and workers during inflationary periods. It is a graphical representation of the inverse relationship between the rate of unemployment and the rate of change of money wages.	Answer: Phillips curve8.	FTPE, name these works by my most hated of authors, Vladimir Nabokov.1. Charles Kinbote, a repugnantly boring character that makes one wonder why Nabokov bothered to create him, analyses the titular 999-line poem by the recently murdered poet John Shade.	Answer: Pale Fire2. Although Nabokov uses the characters Eric and Liza Wind to wax comedic about Freudian psychology, this novel's main focus is the titular 52 year old Russian emigrant, a  aindell College professor perpetually in search of "discreteness".	Answer: Pnin3. (10 points) The comically fat turnkey Rodion provides comic relief in this novel. In it, the schoolteacher Cincinnatus C. is awaiting execution for the crime of "gnostical turpitude" in an unnamed dystopian country of the future.	Answer: Invitation to a Beheading9.	FTPE, name these chemical processes used to produce stuff.1. (10 points) Largely replacing the Leblanc process, this process takes salt and treats it with ammonia and then carbon dioxide. When the product is heated, sodium carbonate is produced.	Answer: Solvay process2. (10 points) This process' namesake invented the highly effective abrasive Carborundum. He found that silicon vaporizes from Carborundum at 4150 degrees Celsius, thus inventing this process to produce graphite.	Answer: Acheson process3. (10 points) This process' namesake discovered nickel carbonyl, which he used to develop this process, in which carbon monoxide passes over nickel ores, producing nickel carbonyl, which is then decomposed to produce metallic nickel.	Answer: Mond process
10.	FTPE, answer the following about a group of Chinese politicians.1. (10 points) This group of Shanghai based hard-core radicals of the Cultural Revolution included Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan. On Mao's death in 1976 they were arrested and disgraced.	Answer: Gang of Four2. (10 points) Unlike Zhang and Yao, who were veterans of the Shanghai political machine, this member of the Gang of Four gained power as a workers' leader in the Shanghai "January Revolution" of 1967.	Answer: Wang Hongwen3. (10 points) This fourth wife of Mao was the acknowledged leader of the Gang of Four due to her political influence.	Answer: Jiang Qing11.	FTPE, name these meteor showers.1. (10 points) Usually showing weak activity, every 33 years this shower produces great meteor storms due to the return of its parent comet, Tempel-Tuttle.	Answer: Leonid2. (10 points) Producing slow, bright meteors, this shower is seen from December 7-15, and is produced by debris in a common orbit with the asteroid Phaethon.	Answer: Geminid3. (10 points) Detectable between July 25 and August 20, this shower is caused by debris from the Swift-Tuttle comet, whose return in 1992 produced a new, sharp peak in the shower profile.	Answer: Perseid12.	FTPE, answer the following about a Canadian rebellion.1. (10 points) These are Canadians of Indian and white stock who developed a unique culture blending their French heritage with the life of the Aborigines, living a semi-nomadic life dependant on buffalo hunting.	Answer: metis2. (10 points) In 1869 the metis organized this rebellion sparked by Canada's insensitive treatment of their problems during the transfer of the region's rule from the Hudson's Bay Company. 	Answer: Red River Rebellion3. (10 points) During the Red River Rebellion the metis organized a National Committee with this man as its secretary. His hanging for leading the Northwest Rebellion in 1885 made him a martyr for the metis cause.	Answer: Louis Riel13.	FTPE, answer the following about a poet.1. (10 points) Works by this poet include "Four Elements", "Four Constitutions", "Four Ages of Man", "Four Seasons" and "Four Monarchies", found in "The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America".	Answer: Anne Bradstreet2. (10 points) Contained in the second edition of "The Tenth Muse", this Bradstreet poem first observes that the beauty of earth implies the greatness of God. After telling the stories of Adam and Eve and of Cain, Bradstreet describes a river bank which soothes her and a "merry bird" free from sadness.	Answer: Contemplations3. (10 points) This poem describes the natural self begotten of Adam and the spirit that comes "from above", personified as two sisters who argue against the other's values until the spirit from above emerges victorious.	Answer: The Flesh and the Spirit14.	FTPE, name these films that I've rented in the past week from plots.1. (10 points) Catherine McCormick plays the Renaissance poet Veronica Franco in this 1998 film in which she pursues the life of a Venetian courtesan after failing to marry Marco Venier.	Answer: Dangerous Beauty2. (10 points) In one of last year's best films, Tilda Swinton plays a mother who is blackmailed by Goran Visnjic after her son apparently commits murder.	Answer: The Deep End3. (10 points) Sadly, Dave Foley had no hand in the writing of this Kids in the Hall film, in which Dr. Chris Cooper invents Gleemonex, a pill which makes everyone happy. Occasional hilarity ensues.	Answer: Brain Candy
15.	FTPE, name the following about amphibious operations in WWII.1. (10 points) When over 300,000 French and British troops were trapped in northern France by advancing German armies, General Gort organized this seaborne rescue of most of the troops during late May and early June 1940.	Answer: Dunkirk evacuation2. (10 points) This August 18-19, 1942 Allied raid on a German port and airfield in Normandy was a complete disaster, with over 2/3 of the troops killed, but provided invaluable lessons for the later Normandy landings.	Answer: Dieppe raid3. (10 points) Shortly after Rommel's forces were cut off in the Normandy Campaign the Germans launched a counter-offensive, but were caught between the US and British forces at this "gap", losing 60,000 troops.	Answer: Falaise Gap16.	FTPE, name these philosophical works by my favorite philosopher to fall into disgrace for taking a bribe in 1621, Francis Bacon.1. (10 points) This treatise is a critical survey of the state of knowledge at the time. A greatly expanded version known as De Didnitate et Augmentis Scientiarum was intended as the first part of his grand project, the "Instauratio Magna".	Answer: The Advancement of Learning2. (10 points) This second part of the Instauratio Magna contains Bacon's statement of his inductive method and his discussion of the "idols of the mind" which are the main obstructions to the pursuit of truth.	Answer: Novum Organum (accept New Instrument)3. (10 points) This posthumously published Utopian tale concerns a voyage to the island of Bensalem. Detailing its government and customs, its description of the scientific research center "Solomon's House" inspired the formation of the Royal Society.	Answer: The New Atlantis17.	What's your preference - Semetic mythology or Hinduism?  Choose now.IF SEMETEC:  FTPE, answer the following about Semetic mythology.1. (10 points) This is the Semetic creation epic which describes the defeat of Tiamat and the powers of chaos. Its names comes from its first words, translated as "When on high".	Answer: Enuma Elish2. (10 points) The Enuma Elish tells of the death of this second consort of Tiamat, whose blood is used to make the first humans.	Answer: Kingu3. (10 points) Kingu was slain by this young god, who attached the Tablets of Destiny to his chest. The son of Ea, his name means "bull calf of the sun", and his consort is Sarpanitu.	Answer: MardukIF HINDUISM:  FTPE, answer the following from Hinduism.1. (10 points) In Hunduism, this is the energizing aspect of a god, often personified by his consorts. By the 5th century a cult had emerged which worshipped it.	Answer: shakti2. (10 points) The Shakti cult utilize these relatively recent Hindu holy scriptures consisting of magical formulas, many in the form of dialogues between Shiva and Kali. They deal with the creation and eventual destruction of the world and with the final union with the Supreme Spirit, or purusha.	Answer: Tantras3. (10 points) The Shakti cult often worships this benign consort of Shiva representing the feminine creative force. She is depicted as a great warrior who was invoked by Rama to defeat Ravana.	Answer: Durga18.	FTPE, name the composers of these regional symphonies.1. (10 points) the Italian Symphony	Answer: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartoldy2. (10 points) Polish Symphony	Answer: Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky3. (10 points) Israel Symphony	Answer: Ernest Bloch
19.	FTPE, name these ways for measuring hardness.1. (10 points) In this scale, minerals are measured by their resistance to scratching on a scale running from 1 to 10.	Answer: Mohs' hardness scale2. (10 points) In this hardness test, a square-based diamond pyramid is pressed into the surface of the material for 30 seconds. The depth of the indention gives a measure of the hardness.	Answer: Vickers hardness test3. (10 points) Similar to the Brinell test, which utilizes a chromium-steel sphere, this test uses a steel or diamond hemisphere-conical penetrator which is pressed into the material, and like the Vickers test, the depth of the indention gives the hardness measure.	Answer: Rockwell hardness test20.	FTPE, name these Keats works.1. Based on a story in Anatomy of Melancholy which in turn came from the writings of Flavius Philostratus, it tells of Lycius's marriage to the title figure. At their bridal feast, Apollonius recognizes the bride as an evil sorceress and calls her by name, causing her to scream and vanish.	Answer: Lamia2. In this work Keats describes a morning vision of Love, Ambition, and Poesy, who pass before him in classical dress, reminding him of his recent idleness.	Answer: Ode on Indolence3. The final stanza of this poem describes the title emotion as a mysterious goddess who lives in "the very temple of Delight", while the first two stanzas encourage the reader to "glut thy sorrow" and revel in that emotion when it occurs.	Answer: Ode on Melancholy21.	FTPE, name these Supreme Court cases.1. (10 points) In 1991, the Court ruled 5-3 that the First Amendment was not violated by forbidding governmental family planning center workers from presenting abortion as an option to pregnant women.	Answer: Rust v. Sullivan2. (10 points) Using an exception granted in the case Craig v. Boren, the Court ruled in this 1980 case that exempting women from the draft was a legitimate legal distinction between genders.	Answer: Rostker v. Goldberg3. (10 points) In this 1996 decision, the Court struck down Colorado's Amendment 2, which prevented homosexuals from seeking protection against civil rights violations.	Answer: Romer v. Evans22.	FTPE, name these completely random philosophers.1. (10 points) This British thinker attacked idealism in his two principal works, "Principia Ethica" and "The Refutation of Idealism".	Answer: George Edward Moore2. (10 points) This modern American thinker held that proper names have meaning in virtue of their reference in his major paper, "Naming and Necessity".	Answer: Saul Kripke3. (10 points) This follower of Buber spent much of his efforts elaborating  upon the existentialist philosophy of Judaism in works like "Man Is Not Alone", "God in Search of Man", and "The Prophets".	Answer: Abraham Joshua Heschel23.	FTPE, name these Nigerian authors.1. This director of the Ibadan school of drama is known for poetry collections like "A Shuttle in the Crypt", novels like "The Season of Anomy", and plays like "Madmen and Specialists" and "A Dance of the Forests".	Answer: (Akinwande Olu)Wole Soyinka2. She created realistic treatments of women in Nigeria in novels like "Eferu", "Idu", and "One is Enough". Her other works include the story collection "Wives at War" and the children's books "Mammywater" and "The Miracle Cats".	Answer: Flora Nwapa3. (Getting his start with story collections like "Incidents at a Shrine" and "Stars of the New Curfew", this author is best known for depictions of social malaise and Nigeria's political violence. He won the Booker Prize for "The Famished Road" (character Azaro, sequel Songs of Enchantment)	Answer: Ben Okri