TOSSUPS - CARPER'S CREW			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. Born in Valladolid, he entered the Dominican order at a young age and in 1474 became confessor to the Castilian monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella.  A deeply religious man who felt that heretics and insincere converts could destroy both the church and the country, he was made inquisitor general of Castile in 1483, where he reorganized the Inquisition begun five years earlier.  FTP, name this grand inquisitor of Spain, portrayed by Mel Brooks in History of the World, Part 1.       Tomas de Torquemada2. His acting credits include a stint on Broadway in The Elephant Man and a performance as the titular extraterrestrial in a 1976 science fiction film.  He has collaborated with Brian Eno on albums such as Low and Heroes, and is famous for creating a wide variety of avant-garde stage characters, like Major Tom and Ziggy Stardust.  FTP, name this musician, born David Robert Jones, who is known for such songs as "Changes," and starred in the films The Man Who Fell To Earth and Labyrinth.			David Bowie3. He made several journeys in later life, one of which inspired his famous The Narrow Road to the Deep North.  Although trained in the ways of war as a youth, his later years were marked by introspection and he often withdrew to his hut made of plantain leaves, from which he drew his pseudonym.  FTP, name this man, born Matsuo Munefusa, who is considered the greatest haiku poet in Japanese history.       Basho Matsuo4. His most famous contribution to science was put into its simplest form by Plank, and Lewis went on to show that his proposition was strictly true for substances in a crystalline structure.  FTP, name this man who applied the principle of thermodynamics to an electric cell, explained how hydrogen an chlorine explode on exposure to light, and invented an electric piano in addition to his proposed Third Law of Thermodynamics.			Walter Nernst5. This war was brought about by the refusal of the Elector of Bavaira to recognize the Pragmatic Sanction and support a descendent of Anna and Ferdinand I.  Philip V of Spain was a claimant relying on a treaty between Charles V and Ferdinand.  Frederick II of Prussia advanced his claims on  Silesia and Charles VII was elected emperor in Frankfurt during, FTP, this war that ended eight years before the beginning of the Seven Years' War.       	The War of Austrian Succession6. Dwight David Eisenhower and Frederick Nietzche are two of the many people to whom its title character sends letters.  His girlfriend is Romana Donsell, and he tries to obtain custody of his daughter June, who he had with his first wife Madelenine.  FTP, name this 1964 novel by Saul Bellow.       	Herzog7. It consists of an electromagnet with 2 hollow, metal semicircular structures called dees supported between the poles of an electromagnet.  Particles such as protons are introduced at the center of the machine and travel outward, being accelerated by an oscillating electric field each time they pass through the gap between the dees.  FTP, name this device, used to accelerate particles up to energies of 25 mega-electron-volts, that was developed by Ernest Lawrence.			Cyclotron8. On this date in 1901 violinist Jascha Heifetz was born, as was James Joyce in 1882.  On this date in 1943, Soviet victory at Stalingrad was also achieved, as was the signing of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, 95 years earlier.  Do you have an odd feeling you've heard this before?  FTP, name this thirty-third day of the year best known as the day on which repetitive Bill Murray movie occurs.February 2 or Groundhog Day9. Born in Paris in 1955, he began playing numerous instruments at a very young age and later studied at Juilliard under such masters as Leonard Rose.  He was brought to national attention by Leonard Bernstein at a fundraiser for Lincoln Center and in the 70's attended Harvard, participated in the Marlboro Music Festival in Vermont, and won the prestigious Avery Fisher Prize.  FTP, name this multiple Grammy winner, the best-known living American cellist.       			Yo-Yo Ma
10. Possessed by intense force of will, his devotion to his ideal causes him to consciously bring about the death of his son and later his wife.  A Lutheran minister to a secluded fishing village, he entrances the people with his unyielding intensity, but their own weaknesses force them to later reject his ultimatum that they follow his example.  At last, rejected by all except a mad wild girl, the final conjunction of the symbols of the hawk and the Ice Church causes an avalanche in which he perishes.  FTP, name this figure from Scandinavian Literature who follows the principle of "All or nothing!" the title character of the first great Ibsen play.       Brand       11. A mathematician born in Auxerre in 1768, he was educated at the monastery of Saint-Benoit-sur-Loire.  He taught at the Ecole Normale and the Ecole Polytechnique, leaving the latter to join the campaign of Napoleon I in Egypt.  He was created a baron by Napoleon in 1808, and in 1816, he was elected to the Academy of Sciences.  All of this aside, his fame rests mainly on his work in mathematics and mathematical physics.  FTP, name this man, who in his The Analytical Theory of Heat, employed a trigonometric series by which a discontinuous function can be expressed as the sum of an infinite series of sines and cosines.			Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier 12. It folded on March 29, 1827, and cost its founder over $125,000.  Began just two years earlier, its founder moved from Scotland in an attempt to develop an ideal community.  FTP, identify this community, located on the Wabash River, that was began by Robert Owens.			New Harmony13. In 1956, while working at the Burian Theater in Prague, he used the occasion of the Hungarian Revolution to flee to Vienna. His earliest works include Dockside Packages, Iron Curtain- Wall of Oil Drums, and Corridor Store Front. In 1991, he produced a display of umbrellas in the Japanese and California countrysides, and in 1968, he completed a suspended 18,000 foot "air package" over Minneapolis. His last name, incidentally, is Javacheff. FTP, name this artist who "wrapped" the Pont Neuf Bridge in Paris and the Reichstag in Berlin.       Answer: Christo  14. A small bean-shaped, reddish-gray organ located in the sella turcica in the sphenoid bone, one part is derived embryologically from the roof of the pharynx and is composed of groups of epithelial cells separated by blood channels while the other part is derived from the base of the brain and is composed of nervous connective tissue and nervelike secreting cells. GH, STH, TSH, and ACTH are associated with is structure, and it is essential in regulating growth.  FTP, identify this master gland.			Pituitary Gland15. Born in Guilford, England, in 1881, he became an American citizen in 1955 and a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1975.  His reputation as a novelist was established with Psmith in the City in 1910, and he co-wrote such stage works as O, Kay and Rosalie, along with such fictional works as Bachelors Anonymous and The Butler Did It.  FTP, name this author of nearly 100 novels, the creator of incompetent playboy Bertie Wooster and his masterful butler Jeeves.			P(elham) G(renville) Wodehouse16.  Born in Vienna in 1878, this Austrian-Swedish physicist was professor of physics of the University of Berlin from 1926 to 1933.  Due to Nazi pressure, this physicist left Germany in 1938, and joined the atomic research staff at the University of Stockholm.  A co-discoverer of protactinium, this researcher published the first paper on nuclear fission in 1939.  FTP, name this female assistant of Otto Hahn that predicted the existence of the chain reaction in nuclear processes.			Lise Meitner17.  He served two non-consecutive terms as governor of Pennsylvania, and his published works include Breaking New Ground and The Fight for Conservation.  The School of Forestry at Yale bears his name, and he was the Chief of the Division of Forestry under McKinley, Taft, and Roosevelt.  FTP, name this man who brought charges against Taft's Secretary of the Interior Richard Ballinger, who was later dismissed by Taft.			Gifford Pinchot
18. Black Adidas track suits are for mourning.  A Fila tennis shirt can be worn under a camel-hair suit.  Pet mice are Dalmatian.  Slippers are embroidered, purple, and velvet.  Headbands like those of Bjorn Borg are a fashion accessory, even after tennis is in the past.  FTP, name this stylish movie by Wes Anderson, which has the patriarch as the title character.The Royal Tenenbaums19. On her honeymoon, she traveled to London for the World's Antislavery Convention, but she was denied public speech due to her sex.  It was while she in London that the beginnings of  her activism for the American suffuragist movement , because it was in London where she met Lucretia Mott.  FTP, identify this woman, who along with Mott, organized the Senaca Falls Convention of 1848.			Elizabeth Cady Stanton20. Though she shared many characteristics with the Peresviet class, she has no sister ships. Just over 400 feet long, she carried four ten inch guns and eleven six inch guns, and was built in Sevastopol. She never fired a shot in anger, and became obsolete when Great Britain launched the Dreadnought, the all-big gun battleship, in 1906. She had a complement of 752, though it is not known how many of them actually were served moldy bread and maggot-filled meat. FTP, name this warship whose posting to Odessa in 1905 led to her crew's involvement in the Revolution of 1905 and a Sergey Eisenstein movie.       Answer: Potemkin  21.  A member of the Praetorian Guard, he was secretly a Christian and made many converts.  When Emperor Diocletian learned of his faith, he ordered this man's death.  He survived the execution, and, after having his wounds tended by a widow named Irene, he confronted the emperor once again and denounced him for his cruelty.  He was then beaten to death.  FTP, name this martyr who is generally depicted pierced by arrows.			Saint Sebastian22.	Son of a Bedford tinker, he served as an apprentice in his father's trade before fighting in the Parliamentary army during the British civil war.  After marrying Margaret Bentley, he experienced a religious conversion and joined her church, eventually becoming a popular lay preacher.  Refusing to abstain from preaching during the Restoration, he was jailed, where he began to write religious tracts and pamphlets, as well as his spiritual autobiography Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners.  FTP, name this man, the author of such works as The Holy War, The Life and Death of Mr. Badman, and The Pilgrim's Progress.       John Bunyan23.	His first operation was performed in 1796 upon an eight-year old boy named James Phillips using matter from the hand of Sarah Helmes.  About eight weeks later, Phillip was inoculated with small pox, but to no effect.  FTP, name this Englishman, the discoverer of the small pox vaccine.			Edward Jenner24. His nickname, Mudo, referred to the fact that he was a deaf mute.  When he died in 1579, he had completed eight of the 32 altarpieces he was commissioned to complete after he became court painter to Spain's King Philip II in 1568.  FTP, name this painter whose eclectic style and fusion of Italian influence had a major impact on the art of his native Spain. 	Juan Fern‡ndez de Navarrete25.	Just as the Civil War was breaking out in 1861, this man graduated from West Point, and while serving under McClellan, he was promoted to captain.  He was one of the commanders of the troops that stopped Jeb Stuart's charge at Gettysburg, and he later befriended his commander Gen. Philip Sheridan.  FTP, name this man who, while out west with Sheridan, was put in command of the Seventh Cavalry and led the US forces at Little Big Horn.			Gen. George A. Custer26.	Born Friedrich Leopold von Hardenburg in Oberwiederstedt, Germany, he was educated at Jena, Leipzig, and Wittenberg, later becoming a civil servant.  However, his true vocation was poetry and, following the loss of his fiance Sophie von Kuhn to tuberculosis, he expressed his sorrow in his best known work.  FTP, name this early German Romantic, whose major works include the posthumously published prose work Heinrich von Ofterdingen and the previously mentioned Hymns to the Night.			Novalis
BONI - CARPER'S CREW			MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. Identify the following American plays for ten points each.1. This Thornton Wilder play chronicles the Antrobus family who are symbols of humanity from creation to the end times.Answer:  The Skin of Our Teeth2. This trilogy by O'Neill is modeled on the Oresteria of Euripides, and its three parts are Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted.Answer:  Mourning Becomes Electra3. This play by  Edward Albee won him his first Pulitzer in 1967.Answer:  A Delicate Balance2. Identify the following chemists from a brief description on a 15-5 basis.15. He determined the composition of nitric acid as well as the freezing point for many materials, including mercury.5. This English scientist discovered hydrogen and demonstrated that water is produced by burning hydrogen in air.Answer:  Henry Cavendish15. This man invented the safety lamp for use in mines, and also proposed that hydrogen is present in all acids.5. This Englishman discovered, by electrolysis, the elements sodium, potassium, calcium, boron, magnesium, strontium, and barium.Answer:  Sir Humphrey Davy3. Identify the capitals of the following U.S. possessions for ten points each.1. American SamoaAnswer:  Pago-Pago (can be pronounced payo-payo or pango-pango)2. GuamAnswer:  Hagatna (or Agana)3. Virgin IslandsAnswer:  Charlotte Amalie4. Given a description of a powerful post-World War II Southern Senator, name him FTPE.1. The son of the Georgia Chief Justice, he served for many years as the Senate Armed Services Committee chairman, as well as the spiritual leader of the segregationists. A Senate office building is named for him.        Answer:  Richard Russell2. One of the recent Nimitz-class aircraft carriers is named for this seven-term Mississippi senator, who served from 1947-1989. He relaxed his opposition to segregation after blacks began to vote against him.        Answer:  John Stennis3. A bitter foe of fellow Tennessean Al Gore Sr, this former Chattanooga attorney gained fame with televised hearings on organized crime.  He lost a 1956 presidential bid to Adlai Stevenson, but won the V.P.slot on the doomed ticket.        Answer:  Estes Kefauver5. Identify this style of painting from clues on a 30, 20, 10 basis.30.  It emerged about 1950, and it is sometimes considered a variety of abstract expressionism.  It was closely related to the movement of the 1960s called post-painterly abstraction.20. Its more noted adherents included Barnett Newman and Mark Rothko.10. This style is characterized by large, square, or rectangular areas of a single color or variations of the same color.  Often two or three such blocks of color into a single painting.Answer:  Color-field Painting6. Given an affliction, identify the vitamin whose deficiency is responsible for 10 points each.1. Nightblindness, rough skin, and impaired bone growthAnswer:  Vitamin A (accept Retinol)2. Beri beri and Korsakov's SyndromeAnswer:  Vitamin B1  (accept Thiamine)3. PellagraAnswer:  Vitamin B12  (accept Niacin)
7. Identify these American ambassadors to Mexico from clues FTPE.1. An early example of the "ugly American," he was the first US ambassador, and the first that the Mexicans demanded be recalled. On the plus side, the amateur botanist brought back a plant with red leaves that he helped popularize.        Answer:	Joel Poinsette2. A leading railroad developer in South Carolina, he was sent to Mexico in 1851 to buy part of northern Mexico to allow the construction of a southern transcontinental railroad.        Answer:	James Gadsden3. A leading banker of the 1920's, Herbert Hoover appointed him ambassador in 1929. His daughter Anne married Charles Lindbergh and published a book of poems, "Gift from the Sea."        Answer:	Dwight Morrow8. FTP each, name the following works of Indian literature from clues.1 This Sanskrit epic tells of a hero who rescues his wife Sita from the demon king Ravana with the aid of the monkey general Hanuman and an army of monkeys and bears.Answer:  Ramayana (accept Story of Rama)2 Literally meaning "great story," this epic centers around a contest between two noble families, the Pandavas and the Kauravas, for the possession of a kingdom in northern India.  Answer:  Mahabharata3 This segment of the Mahabharata is a dialogue between Krishna and the Pandava hero Arjuna.  Its title is Sanskrit for "Song of the Lord."Answer:  Bhagavad-Gita9. Answer these questions about Billy Budd FTPE.1. Name either of the two ships on which Budd serves in the course of the novella.        Answer:	The Rights of Man or Indomitable2. Though he is fond of Billy, the benevolent captain is forced to have Billy hung after he kills Claggart.         Answer:	Captain Vere3. In 1949, a one-act opera by Benjamin Britten premiered in Venice called Billy Budd. This Italian poet and 1959 Nobel Laureate wrote the libretto.          Answer: 	Salvatore Quasimodo10. As the writer of this question is a native of Greenville, SC, he thought he would honor his home with this question.  Identify these other Greenvillians FTPE.a)  A noted musical collaborator, he released "Tonight I Celebrate My Love" with Roberta Flack, "Beauty and the Beast" with Celine Dion, and "A Whole New World" with Regina Belle.(Robert) Peabo BRYSONb) Adopted by a Greenville couple as an infant, he was living in Charleston when he hit it big with "Solitude" and "I'll Be."Edwin McCAINc) An actor known for playing rednecks, he has also played John Copper on "The Rockford Files," Frank Badger in The Ballad of Little Jo, and Crazy Legs in The Wild Bunch.Bo HOPKINS11.	Identify the following epochs from geology for 10 points each.1. It began 10,000 years ago and is the current epoch in the Quaternary Period.  During this epoch the glaciers retreated, the climate became warmer, and humans developed significantly.Answer:  Holocene2. Lasting between 65-56.5 million years ago, many types of mammals spread quickly after the disappearance of the great reptiles of the Mesozoic Era.  It is the first epoch of the Tertiary period.Answer:  Paleocene3. Meaning "middle recent," grasslands spread over the interior of the continents, and hoofed mammals rapidly evolve.  It is the fourth epoch of the Tertiary period.Answer:  Miocene
12.  Name the following musical instruments from clues FTP each.This gigantic Swiss instrument is best known in America through Ricola commercials.Answer:  AlphornThis Russian stringed instrument of the lute family has a triangular body and a long narrow neck.Answer:  BalalaikaIn America, two forms of this instrument are recognized: the hammered variety, which is played with spoon-shaped beaters, and the Appalachian, which is plucked.Answer:  Dulcimer13. Identify the following political figures for ten points each.1  The author of A Humanist in Africa, this man became the first president of an independent Zanbia in 1964.Answer:  Kenneth Kaunda2 He joined the Indian Muslim League in 1916, and in 1947, he became the first governor-general of Pakistan.Answer:  Mohammed Ali Jinnah3 This Czech statesman became first secretary of the Communist Party in 1968, and introduced the reforms that led to the famous "Prague Spring."Answer:  Alexander Dubcek14. Identify the following animal classifications for 10 points each.1. Characterized by a 5-radial symmetry, they have a water vascular system which transports substances around their body.  Members include starfish, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers.Answer:  Echinodermata or echinoderms2. They differ from insects in possessing 2 main body regions, the cephalothorax and the abdomen, and in having 8 legs.  This class of arthropods includes ticks and mites.Answer:  Arachnida or arachnids3. A terrestrial arthropod, this class is characterized by a long, segmented body and many legs.  Centipedes and millipedes are the most common examples.Answer:  Myriapoda or myriapods15. Name these Roman writers from clues FTPE.Not actually a Roman, he was tutor to Publius Scipio Aemilianus and was present at the fall of Carthage. He wrote a forty volume history of Rome from 262 to 120 BC.        Answer:  PolybiusThis master of elegaic prose wrote love poems to Cynthia and was remembered in the 20th century when Ezra Pound wrote a homage to him.        Answer:  Sextus PropertiusHis Art of Love established him as a major writer at the age of 40. Also the author of the Metamorphosis, he was exiled to the Black Sea by Augustus, sick of his rhetorical support for adultery.       Answer:  Ovid16. Identify the following from physics for 10 points each.1. This law states that the total energy radiated per second by a blackbody is proportional to the fourth power of the absolute temperature.Answer:  Stefan-Boltzmann Law2. This law states that as the temperature is raised, the spectrum of blackbody radiation is shifted towards the higher frequencies in direct proportion to the absolute temperature.Answer:  Wein's Displacement Law3. This man's eponymous law, which he set forth in 1900, states that the thermodynamic properties of the thermal radiation emitted by matter must be the same regardless of the emission mechanism.Answer:   Max Planck
17. Identify the following concerning the Napoleonic Wars for 10 points each.1.  In the wake of Austerlitz, this treaty was signed on Dec. 26, 1805.  France and Bavaria received lands in Austria and northern Italy, and Austria recognized the duchies of Baden and Wurttemberg as kingdoms.Answer:  Treaty of Pressburg2. Formed in 1797, its name was taken from the Roman term for its location in relation to the Alps, and it consisted of 16,000 sq miles on both sides of the Po River.Answer:   Cisalpine Republic3. An Austrian force of 30,000 under Michael von Melas failed to follow-up initial success against Napoleon's outnumbered and retreating army.  Once reinforced the French army counterattacked and won this mid-June 1800 battle, which was the beginning of the end for the First Coalition. Answer:  Battle of Marengo18.	FTPE, provided with a list of stars, name these sucky 2002 films.1. Christian Slater, Richard Dreyfuss, Tim Allen, Portia De Rossi, RuPaul	Answer:	"Who Is Cletis Tout?"2. Sylvester Stallone, Kris Kristofferson, Tom Berenger (Two different answers are acceptable)	Answer:	"Eye See You", "D-Tox"3. Anthony Hopkins, Chris Rock	Answer:	"Bad Company"19.	Identify these poems from American literature for ten points each.1. It was written by Sydney Lanier, and its primary setting is the valleys of Hall and the hills of Habersham.Answer:  "The Song of the Chattahoochee"2. This Ella Wheeler Wilcox poem begins with the lines: "Laugh, and the world laughs with you, / Weep, and you weep alone,."Answer:  "The Way of the World"3. The action of this Robert W. Service poem begins in the Malamute saloon.Answer:  "The Shooting of Dan McGrew"20.	FTP each, name the following philosophers.1 This man was the first major philosopher to settle in Athens and he introduced the idea of the mind or reason into the philosophy of origins.Answer:  Anaxagoras2 This man is credited with introducing the sundial into Greece and inventing cartography, and he postulated the origin of the universe as the result from a separation of opposites from the primordial material.Answer:  Anaximander3 This philosopher of nature postulated air as the primary element to which everything else can be reduced.Answer:  Anaximenes21.  Identify the following American Historians from a description for 10 points each.1. This man's 1893 essay "The Significance of the Frontier in American History," which stressed the frontier experience in shaping of the American character, was a major influence on the writing of American history.Answer:  Fredrick Jackson Turner2. This man stressed economic, intellectual, and social aspects of American development in his Rise of American Civilization and revolutionized the view of the Founding Fathers in his An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution.Answer:  Charles A. Beard3. Also an important public official by serving as Secretary of Navy and minister to Great Britain in the Polk administration, his 10-volume History of the United States was the first detailed account from the founding of the colonies to the end of the Revolution.Answer:  George Bancroft
22. Identify the following musical terms for the stated number of points.5.  This is the term for the words or text of a song.Answer:  Lyrics10. From the Italian for "book," this the term for the text of an opera or other staged musical work.Answer:  Libretto15. German for "leading motive," this term is used to describe any musical theme that is used to symbolize a non-musical idea.  Although Wagner did not use this term, it is most associated with his music dramas.Answer:  Leitmotiv23. Identify the sculptors of the following works for ten points each.1. The gilded bronze doors of the Baptistry in FlorenceAnswer:  Lorenzo Ghiberti2. The ThinkerAnswer:  Auguste Rodin3. Bird in SpaceAnswer:  Constantin Brancusi24. Identify the following about waves for 10 points each.1. This is the classification of a wave that is produced when the vibrations producing the wave occur in the same direction as the wave travels.  An example of this type of wave is sound.Answer:  Longitudinal Wave2. This is a wave in which the vibrations occur at right angles to the direction of wave propagation.Answer:  Transverse Wave3. This is the process by which the particles of a light wave are made to vibrate in one particular plane rather than the many directions taken by particles of normal light.Answer:  Polarization25.  Identify the following astronomy terms for 10 points each.1. A unit used for distances to stars and galaxies, this is equal to 3.2616 light years.Answer:  Parsec2. This is a yellow-supergiant that varies regularly in brightness every few days or weeks as a result of pulsations.  The time it takes to pulsate is directly proportional to its brightness.Answer:  Cepheid Variable3. This is the change in the apparent position of an object against its background when viewed from 2 different positions.Answer:  Parallax