TOSSUPS - FLORIDA STATE				MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA
Questions by Billy Beyer with one tossup from Oklahoma


1.	The disappointments of a young man in California but originally from this nation are chronicled in the novel A Squatter's Tale, which is also the setting for the surreal novel The Famished Road, while the Igbo massacres here provide the vackdrop for Efuru by an author who also wrote such lighthearted children's works as The Miracle Kittens. The aforementioned Ogouino Ike, Ben Okri, and Flora Nwapa are from this nation, while Nathan Freeburg became the butt of one of the greatest practical jokes in quizbowl history pulled on him by Kelly McKenzie and Seth Kendall when he claimed to recognize the author of The Palm-Frond and Giovanni Deformata or "Johnny Deformed" as being from here, even though that author does not exist, perhaps mistaking him for the author of The Palm-Wine Drunkard, Amos Tutuola, who is very real. Fictionalised as Kangan in Anthills of the Savannah by one of its natives who also wrote Arrow of God and Things Fall Apart, and the setting for the autobiographical The Man Died and the drama Death and the King's Horseman by another, for 10 points name this nation, home to Chinua Acebe and Wole Soyinka.
Answer:	Nigeria

2.	The Schlenk equilibrium takes place in solutions of these strongly basic nucleophiles, which react with nitriles to form imines, and with carbon dioxide to form carboxylic acids. They produce regioselective primary alcohols containing two extra carbon atoms when reacted with ethylene oxide, and can produce tertiary alcohols when reacted with the carbonyl group of ketones, and they are prepared from organic halides by reaction with THF or diethyl ether and a certain Group 2 metal. Named for the French chemist who won a share of the 1912 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, for 10 points name these magnesium-containing reagents.
Answer:	Grignard reagent(s)

3.	His tribulations are largely allegorical, such as those described in the twelfth chapter of his namesake book in which his is ordered to prepare baggage and dig through the wall to symbolise the coming exile, and likewise the shaving of the head with some hair to be burned, some to be chopped up, and some to be scattered, as God is about to do to Jerusalem. Among his more graphic assignments are being bidden to lays on his left side for 390 and on his right for forty days to symbolize the captivity of Israel, eating barley cakes baked by fires burning cow dung to symbolise the bitterness of the siege, all of these given to this son of Buzi after he eats a honey-flavored scroll and is then made to prophesy. For 10 points name this Biblical figure whose call of the exiled Israelites back to godliness is motivated by the promise in chapter 37 that God will restore life to Israel as he will to the valley of dry bones the prophet sees in a vision.
Answer: 	Ezekiel

4.	Their training had at best been sketchy, with the most military experience held by many of them coming in their warding off the rest of the army from the transport ship Yucatan, and they proved uniquely susceptible to disease such that they eventually had to be evacuated from the scene where they saw the little combat they experienced to Camp Wikoff on Long Island. Moreover, they were initially commanded by a surgeon with no formal military training, though he was soon promoted to general after their success in Las Guasimas.  Only one member of their troop actually fit the description of their nickname, since he commanded from atop his steed Little Texas at the battles of Kettle and San Juan Hill. For 10 points name this volunteer cavalry regiment which actually fought on foot, initially commanded by Leonard Wood but most often associated with Theodore Roosevelt. 
Answer:	Rough Rider(s) (or 1st U.S. Volunteer Cavalry Regiment)

5.	James Meade failed to disprove this idea by using an example involving honey bees, and this the namesake of this idea, which invalidated the Pigou theorem, used the example of a railroad passing through a farmer's wheat field in an article which first described it, in which he also described what he likened to a "wrestling match" being fought over radio stations, in which its theorist argued that no matter who actually owned the rights to a frequency in question the party who wanted to use the frequency the most would end up using it even if it meant paying the rightful owner to block him out. In the essay in which it was fully elucidated, that namesake maintained that as long as property rights were well defined efficiency would result from the absence of transaction costs, and that governments could minimise inefficiency by giving the rights of a desired commodity to the party which had the most use for it. For 10 points name this theorem elucidated most clearly in "The Problem of Social Cost" and named for its author, the winner of the 1991 Nobel Prize in Economics.
Answer: 	Coase's theorem


6.	Among its characters are one played by Playboy Playmate Devin DeVasquez named Iris, who according to one character has "given more rides than Greyhound", while a very young Seth Green appears as a child named Chuckie. Set in Tucson, the film ends with the two main characters riding off on a lawnmower after much comic angst set in motion when Cindy Mancini gets one thousand dollars from Ronald Miller to buy a dress, in exchange for being his girlfriend for a month. Remade in 2003 as Love Don't Cost a Thing, for 10 points name this 1987 film starring Amanda Peterson and Patrick Dempsey and named for a Beatles song.
Answer:	Can't Buy Me Love

7.	After a brief retirement this man returned to drama at the request of a powerful noblewoman with two plays drawn from the Bible, one about the niece of Mordecai and the other about early days of Joash and the usurper who is the title character.  He earlier dabbled in works derived from Roman history, including one about a king of Pontus and the love triangle between his sons Pharnaces and Xiphares and Greek girl, and another about a future Roman Emperor and his frustrated love for a Judaean princess and another about Titus, but perhaps his best known works are drawn from myth, especially one which concerns a widow who wants to protect her son Astyanax and another who has fallen in love with her step-son. For 10 points name this French playwright persuaded by the Madame de Maintenon to write Esther and Athaliah, though his fame principally rests on the plays Mithridates, Berenice, Andromache, and Phaedra.
Answer:	Jean Racine

8.	The Sherman paradox refers to the fact that this disease worsens with each passing generation, of which sufferers of this syndrome have a methylation of a CpG island and a mutation in the FMR1 [F-M-R-one] gene which causes the addition of nucleotides to the CGG triplet repeat. Occurring in approximately one out of six thousand females, it is approximately twice as prevalent in males, and it results in face elongation and macro-orchidism. Sometimes called Martin-Bell syndrome, for 10 points name this hereditary mental disorder that occurs near the end of its namesake sex chromosome.
Answer:	fragile X syndrome

9.	The man who was perhaps the greatest of its rulers augmented its powers by having the Englishman Robert Shirley modernize his army and he would use this force to take back the island of Hormuz, which the first ruler of the dynasty had lost in 1507, but his fear of assassination had been such that he executed his third-born and blinded his last-born son, such that when his older sons predeceased him he had no heirs. Descended from a Sufi order and notable for their occasional intrigues with the cossack Stenka Razin, the dynasty had been founded by a fifteen year-old boy who once celebrated a victory over the Uzbeks at Merv by making a jeweled drinking goblet from the skull of the opposing ruler, though his youthful exuberance did not prevent him from being soundly beaten by Selim I the Grim at Chaldiran. Represented by such men as Abbas I and its founder Ismail, for 10 points name this Shi'ite Persian dynasty that lasted from 1501 to 1723.
Answer:	Safavid dynasty

10.	The tenth of them, which contains a movement originally entitled "Purgatory or Hell" sandwiched between two scherzo movements, was unperformable until completed by Deryck Cooke in the 1960s, while the second, which includes a part for a bass drum meant to be struck by a bundle of twigs, was based on an ode by Friedrich Klopstock. The first contains a funeral march based on the "Frère Jacques" theme, and the fifth includes an expression of love for the composer's wife Alma. For 10 points name these large-scale compositions of a certain Austrian composer, some of which are nicknamed Tragic, Resurrection, and Titan.
Answer:	symphonies of Mahler

11.	In this largely autobiographical work which also forms part of the plot of the same author's Mardi: And a Voyage Thither, the narrator Tom eventually settles down briefly to a lifestyle which includes a daily bath with a group of girls, consumption of breadfruit mash called "poee-poee", and the ministrations of Kory Kory while recuperating from a leg wound endured while jumping ship with his friend Toby. He also enjoys the companionship of native girl Fayaway, but when Toby disappears trying to get help for him and when the tribe insists he becomes tattooed, he becomes increasingly anxious that the natives might decide to develop a taste for eating white man and not fellow islanders and he eventually leaves them and is picked up by an Australian whaler, experiences very similar to the author's own experience deserting the vessel Acushnet. Subtitled "A Peep at Polynesian Life" and based on the author's experience with the namesake group of cannibalistic natives, for 10 points name this novel often paired with Omoo, an early work by Herman Melville.
Answer: 	Typee

12.	At its northeastern extreme it ends in the Aures and Tebessa ranges, while the Rif is located at the northwestern terminus of its more coastal division, known as the "Tell", while the more eastern and southern division are formed by the combination of the Amour, Ksour and Ouled-Naïl ranges, and between them lies a series of saltwater lakes which are often dry in the summer of which the largest is the Chott ech Chergui. These two divisions are joined by two others, the middle and high which contains their highest collective peak, the Jebal Toubkal, while their "Anti" range extends to the Atlantic. For 10 points name this mountain range which extends across northwestern Africa but lie mostly in Morocco and Algeria. 
Answer:	Atlas Mountains

13.	Among his contributions to physics were adding an exchange energy function to the Hartree-Fock theory, and devised a way to extract energy eigenvalues without directly solving differential equations via the ladder operator method, as well as stating that the ratio of the spin magnetic moment to spin angular momentum must be two. The namesake of the most typical type of spinor, he showed that charge conservation could be explained if magnetic monopoles existed, and even though he personally helped interpret evidence discovered by Patrick Blackett concerning a prediction he had made, Blackett's hesitation in publishing led to Carl Anderson receiving credit and ultimately a Nobel Prize for confirming what this man had predicted. a positron. For 10 points, name this British physicist whose namesake equation governs the relativistic behavior of particles with one-half spin.
Answer:	Paul Dirac

14.	After defeating the same opponent seven years before this battle, the winning commander here had wisely used the respite gathering and training an army while his enemy had been distracted by internal dissensions, and thus had the initiative to besiege a fortification to which this battle was a response.  Facing 15,000 infantry and 2,000 heavy cavalry against his own 6000 infantry and 500 cavalry, the victorious side used the protection of dense woods on the left and a bend of a nearby stream to shield his right while his schiltron formation of pikemen withstood murderous cavalry charges on the first day, while the river Forth ruined the ground for the losers on the second. Featuring the heroics of the Earl of Moray on the first day and of Robert the Bruce, who engaged on a legendary single combat with Sir Henry de Bohun, for 10 points name this battle at which the forces of Edward II were defeated attempting to relieve Stirling castle on July 23rd and 24th, 1314.
Answer:	Battle of Bannockburn

15.	In one poem he confesses that "I have eaten the plums that were in the icebox", while in others he states that "Night is a room darkened for lovers" and another begins "Sorrow is my own yard". The latter two poems, "Complaint" and "The Widow's Lament in Springtime" appear in his collection Sour Grapes, which preceded collections such as The Wedge and Imaginations, and other works include his landmark epic about a New Jersey Town and the collection Pictures from Brueghel. For 10 points identify this poet perhaps best known for admiring an object "glazed with rain water beside the white chickens" in "The Red Wheelbarrow".
Answer:	William Carlos Williams

16.	In the Finnish mythos that inspired the Kalevala, a girl named Tuonetar is equivalent to this figure from Greek mythology, and while his analogue in Etruscan myth was a winged demon with snakes for hair carrying a double hammer, he is usually described as a sullen old man in squalid, ragged clothing, similar to Virgil's depiction of him in Book Six of the Aeneid. Once punished by a year in chains for refusing to discharge his duties fully in the face of the wrath of Heracles, no penalty was described as being assessed to him for a similar dereliction after a performance by Orpheus, though in most myths his services can only be obtained by the payment of an obol for which reasons those who seek his aid are usually sent to him with a coin in the mouth provided by their relatives, though he was once also notable hired for a golden tree branch. For 10 points name this being, who accepts his coin in return for ferrying the dead across the Acheron into the realm of Hades. 
Answer:	Charon 

17.	In maize, these chemicals promote femaleness, yet in cucumbers and spinach, they promote maleness. Synthesized via the terpenoid pathway, these 19 and 20 carbon molecules can be released to cause the aleurone layer of the endosperm to produce alpha-amylase, which ultimately promotes germination. Discovered in 1926 by Eiichi Kurosawa and named for a rice fungus initially called "foolish seedling" disease which made plants grow rapidly, for 10 points name this class of plant hormones that stimulate cell division to elongate shoots, leafs, and stems.
Answer:	gibberellin(s)

18.	The Encyclopaedia Britannica article on this city mentions some of the artistic figures who lived there, including Albrect Dürer, Veit Stoss, and Hans Sachs, and indicates that it declined due to the depradations of warfare in the 17th century, possibly an oblique mention to the siege carried out here by Albrecht von Wallenstein against the forces of Gustavus Adolphus in 1632. Left out of the EB article is The Golden Bull of 1356, by which Charles IV stipulated that German electors for the new emperor meet here, and it also leaves out certain items of historical significance which are far uglier, such as the fact that the Iron Maiden was invented here and that in 1298 it was the location of one of the Rindfleish massacres of the Jews.  Perhaps that was why it became so special for the Nazis, who promulgated anti-Jewish laws here as well as holding rallies such as that captured in the film Triumph of the Will in 1934. For 10 points name this Bavarian city which later became the home of the post-Holocaust trials of Nazi war criminals.
Answer:	Nuremberg (or Nürnberg)

19.	His early works were in the cubist manner, such as The Cowboy and The Cattle Rustler, while others include an optical illusion called House I, which features an inverted house , as well as a five-story-high mural for the lobby of the Equitable Life Assurance building in New York. More representative works of his such as Girl with Ball and Woman in Bath were made by the use of Benday Dots and many of them contain speech bubbles, such as Look Mickey and In the Car. For 10 points name this American Pop artist whose works often resemble comic book panels such as M-M-Maybe and Whaam! 
Answer:	Roy Lichtenstein

20.	Of the many things that are clear about him, one is that he is a misogynist, as his little ditty on an ideal woman in Act 2 Scene I shows, and while nothing he says to anyone but himself can be certain one of the reasons he gives for acting as he does is his certainty that his superior officer has slept with his wife. He knows instinctively how to read people, causing Brabantio to burst into fury by noting that his daughter is "making the beast with two backs", and cleverly misconstruing his enemy's dalliance with the whore Bianca as an adulterous affair with the wife of another. Eventually sent off to be tortured to death after helping kill Roderigo and Aemilia as a plot to avenge being passed over for promotion, for 10 points name this evil handkerchief-planting ensign whose fury at Michael Cassio leads him to feign that Cassio is sleeping with Desdemona so that Cassio will be destroyed by Othello.
Answer:	Iago

21.	This idea is partly based on the 1992 Defense Planning Guidance written by Paul Wolfowitz, and was initially opposed by Condoleezza Rice. Critics argue it violates the UN Charter and opposes the Just War Theory. Formulated because Cold War concepts of deterrence and containment do not work against rogue states or terrorist organizations, it asserts that supporters of terrorists, or providers of sanctuary for terrorists, will be deemed just as guilty of crimes as the terrorists themselves. For 10 points, name this doctrine that permits preventive war, laid out in 2002 by the current president.
Answer: Bush Doctrine




BONI - FLORIDA STATE				MOC MASTERS 2006 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA
Questions by Billy Beyer with one tossup from Oklahoma


1.	Name these eponymous diagrams used in science for the stated number of points.
1. (5 points) An eccentric American physicist is the namesake of these diagrams used to visualize and describe quantum electrodynamic interactions.
Answer:	Feynman diagrams
2. (10 points) Phi and psi values are plotted in these diagrams, which indicate allowed conformations of polypeptides.
Answer: Ramachandran diagrams 
3. (15 points) These diagrams used in electrochemistry, often constructed from Latimer diagrams, plot relative free energy versus oxidation state, and show whether a species can undergo disproportionation. 
Answer:	Frost diagrams

2.	For 10 points each, name these American dramas of the 20th century from brief clues.
1. While being taken away to an insane asylum, Blanche DuBois says, "I have always depended on the kindness of strangers" in this Tennessee Williams drama.
Answer:	A Streetcar Named Desire
2. Set during the 1950s, the protagonist of this August Wilson drama, Troy Maxson, is a garbage collector turned garbage truck driver who kicks son Cory out of the house and has an affair with Alberta.
Answer:	Fences
3. Richard Miller defies his father and cavorts with Belle, a "swift babe from New Haven", until he is allowed to court Muriel McComber in this only comedy by Eugene O'Neill.
Answer:	Ah, Wilderness!

3.	Answer the following about railroads in the 1800s, 10 points each.
1. In the 1840s this man expanded out of his steamship interests and began acquiring a vast rail empire. The impetus for the building of the Grand Central Station, where his statue still stands, he is still known by a nautical nickname which in turn inspired the nickname of the sports team at the private school in Tennessee which bears his name. 
Answer:	Cornelius Vanderbilt
2. In a 1872 Grant administration railroad scandal, this construction company headed by Oakes Ames made massive profits and bribed several politicians.
Answer:	Crédit  Mobilier
3. Since property in which the public has an interest in must be controlled by the "public interest," the right of the people to regulate railroads was upheld in this 1876 Supreme Court case
Answer:	Munn v. Illinois

4.	Name these capital cities of South America from assorted clues FTPE, or from their nation for 5.
1. (10) The administrative capital but not the judicial one, this is the world's highest capital city.
     (5) Bolivia.
Answer: 	La Paz
2. (10) The Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral, believed to be the largest wooden building in the Americas, is located here.
     (5) Suriname.
Answer: 	Paramaribo
3. (5) This "City of Eternal Spring" is situated on the active Pichincha volcano. 
     (5) Ecuador
Answer: 	Quito


5.	The Latinate name it bears is a conscious nod to a similarly-titled work by Spinoza, and while it is of great interest for the rules it conveys about how language is to be used, its author considered that its prime use was to show how pointless philosophy was, and after advising readers who understood the work must "throw away the ladder, after he has climbed up on it", its author did just that, retiring to become a schoolteacher. For 10 points each:
1. Name this groundbreaking work whose most famous maxim is that towards the end, which advises that "About that of which one cannot speak, one must keep silent".
Answer:	Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
2. The Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus is considered by many to be the masterpiece of this thinker whose later works include Philosophical Investigations.
Answer:	Ludwig Wittgenstein
3. Wittgenstein's reasonings which led to his Philosophical Investigations were put down in notebooks which were later published under these colorful names.
Answer:	Blue and Brown Books

6.	It began with the K-T extinction event, marking the end of the Cretaceous and the beginning of what was once called the Tertiary Period and is now called the Paleogene, which along with the Neogene, is one of the two main divisions of this Era. For 10 points each:
1. Name this geological time period, which followed the Mesozoic.
Answer:	Cenozoic
2. This epoch of the Cenozoic saw continued global cooling following the Miocene and the development of more modern fauna, including the first modern hominids. North and South America became connected and the Arctic Ice cap also formed at this time. 
Answer:	Pliocene Epoch
3. Beginning with the retreat of the Pleistocene glaciation, this epoch is the current geologic period and has included the development of all human civilization, as well as the extinctions of megafauna and other animals up to this very day. 
Answer:	Holocene Epoch

7.	Name these Nobel Prize winning Russian authors on a 10-5 basis. 
1. (10 points) Described by Nabokov as "Emily Dickinson in trousers" after the publication of his patriotic poetry collection Early Trains; his other poems include the long 1905 and his collection My Sister, Life.
    (5 points) His Nobel Prize in 1958 largely came for his novel Doctor Zhivago.
Answer:	Boris Pasternak
2. (10 points) After moving to Vermont, this man wrote Lenin in Zurich and The Oak and the Calf, though he is better known for novels such as The First Circle and Cancer Ward.
     ( 5 points) His Nobel in 1970 is perhaps largely due to One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch and Gulag Archipelago
Answer:	Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
3. (10 points) Less known to Western audiences are this man's poetry. His prose includes The Village, The Dry Valley, and Shadowed Paths.
     (5 points) The first Russian to win a Nobel in literature, he may be best known for his short story "The Gentleman from San Francisco".
Answer:	Ivan Bunin

8.	Lowlights of this Roman Emperor's life include an episode as governor of Africa when Suetonius reports that he was pelted with turnips and later becoming a mule trader, losing Imperial favor for not paying enough attention to Nero's lyre recitals, and dying of diarrhea. For 10 points each:
1. Name this man whose highlights include fathering two future Roman Emperors, and emerging victorious from the Year of Four Emperors.
Answer:	Titus Flavius Vespasianus (or Caesar Vespasianus Augustus)
2. The rise of Vespasian to power is partly due to the military success of Antonius Primus, who captured victory at the second battle of Bedriacum and later defeated the forces of this man, who preceded Vespasian as emperor.
Answer:	Aulus Vitellius Germanicus
3. Vespasian himself was succeeded by this man, whose Arch still stands at the entrance to the forum and which depicts his despoliation of the Temple during the Jewish war.
Answer:	Titus (Titus Flavius Vespasianus)


9.	Name these players selected in the 1996 NBA Draft, for 10 points each.
1. With the 15th pick, the Suns selected this Canadian, who played for the Mavs for six years, and then returned to Phoenix and won two MVP awards.
Answer:	Steve Nash
2. With the 13th pick, the Hornets selected this high school player from Lower Merion.
Answer:	Kobe Bryant
3. Arguably the best player taken in a weak second round was this UNC alum who was drafted #37 by the Nuggets. Currently a guard for the Nets, he spent three years with the Clippers before being traded from the Blazers to the Cavs for Darius Miles.
Answer:	Jeff McInnis

10.	He caused a stir in psychological journals when he announced that the first generation of female monkeys he had essentially raised without mothers did not know how to mate and thus would have to be impregnated via restraints he called a "rape rack". For 10 points each:
1. Name this psychologist who also placed baby rhesus monkeys into an upside-down isolation chamber he called the "pit of despair" to study the effects of loneliness on them.
Answer:	Harry Harlow
2. While at the University of Wisconsin, Harry Harlow worked with this psychologist most famous for introducing a "hierarchy of needs", which includes the highest goal of "self-actualization".
Answer:	Abraham Maslow
3. Harlow had earlier studying with this man at Stanford, most famous for developing the Stanford-Binet IQ test.
Answer: Louis Terman

11.	Answer the following questions related to the Massachusetts lawyer and politician Thomas Pickering, for the stated number of points. 
1. (15 points) Along with men like George Cabot and Theophilus Parsons, Pickering was a member of this New England secessionist movement which had tried to sever the region from the United States as early as 1803.
Answer:	Essex Junto
2. (10 points) The Essex Junto had played a pivotal role in this conference called in opposition to the War of 1812 which propsed nullification of conscription laws, and end to the embargo, and possibly dissolution of the Union and which took place in Connecticut.
Answer:	Hartford Convetnion
3. (5 points) Pickering had earlier served this president as Secretary of War in 1795 and as Secretary of State from 1795 to 1797.
Answer:	George Washington

12.	The success of his most famous work led to the publication of his juvenalia entitled Complaints, Containing Sundry Small Poems of the World's Vanity, while he is also famous for his love poem "Amoretti" and for the "Colin Clout" poems in his Shepheardes Calendar. For the stated number of points:
1. (10 points) Name this poet, also famous for an epic featuring Archimago, Grantorto, Lady Britomart, and the Red Cross Knight.
Answer:	Edmund Spenser
2. (5 points) This aforementioned poem, whose title character Gloriana represents Queen Elizabeth I, is the most famous work of Edmund Spenser.
Answer:	The Faerie Queene
3. (15 points) Another famous Spenser work is this "Bedchamber poem" celebrating Spenser's marriage to Elizabeth Boyle, whose 24 stanzas correspond exactly to the hours a Midsummer Day.
Answer:	Epithalamion


13.	Answer the following a kinetics equation in chemistry, 10 points each.
1. This equation states that reaction rate is equal to the A constant times the exponential of the negative activation energy divided by the gas constant times time.
Answer:	Arrhenius equation
2. The Arrhenius equation includes the A constant, which is also called this two-word alliterative phrase. It represents how many collisions have the correct orientation.
Answer:	frequency factor
3. When the value of the frequency factor is between 10^12 and 10^15, the reaction order is this type.
Answer:	first order

14.	Its façade was designed by the famous architect Leon Battista Alberti, who added the famous s-curve volutes abutting a rectangular window and the crowning pediment, and among its artistic treasures are St. John the Baptist by Giotto and sculptures by della Robbia. For 10 points each:
1. Name this cathedral, lying next to the namesake train station in Florence.
Answer:	Santa Maria Novella
2. The Santa Maria Novella also contains this fresco by Massacio famous as the first picture in history which supplied the data needed to measure the depth of the painted interior; below a scene of the crucified Jesus it has a skeleton at the bottom and contains the warning "I was once what you are, and what I am you will become".
Answer:	The Holy Trinity
3. The Santa Maria Novella also houses this man's Ruccellai Madonna; one of Florence's first important artists, his pupils includes Simone Martini and the Lorenzetti brothers.
Answer:	Duccio

15.	For 10 points each, answer the following about the Long Parliament.
1. The Long Parliament was called by this English king who reigned from 1625-1649.
Answer: 	Charles I
2. Parliament supported this list of 204 grievances, which included condemning the religious reforms of Charles I's minister Archbishop William Laud.
Answer: 	Grand Remonstrance
3. In 1641, the Long Parliament dissolved this initially established to try nobles too powerful for other courts but later used to persecute Puritans; it derives its name from the decorations adorning the ceiling of the room where it met in Westminster Palace.
Answer: 	Star Chamber

16.	The organist for the Chapel Royal, his works include Lamentations of Jeremiah for a five-part choir, the Whitsuntide Anthem, and the 40-part motet Spem in Alium. For the stated number of points: 
1. (15 points) Name this composer at the court of Queen Elizabeth.
Answer:	Thomas Tallis
2. (5 points) Thomas Tallis is perhaps best known for the use of one of his themes in a Fantasia by this later British composer of such works as The Lark Ascending, Hugh the Drover, and the Pastoral Symphony.
Answer:	Ralph [pronounced "Rafe", but "Ralph" is OK] Vaughan Williams [prompt on partial surname]
3. (10 points) Thomas Tallis was the teacher of this man, with whom he was granted a 21-year monopoly on printing music; his works include Psalms, Sonnets, and Songs of Sadness and Piety.
Answer:	William Byrd

17.	For 10 points each, name these classical novels of Chinese literature.
1. In this work, Mount Liang is the home to a group of 36 Heavenly Spirits and 72 Earthly Friends who unite and fight the government troops sent against them.
Answer: Outlaws of the Marsh (or Water Margin or All Men Are Brothers or Shui-hu chuan, etc.)
2. The decline of the Han dynasty, including the Yellow Turban Rebellion, is chronicled in this Lo Kuan-chung work, which includes characters such as the evil Ts'ao Ts'ao and the god of war, Kuan Yu.
Answer:	The Romance of the Three Kingdoms (or San-kuo chih yen-I)
3. Attributed to Wu Cheng-en, this work chronicles the trip of a Buddhist priest, accompanied by three magical helpers, including a comical simian, who is the source of the alternate title used for the Arthur Waley translation.
Answer:	Journey to the West (or Monkey or Monkey King or Hsi yu chi)

18.	Answer the following about a topic from ecology on a 5-10-15 point basis.
1. (5 points) Based on the amount of available resources, this point, symbolized K, is the maximum population size an environment can support.
Answer:	carrying capacity
2. ( 10 points) Differing from k-selection, this type of selection is based on having a high reproductive rate.
Answer:	r-selection
3. These two predator-prey equations, which suggest that the amount of prey determines the amount of predators, were independently derived by the American and Italian scientists for which they are named.
Answer:	Lotka-Volterra equation(s)

19.	She was born along with her turbulent brother Susanowo during the lustration of their father following his trip to the underworld. For 10 points each:
1. Name this Sun goddess who the Kojiki suggests is the ancestor of the Japanese Emperor.
Answer:	Amaterasu 
2. Name Amaterasu's father, a creator god who refused to accept that his wife had died giving birth to fire and went below to retrieve her, only to recoil in horror when he beheld her rotting corpse.
Answer:	Izanagi
3. Amaterasu was later appalled by the violence of Susanowo and retreated into a cave, and was only lured out when the goddess Ama-no-Uzume did a striptease; upon emerging, Amaterasu fell into a trance when she saw this, enabling the rest of the gods to persuade her to stay.
Answer:	her own reflection in a mirror (accept partial answers and equivalents mentioning)

20.	The winning commander here was able to surprise the enemy after making a 700-mile march cross the flooded valley of the Apure, the major tributary of the Orinoco, and through the cold passes of the Andes, though this cost him almost two-thirds of his forces. Catching the enemy by surprise and cutting his forces in half by catching each pat on two side of a bridge, the Spanish forces were defeated by rebel forces. For 10 points each:
1. Name this battle of August 7, 1819 at which José María Barreiro was defeated by forces under Simón Bolívar. 
Answer:	Battle of Boyacá
2. The victory at the Battle of Boyacá was followed two years later by the formation of this federation, whose constitution was drafted at the Congress of Cúcuta.
Answer: Gran Colombia (or Great Colombia)
3. This Brigadier General was present at the Battle of Boyacá and was vice-president of Gran Colombia.
Answer:	Francisco de Paula Santander

