TOSSUPS - BEVILL STATE				MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Bevill State with a few from Amanda Hartman, Ray Luo, and Brian Hight1.	Literally means "successor," the title originally had no law-making authority of its own, but its power grew with time.  The fifth was Muawiya, founder of the Umayyad dynasty.  By most sources the first was Abu Bakr, though Shiites maintain Ali was actually the first.  FTP, identify this political position, that functioned as judges and temporal leaders in the medieval Islamic empire.	Answer:	Caliph2.	It was formed in 1857; one partner  was a self-trained artist from New York, while the other was a Massachusetts lithographer.  Unlike most competitors, instead of copying well-known artists, they hired their own staff artists.  Until their shop closed in 1907, it made an average of three to four prints per week, becoming known as Printmakers to the American People.  FTP identify this printmaking company named for its two founders.	Answer:	Currier & Ives3.	Some evidence suggests that the gene for cystic fibrosis has survived because it afford partial protection against this disease.  In its treatment, antibiotic therapy is not as important as replacing lost fluids and restoring kidney function.  Known for its short incubation period, its rapid onset and gruesome symptoms scared New Yorkers so much that in the 1832 epidemic, 40% of the population fled.  FTP, name this disease caused by the vibriocomma microbe, discovered by Robert Koch in 1876.	Answer:	Cholera4.	The Mortgaged Heart was a posthumous collection of her work.  She turned to writing after a bout of rheumatic fever ended her aspiration to be a pianist, and spent her last ten years in a wheelchair, finishing her last book Sweet as a Pickle and Clean as a Pig. FTP, name this author of The Square Root of Wonderful, Clock Without Hands, and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.	Answer:	(Lula) Carson McCullers5.	As recently as 2002, an article by Dan Seligman in Forbes advocated its repeal.  It banned interlocking directorates, defined unfair business practices, and clarified that labor is not regarded as a commodity, but exempted cases that did not threaten free trade. FTP, name this 1914 legislation designed to restrict the growth and power of corporate monopolies.	Answer:	Clayton Anti-Trust Act6.	Defined as the ratio of the tangential frictional force per unit area to the velocity gradient perpendicular to the direction of flow of a liquid, this property is the resistance to flow in a fluid or semifluid.  However, you might know this name better from watching various television commercials about companies who claim that their motor oil doesn't "break down" as fast as others.  FTP identify this fluid dynamics quantity that can be measured in units of centipoises.	Answer:	Viscosity7.	The action of this play is meant to be fantastical, which is a good thing given some aspects that strain credibility - like the miraculous resurrection from a statue of a character who died of grief, or the troublesome detail of a seacoast in landlocked Bohemia.  It also contains the unlikely stage direction "exit stage pursued by a bear."  FTP, identify this Shakespeare play centering on the characters Leontes and Hermione.	Answer:	The Winter's Tale8.	He was traded for John Drew, Freeman Williams, and cash due to his unwillingness to sign with Utah, who took him with the #3 pick in the 1982 NBA draft. This former Georgia standout went on to success, making All-Rookie in 82-83, won the first of two Slam Dunk competitions at the 1985 All-Star Game, and led the league in scoring in the 1985-86 season.  He broke the team record in scoring in February of 1993, but was traded to the Clippers one year later, and he finished his career with stints in Boston, Greece, San Antonio, Italy, and Orlando, where he played with his brother Gerald. FTP, name this "Human Highlight Film".	Answer:	Dominique Wilkins
9.	Divided into 10 administrative regions, this country formed from the former British territories of the Gold Coast and Togoland.  It is bordered by Côte d'Ivoire on the west, Burkina Faso on the north, and Togo on the east.  The home nation of UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, it gained its independence in 1957.  FTP identify this West African with its capital at Accra. 	Answer:	Ghana10.	He led a rebellion against Edward I, but was badly defeated in 1298 at the Battle of Falkirk, where Edward first used the longbow. He continued a guerilla campaign until 1305, when he was captured and executed. FTP, name this Scotsman, the subject of the movie Braveheart.	Answer:	William Wallace11. Born in 1864, his first attempt at composition was Schneiderpolka [sch-niid-er- polka], the Tailor's Polka, which was notated by his father, and his first two attempts at opera, Guntram in 1894 and Feuersnot in 1901 were critical failures. He gained popularity with an opera based on a work by Oscar Wilde, he was criticized for his possible affiliation with the Nazi party when he was appointed head of the Nazi State Music Bureau in 1933.  FTP, who is this composer, most notable for his tone poem Don Juan and opera Der Rosenkavalier.	Answer:	Richard Strauss12.	The website purplemath.com says the point of this rule is that you don't have to solve the whole system of equations to get the one value you need.  The exception is when D = 0, because that creates a system without a unique solution.  FTP, what rule, named after a Swiss mathematician, uses determinants of coefficients to calculate unique solutions for systems of linear equations?	Answer:	Cramer's Rule13.	The new GE Reveal (r) light bulb is unique in that it incorporates a small percentage of this element into the filament so that the yellow hue of normal incandescent bulbs is eliminated.  FTP identify this yellow metallic element of the rare earth group that is often used in magnets and lasers and has atomic number 60 and chemical symbol Nd.	Answer:	Neodymium14.	After fighting in the Mexican War, he practiced law in Crawfordsville, Indiana.  After service in the Civil War, he turned to politics and novel writing.  His work, The Fair God, is about the conquest of Mexico, and Prince of India is actually about the fall of Constantinople.  While territorial governor of New Mexico, he completed a book subtitled "A Tale of the Christ".  FTP, name this general and author.	Answer:	Lew Wallace15. Located on the spot that once marked the end of the Aqua Vergine, this landmark contains a statue of the god Oceanus riding a gigantic shell drawn by seahorses.  FTP name this fountain which is commonly believed to ensure a speedy return to Rome for any traveler who throws a coin into its waters.	Answer:	Trevi Fountain16.	The winning commander was Liman von Sanders.  The evacuation of the failed invaders was executed brilliantly by Sir Charles Munro, who had replaced the original Allied commander, Ian Hamilton.  A World War I campaign on and around this peninsula sought to open a new front and ease Turkish pressure on Russian forces. FTP, name this peninsula, where a Franco-British flotilla was destroyed in February 1915, and where a land invasion of Turkey in April 1915 was a bloody failure.	Answer:	Gallipoli17.	He is credited with founding vector theory.  In terms of Fourier series approximations, his name is used for a phenomenon characterized by spikes that form at each end of a step function; a feature physically realized as amperage peak overshoot in modern AC electricity.  FTP, name this chemist, whose name is often associated with a form of "free energy".	Answer:	Josiah Willard Gibbs
18.	Scholars generally give higher praise to the tone than to the accuracy of his many translations, which include Japanese Noh drama and Egyptian love poetry as well as Sophocles' Women of Trachis.  His first book was a poetry collection called A Lume Spento. He moved to Europe in 1908 and supported Mussolini with pro-fascist propaganda, for which he was later indicted for treason by the US.  FTP, identify this author of the Cantos and other Imagist poetry.	Answer:	Ezra Pound19.	The son of Sargon, he ascended to the throne in 702 B.C. and spent his entire reign trying to maintain his empire.  He destroyed Babylon in 689 B.C. and later attacked the fenced cities of Judah, but could only exact tribute from King Hezekiah, despite his defeating of the Egyptians.  Name this Assyrian king who had his capital at Nineveh and whose army was destroyed by a divine visitation, a story retold in a poem by Lord Byron.	Answer:	Sennacherib20.	Perhaps because he was changed to an American, sources often overlook his first portrayal, by Barry Nelson in a 1950's TV adaptation.   Then there's one confusing 1967 film which, depending on how you define it, would add another one, two, or four names to the list.  But most sources agree to count it as one, bringing the canonical listing to six for the moment, pending a rumored passing of the torch.  FTP name this character, depicted on film by George Lazenby, Timothy Dalton, Roger Moore, Pierce Brosnan, and Sean Connery       Answer:   Bond... James Bond.  [Prompt on 007, which would mess up the Casino Royale numbers even more.]21.	While walking home from his father's lab in 1572 he looked up and spotted a new star in Cassiopeia. He rushed home and began studying it, and became the most famous astronomer of his generation. FTP name this Danish nobleman who wrote the book De Nova Stella about this supernova.	Answer:	Tycho Brahe22.	Huckleberry Finn, Invisible Man and The Adventures of Augie March are modern examples, but Moll Flanders and Tom Jones are more archetypical. In them, a wandering protagonist, usually a young man, struggles through various episodes in an often roguish manner. FTP, what is this genre?	Answer:	Picaresque Novel23.	This island east of the Tatar Strait and north of the Le Perouse Strait bears the cities of Makarov and Korsakov in the Sea of Okhotsk. FTP, what is this thin Russian island just north of Hokkaido and east of the Kamchatkan peninsula?	Answer:	Sakhalin
BONI - BEVILL STATE				MOC MASTERS 2004 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Bevill State with a few from Amanda Hartman, Brian Hight, and the West Coast freelancers1.	FTPE, name the following intelligence organizations:1)	The national intelligence agency of the United Kingdom.       Answer:	MI-62)	The national intelligence agency of Israel.       	Answer:	Mossad3)	This independent entity of the U.S. Department of Defense, located in Fort Meade, MD, is the largest employer of mathematicians in the country.		Answer:	National Security Agency (or NSA; do not accept National Security Council)2.	Stuff about the nucleus of a cell.  FTPE.(10)  This is the region of a nucleus where DNA is continually transcribed into ribosomal RNA, which are transported to the cytoplasm through the nuclear pores.	Answer: 	nucleolus(10)  Chromatin DNA is bound to these positively charged proteins that make up half the mass of chromatin.	Answer: 	histones(10)  This is the name for a histone-DNA complex.	Answer: 	nucleosome3.	Stuff about a dead guy FTPE:His 39 books include a harshly critical biography Lincoln the Man and the poetry collection Starved Rock.	Answer:	Edgar Lee MastersMasters' masterwork was this 1915 poetry collection showing small town America through the secrets of the dead.       Answer:	Spoon River AnthologyFor 28 years Masters practiced law in Chicago; for 8 of those years he was a partner in this man's firm.       Answer:	Clarence Darrow4.	Not many artists make their money at all; fewer still do so by selling in bulk.  FTPE name these exceptions:1)	Established by William and George Penrose in 1783 in Ireland, this company's vision was to create the finest quality crystal for drinking vessels and objects of beauty for the home.	Answer:	Waterford (Crystal)2)	Originally in collaboration with upholsterer James Rannie, this 18th century English cabinetmaker helped cement his reputation as the best in the business by publishing a 1754 compilation of English furniture design.	Answer:	Thomas Chippendale3)	Known as the "painter of light," this lefthander is America's most collected living artist.  Named as Graphic Artist of the Year for the fourth straight year, he was invited to capture the 2002 World Series on canvas.	Answer:	Thomas Kinkade5.	Name these works of literature involving themes of war from a description FTPE, five if you need the author.1)	10 pts.: Paul Baumer and several of his friends lose their patriotic zeal for war once they experience it.	5 pts.: Erich Maria Remarque       Answer:	All Quiet on the Western Front2)	10 pts.: The hero, David Balfour, joins the rebel, Alan Breck Stewart, in 18th century Scotland.	5 pts.: Robert Louis Stevenson       Answer:	Kidnapped3)	10 pts.: Frederic Henry is a disciplined and courageous hero, but feels detached from his life.  In the book, he works with the Italian army during World War I as they fight the Austrian-Hungarians.	5 pts.: Ernest Hemingway	Answer:	A Farewell to Arms
6.	Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak is sometimes considered the most unbreakable modern record in baseball.  For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about this record.1)	First, FTP if exact and for five points if within two years, when was this record set?       Answer:	1941	[5 points for 1939, 1940, 1942, or 1943]2)	For an additional ten points, what Hall of Famer's 44-year old record did DiMaggio break?	Answer:	Willie Keeler (a.k.a. "Wee Willie hit 'em where they ain't" Keeler)3)	The modern-era minor-league record hitting streak is 61 games, set in 1933.  Who holds this record?	Answer:	Joe DiMaggio 7.	Answer the following questions related to Heinrich Hertz for 5 points each, or 30 for all 5 answers:1)	The experiments conducted by Hertz validated the equations of electromagnetic behavior that were put forth by what British physicist?       Answer:	James Clerk Maxwell2)	It was originally thought that electromagnetic waves had to have a medium for propagation, just as mechanical waves do.  What was the name given by physicists of the late 1800's to the substance through which all electromagnetic waves were propagated?	Answer:	Ether3-4)	The famous experiment conducted by these two physicists in 1887 disproved the existence of the ether.  For 5 points, name these two physicists.	Answer:	Albert Michelson and Edward Morley5)	Although Hertz was the first to broadcast and transmit radio waves in 1888, this Italian scientist took out a patent on his newly built radio transmitter in 1896 and won the Nobel Prize for his invention in 1909.	Answer:	Guglielmo Marconi8.	Given a battle of American history, identify the present-day state in which it was fought F5PE.  Your hint: No two are from the same war.1)  Fort McHenry	Answer:	Maryland2)  Tippecanoe 	Answer:	Indiana3)  Little Big Horn	Answer:	Montana4)  Guilford Courthouse	Answer:	North Carolina5)  St. Albans	Answer:	Vermont [believe it or not, Civil War]6)  Bad Axe River	Answer:	Wisconsin [Black Hawk War]	9.	For five points each, what do the following computer acronyms mean?1)	URL	Answer:	Universal Resource Locator2)	HTTP	Answer:	Hypertext Transfer Protocol3)	HTML 	Answer:	Hypertext Markup Language4)	WYSIWIG	Answer:	What You See Is What You Get5)	USB	Answer:	Universal Serial Bus6)	MIPS	Answer:	Million(s) of Integer (Operations) Per Second
10.	For ten points each, identify the Jewish holiday described:10: The new year for trees.Answer:	 Tu B'shevat10: Celebrates the story of Esther.Answer:	 Purim10: Involves taschlich, a symbolic casting away of sins by throwing bread crumbs into water	Answer:	 Rosh Hashanah11.	Name these cities of Morocco FTP each.It remains the capital of Morocco, though silting problems have reduced its importance as a port.       Answer:	RabatFormerly capital, this city holds the Muslim shrine of Idris II but is best known in the West for its namesake hat.	Answer:	Fez (or Fes or Faz)Another former capital, famed for its leather goods, this scenic city near the Atlas Mountains is the second most populous city in Morocco.	Answer:	Marrakesh (or Marrakech)12.	Identify these pairs of characters from Shakespearean plays, 5 points for each name:These two men were killed upon their arrival in England, ostensibly by orders of the Danish king.       Answer:	Rosencrantz and GuildensternThese two, one of whom is an ancestor of your genial quizmaster, fled Scotland after the murder of the father, thinking "The nearer in blood, the nearer bloody."	Answer:	Malcolm and Donalbain (Donalbain's son was founder of the Skene clan)These two tribunes harangue the crowd's frailty and strip statues of decoration in Julius Caesar.	Answer:	Marullus and Flavius13.	FTPE name these somewhat related musical terms from definitions:a) A well-developed, typically lengthy solo vocal piece in opera, to which the singer is expected to add ornamentation	Answer:	aria b) A form of declamatory speech-like singing, commonly used for dialogue or narrative, especially in oratorio or opera.  It was much easier to distinguish from the aria before Mozart got fancy with it in Don Giovanni.	Answer:	recitative [pronounced ress-it-tah-TEEV, but be lenient]c) Another declamatory form, halfway between speaking and singing, it has the speaker use lilt and rhythm but not precise pitches.  It can be distinguished from recitative because it was named and developed by Arnold Schoenberg, and thus is usually confined to the Godawful atonal works of him and his deluded followers.       Answer: 	sprechstimme14.	FTPE given a description of a battle from the Wars of the Roses, identify it.1)  At "Bloody Meadow," south of this Gloucestershire town, Edward IV in 1471 defeated the Lancastrians.       Answer:	Tewkesbury2)  This Hertfordshire town was the scene of a Yorkist victory in 1455 and a Lancastrian victory in 1461.       Answer:	Saint Albans3)  Queen Margaret of Anjou, the wife of Henry VI, raised an army and defeated the Yorkists at this 1460 battle.	Answer:	Wakefield15.	Identify each of the following elements FTPE.1)  Atomic number 23, this metal is often used in the production of fine-quality music wire.       Answer:	Vanadium2)  Atomic number 42, this metal is often used to add strength to various kinds of steel.	Answer:	Molybdenum3)  Atomic number 103, it was named for the American physicist and Nobel Laureate who invented the cyclotron.	Answer:	Lawrencium
16.	FTPE, given the cartoon, name the original cartoonist.1)	Dick Tracy       Answer:	Chester Gould2)	The Family Circus	Answer:	Bil Keane3)	Woody Woodpecker	Answer:	Walt(er) Lantz  17.	If you count the guy who served as interim President twice, six men who have served as President of France under the Fifth Republic.  How convenient.  Name them F5PE.Answers:	Charles de Gaulle, Georges Pompidou, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, François Mitterand, (Blacque) Jacques Chirac (Bugs Bunny reference, of course), and Alain Poher (who served as interim president twice)18.	FTP each, answer the following questions about temperature scales.1)	This scale is based on zero degrees standing for the temperature of a mixture of 50% snow and 50% salt.       Answer:	Fahrenheit2)	Like the Kelvin scale, this scale uses absolute zero as zero, but instead of using Celsius degree increments, it uses Fahrenheit degree increments.		Answer:	Rankine3)	Rounded to the nearest 10 degrees, what is the Fahrenheit value for absolute zero?		Answer:	minus (or negative) 460 degrees19.	Identify things about a person for 5-10-155: A lecturer in math at Christchurch College, Oxford, Charles Lutwidge Dodgson is better known by this pen name.       Answer: 	Lewis Carroll 10: This poem is divided into eight "fits" with subtitles including "The Landing," "The Baker's Tale," & "The Vanishing."        Answer: 	The Hunting of the Snark 15:  The following excerpt is taken from "The Walrus and the Carpenter" from "Through the Looking Glass." I will read it out; give me the next line:  "The time has come, the Walrus said, to talk of many things."        Answer: 	"Of shoes and ships and sealing wax, of cabbages and kings."20.	Name the mythological character from descriptions, 30-20-10.30: She boasted that her daughter was lovelier than the Nereids. Bad move.20: She was the wife of Cepheus.10: She was also the mother of Andromeda, who was saved by Perseus.	Answer:	 Cassiopeia21.	Given the Asian river, tell me into which body of water it empties FTP each.1)	Mekong       Answer:	South China Sea2)	Ganges	Answer:	Bay of Bengal3)	Shatt al Arab	Answer:	Persian Gulf22.	Warren Burger and William Rehnquist have served as the last two Supreme Court Chief Justices.  Only six other men were appointed Chief Justice last century. How convenient.  F5PE name them.       Answers:   Edward D. White, William H. Taft, Charles E. Hughes, Harlan F. Stone, Fred M. Vinson, Earl Warren23.	FTP each, name these terms from earth science that have a commonality.1)	Terrain that is characterized by widely spaced trees with grassland underneath.       Answer:	Savannahs2)	Isolated, severe thunderstorm, often occuring in several parallel bands.	Answer:	Squalls3)	A cliff adjacent to a fault line that extends above the lower plate.	Answer:	Scarps	(The commonality?  They all start with the letter "s".) 