TOSSUPS - The Full Monty Python's Dysfunctional 		MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UTC     Flying Circus of the Stars on '45-el Goes West									Questions (mostly) by Anthony de Jesus1.	The only references to his work in contemporary accounts are to his two portraits of Princess Isabella of Portugal, which he sent to Philip the Good, duke of Burgundy. Sometimes mistakenly credited as the inventor of oil painting, his Man in the Red Turban is believed to be a self-portrait. For 10 points-name this artist commissioned by a Flemish official to depict the adoration of the Lamb of God in the Ghent Altarpiece.	Answer:	 Jan van Eyck2.	Their flag was black to symbolize anarchy, with a red star for socialism and a marijuana leaf for you know what. They nominated a pig for president; opposed capitalism, racism, and the Vietnam War; held nude "be-ins"; and advocated "sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll." For 10 points- name this group combining serious radical politics with counterculture values, founded in 1968 by Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman.	Answer:	 Yippies or Youth International Party3.	They have their origin in a treatise by their namesake's teacher, Jakob Henle. Contradicting the theory of polymorphism held by Friedrich von Reckliunghausen, Ewin Klebs, Joseph Lister, and others, they allowed their namesake to discover the cause of tuberculosis. Isolation, culturing, and inoculation are some of the steps of--for 10 points-name these rules for proving that a pathogen causes a disease.	Answer:	 Koch's postulates4.	Among the information that he passes on is that the spirits must drink from the Lethe to forget the experience of Elysium so that they can live again in the world above. He was disfigured and lamed when Zeus threw a thunderbolt at his after he bragged that he had been with Aphrodite, who actually did bear him a son. For 10 points--name this prince who left Troy on the shoulders of his son Aeneas.	Answer:	 Anchises5.	This director has signed on to bring to the silver screen a trilogy by Italian academic Valerio Manfredi on the life of Alexander the Great. He will likely be joined by his wife, Catherine Martin, who has worked on all of his films and whose Oscars for best art direction and best costume in 2002 took the sting off this man being passed over for a Best Director nomination. For 10 points--name this musically-inclined director of Moulin Rouge.	Answer:	 Baz Luhrmann6.	While the first parameter can be reasonably estimated, the other six are fractions which can only be speculated upon, so that solutions vary by as many as ten orders of magnitude. The first parameter, R, is probably around ten stars per year formed in our galaxy. For 10 points-name this equation predicting the number of intelligent species in the galaxy.	Answer:	 Drake equation7.	Because this novel failed to meet the moralistic requirements in Joseph Pulitzer's will, Oliver LaFarge's Laughing Boy won the 1930 Pulitzer. Its protagonist gladly signs a release saying that his tuition is his inheritance before heading off for graduate studies at Harvard. For 10 points-"A Story of the Buried Life" is the subtitle of what novel, in which Eugene Gant is an autobiographical portrait of Tom Wolfe?	Answer:	 Look Homeward Angel8.	The son of a commoner named Lagus, he received his nickname, meaning "savior," after rescuing Rhodes from the siege of Demetrius, the son of Antigonus. He had Perdiccas assassinated by his own troops after the Macedonian regent attacked him. For 10 points-name this general who, along with Seleucus, was one of the Diadochi who succeeded Alexander the Great, and who founded a dynasty in Egypt.	Answer:	 Ptolemy I Soter
9.	It was cleverly used as the name for a pompous officer in A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.  Thras in The Eunuch by Terence and Capitano in the commedia del arte are examples, but the best-known occurrence may be Pyrgopolynices, who is both stupid and vain and who is duped by his slave and a courtesan as the title character of a play by Plautus. For 10 points-name this stock character, a flawed military man.	Answer:	 miles gloriosus or the braggart soldier10.	He claimed to have moved to Holland for the beer, exchanging letters to women using code names of "Scribelia" and "Philocles" for them and "Attricus" and "Philander" for himself. He used code, shorthand, invisible ink, and the pseudonym Dr. van der Linden, moving frequently to avoid the persecution of his fellow Whigs. For 10 points-name this author of Essay Concerning Human Understanding and Two Treatises of Government.	Answer:	 John Locke11.	A scholar living in Antwerp, he had been the captive of natives after his ship wrecked on his voyage to join his wife who had left two years previously for the New World. Returning to civilization, he finds a role in society due to his medical knowledge, but, his victim's death leaves him purposeless, and he dies within a year, leaving his property to Pearl. For 10 points-name this sinister husband of Hester Prynne.	Answer:	 Roger Chillingworth12.	By the 1686 peace of Grzymultowski, he permanently ceded Kiev to Russia in exchange for an anti-Ottoman alliance. 20 years earlier, as field commander of the Polish Army, he defeated the Cossacks at Podhajce, and in 1672, he defeated the Ottomans at Chocim. Failing to be elected king in 1668, he succeeded King Michael in 1674 by the simple expedient of marching 6000 veterans of the Chocim victory to the field outside Warsaw, where the monarchial election was being held. FTP, name this Polish king who, with his victory at Kahlenburg in 1683, saved Vienna from the Turks.       Answer:	Jan Sobieski, or John  Sobieski, or John III13.	There were 19 published, while a 20th went unpublished. Six of these were later orchestrated by the composer and physicist Franz Doppler. Including examples of the slower lassen and the faster friskan, while making use of the national dance known as the czardas, they were originally written for piano and make use of folk music and Gypsy styles. For 10 points-name this ethnic work by Franz Liszt.	Answer:	 Hungarian Rhapsodies14.	The weathering of apatite can replace this biologically important element, whose cycle does not have an atmospheric component. It is part of an anion that makes up bones and teeth, especially in conjunction with calcium cations. For 10 points-name this nonmetallic element  with black, red, and white allotropes, which is a major constituent of nucleic acids and ATP.	Answer:	 phosphorus15.	This title was held by Siraj-ud-Dawlah, who was responsible for the Black Hole of Calcutta. Bengal and Oudh [OW-ad] were among the places where officials with this title chose to become independent in the waning days of the Mughal empire. For 10 points-give the word translated as "governor" or "viceroy," whose Anglicized form was used alliteratively in Spiro Agnew's description of the press corps.	Answer:	 nawab or nabob16.	His wife is Wealhtheow [way-alk-thay-oh], the lady of the Helmings. One of his thanes, Unferth, serves as his spokesman, and taunts a visitor to this king of the Scyldings [shild-ings], but this king welcomes the son of Ecgtheow [Edge-thay-oh] and thane of Hygelac [hee-yuh-lak], who has come from the Geats [Gay-ats]. For 10 points--name this king whose mead-hall Heorot [hay-oh-rote] is plagued for twelve winters by Grendel until the coming of Beowulf.	Answer:	 Hrothgar [roth-gar]17.	The cgs unit of this is named after a French physician who studied blood circulation and is called the poise, while the SI unit is newton-seconds per meters squared. It increases with temperature in gases, but decreases with temperature in liquids, and it is caused by intermolecular cohesion. Energy in fluid flow is dissipated by forces due to-for ten points-what quantity is the equivalent of friction in fluid mechanics?	Answer:	 viscosity18.	On the Statues is a series of his sermons to the people of Antioch who were in fear of punishment after throning down statues of Emperor Theodosius following the levy of new taxes. After complaining about a silver statue of the empress Eudoxia, he was deposed a second time as bishop of Constantinople. For 10 points-name the most prominent Doctor of the Greek Church, a "golden-mouthed" preacher.	Answer:	 St. John Chrysostom19.	After earning a law degree, he returned to the military where he gained his nickname while an officer of the Tenth Cavalry, also known as Buffalo Soldiers. A former aide to General Nelson A. Miles, he later had George Patton serve as his own aide. For 10 points-who commanded the failed attempt to capture "Pancho Villa" as well as the American Expeditionary Forces in World War I?	Answer:	 John Joseph "Black Jack" Pershing20.	This character first appeared in the 1902 novel, The Little White Bird and part of the novel was turned into a 1904 play by the author, featuring this character. His acquaintances include a crocodile, a princess named Tiger Lily, Michael, John, and Wendy. For 10 points-name this creation of Sir James Matthew Barrie, an enemy of Captain Hook and friend of Tinker Bell, from Never-Never Land.	Answer:	 Peter Pan21.	In A Little Romance, Laurence Oliver plays an old man who tells two teenage lovers that their love will last forever if they kiss under this landmark. It links one the New Prisons to the courtrooms of the Doge's palace. For 10 points--name this bridge over a canal in Venice, said to be named for the noises made by prisoners traveling its span.	Answer:	 the Bridge of Sighs22.	Made professor at the Ecole des Mines in 1877, he translated the works of J. Willard Gibbs into French and suggested the development of the oxyacetelene torch for welding. He also developed an optical pyrometer and a platinum and rhodium thermocouple. For 10 points--name this scientist whose namesale principle also applies to processes such as evaporation and crystallization in  addition to reversible chemical reactions in terms of equilibrium.	Answer:	 Henri-Louis Le Chatelier23.	A man named Drouet copped a feel from a young bride and the woman's husband cried out for his head in outrage. Drouet and his comrades were slaughtered, as this final indignity followed the Angevin king Charles I levying heavy taxes and stationing Drouet and other French soldiers on the island. For 10 points-name this Palermo event whose beginning was signaled by the ringing of a bell in 1282.	Answer:	 Sicilian Vespers24.	This country's national epic poem, not to be confused with Finland's Kalevala, is the Kalevipoeg, or Son of Kalev, by Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald. Represented by a tricolor that is blue, black, and white from top to bottom, this country includes the Narva and Pärnu rivers and Lake Peipus. For 10 points--name this smallest of the Baltic states, whose capital is at Talinn.	Answer:	 Estonia25.	On appeal, the accused was represented by future Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas and was supported by amicus curiae briefs from 22 state attorney generals. This decision extended Powell v. Alabama, which had only applied to capital offenses under state law, and Johnson v. Zerbst, which covered the poor in all federal criminal cases. For ten points, name this case originating in Florida, involving the right to counsel.	Answer:	 Gideon v Wainwright
BONI (oh, all right, bonuses) - The Full Monty Python's		MOC MASTERS 2002 -- UTC Dysfunctional Flying Circus of the Stars on '45-el Goes West		Questions (mostly) by Anthony de Jesus1.	FTPE name these fairy queens:She is the queen of Oberon in A Midsummer Night's Dream.	Answer:	 TitaniaThe queen of fairies in English folklore, she and not Titania is wife of Oberon in Michael Drayton's Nymphidia. She is also the title character of a Percy Bysshe Shelley poem.	Answer:	 Queen MabRepresenting Queen Elizabeth I, she is the queen of Fairyland in Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene.	Answer:	 Gloriana 2.	For 10 points each-in what kind of thermodynamic process does:Heat equal zero such that the change in internal energy equals work.	Answer:	 adiabaticHeat plus work equals zero, so that temperature remains constant.	Answer:	 isothermal (do not accept "cyclical")Work equals zero and the change internal energy equals zero, as the gas cannot do work.	Answer:	 constant volume process3.	Nobody listens to techno. For 10 points each--What musician is thus dissed in Eminem's "Without Me."	Answer:	 MobyThe video for "Without Me" features Eminem playing Rapboy, sidekick to this rapper and producer.	Answer:	 Dr. Dre or Andre YoungThe video also features Dick Cheney being shocked on this faux game show.	Answer:	 Ab Attack4.	Name these people from the 1807 treason trial of Aaron Burr, for 10 points each.This chief justice presided over the trial.	Answer:	 John MarshallBurr's primary defense counsel was this Virginian, who was the U.S. Attorney General from 1789 to 1794, when he succeeded Thomas Jefferson as Secretary of State.	Answer:	 Edmund RandolphAlso charged, but acquitted, was this general, a schemer and hustler who had once resigned from the army during the Revolution for his role in the Conway Cabal. He was the main witness against Burr, after revealing Burr's intentions regarding the Spanish territory in North America.	Answer:	 James Wilkinson5.   Given a Greek persona in Plutarch's Lives, name the parallel Roman persona FTP; if you need another clue, you'll get 5 points.10) Theseus5) Just as Theseus kidnapped the Amazon queen Hippolyta, this king supposedly orchestrated the abduction of the Sabine women.	Answer:	 Romulus10) Demosthenes5) An orator like Demosthenes, this man supported Pompey against Julius Caesar, who had criticized him for his reaction to the Cataline conspiracy.	Answer:	 Marcus Tullius Cicero10) Alexander the Great5) Just as Alexander had politically motivated marriages to Oxyartes' daughter Sogdiana and Darius III's daughter Roxana, this man was politically motivated to marry Calpurnia.	Answer:	 Gaius Julius Caesar
6.  FTPE, given a musical work, name the other composer who orchestrated it.  If you need one of their own works, 5PE.(1)  10:  George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue         5:  Grand Canyon Suite	Answer:	 Ferde Grofé(2)  10: Modest Mussorgsky's Pictures at an Exhibition         5:  Bolero	Answer:	 Maurice Ravel(3)  10: Erik Satie's Gymnopédies         5:  La Mer	Answer:	 Claude Debussy [Debussy orchestrated part of the work.]7.	Identify these concepts in astronomy, for the stated number of points.For five points each, what are the equivalents of latitude and longitude in the celestial sphere?	Answer:	 right ascension and declinationFor five points each, the vernal and autumnal equinoxes are the points where these two intersect. Name the line on the imaginary globe surrounding Earth which is above Earth's equator and the line on that globe which marks the passage of the Sun.	Answer:	 celestial equator and eclipticFor ten points, a celestial object will be highest in the sky when the right ascension equals this quantity.	Answer:	 sidereal time8.	For 10 points each--name these works by Willa Cather:Thea Kronberg becomes an opera singer at the price of becoming alienated from her small Midwestern town.       Answer: 	The Song of the LarkThe title character is an elderly farmer. Time caring for him makes his daughter-in-law Polly more favorable towards a rural life.	Answer:	 "Neighbor Rosicky"Alexandra Bergson's abilities as an independent farming woman draws the resentment of other settlers, including her brothers.	Answer:	 O Pioneers!9.	Name these painting themes, for 15 points each.This term describes a skull, an extinguished candle, and other symbols intended as a reminder of death.	Answer:	 memento moriIn this theme, objects symbolize the transience of life. One typical image is that of a young woman looking into a mirror.	Answer:	 vanitas10.	Answer these questions about Patrice Lumumba FTPE.Shortly after the independence of the Congo, this province attempted to secede, helped by Belgium. 	Answer:	KatangaAfter the failure of the United Nations to intervene and stop the secession, Lumumba tried to enlist the Soviet Union's help. This alarmed the West and encouraged this Congolese President to fire Lumumba as prime minister. 	Answer:	Laurent	KasavubuWhen Lumumba refused to leave, this army general launched a coup which supported Kasavubu. He later served nearly three decades as the president of Zaire. 	Answer:	Mobutu Sese Seko11.	When a light source is placed in a magnetic field, the spectral lines are split. For 10 points each--Name this effect.	Answer:	 Zeeman effectThe energy difference due to the Zeeman effect can be put in terms of this quantity, equal to the charge of an electron, times h-bar, divided by twice an electron's mass.	Answer:	 Bohr magneton (accept "mu-sub-B")The energy difference can also be described as the dot product of this orbital quantity, represented by mu-sub-L, and the external magnetic field.	Answer:	 magnetic moment
12.	For 10 points each-name the European capitals that lie on the following rivers:Tagus  	Answer:	Lisbon, Portugal. Spree	Answer:	 Berlin, Germany.Sava 	Answer:	 Zagreb, Croatia.13.	For 10 points each-name these Greek plays in which non-burial plays a role:The title character refuses to allow her children to be buried, flaunting murder of them to Jason.	Answer:	 Medea by EuripidesThe play ends with a herald decreeing that burial is forbidden to Polyneices and Antigone announcing her intent to bury her brother.	Answer:	 Seven Against Thebes or Septem Contra Thebas by AeschylusMenelaus orders the body of the title character left unburied, but Odysseus successfully pushes for a proper funeral.	Answer:	 Ajax by Sophocles14.	Answer these questions about Peter the Great FTPE.1. On his return from the Great Embassy in 1695, he was forced to eliminate this medieval group of soldiers, who were opposed to his plans for modernization and feared that he was not committed to the Orthodox Church. 	Answer:	 Steltsy2. After years of defeats, such as Narva, and the loss of his Polish allies, Peter finally defeated this Swedish king at Poltava in 1709, though the war went on for another decade. 	   Answer:	 Charles XII3. After Charles died in 1718, the Great Northern War dragged on for three more years until concluded by this treaty. 	Answer:	 Nystad 15.	Name the recent Woody Allen film for 10 points each:(10) This 2000 film with Tracey Ullman and Elaine May was Allen's top grossing film of the past decade.	Answer:	 Small Time Crooks(10) On the other hand, this 2002 film with Tea Leoni quickly disappeared from theatres.	Answer:	 Hollywood Ending(10) How does he do it? Allen somehow got Helen Hunt, Charlize Theron, and Elizabeth Berkley for this 2001 movie. 	Answer:	 The Curse of the Jade Scorpion16.	For 10 points each--name these works by Emile Durkheim:Durkheim's first major work, it describes the conscious collective in primitive societies and suggested organic solidarity would arise in industrial ones. The pursuit of self-interest leads to instability according to this 1893 book written to counteract Herbert Spenser.	Answer:	 The Division of Labor in SocietyThis 1897 work describes anomic, egotistical, altruistic, and fatalistic motivations for the title phenomenon.	Answer:	 SuicideThis 1912 work describes how sacred objects came about because they symbolize the community, how rituals came about because they reinforce community, and values came about while introducing the sacred and profane dichotomy.	Answer:	 The Elementary Forms of Religious Life17.	For 10 points each--name these native sons of Terre Haute, Indiana.In 1893 he organized and became the first president of the American Railway Union.	Answer:	 Eugene Victor DebsFrank Cowperwood, based on Charles T. Yerkes, is the protagonist of this author's trilogy consisting of The Financier, The Titan, and The Stoic.	Answer:	 Theodore DreiserNicknamed "Scoops," this Hall of Famer played center field for the Pirates from 1910 to 1926 and ended his career with the Dodgers. His 738 career stolen bases were a National League record until broken by Lou Brock.	Answer:	 Max Carey
18.	Name these students of physiologist Johannes Mueller, for ten points each.Considered the founder of histology, he held that all animal tissue is composed of cells.	Answer:	 Theodor SchwannConsidered the founder of cellular pathology, he discovered leukemia and showed that cells develop from previous cells and that diseases come from disorders in cells.	Answer:	 Rudolf VirchowThis physiologist invented the ophthalmoscope and developed a theory of color vision. He also helped formulate the first law of thermodynamics.	Answer:	 Hermann von Helmholtz19.	For 10 points each--name the first novel in:John Galsworthy's Forsyte Saga.	Answer:	 The Man of PropertyLawrence Durrell's Alexandria Quartet	Answer:	 JustineGunther Grass's Danzig trilogy.	Answer:	 The Tim Drum20.	For 10 points each--name the philosopher who dabbled in literature.This philosopher described an ideal education in Emile, but is better known for The Social Contract.	Answer:	 Jean Jacques RousseauThis Italian expressed his philosophy in poetic dialogues such as The Ash Wednesday Supper and On the Infinite Universe and Worlds before being burned at the stake in 1600.	Answer:	 Giordano BrunoThis philosopher of Realms of Being and The Life of Reason wrote the novel The Last Puritan.	Answer:	 George Santayana 21.	Name these Japanese deities, for the stated number of points.For five, Shinto translates as the way of these spirits, which inhabit people, places, and things.	Answer:	 kamiFor ten, the chief Shinto deity is this sun goddess, whose descendants supposedly include Japanese emperors.	Answer:	 Ama TerasuFor fifteen, soybean curd, believed to be his favorite food, was offered up to this god of crops and wealth, whose symbol is the white fox.	Answer:	 Inari22.	For 10 points each--name these non-novel Hemingway works:Published in 1925, this volume contains stories about Nick Adams growing up in Michigan.	Answer:	 In Our TimeThis Pulitzer Prize-winning novella describes a Cuban fisherman.	Answer:	 The Old Man and the SeaThis 1938 play describes espionage during the Spanish Civil War.	Answer:	 The Fifth Column23.	Although mostly grassland, it may have shrubs and trees scattered across it. For 10 points each--Name this biome, which includes the llanos of Venezuela and the plains of western Africa.	Answer:	 savannaThis term describes the small broad-leaf plants that grow with grasses in a savanna.	Answer:	 forbSavannas are home to large herbivores, such as this ox-like, maned African antelope, whose two species are the black and the blue.	Answer:	 wildebeest or gnu
24.	He was born in Georgia with the last name Poole. For ten points each:Name this founder of the Nation of Islam.	Answer:	 Elijah MuhammadElijah Muhammad was a follower of this Detroit-based man, who he later declared to be Allah Incarnate.	Answer:	 Wallace D. Fard or Walli FaradElijah Muhammad founded the Nation of Islam in this Midwestern city.	Answer:	 Chicago25.	30-20-10-1 Name the media conglomerate30) Along with NBC, it has a share of CNBC Europe. With NBC and Liberty Media, it owns CNBC Asia.20) On its own, its property includes magazines such as The Far Eastern Economic Review and Barron's.10) This "average" company also owns The Wall Street Journal.Answer: Dow Jones & Company26.	Answer the following about some silly Germans, for 10 points each.In October 1977, this West German left-winger committed suicide after a failed hostage-swap attempt at Mogadishu airport.	Answer:	 Andreas BaaderWith Ulrike Meinhof, Andreas Baader co-founded this terrorist organization, which cooperated with Palestinians in the terrorist actions at the 1972 Munich Olympics.	Answer:	 Red Army FactionMogadishu was not the Red Army Faction's first involvement with Africa. They took part in the 1976 hijacking of an El Al plane which landed at an airport in this Ugandan city.	Answer:	 Entebbe27.	For 10 points each-name these locations associated with George Patton.Patton was used as a decoy to make Germany think that the D-Day invasion would land at this city, not Normandy.	Answer:	 CalaisAfter Germany's surrender, Patton served as governor of this German state, but was removed for opposing the policy of de-Nazification.	Answer:	 BavariaFrom July 10 to August 17, 1943, Patton led the invasion of this Italian island.	Answer:	 Sicily