TOSSUPS -- GEORGIA BLIND ROUND		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1,	He met his future wife, Becky, in kindergarten, and in college she saved him from drowning.  However, he never had a date until his service in the Indiana National Guard.  His reputation as school rebel didn't deter him from applying for a position at his old high school after college, though it took him two tries to land the job.  His newest job came about due to an old frat buddy, but a certain librarian will tell you otherwise.  FTP, name this current Dean of Students at UTC, formerly the principal atBayside High school.A: Richard _BELDING2.	This element holds the distinction of having the most isotopes, nine of which are stable, and twenty-seven of which are radioactive.  It is also one of the most reactive elements in its group, partly due to its being one of the heavier members.  FTP, name this gas, with atomic number 54, one of the noble gases.A: _XENON_3.	Taking advantage of the long daylight hours, the Dutch guard began to move into the river valley at 6 am, and by about half past seven they began to engage the ill-led and ill-trained Irish infantry.  The strength of the Irish rested with its cavalry led by Berwick, Hamilton, and Tyrconnell, but that would a useless advantage against the well-trained forces of the English led by the Duke ofSchomberg, for they routed the Irish on that first day in July 1690.  FTP, at what battle did William of Orange gain mastery of Ireland east of the River Shannon, a battle that today is commemorated with a march by the Orange order the Ulster?A: The Battle of the _BOYNE_4.	No less than seven figures appear in this painting, including a bizarrely proportioned man positioned in the lower right.  The central figure, clad in blue and white, holds a naked infant and presses her right hand to her chest.  FTP, name this Mannerist masterpiece, strongly influenced by Raphael, painted in 1535 by Parmigianino.A: _"MADONNA WITH THE LONG NECK"_5.	As the novel opens, Isadora is on a plane in flight to Vienna, accompanying her husband Bennett to a congress of psychoanalysts.  At the conference, Isadora meets Adrian Goodlove and is immediately attracted to him.  She abandons her husband for the promise of spontaneity and sexual liberation, but she is quickly disillusioned by the reality of their time together and, in the end, returns to her predictable routine.  FTP, name the 1973 novel, incredibly controversial due to its explicit feminist sexuality, the most famous work of Erica Jong.A: _"FEAR OF FLYING"_6.	He got his first real job at a very early age working at the Regas restaurant in Knoxville, Tennessee.  Later, while working in a restaurant in Indiana, he met Col. Sanders, and began to work for him displaying excellent marketing skills.  Eventually he purchased four Kentucky Fried restaurants, which he later sold.  He used the money he made to start his own restaurant in Columbus, Ohio. FTP, name this man who named his restaurant after a nickname for his daughter, and who features old-fashioned hamburgers.A: Dave _THOMAS_7.	Attached to the plasma membrane, these structures are responsible for many cellular events that involve motion or contraction.  Drugs called cytochalasins can disrupt their formation by preventing actin molecules from joining together.  Only about 4 to 6 nanometers in diameter, in some cells they interact with myosin, like those in muscle.  FTP, name these components of the cytoskeleton which are smaller than microtubules.A: _MICROFILAMENTS_ (accept "actin filaments" before actin is mentioned)8.	After seven years on his father's sisal plantation in the Bahamas, he returned to Birmingham to give business a try.  There, he was elected to city council in 1911.  In 1918, he was elected as a Conservative member of Parliament.  He also had stints as Chancellor of the Ex Chequre. FTP, name this man who succeeded Stanley Baldwin in 1937 as Prime Minister, who has been criticizedfor his role in the policy of appeasement towards the Axis powers. A:  Neville _CHAMBERLAIN_9.	This concept's origins are in Cartesian philosophy, and while no great philosopher has ever subscribed to it, none have ever completely succeeded in disproving it.  Probably the strongest argument comes from Wittgenstein, who argued that language is completely social but still understood by individuals, disproving a private universe.   FTP, what philosophical concept states,at its extreme, that because only one's own mind and its contents can be proven to exist, everything is a creation of personal consciousness?A: _SOLIPSISM_10.	This empire was founded by the Malinke, a group of Mande speakers led by Sundjata (soon - JA -ta), and at its height included much of the West African Sahel and the upper Niger River. While Ghana's empire barely reached the upper Niger delta, this empire controlled Timbuktu and the later Songhai capital of Gao. For ten points, name this African empire of the Middle Ages whose name survives today in a country with its capital at Bamako. ANSWER: _Mali_11.	Her "Complete Poems" comprises more than 700 works, most of which were never published during her lifetime for political concerns.  Born in 1889, she was a tremendously popular and acclaimed poet before World War I, but between 1925 and 1940, and again from 1946-1956, she was unable to publish anything at all.  Two of her husbands were killed by Soviet authorities for politicalreasons, and her loss is reflected in poems like the cycle "Requiem".  FTP, name this Russian poet whose most important work remains the "Poem Without a Hero".A: Anna _AKHMATOVA_12.	In most of Europe, this language had died out by the 7th Century AD, but a version was still being recorded in Crimea in the 1500s.  The language had 27 letters, mostly derived from Greek, with some Latin and runic symbols.  FTP, name this language, preserved mostly in the Codex Argenteus, that provides the earliest evidence of the Germanic language family.A: _GOTHIC_13.	In the novel, "Mostly Harmless", Douglas Adams writes that the chances of these particles actually hitting something as they travel through space is roughly comparable to dropping a ball bearing at random from a cruising 747 and hitting an egg sandwich.  This illustrates their interaction, or lack thereof, due to their extremely small cross section, approximately 10 to the negative 43rdcentimeters squared for one particle of 3 mega-electron volts.  FTP, identify this lepton produced during beta decay, with no charge or rest mass.A: _NEUTRINO_14.	Ssu-Ma Chein, the great historian of the Han dynasty, describes in his "Historical Records" a man who was employed by King Ho-Lu of the Chi state during the Spring Autumn period, and who wrote a famous treatise.  Most historians now believe that such a man never existed, and that the ground-breaking "thirteen chapters" accredited him are a composite of a work started by Sun Pin around 340 BC during the Warring States period.  FTP, what general did Ssu-Ma claim wrote the "Art of War" in the 6th century BC?A: _SUN TZU_ or _SUN WU_15.	George W. Bush reacted ecstatically to the endorsement of America's great neighbor to the North, and he said so on a call-in radio show.  He wound up with egg on his face, however, when it turned out that the endorsement was a prank, not from Jean Chretien, the *real* prime minister of Canada, but rather from, FTP, what dish of cheese curds, gravy, and French fries that is inexplicably popular in areas of Quebec?A: _POUTINE_  (Accept "Jean Poutine" on early buzz; prompt on "Chretien" on early buzz).16.	His older brothers financed a tour of France and Italy for him from 1804 to 1806.  Upon returning, he joined with others to publish essays such as Salmagundi.  In 1815, he went to England to run the Liverpool branch of his family's hardware business, but couldn't save it.  In 1826, he joined the American Embassy in Madrid, writing a biography of Columbus while there.  On return trips to hisNew York estate "Sunnyside" he labored over his five volume biography of George Washington.  FTP, name this writer best known for two stories in Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent, "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow".A:  Washington _IRVING_17.	QUOTE: "No government is perfect.  One of the chief virtues of a democracy, however, is that its defects are always visible and under democratic processes can be pointed out and corrected."  This quote is from a speech given to a joint session of Congress on March 12, 1947, in which the president of the United States asked for aid for Greece and Turkey. This speech is notable, FTP, for creating what piece of U.S. foreign policy, based on the principle that "it must be the policy of the United States to support free peoples who are resisting subjugation by armed minorities or outside pressures."A: _TRUMAN DOCTRINE_ (prompt on *Truman*)18.	He has been criticized for lack of originality and for lack of form, especially in his long works, but his popularity has never suffered.  Almost all his works are in minor keys, more because of his own melancholy than the nationalism he never really embraced.  Russian hymn and folk themes nonetheless surface in such works as Marche Slav, his Symphony #6 (the Pathetique), and the 1812 Overture.  FTP name this still-popular composer.A.: Peter Ilich TCHIAKOVSKY19.	Born in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania in 1849, he worked on his father's farm, as a store clerk, and as a bookkeeper.  In 1871, with several associates he formed a company to operate coke ovens.  He bought out quite a few of his competitor in the Panic of 1873, strengthening his position in the industry.  Wanting to keep an eye on him, Andrew Carnegie made him chairman of his company, but the two fought of over policy, and he eventually resigned.  FTP, name this man who was largely responsible for the anti-union policy of the steel industry, who left his vast art collection and his New York City residence to the public.A:  Henry Clay _FRICK_20.		Between 10 to 40 minutes afterwards, severe abdominal pain and rigidity of stomach muscles develops.  Muscle spasms in the extremities, ascending paralysis, and difficulty in swallowing and breathing follow. However, the mortality rate, contrary to popular belief, is less than 1%, mostly in the elderly, infants, and those with allergies.  FTP, this is the general pattern occurring after the biteof what spider? A: _BLACK WIDOW_ (or, for nerds, "Latrodectus mactans")21.	Its name seems to be a shortened form of a term meaning "cattle driver," first used as a term of abuse by Scottish dissenters in the seventeenth century.  A group led by the first earl of Shaftesbery, it found support in the landed gentry and commercial interests.  FTP, name this political party, which saw its American namesake take the election of 1840 with William Henry Harrison as its candidate.A:  The _WHIGS_
BONI -- GEORGIA BLIND ROUND		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Had enough Norse and Sumerian mythology this year?  Fine.  Answer these questions about Polynesian myth for the stated number of points.  Don't worry, you know more than you think.5: This name can refer to the first man or divine ancestor, or a carving which represents and houses a spirit, though you won't find many torches in the shape of the latter in Western stores.A: _TIKI_10: The goddess of fire and volcanoes, she lives in the volcano Kilauea.A: _PELE_15: In Hawai'ian myth, this god's mother, Hina, complained that the days were too short, so he lassoed the sun from behind the mountain Haleakala, located on his namesake island.A: _MAUI_2.	Name the treaties, 5-10-15:5: This treaty ended the War of the Spanish Succession.A: _UTRECHT_10: This treaty, signed in 1691, ended the Jacobite Rebellion in Ireland and shares its name with a city and type of verse in Ireland.A: _LIMERICK_15: This treaty, signed in 1559 by Francis II of France and Charles II of Spain, concluded hostilities between the houses of Valois and Hapsburg for western European domination.A: _CATEAU-CAMRESIS_3.	Given characters, name the Thomas Hardy works on a 10-5 basis.1) 10: Lucetta Templeman and the Furmity Woman     5: Michael Henchard     A: _THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE_2) 10: Damon Wildeve and Digory Venn     5: Clem Yeobright and Eustacia Vye     A: _THE RETURN OF THE NATIVE_3) 10: Richard Crick and Farmer Groby     5: Angel Clare and Jack Durbeyfield     A: _TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES_4.	Given the name of a clef, tell what a note written on the third line would be called, for 10 points each:1) Treble Clef A: _B_2) Bass ClefA: _D_3) Alto ClefA: _C_5.	Many works of literature have been written with earlier masterpieces as inspiration.  Given the title of such a work, give both the author of the work and the name of the work that it was inspired by, 5 pts per part:.1) "Grendel"A: John _GARDNER*, _"BEOWULF"_2) "Wide Sargasso Sea"A: Jean _RHYS_, _"JANE EYRE"_3) "Ahab's Wife; Or, The Star-Gazer"A: Sena Jeter _NASLUND_, _"MOBY DICK"_
6.	Given a description of their claim to fame, name the organic chemist whose name is preserved in a reaction.  Ten points each.1) His reaction is used industrially to synthesize indigo.A: Adolf von _BAEYER_2) Several different varieties of his reagents exist; two of the most common involve magnesium chloride and magnesium bromide.A: Victor _GRIGNARD_ ("GRIN-yard")3) Two answers required.  Their reaction is also called a 4,2 cycloaddition.  Any reaction of this type will involve the formation of a ring.A: Otto Paul Hermann _DIELS_ and Kurt _ALDER_7.	30-20-10-5-1: Name the individual.30: During World War II, he won two Academy Awards for his documentaries on the Axis war efforts, "Hitler Lives" and "Design for Death".20: His first job was as an advertiser for the Standard Oil Company, creating innovative cartoons for their ad campaigns.10: Several of his books are about extremely heavy subject matter; "The Butter Battle Book", for example, is actually about nuclear proliferation.  He is also the Tupac Shakur award winner for posthumous output, with nine books so far appearing after his death.5: His famous books include "Fox in Socks" and "The Lorax".1: Several of his stories were combines in the TV special "Dr. Seuss on the Loose."A: Theodor _SEUSS_ Geisel or _DR. SEUSS_  Accept "Geisel".8.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: The only thing these authors have in common is that Charlie has visited their birthplace, gravesite, or some home in between.  For 5 pts. each name the authors of:a)	Cross Creek and The Yearling				ANSWER: Marjorie Kinnan Rawlingsb)	From Death to Morning and The Web and the Rock		ANSWER: Thomas Wolfec)	"In Praise of Johnny Appleseed" and "The Congo"		ANSWER: Vachel Lindsayd)	A House Divided and Dragonseed				ANSWER: Pearl S. Bucke)	Snake Doctor and Old Judge Priest				ANSWER: Irvin S. Cobbf)	In the Arena, Beyond Peace and RN				ANSWER: Richard M. Nixon9.	Take a deep breath and answer these questions about breathing, 5-10-15:5: This organ, found in many modern bony fishes, changes the buoyancy of the fish.  It is believed to have evolved from the "lungs" of early air-breathing fishes.A: _SWIMBLADDER_ or _AIR BLADDER_10: This is the cessation of breathing due to a drop in carbon dioxide, and can occur several times while a person is sleeping.A: _APNEA_15: Analogous to hemoglobin in mammals, this is the term for the copper-containing pigments in many arthropods and mollusks.A: _HEMOCYANIN_s10.	30-20-10, name the actor from roles.30: Mary Jo's ex-husband Ted on "Designing Women"20: Struggling attorney/parking attendant on "Eisenhower and Lutz"; gay neighbor in "American Beauty"10: Dr. Sam Beckett on "Quantum Leap"A: Scott _BAKULA_11.	Write down the following sentence (Moderator, read slowly): "Pauly Shore is going to play Hamlet, and if he does it well, give him an Oscar!" Now, given a verb from this sentence, tell what mood it is in.  Five for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four.1) DoesA: _SUBJUNCTIVE_2) GoingA: _INDICATIVE_3) PlayA: _INDICATIVE_4) GiveA: _IMPERATIVE_12.	Diamonds may be a girl's best friend, but we're not picky.  We'll be quite happy with any of these gems you can name, for ten points each.1)	This gemstone may appear in any color except red; those are called rubies.  It is a colored aluminum oxide, and common -- though less valuable -- colors include pink, green, and violet.A: _SAPPHIRE_2)	The most familiar variety of this January birthstone is called Alabandine.  Considered a semi-precious stone, the green variety is sold as an emerald substitute.A: _GARNET_3.) This is a silicate stone that requires water for its formation. The name comes from the Latin for "precious stone", and it is sensitive to heat or extreme physical conditions, making it one of the least hardy gems. Good-quality ones exhibit what is called a "color flash".A: _OPAL_13.	60% of their population, about 1.5 of 2.5 million, were killed in genocide between 1914 and 1916. For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about the Armenian Genocide.5: Armenia was at the time part of what Eastern European empire?A: _OTTOMAN_ Empire10: The ruling government of the Ottoman Empire, led by Mehmad Talat, Ismail Enver, and Ahmed Djemal, was known by what two word nickname?A: _YOUNG TURK_s15: Turkey is still training soldiers for the purpose of attacking Armenia, just not Turkish nationals.  What nationality of soldiers are currently being trained by the Turks?A: _AZERBAIJAN_ or _AZERBAIJANI_14.	Given a description, name these saints for 10 points each.1) The patron saint of music, she is commonly referred to in art and poetry, and the Academy of Music in Rome was founded in her honor.  Her feast day is November 22.A: St. _CECILIA_2) She converted to Catholicism at the age of 31, in 1805.  She is notable for founding the Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, as well as for being the first American-born saint.A: St. Elizabeth Ann _SETON_3.) She snuck away from her parents' house to take the veil in 1535. Her _Life Written By Herself_ records her autobiographical impressions of the "intellectual visions and locutions" that made their way into several famous works of art.A: St. _TERESA of AVILA_
15.	Name the Roman emperor from clues, 30-20-10:30: His family came from Narnia, his father was a jurist and his father's father a consul under Tiberius.  He himself was a consul for the first time under Vespasian. 20: He was banished by Domitian to Tarentum and became emperor after the latter was murdered.10: He is considered the first of the so-called Five Good Emperors of Rome.A: Marcus Cocceius _NERVA_16.	30-20-10-5-1, name the object:30: The father-son team of Drs. Lloyd and James Kaufman released their findings about this object on Jan. 3, 2000.20: Their theory about the optical illusion regarding this object is similar to the Ponzo perspective illusion involving a drawing of rectangles on railway tracks.10: Their observations were made easier during this year's winter solstice, when this object was the brightest it had been in decades.5: Contrary to previous theories, testing showed that when viewed on the horizon, it appears further from the viewer than when it is elevated in the night sky.1: The Kaufmans' data add new insight to the "Moon Illusion".ANS: the Moon; accept Luna17.	Name the authors from a lesser known work for 10, and a better known work for 5.1)  10: The short story "The Petrified Man"      5: The novel "Delta Wedding"A:  Eudora _WELTY_2)  10: The short story "The Hound"       5: The short story "The Bear"A: William _FAULKNER_3)  10: The short story "The Leader of the People"       5: The novel "East of Eden"A: John _STEINBECK_18.	The Warren Commission not only made a lot of people angry, it also made a lot of people famous.  Besides Chief Justice Earl Warren, the commission had six members -- two Senators, two Congressmen, and two professionals in the national security business.  For 5 pts. each, name them.ANSWERS: Richard Russell, John Sherman Cooper, Hale Boggs, Gerald Ford, Allen Dulles, John McCloy19.	Given an item tell whether it would be classified as M 1, M 2, M 3, or M 4 in economics for 10 pts each.1) A Savings accountA: _M 2_2) A one dollar billA:  _M 1_3) A Van Gogh paintingA: _M 4_20.	30-20-10, name the architect:30: His buildings include the Woolworth Building in New York and the present-day Carson Pirie Scott store in Chicago.20: He is known for his statement, "form ever follows function," and his idea for "organic architecture" was realized by his friend and former student.10: That student was Frank Lloyd Wright.A: Louis _SULLIVAN_21.	30-20-10, give the shared last name.30: Stuart was an American economist who wrote The Tragedy of Waste.20: Mary was a playwright who won the Pulitzer for Harvey.10: Salmon presided over the Impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson.A: _CHASE_