TOSSUPS -- FLORIDA C.C.JACKSONVILLE B		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UTC 1. 	Until he succumbed to typhus and/or syphillis at the age of 31, this composer lived a bohemian existence. He had sixteen official lodgings in an eleven year period, but his real home was in the wild Vienna cafes, where his more extroverted cronies like the tenor Johann Vogel might get the first crack at singing to one of the 8 or nine lieder that he was capable of cranking out in a good day. FTP, identify this happy go-lucky Austrian genius, the composer of the Erl King and Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel. Answer:	 Franz Schubert 2. 	This man's first notable scientific achievement was a theory that explained the deviations of certain planets from their mathematically predicted orbits. Accustaions of plagiarism and political opportunism dogged him through his 78 years, but he undeniably invented an ice calorimeter, and derived an equation named after him that allows one to compute the potential of a physical quantity at any given time while it is in continuous motion. FTP, identify this Frenchman, most famous for supporting Kant's nebular hypotheis of the universe's origin in the popular 1796 work Exposition du Systeme du Monde. Answer:	 Marquis Pierre Simon de Laplace 3.	His IQ was measured at a lofty 149, he devoured Beat literature and French Symbolist poetry as a teen, and a friend in his philosophy class at FSU could have sworn that he'd written some of the books. Film became his passion, and so he transferred to UCLA where he read a trendy book about drugs by Aldous Huxley and met two guys named Krieger and Densmore. FTP, name this Lizard King of rock and roll whose avowed goal was to cleanse the doors of America's perception? Answer:	 Jim Morrison 4.	The obvious sources for this painting are african masks, depictions of whorehouses by Degas and Toulouse-Lautrec, and, more respectably, that staple of late Renaissance art, The Three Graces. Georges Braques was horrified by its ugliness and intensity, remarking that Picasso must have been drinking turpentine and spitting fire. FTP, identify the shocking 1907 work by Pablo Picasso that is a landmark of analytical cubism. Answer:	 Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (accept  ladies of Avignon) 5.	Attending classes at rigorous Reed College was a bore, so he read what he wanted to and squatted in empty dorm rooms, living on eccentric vegetarian diets. The again, high school had been a bore, so he spent much of his time in the garage with his buddy Woz, building devices for free long-distance phone service and, later, primitive computers. FTP, identify this man who stumbled badly with his NEXT workstation project but who'd already made millions with his partner Steven Wozniak as the cofounder of Apple Computers. Answer:	 Steven Jobs 6.	The prose is so turgid and convoluted that its author later distanced himself from it, although adding, "As to the substance, there is nothing I would want to change."  The text we know today became the standard text in 1930, combining two books published in 1925 and 1926.  The former was dictated in 1923 by the author to prison cellmate Rudolf Hess.  FTP name this infamous manifesto by Adolf Hitler.Answer: 	Mein Kampf7. The final group of vertebrae on the mammalian skeleton are somewhat less prominent in mankind than on most of our furry companions. But people generally do possess four or five small bones, vestigial traces of what must indeed have been a tail at one point . FTP, give the scientific name for this collection of bones. Answer:	 Coccyx (accept caudal vertebrae or coccygeal vertebrae) 
8. 	So shy that he only ventured out at night, and had his servants slip his meals through a special door every night so that he could eat alone, this 18th century miser may well have been the richest man in all of England. He preferred to spend his time reading or in his extensive scientific laboratory, in which he accurately calculated the earth's density, and in 1766 thought he had produced the elusive phlogiston gas. FTP, identify this man who had in fact discovered hydrogen, and whom later broke water down into hydrogen and oxygen. Answer:	 Henry Cavendish 9. Three years of studying history at the university of St Petersburg were apparently enough to give the young lady the answers to all of the big questions of philosophy, and make her the greatest novelist in human history as well. The philosophies of Karl Marx and, surprisingly Aristotle, were the two chief evils of all history, and individuals of genius should be as selfish as possible, an insight she termed Objectivism. FTP, identify this woman, author of the massive perennial bestsellers Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead. Answer:	 Ayn Rand 10.	Starting a second career late in life is a daunting proposition for most people, but this accomplished writer is making a go at acting in his seventies, recently potraying a supercillious Harvard professor in With Honors, and an unfashionably liberal Senator in Bob Roberts. Of course he has always had a fascination with tough sells and lost causes, as his novels have praised Julian the Apostate and Aaron Burr, and roasted Jesus Christ and Abraham Lincoln mercilessly. FTP, identify this witty liberal gadfly, author of Creation and Myra Breckinridge . Answer:	 Gore Vidal 11.	The only player elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame on January 20th, 1942, this man won the elusive Triple Crown twice, in 1922 and '25. His 42 home runs at second base in '22 wasn't bested for half a decade, and his .424 average of that same year stands as the single highest mark since 1900. FTP, identify this slugger known as the Rajah. a seven-time National League Batting Champ for the St Louis Cardinals? Answer:	 Rogers Hornsby 12.	He was New Haven's first mayor and served as treasurer of Yale despite having almost no formal education.  He taught himself law while working as a cobbler, storekeeper, and surveyor.  He was the only man to sign the Articles of Association, the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution.  FTP name this Founding Father from Connecticut.Answer:	Roger Sherman13.	This measure of the U.S. stock market was introduced in 1957 and is one of the 12 leading economic indicators used by the U.S. Commerce Department. It is considered to be value-weighed because each stock stock is adjusted according to its current market value. FTP, identify this index, which is composed of 500 issues, primarily those listed on the New York Times Stock Exchange. Answer:	 Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Stock Price Index (accept S & P 500 even though technically there are other S&P 500's) 14.	In 1977, the research submarine Alvin discovered an entirely new type of ecosystem, based upon the conversion of chemicals into food. Bacteria that feed upon hydrogen sulfide from the hot floor vents are the primary link in this food chain. FTP, identify the area of the Pacific Ocean floor that sports such bizarre life forms as pink brotulid fish and 25 foot worms, that shares its name with the far-flung islands that Charles Darwin visited some 140 years earlier. Answer:	 The Galapagos Rift 
15 A Harvard graduate, this man was an assistant Secretary of State under Ronald Reagan who vigorously defended the US policy of `constructive engagement' with South Africa. He was rewarded with the post of Ambassador to the United Nations Economic and Social Council, and ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. Senate from Maryland in 1992. FTP, identify this silver-tongued moralist, perhaps the most prominent conservative African-American and a perennial second-tier candidate for the presidency. Answer:	 Alan Keyes 16.	His main idea was clear, sane and highly unusual for his time: all men needed a probationary period before they were allowed to vow their poverty, chastity, and obedience to Christ. This onetime hermit founded a model monastery At Monte Cassino in Italy. FTP, identify this man, who fixed the basic pattern of western monastic life for all time in the early 6th century. Answer:	 St Benedict of Nursia 17.	 Einstein and others have shown that objects cannot travel faster than the speed of light. However, some scientists postulate the existence of a particle that can only travel faster than light and cannot be slowed down. FTP, identify these hypothetical objects, whose name is derived from the Greek word for swift, that have so far eluded the watch of science. Answer:	 tachyons 18.	The central character of this play assures us that he will do things that will be the terror of the earth, but is not sure of the details quite yet. Later this haughty man faces terror and madness in a raging storm, accompanied only by his acerbic yet loyal Fool. FTP, identify this Shakespearean play about a king of poor judgement and his three daughters. Answer:	 Shakespeare's King Lear 19.	 1,000 cannons thundered for eight consecutive hours, necessitating the use of hand signals instead of bugles. The French were 70 miles west of Moscow, and 43,000 Russian troops perished in a futile last-dich stand. FTP, identify this September 7, 1812 clash, which Napoleon called the most terrible of battles, and which was the last victory of the ill-starred Grand Army. Answer:	 Borodino 20.	Some critics have complained that nothing really happens in her novels, but the Regency Period (1811-1820) that her books took place in has become the setting of countless historical romances since her death from Addison's disease at the age of 42. Rituals of courtship and the laws of human nature and custom are scrutinized in her books, and headstrong heroines like Elizabeth Bennett and Emma Woodhouse mature and embrace their social status before the eyes of her many readers. FTP, identify this English author of such little bits of ivory as Mansfield Park, Persuasion, and Pride and Prejudice Answer:	Jane Austen 21.	Thirty-five interceptions is an awful lot for a former Heisman winner. This hard-luck quarterback chucked an absurd number of picks each year for the Tampa Bay franchise before being sent packing to the Browns, and then the Ravens. FTP, identify this former University of Miami star who led the best Jets team since Joe Namath's heyday to the AFC Championship in 1998-99, but then suffered a devastating injury on opening day last year. Answer:	 Vinnie Testaverde 
BONI -- FLORIDA C.C.JACKSONVILLE B		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UTC1 	FTP each, identify the prominent musician from a brief description 1)	 His fame rests as much on his writing for the New Music Magazine as it does on his compositions such as Papillons and Dichterliebe. Answer:	 Robert Schumann 2)	 The rage of the continent as a 19th century piano virtuoso, he took minor religious orders in his forties, becomin an Abbe. Answer:	 Franz Liszt 3)	 In his snobby society for private musical performances, this Austrian warned his acolytes against treating his twelve-tone system as dogma. Answer:	 Arnold Schonberg 2.	 Think you know physics? FTP each, identify the terms briefly defined 1)	 an ideal body that absorbs all incident radiation and radiates according to Planck's law Answer:	 Black Body 2)	The raising of a liquid's temperature above its boiling point, by increasing the pressure, without changing its phase state Answer:	 Superheating 3)	 space-time in the absence of a gravitational field Answer:	 Minkowski space 3.	FTP each, identify the prominent battle from a brief description 1)      Union forces under Burnside were repulsed in their attempt to take Richmond, with over 12,000 casualties. Answer:	 Fredericksburg 2)	 Russian general Samsonov shot himself after Czar Nicholas the Second ordered a premature attack on East Prussia. German generals Ludendorff and von Hindenburg killed or captured 122,000 soldiers, and the Russian Army was eliminated as a factor in World War One. Answer:	 Tannenburg 3)	 This 56-day May 1954 siege of a military base in Vietnam, which ended in a Communist victory, marked the end of French power in Indochina. Answer:	 Dienbienphu 4 .	Identify the musician, 30-20-10:: 1)	 1998's Blood on the Dance Floor was his worst selling American release in decades. 2)	 The first single from his 1997 double album History featured the most expensive music video of all time. 3)	 He has three of the top ten albums of all time in total world sales, and 1983's Thriller tops all records with over 40 million copies sold internationally. Answer:	 Michael Jackson 5.	 FTP each, identify the famous mathematician from a brief description 1)	this man showed in 1931 that any formal system strong enough to include laws of arithmetic is either incomplete or inconsistent Answer:	 Kurt Godel 2)	This man published the first account of calculus to reach print. Answer:	 Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz 3)	 In 1892, this man proved that there are at least two types of infinities, and that one is actually bigger than the other. Answer:	 Georg F.L.P. Cantor 
6 	FTP each, Identify the artist who created the following works 1 The Venus of Urbino Answer:	 Titian 2)	 The Hay Wain Answer:	 John Constable 3)	Boy Bitten by a Lizard; The Death of the Virgin Answer:	 Caravaggio 7.	Think you know computers? FTP each, identify the terms briefly defined 1)	 A type of chip memory, the contents of which have been permanently recorded in a computer by the manufacturer and cannot be altered by the user. Answer:	 read-only memory (Rom not enough) 2)	A unit of measurement for data storage equivalent to 1 billion bytes Answer:	 gigabyte 3)	A transmission rate used in sending data from one computer to another, with each unit approximately equal to one bit per second. Answer:	 baud rate 8.	From Eisenhower through Nixon, it was said that the U.S. Senate was under the control of an entrenched group of Southern Democrats who slowed any efforts at civil rights legislation.  FTPE name the following:a)	This North Carolina Senator was little noted outside the Beltway until his service as chair of the Senate Select Committee on Watergate.Answer:	Sam Ervinb)	Elected from Georgia in 1933, he served till his death in 1971.  Chairman of the Armed Services Commitee from 1951-1969, he's the namesake of one of the Senate's office buildings.Answer:	Richard B. Russellc)	Russell's successor as chair of the Armed Services Committee was this Mississippian, one of the authors of the pro-segregation Southern Manifesto.  One of his standard tactics in fighting any civil rights legislation was to attach amendments that would force school desegregation in all areas of the country.Answer:	John Stennis9.	 FTP each, identify the baseball player from a brief description 1)     His .390 average in 1980 was a record for third basemen, and the highest average since 1941 at that point Answer:	 George Brett 2) Despite failing to lead his league in hits in any season, this 1st baseman led all players in total hits for the 1990's Answer:	 Mark Grace 3)	 This fleet but light-hitting outfielder for the Baltimore Orioles shocked the baseball world with 50 home runs in 1996 Answer:	 Brady Anderson 10.	Identify the author given a list of clues on a 30-20-10 basis 30- A fragment of her autobiography, Illumination was published in 1999, 32 years after her death from a series of strokes. 20-she trained for a career in piano in Columbus, Georgia, and used the Southern city as inspiration for her work in progress, The Mute. 10- Reflections in a Golden Eye and Ballad of the Sad Cafe were successful, but her most popular work remains The Mute---completed and retitled The Heart is a Lonely Hunter. Answer:	 Carson McCullers
11.	Identify the author given a list of his works on a 30-20-10 basis 30- Mason and Dixon; Slow Learner 20- Vineland, V 10- The Crying of Lot 49, Gravity's Rainbow Answer:	 Thomas Pynchon 12.	FTP each, identify the economic term from a brief description 1)	Written evidence of ownership or creditorship, such as a bond or a stock certificate Answer:	 Security 2)	personal income earned by the sale of assets such as stocks or real property. The difference between the price paid and the selling price. Answer:	 Capital Gains. 3)	this law states that work expands to fill the time availible for its completion Answer:	 Parkinson's Law 13.	Think you know chemistry? FTP each, identify the terms briefly defined 1)	 The curved surface of liquid in a column Answer:	 meniscus 2)	 active nonmetals in Group 17 of the Periodic Table all of which are highly electronegative Answer:	 halogens 3)	 the conversion of a solid into a vapor without first melting Answer:	 sublimation 14.	FTP each, identify the prominent African-American from a brief description 1)	 Undersecretary for special political affairs, he received the 1950 Nobel Peace Prize for his work in the Middle East Answer:	 Ralph Bunche 2)	 A pastor of New York's Abyssinian Baptist Church, he was elected to the House of Representatives in 1945 and expelled in an ugly controversy for misusing public funds Answer:	 Adam Clayton Powell 3)	A US Congresswoman from Texas whose keynote speech at the 1976 Democratic National Convention riveted the nation. Answer:	 Barbara Jordan 15.	FTP each, identify the astronomy terms briefly defined 1)	The condition that exists when three celestial bodies are arranged in a straight line Answer:	 syzygy 2)	The shape of a planet or natural sattelite that is not totally spherical but bulges in the center and is flattened at the poles Answer:	 oblate (accept oblate spheroid) 3)	 The Greek letters assigned to stars in constellations to identify the brighter stars. Bayer Designations 16.	30-20-10, name the ruler.30: Ottocar II of Bohemia protested his rule, but this man defeated him in 1278 at Marchfield.20: He sought the friendship of Pope Gregory X, renouncing claims of papal states.10: He was the first king of the Hapsburg dynasty.A:  _RUDOLPH I_
17.	 FTP each, identify the prominent religious leader from a brief description 1)	Her death at age 89 was ruled to natural causes, probably pneumonia, but some of her followers suspected that malicious animal magnetism played a role. Answer:	 Mary Baker Eddy 2)	 Flung to the ground during a violent thunderstorm, this man promised St Anne he'd become a monk if he were spared. Later, he penned A Mighty Fortress is our God while holed up in Wartburg castle. Answer:	 Martin Luther 3)	 This epileptic was happily married to Khadija, but after she passed away he was tended by a harem of nine wives and two concubines. Answer:	 Mohammed 18 	FTP each, identify the Shakespeare plays briefly defined 1)	 Anne Boleyn gets married; Cramner replaces Wolsey as the king's chief advisor. Answer:	 Henry the Eighth 2)	Bolingbroke returns to England while the protagonist is in Ireland fighting rebels,and declares himself King Henry the Fourth. Answer:	 Richard the Second 3)	King Ferdinand of Navarre and his friends Berowne, Longaville, and Dumain vow to live without the company of women for three years. Answer:	 Love's Labour's Lost 19.	Identify the author given two titles of their works on a 30-20-10 basis 30- Cry to Heaven; The Feast of All Saints 20- The Mummy; Taltos 10- The Vampire Armand; Interview with the Vampire Answer:	 Anne Rice 20.	Given a brief definition of a philosophical concept, FTP supply the term. 1)	Hobbes' term for the condition of humanity before governemnt, characterized by the war of all against all Answer:	 the state of nature 2)	the science of making correct inferences, regarded by Arisotle as the indespensable foundation for all types of knowledge and things. Answer:	 Logic 3)   the art of asking and answering the proper questions in a discussion, to bring knowledge out into the open. Answer:	 Socratic method (accept Dialectic) 21. Given a brief job description, identify the type of doctor or health care provider FTP each 1)	 a physician who studies the causes, development and treatment of cancers and other tumors Answer:	 oncologist 2)	 a doctor who specializes in the bite and tooth alignment of the mouth Answer:	 orthodontist 3)	Leaning heavily on the theory that unaligned vertebrae put pressure on the surrounding nerves, these health care professionals concentrate on nonsurgical, drugless treatments for patients and uses physical manipulations. Answer:	 chiropractor --- accept osteopath 