TOSSUPS - U. SOUTH/EMORY B/YESHIVA       MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Toby Walter, Zvi Rosen, David Druce, and Emory B with help from Tulane's Jason Horn1.	It predicts that any system of interacting fermions could undergo a superconducting, or in the case of fermions with no charge, a superfluid transition, provided one had a net fermion attractive interaction in some angular momentum channnel. It also provides an explanation for the isotope effect, in which the temperature at which superconductivity appears is reduced if heavier atoms of the elements making up the material are introduced.  FTP name this theory, developed in 1957 by three American physicists, which explains the behavior of superconducting materials.	Answer:	BCS Theory (or Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer Theory)2.	It takes its name from an anecdote in which a U.S. President and his wife were visiting a chicken farm.  While the president was inspecting one part of the farm, a farmer showed the first lady a rooster which, she was told, could copulate nine or ten times a day.  "Tell that to the President," she commented, and the farmer dutifully did so.  When told this, the president asked whether the rooster always mated with the same hen, and was informed that the rooster was given a different bird each time.  "Tell that to the first lady," quipped the President.  This explains the name of this phenomenon, describing how the males of most species are more sexually excited than females by multiple sexual partners.  FTP, identify this psychological effect named for the 30th president of the United States.	Answer:	the Coolidge effect3.	Various episodes in this work include "The Pergamene Boy", the "Cena Trimalchionis," or "Trimalchio's Dinner", and "The Widow of Ephesus."  Its narrator, Encolpius, is well-educated but relatively poor.  FTP name this fragmentary Latin novel, the only extant work by Petronius, which inspired a Federico Fellini film of the same name.	Answer:	 the Satyricon4.	Also the subject of a painting by Emile Vernet, it began shortly after dawn on October 14th, and ended with a resounding French victory. This battle eventually lead to the Treaty of Tilsit, which reduced Prussia to half its former size the following year.  Outnumbered nearly two to one by the French army, the Prussian force under Duke Charles Wilhelm Ferdinand was crushed by Napoleon in less than twelve hours, in, FTP, what 1806 battle? 	Answer:	 the battle of Jena (accept Jena-Auerstädt, but not Auerstadt - the first clue is Jena-specific)5.	Born Chris Bridges, by age 12 he was in a Hip-Hop group in Chicago called Loudmouth Hooligans. He moved to the South as an adolescent and began to rap in earnest while still a student at Banneker High School. Later, he had a job producing the night show at the hip-hop radio station WHAT 97.  FTP, name this rapper from Atlanta, whose latest album, Word of Mouf, features the hit "Roll Out (My Business)." 	Answer:	Ludacris6.	Roman murals and mosaics displayed it, but it was not until the 15th century that the technique became a central consideration in Western art.  It is most pronounced in the works of late 16th and early 17th-century artist Michelangelo da Caravaggio and consequently in the works of Battista Caracciolo, Massimo Stanzioni, Rembrandt, and others.  FTP, name this technique which illustrates the contrast between light and darkness in an artwork, whose name is taken from the Italian words for light and darkness.	Answer:	  chiaroscuro7.	It includes 31 regional offices, each led by a regional director, as well as subregional offices.  Its jurisdictions extended to cover US postal employees in 1971 and to cover non-profit healthcare institutions in 1974.  It does not initiate measures against unions or employers, but rather considers complaints from private parties and calls for representative elections.  FTP, name this agency created by the US Congress in 1935 as part of the Wagner Act.	Answer:	  National Labor Relations Board or NLRB8.	The castle Urienborg or 'fortress of the heavens', on Hven Island, built with the support of Fredrick II, was his personal laboratory.  Earlier in life, he had studied at the Universities of Leipzig and Copenhagen, and the nose he lost in a duel was replaced by a golden prosthesis. He helped improve the heliocentric theory by making precise observations of those stars and planets visible to the naked eye. FTP, name this Danish astronomer, the teacher of Johannes Kepler.	Answer: 	Tycho Brahe
9.	The youngest son in the family of a merchant, he was dependent on his family prior to publishing The Sketch Book in 1819-20.  Although briefly engaged to Matilda Hoffman, she died of consumption in 1809 and he never married.  His works include Tales of a Traveller, The Alhambra, and Adventures of Captain Bonneville, U.S.A.  FTP, name this American author, best known for "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip Van Winkle."	Answer:	  Washington Irving10.	Featured as 'El Jefe' in The Feast of the Goat by Mario Vargas Llosa, he is infamous for ordering the death of dissidents such as the Mirabal sisters, as well as purportedly ordering the slaughter of 20,000 Haitian sugar cane workers in 1937. A former head of the National Guard, with strong ties to the United States, he modeled his autocratic government after that of Francisco Franco, and renamed the capital Santo Domingo in his name. FTP name this Dominican dictator, assassinated in 1961.	Answer: 	Rafael Molino Trujillo 11.	He studied chemistry in Turin from 1939 to 1941, until German intervention in Italy caused him to join an anti-Fascist resistance group.  Captured and deported to a concentration camp in 1944, he was able to work in the laboratory at Auschwitz.  At the end of World War Two, he returned to a career in industrial chemistry.  He is better known for books such as The Periodic Table, If not now, when?, and The Awakening. FTP, name Italy's equivalent of "Elie Wiesel," most famous for Survival in Auschwitz.	Answer: 	Primo Levi12.	He studied under Max Bruch in the late 1890's and under Maurice Ravel in 1909. A.E. Housman provided the lyrics for his song cycle On Wenlock Edge.  Among his stage works are Job, Hugh the Drover, and The Pilgrim's Progress. FTP, name this British composer who wrote 9 symphonies, including Sinfonia Antarctica, Sea Symphony, and A London Symphony.	Answer:	Ralph [pronounced Rafe but accept Ralph] Vaughan Williams [prompt on Williams]13.	Its most common form, hyaline, contains a gray, semitransluscent matrix with randomly oriented collagen fibrils and relatively little elastin.  Also common is the elastic variety, which you might find in the larynx and epiglottis, and the fibrous type, which is common between intervertebral disks.  FTP, identify this type of connective tissue whose distinctive cells are called chondrocytes, and which is the main component of the embryonic skeleton in mammals.	Answer:	cartilage14.	To cross from his empire's northern borders to the capital, Niani, was once said to be a four month journey. From that city, he set out along the Upper Niger River accompanied by an impressive caravan consisting of 60,000 men, with a baggage train of 80 camels, each carrying 300 pounds of gold. Upon reaching Cairo, he flooded the market with gold with his lavish spending, decreasing the metal's value such that 12 years later the market had not recovered. FTP, name this pious yet flamboyant emperor of Mali who made his famous hajj to Mecca in 1324.	Answer:	Mansa Musa15.	Created by Lewis Zimmerman, he considered several names for himself in the first few seasons, including the monicker Albert Schweitzer during an Beowulf-themed episode in which he lost an arm to a photonic alien incarnation of Grendel.  Over the years he's traveled to the 29th century, had a son on a planet in accelerated temporal flux, considered taking up an operatic career, and much like many Trekkies, not-so-secretly fantasized about being "assimilated" by Seven of Nine.  FTP, identify Robert Picardo's character on Voyager, whose first lines will always be "please state the nature of the medical emergency."	Answer:	the Doctor or the Emergency Medical Hologram or the  EMH16.	In 1883-1884, he made a scientific exploration of the Baffin Island region of Canada. Also curator of ethnology at the American Museum of Natural History, he suggested the possibility of a strong relationship between northern Asian and northwestern Native American cultures, such as the Kwakiutl. One of his most important conclusions was that no truly pure race exists, and that no race is innately superior to any other. FTP, name the German-American anthropologist author of The Mind of Primitive Man.	Answer: 	Franz Boas
17.	He flew 35 missions as a B-24 pilot during his service in the Army Air Force, the subject of Stephen Ambrose's controversial book The Wild Blue. Appointed director of the Food for Peace Program by JFK, he was elected to the Senate in 1962 where he grudgingly supported the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution.  His abortive run for president in 1984 evoked memories of his earlier campaign.  FTP, name this South Dakotan who lost the 1972 presidential election to Richard Nixon.	Answer:	  George Stanley McGovern18.	An avid philatelist dies, leaving his ex-girlfriend as the sole executor of his estate.  When the former girlfriend, Oedipa Maas, has a stamp expert examine his collection before auctioning it off, it is discovered that some of the stamps bear a watermark of a muted post horn, a symbol that Oedipa begins to encounter everywhere she goes.  The plot ends abruptly with Oedipa waiting to see who buys the collection at auction.  FTP identify this Thomas Pynchon work.	Answer:	The Crying of Lot 4919.	EITHER OF TWO ANSWERS IS ACCEPTABLE: The two forms of the name are easily confused.  Pliny the Elder mentioned the more general form in the 1st century A.D., and alchemists used the word for various liquids of low boiling point, not just for liquid hydrocarbon mixtures.  A more formal compound name refers to a waxy white solid, soluble in ether or hot alcohol.  Either way, it's highly volatile and can be produced from coal tar.  FTP give either the common term for a class of compounds, or the name for the compound with formula C 10 H 8 most associated with mothballs.   	Answer:	naphtha or naphthalene 20.	Martyred in what is now the Israeli city of Lod, this saint is better known for his exploits in Libya.  First mentioned in the canon of Pope Gelasius I in 494 CE, his day was celebrated on April the 23rd by the Council of Oxford in 1222. In an echo of the Greek myth of Perseus and Andromeda, he converted a pagan town to Christianity after saving it from a dragon.  FTP, name the patron saint of the Order of the Garter, and of England 	Answer: 	Saint George21.	In 1937, Kenneth Roberts used it as the title of a book about Maj. Robert Rogers and the exploits of his band of rangers during the French and Indian War.  The title refers to one of the goals Rogers sought.  FTP, name this goal, which some climatologists believe will soon be a lot more feasible, and which was also sought by Giovanni da Verrazano and Henry Hudson.	Answer:	  Northwest Passage22.	The Abyssinian slave Bilal was the first of these, performing his duty from the roof of the prayer house in Medina.  Today, however, they are becoming more and more replaced by loudspeakers.  Their words consist of seven formulas:  God is most great; I testify there is no god whatever but God; I testify Mohammed is the apostle of God; come to prayer; come to salvation; God is most great; and there is no god whatever but God.  FTP, name these melodious criers who call Muslims to prayer.	Answer:	 muezzins23.	In some European languages, such as Danish, its name is identical to the word for 'lawyer.' Some call it the 'alligator pear', but its scientific classification is Persea americana of the family Lauraceae.  Bats and bees help fertilize this fruit in semitropical areas like California, where such companies as Calavo grow it commercially.  FTP, name this oily, protein-rich fruit whose name is derived from an Aztec word that also means "testicle."       Answer: 	avocado24.	Despite his degree in dentistry he acquired from the University of Pennsylvania in 1896, he never went into practice.  Instead, he wrote 54 novels which would be translated into 20 languages; the most popular sold 1.8 million copies.  FTP, name this American author, famous for The Last of the Plainsmen and Riders of the Purple Sage.	Answer:	  Zane Grey25.	Its molecular weight can be anywhere between 2,000 and 15,000.  In coniferous trees, its primary structural unit is coniferyl alcohol, while in deciduous trees it holds a high percentage of syringerin.  FTP, name this organic material which holds cellulose fibers and hemicellulose molecules together in plants' cell walls and accounts for 20 to 30 percent of dry wood.	Answer:	 lignin
BONI - U. SOUTH/EMORY B/YESHIVA       MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Toby Walter, Zvi Rosen, David Druce, and Emory B with help from Tulane's Jason Horn1.	Forget the National Guard, let's talk about the Praetorian Guard.  FTPE answer the following questions about the Praetorian Guard.A.  The Guard first achieved political prominence during the reign of this direct successor to Augustus, ruling from AD 14 to 37.       Answer:	  TiberiusC.  In AD 69, the Guard murdered this successor to Nero, the first time it was responsible for the death of an emperor.	Answer:	  GalbaD. After losing this battle to Constantine in AD 312, the guard was permanently disbanded.	Answer:	  Milvian Bridge2.	For 10 points each, name the C.S. Lewis children's book based on the description.1. How King Caspian sailed through magic waters to the end of the world.       Answer: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader2.  How captive Prince Rilian escaped from the Emerald Witches' underground kingdom.       Answer: The Silver Chair3.  How Aslan created Narnia and Aslan led his people to a glorious new paradise.        Answer: The Magician's Nephew3.   Originally names of Biblical figures, they enjoyed a revival in North America.  Give these names on a 10-5 basis:1. 	10 pts.:	The king of Israel who found the book of Deuteronomy       5 pts.: American namesakes include politicians Bartlett and Quincy and physicist/mathematician Gibbs.       Answer: 	Josiah  2. 	10 pts.:	The sixth son of Jacob, he was a reluctant party to the plot against Joseph.  His tribe later occupied the coast of Northern Israel.       5 pts.: Another man of this name was sent to explore the headwaters of the Red and Arkansas Rivers; it was on this expedition that he sighted the mountain named for him.        Answer: 	Zebulon3. 	10 pts.:	Abraham's son by Hagar       5 pts.: He is the narrator of Moby Dick.        Answer: 	Ishmael4.	Name these effects involving magnetism FTPE:(10)	Discovered in 1928, this effect, describes how electromagnetic radiation scattered from an object can have a slightly different energy than that of the incoming radiation, depending on the molecule and its bonds.  Its discoverer was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1930.	Answer:	the Raman effect(10)	Its discoverer shared a Nobel Prize in Physics with C.T.R. Wilson for confirming the theory that electromagnetic radiation can act as both rays and particles by demonstrating that when X-rays strike graphite, they are scattered and their wavelengths are increased.	Answer:	the Compton effect(10)	The dividing of a spectral line or lines as a result of placing a radiation source in a magnetic field. In the normal form of this effect, the division consists of three equally spaced lines 	Answer:	the Zeeman effect5.	FTPE, answer the following questions on the theories of the French sociologist Gabriel Tarde.A.  According to Tarde, this first phase of social change is based on initiation, of doing the same thing others have done before.	Answer:  	repetitionB.  This second phase of social change is based on war and competition.	Answer:	oppositionC.  Finally, the tensions brought on by opposition lead to this third stage, a true creative act.	Answer:	adaptation
6.   FTPE, identify these baseball teams whose fans are probably tired of hearing Cubs and Red Sox fans bitch and moan:A.  This team last won the World Series in 1917, and probably could have won it two years later, but they have not won it since.  Their last appearance there was 1959.	Answer:	  Chicago White Sox (prompt on Chicago)B.  Despite two World Series appearances in the 1990's, they have not won the October Classic since 1948.	Answer:	  Cleveland Indians (accept either or both names)C.  An expansion team in 1969, the closest they have gotten to the Series is a defeat in the 1981 NLCS.	Answer:	  Montreal Expos (again, accept either or both names)7.	It's time for an affair... the Dreyfus Affair, that is.  FTPE, answer the following about that affair:A.  In 1896, evidence surfaced that the writing on the incriminating piece of paper resembled that of this other French officer.	Answer:	  Major Marie Charles EsterhazyB.  The evidence was unearthed by this head of counterespionage, who was rewarded with a transfer to a desert outpost.	Answer:	  Lt. Col. Georges PicquartC.  Emile Zola's memorable letter "J'accuse!" was addressed to this French President, cited in The Book of Lists among the famous people who died while in the midst of sex.	Answer:	  Felix Fauré8.	Answer the following about a particular author FTPE.(10) The Police album title "Ghost in a Machine" was taken from one of his essays on human nature.  However, this Budapest born author who fought with the anti-fascist forces in the Spanish Civil War is better known for his critiques of Stalinism and Communism, such as The Yogi and the Commisar and The God That Failed.	Answer:	Arthur Koestler (10) Koestler made his international breakthrough as a writer with this 1941 novel, which revealed the totalitarian system of the Russian Revolution.  It was later adapted as a Broadway play by Stanley Kingsley.	Answer:	Darkness at Noon(10) A harsh denouncement of Stalin's purge trials, Darkness at Noon depicts the fate of this aging Bolshevik who is imprisoned in 1938 and persuaded to confess to various "crimes against the state" of which he is innocent.	Answer:	Nicholas Rubashov9.	How much do you know about the specific immune response?  Identify the following types of T-cells from a description of their function, FTPE.(10)	These are the only T-cells directly involved in cell-mediated immunity, characterized by destruction of antigen-bearing cells.  They contain vacuoles with perforin molecules, which target and puncture foreign cells' plasma membranes.	Answer:	cytoxic T-Cells or killer T-Cells (10)	These cells regulate immunity by enhancing the response of other immune cells, secreting lymphokines, molecules that induce other cells to perform immune functions.  AIDS most directly affects them out of all immune cells.	Answer:	helper T Cells(10)	These T-cells contribute to the body's active immunity by keeping a molecular record of the encountered antigen. If the antigen reenters the body system, they are able to secrete lymphokines, stimulate macrophages, and mobilize the immunite response.	Answer:	memory T Cells10.	Operatic composers just have a thing for the Orpheus myth.  Name the composers of these operas FTPE:(10) Iphigenia in Aulis, Alceste, and Orfeo ed Euridice 	Answer:	 Christoph Willibald von Gluck (10) La Vie parisienne, Les Contes d'Hoffmann, and Orphée aux enfers 	Answer:	 Jacques Offenbach(10) Orlando Paladino, Armida, and L'anima del filosofo, a opera on the Orpheus myth that was never produced due to court intrigues but has since been recorded as an orchestral work. 	Answer:	 Franz Joseph Haydn
11.	For ten points each, identify the Aeschylus play from the Oresteia given a description of its ending.(10)	This first play in the Oresteia concludes with Clytemnestra murdering her husband upon his return from the Trojan War and becoming de-facto ruler of Argos, although her lover Aegisthus, is technically the king	Answer:	Agamemnon(10) This play concludes with Orestes murdering both Aegisthus and Clytemnestra and then leaving Argos in order to escape the Furies who wish to take vengence upon him for his crime of matricide.	Answer:	The Libation Bearers (10)  This play concludes with the acquittal of Orestes at the Areopagus Court in Athens for the crime committed in the previous play, although Athena is required to cast a vote in his favor in order to acquit him.	Answer:	The Eumenides [prompt on The Furies]12.	30-20-10, identify the country from clues about its history.30)  In 1981, former Flight Lt. Jerry Rawlings set up the government of the People's National Defense Council.20)  In 1969, the predominantly-Ashanti Progress Party won 105 seats of 140 in the National Assembly, ending three years of military rule.10)  The military government had come to power in 1966, after the overthrow of the previous regime, dominated by the Convention People's Party (CPP) of Kwame Nkrumah.	Answer:	Ghana 13.	It's time again for everyone's favorite part of a UTC house tournament.  That's right, you guessed it:  Travels With Odysseus.  (Apologies to Charlie.)  Identify the following tortured folks our hero met on his travels to the underworld FTPE.(10)	This son of Gaia lay on the ground unable to defend himself with his hands as two vultures sat on each side of him tearing out his liver, as punishment for laying violent hands on Leto.	Answer:	Tityos (10)	This aging man stood in a lake up to his chin, always thirsty but unable to take a drink, and taunted by the ever-unreachable fruit trees dangling right above his head.	Answer:	Tantalus(10)	This man was condemned to eternally roll a monstrous stone up a hill; each time he neared the top, the stone would roll back down and he would have to start again.	Answer:	Sisyphus14.	Ever wanted to take a long trip?  On this bonus we leave the Solar System.  5-10-20-30, name the star from clues.A.  This star, part of a ternary system, is the nearest star to Earth other than the sun.	Answer:	  Alpha CentauriB.  The brightest star in the constellation Taurus, it could be called the Bullseye.  Its apparent magnitude varies because it is an optical binary star.  	Answer:	  AldebaranC.  This red supergiant is 1.50 parsecs from Earth, and can be found in the constellation Orion.	Answer:	  BetelgeuseD.  This star has a white dwarf companion, and with an apparent magnitude of -1.47, is the brightest star seen from Earth, with the exception of the Sun.	Answer:	  Sirius15.	Never mind the many actors who've portrayed James Bond.  In this bonus, you will be asked, F5PE, to identify actors who have portrayed supporting characters.  (This bonus is concerned only with the canonical Bond series, not with Casino Royale or Never Say Never Again.)  We're so nice, we'll give you 7 chances to make a maximum of 30 points.A.  Name this one and only actor to portray Q.	Answer:	  Desmond LlewellynB.  Name the three actors who have portrayed M.       Answers:  	Bernard Lee, Robert Brown, and Dame Judi DenchC.  Name the three actresses who have portrayed Miss Moneypenny.	Answers:  	Lois Maxwell, Caroline Bliss, and Samantha Bond
16.	FTPE name the would-be nations whose struggles for independence are not featured on CNN every night: 1. Papua New Guinea controls this copper-rich island, the largest of the Solomons, named for a French navigator.       Answer: 	Bougainvilleb) Once a British colony, it merged with the Italian colony of the same name in 1960. It has enjoyed de facto independence since 1991 under Mohammed Egal.       Answer: 	Somaliland (do not accept: "Somalia")c) This nation would cover portions of Turkey, Iraq, Syria, and Iran.  For now, it's 15 million people must be content with the protection of a no-fly zone.       Answer: 	Kurdistan17.	FTPE identify the fictional horses.(10)	Don Quixote's trusty steed, actually a broken-down nag, but still an improvement over Sancho's donkey.	Answer:	Rocinante(10)	Another broken down nag, he was Ichabod Crane's horse in "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."	Answer:	Gunpowder (10)	In The Lord of the Rings, this horse of Rohan - about as far as you can get from a broken-down nag --was tamed by Gandalf and reluctantly gifted to him by King Théoden of Rohan.	Answer:	Shadowfax18.	It's time for a hunt... William Holman Hunt, that is, of whom you will be asked a series of questions.  FTPE:A.  Along with John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, he founded this artistic movement.	Answer:	  Pre-Raphaelite BrotherhoodB.  This, Hunt's most famous work, displays Jesus Christ with a lantern knocking on a door.	Answer:	  The Light of the WorldC.  Hunt bolstered his reputation with this 1860 work depicting Christ in a house of worship.	Answer:	  The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple19.	You don't have to have it to know about it.  FTPE, stuff about Thomas Paine's pamphlet "Common Sense."A.  The title was suggested by this Philadelphia physician and patriot, who procured its publication.	Answer:	  Benjamin RushB.  Rush saw to it that Common Sense was released through this Philadelphia publisher.	Answer:	  Robert BellC.  In this pamphlet, John Adams attacked Paine's assertions as"honest ignorance or knavish hypocrisy."	Answer:	  Thoughts on Government20.	It often seems that nobody likes dust.  Nobody but Toby, that is.  He loves dust, which explains these.  FTPE:A.  Concentrations of dust can be measured with this chamber which collects a sample of air, mixes it with moist pure air, and makes it expand through suction.	Answer:	  Aitken dust counterB.  There are two distinguishable forms of dust particle.  This one consists of these soluble particles able to convert water vapor into liquid droplets with less than 100% humidity.	Answer:	  hydroscopic nucleiC.  This other form consists of these nonsoluble particles upon which water vapor is deposited as ice.	Answer:	  sublimation nuclei 21. Answer some questions about African history for 15 points each.1. Founded by immigrants from Saba in the first century, this Christian empire controlled trade in the Red Sea and exported ivory until the ninth century.       Answer: 	Axum (or: Aksum)2.Born in 1787 to Nandi, his mother gave him the Zulu name for 'intestinal insect'.  Purportedly the inventor of a broad-bladed stabbing spear, he was killed by his brother Dingane. (din-GAH-ne)       Answer: 	Shaka kaSenzangakhona
22.	Answer the following related to energy FTPE.(10)	In thermodynamics, this energy-like property or state function of a system in thermodynamic equilibrium.  It has the dimensions of energy and its value is determined by the state of the system and not by its history.	Answer:	Free Energy (10)	In a reversible process, the work under constant temperature and constant volume is equal to the change in this.	Answer:	Helmholtz Free Energy(10)	In a reversible process, the work under constant temperature and constant pressure is equal to the change in this.	Answer:	Gibbs Free Energy23.	Name these mythical monsters for 10 points each:1. This namesake of a hockey team lives in the cranberry bogs and the Pine Barrens.       Answer: 	the Jersey devil2. This dinosaur-like creature is believed to live in the northern swamps of Congo-Brazzaville.         Answer: 	mokele mbembe3. In Nepal, this insultingly-named creature is called "yeti."       Answer: 	abominable snowman24.	Answer the following about the epic French poem, The Song of Roland, FTSNOP.For five points, our hero Roland is the fictional nephew of which French king?	Answer:	Charlemagne (prompt on "Karl")For ten, The Song of Roland glorifies a minor skirmish in Charlemagne's Spanish campaigns, in which Roland and his small company of French soldiers must hold this pass against an army of 400,000 Saracens.	Answer:	Roncevalles (or Roncevaux)Roland carries two unique objects with him into battle.  One, his horn, is split in two when he sounds it, bursts a blood vessel in his brain and dies.  But for a final fifteen points, give the name of Roland's Saracen-slaying sword.	Answer:	Durindana or Durindal25.	Name these two pieces of legislation, on a 15-5 basis.(15) This act was prompted by the increased spending of Lyndon Johnson for his Great Society and for the military effort in Vietnam. It was further prompted by Richard Nixon's requests to cut federal spending at his own discretion, much to the outrage of Congress.(5) After Nixon further refused to spend funds previously appropriated, Congress passed this 1974 legislation, which created the Congressional Budget Office, constrained the use of impoundments, and centralized the Federal budget process.	Answer:		The Budget And Impoundment Control Act(15) Authored by Senators Oliver Ellsworth of Connecticut and William Paterson of New Jersey, it granted the Supreme Court jurisdiction to hear appeals of decisions from the high courts of the states when they involved the constitutionality of state or federal authority.(5) It created a three-tiered Federal court system, providing the detail for the system briefly mentioned in the Constitution. In the 1803 case Marbury vs. Madison, John Marshall struck down part of it as unconstitutional, thereby establishing the principle of judicial review.	Answer:		The Judiciary Act of 1789 (Prompt for year if only "Judiciary Act" given)