TOSSUPS - SOUTH FLORIDA					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions by Jeremy Rasmussen et al.1.	She was an overweight cigar-smoking lesbian.  Her father was on the board of MIT, one brother was the president of Harvard, another was a prominent astronomer who first proved the existence of Pluto and hunted for canals on Mars. She penned collections of poetry including Sword Blades and Poppy Seed, Ballads for Sale, and What's O'Clock.  She wrested control of the Imagism movement from Ezra Pound and posthumously won the Pulitzer Prize in 1926. FTP name the author of the poems "Lilacs", "Sisters", and "Patterns".ANSWER:  Amy Lowell2.	"Squeezed" ones of these were produced for the first time in 1997.  Since atoms of a crystal are in a state of vibration, and their average kinetic energy is measured by the absolute temperature of the crystal, this energy is sometimes divided into discrete bundles that behave like particles. FTP what is the term for these bundles, thought to be responsible for such phenomena as superconductivity?Answer: Phonons3.	He is revered as "the Good Man" and his ideas are the basis for a utopian society in the Eon novels by Greg Bear.  A private investigator was hired to dig up dirt on his personal life, but his life was so dull and squeaky clean, nothing was found. A Princeton and Harvard grad who insists on flying coach, his accomplishments in consumer activism include getting the dangerous GM Corvair off the market.  FTP name this son of Lebanese immigrants who may have cost Al Gore the presidency by siphoning off votes as the 2000 Green Party presidential candidate.ANSWER:  Ralph Nader 4.	The artist won a medal and $300 when he submitted this work to a juried exhibition at the Art Institute of Chicago, where the painting resides today.  They aren't man and wife, but the artist's sister Nan and Dr. Byron McKeeby, a dentist, posing in front of a house in Eldon, Iowa whose style of architecture gives the painting its name.  Identify the most famous painting by American regionalist Grant Wood, featuring a pitchfork wielding farm couple. ANSWER:  American Gothic5.	In 1880, it began business as the Wooden Jacket Can Company in Buffalo, New York. By the turn of the century, it had patented the world's first semi-automatic glass machine. A century later, it had progressed to making parts for the Space Shuttle. For 10 points, name this Fortune 500 corporation, now headquartered in Colorado, that provides aerospace engineering services but no longer sells home canning products.Answer: Ball Corporation6.	It was popularized in the U.S. by Walter Freeman and James Watts of George Washington University. Already noted for developing cerebral angiography, Portuguese doctor Egas Moniz pioneered this procedure in 1936 Moniz received the Nobel Prize for it in 1949, although one of his former patients shot him and crippled him.  FTP name this now discredited procedure for treating schizophrenia which involved drilling holes in the skull and destroying tissue in the frontal lobes.	Answer: Lobotomy7.	His Nobel diploma states: "Who emulates the jesters of the Middle Ages in scourging authority and upholding the dignity of the downtrodden." Accompanied by France Rame, his leading actress, they have produced dozens of plays in their 45 years of theatre together. FTP name this 1997 Nobel Laureate in Literature.Answer: Dario Fo
8.	He was described as "ruddy, with bright eyes, and good-looking." Samuel looked over Eliab, Abinadab, Shammah, and seven other of Jesse's sons before finally seeing this youngest son, who was out keeping the sheep.  For 10 points, who was this second king of Israel, anointed by Samuel to be the successor to Saul?Answer: David9.	Pasqualino Frafusco is a small-time hood in Naples who must look after his sisters.  When one of them ends up as a prostitute, he kills her pimp and dismembers the body.  When he's arrested, he pleads insanity by pretending he's Mussolini and ends up in an asylum.  After raping a female inmate, he is impressed into the Italian army and sent to a concentration camp when he's caught deserting by the Germans.  There he enters into a dangerous game of sexual cat and mouse with the female kommandant.  FTP, name this Italian Oscar nominated black comedy about the Holocaust, starring Giancarlo Giannini and directed by Fellini's protégé, Lina Wertmuller.  ANSWER: Seven Beauties (Italian: Pasqualino Settebelleze - "Pasqualino Seven Beauties")10.	At the age of 23, he was serving in the military in Germany, rising to the rank of cavalry commander.  He then devoted his life to his writing, penning works on topics such as grammar, the life of Pomponius Secundus, and the history of Rome.  Upon the ascension of the of Vespasian, he returned to military service.  Commanding a fleet battling piracy in the Bay of Naples, he went ashore to investigate a strange cloud formation and succumbed to fumes from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius.  FTP name the author of the 37 volume classic Natural History. ANSWER:  Pliny the Elder (Gaius Plinius Secundus)11.	It passes through Ghana, Togo, Burkina Faso, Mali, Algeria, Spain, France, England, and of course the equator and North and South Poles.  FTP, name this line established in October 1884, centered in an observatory in England, and designated zero degrees longitude.	 _Prime or Greenwich Meridian_ (accept early buzz of _zero degrees longitude_)12.	After getting out of prison, he changes his name, and eventually becomes a city official. His past, however, catches up with "Monsieur Madeleine" and he is forced to run away again. He takes the daughter of the prostitute Fantine under his wing and saves the life of her boyfriend.  The preceding is a vague description of, FTP, what leading character of Victor Hugo's "Les Miserables"?Answer: Jean Valjean13.	One of several theories of covalent bonding, it predicts that molecules will adopt shapes that maximize the distance between electron pairs; so as to minimize repulsive forces within the molecule.  Distinct from Molecular and Atomic Orbital theory, this straightforward methodology allows the chemist to determine the three-dimensional shape of a molecule from its Lewis dot structure.  FTP name this theory, which correctly predicts geometries like tetrahedra, bent, and linear, and is known by a five-letter acronym which alludes to the interaction of electrons in the outer energy levels of bonding atoms.ANSWER:  _VSEPR_ Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion Theory14.	She was only 16 when her brief performance as a stowaway in Down to the Sea in Ships caught the eye of a Paramount Producer.  Soon she was starring in as many as 15 films a year, such as Kiss Me Again, The Mantrap, and the Oscar winning Wings.  Scandal forced her out of the public eye at the height of her popularity, and she settled down with former cowboy star Rex Bell in Nevada.   Her most famous role was in an adaptation of an Elinor Glyn novel, where she was the personification of a virile sexual magnetism. FTP name this '20's icon, nicknamed the "It" Girl.  ANSWER:  Clara Bow
15. He's not Thomas Paine, but his skillful pamphleteering won him the title "Penman of the Revolution." The British troops sent to Lexington and Concord had orders to seize John Hancock and him. His most important contribution was organizing the first local committees of correspondence in Massachusetts. FTP raise a glass to this American patriot and leader of the Sons of Liberty, a relative of the second President of the United States.	_S_amuel _Adams_16.	The name's the same: One is a 4th-century BC Greek scientist whose treatise on the revolving sphere is said to be the oldest completely preserved Greek treatise on a mathematical subject. Another appears in Shakespeare's "The Winter's Tale" and cons a young man out of his money. A third Homer describes as "the most accomplished thief and perjurer in the whole world." For 10 points, what is the common name of these men, the last of which was portrayed by Bruce Campbell on the "Xena" and "Hercules" TV series?Answer: Autolycus17.	If a computer monitor can't display a certain color, it approximates the color by placing close together pixels in colors that it is able to display. The viewer's eye integrates the pixels to achieve an apparent improvement in the number of colors viewed. This process is known by a term that means literally, "tremble" or "to vacillate." For 10 points, what is the term for this technique, which sounds a little like Dagwood's boss?Answer: Dither or Dithering	  (Note: In the comic strip Blondie, Dagwood's boss is Mr. Dithers)18.	In 1643 he became an actor and cofounder of the Illustre Théåtre, for which he wrote his first plays. Early success came with The Ridiculous Snobs, Sganarelle, and The School For Husbands. Later works include The! Imaginary Invalid, The School For Wives, hand Le Tartuffe. FTP, name this French comedian, whose unhappy marriage in 1662 probably was one source of inspiration for his masterpiece The Misanthrope.	_Moliere_ (accept Jean Baptiste _Poquelin_)19.	He was the king of matchmakers. The double marriage of his grandson and granddaughter to the daughter and son of King Uladislaus II of Hungary assured his family's succession to the Hungarian and Bohemian thrones. The marriage of his son Philip to Joanna, the daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, eventually gave his grandson, Charles V, one of the largest territorial inheritances in history. For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor who made the Hapsburgs into a powerful dynasty through his astute marriage diplomacy.Answer: Maximilian I20.	He wrote country-western songs, including "A Boy Named Sue," which became a 1969 hit for Johnny Cash. He also wrote the Dr. Hook single "On the Cover of the Rollin' Stone." But he is perhaps better known as a cartoonist and the author of goofy, gross and macabre, yet always enchanting poetry for children. For 10 points, name this versatile author who sold more than 15 million books and died in 1999.Answer: Shel Silverstein21.	In his 14 years in the NFL, he set six different career records and participated in seven Pro Bowls. In 1999, The Sporting News named him one of the 100 Greatest Pro Football Players of the Century. Now serving his fourth term as a Congressman from Oklahoma, he is Vice-Chairman of the Energy and Air Quality Subcommittee. For 10 points, name this great Seattle Seahawks receiver.Answer: Steve Largent22.	According to tradition, he seems to have united the southern and northern kingdoms and to have settled on a new capital, later known as Memphis. One theory identifies him with King Narmer, whose famous slate palette is in the Cairo museum.  For 10 points, name this king of ancient Egypt, the first Egyptian ruler for whom there are historical records.Answer: Menes
23.	In zoology, it's a small European freshwater fish that is easily caught and often used for food or bait. In literature, it's anything that may be gotten without skill or merit, such as in the Shakespearean quote: "Fish not, with this melancholy bait, For this fool <Blank>, this opinion."  In boating, it's the name for the socket of a rudder pintle, which led to its general use in mechanics as a trunnion, or machinery support. For 10 points, name this common term.Answer: _gudgeon_24.	If X and Y are isomorphic to subsets of each other, then they are isomorphic to one another.  Alternatively, if there exists an injection from a set X into a set Y, and also an injection from Y into X, then there exists a bijection from X to Y.  FTP name this dually eponymous mathematical theorem, useful for proving that two sets have the same cardinality.ANSWER:  Schroeder-Bernstein25.	She rose to fame from sensational beginnings at CBGB's in New York City. Known for her chain-sawing of guitars and the detonation of speaker cabinets, she became known as the "queen of shock rock". The first high-profile woman to wear a Mohawk, she was actually once voted to People Magazine's Best Dressed List. For 10 points, name this colorful lead singer of the 1980s punk group the Plasmatics who took her own life in 1998.Answer: Wendy O. Williams
BONI - SOUTH FLORIDA					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions by Jeremy Rasmussen et al.1.	Answer the following about the Daytime Emmys for the stated number of points.[5] What long-running children's TV show has won more Daytime Emmys (58) than any other show?	Answer: Sesame Street[5] What long-suffering soap opera has more nominations (219) than any other show, but has won just 23 Emmys?	Answer: All My Children[5] What "All My Children" star who plays Erika Kane, was nominated 19 times for best actress in a leading role before finally winning in 1999?	Answer: Susan Lucci[5] What daytime talk show has received the most Emmys, with 25?	Answer: The Oprah Winfrey Show[10] What show, hosted by Star Trek's Levar Burton, has been nominated for 44 Emmys and won nine?	Answer: Reading Rainbow2.	Name the following 20th Century writers from works on a 10/5 basis.[10] "Down the River"; "The Journey Home"[5] "The Fool's Progress"; "The Monkey Wrench Gang"	Answer: Edward Abbey[10] "Just Above My Head"; "Going to Meet the Man"[5] "Blues for Mr. Charlie"; "Go Tell It on the Mountain"	Answer: James Baldwin[10] "The Doctor Stories"; "I Wanted to Write a Poem"[5] "Seven Types of Ambiguity"; "Patterson"	Answer: William Carlos Williams3.	Hard-core Internet users may still have some use for some non-Web-based applications to find information. Identify these apps for the stated number of points:[5] This is a subject-based, menu-driven guide to finding and retrieving directories of information on the Internet, named for the University of Minnesota's mascot.	Answer: Gopher[10] The companion to Gopher, this network utility lets you search all of the world's Gopher servers by keywords.	Answer: Veronica[15] This utility is similar to Veronica except it is designed to search only one server at a time instead of all of Gopherspace.	Answer: Jughead4.	Answer the following questions about an oft-ignored American president, James Monroe, FTPE.Monroe's tenure as president was commonly known by this moniker, since the nation appeared to be dominated by a single political party, the Jeffersonian Democratic-Republicans.Answer: _Era of Good Feelings_Monroe's Federalist opponent in the Presidential election of 1816 was this man, the last Federalist candidate for President.Answer:  Rufus _King_In 1820, halfway through Monroe's presidency, the U.S. Legislature passed this bill that resulted in the admission of both a Southern slave state and the free state of Maine into the Union.Answer:  _Missouri Compromise_
5.	Give the orders to which the following mammals belong, 5-10-20-30:a) Moles, shrews, and hedgehogs are not rodents, but instead belong to this order.	Answer:	Insectivorab) Echidnas and platuypuses, or platypi, or whatever, are in this most primitive order of mammals.	Answer:	Monotrematac) Although it seems like a misnomer in both cases to your genial quizmaster, both giant pandas (in the bear family) and lesser pandas (in the raccoon family) fall into this order, 	Answer:	Carnivora	[ed. note: so since when is bamboo a meat?]d) Colugos, which don't fly and aren't lemurs but are called flying lemurs, have this order all to themselves.	Answer:	Dermoptera6.	Identify the painting from the clues, 30-20-10 [30].  This painting is the most famous of a set of four in the Stanza della Segnatura illustrating the concepts of Justice, Philosophy, Poetry, and Theology.[20].  The then largely unknown artist was commissioned by Pope Julius II to paint it and other works on the walls of the papal apartments when he was only 25.[10].  In the painting, he depicts Michelangelo as Heraclitus and Leonardo da Vinci as Plato. ANSWER:  School of Athens by Raphael7.	Name the Nobel Literature Laureates of the 1960s-70s from the inscriptions on their awards, FTSNOP:[5] For the artistic power and integrity with which, in his epic of the Don, he has given expression to a historic phase in the life of the Russian people.	Answer: Michail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov[10] For her outstanding lyrical and dramatic writing, which interprets Israel's destiny with touching strength.	Answer: Nellie Sachs[5] For his writing which through its combination of a broad perspective on his time and a sensitive skill in characterization has contributed to a renewal of German literature.	Answer: Heinrich Boll[10] For his impassioned narrative art which, with roots in a Polish-Jewish cultural tradition, brings universal human conditions to life.      Answer: Isaac Bashevis Singer8.	Hitler's Germany, as a result of British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain's appeasement at the Munich Conference was allowed to annex what territory in what was then Czechoslovakia that had a large German population?Answer: The SudetenlandThis was the term for Hitler's uncontested entry into Vienna effectively annexing Austria on March 13th, 1938.Answer: The AnschlussFor a final 10, this was the name of the puppet state set up in Southern France, named for the city from which Marshal Henri Pétain headed his collaborative government.Answer: Vichy  (VEE-SHEE) France9.	FTPE identify these Greek philosophers who are not Socrates, Plato, or Aristotle.[10]  This Cynic rejected ambition and luxury and was said to have lived in a tub.	ANSWER: Diogenes [10]  He posed the famous paradoxes about Achilles' ability to outrace a tortoise.    	ANSWER: Zeno [10] He believed the world was in constant flux but fire was the essential material uniting the universe.  He is said to have died after he covered himself in dung to prove a scientific theory.	ANSWER: Heraclitus
10.	Given the elements, identify the scientist primarily responsible for their discovery 5-10-20-30:Sodium, Potassium, Calcium	ANSWER: Sir Humprey Davy Selenium, Thorium, Silicon      ANSWER:  Jöns Jacob BerzeliusCurium, Plutonium	ANSWER:  Glenn T. SeaborgHydrogen	ANSWER:  Henry Cavendish11.	Identify the following musical terms FTSNOP:[5] Music whose texture is formed by the interweaving of several melodic lines.	Answer: Polyphony or Polyphonic music[10] Musical declamation for solo voice, used in opera and oratorio for dialogue and for narration.	Answer: Recitative[10] A system of shorthand notation in which figures are written below the notes of the bass part to indicate the chords to be played.      Answer: Figured bass or thorough bass or basso continuo[5] A form of composition in which the basic principle is imitative counterpoint of several voices. Favored by Bach.	Answer: Fugue12.	Not to get too personal, but how good are you with relationships?  Answer the following questions about mathematical relations FTSNOP.[5] - Relations which are Reflexive, Anti-Symmetric, and Transitive are given this name.	ANSWER: _Partial Order_[10] - Given set S, and an equivalence relation R, S mod R is an entity of this type; whose classes are pairwise disjoint, and for which the union of all classes S itself.  Examples include mod n classes over the integers.	ANSWER: _Partition_15 - A relation R is connected if and only if, for all elements s and t in the set S, s is related to t, or t is related to s, or s equals t.  What name is given to a relation for which exactly one of the preceding properties holds?	ANSWER: _Trichotomous_13.	Given the year won and title of a Pulitzer Prize winning novel or novels, give the author F15Pe and F5P if you need some more works.15) The Reivers, 1963; A Fable, 19555) As I Lay Dying, The Bear, The Sound And The Fury	Answer: William Faulkner15) Dragon's Teeth, 19435) The Jungle, King Coal, Oil!	Answer: Upton Sinclair14.	Identify the rulers from nicknames and what they did to deserve that nickname, FTP each. Known as the Sun King, he built a palace at Versailles and forced nobles to live there in extravagance instead of at their own provincial estates. He also encouraged the arts and revoked the Edict of Nantes.Answer:  _Louis XIV_This Russian ruler founded a capital city named after him, on the coast of the Baltic Sea, as his "window to the West."  He forced Western habits on the Russians through such means as ordering men to shave.Answer:  _Peter_ IThis French monarch was known as the Spider King because of his skill at planning plots and intrigues against his political enemies.  He once plotted against his father, King Charles VII, when he was crown prince.Answer:  _Louis XI_
15.	Answer the following about basketball for the stated number of points:[5] What team brutalized the USA 112-77 to win the first-ever Olympic women's basketball gold medal?      Answer: Soviet Union or USSR (Prompt on Russia)[10] What team ended UNLV's 45-game winning streak with a 79-77 victory in 1991?      Answer: Duke[15] In 1997, this NC State basketball coach became the first coach to win his initial two ACC tourney games since Duke's Vic Bubas won his first three and the ACC crown in 1960.Answer: Herb Sendek16.	Answer the following related questions for the stated number of points:[10] What was the name of the famous gate in the wall around Jerusalem, which Nehemiah describes as being rebuilt by the sons of Hassenaah following Judah's captivity in Babylon?      Answer: Fish Gate [5] Which prophet, who refused to go to Nineveh, was swallowed by a great fish?	Answer: Jonah[5/5] For five points each, at the feeding of the 5000 described in Matthew 14, what was the number of loaves and fishes Jesus had to feed the crowd?	Answer: five loaves of bread and two fish[5] Which of Jesus' disciples opened the mouth of the fish he caught to find a coin there with which to pay his taxes?	Answer: Simon Peter17.	Answer the following about Suriname for the stated number of points:[5] Name its capital city, also its largest by population.   Answer: _Paramaribo_[5] What is its official language?   Answer: _Dutch_[10] What language, a form of Creole English, is also widely spoken there?   Answer: _Sranang Tongo_[10] What company was founded in 1621 to explore and exploit the area of Suriname?   Answer: _Dutch West India Company_18.	Identify these literary figures of 17th century colonial America who are not Anne Bradstreet FTP each.[10]  His 1662 The Day of Doom, a lengthy didactic work of doggerel verse, espoused Calvinism and was one of the earliest popular works of poetry in America.  	ANSWER:  Michael Wigglesworth[10]  His 1646 History of Plymouth Plantation told readers of his help in framing the Mayflower Compact and his service for 30 years as governor of the colony.	ANSWER:  William Bradford [10]  A Puritan, his conservative pamphlet The Simple Cobler of Aggawam in America defended the status quo and took humorous jabs at radical new ideas like tolerance.	ANSWER:  Nathaniel Ward19.	Identify the volcanic rocks from descriptions FTP each.This type of glassy black rock is the result of quick cooling of lava upon contact with water.  It was often used as a cutting tool by early peoples.Answer:  _obsidian_This rock is light in weight because of air bubbles trapped in the rock.  It is commonly used as an abrasive.Answer:  _pumice_This hard rock is formed by the cooling of magma within the earth.  It is often used in buildings and for tombstones.Answer:  _granite_
20.	Answer the following about the most recently published Fortune 500, for the stated number of points:[10] Which corporation, comprised of two companies that merged in 1999, vaulted into first place this year with a record $210 billion in revenues?	Answer: Exxon Mobil[5] What auto-making giant fell to third place on the list?	Answer: General Motors or GM[5] What retail store rose to second place on the list?	Answer: Wal-Mart[10] What Houston-based energy corporation also benefited from high fuel prices to rise to the No. 7 spot?	Answer: Enron(Note: Enron is still owed more than a half-billion dollars by the now-bankrupt Pacific Gas &Electric Co.)21. Here is the requisite Chinese dynasties question. Name the following for 10 points each:[10] This dynasty saw Neo-Confucianism attain supremacy over Taoism and Buddhism; also during it, gunpowder was first used by the military. It lasted from AD 960-1279.	Answer: Sung[10] This dynasty was an age of great achievements in poetry, including Li Po, Po Chu-I, and Tu fu, and lasted from AD 618-907.	Answer: T'ang[10] This was the Mongol dynasty founded by Kublai Khan in AD 1271, which lasted until 1368.	Answer: Yuan22.. It's time for "What's My Line?"  Given three people, name their common profession for 5 points each:[5] Diane Bish, E. Power Biggs, Fred Swan			Answer: Organist[5] Daniel Tompkins, William Wheeler, Schuyler Colfax	Answer: Vice-President of the U.S.[5] Berenice Abbot, Eugene Atget, Julia Cameron		Answer: Photographer[5] Larry Costello, Jim Lynam, Alvin Attles			Answer: Basketball coach[5] Kimberley Aiken, BeBe Shopp, Susan Powell		Answer: Miss America[5] Marc Rocco, Deran Serafian, Robert Benton		Answer: Movie Director23.	Name the classical guitarists for 10 points each:[10] His new "greatest hits" album includes music from Bach, Vivaldi, Scarlatti, Albeniz, Satie, and contemporary composers such as Brouwer and Barrios. He is often confused with a famous conductor of the same name.   Answer: John _Williams_[10] He has received three Grammy nominations for best classical performance and he holds an Honorary Doctorate in music from Montana State University; where he teaches a master class each summer.   Answer: Christopher _Parkening_[10] This Brazilian guitarist is one of the greatest arrangers of music for classical guitar, as evidenced by his album "Broadway Solo Guitar".   Answer: Laurindo _Almeida_