TOSSUPS -- CLEMSON		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. 	President John Adams described him as "Tall, brawny, with a look that was enough to terrify any person."  He was a runaway slave that had been owned by William Brown of Framingham, Massachusetts.  He was also a tall man, half African and half Natick Indian.  In a 1770 demonstration against the British practices being used to quell the simmering antagonism among the colonists, he was one of five people killed when British soldiers opened fire on the crowd.  For 10 points, name the first African-American killed in what became known as the Boston Massacre.ANSWER: Crispus Attucks (AT uhks)2.	This writer's real name was Carlos Lorenzini.  He authored an 1883 story of a wooden puppet carved by a kindly old man named Geppetto that became an almost instant classic fairy tale.  For 10 points, what was the pen name under which this Italian wrote The Adventures of Pinocchio?ANSWER: Carlos Collodi (kuh LOH dih)3. This fundamental law of chemistry states that under identical conditions of temperature and pressure, equal volumes of gases contain equal numbers of molecules regardless of their chemical nature or physical properties.  It takes the mathematical form: V=(k3)(n).  For 10 points, name this law, which was named in honor of the Italian physicist and chemist that initially set it forth as a hypothesis in 1811.ANSWER: Avogadro's Law4. He lived in the state of Lu, in what is now called Shangtung province.  He resigned after a lackluster career in government around 495 BC and took up the life of a teacher advocating ethics, family responsibilities and good government.  The teachings are collected as maxims in the classic known as the Analects. For 10 points name this " Great Master."ANSWER: Confucius or K'ung Fu-tzu5. This author grew up in Shillington, Pennsylvania, and his works often draw on his experiences in small-town, middle-class America. He began contributing to the New Yorker in 1955, and his contributions became the basis for several collections, including "The Afterlife and Other Stories" and "Golf Dreams," some of which is narrated by a character with the last name Angstrom. For ten points, name this author of the Rabbit series, including "Rabbit, Run" and "Rabbit Redux."ANSWER: John Hoyer _Updike_  6. This African nation was a former Italian colony until 1941, borders the Red Sea, and has a population of approximately 3.5 million Muslim and Christian citizens.  For 10 points, name this war-torn nation that was admitted into the UN as an independent country after winning its civil war with Ethiopia.ANSWER: Eritrea7. He died April 23rd, 1995, mourned by protege Ted Koppel among others.  Perhaps his finesy hour came in his coverage of the terrorist assoult at the 1972 Munich Olympics.  His career was the focus of a recent HBO exposé and he was known for his trademark of "telling it like it is."  For 10 points, who is this television announcer , a friend and admirer of Muhammed Ali, who was a staple for many years on Monday Night Football?ANSWER: Howard Cosell8. This mathematical term describes the path that a particle takes if it visits all relevant locations and does not retrace any path between two locations.  In geometry, Fleury's algorithm is often used to find this particular path through a graph.  For 10 points, what is this circuit, named for a famous 18th century Swiss mathematician.ANSWER: Euler's (OIL-ers) circuit
9.	He is quoted as having written: "The display of grief makes more demands than grief itself.  How few men are sad in their own company."  He was one of Rome's foremost Stoic philosophers and leading writers from the Silver Age of Latin.  For 10 points - name this Roman philosopher, dramatist, and statesman who was tutor to Emperor Nero and who committed suicide in 65 AD by imperial order when implicated in a plot to assassinate the emperor.ANSWER: Seneca (Lucius Annaeus Seneca or Seneca the Younger)10. 	Nell Carter in a 1997 Broadway revival.  Sally Struthers in the national touring company of that production.  Kathy Bates in a 1999 TV version.  Dorothy Loudon in the original 1977 Broadway premiere.  And Carol Burnett in the 1982 film version.  These have all played, FTP, this mean-spirited, besotten villainess of the musical Annie.ANSWER: Miss Hannigan11. He is reputed to be buried near the Oxus River, as he once noted it would be a suitable place for his burial. The Oxus was one of his conquests, as he attacked Khwarezm (kwar - ESM) over the massacre of a group of merchants. His people gained a reputation for brutality in the war, as Matthew Paris called the group "a detestable nation of Satan that poured out like devils from Tartarus so that they are rightly called Tartars." For ten points, name this unifier of the Mongols.ANSWER: _Genghis Khan_  or  _Temujin_ (give leeway in pronunciation of "Genghis")12. He was strongly influenced by Leonardo da Vinci's style of arranging figures to form a pyramidal perspective.  He used this technique often in a series of paintings of the Madonna.  In Madonna of the Goldfinch, the Madonna's body is the center with the infants Jesus and John the Baptist on either side.  For 10 points, who was this High Renaissance artist and painter of the famous School of Athens?ANSWER: Raphael (also accept Raffaello Sanzio)13.	This American writer was born in Wabash County, Indiana; a location that became the setting for her second novel written in 1904, Freckles.  The success of her works allowed her to move to California in 1920 where she organized her own movie company and based a number of films on her books.  For 10 points, who is this writer of sentimental outdoors stories whose other famous works include A Girl of the Limberlost, The Harvester, and Laddie?ANSWER: Gene Stratton Porter14. "Antimatter" has been popularized in many science fiction tales over the years.  However, this type of matter does have its basis in scientific fact.  All atomic particles have an exact twin in terms of shape, size, and mass, but with on opposite charge.  For instance, the positively charged proton's antimatter twin is the antiproton.  For 10 points, what is the antimatter twin of the electron?ANSWER: Positron15. This Irish freedom fighter participated in the negotiations with the British government that ended up dividing Ireland.  He did not support the compromise and fought the leader of the army of the Irish Free State, Michael Collins.  For 10 points, name this Irish patriot who later went on to become the Prime Minister of Ireland.ANSWER: Eamon (AY muhn) De Valera (dev uh LAIR uh)16. His early theory maintained that all things are in a continuous state of flux, that stability is an illusion, and that only change and the law of change, or Logos, are real.  For 10 points - name this Ancient Greek philosopher who anticipated the modern theory of energy by arguing that the primary substance of all things is fire.ANSWER: Heraclitus of Ephesus17.	This English writer had one of the most varied literary careers of his time including poems, short stories, and sophisticated novels.  He believed that science was destroying human and political values and his writings were often satires of English society.  For 10 points, who is this writer of such works as Crome Yellow and Antic Hay and whose 1932 satirical novel describes a totalitarian society that disregards individual dignity and worships science and machines in Brave New World?ANSWER: Aldous Huxley (prompt on "Huxley")18. Its interior lobe begins in the human embryo as a pinched-off portion of the mouth, while its posterior lobe begins as an outgrowth of the base of the brain and remains attached to the brain by a thin stalk.  It is responsible for producing the body's supply of the hormone melatonin.  For 10 points, name this tiny but most influential gland that regulates the body's biological clock.ANSWER: The Pineal Gland19. In 1288, Osman al-Ghazi succeeded his father as chief of the Seljuk Turks and two years later founded his own Bithynian Islamic principality.  For 10 points - name the Empire that grew from this principality and would rule part of Europe and much of the Mediterranean for six centuries.ANSWER: The Ottoman Empire20. Bill Murray delivers a eulogy in the 1984 remake of Somerset Maugham's The Razor's Edge in 1984.  Ostensibly for his slovenly commander, this was actually a eulogy for one of Murray's real life friends, whose films included Continental Divide, Neighbors, and 1941.  For 10 points name this comedian of Albanian ancestry, an original Not Ready for Prime Time Player and star of Animal House.ANSWER: John Belushi21. This English chemist developed the empirical Law of Multiple Proportions.   He also proposed an atomic theory of matter that became a basic theory of modern chemistry.  His theory, first presented in 1803, states that each chemical element is composed of its own kind of atoms, all with the same relative weight.  For 10 points, who is this chemist?ANSWER: John Dalton (prompt on "Dalton")22. As of January 1, 1998, the formerly independent municipalities of East York, Etobicoke, North York, Scarborough, and York, were amalgamated with two other independent jurisdictions to form this new, very large municipal government.  It is now home to approximately one-quarter of the provincial population and is the fifth largest city in North America.  For 10 points, what is the name of this city which is bidding on the 2008 Olympics and is the capital of its province.ANSWER: City of Toronto
BONI -- CLEMSON		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	For 10 points each, identify these sensory organs based on the information provided.In arthropods, they contain ommatidias (oh mah TIH dee uhs) and rhabdoms.Answer:  Compound eyesIt has numerous papillae to increase the surface area for its primary sensory function.Answer:  TongueThe malleus, incus, and stapes in this organ translate sensations into data that the brain can process.ANSWER:  Ears2. 	On August 9, 1945, Nagasaki was partially destroyed with the second atomic bomb ever used in warfare, killing approximately 40,000 civilians.  The Mitsubishi torpedo manufacturing plant there was actually the secondary target of this mission.  For the stated number of points, answer the following about this mission.  First, for 5 points, what was the nickname of the plutonium-fueled bomb that was dropped on Nagasaki?ANSWER: Fat ManFor 10 points, what was the name of the B-29 bomber that dropped the Fat Man on Nagasaki?ANSWER: Bock's CarFor 5 more points, explain why Bock's Car veered away from its primary target to hit Nagasaki instead.ANSWER: Thick clouds over the target area (or equivalent, e.g., bad weather, etc.)Finally, for 10 points, name the facility (or its city) that was the initially Fat Man's intended target.ANSWER: The Kokura Arsenal 3. 	The Greek tragedy by Sophocles, Oedipus Rex, tells the mythological tale of a king of Thebes.  FTPE, answer the following three questions about this piece.  First, when Oedipus fled Corinth to avoid the prophecy of the Oracle of Delphi, he encountered a man that he fought and eventually killed.  Unbeknownst to Oedipus, this man was his real father. What was his name?ANSWER: Laius, King of ThebesSecond, name the woman Oedipus married; the widow of Laius...mother of Oedipus.ANSWER: Jocasta, Queen of ThebesFinally, Oedipus had a daughter with his wife-mother.  What was her name?ANSWER: Antigone (an TIHG uh nee)4. 	The modern nation of Belgium claims these three artistic masters as its own, even though they predate the country.  For 10 points each, identify the painter from the description.  He was the court painter to Ferdinand and Isabella and is renowned for a baroque style that is exemplified by such works as The Battle of the Amazons.  ANSWER:  Peter Paul RubensSecond, this painter was heavily sought after by European aristocracy and royalty for his portraits such as the Portrait of Charles I Hunting.  He was one of Rubens' most famous pupils.ANSWER:  Anthony Van DyckThird, his colorful and detailed scenes of everyday life also made this painter one of the most famous artists of the 16th Century.  He was renowned for such works as Peasant Wedding and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.ANSWER:  Pieter Brueghel5.	For 5 points apiece, name the four events that constitute the "Grand Slam" of professional tennis.ANSWER:	Australian Open, Wimbledon (or All-English Championship), French Open, US OpenFor another 5 points, name the first man to win the Grand Slam.ANSWER: 	Don BudgeFor a final 5 points, name the first woman to win the Grand Slam.ANSWER:	Maureen Connolly
6.	One of the important insights from quantum and atomic physics is that there are four fundamental forces in nature.  What has been tricky to demonstrate is how these forces are communicated from location to location.  We have a model that now posits how the forces are transmitted: by a force particle.  For instance, the electromagnetic force is conveyed by the photon wave particle.  For 10 points each, name the wave particle that transmits the force listedA)  The strong nuclear force			ANSWER:  GluonsB)  The weak nuclear force			ANSWER:  Weak gauge bosons (prompt on bosons)C)  Gravity					ANSWER:  Gravitons7. 	By the early 1180s, this Sultan had united the Muslim areas surrounding the Latin States that had been taken from the Muslim in the First and Second Crusades.  Answer the following questions about the events that eventually led to the Third Crusade for the stated number of points.  First, for 10 points, name this Sultan who, in addition to being an excellent military tactician, was also politically adept as evidenced by his peaceful integration of Egypt into the Syrian-based Abbasid Caliphate.ANSWER: Saladin (sahl ah DEEN),  or Salah al-DinFor 10 points, name the decisive July 4th, 1187 battle that took place a few miles west of the Sea of Galilee and led to the recapture of Jerusalem by the Muslim.ANSWER: The Battle of the Horns of Hattin (ha TEEN)For 10 points, who was the King of Jerusalem that Saladin defeated at the Horns of Hattin, who was disliked by the Order of the Hospitallers?ANSWER: King Guy8. 	For the stated number of points, answer these questions about marital practices.  For 5 points, what is the general term for the form of marriage in which a person has more than one mate?ANSWER: Polygamy (puh LIG uh mee)For 10 points, what is the term for the form of polygamy in which a man has multiple wives; a practice permitted by the Muslim religion?ANSWER: Polygyny (puh LIJ uh nee)For 15 points, what is the sociological term for the form of polygamy in which a woman has multiple husbands at the same time?ANSWER: Polyandry (POL ee ahn dree)9. 	For 5 points each, identify the war described in the following works of literature:a) Red Badge of Courage		ANSWER: Civil Warb) Charge of the Light Brigade	ANSWER: Crimean Warc) M.A.S.H.				ANSWER: Korean Ward) Catch-22				ANSWER: World War IIe) All Quiet on the Western Front	ANSWER: World War If) Rabble in Arms			ANSWER: American Revolution10.	While television serials in the 1940s and 50s set the early standard for cliffhangers, the most famous cliffhanger was on a then-popular prime time soap opera of the '70's and '80's.  For 15 points, who shot J.R.?ANSWER: Kristin Sheppard (accept either name; also accept Sue Ellen's Sister)For 10 points, what was the name of this television how?ANSWER: DallasThe famous Who Shot J.R. episode was later emulated by The Simpsons.  For a final 5 points, who shot Mr. Burns?ANSWER: Maggie Simpson11.	Basing its argument on the "necessary and proper" clause of the Constitution, the US Supreme Court ruled that Congress may exercise powers beyond those specified in the Constitution.  For the stated number of points, answer these questions about the judicial extension of federal power over state sovereignty.  First, for 10 points, name the landmark 1819 case in which the Supreme Court employed the "necessary and proper" clause in establishing the "implied powers" doctrine.ANSWER: McCulloch v. MarylandFor an additional 5 points, name the Chief Justice that presided over this case.ANSWER: John MarshallFor 15 points, what was the State of Maryland taxing that led to the suit in the first place?ANSWER: The National Bank branch in Baltimore12. 	Geologists divide the history of the Earth into several eras, periods, and epochs.  For 10 points, what is the name of the current era, in which humans have evolved to today and which gave rise to the Alps, Andes, and the Himalaya mountain ranges?ANSWER: Cenozoic (sin uh ZOH ick)The Cenozoic Era is divided into two periods.  The earlier of the two periods began about 65 million years ago, coincident to a mass extinction.  The period ended about 2 million years ago.  For another 10 points, name it.ANSWER: The Tertiary (TUR she air ee)The other period of the Cenozoic Era is called the Quaternary Period.  It is subdivided into two epochs, including the one in which we currently live.  For 5 points each, name these two most recent geological epochs.ANSWER: Pleistocene (PLY stoh seen) and Holocene13. 	How well do you know your Twain?  Answer the following for 10 points each:  First, this was Twain's first work to appear in print.  It was published in 1865 in the New York Saturday Press while he was working as a journalist in San Francisco.ANSWER: The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras CountySecond, this 1869 work of Twain's was actually a collection of letters he wrote about his travels while visiting Europe and the Holy Land in 1867.  In this work, Twain made fun of the American tourists with whom he was traveling, as well as the customs of the people he met in the other countries.ANSWER: The Innocents AbroadFinally, Samuel Clemens took his pen name from his familiarity with riverboats while growing up on the Mississippi.  What does the riverboat term "mark twain" mean?ANSWER: two fathoms (or 12 feet, or 4 yards, or 144 inches; prompt on "measure of depth" or some such)14. 	Discovered in 1799 by a French engineering corps, the Rosette (roh ZEHT uh) Stone was the key link in helping modern scholars decipher ancient languages.  This was possible because the same text was on the stone in three different languages.  For 10 points apiece, what three languages are present on the Rosetta Stone?ANSWER: Ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics, demotic, and Greek15.	Using the hints provided, identify the mountain, 30-20-10:.(30) Its summit sustains the strongest winds in the United States, averaging 35 miles per hour.(20) It is located in the White Mountains National Forest in Coos County near the Carroll Co. line..(10) This New Hampshire landmark is the tallest peak north of the Mason-Dixon line and east of the Mississippi.ANSWER: Mt. Washington16.	30-20-10, name the director from classic films.30: "Arsenic and Old Lace"20: "Pocket Full of Miracles"10: "It's a Wonderful Life"A:  Frank _CAPRA_
17.	Including Radium, Strontium, and Beryllium this group of metals form ions with a +2 charge when they react with most nonmetals.  For 10 points, identify the common name for Group 2A metals on the Periodic Table of elements.Answer: Alkaline Earth MetalsFor another 10 points each, give the current name of the element based on the original name given.Hydragyum (high drah GEE uhm)Answer:  MercuryStibiumAnswer:  Antimony  (AN tuh moh nee)18. 	Jack London was the most widely read American writer of his day.  He was also a political activist and a journalist.  One of his first novels described the adventures of Buck, a dog taken from California to the Yukon that learns to be brutal in order to survive in that situation.  For 10 points, name this 1903 novel.ANSWER: The Call of the WildThree years later, London wrote another book that reversed the story and tells how a wild wolf becomes a loyal domestic animal through its master's love and kindness.  For 10 point, name this 1906 novel.ANSWER: White FangThe themes in these two works by London illustrate his fascination with this doctrine stating that the world shapes us in ways we cannot resist and are often times unaware.  For a final 10 points, what is this doctrine that comes from early sociology and is weaved through most of London's works?ANSWER: Environmental Determinism19. 	30-20-10, Name this person from the following three clues:30:	He was born in Cape Town, South Africa and originally named Aubrey Solomon.  He studied at Queens' College, Cambridge, and then served in the British army from 1939 until 1944, when he became an instructor at the Middle East Center for Arabic Studies of the British Foreign Office.20:	In 1946, he acted as UN liaison officer for the Jewish Agency for Palestine and later served as Israeli ambassador to the UN.10:	He was elected to the Knesset in 1959 and became foreign minister in 1966 through 1974, seeing the nation through the Six Day and Yom Kippur wars.ANSWER: Abba Eban20. 	In Roman mythology, the Furies were three terrible winged goddesses.  They carried whips and had serpents in their hair.  They pursued and punished doers of unavenged crimes and included the "avenger of murder," the "jealous one," and the "one unceasing in anger."  For 10 points each - give the Roman names of the three Furies in any order.ANSWER:	Tisiphone (tuh-SE-fo-nee) , Megaera (ma-JEER-uh) , Alecto21.	In 1996, Cincinnati residents voted to increase their local sales tax to pay for two new stadia for their local professional baseball and football teams.  Until those stadia are completed, the teams currently share a stadium.  For 10 points, name this stadium.ANSWER: Cinergy Field (do not accept Riverfront Stadium)Before the naming rights were sold to the Cinergy corporation, this saucer-like stadium had another name.  For 10 points, what was Cinergy Field's previous name?ANSWER: Riverfront StadiumThe Cincinnati Reds did not start playing in Riverfront Stadium until 1970.  Where did they play prior to moving to Riverfront?ANSWER: Crosley Field