TOSSUPS - BLIND ROUND (GEORGIA)	1999 MOON PIE CLASSIC - UT-CHATTANOOGA1)	This element's properties may have contributed to the defeat of Napoleon's Grand Army in Russia.  Its tendency to become a powdery grey substance upon prolonged exposure to cold caused the French soldiers' uniform buttons to disintegrate on the march to Moscow.  For 10 points, name this metal used in pewter and solder, and formerly used in making dishes and cans.     Answer: _tin_2)	Born in Texas on November 24, 1868, his musical career began in his late teens, when he started working as a dance musician and itinerant pianist.  His first opera was completed when he was about 31 years old: an obscure work called "A Guest of Honor".  His most famous piece, a solo piano work, was completed in the same year; it would become the first piece of sheet music to sell one million copies.  For 10 points, name this composer of "Treemonisha" and the "Maple Leaf Rag".     Answer: Scott _Joplin_3)	He was a talented portrait photographer, an ordained deacon, and a reputedly boring lecturer at Christchurch college, Oxford who wrote "Symbolic Logic" and "An Elementary Treatise on Determinants".  He is chiefly remembered today for his non-mathematical writings, which include "An Agony in Eight Fits" and "Sylvie and Bruno".  For 10 points, identify this English author who for Alice Liddell wrote his famous "Through the Looking Glass".     Answer: Lewis _Carroll_ (Charles Lutwidge _Dodgson_)4)	Nearly 25,000 years before the invention of the bow, the ice age hunters of Northern Europe devised a weapon that could throw darts with more than twice the distance and force that a spear could be thrown by hand.  Migration out of Europe carried it to the New World where it remained in use until the Spanish Conquests.  For 10 points give the Aztec word for this weapon, commonly misidentified as a spear thrower, revived as a hunting weapon in the 1980's by Bob Perkins.     Answer: _atl-atl_EDITOR'S NOTE: Yes, I have used an atl-atl, but not when it was new.5)	Unlike the ones in most outboards and chainsaws, in this type of engine the piston recedes, suctioning the fuel.  Then it pushes up, compressing the fuel in the combustion chamber.  The spark plug ignites the fuel, initiating the power stroke.  On the next stroke the piston pushes the fuel out of the exhaust valve, then it repeats.  From the description of the sequence, for 10 points, name this invention which certainly has changed the face of transportation.     Answer: _four cycle_ engine (prompt on "internal combustion")6)	This novel's main character is a handsome, spoiled, and snobbish young man from the Midwest who attends Princeton, where he drifts from one activity to another without a sense of purpose.  He falls in love with Rosaline Commase, who rejects him to marry a wealthier man, then serves as an officer in France during World War I and returns to embark on a career in advertising.  For 10 points identify this novel centering on the exploits of Amory Blaine, the first by F. Scott Fitzgerald.       Answer: _"This Side of Paradise"_7)	Though it was released in 1979, Rolling Stone named it the #1 album of the 1980s.  Originally released as two albums but sold, at the band's insistence, for roughly the price of one, it includes 19 songs, including the unlisted final track, "Train in Vain".  For 10 points, name this album, which features the songs "Spanish Bombs" and "Death or Glory", the Clash's follow-up to "Give 'Em Enough Rope".     Answer: "London Calling"
8)	John C. Fremont leads an expedition to the Wind River range of the Rocky Mountains.  Great Britain makes an unofficial and carefully guarded apology that disposes of the Caroline affair and the McLeod case.  The Democrats take control of the House of Representatives and, as a result, Henry Clay resigns from the Senate and is replaced by John Crittenden.  Samuel W. King and Thomas W. Dorr are each named governor of Rhode Island.  And the Webster-Ashburton treaty is signed and ratified.  For 10 points, these events of American history all occurred in what year?     Answer: _1842_9)	Believed by some historians to be the fifth plague of Egypt in the Bible, the bacterium causing this disease was first observed in 1850 by Casimir Davaine, but a causal effect was not established until 1876 by Robert Koch. For ten points, Louis Pasteur developed a vaccine for what disease, which gave its name to a rock group?ANSWER: anthrax [caused by Bacillus anthracis]10)	Among his many children were Helenus, Polyxena, Deiphobus, Polydorus, and Troilus.  In the "Iliad" he went to the tent of the killer of one of his sons in a successful attempt to regain his body, and he is killed by the Greek Neoptolemus.  For 10 points, identify this King of Troy, the husband of Hecuba and father of Hector and Paris.      Answer: _Priam_11)	It is set in Jimmy-the-Priest's saloon, owned by the good-natured Harry Hope, but happiness turns to despair upon the arrival of a salesman named Hickey. FTP name this portrayal of man as a "victim of the ironies of life and of himself," a 1946 play by Eugene O'Neill.ANSWER: The Iceman Cometh12)	He drew support for his campaign from about 5000 students from colleges throughout the Northeast. These volunteers, many of whom cut their hair to look more respectable, poured into New Hampshire on their own, setting up campaign centers.  He had voted for the Gulf or Tonkin Resolution but had become increasingly dovish.  For 10 points, name this man, who received 42% of the vote in  New Hampshire to LBJ's 49% in 1968, then senator from Minnesota.     Answer: Eugene _McCarthy_13)	He made his reputation by his work during the Civil War, at which time he drew battlefield scenes for Harper's Weekly.  Works inspired by that period include "Rainy Day in Camp", "Sharpshooter on Picket Duty", and "Prisoners from the Front".After 1882, this man established his home at Scarsboro, Maine, and began work on the long line of marine pieces that occupied the rest of his life. For 10 points, identify this American artist of "The Fallen Deer", "Northeaster", "Cannon Rock", and "The Wreck".    Answer: Winslow _Homer_14)	In the '80s he came to the forefront of science again for his work investigating the Challenger accident and enjoyed great popularity for such works as   "What do you Care what Other People Think" and "Six Easy Pieces".  One of many lesser lights on the Manhattan Project, he wound up at at Cal Tech. For 10 points name this curious character, who shared the 1965 Nobel Prize in Physics for correcting earlier problems in quantum electrodynamics.     Answer: Richard _Feynman_15)	His former second-in-command, Colonel Roberto D’az Herrera, accused him of responsibility in the deaths of Brigadier General Omar Torrijos Herrera and military critic Hugo Spadafora, vote fraud that cost Arnulfo Arias Madrid the presidency, and drug trafficking. For ten points, name this former commander of the Panamanian defense forces.ANSWER: General Manuel Antonio Noriega Morena
16)	A syndicate of merchants, led by William Courteen, financed the settling of this island.  Between the years 1627 and 1629 they poured massive amounts of money , about 10, 000 pounds, and 1,500 settlers into it. During this men and materials boom, another syndicate set up shop in the British Lesser Antilles and a fight broke out, literally, over which would receive the royal proprietary grant.  Courteen lost the battle for political control of the island, but through Dutch connections on the South American mainland, started the real money making enterprise, sugar. For 10 points, which island became the wealthiest in British America by the dawn of the 18th century, even overtaking Brazil in 1710 in sugar production, which made the fat cats in Bridgetown even fatter?     Answer: _Barbados_17)	This emperor was murdered with the help of his own wife.  Pliny the Elder, Tacitus, Juvenal, and Dio Cassius reviled him after his death, but Suetonius emphasized his qualities as a ruler while citing his decline in character from a generous and lenient man to a cruel and grasping ruler.  For 10 points, name this emperor whose unofficial self-title, "dominus et deus", expressed his overbearing wish for absolute monarchy.     Answer: _Domitian_18)	A believer in perfectionism and the second coming of Christ, he declared himself sinless in 1834 and was thus requested to withdraw from Yale.  He returned to his home in Putney, Vermont, and formed a group known as the "Bible Communists".  Asserting a belief in polygamy, he was forced to flee to New York, where the community that he and his followers eventually established flourished.  For 10 points, name this religious leader whose Oneida community was the longest lasting and most successful of the American utopian experiments.     Answer: John Humphrey _Noyes_19)	This English novelist illustrated the work of Thackeray, Hardy, James, and Meredith, and was famous for his caricatures in "Punch".  His novels, such as "Peter Ibbetson and the Martian" are tinged with social satire and colored with the memories of the author's days as an art student in Paris.   For 10 points, identify this author, whose novel, "Trilby", contains the infamous character, Svengali, but whose fame was largekly eclipsed by that of his daughter Daphne.     Answer: George _du Maurier_20)	This character's first appearance in print seems to be in a popular advertising pamphlet written and  illustrated by W. B. Laughead.  James Stevens has traced him to a French Canadian who won a reputation as a prodigious fighter in the Papineau Rebellion against England in 1837 and later became famous as the boss of a logging camp.  For 10 points, identify this legendary American folk hero who was often accompanied by his blue ox Babe.     Answer: _Paul Bunyan_21)	This term is used to describe purity, such as when preceding 'alcohol'.  It can connote the greatestpossible extent of a property, as when preceding 'power' or 'zero'.  For 10 points, identify this word,which is also the name of a Swedish beverage manufacturer.     Answer: _absolute_22)	Many of this artist's portrait subjects appeared to be Mennonites, such as Cornelis Anslo and Marten Looten, and his biblical themes include Belshazzar's Feast.  FTP name this Dutch painter whose patrons included Nicholaes Tulp.ANSWER: Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn23)	St. Peter's Skiff, Thor's Wagon, the Chariot, Charles Wain, the Bull's Thigh, the Butcher's Cleaver, the Plough, and the Saucepan are, for ten points, names given to what grouping of seven stars in Ursa Major?ANSWER: the Big Dipper  [Accept Ursa Major or Great Bear if before "seven stars"]
BONI - BLIND ROUND (GEORGIA)	1999 MOON PIE CLASSIC - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	For the stated number of points, answer these questions about Brown v. Board of Education.5: In what city was the mentioned Board of Education?     Answer: _Topeka_, Kansas10: Who was the lead attorney representing the NAACP?     Answer: Thurgood _Marshall_15: In the 1955 follow-up case known as Brown II, what four words did the court use to describe how fast desegregation should take place?     Answer: _"with all deliberate speed"_2.	Plastic is fantastic!  For 10 points each, identify the following terms from the formation of plastics:A. A compound with a simple, repeating unit.  Polyethylene is an example of one.     Answer: _polymer_B. In plastics, the repeating unit is usually these carbon compounds which have unpaired electrons.     Answer: free _radical_C. This is the step in which free radicals add to and extend polymer chains and can be repeated thousands of times.    Answer: _propagation_3.	For 10 points each, identify the novel from a list of characters.  If you need the author, be grateful for the five points you'll get:A. (10) Betsy Trotwood, Dora Spenlow, and Agnes Wickfield     (5) Charles Dickens     Answer: _"David Copperfield"_B. (10) Manfred, Conrad, Isabella, Alphonso, and Theodore     (5) Horace Walpole     Answer: _"The Castle of Otranto"_C.  (10) Sir Leslie Stephen, Lily Briscoe, Mr. and Mrs. Ramsay     (5) Virginia Woolf     Answer: _To the Lighthouse_4.	Answer these questions about halogens for 10 points each.A. Which of the halogens produces the weakest acid when combined with hydrogen?     Answer: _Fluorine_ (F)B. What is the element that carries a positive charge when combined with fluorine - but not with any other element?     Answer: _Oxygen_ (O)C. What do the Greek words combined to give "halogen" mean?     Answer: _"salt producer(s)"_ (accept equivalents)5.	Answer these questions about that European historical relic, the Bayeux Tapestry, for 10 points each:A. What battle does it the Tapestry depict at the climax of its 72-panel story?     Answer: the Battle of _Hastings_B. What wife of William the Conqueror does legend credit with creating the Tapestry?     Answer: _Matilda_ of FlandersC.  Properly speaking, the Bayeux Tapestry is not a tapestry, but instead is this related form of decorative art.     Answer: embroidery6.	The editor sure hopes this question is right 'cause he has no idea how to verify it.  For 10 points each, do better than Keanu Reeves (which shouldn't be hard) and answer these questions about matrices.A. For algebraic matrices, what name is given to the sum of the elements on a matrix's main diagonal?     Answer: the _trace_B. When a matrix is multiplied by this special matrix, the product equals the original matrix.     Answer: the _identity_ matrixC. Multiply the following matrices: (Moderator - allow teams 15 seconds to answer)__       __                      __        __I  2     1  I         X         I  0     4  II  3     1  I                     I  2     1  I---       ---                      --         --     Answer:  I  2     9  I      [(2*0)+(1*2), (2*4)+(1*1)]                    I  2    13 I      [(3*0)+(1*2), (3*4)+(1*1)]7.	Answer these questions about the Christian Church started in America in the 19th century FTPE:A. What former Presbyterian minister receives most of the credit for starting the Church?  A form of his last name has been used derogatorily to refer to church members because of their belief that churches should not be named for people.     Answer: Alexander _Campbell_B. What branch of the Christian Church has a controlling board instead of each church operating independently?     Answer: _Disciples of Christ_C. What form of the Christian Church follows all other practices, but has non-instrumental services at most places?     Answer: _Church of Christ_8.	For 10 points each, given two American participants in a literary movement, name the movement:A. Hilda Doolittle and Amy Lowell     Answer: _Imagism_B. David Halberstam and Truman Capote     Answer: _New Journalism_C.  John Crowe Ransom, Allen Tate, and Robert Penn Warren     Answer: _Fugitives_; also accept _New Criticism_9.	Identify the American military leader, 30-20-10.30:  In 1949 he headed the UN mediation commission in the dispute over Kashmir.20: A native of Fredericksburg, Texas, he served as chief of staff to the commander of the U.S. Atlantic submarine fleet during World War I.10: After the attack on Pearl Harbor he took over command of the Pacific fleet from Admiral Husband E. Kimmel, and at the time of the Japanese surrender he commanded 6,256 ships and 4,847 combat aircraft, the largest fighting fleet in history.     Answer: Chester William _Nimitz_
10.	Name the opera from characters for 10 points each, 5 if you need the composer:10: The Marschallin and Sophie  5: Richard Strauss     Answer: _"Der Rosenkavalier"_ (accept "The Cavalier of the Rose" or equivalents)10: Rodolfo and Musetta  5: Giacomo Puccini     Answer: _"La Boheme"_ (accept "The Bohemians" or equivalents; do not accept "Rent")10: Pamina and Papageno  5: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart     Answer: _"Die Zauberfloten"_ (accept "The Magic Flute" or equivalents)11.	Know everything about Barbara McClintock and the "jumping genes" of corn?  Good, then answer these questions about the work of other women biologists for 10 points each. A. Gertrude Elion's work with nucleic acid derivatives resulted in acyclovir (ay-SI-cloh-veer), a herpesvirus treatment, and after retiring, she lent her expertise towards the development of this chemical used by HIV positive patients.     Answer: _azidothymidine_ or _AZT_B. Mary Lyon studied coat color in mice and other mammals to examine the results of the inactivation of this chromosome.      Answer: the _X_ chromosomeC. While researching pituitary extract and carbohydrate metabolism, Jane Russell (no, not that Jane Russell) discovered this major growth hormone.     Answer: _somatotropin_12.	Identify the author from works on a 10-5 basis:A. 	(10) "Twenty-Six Men and a Girl"	(5) "The Lower Depths"     Answer: Maksim _Gorky_ or Alesky Maksimovich _Peshkov_B.	(10) "Too Young to Fight, Too Old to Forget"	(5) "Look Back in Anger     Answer: John _Osborne_C.	(10) "Too Late the Phalarope"	(5) "Cry, the Beloved Country"     Answer: Alan _Paton_13.	Identify these misused words for 10  points each:A. Contrary to popular usage, a substance of this type cannot change the outcome of a chemical reaction, only its rate.     Answer: _catalyst_B. This term equals 3.26 light-years, and you cannot complete the Kessel Run in 12 of them.      Answer: _parsec_C. This term would define a tax system that charged greater proportions of one's income as one became poorer.  It does not, however, describe a flat tax.     Answer: _regressive_
14.	For 10 points each, given a list of paintings, identify the style, school, or movement to which they belong.  If you need the artists of the works, you will receive 5 points.A. 10: "Bubbles", "The Festival of St. Swithin or the Dovecoat", "The Day Dream"       5: John Everett Millais, William Holman Hunt, Dante Gabriel Rossetti     Answer: _Pre-Raphaelite_ BrotherhoodB. 10: "In the Garden", "Woman Drying Herself", "Wild Poppies near Argenteuil" (ar-jen-TWEEL)       5: Berthe Morisot, Edgar Degas, Claude Monet     Answer: _Impressionism_C. 10: "Peace and Plenty", "Home in the Woods", "The Dance of the Battery in the Presence of Peter Stuyvesant" (STY-veh-sent)       5: George Inness, Thomas Cole, Asher B. Durand     Answer: _Hudson River_ School15.	Rivers often serve as natural boundaries between nations.  For the stated number of points, answer the following questions about nations bounded by rivers.A.  For 5 points each, the Limpopo river serves as all or part of the boundary between which three African nations?     Answer: _South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana_B.  For 5 points, the Senegal river separates Senegal from what country?     Answer: _Mauritania_C.  Also for 5 points each, which two South American nations are separated by the Pilcomayo river?     Answer: _Paraguay_ and _Argentina_16.	Since 1971, the Village Voice has queried music critics nationwide about their favorite albums of the past year to create the "Pazz and Jop Critics Poll".  Given a short description of an album or artist the critics swooned over, name it for 10 points each. A. Top honors went not to Lauryn Hill, but to this other woman, a music business veteran whose last album, 1992's "Sweet Old World", failed to earn the steady sales and critical notice of her Grammy-nominated follow-up, "Car Wheels on a Gravel Road".     Answer: Lucinda _Williams_B. In what may be a first for the poll, this Canadian singer/songwriter's debut album appeared at #10, while his mother and aunt's album, "The McGarrigle Hour", held the #49 spot.      Answer: Rufus _Wainwright_C. Three albums in the top ten featured rapping to some extent: "The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill", "Hello Nasty" by the Beastie Boys, and this album by OutKast, which features the single, "Rosa Parks".     Answer: "Aquemini"17.	For 10 points each, given the author and the year it won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, name the work:A. 1951; A.B. Guthrie, Jr.     Answer: _"The Way West"_B. 1942; Ellen Glasgow     Answer: _"In This Our Life"_C.   1990; Oscar Hijuelos     Answer: _"The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love"_
18.	For 10 points each, answer these questions about an American military hero.A. Who was the most decorated American in World War I?     Answer: Sergeant Alvin C. _York_B. What state was he from?     Answer: _Tennessee_C. Who won a best actor Oscar for his portrayal of York in 1941?     Answer: Gary _Cooper_19.	For 10 points each, answer these questions about ancient sculpture:A. From Agos in the Peloponnesos, he believed that beauty resided in perfect proportions, in harmonious numerical ratios, and he set down his own prescription for the ideal statue of a nude male athlete or warrior in the treatise titled "The Canon".     Answer: _Polykleitos_B. Unfortunately, Polykleitos' Canon was lost, but name the physician of the 2nd century A.D. who summarized the sculptor's principle of symmetria.     Answer: _Galen_C. Name Polykleitos' most famous work, in which he himself also assigned the name "Canon," as it was created to illustrate the treatise.     Answer: _"Polydorus"_ or _"Spearbearer"_20.	Name these parts of a European Castle for the stated number of points:5: The iron or wooden gate placed behind a draw bridge.          Answer: _portcullis_10: The area between the outer and inner walls.     Answer: _outer bailey_15: The area between the inner walls and keep.     Answer: _inner bailey_