TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY A				 MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall1. It split after its launch into two branches.  The one led by Emich of Leiningen never reached its destination but instead attacked suspect communities along the Danube before being forced to halt in Hungary, where it was destroyed for pillaging Hungarian lands. The other, led by Gautier Sans-Avoir or Walter the Penniless, plundered the area around Belgrade and drew deadly reprisals from the Bulgarians, but finally reached its target, where its members were massacred at Civetot.  FTP name this engagement which mostly concentrated on killing European Jews after its launch on the prompting of Peter the Hermit, who sat it out in Constantinople and joined the subsequent "Prince's" expedition instead.	Answer:	People's Crusade2.  The term may be Egyptian and derive from the word meaning "dust", indicative of the low status of those who were called by it, or from a word meaning "moving on", suggesting that it applied to nomads. In either case it was regularly used as a pejorative term and at first those who were identified by it never used it to describe themselves, although it is used to describe Abraham in Genesis 14:13 and seems to become more accepted and widely used throughout the rest of the Bible. For 10 points identify this noun, the name of a book of the "New Testament" still sometimes used to describe Israelites and most commonly employed to describe the language they speak.	Answer:	Hebrew3.  First isolated from animal horn in 1895, it is a nonessential amino acid because humans can synthesize it from glutamic acid and is particularly abundant in protamines and histones, and it plays an important role in the excretion of nitrogen. FTP name this amino acid whose name is derived for the Greek for "shining" and is often paired with ornithine in the cycle which synthesizes urea.	Answer:	Arginine4. Also known as Yngvi, in the most famous legend about him he dared to sit on the throne Hlidskjalf without Odin's permission and as a result was tormented by the beauty of the giantess Gerda.  To win Gerda he was compelled to give up his magic sword to his herald Skirnir so that at Ragnarok he is only armed with a pair of antlers in his fight with Surtur. Owner of Skidbladnir and the golden boar Gullinbrasti, FTP name this Son of the Vanir God Njord and god of fertility and rain for whom the final day of the workweek is named.	Answer:	Frey (NOT Freya, NOT Frigg)5. The older son is a grasping corporate lawyer made greedy by his inability to please his father despite producing five little "no-neck monsters" with his former cotton queen wife.  The favored younger son is a former star football player who has become an alcoholic following the death of his friend, quarterback, and probable homosexual lover and is now stuck in a passionless and childless marriage with his desperate wife. Such is the mendacity with which Ida, Mae, Gooper, Big Daddy, Brick, and Maggie Pollitt have to deal in, FTP, what play by Tennessee Williams?	Answer:	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof6. Examples of this style include the Kaiserdomen of Speyer, Mainz, and Worms, while representatives of the "Burgundian" version include the Sainte-Madeleine of Vézelay and the Abbey Church of Cluny. A fusion of preceding Ottonian, Carolingian, Byzantine, and local Germanic traditions, hallmarks include massive piers and columns supporting pointed groin vaults in the ceilings, enormously thick walls, arcades, and semicircular arches for windows and doors reminiscent of the third century basilica from which its name derives. FTP name this European architectural style from the 11th and 12th centuries perhaps best represented by Durham Cathedral and the Cathedral of Pisa, the transition between Classical and Gothic architecture.	Answer:	Romanesque architecture7. After graduating from Vanderbilt in 1887 this man began to photograph the Milky Way with wide-aperture lenses, using these techniques to discover sixteen new comets. It was during that time that he published several catalogs of dark nebulae and made the discovery of Amalthea, but he is better known for his discovery of another celestial body. FTP name this man, discoverer of the star which has the greatest known proper motion, a star named for him	Answer:	Edward E. Barnard
8. Eugene Vinaver held that the work attributed to him was originally a series of eight separate romances that were combined into one large work when it was printed in 1485. FTP name this controversial figure who supposedly finished in the nineteenth year of his imprisonment for extortion and rape a work printed by William Caxton with the title Le Morte D'Arthur.	Answer:	Sir Thomas Malory9.  A lifelong diarist, his memoirs go into great detail about occasional coughing fits and spitting up blood, which, along with his consumption of vast amounts of alcohol and some sort of hallucinogenic drug called majoud, may have killed him at age 45.  He spent his early years being slapped around by the Uzbeks at such battles as at Sar-e Pol and capturing and losing Samarkand, but by 1525 he finally decided to turn east, where he would seize Agra after defeating Rana Sanga and Ibrahim Lodi. FTP name this man, whose conquest of India at Khanua and more importantly at Panipat allowed him to found the Mogul dynasty.	Answer:	Babur (or Baber or Babar) I10. It was completed the same year as UNIVAC.  Central to its usefulness was an algorithm named for leader of the project to build it, the co-developer with Ulam and Von Neumann of the Monte Carlo method, who joined the undertaking in part out of disgust for the limited utility of its predecessor. Constructed by the T Division at Los Alamos, it could store 40,000 bits of information at once and recall them later and could check the instructions given it, identify errors and correct its faulty orders, all of which made it extremely useful to for the calculations necessary to construct a hydrogen bomb. FTP name this supercomputer finally completed in 1952 under the supervision of Nick Metropolis and given its distinctive name by him in the direct hope that it would cut down on awkward acronyms, the successor of ENIAC.	Answer:	Mathematical Analyzer, Numerical Integrator And Computer11. Apparently captured in a battle in the Vale of Siddim, he was rescued by the uncle he had accompanied to both Egypt and Canaan. He would later take his leave of that uncle, Abraham, and move to one of the Cities of the Plain, though he would later regret that decision when unruly townspeople tested his hospitality in their desire to "know" his disguised celestial houseguests.  FTP name this figure from the book of Genesis, ancestor of the Moabites and Ammonites through drunken copulation with his daughters after his wife had looked back to the destruction of Sodom and had been turned into a pillar of salt.	Answer:	Lot12. Born at Ottery Saint Mary's, he spent a precocious boyhood as a "blue-coat" at Christ's Hospital, the famous charity school in London. After an unhappy love affair led him to leave Cambridge and enlist for a time in the 15th Light Dragoons, he eventually dedicated himself to critical works like Shakesperian Criticism, plays like Remorse and Osorio, and poems like "The Aeolian Harp", "Genevieve", "Dejection: An Ode", and "Christabel". FTP name this man perhaps better known for collaborating with William Wordsworth on Lyrical Ballads, and for his own works, such as Kublai Khan and Rime of the Ancient Mariner.	Answer:	Samuel Taylor Coleridge13. It would be strengthened in The Nine-Power Treaty after the Twenty-One demands of Japan violated it in 1915. First promulgated in a circular sent in 1899 and again following concerns for the territorial integrity of the affected nation following the military defeat of the Boxer Rebellion, it demanded that only the local government have power to collect taxes on trade, that foreign powers be compelled to pay harbour dues and railroad charges, and that all foreign powers maintain free ports in its "sphere of influence". FTP name this agreement concerning trade in China, perhaps the best known diplomatic maneuver of John Hay.	Answer:	Open Door14. Made wealthy via his improvements on the street-lighting system in his native country and by his new methods for preparing saltpeter, by 1775 he was so recognized as an authority on combustion that he was put in charge of gunpowder production for the whole nation, a reputation earned during investigations into the nature of oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, which he named. FTP name this man who disproved the phlogiston theory but whose tax farming schemes led to his guillotining during the Reign of Terror in 1794. 	Answer:	Antione Lavoisier
15. Courbet once said of this man's paintings that they were as flat as playing cards. Though happier paintings of his include Balcony, Argenteuil, and The Fifer; he fell into a depression after the suicide of the model for his Boy With Cherries-a depression most clearly reflected in his morbid Absinthe Drinker. FTP name this brother-in-law and teacher of Berthe Morisot who himself rejected the label of Impressionist but certainly influenced them with such works as Olympia and Luncheon on the Grass.	Answer:	Edouard Manet16. Abandoned by her father at age three, she began working as a teacher to support her mother at age 16 during which she met the railroad worker Romeo Ureta, who inspired such early works as Next to the Sea and Intimate Letter before his suicide in 1909. Her works include Tree Fall, which she dedicated to her mother; Lectures for Women, a combination of prose and verse celebrating motherhood, childhood education, and nationalism; and the late work The Wine Press, during which time she engaged in various diplomatic posts in education., FTP name this Chilean author born Lucila Godoy Alcayaga, winner of the Nobel Prize in 1945, perhaps most famous for works like Desolation, Tenderness, and Sonnets of Death.	Answer:	Gabriela Mistral17. This term refers to an entire class whose slow oxidation into unstable peroxides can result in an explosion, chemicals which can be created by reaction of an alkoxide ion with primary alkyl halides and tosylates via an SN2 reaction, the so-called "Williamson synthesis." For centuries the word most often referred to a universal, weightless, transparent, frictionless, and undetectable substance through which light was thought to travel before interferometer experiments proved it did not exist. FTP give the name applied to the cosmic substance disproved by Michelson and Morley as well as to a class of functional groups whose diethyl variety, formula CH3CH2OCH2CH3, was once widely used as an anaesthetic.	Answer:	Ether18. An aide to Washington at Brandywine and Germantown, he would repeatedly decline offers to become Secretary of War, retiring from military life entirely in 1800 as a major general. He attended the Constitutional Convention as delegate of South Carolina with his similarly-named cousin, who proposed a plan for a federal government there that laid the foundation for the one adopted.  The unsuccessful Federalist candidate for vice president in 1800 and president in 1804 and 1808, he may be best remembered for diplomatic service in which he irascibly remarked to a French official seeking a bribe "No! No! Not a sixpence!", though the "not one cent for tribute" comment is attributed to him. FTP name this man who rebuffed XYZ with Marshall and Gerry, whose brother, Thomas, negotiated a treaty that bears their common name.	Answer:	Charles Cotesworth Pinckney 19.  Introduced in 1957 by Leon Festinger, examples of it usually occur because of compulsion, such as when a person is forced to avow something in which he or she does not believe, or when a health-conscious person who smokes is brought to face the harmful consequences of his addiction, presenting an inner conflict concerning his view of himself. FTP name this psychological condition in which a person is in a state of tension upon acknowledgement that he or she simultaneously holds two sets of beliefs, attitudes, or ideas which are inconsistent with each other.	Answer:	cognitive dissonance20.  Its current national flag retains the green and yellow of its former Imperial ensign, though the crest of the Bragança (bra-GAN-za) family has been replaced in part by a banner bearing the motto "Order and Progress". That banner runs across a celestial sphere containing parts of nine constellations including Scorpio, Hydra, Canis Minor, and the Southern Cross, whose stars all represent cities-for example, Amazonas is represented by Procyon, Sao Paolo is represented by Alpha Crucis, and the capital is represented by Polaris Australis. FTP name this nation whose flag represents the night sky on Nov. 15, 1889, the night it was declared a Republic, as seen from the city represented as Beta Crucis, Rio de Janeiro.	Answer:	Brazil21. A cold snap which prevented the temperature from rising much above fifty degrees Fahrenheit, later attributed by William Humphreys to the colossal eruption of Mount Tambora the previous April, resulted in the labeling of this year as the "Year Without A Summer". During it, Indiana was admitted to the Union, and at the Congress of Tucumán the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata declared itself independent in what would become Argentina, while the almost unanimous election of an American president ushered in an eight-year period of political harmony. FTP name this year, during which the defeat of Rufus King by James Monroe initiated the Era of Good Feelings.	Answer:	1816
22. A biography by his senatorial colleague Cassiodorus mentions this man's philosophical translations, which include a commentary on the Isagoge of Porphyry that launched the problem of universals.  But he is better known for defending the senator Albinus charged with attempting to incite Justinian to overthrow Theodoric. FTP name this man who spent his subsequent incarceration meditating on the fleeting nature of Fortune and the permanent benefits of wisdom, which he described in his Consolation of Philosophy.	Answer:	Anicius Manlius Servius Boethius 23.  During the thirties this man hired by the WPA for the Illinois Writers Project's regional guides which resulted in an unfinished description of American foods, recipes, and stories based on local dining customs published in 1992 as America Eats, while the life of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter provided the basis for another posthumously published work entitled The Devil's Stocking. Thrown into depression by lukewarm reviews of his reworking of Somebody in Boots entitled A Walk on the Wild Side, FTP name this man perhaps best known for The Man with the Golden Arm.	Answer:	Nelson Algren24. Fought near the site of the battle Cynoscephale, after a couple of days spent by the winner trying to coax the losing side from strong defensive positions on Mount Dogandzis the battle was finally joined and opened when the loser sent his vastly superior cavalry against the winning side's right flank. There it was met by special forces given instructions not to throw javelins but to use spears and "aim for the faces" of the enemy, a gamble by the winning commander that the vanity of the mostly foreign aristocratic horsemen would lead them to break off and not risk damaging their good looks which paid off as the cavalry fled and left the loser's left denuded, where it was promptly hit and rolled up. Fought by the river Epineus, FTP name this recompense for the earlier loss at Dyrrhachium where the pivotal failed cavalry charge of Titus Labienus and the successful left wing charge of Marc Antony played the principal roles in the loss of Pompey the Great to Julius Caesar in 48 BCE.	Answer:	Pharsalus25.	The Beatles and James Joyce are cited in this work as prophets of the new era, a devolution from the "world of the eye" to a more primitive "world of the ear", a more intuitive, experiential universe that existed before print. Discussing the malaise of the modern world, caused by encountering the problems of the present with the ideas of the past, it is jarringly illustrated by Quentin Fiore, whose photographs are meant to invoke the non-sequitur world of mystery, imagination, and connectivity that widespread communication like television was producing. FTP name this work discussing the soothing, awakening affects of mass communication and the rise of the "Global Village", perhaps the most famous work of Marshall McLuhan.	Answer:	The Medium is the Massage (note: do not accept "Medium is the MESSAGE", but accept "Medium is the Mass-Age")
BONI - KENTUCKY A				 MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall1. Identify the following Best Picture Winners which happen to be in the packet author's DVD collection from one clue for ten points or from an easier clue for 5 points.1. (10 points) Among this film's Oscars were those which went to Franklin J. Schaffner for Best Director and Francis Ford Coppola and Edmund North for Best Screenplay, though one of its awards was famously refused by its recipient who did not wish to participate in a "meat parade".    (5 points) That award was for Best Actor George C. Scott; the film was Best Picture of 1970.	Answer:	Patton2. (10 Points) Peter Schaffer and Milos Forman won Writing and Directing awards for this film, though then-actor-now-suspected-molester Jeffrey Jones and the shrilly laughing Tom Hulce were robbed of recognition.    (5 points) F. Murray Abraham won Best Actor for his role in this Best Picture of 1984.	Answer:	Amadeus3.  (10 points) Appallingly, the Best Actor award was won by this film, which beat out for Best Picture such deserving pictures as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Chocolat, Shaft, and The Skulls.    (5 points) Russell Crowe won Best Actor for his role in this beautifully-filmed but essentially lightweight epic.	Answer:	Gladiator2. Despite the legend of their Middle Eastern origin, in reality they were people of Finno-Ugric origins who were driven into Europe by the Petchenegs and Bulgars. Ranging as far west as Milan, they were defeated during the reign of the military commander Lél and confined to Eastern Europe. For 10 points each:1. Name these people, whose most famous ruler was Árpád.	Answer:	Magyars2. The descendants of the Magyars still live in this nation, whose name comes from the word "Onogur" or "Ten Arrows", the name of their ancient tribal confederacy.	Answer:	Hungary3. In 955 the Magyars were dealt a severe defeat by this man, whom some consider the first Holy Roman Emperor, at the battle of Lechfeld.	Answer:	Otto the Great or Otto I3. Set in Chandrapore, this novel concerns the gradual friendship which develops between the widowed Doctor Aziz and two English women which is shattered after a visit to the Marabar Cave, after which Aziz is accused of molesting one of the women. For the stated number of points:1. (5 points) This is essentially the plot of what novel by E.M. Forster?	Answer:	A Passage to India2. (10 points) Name the young woman whom Aziz is falsely accused of molesting.	Answer:	Adela Quested [first or last name acceptable]3. (15 points) Adela has come to England in the company of Mrs. Moore in the hopes that she might marry this man, Moore's lout of a son by her first marriage who is employed as a government official there.	Answer:	Ronny Heaslop [first or last name acceptable]4. Identify the following about the Cannibaceae family of plants, 10 points each.1. The Cannibaceae family, as its name implies, is the parent family of hemp whose most popular and commercially viable species is this plant, whose Latin name means "domesticated hemp".  Give the genus and species name of this plant, also known as "Marijuana".	Answer:	Cannabis sativa2. Cannabis sativa produces euphoria due to the presence of this chemical, a hallucinogen most concentrated in the resin in the flowering tops of the female plant.	Answer:	tetrahydrocannabinol (accept THC)3. The other genus of the Cannibaceae family is the Humulus genus whose lupulus species contain bitter resins, essential oils, and perhaps tannins extracted by boiling it in wort (an aqueous infusion of malt) and used in the brewing of beer.	Answer:	hops
5. Answer the following musically related questions 5/10/20/30.1. Among the many successes of this British composer include Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis, The Sea Synphony, the opera Riders to the Sea, and Fantasia On Greensleeves.	Answer:	Ralph Vaughan-Williams2. Though the music was actually composed by Joe Garland, the swing classic "In the Mood" is perhaps most famously associated with this big band leader and composer of "Moonlight Serenade" who died in a plane crash in 1944.	Answer:	Glenn Miller3. Less famous pieces by this composer include his "Two Part Invention in F Major" and orchestral pieces like Suite Number 2 in B Minor; he is much more recognizable for pieces like the Brandenburg Concertos and Toccata and Fugue for organ in D minor.	Answer:	Johann Sebastian Bach  4. They are related because "Greensleeves", "In the Mood", and "Two Part Invention in F Major" are all quotes at some point in what Beatles song, which opens with a quote from "La Marseillaise"?       Answer:	 "All You Need is Love"6. In response to the Panic of 1873 a party was formed in 1874 based on the idea that a former wartime currency measure or free coinage of silver would wipe out agricultural debt and guide the country to prosperity. FTP each:1. Identify this party.	Answer:	Greenback party (accept also Independent National Party)2. The Greenback Party's first candidate was this man, who built the Tom Thumb, one of the United States's first locomotives, in 1828 and went on to become a wealthy railroad and telegraph magnate.	Answer:	Peter Cooper3. In 1884 the Greenback Party dissolved after the spectacularly poor showing of this man, one of American history's greatest assholes perhaps best known for having his balls served to him at Big Bethel and the Bermuda Hundred and for stealing silverware while serving as Military Governor of New Orleans during the Civil War.	Answer:	Benjamin Butler 7. Answer the following questions about the work of notable scientist Emil Fischer, 10 points each.1. Fischer gives his name to a process by which a particular compound of formula R-COOR is formed by refluxing a carobxylic acid and an alcohol in the presence of an acid catalyst.	Answer:	esterification2. Fischer also discovered, albeit by accident, the first of these compounds which can be used as a monopropellant rocket fuel and to produce agricultural chemicals, spandex fibers, and antioxidants. With formula H2NNH2, these can be obtained by oxidizing ammonia with sodium hypochlorite, also known as the Raschig process.	Answer:	hydrazines3. In addition to his esterification and his discovery of phenylhydrazine, Fischer is most famous for his work on the structures of uric acid, xanthine, caffeine, theobromine, and other related compounds, showing that they are all derivatives of a single compound, this nitrogenous base which he named, of which adenine and guanine are also derivatives.	Answer:	purine8. The three stripes on the flag of Mexico represent the imperial alliance of these people with Acolhuas and Tecpaneca, while the eagle eating a snake while perched on a nopal cactus commemorates the sign they took to found their most famous city on the Lake Texcoco. For 10 points each:1. Name this Nahuan-speaking people also known as Mexica, for whom the nation is named.	Answer:	Aztecs2. The Aztecs also called themselves by the name of this man, their founder, whose name was also borne by their most famous city.		Answer:	Tenoch3. Tenochtitlan would be captured and the Aztecs finally defeated in 1521 by this man, but not after he was initially driven out of the city during the Noche Triste of 1520.	Answer:	Hernando Cortes
9. Name the Ernest Hemingway works from characters FTPE:a) Robert Jordan, Jake Barnes, and Lady Brett Ashley	Answer:	The Sun Also Risesb) Frederic Henry and Catherine Barkley	Answer:	A Farewell to Arms c) Robert Wilson and Margot Macomber       Answer:	"The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber"10. The late Johnny Cash related a story of how one night in 1969 he and a bunch of friends got together and entertained each other with pieces they were writing, leading to a number of great songs which would later be enormously successful, including Cash's own "A Boy Named Sue".  FTP each name some other hits to emerge from that one night.1. Kris Kristofferson would sing this song, which after a change of pronouns from male to female would later be a smash hit for Janis Joplin, describing her adventures with a blues singer and how freedom is another word for nothin' left to lose.	Answer:	"Me and Bobby McGee"2. Also in attendance was this man, whose "Lay Lady Lay", first played that night, would later appear on his Nashville Skyline album and chart as high as #7 on Billboard's Chart.	Answer:	Bob Dylan3. Also there was this man, formerly of the Hollies, whose song "Marrakesh Express" would be released on the self-titled début album of the band he would form with members of the Byrds and Buffalo Springfield.	Answer:	Graham Nash 11.  Begun by the spectacular defeat of the Romans at Beth-Horon or Bezetha which drove off defeated general Gessius Florus in disgrace, it was eventually put down after the capture of Jerusalem and the surrender of Jotapata, though pockets of resistance remained until CE 73. For 10 points each:1. Name this conflict, whose ultimate outcome is engraved on the Arch of Titus who, along with his father Vespasian, ultimately gained victory for Rome.	Answer:	Great Jewish Revolt (accept "First Jewish Revolt")2. The Great Jewish Revolt is chronicled principally by this former commander, who escaped the mutual suicide pact at Jotapata and turned surrendered to Vespasian; his writings include History of the Jewish War and Jewish Antiquities.	Answer:	Flavius Josephus (accept Joseph Ben Mattias)3. Perhaps colored by his experience with the suicide pact at Jotapata, Josephus described a similar suicidal last stand in this mountain fortress which was set ablaze while the inhabitants supposedly killed themselves to prevent Roman capture in 73, though historians dispute the suicides.       	Answer:	Masada12. Give the common name, 30-20-10.1. 30 points: Max was a Swiss author whose works include the plays Don Juan or the Love of Geometry, Andorra, and When the War Was Over.2. 20 points:  Karl was an Austrian zoologist whose studies of communication among bees added significantly to the knowledge of the chemical and visual sensors of insects who shared, with animal behaviorists Konrad Lorenz and Nikolaas Tinbergen, the 1973 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine.3. 10 points: Ragnar was a pioneer Norwegian econometrician and economist who was a joint winner, with Jan Tinbergen, Nikolaas's brother, of the first Nobel Prize for Economics in 1969.	Answer:	Frisch13. Identify the Canterbury Tale from clues, 10 points each.1. Drawn from the 13th-century Legenda aurea of Jacobus de Voragine, it retells the story of the patron saint of musicians, Saint Cecilia.	Answer:	The Second Nun's Tale2. This story retells the Roman legend of the corrupt judge Appius and his erstwhile victim Virginia.	Answer:	The Physician's Tale3. Chauntecleer the Rooster is taunted by his hen Pertelote for his fear of foxes; captured the next day by Sir Russel the fox, he begs to be eaten right away, and when the fox opens his mouth to answer, Chauntecleer darts away.	Answer:	The Nun's Priest's Tale
14. Answer the following questions about popular spiders, 10 points each. 1. Also known as Harvestman, this arachnid of the order Opiliones is not technically a spider at all, as true spiders come from order Araneae and tend to have two segmented body parts separated by a constriction, which these lack. Though popular belief holds that they have the most dangerous poison in the insect world but lack teeth large enough to deliver it, they are in fact non-poisonous. 	Answer:	daddy longlegs2. These members of the family Theraphosidae occur in the southwestern United States, Mexico, and tropical America Though their large size and hairy bodies gives them a menacing appearance, they are actually harmless to humans, though they can inflict painful bites if provoked. The name originally applied to another spider once thought to cause a disease known in which the victim wept and skipped about before going into a wild dance. 	Answer:	tarantula3. The original tarantula was a wolf spider from this genus, whose name comes from the Greek for wolf. This genus has recieved some publicity in the nineties as it supplied the name for a popular search engine. 	Answer:	lycosa (accept "lycos") 15. Answer the following about the consort of Siva and her various aspects, 10 points each.1. In her more passive guises the wife of Siva is known by this name, signifying her role as goddess of the mountains. She is in this guise in the dialogue between her and Siva recorded in the Tantras, and she is held to be the mother of Ganesa and Skanda.	Answer:	Parvati2. Another aspect of Parvati is this powerful warrior goddess usually represented as a yellow woman with eight or ten arms carrying weapons and riding either a tiger or a lion. It is in this aspect that she slew the buffalo-demon Mahisasura.	Answer:	Durgha3. Parvati can also appear as the terrible black goddess of death and horror, Kali, as well as her exact opposite, this golden goddess of love, light, and beauty.	Answer:	Uma16. It is the story of a young Cossack who, after disgracing himself with an affair with a married woman, joins the Russian Army, earns the Cross of St. George, and eventually joins the Red Army, but has doubts when the Bolsheviks attempt to curtail the independence of the Cossacks. FTPE:1. Name this four-volume novel, considered the finest pro-Soviet novel in Russian, which Solzhenitsyn claimed was plagiarized from Fyodor Krykov,	Answer:	The Quiet Don (accept And Quiet Flows the Don, but not The Don flows Home to the Sea)2. The Quiet Don is without doubt the best-known work of this author who, plagiarism accusations notwithstanding, won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1965.	Answer:	Mikhail Sholokov3. Name the protagonist of The Quiet Don, who ends up turning his back on the Red Army and fights against them when they pillage the area around his home town of Tartask.	Answer:	Gregor Melekhov (accept either name)17. As the Allies advanced through Europe in 1944 a mission called "Alsos", the Greek word for "Groves" which was a sly reference to the builder of Los Alamos, was dispatched to find German nuclear physicists and see how far they had progressed on the bomb. FTP each:1. The mission leader, this man is more famous as the discoverer of electron spin with George Uhlenbeck.	Answer:	Samuel Goudsmit2. Among the men ultimately captured and detained was this man, Speer's appointment to the Supreme Head of Nuclear Physics most famous for an experiment demonstrating restricted spatial orientation of atomic and subatomic particles with magnetic polarity, performed with Otto Stern.	Answer:	Walter Gerlach3. While being detained by the Alsos project at Farm Hall in 1945, this man was notified he had gotten the 1944 Nobel Prize for his discovery of nuclear fission.	Answer:	Otto Hahn
18. During June 25 through July 1, 1862, a series of battles was fought in Virginia which has since come to be known as the Seven Day's battles. For 5 points each, name any six of the seven Seven Day's battles.	Answers: Oak Grove, Mechanicsville, Gaines Mill, Peach Orchard, Savage Station, Frayser's Farm, Malvern Hill19.	A triangular area of land whose fertility is reflected in its Hebrew name meaning "God may Give Seed", it lies between Galilee and the West bank. Watered by the Kishon river and a fork of it called the Kina, it is named for the city in it established by Ahab as the capital of Northern Israel. For 10 points each:1. Name this area, whose notable features include several battlefields around the city of Megiddo.	Answer:	Valley of Jezreel (accept also "Plain of Esdraelon")2. Dividing the valley of Jezreel or Plain of Esdraelon from the Plain of Sharon is this small mountain, famous in the Bible as the place where Elijah confronted the prophets of Baal and the site of a monastic order whose "Discalced" branch was founded by Saint Theresa.	Answer:	Mount Carmel3. At the very edge of the Valley of Jezreel is this other small mountain, famous as the site of the defeat of Barak's armies under Sisera by Israelites led by Deborah, the traditional location of the transfiguration of Jesus, and the namesake of the town around which the Hussites under Jan Zizka operated and from which they drew their name.	Answer:	Mount Tabor20.	Identify the following about a philosopher, 10 points each.1. Perhaps the most famous dialectician in Medieval history, he was once condemned as a heretic for the perceived Sabellian views in his Introduction to Theology and a second time by his bitter enemy Bernard of Clairvaux at Sens. Works include Scito te ipsum or Know Thyself, Dialogue Between a Philosopher, a Jew, and a Christian, and his autobiography Historia Calamitatum, describing his disastrous affair with Héloïse.	Answer:	Peter Abelard2. In his early days as a wandering scholar Abelard was part of this movement of Aristotelian defenders who took their name from the term applied to Aristotle's followers, taken from their tendency to pace back and forth while they taught.	Answer:	Peripatetics3. Perhaps Abelard's most famous work is this series of quotations on various religious issues which represented inconsistencies in established Christian dogma. The title of the work refers to the fact that all the issues presented in it could apparently be defended or condemned using the quotations.	Answer:	Yes and No or Sic et Non21.	A number of sixteenth-century women have served as subjects of films in the late 1990's. Name the women who flourished or were born before the 1600 who was the subject of such a film from clues on a 5-10-15 point basis.1. (5 points) Cate Blanchett recently portrayed this Tudor monarch of England whose 1558-1603 reign saw the defeat of the Spanish armada.	Answer:	Elizabeth I2. (10 points) Valentina Cervi portrayed this artist in a 1997 film in which chronicles her love affair with her teacher Agostino Tossi; she is also known for paintings like Judith Beheading Holofernes.	Answer:	Artemisia Genteleschi2. (15 points) In Dangerous Beauty  Catherine McCormack played this Venetian courtesan also known for literary works like Familiar Letters and Terze Rima.       Answer:	Veronica Franco22. Identify the scientist from clues, 30-20-10-5.1. 30 points: Anthony Leeuwenhoek's letters to the Royal Society were initially spurred on by a book published by this man, and he himself taught himself Dutch to translate those letters along with Oldenberg.2. 20 points: Notoriously jealous of his reputation as the best instrument maker in England, he spent most of his career as technical assistant to Robert Boyle. He also helped Wren survey London after the Great Fire and himself invented the scotoscope, a light condenser used for microscopic investigations3. 10 points: A fine draughtsman apprenticed to a painter's workshop in his youth, he left because the smell of solbents nauseated him, but was able to use his drawing skills to illustrate his book of microscope drawings entiled Micrographia.4. 5 points: It was in an effort to solve longitude at sea by perfecting a stationary clock that he came up with the law named for him, originally discovered while perfecting elastic springs for a pocketwatch.	Answer:	Robert Hooke
23. Identify the following eponymous terms from economics from clues, 10 points each. 1. Also known as expected utility, this is the more common term, derived from the names of the two economists who proposed it, for the condition in which a person ranks uncertain payoffs according to an expected value, usually higher, of the utility of the individual outcomes that may occur.       Answer:	von Neumann-Morgenstern utility2. When applied to economics, this statistical construct describes how money is saved by purchasing the more expensive of two items, as in when one shops at a more expensive grocery store whose quality of product compensates its expense of price.       Answer:	Simpson Paradox3. This term, derived from the Italian sociologist and economist who devised it, describes a state in which it is impossible to improve one agent in a competition without making at least one other agent worse-off.       Answer:	Pareto efficiency24.  Identify the following concerning a mythological figure for the stated number of points.1. (15 points) One of the primordial deities in Sumerian legend, he was the god of the fresh water who with his consort produced the elder gods and were the grandparents of divine beings like Anu, Bel, and Ea, the latter of whom would kill him when he conspired to destroy all of creation.	Answer:	Apsu2. (5 points) Apsu was the first consort of this bloated female dragon, the queen of the salt water whose slaughter by Marduk is described in the Enuma Elish.	Answer:	Tiamat'3. (10 points) After Tiamat's destuction Marduk then had to kill this being, her second husband, from whose blood he created mankind.	Answer:	Kingu