TOSSUPS - PRINCETON #1			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Princeton's Jeff Hoppes, Lenny Kostovetsky, Brian Beck, Chris Frankel, Larissa Kelly, Brad Klein, Ben Malkevitch, Dave Sachs, Barbara Slote, Howesiang Tan, Will Wong, and Ray Yang1. It's not Romeo and Juliet, but it does contain a Juliet and an Escalus. It's not The Comedy of Errors, but it does contain an Angelo. It's not Much Ado About Nothing, but it does contain both a Claudio and "a simple constable." It's not a history play, but it does have a character named Pompey. It's not As You Like It, but the plot is set in motion by the departure of a Duke from his court. FTP name this Shakespeare play, in which the pious Isabella must choose between preserving her virtue and saving her brother's life.	Answer:	 Measure for Measure2. This effect is the spontaneous distortion of geometry in an electronically excited state which results when levels are split to reduce the energy of the overall system. The static effect occurs if the lowest energy level of a molecule is degenerate, in which case the molecule will distort spontaneously so as to remove the degeneracy and make one energy level more stable. FTP, name this effect, which derives part of its name from the Hungarian physicist who directed Los Alamos research on the Hydrogen bomb.	Answer:	 the Jahn-Teller effect (or theorem)3. His supposed affair with the Princess Dowager was a target of derision for the mobs who carried petticoats through the streets of London, pelted him with stones, and bought cartoons showing him performing indecent assault on the allegorical figure of Britannia. John Wilkes thought his 1763 treaty with France betrayed the English nation, and abused him relentlessly in the pages of The North Briton. FTP, name this favorite of George III, the first Scot to serve as British Prime Minister.	Answer:	 John Stuart, Third Earl of Bute4. At the bottom left, it's possible to see some fishermen on the river below, while on the right, a ploughman works the field. In the foreground, a hare runs for cover trying to escape the large object in the middle rushing toward the viewer. In this painting, sky, river, and land are dissolved in a haze of oil paint giving a striking impression of the three subjects in the title. Taking place on the Maidenhead railway bridge which spans the Thames, the outline of the train's black funnel is the only object clearly visible. FTP, what is this 1844 work, one of the most famous paintings of J.M.W. Turner.	Answer:	 Rain, Steam, and Speed: The Great Western Railway5. He is the subject of a historical fiction trilogy by the twentieth century German-Jewish author, Lion Feuchtwanger.  In this trilogy, Feuchtwanger tries to rehabilitate his image as a traitor by portraying him as a "citizen of the world" who abandons Judaea's fight for freedom to seek an undivided cosmopolitan world. The last volume in the trilogy, "Blank and the Emperor", emphasizes the contest of wills between the increasingly hostile Roman Emperor Domitian and this man who was also a friend and servant of Domitian's father and brother. FTP, who is this author of the Antiquities of the Jews and The Judaean War.	Answer:	 Josephus Flavius (or: Josephus Ben Matthias)6. In 2001, Peter Barss won for his report, "Injuries due to Falling Coconuts", Viliumas Malinauskus won for the Lithuanian amusement park known as Stalin World, John Richards won for his efforts to protect, promote, and defend the differences between plural and possessive, and Joel Slemrod won for his conclusion that people find ways to postpone their own deaths in order to qualify for a lower inheritance tax rate. The first received his for medicine, the second for peace, the third for literature, and the fourth for economics. FTP, first given out in 1991, what are these awards that are spoofs of the prizes given in Stockholm and Oslo?	Answer:	 the Ig-Nobel Prizes7. Humans were created when the moon was shot by an arrow. Its blood dripped down to the earth, where some of it mixed with water and became man. Thosemen descended from pure moon's blood were so fierce that they destroyed each other in war, like cannibals or jaguars. Such are the legendary origins of, FTP, what Venezuelan Indian tribe studied by the anthropologist Napoleon Chagnon, who is alleged to have infected them with measles in Patrick Tierney's book Darkness in El Dorado?	Answer:	 Yanomamo (or: Yanomami)
8. After he looted Soissons, he claimed a precious ewer from the city's church as his personal share of the plunder. When one of his soldiers disputed possession, he split the offender's head open with a battle-ax. Such ferocity served him well in his victorious campaigns against the Alamanni in 506 and the Visigoths in 507. FTP, name this son of Childeric and first Christian king of the Franks.	Answer:	 Clovis9. After being expelled from Rome by Domitian, he spent the rest of his life at Nicopolis in Greece. None of his writings are extant, and all we know of his teachings comes from the writings of his pupil Arrian. He chose to ignore the late Stoics, instead choosing Socrates and the cynic Diogenes as true models of a sage. Yet his philosophy that "apart from the will there is nothing good or bad, and that we must not try to anticipate or to direct events, but merely to accept them with intelligence" closely resembles Stoicism.  For ten points, the Discourses introduce the philosophy of what Greek freedman. 	Answer:	 Epictetus10. Removal of this organ from adults has little effect; in fact, throughout adult life it undergoes a gradual shrinking process called involution, in which its tissue is replaced by fat cells. Most of its function appears to affect newborns, who suffer from depleted lymphoid tissue and a fatal wasting disease if it is removed. Daughter cells produced in its cortex move into the bloodstream through the medullary veins. FTP, those cells are called "T cells" after this lymphoid organ found underneath the breastbone.	Answer:	 thymus11. Two brothers, James and Robert were 18th century Scottish architects and interior decorators who designed many English mansions in a new airy, elegant style that bears their name.  Three brothers, Francois, Lambert, and Nicholas were 18th century French artists who sculpted monuments for the French and Prussian royal residences including the Fountain of Neptune at Versailles. Adolphe was a 19th century French composer who wrote 71 operas, but is most famous for an 1841 ballet. FTP, what is the name shared by the composer of Giselle and the father of Cain?	Answer:	 Adam12. This battle took its name from the river in Thrace on whose banks the two sides were encamped. In each of the four days before the battle, Conon led his fleet of 180 triremes across the river hoping to draw the enemy's force into battle, but without success. Despite the warnings of Alcibiades, Conon and his men did not take proper precautions, and on the fifth day, after Conon's Athenian fleet made its usual sortie and returned to base, Lysander's fleet made a sudden dash across the river and pounced on the unprepared Athenians capturing their entire navy. FTP, what 405 BCE naval battle virtually ended the Peloponnesian War in favor of Sparta?	Answer:	 Aegospotami (pronounced e-gus-put-a-mie, but accept close alternatives)13. Bartok, Hindemith, Poulenc, and Britten wrote movements of this genre in piano suites, though it is most often associated with a composer from a century earlier. Mendelssohn offers up a horn choir as Titania caresses Bottom in the moonlight. Debussy prefers a female chorus in Sirènes (see-REN). But for these lilting pieces, the buck stops with the piano writings of an Irishman, John Field and his Polish devotee, Chopin, who wrote 21 of them. FTP namethese pieces which may make you sleepy.	Answer:	 nocturnes14. The protagonist of Amos Tutuola's The Palm-Wine Drinkard is attacked by about 400 of them as he leaves Deads' Town with his wife.  They also appear as the title of a Martin Amis novel describing a hedonistic weekend at Appleseed Rectory.  In a famous quote from The Bell Jar, Esther Greenwood states that a person in a bell jar, "blank and stopped as" one of them, might view the world as a bad dream.  FTP, name this popular subject of tasteless jokes, examples of which involve pitchforks, blenders, nails and lots of blood.	Answer:	 dead babies15. M.O. Scully of Texas A&M demonstrated that it is not necessarily needed for Phasonium. While in ordinary lasers, atoms must be pumped into the excited states, in Phasonium, the quantum structure allows lasing without this process. FTP, name this phenomenon central to the production of lasers, which is named after the abnormally high number of atoms in the excited states.	Answer:	 population inversion
16. When Ferdinand Magellan anchored off its coast in 1521, it was still a powerful Islamic state. Its power waned in the following centuries and it finally became a British protectorate in 1888. It gained independence in 1984, though Britain's Gurkha Rifles maintained a military presence to help protect this country's rich oil fields. It is no wonder that  its ruler Sultan Bolkial, is reputed to be the world's richest person. FTP, which tiny nation shares with Malaysia and Indonesia the island of Borneo?	Answer:	 Brunei17. He was born in Illinois and studied law in Kansas before being forced to leave town after impregnating a young woman. Boarding a train heading west, he traveled to the state that he would represent in public office for the next fifty years. In 1896, he became leader of his state's free silver Republicans, and for much of his career he maintained political independence from his party, gaining the nickname "the Great Opposer." In his 32 years in the Senate, he was a staunch isolationist, prohibitionist, and enemy of the New Deal.  FTP, what leading orator helped kill the League of Nations, advocated the Kellogg-Briand Pact, and represented the state of Idaho in the Senate.	Answer:	 William Edgar Borah18. It is the reddest object in the solar system because of the sulfurous volcanic eruptions from a neighboring moon, but it also has some green spots of an unknown nature. It is shaped like a potato and is strikingly similar to the Martian moon Phobos although it is ten times as large as Phobos.  It was discovered by Edward Barnard on September 9th, 1892, and it became the last moon of any planet to be discovered by direct visual observation through a telescope, and the first moon of its planet to be discovered since 1610. FTP, what moon named after a goat contains Mount Ida and is the fifth-largest moon of Jupiter?	Answer:	 Amalthea19. For her work in this show, Josefina Gabrielle was nominated for the Laurence Olivier Award. This may be due to the fact that she is the first actress ever to dance her own Dream Ballet in a major production during the musical's long history.  Currently playing at the Gershwin Theatre on Broadway, this musical features a near shotgun wedding between a traveling peddler and a girl who "cain't say no" to anyone's request for a kiss.  FTP, name this musical in which Laurey and Curly worry that people will say they're in love, set in territory where the corn is as high as an elephant's eye. 	Answer:	  Oklahoma!20. There are 24 Chapters in the main part of this book which include "Of Maeglin", "Of Eldamar and the Princes of the Eldalie", "Of Beren and Luthien", and "Of the Noldor in Beleriand." Also included is a short creation myth called the "Ainulindale", a summary of the Valar called the "Valaquenta", the story of the fall of Numenor called the "Akallabeth", along with various genealogy charts and a prequel to a more famous work. The work centers around Feanor and his descendants who follow the evil Morgoth to retrieve three precious jewels, but more familiar characters are Celeborn, Galadriel, and Elrond's father Earendil. FTP, what work was edited by the author's son Christopher and written by J.R.R. Tolkien. 	Answer:	 The Silmarillion21. In 1893, Sir Mortimer Durand signed a treaty with King Abdul Rahman Khan creating a boundary between Afghanistan and British India. Fifty-four years later, when Pakistan gained independence, Afghanistan claimed that the Durand line had been imposed by a stronger power on a weaker one and favored the establishment of another state west of the Indus River, but Pakistan retained control. In the 1970s, tribal leaders once again pushed for the creation of this state, but the movement was put on hold with the Soviet invasion. FTP, this is the history of what proposed country that would reunite the members of a certain tribe living in western Pakistan and southern Afghanistan. 	Answer:	 Pashtunistan (or: Pakhtunistan)22. One of the four animals of good omen in Chinese mythology, this being was originally recorded by Pliny as having the body of a horse, the head of a deer, the feet of an elephant, the tail of a boar, and a loud deep voice.  It could not be captured, only killed with the help of a young virgin.  FTP, name this mythological creature that shares its most famous characteristic with the narwhal.	Answer:	 unicorn
23. Its local name, "Kahlamba," means "jumble of pointed spears." Peaks include Majuba Hill, where the Boers destroyed a British column in 1881, and Thaba Bosiu, the "mountain of the night" where King Moshweshwe founded the nation that would become Lesotho. FTP, name this highest range in southern Africa that takes its more famous name from the Afrikaans meaning "mountains of the dragon."	Answer:	 Drakensberg
BONI - PRINCETON #1			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Princeton's Jeff Hoppes, Lenny Kostovetsky, Brian Beck, Chris Frankel, Larissa Kelly, Brad Klein, Ben Malkevitch, Dave Sachs, Barbara Slote, Howesiang Tan, Will Wong, and Ray Yang1. Sure, they all lived in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, but none of them were Amish for 10 points each.1. His first steamboat, the Clermont, began service on the Hudson River in 1807.	Answer:	 Robert Fulton2. While minister to Britain, this fifteenth president helped draft the Ostend Manifesto.	Answer:	 James Buchanan3. This precisionist artist painted "I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold" for William Carlos Williams.	Answer:	 Charles Demuth2. 5-10-15, identify the following Dutch painters1.(5) One of the first to use the technique of camera obscura,  he is best known for his soft use of light, in such works as "View of Delft."   Answer:	 Johannes (or Jan)  Vermeer2. (10) In 1598, at the age of 21, he was accorded the rank of master painter of the Antwerp Guild of St.Luke.  Later, while resident in Rome, he was influenced by the works of Michelangelo and Raphael, as well as by ancient sculpture.  One of his most famous works is "Prometheus Bound."       Answer:	 Peter Paul Rubens3. (15) One of Rubens' students, he showed promise at a very young age earning him the nickname "the Mozart of Painting." He became official painter to the English court at the age of 22, painting such portraits as "King Charles on Horseback."       Answer:	 Anthony Van Dyck3. 30-20-10.  Name the author from works.30. The Book of Urizen, The Song of Los.20.  America: A Prophesy, The Visions of the Daughters of Albion.10. Songs of Innocence, Songs of Experience.       Answer:	 William Blake4. In 1887, a famous experiment discovered that the length of a spark induced in the secondary circuit was dependent on the frequency of the light coming from the spark in the primary circuit. For 10 points each, name:1. This effect, which cannot be explained by classical electromagnetic theory.        Answer:	 photoelectric effect2. Its discoverer.        Answer:	 Heinrich Hertz3. The scientist who explained the photoelectric effect by theorizing the quantum nature of light.        Answer:	 Albert Einstein5. Identify the following related treaties for ten points each.10: On June 25, 1807, two European leaders met on a raft in the middle of the Neman River. They were later joined by Frederick William III of Prussia and two weeks later, two treaties of this name were signed.Answer:	 Treaties of Tilsit10: Five years earlier, Napoleon signed this treaty with Great Britain temporarily ending the Napoleonic Wars, but a year later hostilities resumed when England refused to restore Malta to the Knights Hospitalers.Answer:	 Treaty of Amiens10: Five years earlier, the Directory signed a treaty with Austria dividing Northern Italy between France and Austria.Answer:	 Treaty of Campo Formio
6. Identify these things that may or may not be related, for 10 points each.1. In John 20:27, this disciple doubts the resurrection until he can touch the wound on Jesus' side.	Answer:	 Thomas2. In the eighth century, the Byzantine empire abandoned the old Roman	provinces in favor of these units that combined civil and military administration.       Answer:	 themes3. Though the medium for this genre has evolved from lute in the 17th century to keyboard in the 19th to orchestral in the 20th, it is always indicative of an fanciful, episodic quality.       Answer:	 fantasia (also grudgingly accept: fantasy or fantasie)7. Extinct sea creatures, for 10 points each.1. These cephalopods related to the modern chambered nautilus were among the less famous victims of extinction at the end of the Cretaceous.	Answer:	 ammonoids (or: ammonites)2. The largest arthropod ever known was Pterygotus buffaloenis of the Silurian. The 10-foot giant was a marine type of this creature.	Answer:	 giant sea scorpions or euriptyerids3. Some have speculated that the Loch Ness monster is the solitary survivor of this group of long-necked reptiles.		Answer:	 plesiosaurs8. Identify the following Joseph Conrad novels from characters on a 5-10-15 basis: 1. (5) The Brickmaker, The Chief Accountant, The Russian trader, and the first-person narrator who is on the Nellie with the more famous narrator of the story.        Answer:	 Heart of Darkness 2. (10)  Martin Decoud, Antonia Avellanos, Emilia Gould, Guzman Bento, and the title character who is the Capataz de Cargadores.        Answer:	 Nostromo 3. (15) The sailors Donkin and the title character, whose real name is Jimmy Wait.        Answer:	 The Nigger of the Narcissus9. Name the song cycles for 10 points each.1. Schumann delivers various and sundry thoughts on love, appropriately enough in verse by Heinrich Heine.       Answer:	 Dichterliebe (or: Poet's Love)2. Mahler speaks in both words in music as a guy on the go. Several of the melodies to these four songs later found their way into his symphonies.	Answer:	 Songs of a Wayfarer (or: Lieder eines Fahrenden Gesellen) 3. Schoenberg leaves the tune to the chamber ensemble in this set of 21 poems written by symboliste (sam-bo-LEEST) Albert (ahl-BEAR) Giraud (zhee-ROW) and recited by a soprano. The title refers to a commedia dell'arte (dell-ar tay) character.       Answer:	 Pierrot Lunaire10. For 10 points each, give the following about chemical bonding:1. Expand the acronym: VSEPR (pronounced: "vesper")       Answer:	 Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion2. The rule that state that electrons remain unpaired in orbitals of identical energy if possible, in order to minimize electron-electron repulsion.       Answer:	 Hund's Rule3. In quantum chemistry, this is the chemical bond with a "sausage roll" shape formed by the sideways overlap of two d orbitals. There is very little interaction since they just face each other with a large distance between them. It is the other bond in Nitrogen gas besides the sigma bond.        Answer:	 delta bond
11. Answer the following questions about Willa Cather for 10 points each:1. Before she wrote her first novel, she worked for seven years on the editorial board of what magazine?       Answer:	 McClure's Magazine2.  She was close friends with another regionalist writer, most of whose works are set in New England.       Answer:	 Sarah Orne Jewett3.  Many consider this novel about Jean Latour to be Cather's masterpiece.       Answer:	 Death Comes for the Archbishop12. Suspicious plots from seventeenth-century England, for 10 points each. 1. 1605: Guy Fawkes and four co-conspirators were foiled in their attempt to blow up the Houses and Parliament. And there was much rejoicing.	Answer:	 Gunpowder Plot2. 1678: Titus Oates, an Anglican clergyman and convicted perjurer, fabricated evidence of a conspiracy by shadowy Jesuits, setting off a wave of popular hysteria.	Answer:	 Popish Plot3. 1683: Disaffected Whigs like the Duke of Monmouth planned to assassinate Charles II because of his excessive toleration for Roman Catholics. 	Answer:	 Rye House Plot13. And now for something completely different, answer the following questions about Monty Python for the stated number of points..1. (10) This Python movie's opening credits indicate that it was directed by Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones and Forty Specially Trained Ecuadorian Mountain Llamas, 6 Venezuelan Red Llamas, 142 Mexican Whooping Llamas, 14 North Chilean Guanacos, the Reg Llama of Brixton and 76,000 Battery Llamas.        Answer:	 Monty Python and the Holy Grail2. (5) This film ends with a song telling you that "If life seems jolly rotten, There's something you've forgotten, And that's to laugh and smile and dance and sing." 	Answer:	 Monty Python's Life of Brian3. (15) Monty Python and the Meaning of Life would be too easy, but before it begins, there's a short feature in which an accounting firm embarks upon the high seas of international finance in order to take over the richest jewel in the crown of the I.M.F.  The pirate company's name is the same as the short's, so for 15 points, name either. 	Answer:	 The Crimson Permanent Assurance Company 14. Answer the following questions about Adam Smith for the stated number of points 1. (15) Smith became professor of moral philosophy at the University of Glasgow where he wrote this 1759 work.        Answer:	 Theory of Moral Sentiments 2. (10) While traveling on the continent, Smith met this Frenchman and became interested in economics.        Answer:	 Francois Quesnay 3. (5) In his Wealth of Nations, Smith uses this place to postulate his theory of division of labor.        Answer:	 pin factory       15. Name these saintly rivers for 10 points each.1. Jacques Cartier met the Iroquois along this river in 1534.Answer:	 Saint Lawrence River2. A tributary of the Mississippi, it forms much of the boundary between Minnesota and Wisconsin.	Answer:	 Saint Croix River3. Named for a 16th-century Jesuit from the house of Borgia, this is the longest river entirely within Brazil.	Answer:	 Sao Francisco River16. Identify the following authors whose names do not begin with the letter Z from works, for 10 points each. 1.  The poem "Babi Yar"       Answer:	 Yevgeny Yevtushenko2. Soul Mountain and Bus Stop       Answer:	 Gao Xingjian3. The poems "Lapis Lazuli" and "The Lake Isle of Innisfree"       Answer:	 William Butler Yeats
17. Name these things about Mormonism for 10 points each.1. Joseph Smith claimed that the golden plates of the Book of Mormon were given to him by this angel, who shares his name with the capital of the Comoros.	Answer:	 Moroni2. After Smith and his followers were forced to leave Missouri in 1839, they settled in Illinois, where they built this town. (They packed up and left again seven years later.)	Answer:	 Nauvoo3. According to the Book of Mormon, two groups of Hebrews settled in North America circa 600 CE, one a virtuous group that was exterminated, and one a wicked group that did the exterminating. Name either for a final 10 points.	Answers: Nephites and Lamanites, respectively18. Planes (Plah-nays), which combined a statement of grievances with a call to action, are a recurring feature in Mexican history. Identify these examples for 10 points each.1.This plan (plahn) was identified with Emiliano Zapata's agrarian movement, and called for the complete restoration of land to indigenous peoples.   Answer:	 Plan de Ayala (or: Plan of Ayala)2.Espoused by Liberals such as Benito Juárez, this plan called for the overthrow of Santa Anna and paved the way for the War of the Reform.   Answer:	 Plan de Ayutla (or: Plan of Ayutla)3.Porfirio Díaz and his associates published this plan, a pretext for restoring authoritarian rule, shortly before seizing power in 1876.       Answer:	 Plan de Tuxtepec (or: Plan of Tuxtepec)19. Given an atom, tell whether it decays by alpha emission, beta emission, electron capture, or is stable for 10 points each.1.  Nickel-67       Answer:	 beta emission2. Oxygen-18       Answer:	 stable3. Xenon-116       Answer:	 electron capture20. If you know Chinese, some of the city names in China will actually make some sense to you. Given the literal translation,  you'll get 15 points for naming the city. 10 points if you need a further clue.1. (15) "Fragrant harbor"(10) It was ceded to the British after the First Opium War.       Answer:	 Hong Kong (or: Xiang Gang)2. (15) "Western peace"(10) It was the capital of China during the Han and Tang dynasties. The tomb of Shih Huang Ti with its gigantic terra cotta army is located near this city.        Answer:	 Xian (pronounced: cee-AN) (prompt on: "Changan" or "Xian Yang")21. For 10 points each, answer these questions about logical positivism.1. This Austrian was not, strictly speaking, one of the logical positivists, but his Tractatus was much admired by them.       Answer:	 Ludwig Wittgenstein2. This group of positivists organized the Ernst Mach Association in the 1920's.       Answer:	 Vienna Circle (or: Wiener Kreis)3. This philosopher headed the Vienna Circle.       Answer:	 Moritz Schlick	