TOSSUPS - FINALS						MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions by Cal-Berkeley with a little help from Charlie Steinhice1.	In some areas of the world, where the genus Ascaris is very common, a child is not considered part ofthe tribe until one of these is sneezed out.  Many species are parasitic and live in the intestines of pigs,horses, dogs, and other large mammals.  FTP, what is the name of the phylum containing theorganisms commonly known as roundworms?	Answer: nematoda; accept roundworms until phylum is stated2.	It's reminiscent of earlier poetic works in many ways. The a-b-a-b-c-b-c-b rhyming scheme echoes Robert Dodsley's 18th century "Man's a Poor Deluded Bubble" and 19th century sonnets by Tennyson's brother Charles Turner, while the call-and-response repetition of the second line every other line in the most familiar passage evokes the style of African-American poet Etheridge Knight.  The storyline is also familiar: the narrator pleads with his beloved to ignore her family's wishes and choose his proposal over that of a wealthier noble rival, who has "diamonds in his pockets."  This Eric Schenkman work about a man with "no future or family tree" peaked at #7 on the Billboard charts in 1993. FTP name this song, from the album Pocket Full of Kryptonite, by the Spin Doctors.	Answer: Two Princes3.	A tour of duty in the defense of Cyprus didn't go well for this Venetian general.  His father-in-law Brabantio disowned the woman he eloped with.  His second-in-command Cassio drank a little too much wine and drunkenly fought with Roderigo.  Worst of all, he was led to believe that Cassio was also having an affair with his wife Desdemona.  FTP, identify this Moor who is deceived by the villain Iago into killing his wife and eventually himself in a Shakespeare tragedy.      Answer:  Othello4.	Holy Roman Emperor Charles V feared the spread of Martin Luther's doctrines. Luther fled to Wartburg Castle in Saxony under the protection of Frederick the Wise after he was declared an outlaw within the Holy Roman Empire.  Charges leading to that decree were brought against Luther at, FTP, what meeting of the imperial government in 1521?      Answer: The Diet of Wurms5.	The lotus, mace, conch, and discus are found in each hand of this blue or black skinned god. He is often associated with Indra as the preserver of the universe. His first incarnation was Matysa, a fish, and his tenth has yet to be seen. The other three major avatars include Rama, Krishna, and Buddha. FTP which Hindu god forms the major triad along with Brahma and Shiva?	Answer: Vishnu6.	She first appears in a wet dress and settles in her mother's home, establishing herself as a spoiled twenty-year-old baby who loves anything sweet.  Like a child, she demands the undivided attention of her mother, eventually preventing her mother from leaving their home at 124 Bluestone Road.  FTP, identify this ghost whose tombstone was engraved with one of the only two words her mother heard at her funeral, the daughter of Sethe and title character of the fifth novel written by Toni Morrison.      Answer:  Beloved7.	In an October 1998 interview in the Southern Partisan magazine, he praised Jefferson Davis and Stonewall Jackson as patriots.  He thwarted the appointment to the Federal bench of fellow Missourian Judge Ronnie White, which led over 95% of African-American voters to vote for his dead opponent in 2000.  FTP, who is this former Missouri Senator recently confirmed as George W. Bush's Attorney General?	Answer: John Ashcroft   8.	Beginning in the fall of 1913, he had recurring visions of a "monstrous flood" turning to blood and engulfing most of Europe. He thought he was becoming psychotic until the next year, when World War I began.  He decided there had been a connection, somehow, between himself as an individual and humanity in general that could not be explained away.  This led him to theories that developed the concept of the shadow, and the animus and anima. He also described the extrovert and introvert personality types, but he is better known for his theories about universal archetypes. FTP, who enlarged Freud's definition of personal unconscious to include the collective unconscious?	Answer: Carl Gustav Jung9.	It can be calculated by setting kinetic energy equal to gravitational potential energy, so that the total energy is zero at infinity. For a body with gravitational acceleration g and radius r, it is given by the square root of two times g times r. It is approximately 617.6 kilometers per second for the Sun, and 11.2 kilometers per second or 7 miles per second on the Earth. FTP, what is this speed useful for launching things into space?	Answer:	escape velocity10.	Regarded by Felix Mendelssohn as "too sacred for frequent use," this musical instrument was known in fifteenth century England as the sackbut.  It could play a complete chromatic scale, unlike other early brass instruments, making it very popular with Renaissance and Baroque composers.  The instrument of choice of Raul de Souza and Jack Teagarden, name, FTP, this brass instrument notable for its slide mechanism, and with a range below that of the trumpet in pitch.      Answer:  trombone11.	The treaty ending this war was negotiated by Nicholas Philip Trist.  The United States' cause was so questionable that an Illinois congressman introduced many Spot Resolutions asking on what spot of U.S. soil soldiers had been fired upon.  Heroes of the war included John C. Fremont and Zachary Taylor.  FTP name this war fought from 1846-1848 which secured the southwestern United States from our southern neighbor.      Answer:	Mexican War or Mexican-American War12.	The Oak Ridge Boys, Blues Traveller, and Neil Sedaka all had songs inspired by this author and his creations.  That may seem odd for a lecturer in mathematics at Christ Church, Oxford, whose dry scholarly works included An Elementary Treatise on Determinants and Symbolic Logic. FTP what author, born Charles Dodgson, is more famous for writing the novels Through the Looking Glass and Alice's Adventures in Wonderland?	Answer: Lewis Carroll (accept Charles Dodgson before mention)13.	Dr. Edwin James in 1820 and Julia Archibald Holmes in 1858 were the first man and first woman to climb it, defying its namesake's prediction that no one would ever reach its summit. This mountain was originally named "Grand Peak" by the man whose name cartographers would assign to it.  In 1893, the view from the top inspired Katherine Lee Bates to write the lyrics to "America the Beautiful".  FTP, what is this mountain, named after a guy named Zebulon, located just outside Colorado Springs?	Answer: Pike's Peak14.	Often found in automobile ignition systems, these objects are often called "condensors" because of their presumed ability to "condense" electricity.  The current across this circuit element leads an alternating current by 90 degrees, but it completely blocks the flow of electricity when a direct current is applied across it.  FTP, identify this circuit element first made in Leiden (pronounced LIE den) in the mid-eighteenth century, whose most notable characteristic is its ability to store electricity, and which is often represented in a circuit as two parallel lines.      Answer:  capacitor
15.	This project was originally undertaken by William J. Reynolds, a New York State Senator. At the top four corners of the building are a pair of stainless steel eagle gargoyles. Despite its magnificent marbles and interesting ceiling murals, the lobby was very dark for decades until the building's new owner, Tishman Speyer Properties, undertook a major restoration that was completed in 1999. The stainless steel top was installed in 90 minutes on November 1929, much to the surprise of the public and the Bank of Manhattan. FTP, name the work of William Van Allen that is named for a company now merged with Daimler.	Answer: Chrysler Building16.	In The Varieties of Religious Experience, he argues that an article of religious faith is "true" when it provides emotional satisfaction. In the first chapter of The Principles of Psychology, he advances the concept of Stream of Consciousness. Some of his earlier works include Human Immortality and The Will to Believe and Other Essays. He gave a series of lectures on pragmatism at Lowell University and Columbia University collected in the works Pragmatism and The Meaning of Truth. FTP, name this famous American philosopher and psychologist, brother of Henry James.	Answer: William James17.	She earned the bronze medal in the 2000 Olympics in women's tennis, four years after the last of her 9 Grand Slam titles.  An investor in the All Star Cafe, she was the only female athlete to be a partner in that venture.  We'll never know how different her career would have been if she'd never encountered Guenter Parche.  FTP name this female tennis star, identified by her signature audible grunting, who was once stabbed in the back during a match by a fan of Steffi Graf.	Answer: Monica Seles18.	Notoriously egotistical, he counted among his few close friends Andre Malraux.  Roosevelt never trusted him and frequently tried to replace him with rival Henri Giraud, and the British undercut his popular support by sinking the French fleet in North Africa after it refused to defect to him.  But he held onto his leadership post and headed the French provisional government from 1944 to 1946.  He returned to power with the establishment of the fifth republic. FTP name this leader of the "Free French" movement during World War II and namesake of a Paris airport.	Answer: Charles de Gaulle19.	Brine shrimp spend nearly thirty percent of their resting metabolic rate preventing this physical phenomenon from causing them to shrivel.  First extensively studied by a German plant physiologist in 1877, it gives rise to a type of pressure that was found by van't Hoff to be a colligative property of solutions.  FTP, identify this phenomenon that causes the turgidity of plants and is the process where water diffuses through a semi-permeable membrane.        Answer:  osmosis20.	To get to Elysian Fields, one must ride this and transfer to Cemeteries.  The main character mourns the loss of the estate Belle Reve but admits that, after her failed marriage to the effeminate Allan, she began taking lovers at the Tarantula Arms.  FTP, identify this play in which Stanley Kowalski drives Blanche DuBois to madness, written by Tennessee Williams.      Answer:  A Streetcar Named Desire21.	The name's the same. The last name of the Bostonian who, along with John Adams, defended the British soldiers involved in the Boston Massacre.  The name of a university in Illinois affiliated with the Franciscan Friars, whose mascot is the hawk. The name of Jason's pet iguana in the comic strip Foxtrot.  The first name of the producer and conductor of "We are the World." FTP, identify the common name, also the middle name of the sixth president of the United States.      Answer:  Quincy
22.	Formally defined it's the limit as h approaches zero of the quantity f of x plus h minus f of x all divided by h given that limit exists.  Other definitions include the rate of change or instantaneous velocity of a function with respect to a variable. FTP, identify this term from mathematics, that geometrically is the slope of a function's graph.      Answer: derivative (accept differentiation during the first sentence)23.	The Treaty of Paris of 1856 set up a commission to supervise this body of water as an international waterway.  A canal built in 1992 between it and the Main River allows ships to travel between the Black Sea and the North Sea.  This river rises in the Black Forest and flows into the Black Sea 1770 miles later, making it the second longest river in Europe.  FTP, identify this neither beautiful nor blue river along which Budapest and Vienna lie.      Answer:  Danube River
BONI - FINALS							MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions by Cal-Berkeley with a little help from Charlie Steinhice1.	It ain't always good to be da King. Identify the European monarch during each of these domestic uprisings, FTSNOP:5) He and his wife Marie Antoinette were beheaded in the main event of the French Revolution.	Louis XVI5) This Tsar of Russia and his entire family was shot to death in central Russia in the aftermath of the Russian Revolution. Yes, that includes Anastasia.  Sorry to disappoint you.	Answer: Nicholas II10) This English King, removed from power by the Glorious Revolution of 1688, fled to France and got to stay alive.	Answer: James II10) This Tsar of Russia handled things a bit differently.  Not only did he crush the Decembrist Revolt of 1825, but he also established a widespread secret police to make damn sure it didn't happen again.	Answer: Nicholas I2.	I think Garcia Marquez' One Hundred Years of Solitude has come up at every single tournament this year.  For the benefit of those who have actually read it, answer the following FTPE.10) What is the name of the central family, which means "good day" in Spanish?	Answer: Buend’a (accept Buend’as)10) What is the name of the isolated, mythical town founded by the Buend’as where most of the novel (and some other Garcia Marquez stories) takes place?	Answer: Macondo10) This mysterious character, who remembers the future as well as the past, comes back from the dead to cure the inhabitants of Macondo.  Sure he can do that - hey, it's magical realism, remember?	Answer: Melquiades3.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: Your genial quizmaster's concert-going experiences include seeing Peter, Paul, and Mary, as well as three artists whose careers got a major boost from that influential trio.  Name them on a 10-5 basis:10) Peter, Paul, and Mary gave this singer/songwriter his first major exposure by recording his "Blowin' in the Wind" and "Don't Think Twice, It's All Right."5) Charlie prefers to list such lesser-known masterpieces as "Lily, Rosemary, and the Jack of Hearts," "Tangled Up in Blue,"and "Hurricane" but grudgingly admits that the five-point clue should include the vastly inferior "Lay Lady Lay" and "The Times, They Are a-Changing."      Answer:	Bob Dylan10) Peter, Paul, and Mary gave this singer/songwriter his first major exposure by recording his "Leavin' on a Jet Plane."5) Charlie prefers to list such lesser-known masterpieces as "The Ballad of St. Anne's Reel", "The Eagle and the Hawk," and "Wild Montana Skies" but grudgingly admits that the five-point clue should include the vastly inferior "Sunshine on My Shoulders" and "Rocky Mountain High."      Answer: 	John Denver10) Peter, Paul, and Mary gave this singer/songwriter his first major exposure by recording his "The Early Morning Rain" and "For Lovin' Me."5)  Charlie prefers to list such lesser-known masterpieces as "Seven Islands Suite", "Make Way for the Lady," and "Canadian Railroad Trilogy" but grudgingly admits that the five-point clue should include the vastly inferior "Sundown" and "The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald."      Answer:	Gordon Lightfoot
4.	Answer the following questions on the ammonia molecule, 5-10-20-30:a) What is the chemical formula of the ammonia molecule?	Answer: NH3b) What is the molecular geometry of ammonia?	Answer:	trigonal pyramid (accept trigonal pyramidal or pyramidal)c) What is the hybridization of the central nitrogen atom in the ammonia molecule?	Answer:	sp3d) In Sept. 1997, at his first-ever practice as coach, Charlie told UTC's players that this would come up frequently, and Lord, has it ever.  Once more for old time's sake, name the German chemist who won the 1918 Nobel in Chemistry for a process to synthesize ammonia.	Answer:	Fritz Haber5.	Identify these kindred spirits of Eiffel 65, artists who liked the color blue a lot, 5-10-20-30.This artist's Blue Period lasted from 1901 to 1905.  During this time, he painted melancholy works that consisted primarily of different hues of blue.      Answer:  Pablo Ruiz y PicassoThis Russian cofounded the artistic group known as Der Blaue Reiter, or The Blue Rider, in 1911.  His abstract paintings, including one called "Blue Painting," are often called Improvisations or Compositions.       Answer:  Wassily KandinskyKandinsky's Blaue Reiter cofounder was this German, whose works included lots of studies of horses.  He died at the battle of Verdun while on a horseback reconnaissance ride.        Answer: Franz Marc This artist painted Nocturne in Blue and Gold:  Old Battersea Bridge, and designed the Peacock Room, whose walls were covered with blue-green paint decorated with peacocks in gold leaf.      Answer:  James Abbott McNeill Whistler6.	Identify the authors of these works of German language literature FTSNOP.  Titles are in English so the reader won't accidentally spit on you.5) The Trial and The Castle	Answer: Franz Kafka5)  Local Anesthetic, Dog Years, and The Tin Drum	Answer: Gunter Grass10)  The Silent Angel, The Clown, and Billiards at Half Past Nine	Answer: Heinrich Boll10) The Twins and Confusion, or Storm and Stress	Answer: Friedrich von Klinger7.	Answer these questions about a United States political scandal of the mid 1980's FTSNOP.5)  What Middle Eastern country secretly purchased arms from the United States, in violation of existing law?	Answer: Iran5)  Profits from the sales were funneled to rebels fighting the Sandinistas in this Central American country.	Answer: Nicaragua5)  This Lieutenant Colonel, the chief negotiator of these deals, would later run for the Senate from Virginia.	Answer: Oliver North15) Overshadowed by North were two bigger fish charged in the scandal, successive National Security Advisors to President Reagan who officially were in charge of the operation.  Name one for 5 or both for 15. 	Answer: Robert MacFarlane and John Poindexter 8.	If you know your four-chambered friend real well, you'll do fine with this question. Give the part of the heart that is described FTPE.10) This is the where the superior and inferior vena cava direct blood from the body into.	Answer: Right Atrium10) This the large artery that takes the blood from the heart to the lungs to be oxygenated.	Answer: Pulmonary Artery10) Located on the top wall of the right atrium, it sends the impulses to make the heart beat. It is often referred to as the natural pacemaker	Answer: SA node or sinoatrial node9.	Float down a stream of consciousness and answer the following related questions FTPE.10) Identify the author of The View From Saturday and From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler	Answer: E. L. Konigsburg10) This Swiss mathematician solved the Bridges of Konigsberg Problem.	Answer: Leonhard Euler (pronounced Oiler, but accept Euler)10) The Edmonton Oilers won 5 Stanley Cups in seven years against three different teams. One team faced them in 1984, another in 1985 and 1987, and the third in 1988 and 1990. Name any two of those teams F5PE.	Answer: New York Islanders, Philadelphia Flyers, Boston Bruins        (accept Boston or Philadelphia; prompt on New York)10.	Identify the legendary figure 30-20-10-5-1.30) The daughter of King Leodegance, she ended up either in a nunnery or as a prisoner of the Picts, depending on which version you believe. 20) She was kidnapped once by Meliagraunce and once by Mordred. 10) Lancelot rescued her from both Meliagraunce and Mordred, and became her lover. Her dowry was the Round Table. 5) She was the legendary wife of King Arthur.1) She inspired the song "Guinevere" in Camelot and the song "Guinevere" by Crosby, Stills, Nash, & Young.	Answer: Guinevere11.	Identify the following bays from around the world from clues FTPE:Principal ports along this wide inlet of the North Atlantic Ocean include Nantes, La Rochelle, and Bordeaux in France and Bilbao and Aviles in Spain.      Answer: Bay of BiscayThis inlet of the Tasman Sea was the site of Captain James Cook's first Australian landing in 1770. Its shores are now ringed by the suburbs of Sydney.      Answer: Botany BayJuan Rodriguez Cabrillo sailed into this southern California bay in 1542 and a monument to him lies at the tip of Point Loma, the peninsula that encircles it along with Coronado Island.      Answer: San Diego Bay12.	Answer the following heavy questions FTPE.This is the postulated quantum that is thought to be the carrier of the gravitational field. These, like photons, would be massless and electrically uncharged particles that would travel at the speed of light and would be emitted by extremely massive bodies like stars.      Answer: gravitonsThis unit of acceleration is used to measure gravity. Named for an Italian physicist, one of these equals the change in rate of motion of one centimeter per second squared.      Answer: gal This law of physics states that gravitational and inertial forces are similar in nature and indistinguishable. It states that if one were free falling in a uniform gravitational field, no one would be aware that they were in a state of nonuniform motion. It was confirmed through the studies of Einstein.      Answer: equivalence principle or principle of equivalence
13.	Abraham Lincoln wasn't the only famous American involved in the Black Hawk War of 1832.  Name these others FTSNOP.5) It was fought in the first place because Black Hawk repudiated a treaty signed by other Sauk and Fox chieftains, selling 48 million acres for 1 cent each plus lots of whiskey.  The U.S. commissioner who secured the deal was this hero of Tippecanoe, who despite his age served as an officer in the Black Hawk War too.	Answer: William Henry Harrison5) He served as lieutenant of a group of regular troops from Mississippi, but is far better known for serving as the president of the Confederacy.	Answer: Jefferson Davis5) Known as "Old Rough and Ready," and the "hero of Buena Vista," this future President commanded the main U.S. infantry force at the battle (or more accurately massacre) at Bad Axe River.	Answer: Zachary Taylor10) The man actually in charge of U.S. forces in the Black Hawk War, his only other claim to fame is the founding of Ft. Leavenworth.	Answer: Henry Atkinson5) As was the case with the Cherokee removal, the 2nd Seminole War, and even the Aroostook War, the guy left to clean up the mess was this general, "Old Fuss and Feathers," whose service also included the War of 1812, the Mexican War, and the Civil War.	Answer: Winfield Scott14.	We just can't get through a tournament without paying homage to Chattanooga's coolest native son, Samuel L. Jackson.  Answer the following questions about perhaps his best movie, Pulp Fiction, FTPE.	Answer: Quentin Tarantino15) John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson played two thick-witted hitmen. For 5 points for one or 15 for both, give their characters' names.  Either first or last name is acceptable.	Answer: Vincent Vega (accept Vince or Vincent or Vega) and Jules Winnfield 10) According to Travolta's character Vincent Vega, what do they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?	Answer: Royale with cheese15. Name these characters from John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men FTSNOP:5) Like Bullwinkle, this large oafish man doesn't understand his own strength.  His love of petting soft things usually leads to their demise, and eventually his.	Answer: Lennie Small [accept either name]5)  Lennie's companion, this ranch hand repeatedly tells him about what life will be like on a Rabbit Ranch.	Answer: George Milton [accept either name]10)  This man's unnamed, flirtatious wife, eventually accidentally killed by Lennie, is the only female character in the story.  	Answer: Curly10) The story's only African American, this proud, bitter man's name comes from the condition of his back.	Answer: Crooks16.	Charlie always seems to find room for a one-hit wonder question - but this time the subject is opera.  Given the one and only opera a given composer wrote, name the composer, 5-10-20-30:A.	Fidelio      Answer:  Ludwig van BeethovenB.	Duke Bluebeard's Castle      Answer:	Bela BartokC.	Rosamunde      Answer:  Franz SchubertD.	Pelleas et Melisande      Answer: Claude Debussy
17.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: OK, so it's a challenge to write a Travels with Charlie lead-in to a bonus on the Mesozoic Era, but (as we mentioned at the Haskins) it was on a roadtrip to Nashville that Charlie discovered the board game Dino Hunt, which inspired this question.  Given a list of dinosaurs, FTPE tell whether they flourished in the Triassic, Jurassic, or Cretaceous:Allosaurus, Diplodocus      Answer: JurassicIguanadon, Maiasaurus      Answer: CretaceousMelanosaurus, Herrerasaurus      Answer: Triassic18.	Identify the following people involved in the Peloponnesian War FTPE.10) He recorded the events of the war up until 411 BC in his History of the Peloponnesian War, written in exile.	Answer: Thucydides10) This popular democratic leader of Athens was in power at the beginning of the war, but died of the plague early on. He commissioned the building of the Parthenon using money from the Delian League.	Answer: Pericles10) The most colorful character of the Peloponnesian War, this amoral Athenian nobleman defected to the Spartans after being accused of mutilating some sacred statues in Athens. During the course of the war he defected from the Spartans to the Persians and then back to Athens.	Answer: Alcibiades19.	Since it has been just over 100 years since the death of Oscar Wilde, let's see how well you remember The Picture of Dorian Grey.  Answer the following FTPE:a) In the beginning of the novel, this is the man that is painting Dorian's portrait.	Answer: Basil Hallward (accept either name)b) This is Basil's friend who visits him and eventually uses and abuses Dorian as somewhat of an experimental subject.	Answer: Lord Henry Wotton (accept either name)c) She is the actress that falls in love with Dorian. But when she becomes infatuated with Dorian and can no longer act, Dorian shuns her and she eventually commits suicide.	Answer: Sibyl Vane (accept either name)20.	Identify the Jewish holidays from a description FTSNOP:                                                        5)  This is the name given for the Jewish calendar's New Year celebration.                                                                 	Answer:  Rosh Hashanah5)  This holiday occurs about a week after Jewish New Year.  Known as the day of atonement, it is marked by a fast from sundown to sundown.                                          	Answer:   Yom Kippur                                                                                                                           10) Also called the feast of Esther, this feast takes its name from the Persian for "lots" because of the lots the bad guy of the story, Haman, cast when he was plotting against the Jews.	Answer:  Purim10) Also known as the Feast of Tabernacles, this holiday fourteen days after the New Year marks the end of the harvest. 	Answer:  Sukkot or (I'm gonna get you) Sukkah
21.	The last of the five good emperors of Rome, Marcus Aurelius is all the more renowned these days for the (woefuly inaccurate) depiction of his death in Gladiator. Answer the about the reign of Marcus Aurelius FTPE.10) Being the last of the good emperors, Marcus actually advised this emperor who preceded him. This emperor adopted both Marcus and Lucius Verus to be his sons and heirs.	Answer: Antoninus Pius10) Marcus Aurelius kept a sort of diary during the Parthian war. It is known today as a collection of 12 short books of detached thoughts and sentences.	Answer: Meditations10) Marcus is usually considered a follower of this school of thought, which he constantly attempt to attain its ideal of perfection.	Answer: Stoicism22.	Shake, rattle and roll seems to the be the theme these days for many regions around the world, especially the Pacific Rim. Given a brief description identify the area that was shaken up by an earthquake identify it FTPe.10) With estimate topping over $2 billion dollars in damage to a nearby city, this 6.8 magnitude quake was centered in Nisqually Valley. Only 250 people were injured and amazing no one was killed.	Answer: Pacific Northwest, or Seattle, or Olympia or Washington 10) Two major earthquakes hit this country on January 13 and February 13 of this year. More than 1,200 people have been killed as a results. President Fransisco Flores has appealed to many nations for aid for not only the quake damage but from damage done by Hurricane Mitch.      Answer: El Salvador10) Roughly two weeks following the Jan 13th El Salvador quake, a 7.9 monster hit this area. Damages are still uncertain, but the fatalities number over 19,000 people expected to rise to over 30,000. Five each for the state and country.	Answer: Gujarat (state), India (country)23.	To salute the final season of Star Trek: Voyager, answer following about the life of Tom Paris for the FTSNOP.10) The Chief Engineer of Voyager, she is the former member of the Maquis terrorists who is now married to Tom.	Answer: B'Elanna Torres10) This advanced shuttlecraft was create onboard Voyager. It sports a duranium hull and photonic missles. It controls are suits for who else but Tom Paris.	Answer: Delta Flyer10) Of course, you know by now that Paris is the helmsman of Voyager. What class of starship is it?	Answer: Intrepid-Class