TOSSUPS - U. OF CENTRAL FLORIDA 	MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Chris Borglum1)  As a nine-year old, he narrates the short story "That Evening Sun Go Down," in which Nancy, subbing for the ill Dilsey, fears for her life.  As a Harvard undergrad, overwhelmed by his archaic Southern emphasis on honor, he cannot accept Dalton Ames' seduction of his sister, so he drowns himself in the Charles River.  This is, FTP, what brother of Caddy, Benjy and Jason in Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury?	Answer:	  Quentin Compson2) It was thought to have first took place in 1775, and has since been an established town holiday, occurring every May 10th.  Bart, however, discovers a discrepancy, noting that on the day Jebediah Springfield founded the holiday, he also was supposedly besieging Fort Ticonderoga.  He and Lisa then enlist Barry White's basso profundo to lure away the serpentine victims.  This is, FTP, what snake-killing day featured on "The Simpsons"?	Answer:	Whacking Day3)  Rumors persist that one of her sex scenes in Boxcar Bertha with then-lover David Carradine wasn't simulated.  We know for certain that the ones in The Entity were, though, since her character was being assaulted by a ghost.  Better roles include the femme fatale Harriet Bird in The Natural, actress Nina Franklin in The Stunt Man, and teacher Myra Fleener in Hoosiers.  FTP name this actress, nominated for an Oscar for The Portrait of a Lady and honored at Cannes for Shy People, but perhaps more recognized as Bette Midler's unlikely friend in Beaches.	Answer:	Barbara Hershey4)  It has a low work ratio, and its thermal efficiency can be derived from the difference between its hot and cold reservoir temperatures.  It begins with isoentropic expansion, moves through isothermal heat rejection, then to isoentropic compression, and ends with isothermal heat supply.  FTP name this theoretical engine, the most efficient allowed by the second law of thermodynamics.	Answer:	  Carnot engine (or cycle)5)  Lazy B:  Growing up on a Cattle Ranch in the American Southwest is a recent non-fiction bestseller by this woman and her brother, Alan.  She served out a vacated seat in the Arizona state senate from 1969 through 1974, but then left politics for the bench.  Having only served on Arizona's Court of Appeals for 18 months, FTP what woman's conservative decisions caught Ronald Reagan's eye, leading to her selection as first woman to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court?	Answer:	  Sandra Day O'Connor6) The prone figure in the bottom center is very short, and none of the other eight figures is looking at him.  Rather, they look at the title instructor, who has a scissors buried in the prone figure's flayed left arm.  The first painting signed with Rembrandt's full name, FTP this is what pedantic painting?	Answer:	  The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp7) According to a 13th century book, it is a mountain located on an island in the ocean on the opposite side of the Earth from Jerusalem.  It has two ledges, one for the negligent and one for the excommunicated, and seven terraces, one for each of the deadly sins, where souls work off their minor Earthly trespasses.  FTP name this middle realm of Dante's Divine Comedy.       Answer:	  Purgatorio (acc. purgatory)8) They established a foothold in northern Europe after Conrad of Mazovia requested their help in battling insurgents.  The 1226 Golden Bull of Rimini granted them all lands conquered from heathen Prussians outside the Holy Roman Empire.  Stymied in their attempt to enter Russia by their defeat at Lake Peipus, FTP name this order of knights founded in Acre in 1190.	Answer:	Teutonic Knights 9)  Its name derives from a Seminole word meaning "black muddy water", and it joins the Withalacoochee south of the Georgia border.    Headed in the Okeefenokee Swamp, it flows south-southwest to the Gulf of Mexico.  FTP name this river, best known because its two-syllable pronunciation fit the scansion of a song by Stephen Foster.       Answer:	  Suwanee River10) There is some debate over which is its north pole, as it is either true that its axial inclination is a bit over 90 degrees and its rotation is direct, or it's a bit less than 90 degrees and the rotation is retrograde.  Its name was originally proposed by Titius Bode, and upon discovery it was called Georgium Sidis by William Herschel.  FTP name this bluish planet whose moons include Oberon and Titania.	Answer:	  Uranus11)  His Sauroctonus depicts Apollo slaying a lizard, and his Hermes Carrying the Infant Dionysos is one of his few original works that still exists.  His Aphrodite of Cnidos was described by Lucian and Pliny the Elder.  FTP who is this Greek sculptor of the 4th century BCE whose marble faun in Rome provides the basis for a Hawthorne novel?	Answer:	  Praxiteles12)  His roommate calls him "bullock-befriending bard" because of the letter he carries for Mr. Deasy to the National Library.  Later, he destroys the chandelier at Bella Cohen's brothel with his ashplant.  Still later he shares a late-night drink at the cabman's shelter with his symbolic father, Bloom.  FTP this is what protagonist of the first three sections of Ulysses?	Answer:	  Stephen Dedalus13)  Chemically related to terpenes, they are responsible for the characteristic color of autumn leaves.  Composing yellow, red, orange and brown pigments, one member's beta variety yields vitamin A on breakdown.  FTP name this class of pigments whose name comes from the member which colors carrots and tomatoes.	Answer:	  carotenoids (grudgingly accept "carotenes")14)  He was regarded as a model of piety for his generous offerings to the Delphic oracle, often leaving solid gold ingots.  He misunderstood the oracle when it told him that if he attacked Cyrus the Great, a great empire would crumble: it was his, not Cyrus's, that ended.  FTP name this last king of Lydia, known for his proverbial wealth.	Answer:	  Croesus  (CREE-sus)15) After the Revolution he served in the state Senate, where he was a vocal advocate of leniency toward former Loyalists.  Serving under Benjamin Lincoln at Savannah, he escaped capture in 1780 because he was on sick leave when Charleston fell.  After the British victory at Camden, the irregular unit he organized became a key colonial force in the Carolinas, and intimidating Loyalists was one of his regular tactics.  FTP name this elusive guerilla leader, nicknamed "the Swamp Fox."       Answer:	  Francis Marion 16)  He wrote a series of novels based on Thomas Cole's painting cycle The Course of Empire called The Crater.  Incredibly prolific, he wrote The American Democrat, arguing for a democracy led by an intellectual elite, and a political trilogy called The Littlepage Manuscripts, of which the first book is Satanstoe.  Better known for adventure novels like The Pilot and The Spy, FTP name this 19th century American creator of the characters Uncas, Chingachkook and Natty Bumppo.	Answer:	  James Fenimore Cooper17)  His early experience with the Samaniyah order of Sufis caused him to rebuke his teachers for their worldliness; his warriors wore jibbas, robes with colorful patches that indicated their poverty. In 1883 they annihilated the Egyptian forces sent against them by William Hicks and Valentine Baker, replacing their spears with breech-loading rifles and artillery manufactured by Krupp. These heavy guns assisted in his capture of Khartoum two years later. FTP, name the Sudanese leader who was the "expected guide" of Islam to his followers, but the deadly enemy of Charles Gordon. 	Answer:	 the Mahdi (or Mohammed Ahmed ibn Al-Sayid Abdullah) 18) Pythagoras used this term to describe the unity from which all numbers and multiplicity are derived.  In their more common, modern use, they are extensionless mental entities, self-sufficient and capable of perception.  FTP, what are these entities considered the only true substances by Leibniz?	Answer:	  monads
19)  In vertebrates, it forms a disc on the surface of the yolk.  They usually resemble a hollow ball with the dividing cells of the embryo forming a layer around a central cavity.  Resulting from the cleavage of a fertilized egg, FTP name this developmental stage that precedes the gastrula.	Answer:	  blastula20) Their lesser works included the planh, mourning a dead lord or king; the tenso, a form of musical debate between two voices; and the pastourelle, in which a knight attempts to seduce a shepherdess. They were most famous, though, for the cansos, which denounced the poet's rivals or lauzengiers, who attempted to deny him the joy of fin'amors, courtly love. FTP  name these poets and singers of medieval France who wrote in Old Provencal.	Answer:	 troubadours21) Starch can be used as one of these in iodine titrations; red cabbage extract and alzarin are other general examples.  In reactions using them, the equivalence point is where equivalent quantities of acid and base are added, and the end point occurs when they change color.  Including methyl orange and phenolphthalein, FTP what are these substances used to show the presence of  chemical substances or ions, which include litmus.	Answer:	  indicators22) This island nation claims French-held Tromelin Island as well as the British-held Chagos archipelago, and it was first populated by Dutch settlers from the Cape of Good Hope.  Discovered by Portuguese sailors in 1505, its population is 52% Hindu, and its most famous residents no longer exist.  FTP name this island with capital at Port Louis, once home to the Dodo.	Answer:	  Mauritius23) It was noxious to the Confucians, as it applied to all men of all ranks; to Mo-ists because they thought man's primary obedience was to Heaven, not to the state's requirements; and to Taoists because man's laws impede one's individual path.  Its ascendance was due mostly to Lord Shang during the Ch'in period.  FTP name this movement which brought about the strict application of laws to all.	Answer:	  legalism (acc. legalists)24.	His difficulties with sleep and having sex with his wife led him to seek out the "talking cure" in 1910.  He can't remember if he saw six or seven of his namesake animals perched in a tree, but his psychoanalyst relates them to his witnessing two sheepdogs copulating and to his grandfather's story about skinning one of these animals alive.  FTP who is this Russian patient of Freud's whose name comes from the six furry white canine predators he saw in a dream?	Answer:	  The Wolf Man  (acc.  Sergei Pankejeff)
BONI - U. OF CENTRAL FLORIDA 	MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Chris Borglum1) Name these Elizabethan playwrights from works FTPE.A.  The Spanish Tragedy			Answer:	  Thomas KydB.  The Shoemaker's Holiday			Answer:	  Thomas DekkerC.  Volpone					Answer:	  Ben Jonson2)  Answer the following about the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713 FTPE.A.  This law was devised by what Holy Roman Emperor?	Answer:	  Charles VIB.  Charles VI was a member of what royal house?	Answer:	  HabsburgC.  For five points each, name Charles' daughter he sought to elevate on his death and the Hohenzollern king who opposed her claim to the throne.	Answers (any order):  Maria Theresa; Frederick II (the Great)3)  Answer the following about dogs in mythology FTPE.A. This three-headed dog guarded the underworld in Greek myths.	Answer:	  CerberusB.  This fierce dog is fated to die in battle with Tyr at Ragnarok, though Tyr will soon die of his wounds.	Answer:	  GarmC.  This dog who belonged to Icarius, a follower of Dionysus, is the basis for Sirius, the dog star.	Answer:	  Maera4) Name the current coaches of the following college football teams FFPE and a bonus five for getting them all.A.  Arkansas			Answer:	  Houston NuttB.  Oregon			Answer:	  Mike BelottiC.  Florida			Answer:	  Ron ZookD.  Ohio St.			Answer:	  Jim TresselE.  Texas			Answer:	  Mack Brown5)  Name these alkanes from formulae FTPE:.A.  C7H16			Answer:	  heptaneB.  C4H10			Answer:	  butaneC.  C3H8			Answer:	  propane6) The "writing on the wall" read, literally, "numbered, numbered, weighed, divisions."  FTPE:A.  What was this four-word Aramaic phrase of the Old Testament?	A.  mene, mene, tekel, upharsin (be gentle with pronunciations)B.  What prophet interpreted these words to mean that a certain king's kingdom was in for it from God?	A.  DanielC.  Who was the Babylonian king thus judged?	A.  Belshazzar 
7)  30-20-10 Identify the composer from works.A.  (30 pts.)  The song cycle "Myrthen"; "The Bride of Messina"B.  (20 pts.)  "Spring" symphony (#1); Abegg VariationsC.  (10 pts.)  "Rhenish" symphony (#3)	Answer:	  Robert Schumann8) Answer the following about "The Sage of Baltimore" FTPE.A.  First, who was this writer and editor known for his cynically humorous writings?	Answer:	  H. L. MenckenB.  What literary magazine did Mencken co-found as a successor to "The Smart Set"?	Answer:	  The American MercuryC.  Complete the following Mencken quote by filling in the blank (first word):  (Blank) is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard.	Answer:	  democracy9) Identify which of the four fundamental forces is carried by these particles FTPE.A.  photon				Answer:	  electromagneticB.  gluon				Answer:	  strong nuclearC.  W and Z particles			Answer:	  weak nuclear10) One of its holders said the Vice Presidency wasn't worth a bucket of warm spit.  FSTNOP:A.  (10) Name the author of that quote, a colorful Texan who served two terms as FDR's first Vice President.	Answer:	 John Nance GarnerB.  (10) What amendment provides for the nomination of a new vice-president by the president if that post is vacated?	Answer:	  25thC.  (5/5) Two replacement Vice Presidents have been chosen under the 25th amendment.  F5PE name them.	Answer:	  Gerald Ford and Nelson Rockefeller11)  Given a formula, name the conic section it describes FTPE.A.  9y2-16x2=144		Answer:	  hyperbolaB.  3x2+y2=28			Answer:	  ellipseC.  (x-2)2+(y-3)2=1		Answer:	  circle12) Name these Egyptian pharaohs FTPE.A.  After chafing under the regency of his stepmother Hathshepsut, he led 17 campaigns into Palestine and Syria, greatly increasing the size of the empire.	Answer:	  Thutmose III (acc. "the Great")B.  Though not much is known of his rule from 2589-2566 BCE, this early pharaoh has the Greek form of his name immortalized on what is likely Egypt's most famous structure.	Answer:	  Khufu (acc. Cheops)C.  Some time around 3150 BCE this pharaoh unified upper and lower Egypt, a feat immortalized on his namesake "palette."	Answer:	  Menes (acc. Narmer)
13)  Given its first line, name the 17th century English poem for ten; if you need the author, you'll get five.A.  (10 pts.)  "Had we but world enough, and time"       (5 pts.)    Andrew Marvell			Answer:	  "To His Coy Mistress"B.  (10 pts.)  "Tell me not, Sweet, I am unkind"       (5 pts.)    Richard Lovelace			Answer:	  "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars"C.  (10 pts.)  "As virtuous men pass mildly away"       (5 pts.)   John Donne			Answer:	  "A Valediction:  Forbidding Mourning"14) Name these cranial nerves FTPE.A.  Its superior innervates the palpabrae and rectus muscles; the inferior sends nerve fibers to the back of the eye.	Answer:	  oculomotor (or three)B.  Running through the neck, thorax and abdomen, it splits and runs up the right and left sides of the body.	Answer:	  vagusC.  It runs through the cribiform plate of the ethmoid bone and stimulates special receptors in the nasal cavity.	Answer:	  olfactory15) Name these 20th-century architectural classics FTPE.A.  This multi-family dwelling is called "the quarry" by native Barcelonans.  It was the last completed work by Antonio Gaudi.	Answer:	  Casa MilaB.  Frank Lloyd Wright described its balanced method of bearing load as "a waiter's tray."  It survived the great Kanta earthquake but later burned down.	Answer:	  Imperial HotelC.  This flat, planar structure graced by a long pool was designed by Mies van der Rohe simply as an architectural exhibition for an exposition in a city for which it is named.	Answer:	  Barcelona Pavilion (acc. German Pavilion at Barcelona Exposition)16) 30-20-10 Name the director from works.A.  (30 points)  Soft Skin; Wild Child; The Story of Adele H.B.  (20 points) The Last Metro; Shoot the Piano Player; Day for NightC.  (10 points)  Jules and Jim; The 400 Blows	Answer:	  Francois Truffaut17)  Given cities on its banks, name that river FTPE.A.  Yangon and Mandalay			Answer:	  IrrawaddyB.  Florence and Pisa				Answer:	  ArnoC.  Albuquerque and El Paso			Answer:	  Rio Grande18) Identify the following anthropological works given descriptions FTPE.A.  Subtitled "An Introduction to a Science of Mythology, this Claude Levi-Strauss work examines South American myths and is a classic of Structuralism.  	Answer:	  The Raw and the CookedB.  This Ruth Benedict work examines the strictures of Japanese culture.	Answer:	  The Chrysanthemum and the SwordC.  This Zora Neale Hurston work examines voodoo customs in Haiti.	Answer:	  Tell My Horse
19) Show off your knowledge of Canadian history by answering the following FTPE.A.  This man served as Canada's first prime minister (and third, too, FWIW).	Answer:	  John Alexander MacDonaldB.  MacDonald took power in this year, that of the proclamation of Canada's independence.	Answer:	  1867C.  Canada's Riel Rebellions were fought by these people of mixed native and European descent.	Answer:	  Metis  (MEH-tee)20) Identify the authors of these Booker Prize-winning novels FTPE.A.  Amsterdam					Answer:	  Ian McEwanB.  The True History of the Kelly Gang		Answer:	  Peter CarreyC.  Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha				Answer:	  Roddy Doyle 21)  Identify these life cycle stages FTPE.A.  The juvenile stage, usually incapable of reproduction, examples include tadpoles and caterpillars.	Answer:	  larvaB.  This is the metamorphic stage, in which larva develop into adults.	Answer:	  pupaC.  This term denotes the stage in insects which do not pupate in which creatures resemble adults but have undeveloped reproductive systems.	Answer:	  nymph