TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions by Matt Jordan, Mike Tiffany, & Brent Middlebrooks1.  According to Mr. Benjamin, it's located seven light years below the surface of the earth, and is the place from which all funky things come. But Andre 3000 and B-I-G-B-O-I have come a long way since Southern-playa-listic-cadillac-funky-musik. "Bombs Over Baghdad," "So Fresh So Clean," "Humble Mumble," and "Ms. Jackson" are the released singles from, FTP, what album, the fourth from Atlanta based duo OutKast.		ANSWER:  STANKONIA2.  Born in 1853, he was one of the first to theorize electrons.  He was a professor at the University of Leiden from 1878 to 1912 before becoming the director of the Teyler laboratory, Haarlem.  FTP, name the man who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics for explanation of the Zeeman effect and who is also known for his contribution to relativity, his eponymous transformation.                        ANSWER:  Hendrik Antoon LORENTZ3.  Tawfiq al-Hakim retold this frame story in 1934 in a play nearly 230 years after Antoine Galland first translated it.  Edward Lane and Richard Burton also translated versions of the nightly stories for Schahriar in the late 1800's.  FTP, give the name of the stories of Scheherazade that kept her alive for nearly 3 years.		ANSWER:  ARABIAN NIGHTS or THE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS (also accept SHAHRAZAD before Galland is mentioned)4.  An unemployed college dropout, he graduated from Officer's Candidate School in Fort Benning, Georgia in 1967.  After his discharge from the military, he began a career in the insurance business.  At a trial, he testified that he was only following orders from Captain Ernest Medina.  However, there was only enough evidence to convict, FTP, which man who was held responsible for the My Lai massacre?		ANSWER:  Lieutenant William CALLEY5. Sometimes called the Equestrian Monument of Erasmo de Narni, its more common name is Italian for "honeyed cat." Completed between 1447 and 1450, it was not placed on its pedestal in the Piazza del Santo in Padua until 1453. FTP, name this bronze sculpture, a masterpiece of Donatello.		ANSWER:  GATTAMELATA6.  His election as consul seven times was highly illegal, but given his stature, nobody could stand ground to argue. Sometimes called Rome's first true emperor, he slew such enemies of Rome as the great Mithradates VI, but eventually succumbed to his greatest rival, after the battle of the Colline Gate in 86 BC. FTP, name this man, who fought against and lost to Sulla in the Great Social War, the uncle of Julius Caesar.		ANSWER:  Gaius MARIUS7.  Born in 1828, he became an orphan at age 9 and was brought up by his aunts.  He was sent to college at age 16, but he became uninterested in his classes and left before getting a degree.  FTP, name this author whose later works included The Living Corpse and Hadji Murad, but who is better known for such moral works as The Kreutzer Sonata and such massive volumes as Anna Karenina.		ANSWER:  Leo TOLSTOY8.  Joe Cabot, a small-time crime boss, assembles five strangers with reputations as good thieves for a heist of enormous proportions. When the police arrive at the scene before the burglars can even make their getaway, it becomes apparent that one of them is an undercover police officer. This film starts right after the robbery, with flashbacks to before the act, and to the planning of the crime. FTP, name this movie, whose main characters are only referred to as colors, a 1992 work by director Quentin Tarentino.		ANSWER:  RESERVOIR DOGS
9.  It exists in many different colors, but produces a white streak.  It can be found in North Carolina, Montana, and many places in Africa and Asia. FTP, give the common name of this aluminum oxide which makes up rubies and sapphires and has a hardness of 9 on the Moh's scale.		ANSWER:  CORUNDUM    (prompt on aluminum oxide on an early buzz)10.  Good Mind, Truth, Power, Devotion, Health, and Life will follow Spenta Mainyu across the Bridge of Discrimination to paradise while Angra Mainyu and his followers will fall to hell.  After Angra Mainyu is banished, evil will be erased by fire and molten metal and Ahura Mazda's dualism of Truth and Lie will give way to Truth.  FTP, identify this religion whose sacred text is preserved in gathas which all make up the Avesta.		ANSWER:  ZOROASTRIANISM  (accept Zarathusra or Zoroaster before "this religion")11.  This installation cost nearly 1 billion to build and took nearly eight years to complete.  A smaller version six miles downriver was completed in 1902 and upgraded in 1960, the same year construction began on this larger one.  FTP, identify the dam that was a joint project between Egypt and the USSR that created the reservoir named Lake Nasser.		ANSWER:  ASWAN HIGH DAM12. Structurally polarized, it consists of a "cis" face near the transitional region of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, and a "trans" face near the plasma membrane. The site of the modification, completion, and export of secretory proteins and glycoproteins in the cell, it has a characteristic structure composed of five to eight flattened, disk-shaped, membrane-defined cisternae, arranged in a stack. FTP, name this organelle, first described by its namesake Italian cytologist in 1898.		ANSWER:  GOLGI APPARATUS13. Born in 1821 in Okatavo, he was appointed to the University of St. Petersburg in 1847.  In 1850, he proved Bertrand's conjecture that there was always a prime number between n and 2n for any n greater than 3. He also generalized the beta function, became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1877, and had a lunar crater named for him.  FTP, name this mathematician best know for his eponymous Inequality used in statistics to estimate the probability of an event is within a certain number of standard deviations from the mean.ANSWER: Pafnuty CHEBYSHEV  14. Born in 1952 in Oakland, California, to immigrant parents, her works for children include The Moon Lady and The Chinese Siamese Cat. She is better known for her novels; her fourth novel is the Bonesetter's Daughter, which came out in February. Other novels include The Hundred Secret Senses and The Kitchen God's Wife. She is most famous for her 1989 debut novel, which focuses on the relationships between 4 Chinese-born women and their American daughters. FTP, name the author of The Joy Luck Club.	Amy _Tan_15.  Born on the fourth of July in 1807 near Nice, France, he grew up around the fisherman and coastal traders, and he himself worked as a sailor for more than 10 years. In 1834, took part in a mutiny intended to provoke a republican revolution in Piedmont, but the plot failed and he escaped to France - in his absence was condemned to death by a Genoese court. From 1836 to 1848, he lived in South America as an exile, before taking control of an Italian legion near Montevideo, and returning to Europe to fight for the Risorgimento de Italia. FTP, name this man, the sword of Italian unification, the leader of the redshirts.		ANSWER:  Guiseppe GARIBALDI16.  Born in 1874 in Connecticut, he was influenced by the transcendentalists as well as by his father, George, a Civil War bandleader.  Many of his works reflect his hometown including "Ann Street", a 29 second song which is a map of the title road.  FTP, name this man who composed the Concord Sonata and whose fame as a composer came posthumously, as his associates knew him much better as an insurance salesman.		ANSWER:  Charles IVES17.  This French chemist's contributions to industrial chemistry include improvements to the manufacturing and assaying processes.  In 1809, he studied hydrocyanic acid and chlorine as well as the properties of boron and potassium and the composition of the water molecule.  FTP, his law of combining volumes states that each volume has a ratio to a small whole number.		ANSWER:  Joseph GAY-LUSSAC18.	This act gave land back to New France that had been granted to the Indians, recognized the Roman Catholic Church, and the French system of landholding.  But more importantly it ended the ban on non-Protestant candidates for elected posts in New France that had been implemented by governors James Murray and Guy Carleton.  FTP, name this act named after the seat of government for New France.		ANSWER: QUEBEC ACT of 177419.  She taught at Middlebury College, Barnard College, and the University of Puerto Rico and was a Chilean consul from 1933 to 1953.  Her works include Lagar, Ternura, and Tala while Langston Hughes translated some of her poems in a collection published in 1992.  FTP, name the winner of the 1945 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first Latin American to win the prize.		ANSWER:  Gabriela MISTRAL20. The son of the god Apollo and the mortal Coronis, his mother was killed by Artemis, and as his pregnant mother laid on her funeral pyre, Apollo felt pity for the unborn boy and snatched her from his mothers womb. Taught the ways of healing by the great centaur Chiron, he was turned into a god by Zeus for helping mankind with his medicine made from the blood of the Gorgons. FTP, name this Greco-Roman God of Healing and Medicine.		ANSWER:  ASCLEPIUS or AESCULAPIUS21. In 1954, a year after his death, this athlete's body was sold to Mauch Chunk and East Mauch Chunk, two towns in Pennsylvania.  As agreed with the contract, the two towns had to join together and take the name of the man voted the "Greatest Athlete in the first half of the 20th Century".  FTP, name this athlete who was stripped of his gold medals in 1913 and was the first professional two-sport athlete.		ANSWER:  Jim THORPE 22.	"Odi et amo" - I hate and I love. Born in 84 BC at Verona, he is generally considered the greatest lyric poet of the late Roman Republic. One famous poem of his is a detailed recounting of his visit to Troad, in Asia Minor, to mourn the loss of his brother, a provincial governor. FTP, name this Roman lyric poet, who dedicated more than twenty of his poems to his lover, Lesbia.		ANSWER:  Gaius Valerius CATULLUS 23.  Their self-titled album due out on May 22 possesses a more optimistic theme than their first three.  While straying from the electronic sound they previously favored, the album features such songs as "Happy", "Perfect", "Angel", and the first single, "So Far Away".  Currently made up of Derrek Hawkins, Andy Kubiszewski, Jim Sellers, Walter Flakus, and Christopher Hall, they originated in Chicago, releasing a 4 song EP in 1990.  FTP, name this band with albums "Ungod", "Darkest Days" and "Wither, Blister, Burn, & Peel" and such songs as "What Do I Have To Do", "Save Yourself", "Sometimes It Hurts", and "Haunting Me".		ANSWER:  STABBING WESTWARD24.  In 1876, this man began to study the cello under Leandro Caranini and composition under Giusto Dacci.  However, he is better known as a conductor.  He was in charge of the Italian premieres of many major operas, including "I Pagliacci," "La Boheme," "Siegfried," and "Der Meistersingers von Nuremberg,"the latter two while he was director at La Scala.  He conducted in the United States at the Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic.  FTP, name this man, for whom the NBC Symphony was created in 1937 and which subsequently disbanded in 1954 when he retired.		ANSWER:  Arturo TOSCANINI
BONI - GEORGIA TECH					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions by Matt Jordan, Mike Tiffany, & Brent Middlebrooks1.  One field severely underrepresented in Quiz Bowl is computer science, or what we like to call, "stuff that isn't useless knowledge." Given a description of a data structure used in computer programming, name it FTPE.a.  This type of structure is defined by its FIFO (first in, first out) access technique.b.  In this type of list, each node is responsible for knowing both the node previous to it and the next node.c.  This type of a tree may be defined as follows:  each node has exactly2 child nodes (although either can be a null node).  The left child must be less than its root node and the right child must be greater than its root.Any node in a properly balanced example of this kind of tree can be foundin Big-O log N time.	ANSWER:	a.  QUEUEb. DOUBLY-LINKED list (do not accept linked list)c. BINARY SEARCH tree or BST2.  30-20-10, identify the British Prime Minister.30: In 1879 he published his _Defense of Philosophic Doubt_ in which he endeavored to show that scientific knowledge depends just as much as theology upon an act of faith20: A member of the Conservative party, he served as Prime Minister from 1902 to 1905.10: His assertion of the status of a place in the Holy Land for Jews lead to the creation of the Israeli state.	ANSWER:  Arthur James BALFOUR3.  Literature? Bah! But, since I guess we have to make this packet balanced, FTPE, identify a member of the Bloomsbury Group.  a.  A literary critic for The Spectator, his works include Eminent Victorians and Books and Characters. b.  With his wife he founded the Hogarth Press.  His five part autobiography was published from 1960 to 1970. c.  The Celestial Omnibus and The Eternal Moment, both collections of short stories were published after this author's death. 	ANSWER:  	a.  Lytton STRACHEYb. Sidney WOOLFc. E.M. FORSTER4.  We all love a good prank now and then, and apparently our polytheistic deities did too. So given a description of a famous mythological trickster, identify them, 5-10-15.5: He is probably the most infamous trickster - after tricking Hoder into tossing mistletoe at poor old Balder, he refused to cry for Balder, thus refusing his resurrection. What an ass!10: "To the most beautiful" - who woulda thought that a piece of fruit with writing on it would cause so much trouble? But her little plot managed to spark the great Trojan War, thus earning her title as the Goddess of Discord.15: He pulled of his fair number of tricks, but rarely got away unpunished. After tricking porcupine into giving up a share of buffalo meat, he got a few quills in some very uncomfortable places. He also transformed himself into a platter once, to fool others into putting food on him, so he could satisfy his voracious appetite.	ANSWER:	5. LOKI			10. ERIS			15. COYOTE
5. Ever read the side of a box of cereal? Ever wonder what the hell some of those nutrients and vitamins are? Well, if you do know them, you're about to be rewarded. Given a description of a nutrient of vitamin listed on a box of Total, identify the item in question, FTPE.a. Part of the B complex of vitamins, it is considered the most stable of the vitamins. Sometimes called PP, it is a coenzyme involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates and acts to catalyze the oxidation of sugar derivatives.b. A more common name for vitamin B2, it also helps in the metabolism in carbohydrates, and can be found abundantly in milk, eggs, leafy vegetables, and apparently, Total.c. I would assume that the majority of this comes from the added milk, but the box states that even before milk is added, a bowl of Total contains quite a healthy amount of this element, which helps fight osteoporosis.	ANSWER	a. NIACIN			b. RIBOFLAVIN			c. CALCIUM 6.  Lists wont help you here! Given a description of a painting, identify the painting in question, FTPE.a. A limp body leans to the right, grasping a pen's quill in the right hand. To the left of this hand lies the murder weapon - a bloodied knife. The blood from the man's wound has tainted the color of the water surrounding him to a light red. b. Saints Augustine and Stephen lower a body, while the magnitudes of heaven appear above. Jesus, the Virgin Mary, and all 12 apostles stare upwards, while the nobility and clergy of Toledo stare at the now inhumed body. c. The woman stares to her right, thinking, "I sure as hell hope he doesn't poke me with that thing." The man stares straight ahead, thinking "Damned portraits...I'd rather be farming." But he shore looks classy, wearing a suit coat over them blue overalls.       ANSWER: 	a. THE DEATH OF MARAT			b. THE BURIAL OF COUNT ORGAZ			c. AMERICAN GOTHIC7. Identify these works by Nathaniel Hawthorne from a brief description, FTP each.In this short story, the title character meets the devil in a forest one night and is thoroughly shaken by what he sees, to the extent of distancing himself from his beloved wife Faith.Answer:  _Young Goodman Brown_In this novel, Hester Prynne must wear the title object because she gives birth to a child despite the absence of her husband.  Answer:  The _Scarlet Letter_This novel tells the story of the Pyncheon family, cursed several generations ago because Colonel Pyncheon decided to build the title residence on Matthew Maule's land.Answer:  The _House of the Seven Gables_8.  Okay, we all listen to music, but do we really pay attention? So, given the title of an album released in the 1990s, you'll get 5 points if you know the artist(s) who released it, 10 if you know the first song on that album's A-side, or 15 if you can tell me the first word of that first song:a. Mellow Gold	5: Artist - BECK	10: Song 1 - LOSER	15: First Word - IN (the time of chimpanzees, I was a monkey)b. The Fat of the Land	5: Artist - THE PRODIGY	10: Song 1 - SMACK MY BITCH UP	15: First Word - CHANGE (my pitch up, smack my bitch up)
9.  Got a nuclear physicist on your team? No? Well, you probably wont need one on this question, but they might help. Given a description of a class of subatomic particles, name it FTPE.a.  The strong force acts on this class of particles.b.  This class of particles has half-integer spin quantum numbers.c.  The strong force does not act on this class of particles, making the weak force the dominant force.      ANSWER	a.  HADRONS      b.  FERMIONSc. LEPTONS10. Holy Ship! No, we're not talking about the Pope's Navy. Instead, identify the ship in His or Her Majesty's Service that became involved in American history for ten points each:a. This customs ship was sunk in 1772 by a Rhode Island mob b. This ship fired on the USS Chesapeake and impressed three American crewmen. c.  In 1779 this ship was successfully boarded by American forces under John Paul Jones, and not a moment too soon, as the Americans' ship Bonhomme Richard was sinking at the time.      ANSWER	a. HMS GASPEE        b. HMS LEOPARD      c. HMS SERAPIS11.  Anybody watch the NFL Draft? Or at least read about it? Well, let's see how much you paid attention. For the stated number of points: Given the college he played for, the team that drafted him in the NFL 2001 draft and the draft position, identify the player.  5 points: Virginia Tech, Atlanta Falcons  1st overall 10 points: Florida State, drafted by the Panthers  106th overall 15 points: Miami, New York Jets  16th overall       ANSWER:	5: Michael VICK      10: Chris WEINKE      15: Santana MOSS12. Identify the following things important to photosynthesis in plants, FTP each.In what cell organelle does photosynthesis occur in?Answer:  _chloroplast_This simple sugar with chemical formula C-six-H-twelve-O-six is one of the major products of photosynthesis.Answer:  _glucose_This series of reactions results in the production of glucose during photosynthesis.Answer:  _Calvin_ cycle (accept _dark reactions_ or _light-independent_ reactions)13. Great works of literature often have powerful opening lines. These may or may not be some of those. Given the first line of a work, identify that work, FTPE.a. "Marley was dead, to begin with. There is no doubt whatever about that."b. "Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aureliano Buendia was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice."c. "I am always drawn to the place where I have lived, the houses, and their neighborhoods."d.  "Listen: Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time."	ANSWER:	a. A CHRISTMAS CAROL			b. ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF SOLITUDE			c. BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S			d. SLAUGHTERHOUSE-FIVE, or the Children's Crusade
14.  The Romans were the pre-eminent military force to be reckoned with in the Ancient world - just ask the Greeks and the Gauls. But every once in a while, they too got their asses handed to them. FTPE, identify the Roman military defeat.a. This 216 BC battle in Southeastern Italy, this example of Hannibal's "double envelopment" tactic saw the death of more than 65,000 Roman soldiers, despite having twice as many men as the eventual victors.b. This early battle in 321 BC saw the Samnites trick the Romans into entering a narrow mountain pass, and then surround and capture the helpless Romans. This was the first major defeat the Romans suffered.c. Fought on August 9, 378 AD, the Germanic Visigoths, led by Fritigern, annihilated the Roman forces, and captured and killed the emperor Valens.      ANSWER: 	a. CANNAE			b. COUDINE FORKS			c. ADRIANOPLE15. "It's not over till the fat lady sings."  "Is that one fat enough for ya?" Given a pair of operas, name the composer FTPE.a.  Sir John in Love and Riders to the Seab.  Robert the Devil and Les Huguenotsc.  The Rape of Lucretia and Paul Bunyan      ANSWER:	a.  Ralph VAUGHAN WILLIAMS      b.  Giacomo MEYERBEERc. Benjamin BRITTEN16.  Name these Secretaries of State from other resume items FTPE.  If you need the president they served, you'll only get 5 points.a.  	(10) President of the Rockefeller Foundation before his Cabinet stint, afterwards he returned to his native Georgia as a college professor.      (5) John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnsonb.  	(10) The narrowly unsuccessful 1916 GOP Presidential nominee, he later became Chief Justice.      (5) Warren Hardingc.  	(10) Attorney General for Teddy Roosevelt, he wound up among the Senators opposing the League of Nations.      (5) William Taft      ANSWER	a.  Dean RUSK      b.  Charles E. HUGHESc. Philander C. KNOX17. Identify the infectious agent from a brief description for the stated number of points.Named for their characteristic morphology, this family was defined only through the morphologic and replicative mechanisms of the Marburg and Ebola viruses.Answer:  filovirusThis type of virus contains RNA as the source of genetic information.  It contains an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of DNA from an RNA template.  HIV is one example of this type of virus.Answer:  _retrovirus_These infectious agents even smaller than viruses are infectious proteins responsible for scrapie, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and mad cow disease.Answer:  _prion_s
18. That damned Falstaff is everywhere! But who cares about him? Given a set of characters, name the Shakespearean play they all appear in, FTPE.a. Aufidius, Catus Marcus, Menenius, Volumniab. Don Armado, Logaville, Halofernesc. Edgar, Regan, Cordelia	ANSWER:	a. CORIOLANUS			b. LOVE'S LABOURS LOST			c. KING LEAR19.  Ever seen the movie "A River Runs Through It"? Well, it has nothing to do with this bonus. But FTPE, given a partial list of countries a river flows through, identify it.  a.      Sierra Leone, Mali, Guinea b.      Lesotho, South Africa, and Namibia c.      The third longest river in Europe flows through Belarus, Russia, andUkraine.       ANSWER:	a. NIGER River      b. ORANGE River      c. DNEIPER River20. Got a Catholic on your team? FFPE, given a country, identify its male patron saint.  a. Hungary b. Scotland c. France d. England e. Russia f. Ireland       ANSWER: 	a. STEPHEN       b. ANDREW      c. DENIS      d. GEORGE      e. NICOLAS      f. PATRICK21.  Given a short synopsis of a Canterbury Tale, name its teller FTPE.a.  An Italian king, Walter, tests the faithfulness of his wife, Griselda, by taking away her children and pretending to end their marriage.b.  A knight of age 60, January, marries a beautiful young girl, May.  However, his servant, Damian, soon falls in love with May.  After January goes blind, May and Damian exchange notes and eventually begin kissing in a tree.  January suddenly regains his sight, but May dismisses it as his imagination.c.  A knight is commanded to find what women most desire, or he will be sentenced to death.  An old woman finally tells him she will answer, but only in front of the queen.  The knight agrees, the old woman reveals that women want sovereignty over their husbands, and she marries the knight as the price for her help in this woman's tale.       ANSWER:	a.  CLERK      b.  MERCHANTc. WIFE OF BATH
22.  Given members of a current band, name that band FTPE.a.  Greg Kriesel, Ron Welty, Kevin "Noodles" Wasserman, Bryan "Dexter"Hollandb.  Brian "Head" Welch, James "Munky" Shaffer, David Silveria, Fieldy,Jonathan Davisc.  Trent Reznor      ANSWER:	a.  The OFFSPRING      b.  KORNc. NINE INCH NAILS23. For ten points each, given a year and a nationality, identify the winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.    a. 1920, Germany b. 1904, Great Britain  c. 1940, Germany       ANSWER:	a. Walther NERNST      b. William RAMSEY      c. Otto HAHN24.	Somebody should shoot Rosie O'Donnell. Nobody can possibly like Tom Cruise movies as much as she does. But let's hope you've seen a few, so you can identify the movie TC starred in, given a description, FTPE.a. The first thing we hear him say in this film is "Respect the cock" - which echoes his profession as T.J. Mackey, a man who gives seminars to weaker men about his "Divide and Conquer" method of picking up ladies.b. No, he's not the son of Dick, but he plays Cole Trickle in this NASCAR epic. His finest work? Probably not.c. Playing Lieutenant Daniel Alistair Kaffee we learn that he, according to Colonel Nathan R. Jessup, cannot handle the truth. Maybe TC just wasn't cut out to be a military lawyer afterall.	ANSWER:	a. MAGNOLIA			b. DAYS OF THUNDER			c. A FEW GOOD MEN 25.	Lots of numbers can be a pain in the ass to remember - no wonder they decided to start nicknaming opuses. So, given a composer and a nickname, give the number of the associated symphony FTPE.a.  Beethoven, Eroicab.  Mozart, Jupiterc.  Dvorak, From the New World      ANSWER:	a.  3      b.  41      c.  9      