TOSSUPS -- CENTRAL FLORIDA					2003 MOON PIE CLASSIC--UTC	Questions by Chris Borglum1. In the TV version of this classic 1957 tale, the moral voice of middle-class parents is provided by the character Carlos P. Krinklebein, who fulminates against the anarchy unleashed upon the household by the title character, who gains entrance by accusing Krinklebein, a goldfish, of stealing his "moss-covered, three-handled credenza."  Two children, a boy and girl bored on a rainy day, are both entranced and frightened by the title character and his two diminutive, blue-haired henchmen.  FTP, this describes what cartoon based on a classic book by Dr. Seuss?Answer:  The Cat in the Hat2. In 2001, the decay of neutral B mesons was found to violate this symmetry.  In 1963, Cronin and Fitch found that about one in every 1,000 kaon decays also violate it.  These violations in kaon decay fit the standard model but are not explained by it.  FTP, these decays violate what symmetry, which involves two fundamental properties?Answer:	CP (acc. charge conjugation and parity) violation or invariance or symmetry3. This work's first part includes an ironic essay on social prudence titled "Crop Rotation," a review of a French play, titled "Ancient Tragedy's Reflection in the Modern," and a treatise on desire called "The Immediate Erotic Stages or the Musical Erotic."  First published in 1843, its second part contains two longer essays defending marriage, including "Marriage's Aesthetic Validity," somewhat ironic considering its author's contemporary decision not to marry Regine Olsen.  FTP name this bipartite work, the first part of which contains the famous "Seducer's Diary," by Soren Kierkegaard.Answer:  Either/Or4. Among the numerous small shrines around this structure is the Akal Takht, or "Throne of the Ever-Living God," which holds the weapons of warriors of the faith it celebrates.  Pilgrims who visit must approach barefoot with covered head and give sweetbread to attendants who redistribute the food to visitors.  Begun in the early 1600s by the Guru Arjun, FTP this is what structure that houses the Adi Granth in Amritsar?Answer:  Golden Temple (of Amritsar)5. His family name was Eyquem, though after the death of his father he took on the family title bought by his grandfather in 1477.  Perhaps his most famous writing was spurred by his 1569 translation from Latin into French of the work Natural Theology.  That work led to his famous essay "An Apology for Raymond Sebond."  FTP name this author of the collection simply called Essays.Answer:  Michel de Montaigne6. One of this nation's two smaller islands is home to Ggantija (zhan-tee-ya), a collection of prehistoric buildings, one of which is considered the oldest free-standing stone structure in the world.  The capital, which lies on the main island, was built by the Italian Francesco Laparelli as a fortress from which the Knights of St. John could resist Ottoman ships.  Comprising the namesake island as well as Comino and Gozo, FTP this is what island nation with capital at Valetta?Answer:  Malta7. In the preface to its re-release, the author recalls how when he originally submitted it to various magazines, it had been dismissed and did not even make the New York Times bestseller list. Characters such as Orr, who crashes every time he flies, hungry Joe, Havermeyer, and Chaplain Tappman are used to illustrate frustration with army life. If you are insane you must be discharged.  To be considered insane you have to tell the medical officer you are insane, but if you can say that you are insane then you must not be insane. This is, FTP, the title predicament of what novel by Joseph Heller?Answer:	 Catch-228. 
His name was derived from that of an intestinal beetle that his mother believed was causing the interruption of her menstruation.  Son of Senzangakona, he developed the assegai, a short, stabbing spear, as well as an encircling formation that gave his ill-equipped soldiers an advantage over other tribes.  Acclaimed for his dispersal of the enemy Nguni people, FTP name this early 19th century ruler of the Zulu.Answer:  Shaka9. They exhibit a dominant phenotype at the cellular level, with a single copy of an activated one being sufficient to produce what is called a "gain of function."  More than mutation of these is usually required to change a normal cell into a neoplasm.  Around 100 are known, including ABL1, HRAS and TCF3, FTP these are what mutated genetic structures that cause cancers?Answer:  oncogenes 10. A member of the Associated Press since 1960, he won a Pulitzer for his in-country coverage of the Vietnam War in 1966.  In 1997 he conducted the first interview by a Western reporter with Osama Bin Laden.  Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater accused him of treason for standing by his 1991 story that a building bombed by coalition forces in the Gulf War was indeed a baby milk formula plant.  FTP name this intrepid reporter, recently fired by CNN due to comments he made in an Iraqi television interview.Answer:  Peter Arnett11. When it first convened in the tenth century, it comprised 39 regional gooar (gew-AR), or chieftains, and it met on the first Thursday of the tenth week of summer for two weeks.  Although legal disputes between leaders were settled by groups of judges, the center of the yearly gathering was the Logberg, or "law rock," where legislation was created.  Meeting at Thingvillir until 1799, FTP name this oldest legislative body that now convenes in Reykjavik.Answer:  Althing12. All nuclei found in elements higher than this one on the periodic table are unstable.  A nucleus of lead can spontaneously transmute into one of this element by emitting an electron or beta ray.  In that process, this element actually has one more proton than lead because one of the lead neutrons turns into a proton.  The most diamagnetic of all metals, FTP name this element used to combat ulcers and other stomach troubles, which has atomic number 83.Answer:  bismuth13. Like "To His Coy Mistress," the speaker of this poem is trying to convince a woman to sleep with him, saying that in the title creature they "more than married are."  He argues further that they are "cloistered in [its] living walls of jet," as it has sucked him "first, and now sucks thee."  FTP this describes what 1633 poem about a bloodsucking insect by John Donne?Answer:  "The Flea"14. Aedon, who had only two children, planned to kill this woman's firstborn but in the night accidentally stabbed her own child.  A daughter of Tantalus, she shared his disrespect for the gods, and after her tragedy she fled to Mt. Sipylon where she was turned into a stone whose stream is said to be her continuing tears.  FTP name this wife of Amphion, mother of seven sons and seven daughters, who were all killed after she mocked Leto for having only two children.Answer:  Niobe15. One of the first responses to this action was the building of a three-mile, 12-foot high fence around the namesake property, complete with slots for rifles and barbed wire on top.  Unwilling to meet demands to increase wages from $9 a day and reduce the workweek to six days, the plant president was stabbed three weeks after the strike began by the anarchist Alexander Berkman, eroding much support for Amalgamated Union of Iron and Steel Workers.  FTP name this 1892 strike in Pennsylvania.Answer:  Homestead Strike 16. 
He collaborated with Jean Cocteau on the ballet The Ox on the Roof and used a text by Pope John the 23rd for his Pacem in Terris.  His operas include The Lost Sheep and Christophe Colombe, which he based on a novel by his friend Paul Claudel.  It was with Claudel, then a diplomat, that he traveled to Brazil in 1916, leading to his infusion of Brazilian polyrhythms into works like the piano suite Souvenirs of Brazil.  Best known for the ballet The Creation of the World, FTP name this member of Les Six.Answer:  Darius Milhaud (MEE-yo)17. This classification, divisions of which include Gnetophyta and Cycadophyta, began to dominate during the drier climates at the end of the Paleozoic.  A third division is the Gingkophyta, which has only one species, but this classification is dominated by its fourth division, which includes evergreen trees.  FTP name this group of seed plants that lacks the ovaries that characterize angiosperms.Answer:  gymnosperms18. He co-starred with John Cusack in 1988's great-but-obscure Tapeheads.  One of his first leading roles was as friend to the title character in Howard the Duck in 1986, and he wrote, directed and produced 1999's Cradle Will Rock.  It was his role in a 1988 movie that recently earned him an invitation to a celebration at the Baseball Hall of Fame which was rescinded because of that group's fear of his liberal outspokenness.  FTP name this director and star of Bob Roberts who is married to Susan Sarandon.Answer:  Tim Robbins19. In 1832, the king of The Netherlands arbitrated the land dispute that led to this conflict, but his decision was not recognized by the U.S. Senate.  Actual hostilities began when an American land agent sent to negotiate with Canadian insurgents was seized, and van Buren sent Winfield Scott to lead militiamen, though fighting never actually broke out.  Started by competing claims by lumberjacks from Maine and Canada, FTP what was this 1839 "war" that led to the signing of the Webster-Ashburton treaty?Answer:  Aroostook War20. His greatest goal, he said, was to "raise social feeling by artificial effort to the position  which in the natural condition is held by selfish feeling."  He thought that man had passed through a theological stage to a metaphysical stage and was ready to enter a third stage, named for his philosophy, in which all social phenomena could be described by a scientific method.  Author of Course in Positive Philosophy, FTP name this French founder of sociology.Answer:  Auguste Comte21. In 1502, he captured the Arab ship Meri in the Indian Ocean, stealing its valuables and then scuttling the ship, drowning the 300+ passengers, all on their way to Mecca.  On that same voyage he laid siege to the Indian city of Calicut, leading to favorable trade treaties.  A number of his voyages provide the content for Camoes' epic poem The Lusiads.  FTP name this Portuguese explorer, the first to round the Cape of Good Hope en route to India.Answer:  Vasco da Gama22. 19 of the 20 amino acids used to synthesize proteins can exist as these, the exception being glycine, which has two indistinguishable hydrogen atoms attached to its alpha carbon. Though many organic molecules exist in this fashion, usually only one form is active in biological systems, as in the amino acids, in which only L forms synthesize protein in living things.  When they exist in equal amounts in a substance, it is called a racemate.  FTP what name is given to these molecules that come in left-handed and right-handed configurations?Answer:  enantiomers (prompt on "chiral")23. She was raised by her grandmother, who arranged her marriage to give the girl all the chances that she herself never had. She didn't love Logan Killicks, however, and ran off with a man who had big dreams, Joe Starks. Together, they go to Eatonville, Florida, where he becomes mayor. After Joe dies, she has an affair with Tea Cake, who contracts rabies while saving her from a dog. FTP, name this main character in Zora Neale Hurston's Their Eyes Were Watching God.Answer:	 Janie Crawford24. This large canvas, hanging in the Kunstmuseum in Basel, is dominated by swirling blues and features two central figures.  The title figure faces downward and appears to be sleeping, while the male on whom she lies looks up pensively.  Completed in 1914, the title figure is meant to represent the artist's lover, Alma Mahler.  FTP identify this painting by Oskar Kokoschka.Answer:  Bride of the Wind25. In Defense of Reason by Yvor Winters.  The Double Agent and Language as Gesture by R.P. Blackmur.  The Verbal Icon by Wimsatt and Beardsley.  The Well Wrought Urn by Cleanth Brooks.  Reactionary Essays on Poetry and Ideas by Allen Tate.  "God without Thunder" by John Crowe Ransom.  Understanding Poetry by Robert Penn Warren.  FTP these are all works formulating what American formalist school of literary analysis that gained ascendancy after WWI?Answer:  New Criticism (acc. New Critics)
BONI -- CENTRAL FLORIDA					2003 MOON PIE CLASSIC--UTC	Questions by Chris Borglum1.	Answer the following about the 1913 premiere of the ballet Rite of Spring FTPE.A.  First, who composed that controversial ballet?	Answer:  Igor StravinskyB.  What French avant garde writer and later director of the 1946 film Beauty and the Beast claims to have been in the crowd and to have shouted at those who were whistling?	Answer:  Jean CocteauC.  Cocteau describes what choreographer of the ballet standing in the wings, shouting position numbers to the dancers to be heard over the crowd's tumult?	Answer:  Vaslav Nijinsky2.  Identify the following poems by A.E. Housman FTPE.A.  This famous poem addressing a Roman poet wonderfully says that "malt does more than Milton can/To justify the ways of God to man."	Answer:  "Terence, This Is Stupid Stuff"B.  The title figure of this poem was once "chaired . . . through the marketplace" but now is "townsman of a stiller town."	Answer:  "To an Athlete Dying Young"C.  The persona of this poem is told at his title age by a wise man not to give his heart away, but he does anyway, to his regret.	Answer:  "When I Was One and Twenty"3.  Answer these random questions about the Mohs Scale of Hardness FTPE.A.  Dolomite will scratch calcite but not this mineral, which exemplifies the number just above calcite's.	Answer:  fluoriteB.  A fingernail is harder than gypsum, but softer than calcite, giving it this rating.	Answer:  2.5C.  This group of glassy minerals is softer than quartz and can be classified as plagioclase or potassium-based.	Answer:  feldspar4.  Fun with recent Cambodian history!  FTPE:A.  Born Saloth Sar, this man led the Khmer Rouge and named himself prime minister in 1975; his regime killed over 2.5 million people.	Answer:  Pol PotB.  Once Cambodia's king, this man was head of state from 1960-1970 before being deposed by a US-backed military coup.	Answer:  SihanoukC.  This general took power upon the ouster of Sihanouk and lasted until 1975, when he fled to Hawaii.	Answer:  Lon Nol5.  You'd be surprised how many articles in the New Yorker have inspired or been adapted into feature films.  Name these FTPE.A.  The recent movie Adaptation fictionalizes the difficulty screenwriter Charlie Kaufman was having in turning this article by Susan Orlean into a screenplay.	Answer:  "The Orchid Thief"B.  This 1939 James Thurber short story was turned into a 1947 movie starring Danny Kaye as the daydreaming title character.	Answer:  "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty"C.  This Muriel Spark short story from the magazine was turned into a 1969 movie starring Maggie Smith as the titular Scottish schoolteacher.	Answer:  "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie"
6. Answer the following about the endocrine system FTPE.A.  Hormone receptors reside on specific cells affected by a particular hormone, which are given this specific name.	Answer:  target cellsB.  The second messenger of a hormone relays information into the cell; the best known second messenger is this substance, the formation of which from ATP is catalyzed by adenylate cyclase.	Answer:  cyclic AMP (acc. c-AMP read as letters, obviously)C.  In the cyclic AMP second messenger system, hormone receptors do not connect directly to adenylate cyclase, but to these proteins.	Answer:  G proteins7.  Name these 17th-century French plays from descriptions for ten, or for five from the author.A. (10 pts.)The title character, Argan, so strongly desires to have a doctor in the family that he allows himself to be tormented by Doctors Diafoirus and Purgon.     (5 pts.)   Moliere	Answer:  The Imaginary Invalid (or Le Malade Imaginaire, for Frenchy)B. (10 pts.) The title character is encouraged by his wife, Amelie, to conspire against the Roman Emperor Augustus, who forgives him in the end.      (5 pts.)  Pierre Corneille	Answer:  CinnaC. (10 pts.) The title character commits suicide but not before Neptune kills the son she falsely accused of coming on to her after he spurned her advances.      (5 pts.)  Jean Racine	Answer:  Phedre8.  Name these great marathoners, none of whom is Pheidippides, FTPE.A.  This Ethiopian won the 1960 and 1964 Olympic marathons, running the former barefoot on Rome's cobblestone streets.	Answer:  Abebe BikilaB.  This Maine woman won the first women's Olympic marathon gold in 1984 in LA.	Answer:  Joan Benoit-Samuelson (acc. either of the last two names)C.  This American's win in the 1972 Olympic marathon helped create the running craze of the later 1970s.	Answer:  Frank Shorter9.  Name these signers of the Constitution FTPE.A. This Delaware native refused to sign the Declaration of Independence but helped engineer the Great Compromise between the large and small state plans.	Answer:   John DickinsonB.  This namesake of a Pittsburgh college was Superintendent of Finance under the Articles of Confederation and declined Washington's offer to be the first Secretary of the Treasury.	Answer:  Robert MorrisC.  This Connecticut Federalist was the prime mover behind the compromise between the small and large state plans and was on the committee that drafted the Articles of Confederation.	Answer:  Roger Sherman10.  Answer the following about some works in a certain Dutch museum FSNOP.A. (5 pts.)  This famous Vermeer work depicts an idealized version of the title city.	Answer:  View of DelftB. (5 pts.)  In this musuem, directly across from The View of Delft, is another Vermeer work, perhaps made more famous by its treatment in an eponymous novel by Tracy Chevalier.	Answer:  Girl with a Pearl EarringC. (5 pts.)  A third famous painting in this museum is this Rembrandt work depicting the dissection of a man who had been hanged.	Answer:  The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. TulpD. (15 pts.)  These three paintings all hang in The Hague in what museum, named for a 17th century prince of Nassau?	Answer:  Mauritshuis (Mor-itz-house)11.  Stuff about a contemporary theory in physics FTPE.A.  Seeking to explain the strong interactions among quarks, this theory proposes quarks' color as the conserved charge.	Answer:  quantum chromodynamics (acc. QCD)B.  QCD is this type of theory whose dynamics originate from a symmetry, and whose formulae are unchanged under certain transformations.	Answer:  gauge theory  C.  According to QCD, the strong force between quarks is mediated by these massless particles which also carry a color charge.	Answer:  gluons12.  Identify these Roman historians FTPE.A.  This man's massive "History of Rome from the Founding of the City" originally comprised 142 volumes, of which 36 are extant.  Machiavelli wrote a commentary on his first ten books.	Answer:  Livy (acc. Titus Livius from Mr. Latin)B.  Son of the author of Natural History, this man's letters to Trajan provide much information on the infancy of the Christian faith.	Answer:  Pliny the YoungerC.  This man's Germania describes the ways of those Northern peoples, while his Historiae detail the Rome in which he lived from 69-96 CE.	Answer:  (Cornelius) Tacitus13. National epics FSNOPA. (10 pts.) Vanamoinen, Lemminkainen, and Ilmaren go to Pohjola to find their magic grinding mill, and hijinks ensue!	Answer:  Kalevala (Finland)B. (15 pts.) This 50,000-couplet work finished in 1010 CE posits Kaiumers as the first king and Serosch as the angel who protects the children of Ormuzd.	Answer:  Shahnama (Persia)C. (5 pts.) The oldest and longest of the chansons de geste, this epic written around 1100 CE celebrates the heroism and death of the title character at Ronscevalles in 778.	Answer:  Song of Roland (France) 14.	Name these North African peoples FTPE.A.  These overwhelmingly Muslim people once dominated trade caravans in North Africa; to this day the practice small-scale slavery and range from Mali to Niger and Nigeria.	Answer:  TuaregB.  This ethnic group, primarily of Nigeria, was renowned for its production of indigo; their ascendancy in Nigeria was ended by the Fulani in the early 1800s, though they are still populous there.	Answer:  HausaC.  Calling themselves the Amzigh, the name by which they are known to others comprises a large group of different ethnicities of traders and farmers mostly found in Morocco and neighboring countries.	Answer:  Berbers15.  Given an equation, name the conic section it describes FTPE.A. 9y2-16x2 = 144				Answer:  hyperbolaB. x = 442-8y					Answer:  (straight) lineC. 3x2 + y2 = 28				Answer:  ellipse
16.  Identify these functional groups from organic chemistry from a general description FTPE.A.  These are unsaturated hydrocarbons with a carbon-carbon double bond.	Answer:  alkenesB.  This group is characterized by an OH group attached directly to a benzene ring.	Answer:  phenolsC.  These always have two carbon atoms attached to the carbon atom of the carbonyl group, so the functional group is C (single bond) CO (single bond) C.	Answer:  ketones17. Your choice: Russian short fiction or American long fiction.  CHOOSE NOW.If Russian:  Identify the Russians who wrote the following short works FTPE.A. "Red Cavalry"; "Ivan and Ivan"			Answer:  Isaac BabelB. "The Gentleman from San Francisco"			Answer:  Ivan BuninC. "The Lady with the Pet Dog"				Answer:  Anton ChekhovIf American:  Name these characters from Faulkner's Snopes trilogy who aren't Snopes FTPE.A.  Wife of Flem Snopes, shecommits suicide when her affair with Manfred de Spain is ended.	Answer:  Eula Varner (Snopes)B.  An itinerant sewing machine salesman, he narrates the story of the burning of Major de Spain's barn in The Hamlet.	Answer:  V. K. Ratliff (acc. Surratt)C.  This wealthiest man in redneck Frenchman's Bend hires Flem to work in his store to keep the Snopes from burning his barn in The Hamlet.	Answer:  Will or Varner (acc. either)18.  Provide the following architectural terms from definitions FTPE.A. This is the decorative railing found at the top of a stairs or on a roof made of many small pillars or columns.	Answer:  balustrade (grudgingly acc. baluster)B.  This is a small circular or polygonal structure with solid walls or arches found on a roof .	Answer:  cupolaC. This is a series of arches supported by columns or pillars, often enclosing an ambulatory.	Answer:  arcade19. Name the major U.S. newspaper for which the following syndicated sports columnists work FFPE and a five point bonus for getting 'em all.A.  Mitch Albom				Answer:  Detroit Free PressB.  Tony Kornheiser				Answer:  Washington PostC.  Mike Lupica				Answer:  New York PostD.  Blackie Sherrod				Answer:  Dallas Morning NewsE.  Bill Conlin					Answer:  Philadelphia Daily News
20.	Stuff about a late 19th-century Russian group FTPE.A.  This group of Russian revolutionaries looked to the peasantry as the best hope for social change.  In the 1870s these educated populists traveled widely trying to awaken peasants, but many of their members were sent to Siberia after mass trials in 1877.	Answer:  NarodnikiB.  This splinter group from the dispersed Narodniki turned to terrorism and spawned the subgroup "The People's Will," which assassinated a Czar in 1881.	Answer:  Land and LibertyC.  This was the czar killed by The People's Will in 1881.	Answer:  Alexander II21.	 Answer the following about an influential 19  work of post-structuralist sociology FTPE.A.  What Michel Foucault book details the history of torture and imprisonment as methods of disseminating power?	Answer:  Discipline and PunishB.  A central metaphor in Discipline and Punish is this prison system, meant to incarcerate prisoners around a central tower area from which they could be constantly watched.	Answer:  panopticonC.  This founder of Utilitarianism was the developer of the panopticon that so fascinated Foucault.	Answer:  Jeremy Bentham22.	Identify these short stories you'd have to read in Old Man Borglum's Comp. II class FTPE.A.  Set at a train station between Madrid and Barcelona, the two title figures contemplate an abortion while noting the title features.	Answer:  "Hills Like White Elephants"B.  This story from Dubliners focuses on the title character's ultimate inability to leave her hard life at home to go to Buenos Aires with the sailor, Frank.	Answer:  "Eveline"C.  This much-anthologized John Updike classic is narrated by Sammy, who quits his job at the title store.	Answer:  "A&P"23.	ID these 20th-century anthropologists who had nothing to do with Franz Boas FTPE.A.  This Cal-Santa Barbara professor is best known for his early 1960s work with the Yanomamo in South America, including his book The Fierce People.	Answer:  Napoleon ChagnonB.  This Princeton anthropologist wrote extensively on Javanese culture and flirted with post-structuralism in his The Interpretations of Cultures.	Answer:  Clifford GeertzC.  This French structuralist wrote influential studies of Caribbean and South American peoples like Sad Tropics and The Raw and the Cooked.	Answer:  Claude Levi-Strauss