TOSSUPS -- SOUTH CAROLINA A 						MOON PIE 2003-UTC1.	Indians called her White Fawn, the form her spirit took until Little Oak killed her with a silver arrow.  Her father, Ananias, received the first coat of arms given to an American and her baptism is thought to have been the second in North America.  Her grandfather was governor John White, who left her for a supply expedition to England nine days after her birth in 1587.  FTP, name this first English child born in America.	Answer:	Virginia Dare2.	Barelli and Zucalli created its Italian baroque church, the Theatinerkirche, in 1620 and its city hall is called the Neues Rathaus.  The Schwabing house is its greatest Jugenstil building.  A soviet was briefly established here in 1919 and, from 1255 to the twentieth century, it was dominated by the Wittelsbach family.  Located on the Isar River, it is known for its breweries and Oktoberfest.  FTP, name this southern German city, the third largest in Germany and the capital of Bavaria.     	Answer:	 Munich or München3.	He has appeared on an episode of Sealab 2021 as a drug-induced hallucination and his festival is called Akitu.  As an older child, Anu gave him the four winds to play with and his name is mentioned in the preamble of Hammurabi's code.  After his most famous victory, he was given 50 titles and fastened the tablets of destiny to his chest to become lord of the gods.  FTP, name this Babylonian god who was the son of Ea and defeated Tiamat.     	Answer:	 Marduk4.	Its dockside setting was torn down to build the World Trade Center and one of its characters was the focus of the author's play "Tomorrow" of 1916.  One fellow wants to rejoin the police force, one is an anarchist, while another hopes to make a political comeback.  Their comfortable routine of griping and drinking is shattered by the appearance of a preacher's son who urges them to put down their cups and start life anew.  However, Hickey turns out to be a crazed wife murderer, so it is back to liquor they go.  FTP, name this Eugene O'Neill work about losers in Harry Hope's tavern.	Answer:	The Iceman Cometh5.	Their greatest diversity came in the Cretaceous, but the oldest one, a Hexactinnelid called Paleophragmodictya, was part of the Edicara fauna.  Modern Hexactinnelids have more tightly fused spicules, but no ability to contract.  All types use choanocytes to pump water taken in through ostia and the ones that built Devonian reefs had calcium carbonate skeletons, unlike modern versions.  They have few natural enemies except people, who may harvest them after they reach five inches in length.  FTP, name these members of the most primitive metazoan phylum. 	Answer:	Sponges or Poriferans6.	Its braincase measured at least 600 cubic centimeters and the first specimen found was nicknamed "Cinderella."  It probably could not hunt big game and there is much talk of assigning some of its members to a new species: Homo rudolfensis.  It may have migrated to Asia but its fossils have only been found at Sterkfontein, Omo, and Olduvai Gorge.  FTP, name this tool-making human ancestor found by Louis Leakey and often called the "handy man."     	Answer:	 Homo Habilis7.	His wife was a sufferer of schizophrenia who upset many people by kicking a small child on a street.  This official never graduated from college but became an officer in the Navy by becoming the 154th naval aviator.  As undersecretary of the Navy, he set up an independent board to review all court-martial trials.  He died of falling from a window after trying to hang himself.  FTP, name this former secretary of the Navy who became the first secretary of defense in 1947.     	Answer:	 James V. Forrestal8.	The missionaries are given a piece of land in the Evil Forest when they come to Umuofia.  Although known as a great warrior, the main character in this novel has never killed anything with his rifle.  He has a fear of being seen as weak and, because of this, kills his beloved adopted son, Ikemefuna. Describing the effects of colonization on Okonkwo and the other Ibo, FTP, what is this novel written by Chinua Achebe?     	Answer:	 Things Fall Apart 9.	Baron von Aehrenthal tried to revive it in 1910 and it came about when Germany feared becoming a battleground for Russian and Austrian armies.  It lasted until 1887, when a Russian-backed coup in Bulgaria toppled Alexander von Battenberg.  Its treaty devolved into the Russo-German Reinsurance Treaty negotiated by Nikolai Giers, but Caprivi allowed even that to expire in 1890.  It was eclipsed by the German-Austrian Dual Alliance of 1879 which Bismarck and Andrassy negotiated while others tried to heal relations with Russia.  FTP, name this 1872 alliance between Alexander II, Francis Joseph and William I.	Answer:	Three Emperor's League or Dreikaiserbund10.	On his deathbed he said that only one man ever understood him and he didn't understand that man.  His only brother died fighting in Russia as an officer in Napoleon's army and battle forced him to leave his position as Privatdozent in philosophy at Jena.  A proponent of absolute idealism, he rejected the traditional distinction of subjective from objective and he gave intellectual foundation to modern nationalism in his Philosophy of Right.  FTP, name this German whose other works include Science of Logic and The Phenomenology of Mind, creator of the dialectic process.     	Answer:	 Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel11.	Although Einstein's theories caused it to be combined with a similar law, it is still useful because the energy changes in reactions are too small to affect measurements.  Its discovery is credited to Lavoisier, although Joseph Black had earlier noticed that the change in weight when changing chalk to lime was only due to air loss and could be reversed.  It says that the quality mentioned must be the same for both reactants and products.  FTP, name this law stating that matter is neither created nor destroyed in a chemical reaction.	Answer:	Law of Conservation of Mass12.	Rumored to be a Hakka, the existence of his American grandchild born in New York City was a huge joke among the Chinese elite.  He received technical training in a French factory at 17, but learned more about French communism under his mentor, Zhou En Lai.  He became secretary general of the Communist Party in 1956, but lost all power a decade later. Purged again by the Gang of Four, he regained power and had 100,000 longtime political prisoners set free in 1978.  FTP, name this 4' 11" Chinese leader who died in 1997.	Answer:	Deng Xiaoping13.	Its subject matter was usually men unblessed by fortune whose struggles to survive become heroic.  Norris said it was distinct because "great terrible dramas no longer happen among the personnel of a feudal and Renaissance nobility..., but among the lower-almost the lowest-classes."  The study of "human beasts" in their environments was detailed in The Experimental Novel by Zola and its American exponents included Theodore Dreiser and Stephen Crane.  FTP, name this literary movement that used scientific detachment to write about men making the best of circumstances.	Answer:	Naturalism14.	It is large when objects rebound, so cars that crumple upon impact are safer because the time involved is greater and momentum change is smaller.  Momentum is only conserved if it does not act on a system, so a starship floating in space will have constant momentum if no force acts on the ship.  Symbolized J and measured in Newton*Seconds, it is equal to the change in an object's momentum if mass is constant.  FTP, name this product of average net force and change in time, used by Captain Kirk when warp drive is down.	Answer:	Impulse of Force15.	Although he is not Perry Mason, his secretary's name is Della.  He has degrees from Harvard, Yale, MIT, Oxford, the Sorbonne, and the Louvre.  He calls David Crosby when he feels the need to drink and his business card is also a sponge.  FTP, name this Springfield shyster who has been "clogging our courts since 1976, " owns I Can't Believe It's a Law Firm and also goes by the name Miguel Sanchez.     	Answer:	Lionel Hutz16.	Not good with words and indifferent to his surroundings, the protagonist does not seem the kind to make crazy decisions.  "He was null.  He was probably a worthy member of society, a good husband and father, an honest broker, but there was no reason to waste one's time over him."  He gives no real reason for leaving and his choice leads to extreme poverty, as he dies a blind leper in Tahiti.  He takes off to Paris to live his dream, leaving his wife of seventeen years behind in London.  FTP, name this W. Somerset Maugham work about Charles Strickland's quest to be an artist.	Answer:	The Moon and Sixpence17.	For a pure phase, it equals internal energy plus pressure times volume minus temperature times entropy.  Particles can be spontaneously sent from regions where it is high to those of lower value.  Josiah Gibbes developed the concept after devising free energy, to which it is equal for a mole of a substance.  FTP, name this concept symbolized mu that is the rate of increase in the free energy of a system with the addition of moles of a substance.	Answer:	Chemical Potential18.	It saw the first use of the French horn in an English orchestra.  Sections are usually scored for horns in F, flutes in G and trumpets in D, although the original order is unknown.  Its overture with two solo violins probably was not originally intended for outdoor performance.  Its three suites are not actually meant for dancing, merely being based on the French form, and its "Country Dance" is a tribute to the composer's adopted country.  FTP, name this Georg Friedrich Handel composition that George I had played three times in a row on a boating expedition.	Answer:	Water Music19.	It may be the first book to connect climate and human temperament, showing that women in temperate climates mature later and have more control over husbands because cold men stay drunker.  The author says he "should think myself the most happy of mortals" if he can show enlightened men what blessings their governments are.  Its author loved tolerance, constitutionalism and liberty, showing the benefits to flow from regimes that furthered them: "Republics end with luxury; monarchies with poverty."  FTP, name this work of Montesqieu that showcases the instrument by which men keep their freedom.	Answer:	The Spirit of (the) Laws20.	According to some accounts, her stepsons exiled her to Rhodes in her old age. There, she was hanged by Queen Polyxo to avenge the death of her husband Tlepolemus who was killed in the Trojan War. Euripides based his play about her on a story by Stresichorus, where she ends up in Egypt, while others considered her to be the daughter of Nemesis. Carried off by Theseus when she was a girl, she is the mother of Hermione by Menelaus. FTP, name this woman, whose abduction by Paris started a ten-year war between Greece and Troy.Answer: Helen of Troy21.	Its current leaders, Maj. Gen. Charles Swannock and Sergeant Major Charlie Thorpe, are both from North Carolina.  It led Operation Power Pack in the Dominican Republic and was alerted for duty in Zaire and Iran.  Created in 1917, its greatest hero is Alvin York and its World War II commanders were Omar Bradley and  Matthew Ridgeway.  It was the first division formed with men from all 48 states, leading to its "All American" symbol.  FTP, name this largest airborne unit in the world, now engaged in both Afghanistan and Iraq and based at Fort Bragg.	Answer:	82nd Airborne Division22.	His mother was American and he lived in her country until 1922, when he became his country's ambassador to Britain.  In 1948, he was the one of the only ministers who did not offer a resignation to President Benes, a situation that lead to Communist control of the government.  He was said to have been practicing yoga on a window sill to combine insomnia before his fall, but was probably suffocated because he had lost control of his bowels.  FTP, name Czech foreign minister and son of his country's first president.	Answer:	Jan Masaryk23.	They involve little net erosion because sediment from the outside banks is simply sent to the insides.  One was eliminated by the "Centennial" cutoff in 1876, thirteen years after General Grant failed to destroy it to bypass enemy guns.  Expansion of existing ones and creation of new ones have ensured that the Mississippi has not shortened.  They emerge when streams erode their banks so that erosion and deposition enlarge curves.  FTP, name this large loops that form on flat landscapes and eventually become oxbows.	Answer:	Meanders or Meandering Streams24.	Only Roman copies exist, the best being found in Minnesota.  Ancient carvings and a medallion show how the original looked, with only the length of the weapon disputed.  It was called the Canon by other artists and was slightly bigger than life-size.  It may be an Achilles or perhaps a Theseus, but it is definitely not an athlete or a real person.  It is a naked young man in a contrapposto position, originally with a missle in his right hand.  FTP, name this Polykleitos work also called the spear bearer.	Answer:	Doryphoros
BONI -- SOUTH CAROLINA A 						MOON PIE 2003-UTC1.	5-10-15, answer these questions about an American authoress.5-Although her autobiography, Dust Tracks on a Road, claimed otherwise, this author of Their Eyes Were Watching God was born in Notasulga, Alabama.  Forgotten for years, Alice Walker erected her headstone.	Answer:	Zora Neale Hurston10-This first novel of Zora Neale Hurston compares Eatonville preacher John Pearson's life to a Biblical object as he is destroyed by his gift of oratory.	Answer:	Jonah's Gourd Vine15-In 1931 Hurston collaborated with this legendary comic on the play Fast and Furious.  She was an old Negress in a housedress and floppy hat who often discussed her need to be satisfied by younger men. 	Answer:	Jackie "Moms" Mabley2.	Name the New Deal Acts from US history FTPE1.Also called the Banking Act, this act tried to prevent bank runs and increase depositor confidence by creating the FDIC.     	Answer:	 Glass-Steagall Act2. Passed in 1935, this act guaranteed workers the right to organize and bargain through unions.     Answers: Wagner Act or National Labor Relations Act3.It established the PWA and allowed the president to establish the National Recovery Administration. It was struck down by the Supreme Court.     	Answer:	 National Industrial Recovery Act or NIRA3.	Name the following about an economist FTSNOP.For 5, this Scottish economist was also a philosopher and was influenced by the physiocrats. He is considered to be the founder of economics and advocated laissez-faire.     	Answer:	Adam Smith For 10, name the economic doctrine that Smith attacks in Book IV of the Wealth of Nations. It was the economic theory behind colonization during the 17th and 18th centuries.     	Answer:	MercantilismFor 15, name Smith's second most famous book.  Published in 1759, it asserts that sympathy for the feelings of others explains why some actions are good and others not.     	Answer:	Theory of Moral Sentiments4.	5-10-15, identify these Fritz Lang films.5-In the socially stratified world of 2026, Freder falls in love with Maria and learns of her people's horrible conditions.  She becomes a robot and he becomes the new ruler.	Answer:	Metropolis10-The first sound movie made in Germany, Peter Lorre portrays a child killer.  Apparently based on the "Vampire of Dusseldorf", its serial killer's rage is tied to Grieg's Hall of the Mountain King. 	Answer:	M15-This 1932 movie about an evil genius wreaking havoc has an asylum inmate spouting Nazi propaganda.  Goebbels saw it and invited Lang to supervise the making of Nazi films.	Answer:	The Last Will of Dr. Mabuse or Testament of Dr. Mabuse or Das Testament des Dr. Mabuse5.	Answer the following about beer FTSNOP.5-This is the most common type of American beer.  It is fermented seven to twelve days at cool temperatures with yeast that drops to the container bottom as the process ends.	Answer:	Lager Beer 10-Although most beers are made from barley, African bousa and Kaffir beers are made from this common African grain, especially the sorghum type.  Richard Burton warmed to it during his time there.	Answer:	Millet15-These German laws forbid any brewing materials except barley malt, hops, yeast and water.  Passed in 1516 and still in effect, they have been called the world's oldest consumer protection laws.	Answer:	Reinheitsgebot or Purity Laws6.	Answer these questions about a Broadway stalwart FTPE.He got his start as lyricist for West Side Story and had his greatest successes when teamed with Hal Prince in the 1970s.  Together they created Follies, Pacific Overtures and Sweeney Todd.	Answer:	Stephen SondheimThe film version of this early Sondheim work starred Zero Mostel, Phil Silvers and Buster Keaton.  This farce set in ancient Rome promises, "Comedy tonight!" and has the slave Pseudolus first condemned to death, then married to a virgin.	Answer:	A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the ForumFrederik marries a teenager to recover his youth, but finds her frigid.  He begins sleeping with an old flame, the actress Desiree Armfeldt, and ends up dueling Carl-Magnus for her.  It doesn't have a thing to do with Mozart.	Answer:	A Little Night Music7.	5-10-15, answer these questions about an agent of heredity.5-Ribsomes are partly made of this and it once played the role of both proteins and DNA in cells.  It is identical to DNA except for its additional hydroxyl group and single-stranded nature.	Answer:	RNA10-RNA carries genetic information to the site of this process, in which proteins are created from an mRNA template.	Answer:	Translation15-This type of RNA is produced by genes to prevent mRNA from doing its job.  It may protect against viruses, which produce double-stranded RNA when they replicate.	Answer:	Micro RNA or miRNA8.	30-20-10 Name the psychological concept.30: It was created by Irving Janis in 1971 after he studied the Pearl Harbor attack, and the Bay of Pigs invasion.20: Characteristics include an illusion of invulnerability and a stereotyped view of the opponent.10:  This is a phenomenon where group members suppress dissent to maintain group harmony, and blindly convince themselves that the group's position is correct.  Examples include poll results related to the current Iraqi War.     	Answer:	 Groupthink9.	5-10-15, name these Melville works.5-Not published until 1924, its title character kills the sadistic John Claggert and Captain Vere reluctantly has him hanged.	Answer:	Billy Budd10-A writer lives in incestuous poverty with his half-sister.  Rejecting his mother and fiancée, Lucy Tartan, he kills himself in prison.	Answer:	Pierre; or, The Ambiguities15-Based on a true story, the hero fought under John Paul Jones and served as Ben Franklin's courier.  After the war, he spent decades outside America and ended up a bum.	Answer:	Israel Potter10.	Answer these questions about the Revolutionary War in South Carolina FTPE.This Patriot victory of October 7, 1781 was the only one in which almost all participants were American-born.  The lone exception was Patrick Ferguson, the Scottish commander of the Loyalists.	Answer:	King's MountainThis British commander captured Charleston from General Lincoln in 1780, taking the only Continental Army in the South.  He is better known for commanding at Bunker Hill.	Answer:	Sir Henry ClintonHe slaughtered 113 men after a surrender at Waxhaws, leading to the battle cry "give them __'s quarter."  Joshua Reynolds painted him and William Tavington in "The Patriot" is based on him.	Answer:	Colonel Banastre Tarleton
11.	Answer these questions about a scientist FTPE.He and Chevreul created a superior candle from fatty acids that replaced tallow versions.  He worked with cyanide and, with Biot, ascended more than four miles in a balloon to test air and magnetic fields.	Answer:	Joseph Louis Gay-LussacAlthough Guillaume Amontons actually first discovered this in 1699, Gay-Lussac found it independently of its namesake in 1792.  It says that gases lose 1/273 of their volume for every 1 degree drop in temperature.	Answer:	Charles's Law Gay-Lussac co-discovered these when Berzelius submitted a paper to Gay-Lussac's journal.  They are compounds with the same formulas but different structures.	Answer:	Isomers 12.	Name the Biblical characters from the New Testament FTPE.1.He was chosen to make sure that Greek-speaking widows got their fair share of food and became the first Christian martyr when the Sanhedrin stoned him.     	Answer:	 Stephen2.Paul chose this man to accompany him on a missionary trip after his disagreement with Barnabas.     	Answer:	 Silas3.He was dispatched by Paul to Crete and was considered proof that a non-Jew could become a good Christian.  The book of the Bible named after him is the 20th in the New Testament.     	Answer:	 Titus13.	Answer these questions about a World War II battle FTPE.This sixth-century Benedictine monastery was defended by 15 German divisions.  Several American attacks were repulsed and it was only taken by the French and Poles in May, 1944 after intense bombing.	Answer:	Monte CassinoThis general had been deputy commander of Italian forces since 1942 and led the German retreat.  He nearly stopped Mark Clark's landing at Salerno and did prevent an airborne assault on Rome.	Answer:	Albert KesselringThis was Kesselring's defensive line south of Rome.  Besides Monte Cassino, it also included the Garigliano and Rapido rivers and the Allies attempted to break it by taking Anzio.	Answer:	Gustav Line14.	Name the Latin American author from clues FTPE1.Born in Colombia, this magical realist wrote such works as No One Writes to the Colonel and Love in the Time of Cholera.     	Answer:	Gabriel García Márquez 2.This first Mexican Nobel prize winner published his first book of poetry at age 19. He is best known for the works Sun Stone and The Labyrinth of Solitude.     	Answer:	Octavio Paz3.He ran for president in his native Peru in 1990 and has written Between Sartre and Camus, Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter, and The War of the End of the World.      	Answer:	Mario Vargas Llosa15.	Answer the following related to physics FTPE.The first of these laws says that changing magnetic flux about a circuit creates an E.M.F. in the circuit.  The other two describe the degree and direction of the E.M.F.	Answer:	Faraday's Laws of InductionThis American physicist actually discovered self-inductance before Faraday.  He also built one of the first telegraphs and organized research for the Smithsonian that led to the creation of the U.S. Weather Bureau.	Answer:	Joseph HenryThis type of inductor concentrates magnetic field into a powerful and uniform field in its center.  It is a coil of wire, often with an iron core.	Answer:	Solenoid
16.	Answer these questions about the Wars of the Roses FTPE.The wars began because both sides claimed descent from this king through his sons John of Gaunt and Edmund of Langley.  It was his claims to the French throne that started war with the House of Valois.	Answer:	Edward IIIThis first battle of the wars took place on May 22, 1455.  Henry VI was captured and the Yorkists were in control for nearly five years of the ensuing truce.	Answer:	St. AlbansIt was fought near the border with Wales, to which place Margaret of Anjou was fleeing after learning of Warwick's defeat at Barnet.  Edward IV destroyed her army and killed her son.	Answer:	Tewkesbury 17.	Identify these asteroids from descriptions FTPE.Only Mars, Venus and this asteroid have broken off fragments that have made it to Earth.  It is white as chalk and is the smallest object visible to the naked eye.	Answer:	VestaGalileo flew by this Koronis asteroid in 1993 and found it to be the first asteroid with a satellite.  The smaller asteroid was called Dactyl, after beings living on the namesake mythological mountain.	Answer:	IdaAlthough Olbers was looking for it, Giuseppe Piazzi found it on the first day of the nineteenth century.  The first asteroid discovered, it is named for the goddess most important to Sicily.	Answer:	Ceres18.	Identify the -ism from philosophy from a proponent FTPE. You get 5 if you need a more famous follower.10-Roscelin5-William of Ockham       	Answer:	Nominalism10-Christian von Wolff5-Rene Descartes      	Answer:	Rationalism10-George Santayana5-David Hume     	Answer:	 Skepticism19.	Name the things from Norse Mythology FTPE.1.This colt of Odin had eight legs and could travel over land, sea, and in the air.     	Answer:	Sleipnir2.This hammer of Thor was made by the dwarves Brok and Eitri and will be inherited by Thor's sons.      	Answer:	Mjollnir3.This folding boat of Freyr, created by the dwarf Dvalin, always sails directly toward its target.      	Answer:	Skidbladnir20.	Name these lesser-known Seattle bands from the early nineties from songs on a 5-10-15 basis.5- "Touch Me I'm Sick," "Here Comes Sickness," "When Tomorrow Hits"     	Answer:	 Mudhoney10- "Nearly Lost You," "Halo of Ashes," "Something About Today"     	Answer:	 Screaming Trees15- "Debonair," "Retarded," "Be Sweet"     	Answer:	 Afghan Whigs
21.	FTPE, name these English words which arise from the names of characters in Dickens works.This word refers to a dreamy, improvident optimist.  It comes from a debtor in David Copperfield who was apparently based on the author's father.	Answer:	MicawberMeaning a refusal to acknowledge disagreeable situations, it comes from a chapter in Our Mutual Friend.  The eponymous fellow is an arrogant businessman who will not accept the shallowness of his life.	Answer:	PodsnapperyThis adjective comes from the much-maligned hypocrite whose greed for an old man's money causes him to first aid Martin Chuzzlewit, then abandon him.	Answer:	Pecksniffian22.	Name the capitals of the following African countries FTPE1.Benin     	Answer:	Porto Novo2.Zimbabwe     	Answer:	Harare3.Lesotho     	Answer:	Maseru23.	Answer these questions about an author FTPE.Presiding over the Icelandic high court, he sold out his country to Haakon IV, who later had him killed with an axe.  He wrote about a famous ancestor in Egil's Saga.	Answer:	Snorri Sturlson or SturlassonThis work of Snorri Sturlson describes the origin and exploits of the gods and contains many guidelines for writing poetry.  Its sections are the Gylfaginning, Skaldskaparmal and Hattatal.	Answer:	Prose Edda or Snorra Edda or Younger EddaThis work details Norway's history, especially the deeds of its kings from antiquity to 1177.  Its title comes from "circle of the world", the opening line.	Answer:	Helmskringla24.	Name these instruments used to measure electromagnetic forces FTPE.A coil experiences a torque in proportion to the electric current moving through it.  A spring restores the needle to its original condition.	Answer:	GalvanometerInvented by Samuel Langley, this device measures radiation by finding change in resistance caused by heating.	Answer:	BolometerIt consists of a resistor placed parallel to, and directing current to, a galvanometer, which is also a type of this.  It gives the current in amperes.	Answer:	Ammeter25.	Answer these questions about in incident in Japanese history FTPE.In 1333 Go-Daigo overthrew the rule of the bakufu and attempted to bring back the direct rule of the emperor.  He quickly alienated supporters with his reactionary measures and greed.	Answer:	Kemmu RestorationThe Kemmu Restoration was a reaction to the rule of this family.  Descendants of the Taira, their Kamakura shogunate led resistance to the Mongols and Minamoto Yoritomo married into it.	Answer:	HojoThis warrior first allied himself with Go-Daigo, then led the rebellion against him.  He set up a new shogunate at Kyoto, one which his grandson, Yoshimitsu, moved to Muromachi district.	Answer:	 Ashikaga Takauji 