TOSSUPS - LEE UNIVERSITY					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC 1.	The play opens with Dionysus with the lionskin of Heracles over his shoulder and his slave on a donkey with their supplies. The majority of the play consists of a trial before Pluto to determine whether Euripides or Aeschylus was the better tragic poet. In the end the dead Aeschlyus is given the master's seat and restore to life. Name this play by the comic Aristophanes.Frogs2.	One of these is added to ore before melting to help separate the impurities from the metal. In smelting iron the type of this used is usually limestone, which combines to readily form slag, which can then be removed. Ones made of borax, soda, and potash are used to separate base metal from gold and silver.  This term also can refer to the rate of flow of matter across a given surface. FTP name this substance that lowers the melting point of a substance to which it is added  whose name also describes the type of capacitor used in the Back To The Future movies.	Answer: Flux3.	Born in St. Ann's Bay, Jamaica, he left school at 14 to become a printer's apprentice. He traveled and worked in Central America and then London where he came in contact with many Africans through his job as a writer for the African Times and Orient Review. However, he is best remembered for founding the Universal Negro Improvement Association in 1914 and the newspaper The Negro World in 1916. For 10 pts name this Jamaican-born champion of the "Back to Africa" movement.	Answer: Marcus Garvey Moziah Jr.4.	He was born in Brooklyn of Russian immigrant parents in 1898, and wrote his first popular song at the tender age of 15. In 1919, he wrote his first popular song "Swanee" and rose to fame in the 1920's on Broadway with such hits as "Lady Be Good"(1924), "Tip Toes"(1925), and "Funny Face"(1927). Turning to political satire he wrote the comedy Of Thee I Sing, which in became the first musical comedy to win a Pulitzer for drama. FTP, name this American composer responsible for "I Got Rhythm," "Embraceable You," and "Rhapsody in Blue."		Answer: George Gershwin5.	When he was eight he sent away for equivalency testing to earn his high school diploma.  His college career spanned only one year at the University of Texas at Austin..  By age 27 he had became the youngest CEO of a Fortune 500 company, having begun his company at age 19 in 1984.  FTP, name this man who founded his direct sales computer corporation out of his dorm room.	Answer: Michael Dell6.	Though the evil king Polydectes tricked him into going after his most famous opponent, he achieved victory with the help of Hermes and Athena. Hermes led him to the Grae, the hags of the sea, who told him to obtain winged sandals, a magic case in which to hold his victim's head and Hades helmet to make him invisible. Hermes then gave him a sword and Athena gave him a shield. FTP name this Greek hero who, using his shield as a mirror, cut off Medusa's head.	Answer: Perseus 
7.	During the 1930's, along with Oxford friends W. H. Auden, Louis Macneice and Stephen Spender, he gained fame for his poetry expressing discontent with society. As a member of this group of poets he helped influence English verse by writing about modern political and social forces in a direct informal and often deliberately vulgar manner. He published the novels The Friendly Tree and Starting Point in 1936 and 1937 respectively, his collected poems in 1954, and his autobiography The Buried Day in 1960. FTP name this 1968 Poet Laureate of England and father of the future Oscar-winning star of My Left Foot.	Answer: C(ecil) Day Lewis 	8.	This agreement sharply modified the Treaty of San Stefano signed just 4 months before because of Russia's "Eastern Question." In this treaty, Austria would gain control of Bosnia and Herzegovina, England would administer Cyprus and Montenegro, Romania, and Serbia would become independent. Armenians were first mentioned in an international document in this treaty. FTP what treaty signed in 1878 followed up the Russo-Turkish war and was overseen by Otto Von Bismarck in the German Capital?	Answer: Treaty of Berlin (do not accept Congress of Berlin)9.	First proposed in 1842 in an essay titled, Concerning the coloured light of double stars, it was actually applied only to sound. Later Fizeau applied it to light, which made it ideal for providing evidence of redshifts in the theory of an expanding universe. When two waves are emitted from a source at constant speeds toward an observer, then the observer will detect that the sound between the two pulses is shorter than that of the source. FTP, what is this effect named after the scientist who discovered it often associated with weather radars?	Answer: Doppler Effect10.	It is the last name of Academy Award winning sound engineer Roger who worked on such films as Coal Miner's Daughter, Jaws, and Crash Dive.  It is also the name of the son of Zerah, a singer named in 1 Kings and 1 Chronicles, as well as the grandson of Samuel to whom Psalms 88 is inscribed. The more famous bearer of this name, in a hyphenated form, was a mighty warrior who called upon the power of Gray Skull. For 10 pts name this alter ego of Prince Adam.	Answer: He Man or Heman11.	He always seemed in trouble with the royalty. Queen Elizabeth had him imprisoned in the Tower of London because he had secretly married one of her maids of honor.  After being imprisoned by James I, he took one last voyage to South America, but upon his return to England, he was arrested for treason and executed.  The night before he died he wrote The Author's Epitaph, Made by Himself.  More anthologized, however, is his response to a Christopher Marlowe poem.  FTP, name this author of "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd," who also dabbled in real estate ventures in the New World.Sir Walter Raleigh 12.	According to entomologists, only members of this order are actually bugs, not all insects. Insects of this order have two pairs of wings, each front wing havinga thick base, but the rest of the wing being a thin membrane. The hind wings are made up entirely of membrane, and fold beneath the front wings. Many are serious pests and damage crops. FTP name this order of insects whose Greek name translates to "half-wing" and which includes stink bugs, water bugs, and leaf bugs.Hemiptera 13.	They were young Italian men, mostly middle-class, who had fought, in WWI. Armed with guns, knives, and clubs, they terrorized Northern Italy from 1920-1922. They attacked Socialists, Communists, labor unions, and strikers. In October 1922 they marched on Rome and forced King Victor Emmanuel III to appoint Mussolini Prime Minister of Italy. FTP name these armed squads supporters of Mussolini's fascist movement in Italy, who received their name because of an article of clothing worn as part of their uniform.Black Shirts14.	In the Anglican Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic churches it is mainly a stage of a year or less that precedes entry into the priesthood, although these churches do ordain people for this position as a lifetime vocation. They would assist in church work especially if there was a shortage of priests. In many Protestant churches they are lay members who help meet various needs of the congregation, according to 1 Timothy 3:8-13. FTP name this rank of Christian clergy or member of the laity, assigned to help ministers and priests in such tasks as preaching and helping the sick and needy, whose name comes from the Greek word meaning servant.Deacon15.	In its original, more violent version, the sides were sometimes composed of hundreds of players, the goals miles apart, and the games could last for 3 days. Originally called baggataway by the Iroquois, the Cherokee called it "little brother of war" because of the endurance and the fortitude it developed in the players. FTP name this sport, which picked up its current name when the French noticed that the sticks used to carry the ball down the field resembled a bishop's cross.Lacrosse16.	Both Lisa Simpson and her grandmother hate the author of this book. Most of the action occurs as a flashback to the summer of 1942-1943. At Devon, the main characters considered forming the club "Suicide Society of the Summer Session" which only had one activity, jumping off a tree into a river. Leper is the only witness to main incident where Gene purposely jounces the branch and causes Finny to fall and break his leg. FTPe what is this novel written by John Knowles?	Answer: A Separate Peace17.	The name's the same:  The seaport on the southwest coast of England where the first English factory to manufacture porcelain was established, and from which Sir Francis Drake and other explorers set sail.  The town settled by a group of people who first set sail on the Speedwell from the Netherlands.  FTP, identify the common name for these two towns, the second the Massachusetts settlement established by the Puritans who later boarded the Mayflower. Answer:  Plymouth18.	Born one month before Bach in Saxony, this composer was the son of a barber and surgeon who despised musicians. He was expected to become a lawyer until Duke Josef Adolf I, upon hearing the seven year old play the organ, advised his father to get him a teacher. His works included the operas "Almira," "Nero," "Agrippina," and "Rodrigo."  For 10 pts name this composer best known for such oratorios ad "Judas Maccabaeus" and "The Messiah."Georg Friedrich Handel19.	It is one of the few Sanskrit words completely naturalized in English with cognates in both Latin and German. Originally meaning 'tie' or 'harness', this philosophy was systemized by Patanjal in northern India in 300 BC.  This process of meditation involved complete body control through the mastery of posture known as Asanas. For 10 pts name this practice regarded by many as the supreme achievment of Hinduism, Jainism, and Buddhism.Yoga20.	Glycolysis requires that 2 of these molecules to be inputted and creates 4 when it completes a cycle. The Krebs cycle yields only 1 directly. Oxidative phosphorylation is the process to convert NADH and FADH2 to these molecules via the electron transport chain. FTP, what is this energy rich molecule that has one more phosphate group than ADP?	Answer: ATP ( or Adenosine Triphosphate)21.	The name's the same: First it is a highly flavored spice used on foods that comes from the red outside covering of nutmeg . When fresh it is fleshy and smells and tastes like nutmeg. Second it was a weapon of the middle ages, a club with a long handle heavily weighted at one end usually with a heavy iron ball. No longer a weapon, it is now a club shaped staff used at legislative meetings to restore order. FTP what is this word which can also describe a tear gas sprayed from a pressurized canister.Mace22.	While the glaciers of this range rival those of the Alps in size, there are almost no lakes. Among its rich natural resources are the oil fields of Bako, Grozny, and Mykop , the rich manganese deposits of Georgia, and valuable tungsten molybdenum reserves. The chief peak of this range is Mount Elbrus (at 18,481) which makes it the highest spot in Europe. Considered one boundary line between Europe and Asia, FTP name this mountain range that rises between the Black and Caspian Seas.Caucasus Mountains23.	Born in Glasgow, Scotland in 1766, he opened a factory to manufacture alum and sal ammoniac before he was twenty years old. He also introduced into Great Britain the manufacturing of lead and aluminum acetates and was a contributor to the technology of dyeing. His best known invention is used in the outer garment that he invented and bears his name. FTP name this British chemist and inventor best known as the inventor of waterproof fabric.Charles Macintosh24.	The number of times you would have to watch Taxidriver consecutively before attempting to shoot Reagan; the number of men who competed in the archery competition in the Sydney Olympics; the square root of 4096; 2 to the 6th power; the number of answers in an uninterrupted Jeopardy game plus number of contestants, and a popular Nintendo game system.  FTP, what is this shared number?6425.	He was born near Fort Pitt (Pittsburgh, PA ) in 1770 and gained fame as a youth for his expert marksmanship while fighting the British and Indians on the Pennsylvania frontier. During the early 1800's he became the most famous of the rugged keelboaters who worked on the Mississippi and  Ohio rivers.  After the rise of the steamboat and demise of the keelboats he joined the Rocky Mountain Fur Company as boatman and trapper. Many different stories have been told regarding his death, but they all amount to his being shot during a disagreement that arose during a shooting match with his friend. FTP Name this American frontier fighter and boatsman whose adventures and death have become the subject of many stories and legends.Mike Fink
BONI - LEE UNIVERSITY					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1.	Remember the Titans?  Identify the following from Greek mythology FTPE.a)  She was the mother to and wife of Uranus. Her children, the Titans, joined her in a conspiracy to overthrow her husband. She was worshipped as the universal mother and was also the goddess of death.Gaeab) This Titaness was the wife of Cronus and mother of Zeus, Hera, Poseiden, Hades, Demeter and Hesta.Rheac) His name means "Afterthinker". This naive brother of Prometheus married Pandora.	Epimetheus2.	Identify the following animals that hold the record for being the largest of their type, FTSNOP.5)  This largest rodent comes from South America.  The Tick once had one as a pet, though he thought it was a dog.Capybara10)  Standing up to ten feet tall on its hind legs, this largest land carnivore lives exclusively on an archipelago. Kodiak Bear (prompt on brown or grizzly bear)15)  The largest butterfly, this endangered species with a one foot wingspan lives in Papua New Guinea and begins life as a red and black caterpillar with a cream colored spot.Queen Alexandra's Birdwing 3.  Hey, he only killed 33% of them.  On a 5-10-20-30 basis, name the other wives of Henry VIII from clues:a. She was originally betrothed to and married Henry's brother Arthur.			Catherine of Aragonb.  Twice widowed, this last of Henry's six wives eventually outlived Henry by a year and a half.   		Catherine Parrc.  She and Henry became betrothed within 24 hours of Anne Boleyn's death.  She died soon after bearing Henry's long-sought son Edward.		Jane Seymourd.  Called by Henry the "Flanders Mare," she was given the honorary title "The King's Sister" after their marriage of less than a month.  Besides Catherine Parr, she was the only other of Henry's wives to outlive him.	Anne of Cleves4. Name these British playwrights of the 1950s and 60s FTPE from clues.a)  The subject of the Gary Oldman film "Prick Up Your Ears," this writer created such plays as "Loot" and "The Ruffian on the Stair" before his lover bashed his brains in with a hammer.			Joe Ortonb)  Violence abounds in this writer's plays, including the stoning of a baby in Saved, the peasants' attack on a clergyman in The Fool where they strip him and tear at his flesh, and the shooting of widows and elderly women who scavenge the battlefield for food in We Come to the River.				Edward Bondc)  Thanks to him, the birth of modern British drama has an actual date, 8th of  May 1956, the opening of his play Look Back In Anger.  He went on to write A Patriot For Me, Luther, and The Entertainer		John Osborne	
5.	For 10 points each, name these African-Americans who made history in sports:a) In 1956, this African-American lady was the first black to win a Grand Slam event; she also went on to win the US Open and Wimbledon.Althea Gibsonb) In 1962, this Negro League Star became major league baseball's first black coach with the Chicago Cubs.Buck O'Neilc) In 1966, he became the first black coach of the NBA, coaching and playing for the Boston Celtics.Bill Russell6.	Your question writer spent his spring break in France this year, so this question will ask you about art found in the Louvre.  Identify the artist from works on a 10-5 basis.a) 10 - "Apollo Vanquishing the Python,"  "The Women of Algiers"      5 - "Liberty Leading the People, 28th July 1830," "The Massacre at Chios"Eugene Delacroixb) 10 - "Madame Trudaine," "Marius at Minturnae"      5 - "Madame Recamier," "The Oath of the Horatii"Jacques Louis Davidc) 10 - "The Valpincon Bather," "Monsieur Bertin"      5 - "The Turkish Bath," "The 'Grand Odalisque'"Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres7.	FTSNOP name these people or things associated with the history of nuclear weaponry.10) This British physicist and Nobel laureate is credited with the discovery of the neutron in 1932, thus opening the way to nuclear fission and the atomic bomb.	Sir James Chadwick10)  This was the nickname the Americans gave the Soviet Union's first atomic bomb, an implosive type plutonium bomb set off at Semipalatinsk.							Joe No. 15 each)  These two new elements were discovered in 1952 in the fallout debris from the testing of the first H-bomb.Einsteinium and Fermium8. On a 5-10-20-30 basis name the South or Central American peoples defeated by the following conquistadors.a. Cortes 		Aztecsb. Quesada		Chibehasc. Almagro		Mayas or Mayansd. Pizarro		Incas9.	Name these Biblical persons on a 10-5 basis:A - 10) This son of Tarah settled with his father, wife, and nephew in Haran before moving to Egypt during a famine.        5)  His wife was named Sarah and his nephew named Lot.			AbrahamB - 10)  He had daughters named Jemimah, Keziah, and Keren-Happuch who received an inheritance along with their brothers.        5)  As a test of his faith, he lost seven sons, three daughters, seven thousand sheep, five hundred yoke of oxen, three thousand camels, and five hundred donkeys, as well as receiving some nasty boils.	JobC - 10) Fighting in disguise, he dressed another king in his royal robes but was killed when a random arrow pierced his armor.        5) The husband of Jezebel, he shares his name with creations of Melville and Ray Stevens.		Ahab
10.	Name the following works of female writers from clues, FTSNOPEA 5) Virginia Woolf, in this work, claims that the prerequisite for success as a writer is five hundred pounds and the title object.A Room of One's OwnB 10)  This Renaissance collection of seventy or so stories of a projected one hundred is often credited to Marguerite de Navarre.The HeptameronC 15)  This Medieval work by Christine de Pizan provides a sweeping history of women, including sections on Sappho, Cornificia, and St. Christine.The Book of The City of Ladies11.	George Herbert Walker Bush , the father of our current President, had during his administration 6 cabinet posts were filled by two people. Given two individuals, name the post they both held F5PE:Answers:a)  Richard L Thornburgh and William P Barr			Attorney Generalb) Clayton K Yeutler and Edward R Madigan			Secretary of Agriculturec) Robert A Mossbacher and Barbara H Franklin			Secretary of Commerced) Elizabeth H Dole and Lynn M Martin				Secretary of Labore) Samuel K Skinner and Andrew H Card Jr.				Secretary of Transportationf) Lauro E. Cavazos and Lamar Alexander				Secretary of Education12.	Answer the following questions about our Solar System FTPE.10) Which planet is tidally locked with the Sun, so that its day is 2/3 as long as its year?_Mercury_10) Which planet has the shortest rotation period, with a day that lasts only nine hours and fifty minutes?_Jupiter_10) Which planet's orbit is the closest to a circle, with almost zero eccentricity?_Venus_13.  Given the Canadian city name the province or territory FTPE.  You will receive 5 if you need the capital.a) 10 - Glace Bay      5 - Halifax		Nova Scotiab) 10 - Kamloops      5 - Victoria 		British Columbiac) 10 - Moose Jaw      5 - Regina		Saskatchewan 14.	In the first sentence of an 1846 essay entitled "The Philosophy of Composition," the American author notes than a prominent British author had written him a letter commenting on the first's examination of the second's work with a side note about the order in which a third author had written his novel.  On a 10-5 basis:A 10)  This American author wrote "The Philosophy of Composition" as part of a campaign for deliberate artistry rather than uncontrolled effusion.      5)  The majority of the essay discusses the creation of his poem "The Raven."Edgar Allan PoeB 10)  Poe had written a review of this British author's work in 1841, predicting that the idiot title character was the son of the murderer.      5)  Barnaby Rudge is the title character of the work in question.Charles DickensC 10)  Dickens notes in his letter that this other author began with the ending of Caleb Williams, then wrote the beginning to fit the rest of the story.      5) That author was the husband of Mary Wollstonecraft and father of Mary Shelley.William Godwin
15.	Let's go back to middle school science for a question on simple machines.  FFPE, identify which of the simple machines the following household items utilize.a) tweezers					class 3 leverb) door knob					wheel and axlec) window blind cord				pulley	d) a door stop					inclined plane (prompt on "wedge")For five each, the two machines used for scissors	class 1 levers & an inclined plane (prompt on "wedge")16.	Answer the following questions about regular polygons FTSNOP. You will have ten seconds for each part.5/10) First, five points for two and 10 points for all three, what three regular polygons can be used by themselves to cover a plane with no gaps or overlap?equilateral _triangle_, _square_, and regular _hexagon_10) What is the measure of an interior angle of a regular decagon?_144 degrees_ or _4 pi over 5_ (accept 0.8 pi or equivalent)10) A square is inscribed in a circle of radius one. What is the perimeter of the square? _4 root 2_ (four times the square root of two)17.	Identify these women who were the first to accomplish a feat, FTPEa)  The first woman to be named a major general in the US army, this retired brigadier general was the last director of the Women's Army Corps (WACs).  							Mary Clarkeb) In 1932 she became the first woman elected to the US senate, representing the state of Arkansas after her husband died unexpectedly and serving from 1932 to 1944.						Hattie Carawayc)  In 1870 she nominated herself to become the first US presidential candidate, in additional to her status as the first female stockbroker and  first woman to own her own newspaper.			Victoria Woodhull18.	Name these architects from clues FTPEa) He introduced the classical architecture of ancient Rome and the Italian Renaissance to England, designing the Queen's House at Greenwich and the Banqueting Hall in Westminster.Inigo Jonesb) Much to the chagrin of native Australians, he designed the Sydney Opera House, as well as designing the Kuwait House of Parliament and Copenhagen's Bagsueard Church.Jorn Utzonc) He is less known for such buildings as the Harvard Graduate Center than for founding the Bauhuas.Walter Gropius19.	For ten points each, name the character who spoke each of the following quotes from William Shakespeare's tragedy Romeo and Juliet.a) "Then hie you hence to Friar Lawrence' cell; / There stays a husband to make you a wife."Nurseb) "Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law / Is death to any he that utters them.Apothecaryc) "At this same ancient feast of Capulet's / Sups the fair Rosaline when thou so loves; / With all the admired beauties of Verona.Benvolio
20.	Given the name of an airport on the list of the world's 25 busiest and it's rank name the city it serves FFP each.a) Kimpo International #9			Seoulb) Mccarran International #15		Las Vegasc) Sky Harbor #16			Phoenixd) Orly #21				Parise) Logan International  #25		Bostonf) Schipol #20				Amsterdam21.	For five points each, name the members of the following trios in Greek myth.a.  The 3 Gorgons the Daughters of PhorcysEuryale, Medusa, Sthenob.  The 3 FatesClotho, Lachesis, Atropos22.	Name these superlative body parts FTSNOP5- The longest bone in the body	Femur10- The longest internal organ	Liver15-The longest muscle		Sartorius23.	Answer the following questions about President James Monroe FSNOP:a) For five points each before he was president what two cabinet posts did Monroe hold simultaneously?Secretary of State and Secretary of War (during the war of 1812)b) What term is generally used to describe the period of Monroe's administration for 5 points?"The Era of Good Feeling"c) FTP name the tribe of Indians that were fighting with Georgia settlers, causing Monroe to send General Andrew Jackson there to quell the disturbance.Seminoled) FFP Monroe was born in which southern state known as the Birthplace of presidents.Virginia24.	Identify these state flags FTPE from a descriptiona)  Blue background with a thin white border, broad red border and the state seal centered on a white bison.Wyomingb)  Blue background with a centered yellow torch.  Seven lines radiate from the flame with a star at the ends and twelve other stars arranged around the torch, one on its handle and one just below the state name.Indianac) White background with red diagonal cross.Alabama25.	Answer the following questions about people who have the same last name FTSNOP(5 pts) A radical abolitionist whose attempts to free the slaves cost a number of lives and helped indirectly bring on the Civil War, he was hanged in 1859 after being convicted of treason for the raid at Harper's Ferry.John Brown(10pts)  An American artist and illustrator. She won two Caldecott medals. One in 1955 for Cinderella or the little glass slipper and in 1962 for Once a Mouse. Other books included: Henry Fisherman, Skipper John Cook, and adaptations of the Steadfast Tin Solider, and The Three Billy Goats.Marcia Joan Brown(15pts) He was a hero of the war of 1812. Successfully defending Saucetts Harbor against the British in 1813, he won a tactical victory on Lundy's Lane where he was wounded on July 25, 1814. He also successfully defended Fort Erie in September 1814 and was commander of the US Army from 1821 until his death in 1828.Jacob Jennings Brown