TOSSUPS -- LEE UNIVERSITY			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Oblivious to the external world and unaware of the passage of time, it lacks organization, logic or reason, and can therefore harbor contradictory impulses side by side.  It operates entirely according to the pleasure-pain principle, constantly seeking fulfillment, and contains the psychic content related to primitive instincts as well as all psychic material inherited and present at birth.  FTP, name this agency of the human personality according to Freud's psychoanalytic theory.Id2.	In 1963, this unemployed twenty-two year old man was arrested for stealing $8 from a bank employee in Phoenix, Arizona.  While in custody, he was picked from a lineup by a woman who said he had kidnapped and raped her.  After two hours of interrogation, the police gained a confession.  The U.S. Supreme Court threw out the confession because this man had not been advised of his right against self-incrimination.  FTP identify this man, who is the source of the famous Supreme Court decision of 1966.Ernest Miranda3.	French physicist Armand Fizeau used the gear teeth of a spinning wheel and a mirror to roughly approximate it in 1849, but he was about 5% too high.  Fizeau's contemporary Jean Foucault actually obtained the first accurate measurement in 1862 using spinning mirrors.  Both were much better than Galileo's attempt with a lantern and two hilltops.  FTP, name this measurement which has been calculated at 299,792,458 meters per second.Speed of Light4.	Actress Constance Bennett, civil rights activist Medgar Evers, medical pioneer Albert Sabin, author Dashell Hammett, Davis Cup namesake Dwight F. Davis, and baseball pioneer Abner Doubleday are among its over 260,000, including more than 3,800 former slaves who are included in section 27. Part of the estate of John Parke Custis, Martha Washington's son, it occupies 612 acres in Virginia on the Potomac, directly opposite Washington.  FTP name this site of the Tomb of the Unknowns.Arlington National Cemetery 5.	Reported to have intoxicated his neighbor's doves and to have held them for ransom, this accused warlock predicted the year of God's return, believed that the Pope was the antichrist, and invented a military strategy of burning ships using the sun and mirrors.  This author of Descriptio and Constructio, known as the "Marvelous Merchiston," invented a simple way to perform multiplication using bones.  For ten points, name this Edinburgh inventor of logarithms.John Napier6.	Born in 1899 in St. Petersburg this internationally recognized lepidopterist taught at Cornell from 1948 to 1959.  Yet it was not for lepidoptery that this novelist is remembered.  Among his earlier fictions in Russian are Despair and Invitation to a Beheading, while later works include Pale Fire and Ada.  FTP, name this author of a 1958 novel about Humbert Humbert's infatuation with a 12-year-old American nymphet.Vladimir Nabokov7.	Developed in 1902 and modified for the US in 1931, this scale differs vastly from the rival scale better known to the general population, as it measures the intensity or effect rather than amplitude.  FTP, name this scale which, unlike the Richter, rates earthquakes based upon human reaction and structural damage.Mercalli Scale8.	He was called Cunctator, Latin for "delayer," because of his delaying tactics in the Second Punic War.  He was one of Hannibal's major opponents and was replaced by the Romans in 216 B.C. because of his inaction.  It is from his name that a term for a waiting policy as well as a pacifist society is derived.  FTP, name this Roman general.Fabius or Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrocosus9.	Born in 1926 in Newark, he almost took his father's advice on following a career as a labor lawyer.  After being suspended from Columbia for various small offenses, he had a mad vision in which William Blake appeared to him in person.  He developed an advertising campaign for Ipana Toothpaste, but is better remembered for his October 1955 performance at the Six Gallery poetry reading.  FTP, name this author of such works as Kaddish, Sunflower Sutra, and Howl.Allen Ginsberg10.	Declared a World Heritage Site in 1992 by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, it features the longest continuous bas-relief in the world.  Its five towers are presently shown on the Cambodian national flag and King Suryavarman II dedicated it to the Hindu God Vishnu in the 12th century AD.  FTP name this Buddhist temple in the capital of the ancient Khmer Empire.Angkor Wat (prompt on Angkor)11.	First and last names are required.  Her father was a revolutionary exile from Bourbon Italy; her mother was the sister of John Polidori, author of The Vampyre.  She rejected the marriage proposal of Pre-Raphaelite painter James Collinson, supposedly because of his religious indecisiveness.  Her own religious conviction came through in the majority of her poetry, though not so much in her best known works, "Remember" and "Goblin Market."  For ten points, give the first and last name of this poet whose brother, Dante Gabriel, founded the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.Christina Rossetti12.	Originally titled "War Song of the Army of the Rhine," the words of this piece were written in Strasbourg in April 1792.  Music for it was orchestrated later by Berlioz, with the composition dedicated to Claude-Joseph Rouget de Lisle, the author of the lyrics.  For ten points, name  this song which became popular during the French Revolution and now serves as the national anthem of France.La Marseillaise13.	He first revealed his political awareness in 1963 when his brother was arrested for political activities in South Africa.  He was co-founder of the South African Student's Organization, and later he established the Zimle Trust Fund to help political prisoners.  Within 3 years, he was arrested and held without trial 5 times, and in August 1977 he died of blows to the head while in police custody.  FTP, name this black martyr, subject of both a Peter Gabriel song and the movie, Cry Freedom.Stephen Biko14.	Born in 1874 in Norfolk, England, this artistically talented adventurer set sail for Alexandria, at age 17, to work as a tracer.  His first project was Bani Jassan where he would work the day through and then sleep with the bats in the tomb.  He surprised his employer by several important finds at el Amarna.  After being forced to resign from one antiquities service due to an unfortunate incident with drunken French tourists, he went to work for the Fifth Lord Carnarvon.  FTP, name this archaeologist of the burial site of Queen Hatshepsut and of the tomb of King Tutankhamun.Howard Carter
15.	Though he lived in the US for a number of years and became and American citizen in 1955, most of his novels focus on the English gentry.  Creator of such characters as Psmith (SMITH) - spelled with a 'P' - Mr. Mulliner, and Lord Emsworth, he wrote over 70 novels and 300 short stories, and collaborated with the likes of Jerome Kerns and George Gershwin on musicals.  For ten points, name this prolific author and creator of Bertram Wooster and his Butler Jeeves.P(elham) G(reville) Wodehouse  16.	With Theo Van Doesburg, he founded the magazine De Stijl in 1917, in which he published articles until 1925.  In 1920 he published a book on his art theory, which appeared in German as Neue Gestaltung, and in French as Le Neo-Plasticisme.  FTP, name this artist who settled in New York in 1940, and was well known for his designs, which evolved from apple tree sketches to horizontal and vertical lines at right angles, often in primary colors.A: Piet _MONDRIAN_17.	Its two principal written sources are Sefer Yezira, a series of monologues supposedly delivered by Abraham, and Zohar, attributed to Simon benYohai, a 2nd century scholar.  It appears to have arisen in 11th century France and spread, most notably to Spain.  After the Jews were expelled from Spain it became Messianic in emphasis, especially as developed by Isaac Luria.  This form had many adherents, including the pseudo-Messiah, Sabbatai Zevi.  It also influenced the development of 18th century Hasidism.  It is based on the belief that every word, letter, number, and even accent of the Scriptures contains mysteries.  FTP, name this mystical Jewish system.Cabala  18.	It may occur as a result of influenza encephalitis, carbon monoxide poisoning, or drugs, but in most cases the cause is unknown.  It is named for the English surgeon who first described it in 1817.  Symptoms, which usually appear after age 40, are treated with drugs Amantadine and L-dopa.  It is initially characterized by trembling lips and hands and muscular rigidity, later producing body tremors, a shuffling gait, and eventual possible incapacity.  FTP, name this degenerative brain disorder now affecting Michael J. Fox.Parkinson's disease or Parkinsonism 19.	The official report stated 7500 businesses destroyed, 91 people killed, with over 170 synagogues burned to the ground.  Prompted by the shooting of a member of the German Embassy staff by Herschel Grynszpan, this November 9th event was a coordinated attack on the Jews which eventually led to the permanent recall of the American ambassador to Germany.  FTP, name this event, translated as "The Night of Broken Glass."Kristallnacht20.	In the 1600s in Russia, the forerunners of this present-day form of entertainment were huge blocks of ice that were fashioned into sleds, with straw or fur on the icy seat for passengers comfort.  Sand was used to help slow down the sled to keep it from crashing.  In America in 1884, the first gravity switchback train was introduced as, FTP, what popular theme park ride?Roller Coaster21.	Her first televised appearance occurred in 1963, and she made the cover of Time magazine's Thanksgiving issue of 1966.  Her numerous books, articles, public appearances, and CD-ROM have contributed to transforming her profession into an honored one.  In the book for which she was honored at the 1995 James Beard Awards, she writes, "For years he (but very rarely she), the chef, was considered an artisan, not an artist."  FTP, name this "Lady with the Ladle."Julia Child22.	He was editor of the Scots Observer and the National Observer, and he published the early work of Hardy, Shaw, and Kipling. Though later estranged from Robert Louis Stevenson, his collaboration with that author led to four plays, and as he had lost a foot to osteomyelitis, he also served as the model for Long John Silver in Stevenson's Treasure Island.  His own work included In Hospital and A Book Of Verses including his most famous poem which concludes, "I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul."  For ten points name this author of "Invictus."William Ernest Henley23.	The son of a Sicilian immigrant he went to Harvard Law School.  He worked for a Cleveland law firm from 1961-67, taught law at the University of Virginia and served as assistant attorney general in the Office of Legal Council.  He served at the U.S. Court of Appeals from 1982-86, at which time President Reagan chose him to be an associate justice of the Supreme Court. For ten points name this judge, well-known for his strong legal conservatism.  Antonin Scalia24.	This company was formed in 1837 when a British candle maker and an Irish soap maker merged their business in Cincinnati.  It supplied soap and candle to the Union Army, and its earliest products included Ivory soap, Crisco shortening, and Tide.  They introduced the first soap opera, and today market products in several major areas including personal care products and laundry products. FTP, name this company, the leading U.S. national advertiser. Proctor and Gamble
BONI -- LEE UNIVERSITY			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	While it is an obviously common name, a number of important people during the great schism known as the Protestant Reformation shared the name John.  For 5 points each identify these important Johns:1. This Yorkshireman taught theology and philosophy at Oxford and was instrumental in providing the first translation of the Bible into English.			John Wycliffe2. This rector of the University of Prague was imprisoned on his way to the Council of Constance in 1414 and was burned at the stake.				John Huss3. After the ascension of Mary I to the English throne, this founder of Scottish Presbyterianism fled to Geneva.						John Knox4. This French author of Institutes of the Christian Religion moved to Geneva in 1536 and his most influencial work there.						John Calvin5. This English clergyman published a history of Protestant persecution which became known as the Book of Martyrs						John Foxe6.  Formally a Johann, this German monk was intrusted with the proclamation of indulgences, setting him up as a target of Luther's 95 theses.	     Johann Tetzel2.	Identify the author from a list of works on a 30-20-10 basis30: A Theory of Semiotics, Interpretation and Overinterpretation.20: Kant and the Platypus, Serendipities: Language and Lunacy.10: Foucault's Pendulum, The Name of the Rose.Umberto Eco3.	For ten points each, name the sociologists from clues.1.  The author of Course of Positive Philosophy, he is generally considered the founder of the field of sociology and coined the term "sociological."		Auguste Comte2.  This French sociologist, author of Suicide, taught sociology at universities in Bordeaux and Paris and founded the first real school of sociological thought.			Emile Durkheim3.  Sociology was recognized in Germany thanks to the efforts of this author of The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.				Max Weber4.	FTSNOP answer the following questions about sound, if I can make out what you're saying.5: A unit of sound intensity.		Decibels10: A change in the wavelength and frequency of a wave as a result of the motion of either the source or receiver of the waves.		Doppler Effect15: The ratio between the speed of an object and the speed of sound in the medium in which the object is travelling.		Mach number5.	FTPE, name the described proof method.1. This method is useful when there is a recurrence relation to solve.  It consists of basis and a step.2. This method is useful for proving a property that is not easy, or possible, to prove directly.3. This method is commonly seen in reduction proofs of NP-completeness (in complexity theory).1. Induction2. Contradiction or Indirect Proof3. Construction
6.	This rock and roll memory has been brought to you by the letter P and the number 3.  It's time once again for the bonus question based on the greatest of all college bowl songs, Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the Fire."  This time all the answers begin with the letter P.  FTSNOP answer the following 3 questions based on lyrics from We Didn't Start the Fire.5: This boxing legend twice lost the World Heavyweight Championship to ex-con Sonny Liston, first in 1963 in Chicago and again in 1964 in Las Vegas.Floyd Patterson10: This village in the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea was the site of the truce in the Korean War, on July 27, 1953.Panmunjom15: It is actually a town called Gilmamaton in New Hampshire, although the series and reunion movie portray it in Massachusetts.  It featured, among others, a young Mia Farrow.Peyton Place7.	Identify the chemical element on a 30-20-10-5 basis.30:  Saint Albert the Great is credited with being the first to produce this in a free form.20:  It was the chemical of choice of Abby and Martha Brewster in their "acts of mercy."10:  It has an atomic number of 33.5:  Its symbol is AsArsenic8.	 "Let us go then," and name T.S. Eliot's characters for ten points each.a) [10] "The zebra stripes along his jaw / Swelling to maculate giraffe." This ape-necked character is known for his exploits among the nightingales.ANSWER: _Sweeney_b) [10] This confused character serenades us with his indecision, asking "'Do I dare?' and, 'Do I dare?'...Shall I part my hair behind?" ANSWER: J. Alfred _Prufrock_c) [10] This group of characters dance around a prickly-pear cactus to the tune of "Here We Go Round the Mulberry Bush." Name these eponymous characters who have "headpiece[s] filled with straw."ANSWER: The _Hollow Men_9	While the first inductees to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1936 may be fairly well known, you will need to identify the second group of inductees, admitted in 1937.  You will receive 30 points if you can name them without additional clues, ten points each.  For any you are unable to name, you will be given additional information and receive five points for each remaining player you name.[PAUSE TO ALLOW FOR GUESSES, THEN READ CLUES ONLY AS NEEDED]This 2nd baseman hit .426 in 1901 to win the first of his 3 uncontested batting titles & had a .339 career average.       Nap(oleon) Lajoie       Playing shallow centerfield, he recorded more outfield assists than any other player and twice threw out a record 35 American League baserunners in a single season.       Tris(tram) SpeakerHe topped 30 victories on five occasions, won 511 games, and pitched 24 consecutive hitless innings in 1904.		Cy Young
10.	The world might not be what it is today if the results of several key battles had turned the other way.  FTPE, name these important battles.1.  European forces halted Turkish expansion into central Europe in this pivotal 1571 battle.Battle of Lepanto2.  Napoleon won distinction as an artillery officer by forcing the withdrawal of an Anglo-Spanish fleet in the siege of this city.Siege of Toulon3.  In this battle, Charles Martel repulsed Muslim invaders from Spain, thus saving the Frankish territories from invasion in 732.Battle of Tours or Battle of Poitiers11.	We have all notice how houseplants gradually turn toward the light, but how well do you know the scientific terms associated with the process?  FTPE, identify the terms.1.  The involuntary response of a muticellular plant involving orientation toward or away from one or more external stimuli, as opposed to the same response in animals or motile unicellular plants.							tropism2. This bending in response to light, particularly sunlight		heliotropism3.  The growth hormones in plants which are inhibited by light, causing the side which is exposed to light not to grow as quickly as the shaded side.		auxin12.	Identify these Shakespearean plays from first lines for five points each.1. "Cease to persuade, my loving Proteus: home-keeping youth have ever homely wits were't not affection chains thy tender days to the sweet glances of thy honored love..."Two Gentlemen of Verona2. "Sir Hugh, persuade me not I will make a Star Chamber matter of it."The Merry Wives of Windsor3. "Let fame that all hunt after in their lives, live registered upon our bronzen tombs, and then grace us in the disgrace of death"Love's Labor's Lost4. "O' for a Muse of fire that would ascent the brightest heaven of invention, a kingdom for a stage."King Henry V5.  "If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on the like occasion whereon my services are now on foot, you shall see, as I have said, great difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia."The Winter's Tale6. "Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall, and by the doom of death end woes and all."The Comedy of Errors13.	Identify these 20th century composers by their works for 5 points each.a. Finlandia			Jean Sibeliusb. The Planets			Gustav Holstc. Caucasian Sketches		Michael Ipolitoff - Ivanoff or Michael Ivanoff- Ipolitoffd. Wozzeck			Alban Berge. Romantic Symphony	Anton Bruckerf.  The Dream of Gerontius	Edward William Elgar14.	Given a vessel or vessels, name the Herman Melville work featuring the ship(s) FTSNP.1. (5) Pequod			Moby Dick2. (5) Indomitable		Billy Budd	3. (10) Dolly and Julia I	Typee	4. (10) Fidèle			The Confidence Man
15.	30-20-10: Identify this physicist after clues 30: He served on the General Advisory Committee of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and was a contributor to the early theory of beta decay and to quantum statistics.20: He worked on the atomic bomb at Los Alamos and later developed the hydrogen bomb.  He discovered the element neptunium.10: He was the 1938 Nobel Prize winner in Physics for his experiments in radioactivity and in 1942 he created the first self-sustaining chain reaction in uranium.Enrico Fermi16.	Name this American politician on a 30-20-10-5 basis:30:  This Pennsylvanian entered politics as a Federalist but became a Jacksonian Democrat and went on to serve five times in the House and served in the Senate for ten years.20:  He served as minister of England under Pierce, minister to Russia under Jackson, and Secretary of State under Polk.10: Our only bachelor President, he is believed to have been gay by some historians, as well as former bosses Jackson and Polk, who referred derisively to him and longtime housemate William Rufus Devane King as "Aunt Nancy" and "Miss Fancy."5: He was elected President in 1856, defeating John C. Fremont and Millard Fillmore.James Buchanan17.	Given a jazz artist, you will need to reply with the nickname each was better known by for 5 points each.1. Charles Parker		Bird or Yardbird2. Ferdinand Morton		Jellyroll3. Billie Holiday		Lady Day4. Earl Hines			Fatha5. McKinley Morganfield	Muddy Waters6. John Birks Gillespie		Dizzy18.	Name the creator of the classic science fiction heroes FTPE.1.  Buck Rogers			Philip Francis Nowlan2.  Flash Gordon			Alex Raymond3.  John Carter	of Mars		Edgar Rice Burroughs19.	(note: two parts) Prior to World War II, only a select few like George Washington permanently held the title of "general" in the US.  The distinction of five-star general, designating the rank "general of the army", was conferred on five men during WWII.  A. For five points each, name all five.Henry "Hap" Arnold	Omar Bradley		George MarshallDouglas MacArthur 		Dwight D. EisenhowerB.  Prior to WWII, the title "general of the armies" had been an honorary rank and was bestowed upon only one person, who decline the fifth star.  For another five, name him.John Pershing
20.	FFPE I'll give you the leader of a former Soviet republic and you give me that country.1. Eduard Shevardnadze	Georgia2. Nursultan Nazarbayev	Kazakhstan3. Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin	Russia or Russian Federation4. Leonid Kuchma	Ukraine5. Islom Karimov	Uzbekistan6. Aleksandr Lukashenko	Belarus21.	Assume it is 10:00am Saturday morning at the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga, and the Moon Pie tournament has started on time thanks to the inestimable work of Charlie Steinhice.  College Bowl players the world over immediately receive news of this great feat.  Based upon the 10:00am assumption, give what the time is in these cities, FFPE.a) London, England			3:00p.m.b) Ankorage, Alaska			6:00a.m.c) Bankok, Thailand			9:00p.m.d) Franfort, Germany			4:00p.m.e) Toronto, Canada			10:00a.m.		f) Honolulu, Hawaii			4:00a.m.22.	Identify this American on a 30-20-10 basis30:  Originally born Berry Stamp in 1848, he was a legendary frontiersman, itinerant saloon keeper, gambler, gunslinger, and confidence man.20: Stuart N. Little's 1931 biography established the portrait of him as a fearless lawman, though he was kicked off the Wichita Police Force for accidentally discharging his gun.10: He is most famous for participating with his brothers Virgil and Morgan in the gunfight at the OK Corral.Wyatt Earp23.	Most people know that a man's finger was a standard unit of measurement during Old Testament times.  For ten points each, identify these other Biblical units of measure that were based upon a specified number of fingers.1.  four fingers, it was around 3 inches				Handbreadth2.  twelve fingers, it is common accepted as 9 inches		Span3.  twenty-four fingers, or about 18 inches				Cubit