TOSSUPS - TENNESSEE				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. From his spit were born Shu, the air, and Tefnut, moisture.  From his tears came the first human beings.  He spends each night in combat with the serpent Apep, and each morning he rises and sails in his boat, Sektet, across the sky.  FTP, identify the Egyptian creation God, the most important of the New Kingdom period, who is associated with the sun.	Answer:	Ra or Amun-Ra or Re or Amun-Re (you get the idea)2. It is the result of an interaction between a photon and a bound atomic electron.  As a result of this interaction, the photon disappears and one of the atomic electrons is ejected as a free electron.  The kinetic energy of the freed electron is given by the energy of the photon minus the binding energy of the electron. FTP, name this effect which won a Nobel Prize for Albert Einstein.	Answer:	Photoelectric Effect3. During the Maunder Minimum, from 1645-1715, Europe's extremely cold weather led to an unprecedented period of slow tree growth which resulted in compact, narrow tree rings.  This increased wood's strength and density and, according to a 2004 article in Dendrochronologia, enhanced the sound quality of instruments made by this man in Cremona, Italy.  FTP, identify this famed violin maker or the name by which is famed instruments are known.	Answer:	Antonio Stradivari or Stradivarius violins4. Born in Chicago in 1930, her father was an active member of the Republican Party who won an anti-segregation case before the Illinois Supreme Court.  Her uncle was a well-known professor of African history at Howard University.  In 1953, she married Robert Nemiroff, a Jewish literature student and songwriter, whom she had met on a picket line protesting discrimination at New York University.  Though they divorced in 1964, he served as her literary agent after her death in 1965 and turned her best known work into the Broadway musical Raisin.  FTP, name this author of A Raisin in the Sun.	Answer:	Lorraine Hansberry	5. Nicknamed the "Bull of Vaucluse", he entered the Chamber of Deputies in 1911 and eventually replaced Edouard Herriot as leader of the Radical party. In June, 1924, he was appointed as minister of the colonies.  He became prime minister in January, 1933, but his government only survived for seven months. A second government, in 1934, only lasted for a few weeks.  FTP, identify this French statesman whose third turn as prime minister saw him sign off on agreement to the Munich Pact.	Answer:	Edouard Daladier6.	Its original Broadway cast starred Sam Levene, Robert Alda, and Vivian Blaine, the only one of them to appear in the movie version.  Written by Frank Loesser and based on the Damon Runyan story "The Idyll of Sarah Brown," its characters include Nicely Nicely Johnson, Benny Southstreet, Harry the Horse, Nathan Detroit, and Sky Masterson.  FTP, name this popular musical whose songs include "Luck Be a Lady Tonight."	Answer:	Guys and Dolls7. Unchallenged for millennia, it was discredited in 1668. In that year, Italian scientist Francisco Redi's experiments demonstrated the fallacy of this long-accepted theory. By the 19th century the theory was all but a historical footnote, as advances in technology and increased knowledge of the reproductive methods of microorganisms heralded a new accurate understanding. For 10 points, identify the theory which Redi disproved with his famous experiments using decaying meat and flies. 	Answer:	Spontaneous Generation	8. After the harsh reception this novel received its author never wrote another, spending the remaining 30 years of his life writing poetry and plays.  It opens in the village of Marygreen, where the schoolmaster Phillotson is explaining his reasons for leaving to the then 11-year-old title character.  Later, he is tricked into marrying Arabella Donn, who leaves him.  He then falls for Phillotson's wife, Sue Bridehead, but things end badly.  FTP, identify this last novel by Thomas Hardy.	Answer:	Jude the Obscure
9. The Roman left wing was made up of Italian allied cavalry, while the right wing consisted of the Numidian calvary of Massinissa.  The opposing army's mercenaries were on the front line, while the second line was formed by Carthaginians. At the very front of his army Hannibal placed the  elephant corps which attacked first.  However, Roman general Scipio ordered every Roman trumpeter to blow, thereby creating a startling noise which terrified the nervous beasts causing some to turn and collide with their own cavalry.  FTP, name this 202 BC battle which marked the end of the power of Hannibal.	Answer:	Zama10. Two of the 7 Wonders listed in its official tourism encyclopedia are the Baobab Tree and Harrison's Cave.  Its geographical features include Long Bay and Consent Bay.  Its highest point is Mount Hillaby.  Its main river, the Constitution, flows into Carlisle Bay, upon which its capital city sits.  FTP, identify this Carribean nation whose capital is Bridgetown.	Answer:	Barbados11. In one enticing account of its screening in the New York apartment of Gloria Swanson, it was projected onto one of Gloria's satin sheets, when the absence of an available screen threatened to disappoint the eager but select audience.  Upon seeing it in 1926, David O. Selznick called it  "unquestionably one of the greatest motion pictures ever made."  This film is structured around five episodes, introduced by the intertitles: (1) Men and Maggots; (2) Drama on the Quarterdeck; (3) An Appeal from the Dead; (4) The Odessa Steps; and (5) Meeting the Squadron.  FTP, identify this 1925 recounting of the 1905 revolution directed by Sergei Eisenstein.	Answer:	Battleship Potemkin12. In Muslim legend she is a sun worshipper who has a deformity in her lower body which varies from having webbed feet to a donkey's hoof or just exceptionally hairy legs.  Solomon heals her of these various ills (in the latter case by inventing a depilatory cream made from lime and arsenic) and she converts to the true faith.  In the New Testament, Jesus said she would rise up to condemn unbelievers.  FTP, name this Biblical figure from whom Ethiopian Christians believe they are descended.	Answer:	Queen of Sheba		13. These are a measure of the angular 'area' subtended by a two dimensional surface about the origin in three dimensional space. Its value is numerically equal to the size of that area divided by the square of the radius of the sphere. FTP, name this SI unit for solid angle.  	Answer:	Steradian (accept solid angle before it is said)14. Built in 1856, it at one time housed a factory, a second-hand furniture store, and a home for the aged run by the Little Sisters of the Poor.  Its owner Helen Culver rented it for $60 a month to its most famous resident, who took occupancy September 18, 1889.  Julia Lathrop moved into  this Halstead Street building in 1890 and took over day to day operations.  FTP name this famous building which housed the first major American settlement house, founded by Jane Addams.	Answer:	Hull House15. John Wilmot, one of the most infamous rakes from the Restoration period, was the model for this famous literary character.  His older brother Rowland inherits the family estate.  After a disastrous marriage, he roams around Europe and spends some time with mistresses, the most notable being Celine Varrens, the mother of his daughter Adele.  At one point in the novel, it appears he is going to marry Blanche Ingram, but instead proposes marriage to the young governess brought to Thornfield Hall to tutor Adele.  FTP, who is this love of Jane Eyre?   	Answer:	Edward Rochester	16. Archduke Ferdinand and Archduchess Isabella enlisted him to conduct negotiations aimed at ending the war between the Spanish Netherlands and the Dutch Republic.  He also helped conclude a 1629-30 peace treaty between England and Spain. Charles I of England was so impressed with his efforts that he knighted him and commissioned his only surviving ceiling painting, The Allegory of War and Peace. Among his most famous assistants were Frans Snyders and Anthony van Dyck.  FTP, name this Flemish Baroque.	Answer:	Peter Paul Rubens
17. It is the story of one woman's tragic quest for the bling-bling.  When a clerk's wife who dreams of traveling in the highest social circles receives an invitation to a fancy party, she almost turns it down because she lacks the "benjamins" to buy the bling-bling.  But then she borrows some bling, only to lose it on the way back from the ball.  As a result, the woman, Madame Loisel, and her husband borrow money to replace the pricey bling-bling and work for ten solid years to pay off the debt, only to find out in the story's "gotcha" ending" that the original bling-bling they assumed was made of diamonds was only glass.  FTP, name this jewel of a story about social pretensions by Guy de Maupassant.	Answer:	 "The Necklace"18. His first diplomatic experience came while special agent for the Department of State in Central America in 1917.  Known for his cool demeanor, during negotiations he could be seen slumped in his chair, doodling or sharpening pencils.  In 1949, he was appointed to fill the seat of retiring Senator Robert F. Wagner.  In 1950, he was appointed U.S. representative to the United Nations.  FTP, identify this man whom Eisenhower appointed Secretary of State in 1953.	Answer:	John Foster Dulles19. Avoidant, Dependent, Schizotypal, Schizoid, Paranoid, Obsessive-Compulsive, Histrionic, Narcissistic, Borderline, and Antisocial are the various types of this psychological disorder which is often described as a malfunction of the basic traits that constitute the very "who" that a person is.  FTP, what are these the categories of in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Psychiatric Classifications?	Answer:	Personality disorder20. Discovered in 1802 by Anders Ekeberg and isolated in 1820 by Jons Berzelius, it was believed by many chemists to be the same element as niobium until research in 1844 showed that its acids were different from niobic acids. Used for early lightbulb filaments before the switch to tungsten, it is now primarily used to make capacitors for consumer electronics. FTP, what is this element named for a mythological figure with atomic number 73? 	Answer:	tantalum21. This work contains "The Goatherd's Story," "The Tale of Foolish Curiosity," "The Captive's Tale", and the tale of the Countess of Trifaldi.  Towards the end of Chapter 8, the author stops to discuss an Arabic manuscript by Cide Hamete Benengeli which he claims to have purchased in a market in Toledo.  In another episode, the title character and his sidekick discuss their "History" at length with the bachelor Sampson Carrasco.  FTP, identify this early novel featuring sidekick Sancho Panza and the title character who "tilts at windmills."	Answer:	Don Quixote 22. This is the title of a Terence McNally set of short plays currently running at the 59E59 Theater in New York.  It is also the title of a 1996 Dario Argento film starring Asia Argento.  The title refers to a condition characterized by dizziness, panic, paranoia, or madness caused by viewing too many artistic works in a short span of time.  It is named for the 19th-century French novelist who is said to have been the first to write about the dizzying disorientation some tourists experience when they encounter masterpieces of the Italian Renaissance.  FTP, what is this syndrome named for the author of The Charterhouse of Parma and The Red and the Black?	Answer:	Stendhal Syndrome	23.	In 1995, a major revision occurred. The statement advocating "common ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange" was stricken in an effort to reach out to moderates previously wary of endorsing such a socialist principle. It was a move similar to the adoption of a centrist agenda by the Democratic Party under Bill Clinton in his successful 1992 Presidential campaign. For 10 points, name the party that won a landslide victory in 1997, an event which led to Tony Blair becoming Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. 	Answer:	Labour Party (prompt for New Labor) 24. A wave encountering a boundary across which the index of refraction decreases will experience this if the angle of incidence exceeds a critical angle given by inverse sine of n2 divided by n1. For angles greater than the critical angle, there is no refracted ray and FTP this occurs.	Answer:	Total Internal Reflection
BONI - TENNESSEE				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. Answer the following questions about a 13th century French monarch, FTPE.a. Born in 1214, he became king of France at age 12.  He fought in two unsuccessful Crusades, dying of a fever during the 2nd one.  Who is he?	Answer:	Louix IX or St. Louis b. Who was Louix IX's half-English mother who served as his regent during his minority, and who remained an influence while she lived?	Answer:	Blanche of Castilec. This man, Louis IX's confessor and his personal friend, founded a leading French educational institution.	Answer:	Robert de Sorbon2. For 10 points each, identify the following terms relating to associations between organisms: a. Name the term that refers to an association between two organisms involving one organism serving as host to another, to the detriment of the host.  	Answer:	Parasitism [accept parasite, parasitosis]b. While the word symbiosis is commonly used for an association between organisms from different populations which is beneficial to both, technically it doesn't have to mean beneficial to both. Name the term that does. 	Answer:	Mutualism c. Name the unit composed of an alga and a fungus, a prime example of mutualism. 	Answer:	Lichen3. Answer these related questions from Norse mythology, 10 pts. each.a. One of Loki's three children by the giantess Angerboda, this beast is destined to devour Odin at the end of the world.	Answer:	Fenris-wolf or Fenrir-wolf			b. Unable to keep Fenris wolf chained, the Norse gods asked the dwards to make a special fetter that could hold it.  What is the name of this fetter which was made of, among other things, a woman's beard and a fish's breath.	Answer 	Gleipnirc. This god, the only one brave enough to feed Fenris, played a role in the fettering of Fenris by agreeing to put his hand in Fenris's mouth.  	Answer 	Tyr4. For the stated number of points, identify these linguistic terms.a. 5 PT: This is the use of a word that denotes a sound suggested by the phonetic quality of the word, or thing that produces such a sound. Examples include crackle and twitter. 	Answer:	Onomatopoeiab. 10 PT: This refers to an address to an absent person, or a personified abstraction or thing, such as the Walter Raleigh line "O eloquent, just, and mighty Death!"	Answer:	apostrophe c. 5 PT: This is a group of words that have contradictory or sharply incongruous meanings, such as conspicuous by his absence, cruel kindness and thunderous silence. [Ed. note: Ben Lea once suggested Reagan memoirs]	Answer:	oxymorond. 10 PT: Broadly defined, this a trope in which one entity is used to stand for another associated entity. For example, in the phrase: "The pen is mightier than the sword," Pen and sword represent publishing and military force, respectively.	Answer:	Metonymy	5. Identify these Beethoven symphonies, 10 pts. each.a. Dedicated to King Friedrich Wilhelm III of Prussia, this symphony in D Minor was first performed on May 7, 1824.	Answer:	9th or Choralb. This symphony in F Major is the only Beethoven symphony to have 5 movements.  The 5th movement, the Allegretto is subtitled `The shepherds' hymn, gratitude and thanksgiving after the storm."	Answer:	6th or Pastoralc. Dedicated to Prince Lobkowitz and Count Razumowsky, , this C Minor Symphony, Opus 67 was first performed on December 22, 1808.	Answer:	5th 
6. At the heart of Chinese thought stand the Five Great Classics, the traditional, time-honored works which for centuries constituted the program of learning for anyone in the upper classes, the ruling classes, or the educated classes.  FTPE, identify 3 of them from a description.a. The fifth of the Five Great Classics, it recounts the history of a single Chinese province from about 700 to 500 B.C.  Confucius lived in this province and supposedly assembled this work himself	Answer:	The Spring and Autumn Annalsb. Out of early divination practices from the Shang Dynasty comes what this classic, traditionally considered the first. Chinese divination utilized stalks of milfoil laid out on the ground and this work is a manual on reading the various diagrams resulting from laying out these stalks.	Answer:	I Ching  or The Book of Changesc. The second Classic is a set of documents (speeches, laws, etc.) from the Hsia to the Chou dynasties. In China, this book is regarded as a relatively infallible collection of documents.   Confucius, according to tradition, had a hand in this book as well, assembling, editing, and commenting on the documents.	Answer:	Shu Ching OR The Book of History7. Do you often wax poetic?  If you do, you may be able to identify these poets given the titles of a less famous work.   If you can, you'll earn 10 poetic points.  If you need a more famous title, you'll earn a slightly more prosaic 5 pts.a.  10 pt: "Design"      5 pt: "The Road Not Taken"	Answer:	Robert Frostb.  10 pt: "Danse Russe"      5 pt: "The Red Wheelbarrow"	Answer:	William Carlos Williamsc.  10 pt: "Mirror"      5 pts: "Daddy"	Answer:	Sylvia Plath8. For 10 points each, identify these figures from the era of 19th century imperialism: a. Belgian king from 1865-1909, he is chiefly remembered as the founder and sole owner of the Congo Free State, a secret private enterprise scheme to extract rubber and ivory which was responsible for the death of an estimated 5-15 million Africans. 	Answer:	Leopold IIb. A member of both the Confederate and Union armies during the U.S. Civil War, he went on to explore the African interior and assisted in acquiring the Congo for Belgium's King Leopold II before being knighted in 1899. Name him. 	Answer:	Sir Henry Morton Stanley c.  Stanley's ventures in the service of King Leopold helped spark the wave of imperial land grabbing--however, Ethiopia resisted an incursion by the Italians at the 1896 battle of Adwa (Adowa). Name the Ethiopian monarch who oversaw the victory. 	Answer:	Menelik II9. Hopefully you have a nuclear scientist on your side.  Identify the following types of nuclei which can be involved in fission FTPE.a. An atom that can be induced to fission after absorbing a neutron of essentially zero energy (a thermal neutron), these include Uranium-235, Plutonium-239, and Uranium-233.	Answer:	Fissileb. These atoms will only fission after absorbing a high-energy, or fast, neutron. Examples include Uranium-238, Thorium-232, and Plutonium-240.  	Answer:	Fissionablec. After neutron capture, these isotopes beta decay into fissile nuclei.  The most important cases are Uranium-238 decaying to Plutonium-239 and Thorium-232 decaying to Uranium-233.  	Answer:	Fertile
10. It's getting crowded in here. FTPE, identify these countries or dependencies from the top ten population density list from clues.a. With a population of only about 27,000, this area still has a population density of over 5000 people per square kilometer. In ancient times, this now British enclave was known, together with Mt. Acha in the Spanish enclave of Ceuta, as one of the Pillars of Hercules.	Answer:	Gibraltarb. This principality is the second most densely populated entity and the single most densely populated independent nation. It has been ruled by the house of Grimaldi since 1215 AD.	Answer:	Monacoc. With over 460,000 people in its 25 square kilometers, this former colony and since 1999 a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China is the single most densely populated entity.	Answer:	Macao		11. Vexed by French and British naval policies which disrupted American shipping and resulted in the impressment of American sailors, the U.S. government in the early 1800's passed several pieces of legislation designed to force changes in French and British policy.  FTPE, identify these acts.a. Passed December 22, 1807, in answer to the British orders in council restricting neutral shipping and to Napoleon's restrictive Continental System, it forbade all international trade to and from American ports.	Answer:	Embargo Actb. Outraged American merchants challenged the Embargo Act and so on March 1, 1809, Congress passed this act which allowed resumption of all commercial trade except with Britain and France.	Answer:	Nonintercourse Actc. The Nonintercourse Act was replaced in 1810 it was replaced by this act which provided for trade with both Britain and France unless one of those powers revoked its restrictions; in that case, the President was authorized to forbid commerce with the country that had not also revoked its offensive measures.	Answer:	Macon's Bill No. 2	 12. F. Scott Fitzgerald is often partially credited with creating the flapper (although his wacky wife Zelda probably deserves partial credit, too).  Show how much you remember about the flapperish female characters in The Great Gatsby from a description, FTSNOPa.  For 5 pts: She's the cousin of Nick Carraway, the wife of Tom Buchanan, and the obsession of Jay Gatsby.	Answer:	Daisy Buchananb. For 10 pts: She's the professional golfer and friend of Daisy's who finds herself flung into a summer romance with Nick.	Answer:	Jordan Bakerc. For 15 pts: She's George Wilson's wife and Tom Buchanan's mistress, who ends up as road kill, thanks to Daisy's reckless driving.	Answer:	Myrtle Wilson13. Identify the actor or actress who played these supporting players on classic TV sitcoms, 5 pts. each, 25 for all 5 correct.a. Ellie Mae Clampett		Answer:	Donna Douglasb. Martin Crane			Answer:	John Mahoneyc. Thurston Howell III		Answer:	Jim Backusd. Cliff Clavin			Answer:	John Ratzenbergere. Theodore Huxtable		Answer:	Malcolm-Jamal Warner 
14. For 10 pts. each, identify these scientists whose work helped Watson and Crick.a. His x-ray diffractions revealed that DNA may have a helix structure.  He shared the Nobel Prize.	Answer:	Maurice Wilkinsb. Her research was a keystone in uncovering the double helix.	Answer:	Roslayn Franklinc. This American Nobel winner showed that proteins have helical natures and suggested that DNA might be similar.	Answer:	Linus Pauling	15. Identify these Old Testament books from a brief description for 10 pts. each.a. Consisting of 5 poems ascribed to but not written by Jeremiah, they tell of the siege of Jerusalem by the Babylonians.				Answer:	Lamentationsb. Only 21 verses long, it recounts a violent attack on Edom, Israel's enemy.				Answer:	Obadiahd. The first of the Minor Prophets, this book uses symbolic language, tells of the book's namesake's marriage to a whore who represents faithless Israel.				Answer:	Hosea16. Name the famous algebraists FTSNOP.a. 5 pts:  Though his work is more associated with number theory, this French mathematician, famous for his last theorem, was also interested in algebra.	Answer:	Pierre de Fermatb. 15 pts: Known as the father of algebra, equations of the form f=0, where f is a polynomial with integer coefficients in one or several integral-valued variables are named for him. It was in the margin of a book of his that Fermat wrote his last theorem. 	Answer:	Diophantusc. 10 pts: This Norwegian mathematician died at the age of only 27, but he made huge contributions in such areas as the study of elliptic functions. His name is now used to describe commutative groups.	Answer:	Niels Henrik Abel17. Name the modern philosopher from works FTP each, or F5P each if you need a more famous work.  a.  10 pt: The Origins of Totalitarianism, The Human Condition      5 pt: Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil	Answer:	Hannah Arendtb. 10 pt: To Have or to Be, You Shall Be as Gods      5 pt: The Art of Loving	Answer:	Erich Frommc. 10 pt: The Theory of Island Biogeography, On Human Nature      5 pt: The Ants, Conscilience	Answer:	E.O. Wilson18. Name these things related to underwater chemistry FTP each.a. This substance is found as a solid on the seafloor due to the high pressure even though the temperature is above its freezing point .Formed when a cage of water surrounds a gas, it looks much like normal ice, but is flammable.	Answer:	methane hydrateb. These deep sea areas where methane rich fluids rise from the sea floor are less well-known than their warmer cousins, hydrothermal vents, but also support a wide variety of unusual life. 	Answer:	cold seepsc. Many tropical lakes fail to have regular water turnovers, causing buildup of this compound in their depths. When geologic processes disturb the lake, a sudden release of this compound results.  The most famous such release happened at Lake Nyos in Cameroon in 1986 and killed over 1700 people. 	 Answer:	carbon dioxide or CO2
19.	Dante's The Divine Comedy is one of the great literary classics.  Answer these questions about it.a. For 5 pts. each, on what day (not specific date) and year does the story open.         Answer:	Good Friday, 1300b. With the six circle of Inferno begin the horrible torments of this fiery city.  For 5 pts. name it.         Answer:	Disc. The most odious of the fraudulent are frozen in the ice of the 9th circle.  For 5 pts. who are these people?         Answer:	Traitorsd. Vergil guides Dante through Purgatorio before depositing him at the entrance of the Earthly Paradise.  What woman, representing the perfect active life, transports Dante through an Edenlike garden to Beatrice, 5 pts.		Answer:	Matilda	20. FTPE, identify these famous animals who distinguished themselves during wartime.a. This Black Check Cock carrier pigeon delivered 12 important messages within the American sector at Verdun, France. On his last mission, he was shot through the breast by enemy fire, but managed to return to his loft. A message capsule was found dangling from the ligaments of one of his legs that also had been shattered by enemy fire. The message he carried was from Major Whittlesey's "Lost Battalion" of the 77th Infantry Division that had been isolated from other American forces. Just a few hours after the message was received, 194 survivors of the battalion were safe behind American lines.  For his bravery, he was awarded the French "Croix de Guerre" with Palm.	Answer:	Cher Amib. Corporal Lee Duncan discovered this dog when a 10 day old pup.  Duncan kept him and one of his littermates and named him after tiny French puppets French children gave to American soldiers for good luck.  The heroic German shepherd went on to star in several silent films during the 1920s. 	Answer:	Rin Tin Tinc. This dog first served in General Patton's brutal Africa campaign, then waded ashore with the 3rd Division of Patton's Seventh Army as it was swept into battle in Sicily.  While in Sicily he saved a platoon of men by disarmed an enemy gunner by ripping out his throat.  He added to his legend when he acted as a sentry for President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill at their historic conference in Casablanca in 1943. 	Answer:	Chips21.	FTPE, answer these questions about the famed Athenian temple the Parthenon.a. Along with Phidias, these two men are jointly credited with creating the Parthenon.  FTP, name either one of them.	Answer:	Ictinus (Iktinos). OR  Callicrates (Kallikrates) b. Long a source of tension between Greece and Britain are the these Parthenon marbles which are housed at the British Museum in London, but which the Greeks would like to have returned.  By what name are they known, the name of the British nobleman who took them to England?	Answer:	Elgin Marblesc. Along with frieze and pediment statutes, the Parthenon Marbles consisted of these sculptures in high relief. There were 92 in total, 32 on each side and 14 at each end, and each was separated from its neighbors by a simple architectural decoration called a triglyph.	Answer:	Metope22. FTPE, identify the year the following medieval events occurred,a. Pope Gregory VII forces Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV to prostrate himself while standing in the snows outside his castle in Canossa.	Answer:	1077			b. Pope Urban II preaches the first Crusade at a field in Clermont in central France.	Answer:	1095c. The Fourth Lateran Council pronounces sweeping reforms of the Church.	Answer:	1215