TOSSUPS -- VIRGINIA TECH B			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  The units used to express this quantity in the SI measurement system are extremely large, due to the fact that most electric applications call for devices which typically measure one-millionth of the SI unit.  The quantity implies an associated storage of electric energy.  FTP, name this electric quantity defined as alternately the permittivity of the material between two metallic plates multiplied by the surface area of those plates, divided by the distance between them, or more simply by the ratio of stored charge on those plates divided by the voltage difference between the two plates, and which, in the SI system, is measured in farads.Capacitance2.	This American poet was, at various times, a bobbin boy, a cobbler, a schoolteacher, a journalist and a farmer.  Later in his life, he also made goodwill trips for the State Department.  Volumes of his poetry include New Hampshire ,and West Running Brook.  He also read his poem, A Gift Outright, at John F. Kennedy's inauguration.  FTP, name this author of Stopping By Woods On A Snowy Evening.Robert Frost3.  This woman studied English literature at Vassar, graduating in 1909.  She wrote poetry under the pseudonym Anne Singleton until the early '30s.  She got her Ph. D. from Columbia, studying under Franz Boaz, and her thesis, published in 1923, was entitled The Concept of the Guardian Spirit in North America.  She studied several Indian tribes, publishing Zuni Mythology in 1935.  Name this woman who published Patterns of Culture in 1934 and The Chrysanthemum and the Sword in 1946.Ruth Benedict4. This Danish author's first novel was Seven Gothic Tales in 1934, followed by Winter's Tales in 1942.  In this and other works, she followed an existentialist tradition, and was also recognized by feminist critics.  She wrote under the pseudonym Isak Dinesen, and is best known for Out of Africa.Karen Blixen (accept Isak Dinesen before mentioned)5.  This man studied at the University of Toronto and Oxford, and later lectured about history at Toronto.  He served in the Canadian foreign service, serving as the ambassador to the United States in 1945-46, and as ambassador to the United Nations from 1948 to 1956, all while serving in Louis St Laurent's government from 1948.  His efforts to solve the Suez crisis gained him the 1957 Nobel Peace Prize.  FTP name this Canadian Prime Minister from 1963 to 1968, after whom the airport in Toronto is named.Lester B Pearson6.  Also called the tricarboxylic acid cycle, this is the terminal stage of the process by which living organisms oxidize foodstuffs and obtain energy from the same.  It is one of the features shared by all types of life.  The enzymes used as catalysts are located in animals' mitochondria, and in plants' chloroplast.  FTP name this process, also called the citric acid cycle, named for the German who completely formulated it in 1937.Krebs cycle (accept citric acid cycle before mentioned)7.  In 1937, Alexander Du Toit postulated its existence, reformulating the theory of Alfred Wegener.  It is thought to have split into North America, Europe, and Asia during the Mesozoic Era.  FTP name this landmass separated by the Sea of Tethys from Gondwanaland.Laurasia
8. Hailed as a "Cossack Chopin for future generations" upon his debut in New York, this Soviet composer was successful in composing for films like Alexander Nevsky because of the visual quality of his work.  He also composed symphonies, such as the Scythian Suite, and opera, like The Love For Three Oranges.  FTP, identify this composer of the Lieutenant Kije Suite and Peter and the Wolf.Sergei Prokofiev9.  Born in 1831 in Owingsville, Kentucky, this Civil War general was known as a fighter. He was seriously wounded at Gettysburg leading an assault on the Federal left, and lost his leg at Chickamauga two months later.  Appointed as a lieutenant of Joe Johnston in early 1864, President Davis replaced Johnston with him in July because of Johnston's constant retreating and his refusal to fight.  He held Atlanta for five weeks, then marched into Tennessee to strike Sherman's rear, only to get routed at Franklin in November and Nashville in December.  FTP name this man who retired to New Orleans, died there in 1879, and is buried there.John Bell Hood10.  Her pen name comes from a song by Stephen Foster.  She was, at various times, committed to an insane asylum, sent to prison, and enslaved in sweatshops to expose the conditions there.  FTP, name this muckraking journalist, whose real name was Elizabeth Seaman Cochrane, known for her 72 day trip around the world.Nelly Bly11. This play is based on an Italian comedy called Gl'ingannati, not on the suggestions of the Lady deLesseps at the end of Shakespeare in Love.  A subplot involves the removal of Olivia's steward, Malvolio, by SirToby Belch and others.  The main plot concerns a shipwreck, a brother and sister who resemble each other, and the sister's disguise as the page Cesario.  FTP, name this Shakespeare comedy about Duke Orsino & Viola.Twelfth Night12. Costars include Kurtwood Smith of That 70's Show as the mob boss Vince Lombino, Jason Robards as Police Chief Rotzinger, and Phil Hartman as Edison. This 1990 movie is about a trio's trials in escaping New York after robbing a bank.  FTP name this comedy starring Geena Davis, Randy Quaid and Bill Murray, "the clown, at whom no one is laughing".Quick Change13. This book is told by the wife and four daughters of Nathan Price, who move from their home in Georgia to the Congo.  Baptist missionaries, they are unprepared for the jungle, and find everything they brought is affected by the Congo, from their garden seeds to their Scripture.  FTP, identify this novel by Barbara Kingsolver.The Poisonwood Bible14. Accused of being the "Number 2 Capitalist Roader" and purged during the Cultural Revolution, this man spent 7 years working in a tractor factory before being appointed a deputy premier in 1973 by Zhou Enlai.  Purged again at Zhou's death in 1976, he regained power the next year.  He resigned from government in 1980, and after the use of force in Tienammen Square, resigned his post in the Chinese Communist Party.  Although he never rose to a position higher than deputy premier and vice chairman of the Chinese Communist Party, what man was considered the de facto leader of China from 1978 to his death in 1997?Deng Xiaoping15.  His mother Coronis was one of the less intelligent maidens of Greek mythology, and cheated on a god.  A snowy raven was the one who reported this faithlessness to Apollo, and was forever changed to black.  He was raised by Chiron, and killed by Zeus when his skill in saving lives undid the work of the Fates.  FTP, name this Greek god of healing.Aesculapius or Asclepius
16.  This Southern African country's currency is now worth about a nickel to the US dollar, and a quarter of its population is infected with the AIDS virus.  Worsening conditions such as these have prompted former Prime Minister Ian Smith to return to politics.  He has spoken out against the actions of his successor, President Robert Mugabe, whose promises to resistance fighters has led to squatters on many plantations in, FTP what country with capital at Harare?Zimbabwe17. This element is a very heavy, precious and silver-white metal.  It is soft, ductile and resists corrosion remarkably well, and is often used with small amounts of iridium to strengthen it, whilst retaining the properties of the same.  It has many applications, notably in petroleum refining and the manufacture of catalytic converters.  FTP name this element whose atomic weight is 195.1 and whose atomic number 78.Platinum 18.  The body is represent by a vertical three line staff, and the length of the center line represents the time elapsed.  A symbol represents the length and direction of the movement, as well the part of the body moved.  FTP, name this system for noting choreography, developed in the early 20th century by Hungarian Rudolf Laban.Labanotation19.  She was known as much for her eccentricities and scandals, such as a 1878 balloon ride, as her acting ability and a voice like 'a golden bell.'  She was also a sculptor and author, and managed several theatres, including theOdeon in Paris, which she turned into a field hospital in the first World War.  Some of her most famous roles include Sardou's La Tosca and Phedre. FTP, identify this turn of the century French actress, also known forplaying the leads in Hamlet and Rostand's L'Aiglon.Sarah Bernhardt20.  Only Charles XII, his Cossack ally Mazepa, and a few followers escaped following their defeat at this 1709 battle.  The Russian victory here ended Swedish invasions, and confirmed Russia's rising status as a European power.  FTP, name this battle in the Ukraine that was a famous victory for Peter the Great, and vindication of his reforms.Battle of Poltava21. John B. was the governor of Virginia, a Secretary of War under President Buchanan and the Confederate general perhaps most responsible for losing West Virginia to the north.  William was a signer of the Declaration of Independence from New York.  Charles Arthur was a gunman and bank robber from 1925 until his death in 1934, and was known as "Pretty Boy".  FTP give the common surname, also shared by the rock band Pink.Floyd22.  When a massive star has exhausted its internal thermonuclear energy, it becomes unstable and gravitationally collapses on itself to zero radius, or a singularity.  It forms an event horizon, whose radius is proportional to the mass of the star.  This is called the Schwarzchild radius.  FTP name this object which is so named because of the fact that not even light can escape from the area enclosed by the event horizon.Black hole
BONI -- VIRGINIA TECH B			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  FTSNOP, given a description, name the physical laws.For 5, this law states that F=ma.					Newton's 2d LawFor 10, this law states that an elastic restoring force is proportional to the distance from equilibrium.								Hooke's LawFor 15, this law states that emission and absorption lines of a given crystal can only be viewed at certain angles and are related to the lattice constant of the crystal.Bragg Equation2. Identify the African author from works 15-10 or from the country for 5:      15:  Anthills of the Savanna      10: Things Fall Apart      5:  Nigeria      Chinua Achebe	15:  Ah, But Your Land Is Beautiful	10: Too Late the Phalarope	5:  South Africa      Alan Stewart Paton3.	30-20-10 Identify the name from its various appearances.      30:  A collection of poems written by Sylvia Plath in the last few months before her suicide.      20:  A sprite, serving Prospero, who convinces Sebastian not to assassinate his brother, Alonso, in Shakespeare's Tempest.      10:  A little mermaid who hangs out with a crab named Sebastian.		Ariel4.  Identify these explorers of cold places from descriptions FTPE.      The body of this English explorer, who was known for several expeditions in the Alps and Mount Everest, was recently found on Everest, where he had disappeared in 1924.      George Herbert Leigh Mallory      This American received credit for first reaching the North Pole, in 1909, after his shipmate Dr. Frederick A. Cook was discredited.      Robert Edwin Peary      This Norwegian was among the first to navigate the Northwest Passage before turning his attentions to the Antarctic, where he became the first man to reach the South Pole.      Roald Amundsen5.	Given a formula, name the hydrocarbon FTPE.C5H12			pentaneC2H2			ethyne or acetyleneC8H18			octane6.  Answer these questions about both the elder and younger William Pitt.      Give the French name of the city named after Pitt the elder when it was captured in the French & Indian War during his term as Prime Minister.		Fort Duquesne      Name the king served by both elder and younger.		King George IIIGive the title first secured by the elder but held by both	Earl of Chatham
7.  Identify the artist from less famous works for less common works for 15 or better known works for 5.      For 15:  Fortitude, St. Sebastian, Punishment of Korah      For 5:  Birth of Venus, La Primavera		Sandro Botticelli      For 15:  Triton Fountain, Aeneas and Anchises      For 5:  Four Rivers, Apollo and Daphne		Gian Lorenzo Bernini8.  Identify these economic laws F15PE.      First, this curve staes that there is an ideal percentage of income, much less than 100%, to tax to get the most revenue; supply-siders use it to justify low taxes.	Laffer Curve      This law, perhaps the original linchpin of supply-side economics, states that supply creates its own demand.								Say's Law9.  30-20-10 Identify the author from works.      30: Twighlight In Italy, The Woman Who Rode Away      20: The Plumed Serpent, Women in Love      10: Lady Chatterly's Lover, Sons and Lovers, The Rocking Horse Winner		David Herbert Lawrence10.  5-10-15.  Identify the god or goddess of agriculture, given the mythology.      For 5: Roman		Ceres (NOT Demeter)      For 10: Norse		Fry      For 15: Egyptian	Khnum or Osiris11.  Identify these current participants in the Middle East peace process for 10 points each.      The Prime Minister of Israel		Ehud Barak      The President of Syria			Hafiz al-Assad      The President of Egypt		Hosni Mubarak12.  Identify the musical from songs, for 10 points each.      "In A Little While," "Shy," "An Opening For A Princess", "I'm in Love with a Girl Named Fred"       Once Upon A Mattress      "An Old Fashioned Wedding," "Anything You Can Do," "There's No Business Like Show Business"       Annie Get Your Gun      "Don't Tell Mama,"  "Mein Lieber Herr," "Willkommen"			Cabaret13.  Answer these related questions FTSNOPFor 5, which organ secretes bile?					LiverFor 10, name the cells which make up about 60% of the liver.	Hepatic cellsFor 15, name the cells which line the smallest channels of the liver's vascular system and play a role in blood formation and antibody production.					Kupfer cells14. Identify the following children's authors from works for 10 points each.	Midnight Magic, Poppy, The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle       Avi	Number the Stars, The Giver, Taking Care of Terrific      Lois Lowry	Matilda, James and the Giant Peach, Charlie and the Chocolate FactoryRoald Dahl
15.  Name the song from lyrics, 30-20-10	30:  "I arrived at her house, knocked on her door, not havin' no idea of what the night had in store" 	20:  "I'm just like that man they call Georgy Puddin' Pie; I break the girls' hearts and I make them cry"	10:  The chorus:  "I'm like a dog in heat, a freak without warning; I got an appetite for sex, 'cause..."Me So Horny by 2 Live Crew16.  Name these rivers from descriptions FTSNOP	First for 5, this river flows from Pittsburgh through Cincinnati and Louisville on its way to the Mississippi around Cairo, Illinois.		Ohio River	Next, for 10, this river flows northward from western North Carolina, and its name is ironic because it is one of the oldest rivers in the world, emptying into the Kanahwa R., which eventually empties into the Ohio.		New River	Finally, for 15, this river is a tributary of the Tennessee and flows southwest from southwestern Virginia through Bristol into the Tennessee River.		Holston River17.	Answer these questions about the British North America Act      For 10 points if exact, and 5 for within 5 years, in what year was it enacted, creating the Dominion of Canada?		1867      For 5 each, name the 4 original provinces of the Dominion.			Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia18.	Identify the following Jane Austen novels from the location.      Longbourn, Pemberly.       Pride and Prejudice      Highbury, Hartfield, Mrs. Goddard's School       Emma      Norland Park, Barton Cottage       Sense and Sensibility19.  Name the constellations given a star therein FTPE.Deneb			CygnusRegulus		LeoAldeberan		Taurus20. Identify the architect from work or works, 10 points each.      Villa Savoye, Notre Dame du Haut				Le Corbusier (acc. Charles Jeanneret)      Geodesic Dome							R. Buckminster Fuller      Guggenheim Museum, Pope-Leighey House, Falling water		Frank Lloyd Wright21.  Answer the following about Peru, on a 5-10-15 basis.For 5:  Name the capital.		LimaFor 10:  Name the President of Peru.		Alberto FujimoriFor 15:  What is the name of the terrorist group that, from December 1996 to April 1997, held 72 people hostage at the Japanese embassy in Lima?		Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement or MRTA