TOSSUPS - OGLETHORPE				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1.	Some critics believe minor characters of wise, loyal wives in three of his films - The Paradine Case, I Confess, and Frenzy - all represent his own wife, the former Alma Reville.  He himself appears in a wheelchair in an airport in Topaz, as a silhouette seen through a glass door in Family Plot, in a newspaper ad for Reduco Obesity Slayer in Lifeboat, in the class reunion photo in Dial M for Murder, and walking two dogs in The Birds.  FTP name the director of all these films, as well as Rebecca, Vertigo, and Psycho.	Answer: Sir Alfred Hitchcock2.	In modern chemistry, this term refers to substances with ring structures and with bonding characteristics and properties related to those of benzene, C6H6.  Structurally, they have some delocalized bonding.  All organic compounds that are not of this type are considered to be aliphatic compounds.  FTP, name this type of fragrant compound.	Answer: aromatic compound3.	This doctrine customarily takes one of two forms, single or double.  The single version is based on the experience of the presence of God and his love, and on the concurrent understanding that God grants the gift of his presence as an act of sheer grace.  The double version is a conclusion deduced from the single version, stating that if some are to enjoy God's presence by his eternal decree, others must then be eternally separated from God, also by his decree.  Proponents of the double version include St. Augustine and John Calvin, while perhaps the most noted defender of the single version is Karl Barth.  FTP name this doctrine which holds that God has foreordained all things, especially that God has elected certain souls to eternal salvation	Answer: predestination4.	The U.S 106th and 7th Armored threw the timing off by initially holding the road at Saint Vith.  Further stiffening the Allied resolve was the word of the massacre of 86 prisoners near Malmedy.  Americans troops got to Bastogne first and held it during a German siege, and while the Germans advanced 31 miles into Belgium and Luxembourg, they never realized their aim of retaking Antwerp and somehow dividing the Americans and British. FTP, name this counteroffensive launched on Dec. 16, 1944, the last major German offensive of WWII.	Answer: The Battle of the Bulge5. 	Modeling himself after the great poets of classical antiquity, he wrote highly polished verse, often in a didactic or satirical vein. In verse translations, moral and critical essays, and satires that made him the foremost poet of his age, he brought the heroic couplet, which had been refined by John Dryden, to ultimate perfection.  FTP, name this man, whose works include translations of Homer and the Dunciad.	Answer: Alexander Pope6.	It primarily occurs through activation and deactivation of genes in a programmed succession to produce orchestrated changes in cell characteristics. During this process, certain genes often are irreversibly turned off, and the change becomes permanent.  FTP, name this process, by which a cell daughter becomes different from its parent in appearance or function, or both, even though both parent and daughter cell contain identical genetic information.	Answer: Differentiation7.	Like your genial quizmaster, its birth date is generally regarded to be November 6 - but in this case that was in 1869, when 25-player teams from Rutgers and Princeton met in New Brunswick, NJ.  By 1873 the number of players was reduced to 20, in 1876 to 15, and in 1880 to 11. It was almost banned in 1906 after its extreme roughness led to some deaths, but President Theodore Roosevelt saved it by forcing rules changes that made it safer.  FTP, name this game, which has survived despite the WFL, the USFL, the WLAF, and the XFL.	Answer: American football (You can accept just football unless you're feeling vindictive.)8.	Lincoln replaced this man with Henry Halleck as commander in chief because of his frustration with the Peninsular Campaign. He was then ordered to evacuate the peninsula and go to the aid of the troops near Manassas. He arrived too late to be of assistance, however, and after the Union defeat in the second battle at Bull Run, he was again placed in active command of the Army of the Potomac. In September 1862 he fought at Antietam, but because of heavy Union losses, he was yet again relieved of his command.  FTP, name this overly cautious Union General who later became a Democratic nominee for president and Governor of New Jersey.	Answer: George Brinton McClellan9.	He was of peasant extraction, born near Les Andelys, Normandy, in June 1594.  He studied painting in Rouen and Paris, where he was first exposed to ancient Roman sculpture and to the work of the Italian master Raphael, two significant lifelong influences on his art. About 1630 his style began to change as he drew away from the emerging exuberant baroque style and devoted himself entirely to his passion for the antique, concentrating on biblical and mythological subjects.  FTP, name this French artist, creator of such paintings as Plague at Ashdod, Triumph of Neptune, and Arcadian Shepherd	Answer: Nicholas Poussin10. 	The main character of this novel pities the poor family of Marmeladov, especially Sonia, who had become a prostitute to support the family. Razumikhin does all he can to help his friend out but harbors suspicions of his own. Porfiry eventual pieces to together the clues regarding the incidents regarding the doorbell and the blood on the floor. FTP, in what Dostoyevsky novel does Raskolnikov murder a pawnbroker and her stepsister, where suffering was to be the consequence of his actions?	Answer: Crime and Punishment11.	About 600 BC the site of the city was colonized by Greeks from Asia Minor. The settlement flourished, and in the Punic Wars it sided with Rome against Carthage. In 49 BC, after supporting Pompey the Great in the civil war against Julius Caesar, the city was annexed by Rome. The inhabitants were converted to Christianity during the 3d century AD, and in 304 St. Vincent was martyred here. In the 10th century it became a dominion of the counts of Provence, in the 13th century it was made a republic, and in 1481 it was incorporated into the kingdom of France.  FTP, name this port city on the Gulf of Lyons, the second largest city in France.	Answer: Marseilles12.	Formulated by Niels Bohr around 1920, this is an application of the laws of quantum mechanics to the properties of electrons. Its name comes from a hypothetical process by which electrons are regarded as entering, one by one, an electric field and assuming their most stable conditions with respect to it. FTP, identify this process of electron configuration which is German for "building up".Answer: Aufbau principle (accept Aufbauprinzip)13.	It has two different meanings.  One, introduced in Italy in the 14th century, is a secular composition for two or sometimes three voices, usually of two or three stanzas, each one three lines long, followed by a refrain of two rhyming lines.  The term resurfaced as a different form during the 16th and 17th centuries.  Conceived not as a piece for chorus alone but as vocal chamber music, it was based on secular texts, often of high literary quality.  FTP, name this musical form, whose masters included Lassus, Andrea Gabrieli, and Palestrina.	Answer: Madrigal      14. The term was first used by the art critic Franz Roh in 1925 to refer to an art movement derived from surrealism and later called "new objectivity."  The same term was used by Alejo Carpentier to refer to Latin-American literature that described situations such as a rain that lasts exactly four years, eleven months, and two days, and a priest levitating after drinking chocolate.  FTP, identify this style often associated with such writers as Salman Rushdie and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, which depicts fantastic situations in realistic ways.Answer:  magic realism or magical realism      [READER'S NOTE: If someone says "real maravilloso" or "realismo magico," give them ten points but gently remind them that the term originated in German.  But if someone actually says "magischer realische," give them 10 points and a referral to a good therapist.]15.	The classics of Confucianism became the standard basis for civil service examination. Although religious tolerance was practiced, certain cults and religions were suppressed especially Buddhism. The height of the dynasty was reached under the guidance of emperor Hsuan-tsung, who saw expansion into Manchuria. Mongolia, Tibet and Turkistan. This was a much larger domain than when emperor Li Yuan first founded it. FTP, name this dynasty that involved the noted people like Empresses Wu and the poets Tu Fu and Li Po but no notable powdered beverages.	Answer: T'ang Dynasty16.	Dedicated to Athena and this god, the most complete Doric temple stands at the foot of the Acropolis. It was he who freed Athena from the skull of Zeus. But his birth was not as fortunate as he was born lame and crippled. With the Cyclopes' aid, he fashioned the chains that bound Prometheus, created the thunderbolts for Zeus and created Pandora. FTP what Olympian god is the god of fire, blacksmiths and craftsmen?	Answer: Hephaestus17.	A bit of a child prodigy, she stole a recorder at age 5, and by age 10 she played piano and violin as well. She started singing with various bands in and around London, and despite the fact that her brother, Rollo, told her not to give up her day job, she eventually appeared on the debut album of a band that Rollo formed in 1995. This band was Faithless, and they went on to sell five million records.  Now, however, she has her own album, No Angel, which has gone double platinum.  FTP, name this singer of "Honestly OK" and "Thank You", who has the same name as a famous Carthaginian suicide.	Answer: Dido18.	It shares its name with a post-eruption formation on the east side of Mt. St. Helens.  This plateau overlooking the Saint Lawrence River was named after a riverboat pilot with the surname Martin who owned the land.  Its primary claim to fame, however, is an event there which lasted a mere half hour on Sept. 13, 1759. FTP, name this plateau now in Québec City, site of a decisive victory by British troops over French forces which saw the deaths of both commanders, Montcalm and Wolfe.Answer: Plains of Abraham (or Heights of Abraham, or Plaines d'Abraham; do not accept Quebec)19.	Gliese 229B in the constellation Lepus was the first unambiguous example to be detected, in 1994. Their central temperature would by definition be below 3 million degrees Kelvin, and their surface temperature would average around 1000 degrees. Theorized to be intermediate in mass between small known stars and large planets, and thus too faint to observe unless relatively nearby, they might help to account for the "missing" mass in the universe.  FTP, name this type of stellar object, distinct from the similarly named white and red varieties.	Answer: brown dwarf20.	Unsuccessful in attempts to publish her serious botanical work -- watercolor studies of fungi -- this writer wrote letters to an invalid child that she later published privately. Inseparable from her whimsical tales about her diminutive animal characters are her delicate but exact and detailed watercolor illustrations depicting her characters in domestic scenes.  FTP, name this creator of Squirrel Nutkin, Jemima Puddle-Duck, and the mischievous sibling of Flopsy, Mopsy, and Cottontail.	Answer: Beatrix Potter21.	It is bounded on the NW and N by the Arctic Ocean and on the NE by Kennedy Channel and Smith Sound, separating it from Greenland.  It was officially created on April 1, 1999, by dividing the area of Northwest Territories of Canada.  FTP, name this new Canadian territory with capital at Iqaluit, the only territory in Canada to be administered primarily by aboriginal people, the Inuit.	Answer: Nunavut Territory
22.	It was inaugurated on April 3, 1860, under the direction of the Central Overland California and Pike's Peak Express Co. It ran between St. Joseph, Missouri and Sacramento, California; the schedule allowed ten days for the trip, and members were expected to travel 75 miles (120 km) per day.  FTP, name this service, discontinued on the completion of the line of the Pacific Telegraph Co. in October 1861, that only ever lost one mail delivery despite extremely hazardous conditions.	Answer: The Pony Express23.	They began to appear in Western Europe in the 12th century and reached their greatest popularity in the late 13th century; they remained in vogue until the Renaissance. At first, they were related orally by troubadours and trouvères. Subsequently, they were written by court musicians, clerics, scribes, and aristocrats for the entertainment and moral edification of the nobility.  FTP, name this literary genre, popular in the Middle Ages, dealing, in verse or prose, with legendary, supernatural, or amorous subjects and characters. 	Answer: Romance
BONI - OGLETHORPE				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCEDITOR'S NOTE: A long-dormant bonus form resurfaced in this packet: the periodic table chess bonus, which your genial quizmaster thought he'd killed off years ago with the line, "Your bishop is on praseodymium.  So he can't move."  Realizing that many of you have never savored the challenge of this form, we actually considered leaving it as an optional bonus -- but then remembered that several of the tournament rooms have the periodic table on the wall.  Oh, well.1.	Answer these questions about Catholic heresies FTPE.	1) This movement held that the Catholic Church was a tool of the devil and that the only hope for resurrection was to receive the consolamentum from a Perfecti of this alternate church.  Perhaps unsurprisingly, when it surfaced in southern France in the 13th century, the church forcibly suppressed it. 	Answer: Cathars or Albigensians	2) This group was founded in the late 12th century by a successful merchant from Lyons who renounced his fortune and advocated an impoverished lifestyle.  It was declared heretical because adherents thought the Church was corrupt, denied the existence of Purgatory, and taught the Bible in French.	Answer: Waldenses or Waldensians	3) This heresy, sometimes called the last great threat to the dominance of orthodox Christianity, held that because God is immutable, Jesus (who grew and changed according to the Gospels) could not be God but must rather be a demigod created by the Father.  While it had some views in common with Gnosticism, this heresy was more similar to conventional polytheism.  The Church rejected this heresy with the Nicene Creed.	Answer: Arianism or the Arian heresy2.	Identify the following terms from cellular biology for ten points each.	1) These organelles may be the degenerate descendants of aerobic and photosynthetic prokaryotes that were engulfed by larger prokaryotes but remained alive within them.	Answer: Mitochondria	2) During this process a cell divides twice; but its chromosomes are duplicated only once. Thus, four germ cells are produced, each containing half the normal number of chromosomes. In the male organism the germ cells develop into sperm; in the female they develop into eggs. 	Answer: Meiosis	3) All animal and some plant cells contain a pair of these cylindrical structures composed of short microtubules. They are surrounded by a cloud of fuzzy material, the exact function of which is unknown. They control the arrangement of microtubules in the cell cytoskeleton.	Answer: Centrioles3. Identify the following poems by John Keats from opening lines FTPE.10) O what can ail thee, knight-at-arms,Alone and palely loitering?	Answer: La Belle Dame Sans Merci10) Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness,Thou foster-child of silence and slow time	Answer: Ode On a Grecian Urn10) Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold,And many goodly states and kingdoms seen;Round many western islands have I beenWhich bards in fealty to Apollo hold.	Answer: On first looking into Chapman's Homer
4.	Name these Academy Award-winning films from 2000 on a 10-5 basis:	1) 10: This film earned writer-director Cameron Crowe an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay.	     5:  It was upset in Best Supporting Actress, where heavy favorite Kate Hudson may have been hurt because costar Frances McDormand was nominated in the same category.	Answer: Almost Famous 	2) 10: The upset winner for Best Supporting Actress was Marcia Gay Harden for this film.	     5: The film also had an unsuccessful Best Actor nomination for Ed Harris in the title role.	Answer: Pollock	3) 10: This movie won for Best Original Score.	     5: It also won Cinematography, Art Direction /Set Decoration, and Best Foreign Language Film.	Answer: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon [or Wo Hu Zang Long for the really picky]5.	Answer these questions about the election of 1884, 5-10-15.5) With less than 50% of the popular vote, he won the election of 1884, becoming the first Democrat elected since Buchanan in 1856.	Answer: Grover Cleveland10) This name was sneeringly applied to Republican reformers who abandoned the candidacy of James G. Blaine and instead voted for Cleveland.	Answer: mugwumps15) Blaine lost New York and the election when witless clergyman Samuel Birchard, speaking before Blaine,  insulted Irish-Americans by denouncing the Democrats as the party of three things.  For 5 pts. each, give the three items in this alliterative but unfortunate catchphrase.      Answer:  "rum, Romanism, and rebellion"6.	Name these scientific terms whose abbreviations might lead to identity crises FTPE:a) It doesn't begin with an "H" but is denoted by a capital "H" and is defined as the sum of the internal energy and the product of the pressure and volume of a thermodynamic system.      Answer: enthalpyb) It doesn't begin with an "S" but is denoted by a capital "S". It's a measure of a system's energy that is unavailable for work. Alternatively it's a measure of the disorder or randomness of a system.      Answer: entropyc) Measured in volts, this, which is sometimes actually denoted by a capital "E" but usually by a 3-letter acronym, stands for the per unit electric charge that is imparted by an energy source, such as an electric generator or battery. It is equivalent to a joule per coulomb.      Answer: electromotive Force7.	Answer the following questions about the 1812 Overture, 5-10-15:5) This composer, who didn't think much of it, said he wrote it "without enthusiasm or affection."      Answer: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky10)  It premiered at the consecration of a cathedral commemorating this battle of Sept. 7, 1812, the bloodiest battle of the Napoleonic Wars.	Answer: Borodino15) Used to counter the "Marseillaise" within the 1812 Overture is the former Russian national anthem "God the Omnipotent." Tchiakovsky also used that theme in this work, opus 31, of which one critic said, "Don't mess with anyone who can actually march to this." 	Answer: Marche Slav
8.	Medieval romances fall into three broad groups.  Name the Arthurian romance from a first clue for 10 pts., or from the group and other clues for 5 pts.	1) 10 pts.: Doesn't it strike you as odd that the beheading challenge in this one was considered proper entertainment for a Christmas court?     	    5 pts.: Type: tales that involve the moral testing of a young knight, in this case by a shape-shifter determined to test the "pearl of chivalry" whose badge was the pentangle.	Answer: Sir Gawain and the Green Knight	2) 10 pts.: In this romance the titular hero reaches the castle of the Fisher King.           5 pts.: Type: the search for the Holy Grail. Chretien de Troyes and Wolfram von Eschenbach both wrote well-known versions.	Answer: Percival (or Parsifal, Parzival, etc.)	3) 10 pts.: With Celtic origins, this story with historical roots in Cornwall was popular enough to surface in a translation for the King of Norway in 1226.  Prose versions linked the hero to the court of Camelot, but verse versions seldom did.     	    5 pts.: Type: the conflict between passion and duty.  A woman betrothed to King Mark and King Mark's loyal nephew unknowingly drink a love potion.  Bada bing, bada boom - trouble.	Answer: Tristan (or Tristram) and Isolde (or Isolt, Iseult, etc.)      9.	Answer the following questions about the reign of Frederick the Great of Prussia FTSNOP.5) In 1740, the same year that Frederick came to the throne, this woman became archduchess of Austria.       Answer: Maria Theresa5) This edict had been issued in secret by Charles VI in 1713 to head off at the pass claims from the children of his brother, Joseph I. It was this that gave Maria Theresa the Austrian Hapsburg dominions      Answer: the Pragmatic Sanction.10) In return for recognizing the Pragmatic Sanction, Frederick demanded this region from Maria Theresa. Refused by Austria, Frederick invaded, touching off the War of the Austrian Succesion.	Answer: Silesia10) Fought from 1756 to 1763, this war demonstrated Frederick's military greatness. Aided only by financial assistance from Britain, Frederick successfully opposed the armies of Austria, Russia, Sweden, Saxony (Sachsen), and France.	Answer: Seven Years' War (prompt on French and Indian War)10.	Norse?  Been there. Sumerian?  Done that. Identify the following Slavic deities, spirits, or entities FTPE.1)  She lives in a peasant hut made of bones which stands on chicken legs and spins, and is lighted by glowing skulls on posts. She travels through the air in a mortar bowl, pushing it along with the pestle or a broom. She is always very hungry.	Answer: Baba Yaga2)  His name means "white god," and so he appears as an old man with a long white beard, dressed in white and carrying a staff. He is a giver of light, traveling only in the daytime. He leads the lost out of dark forests, bestows wealth and fertility on all, and helps reapers in the fields. 	Answer: Byelobog3) Nemesis of Byelobog, this black god fights with him every winter and summer solstice.  In Fantasia he's the demonic figure (modeled after Bela Lugosi) who leads the baddies in the "Night on Bald Mountain" segment.	Answer: Chernobog or Tchernobog11.	Answer the following questions about particle physics for the stated number of points.	1) Several hundred elementary particles are now known experimentally through the various properties by which physicists identify them. They are divided into four classes.  Name those classes for five points each.	Answer: photons, leptons, baryons, and mesons	2) Particles may also be classified in terms of their spin, or angular momentum.  FTP, what are the two particle classifications based on this factor?	Answer: bosons and fermions
12.	Identify these people who represent firsts for the Supreme Court FTPE.5) The first African-American appointed to the Supreme Court, appointed in 1967 by Lyndon Johnson.	Thurgood Marshall5) The first Jewish-American appointed to the Supreme Court, appointed in 1916 by Wilson.	Louis Brandeis5) The first woman appointed to the Supreme Court, appointed in 1981 by Reagan.	Sandra Day O'Connor5) The first former President appointed to the Supreme Court, appointed in 1921 by Harding.	William Howard Taft10) The first Catholic appointed to the Supreme Court, appointed in 1836 by Jackson.	Roger B. Taney13.	Identify these characters from Tom Sawyer based on a short description, for the stated number of points.	1) 5 points: this character is Tom's half-brother, a goody-goody who enjoys getting Tom into trouble.	Answer: Sid	2) 10 points: this character is Tom's cousin, a sweet, almost saintly girl with a soft spot for Tom.	Answer: Mary	3) 5 points: he is a hapless drunk and friend of Injun Joe.	Answer: Muff Potter (accept either name)	4) 10 points: he is the well-dressed new boy in town.	Answer: Alfred Temple (accept either name)14.	OK, here's a chance to decide which pop culture bonus you get. Heismans or Grammys?  Name your poison.[PAUSE FOR CHOICE]IF HEISMANS:Name these Heisman winners FTPE given the year and position or F5PE if you also need their collegiate team:      (10 pts.) 2000, quarterback      (5 pts.) Florida State      Answer: Chris Weinke      (10 pts.) 1988, tailback      (5 pts.) Oklahoma State      Answer: Barry Sanders      (10 pts.) 1935, halfback      (5 pts.) University of Chicago      Answer: Jay BerwangerIF GRAMMYS:Answer the following questions about the 43rd Annual Grammy Awards for the stated number of points.	1) (5 pts.) This band's single Beautiful Day netted them both Record of the Year and Song of the Year.	Answer: U2	2) (10 pts.) She won the Female Rock Vocal Performance Award for There Goes the Neighborhood.	Answer: Sheryl Crow	3) (15 pts.) This song helped the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra win a Grammy for Rock Music.	Answer: The Call of the Ktulu (by Metallica)
15.	Give the capitals of the following lesser-known European countries for five points each:	1) Moldova	Answer: Chisinau or Kishinev	2) San Marino	Answer: San Marino	3) Malta	Answer: Valletta	4) Slovakia	Answer: Bratislava	5) Liechtenstein      Answer: Vaduz6) Montenegro	Answer: Podgorica (accept Titograd)16.	FTPE answer the following about a particular type of stellar object:So far we have no direct evidence for the first to be hypothesized, but plenty of observations for the second and closer one, which (paradoxically) was originally formed farther from the Sun.  Their composition and distribution places important constraints on models of the early evolution of the solar system. 	Answer: Accept cometary halo, cometary cloud, comet storage cloud, or equivalents.Some astronomers count Triton, Charon, and even Pluto as part of this cometary cloud just beyond Neptune's orbit, which accounts for short-period comets.	Answer: Kuiper belt or Kuiper cloudThis cloud, which orbits the surrounds the sun at a distance of 50,000 or more astronomical units, may contain as many as a trillion comets of various sizes.  As yet unobserved, it would account for long-period comets.      Answer: Oort cloud17.	It never seems to get near as much attention in quizbowl questions as the longer sequel.  Answer these simple questions about characters from The Hobbit, FTPE.	1) Of the thirteen dwarves in the party, he is the fat one.  He falls in the enchanted stream in Mirkwood forest, and Bilbo sneaks out of Lonely Mountain during his watch (by pretending to take his watch for him so he can sleep) to deliver the Arkenstone to the enemy commanders.	Answer: Bombur	2) He is named King by the humans of Long Lake after he fells Smaug with the Black Arrow.	Answer: Bard	3) This dwarf is Thorin's cousin from the Iron Hills, who brings an army of dwarves to defend the mountain when the humans and elves attack it.  When Thorin is slain, he becomes King Under the Mountain.	Answer: Dain (Day-inn)18. From the people who gave us Mother Teresa and John Belushi... FTPE answer the following about Albania:(a) Survivor of a fierce power struggle in the 1920's, he ruled the country first as president beginning in 1925, then from 1928 to 1939 as king before being deposed by Mussolini's troops.  	Answer: King Zog I (Accept Ahmet Zogu if buzzed before told he is a king; prompt otherwise.)(b) After Zog fled with most of the treasury, this man emerged as the leader of the Albanian Resistance during World War II and, like Tito in neighboring Yugoslavia, survived for decades as its Communist dictator.	Answer: Enver Hoxha(c) Albania is about 98% ethnically Albanian, but there are two main groups of Albanians.  FTP name either.	Answer: Ghegs or Tosks	
19.	Identify the following artists based on a list on paintings FTPE.	1) Second of May, 1808 and Third of May, 1808 	Answer: Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes	2) Large Bathers, Apples and Orange, Mardi Gras	Answer: Paul Cezanne	3) The Carpets, The Joy of Life, The Blue Window	Answer: Henri Émile Benoît Matisse20.	Answer the following related questions FTPE: 	a) These books are a collection of metaphysical treatises and dialogues dating from the middle of the 1st century AD to the 4th century AD, purporting to be revelations of Thoth, the Egyptian god of wisdom. Although the setting of the collection is Egyptian, its philosophical orientation is Platonic Greek.	Answer: The Hermetic Books or the Corpus Hermeticum	b) This name for the combined symbology of Hermes and Thoth was created during the second and third centuries AD, and from that time forward no longer referred to either Hermes or Thoth singularly.	Answer: Hermes Trismegistus	c) Hermetic thought shares many doctrines in common with a recurrent Christian heresy. Both groups were singularly devoted to a particular concept, which they understood to be the experience of liberating interior knowledge; both looked upon embodiment as a limitation that led to unconsciousness, and held that the human spirit could only be liberated by what?	Answer: Gnosis21.	Identify the figure from history on a 30-20-10 basis.	30) After winning awards for bravery in World War I, he taught in military academies. In the German push to the English Channel in 1940 he headed the victorious 7th Tank Division.	20) He was made a lieutenant general the following year and placed in command of the Afrika Korps in North Africa.	10) He achieved a brilliant record as a tactician in desert warfare, driving the British from Libya to el-Alamein by June 1942; his victories earned him promotion to field marshal as well as the nickname the Desert Fox.	Answer: Erwin Rommel      22.	Identify the following Canadian islands for ten points each.	1) This is the largest island in Canada and the fifth largest island in the world.	Answer: Baffin Island	2) This island, which is divided between Nunavut and Northwest Territories, is separated from the mainland by Dolphin and Union Strait, Coronation Gulf, and Dease Strait.  It was discovered in 1838 by a British explorer Thomas Simpson, who named it for hi queen.	Answer: Victoria Island	3) The northern tip of this island, Cape Columbia, is the most northerly point of the North American continent.  Human habitation is very sparse, with only a few scattered communities; one of these, Canadian Forces Station Alert, an electronic surveillance outpost, is reputedly the northernmost permanent settlement in the world.	Answer: Ellesmere Island
23.	Identify the following Newbery-winning authors for the stated number of points.	1) For five points, the author of A Wrinkle in Time and such sequels as A Swiftly Tilting Planet	Answer: Madeleine L'Engle	2) For ten points, an engrossing novel about the love of a young girl for the wolves of Alaska, Julie of the Wolves won a Newbery Medal for its author.	Answer: Jean George	3) For fifteen points, the Newbery Medal was awarded for the first time to a book of poetry, A Visit to William Blake's Inn: Poems for Innocent and Experienced Travelers in 1982. The book also received a Caldecott Award for its illustrations, making it the first book to receive both awards.  Who was the author?      Answer: Nancy Willard24.	Though I would like to give you a computational question to test your actual knowledge of mathematics and not just your retention of mathematical trivia, it looks like trivia it is.  However, all of these questions can be checked with a little bit of simple computation. (Remember to show your work!)  You will get ten points for each correct answer.	1) What is the sine of pi over two multiplied by the sine of three-pi over 2?[sin (pi/2) * sin (3pi/2)]	Answer: Negative one (-1)	2) What is the sine of pi times the cosine of pi? [sin (pi) * cos (pi)]	Answer: Zero (0)	3) What is the sine of three-pi over two times the cosine of pi? [sin (3pi/2) * cos (pi)]	Answer: (1)	        