TOSSUPS - PRINCETON #2			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Princeton's Jeff Hoppes, Lenny Kostovetsky, Brian Beck, Chris Frankel, Philip Hall, Larissa Kelly, Brad Klein, Ben Malkevitch, Dave Sachs, Barbara Slote, Howesiang Tan, Will Wong, and Ray Yang1. To deter thieves, he put a warning in his library which read, "May all the gods bestow upon anyone who breaks, defaces, or removes this tablet a curse which cannot be relieved, which will be terrible and merciless as long as he lives, and may they let his name and his seed be carried off from the land, and may they put his flesh in a dog's mouth." Although he was a mighty king in the seventh century BCE, he is best known to modern scholars for his library, which comprised literary works on omens, sacred lore, folk tales, and epic poems.  FTP, identify this last great king of the Assyrians, whose library preserved the Epic of Gilgamesh. 	Answer:	 Ashurbanipal2. They were generated by a hot wire inside an iron tube.  Though invisible, a calcium sulfide thread could be used to detect them, a slight glowing a sign of an interaction between them and the thread.  A spectrum could be detected when these were refracted through a 60 degree aluminum prism.  However, an American physicist, Robert Wood, found that the discoverer, René Blondlot, detected the same spectrum whether or not the prism was in place.  FTP, Wood's test verified the non-existence of this phenomenon, named for the town of its discovery, Nancy.	Answer:	 N-rays3. At the age of 17, she was presented to society according to the customs of the day, and a year later, fell in love and got engaged to Henry Leyden Stevens. Henry's mother strongly disapproved of the match because the bride's family wasn't wealthy enough, and the engagement was quickly broken off. To avoid becoming an old maid, she then married a man twelve years her senior and spent the rest of her life in literary pursuits. FTP, who wrote of her youth surrounded by the van der Luydens, Mingotts, Wellands, and Archers of New York in her 1920 novel The Age of Innocence?	Answer:	 Edith Wharton (or: Edith Newbold Jones)4. Salvatore, a young boy in a small Italian village, befriends Alfredo, a projectionist.  This is fortunate because the village's only pastime is going to the movies and Salvatore dreams of making them when he grows up. He finally gets that chance, but thirty years later returns to the village to find a tin of movie treasures in FTP what Italian film, the 1989 Academy Award winner for Best Foreign Film.	Answer:	 Cinema Paradiso5. The Bund der Landwirte, or Agrarian League, organized itself to represent the interests of this class. The League's expanding membership helped it capture the Conservative Party by 1900, and that party's influence proved crucial in raising tariffs, restoring subsidies, and eroding the influence of the chancellor, Count Leo von Caprivi. Such manipulation of the economy was encouraged by their control of the Prussian state. FTP, identify this military aristocracy of northern Germany that shares its name with the company that built divebombers for the Axis in the Second World War.	Answer:	 Junkers6. Sketches by Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov. Two poems by Lermontov, Mtsyri and Demon.  A prisoner in the title of a three-act Cui opera based on a Pushkin poem. A group of languages including the Abkhaz, Dagestani, and Kartvelian subgroups. And a chalk circle in the title of a play by Bertolt Brecht. FTP, all of these things are named after the mountain range that separates the "trans" countries of Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan from Russia.	Answer:	 the Caucasus (or: Caucasian)
7. The inversion of color spectra, Frank Jackson's colorless Mary, and Ned Block's Homunculi-Headed Robot are all possible arguments against this popular philosophical solution to the mind-body problem.  First postulated in various forms by Hilary Putnam and David Lewis, this theory states that any intelligent mind is just a mechanism which takes inputs and an initial state and returns outputs and a new state.  FTP, identify this philosophical theory that shares its name with the linguistic ideas of the  Prague school.	Answer:	 functionalism8. It began when Major General Gouverneur Warren ordered a charge across Laurel Hill, believing that only cavalry was present.  He was mistaken, as infantry had arrived and quickly repulsed the attack. After Emory Upton's attack on the "Mule Shoe," fighting became focused on a slight bend in the Confederates trenches.  FTP, name this May 8-20, 1864 battle where U.S. Grant promised to "fight it out on this line if it takes all summer," site of the notorious "Bloody Angle."	Answer:	 Spotsylvania Court House9. Premiered at La Scala the day after Christmas, this opera's style is considered innovative for its time. In the prologue, a brave young soldier is warned by a "man in black" to flee from Venice and the palace of his host. One act later, the soldier, Gennaro, is crashingly in love with the title character, a patroness of the arts. But she is also married to the Duke of Ferrara and has been known to poison people, something her dad, Pope Alexander VI, never taught her. FTP, name this historically inaccurate opera based on a Hugo play, written by Gaetano Donizetti.	Answer:	 Lucrezia Borgia10. The early Cistercians claimed that it had grown corrupt and worldly under the rule of Abbot Pons, who was forced to resign in disgrace. Under his predecessor, Hugh of Semur, it had begun construction of its abbey church, the largest in medieval Christendom. This extravagant structure only added to the cries of the new orders who undermined, FTP, what widely influential Benedictine monastery in Burgundy, famous for its tenth-century monastic reforms?	Answer:	 Cluny11. The Wambuti pygmies, in contrast to their neighbors, were unsurprised by the horses of Henry Stanley's expedition. They claimed that their jungle held a similar creature. Sir Harry Johnston managed to acquire two headbands made out of striped skin; he was sure he had discovered an unknown species of forest zebra. Instead, the new creature possessed cloven hooves and two small horns. FTP, name this animal restricted to the Ituri forest of the Congo, the only known relative of the giraffe.	Answer:	 okapi12. He is introduced to the reader as an awkward schoolboy who keeps losing his cap and has trouble saying his name out loud.  As a youth, he is forced by his parents to marry an old widow named Heloise shortly after he starts his medical career.  He falls in love with the daughter of one his patients and marries her when Heloise dies.  Sadly, the marriage soon grows stale, and out of boredom his new wife Emma cheats on him with both Leon and Rodolphe.  FTP name this famously dull character created by Gustave Flaubert.	Answer:	 Charles Bovary (prompt on variants such as: Monsieur Bovary, Mr. Bovary, Madame Bovary's husband, etc.)13. Though this word is always negative in its common usage, used technically it is common enough in children, who may feel omnipotent and may seem oblivious to the outside world. If all goes well, these children will develop a healthy yet realistic self-regard. But many psychological factors, if strong enough, can turn this into a personality disorder, in which grandiose self-importance hides and/or co-exists with a fragile sence of self. Freud wrote about it, as did Ellis and Kohut much later. FTP, what is this psychological term which gets its name from the Greek legend of a youth who could love only himself.	Answer:	 Narcissism14. She lived in Scotland's Glen Etibhe (et-ih-BAY) with her husband Naoise (nah-OYZ), who fought for the king of the Picts. Fergus MacRoth, who arrived with an invitation to the court of Emain Macha (uh-MINE MAK-ah), was known to be trustworthy, so Naoise and his two brothers accepted their invitation. On their arrival, MacRoth was betrayed and Naoise was slain with his own sword by  Eoghan MacDuracht (OH-gan mac-DUR-akt). FTP, name this unfortunate woman who then became the unwilling wife of King Conchobhar (KON-ko-bar) MacNessa of Ulster. 	Answer:	 Deirdre of the Sorrows
15. Bordered by the Catedral Metropolitana and the Casa Rosada, it received its name from the month in which an 1812 uprising against Spain took place. However, it owes its current fame to more recent protests against authoritarian rule. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, the mothers and grandmothers of "disappeared ones" gathered here every Thursday to demand information about the missing and protest the Videla regime's "dirty war." FTP, name this square in Buenos Aires.	Answer:	 The Plaza de Mayo (or: Plaza of May)16. This German topologist holds the distinction of having  refused to go to Goettingen, preferring to work in Bonn. While at Bonn, he introduced the concept of partially ordered sets, coined the term 'metric space,' and failed in his attempt to prove the continuum hypothesis. FTP, name this mathematician, who showed the world that the dimension of a set  is not necessarily an integer. 	Answer:	 Felix Hausdorff17.  In 1937 two of this team's pitchers, Lee Grissom and Gene Schott, took advantage of record flooding to travel over the outfield wall in a rowboat. Two years earlier, they beat the Phillies 2-1 as Crosley Field hosted baseball's first night game. From 1953-1958 their name was altered to add the term "Legs" in an apparent concession to McCarthyism. FTP, name the National League that Ken Griffey, Junior plays for when he's healthy.	Answer:	 Cincinnati Reds (accept either)18. He painted several famous self-portraits, but he is neither Durer nor Rembrandt. In a 1570 self-portrait now in the Prado, he is 80 years old, his beard is white, and his aged face is directed to his left of the canvas. Just visible around his neck is the heavy gold chain of honor bestowed by the emperor, and at the bottom left, we can see a paintbrush in his hand. In a 1512 portrait mysteriously known as the Man with a Blue Sleeve, the initials T.V. are incised at the bottom, suggesting that it might also be a self-portrait. FTP, what great Venetian painter also made portraits of Pietro Aretino, Federigo Gonzaga, Pope Paul III, Philip II, and the Emperor Charles V, for whom he was court painter.	Answer:	 Titian (or: Tiziano Vecellio)19. Macquarie Harbor on the west coast was used by the colonial government as a logging camp and settlement for defiant convicts. Fortunately, the loggers made little headway against the temperate rain forest of Huon pine, beech, and eucalyptus, but the convicts and soldiers would wipe out its native population by 1876. Twenty-one years earlier, it had abandoned the infamous name of Van Diemen's Land. FTP, name the only island state of Australia, most famous for its population of devils.	Answer:	 Tasmania20. "What has Ingeld to do with Christ?" he wrote to rebuke some monks who had been indulging in secular music and literature inside their monastery. He set a diligent example by producing the Golden Gospels, a precious illuminated manuscript written on purple-stained vellum. Later, during his time at the scriptorium of Saint Martin in Tours, he standardized the writing now known as Carolingian miniscule. FTP, name the Anglo-Saxon scholar, chosen by Charlemagne to direct the production of books in his empire.	Answer:	 Alcuin of York21. He enrolled at Temple University, intending to become a phys-ed teacher.  To pay the bills, he worked at a local bar where his brand of humor was well received, leading him to follow a comedy career in New York.  A prolific author, his works include Fatherhood and children's books such as The Day I Saw My Father Cry.  But this comedian is best known for his television work, starting with his Emmy-winning breakout role on the 60s hit "I Spy," where his work challenged racial barriers. FTP, name this comedian, actor, author, the obstetrician-husband of lawyer Claire Huxtable. 	Answer:	  Bill Cosby22. In quantum mechanics, the wave function of an electron acquires a phase factor dependent on the path integral of the vector potential A. Thus, placing a solenoid containing a magnetic field between the two slits in a two-slit experiment changes the interference pattern on the wall. FTP, name this effect, which was named after the two physicists who theorized its existence. 	Answer:	 Aharanov-Bohm effect.
23. . Its original title was Penthouse Legend, but it ran first in Hollywood under the title Woman on Trial. In the play, Karen Andre stands trial for killing her employer and lover, Bjorn Faulkner.  The most unusual quality, though, is that there are two alternate endings, and the ending that is used depends on the decision of a jury selected from the audience before the play.  FTP, name this first play by the author more famous for We the Living, Anthem, and TheFountainhead.	Answer:	 Night of January 16th
TOSSUPS - PRINCETON #2			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Princeton's Jeff Hoppes, Lenny Kostovetsky, Brian Beck, Chris Frankel, Philip Hall, Larissa Kelly, Brad Klein, Ben Malkevitch, Dave Sachs, Barbara Slote, Howesiang Tan, Will Wong, and Ray Yang1. For 10 points each answer the following about the Song of Roland.1. Roland's closest friend and ally, together with Roland he fights to the death against the Saracen army.       Answer:	 Oliver2. Roland's beloved sword, he tries to break it when his death is imminent in order to prevent it from falling into enemy hands.       Answer:	 Durendal3. The stepfather of Roland, he grows enraged when Roland ridicules him in front of Charlemagne's court.  He betrays his stepson by conspiring with the Saracens to ambush him.       Answer:	 Ganelon2. Answer these questions about movies from Seinfeld episodes, for 10 points each.1. Jerry spends this entire movie making out with his girlfriend, but problems ensue when Newman sees this and tells Jerry's parents.       Answer:	 "Schindler's List"2. After missing "Checkmate," Elaine, Jerry, and George all end up watching this movie. It's "the story of a young girl's strange erotic journey from Milan to Minsk."       Answer:	 "Rochelle, Rochelle"2. Everyone wants to see this movie, but someone has to watch Jerry's temporary dog. Finally, when Elaine decides to do it, Jerry ends up seeing the movie without her, but it really isn't that good. The highlight of the episode is George's funny rendition of the movie's title.       Answer:	 "Prognosis...Negative!"3. Joseph Leidy removed the head from an elasmosaur specimen and placed it on what had until recently been considered the tail. 1. (10) For 10 points, the elasmosaur incident helped spark what nineteenth-century feud over fossil hunting in the American West?	Answer:	 the bone wars2. (10, 10) For 10 points each, name the two chief antagonists in the bone wars, abrasive paleontologists from Yale and the University of Pennsylvania. 	Answers: Othniel Charles Marsh and Edward Drinker Cope respectively. Note: Marsh had corrected Cope's embarrasing mistake about the elasmosaur.4. Identify these items which have something in common for 10 points each. (Moderator: Do not read the answers until the end of the bonus.)1. This Francisco de Goya painting memorializes a popular insurrection against the tyranny of the Napoleonic French.	Answer:	 "The  3rd of May 1808: The Execution of the Defenders of Madrid"2. These Chinese nationalists and student rioters opposed the Japanese occupation of Shandong province in 1919.	Answer:	 The Fourth of May movement3. This Mexican holiday commemorates Benito Juarez's 1862 defeat of the French at the Battle of Puebla.	Answer:	 Cinco de Mayo5. Given three languages, name the language family they belong to for 10 points each.1. Estonian, Hungarian, and Samoyed.	Answer:	 Uralic (do not accept: "Finno-Ugric")2. Malagasy, Maori, and Tagalog.	Answer:	 Malayo-Polynesian (or: Austronesian)3. Cherokee, Huron, and Mohawk.	Answer:	 Iroquoian (generous accept: Iroquois)
6. For 10 points each, name these high energy experiments.1. Not to be confused with a popular chain retailer, this Japanese experiment for neutrino oscillation suffered a set back earlier this year when photomultiplier tubes imploded.       Answer:	 Super Kamiokande  2.  Name the new project under construction at Geneva, which will replace FermiLab as the highest energy facility in the world. It shares its initials with a horrible singing group of CERN secretaries.       Answer:	 Large Hadron Collider3.  No, it is not the French elephant king. It's this experiment based at Stanford Linear Accelerator Center to study CP violation. So named because of its study of B and anti B mesons.       Answer:	 BaBar7. Name these politicians from early twentieth-century Russia, for 10 points each.1. Prime minister of the provisional government from July 1917, his namesake offensive against the Germans failed miserably.	Answer:	 Aleksandr Fyodorovich Kerensky2. This minister under Nicholas II oversaw the building of the Trans-Siberian Railroad and obtained unexpectedly favorable peace terms from Japan in the Treaty of Portsmouth.	Answer:	 Graf Sergey Yulyevich Witte3. His plan for agricultural reform of the empire was foiled when he was shot while attending the opera in 1911.	Answer:	 Pyotr Arkadyevich Stolypin8. 30-20-10, name the artist from works30. Tantric Detail 1, Target with Four Faces20. False Start, Perilous Night10. Flag, Map   Answer:	 Jasper Johns9. Time for a high-school lit flashback. For 10 points each, answer these questions about allusions in T.S. Eliot's "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock."1. "In the room the women come and go / Talking of" what Italian artist?       Answer:	 Michelangelo Buonarotti2. A word is used to describe someone who has been put out with this anesthetic, whose efficacy William Morton claimed to have discovered in 1846.       Answer:	 ether 3. Prufrock compares himself to both Hamlet and this poor man from the Gospels who has "come back to tell" us "all."       Answer:	 Lazarus	10. Name these victims of canings from American history, for 10 points each.1. This "Wild Irishman from Vermont" spat on his Federalist opponent Roger Griswold on the Senate floor. When Griswold attempted to cane him in retaliation, the intended victim defended himself with a pair of fireplace tongs, inflicting severe injuries on his would-be attacker.	Answer:	 Matthew Lyon2. Preston Brooks of South Carolina was so offended by this man's "Crime against Kansas" speech that he gave the Massachusetts senator a severe beating.	Answer:	 Charles Sumner3. In 1993 this teenager and sometime vandal was sentenced to six strokes with a bamboo cane by the government of Singapore.	Answer:	 Michael Fay
11. Identify these related items, for 10 points each. (Moderator: do not read the answers until the end of the bonus.)1. This Fox game show forces contestants to answer questions while enduring extremes of heat, cold, and wind.	Answer:	 "The Chamber"2. Created by the Scottish physicist C. T. R. Wilson, this device detects the passage of charged particles such as alpha particles, beta particles, and protons.	Answer:	 the cloud chamber3. Cardinal Wolsey presided over this court during the reign of Henry VIII. Its use was abolished by the Long Parliament in 1641.	Answer:	 the Star Chamber12. Infrared, radio wave, microwave, x-ray, ultraviolet. Which of the mentioned electromagnetic regimes correspond to the following spectroscopic techniques or related physical process? 10 points each.1. Hydrogen nuclear spin flip, in nuclear magnetic resonance.	Answer:	 radio wave2. Electron spin resonance.	Answer:	 microwave3. Vibrational spectroscopy, for example of a C-H bond in a organic compound.	Answer:	 infrared 13. Identify the city, 30-20-10.30. In Arthur Conan Doyle's The Sign of Four, the great treasure is from this city.20. It was the capital of the Mughal empire from 1526 to 1638.10. It is most famous for a monument built there by Shah Jahan.       Answer:	 Agra14. Answer these questions about a Roman woman who lived to over 100 years of age, for 10 points each.1. Terentia was one of the wives of this orator. She bore him his daughter Tullia. 	Answer:	 Cicero2. After Cicero divorced Terentia in 47 BCE, she married twice more. Her second marriage was to what man, a Roman historian and ally of Caesar, who provided accounts of the conspiracy of Catiline and the war against Jugurtha?       Answer:	 Gaius Sallustius Crispus3. After Sallust died in 35 BCE, Terentia married this man, a literary patron and politician, whose most famous client was the historian Tacitus.    	Answer. Marcus Valerius Messala Corvinus15. Name the Shakespearean character from couplets, 30-20-1030. So many journeys may the sun and moon/Make us again count o'er erelove be done!20. To desperation turn my trust and hope,/An anchor's cheer in prisonbe my scope,10. In second husband let me be accurst!/None wed the second but whokilled the first.       Answer:	 the Player Queen 16. Related questions about religion, for 10 points each. (Moderator: do not read answers until the end of the bonus.) 1. Shiite Muslims view this fourth caliph as the only true successor of Muhammad.	Answer:	 Ali2. Although this island is the only remaining stronghold of Hinduism in Indonesia, it blends that faith with Buddhism and Malay forms of ancestor worship.	Answer:	 Bali3. Archbishop Isaias Duarte Cancino of this Colombian city was assassinated in March 2002.	Answer:	 Cali
17. "The trouble with a kitten is that, when it grows up, it's always a cat." Answer these questions about cats for 10 points each.1. "Cat: A soft indestructible automaton, provided by nature to be kicked when things go wrong in the domestic circle." Identify the source of this quote.	Answer:	 The Devil's Dictionary (by Ambrose Bierce)2. Among the minor works of this English poet was an ode "On a Favourite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes."	Answer:	 Thomas Gray3. An Egyptian sun goddess, she was depicted as an anthropomorphic cat, or as sporting a cat's head. She was responsible for the veneration of felines in Egypt.	Answer:	 Bast (or: Bastet)18. Sometimes an author can receive great critical acclaim after languishing in obscurity for decades. Identify these reevaluated writers for 10 points each.1. Alice Walker discovered her writings when researching voodoo in the 1930s South, and championed her novel Their Eyes Were Watching God.       Answer:	 Zora Neale Hurston2. Although best known for children's books such as the Newberry Medal-winning The Slave Dancer, the recent reissue of her bleak 1970 novel Desperate Characters brought her to the attention of the adult literary establishment.       Answer:	 Paula Fox3. Her keen-eyed stories of life in mid-century Ohio and New York were largely forgotten until the 1980s, when Gore Vidal praised novels such as The Locusts Have No King, Angels on Toast and The Wicked Pavilion.       Answer:	 Dawn Powell19. Musical compositions such as symphonies or string quartets often have four movements. But composers have been known to push their luck.1. Written in a rural suburb of Vienna, the idea for this 1808 work was probably taken from the now-forgotten Justin Knecht's five-movement symphony titled A Musical Portrait of Nature.	Answer:	 Pastoral(e) Symphony or Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 in F Major 	[That Vienna suburb is Heiligenstadt.]2. The composer of this 1830 work thought that if Beethoven could do it, so could he, so he made this homage to Harriet Smithson five movements long, with the Fourth Movement, March to the Scaffold, being the extra movement.	Answer:	 Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique (reluctantly accept Fantastic Symphony, assuming they mean the word in its literal sense)3 .Béla Bartók composed this grand orchestral work, one of his last works, shortly after a long series of hospitalizations but shortly before his death.	Answer:	 Concerto for Orchestra20. In the study of bijective mappings between sets, one type is of particular interest in geometry. For 10 points each, name:1. The type of bijective mappings that preserve angles.       Answer:	 conformal mappings2. The theorem that states that, in the complex plane, there is a conformal mapping between any 2 simply connected sets.        Answer:	 the Riemann mapping theorem3. The formula, named for its co-discoverers, which gives a conformal  mapping between the unit disc and any convex polygon.        Answer:	 the Schwartz-Christoffel formula21. 30-20-10, name the sport.30. It puts upwards of 4Gs of pressure on athletes as they compete.  Equipment includes eight-spiked shoes, helmets, face shields and chin guards.20. This sport, founded in St. Moritz, uses a shortened bobsled track for competion. Racers glide on what look like largish lunch trays on runners, reaching speeds of about 80 miles per hour.10. The most recent and only male Olympic gold medalists in this sport are Jim Shea in 2002, Nino Bibbia in 1948, and Jennison Heaton in 1928.  Why so few medals?  The stomach-down and head-first style of racing was considered just too dangerous. 	Answer:	 skeleton