TOSSUPS - TIRESIAS ROUND			1999 MOON PIE CLASSIC - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Ben Lea1) On April 7, 1999, a bomb exploded in the Valley of the Fallen, 30 miles northwest of Madrid.  GRAPO, a leftist organization claimed credit for the blast, which injured no one, but did structural damage to the basilica and the tomb located there.  Fortunately, the inhabitant of the tomb is still dead.  For 10 points, identify this dictator, who has inhabited that tomb since it was created for him in 1975.Answer:  Francisco Franco2)  Next week, Ed Harris will begin filming a biopic about this man, based on the 1991 Pulitzer-Prize winning biography of him, written by Steven Naifeh and Gregory White Smith; Harris is planning on playing the lead role, while Marcia Gay Harden has signed on to play the female lead, the painter Lee Krasner.   For 10 points, identify this American artist, whose first one man show at Peggy Guggenheim's studio in 1943 predates by 4 years his revolutionary technique of pouring enamel paint onto a flat canvas, notable in such works as "Autumn Rhythm," "Lavender Mist," and "Full Fathom Five."Answer: Jackson Pollock3)  For first order reactions, it is defined as .693 divided by k, where k is a rate constant; in second order reactions, it varies inversely with the initial concentration of the material in question, and is represented by 1 over k times c sub 0.  But that's in general chemical reactions, and not in the more commonly used meaning of the term, used in radioactive decay.  For 10 points, identify this measurement, which is over 4 billion years for U-238 but only 5000 years for carbon-14.Answer: half-period (accept "half value-time" or "half-life", but they tell me that isn't a correct term)4)  He had a habit of re-writing everything he wrote.  For example, he wrote a work called Smarh, which was to be the French version of the Faust legend, in 1839, but after re-writing it from 1846-49, again in 1856, and again in 1870, he finally published it in 1874 as The Temptation of St. Anthony.  Similarly, 1842's Novembre became part of the 1871 Sentimental Education.  For 10 points, identify this author, whose 1837 Passion et vertu, coupled with an undated manuscript of Memoires de Mme Ludovica, became the 1856 serially-published Madame Bovary.Answer: Gustave Flaubert5)  It was given its name in 1728 by Col. William Byrd who was surveying it -- 35 years later, George Washington was on a surveying team that was considering draining it.  Covering about 750 square miles, it is home to bears, raccoons, deer, and rare birds such as the ivory-billed woodpecker.  In the middle of it lies Lake Drummond, the subject of a poem by Thomas Moore.  For 10 points, identify this wetland, located onthe border of North Carolina and Virginia.Answer:  Great Dismal Swamp6)  The elder wrote The Loom of Youth, Island in the Sun, The Mule on the Minaret, and A Year to Remember.  The younger wrote Decline and Fall, Vile Bodies, Black Mischief, and The Loved One.  For 10 points, give thelast name of these 20th century English writers and brothers, the more famous of whom, Evelyn, also wrote Brideshead Revisited.Answer:  Waugh7) .)  Part of this organ is regulated by the hormone secretin, is connected by the duct of Santorini and the duct of Wirsung to the duodenum, and uses its acinar cells to manufacture the precursors to the enzyme trypsin.  Its other, endocrine, part mainly functions to regulate the storage of sugar. FTP name the organ which produces glucagon and insulin.ANSWER: Pancreas
8)	Seeking legitimacy, IOC 2000, the committee attempting to restructure the bid process for the Olympic Games, has asked this man to serve on the panel.  Born in Fuerth, Germany in 1923, at 15 he and his parents fled Nazi Germany for the US.  A graduate of CCNY, his 1957 book Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy gained him national fame, and led to a professorship at Harvard and a term with the National Security Council.  For 10 points, name this former Secretary of State, co-winner of the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize.Answer: Henry Kissinger9)  Harold Schmitz recently reported the findings of research, funded in part by the Mars company, that chocolate contains several different chemicals of this type, also found in red wine and St. John's Wort.  It seems that they may stimulate the immune system, as well as acting as an antioxidant.  But that's not their role in the plant kingdom, where they work with vitamins and give plants their various colors.  For 10 points, identify this class of chemical compounds, also called phenols, whose name sounds like it should make foods more tasty.Answer: flavonoids (accept "phenol" if they say it before the moderator does)10)  Heady with victory, Lee advanced his troops on Washington, DC, with hopes of both capturing the Union capital and garnering military supplies for his forces.  McClellan met him with a reorganized Federal army about 70 miles northwest of DC, and before the day was done, the two sides lost over 20,000 men.  Lee retired to Virginia, and while McClellan didn't rout Lee, he did halt the Confederate advance, which had started at Second Bull Run.  For 10 points, identify this September 17, 1862 battle, after which Lincoln issued the first formulation of the Emancipation Proclamation.Answer: Antietam or Sharpsburg11)  Born in 1949 in Grand Forks, ND, he was a high school All-American in basketball, but he turned down a scholarship to UCLA.  Vietnam followed fairly soon after graduation, and war does change a man; he is still haunted by the image of having to kill a 12-year-old girl on the orders of a superior officer.  Of course, none of that is true, but that's what he told Mel Queen, Pat Hentgen and members of the media during his baseball coaching career.  For 10 points, identify this man, fired on St. Patrick's Day as manager of the Toronto Blue Jays.Answer: Tim Johnson12)  To a geologist, it's a column or pillar of rock, produced by differential weathering or erosion of horizontal strata, and the term can also be applied to a column of unconsolidated earth materials, or to an individual rock which features this erosive pattern.  For 10 points, identify this 6-letter geologic term, which takes its name from the evil spirits they supposedly resembled, perhaps more recognizable in English as either an occult cause of bad luck or a practitioner of the similarly-named West Indies form of religious witchcraft.Answer: hoodoo13)  A Stroke of Good Fortune.  The Life You Save May Be Your Own.  The River.  A Temple of the Holy Ghost.  A Circle in the Fire.  A Late Encounter with the Enemy.  The Displaced Person.  Good Country People.  These are some of the "Other Stories" in the book, A Good Man is Hard to Find and Other Stories, as written, for 10 points, by what author of Wise Blood, The Violent Bear it Away, and Everything that Rises Must Converge?Answer: Flannery O'Connor
14) .)  These people came either from a district of Schleswig-Holstein or Denmark to the east coast of Britain, where they founded the kingdoms of Northrumbia and Mercia. For ten points, name these fellow invaders of the Jutes and Saxons, who gave their name to land they invaded, and who may or may not have been obtuse.ANSWER: Angles [The Angles also founded East Anglia]15)   He was the first king of Corinth, noted for his shrewdness.  He knew who had raped Asopus' daughter (unsurprisingly, it was Zeus), but he agreed to tell Asopus only on condition that Corinth get a spring for water.  When Zeus found out about this, Thanatos was sent to kill him, but he bound up Thanatos, thereby really getting under Zeus' skin.  And when it comes to getting even, nobody could hang with Zeus.  For 10 points, name this victim of Zeus' anger, condemned to spend eternity rolling a rock up a hill.Answer: Sisyphus16)  A freedman's son didn't usually rise to the position of military tribune under Brutus, but this man did - in fact, he led Brutus' army at Philippi in November of 42.  He lost, and fled back to Rome, where he secured a post as treasury clerk.  Here, he could begin writing Book I of the Satires, which were published in 35 BC.  Numerous other light poems followed, although when they were no longer appreciated he turned to more serious, moralistic works, and away from Odes and Epodes.  For 10 points, name this Latin lyric poet, whose letters on serious poetry came to be known as Ars Poetica.Answer: Horace (Quintus Horatius Flaccus)17) . It is an eighteen-part discussion between the god Krishna and Arjuna, a warrior about to enter battle, on the nature and meaning of life.  The dialogue ranges widely on the subject of human existence and its relationship to the cosmic order. Identify this "New Testament" of Hinduism, translated as "the song of god."ANSWER:  Bhagavad-gita18)  They may be either nematic or smectic, depending on how the molecules within them are arranged; nematic ones are one-dimensional and the molecules are parallel, while smectic ones are multi-dimensional, and the molecules are layered.  Unlike other states of matter, they can exhibit a temperature sensitivity that causes certain ones to change colors as well as the ability to form monocrystals in the presence of a magnetic or electric field.  For 10 points, identify these condensed fluid states with spontaneous anisotropy, most commonly seen on desk thermometers and wrist watches.Answer: Liquid crystals19)  He's been involved with actors his entire career.  The VH1 Behind the Music special on this man's life featured his best friend, Brett Cullen, who starred opposite Donny Most in Stewardess School.  Perhaps hisbiggest moment came opposite Ellen Foley, who would later appear on Night Court and Ghostwriter.  And now, he's acting himself, in such films as Wayne's World, Leap of Faith, Spice World, and Black Dog.  For 10 points, identify the stage name of this actor/musician, which Jerome "Chef" McElroy insisted was better than "Couscous".Answer:  Meat Loaf20)  Gordon's pioneering study in 1920 suggested that individuals exhibiting this condition are neurologically damaged, specifically in obstetric complications.  In 1982, Geschwind and Behan expanded on that theory, suggesting that the phenomenon may be related to increased fetal testosterone - their research revealed that the condition is highly correlated to certain more serious issues such as asthma, allergies, and ulcerative colitis.  For 10 points, identify this condition, present in somewhere between 1 and 35 percent of the population, survivors of which include Ross Perot, George Bush, Bill Clinton, and literally dozens of aging relief pitchers.Answer: left-handedness (accept equivalencies)21) Examples of this in Rome inspired the style of American painter Cy Twombley. Its practitioners included Keith Haring and Jean Michel Basquiat. FTP what term, Italian for "scratched", describes a decorating technique using with wall plaster and pottery as well as drawings or words on walls or other public places?ANSWER: graffiti22)	The relationship of the rate of this to real GNP is described by Okun's law, which says that real GNP will be three points below potential GNP for every percentage point that the rate of this is above the natural rate. For ten points, name this condition of being in the labor force but not working.ANSWER: unemployment23)  It is a roman a clef concerning the historical Starr Faithfull, who washed up washed up on Long Beach, Long Island. Her death created a sensation that was never resolved: accident, suicide, or murder? It came out that she had hung out in speakeasies, dried out at Bellevue, been in therapy, lived a while on St. Luke's Place a couple of doors from Mayor Jimmy Walker, and been sexually abused as a girl by Andrew J. Peters, the former mayor of Boston.  For 10 points, identify this 1935 John O'Hara novel, in which Starr Faithfull is replaced by Gloria Wandrous, played on screen by Elizabeth Taylor.Answer: BUtterfield 8
BONI - TIRESIAS ROUND			1999 MOON PIE CLASSIC - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Ben Lea1)  You are being handed family trees from 5 different families - all of whom inhabit Yoknapatawpha County in one or more works of William Faulkner.  However, the last names (as well as any mention of particular books) have been deleted.  For 5 points each, and a 5 point bonus for all 5, correctly supply the last name of each family.  (Moderator: give them the sheets...)Answer:A.  BundrenB.  SartorisC.  SnopesD.  CompsonE.  Sutpen2)  The writer of this question is a librarian, which might explain why these answers are in alphabetical order...  For 10 points each, given a chemical formula, identify the compound.  If you need additional information, and God knows this author would, you'll earn 5 points.	10 points: C19H26O2      5 points: Dante Bichette was taking it last year as well, and he only hit 22 homers.Answer: androstenedione	10 points: CHCl3      5 points: It is used principally in the real world as an anesthetic; in the mystery world, it is principally used to knock out the heroine so she can witness the killings and still survive for the sequel.Answer: chloroform	10 points:  C10H14N2      5 points: It is not addictive.  No, it is not.  Period.  Not addictive.  No no no no no.  Just ask Senator Helms - he'll tell you.  And, no, they didn't put any extra in cigarettes to make them even MORE addictive.  Those are lies!  Lies, I tell you!Answer: nicotine3) Admit it.  When you were in high school history, and the teacher talked about the Punic Wars, you couldn't help but laugh about it.  Here's hoping you were paying attention.  For 10 points each, identify these key figures from those conflicts.a)  The second son of Lucius Aemilius Paullus Macedonicus, he took command of the Roman siege of Carthage in 147.  He was renamed in honor of the effectiveness of his victory.Answer:  Scipio Africanus or Scipio Aemilianusb)  During the Second Punic War, this Carthaginian general took charge in Sicily in 247.  He signed a treaty ending the war, but he consolidated power after outlying revolts, and got Rome to cede territory in Spain in compensation for the loss of Sicily.Answer:  Hamilcar Barcac)  It was between the Second and Third Punic Wars that this Roman censor urged his listeners "Delenda est Carthago" -- Carthage must be destroyed.  He did live to see war declared in 149, but died soon thereafter.Answer:  (Marcus Porcius) Cato the Elder
4)  Somewhere, north (give or take) of the 49th parallel of latitude north of the equator, there is a very cold, dreary, tundraic land.  And, being as it's so cold, the few inhabitants of this land while away their three hours of daylight a year writing about how cold it is, and how little daylight they have, and so on.  For 5 points each, given the title of a poem or book, identify the Canadian author.a) Anne of Green Gables			Answer: Lucy Maud Montgomeryb) The Manticore			Answer: Robertson Daviesc) Cat's Eye			Answer: Margaret Atwoodd) The Jeopardy! Book			Answer: Alex Trebeke) "Subdivisions"	      Answer: Canada's greatest living poet, Neil Peart (accept Rush, but begrudgingly)f) Tek-War			Answer: William Shatner5)  In 1952, Parker Bros. replaced the lantern, purse, and rocking horse pieces in Monopoly with the now-familiar dog, wheelbarrow, and horse and rider, and those were the last changes until this year, when the now-parent company Hasbro introduced a new piece.  For 5 points, name that new game piece, and name the other pieces used in Monopoly, 5 points for 3, and an additional 5 points for each one after that.Answer: new piece is the sack of money; old pieces are battleship, cannon, iron, shoe, thimble, top hat, and race car (accept equivalents on each)6)  30-20-10-5-1, identify this US city.30) Brooklyn, a suburb of this city, became the first municipality in the US to ban the use of cellular phones by motorists this year.  It's nothing new for them - in 1966, they became the first municipality to require the use of seat belts.  There may be a reason for that; there were more pedestrian deaths in this city in 1996 than in any other in the state.20) The city was founded in 1796, when Connecticut surveyors arrived there to stake out the land they had reserved ten years earlier.10) It was the intended destination of the Edmund Fitzgerald.5) Its biggest claim to fame was, for years, the Cuyahoga River, which really did catch on fire in 1969.  Then, they built the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame there.1) It is the setting of the Drew Carey Show, and the namesake of the song played during the show's opening credits, Cleveland Rocks.Answer: Cleveland, Ohio7)  If you were a twee, what sort of twee would you be?  If it's one of these, then you'll earn ten points ...a) The genus Salix, there are approximately 80 species in North America, most of which are low shrubs.  Distinguished by simple, alternate, evergreen, usually lance-shaped leaves, the Florida species is on the verge of extinction, while more commonly found species include the Serviceberry, Shining, Tracy, and Feltleaf.Answer: Willow b) A member of the Legume family, genus Prosopis, these 30 species have deciduous and twice-compounded leaves, usually with 1 or 2 pairs of side branches.  Native to the desert and prairies, the leaves and fruits are edible, and indeed dietarily necessary for some rabbits and deer.  To humans, however, they are more commonly used as firewood, lending a distinctive aroma to foods cooked over that fire.Answer: Mesquitec) Both a family (Ulmaceae) and a genus (Ulmus), these 30 some-odd species occur only in temperate regions of the northern hemisphere.  Their strong wood is often used in furniture and paneling, and species include the September, American, Slippery, and Siberian, although none of those have a fungal disease named after them.Answer: Elm
8) Few authors have had more of their works turned into operas than Alexander Pushkin.  For the stated number of points, identify the composers of the following operas.5) Boris GodunovAnswer: Modest Mussorgsky10) Eugene OneginAnswer: Pyotr Ilych Tchaikovsky15) Ruslan and LudmillaAnswer: Mikhail Glinka9)  The National Book League of the UK every year awards the Booker Prize for the best full-length novel written in English by a citizen of the UK, the Commonwealth, Ireland, Pakistan, or South Africa.  For the stated number of points, identify these winners, given the year and title for which they won.10 points) 1990, PossessionAnswer: A. S. Byatt5 points) 1989, The Remains of the DayAnswer: Kazuo Ishiguro5 points) 1981, Midnight's ChildrenAnswer: Salman Rushdie10 points) 1974, The ConservationistAnswer: Nadine Gordimer10)  Pencils ready?  For the stated number of points, given a test, identify the medical condition it tests for.5 points) Schick testAnswer: diphtheria10 points) Dick testAnswer: scarlet fever15 points) Wassermann testAnswer: syphilis11)  Did you win the Big Game lotto drawing last week?  If so, what the hell are you doing at a quizbowl tournament - shouldn't you be out buying a Ferrari or something?  Given three professional athletes who wear or wore that number, identify the six numbers that would have brought you $190 million.  Sorry, all we can offer is five points each.a) Brett Hull, Emmitt Smith, Jim PalmerAnswer:  22b) Henry Aaron, Jerry West, John RigginsAnswer:  44c) Roger Clemens (with the Yankees), Terry Bradshaw, John StocktonAnswer:  12d) Scott Rolen, Rod Brind'Amour, John HavlicekAnswer:  17e) Patrick Roy, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Larry BirdAnswer:  33f) Mark McGwire, Barry Bonds, Fred BiletnikoffAnswer:  25
12) Answer the following questions about the history of India for ten points each:a. This Mogul emperor built a famous mausoleum for his wife, Mumtaz Mehal, in the city of Agra.  This mausoleum is now a destination for thousands of tourists worldwide.ANSWER: Shah Jahanb. This revolt, which lasted from 1857 to 1859, began when the British forced Hindu and Muslim soldiers to bite cartridges greased with pork fat and beef tallow.ANSWER: the Sepoy Mutiny (also accept the Sepoy Rebellion; prompt on Indian Rebellion)c. One of the key figures in the Indian National Congress before independence, he led the push for an independent Pakistan and became its first President..ANSWER: Muhammad Ali Jinnah13)  Identify these terms from chaos theory given definitions lifted directly from the Encyclopedia of Modern Physics for 10 points each.a) Geometrical structure with self-similar structure on all scales that may have a noninteger dimension.Answer: fractalb) An aperiodic attracting set with a fractal structure that often characterizes the long-time dynamics of chaotic dissipative systems.Answer: strange attractorc) Technical term from ergodic theory that refers to dynamical behavior that resembles the evolution of cream poured in a stirred cup of coffee.Answer: mixing (accept any form of the word "mix")14)  A good title is everything, they say - you should tell your readers what the work is about, without telling them much about what it's about.  In that vein, for the stated number of points, answer these questions about the works of George Bernard Shaw.5)  In Major Barbara, what was Major Barbara a major of?			Answer:  Salvation Army10)  In Mrs. Warren's Profession, what was Mrs. Warren's profession?	Answer:  Prostitution (accept equivalents)15)  In Cashel Byron's Profession, what was Cashel Byron's profession?	Answer:  Boxing (accept equivalents)15)  There haven't been a lot of people who served in more than one Cabinet position under more than one President.  Given those positions and the Presidents under whom they served, identify these three for the stated number of points.15)  Postmaster General and Secretary of the Treasury under Arthur, Secretary of State under Cleveland.Answer:  Walter Q. Gresham10)  Secretary of State under Hoover, Secretary of War under FDR.Answer:  Henry Stimson5)  Secretary of Transportation under Reagan, Secretary of Labor under Bush.Answer:  Elizabeth Dole (make them specify Elizabeth or Liddy, not Bob)16) 30-20-10, give the common name, first and last.30)  One was a 19th century US journalist and humorist, who wrote for the New York World as well as several western papers -- he is perhaps best known for a speaking tour he went on with James Whitcomb Riley.20)  A fictional one was a California miner in Bret Harte's "Plain Language from Truthful James."  The contemporary one's TV series has its theme performed by Mudhoney.10)  That contemporary one is an alumnus of the comedy troupe Almost Live and current host of a self-titled TV show that teaches kids science.Answer:  Bill Nye 
17)	Ben can remember getting ready for tournaments by scanning the news in the days beforehand, and always being disappointed when the current events stuff didn't come up.  If you've felt the same way, this should make you feel better.  For 10 points each, identify each of the following figures in the Kosovo conflict.a) The secretary general of NATO (NOT the UN), this Spaniard had threatened NATO intervention to prevent war between ethnic Albanians and Serbians.Answer: Javier Solanab) The Albanian Prime Minister, he is viewed as a peaceful alternative to ousted Albanian President Sali Berisha.Answer: Pandeli Majkoc) The acting President of Cyprus, he worked on brokering a deal to release US prisoners of war.Answer: Spyros Kyprianou18)  Sound off on your knowledge of acoustics, for ten points each.a.  Sounds with frequencies at f and 2f produce this musical interval.ANSWER: One Octaveb.  While the threshold of hearing is approximately ten to the minus five pascals, this property for humans is over ten pascals.ANSWER: Threshold of Painc.  His law of hearing states that the perception of the tone of a sound is a function of the amplitudes and not the phase relationships of the harmonics of that tone.ANSWER: Georg Simon Ohm19) Identify these works of Michelangelo, for ten points each.a.  Under Paul III, Julius III, and Paul IV, he was chief architect of this building whose dome was copied by the Capitol in Washington DCANSWER: St. Peter's Basilicab.  Located in St. Peter's Basilica, and probably competed before he was 25, it is the only work ever signed by MichelangeloANSWER: Pietac.  Its the alternate name for his "The Holy Family with the infant St. John the Baptist"ANSWER: the Doni Tondo20)  Norse mythology stands out, in that their critters are actually named.  I mean, sure, the Greeks had Zeus changing into any of a number of shapes, but none of those shapes had names -- he wasn't Harvey the Bull or anything.  Anyway, for the stated number of points, identify these.5)  The wolf that will devour the sun during Ragnarok.Answer:  Fenris wolf or Fenrir or Fenrisulfr10)  The squirrel that runs up and down Yggdrasil, carrying vile language with him.Answer:  Ratatosk15)  Name either of the ravens that sits on Odin's shoulder and survey all the land; their names mean Thought and Memory respectively.Answer:  Huginn or Muninn