TOSSUPS - UCLA BLIND #1					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1.	Their first names are Ringo, John, and Melvin, though the trio are usually only called by their last names, which is the norm on the show on which they originated.  Ringo Langly and Melvin Frohike used to sell illegal cable devices before they joined up with John Byers and started exposing the government's conspiracies.  FTP, identify these three X-Files favorites who recently premiered their own series on FOX.Answer: The Lone Gunmen2.	In organic chemistry, these compounds are formed along with water, by the reaction of acids and alcohols. Because this process is analogous to the neutralization of an acid by a base in salt formation, these compounds were formerly called ethereal salts. This term is misleading because they, unlike salts, are not ionized in solution.  FTP, name this odoriferous class of compounds with members ethyl acetate and isoamyl acetate.Answer: Esters3.	A staunch supporter of Joseph Stalin after death of Lenin, he was the Soviet Union's foreign minister during and immediately after World War II.  He was known for his hostility toward the Western powers and following the death of Stalin, he remained in office until Nikita Khrushchev dismissed him in 1956.  His attempt to depose Khrushchev in 1957 resulted in expulsion from the Communist Party some 5 years later.  FTP, name this Russian official, best known for ordering production of fused bottles of flammable liquids as simple weapons.Answer: Vyacheslav Mikhaylovich Molotov4.	He saw the land promised to his descendants from the top of Mount Nebo and died nearby, on the plains of Moab.  One hundred and twenty years earlier, as a baby, he was given his name because he had been drawn out of the water in a basket.  FTP, identify this son-in-law of the priest of Midian, a prophet who saw God in a burning bush, led the Israelites out of Egypt, and received the Ten Commandments.Answer: _Moses_5	.Born April 29, 1899, in Washington DC, he was one of the first to use ternary forms and "call-and-response" techniques. For his score for Anatomy of a Murder he won a Grammy but was not even nominated for an Oscar.  Often collaborating with lyricist Billy Strayhorn, he composed such songs as "Don't Get Around Much Any More" and "Sophisticated Lady" as well as the symphonic suite Black, Brown, and Beige, FTP, what pianist and bandleader also composed "Satin Doll" and "Mood Indigo"?	Edward Kennedy "Duke" _Ellington6.	Although ethnically French, she grew up in a far-off colony and was born with the last name Donnadieu.  She moved to Paris in the 1930s to pursue law and politics, but eventually wound up in literature.  Her first novelistic success described an impoverished French family in Indochina.  The Sea Wall was followed with Moderato Cantabile, India Song, and The Lover.  But perhaps her most famous work was Hiroshima, Mon Amour.  FTP, name this French author who died in 1996.Answer: Marguerite Duras7.	Alfred E. Smith, an admirer of this man despite their political differences, called him "distinguished for character more than for heroic achievement," adding, "His great task was to restore the dignity and prestige of the Presidency when it had reached the lowest ebb in our history ... in a time of extravagance and waste."   He was frugal with words as well as givernment money, and when a White House dinner party  guest told him she'd bet a friend that she could get this president to say more than two words, he responded, "You lose." FTP, name the 30th President of the United States, who took office upon the death of Warren G. Harding.Answer: John Calvin Coolidge
8.	Nüsslein-Volhard and Wieschaus studied the embryonic development of this organism, focusing on mutations that led to abnormal segmentation.  Edward Lewis discovered homeotic genes by studying mutants with legs growing out of their heads.  Thomas Morgan discovered sex-linked traits by crossing specimens with different eye colors.  FTP, identify this versatile creature, a favorite of geneticists and developmental biologists, which is commonly found hovering around spoiled fruit.Answer:  _Drosophila_ melanogaster (accept _fruit fly_)9.	A bundle of elm or birch rods containing an ax was an insignia of ancient Rome.  It lent its name to a modern school of thought which asserted the absolute primacy of the state and the submission of the will of the person to the unified will of all the people as expressed by the state and the leader. Other elements include the rebirth of the state and the sanctity of a single supreme race. FTP, name this political ideology whose adherents included Francisco Franco and Benito Mussolini.Answer: Fascism (accept "Fasces" early).10.	A quizbowl team leaves their school for a 200 mile journey to a tournament.  They arrive there exactly 4 hours later.  Therefore, at some point en route they must have been traveling at 50 miles per hour.This inference is a consequence of, FTP, what theorem that states that for any continuously differentiable function on a closed interval, there is a point at which the derivative of the function is equal to the average slope of the function?Answer: Mean Value Theorem (accept: Intermediate Value Theorem, of which it is a special case)11. 	The three legs of the Trinacria, the heraldic symbol of this place, are said to represent its three points. The Norman Robert Guiscard captured it from the Byzantines in 1091, who had previously captured it from the Arabs not a century and a half earlier.  Cities on it include Cefalu, Bari, and Monreale and also a volcano, Mount Etna. This is FTP, what Island, lying across the Strait of Messina from Italy with Capital at Palermo?Answer: Sicily12.	In 1920 and 1938, he designed for the ballet, and illustrated works by Mallarmé and Baudelaire. In his last years, he made brilliant paper cutouts and stencils. His portrait of his wife, painted in 1905, is known as The Green Line and can be seen in the State Museum in Copenhagen. FTP, name this member of the Fauves.Answer: Henri Matisse13.	At age eight he was sent as a hostage to the Imperial Court in Byzantine. During his 10 years there, he absorbed Greco-Roman cultural values to a great extent despite never learning to read and write.  He later had a somewhat schizophrenic relationship with the Roman Emperor, Zeno, that swung between hostility and friendship, though he agreed to help Zeno in what was probably his greatest military achievement when he fought against Odovacar. He was finally able to consolidate his power in AD 497, when, FTP, this man was recognized as "King of the Goths and the Romans."Answer: Theodoric the Great (Prompt on "Theodoric")14.	This American author was born on April 4, 1928.  At age 15, she became the first African American to drive a cable car in San Francisco.  Her book-length works include Oh Shaker, Why Don't You Sing? and Swingin' and Swayin' and Getting' Merry Like Christmas.  In 1993 she read her poem "On the Pulse of Morning"at Clinton's inauguration.  FTP, who is this woman who is best known for writing her autobiographical novel I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings?Answer: Maya Angelou15.	It only occurs when there is a difference in medium density, but unlike refraction, there is no bending of light rays.  Instead, the incident light isn't transmitted at all and remains inside the denser medium.  The angle at which this occurs is called the critical angle.  FTP, identify this phenomenon, especially helpful in designing objects such as binoculars.Answer: Total Internal Reflection16.	Invented on December 15, 1979 by two journalists, Chris Haney and Scott Abbott, it only contained one category - news events.  Later, the game expanded to 6 categories and the now-familiar circular layout, with 6 lines joining at a hub.  FTP, identify this game, whose modern spin-offs include Millennium Edition, Genus IV, and Junior.Answer: Trivial Pursuit17.	Chebutykin is an incompetent doctor who is unable to help the victims of a fire because he is drunk.  Vershinin is an army commander who has an affair with one of the title characters.  Andrei dreams of returning to Moscow, and eventually becomes a chronic gambler.  The title characters of the play, however, are Olga, Masha, and Irina Prozorov.  FTP, name this play by Anton Chekhov.Answer: Three Sisters 18.	Though just resolving two questions, its effects were long lasting and far-reaching.  By answering the first question, it established the power of the "elastic," or "necessary and proper" clause of the Constitution. In this particular case, therefore, Congress was allowed to enact legislation not specifically enumerated in the Constitutional text.  By answering the second question, it established the supremacy of the federal government over states, particularly in this case disallowing a state to tax the federal government, or, as John Marshall writes, allowing the state to "destroy" a federal institution. FTP, name this 1819 Supreme Court case that held that the Federal Government was allowed to establish a national bank and that a state could not tax the bank.Answer: McCulloch v. Maryland19.	QUOTE:  "If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was to grow old... I would give my soul for that!" were the fatal words spoken by the main character in this play that sends a supernatural twist to the plot by engineering the painting of the title character to carry the physical burden of age while the character himself remains youthfully beautiful, but increasingly corrupt. Identify, FTP, this novel used as evidence of author Oscar Wilde's homosexuality, by comparing him with the title character's relationship with the painter, Basil Hallward.Answer: The Picture of Dorian Gray (prompt on "Dorian Gray")20.	He owned a magic ring called Draupnir that created nine of itself at night.  He also owned a spear named Grungir that never missed its mark, and a bow that unleashed 10 arrows with every pull.  Perhaps most famous of all his possessions is a horse named Sleipnir which had eight legs.  FTP name this god of the Vikings.Answer: Odin21.	Charles Whitman, John Tesh, Wallace Stegner, Gerald Ford, Neil Armstrong, Steven Spielberg, and Ross Perot all made it to the top ranking of this organization, which was formed in America on February 8, 1910, and patterned after a British version founded by Robert Baden=Powell.  For ten pts, name this organization whose rankings include tenderfoot, weeblos, cub, and eagle.Answer: Boy Scouts of America [accept Eagle Scouts before "that was formed"]22.	Expressed as the (1+1/n) to the nth power as n approaches infinity, this number is very common in mathematics. It is a number that can never be found as the root of a polynomial with integer coefficients. In geometry it is used to express the functions of curves and in calculus it is found in an equation that equals it's derivative. FTP, name the never-repeating number that forms the base of the natural logarithm.Answer: e (accept "Euler's number")
23.	Her real name is Florence Margaret Smith, but she writes poetry and novels under this pseudonym. Although ill throughout her life but still managed to lead a lively social life in London. Her famous poem, "Not Waving but Drowning" is assumed to be a autobiographical suicide note, since it was written three months before she tried to commit suicide at her job in a publishing company.  FTP, name this author, best known for her first novel, Novel on Yellow Paper.Answer: Stevie Smith24.	First recognized in chick embryo cells by British virologist Alick Isaacs and his Swiss colleague Jean Lindenmann in 1957, these molecules were found to block further viral infection of body cells. The active antiviral substance is not the molecules themselves, but proteins that they cause other cells to produce. Some of these proteins have been identified, but their manner of operation is not yet well understood.  FTP, name these molecules, any of a group of antiviral proteins produced by animals, including humans, in response to infection by viruses.Answer: Interferons25.	Raoult's Law, which describes the lowering of vapor pressure.  Changes in osmotic pressure.  Freezing point depression.  Boiling point elevation.  Solutions have different properties than their solutes and solvents.  These statements are examples of what molecular properties?Answer: Colligative properties
BONI - UCLA BLIND #1					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1.	Identify the following Hemingway novels from clues on a 10-5 basis.10) It was banned in Italy in 1929 because of its painfully accurate account of the Italian retreat from Caporetto.5) It deals with the romance of an American lieutenant in the Italian ambulance service during World War I and an English nurse. He deserts, and the two escape to Switzerland, where she dies in childbirth.	A _Farewell To Arms_10) In 1938 this novel, where the protagonist ultimately concludes "One man alone ain't got no chance," was banned in Detroit and Wayne County, both from sale and from circulation by the public library.  It was the only book Detroit suppressed that year.5) Characters include Harry Morgan, his alcoholic sidekick Eddie, and Marie Browning (aka Slim)	_To Have and Have Not_10) When the Pulitzer Advisory Board recommended this work for the 1940 fiction award, the president of Columbia University directed them to reconsider rather than associate the university with it.  Ultimately, no award was given that year.5) Set against the backdrop of the Spanish Civil War, it features the partisans Pablo and Pilar and the vulnerable 19-year-old orphan Maria.	_For Whom The Bell Tolls_2.	30-20-10-5-1. Name the movie(30 points) It includes a small performance by Michael Jeter as an allegedly comical scientist/inventor, but perhaps the best laugh in it involves a picture of Exxon Valdez skipper Joseph Hazlewood on a ship's wall.(20 points) It tells of "The Mariner", who falls from his customary and solitary existence into having to care for a woman and young girl while being pursued by the evil forces of the Deacon.(10 points) Dana Carvey doing his impression of Ross Perot says the following about this movie: "He pees into a cup, pours it into a filter contraption, and drinks it... Folks, it don't work that way, you cannot pee into Mr. Coffee and get Taster's Choice!"(5 points) This oh-so-expensive 1995 Kevin Costner flop got soggy reviews.(1 pt) It inspired Waterworld: The Board Game, part of the winning team's prize package at TrashMasters '99.Answer: Waterworld3.	It's time for that oh-so-fun American history bonus. Between the years 1797 and 1798 there were some questionable suggestions by French officials to United States Diplomats. Namely, there was a proposal by France that the US should pay money to resume diplomatic dealings.I. (5 points) For 5 points, name the common term for this event.ANSWER: The XYZ AffairII. (10 points) For 10 points, in American currency, how much money was it "suggested" that the US pay France to resume diplomatic dealings?ANSWER: $250,000III. (15 points) For 15 points, name the French man, a friend of Talleyrand, who made the indirect suggestions of the loans and bribes to the American diplomats.ANSWER: Mme de Villette4.	10 joules (JOOLZ) of work are done on a system undergoing an adiabatic compression. Answer the following questions FTPE.10) How much heat flows from the system to its surroundings during the process?	_zero_10) If the system is compressed to half its original volume, what is the change in the internal energy of the system? Indicate whether the change is positive or negative.	_10 joules_ (positive change)10) What is the change in the entropy of the system during the adiabatic process?	_zero_
5. FTSNOP; given the jazz musician, name the instrument they played.I. (5 points) Louis Armstrong.Answer: Trumpet; accept cornetII. (5 points) Duke Ellington.Answer: PianoIII. (10 points) Thelonious Monk.Answer: PianoIV. (10 pts.) Charles MingusAnswer: bass6. Answer the following about the Platonic solids FTSNOP.I. (20 pts.) One of these five solids is the cube.  Name the other 4 for 5 pts. each. Answer: Tetrahedron, Octahedon, Dodecahedron, IcosahedronII. For 5 points each, give the number of faces and corners on an icosahedron (specify which is which).Answer: 20 faces and 12 corners7.	A major factor leading to World War I was the prewar formation of two international combinations of powerful European states.  For 5 points each, name these two strategic combinations.      Answer: the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente For 5 points for 2 correct or 10 points for all 3, name the three founding members of the Triple Alliance.	Answer: Germany, Austria-Hungary, Italy [accept just Austria, but for heaven's sake don't count Austria and Hungary as two separate correct answers]For 5 points for 2 correct or 10 points for all 3, name the three founding members of the Triple Entente.	Answer: France, Russia, Great Britain or United Kingdom (grudgingly accept England)8.	Answer the following questions about Things Fall Apart FTSNOP.5) First, what Nigerian author wrote the novel Things Fall Apart?	Chinua _Achebe_10) The line "things fall apart" comes from a poem whose last lines are "And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, slouches towards Bethlehem to be born."  For 5pts each, name this 1922 poem and its author.	The _Second Coming_; William Butler _Yeats_15) Name the novel's central character, an accomplished "great man" of a late 19th century Ibo village.	Okonkwo9.	Identify the following related to the legendary city of Troy on a 5-10-20-30 basis.This son of Anchises was reputedly the only surviving Trojan chieftain after the war.Answer:  _Aeneas_Enslaved by Agamemnon , this daughter of Priam was killed by Clytemnestra as payback for a kid's death.Answer:  CassandraAccording to the Prose Eddas, this chieftain and leader of the Aesir was a descendant of King Priam.Answer:  _Odin_This German archaeologist, fascinated by Homer's Iliad, was the first to excavate the ruins of Troy.Answer:  Heinrich _Schliemann_10.	Identify the astronomical object 30-20-10.30) Henrietta Leavitt discovered hundreds of these stars and made a breakthrough while studying some of them in the Small Magellanic Cloud. 20) The classical type are found in the arms of spiral galaxies.  Leavitt noted their period-luminosity relationship. They have periods ranging from a few days up to 50 days.10) These pulsating variable stars are used to calculate distances beyond nearby open clusters, out to nearby galaxies.	_Cepheid_ variable stars (prompt on RR Lyrae variable stars)
11.	Recently controversy has erupted over the suggestion that a common standardized test be eliminated as a factor for admission to the University of California.  Answer the following about this FTSNOP:         5)  What is the name of this test taken by most college bound Juniors and Seniors?      Scholastic Aptitude Test or SAT  or SAT 1  do not accept SAT 2                                                                                         10)  What company makes and distributes the SAT exam?                                                  Educational Testing Services or ETS                                                                                    15)  What University of California president has proposed doing away with the SAT?               Richard Atkinson12.	Name the poem from quotes FTPE.  If you need the author, you'll receive five points each.I. (10 points) "What immortal hand or eye / Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?"   (5 points) The author is William Blake.Answer: "The Tyger"II. (10 points) "April is the cruelest month, breeding / Lilacs out of the dead land, mixing / Memory and desire..."    (5 points) The author is T. S. Eliot.Answer: The WastelandIII. (10 points) "In one long yellow string I wound / Three times her little throat around / And strangled her..."      (5 points) The author is Robert Browning.Answer: "Porphyria's Lover"13.	Given a few facts about an element, name it, 5-10-20-30.I. Element number 87, a 1A element, it is the least electronegative on the periodic table.Answer: FranciumII. Element number 43, it is the first non-noble gas radioactive element.Answer: TechnetiumIII. Element number 54, the discovery of its tetrafluoride forced many sources to replace the term "inert gases" with "noble gases."Answer:  XenonIV. A charged ion of this element is present in alpha decay.Answer: Helium14.	1917 was a very turbulent year for Russia. Answer these questions about this period 5-10-20-30.I. It was on this gender-biased holiday that rioting first broke out.Answer: International Women's DayII. This man, who was tsar at the time, was soon forced to abdicate and was later executed.Answer: Nicholas IIIII. Later in the same year, the provisional government under this leader fell to a Bolshevik revolution.Answer: Alexander KerenskyIV.  Kerensky headed this moderate revolutionary faction.  (How's that for an oxymoron?)Answer:  the Mensheviks15.  That young whippersnapper sure can sell a lot of books.  Identify the following FTSNOP.I. For 5 pts. each, name any two of the 4 Harry Potter books so far released in the U.S.Answer: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets; Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone; Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban; or Harry Potter and the Goblet of FireII. Now, name the 5th book, not yet released:Answer: Harry Potter and the Order of the PhoenixIII. Finally, although not part of the actual series, two J.K. Rowling books purporting to be among Harry's textbooks are available for sale.  FTP, name either one.A: Quidditch Through The Ages or Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them
16.	No tournament would be complete without a "Name the Ancient Egyptian Leader" question. Name them FTPE.I. This pharaoh introduced monotheism into Egypt, by promoting worship of a sun god.Answer: Akhnaton (Accept also Amenhotep IV)II. This leader's uncle probably had something to do with the sudden death of Akhnaton, and might have had something to do with his own death at the age of 18.Answer: TutankhamenIII. When her father, Tuthmose I, died, she had the unique and unprecedented opportunity to become the first female pharaoh.Answer: Hatshepsut17.  From the world capital name which happens to amuse the writer of this question, name its country, F5PE.I. Ouagadougou.Answer: Burkina FasoII. Abu Dhabi.Answer: United Arab Emirates (accept U.A.E.)III. Ulaan Bator.Answer: MongoliaIV.  AntananarivoAnswer: MadagascarV.Nuku'alofaAnswer:  TongaVI.MoroniAnswer: Comoros Islands18.	Name these architecture-related terms from definitions, none of which are flying buttresses, FTSNOP.I. (5 points) Unburnt brick dried in the sun, commonly used for building in the American Southwest, Spain and Latin America. Usually covered with stucco in homes.Answer: AdobeIII. (10 points) A small lookout tower or summerhouse with a view, usually in a garden or park, but sometimes on the porch or roof of a house; also called a belvedere.Answer: GazeboIII. (15 points) A horizontal projection from a building, such as a step, balcony, beam or canopy, that is without external bracing and appears to be self-supporting.Answer: Cantilever19.	Identify how many bits each of the following contain for ten points each.I. Byte.Answer: 8II. Word.Answer: 16III. Nibble.Answer: 420.	For 5 points each, give the classification of the modern-day human being, starting with Kingdom.  You don't have to give them in any order, but you do have to specify the right level for each term.Answer: Kingdom - Animalia, Phylum - Chordata, Class - Mammalia, Order - Primates, Family - Hominidae, Genus - Homo, Species - Human
21.	The lowest level of Dante's Inferno is ironically very cold. This is due to the fact that Lucifer is beating his gigantic wings and causing it to freeze. Other than flappin' those wings he repeatedly chews on three people who suffer to atone for the greatest sin: betrayal. Identify those people from clues on a 10-5 basis.a) 10 pts.: He was given a rare sympathetic treatment as played on Broadway by Murray Head and by Carl Anderson in the film version of an early Rice & Webber  musical.    5 pts.: this man betrayed Jesus Christ with a kiss and subsequently led the Roman legions to the Garden of Gethsemane to find him. He then hanged himself from a tree.Answer: Judas Iscariotb) 10 pts.: Also called Quintus Caepio (Ka-eh-Pee-Oh), he was made governor of Cisalpine Gaul in 46 B.C.   5 pts.: His presence as leader of the conspirators who assassinated Julius Caesar in March of 44 B.C. prompts the familiar last line of Caesar in the Shakespeare version. Answer: Marcus Junius Brutusc) 10 pts. Though fighting on Pompey's side against Caesar he was reconciled to him and given the province of Syria.   5 pts. That reconciliation didn't last, as he was the prime mover of the conspiracy to assassinate Caesar. Answer: Gaius Cassius Longinus22.	Answer these questions about physics forces.I. (5 points) For five points each, name the 4 four "fundamental forces" of the universe.Answer: The Gravitational, Electromagnetic, Strong Nuclear, and Weak Nuclear forcesII. (10 points) FTP, what was the name given to the two forces that have been theoretically combined?Answer: The Electroweak force23.	To celebrate the millennium, ESPN created a show entitled "Sports Century" to rank the previous century's greatest athletes.  Given the sport and the person's rank on the Sports Century list, name the person for 5 points each.  All athletes are the highest-ranked athletes from that particular sport.I. #1, Basketball.Answer: Michael JordanII. #2, Baseball.Answer: Babe RuthIII. #3, Boxing.Answer: Muhammad Ali (accept Cassius Clay)IV. #4, Football.Answer: Jim BrownV. #5, Hockey.Answer: Wayne GretzkyVI. #6, Track and Field.Answer: Jesse Owens24.	30-20-10; name the poet from works.I. (30 points) "Tithononus", "Ulysses", "The Kraken".II. (20 points) "The Lotos-Eaters", "Mariana".III. (10 points) "Crossing the Bar", "The Lady of Shalott", "Maud".Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson