TOSSUPS -- LEE U.			MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UT-CHATTANOOGA)1.	According to the Eiriks Saga, he was converted to Christianity by the Norwegian king Olaf I Tryggvason.  He returned home and proselytized many, including his mother who built the first Christian Church there at Brattahild.   He was said to have visited Helluland and Markland, but it was the Icelander Bjarni Herjufsson who told him about Vinland.  For ten points, name this Norse explorer who was nicknamed "the Lucky."LEIF ERIKSSON2.	Originally from Stackville, Mississippi, this switch-hitting outfielder played for St. Louis, Kansas City, and Pittsburgh during his 33 years career, holding a lifetime batting average of .341.  During the 1933 season he stole 175 bases in fewer than 200 games, and he is reported to have circled the bases in 12 seconds, nearly a second and a half faster than the official record.  For ten points name this Negro League player considered the fastest man ever to play baseball.James "Cool Papa" BELL3.	Born in 1728 in Kent County, Delaware, he served as a soldier, a judge, a governor, and a justice on the state supreme court.  He may be best remembered, however, for his 80 mile ride to Philadelphia to break a tie between Delaware's two other delegates to the Continental Congress.  For ten points, name this Hero of Delaware whose ride is commemorated on the back of the first of the 1999 state quarters.CAESAR RODNEY 4.	She was the daughter of Thomas Dudley, governor of the Massachusetts Colony, and married a man who would also become a governor of the colony.  Despite being a housewife with eight children, she wrote poetry, a collection of which was published in 1650 under the title The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up In America..  For ten points name this woman considered the first female poet of America.ANNE BRADSTREET5.	Though born in the Ukraine, he emigrated to the US in his early twenties and studied at Rutgers University, eventually returning there to become a member of its faculty.  His research in soil microorganisms led to the publication of such books as Principles of Soil Microbiology and My Life with Microbes.  His research with anti-bacterial molds, however, led to his greatest fame, the discovery of streptomycin in 1944. For ten points, name this 1952 Nobel prize winner who was the first to apply the term antibiotic.Selman WAKSMAN6.	Abridged by its author into one volume and republished in 1922, this work originally appeared in twelve volumes published between 1890 and 1915.  Containing four chapters on taboos, four on Osiris, and two on Balder among its sixty-nine total, this book was primarily intended to explain the rules which "regulated the succession to the priesthood of Diana."  In doing so, it showed the relationship between ritual and religion and the parallels between ancient religions and Christianity.  For ten points, name this seminal work by James Frazer.THE GOLDEN BOUGH7.	Methods used to study these include quinacrine /KWIN a crin/ mustard fluorescence and G-staining methods, which produce banding patterns. For ten points, name these things, of which there is a diploid number of 46 in humans.ANSWER: chromosomes
8.	His short story "The Marriage of Belphagor" tells of a demon who takes human form to discover whether women are solely responsible for the misery of men.  He may not have thought so himself since he married Marietta Corsini and fathered five children.  His play La Mandragola, a biting satire about corruption in  contemporary society, is among the best Italian comedies of intrigue.  He is best known, however, for his "handbook" on how to obtain and keep political power.  For ten points name this author of The Prince.NICCOLO MACHIAVELLI9.	It mentions Chattanooga's own Lookout Mountain as well as "every molehill of Mississippi", "the curvaceous slopes of California", "the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire", and "the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania", saying to "let freedom ring from" these and other places. For ten points, give the famous 4-word catchphrase used as the name for the speech given at the Lincoln Memorial on August 28, 1963 by Martin Luther King, Jr.ANSWER: the "I Have a Dream" speech 10	.The Gwynedd, the Powys, the Dyfed, and the Gwent are some of the kingdoms that arose in this country after the Romans left in the 5th century.  But by the late 13th century all of this country would come under English sovereignty, as the acts of 1536 and 1543 would incorporate what country into England?ANSWER:  Wales (also accept Cymru)11.	In 1926, he founded the Red Hot Peppers, a band which became popular in its ability to mix ragtime with an improvisational style that would be a precursor to jazz.  For ten points, name this pianist known by a "dessert" nickname.ANSWER: "Jelly Roll" Morton12.	In 1916, this scientist verified Einstein's work by measuring the kinetic energy of an electron emitted by the photoelectric effect. That work was part of why he was honored with the 1923 Nobel Prize in Physics. For ten points, name this American better known for determining the charge of an electron in his famous oil-drop experiment.ANSWER: Robert Millikan13.	One method of recording this is known as Labanotation. Those who take part in it try to achieve their maximum turnout. Among the terms used in it are en pointe, jeté, and plié.  For ten points, name this activity with five basic positions, a form of dancing.ANSWER: ballet14.	There are actually two treaties of this name.  The first one, signed in 1668, ended the War of Devolution, a battle between Spain and France for possession of the Spanish Netherlands.  The second ended the War of Austrian Succession and confirmed Maria Theresa's ascension to the Austrian throne.  For ten points name these treaties signed in the city which is now Aachen, Germany.TREATY of AIX-La-CHAPELLE15.	One of the world's most important commercial fishes, this relative of the herring is most abundant of the coast of Chile and Peru, though that population was severely depleted by overfishing and El Niño.  While sometimes used in fertilizer and meal, some species are sold as a delicacy.  For ten points name this fish and occasional pizza topping.ANCHOVY
16.	Occuring naturally in the roots of certain herbs of the nightshade family, this chemical with formula C17H21NO4 can be used to dilate the eye and  to prevent motion sickness.  Its effect on the central nervous system, however, has made it useful in popular fiction.  For ten points, name this drug which, like sodium pentothal, can act as a "truth serum" SCOPOLAMINE (accept HYOSCINE)17.	The grand-nephew of a Revolutionary War hero, this clergyman served as chaplain to the Senate from 1903 to 1909.  While he wrote such novels as In His Name and If Jesus Came To Boston, he is better known for his short story about army officer, Philip Nolan.  For ten points name this author of "The Man Without a Country."EDWARD EVERETT HALE 18.	Originally a beautiful maiden, she was loved by the sea-god Glaucus though she scorned his affections.  When Glaucus in turn scorned Circe, saying he would always love this woman, the enchantress poured a potion into the waters in which the maiden bathed, turning her into a six headed monster.  For ten points name this beauty-turned-beast who is typically paired with the whirlpool that lay on the opposite side of a narrow strait. SCYLLA19.	While he considered himself a poet, his writing spread over many forms.  Considering Fitzgerald's translation of  "The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam" to be inadequate, he provided his own translation.   Drawing upon his experiences in World War I, he published his first volume of his own poetry, Fairies and Fusiliers, shortly after the war.  His interest in mythology led to his work The White Goddess, a study of the roots of myth.  His autobiography, Goodbye To All That, is considered one of his best works.  For ten points name this author of I, Claudius.ROBERT GRAVES20.	While defending the citadel of Pamplona from the French in 1521 he was hit by a cannonball.  After this event he gave up military and diplomatic life for a life dedicated to the Church.  Ordained in 1537, he spent most of the rest of his life in the vicinity of Rome.  He practiced a type of prayer that rivaled that of the great mystics, and this form of prayer was later published in a work called Spiritual Exercises.  He is best remembered for founding the Society of Jesus in Paris in 1534.  For ten points, name this Spanish theologian and founder of the Jesuit Order.IGNATIUS of Loyola21.	Charles was a philosopher and socialist who proposed that conventional behavior restricted gratification; therefore, he believed sexual activity should be relatively free, marriage should be reserved for the later years, work should be based on talents, and workers should move from one task to another to alleviate boredom.  Jean Baptiste published a number of important writings on Egyptian artifacts following a campaign with Napoleon.  A mathematician and scientist, he also discovered harmonic analysis as it relates to sound and proposed a law of heat conduction.  For ten points, supply their shared last name. FOURIER22.	In the film Knock on Any Door he played Nick Romano, a juvenile delinquent whose motto is "live fast, die young, have a good looking corpse."  Despite plum supporting roles in All the King's Men and The Ten Commandments, his acting career flamed out early.  But he lived to be 72, with such prominent wives as Linda Evans and Ursula Andress.  His later film career consisted largely of directing his much younger wife number four before he died in late 1998.  For ten points, name this director of Fantasies, Bolero, and Tarzan the Ape Man.JOHN DEREK
BONI -- LEE U.			MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UT-CHATTANOOGA)1.	While the name Herod appears a number of times in the New Testament, it refers to a family name, so not all of the Herods are the same person.  FTPE identify each of these individuals from the description given.1.  The Herod who imprisoned John the Baptist and later had him beheaded, he ruled Galilee from 4 B.C. to A.D. 39.				HEROD ANTIPAS2.  The Herod who imprisoned Peter and ordered James' death, he was himself slain by an angel and eaten by worms.					HEROD AGRIPPA I3.  The Herod responsible for the murder of infants in Bethlehem, he was procurator of Judea from 37 B.C. to 4 B.C.					HEROD THE GREAT2.	The John Newbery Medal is awarded annually to the book which has made the greatest contribution to children's literature in the preceding year.  Given the year awarded and the author, name the book for 5 pts each.1.  1994  Lois Lowry				THE GIVER2.  1992  Phyllis Reynolds Naylor  		SHILOH3.  1986  Patricia MacLachlan		SARAH, PLAIN AND TALL4.  1977  Mildred Taylor			ROLL of THUNDER, HEAR MY CRY5.  1973  Susan Craighead George		JULIE of the WOLVES6.  1963  Madeleine L'Engle			A WRINKLE IN TIME3.	Throw away your glasses and your contact lenses.  As these procedures become increasingly advanced, more people are opting for surgical correction of their vision.  For ten points each, provide the names for these vision correction procedures.  Acronyms are acceptable answers.1.  A corneal flap is made, a cool laser reshapes the cornea, and the flap is closed.				LASER IN-SITU KERATOMILEUSIS or LASIK 2.  The epithelium or surface layer of the cornea is removed, pulses of laser light reshape the curvature of the eye, and the epithelium regenerates in a few days.				PHOTOREFRACTIVE KERATECTOMY or PRK3.  A diamond-tipped blade is used to place incisions along the outer portion on the cornea, helping to flatten the curvature of the cornea.				RADIAL KERATOTOMY or RK 4.	For some macabre reason, America is fascinated with criminals.  Let's see how well you know some of the criminals and victims who have illuminated US history, for five points each.1.  This was the name given to the nine black men convicted, on tainted evidence, of raping two Alabama women en route to (yup) Chattanooga in 1931				SCOTTSBORO Boys2.  The beneficiary of the Twinkie Defense, he killed fellow San Francisco officials Harvey Milk and George Moscone in 1978.								Dan WHITE3.  He was the man convicted of kidnapping 20 month old Charles Lindbergh Jr.								Bruno HAUPTMANN4.  In 1934, the FBI reputedly killed this Public Enemy Number One as he exited a movie theatre.								John DILLINGER5. This Wisconsin serial killer inspired "Psycho"			Edward GEIN6.  Modern reexamination of the evidence points to the killing of this Massachusetts couple not by their daughter, but by their maid, Bridget O'Sullivan.					the BORDENS
5	.In this year's NCAA tournament, the first round featured an unusually large number of upsets.  Part A) First, for five points each name the schools which ousted these higher seeds.1. UNC Tarheels, ranked #3 in the West Region.		WEBER STATE Wildcats2.  Midwest Region's #4 seed, Arizona  			OKLAHOMA Sooners3.  UCLA, the #5 seed in the South Region			DETROIT Titans4.  The #5 seed in the East Region, Wisconsin		SW MISSOURI ST BearsPart B) Oddly enough, in all four regions the #10 seed defeated the #7 seed.  For five points each, name any of the two #10 teams that made it past the first round.PURDUE Boliermakers	MIAMI, OH Red Hawks	GONZAGA BulldogsCREIGHTON Bluejays6.	Given a description of one of Maxwell's equation for the properties of electrical and magnetic phenomenon, name the law FTPE. 1.  This law determines the relationship of the electric field E that passes through a surface area A with  the electric charge Q enclosed within that surface.      	GAUSS's LAW 2.  This law describes the way in which an electrical field E can be induced by a changing magnetic flux.			FARADAY's LAW3.  This law describes the two ways in which magnetic field B can be induced in a circular loop I.			AMPERE'S LAW 7.	Authors have often used the period surrounding the rise of the Christian church as the historical backdrop for their novels.  FTPE name the authors of these works set during the early centuries of the church.1.  Ben Hur			Lew WALLACE2.  The Robe			Lloyd DOUGLAS3.  Quo Vadis			Henryk SIENKIEWICZ8.	Identify the composers of these operas which drew inspiration from Shakespeare FTPE:a. Macbeth and Falstaff, which was inspired by The Merry Wives of Windsor.ANSWER: Giuseppe Verdib. While Verdi wrote a four-act opera Otello, this composer wrote a three-act Otello.ANSWER: Giancommo Rossinic. This French composer penned a faithful Shakespearean version of Romeo and Juliet.ANSWER: Charles Gounod /goo NO/9.	They formed the foundation for our judicial system.  Yet we can't figure out how many there actually were.  F5PE, name the first five Supreme Court Chief Justices who were actually confirmed, and for another five points throw in the one who served a term but was never actually confirmed by the Senate.John Jay, Oliver Ellsworth, John Marshall, Roger Taney, Salmon P. Chase, John Rutledge10.	Given a brief description of a work, name the economist who wrote it, ten points each.1.  His 1817 work Principles of Political Economy proposed the Iron Law of Wages.							David RICARDO2.  His 1798 An Essay on the Principle of Population proposed that population would outstrip the food supply.				Thomas MALTHUS3.  His 1789 work An Introduction to the Principle of Morals and Legislation advanced utilitarianism as the basis of reforms.			Jeremy BENTHAM
11.	For the stated number of points, identify these pioneers in the field of computers.1. (5 pts)   This British mathematician's Difference Engine and Analytical Engine were predecessors of the modern computer.			Charles BABBAGE2. (10 pts)  This Hungarian born mathematician built the first computer using a flexible stored program and developed game theory as a branch of mathematics.								John von NEUMANN3. (15 pt)  A naval operator and mathematician,  this woman helped develop FLOW-MATIC, the first commercially available higher-level software language and coined the term "bug" for a computer malfunction when she discovered a moth had cause a hardware failure in the Mark II computer.											Grace Murray HOPPER12.	Here are a few questions about that perennial spring movie spectacle, the Razzie Awards, given to the worst of the film industry each year.1.  For ten points, name the 1998 satire which was named worst film of the year.		An Alan Smithee Film: BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN2.  Ironically the pseudonym Alan Smithee is listed in the credits as this film's director, the standard practice whenever the director no longer wants his or her name on the film.  FTP what Hollywood veteran, whose films he'll claim include Man of La Mancha and Love Story, actually directed it?		Arthur HILLER3.  To no one's surprise, Bruce Willis was named 1998's worst actor.  For five points each, name two of the three films for which his performances earned him this honor.		ARMAGEDDON,	 MERCURY RISING,	 THE SIEGE13.	Identify the following rules from chemistry, for ten points each:a. This principle states that no two indistinguishable fermions can occupy the same quantum state, and results in the rule that a single orbital can't hold more than two electrons.ANSWER: Pauli Exclusion Principleb. This rule, violated by compounds containing hydrogen, states that each atom in a compound will have eight valence electrons associated with it.ANSWER: Octet rulec. This rule states that if two or more orbitals are available to be filled by two electrons, the electrons will occupy different orbitals and have parallel spins.ANSWER: Hund's rule14.	For ten points each, name the kingdom ruled by the following houses.1.  Vasa, Zweilbrücken, Bernadotte				SWEDEN2.  Wittelbach, Oldenberg					GREECE3.  Carolingian, Saxon, Franconian				HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE15.	"Fountain of freedom, source of light" is a translation of the title of its national anthem, and its official currency is the dirham.  For 10 points, name this country.ANSWER: MoroccoFor 5 points, name Morocco's capital.ANSWER: RabatFor another 5 points, name the largest seaport and city in Morocco.ANSWER: CasablancaFTP, these pre-Arab peoples live in tribes across north Africa, including the mountainous areas of Morocco.ANSWER: Berbers (NOTE: Barbary is the name given to the coastline, not the people.)
16.	For the stated number of points answer these questions about blood transfusions.1. (5 pts)  Because people with this blood type have no anti-bodies which attack the specific substances on the surface of the blood, they are considered universal recipients									AB2.  (15 pts)  This 17th Century French physician performed the first recorded blood transfusion by infusing sheep blood into a human.		Jean Baptiste DENIS3.  (10 pts)    This Austrian pathologist classified the blood types.								Karl LANDSTEINER17.	Given a list of works, name the author for ten points each.1.  The Heart of Midloathian, Kennilworth, Marmion	Sir Walter SCOTT2.  The Light That Failed, The Man Who Would Be King, Kim								Rudyard KIPLING3. Pelham, Rienzi, The Last Days of Pompeii							Edward BULWER LYTTON18.	Everyone knows that eponyms are words named for people.  For five points each, give the first and last name of the person who leant his or her name to the word listed.1.  Gerrymandering			ELBRIDGE  GERRY2.  Bobbies (British police)		ROBERT  PEEL 3.  Boycott				CHARLES  A.  BOYCOTT4.  Quisling (a traitor)			VIDKUN  QUISLING5.  Bloomers				AMELIA  BLOOMER6.  Casanova				GIOVANNI (or accept Giacomo or Jean-Jacques) CASANOVA19.	On his way back to Ithaca, Odysseus runs into quite a few people.  F5PE name these examples.1.  The blind seer whom Odysseus seeks in hell so that the blind man might tell him the way home.								TIRESIAS2.  The Cyclops who eats Odysseus's men until he is blinded		POLYPHEMOS3.  The king of the winds who gives Odysseus a bag of winds.        	AIOLOS Hippotades4.  The king of the Phaiacian's to whom he tells his story.		ALKINOOS5.  The daughter of Alkinoos, who finds Odyssues.			NAUSICAA 6.  The nymph upon whose Island Odysseus stays for seven years	CALYPSO20.	The Medici family ruled Florence and Tuscany for the better part of 300 years.  Identify these members of this prestigious family for ten points each.1.  He has been accused of destroying Florentine liberalities and succeeded in moving the ecumenical council from Ferrara to Florence.			COSIMO2.  One of the more noted writers, he wrote his Apologia after Pope Clement VII threatened to have him hanged for knocking the heads off statues.	LORENZINO3.  He was the ruler to whom Machiavelli addressed The Prince; his father Piero was driven out of Florence by Republicans.				LORENZO