TOSSUPS - BLIND ROUND #1			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Iowa with a few from your genial quizmaster1.	The Firesign Theatre described them merely as "far-flung," while the title of a Harlan Ellison story assigned them a bogus latitude and longitude.  Of the five types of cells they contain, little is known of the PP and D1 cells.  Acting as a part of the endocrine system, these bundles of cells help to maintain homeostasis in the blood by releasing the hormones glucagons and insulin by targeting the liver and other cells to absorb or release glucose.  FTP, name the group of cells which are located in the pancreas and are composed of alpha and beta types.	Answer:	the islets of Langerhans2.	It carried 11 million pounds of biscuits, 600,000 pounds of salt pork, 40,000 gallons of olive oil, and 14,000 barrels of wine as part of the necessities for a force of over 30,000 soldiers. Joining these stores and soldiers were six physicians, 180 priests, 19 justices, 50 administrators, and 146 young gallants who all volunteered for an adventure under the leadership of Alonso Perez de Guzman (the 7th Duke of Medina Sidonia). FTP, name this expedition that departed Lisbon, Portugal on May 20th, 1588, and returned with only 7,500 of the 30,000 men it left with only four months before.	Answer:	The Spanish Armada3.	She began her literary career as a screenwriter, but soon moved on to prose. She was considered to be one of the principal authors of the "New Generation" of authors of the Magic Realism movement. With her first published novel, she returned to the screen. The work was interpreted for the cinema by her husband, director Alfonso Arau. The movie of the same title won the 1993 Golden Globe award for Best Foreign Language Film. FTP, name the Mexican author of Como agua para chocolate, which has since been translated into English as Like Water For Chocolate.	Answer:	Laura Esquivel4.	When he was a young man, he saw the kingdom of Israel break apart upon the death of King Solomon. Soon after he was wed to Hannah, the Assyrians overran his tribe and his new family was taken to Nineveh. One night, after burying Jewish dead, he was blinded by a sparrow's droppings. His sight was later restored by the efforts of the angel Raphael and his son, Tobias. FTP, name this Biblical man who wrote one of the apocryphal books of the Bible with the same name.	Answer:	Tobit5.	Especially fond of her dogs, she kept bags of their hair long after they had died. She even had an air-conditioned office solely for the use of her Saint Bernard. She was not, however, so kind to humans, telling her employees to save money by copying on both sides of the paper, sending a used floral arrangement to the funeral of umpire John McSherry, and even charging her manager for three bats he'd signed and donated to charity. But her greatest infamy came from insensitive slurs against gays, blacks and Jews, especially when she said of Hitler, "he was OK at the beginning, he just went too far". FTP what former controversial owner of the Cincinnati Reds passed away on March 2, 2004?	Answer:	Marge Schott6.	At the time of its independence it boasted over a hundred different ethnic groups including peoples as disparate as Germans, Koreans, and Karalkapaks. Its titular ethnicity comprised a mere 38% of the population, most of whom spurn their traditional language for that of the European ethnicity that made up 41% of the total population. Since independence it has known but one president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who in 2000 was granted a life-long term. He has since made the unpopular move of moving the capital from the bustling city of Almaty to the rustic and remote village of Astana. FTP what is this roughly 1.6 million square mile, oil-rich "land of the steppes" which left the Soviet Union in 1991?	Answer:	Kazakhstan7.	Lesser-known works by this man include one ballet, The Lure,  and the operas The Wandering Scholar, At the Boar's Head, and Savitri.  The work that he considered his magnum opus was the tone poem Edgon Heath. His most familiar composition was originally titled Seven Pieces for Large Orchestra. That work, whose seven movements include The Winged Messenger, the Magician, The Mystic, and The Bringer of War, was first performed in 1918, 12 years before the discovery of Pluto would have called for an eighth. FTP, name this English composer of The Planets.	Answer:	Gustav Holst
8.	He has three enemies - Caderousse is a jealous neighbor, Fernand Mondego covets his girlfriend Mercedes, and Danglars wants him out of the way so he can assume command of the Phaeton.  Wrongfully imprisoned in the Chateau d'If for fourteen years, Edmund Dantes escapes to assume this persona. FTP name this classic novel of revenge by Alexandre Dumas.	Answer:	The Count of Monte Cristo  [accept early buzz with Edmond Dantes]9.	It was used in the 1978 assassination of Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov, who was jabbed by an umbrella coated in the substance. Derived from castor beans, it is not always fatal, though a dose the size of a pinhead is often enough to kill a human. Causing nausea, vomiting, and internal bleeding of the stomach and kidneys, this is, FTP, what poison, traces of which were found in Sen. Bill Frist's office in February, 2004?	Answer:	ricin (Prompt on umbrella before it is mentioned in the question)10.	A major street in Windhoek, Namibia, is still named after this man's father, who was the first governor general of German West Africa.  In World War I he was an ace credited with 22 kills, and at war's end he was in charge of the Richtofen Group. One of the participants in the Beer Hall Putsch, he directed the preparation of Hitler's four-year economic plan; a year later, he replaced Hjalmar Schacht [hee-YALL-mar SHOCK'T] as Minister of Economy and continued to control economic affairs until 1943.  But he's better known for the other ministry post he held concurrently in the Third Reich.  FTP name Air Minister responsible for the buildup of the Luftwaffe.	Answer:	Hermann Goering11.	It was introduced into Spain by Almogaver, into Portugal by Camoes, and into France by Marot and Saint-Gelays. Sir Thomas Wyatt introduced this form of poetry into England, where two alternate forms emerged consisting of three quatrains and a couplet instead of the octave and sestet of the Italian. FTP, name this form of poetry, advanced by Petrarch, which consists of 14 iambic pentameters.	Answer:	sonnet12.	He was the first to describe the action of light on silver salts, which laid the foundation for photography. He was the first to isolate glycerin, hydrogen cyanide, and numerous acids, including uric, lactic, tartaric, and citric.  Due to delays in publication, he only shares credit for the seven elements he discovered, including molybdenum and manganese.  Most notably, he was two years ahead of Joseph Priestley in isolating oxygen.  Still the only pharmacist ever elected to Sweden's Royal Academy of Sciences, FTP name this underrated chemist.	Answer:	Karl Wilhelm Scheele13.	He appeared before the 1976 Democratic National Convention to second the Vice Presidential nomination of draft resistor Fritz Efaw.  His book, which got a major boost when Playboy published excerpts, is an unflinching portrait of the disability wards at many Veterans Administration (now Veterans Affairs) hospitals. FTP, name the Vietnam veteran and antiwar activist, author of Born on the Fourth of July and played by Tom Cruise in the film of the same name.	Answer:	Ron KovicEDITOR'S NOTE: The aforementioned Fritz Efaw is now an economics professor at the U. of Tennessee at Chattanooga.14.	Robert Childan makes a living selling historic American artifacts. Frank Frink forges these historic artifacts, and his estranged wife Juliana teachs judo in the Rockies. Nearly everyone consults the I Ching and reads 'The Grasshopper Lies Heavy,' which is an alternate history within an alternate history, written by the title character. FTP, name this Philip K. Dick novel in which the Nazis win World War II. 	Answer:	The Man in the High Castle15.	She died from ingesting poison after learning of her stepson and lover's death at the hands of Poseidon. Her son, along with Princess Aricia [a-ree-shee-a] and Prince Hippolytus [hip-pol-it-tus], was in contention for the Throne of Athens --until her husband miraculously returned home alive. FTP, name this sister of Ariadne [a-ree-ad-nay], and wife of Theseus, also subject of a 1967 play by Jean Racine.	Answer:	Phaedra [Fay-dra]16.	It is 'C' divided by 'A'. It is the ratio of distances from any point of a conic section to the focus and to the directrix. It also describes the condition of a person who veers from what is customary or normal. FTP, name this term which: when greater than 1 results in a hyperbola; when less than one results an ellipse; and when equal to 1 creates a circle. 	Answer:	eccentricity
17.	During his 1950s stint as host of WABC's Time for Fun he urged the station to shelve cartoons which featured violence or racial stereotypes. An assistant on the Howdy Doody set, he once donned a clown costume to hand out toys to the audience - the immense response gave birth to his first on-air role, Clarabell the Clown. FTP, identify this man who passed away in January 2004, most famous for his 30 years as Captain Kangaroo.	Answer:	Bob Keeshan  [prompt on Capt. Kangaroo]18.	The discovery of this ancient city came when a well was dug next to the house of the Prince of Ebeuf. The first artifacts found at the site were three large clothed female statues which now sit outside the city of Dresden. When the city, now surrounded by the town of Ercolano on the outskirts of Naples, was excavated in the mid-1700's, the job was given to Roch Joachim Alcubierre and was later finished by the Swiss officer, Charles Weber. FTP, name this Roman city buried by a pyroclastic flow following the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius, which still remains mostly subterranean to this day.	Answer:	Herculaneum19.	In practical applications, it's more likely to be used to determine the change in the force of attraction or repulsion between two charged objects than for its intended purpose, determining that force itself.  Variables in its mathematical statement include q and Q, the strengths of the two charges; r, the distance between the two, and e, a unit vector directed from the test charge to the second.   The electrostatics analogue to Newton's law of universal gravitation, FTP name this law which states that the force between two point charges is proportional to the algebraic product of their respective charges, and to the inverse square of the distance between them.       Answer:	Coulomb's law 20.	His ill health and limited success throughout the 1960s led to a severe mental and physical breakdown in 1969, and all his subsequent plays, such as Small Craft Warnings and Clothes for a Summer Hotel, were even less successful. He wrote about a strange town inhabited by Lord Byron and Don Quixote in 1953's Camino Real and a defrocked Episcopal clergyman in Mexico in his last major success, Night of the Iguana. FTP, name this author of A Streetcar Named Desire.	Answer:	Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams21.	It was the Tony Award winning play featuring Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, and the reason for their visit. It is the name of a European soccer team prefaced by the letters FC for Football Club. It is also the home of the Hans Christian Anderson Museum. FTP, name this city which is the capital of Denmark. 	Answer:	Copenhagen22.	In Dan Brown's Angels and Demons, this masterpiece represented the Illuminati's symbol for water. This work probably had purposes as a tool for Counter-Reformation because it proclaims the churches influence on four continents by the personification of a major river on each continent. At the center of the piece, the executor ingeiously incorporated a restored Egyptian Obelisk which can be seen all around the Piazza Navona where the creation is located. FTP, name this fountain done by Gian Lorenzo Bernini between 1648 and 1651 for Pope Innocent X. 	Answer:	The Fountain of Four Rivers23.	This movie portrayed women being tortured and flogged for exposing their flesh. The final scene is that of a child skipping inside a prison. Kate Allen, director of Amnesty International, criticizes this movie for highlighting the Taliban regime's problems without giving the same weight to present-day post-Taliban problems. For 10 points, name this movie whose namesake is the orchestrator of 2001 terrorist attacks on the US. 	Answer:	Osama       
BONI - BLIND ROUND #1				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Iowa with a few from your genial quizmaster1.	The 17th century was a golden age for French drama, as well as for jealousy and backstabbing among French dramatists.  Name the following combatants FTPE:a)  This author of Medee and Polyeucte was considered the first grand master of French classical tragedy.  However, a paper by Jean Chapelain for the Royal Academy attacked one of his greatest successes, Le Cid, for plagiarism and for faults in construction.  He responded by returning to classical rules, which eventually dragged him into mediocrity.	Answer:	Pierre Corneilleb)  Corneille hated it when this author of Brittanicus, Andromaque, and Les Plaideurs replaced him in public opinion as the master of classical tragedy.  Organized attacks on his Phedre led this man to quit in disgust for over a decade.	Answer:	Jean Racinec)  One of those who helped Corneille try to ruin Racine was this former friend of Racine's, who eschewed classical tragedy in favor of high comedy.  Examples include The Misanthrope and Tartuffe.	Answer:	Moliere, or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin2.   It's bad if you don't get your required amount of vitamins. But it's also bad if you get too much. FTPE, given a list of symptoms, name the vitamin on which the patient has overdosed.  If you need what the vitamin prevents, you get 5 pts. A. (10 pts.) Nausea, weakness, loss of appetite, calcification of tissues, and severe kidney damage.        (5 pts.) Ricketts	Answer:	Vitamin D [accept calciferol or cholecalciferol] B. (10 pts.) Giddiness, chapped lips, low blood sugar, increased bleeding, and reduced sexual organ function.        (5 pts.) There's no specific deficiency disease, but studies suggest adequate amounts of this help prevent some forms of cancer, the formation of arterial plaque, and possibly Alzheimer's disease.	Answer:	Vitamin E [accept tocopherol] C. (10 pts.) Diarrhea and diuresis, along with destroying substantial amounts of vitamin B-12.        (5 pts.) Scurvy	Answer:	Vitamin C [accept ascorbic acid]3.	For 30 points, answer these questions about music's Robert Van Winkle: a) Under this stage name, Van Winkle released the 1990 album To the Extreme, which included the first rap song to hit #1 on Billboard's Hot 100.	Answer:	Vanilla Ice b) Mr. Ice contributed this song to the movie soundtrack for Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II: The Secret of the Ooze	Answer:	Ninja Rapc) Mr. Ice now co-stars in this reality show with the likes of Erik Estrada, Ron Jeremy, and Tammy Faye.	Answer:	The Surreal Life4.	Given a trio of French Kings, name the house or dynasty F5PE, bonus 5 for all correct.Dagobert I, II, and III.	Answer:	Merovingian DynastyPhillip the Amorous, Phillip the Bold, and Phillip the Tall	Answer:	Capetian Dynasty or CapetPhilip VI, Charles VII, Louis XII	Answer:	Valois [val-WHAH] DynastyA pair of "Louis the Well-Beloved"'s and a plain old "Louis the Beloved." (Loser).	Answer:	Bourbon DynastyCharles the Bald, Charles the Fat, and Charles the Simple.  No Charles the Genial, though.	Answer:	Carolingian Dynasty
5.	Think New Zealand is just the land of Oscar thankees? Think again! Identify these New Zealand features FTP. a) This historical tribe of New Zealand numbered about 100,000 when the British showed up.  While their numbers dwindled to 40,000, they have become mostly economically self-sufficient and now number half a million.	Answer:	Maori (maow-ree)b) This is the capital of New Zealand.	Answer:	Wellingtonc) In the Maori language, it's known as Tamaki Makau Rau (Tah-maa-kee Meh-kow Raow), which means "city of 100 lovers.  FTP name New Zealand's most populous city.	Answer:	Auckland6.	F5PE name the physical quantity from a description, and for another 5 points name the scientist for whom the units of measure for that quantity are named:1) The ratio of the magnitude of the charge on either conductor to the magnitude of the potential difference between them. 	Answer:	Capacitance; Michael Faraday (Farads cannot be accepted)2) The ratio of the potential difference that passes through the conductor to the ratio of the current carried by the conduction	Answer:	Resistance; Georg Simon Ohm3) The measure of how much opposition an electrical device offers to a change in current passing through the device. 	Answer:	Inductance; Joseph Henry7.	How much do you know about Lolita that is not related to Dominique Swain and Jeremy Irons?    FTPE:1) Name this protagonist-villain character who lusts after nymphet Dolores Haze.  First or last name is acceptable.       Answer:	Humbert Humbert2) Humbert Humbert was out for vengeance after he found out this man was the one who took Lolita away from him.       Answer:	Clare Quilty (accept just Clare)3) Oh, all right. Who wrote Lolita?       Answer:	Vladimir Nabokov8.	Given a President who never saw his office as temporary, name the African nation FTPE; if you need the capital you'll get 5 pts.a)  10 pts.: Daniel arap Moi, who succeeded founding president Jomo Kenyatta in 1978 and held power till 2002       5 pts.: Nairobi	Answer:	Kenyab)  10 pts.: El Hadj Omar Bongo, who took office in 1967 and is still there, at least as of this past Thursday.       5 pts.: Libreville       Answer: 	Gabonc)  10 pts.: Gnassingbe Eyadema, in office since even earlier in 1967, who was the sole survivor of a 1974 plane crash.  Some people just can't take a hint.       5 pts.: Lomé [low-MAY]	Answer:	Togo9.	Answer the following questions about a historical American painter FTPE:1.  Son of a Governor of Connecticut, he was an aide to General Washington and General Gates during the Revolutionary War until resigning to pursue his painting career in London.  His works include Death of Montgomery at Quebec.       Answer:	John Trumbull2. In London, Trumbull studied under this American-born Official Painter of Historical Subjects to George III, whose works included Death of General Wolfe.       Answer:	Benjamin West3. This painting, the first of Trumbull's Revolutionary War series, was completed at West's studio in London. The scene depicts the deaths of Colonel Abercrombie, Major Pitcairn, and General Warren.        Answer:	Battle of Bunkers Hill [accept "Battle of Bunker Hill" because we're charitable]
10.	The Chinese use a cycle of animal symbols for dating the years. Horoscopes have developed around these animal signs, much like the monthly ones found in Western culture. Let's see how much you read placemats. FTPE:a. To settle the animals' quarrel over who was the head of the cycle, the Gods held a contest to see who would be the first to cross a river.  This animal got across the river on the ox's back and jumped off just in time to take first.	Answer:	The Ratb. This animal was very lazy and the last to cross the river. Thus, it is last in the cycle of animals.	Answer:	The Pig or Boarc. How many animals, and thus how many years, are there in the Chinese calendar cycle?	Answer:	twelve11.	By now you should know how certain English Romantic poets died.  So let's skip the name and go directly to the obit.  Your choices are: died of fever while in Greece helping fight for independence from the Turks [just say "fever"]; died of tuberculosis at age 26; drowned off the coast of Italy; or none of the above.  F5PE or 30 for all 5, given a poem, name that death:a) "La Belle Dame Sans Merci" and "To Autumn"	Answer:	tuberculosis [John Keats]b) "Ode to Duty" and "Yarrow Revisited"	Answer:	none of the above [William Wordsworth]c) "Mazeppa" and "Childe Harold"       Answer: 	fever [George Gordon, Lord Byron]d) "The Battle of Blenheim" and "The Holly Tree"	Answer:	none of the above [Robert Southey]e) "Adonais" and "Ode to the West Wind"	Answer:	drowned [Percy Shelley]12.	FTSNOP, answer these questions concerning quantum mechanics.a) (10 pts.) In this model, arrows are placed -- up for a positive spin down for a negative one -- representing electrons on lines that correspond with sublevels in an atom.	Answer:	MO (or molecular orbital) modelb) (possible 15) Each different sublevel of an atom has a letter designation.  Name the 5 letters used, 5 points for the first three correct and another 5 for each additional letter.	Answer:	S; P; D; F; Gc) (5) This scientist, grandfather of Olivia Newton-John, was the inventor of the rubric "Quantum Mechanics." 	Answer:	Max Born13.	Sabermetricians are always looking for new barometers of a ballplayer's performance.  FTPE, given the description, name the modern baseball statistic being described.a. This stat reflects how many base runners a pitcher allows per inning.	Answer:	WHIP or Walks plus Hits per (or by) Innings Pitchedb. Oakland A's GM Billy Beane famously advocates this stat combining slugging percentage and on-base percentage. 	Answer:	OPS [or on-base plus slugging percentage]c. Some scouts now consider this stat involving strikeouts a better indicator of a young pitcher's potential than E.R.A.	Answer:	Strikeout Ratio [accept K Ratio]14.	Answer these questions about a particular 20th century composition FTPE: This mournful composition was featured in the film Platoon.  There is a choral version of it titled Agnus Dei.        Answer:	Adagio for StringsFTP name the composer of Adagio for Strings.Answer:	Samuel BarberAgnus Dei was featured in the almost-famous soundtrack to this PC game from Sierra Studios. It was played during the cutscene in which the player's planet of origin is immolated in a genocidal firestorm: "Everything's gone... Kharak is burning..."       Answer:	Homeworld
15.	FTPE, name some notable African-American figures of the WWII era:(10)  Head of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, this man threatened F.D.R. with the large mobilization effort known as the March-on-Washington Movement.       Answer:	A. Philip Randolph(10) He was the only black brigadier general of the time and was used as propaganda to encourage the enlistment of African Americans:       Answer:	Colonel Benjamin O. "Chappie" Davis(10) During World War II this former Howard University professor was a chief research analyst for OSS.  He later won the 1950 Nobel Peace Price for negotiating the 1948 Arab-Israeli truce.       Answer:	Ralph Bunche16.	FTPE answer the following about Kurt Vonnegut's death-ridden novel Slaughterhouse-Five:a) This man, the protagonist, can see the future, and knows that he will be assassinated by Paul Lazzaro. 	Answer:	Billy Pilgrimb) Edgar Derby is tried and executed for plundering this item: 	Answer:	a teapot c) What ubiquitous 3-word phrase follows every death in the novel? 	Answer:	"So it goes."  17.	One potato, two potato, three potato, ore. F5PE or 30 for all 5, name the element most commonly extracted from these ores: a) galena  	Answer:	leadb) bauxite  	Answer:	aluminumc) hematite  	Answer:	irond) malachite  	Answer:	coppere) cinnabar  	Answer:	mercury18.	Put your philosophical thinking caps on and name these Plato works FTPE:a) The title character wonders whether good is good because God wills it or whether God wills it because it is good. 	Answer:	Euthyphro (You-Thi-Fro)b) In this work, Socrates calls a boy and asks him to find the area of a square and wonders if the boy was taught this knowledge or knew it innately.	Answer:	Meno c) The title character argues with Socrates about his coming execution and his conflict in believing Socrates's vision.	Answer:	Crito19.	Identify these American Civil War Generals FTPE.1. This Confederate General lost an arm while assaulting Little Round Top in 1863 and he ordered the doomed assault at the Battle of Franklin in 1864. 	Answer:	John Bell Hood2.This Confederate General led a brigade on the first day of Gettysburg, a division on the second and third. He made it to the stonewall at Pickett's Charge and managed to return unscathed. However, he was mortally wounded at the Battle of Falling Waters only eleven days later. 	Answer:	James Johnston Pettigrew3. This Union commander of the sixth corps was killed shortly after the Battle of the Wilderness while uttering, or attempting to utter, the words "They couldn't hit an elephant at this distance." 	Answer:	John Sedgwick  [EDITOR'S NOTE: No, I didn't write that.]
20.	Brace yourself for the following questions about C programming:(10) A variable whose value is a memory address is called a what?       Answer:	pointer(10) This term is given to the action performed by the function strncat, which takes in two arguments and appends the second to the first.       Answer:	concatenation(10) How will a number be printed if "%.2d"[parentheses dot 2 D]  is used in the printf function?       Answer:	with two decimal places21.	Extremophiles are very simple forms of microbial life that have been found to withstand harsh conditions in habitats that would kill most other living organisms. FTPE, answer these questions on some of the more common forms of extremophiles.a. These extremophiles are typically found in environments with carbonate-rich soils or in soda beds. They use cellular enzymes found in these envrionments to keep alkali out of their cells.       Answer:	 alkaliphilesb. These extremophiles, like Thermus aquaticus, can be found in regions of very high temperatures. Such areas would include hot springs and deep-sea ocean vents.       Answer:	 thermophilesc. One of the most remarkable extremophiles yet to be found is called Deinococcus radiodurans and is classified as a polyextremophile. It is so amazing because it can withstand high levels of WHAT, that would kill other living entities; including most bacteria.       Answer:	 radiation22.	Hullo! It's time for everyone to discover the rich, vast tourism of London. For fifteen points, discover the locations and span of your favourite tourist areas. a) Designed as the architectural focus of the Trafalgar Square, you can use the Charing Cross tube or the Leicester Square tube to get to this building featuring the Salisbury, West, North, and East Wings.       Answer:	NATIONAL GALLERYb) Though most Londoners dismiss this nighttime event as tacky and noisy, it spans across Shaftesbury Avenue, Coventry Street, and Regent Street, and is best viewed from the Eros statue.        Answer:	PICCADILLY CIRCUSc) They depart from Westminster, Embankment, Temple, and the Tower of London. Some go to Greenwich while others go to Hampton Court. Name this important piece of tourism utilizing the Thames.       Answer:	RIVER TRIPS23.	If you hear this, it means somehow we got to bonus 23.  Sorry, but we're very tired.  FTPE list the three modern nations which have Farsi as an official language.       Answers:	Iran, Afghanistan, Tajikistan