TOSSUPS - GEORGIA STATE			1999 MOON PIE CLASSIC - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	QUOTE: "The United States regards as vital to its national interest and to world peace the maintenance of international peace and security in southeast Asia. Consonant with the Constitution of the United States and the Charter of the United Nations and in accordance with its obligations under the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty, the United States is, therefore, prepared, as the President determines, to take all necessary steps, including the use of armed force, to assist any member or protocol state of the Southeast Asia Collective Defense Treaty requesting assistance in defense of its freedom."  For ten points, this is Section 2 of what 1964 joint resolution of Congress? Ans: Gulf of Tonkin Resolution2.	Originating at Mount Delgado Chalbaud in the Guiana Highlands, and flowing about 1,700 miles, it flows into the Atlantic Ocean through a 7,000 square mile delta, only parts of which are navigable. It is connected to the Amazon River by a natural canal, called the Casiquiare.  FTP, name this river of SE Venezuela.Ans: Orinoco River3.	Written in 1936, it concerns a group of travelers detained in an Italian resort because of imminent war.  As war begins, the various nationalities represented begin to fight, with two exceptions: a cynical munitions manufacturer, who supplies weapons to the other travelers; and American Harry Van, who looks on as bombs fall, awaiting the inevitable slaughter.  For ten points, what is this Pulitzer Prize winning play by Robert Sherwood? Ans: "Idiot's Delight"4.	Deriving its name from the Persian it is a white substance, found in both crystalline and powder forms.  Natural sources include the minerals colemanite, kernite, and ulexite, and it has the formula Na2 B4 O7 10(H20).  For ten points, what is this chemical, whose nineteenth century mines in Death Valley were famous for the 20-mule teams used for hauling freight? Ans: Borax5.	Invented in the late eighteenth century by Sebastian Zerezo, its name comes from the Spanish word for "to fly".  Based on folk traditions, it requires voice, guitar, and castanets as accompaniment.  For ten points, what is this ballet-like dance in 3/4 or 3/8 time, adapted into a 1928 ballet by Maurice Ravel? Ans: Bolero6.	Born in AD 55, although he was a member of the Republican faction that opposed the emperors, he held office under several emperors, including a consulship under Nerva and governor of Asia under Trajan.  His writings include "Agricola", the biography of his father-in-law; "Dialogue on Oratory"; "Germany"; "Histories"; and the "Annals", covering the history of the empire from Tiberius through Nero.  For ten points, who was this historian and biographer, who died in 117? Ans: Tacitus7.	Born in 1764 in Fulneck, England, his father, an internationally known preacher, was the son of exiled Huguenots, while his mother was Pennsylvanian. After learning his craft in London from John Smeaton, England's first civil engineer, he moved to Norfolk, Virginia in 1796.  Among his designs are Transylvania College, the Chesepeake and Delaware Canal, the Washington Navy Yard, and the first Roman Catholic cathedral in the United States.  For ten points, who was this man who died in 1820 in New Orleans, where he designed the Customs House, the first professional architect in the United States? Ans: Benjamin Latrobe8.	While a principal in 1851 at the North Pownal Academy in Vermont, one of the members of his faculty was James Garfield. A Republican, during the Civil War, he served as the quartermaster general of the state of New York.  In 1866, after helping Roscoe Conkling to get elected to the U.S. Senate, he became Conkling's chief henchman in the New York Republican machine.  For ten points, who was this member of the Stalwarts, the collector of the port of New York from 1871 to 1878, who in 1880, was nominated on the 36th ballot as the Republican candidate fror vice-president? Ans: Chester Arthur9.	The accession of their king in 471 heralded an alliance with Zeno in which under Zeno's orders, they invaded Italy in 488 and conquered it in 493. In the 530s the Byzantine general Belisarius destroyed their empire. FTP, name these Germanic people ruled at one time by Theodoric the Great, who originally occupied the land north of the Black Sea.Ans:  Ostrogoths10.	It is composed of the same chemicals as granite; however, it solidifies so quickly there is no time for crystals to form.  FTP, name this igneous rock that Native Americans used for spear points and arrowheads and which is also called Volcanic glass.Ans: Obsidian11.	On January 16, 1942, an airplane from Indianapolis bound for Los Angeles took off from its last refueling stop, Las Vegas.  A half hour later, it crashed in the mountains, with all eighteen people aboard dying.   The most famous occupant of that plane, born Jane Alice Peters in 1908 had over the previous decade appeared in Alfred Hitchcock's "Mr. & Mrs. Smith", "Bolero" with George Raft, and "Twentieth Century" with John Barrymore.  For ten points, who was this comedic actress, whose last film was "To Be Or Not To Be", whose death caused her husband, Clark Gable, to enlist in the Air Force? Ans: Carole Lombard12.	Born around 1580, he was noted for painting people of every social class.  In the 1620's and 30's, he was noted for his group portraits, including "Banquet of the Officers of the St. George Militia".  Always a fast worker, he was noted for his ability to portray momentary effects.  At age 84, he painted two of his finest canvases, "The Governors of the Almshouse" and "Lady Regents of the Almshouse."  For ten points, who was this Dutch painter, whose other works included "The Merry Drinker" and "The Smoker"? Ans: Frans Hals13.	Of his parents' twelve children, this man, born in 1716, was the only one to reach adulthood.  In 1742, he translated Locke's "Essay Concerning Human Understanding" in Latin, titling it "De Principiis Cogitandi".  In 1747, after Horace Walpole's pet died, he wrote "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Fishes".  For ten points, who was this English poet, who turned down the office of poet laureate in 1757, and is best remembered for "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"? Ans: Thomas Gray14.	Born in Saxony in 1843, one of thirteen children of a mining official, he served as a surgeon during the Franco-Prussian War.  In 1887, his assistant, Julius Petri, designed a shallow covered dishes in which he could keep his agar- based bacteria cultures.  In 1885 he was appointed professor of hygeine at the University of Berlin after he discovered the cholera bacillus.  For ten points, who was this German research chemist, who discovered the means by which bubonic plague and African sleeping sickness are transmitted, and for whose discovery of the tuberculosis bacillus was awarded the 1905 Nobel Prize in medicine? Ans: Robert Koch15.	Born in Gaul in 10 BC, when as a young man he was advised to abandon a history of recent Rome, he instead wrote twenty books of Etruscan history, eight of Carthaginian history, and later wrote eight volumes of memoirs.  Often considered to have been slightly retarded, he stammered, slobbered, and suffered from nervous tics.  At the age of 64, he died, and his fourth wife, Aggripina the younger, was accused of having fed him poisonous mushrooms.  For ten points, who was this Roman, named by Pliny the Elder as one of the 100 leading scholars of his day, and the fourth Roman emperor? Ans: Claudius16.	It would be up to Uthman to authenticate it after several versions emerges as it was collated and written down under Umar and Abu Bakr. For ten points, name this book, copies of which were sent to Kufa, Basra, Baghdad, Medina, and Mecca.ANSWER: Koran17.	This law of physics may be viewed as an application of Le Chatelier's principle to electrodynamics. Named for the Estonian physicist who first stated it, it describes the direction of electrical current.  For ten points,  name this law which states that the electromotive force induced in a conductor moving perpendicular to a magnetic field tends to oppose that motion.ANSWER: Lenz's Law18,	His first published story, "How I Built Myself a House", was influenced by his training as an architect.  He left his home in Dorsetshire and moved to London, where he began writing poetry and novels.  Influenced by 19th century science which saw man as subject to forces he could neither understand nor control, he authored such poetry collections as Winter Words in Various Moods and Meters, The Dynasts, and Wessex Poems, and such novels as Two on a Tower, The Well-Beloved, and The Woodlanders.  For Ten Points, name this 19th century English author of such famous novels as Far from the Madding Crowd and The Return of the Native.Ans:  Thomas Hardy19.	According to Layaman's The Brut, a Welsh carpenter was commissioned to build it after a Christmas day fight. According to another source, it was a gift from King Leodegran. For ten points, name this peace of furniture made to create peace among the knights of King Arthur.ANSWER: Round Table20.	The heir to the world's sixth largest fortune, as a boy he was placed under the guardianship of lawyer Walter Thatcher.  In the process of attending several colleges, he met his closest friend, Jedidiah Leland.  He was married twice, first to Emily Norton, the niece of a president, and to Susan Alexander, a nightclub singer.  For ten points, who was this owner and publisher of the New York Inquirer? Ans: Charles Foster Kane21.	Arthur, winged sidekick of cartoon superhero the Tick, once stated that two thousand years ago, a brew made from white oak was prescribed as a cure for gout.  In 1859, Adolph Kolbe discovered a process for synthesizing the active ingredient in this preparation.  Effective against rheumatic fever and arthritis, its ability to reduce fever and inflammation have caused it to become one of the most used drugs worldwide.  For ten points, what is the common name of this analgesic, properly known as acetylsalycilic acid?Ans: Aspirin22.	Lord Castlereagh commited suicide after shooting George Canning in the butt in an ill-fated duel.  This prompted Robert Fitzroy, Lord Castlereagh's nephew, to decide that he needed a sailing companion to keep himself from going insane.   FTP, name Fitzroy's shipmate on the HMS Beagle, who used the journey as the basis of On the Origin of Species in 1859Ans: Charles Darwin
BONI - GEORGIA STATE			1999 MOON PIE CLASSIC - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Identify these Shakespeare plays from the following lines, for five points apiece: a) "You'll ask me, why I rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive 3000 ducats: I'll not answer that...""The Merchant of Venice" b) "O! beware, my lord, of jealousy; it is the green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on"  -  "Othello" c) "The game's afoot; follow your spirit; and, upon this charge cry "God for Harry! England and St. George!""Henry V" d) "As he was valiant, I honor him; but, as he was ambitious, I slew him.""Julius Caesar" e) "I learn in this letter that Don Pedro of Aragon comes this night to Messina""Much Ado About Nothing" f) "This note doth tell me of ten thousand French that in the field lie slain""Henry V" 2.	Provide the more common name for the following medical conditions for ten points each:a. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis		ANSWER: Lou Gehrig's Disease           b. Pertussis					ANSWER: whooping coughc. Hansen's disease				ANSWER: leprosy3.	Identify these American possessions, for five points apiece: a) Three islands, including Sand and Eastern Islands, administered by the Navy Department, and part of the Hawaiian islandsMidway Islands b) Named for the martyred St. Ursula by Christopher ColumbusVirgin Islands c) An air station since the 1930's, it was possessed by the Japanese from 1941 to 1944Wake Island d) Governed by a bicameral legislature called the Fono, Louis de Bougainville called them "Islands of the Navigators"American Samoa e) The largest of the Mariana IslandsGuam f) Its people were officially Spanish citizens from 1812 until 1899.Puerto Rico4.	Identify this man, 30-20-10: 30: On his 78th birthday, in 1934, he announced that he could produce a death ray machine capable of destroying a one million man army 200 miles away with a concentrated high current beam. 20: In one of his many experiments performed at his laboratory in Colorado Springs was the wireless transmission of enough power to light 200 lamps 26 miles away, using an unknown method yet to be duplicated. 10: In 1912 he refused to share the Nobel Prize with Edison, who had refused to use his alternating current motors.   The Nobel committee decided to award neither.\Nikola Tesla\
5.	Identify this man, 30-20-10: 30: Born in 1644, the son of an English admiral, after being accused of treason by William and Mary in 1691, he went into hiding for several years, during which he wrote "An Essay Towards the Present and Future Peace of Europe". 20: Among his religious tracts were "No Cross, No Crown", and "Quakerism: A New Name for Old Christianity". 10: Proprietor of both East and West Jersey from 1682, in 1681 he wrote "A Brief Account of the Province of Pennsylvania". \William Penn\6.	Eleven states formed the Confederate States of America.  Answer these questions about them, for five points a state:a) Of these eleven, which four seceded after the fall of Fort Sumter?  - Arkansas, Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee b) Thirteen states were represented by stars on the Confederate flag and in the Confederate Congress.  Which two states that never seceded were given Confederate representation?  -  Missouri, Kentucky 7.	Name the following figures in Israeli politics on a 5-10-15 basis:(5) He campaigned under the slogan "Making a secure peace," but has been criticized for his handling of the Wye River Memorandum, fracturing his seven party coalition. Name this embattled prime minister.ANSWER: Benjamin Netanyahu(10) Before October 9, 1998, Netanyahu had been holding the foreign minister portfolio. Name the foreign minister named on October 9, 1998, the architect of the 1982 invasion of Lebanon.ANSWER: Ariel Sharon(15) Netanyahu had been pulling double duty, in addition to his duties as prime minister, since this man resigned in anger over the slow pace of peace talks and social issues.ANSWER: David Levy8.	Identify each of these sets of siblings in Greek mythology, for five points per sibling to a maximum of 30: a) the two sons of Zeus and Europa  -  Minos and Rhadamanthus b) the two daughters of Agamemnon  -  Iphigenia and Electra c) the three sons of Jocasta  -  Oedipus, Eteocles, and Polyneices 9.	Identify each of these authors, from book titles, on a 10-5 basis: a)10: "Pictures of Fidelman", "The Tenants", "A New Life"5:  "The Assistant", "The Fixer"  Ans:  Bernard Malamud b) 10: "Winner Takes Nothing", "Men Without Women"5: "The Spanish Earth", "A Movable Feast" Ans:  Ernest Hemingway a) 10: "The World of Apples", "Falconer", "Some People, Places, and Things That Will Not Appear in My Next Novel"5: "The Wapshot Chronicles"  Ans:  John Cheever 
10.	It involves the use of a standard solution. For ten points each:a. Name this method of determining the unknown concentration of a solution.ANSWER: titrationb. In titration, this is the point of neutralization, when the added solute reacts completely with the solute present in the solution.ANSWER: equivalence pointc. MATH QUESTION If I add 25 milliliters of 0.20 molar sodium hydroxide to 10 milliliters of sulfuric acid, creating a neutral solution, what is the molarity of the sulfuric acid? You have fifteen seconds.ANSWER: 0.25 molar [Note: Sulfuric acid is diprotic.]11.	Give the common position of each of these sets of members of the Baseball Hall of Fame, F5PE:a) Amos Rusie,  Joe McGinnity, Hoyt Wilhelm		 -  pitcher b) Gabby Hartnett, Roger Bresnahan, Buck Ewing 		 -  catcher c) Hack Wilson, Tris Speaker, Duke Snider 			 -  center field d) Joe Tinker, Rabbit Maranville, Pee Wee Reese		 -  shortstop e) Bill McKechnie, Wilbert Robinson, John McGraw 	 -  manager f) Eddie Collins, Red Schoendienst, Rogers Hornsby		 - second base12.	Name the authors of the following 17th century works, for five points each: a) "The Alchemist"  -  Ben Jonson b) "Tis Pity She's A Whore"  -  John Ford c) "Oroonoko"  -  Aphra Behn d) "The Duchess of Malfi"  -  John Webster e) "Le Cid"  -  Pierre Corneille f) "Samson Agonistes"  -  John Milton13.	For five points each, name the victorious general in each of these battles: a) Gaugamela  -  Alexander the Great b) Poltava - Peter the Greatc) Poitiers  -  Edward the Black Prince d) Bosworth Field  -  Henry VII or Henry Tudore) Alesia  -  Julius Caesar f) Breitenfeld  -  Gustavus Adolphus 
14.	Identify these stars on clues, for ten points each:a) From the Arabic for "End of the River," this white star of .4 magnitude lies at the southern end of the constellation representing the River Eridanus	Achernarb) Red, with a .7 magnitude, a second and equivalent Latin name for this star in Scorpio is "Marti comparatur"	Antaresc) Varying between 2.3 and 3.5, it shares the Arabic source of its name with a long lived Middle Eastern foe of Batman; it is formally known as Beta Perseii	Algol15.	Identify the films from which the following quotes are taken, for ten points each:a) "The problem is how to divide five Afghans from three mules, and have two Englishmen left over  -  "The Man Who Would Be King"b) "We didn't need dialogue. We had faces.  There just aren't faces like that anymore.""Sunset Boulevardc) "If you know what's good for you, you don't monkey around with Fred C. Dobbs""The Treasure of the Sierra Madre"16.	Atomic Interstates:  There are two clues to each answer.  If you can identify the number of an interstate based on three cities on it, you will receive ten points; if you need the name of the element whose atomic number it is, you will receive five pointsa)10: Eugene, Sacramento and Bakersfield5:boron  Ans:  5 b) 10: Bismarck, Billings, and Milwaukee5: plutonium  Ans:  94 c) 10:New Orleans, Tuscaloosa, and Fort Payne5: praseodymium  Ans: 59 17.	For Fifteen Points each, Identify these Irish plays from a brief description.a)  A small village in a remote part of Ireland is charmed by a stranger who claims to have killed his father, until his father shockingly blunders into town.  Its opening at The Abbey in Dublin, set off a riot in 1907.The Playboy of the Western Worldb)  It features a group of individuals caught up in the Easter Rebellion, including a number of cowardly Catholics and one brave Protestant who is shot.  Its opening, at The Abbey in Dublin, set of a riot in 1926.The Plough and the Stars18.	Name the composers of the following pairs of works FTPE:a)	Peleas et Melisande;  La MerClaude Debussyb)	Three Places in New England; The Concorde SonataCharles Ivesc)	Girl of the Golden West;  Manon LescautGiacomo Puccini
19.	 Some dates you can know exactly, some you can't.  For five points apiece, get within ten years of the date of the following events: a) Following the defeat of the Turks at the second battle of Mohacs, the Diet of Pressburg gives the throne of Hungary to the male line of Austria  						-  1687 b) Robert the Bruce dies of leprosy  						-  1329 c) Sven I Forkbeard, King of Norway, begins his invasion of England  	-  991 d) Metz, Orleans, Paris and Soissons are established as the capitals of the four sons of Clovis following his death  										-  511 e) By the Treaty of Campo Formio, France receives the Austrian Netherlands, and Austria gets Venice 										-  1797f) Byzantine Emperor Basil II, the Bulgar Slayer, defeated the Lombards and Normans at Cannae, insuring Byzantine control of southern Italy for another half century  		-  101820.	For five points each, identify these wonders of the ancient world from their builders or designers: a) Nebuchadnezzer II  -  Hanging Gardens of Babylon b) Artemisia, widow of the Persian satrap of Caria  -  Mausoleum c) Phidias  -  Statue of Zeus at Olympia d) Chersiphron and his son Metagenes of Crete  -  Temple of Artemis e) Ptolemy II  -  Pharos of Alexandria f) Chares of Lindos  -  Colossus of Rhodes 