Tossups								Moon Pie Classic 2003--UTCQuestions by Virginia Commonwealth (Matt) with additions from Rutgers A and Ole Miss1. He grew frustrated with prevailing styles despite the success of his early works The Fall of The Giants and Antigone. Working with the librettist Ranieri di Calzabigi, he created a style of opera designed to emphasize the meaning of the lyrics rather than showcase the singers. At the behest of the Paris Opera, he and the chief proponent of the existing style, Niccolò Piccinni, composed versions of Iphigenia in Taurus. FTP, name this German who created "French opera" with Orpheus and Eurydice.Answer: Christoph Willibald von Gluck2. Introduced as "a great baby" who is "not yet out of his swaddling-clouts," he is eulogized as a "wretched, rash, intruding fool" soon after he is killed. Once an actor who played the title role in Julius Caesar, he sends the spy Reynaldo to Paris in his role as chamberlain. He is urged to give "more matter with less art" despite ironically proclaiming that "brevity is the soul of wit." In one speech, he states, "the apparel oft proclaims the man," "Neither a borrower nor a lender be," and "This above all: to thine own self be true." FTP, name this father of Laertes from Hamlet.Answer: Polonius3. Its chief cities included Theveste and Cirta, the latter of which was home to the prominent Massyli tribe. Its first Roman governor married Salome, the daughter of Antony and Cleopatra; Rome had seized it in 46 BCE, when Julius Caesar won the Battle of Thapsus. Its eastern and western kingdoms were unified in 201 BCE, with the defeat of Syfax and the crossing of the Mulucha River by Masinissa. FTP, name this kingdom, contiguous with modern Algeria, which warred with the army of Marius under Jugurtha.Answer: Numidia4. Primary ones can take part in the Hofmann rearrangement, and cyclic ones are given the special name lactam. The least reactive of the functional derivatives of carboxylic acids, their polymer chains are used to construct nylon and kevlar. Consisting of an acyl group bonded to a trivalent nitrogen atom, this functional group forms the peptide linkages in proteins. FTP, name this functional group created by the reaction of a carboxylic acid with an amine, with formula CONH2. Answer: amides5. Many of them were first anthologized in the Collection of Stone and Sand in the thirteenth century. Some concern Eshun, who insulted her followers as she burned to death. The first one occurred when Kasho smiled at a flower. They were used by the historical ninjas, who were taught a solution to a famous one: all that matters is that the tree has been felled. FTP, identify these questions and parables used as an aid to meditation by Zen Buddhists.Answer: koans6. The title character was one of hundreds voiced by Pat Fraley. He was named after a passing bus after being reanimated from a batch of tar by Jeremy, Wally, Shades, Mario, and Casey. Plot threads included making the title character fit in among the cool strata of young LA society, hiding his existence from Heather, and preventing Morton Fizzback from using him as a sideshow attraction. FTP, name this 1988 cartoon whose title character is "my friend and a whole lot more," namely a hip thunder lizard.Answer: Denver the Last Dinosaur7. A brief tradition of this genre was started in England with the writing of Bevis of Hampton. A rough chronological division shows that the originals were assonanced and discussed chivalry, while the later examples used rhyme and focused on courtly love. Using a simple melody with one note to a syllable and a refrain after each change of theme, they were performed by jongleurs with viol accompaniment. Subjects include Raoul, Huon, Aliscans, and other figures from the Carolingian era, as in the Song of Roland. FTP, name these epics about heroes of medieval France.Answer: chansons de geste
8. Schnirelman proved a much weaker version, requiring at most 300,000 addends, and Henry Pogorzelski published a 1977 proof of it which is not generally accepted. The original ternary formulation was re-expressed by Euler in its equivalent modern form, and it has been proven equivalent to the claim that every integer is equal to half the sum of the outputs of the totient function with some prime numbers as inputs. FTP, name this claim that all positive even integers greater than two can be expressed as the sum of two primes. Answer: binary (or strong) Goldbach conjecture (accept equivalents; do not accept ternary or weak Goldbach conjecture after "re-expressed by Euler")9. In order to emulate the Berlin work of Benjamin Bilse, it was founded by Henry Lee Higginson to give the "Promenade Concerts" and "Esplanade Concerts." Its trademark format is three sections of performance with two intermissions, with the most serious work in the middle section. Adolf Neuendorff was its first conductor, and Keith Lockhart now leads it through its thirty-fourth year run on PBS. FTP, name this orchestra which has been conducted by Arthur Fiedler and John Williams.Answer: the Boston Pops10. Armed with his trumpet, he attended the Tuskegee Institute, intent on becoming a musician.  However, he frequently bothered his neighbors with his high-pitched squealing and turned instead to literature.  Music did not leave his life, though, and its influence upon his writing can be seen in his essays on Charlie Parker in his essay collection Shadow and Act. FTP, name this former Albert Schweitzer Professor of the Humanities at NYU, and author of the posthumous Juneteenth, as well as Invisible Man.	Answer:	 Ralph Ellison11. The ESSENCE treatment corrects errors in its splicing which cause muscular dystrophy and cystic fibrosis. It is marked at one end by a 5-prime to 5-prime triphosphate linkage between molecules of 7-methylguanosine and 2-prime O-methyl purine and at the other by a 3-prime poly-adenosine tail. In higher eukaryotes, it is made in a heterogeneous nuclear form and can be used only after introns are removed. FTP, name this molecule, created by transcription, which takes DNA information to the ribosomes. Answer: messenger ribonucleic acid (or mRNA)12. It is divided into three sections: Kandalakshskiy Zaliv, Onezhskaya Guba, and Dvinskaya Guba. Bordering the oblasts of Karelia and Murmansk, it forms harbors with the Kola Peninsula. Connected by a canal to the Baltic, it is frozen from November to May. Ports on it include Kem, Belomorsk, Onega, Mezen, Kandalaksha, and Arkhangel. FTP, name this inlet of the Barents Sea in Russia.Answer: White Sea13. The plot of his tale contradicts the first description of him, which states the he has "nemequ", or omniscience. He has two dreams, about a meteorite and an axe, neither of which he can lift. He builds the Cedar Gate after killing Humbaba and the Bull of Heaven. Eventually, he journeys to see Siduri and Utnapishtim in an attempt to gain eternal life after the death of Enkidu. FTP, name this demigod king of Uruk in a namesake Sumerian epic. Answer: Gilgamesh14. Although he was known for acting justly towards native tribes as governor of the Michigan Territory from 1813 to 1831, he left the job to supervise Andrew Jackson's Indian removal efforts. He was as a representative from Ohio and a Senator from Michigan after the territory achieved statehood. Jackson promoted him to Secretary of War, and he also served as James Buchanan's Secretary of State, resigning from the latter position after Buchanan declined to send reinforcements to Charleston. FTP, name this Democrat who lost the 1848 Presidential election to Zachary Taylor.Answer: Lewis Cass15. An encounter with Dominic Cervoni provided inspiration for his adventurous characters, as did his work smuggling arms to the Carlists. His first hit novel, Chance, was followed by Prince Roman, Tales of Hearsay, and the unfinished The Sisters. His early efforts, including An Outcast of the Islands and Almayer's Folly, were unsuccessful due to his as-yet imperfect grasp of English, but he gained experience collaborating on The Nature of Crime, Romance, and The Inheritors with Ford Madox Ford. FTP, name this Polish-born author of The Secret Agent, Nostromo, Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.Answer: Joseph Conrad (or Jósef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski)16. This book and the Bible were given to German soldiers as inspirational material during World War I. It denounces such figures as "the Despisers of the Body," "the Preachers of Death," and "the Flies of the Market Place." Its theme is the idea of "eternal recurrence" unlocking "the meaning of the earth." "On the Adder's Bite" contains a revision of the Sermon on the Mount by the title figure who introduces the concept of the übermensch. FTP, name this Friedrich Nietzsche work titled after an ancient religious founder.Answer: Thus Spoke Zarathustra, A Book for All and None (or Also Sprach Zarathustra, Ein Buch für Alle und Keinen)17. Clarence Marsh directed its educational program, which taught forty thousand men to read. Executive Order 6202 named Robert Fechner its national director, alongside an Advisory Council consisting of the War, Interior, and Labor departments. Its largest outpost was a hundred square mile camp in Vermont's Winooski valley, which, like its other 2500 camps, paid residents twenty-five dollars a month. FTP, name this New Deal agency, existing from 1933 to 1942, which laid telephone lines, fought forest fires, set up floodwalls, and planted over two billion trees Answer: Civilian Conservation Corps (or CCC, accept Emergency Conservation Work Act)18. The first to define the incidence matrix, one formulation of his law of radiation states that the albedo equals 1 minus the emissivity. He proposed that, for a given atom or molecule, the emission and absorption frequencies are the same. In addition to his work on spectroscopy, he also posited that the sums of currents toward and away from a branch point are equal. FTP, identify this creator of the "loop rule" and the "junction rule." Answer: Gustav Robert Kirchhoff19. This novel begins with a pregnant girl walking barefoot down a road looking for the man who knocked her up.  She thinks he loves her, although when she finds him working in illegal activity.  However, the main focus of the book is the man who her boyfriend is with.  An African American who killed the white woman who loved him because he could not control his emotions and was prone to visit prostitutes in Memphis and sell whisky to make money.  FTP name the William Faulkner novel that ends with the pregnant girl riding off with a guy who might really love her.	Answer:	 Light in August20. A small German firm named Marken Marketing International recently gave him a one-third interest in the company to develop a namesake line of products, which will include aftershave, umbrellas, and energy drinks. Sixty years ago, while convalescing at Matai, he pondered the problem of countering tank fire in the motorized infantry. His prototype combined rapid fire with light weight, and over sixty million were made in the following decades. FTP, name this Soviet tank commander who invented the AK-47.Answer: Mikhail Timofeevich Kalashnikov(Tiebreaker/Extra) 21. 	Some people may have been introduced to this work from an excellent epic Nintendo game, and new incarnations of it are still being released.  Certain events and particulars in it are probably untrue, including the Hall of the Fallen Phoenix episode.  Corrupt eunuchs ran the country and led it into turmoil, making a ripe breeding ground for war.  The voice of wisdom, the god of War, and Machiavellian evil are represented in the characters of Chu-ko Liang, Kuan Yu, and Tsao Tsao, and it is set towards the end of the Han dynasty.  FTP, name this Chinese novel about the Wei, Shu and Wu kingdoms.	Answer:	 Romance of the Three Kingdoms22.	Inspired by the suggestion of Mougel Bey, he examined the calculations of Jean Baptiste Le Père and found substantial errors. He smuggled macaroni into Mohammed Ali Pasha's palace to curry favor with the viceroy's son Said, who was on a forced diet. When Said became viceroy himself, this man convinced Said to buy the unsold shares in his new firm and sign a strip of land away for one hundred years. Using the corvée from 1857 to 1863, he completed his project in 1867. FTP, name this engineer of the Suez Canal.Answer: Vicomte Ferdinand Marie de Lesseps23.	His name means "Lord of the Flies" because he was invoked to drive away the flies from thesacrifice. In the New Testament, his name is often substituted for Satan, and in Paradise Lost, he is identified as Satan's lieutenant or even his alter ego. In the Old Testament, he was the god of the Philistine city of Ekron whose oracle King Ahaziah attempted to consult in his last illness. FTP, identify this pagan god whose name is also invoked by a sentry in a humorous scene in Act 2 of Macbeth?Answer: Beelzebub (or Baalzebub)
Bonuses							Moon Pie Classic 2003--UTCQuestions by Virginia Commonwealth (Matt) with additions from Rutgers A and Ole Miss1. Parts of a protist, FTPE. A. (10) In some protists, this protrusion, which forms a mastigont with the axoneme, undulates to propel a cell with helical motion. Answer: flagellum (or flagella)B. (10) This microtubule structure, which is very similar to a centriole, anchors the mastigont in the cell. Answer: basal body (or kinetosome; or basal granule)C. (10) Present in many freshwater protists, this organelle maintains osmotic equilibrium by continuously moving fluid in and out of the cell. Answer: contractile vacuole2. Indian authors, FTPE. A. (10) Among his surviving Sanksrit verse works are three plays, Urvasi Won by Valor, Malavi and Agnimitra, and The Recognition of Shakuntala; as well as the epics Dynasty of Raghu and Birth of the War God.Answer: KalidasaB. (10) This 1913 Nobel Prize winner wrote the Bengali poetry collections Gitanjali and Manasi.Answer: Sir Rabindrantath TagoreC. (10) Known as the "Adikavi" or "Poet of Poets," this one time highway robber is credited with writing the Ramayana and sheltering Rama's wife during the birth of Lava and Kusha.Answer: Maharshi Valmiki3. Painter from works, 30-20-10.A. (30) Elizabeth at the Piano; William Rush Carving his Allegorical Figure of the Schuylkill RiverB. (20) Portrait of Walt Whitman; Max Schmitt in a Single Scull; The Biglen Brothers RacingC. (10) The Gross Clinic; The Agnew ClinicAnswer: Thomas Eakins4. Answer the following about the 2003 Supreme Court case of Lawrence v. Texas, FTPEA. (10) On equal-protection grounds, the case will likely overturn state laws prohibiting what class of practices? Answer: sodomy (accept equivalents)B. (10) The Court last addressed the matter in this 1986 case, which upheld sodomy laws.Answer: Bowers v. Hardwick (accept Hardwick v. Bowers)C. (10) Two of the majority voters in Bowers and one of the dissenters remain on the Court to decide Lawrence. Name any two of the three.Answer: William Hubbs Rehnquist, Sandra Day O'Connor, John Paul Stevens5. Name these members of the Stalwart faction of the Republican Party, FTPE. A. (10) This "continental liar from the state of Maine" and Secretary of State under Benjamin Harrison caused a rift with the Mugwumps by winning the 1884 Presidential nomination.Answer: James Gillespie BlaineB. (10) This leader of New York's Republican Party resigned from the Senate to protest James Garfield's attempts to end patronage.Answer: Roscoe ConklingC. (10) This Civil War general and Illinois Senator ordered the first observation of Memorial Day, led the Grand Army of the Republic veterans organization, and was James Blaine's running mate in 1884.Answer: John Alexander Logan
6. Name these atomists, FTPE. A. (10) This "laughing philosopher" discovered the formulae for the volume of a cone and a pyramid and proposed a deterministic universe driven by indivisible atoms.Answer: Democritus of AbderaB. (10) This teacher of Democritus is credited with inventing the atomic theory by asserting that the void of Parmenides was not synonymous with emptiness.Answer: Leuccipus of MiletusC. (10) He expanded Democritus's theory by positing atoms with intrinsic size and shape which moved on a random path in what is hilariously translated as "the swerve." He is also known as a chief proponent of intellectual hedonism.Answer: Epicurus7. Answer the following about a state of matter, FTPE. A. (10) Name the state, first created in 1995 by the cooling of rubidium, in which a macroscopic collection of atoms all reside in the same ground state. Answer: Bose-Einstein condensate B. (10) The temperatures necessary for creating a Bose-Einstein condensate were first achieved with this process, which won the 1997 Physics Nobel for Chu, Cohen, and Phillips. Answer: laser cooling (accept laser trapping or anything coherent that mentions lasers)C. (10) Laser cooling was necessary to overcome this barrier to low temperatures, caused by the random walk associated with spontaneous emission and named for the author of On the Colored Light of Double Stars. Answer: Doppler limit8. Answer the following about the Snake River, FTSNOP.A. (5,5) The Snake forms over half of the border between these two states, for 5 points each.Answer: Idaho, OregonB. (10) For ten points, the Snake River forms this two-hundred foot waterfall before flowing past Twin Falls.Answer: Shoshone FallsC. (10) The Snake flows into this river at Pasco, Washington.Answer: Columbia River9. Name the company, 30-20-10. A. (30) It was founded in 1940 in Honolulu and originally manufactured vending machines for military bases. Currently, it owns the only non-Disney character found in costume at Disney World.B. (20) Its landmark achievements in video games include the first laser disc game, Astron Belt; the first 3-D game, SubRoc 3-D; and the first 3-D fighting game, Virtua Fighter, now on display at the Smithsonian.C. (10) It created Sonic the Hedgehog along with the Master System, Genesis, Saturn, and Dreamcast consoles.Answer: Sega10. Answer the following about a Pope, FTPE. A. (10) This successor to Sixtus III obtained an order from Emperor Valentian III confirming the supremacy of the bishop of Rome over other bishops, created a namesake style of ecclesiastical writing, and persuaded an invader to refrain from sacking Rome.Answer: Leo I (accept Leo the Great)B. (10) This infamous conqueror turned back from Italy in 452.Answer: Attila the HunC. (10) The Tome of Leo was adopted in 451 at this fourth ecumenical council, where monophysitism was condemned and the Robber Synod of Ephesus was rejected.Answer: Council of Chalcedon
11. Thomas Pynchon novels, 15-10-5.A. (15) This historical fantasy imagines two surveyors abusing caffeine and meeting the founding fathers as well as talking animals.Answer: Mason and DixonB. (10) This novel follows the "human yo-yo" Benny Profane and his barmaid girlfriend Paola Maijstral, who encounter Herbert Stencil during the latter's search for the titular female spy.Answer: VC. (5) Teddy Bloat's search for Rocket 00000 is aided by Tyrone Slothrop, whose erections predict the launching of German missiles.Answer: Gravity's Rainbow12. Name these forms of radiometric dating, 5-10-15.A. (5) This technique uses an isotope with a half-life of 5730 years to date organic materials from the past fifty thousand years. Answer: carbon-14 B. (10) Rocks up to four billion years old can be dated with this method, which relies on the fact that the 40 isotope of element 19 decays to the 40 isotope of element 20 over time. Answer: potassium-argon [prompt on potassium-40; prompt on K-40] C. (15) This method yields a cooling age by examining the damage paths left by spontaneous and induced decays to determine the ratio of uranium-238 and uranium-235. Answer: fission track13. Name these title figures of Old Testament books, FTPE.A. (10) Following the completion of the second Temple, he is sent with Nehemiah to restore Jewish law in Jerusalem and casts those who married non-Jews out of the community.Answer: EzraB. (10) This native of Tekoa denounced the economic conditions under Jeroboam II and feuded with the priest Amaziah.Answer: AmosC. (10) In his four prophecies, he promises that if Zerubbabel completes the Temple, the drought will end and Zerubbabel will become king.Answer: Haggai14. Henry Fielding works, FTPE. A. (10) One of two Fielding parodies of Pamela, this novel finds the title character wooing Fanny under the tutelage of Parson Andrews.Answer: The History Of The Adventures Of Joseph AndrewsB. (10) In this novel, declared one of the three perfect plots by Coleridge, the title character vies with Blifil for Sophia Western while also bedding Molly Seagrim and Lady Ballaston.ANSWER: The History Of Tom Jones, A FoundlingC. (10) At the court of king Arthur, the title character of this comedic play woos Dollalolla and fends off the rebellion of Grizzle.ANSWER: The Tragedy Of Tragedies: Or, The The Life And Death Of Tom Thumb The Great15. Name the place, 30-20-10. A. (30) Bordered by the Iving River, it contains the feet of the Kjolen Mountains and the city ofGastropnir.B. (20) Ruled by Thrym, its famous residents include Menglad and Thiazzi.C. (10) One root of Yggdrasil terminates at the well of Mimir in this abode of the Norse frost giants.Answer: Jotunheim
16. Soviet intelligence agencies, FTPE. A. (10) Replacing the OGPU in 1934, this secret police agency carried out Stalin's purges under the leadership of Genrikh Yagoda and Nicolai Yezhov before becoming the Ministry of Internal Affairs under Lavrenti Beria.Answer: NKVD (or Narodny Kommissariat Vnutrennikh Del; accept Peoples' Commissariat of Internal Affairs)B. (10) After the death of Beria, the Ministry of Internal Affairs became this general intelligence agency, which operated the SMERSH assassination division under the leadership of Ivan Berov and once tried to drown Boris Yeltsin.Answer: KGB (or Komitét Gosudárstvennoi Bezopásnosti; accept Committee of State Security)C. (10) The chief military intelligence agency in the USSR, this entity founded by Yan Berzin employed the spy Rudolph Abel and the defector Oleg Penkovsky.Answer: GRU (or Glavnoye Razvedyvatelnoye Upravlenye; accept Main Intelligence Directorate)17. Name these gaps in things in our solar system, FTPE. A. (10) These areas of the asteroid belt are sparsely populated due to the influence of Jupiter's gravity.Answer: Kirkwood gapsB. (10) This division is between the A and B rings of Saturn.Answer: Cassini division (accept equivalents)C. (10) This feature, actually discovered by James Keeler, separates the outer portion of Saturn's A ring from the remainder of the ring. Its namesake also calculated the orbit of the comet with the shortest known orbital period.Answer: Encke division (accept equivalents)18. Indonesian island from features, FTPE.A. (10) Surabaya, Jakarta, Mount MerapiAnswer: JavaB. (10) Padang, the north shore of the Sunda Strait, the Barisan MountainsAnswer: SumatraC. (10) Kupang, the south shore of the Banda Sea, an international borderAnswer: Timor19. Name these Chekhov plays from characters, FTPE.A. (10) The actress Arkadina, the ill Sorin, son Treplyev, the writer Trigorin, and neighbor Nina. Answer: The Seagull [or Chayka]B. (10) Andrey, Natalya, Masha, Irina, Tuzenbakh, Kulygin, Olga, VershininAnswer: Three Sisters [or Tri Sestry]C. (10) Simeon Ephikhodof, Lyubov Andreyevna, Lopakhin, Charlotte, Dunyasha, Firs NikolayevitchAnswer: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishnyovy Sad]20. Name these Supreme Court cases involving labor laws, FTPE. A. (10) In this 1918 case, the Court applied the EC Knight doctrine stating that the federal government's power over interstate commerce does not extend to manufacturing, striking down a federal child labor law.Answer: Hammer v. Dagenhart (accept Dagenhart v. Hammer)B. (10) In this 1905 case, overruled in 1917's Bunting v. Oregon, the Court voided a New York law limiting bakers to ten hours of work per day.Answer: Lochner v. New York (accept New York v. Lochner)C. (10) This 1908 case began the road to reversal of Lochner, upholding an Oregon law limiting the working hours of women. It featured the first use of the "Brandeis brief," which introduced social data to law.Answer: Muller v. Oregon (accept Oregon v. Muller)