TOSSUPS - FLORIDA C.C. JACKSONVILLE			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions mostly by Chip Thomas1.	He wore an ostrich plume in his hat, and took a mortal blow at the battle of Yellow Tavern from the forces of the velvet-clad George Armstrong Custer.  In 1862, he twice made rides around George McClellan's entire army, and dispatches to London papers made him an international star.   FTP identify this dashing cavalryman whom Robert E. Lee called the eyes of the army, whose failure to maintain communications was a key to the Confederacy's loss at Gettysburg.  answer:  Jeb  Stuart2.	Bats are more closely related to man than birds, but have developed wings. Whales have a fishlike form.   In biology, similarities cannot always be used to argue descent, because of parallel pressures exerted by similar environments.  FTP, give the term that describes the tendency for quite different groups to develop parallel structures.  answer:  convergence3.	This moody and enigmatic young man learned how to make his guitar moan by sliding the broken neck of a glass bottle along its strings. He cut violent love songs like "32-20 Blues" and "Kind-Hearted Woman," and his line about squeezing his lemon until the juice ran down his leg became a lyric trademark of Robert Plant some 40 years later.  FTP, what bluesman's agonizing death by poison was widely seen as the result of a deal he struck at a crossroads with Satan?  answer:  Robert Johnson4.	Trouble ground his wits, and taught him more than anything in Aristotle.  The macabre imagery of his Ballad of the Hanged was no doubt inspired by his many brushes with the gallows, and his Grand Testament is actually a dramatized will with legacies to friend and foe alike.  FTP, identify this "sorriest figure on the rolls of fame", who completely disappears from the historical record after 1462.   answer:  Francois  Villon5.	This group recently slaughtered 100 cows and gave the meat to the people. Their reclusive leader, Mullah Mohammad Omar, ordered this ritual atonement because he did not order the destruction of the pagan idols earlier, which include the two large Buddhist statues in Bamiyan. Their name means "students" and is taken from the Pakistan-based seminaries during the Soviet occupation. FTP, what group of Sunni Muslim currently control Afghanistan?	Answer: Taliban (prompt on Afghanistan)6.	The bottom chamber was illuminated by x-rays which ionized the air. An atomizer from the top chamber sprays the title objects and lets them fall through an opening in a charged plate. A battery provides the voltage to create an electric field. This suspends the objects as a result of the electrons attracted to it. Using the formula, q times capital E equals m times g, the charge of an electron was determined. FTP what famous experiment performed in 1909 earned a Nobel Prize for Robert Millikan?	Answer: Millikan's Oil-Drop Experiment (prompt on Millikan before mention)7.	Einstein's theory of relativity predicted the bending of light by gravity, and that a sufficiently massive object  can create distortions in space-time. Light from a quasar lying behind a larger interstellar body can appear from Earth to be shifted or broken.  FTP, name the phenomena that occurs when the image of such an object is shattered into several images, or even a ring.  Answer:  Gravitational Lensing (accept Einstein ring)
8.	Recurring characters with one shoe and one bare foot. The quote "To wound the autumnal city...so howled out for the world to give him a name." John Marr, verbal 710, math 790, a black philosopher with coprophilia. Shattered captain Lorq von Ray, chasing rainbows. FTP, all of the above are identified with what author of Stars in their Pockets like Grains of Sand and Triton, the world's bestselling gay, dyslexic, African-American science fiction writer?Answer:  Samuel Delany9.	They wore blue uniforms with turned-back tails and tall metal caps, except for the crack sharpshooters.  Recruited or kidnapped from the poorest classes, they were whipped and executed in astonishing numbers.  Is it a surprise that many of Langrave Frederick's hired guns ran off after Pennsylvania Dutch wenches?  FTP, name the "Huns from hell" that made up much of the British army in the Revolutionary War.Answer: Hessians10.	Charles Mingus once said of this substance that if God made anything better, he kept it to himself; an anonymous wit noted that "it's so good, don't even try it once."  Users of this drug claim not to get colds or respiratory infections while they are taking it, and certainly the overwhelming rush (more intense than orgasm) that the White Horse produces is another appealing feature.  FTP, identify this powerful narcotic which is often treated with methadone, a thoroughly demonized drug that is in reality little different from medical morphine.Answer:  Heroin11.	In 1783, Laki -- a volcano here -- erupted killing about 9,300 people. This country features a single highway that runs around the entire island. Most of its power is derived from geothermal sources. Home of Nobel laureate Haldor Laxness, this country features perhaps the oldest legislative body, the Althing. FTP what is this misnomer of a country with its capital at Reykjavik?	Answer: Iceland12.	He has only been known to have executive produced one film, The Magnificent Three. This troublesome individual has been involved with the Mafia, participating in the Zuban Cigar heist. As a wrestler, he was known as the Offender. He idolizes two people -- Elzar, a cook on television, and Calculon from All My Circuits. FTP, who has a guy named Fry living in his closet in New New York, the thieving robot on Futurama?	Answer: Bender13.	He coined phrases like 'inscape" and 'instress" to characterize the forces that surged through the poet during his quest for the "original, spare and strange".  Powerful if weird images like "skies of couple-color as a brinded cow", and "the ooze of oil, crushed" mark his fine shorter poems.  Bold rhythms and traditional Christian themes marked poems like "The Wreck of the Deutschland" and "Pied Beauty" by, FTP, what shy Jesuit?  Answer:  Gerald Manley Hopkins 14.	This artist was born into a well-to-do family of mill owners, and never left England. He did study landscape painters like Claude and Rubens at the newly-established Royal Academy in London, but the peculiar qualities of  what he termed "God's Almighty daylight" that he captured in works like Salisbury Cathedral and The Cornfield were his own innovation.  FTP, name this lover of sunlight and nature's dewy freshness, who created The Hay Wain.Answer:  John Constable15.	Hard-liners were known as the order of Dragovitch, and thought the Earth a diabolic carbon copy of heaven.  This cult put a twist on Gnostic dualism by insisting that satanael--the devil---was God's eldest son, and regarded just about everything in creation as evil.  FTP, identify this Bulgarian heresy with an anti-Byzantine political agenda, which rejected churches, marriage, and sex.answer: the  Bogomils
16.	In the course of their wanderings, they invented a spear-thrower, lamps fueled with burning fat, and almost certainly the bow. Their remains found in caves in the Dordogne Valley are estimated to be 30,000 years old, and they flourished until roughly 18,000 B.C.  FTP, identify this ancient group of men, whose steady advance from the Asian steppe resulted in the annihilation of the Neanderthals.  answer:  Cro-Magnon  Man17.	This spurious legend that inspired a number of works of literature grew more tawdry as time went on; the go-between's name has spawned a word for a procurer in sexual transactions, and the heroine's name is a byword for infidelity in Shakespeare.  FTP, what tale of the love and betrayal of a son of Troy's King Priam became in the capable hands of Chaucer the earliest psychological love story of English fiction?  answer:  Troilius and Cressida18.	First identified in 1934 by otolaryngologist Dr. J B Costen, this disease is often called "the great mimicker" because its symptoms imitate those of many other conditions. It is associated with headaches and degenerative arthritis, and the uncertainty surrounding it gives it a pair of common acronyms, TMJ and TMD. FTP, what disorder is caused by the cramping of muscles at the conjunction of the lower jaw and the temporal bone?  Answer: Temporomandibular disorder (accept temporomandibular joint disorder; accept TMJ or TMD before they're said)19.	It ends with a commentary on the myth of Er which greatly influenced Christianity, but its third section is devoted to a discussion of constitutions. There is to be a rigid censorship over literature, and the Lydian and Ionian harmonies of music are to be forbidden, FTP, a discussion of Justice is the nominal purpose of what 455 page tome by Plato?  answer:  The Republic20.	Freud regarded this ancient concept as the personification of negative unconscious drives, chiefly sexual of course.  In Modern Man in Search of a Soul, Jung of course desexualized and abstracted it, conjecturing that it was an even half of the fullness of the pleroma or reality of the cosmos. Jeffrey Burton Russell is its chief scholar today, and depictions of Seth may have given it its characteristic red color.  FTP say the unholy name of  the Lord of the Flies, the tempter, the Prince of Darkness.answer:   Satan (accept Devil, Lucifer, Beelzebub...)21.	He was a canon at Frombork, and was involved in negotiations on behalf of his native Poland in the bloody wars against the Teutonic Knights. He coined the idea currently attributed to Gresham, that debased currency drives good money out of circulation.  FTP, identify this man whose immortal work de Revolutionibus  orbium coelestium posited a heliocentric solar system.   answer:  Nicholas Copernicus22.   Although he wasn't blind, he learned Braille so that he might rest his pained eyes while indulging his addiction to reading. He complained bitterly about the severe editing of his final novel about Pala, quite a blow to the  author of two highly acclaimed works of popular history,  The Devils of Loudon and Grey Eminence.  FTP, identify this member of a distinguished British family of intellectuals, the author of Antic Hay and Brave New World.  answer:  Aldous Huxley23.	When his emissaries to Shah Muhammad, the ruler of  the Kowarazeem kingdom, were summarily executed, this man led the notorious 1220 AD. massacre at Samarkand.  Born with the name Temujin in the tent city of Karakorum, he launched his first major campaign against the Hsi Hsia Empire. FTP, identify this Mongol ruler whose name is synonymous with violent conquest.    answer:  Genghis Khan
24.	Light passes through a rotating, water-driven wheel, reflects off of a distant mirror, and returns through the spinning wheel. When the rate of the running water (and thus the spinning of the wheel) is synchronized so that returning pulses are eclipsed, then "c" can be calculated.  FTP, what 1851 experiment, an attempt to measure the speed of light, was one of the first truly relativistic experiments?  Answer:  Fizeau method25.  Eyewitnesses related seeing Satan guide his hands during concerts, and the accusations of violence, dissipation, and compulsive gambling that dogged him  caused the church to deny his burial in consecrated ground.  He revived the ancient practice of scordatura, or the varied retuning of strings, and the violent effects which he produced with it--coupled with his long hair and skin-tight pantaloons--often caused hysterics in his predominantly female audiences. FTP, what infamous violin virtuoso was the richest musician of his era?Answer:  Nicolo Paganini.26.	A young Whistler.  Stefan George. Baudelaire. Hitler, for a stretch.  It was a ceremonial with severe laws: one must always be original, ice-cold, a loner, desping the commonplace.  An appreciation of finer things, and an inheritance to squander were also key. FTP, name this cult of the ego whose name today merely connotes a fellow who pays too much attention to his clothing.  Answer:  dandy27.	When he was unable to buy the original,  P.T. Barnum had craftsmen copy it, and exhibited the model profitably in 1870. Initially taken in, the scientific community quickly concluded that this lucrative block of Iowa gypsum had been buried some time in 1868!  FTP, a well in rural New York State produced what ten-foot tall, three thousand pound "petrified human being"?  Answer:  Cardiff Giant
BONI - FLORIDA C.C. JACKSONVILLE			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTCQuestions mostly by Chip Thomas1.	Supply the answers to these questions about Greek military history FTP each.      1-These brutalized serf-like people "would gladly eat the Spartans raw".   		Answer:  Helots      2- This man was elected general of Athens each year between 479 and 462 		Answer:  Cimon  	3-What Spartan naval battle in 404 BC effectively ended the Peloponnesian war?  		Answer:  Aegospotami2.  Identify the following novels about war. 5 pts. For one correct, 10 for 2, 20 for 3, or 30 for all 4:Henry Fleming is a Union soldier in the Civil War who wishes he was wounded so he could prove he was brave.	Answer:  The Red Badge of CourageThis anti-war novel follows Paul Baumer and his friends as they try to survive World War I.	Answer:  All Quiet on the Western FrontIt follows an American named Robert Jordan fighting on the side of the Loyalists during the Spanish Civil War.	Answer:  For Whom the Bell TollsThis Pulitzer-winning Michael Shaara work is a fictional treatment of the battle of Gettysburg.	Answer:  The Killer Angels3.	Identify the following stages in embryonic development FTPE.10) Repeated cleavage divisions form this solid ball of cells whose name is Latin for mulberry.	Answer:  morula10) After the morula stage, a single epithelial layer forms around a fluid-filled cavity, giving rise to this hollow ball stage of development.	Answer:  blastula10) This stage occurs after a profound rearrangement of the cells transforms the blastula into a multilayered embryo.	Answer:  gastrula 4.	Identify the musical instrument most closely associated with the following musicians FTPE:A. Van Cliburn (KLIGH-burn), Vladimir Horowitz, Artur Rubinstein	Answer:  pianoB. James Galway, Jean-Pierre Rampal	Answer:  fluteC. Fritz Kreisler, Yitzhak Perlman, Viktoria Mullova	Answer:  violin5.	Identify the magician from clues, and abracadabra! Ten points per part.1-	This author of books like Flim-Flam and The Masks of Nostradamus has evolved from a talented trickster into a dogged critic of magical shenanigans.  Answer:  James Randi2-	Canonized in 1931, this revered theologian actually taught Aquinas and wrote voluminously on alchemy and astrology.  Answer:  Albertus Magnus (accept Albert the Great)3-This brilliant Caltech engineer and cofounder of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory was an occultist, major womanizer, friend of both Alastair Crowley and L. Ron Hubbard, and devoted student of magic.  He died in an unexplained violent explosion in 1952.  Answer:  Jack  Parsons
6.	Provide the computer term from a short definition FTP each. 1-This oft-misused term denotes the number of times the state or frequency of a communications line can change per second.  answer:  baud rate2-Used in such visual codecs as JPG's, this form of compression loses some of the original data, but produces an image in which the eye doesn't notice the loss.  answer lossy compression (do not accept lossless compression)3- This three-letter acronym designates a text-based, computer-generated environment in which you talk to other participants, solve puzzles, and explore computer-generated objects around you.  answer:  MUD (for multiple user dimension)7. 	Identify the baseball player from clues, on a 30-20-10 point basis.  30-This native of Omaha, Nebraska, and former lover of Margo Adams suffered the indignity of being platooned with Charlie Hayes in 1995.  20-Though slow of foot, he led the A.L. in runs scored in both 1988 and '89, and his 240 hits in 1985 were the most in decades.10- This superstitious, chicken-loving hitting machine won batting titles with the Red Sox from 1985 to 1988.  	Answer:  Wade Boggs8.  Answer the following questions about Joan of Arc FTSNOP:5)  Joan was an important leader in which major European war?	Answer:  Hundred Years War5)  Joan's most noted military achievement was an upset victory in this May 1429 battle.	Answer:  Orleans10) Later in 1429 Joan had a place of honor beside this French monarch at his coronation.	Answer:  Charles VII 10) After being convicted by a secular court as a relapsed heretic Joan was burned at the stake in what city?	Answer:  Rouen 9. Name these women of science from brief descriptions FTSNOP:5)  This Cambridge University assistant discovered the first pulsar in 1967.   	Answer:  Jocelyn Bell5) Her work with corn plants led to her theory of transposons, or mobile genetic elements, which earned her the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1983.	Answer:  Barbara McClintock10) She won the 1964 Nobel for chemistry for her work on the determination of complex organic structures through X-ray diffraction, working on determining the structures of pepsin, penicillin, and vitamin B12. 	Answer:  Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin10) In partnership with Solomon Berson at (of all places) a VA hospital in the Bronx, this woman developed radioimmunoassay, for which she won the 1977 Nobel in Medicine and Physiology.  (That same year Charlie shared an elevator with her and determined that she did not spend any of the prize money on mouthwash.)      Answer: Rosalyn Yalow10. Identify the authors from works, FTPE.10) China Men and The Woman Warrior	Answer:  Maxine Hong Kingston10) Heart of Aztlan and Bless Me, Ultima	Answer:  Rudolfo Anaya10) Too Late the Phalarope and Cry, the Beloved Country	Answer:  Alan Stewart Paton
11.  Given a list of artists give the style they are most associated with FTPE:10)  Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque.	Answer:  Cubism accept variations such as Analytic Cubism10)  Parmigianino, Corregio, and Andrea del Sarto	Answer:  Mannerism  10)  Willem De Kooning, Mark Rothko, and Jackson Pollack	Answer:  Abstract Expressionism12.	Answer the following about Daniel Webster in American literature FTSNOP:A. (5 pts.) Who wrote "The Devil and Daniel Webster"?      Answer:	Stephen Vincent BenetB. (10 pts.) Name the defendant in the climactic trial of "The Devil and Daniel Webster," whom Webster is trying to get out of his deal with the Devil.	Answer: 	Jabez Stone (accept either nameC. (5 pts.) Daniel Webster is the name of a "celebrated jumping frog" in what California county?      Answer:	Calaveras CountryC. (10 pts.) The anti-slavery poet who wrote "Snowbound" and "Barbara Frietchie" denounced Daniel Webster for accepting the Compromise of 1850 in a poem which begins, "So fallen! So lost!"  For 5 pts. each, name the author and the poem.      Answer:	John Greenleaf Whittier; "Ichabod."13.	Given the name of a molecule, give its chemical formula FFPE and a bonus five points for all correct.5) Potassium chloride	 KCl5) Calcium nitrate	Ca (NO3)2 [accept CaN2O6]5) Magnesium carbonate	MgCO35) Aluminum oxide	Al2O35) Ammonium sulfide	(NH4)2S  [accept N2H8S]5) Acetic acid	CH3COOH [accept C2H4O2 or HC2H3O2]14.	Identify the following Kings of England FTSNOP(5 pts.) Though never having spoken a word of English, he was revered by his people. The second son of Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine, he was known as Coeur d'Lion.Answer: Richard I Plantagenet "The Lion Heart"(10 pts.) He never spoke English either, but unlike Richard I his native language wasn't French but German. As a result of the Act of Succession, the royal line transferred to Hanover and he was the first of them.Answer: George I Hanover(5 pts.) He was the only English King ever executed when the Roundheads led by Oliver Cromwell were victorious in the English Civil War and put him to death.Answer: Charles I Stuart(10 pts)  Which king immediately preceded Victoria to the crown?  answer: William IV
15.	Identify the following linguistic terms from clues for 5, 10 and 15 points.  5 points-  This word refers to the smallest significant unit of sound.  Answer: phoneme10 points- This word describes syllables which show a marked glide from one vowel to another.   Answer:  diphthong  (oh, all right, accept it even if pronounced "dip-thong")15 points:  This  word refers to the loss of a final vowel on a word over time.Answer: apocope16.	Identify the scientific concepts from clues FTP each.1-	This conjecture baldly states that a black hole has only three salient characteristics, as all others are destroyed by the powerful horizon.  Answer:  No-Hair Conjecture2-	This states that the path taken by a ray of light between any two points is always that which takes the least time.   Answer: Fermat's principle (prompt on least-time principle)3-	Resolved by the big-bang theory, this paradox states that the night sky should be bright due to the infinity of stars in any direction.   Answer:  Olbers' paradox17.	Supply the following terms from anthropology FTP each.1-	This word describes these "technicians of the sacred", whom employ ecstatic soul-flights and trance states.Answer: Shaman2- This "m" word describes an ancient burial heap.Answer:  Midden3-	This word defines the study of plant knowledge, lore, and usage in traditional societies.Answer:  Ethnobotany18.	Answer the following about Chinese history FTP each.1-Paper was invented during which dynasty in the third century, c.e?   answer: Han2- This mystic fused Christianity and local beliefs and led the Taiping rebellion?  answer:  Hung His-Chuan (accept  Hung or anything close)3- This man's attempted coup against Mao ended in a plane crash?  answer:  Lin Biao or Piao; accept Lin19. 	Identify the writer from clues on a 30-20-10 point basis.30-Part of his "Artificial Paradises" was translated from de Quincey, but 'Squibs" was all his own.20- His French translation of Poe is regarded by many critics as superior to the original.10- He wrote the decadent classic "Fleurs du Mal"  answer: Charles Baudelaire20.	We're on the Highway to Hell, everybody! Answer the following infernal questions FTSNOP  5 points- give the Jewish name for what was basically hell  answer: sheol  5 points:  give the Egyptian name for what was basically hell  answer:  tuat10 points: give the name of the negative principle in Zoroastrianism that was basically the Devil.  Ahriman or  Angra Mainyu  10 points: identify the author of The Satanic Bible   answer:  Anton LaVey
21.	 Identify the ancient people from clues, on a 30-20-10 point basis.30-The seven tribes united under Arpad in 900, and their language is closer to Korean than any European tongue.20-They sent raiding parties against the Byzantines, found more success against Germany in the early 10th Century, and were broken by Otto I at Lechfield in 955.10-These horse warriors were from the Great Hungarian Plain, and their descendents became fanatical Christians.answer:   Magyars22.	- Identify the philosopher from clues on a 30-20-10 point basis.30- In  Matter and Memory, he asserted that all of an individual's life experiences are stored.20- 1889's Time and Free Will rejected arbitrary measures of duration made in the interest of conformity.10-	Creative Evolution, which discussed the Žlan vital, helped secure him the 1927 Nobel prize in Literature.  Answer:  Henri   Bergson23.	Identify the scientific concepts from brief descriptions FTP each1- This unit of measure equals 1/60th of a degree of longitude along the equator.Answer: NAUTICAL MILE2-This term refers to a double sulfate of a monovalent metal or radical and a trivalent metal.  For instance, double sulfate of potassium and aluminum.  Answer:  alum3-A solid produced by the formation of a three-dimensional cage structure of linked large-molecular-mass polymers, in which a liquid is trapped. For instance, pectin.Answer:  gel24.  Identify the following mythological figures from clues FTP each.1-His father carved him up and served him as stew to deities, but he survived to found the Olympic Games.  Answer:  Pelops2-This "breaker of obstacles" had a thousand testicles and a throat that resembled a river. He slew the demon Vrta, and decapitated Namuci with foam.Answer:  Indra3-This faithful wife of Rama was abducted by the demon Ravana.Answer:  Sita25.  Identify the group of peoples from clues FTP each.1-	Beowulf was a member of this people, who were probably from southern Sweden.  Answer:  Geats2-	These worshippers of a bear cult are the aboriginal inhabitants of  Japan..Answer:   ainu3- An "h" word denotes this African people of Caucasoid descent whose members include the Berbers and Tuaregs.  Answer:  Hamites (accept hamito-semites)