TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY A			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Seth Kendall1. Balzac praised this work in a lengthy review one year after it was published, and Andre Gide ranked it as the greatest of all French novels. It was partially based on the 17th century chronicle of the life of Pope Paul III who supposedly murdered a young woman's servant, was imprisoned in the Castel Sant' Angelo and escaped by the means of a very long rope. However, the first part of the novel is taken from the author's own experiences in the army of Napoleon, and by the end, the main character Fabrizio del Dongo dies in the title structure in, FTP, what 1839 novel of Stendhal?       Answer: 	The Charterhouse of Parma (or La Chartreuse De Parme)2. Despite a court-martial for spreading subversive propaganda during World War I this man was decorated for bravery in the Austro-Hungarian army before his capture by the Russians, where he became a convert to Bolshevik rhetoric. On his return to his native Zagreb, this man assumed leadership of the Communist party there and was jailed for his Comintern activities.  But his spirited leadership of the anti-Nazi partisans during World War II led to his election to Prime Minister in 1951 and president in 1963, an office from which he carefully kept from being absorbed into the Soviet Bloc through his calculated policy of 'non-alignment".  FTP name this European statesman born Josip Broz, the architect of the "second Yugoslavia" which he led until his death in 1980.	Answer:	 'Marshal' Tito (accept 'Josip Broz' until that clue is read)3.  In the mid-1700's Gabriel Fahrenheit went to Denmark and according to legend swiped the idea for his thermometer from this former mayor of Copenhagen. While serving as the royal mathematician and University professor there he invented the transit instrument, a telescope moveable only at the meridian.  But it was during his tenure in Paris that he made his most famous discovery when he noticed that elapsed time between eclipses of Jupiter's moons by Jupiter varied proportionally as the earth grew closer and more distant. FTP name this man, who concluded this phenomena was due to the finite speed of light, which he calculated to 140,000 miles per second.	Answer:	 Olaus (Ole) Roemer4. The wolf and the woodpecker were sacred to this Roman god, suggesting that like Silenus he was originally god of forests and wild uncultivated places to whom sacrifices were made in his namesake month to keep him from harming the crops. He was also the god of strangers, or hostiles (hoss-till-aze), which has direct bearing on his most famous attribute, as the Latin word can also mean "enemy". FTP name this Roman god to whom the spear was also sacred, more befitting his status as god of war.	Answer:	 Mars (do not accept "Ares", as the word "Roman" was used twice and "Latin" was used once)5. A former diplomat and agent of the British East India company who had fallen on hard times, he was eventually granted a government stipend of 100 pounds a year, which he used to write treatises with ponderous titles like Specimen of an Entomological Locator, or Essay by means of the Aniletic Method to Retrieve the Ancient Celtic.  He had been given that pension by Lord Granville on the condition that he discontinue writing the types of works which made him famous, such as Memoirs of A Cox-comb and his most famous work.  FTP name this author who continued to make trouble for publishers years after his death on account of his Fanny Hill.	Answer:	 John Cleland 6. Existing as isometric crystals with an ionic lattice similar to sodium chloride, it is one of the most widely distributed sulfide minerals and it occurs in nature in a variety of forms, most often in conjunction with antimony, copper, zinc, and silver, as well as another mineral for which it is extensively mined.  Such mining has led to the renaming of the Fever river in Illinois after this compound, and it has also given a name to the seat of Jo Daviess County with an important Civil War connection. FTP name this compound, also called lead glance, with a formula of PbS, after which the hometown of Ulysses S. Grant is named.	Answer:	 galena7. Included in the territory of this country are the islands of Socotra, the Brothers, Kamoran, and Berim. Though it is comparatively rich in such mineral resources as iron, coal, oil, and uranium, the main exports of this Near Eastern nation are agricultural products such as coffee, which was first discovered there. FTP name this nation, which existed as two separate states with capitals Sana and Aden until 1990 and is bordered by Saudi Arabia and Oman.	Answer:	 Yemen
8. Some of its notable features include automatic storage allocation, transparent automatic type conversion, and an expression-evaluation syntax that uses control structures to combine evaluations with backtracking.  Its string processing capabilities employ built-in data structures that can work with data in the form of numerical values, lists, characters, records, procedure, or tables with associative lookup.  Used widely in Artificial Intelligence, Symbolic mathematics, and especially text processing applications, it is an imperative, procedural language with a syntax that bears little resemblance to Snobol, from which it is descended. FTP name this language developed by Ralph Griswold whose name has little to do with the language itself and is reminiscent of desktop adornments in Graphical User Interfaces.	Answer:	 Icon9. In 1871 this man was called from his successful law practice in Toledo, Ohio to serve as counsel on the Alabama claims and was so surprised at the summons that he thought the telegrams notifying him were part of a practical joke. As a member of the Supreme Court he would be known for his hostility to the Fourteenth Amendment, holding that it did not grant voting rights to women, did not prevent state officials from refusing to register black voters, and did not bar private organiszations from keeping blacks away from the polls in such cases as Minor v. Happersett, U.S. v. Reece, and U.S. v. Cruikshank.  FTP name this man, who also held that the Fourteenth Amendment did not guarantee due process to a Chicago grain warehouse in Munn v. Illinois, delivering his opinions as the seventh Chief Justice of the United States serving from 1874 to 1888.	Answer:	 Morrison Remick Waite 10. The term is derived from the Latin for "stake."  Among the more famous regions given the name was the Cherta Oselosti, a Russian-controlled region in Poland that underwent frequent pogroms after the death of Alexander II, who had allowed Jews to settle there. Another was established in Ireland following the expedition of Henry II which included the counties of Dublin, Louth, Meath, and Kildare as a place where English law was in force, and from the fact that brigands often lay beyond it we obtained modern our expression. FTP name these settlements, districts separated from the surrounding country by defined boundaries or distinguished by a different administrative and legal system.	Answer:	 pale11. This novel's protagonist is a promiscuous bisexual and drug addict, incarcerated for the murder of his own brother under the influence of heroin. While in jail he cleans up and draws inspiration from the escape of his fellow inmate and lover Jody.  After he discovers the reason he killed his brother is that the latter had told him his father wanted him aborted, he is able to find the strength to escape as well by substituting himself for the dead body of his cell-mate Chicken.  FTP identify this novel, named for the prison in which Ezekiel Farragut was confined, written by John Cheever.	Answer:	 Falconer12. Throughout his long life he endured several family tragedies, including the death of his brother Maximilian in Mexico in 1867, the assassination of his wife Elizabeth in 1899, and the murder suicide of his son Rudolf and his fiancee in 1899. An inept soldier who personally commanded the losing forces at the battle of Solferino and a subpar diplomat as a member of the League of the Three Emperors, he was so devoted to duty that even though he despised his nephew and his morganatic wife, he felt the need to issue the ultimatum that led to war with Serbia on that nephew's murder by Gavrilo Princep. FTP name this man, who ruled Austria from 1848 and then Hungary from 1867 until his death in 1916.	Answer:	 Franz Joseph13. By means of the mandrakes which his mother uses to purchase sexual contact with his father, he is indirectly responsible for the birth of his siblings Issachar, Zebulon, and Dinah.  And since his step-mother uses those mandrakes to conceive, he can also be held accountable for another brother, his father's favorite.  Since he counsels that that brother not be killed but sold into Egyptian slavery, he can still further be credited for saving the life of that brother, Joseph.  Yet for all this he is ultimately deprived of his status as eldest son for his dalliance with a concubine of his father, Isaac. FTP name this son of Leah who is in part deprived of his rights for bedding Bilhah.	Answer:	 Reuben
14. This amino acid is one of the three whose failure to be decarboxylated results in "maple syrup urine disease", and its lack of metabolizing also results in isovaleric acidemia. Found in high concentration in hemoglobin, muscle fiber, and wool, it was discovered in 1819 by Joseph Louis Proust, who named it for its white color. FTP name this amino acid, whose chemical formula is (CH3)2-CH-CH2-CH(NH2)-COOH.	Answer:	 leucine15. At the start of this novel, the narrator is on board the Martinez to visit his friend Charley Furuseth who reads Nietzsche and Schopenhauer to rest his brain. Due to heavy fog, there is a shipwreck and he is saved from drowning by a seal-hunting schooner on its way to the North Pacific. He becomes a virtual slave of the title character who is the physically domineering captain of the Ghost, and who engages the narrator in philosophical and literary discussions. In the end, Humphrey van Weyden finds true love with Maud Brewster, while the title character dies and is buried at sea in, FTP, what 1904 novel of Jack London?       Answer: 	The Sea Wolf16. Midway through the dialogue a disciple relieves the title figure, worn out by a long public display, and it is with this assistant, Polus, that Socrates refutes the idea that it is the best thing to do wrong with impunity and shows that it is better to suffer injustice than do it.  He then refutes his own friend Callicles to assert that the true art of living well is moderation, though he never quite gets the answer he is looking for concerning the art practiced by the title figure.  FTP name this lengthy dialogue which stems from Socrates's asking a famous orator to define rhetoric.	Answer:	 Gorgias17. Discovered by Jons Jacob Berzelius in 1818, this element has many unique properties, one of which, the increased conductivity its metallic form demonstrates when exposed to light and its ability to convert light directly into electricity, makes it ideal for use in photoelectric, solar, and photographic cells. Another, its ability to transform alternating into direct current, enables it to be used commercially in rectifiers, and the red color it produces has led to its widespread use in the manufacture of glasses and enamels.  FTP name this element named for the moon, whose atomic number is 34.	Answer:	 Selenium18. According to Vasari this artist spent the last years of his life in Cremona as a "bearded, long-haired, neglected, and almost savage man" obsessed with alchemy. Probably not a pupil of Corregio, the latter's influence can nevertheless be seen in such early works as "Mystic Marriage of St. Catherine" and "Legend of Diana and Actaeon", though he would develop his own languid Mannerist style in such works as "Vision of Saint Jerome", "Cupid Sharpening his Bow", and the portrait of "Antea", who was probably his lover. FTP name this man originally named Girolamo Francesco Maria Mazzauola and named for his hometown, perhaps best known for "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror" and "Madonna with the Long Neck".	Answer:	 Parmigianino (accept "Girolamo Francesco Maria Mazzauola" before the FTP)19. The working title of the film was From Among The Dead, also the title of its source, a novel written especially for the director by Thomas Narcejac and Pierre Boileau. The film revolves around a mysterious woman who feigns a connection to one Carlotta Valdes and is later forced to impersonate Madeleine Elster by the man who has been driven insane by Madeleine's death and his own inability to prevent it due to another pronounced psychiatric disorder. FTP name this film featuring Kim Novak and Jimmy Stewart as 'Scottie' Ferguson, whose fear of heights is dramatically highlighted by Alfred Hitchcock.	Answer:	 Vertigo20. The organizational talents he demonstrated in founding the officer training camp in Plattsburg earned this man command of the Department of the East in 1914, though the senior Army command for the American Expedition was ultimately given to John Pershing, an officer junior to him. This was perhaps justifiable because he actually had no military training whatsoever; he was originally an extremely competent surgeon given the Congressional Medal of Honor for his service in the war with Geronimo.  He came to military fame chiefly through organizing and leading the First United States Volunteer Cavalry at the Battles of Las Guasimas with his friend and putative subordinate, the Undersecretary of the Navy.  FTP name this man in nominal command of the "Rough Riders" at San Juan Hill and superior of Theodore Roosevelt.	Answer:	 Leonard Wood
21. From the Greek for reed, this word has several definitions applying to Church matters: the part of the Mass following the Sanctus, a clergyman serving in a Cathedral, the law of the church, and the list of saints accepted in Catholicism are all described by it.. Musically it is applied to a composition which features the strict repetition of a theme either simultaneously at the same pitch or consecutively in a different key, and in general parlance it is used to describe an entire list or genre of things. FTP identify this word, popularized by Harold Bloom and Johann Pachelbel.	Answer:	 canon22. Julius Handford is able to compel Rogue Riderhood to admit he had given false testimony and to relieve the unjust suspicion that had been put on Lizzie Hexam, whose father Gaffer had been accused of the murder of which he had in fact been the victim. Riderhood would later try to point the finger at John Rokesmith, which threatened to break up Rokesmith's happy marriage to Bella Wilfer, but th confusion is cleared up when Rokesmith confesses that he himself is not only Julius Handford but also John Harmon, who had gone into hiding to avoid a forced marriage to Bella. Such are just some of the twists in, FTP, what Charles Dickens work, of which Handford-Rokesmith-Harmon is presumably the common acquaintance suggested by the title.	Answer:	 Our Mutual Friend23. Rose spends much of her early life assisting her father, Lionel, in his anti-apartheid Communist activities, even going so far as to smuggle messages to him during his frequent incarcerations by feigning a love affair with a fellow political prisoner. Managing to gain government permission to go abroad after Lionel's death, she hangs out in Paris and London, but her attendance at a Communist rally  there comes back to haunt her after she returns to South Africa to work as a physical therapist during the Soweto school riots. This is a brief chronicle of, FTP, what title character of the most famous novel of Nadine Gordimer?	Answer:	 Burger's Daughter24. After beating back a small attack by George Taylor, Stonewall Jackson entrenched himself on Stony Ridge. When the Union army's clumsy attempts to dislodge him failed, James Longstreet's reinforcements drove the Union from Chinn Ridge. Lee then sent Jackson to Chantilly, where he stopped the divisions of Stevens and Kearny, thus completing the rout of General John Pope. FTP name this August 1862 battle in which Lee, Jackson, and Longstreet defeated the Union Army of Virginia on the same ground where Irvin McDowell's army had been smashed the year before.	Answer:	 Second Manassas or Second Bull Run (depending on whose side wrote the question)25.	No one has ever seen Signora Frola and Signora Ponza, the mother-in-law and wife of Signor Ponza, together. One reason suggested for this is that Signora Ponza is actually Ponza's second wife and pretends to be his dead first wife, Frola's daughter, because Frola is mad; another suggestion is that Signora Ponza _is_ that first wife and Frola's daughter believed to have died by Signor Ponza, who is himself mad and believes he has remarried. According to Laudisi, the mystery is solved by Signora Ponza's claim both to be Ponza's second wife and Frola's daughter in, FTP, what ambiguously-titled play by Luigi Pirondello?	Answer:	 Right You Are (If You Think So) (accept It Is So If You Think So, Right You Are If You Think You Are, or other reasonable English equivalents.  Also accept "Cosi e si vi pare")
BONI - KENTUCKY A			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Seth Kendall1. In the mid-1930's this director of mixed Austrian and American backgrounds had a falling out with Ernst Lubitsch and gradually lost creative control of his films, and while he still produced such works as the documentary Anatathan, his best days were behind him after the completion of 1935's The Devil Is a Woman. FTPE:1. Name this director, Academy Award nominee for Shanghai Express and Morocco, both made with his one-time bedmate Marlene Dietrich as leading lady.	Answer: 	Josef von Sternberg2. Sternberg made his reputation with this 1927 film, in which Emil Jannings played a decorated, aristocratic Czarist general reduced to penury after the collapse of Imperial Russia who is hired by an old adversary, now a successful film director, to re-enact the revolution which deposed him.	Answer:	 The Last Command3. Jannings, Dietrich, and Sternberg all worked together for this, the first German sound film and undoubtedly the best made by each of them, about a schoolteacher undone by his love for cabaret singer Lola Lola.	Answer:	 The Blue Angel   [accept with mad props anyone who answers (Der) Blaue Engel, as the German version is much better than the mutilated English version made at the same time]2. The American Revolution was won by land, but, too, by sea.  [Sorry, Seth, had to do it.]  Name these British Admirals during the Revolutionary war on a 5-10-15 basis.1. 5 points: Brother of a land general, at Sandy Hook this man defeated the Count d'Estaing in his attempt to take Newport.  He would later win at the Glorious First of June against the French in the Channel, a stunning naval victory not paralleled until Trafalgar; note that his nickname came from his swarthy complexion, not for more prurient reasons.	Answer:	 Lord Richard Howe (accept "Black Dick" if anyone actually says it)2. 10 points: This admiral took part in operations in the South and is notable for shattering defeats at Charleston and Sullivan Island. Later named Fleet Admiral and succeeded in that office by King William IV, he was apparently never bitten by a radioactive spider.	Answer:	 Sir Peter Parker3. 15 points: This admiral took part in the battle of Tobago, where he was defeated by the Comte de Grasse, though he would later repulse de Grasse at Saint Kitts and Nevis and utterly defeat him at Dominica, for which he was made an Irish peer. A dreadnought named for him took part in the chase of the Bismarck  -- and was the first to be sunk by it.	Answer:	 Lord Samuel Hood3.  Many of America's best known works of literature were published under different titles than those under which they were written. FTPE, name some of these from a description of the titles they might have had:1. Don Delillo originally wrote this under the name Panasonic, which he was forced to change due to the threat of lawsuit from the maker of electronics by that name; instead, he chose a name suggestive of the neutral sound of soft static.	Answer:	 White Noise2. This novel, the first of a trilogy about World War II that includes The Thin Red Line and Whistle, was originally to be titled Old Soldiers Never Die or If Wishes Were Horses.  The title finally used comes from a line from Kipling's poem "Gentlemen Rankers", which heavy drinkers may know as "The Whiffenpoof Song."	Answer:	 From Here to Eternity3. Afraid that the American public would not catch the reference to Satyricon, publishers persuaded F. Scott Fitzgerald to abandon Trimalchio in West Egg and rename this memorable icon of the Jazz Age after its title character.	Answer:	 The Great Gatsby4. According to the book of the Acts of the Apostles, a deacon was convicted of holding that a "Son of Man" stood at the right hand of God, affirming his belief in the divinity of Jesus, for which he became the first Christian martyr. FTPE:1. Name this New Testament figure, stoned to death as punishment for blasphemy.	Answer:	 (Saint) Stephen2. Stephen was condemned by this largely Pharisaic council, which had earlier condemned Jesus himself.	Answer:	 Sanhedrin3. According to Acts, this tentmaker and then-avid persecutor of Christians was present at, and may have even taken part in, the stoning of Stephen. He would later have a change of heart -and a change of name- en route to Damascus.	Answer:	 Saul (reluctantly accept "Paul")
5. Answer the following disease-related questions, 10 points each.1. This illness, also known as herpes zoster, is an acute viral infection affecting the skin and nerves, characterized by groups of small blisters appearing along certain nerve segments, especially on the back. In most cases, spontaneous recovery occurs within two weeks, but neuralgia may persist for months or even years after recovery from the infection.	Answer:	 shingles2. This American physician and virologist was the first to isolate the common aetiological virus for both shingles and chicken pox, and was the first to achieve the laboratory propagation of rubella.  He shared with John Enders and Frederick Robbins the 1954 Nobel for Physiology or Medicine for the successful cultivation of poliomyelitis virus in tissue cultures.	Answer:	 Thomas H. Weller3. Weller was the first to propose and name these viruses, defined as members of the Herpesviridae characterized by the enlarged cells produced by active infections notable for inclusion of foreign matter, especially in the nucleus. 	Answer:	 cytomegalovirus6. In 1949 a British intellectual published The Concept of Mind, a work which attacked the prevalent philosophical distinction between mind and body, an interpretation he held to be one of his famous "category mistakes". FTSNOP:1. 15 points: Name this philosopher whose other works include Dilemmas and Plato's Progress.	Answer:	 Gilbert Ryle2. 5 points: In The Concept of Mind Ryle attacks the aforementioned division of mind and body, which he describes as this kind of dualism, a term derived from the name of the author of Discourse on Method he held responsible for it.	Answer:	 Cartesian dualism (accept "Descartes's")3. 10 points: Ryle used this spectral 4-word phrase to summarize Cartesian dualism.	Answer:	 Ghost in the Machine7. FTPE identify the following works of Honoré de Balzac that aren't Pere Goriot, Cousine Bette, or Eugenie Grandet: 1. In this novel, Balzac's first major work, the Royalist leader Montauran is trapped by beautiful spy Marie de Verneuil, though she ultimately falls for him and both are killed by Revolutionary soldiers.  Marie's boss, the ruthless Commandant Hulot, would reappear in the Comedie Humaine in such works as Une Tenebreuse Affaire and Cousine Bette.       Answer:	 Les Chouans2. In this multi-volume work Raphael de Valentin is saved from suicide when he is given this title object, and it is explained to him that, though it will grant his wishes, it will shrink as it does so, and when it vanishes he will die.	Answer:	 The Wild Ass's Skin (accept Le Peau de Chagrin)3. The short stories in this collection are mostly concerned with wild sexual exploits of the French peasantry and - how's this for a timely reference? -- frequently include clergymen, as their subtitle, "From the Abbeys of Touraine", suggest.	Answer:	 Droll Stories (accept reasonable equivalents)8. Answer the following about the career of a somewhat forgotten but important physicist for 10 points each.1. A German despite what his name implies, in later life this man moved to the U.S., where at Duke he published a two volume work on superfluids.  Earlier, as a student of Sommerfeld and Schrodinger, his interest in chemical bonds led to his calculation of the non-polar component of forces between molecules, forces usually known by someone else's name. 	Answer:	 Fritz London 2. Those forces which Fritz London found are generally known by the name of the Dutch expositor of the Equation of State who had first postulated their existence. Name this 1910 Nobel laureate.	Answer:	 Johannes van der Waals3. With his brother Heinz, Fritz London developed the London equations to explain the electromagnetic behavior of these substances, first extensively studied by Hieke Kammerlingh Onnes, which lose electrical resistance when cooled below a characteristic temperature.	Answer:	 superconductors9. FTSNOP answer the following questions about the part of Hispaniola not noted for middle infielders, Haiti: 1. (5 points) Identify Haiti's capital.	Answer:	 Port-au-Prince2. (10 points) Off the north coast of Haiti is this "turtle" island, a one-time popular hangout for pirates not to be confused with the similarly-named "dry" islands in the Florida keys.	Answer:	 Tortuga3. (15) Lying of the west coast of Haiti is this 287 square mile island, which shares its name with the gulf in which it lies.	Answer:	 Ile de la Gonave (accept "Gulf de Gonave") 
10. Born on Israel's first kibbutz, he learned guerilla warfare from Orde Wingate, losing his eye fighting against the Vichy French as part of the Haganah. A participant in the Sinai War, he became Israel's Secretary of Defense in 1967. FTPE:1. Name this Israeli general and politician famous for his trademark eye-patch.	Answer: 		Moshe Dayan2. Moshe Dayan is credited with much of the success enjoyed by Israel in this conflict, fought between June 5th through 10th, 1967.		Answer:	 The Six-Day War.3. Dayan later helped bring about the Camp David Accords while serving as the foreign minister under this man in 1978.	Answer:	 Menachem Begin11. Not all inexplicable casting decisions involve Keanu Reeves. FTPE answer the following about wildly miscast actors: 1. Director Stephen Frears pulled an interesting casting coup by casting Julia Roberts as the title character of this 1996 horror film based on a work by Robert Louis Stevenson, an Irish maidservant to an equally non-British but decidedly scary John Malkovich in a double role.       Answer:	 Mary Reilly2. Perhaps director Orson Welles hoped to use the crane used for the extended opening shot of this 1958 film to suspend the disbelief of audiences asked to buy that a Mexican detective be realistically played by the Mexican-as-Apple-Pie-and-Baseball Charlton Heston.       Answer:	 A Touch of Evil3. In the ultimate miscast of all time, one can only wonder what producer Howard Hughes and director Dick Powell thinking when he cast John Wayne to play the part of Genghis Khan in this 1953 film; perhaps the same logic they used by shooting it near a nuclear weapons testing site, resulting in later cancer-related deaths of most of its cast.       Answer:	The Conqueror12. The Romans are recognized for their architecture and in particular for their unique uses of columns. Answer these questions about the types of columns one would expect to find on a Roman building, 10 points each.1. While the Greeks also used this type of column, typified by its slender shaft with twenty-four flutes and a capital featuring twenty-four acanthus leaves, they did not consider it a full-fledged order. Name this type of column, classified as one of the "big three" since it was so designated by Vitruvius.	Answer:	 Corinthian2. The Romans also used this type of column, a modification of the Doric order typified by its lack of fluting and simple echinus-abacus capital and possibly named for its use in Etruria.	Answer:	 Tuscan3. Recognized in the Renaissance as an order in its own right, this type of column is an amalgam of the Ionic and Corinthian orders notable for its wider fluting and its capital with Ionic scrolls or volutes and Corinthian acanthus leaves. It is named for its mixed nature.	Answer:	 composite13. Recently Seth was dragged by his wife to a film about a British novelist from which the only positive experiences he derived were repeated viewing of Kate Winslett's nude body and the idea for this bonus. Answer the following, 5-10-15: 1. (5 pts) Winslett and Dame Judi Dench portray a younger and older version of this author and chronicle her descent into Altzheimer's. Name this author of A Severed Head, The Unicorn, and the 1978 Booker Prize-winning The Sea, The Sea.	Answer:	 Dame Iris Murdoch2. (10 pts) Murdoch's first novel and one of her best-known is this work describing the adventures of Jake Donaghue as he tries his hand at filmmaking, horse-racing, blackmail, and dogstealing before becoming a hospital orderly.  In the end, his life is unstructured but he manages to evade being tangled in the title object, remaining existentially free. 	Answer:	 Under the Net3. (15 pts) Murdoch is also known for her work in philosophy, including this work, an exploration of the aesthetic theories of Plato which seeks to answer why, according to the work's subtitle, he "Banished the Artists" from his ideal city.	Answer:	 The Fire and the Sun
14. Given the year and the President elected, identify his losing opponent, 5 points each.1. 1920, Warren Harding       Answer:	James Cox 2. 1852, Franklin Pierce       Answer:	Winfield Scott3. 1880, James Garfield       Answer:	Winfield Scott Hancock4. 1928, Herbert Hoover       Answer:	Alfred Smith5. 1832, Andrew Jackson       Answer:	Henry Clay6. 1956, Dwight Eisenhower       Answer:	Adlai Stevenson15. And now it's time for a lame-ass chemistry bonus. Identify the following compounds from clues, 10 points each.1. Usually prepared by oxidation of aromatic amines, polyhydric phenols, and polynuclear hydrocarbons, this name describes any of a class of synthetic organic compounds containing two carbonyl groups either adjacent or separated by a vinylene group. They often function as biochromes, and the K-vitamins are a subset of them.       Answer:	 quinones2. These are any of a class of organic compounds of the aromatic heterocyclic series characterized by a double-ring structure composed of a benzene containing 6 carbon atoms and a pyrimidine ring containing five carbons and a nitrogen fixed at two adjacent carbon atoms. The anesthetic dubucaine hydrocloride and the dye cyanine are members of this class.	Answer:	 quinolines3. The most famous quinoline is this alkaloid gained from the cinchona bark, an analgesic most often used to treat the symptoms of malaria.	Answer:	 quinine16.  The play begins after a university faculty party at the home of a history professor and his wife, the daughter of the college president.  A new faculty member from the biology department and his wife arrive for a nightcap; things then begin to spiral into a nightmare of affairs, bitterness, guilt, and childlessness.  FTSNOP:1. (10 pts) Name the play in which the hurtful deeds of George and Martha can't mask their tenderness towards each other, whose title, referring to a joke at the earlier party, was actually lifted from the mirror of a bar at a college town.	Answer:	 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?2. (5 pts) Name the author of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?	Answer:	 Edward Albee3. (15 pts) Act two of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? takes this title from the evening of April 30 on which the witches were supposed to meet in the Harz Mountains, probably to celebrate the pagan ritual of Beltane.  This night is so named because it takes place the night before the feast day of an 8th century Frankish saint who ran an abbey in Heidenheim.	Answer:	 Walpurgisnacht (accept "Walpurgis Night", but note that the act is titled "Walpurgisnacht").17.	Seth learned German last summer, giving him the opportunity to explore some of its linguistic characteristics. Answer the following linguistic questions inspired by these studies for the stated number of points.1. Of the eight Indo-European cases German has four -Nominative, Accusative, Dative, and Genitive. For 5 points per answer, name the other four believed to have existed in Indo-European.	Answer:	 Ablative, Instrumental, Vocative, Locative2. German lacks the soft "th" sound, making it impossible for Seth's German-born instructor to pronounce his name. That sound came into English via the Danes and a letter in the alphabet was once used to designate it, a letter which looks like a "y" and explains such words as "ye", which were originally "the" and were misspelled by the Normans. Identify the pointed name given to this letter still found in the Icelandic alphabet.	Answer:	 thorn
18. Shortly after the death of Tutankhamon, his sister and widow sent a remarkable letter to king Suppliumas I of the Hittites, in which she proposed marrying one of his sons and making him pharaoh rather than submit to the candidate in line to marry her. For the stated number of points:1. 10 points: Name this queen of Egypt, daughter of Nefertiti, whose name is familiar to viwers of the new Mummy series as that of Im-Ho-Tep's love.	Answer:	 Anhesenamon ("Ankh-soo-na-moon", but as it is pronounced in a variety of ways, be lenient)2. 5 points: Ankesenamon was also the daughter and widow of this Pharaoh, who changed his name to reflect his new monotheistic worship of the sun disc and who built the city now called Amarna.	Answer:	 Akhenaton (accept "Amenhotep IV" but do not accept "Akhetaton")3. 15 points: Ultimately Ankesenamon's plot was unsuccessful and she was forced to marry this man, a civil and military official who might well have been her grandfather. Name this man, whose death marked the end of the Eighteenth dynasty and who was succeeded by the general Horemheb.	Answer:	 Ay 19. Answer the following questions about the production of steel for 10 point each.1. (10 points) A former dry-goods merchant, this man actually actually discovered what he called the "pneumatic process" several years before while Bessemer while working at his Eddyville, Kentucky, Steel works.	Answer:	 William Kelly2. (10 points) The process developed by Bessemer and Kelly was flawed in that it did not remove phosphorous if it was present in the iron ore used. This problem was solved by lining a Bessemer converter with burned lime, producing a concerter known by the name of this English mining engineer, though his name is sometimes linked with that of his cousin who invented the process. Identify either man whose name is commonly used to refer to this "basic" process.	Answer:	 Percy Gilchrist or Sidney Gilchrist Thomas3. (10 points) In 1856 this French engineer invented a new method for making steel sometimes referred to as the "open hearth" process, though lawsuits with the man who had developed this process independently in England impoverished him. Name this man whose name is now used to describe this process joined with that of his rival and litigant, William Siemans.	Answer:	 Pierre-Emile Martin 20. The Seth is somewhat obsessive-compulsive about Classical music, and has been known to spend lavish sums of CD's to get a perfect recording of various pieces. Answer the following about various musical objects of his lunacy from clues for the stated number of points.1. 5 points: Seth bought a recoding of the entire work as well as the soundtrack to Amadeus to obtain the best rendition of this "tearful" part of the Requiem Mass. It is widely held that Mozart did not actually completely write it, hence Seth's liking for it, but instead gave it to his pupil Suessmayer to complete.	Answer:	 Lacrimosa2. 10 points: Seth purchased a vastly overpriced double CD of this French composer's work solely to obtain the "Sicilienne" from his incidental music to Pelleas and Melisande. Name this man, pupil of Saint-Saens and later teacher of Boulanger and ravel as director of the Conservitoire from 1905 until forced to resign due to deafness in 1920.	Answer:	 Gabriel Fauré3. 15 points: Seth shelled out an enormous amount for a "Best of Opera" compilation to get this, his favorite aria and one of the most famous sections of Bizet's Carmen. Had it been on the soundtrack to Magnolia, in which it was sung by the young boy on the quiz show, he would have bought that, too. Name this aria, comparing passion to a recalcitrant avian.	Answer:	 "L'Amour Est Un Oiseau Rebelle" (accept "Love is a rebellious bird")21. Answer the following about the full given name of a famous composer for the stated number of points.1.  (10 pts) The composer's first two names are those of this man, a Doctor of the Church and bishop of Constantinople from 393 to 403 CE whose famous preaching against the misuse of riches earned him the enmity of the Empress Eudoxia and the flattering surname which means "Golden-mouth". 	Answer:	 John Chrysostom2. (15 pts) The composer's baptismal records show that initially he was given this Greek name which means "God's love", a name shared by a Byzantine emperor rigning from 829 to 842 who was the last major advocate of iconoclasm and to a saint and Archbishop of Alexandria who was, ironically, the worst enemy of John Chrysostom.       Answer:	 Theophilus3. (5 pts) That name is best known in its Latinate form, used by Peter Shaffer as the title for his play about the composer.	Answer:	 Amadeus
22. Identify the following African bodies of water from clues, 10 points each.1.  Fed by 14 perennial rivers, this lake is drained by the Shire River, a tributary of the Zambezi. With an area of 11,430 square miles, it is the most significant geographic feature of Malawi and it forms that nation's boundary with Tanzania and Mozambique. Answer:	 Lake Nyasa2.Fed by the Malagarasi, Ruzizi, and Kalambo rivers, this lake has as an outlet the Lukuga River and is the longest freshwater lake in the world at 410 miles and the second deepest at 4,710 feet after Lake Baikal in Russia. Comparatively  narrow, varying in width from 10 to 45 miles it forms the boundary between Tanzania and Zaire.Answer:	 Lake Tanganyika3. Fed by Kagera and Katonga rivers, this lake is drained by the Nile, whose source it is. The second-largest freshwater lake in the world next to Lake Superior, it is the largest lake in Africa and it lies mostly within Tanzania and Uganda.Answer:	 Lake Victoria23. Answer the following questions about the Second Boer War, 10 points each.1. During the course of the so-called "Black Week" this city was surrounded, along with Mafeking and Kimberly, and while all three endured a prolonged siege the British came off the worst here, with British General Sir George White suffering over 3000 casualties from battle and disease.	Answer:	 Ladysmith2. On January 19, 1900 an attempt to relieve Ladysmith was launched and this strategic height was captured; unfortunately, the sides were too steep to bring up cavalry and afforded no cover, and in the Boer counterattack General Louis Botha inflicted over 1600 casualties on the British before a retreat was called.	Answer:	 Spion Kop3. This man led the British at Spion Kop. The former commander-in-chief during the war, he would eventually relieve Ladysmith, but only after so many defeats at places like Vaal Krantz and earlier debacles like Stormberg, Magersfontein, and Colenso had earned him the sobriquet "Reverse", a pun on his first name.	Answer:	 Redvers Buller 24. Identify the literary figures from clues, 30-20-10.1. 30 points: Some of his poetry includes "The Lay of the Last Minstrel" and "Marmion", while his novels include The Talisman, Peveril of the Peak, and his own favorite, The Antiquary.2. 20 points: Other poems include a narrative about Ellen Douglas entitled "The Lady of the Lake", as well as poems collected in his Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border. Other novels include Guy Mannering, Kenilworth, and The Heart of Midlothian.3. 10 points: His best known novels include Rob Roy, The Bride of Lammermoor, and Ivanhoe.	Answer:	 Sir Walter Scott25. Isolating new elements is a difficult task, as many chemists have indicated. In fact, no less than three elements have been given names which in some way allude to the difficulty inherent in discovering them. FTPE name these three elements, two of whose names means "hidden" and the other means "hard to obtain", whose atomic numbers are 36, 57, 66.       Answer:	 lanthanum, Krypton, Dysprosium 