TOSSUPS - NORTHWEST SHOALS CC		 MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Josh Clanton with a few from South Carolina's Eric Douglass and your genial quizmaster1. Born in Birmingham, Alabama in 1944, she first came to TV viewers' attention as Dick Van Dyke's sister "Mike Preston" on The New Dick Van Dyke Show. Before that she had played "Stoney" in the Jack Nicholson film Five Easy Pieces. Since then her appearances have included playing "Nurse Wilkins" in the film Grease and "Cassie Bowman" on the short-lived series Harper Valley P.T.A.  Still, many viewers knew her only as a Match Game panelist until her second career as a novelist began to bear fruit.  FTP, identify this woman, best known as the author of the novel on which director Jon Avnet based the film Fried Green Tomatoes.	Answer:	Fannie Flagg2. In 1885 he was named Chinese commissioner at Seoul and his division was the only one to survive the Boxer Rebellion, making him one of China's greatest warlords. After falling out of favor with the imperial government after the death of Empress Cixi, he accepted a deal with SunYat-Sen, allied his forces with the Republicans, and procured the truce that forced Emperor Pu Yi to abdicate. Deposed after trying to form his own dynasty, FTP identify this first president of the Chinese Republic who is the namesake of China's currency.	Answer: 	Yuan Shih Kai or Shixai3. His feats as a child were exceptional; at the age of three he was taught the Greek alphabet and long lists of Greek words with their English equivalents. By the age of eight he had read Aesop's Fables, Xenophon's Anabasis, and the whole of Herodotus, and was acquainted with Lucian, Diogenes La‘rtius, and six dialogues of Plato. He had also read a great deal of history in English. As a philosopher he articulated the harm principle and and the principle of negative freedom.  FTP Name this English philosopher and economist, best known for On Liberty.	Answer:	John Stuart Mill4. This colorless, odorless, and slightly acid-tasting gas was obtained by Scottish chemist Joseph Black through the decomposition of chalk and limestone soon after he recognized that it entered into the chemical composition of these substances. About 1.5 times as dense as air and soluble in water, nine-tenths volume of the gas dissolves in 1 volume of water at 20¡ C (68¡ F). Commercially, FTP, what covalent compound is recovered from furnace or kiln gases; from fermentation processes; from reaction of carbonates with acids; and from reaction of steam with natural gas?	Answer:	Carbon dioxide or CO25.  The daughter of Molly, the opium addict, and Godfrey, a well-respected, insensitive man, she is rescued by an elderly miser, who assumes that she is the physical representation of his lost gold, which he has cherished for so many years. FTP, name this young character who symbolizes redemption in Silas Marner?	Answer:	Eppie6.  He was born in Glens Falls, New York in 1862. In 1906 he was elected governor of New York, defeating newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst.  In 1910 he resigned as governor to become an associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, serving until 1916, when he resigned his seat to become the Republican presidential candidate running against the incumbent Woodrow Wilson. He lost the election by the narrow margin of 23 electoral votes. FTP, name this man, the only justice appointed to the court twice.	Answer:	Charles Evans Hughes7.  Above the table are two circular passageways. The one on the right leads to Heaven, the one on the left leads to Hell. A brilliant light encircles Christ's head as he kneels to hold a cup to one of the disciple's lips. The other eleven seated at the table look on, as do both angels and demons from above the event. FTP name both the painting and its artist.Answer:	The Last Supper by Tintoretto (accept Jacopo Robusti for Tintoretto; prompt for artist if only work is given) 8.  They can be distinguished from the hagfish by their long larval phase and by being truly bisexual.  Like hagfish, they have seven or more gilled pouches, an absence of paired fins, and a notochord even in the adult phase.  Reasonably successful parasitic predators, they attach themselves to their prey and use their rasp-like tongues to wear a hole in its skin.  FTP name this class of jawless fishes of the class Agnatha. 	Answer:	lampreys [sorry, don't accept Agnatha - hagfish are agnatha too]
9. His 1939 prosecution of Fritz Kuhn for embezzlement effectively crippled Kuhn's American Nazi Party. Others he successfully prosecuted included "Lucky" Luciano in 1936, and mobster Dutch Schultz was reputedly killed by colleagues because he planned to assassinate this man.  In 1942 this native Michigander was elected Governor of New York, and in 1944 he was the GOP's sacrificial lamb Presidential candidate versus FDR.  FTP name this man, best remembered for having been briefly but erroneously declared the winner over Harry Truman in the 1948 Presidential race.	Answer: Thomas E. Dewey 10. Also known as Tehuty or Djehuty, he has been depicted as the son of Ra; however, he may have quite possibly created himself through the power of language. He is the creator of magic, the inventor of writing, teacher of man, the messenger of the gods, and the divine record-keeper and mediator. He is also the great counselor and the other gods frequently went to him for advice.  FTP, Identify this Egyptian deity worshipped widely throughout all of Egypt, especially in his cult center of Hermopolis.	Answer:	Thoth11. Approximately 385 million kilometers in diameter, it should ultimately undergo a Type II supernova explosion. In A Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Ford Perfect hails from a world near it.  Also known as Al Yad al Yamma, or the Right Hand, it lends its name to the main character of a 1988 comedy/fantasy directed by Tim Burton and starring Michael Keaton.  FTP, identify this red supergiant, the 13th brightest star in the sky, and the vertex of the Winter Triangle.	Answer:	Betelguese12. It consists of 244,000 acres of sharply eroded buttes, pinnacles, and spires blended with the largest protected mixed grass prairie in the country. Its wilderness area recently saw the reintroduction of the black-footed ferret, the most endangered land mammal in North America. The Stronghold Unit is co-managed with the Oglala Sioux Tribe and includes sites of 1890s Ghost Dances. Established as a National Monument in 1939, the area was redesignated a National Park in 1978. FTP, identify this National Park which contains the world's richest fossil beds, dating 23 to 35 million years old, located in southwestern South Dakota.	Answer:	The Badlands13.  His lasting legal and constitutional impact included codifying much common law via three Statutes of Westminster.  His many military actions included defeating Llywelyn and putting Wales beyond the Welsh Marches under English authority.  The thorn in his side was the rebellion in Scotland of Sir William Wallace. FTP, Name this King of England who reigned from 1272 until his death in 1307, also nicknamed "Longshanks."	Answer:	Edward I (accept Edward Longshanks before it's given, but prompt on just Longshanks.)14.  As a young man, he gained national fame when he published his first collection of poems entitled Cuttlefish Bones. He often wrote of the sea lapping at the shores of his native Genoa, and he described loneliness in some of his poems as an unavoidable human condition. Famous for La Bufera E Altro, or The Storm and Other Things; Accordi e pastelli, or Harmony and Pastels; and Quaderno ni Quattro anni, his last complete work, FTP name this author who became in 1975 the fifth Italian to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Eugenio Montale15.  Her newest CD is House of Love. Her previous album, Heart in Motion, has been certified quadruple platinum, and spent 52 weeks on Billboard's Top 200 album chart, spawning four Top 5 hits including "Baby, Baby," which topped both the Billboard and R&B charts simultaneously. One of the most highly lauded musical releases of 1991, Heart in Motion also garnered her four Grammy nominations, including Song of the Year, Record of the Year, Best Pop Performance by a Female and Album of the Year. FTP, who is this talented female vocalist, former wife of Gary Chapman now married to Vince Gill?	Answer:	Amy Grant16.  Originally built and designed by private citizens, she was tested in Mobile Bay. After testing several means of propulsion, including battery and steam power, it was decided that a crank powered by eight men was best suited to propel it, and she was placed under the command of Lt. John Payne. On the night of February 17, 1864 she attacked and sank the USS Housatonic, but she herself sank as well. FTP, name this vessel, a replica of which sits outside a museum in Charleston.	Answer:	CSS Hunley
17.  He was brought from Amsterdam by Dr. John Seward to help solve the mystery of Lucy's illness in Bram Stoker's Dracula.  He is a philosopher, metaphysician, an expert on obscure diseases and the most advanced scientist of his day. It is through him that we learn the lore of the vampire life-style, the limitations, the strengths, and most importantly how to kill them. He is undoubtedly the leader of the hunt for Dracula, which explains why he has gained such a cult following.  FTP, Name this man who is the namesake of a movie starring Hugh Jackman, in which he must defeat his old nemesis along with Frankenstein's monster and the Wolf man.	Answer:	Abraham Van Helsing18.	It occurs as if the particles were part of an infinite system. Once proper account is taken of boundary conditions, this theorem can be applied to the behaviour and can also be interpreted as ergodic in momentum space.  Degrees of freedom are associated with the kinetic energy of translation, rotation, and vibration, and with the potential energy of vibration.  When a substance is in equilibrium, there is an average energy of 1/2 k T per molecule, k being Boltzmann's constant, or 1/2 R T per mole associated with each degree of freedom.  FTP, identify the theorem previously described that is used to relate the measured heat capacities of gases to their molecular structure.	Answer:	Equipartition Theorem19.	It is an opera in four acts, where three visual themes appear: Train, the first theme, contains the sections Train 1, Night Train, and Building; Trial, the second theme, is composed of the pieces Trial 1, Trial 2, or Prison, and Bed; and Field, the final theme, is made up of Dance 1, Dance 2, and Spaceship. It also includes pieces called Knee Plays, which are located at the beginning and at the end of the work, and between each act. FTP, Identify this opera composed by Phillip Glass.	Answer:	Einstein on the Beach20.	This word identifies a fresh creamy cow milk cheese, produced in Germany and marketed throughout the European Union, somewhat similar to cottage cheese.  First used in a nonsense phrase in James Joyce's Finnegan's Wake, it was also the title of a 1980 NBC sci-fi sitcom starring Conrad Janis and Richard Benjamin.  More famously it is the name of a character on the television series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.  FTP, identify this word which also refers to strange, charm, up, down, top and bottom.	Answer:	Quark21.	Clara Barton, in 1821.  Richard Wagner's wife Cosima, in 1837. Robert Ripley, in 1893. Humphrey Bogart, in 1899. Anwar Sadat, in 1918. Little Richard, in 1935. Larry Csonka and Jimmy Buffet, in 1946. Rickey Henderson, in 1960. Sissy Spacek, in 1949. And Isaac Newton, in 1642.  FTP all of these people share what distinction, which most historians are certain they do not share with Jesus of Nazareth?	Answer:	They were all born on Christmas Day [accept clear equivalents, e.g., "born on December 25"]22.	Released in 1985, it is an object-oriented programming language created by Bjarne Stroustrup. It maintains almost all aspects of its original language while simplifying memory management and adding several features, including a new data type known as a class to allow object-oriented programming. A powerful general-purpose programming language, it can be used to create small programs or large applications. FTP, Identify this programming language which can be used to make CGI scripts or console-only DOS programs.	Answer:	C++23.	With devoted servant Filippyevna, the widowed Madame Larina sits in the garden of a country estate, while daughters, Olga and Tatiana, sign a love song that reminds the older women of days gone by. Peasants coming from the fields bring freshly cut hay for their mistress and celebrate the completion of the harvest with songs and dances. Olga taunts Tatiana for failing to enjoy the festivities. Pale and shy, Tatiana remains pensive and apart, wrapped in the fantasy of her beloved novels. As the peasants leave, the poet Lenski, Olga's suitor, arrives with his friend, the titular character. FTP this is Act 1, Scene 1 of, FTP, what Peter Tchaikovsky opera?	Answer:	Eugene Onegin24.	It took place on December 15th and 16th, 1864. The Union, commanded by Major General George H. Thomas attacked the 31,000 Confederate troops commanded by General John Bell Hood on the morning of the 15th. FTP, Identify the battle, dubbed the most decisive tactical victory by either side during the war, which resulted in the deaths of about 5,350 confederate troops in present day Davidson County, Tennessee.	Answer:	The Battle of Nashville
BONI - NORTHWEST SHOALS CC		 MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Josh Clanton with a few from South Carolina's Eric Douglass and your genial quizmaster1.	THE NEWLY DEAD GAME: Katharine Hepburn's distinguished career include filmed versions of the works of several noted authors.  Given a Hepburn film, name the original author FTPE or from better-known titles F5PE:a)  10 pts.: Suddenly Last Summer       5 pts.: The Glass Menagerie (which Hepburn also performed in, on TV)	Answer:	Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williamsb)  10 pts.: Dragon Seed       5 pts.: The Good Earth	Answer:	Pearl S. Buckc)  10 pts.: Alice Adams       5 pts.: The Magnificent Ambersons and Seventeen       Answer: 	Booth Tarkington[EDITOR'S NOTE: Yes, I wrote a question with roughly the same lead-in for Sword Bowl.  No, these weren't in it.]2.	This question was loosely inspired by that great reference work An Incompleat Education.  Sigmund Freud identified eleven ego defense mechanisms. Given such a mechanism as it might be used by Michael Jackson, name the mechanism FTPE.  If you need the standard definition, you'll get only 5 points.a)  10 pts.:  "I'm not a pedophile - Tito is a pedophile."       5 pts.: placing unacceptable impulses within yourself onto someone else	Answer:	projection (accept forms of the word)b) 10 pts.:  "Of course I didn't do it - I hate preteen boys.  Preteen boys are yucky."       5 pts.: taking the opposite belief when the true belief causes anxiety	Answer		reaction formation	c) 10 pts.:  "Gooby gaba bebebobo."       5 pts.: returning to a previous stage of development	Answer:	regression (accept forms of the word)3.	FTSNOP answer the following about these men who share something in common.5 - He was victorious at the 732 Battle of Tours.	Answer:	Charles Martel10 - A graduate of the University of Houston, this Republican from Texas is the current House Majority Whip.	Answer:	Tom Delay10 - The son on Mattathias, his rededication of the Temple at Jerusalem in 164 BC is commemorated by the feast of Hanukkah.	Answer:	Judas Maccabeus OR Judah Maccabee5 - What common nickname do these three men all share along with R&B artis tStanley Burrell?	Answer:	The Hammer OR Hammer4.	Identify the following about a hormone produced in the pancreas FTPE.10 - What is this hormone that is used to treat patients of Diabetes mellitus, the third leading cause of death?	Answer:	Insulin10 - This man, along with Charles Best, isolated insulin in 1921 and used it to treat diabetic dogs.  In 1923, the  Department of Medical Research at the University of Toronto was established and named in honor of him and Best.	Answer:	Sir Frederick Grant Banting10 - This Canadian physiologist helped isolate insulin for the treatment of diabetes in humans.  His work won him the 1923 Nobel Prize in physiology along with Sir Frederick Banting.  	Answer:	John James Rickard Macleod
5.	FTPE, answer the following about the top 25 teams College Football teams on the final 2003 Coaches Poll:10 - Finishing the season with a 10-3 record, they destroyed an overrated West Virginia team 41-7 in the Toyota  Gator Bowl.	Answer:	Maryland Terrapins10 - Unranked before its game against then 7th ranked Tennessee in the Peach Bowl, this team finished the season 22nd, just one of three teams in the top 25 without a 10-win season.	Answer:	Clemson Tigers10 - On December 23rd, the two lowest ranked teams with just 1 lost met at the Plains Capital Forth Worth Bowl.  Boise State won, moving from 16th to 15th on the poll while this team fell to 24th.	Answer:	TCU or Texas Christian University Horned Frogs6.	Answer the following about the Bible.10 - He, as a child, was almost sacrificed by his father when God tested Abraham's faith.	Answer:	Isaac10 - Genesis 6:9 identifies him as being a "righteous man and blameless in his generation."	Answer:	Noah10 - He was a Jewish scribe who led a group of Jews back to Israel from their exile in Babylonia.  One of the minor prophets, he is frequently associated with Nehemiah.	Answer:	Ezra7.	Give the related answers to the following science questions FTPE.10 - Symbolized sigma, it is given as length per volts per area and is the measure of conductivity.	Answer:	Mho 10 - Calcite is 4.0 on this scale in which Corundum is 9.0.	Answer:	Moh's Scale of Hardness10 - Symbolized omega, this is the unit for resistance in a circuit named for the man who devised the namesake law         stating that total voltage is equal to current times resistance.	Answer:	Ohm8.	FTPE answer the following about a particular author:10) Some of his most famous poems are Easter 1916, Leda and the Swan and The Second Coming.	Answer:	William Butler Yeats10) Chinua Achebe borrowed from a line in Yeats' poetry for the three-word title of this novel       Answer:	Things Fall Apart10) Along with J.M. Synge and others, Yeats played a key role in the 1902 founding of this theatre in Dublin, where his plays The Hour Glass and The Land of Heart's Desire debuted.	Answer:	Abbey Theatre9.	Stuff related to the Mexican War FTPE:a) This Feb. 1848 treaty ended the thing, with Mexico ceding 40% of its land but receiving a $15 million indemnity.	Answer:	Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgob) Nicknamed "Old Fuss and Feathers," this veteran of the War of 1812 landed at Veracruz and won at Cerro Gordo.	Answer:	Winfield Scottc) This general's expedition over the Santa Fe Trail to take California got bogged down at San Pasqual, where Robert Stockton had to come to his rescue.  The two disagreed over who was in charge, and when his claim was upheld by Washington, this jackass had the territorial governor Stockton had appointed, John C. Fremont, court-martialed.       Answer: 	Stephen Kearny10.	VISUAL BONUS (Distribute Handout)  Identify the title of the painting F5P and its creator for another 5 points:	Answer:	5/5 - The Sistine Madonna by Raphael (accept Raffaello Sanzio)	Answer:	5/5 - The Burial of Count Orgaz by El Greco (accept Domenicos Theotocopoulos)	Answer:	5/5 - The Card Players by Paul Cezanne
11.	Answer the following about the Crusades FTPE.1 - Called in 1189, it failed to reduce Saladin's power despite the star power of Richard I, Frederick Barbarossa and Philip Augustus.	Answer:	3rd Crusade2 - The 7th and 8th Crusades were led by which French monarch?	Answer:	King Louis IX or St. Louis3 - This 1146 Crusade was led by King Louis VIII and Holy Roman Emperor Conrad III.	Answer:	2nd Crusade12.	Given the following movies, tell what actor or actress they have in common, 5-10-20-30.1 - The Birdcage, Jack, Good Will Hunting	Answer:	Robin Williams2 - Crimson Tide, Fallen, The Bone Collector	Answer:	Denzel Washington3 - Ghost of Mars, Barbershop, Three Kings	Answer:	Ice Cube4 - X-Men, Swordfish, Why do Fools Fall in Love	Answer:	Halle Berry13.	Given the name of a polyatomic ion, give the formula F5PE and the correct charge for another 5:a)	carbonateAnswer: 	CO32- (C-O-3,  2-minus or minus-2)b)	ammoniumAnswer: 	NH4+ (N-H 4, 1-plus or plus-1 or just plus)c)	permanganateAnswer: 	MnO4- (M-N-O4, 1-minus or minus-1 or just minus)14.	Give the Latin American writers from works on a 10-5 basis.10 - The Autumn of the Patriarch, The General in His Labyrinth5 - Love in the Time of Cholera	Answer:	Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answer]10 - The Years with Laura Diaz; Where the Air Is Clear5 - The Old Gringo, The Death of Artemio Cruz	Answer:	Carlos Fuentes10 - The Feast of the Goat, War of the End of the World5 - The Time of the Hero, Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter	Answer:	Mario Vargas Llosa [pronounced yosa but accept variants; prompt on partial answer]15.	Answer the following about an architect on a 30-20-10 basis.30 - He headed Harvard's architecture department from 1938-1952, shifting its focus to incorporate modern design  and construction techniques.20 - He designed the Fagus Factory in Alfeld, Germany and the Pan American Building in New York City.10 - He is best known for founding the Bauhaus school and influencing artists such as Klee, Kandinsky, and Albers.	Answer:	Walter Gropius16.	Identify these humanists from works on a 10-5 basis.10 - Critique of Judgment, Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals5 - Critique of Practical Reason, Critique of Pure Reason	Answer:	Immanuel Kant10 - The Holy Family, The Poverty of Philosophy5 - Das Kapital, Communist Manifesto	Answer:	Karl Marx10 - On the Genealogy of Morals, Birth of Tragedy5 - Beyond Good and Evil, Thus Spake Zarathustra	Answer:	Friedrich Nietzsche
17.	Even if you hate the books, they're fun to say.  Name the Dickens novel from characters on a 10-5 basis:a)  10 pts.: Barkis and Clara Peggotty       5 pts.: Mr. Micawber	Answer:	David Copperfieldb)  10 pts.: Bitzer, Stephen Blackpool       5 pts.: Josiah Bounderby, Tom Gradgrind	Answer:	Hard Timesc)  10 pts.: Sarjent Buzfuz, Mrs. Bardell       5 pts.: Nathaniel Winkle, Augustus Snodgrass       Answer: 	The Pickwick Papers [or Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club]18.	Name these Argentinian leaders FTPE:10 - On June 4, 1943, the United Officers group overthrew President Ramon Castillo and this man became President.  Hint: he was NOT married to an actress.	Answer:	Pedro Ramirez10 -Secretary of Labor and Welfare under Ramirez, he soon emerged as a rival to Ramirez and served as President from 1946-1955 and again from 1973-1974.  And yes, he was married to an actress.	Answer:	Juan Peron10 - Reviving the Peronist Justicialist Party was this man with the palindromic surname, President from 1989 to 1999.	Answer:	Carlos Menem19.	Identify the star types by letter given clues FTSNOP.5 - Red in color, Betelguese is this type of star.	Answer:	M5 - Ranging from white to yellow, the Sun is this type of star.	Answer:	G10 - Blue in color, Rigel, at 18 times the mass of the sun, is this type of star.	Answer:	B10 - Sirius and Vega, both blue, are classified as this star type with radius of about 2.5 times that of the sun.	Answer:	A20.	Name the composer from works on a 30-20-10  basis.30 -Edgar, Girl of the Golden West20 - Tosca, Turandot Manon Lescaut,10 - La Boheme, Madame Butterfly	Answer:	Giacomo Puccini 21.	Identify the following about game shows 5-10-15.5 - Featuring Plinko, this game show allows six players to spin the wheel.  The two closest to a dollar without going over get the chance to bid on a prize package at the end.	Answer:	The Price is Right 10 - Some of its regular stars included Brett Sommers, Richard Dawson, and Betty White.	Answer:	Match Game15 - On, Press Your Luck, he cracked the code and, after whammying on his first attempt at the board, racked up over $100,000 and a trip to the Bahamas.	Answer:	Michael Larson
22.	Given a specific US plane, give its alpha-numerical designation, F5PE.5 - Stealth Bomber		Answer:	B-2 	5 - Flying Fortress        Answer:	B-175 - Blackbird		Answer:	Sr-71	5 - Stratofortress	Answer:	B-525 - Mustang		Answer:	P-51	5 - Hornet        Answer:	FA-18	23.	Identify the following Canadian Prime Ministers FTPE.10 - At 74 years of age, he not only is the oldest person to be sworn into office, but he served the shortest term as well, serving just 2 months and 7 days.	Answer:	Charles Tupper10 - He is Canada's longest serving PM, serving 21 years, 5 months, and 1 day.	Answer:	William Lyon Mackenzie King10 - A liberal, he is Canada's current Prime Minister.	Answer:	Paul Edgar Philippe Martin