TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH B			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Stephen Webb (with assists from Nick Bendler and Gavin Mead)1. In 530 he was victorious at Dara and dodged a near defeat at Callinicum the following year, resulting in the "Endless Peace" being made with the Persians. Along with the eunuch-general Narses, he suppressed the 532 Nika uprisings, and, earning favor from the emperor, was dispatched to the West, where he managed to conquor the Ostrogoth capital of Ravenna in 540. FTP name this Byzantine general who died in 565, within a few weeks of his chief patron, Justinian I.	Answer:	Belisarius2. At the beginning of the opera, Alfred is arrested, posing as Rosalinde's husband, Gabriel von Eisenstein. Later, at a party, Rosalinde and Eisenstein woo each other, not realizing who they are, and Eisenstein ends the night by staggering off to jail. Rosalinde then attempts to secure Alfred's release, and when the married couple meet, and their mutual infidelities are revealed, and they are reconciled. For ten points, name this opera by Johann Strauss whose title translates as "The Bat."	Answer:	Die Fledermaus accept The Bat on early buzz3. The novel starts in New York City, where the narrator meets up with Dean, describing his criminal tendencies as "a wild yea-saying overburst of American joy." When the narrator arrives in San Francisco, he takes a job as a night watchman, and meets a Mexican woman named Terry in LA, and Dean is turned into an epic hero, but as the trip continues both the journey and Dean prove to be failures to the narrator, Sal Paradise. For ten points, name this 1957 novel by Jack Kerouac.	Answer:	On the Road4. His death precluded the completion of his three-volume work The History of Sexuality, while his The Birth of the Clinic discusses the rise of medicine and hospitals. In one of his most popular works, he compares Bentham's "Panopticon" to modern society, and analyzes the way that the use of fear in pre-modern society has given way to more covert psychological controls. For ten points, name this French thinker who penned the work Discipline and Punishment.	Answer:	Michel Foucault5. In eukaryotic cells they occur in the mitochondria and chloroplasts, and they are found in the cytosol of all cells. They consist of two subunits, consisting of one or two large RNA molecules and several smaller protein molecules. These subunits combine and use tRNA to append amino acids to the polypeptide chain of mRNA that they are transforming into a polypeptide chain. For ten points, name these organelles, which can be found bound to the endoplasmic reticulum, which are responsible for protein production in cells.	Answer:	ribosomes6. It gained formal independence on February 23, 1854 with the signing of the contract of Bloemfontein. Great Britain had annexed it in 1848, it had been founded as white farmers had moved north and established smaller republics, maintaining autonomy against the Ndebele and Zulu with superior technology. Annexed again in 1900 and joined to the Union of South Africa in 1910, for ten points, name this former state established by the Boers following the Voortrek between the namesake and Vaal rivers.	Answer:	Orange Free State or Oranje Vrystaat7. He spent a decade writing treatises on aesthetics, among them Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Man and On Grace and Dignity. These works provided a basis for his later dramatic style, which first appeared in Wallenstein, which he followed up with Mary Stuart. His earlier prose plays, including Kabale und Liebe and The Robbers were of the Sturm und Drang style, and he returned to this style in his The Maid of Orleans. For ten points, name this German playwright who penned Wilhelm Tell.	Answer:	Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller8. Attending lectures by Gauss on the method of least squares, in 1847 his father allowed him to stop studying theology and begin studying mathematics. Seven years later he gave his first lecture, which began his namesake subdivision of differential geometry. For ten points, name this German mathematician who began the study of non-Euclidean geometry whose namesake hypothesis concerns the distribution of prime numbers, and is one of the Millennium Prize problems.	Answer:	Georg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann
9. It first arose when the free space solutions of Maxwell's equations all yielded that the speed of propagation for the electromagnetic waves in a vacuum was the same regardless of the motion of observers. From this came the explanation that, rather than the Galilean transformations, a new set of transformations for motion were required, the Lorentz transformations. First proposed in a scientific paper in 1905, for ten points, name this theory postulated by Albert Einstein that deals with inertial reference frames in motion.	Answer:	Theory of Special Relativity (prompt on Relativity and do not accept General Relativity)10. In 1994 this company was purchased by Davidson & Associates, and they are now part of the Games group of Vivendi Universal. Early titles include Rock & Roll Racing and The Lost Vikings, but it was in 1994, shortly after being acquired by Davidson & Associates, that they released their breakthrough game. For ten points, name this game developer best noted for the Diablo and Warcraft series of games.	Answer:	Blizzard Entertainment11. Nine tailors led by Uriah S. Stephens formed this group in Philadelphia in December of 1869. Internal feuding following the failed Missouri Pacific railroad strike of 1886 and the emergence of the American Federation of Labor caused the organization to shrink, and by 1900 this organization was almost nonexistent. Reaching its peak membership in 1886 under Terence V. Powderly, for ten points, name this labor organization.	Answer:	Knights of Labor12. They were originally classified as Type 1 or Type 2, depending upon their emission lines, but now fractional values are granted depending upon the relative strengths of the broad and narrow emission lines. A subclass of active galactic nuclei, their emission spectra are believed to originate from an accretion disk of a supermassive black hole in the nucleus. For ten points, name this type of galaxy, spiral or irregularly shaped, named for the astronomer who studied them extensively in the 1940s.	Answer:	Seyfert galaxy (do not accept Quasar, they are not classified as type 1 or type 2)13. A subplot of the novel revolves around Dr. Lydgate's failure to live up to his ideals, and his financial difficulties due to his marriage to Rosamond Vincy. Dr. Lydgate's causes is taken up by the heroine of the novel, who seeks to find happiness without Will Ladislaw, whom she cannot marry by a proviso in her first husband's will. Married to Mr. Casaubon for only eighteen months, she finally breaks down and marries Will. For ten points, name this novel about Dorothea Brooke, written by George Eliot.	Answer:	Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life14. After the death of his wife he swore of female love and is reputed to have introduced male love to the Thracians. He joined the Argonauts after Chiron advised Jason that they would only be able to pass the Sirens unscathed with his help. A child of alternately Oeagrus of Thrace or Apollo and Calliope, his death is purported to have been a result of his lack of reverence for Apollo. For ten points, name this mythological figure who failed to follow the instructions of Persephone in retrieving Eurydice from the underworld.	Answer:	Orpheus15. His first graduate student, Alfred L. Kroeber, based his dissertation on his field work with the Arapaho Indians. Fleeing Germany to the United States, he started a career working at the American Museum of Natural History and teaching at Clark University, developing the "four field" concept of anthropology. Founding the first American Ph.D program in Anthropology, for ten points, name this professor at Columbia whose more noted students include Zora Neal Hurston and Margaret Mead.	Answer:	Franz Boas16. 	A governess is hired by a man who finds himself caring for his niece and nephew, and he makes it clear that after hiring her he never wants to hear from her again. Arriving at the house, the nameless governess finds that the boy, Miles, has been expelled from boarding school, and his sister Flora begin behaving oddly. The ghosts of the previous governess, Mrs. Jessel, and her lover Quint, manipulate the children, and when the governess takes action, Miles is killed. For ten points, name this 1898 ghost story by Henry James.	Answer:	The Turn of the Screw
17.	Frequently painting married couples on separate panels, he only once painted the couple on one canvas, in his Double Portrait of a Couple. Other group portraits of this Baroque artist include Archers of St. Hadrian, and Regentesses of the Old Men's Alms House, while his earliest known work is Jacobus Zaffius. FTP, name this artist who broke out with The Banquet of the Officers of the St. George Militia Company, perhaps best known for his The Laughing Cavalier.	Answer:	Frans Hals18. The pig that adorned the cover art to their Undertow album recently died. The song "Die Eier von Satan" is a recipe for a pastry containing Turkish hashish translated into German and spoken over a background of a cheering crowd. Debuting with the album Opium, Undertow features a rather depressing song entitled "Sober." For ten points, name this band, whose album Salival features a song called "Maynard's Dick", whose logo is a rather suggestive wrench.	Answer:	Tool19. She was built in Kewaunee, Wisconsin, and her captain, Commander Lloyd M. Bucher, was recommended for court martial, but the recommendation was overturned by the Secretary of the Navy. In 1999 it was moved before the arrival of James Kelly, but it is best remembered for an incident in which it was attacked and taken in international waters. For ten points, name this US naval ship, still commissioned, that was captured by the North Koreans in 1968.	Answer:	USS Pueblo AGER-220. From 1911 until 1933 he worked at the Institute for Physical and Electrochemistry at Berlin-Dahlem, and he was active in the development of the first gas attacks of World War I. Other work includes combustion reactions and separating gold from sea water, but he is more famous for his work at Karlsruhe were he developed a namesake catalytic reaction. FTP, name this German chemist, who along with Carl Bosch, developed a reaction to produce ammonia from hydrogen and nitrogen.	Answer:	Fritz Haber21. Richard Strauss recognized his talent as a composer upon encountering his Gurrelieder, and he was largely self-taught, receiving instruction only from Alexander Zemlinsky. Anton Webern and Alban Berg took up his style, and these students, among others, made up the Second Viennese School. For ten points, name this composer of Moses and Aron, Transfigured Night and Pierrot Lunaire most famous for his innovation of the "twelve tone" method of composition.	Answer:	Arnold Schoenberg22.  Admitted to the bar in 1829, his defense of escaped slaves earned him the nickname Attorney General for Fugitive Slaves. Elected to the US Senate from Ohio in 1849 as a Free Soiler, eleven years later he ran for the Republican Presidential nomination, eventually becoming the Secretary of the Treasury until 1864. Serving during the Ex Parte Milligan through Bradwell v. Illinois rulings, for ten points, name this successor to Roger Taney as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, serving from 1864 until 1873.	Answer:	Salmon Portland Chase23. The first documented Westerner to cross it is Bertram Thomas, doing so in 1931. Desertification caused the frankincense trade routes to stop crossing it in about 300 AD, and many parts of it remain largely unexplored due to the vast ranging of temperatures and sand dunes taller than the Eiffel tower. Classified in the Arabian Desert and East Sahero-Arabian xeric scrublands ecoregion, for ten points, name this region that takes up the southern third of the Arabian Peninsula, the largest sand desert in the world.	Answer:	Rub' al-Khali or The Empty Quarter
BONI - GEORGIA TECH B			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Stephen Webb (with assists from Nick Bendler and Gavin Mead)1. Identify the following literary works of that great American weirdo, Thomas Pynchon, for ten points each.(a) Every time Tyrone Slothrop gets an erection, a Blitz bomb hits, a result of experiments performed upon him as an infant by German scientist Laszlo Jamf.	Answer:	Gravity's Rainbow(b) Benny Profane seeks to perfect the art of "schlemihlhood" along with his friends, the Whole Sick Crew.	Answer:	V(c) It follows the life of the namesake English surveryors of geographic fame as they chart pre-Revolutionary America.	Answer:	Mason & Dixon2. Everyone loves bonuses about Ragnarok, but what do you know about the Norse creation myth? Show your knowledge of the other end of time by answering these questions for ten points each.(a) A son of Bor and Bestla, he is the foremost of the Aesir and responsible, along with Ve and Vili, for the creation of the cosmos and of the first humans.	Answer:	Odin(b) This progenitor of the frost giants and grandfather of Odin, Ve and Vili was slain by them, and from his corpse the various regions of Norse myth were formed.	Answer:	Ymir(c) For five points each, name the first man and woman created by Odin and company, analogous to Adam and Eve.	Answer:	Ask and Embla3. Identify the following quantum mechanical thingies for ten points each.(a) Explained by Dirac as a purely relativistic phenomena, this is the intrinsic angular momentum all particles carry and has no classical analog.	Answer:	spin(b) Deriveable either from Fourier analysis or from the noncommutativity of various operators, this is a statement of the relative lack of knowledge for position and momentum of a particle.	Answer:	Heisenberg uncertainty principle(c) It states that when quantum systems are taken to adequate sizes that the results of quantum mechanics should coincide with classical mechanics, a result illustrated in such things as Ehrenfest's theorem.	Answer:	correspondence principle 4. Given a brief description, name the US figure involved with the Vietnam War for ten points each.(a) He commanded the US forces from 1964 until 1968, when the Tet Offensive discredited his positive assessments of the US situation in Vietnam. He later served as the Army's chief of staff.	Answer:	William Westmoreland(b) Secretary of State under Truman, he persuaded Truman to send aid to the French forces, but later advised Lyndon Johnson to negotiate peace with the Viet Minh.	Answer:	Dean Acheson(c) G. Gordon Liddy and H. Howard Hunt broke into his psychiatrist's office seeking information to discredit this man, who in 1971 released the Pentagon Papers to The New York Times.	Answer:	Daniel Ellsberg 5. Answer the following about the geography of Japan for ten points each.(a) Separating the Sea of Okhotsk from the Pacific Ocean, this disputed chain of islands run from Hokkaido to Kamchatka and were ceded to Japan by the Russians in exchange for Sakhalin in 1875.	Answer:	Kuril or Kurile Islands(b) The Okinawa prefecture of Japan, the southernmost prefecture, is comprised of this chain of 169 islands extending from Kyushu to Taiwan.	Answer:	Ryukyu islands(c) In 1995 an earthquake measuring a beefy 7.2 on the Richter scale hit this capital of Hyogo prefecture located on Honshu.	Answer:	Kobe
6. Identify the following about Rome and its emperors, for ten points each.(a) Reigning from 42 BC to 37 AD, had only one son and lived in self-imposed exile on the island of Capri for the last ten years of his reign.       Answer:	Tiberius(b) This man was Tiberius's prefect in the Praetorian Guard and controlled Rome in his stead.       Answer:	Aelius Sejanus(c) His second wife, also his niece, died during an abortion. He is probably more well known for finishing the Colosseum and starting the Capitoline Games.       Answer:	Domitian7. Name the biologist for ten points each.(a) He discovered the antibiotic lysozyme, but he is more famous for beginning research that resulted in the development of Penicillium notatum.	Answer:	Sir Alexander Fleming(b) This German developed the rule that "every cell originates from another cell" and founded the medical disciplines of cellular pathology and comparative pathology.	Answer:	Rudolf Virchow(c) Slightly more contemporary than the first two, this French biologist is credited with the discovery of the HIV-virus.	Answer:	Luc Montaigner8. Answer the following about a certain French Romantic painter for ten points each.(a) His obsession with extreme situations culminated with is painting the insane, such as The Woman with Gambling Mania, when he died in a fall from a horse in 1824.	Answer:	Théodore Géricault(b) Géricault executed a painting of this 1816 disaster resulting in the death of 140 crew and passengers aboard the namesake ship, and left the survivors resorting to cannibalism by day four of the ordeal.	Answer:	The Raft of the Medusa(c) In 1814, prior to The Raft of the Medusa, Gericault executed this painting of an injured cavalryman.	Answer:	The Wounded Cuirassier9. Identify the following programming languages developed in the 1950s from a brief description for ten points each.(a) A precursor to Pascal, it was developed in 1958, and its 1960 release was worked on by John Backus and Peter Naur, and it shares its name with a particularly evil star.	Answer:	ALGOL(b) Dialects of this language include the Common variety and Scheme, and it was invented by John McCarthy in 1958.	Answer:	Lisp or List Processing(c) The first compiler for this language was released in 1954 by a team at IBM that included John Backus. Used mainly for numerical analysis, it includes a complex number data type and its most recent release is known as the '95' version.	Answer:	Fortran or Formula Translator or Formula Translation10. Name the women-folk English novelists from works for ten points each.(a) The Mysteries of Udolpho, The Italian	Answer:	Ann Radcliffe(b) Daniel Deronda, Adam Bede	Answer:	George Eliot or Mary Ann Evans(c) The Professor, Jane Eyre	Answer:	Charlotte Brontë11. Name the philosopher, 30-20-10.(30) In 1233 this Oxford student crossed to Paris, where he gained the attention of Adam de Marisco and Robert Grosseteste.(20) A Franciscan, he let loose a literary tirade against Alexander of Hales over the obscurity of his teacher Petrus Peregrinus of Picardie compared to the fame of others who gained no knowledge by experiment.(10) His Opus Minus and Opus Tertium advocated the study of experimental science and mathematics, and earned him the nickname Doctor Mirabilis.	Answer:	Roger Bacon
12. Identify the following variations on poker for ten points each.(a) The favored game of the World Series of Poker, each player receives two pocket cards, and an additional five community cards are turned over in three rounds of betting.	Answer:	Texas Hold'em(b) Like Texas Hold'em there are five community cards, but each player is dealt four cards instead of two, and must use at least two cards from his pocket to form his hand, which the best high and low hands splitting the pot.	Answer:	Omaha Hold'em 8-or-Better High-Low Split(c) Each player is dealt the number of cards with betting, with each player holding a hand to make five card hands out of.	Answer:	Seven-card Stud13. Answer the following about conservation laws in electromagnetism for ten points each.(a) This vector, proportional to the cross product of the electric and magnetic fields and, in free space, points in the direction of propagation of the electromagnetic waves.	Answer:	Poynting vector(b) This three by three matrix is used in dealing with conservation of momentum, and it is related to the rate at which the momentum stored in the electromagnetic field and carried in the bodies changes.	Answer:	Maxwell's Stress Tensor(c) Finally, the fact that the electromagnetic fields store momentum and energy is due to this force law, which causes the force due to a magnetic field to be perpendicular to the direction of motion and the magnetic field.	Answer:	Lorentz force law14. Plays by Shakespeare, ten points each.(a) After deputizing Angelo, Duke Vincentio proceeds to hide out in Venice disguised as Friar Lodowick to watch the results. Claudio is sentenced to death for fornication, but Vincentio manages a plan to save Claudio.	Answer:	Measure for Measure(b) Caius Martius receives the title name after defeating the Volscians, but later joins with them after he is expelled from Rome. Lifting the siege under the request of his wife and mother, he is killed by the Volscians.	Answer:	The Tragedy of Coriolanus(c) The play centers upon the physical similarity of Sebastian and his twin sister Viola. Viola falls in love with Orsino, the duke of Illyria, but Orsino has fallen in love with Olivia, and the mess is fixed when the twins are reunited.	Answer:	Twelfth Night; or What you Will15. The new American republic was not a town big enough to hold the two personalities that faced off in a code duello on July 11, 1804. (a) For five points each, name the two participants, each holding a military title, one a general and one a colonel.	Answer:	Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr(b) For ten points, name the location at which Hamilton and Burr engaged in their duel, just upstream from the Modern-day Lincoln Tunnel.	Answer:	plains of Weehawken(c) And for a final ten points, name Hamilton's loyal associate who accompanied him as a second that morning at the plains of Weehawken.       	Answer:	Nathaniel Pendleton 16. Identify the following linguists, none of whom your question-writer would regard as cunning, per se, FTPE:(a) Never taking up linguistics as a pure profession, he worked with Edward Sapir and is known for his work on the Hopi language and for a namesake theory of linguistic relativity he developed with Sapir.	Answer:	Benjamin Lee Whorf(b) A semiotician, his 1976 A Theory of Semiotics is lesser known than his fiction, such as The Island of the Day Before and Baudolino.	Answer:	Umberto Eco(c) He had a fairly uneventful career, being appointed to the post of Professor of Egyptology at the Collège de France, after his most famous achievement: the translation of the Rosetta Stone.  Okay, so that could arguably be called cunning...	Answer:	Jean-François Champollion
17. Identify the following Latin American authors for ten points each.(a) In 1983 this Argentine received the Legion of Honor from Francois Mitterand for his work, which includes Nine Dantesque Stories and Dr. Brodie's Report.	Answer:	Jorge Luis Borges(b) His most famous work, Kiss of the Spider Woman, tells of two men in an Argentine jail, Molina and Valentin.	Answer:	Manuel Puig(c) Recipient of the 1967 Nobel Prize in Literature, this Guatemalan poet's works include The President, the Banana Republic Trilogy, and The Bejeweled Boy.	Answer:	Miguel Ángel Asturias18. Identify the following from thermal chemistry for ten points each.(a) Defined as the molar derivative with respect to internal energy and denoted mu, this physical quantity can be thought of as a sort of potential for matter flow.	Answer:	chemical potential(b) The Kelvin-Planck statement of this law of thermodynamics states that it is impossible for a cyclic process to carry heat into a system from a hear reservoir and perform an equivalent amount of work.	Answer:	2nd Law of Thermodynamics(c) This Frenchman's namesake engine is the theoretical most efficient heat engine that can be designed, and involves a mixture of isothermal expansion, adiabatic expansion, isothermal contraction and adiabatic contraction.	Answer:	Sadi Carnot19. Name the twentieth century composer from works on a 10-5 basis.(10) Lulu(5) Wozzeck	Answer:	Alban Berg(10) Lady Macbeth of the Mtensk District(5) Leningrad Symphony	Answer:	Dmitri Shostakovich(10) Short Ride in a Fast Machine(5) Nixon in China	Answer:	John Adams20.	Who ruled what during the Thirty Years' War? From a clue name the following European leaders from that time period for ten points each.(a) Succeeding his cousin Matthias, he was the Holy Roman Emperor and King of Bohemia at the outbreak of the Bohemian revolt.	Answer:	Ferdinand II, Holy Roman Emperor(b) This Pontiff and successor to Gregory XV was Pope during the last twenty-one years of the War. He is perhaps best noted for his canonization of Ignatius Loyola, Francis Xavier, and Aloysius Gonzaga.	Answer:	Pope Urban VIII or Maffeo Barberini(c) He was King of France when his Chief Minister Richelieu decided to join the war on the side of the Protestants in 1636.	Answer:	Louis XIII Bourbon21.	Identify the following factions from the strategy game Medieval: Total War based upon their unique military units for ten points each.(a) Although not unique, the territory of this playable faction is the only place where Jinettes can be built. They are also the only faction that can build Lancers	Answer:	Spanish (do not accept Aragonese as they are not a playable faction)(b) The Varangian Guard, Pronoiai Allagion and Kataphraktoi are all unique units to this Orthodox faction.	Answer:	Byzantine Empire(c) Turcoman Foot Solders and the set of Janissary units can only be built by this faction.	Answer:	Turks