TOSSUPS -- KENTUCKY A			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Kelly McKenzie1.	At the end of this novel, the protagonist joins the thief Jack Duane in working for Chicago's corrupt political machine until Comrade Ostrinski gets him a job at a hotel owned by a humane socialist. Previously, his son Antanas had drowned in a flooded street, and he had gone to jail for attacking Phil Connor, who had coerced his wife Ona into prostitution. FTP, such was the misfortunes encountered in Packington by Jurgis Rudkus in what Upton Sinclain novel?	Answer: The Jungle2.	Activity of this gland is regulated by the hypothalamus, to which it is connected by a thin stalk. Oxytocin is secreted by the posterior lobe, while the anterior lobe secretes ACTH, prolactin, gonadotropins, and growth hormone. FTP, what is this pea-sized endocrine gland at the base of the brain?	Answer: pituitary gland (or hypophysis)3.	Among this building's architectural refinements are the slight upward curvature of its three-stepped base and the increased thickness of the four corner columns to counteract the thinning effect produced by viewing it from certain angles. Built by Callicrates and Ictinus, this Doric temple served as the treasury of the Delian league, and was home to a great gold and ivory statue by Phidias and many of the statues now called the Elgin marbles. FTP, name this temple of Athena atop the acropolis of Athens.	Answer: Parthenon4.	Several members of this group, such as Francis Blair, were also editors of influential regional newspapers who defended the actions of the administration. Although they became less influential after a governmental reorganization in 1831, members like Isaac Hill, Duff Green, Amos Kendall, and later, Martin Van Buren wielded considerable influence despite not being Secretaries of any government department. FTP, name this group of unofficial advisors to Andrew Jackson.	Answer: Kitchen Cabinet5.	Among the things named for this scientist are fluids in which the velocity gradient is directly proportional to the shear stress, a formula describing the distances between two conjugate points and their foci on a lens, a law describing the rate at which a body loses heat, and rings formed by placing a slightly convex lens on a flat glass plate. FTP, name this 17th century scientist best known for a law of gravitation and three laws of motion.	Answer: Isaac Newton6.	Don Luigi, the Generalissimo, Jurgen and Rita fail to kill him, which leads them to their fiery deaths, and Mustafa and Frau Farbissina fail to kill him later. Basil Expedition assigns his mission to fight against the "evil" corporation Virtucon, whose leader escapes him for the first time in a flying Bob's Big Boy statue. For ten points, name this "shagadelic" spy.ANSWER: Austin Danger Powers7.	This man was appointed Bishop of Autun, but soon entered politics and was made President of the National Assembly in 1790. Exiled during Robespierre's reign, as Foreign Minister under the Directory he helped Napoleon become Emperor, but later led the anti-Napoleon faction. FTP, who was this politician best-known for his role in the XYZ affair and his skillful negotiations at the Congress of Vienna?	Answer: Charles Talleyrand-Perigord
8.	The 1897 version, composed by Leoncavallo, is almost never performed today thanks to the popularity of the rival 1896 version.  Famous for "Musetta's waltz", the more successful of the operas by this name opens on Christmas Eve in a Paris loft shared by Colline, Schaunard, Marcello, and Rodolfo. After his friends leave, Rodolfo meets the seamstress Mimi and falls in love, but Mimi soom dies of illness. Such is the plot of, FTP, what opera by Giacomo Puccini?	Answer: La Boheme9.	Four months into the battle, Gen. Sir Frederick Stopford missed a golden opportunity; after an easy landing at Suvla Bay he waited three days before pushing inland and was thus easily bottled up.  The ensuing stalemate lasted another 6 motnhs before the British and French withdrew, stymied by the defenses of Gen. Otto Limon von Sanders and a well-timed counterattack by Mustafa Kemal.  FTP name this World War I battle.Answer:	Gallipoli10.	While treating the broken leg of the farmer Roualt, Charles falls in love with this woman, Roualt's daughter, and marries her. She soon tires of his simple ways, and after falling into debt to the Yonville storekeeper Lheureux to finance her affairs with Monsieur Boulanger and Leon Dupuis she poisons herself with arsenic. FTP, who is this title character of a novel by Gustave Flaubert?	Answer: Madame Emma Bovary11.	This religious sect follows the teachings of Guru Chaitanya, and was brought to the West in the 1960s by A.C. Swami. Followers give up alcohol and adopt a vegetarian diet, and stress the spiritual benifits of music, ecstatic trance, chanting, and devotion to the eighth avatar of Vishnu. FTP, what is this modern Hindu sect whose members are often found in airports?	Answer: Hare Krishnas (or International Society for Krishna Consciousness)12.	This captain was stabbed to death in a fight between his crew and Hawaiians over the theft of a cutter. To fight scurvy he pioneered a diet including cabbage and oranges, was the first navigator to cross the Antarctic Circle, charted the coasts of Canada and the St. Lawrence Channel, and while charting the transit of Venus he explored New Zealand and eastern Australia and discovered the Sandwich Islands. FTP, name this captain of the Endeavour for whom a group of islands and a strait are named.	Answer: James Cook13.	This value is derived from activities which cannot be measured experimentally, but for practical purposes it can be defined as F times the quantity E minus E sub R divided by 2.303 RT, where E sub R is the standard electrode potential of the reference electrode and E is the emf of a cell composed of the reference electrode and either a glass or hydrogen electrode. It can also be defined as the negative log base 10 of c, where c is the concentration of hydrogen in a solution. Having a neutral value of 7, FTP, what is this measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, whose name stands for potential of hydrogen?	Answer: pH (or potential of hydrogen)14.	The artist of this painting can be seen in a small, round mirror on the wall, above which is written a Latin phrase stating that the artist was there. It depicts Jeanne de Chenany, who is dressed in green and stands on the right, and who has just given her right hand to the Italian merchant of the title. FTP, what is this masterpiece by Jan van Eyck?	Answer: The Betrothal of the Arnolfini or the Arnolfini Wedding or equivalents
15.	This tribe was finally subjugated by Belisarius in 534. After taking Pannonia, they joined the Shebi and Alemanni in an invasion of Gaul and Spain, where they provided the source of the name Andalusia, and under Genseric they captured Carthage. FTP, what was this Germanic tribe which sacked Rome in 455 and whose name now describes wanton destruction?	Answer: Vandals16.	In this work's fourth book, the author concludes that all minorities must submit to the general will or be banished. Its third book relates the author's distrust of democracy and advocacy of a monarchy headed by an ideal ruler, while its basic thesis holds that since no person has any natural authority over another, the individual surrenders his or her rights to the state and is legally equal to all other citizens. FTP, name this treatise by Jean Jacques Rousseau.	Answer: The Social Contract (or Le Contract social)17.	In lines 65-83 of this poem the author describes his first visit to the banks of the Wye river. Stating that "five summers, with the length of five long winters!" have passed since that first visit, the poet reexperiences the joys of that visit through his sister Dorothy. FTP, what is this 1798 poem composed near the title edifice by William Wordsworth?	Answer: Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey On Revisiting the Banks of the Wye During a Tour, July 13, 179818.	A lesser-known work by this economist is An Inquiry into the Nature and Progress of Rent. A clergyman, he argued that moral restraint, crime, disease, war, and vice are necessary since means of sustenance grow at a slower rate than that of population. FTP, name this author of 1798's An Essay on the Principle of Population.	Answer: Thomas Malthus19.	This woman becomes concerned that she will have to forego certain luxuries if her husband fails to be appointed a professor at a certain university. A rival to her husband's appointment, Eilert Lovborg, had once been in love with her, so she exploits his feelings and induces him to commit suicide. However, Judge Black learns of this and threatens her with blackmail, prompting her own suicide. FTP, name this title character of a play by Henrik Ibsen.	Answer: Hedda Gabler20.	According to the tales of the Muisca Indians, when a new ruler was appointed at Lake Guatavita he was covered with mud and gold dust and set adrift on a raft laden with golden objects. Consequently, this legendary ruler and the city where he lived was given a name meaning "the gilded man". FTP, what is this name which is now applied to any mythical place of riches?	Answer: El Dorado21.	Ernest was a British psychoanalyst and close associate of Freud who wrote Hamlet and Oedipus. Bobby was the first golfer to win the Grand Slam. Mary was an American labor leader known as "Mother", and Inigo was a major English architect and set designer. FTP, what is this common surname also belonging to the captain of the Bonhomme Richard who said "I have not yet begun to fight?"	Answer: Jones
22.	The mountainous central region of this country rises to Pidurutalagala and Adam's Peak, and the Mahaweli Ganga river rises there. Separated from the mainland by Adam's Bridge, the Gulf of Mammar, and the Palk Strait, its cities include Jaffna and Kandy, and its peoples include the Veddas, Sinhalese, and Tamils. Formerly Ceylon, FTP, what is this island off the coast of India with capital at Colombo?	Answer: Sri Lanka (prompt on Ceylon)23.	This novel begins with the arrival of Mr. Lockwood, a new tenant at Thrushcross Grange. His housekeeper, Nelly Dean, relates to him the impact on the Linton and Earnshaw families of the foundling Heathcliff. Named for the Earnshaw estate, FTP, what is this novel by Emily Bronte?	Answer: Wuthering Heights
BONI -- KENTUCKY A			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Kelly McKenzie1.	FTPE, name the Keats poems from lines.1. (10 points) "Beauty is truth, truth beauty - that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know."	Answer: Ode on a Grecian Urn2. (10 points) "My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains my sense."	Answer: Ode to a Nightengale3. (10 points) "Oh what can ail thee, Knight at arms, alone and palely loitering?"	Answer: La Belle Dame Sans Merci2.	FTPE, name these parts of the small intestine.1. (10 points) This first section of the small intestine of vertebrates is the site where food is subjected to the action of bile, pancreatic enzymes, and succus entericus.	Answer: duodenum2. (10 points/10 points) Following the duodenum are these two parts of the small intestine. The first is dedicated to digestion, while the second precedes the large intestine and is a site of digestion and absorption.	Answer: jejunum, ileum3.	FTPE, name these important waterways of the British Isles.1. (10 points) England's chief waterway, it flows east 210 miles from the Cotswolds to the North Sea, passing Oxford, Runnymede, Greenwich, and London.	Answer: Thames2. (10 points) At 220 miles Britain's longest river, it rises in east Wales and flows east and south into the Bristol Channel.	Answer: Severn3. (10 points) The chief river of Ireland, its 240 mile length makes it the longest in the British Isles. Rising in North Cavan, it flows south and east through several lakes before emptying into the Atlantic.	Answer: Shannon4.	30-20-10, name the man.1. (30 points) When Republican leaders attempted to nominate this man for president in 1884 he replied "I will not accept if nominated, and will not serve if elected."(20 points) During the Civil War he succeeded Grant as commander of Union forces in the West. The remark "War is hell" is usually attributed to him.(10 points) On September 1, 1864, he captured Atlanta, beginning his March to the Sea.	Answer: William Tecumseh Sherman5.	FTPE, name the Renaissance artists who painted these distinctive Madonnas.1. (10 points) Madonna of the Rocks	Answer: Leonardo da Vinci2. (10 points) Madonna of the Goldfinch	Answer: Raphael Sanzio3. (10 points) Madonna of the Harpies	Answer: Andrea del Sarto6.	Identify the following Russian novels from secondary characters F15P, from main characters FTP, or F5P if you need the author.1. (15 points) Madame Odintzoff, Fenichka(10 points) Arkady, Kirsanoff, Bazaroff(5 points) Ivan Turgenev	Answer: Fathers and Sons (or Ottsy i deti)2. (15 points) Kutuzov, Helene Bezuhova, Anatole Kurogin(10 points) Pierre Bezuhova, Natasha Rostova, Andre Bolkonsky(5 points) Leo Tolstoy	Answer: War and Peace (or Voyna i mir)7.	In this question writer's mind, there is no funnier late night talk show than Late Night With Conan O'Brien. FTPE, identify these recurring Late Night characters.1. (10 points) In a parody of a recent watershed cultural event, Conan ran a contest to find out who wants to marry this animal, who is always seen wearing a diaper and surrounded by guards who attempt to stop him from engaging in a certain type of behavior.	Answer: The Masturbating Bear2. (10 points) Discovered at the Westminster Dog Show, this insult comic would likely say "this is a good question ... for me to poop on!"	Answer: Triumph, the Insult Comic Dog3. (10 points) For years it has been held in comedy circles that you can't tell a successful joke about this former United States president. Late Night has been trying to disprove this belief, most recently with a comedy bit featuring a little-known television channel dedicated to showing this president's money shots.	Answer: Abraham Lincoln8.	FTSNOP, answer the following from physics.(5 pts) This is the spreading or bending of waves as they pass through an aperture or round the edge of a barrier.	Answer: diffraction(15 points) Named for the French physicist whose name is also used for a unit of frequency equal to 10 to the 12th hertz, this is a form of diffraction in which the light source or receiving screen is at a finite distance from the diffracting source, causing non-planar wavefronts.	Answer: Fresnel diffraction(10 points) In this form of diffraction, the light source and receiving screen are in effect an infinite distance from the diffracting object. It can be regarded as an extreme case of Fresnel diffraction, and is named for the German who studied the sun's absorption lines.	Answer: Fraunhofer diffraction9.	FTPE, name these Supreme Court decisions from the second half of the 20th century.1. (10 points) Rejecting the precedent of Colegrove v. Green, in 1962 the Court held that unequal distribution of voters among legislative districts could be resolved by Federal courts.	Answer: Baker v. Carr2. (10 points) The Court ruled unconstitutional the use of strict racial quotas for university admissions in this 1974 case.	Answer: Regents of the University of California v. Bakke3. (10 points) In this 1986 case the Court refused to extend privacy rights to homosexual activity in upholding a Georgia law making sodomy a crime.	Answer: Bowers v. Hardwick
10.	FTPE, name these unrelated people and concepts from philosophy.1. (10 points) This philosophical term can describe Socrates' method of forcing one to change an opinion through self-contradiction, Plato's process of getting to know the world of ideal forms, or Hegel's dynamic logic, in which theses and antitheses are reconciled in syntheses.	Answer: dialectic2. (10 points) This principle states that assumptions used to explain phenomena should not be multiplied beyond what is needed.	Answer: Occam's razor3. (10 points) This philosopher argued that man, at birth, is "thrown" into existence, "standing out" from things, in his famous work Being and Time.	Answer: Martin Heidegger11.	FTPE, name these poems by Walt Whitman.1. (10 points) This poem describes the poet's annual spring mourning for Abraham Lincoln. The song of death which pours from the thrush is transformed into a hymn of victory by poem's end.	Answer: When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd2. (10 points) In this poem, the grass is "a uniform hieroglyphic" which describes immortality and cyclical rebirth. Finally, the poet dissolves into the universe, advising to "look for me under your bootsoles."	Answer: Song of Myself3. (10 points) According to this poem, regardless of time and space the poet shares the experience of life with all those who go from shore to shore. Whitman also describes the sunlight on water, the flight of seagulls, and the commerce of ships.	Answer: Crossing Brooklyn Ferry12.	Name these acids FTPE.1. (10 points) This acid with formula CH3 COOH is used as a carbon source by some green algae.	Answer: acetic acid or ethanoic acid2. (10 points) Also known as 2-hydroxypropanoic acid and having formula CH3 CH(OH) COOH, it is produced from pyruvic acid in active muscle tissue when oxygen is limited.	Answer: lacticacid3. (10 points) The simplest carboxylic acid, this acid has formula HCOOH, and is also known as methanoic acid.	Answer: formic acid13.	FTPE, name these figures from 16th century Europe.1. (10 points) This author of Utopia resigned as Lord Chancellor in 1532 to protest Henry VIII's claim that he was the head of the Catholic church in England. Refusing to take an oath proclaiming Henry's supremacy over the pope, he was imprisoned and executed.	Answer: Sir Thomas More2. (10 points) More had succeeded this Cardinal as Lord Chancellor after Henry VIII removed him due to his handling of Henry's proposed divorce from Catherine of Aragon.	Answer: Thomas Wolsey3. (10 points) Earlier, Wolsey attempted to become pope by cultivating a friendship with this Holy Roman Emperor, who was also Catherine of Aragon's nephew. He became ruler of Spain due to the insanity of his mother, Joanna the Mad.	Answer: Holy Roman Emperor Charles V or Charles I of Spain
14.	30-20-10-5-1, name the novel.1. (30 points) It describes soma holidays, in which people take a drug to induce euphoria and forgetfulness, and the Bokanovsky Process, in which a fertilized egg is arrested in its growth, with the buds producing 8 to 96 identical human beings.(20 points) The main plot is set in motion when Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx travel to New Mexico and visit a Savage Reservation.(10 points) Lenina and Bernard return to London with a young savage named John. Having educated himself by reading Shakespeare, he incites a revolt and refuses to adapt despite a long discussion with Mustapha Mond.(5 points) It was written by Aldous Huxley.(1 point) The title comes from the phrase "Brave new world" contained in The Tempest.	Answer: Brave New World15.	FTPE, name these physical constants.1. (10 points) Originally related to the wave number of lines in an atomic spectrum, it is equal to 2.17991 times 10 to the -18 Joules or 13.6085 electron volts.	Answer: Rydberg constant2. (10 points) Equal to 6.6262 times 10 to the -34 joule-seconds, it is important in quantum theory, where it is equal to the energy of a quantum divided by its frequency.	Answer: Planck constant3. (10 points) This is a magnetic constant equal to 4 pi times 10 to the -7 henry per meter.	Answer: permeability of free space16.	FTPE, name these Biblical figures associated with Solomon.1. (10 points) This queen visited Solomon in order "to prove him with hard questions," but upon seeing him had "no more spirit in her."	Answer: the Queen of Sheba (or Balkas, Queen of Saba)2. (10 points) The first king of the northern tribes after the division of Israel, he plotted to oust Solomon, but fled to Egypt after his plans were revealed.	Answer: Jeroboam I3. (10 points) After Solomon's death, Jeroboam led ten tribes in a revolt against this son and successor of Solomon, who lost the allegience of all but the tribe of Judah and half the tribe of Benjamin.	Answer: Rehoboam17.	30-20-10, name the composer from works.1. (30 points) Symphony of Psalms, the ballet Agon, the opera-oratorio Oedipus Rex, and the opera The Rake's Progress(20 points) The ballets Petrouchka and The Firebird(10 points) The Rite of Spring	Answer: Igor Stravinsky18.	Name the directors of these Oscar winning films, FTPE.1. (10 points) Casablanca	Answer: Michael Curtiz2. (10 points) Ben-Hur	Answer: William Wyler3. (10 points) The Last Emperor	Answer: Bernando Bertolucci
19.	F15PE, name these historical periods of Japan.1. (15 points) This period lasted from 794, when Emperor Kammu moved the capital to what is now Kyoto, until 1184, when the Taira were defeated at Dannoura. It saw the flowering of a refined culture, and both The Tale of Genji and the Pillow-Book were written then.	Answer: Heian2. (15 points) This period began with the collapse of the Tokugawa Shogunate and the restoration of the emperor. It saw intensive westernization and the emergence of Japan as a major world power.	Answer: Meiji Restoration20.	Name the Greek muse associated with the following, FTPE.1. (10 points) Epic poetry	Answer: Calliope2. (10 points) Music, especially wind instruments	Answer: Euterpe3. (10 points) Astronomy	Answer: Urania21.	Name these important conferences held in the United States, FTPE.1. (10 points) Held on a Union steamer, this was an abortive February 3, 1865, conference to negotiate an end to the American Civil War.	Answer: Hampton Roads Conference2. (10 points) This conference was held from November 1921 until February 1922 to discuss naval disarmament and political stability in the Far East. It resulted in the Nine-Power Treaty, and put restrictions on Japanese expansion.	Answer: Washington Conference3. (10 points) This 1951 conference was held to agree on a formal peace treaty between Japan and her World War II enemies.	Answer: San Francisco Conference