TOSSUPS - UCLA/CAL BLIND #2				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1.	In sexual reproduction, it is the cell formed by the fusion of the male and female sex cells, or gametes before the fused cell begins to divide and become an embryo. It is a diploid cell, that is, it contains a full set of chromosomes, half of them from each of the gametes.  For ten points, name this more complex term for a fertilized egg.Answer: _ZYGOTE_2.	He finds his kids in the hands of Larry Kidkill, who renames the children Animal, Dazzle, Punchline, and the Baron, but he does not name the other four. Before he knows it, his kids are in a show at the Springfield Zoo called "Octopia". FTP, name this character who is husband to Manjula.Answer: _APU_ Nahasapeemapetilon3.	The title character's skinny hand is too weak, but it is his glittering eye that allows him to tell his story in this poem.  The listener to the tale is a wedding guest, and he listens for the seven parts of the poem, learning that "He prayeth best, who loveth best all creatures great and small."  FTP, name this poem of the English Romantic period, the tale of a old sailor and an ill-fated encounter with an albatross.Answer: "The RIME OF THE ANCIENT MARINER"4.	This landlocked country, once known as the land of a million elephants, was first unified by King Fa Ngum in the fourteenth century, who established a capital at the current site of Luang Prabang.  Because of its mountainous terrain, nearly half the population consists of subsistence farmers along the Mekong River.  FTP, identify the only landlocked country in Southeast Asia, whose currency is the kip, and which has its capital at Vientiane.Answer:  _Laos_ (or _Lao People's Democratic Republic_)  5.	Her husband, Toussaint Charbonneau, bought her from the Hidatsa tribe that enslaved her.  A French-speaking Shoshone woman who died in 1884 falsely claimed to be her, but she really died in 1812 at Fort Mandan.  FTP, name this woman with a name that Anne Robinson can't pronounce, a guide from the Lewis & Clark expedition, whose image can be found on a golden dollar coin.Sacagawea (SACK-uh-GUH-wee-uh) or Sacajawea or Sakakawea6.	In Roman mythology, they are known as the Parcae.  In Norse mythology, they are the Norns, the three sisters Urd, Verdandi, and Skuld.  In Greek mythology, they are also three in number and are collectively known as the Moirae; they spin the thread of life and cut it at a person's death.  FTP, identify these female mythological figures who may not be on your side if you can't answer this question.	Answer:  the _Fates_7.	Born in Scotland in 1723, he quickly worked his was through school and an Oxford education. While teaching moral philosophy at the University of Glasgow, he published Theory of Moral Sentiments. He was one of the first proponents of the idea that the flow of currency should be a measure of wealth. This and the idea of human self-interest embodied his work, Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. FTP, name this economist and the father of capitalism.Answer: _ADAM SMITH_8.	Friedmann and Lemaitre independently derived this phenomenon from Einstein's theory of general relativity in the 1920's, but it wasn't until 1950 that the term was first coined derisively by Fred Hoyle, a proponent of the competing steady-state model.  A "hot" version of this theory was proposed by Alpher and Gamow to explain the presence of large amounts of helium in the universe.  FTP, identify this cosmological theory that explains the creation of the universe.Answer:  _Big Bang_ theory
9.	He put his 1998 re-election bid against Congressman Mark Neumann in jeopardy by refusing soft money contributions from his political party; perhaps not surprising from a man who seeks to be a successor to progressive men from his state such as Robert La Follette.  FTP, identify this junior Wisconsin senator, a co-sponsor of a bill for campaign finance reform with John McCain.Answer:  Russell Dana _Feingold_ 10.	He learned English at the age of 21 but was a famous English language novelist at the age of 39. His first novel, Almayer's Folly, recounts journeys to an attentive passenger.   He evidently liked secrets, titling two of his works The Secret Sharer and The Secret Agent.  FTP name the author of Lord Jim and Nostromo. Answer: Joseph _CONRAD_11.	The gamma function finds the value for this operation for all numbers.  Stirling's formula is used to approximate this value when it is very large, since values of it grow large very quickly.  A critical part of notation for the binomial formula and for the calculation of permutations, identify, FTP, this exciting mathematical operation symbolized by an exclamation point. Answer:  _factorial_12.	This Italian sculptor invented a technique known as "schiacciato" [she-ah-chee-AH-to], or "shallow relief", in which he achieved effects of spatial depth. At the same time, he carved several prophets for the Florentine Campanile, including the "Zuccone", or "Baldhead". FTP, name this man whose full name is Donato di Niccolo di Betto Bardi.Answer: _DONATELLO_13.	In 1864, while serving as minister-president of Prussia, he united with Austria to seize Schleswig and Holstein from Denmark.  In 1871, he and King Wilhelm I founded the Second Reich, but Wilhelm II forced him to resign in 1890.  FTP, name this "iron chancellor" who unified Germany and shares his name with the capital of North Dakota.Answer:	Otto (Eduard Leopold) von Bismarck (Schonhausen)14.	These cells harness electric energy available from electron transfer in redox reactions to perform useful electric work.  The crucial concept for electron transfer is to separate the two parts into an anode and a cathode, where oxidation and reduction occur.  Usually, a porous medium separates the two, though older versions have been known to use a salt bridge.  FTP, name this type of cell, named after the man best known for running electric current through frog legs.Answer: _GALVANIC_ cells15.	John Buccigross.  Brett Haber. Bob Edwards.  Larry Beil.  Chris McKendry.  Rece Davis.  Craig Kilborn.  Keith Olbermann.   All of these are (or were) hosts of a show whose current hosts include Stuart Scott. Linda Cohn, Kenny Mayne, and Dan Patrick.  For ten points, identify this show, the backbone of ESPN.Answer: _SPORTSCENTER_ [prompt on ESPN]16.	Panfilo tells a story about Cepparello.  Lauretta tells one about Master Simone and a secret society.  Filomena tells a story about Melchisadech and Saladin.  These three, and their seven fellow members of the Brigata, tell lots of other stories over the ten-day course of the book.  FTP, name this masterpiece of 14th century Italian literature, a precursor to the Canterbury Tales, written by Giovanni Boccaccio.Answer: The _DECAMERON_17.	In chemistry, this theory is a refinement of models of covalent bonding for molecules and ions where no single Lewis structure is adequate. In physics, it is the reason that soldiers break step when crossing bridges, and indicates a fundamental frequency for an oscillatory system. FTP, identify this term, which in chemistry indicates that the real molecule or ion should be considered as a hybrid of two or more Lewis structures.	_resonance_18.	Founded in 1900, this association consists of approximately 4000 educational organizations in the United States.  Every year, over three million students use services offered by, ranging from scholarship and financial aid search to the better-known standardized testing services.  For ten points, identify this organization which conducts the Advanced Placement curriculum and the dreaded SAT tests.Answer: The _COLLEGE BOARD_19.	This 1992 book tells how a scheming stepbrother signs over Antoinette Cosway's inheritance to a naïve man with ambitions, who then sinks to the occasion and marries and pretty much enslaves her.  She's eventually dragged to cold, dreary England to become the crazy wife locked in the attic of her husband Edward Rochester in Jane Eyre.  FTP name this imaginative prequel set in the Caribbean, written by Jean Rhys.Answer: _WIDE SARGASSO SEA_20.	After years of negotiation it was signed in the towns of Münster and Osnabrück. The member states of the treaty were bound to allow private citizens to worship privately, have a liberty of conscience, and the right to emigrate to religious minorities.  These provisions were offset by others, e.g., princes who changed their religion had to forfeit their land.  The most important effects of this treaty, however, involve the creation of the sovereign nation-state.  FTP, name this treaty of 1648 that extended religious tolerance and dissipated most of the power of the Roman Catholic church in managing political affairs. Answer: _PEACE OF WESTPHALIA_ (Accept "_TREATY OF WESTPHALIA_" or equivalent)21.	In plants their most distinctive feature is the arrangement of the vascular tissues. In mathematics it is one of the many solutions to the equation f(x) = 0 where f is a polynomial. In letters, it's an award-winning account of Alex Haley's quest for the history of his family.  In genealogy, it is the generic term for all those that preceded you. FTP, name the encompassing term for potatoes, carrots and turnips.Answer: _ROOTS_22.	His publishing ventures were not all successful, but he did have a hit with the memoirs he edited and published for Ulysses S. Grant.  Once considered soft on people of color, more recently this Gilded Age author has been called a racist and has had numerous of his books banned from schools across the U.S.  His many works, written pseudonymously, include Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc, Letters from the Earth, The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson, The Innocents Abroad, and The Prince and the Pauper.  FTP give the true name of the author of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.Answer: Samuel _CLEMENS_ (prompt on "Mark _TWAIN_" before the words "pen name")23.	This state's shores, mountains, mineral springs, natural wonders, and numerous historic sites draw millions of visitors annually. Geographically, it contains the Piedmont region, the Blue Ridge range, the Allegheny (all-ih-GANE-ee) Plateau, and the tidewater region, which is cut by the Potomac River, the Rappahannock, the York, and the James. FTP, can you name the home state of Colonial Williamsburg and Shenandoah National Park?Answer: _VIRGINIA_24.	This Egyptian goddess was worshipped not only in Egypt, but also throughout the entire Roman Empire.  She is the sister and wife to Osiris, and also the mother of Horus.  FTP, name the Egyptian mother goddess.Answer: _ISIS_
BONI - UCLA BLIND #2					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1.	Combining two meanings of the word conjugation, provide the proper grammatical conjugation for the verb phrase "to do it all for the nookie" FTPE.  For example, if I said "first person singular, past tense," you would say "I did it all for the nookie."[Note: only the correct conjugation of the verb is necessary.  "...it all for the nookie" is strictly for entertainment purposes; must be 18 or older.]A. First person plural, present perfect tense.We have done it all for the nookie.B. Third person plural, future tense.They will do it all for the nookie.C. Masculine first person singular, future perfect tense.He will have done it all for the nookie.2.	Name these Verdi operas given main characters, FTPE.I. Radames, King Amonasro, and Princess Amneris.Answer: _AIDA_II. Violetta and Alfredo.Answer: _LA TRAVIATA_ (or _THE FALLEN WOMAN_)III. The Duke of Mantua, Gilda, Sparafucile, and Maddalena.Answer: _RIGOLETTO_3.	The Booker Prize is perhaps the most prestigious literary award for which U.S. citizens are not eligible.  Given a book that won the prize, identify its author FTP each.I. The Blind Assassin.A: Margaret _ATWOOD_II. The English Patient.A: Michael _ONDJAATE_III. Midnight's Children.A: Salman _RUSHDIE_4.	And now it's time for the rather generic ideal gas equations question.  Given a description or formula of the law, name it FTPE.I. Pressure times volume is constant when temperature and the amount of gas molecules are constant.Answer: _BOYLE'S LAW_II. The total pressure of a mixture of gases is the sum of the individual pressures of each of the gases.Answer: _DALTON'S LAW_ of Partial PressuresIII. The volume of a gas at constant temperature and pressure is proportional to the number of molecules of that gas present.Answer: _AVOGADRO'S LAW_5.	In 1848, Missouri slave Dred Scott sought to win his freedom by filing a lawsuit against the widow of his former owner.  Answer these questions about the incident FTSNOP.I. (5 points)  Name the Supreme Court chief justice who handed down this controversial decision.Answer: Roger _TANEY_II. (10 points)  The defendant in the case when it reached the Supreme Court in 1857 was this man, who had become Scott's new owner.  Ironically, the reason Scott's suit made it to Federal court was that his new owner lived in New YorkAnswer: John _ SANFORD_; accept Sandford, the misspelling in the court papersIII. (15 points) Finally, for 15 name Scott's previous owner, an army medical officer whose time in Illinois and Wisconsin was the basis of Scott's assertion that he was free.Answer:  John EMERSON
6.	Name bands from recent albums F5PE:I. Enema of the State.Answer: _BLINK 182_II. Back in Black.Answer: _AC/DC_III. Make Yourself.Answer: _INCUBUS_IV.The Gift of Game.Answer: Crazy TownV. Something Like Human.Answer: FuelVI. Bury the HatchetAnswer: the Cranberries7.	Identify these questions related to Arthurian literature and characters for the stated number of points.I. (5 points) Name the author of the highly-influential classic Le Morte d' Artur.Answer: Sir Thomas _MALORY_II. (15 points) 5 pts. for one or 15 for both, name King Arthur's father and mother.Answer: King _UTHER_ Pendragon and Queen _IGRAINE_III. (5 points) In Arthurian legend, he is a treacherous Knight of the Round Table.  In Malory's Le Morte d' Artur, he is the bastard son of Arthur and Margawse (who is also known as Morgan).Answer: Sir _MORDRED_V. (5 points) While Arthur is raised by Sir Ector's ward, he must put up with this thick son of Ector.Answer: Sir _KAY_8.	FTPE, identify the term being measured given an equation in rotational physics.  For example, if I said "v/r", you would say angular velocity.I. 1/2 I?2 (read: one-half-I times omega-squared).Answer: _KINETIC ENERGY_II. I? (read: I times alpha).Answer: _TORQUE_III. r x p (read: r cross p).Answer: _ANGULAR MOMENTUM_9.	Answer these questions about a potentially explosive event that occurred England in 1605 FTSNP.I. (5 points) For five points, name the man that was caught in the cellar of the House of Parliament with 36 barrels of an explosive substance and was later executed for treason.Answer: Guy _FAWKES_II. (5 points) For ten, give the commonly used name of this "plot" that failed.Answer: _GUNPOWDER_ PlotIII. (10 points) Every year this calendar date is celebrated throughout Britain as Guy Fawkes Day.Answer: November 5thIV.(10 points.) The night of November 5th, has another common nickname, prompted by what is done to effigies of Fawkes.Answer: _BONFIRE NIGHT_
10.	Answer these questions about the famous philosophical masterpiece, The Social Contract, FTPE.I. First, who wrote the book?Answer: Jean-Jacques _ROUSSEAU_II. What is Rousseau's term for the collective of public persons when active, also known as the state when in the passive?Answer: The _SOVEREIGN_III. Though it totally goes against all modern sensibilities of democracy, Rousseau maintains that in times of extreme crisis where swift actions is required, one man must control all the power.  What is the term he refers to this person with?Answer: The _DICTATOR_11.	And now it's time for everyone's favorite topic - SEX!  Identify these works related to erotic literature on a 5-10-15 basis.I. (5 points) Literally meaning "the science of love", it is the most famous Indian book on the subject, written by the mystic Vatsyayana.Answer: The _KAMA SUTRA_II. (10 points) Written in the Italianate style, this Shakespearean erotic poem borrows much from Ovid's Metamorphoses, and was dedicated to the Earl of Southampton.Answer: _"VENUS AND ADONIS"_III. (15 points) Most likely inspired by "Venus and Adonis", this Christopher Marlowe poem tells of two lovers, one living in Asia, the other in Europe, separated by a giant strait.  Every night, the boy would swim across to meet his lover, until one night he drowned in a storm.  Predictably, his lover committed suicide.Answer: _"HERO AND LEANDER"_12.	Identify the following people associated with the good old days of the Byzantine Empire F10PE.10) Noted for his codification of law among many other achievements, he was Emperor from 527-565 AD.       Justinian I or the Great 10) According to Procopius she was an actress and prostitute before her marriage in 523 to Justinian. Justinian made her joint ruler of the Empire, and she helped save the throne through her energetic action in the Nika riot.	_Theodora_10) Justinian's greatest general, he first distinguished himself in battle against the Sassanids. Later he was sent west against the Vandals and Ostrogoths in an effort to reconquer the Western Roman Empire.	_Belisarius_13.	Identify these Marvel comic superheroes given their real names for 5 points each.I. Logan (no last name known).Answer: _WOLVERINE_ (accept _Weapon X_)II. Steve Rogers.Answer: _CAPTAIN AMERICA_III. Remy LeBeau.Answer: _GAMBIT_IV. Anthony "Tony" Stark.Answer: _IRON MAN_V. Nathan "Nate" Grey.Answer: _X-MAN_ (do not accept X-Men, of course).VI. Elizabeth "Betsy" Braddock.Answer: _PSYLOCKE_
14.	Answer the following about how electrons fill atomic orbitals F10PE.10) It states that two electrons cannot have the same set of quantum numbers; thus, no more than two electrons can be present in an orbital, one with spin +1/2, the other with spin -1/2.Pauli _Exclusion Principle_10) It states that when a number of degenerate orbitals are available and there are not enough electrons to fill them completely, then one electron is added to each degenerate orbital before a second electron is added to any one of them._Hund's Rule_10) Give the electron configuration for phosphorus.  OK, we'll cut you some slack: its atomic number is 15.1s2 2s2 2p6 3s2 3p3   (accept [Ne]3s23p3)15.	Identify the poetry form from bad samples FTP each.I.	This one's quite easyTake seventeen syllablesAnd sharp images.Answer: _HAIKU_II.	The name's like a big Irish cityWhen done right, the result is quite prettyQuite many are crudeAnd they just might get booedLike this one, because it's quite shitty.Answer: _LIMERICK_III.	Edmund BentleyInvented them gentlyBut he would thinkThat this one does stink.Answer: _CLERIHEW_16.	Pencil and paper may be useful. Snarfblarts can have fuzzy or bald flurbers and yellow or pink thibwids. Fuzzy flurbers an!d pink thibwids are dominant traits, while bald and yellow are recessive traits. Answer the following questions FTPE.  10) A snarfblart that is heterozygous for fuzzy and pink is crossed with a snarfblart that is bald and yellow. How many possible genotypes can their offspring have?	_4_10) What are the ratios of the four possible phenotypes for this cross?  (Allow 10 seconds)	_1:1:1:1_10) In a population of 100 snarfblarts, 36 are bald. What is the frequency of the fuzzy gene in this population? (Allow 10 seconds)	_40%_17.	Identify the following characters from the Greek underworld FTSNOP.5) He is the boatman of the river Styx.	_Charon_5) This daughter of Zeus and Demeter is the wife of Hades and queen of the underworld.	_Persephone_ (do not accept Proserpine; that is the Roman equivalent of Persephone)15) These three were the judges of the dead. Name them for 5 pts. each.	_Minos, Rhadamanthus, and Aeacus_Minos and Rhadamanthus were brothers of Sarpedon and sons of Zeus by this mortal.      Europa
18.	Hopefully you all got a chance to go out and see "Thirteen Days," because this question is about the Cuban Missile Crisis. Don't get too excited though, none of the answers are "JFK" or "RFK." But try answering these questions FTPE anyway.I. First, name the Soviet head of state during the crisis, who eventually sent the first of two emotional letters to the White House near the end of the crisis.Answer: Nikita _KHRUSHCHEV_II. Next, name the American Secretary of Defense who served from 1961 through 1968 and supported JFK's decision to set up a naval quarantine of Cuba.Answer: Robert _MCNAMARA_III. And for a final 10, McNamara, RFK, and several other top cabinet members were part of this advisory group formed by JFK to handle the crisis.Answer: _EXCOMM_ (Accept _"EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE"_)19.	5-10-15; answer these questions FTSNOP about an American author and his works.I. (5 points) Name the author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.I. Ken _KESEY_II. (10 points) Name the spirited, red haired man who willingly went to the mental hospital. Also the main character of the novel.Answer:  Randel P. _MCMURPHY_III. (15 points) Who is the narrator of the novel?Answer:  Chief _BROMDEN_20.	Identify the following terms from art and architecture FTPE.This term identifies an exterior support, usually of masonry projecting from the face of a wall and serving either to strengthen it or to resist the side thrust created by the load on an arch or a roof.  Varieties include hanging, tower and the ever-popular flying.      Answer: buttressThis refers to the central part of a Christian church, which, in a typical cruciform plan, extends from the Eentrance or narthex to the sanctuary or apse on the other side of the transept. In basilica style churches, it refers to the center aisle. The laity usually sit and stand here during the service.      Answer: naveIn this kind of painting, water-based pigments are made by grinding dry-powder in pure water, which then dry and set with plaster. It typically had two styles -- "buon," meaning true, or "secco," meaning dry.       Answer: fresco21.	Islands played an important role in the life of Napoleon Bonaparte.  FTPE, name these islands given the role they played for Napoleon.I. The island he was born on, in 1769.Answer: _CORSICA_II. The island he was exiled to, in 1814.Answer: _ELBA_III. The island he died on, in 1821.Answer: _ST. HELENA_
22.	Paper and pencils ready.I. FTP, calculate the sum of the first ten positive integers.  You have ten seconds.Answer: _55_II. Now, FTP, calculate the sum of the first one hundred positive integers.  You still ten seconds.Answer: _5050_III. Numbers which can be obtained by adding together the first so many positive integers are known, FTP, by what geometrical-sounding name?Answer: _TRIANGULAR_ numbers23.	30-20-10; identify the story from clues.I. (30 points) The story opens with the title character describing his adventures to a malcontent porter.  He says that fortune and wealth can only be achieved by enterprise and spirit.II. (20 points) Among his narrations, the title character describes his encounter with the Cyclops, a long distance from where he hails.  He also describes how he killed the Old Man of the Sea and also his visit to the island of Serendip, modern-day Sri Lanka or Ceylon.III. (10 points) This is a well-known story in The Arabian Nights about a merchant from Baghdad who embarks on seven voyages to gain great wealth.Answer: _SINBAD_ the Sailor24.	FTPE, given the bird, name the Roman goddess or Greek counterpart who is associated with it.I. The peacock.Answer: _JUNO_ (also accept _HERA_)II. The owl.Answer: _MINERVA_ (also accept _ATHENA_)III. The dove.Answer: _VENUS_ (also accept _APHRODITE_)25.	30-20-10; name the world city from one clue for 30 points, two for 20, and three for 10.I. (30 points) The author Salman Rushdie was born in this city.II. (20 points) It is now the capital of Maharashtra state in India, and contains historical remains from the Buddhist Mauryan empire.III. (10 points) Lying on the Arabian Sea, this city has the only natural deepwater harbor in West India, and is home to India's largest banks and financial houses.Answer: _BOMBAY_ (accept _MUMBAI_)