TOSSUPS - GEORGIA			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by John Petrie, Jeff Ledford, Michael Staley, and Gail Celio1)	Despite the fact that his wife and three daughters died in a San Francisco fire in 1915, he was able to go on to a bright military career.  Only George Washington is ranked higher in the U.S. military, as both hold the title General of the Armies of the United States, with Washington having seniority.  For 10 points-name this man who drove Pancho Villa from New Mexico and commanded the American Expeditionary Forces in World War I.	Answer:	John J(oseph) "Black Jack" Pershing2)	When it was published in 1817 in the North American Review, the editor was told he had been tricked because "no one on this side of the Atlantic is capable of writing such verses."  That critic was soon to learn that not only was the author American, but he was 16 when he had written it seven years earlier.  Offering a reconciliation with death as the great equalizer, and finding the "still voice" of God in all of nature, this is, FTP, what poem by William Cullen Bryant?	Answer:	Thanatopsis	3)	It doesn't have wings, but if it did, it could fly, and it does have a flat-topped engine with increased capacity and lake pipes.  Normally very quiet, it becomes extremely loud when fully accelerated on its way to one hundred forty miles per hour.  Ported, relieved, stroked, and bored, this is-for 10 points-what title object of a 1963 Beach Boys song that can "walk a Thunderbird like she's standin' still"?	Answer:	Little Deuce Coupe	4)	Called "clay metal" by early civilizations, it has been detected in the brains of Alzheimer's patients, but whether it contributes to that disease is unknown.  When Hans Christian Oersted separated it from its oxides it was so impure that it was useless, but after Friedrich Wöhler completely isolated it, it soon became more valuable than gold.  For 10 points-name this most abundant metal in the Earth's crust, which is separated from bauxite by the Bayer process.	Answer:	aluminum or aluminium	5)	Veit Pogner, along with many others, thinks Beckmesser is the best one.  However, Beckmesser recognizes a rival in Walther for the hand of Eva, so he tries to prevent Walther from becoming one.  Sachs sees to it that he does join the guild while at the same time humiliating Beckmesser.  For 10 points-name this elite group of singers in 16th-century Germany, the title group of Wagner's only successful comic opera.	Answer:	Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg or The Mastersingers of Nuremberg	6)	A third one was determined in the early 1980's to lie about 220,000 light-years away.  It apparently broke away from the one that lies 20,000 light-years closer to Earth.  A supernova was observed in the yet-closer one in 1987, but you would have had to be in the southern hemisphere to see it.  For 10 points-these are three galaxies-one Mini, one Small, and one Large-that share what title, named after a Portuguese explorer?	Answer:	Magellanic Clouds	7)	After being exiled from Madrid on a charge of libel, he joined the Spanish Armada, and after his second wife died in 1613, he became a priest.  His religious convictions didn't stop him from continuing his promiscuous and adventurous life, and many of his characters exhibit the same qualities.  His comedias such as The Best Mayor, the King and Peribáñez harp on the theme of honor, while others mix tragedy, humor, love, and suspense in an effort to entertain his audience as much as possible.  For 10 points-name this dramatist of "cloak-and-dagger" plays who is considered the founder of Spanish drama.	Answer:	Lope de Vega Carpio8)	Its famous octagonal cathedral was modeled after the church of San Vitale in Ravenna, Italy.  Called Aquae Grani by the Romans, it was for 600 years the site of coronation of German kings, from Otto I to Ferdinand I.  A much-exchanged city, it went from the Holy Roman Empire to France to Prussia and then Germany.  For 10 points-name this city in western Germany, near Belgium and The Netherlands, that was the capital of Charlemagne's empire and the center of Carolingian civilization.	Answer:	Aachen or Aix-la-Chapelle [AY-la-sha-PEL]
9)	A science fiction novel by Patrick J. Morris shares its name with concept with widespread applications in science and math.  It comes into play in using the Lorentz force law; one can also use it to determine the direction of torque in a rotating body, the direction of the normal vector to a plane, or the direction of the force on a moving particle in a magnetic field.  FTP, name this rule that involves the "thumbs-up" gesture.	Answer:	right-hand rule10)	Because the different versions of it were not everywhere identical, they might not be regarded as variations of the same deity, though they all seemed to represent fertility of the soil and domestication of animals.  From the Phoenician for "lord" or "master," the name forms part of the word for several gods, such as the lord of the covenant of the Shechemites and the lord of the flies of the Philistines.  For 10 points-name this chief god of the Canaanites, treated in Psalms as analogous to the God of Israel but usually treated as a major rival to Yahweh.	Answer:	Baal (accept Baalim, a plural form of the word Baal)11)	The Kingdom of the Two Sicilies was split, with Naples going to Austria and Sicily going to the Duke of Savoy.  Austria also received the Spanish Netherlands and Sardinia, while France ceded Acadia, Newfoundland, and the Hudson Bay territory to the British and recognized Anne as queen of Great Britain and Ireland.  For 10 points-name this set of treaties that recognized Philip of Anjou as king of Spain on the condition that France and Spain never unite, which ended the War of Spanish Succession.	Answer:	Peace of Utrecht or Treaties of Utrecht12)	He became associated with Amédée Ozenfant in the purism school, and the two men founded The New Spirit, for which he wrote many articles on his architecture theories.  After going into business with his cousin Pierre in 1922, he designed many famous buildings all over the world and planned an entire layout of the city of Chandigarh, India.  For 10 points-name this Swiss-French architect who designed the Palace of the League of Nations in Geneva and said the ideal house was a "machine for living."	Answer:	Le Corbusier or Charles Édouard Jeanneret13)	Tagged as a traitor by some, even her own son comes to distrust her, but for different reasons.  Though she can read people's voice inflections and facial expressions with uncanny ability, she never suspects the real traitor until after the fact.  She is later comforted to learn that her lover, the Duke, always trusted her.  For 10 points-name this Bene [BEN-ay] Gesserit [JESS-er-it] "witch," the mother of Paul Atreides in Frank Herbert's Dune.	Answer:	Lady Jessica (of Atreides)14)	One less common way to measure it is by the cooling effect on a heated wire, which causes the electric resistance of the wire to change.  Another method uses a Pitot [pi-TO] tube, which is an L-shaped tube with one end open and the other end connected to a pressure-measuring device.  For 10 points-what is usually measured with a gadget that consist of three or four cups attached to short rods that rotate around a vertical shaft, known as an anemometer?	Answer:	wind velocity (accept equivalents)15)	Born in 1860, this author never had any children of his own, but he drew inspiration from the three sons of a neighbor, the youngest of whom lent his name to this author's most famous creation.  A statue of that character now stands in Kensington Gardens, his original home.  For 10 points-name this author of "Peter Pan in Kensington" and "Peter and Wendy."	Answer:	Sir J(ames) M(atthew) Barrie16)	Types I and II incorporate a methylase into a larger complex, while Type II varieties allow the methylase to function as a separate enzyme. That methylase adds a -CH3 group to adenine and cytosine bases, thus shielding the bacterium's own genome. In nature they protect against intruding DNA of other organisms, but in the lab they are fundamental in isolating, cloning, and recombining DNA. For 10 points-name this type of enzyme that recognizes specific nucleotide sequences and cuts DNA only at those locations. 	Answer:	restriction enzymes or restriction endonucleases or nucleases
17)	Originally founded in Putney, Vermont, by John Humphrey Noyes, it moved to its namesake location in 1848 and, though the members called themselves Perfectionists, it only lasted until 1880.  The one bright light of this society was its successful manufacturing companies, and the many faults include their system of "complex marriage," where everyone was married to each other and the community raised the eugenically bred children.  For 10 points-name this utopian colony named for its location in upstate New York.	Answer:	Oneida Community	18)	At its national convention on July 3-7, 2002, three of its former presidential candidates are scheduled to speak: John Hospers, David Bergland, and one Texas congressman who rejoined the Republican Party in 1998 after resigning in 1987 to then run for president under this party.  For 10 points-name this American political party, which is called "America's third largest party," whose recent presidential candidates have included Ron Paul and Harry Browne.	Answer:	Libertarian Party19)	Located in the hills of the Serra do Mar on the Piratininga Plateau, it is crossed by the Tietê River several miles north of the Plaza of the Republic and the Italian Building.  The Great Escarpment separates it from the port city of Santos, located further south on the Atlantic Ocean.  For 10 points-name this city founded in 1554 by Jesuit missionaries that is the most populous city in South America.	Answer:	São Paulo [SOUN POW-lo]20)	The escapees include Lawrence Hammond, an automobile manufacturer; Ken Danagger, a coal miner; Quentin Daniels, a young scientist; Richard Halley, a composer; and Ellis Wyatt, an oil tycoon. All this begins after three students of Dr. Hugh Akston, a professor of philosophy, realize that they can no longer support the world on their shoulders. Dagny Taggart is more tenacious, as she insists on running her railroad company no matter how hard it is. Even she must give in after the collapse of her company's bridge across the Mississippi, however. For 10 points-these people and many others are volunteers in Francisco D'Anconia, Ragnar Danneskold (Dan-nes-skyold) and John Galt 's strike in what lengthy Ayn Rand novel? 	Answer:	Atlas Shrugged21)  His career began when he purchased Joice Heth, a black slave who was reputedly 161 years old and had been a nurse to George Washington.  His early financial successes included buying Scudder's American Museum in New York and sponsoring an American concert tour for the Swedish soprano Jenny Lind.  For 10 points-name this man who, after several terms in the Connecticut state legislature, went to Brooklyn to launch a mobile circus that he called "The Greatest Show on Earth."	Answer:	P(hineas) T(aylor) Barnum22)	Founded by Jeffrey Wilkins in 1969 with his father-in-law Harry Gard, it originally sold time to other companies on Gard's insurance company's mainframe computer.  After it began offering technical support, email, and discussion groups, H&R Block bought it and it eventually spread to five continents, teamed up with Fujitsu Limited, bought Spry, and spread to over 3 million users in 1995.  For 10 points-name this innovative online service acquired in 1998 in a three-way deal by WorldCom and America Online.	Answer:	CompuServe Corporation or CompuServe Interactive Services23)   Dedicated to King Charles II, Samuel Pepys [PEEPS] called it "the most ingenious book that ever I read in my life."  Along with a theory of combustion analogized to respiration, it investigated the colors of thin plates of mica, commented on the "black spot" on soap bubbles, and suggested a wave theory of light, comparing the spreading of light vibrations to that of waves in water.  For 10 points-name this 1665 publication that also contained a lovely two-foot drawing of a louse holding on to a human hair and drawings of cork cells from trees.	Answer:	Micrographia [by Robert Hooke]24)	Soon after St. Frumentius brought Christianity to it in the early 4th century, the Bible was translated into Ge'ez, its official language.  But after the Muslim conquest of north Africa in the 7th century, it was all but cut off from the rest of the Christian world.  For 10 points-name this east African kingdom that replaced the Kush state Meroë and eventually evolved into Ethiopia.	Answer:	Kingdom of Aksum or Axum (prompt on early "Ethiopia")
25)	His favorite movie is Ron Howard's Splash!  His dream is to sail around the world on three ships in search of treasure, and he has already been to the Arctic Circle, Baltic Sea, and around Cape Horn.  He is a rather unsuccessful entrepreneur, as his first three restaurants-Take Me to the Liver, The Beet Goes On, and Groats! Groats! Groats!-all failed.  For 10 points-name this pseudo-sea-captain whose fourth restaurant, The Frying Dutchman, is his only successful business.	Answer:	Captain Horatio McAllister (accept either underlined portion)26)	Unlike many four-star officers, he did not attend an elite military service academy, but entered the Air Force out of Kansas State University.  After flying a fighter jet in the Vietnam War, he moved up in the Air Force to become head of the Air Force's Space Command.  For 10 points-name this expert in computer and space warfare who is George W. Bush's current chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.	Answer:	Richard Myers27) 	Of French Huguenot parentage, after graduating from Princeton and teaching on Long Island, he held jobs as a sea-captain, postal employee, newspaper editor, and a translator in Jefferson's Department of State.  While in the State Department, he founded the National Gazette, which put forth articles in the same vein as poetry he had written 10 years earlier.  For 10 points-name this satirical poet and journalist known as the Poet of the Revolution.	Answer:	Philip Freneau
BONI - GEORGIA			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by John Petrie, Jeff Ledford, Michael Staley, and Gail Celio1) Oddly, two characters in Apollonius's The Voyage of Argo have this name.  For 10 points each-A.	What name is shared by an original member of Jason's crew, and a son of Phrixus, the latter of whom figures prominently in the recovery of the Golden Fleece?	Answer:	ArgusB.	What daughter of King Aeetes [iy-EE-tees] was the wife of Phrixus and mother of Argus?	Answer:	Chalciope [chal-SEE-o-pee or kal-KEE-o-pee]C.	This sister of Chalciope betrays her father by helping Jason survive her father's deadly challenge and retrieve the Golden Fleece.	Answer:	Medea2) Many bacteria and phages have clusters of functionally related genes called operons.  Answer the following about the lac, or lactose, operon.A.	For 10 points-the lac operon is a cluster of genes regulating the metabolism of lactose in what organism?	Answer:	Escherichia coli or E. coli (prompt on "bacteria")B.	The lac operon in E. coli breaks down lactose into its two constituent monosaccharides.  For 5 points each-name those two hexoses.	Answer:	galactose, glucoseC.	For 10 points-name either of the two French scientists who discovered the method of double-negative gene regulation in the lac operon and won the 1965 Nobel Prize in physiology largely for their studies of the operon.	Answer:	François Jacob [ja-KOHB] or Jacques Monod [mo-NO]3) For 10 points each-name these members of the Fabian Society, founded in 1884 in London.A.	The most effective promoter of Fabian ideas, this prolific playwright and pamphleteer wrote Fabian Essays in 1889.	Answer:	George Bernard ShawB.	This founder of the Labour Party became Britain's first Labour prime minister in 1924.	Answer:	(James) Ramsay MacDonaldC.	A leader of Indian nationalism, she teamed up with Charles Bradlaugh to write The Fruits of Philosophy, advocating birth control.  She was president of the Theosophical Society from 1907 until her death and became a leader of the Hindu nationalist movement.	Answer:	Annie Besant4) Insightful anthropologist or daredevil crackpot-you make the call, but only after answering these questions about recently deceased "ethnologist" Thor Heyerdahl:A.	For 10 points-A documentary of his expedition aboard this replica of an aboriginal balsa raft earned an Academy Award.	Answer: 	Kon-Tiki or Kin-TikiB.	For 5 points-Heyerdahl's trip on the Kon-Tiki set out to show the possibility of migration of people from British Columbia and Peru to Polynesia, a theory he developed while living on an island in this Polynesian group.  If he had waited 6 decades, he could have had Tammy, Kathy, and Sean as neighbors.	Answer:	MarquesasC.	For 15 points-Name either of the two subsequent rafts Heyerdahl used for trips across the widest part of the Atlantic Ocean to disprove underestimations of aboriginal technology.	Answer:	Ra or Ra II (two)EDITOR'S NOTE: The worst question in TrashMasters history may have been the bonus in TM '95 which asked for 3 Heyerdahl titles other than Kon-Tiki for 30 points, all or nothing.  Your genial quizmaster could pull only two and promptly surprised his teammates with the shade of blue of the streak he cussed.
5) For 10 points each-name these cats from T.S. Eliot's Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats:A.	With tiger stripes and leopard spots, her name is Jennyanydots.	Answer:	Old Gumbie CatB.	This old cat who's lived a long time is famous in proverb and famous in rhyme.	Answer:	Old DeuteronomyC.	He can perform surprising illusions and create eccentric confusions because there was never a cat so clever as this magical cat.	Answer:	Mr. Mistoffelees 6) Name the following battles in the life of Octavian.A.	For 10 points-the battle of 42 BC where Octavian and Antony defeated Brutus and Cassius, after which they split the Roman world between themselves.	Answer:	PhilippiB.	For 5 points-the September 31 BC battle in which Octavian defeated Antony and Cleopatra.	Answer:	ActiumC.	For 15 points- A fleet led by Marcus Agrippa crushed Sextus Pompeius off this cape in Sicily.	Answer:	Naulochus 7) Musical compositions that follow the sonata cycle consist of four movements, but a few monumental works shrugged this convention and added another movement.  For 10 points each-A.	Written in a rural suburb of Vienna, the idea for this 1808 work was probably taken from the now-forgotten Justin Knecht's five-movement symphony titled A Musical Portrait of Nature.	Answer:	Pastoral(e) Symphony or Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 in F Major 	[That Vienna suburb is Heiligenstadt.]B.	The composer of this 1830 work thought that if Beethoven could do it, so could he, so he made this homage to Harriet Smithson five movements long, with the Fourth Movement, March to the Scaffold, being the extra movement.	Answer:	Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique (reluctantly accept Fantastic Symphony, assuming they mean the word in its literal sense)C.	Béla Bartók composed this grand orchestral work, one of his last works, shortly after a long series of hospitalizations but shortly before his death.	Answer:	Concerto for Orchestra8) Give the chemical elements whose atomic symbols spell the missing words in each of the following novel titles.  For example, if I said, "The Heart [BLANK] a Lonely Hunter," you would say, "Iodine and sulfur," spelling I-S.  Only elements' names and not their symbols are acceptable. For 10 points each-A.	God's Little [BLANK] by Erskine Caldwell	Answer:	actinium, rhenium [AcRe]B.	Jurassic [BLANK] by Michael Crichton	Answer:	phosphorous, argon, potassium [PArK]C.	Lord of the [BLANK] by William Golding	Answer:	fluorine, lithium, einsteinium [FLiEs]9) In the presidential election of 1836 the Whig party ran three candidates in three parts of the country to try to prevent Martin Van Buren from winning the majority of the votes.A.	For 5 points-which senator from Massachusetts, who would serve as secretary of State for Harrison, Tyler, and Fillmore, came in a distant fourth in the election?	Answer:	Daniel WebsterB.	For 10 points-what war hero, who would become the first Whig president, ran in the west and came in second in the popular and electoral votes?	Answer:	William Henry HarrisonC.	For 15 points-what Tennessee senator ran in the south and southwest and came in third in the popular and electoral votes?	Answer:	Hugh Lawson White
10) For 10 points each-name these periods on the geologic time scale.A.	This is period of the Cenozoic Era in which we live (or, as Paul McCartney would say, in which we live in). 	Answer:	QuaternaryB.	This last period of the Paleozoic Era saw the greatest mass extinction in Earth's history, and reptiles began to dominate the land.	Answer:	PermianC.	Sometimes divided into the Malm, Dogger, and Lias epochs, this period saw the evolution of flowers and the oldest known bird, the Archaeopteryx. 	Answer:	Jurassic11) This gas can be delivered by several metal catalysts, such as palladium, platinum, or nickel, to react with many organic compounds.  For 10 points each-A.	Name this elemental gas.	Answer:	hydrogen or H or H2B.	Lindlar's catalyst is a special palladium catalyst used to reduce an alkyne to an alkene of what configuration?	Answer:	cisC.	Addition of hydrogen to an alkyne increases the number of bonds that two carbons make to atoms that are less electronegative than carbon, making it what type of reaction?	Answer:	oxidation-reduction or redox12) 5-10-20-30-identify the speaker of each of these quotes from "A Midsummer Night's Dream":A.	"Shall we their fond pageant see? / Lord, what fools these, mortals be!"	Answer:	Puck or Robin GoodfellowB.	"I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again; / Mine ear is much enamoured of thy note..."	Answer:	TitaniaC.	 "I'll follow thee, and make a heaven of hell, / to die upon the hand I love so well."	Answer: 	HelenaD.	"The lunatic, the lover, and the poet / Are of imagination all compact."	Answer: 	Theseus13) 5, 10, 20, 30-name these 20th-century leaders who were killed in office:A.	This two-time prime minister of India was assassinated in 1984 by her own Sikh bodyguards.	Answer:	Indira (Priyadarshini) GandhiB.	The first constitutionally elected Marxist president in the west, he was killed in a siege of his presidential offices during a military coup led by Augusto Pinochet.	Answer:	Salvador (Gossens) AllendeC.	While greeting visitors at a Pan-American exposition in 1901, he was shot by Leon Czolgosz [ZOLL-gosh] and died eight days later.	Answer:	William McKinleyD.	Like Indira Gandhi, this Egyptian leader was assassinated by religious fanatics in his own army.  The unique method: they opened fire on him from a parade as he stood in the reviewing stand.	Answer:	Anwar al-Sadat 14) Bjorn Borg won five Wimbledon championships in a row from 1976 to 1980, but answer these questions about the people he played in Wimbledon finals, for 10 points each:A.	For his first title, Borg defeated this Romanian, who had beaten Arthur Ashe for the 1972 U.S. Open and who had won 15 tournaments in 1973, finishing number 1 in the world.	Answer:	Ilie NastaseB.	This American lost twice in a row to Borg in 1977-78, but he had already won the 1974 championship and would win again in '82, and he has played more matches and won more tournaments than any other male pro ever.	Answer:	Jimmy (Scott) ConnorsC.	He broke Borg's streak in 1981 and won two out of the next three Wimbledon titles, losing only to Connors in that stretch.	Answer:	John (Patrick) McEnroe, Jr.
15)  Jean M. Auel [OWL] has written four novels in her Earth's Children series, each of which reached #1 on the New York Times bestseller list.  Answer these questions about them, for 10 points each:A.	What was the first in the series, published in 1980, which was made into a movie starring Daryl Hannah as the heroine?	Answer:	The Clan of the Cave BearB.	Who is that heroine?	Answer:	AylaC.	 Name any of the other four books in the series, the last of which is due out on April 30, 2002.	Answer:	The Valley of Horses, The Mammoth Hunters, The Plains of Passage, The Shelters of Stone16) In 1931 he founded his own theater company, La Barraca, which would produce the three "rural tragedies" on which his theatrical reputation is based.  For 10 points each-A.	Name this poet and dramatist whose three tragedies are known as "the trilogy of the Spanish earth."	Answer:	Federico García LorcaB.	Name the first of these plays, where a woman who longs for motherhood murders her sterile husband because social customs prevent her from leaving him.	Answer:	Blood Wedding or Bodas de SangreC.	Name the last of these tragedies, which centers on the sexual frustration of five daughters who are held captive by their tyrannical mother, who imposes on them a suffocating moral code.	Answer:	The House of Bernarda Alba or La casa de Bernarda Alba17) Name these scientists who contributed to the Manhattan Project, for 10 points each:A.	He proved that slow neutrons are very effective in producing radioactive atoms in 1934, leading him to theorize there were elements beyond uranium. The eighth such element was named after him.	Answer:	Enrico FermiB.	He contributed greatly to the joining of quantum theory and relativity with electrodynamics to advance the field of quantum electrodynamics before writing such books as The Pleasure of Finding Things Out and Six Easy Pieces.	Answer:	Richard P(hillips) FeynmanC.	He was one of the original six mathematics professors at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, and before that he originated his concept of "rings of operations" in quantum mechanics, which are a type of operator algebras later named after him.	Answer:	John von Neumann or János (von) Neumann 18) For 10 points each-expand these military acronyms found in the titles of TV shows:A.	M*A*S*H	Answer:	mobile army surgical hospitalB.	JAG	Answer:	judge advocate generalC.	N.A.S.	Answer:	naval air station [what, you don't remember Emerald Point NAS with Dennis Weaver and Richard Dean Anderson?]19) The Kuril Islands are a chain of about 30 large and 20 small volcanic islands off the east coast of Russia.  For 10 points each-A.	The Kurils are a disputed territory between Russia and what other country, which owned them until it ceded them to Russia in the 1945 Yalta conference?	Answer:	JapanB.	The Kurils separate the Pacific Ocean from this sea, which borders Japan on the north.	Answer:	Sea of Okhotsk C.	This Japanese island marks the southernmost border of the Sea of Okhotsk.	Answer:	Hokkaido
20) For 10 points each-identify these 20th century American artists:A.	This friend of Duchamp is considered the first American Dada, and one of first to paint artistically with an air brush, as seen in "Jazz".  His experience as a portrait photographer led to his eponymous style of prints from film upon which unusual objects were placed.	Answer: 	Man Ray [the prints were "Rayographs"]B.	Influenced by European Realists, his landscapes, both cities and country-sides, featured large geometric forms, solid colors, and architecture.  His works include "House by the Railroad", "Room in New York", and "Freight Cars, Gloucester".	Answer: 	Edward HopperC.	A Modernist, he had a particular interest in primitive art, specifically Aztec and Mayan sculpture.  A Cubist influence can be seen in his "Compositions of Three Figures" and "The Chinese Restaurant".	Answer: 	Max Weber21)  The Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History has a new website that lets visitors see objects currently in storage, which aren't on display at the museum.  For 10 points each-A.	One item is the telegraph key that Samuel Morse used to send his first telegraph message from Washington, D.C., to Baltimore.  What sentence did he send?	Answer:	"What hath God wrought!"B.	Another item is the pen used by the president to sign the 15th Amendment into law.  Which president was that?	Answer:	Ulysses S(impson) Grant or Hiram Ulysses GrantC.	Another item is the crash helmet used by the first woman to race in the Indianapolis 500, who was inducted into the Women's Sports Hall of Fame in 1980.  Name her.	Answer:	Janet Guthrie	22)  30-20-10. Name the politician. A.	Journalist Jonah Goldberg recently said this person's "every spoken word is a veritable piñata of imbecility; attack it from any angle and something stupid will drop out."B.	In 1991, while still a member of the Georgia legislature, 16 hours into the Gulf War she denounced the war effort as inane and said, "I will not be led to the slaughterhouse for any one of George Bush's reasons."C.	More recently, this congresswoman from Georgia has called for an investigation into whether members of the Bush administration knew of the September 11 attacks ahead of time and sought to profit off of the war on terrorism.	Answer:	Cynthia McKinney 23) As a youth in 1730, he conspired to escape his overbearing father, the king of Prussia, by fleeing to England, where his uncle was king.  For 10 points each-name:A.	This future king of Prussia.	Answer:	Frederick (or Friedrich) II or Frederick (Friedrich) the GreatB.	His father, the king of Prussia	Answer:	Frederick William (or Friedrich Wilhelm) IC.	His uncle, the king of England	Answer:	George II Hanover24) Answer the following questions about African sleeping sickness FTPE:.A.	African sleeping sickness is spread to humans by what type of insect?	Answer:	tsetse flyB.	Protozoa of what genus, when they reach the brain through the blood vessels, cause sleeping sickness?	Answer:	Trypanosoma [tri-PAN-o-SO-ma] or trypanosomesC.	Trypanosomes of the species T. cruzi cause what disease of Central and South America, which killed Charles Darwin and kills 50,000 people a year?	Answer:	Chagas [SHA-gus] disease or American trypanosomiasis [tri-PAN-o-so-MI-a-sis] (do not accept or prompt on "trypanosomiasis" alone)
25) Answer these very loosely related questions, for 10 points each:A.	Peter Bergeron is this Major League Baseball team's starting centerfielder.	Answer:	Montreal Expos (accept either)B.	This author wrote the short story "Harrison Bergeron" about a dystopic future where everyone in America is made to be equal.	Answer:	Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. C.	In this 1998 teen movie, Kurt Vonnegut is Preston Meyers' idol, and Preston misses his train to see him so that his one chance with Amanda Beckett doesn't slip away.	Answer:	Can't Hardly Wait