TOSSUPS							MOON PIE 2003--UTCQuestions by Chris Frankel with additions from Maryland A and Maryland B1. He wrote a two volume History of Rome, a four volume History of England, and an eight volume History of the Earth and Animated Nature, all of which are considered worthless as sources of historical information. He fared better in his literary career, writing plays, such as The Good Natured Man, and two long poems, The Traveller and The Deserted Village. His most famous work is his only novel, which Samuel Johnson sold in order to free him from debtor's prison and which told of the troubles of the strong willed Dr. Primrose. FTP, name this author of The Vicar of Wakefield.Answer: Oliver Goldsmith2. Paul Axelrod and Georgi Plekhanov both joined this group led by Julius Martov. It gained its name by default when in 1903 its opponents obtained a temporary majority on the central committee and on the editorial board of the newspaper Iskra and gave themselves a name meaning "Those of the Majority." Though Marxist, it believed that a bourgeois revolution had to precede the proletarian one, and so it refused to take control from the 1917 provisional government. FTP, what moderate Russian party missed its chance at power, and was finally suppressed by Vladimir Lenin and the Bolsheviks?Answer: Menshevik(s) Party 3.  The Flowering Peach was this playwright's secular adaptation of the Noah's Ark story, while Awake and Sing! details a poor Jewish family's struggles during the Great Depression. A wife helps her husband deal with alcoholism in his play, The Country Girl, and a man gives up his job as a violinist to become a boxer in Golden Boy. FTP, identify the author of these plays, as well as an account of a taxi cab drivers' strike entitled Waiting for Lefty.Answer: Clifford Odets4. Along with Lord Owen of Britain, he chaired the 1992 International Conference on Former Yugoslavia, producing the peace plan bearing his name that was rejected by the Serbs. Earlier, he had served as a special envoy to Korea and Cyprus and as secretary of the army under Kennedy and deputy secretary of defense under Lyndon Johnson. His diplomatic career reached its peak under Jimmy Carter until he became frustrated with America's handling of the hostage crisis in Iran. FTP, who was this Secretary of State who served from 1977 until his resignation in 1980?Answer: Cyrus Vance5. It is believed that the author wrote this play with some autobiographical leanings, having starred in its 1662 debut with a former lover of his, Catherine de Brie. Having just taken the name "de la Souche," the protagonist finds himself competing against Horace for the love of his ward. This undermines his previous efforts to groom her into a perfect and loyal spouse since she was five years old in, FTP, what play containing the characters Agnes and Arnolphe, satirizing the institution of marriage and written by Moliere? Answer: The School for Wives (or L'Ecole des femmes)6. Messier objects 29 and 39, both of which are open clusters, can be found here. Located in the Hercules family, nearest to Vulpecula and Lyra, it contains the binary stars Sadr and Albireo, as well as X-1, one of the first seriously considered black hole candidates. Also known as the Northern Cross, FTP, what constellation whose tail star is Deneb derives its name from the Latin word for "swan?"Answer: Cygnus (accept Northern Cross on early buzz, prompt on swan)7. It has a strong legacy in the modern New Age movement through its role as a spiritual focal point in the theosophical school of thought promoted by Helena Blavatsky. In the late 19th century, it was the subject of a popular craze sparked by the now-discredited anthropological tract The Antediluvian World by Ignatius Donnelly, though it was first mentioned long ago in Plato's dialogue, the Timaeus. FTP, identify this mythical island said to have been the home of an advanced "lost civilization" before it sank into the sea.Answer: Atlantis8. Major landmarks in this city include the Silver Pagoda, a royal palace built in 1866 by King Norodom, and the Independence Monument designed with a widely used Naga motif. Situated where the Tonle Sap and Bassac rivers converge with the Mekong, it contains a diverse mix of Buddhist and French colonial architecture, though much of it was damaged during the reign of the Khmer Rouge. FTP, name this capital of Cambodia.Answer: Phnom Penh
9. In 1802, he temporarily brought Britain out of war with France by negotiating with Napoleon to sign the Peace of Amiens.  His recruitment for this task was surprising, since only a year earlier he had resigned as commander in chief of Ireland after a dispute with King George III regarding Catholic emancipation.  He also served as governor general of India, though he is best known for his military role in the Revolutionary War.  FTP, identify this British general who, in 1781, surrendered after his defeat at the Battle of Yorktown.Answer: Charles Cornwallis10. Only found in endotherms, their presence in dinosaur fossils suggests that dinosaurs likely grew the same way as birds and mammals and had long life spans. They are connected to the lacunae by canaliculi, are interconnected via Volkmann's canals, and surrounded by the concentric rings of the lamellae and the osteoblasts. FTP, name these structures that contain lymph vessels, nerves, and blood vessels, and form networks that allow nutrients to travel through bones.Answer: Haversian Canals11. Instead of appealing to visceral responses like its counterpart, it appeals primarily to skeletal responses. Separated into four categories: active avoidance, passive avoidance, omission training, and positive reinforcement, it often is employed for purposes of persuasion, training animals, and breaking bad habits. FTP, identify this form of conditioning designed to change behavior by following a response with reinforcement.Answer: operant conditioning (accept instrumental conditioning)12. In his spare time, he heads out to a nearby swamp to collect frogs for dissection and remarks that humans are just like frogs, except that they have two legs instead. His lack of respect for his elders brings him into conflict with Pavel Petrovich, and he wounds Pavel in the duel that ensues after the older man sees him kiss Fenichka. He contracts typhus through a cut in his hand while treating a sick peasant and soon dies from it, which parallels the way his influence over Arkady Kirsanov dies when Arkady falls in love with Katya and marries her, leaving him behind.  FTP, identify this Nihilist character from Ivan Turgenev's novel, Fathers and Sons.Answer: Yevgeny Bazarov13. Two divisions of lightly armed Cardaces and archers were stationed at both wings, and the Royal Bodyguard held the center of the army's defensive position along the Pinarus River.  Parmenio's Greek forces had trouble crossing the river on the left and center, but his commander's army broke through on the right flank. When they approached, Darius fled in his chariot, leaving his wife and children behind to be captured after, FTP, what battle won by Alexander the Great immortalized in an Albrecht Altdorfer painting?Answer: Battle of Issus14. An open window shows it to be daylight, but a single candle still burns in a chandelier, representing the presence of Christ. The subjects' shoes have been set aside, showing the room to be holy ground; and the little brown terrier in the foreground is a symbol of faith and loyalty.  The two main figures are not alone in the room, as can be seen in the reflection of two more people, including the artist himself, in the mirror at the center of, FTP, what painting of a young Italian couple by Van Eyck?Answer: The Arnolfini Wedding (accept close alternatives which include Arnolfini)15. It can be manufactured through the Girdler Sulfide process, or by distillation, since its boiling point is 101.4 degrees Celsius, and was first obtained through fractional electrolysis by Gilbert Lewis. Like reactor-grade graphite, its use as a moderator allows nuclear reactors to operate with non-enriched uranium. It has a molecular weight of 20, while its more common counterpart has a molecular weight of 18. FTP, what compound, sometimes symbolized D2O, contains two atoms of deuterium instead of hydrogen? Answer: heavy water (accept deuterium oxide before D20; do not accept or prompt on deuterium)16. When he sat on Odin's throne, he fell into a deep passion when he looked towards Jotunheim. He gave his horse and sword to his servant Skirnir so that Skirnir would go off and woo for him the giantess Gerd, who had caught his eye during his brief stint on the throne. This move would leave him defenseless at Ragnarok, where he would die at the hands of the fire giant Surt. FTP, who is this Norse fertility god, whose possessions include a golden boar and a magic boat that could be folded up and placed in his pocket?Answer: Frey or Freyr (Do not accept Freya)17. Influenced by the ancient philosopher, Tchouang Tseu, he often quoted from The Book of Master Tchouang in his works. His first book was The Seashell Game, which compiled poetry from about thirty different writers and featured his critical commentary on it. He also wrote numerous travel diaries, the most famous of which chronicled a 5-month walking journey from Edo to his nation's countryside. FTP, name this Japanese poet who wrote The Narrow Road to the Deep North and popularized the haiku.Answer: Matsuo Basho18.  A large part of the army under Joseph Tarchaniotes was sent towards Lake Van and did not participate in the battle.  The rear of the army was led by Andronicus Ducas, who was an enemy of the Byzantine emperor Romanus while the left and right was led by Bryennius and Alyattes respectively.  The Seljuk army was able to rout the Byzantine army under Alp Arslan and capture the emperor Romanus partly due to poor strategy on the Byzantines' part.  FTP, name this battle that took place in 1071.	Answer:  Battle of _Manzikert_19. Yeshwant Rao Holkar commissioned him to build a monument at Indore in the form of a windowless Temple of Meditation, but the project was never realized.  Earlier, he had built a World War I monument at Targu Jiu, a three part piece consisting of the Gate of the Kiss, the 100 foot tall Endless Column, and the Table of Silence, a round stone table with twelve empty seats surrounding it. Known as a pioneer of abstract art through his concentration on pure form, FTP, who is this Romanian sculptor of Bird in Space?Answer: Constantin Brancusi20. One of this man's works features a character from Arthurian Legend who in his search for the Holy Grail receives it from a beggar who is actually Jesus Christ after much hardship on the quest.  He was considered part of a group of writer known as the Fireside poets or the Schoolhouse poets, which included Longfellow, Whittier, and Holmes.  FTP, name the writer of The Bigelow Papers and The Vision of Sir Launfal.Answer:  _James_ Russell _Lowell_(Tiebreaker/Extra) 21. It was formulated in 1820 after observations similar to those of Oersted. Taking the curl of Faraday's Law and substituting this relation gives the wave equation in free space. A term proportional to the partial time derivative of the electric field, called the displacement current, was later added by Maxwell. It can be used to calculate the forces between two current-carrying wires, or the magnetic field of a solenoid. FTP, what is this law named for a scientist whose name also denotes the unit for electric current?Answer: Ampere's Law22. In response to his latest entry into the limelight, a teammate said that his nickname should be "Eli," as in "he lies," because "if a story goes over 30 seconds, he's lying." His poor record for truth-telling aside; he has posted a record of 185 wins to 121 losses over his 16 year career, and tied for fourth in the AL with 19 wins in the 2002 season. FTP, name this pitcher whose controversial book, Perfect I'm Not! recently earned him a $100,000 fine from the New York Yankees.Answer: David Wells (Note: the teammate mentioned is Roger Clemens)23.  Persisting for up to weeks, their name was coined by Galton. In winter they cause radiation cooling that can lead to nighttime frost and fog. Produced by large sinking masses of air, they generate very light diverging winds. They can divert or slow down bad weather by forming blocking highs which obstruct the paths of depressions. FTP, identify these high pressure systems, the opposites of cyclones.Answer: anticyclones24.  It rises up from Owens Valley, where its namesake "Portal" at its base leads up to the Alabama Hills. Nearby bodies of water include Mirror Lake, Iceberg Lake, and Arctic Lake, and tourists often confuse it with Lone Pine Peak when looking from a distance. Located between the Inyo National Forest and Sequoia National Park, FTP, what is this 14,494 feet high mountain that is the highest peak in the contiguous United States?Answer: Mount Whitney
25.  When it was first unveiled in Rio de Janeiro in 1979, few knew that its first holder would later be known as the most prominent homosexual in the organization, Pat Patterson. The longest that it was held was 454 days by the Honky Tonk Man, though at Summerslam 1988 he lost it in less than a minute to the Ultimate Warrior. Retired in October 2002 after Hunter Hearst Helmsley unified it with the WWE RAW World Title, this is, FTP, what heavyweight belt that, after the World Heavyweight Title, was once the second most prestigious title in the WWF?Answer: WWF/WWE Intercontinental Heavyweight Title (prompt on IC)26.  Beginning with a slow English horn theme and the bird-like chirping of the piccolo, the first movement brings in the dawn of day with the emergence of the strings and eventually the brass.  After the mysterious harmonies of the subsequent "Painted Desert" movement, the orchestra imitates the noise of a donkey's hooves and braying in the third movement, called "On the Trail," of, FTP, what Ferdinand Grofe work symbolizing a day at an Arizona landmark?Answer: Grand Canyon Suite (prompt on Grand Canyon)
BONI							MOON PIE 2003--UTCQuestions by Chris Frankel with additions from Maryland A and Maryland B1. European rivers, FTPE.A. (10) Rising in the Beskids, it flows north in an S-shaped curve through Poland into the Baltic Sea.Answer: Vistula RiverB. (10) After flowing west through Lake Geneva, it meets the Saone River at Lyon, where it makes a sharp turn south heading towards the Mediterranean Sea.Answer: Rhone RiverC. (10) It starts in the Czech Republic and passes through Dresden, Magdeburg, and Hamburg before emptying into the North Sea.Answer: Elbe River2. Fluid mechanics, FTPE.A. (10) This law describes the steady, laminar flow of fluid through a horizontal pipe, taking viscosity and fluid density into account.Answer: Poiseuille's LawB. (10) This is the fundamental equation describing the flow of incompressible fluids, and accounts for the effects of pressure, viscosity, and external forces. Answer: Navier-Stokes EquationC. (10) An expression of the law of energy conservation, this principle states that an increase in fluid velocity results in a decrease in its static pressure.Answer: Bernoulli's Principle3. Answer the following questions about a Shakespeare play, FTPE. A. (10) In this comedy, Claudio woos Hero with the aid of Don Pedro, but leaves her at the altar after Don John convinces him that she has been unfaithful.  Hero fakes her own death to shame Claudio, and after Don John's plot is revealed, the two are married.Answer: Much Ado About NothingB. (10) One of Don Pedro's officers, this cynical man speaks out against romance, but is tricked into confessing his love for Beatrice.Answer: BenedickC. (10) This local constable, a bumbling fool who fills a comedic role in the play, exposes Don John's plot.Answer: Dogberry4. Answer the following about legislation during Chester A. Arthur's presidency FTPE.A. (10) Congress overrode Arthur's veto of this 1882 bill designed to curb American workers' fears of losing their jobs to overseas immigrants.Answer: Chinese Exclusion ActB. (10) Also passed over Arthur's veto was this act that targeted Mormons in Utah and made "unlawful cohabitation" illegal.Answer: Edmunds Anti-Polygamy ActC. (10) Congress passed this 1883 act in order to eliminate patronage in government.Answer: Pendleton Civil Service Act5. Egyptian goddesses, FTPE. A. (10) Often portrayed with the head or horns of a cow, she was a maternal sky goddess who was also associated with love, fertility, and childbirth.Answer: HathorB. (10) Closely linked to Hathor, this lion-headed goddess represented the destructive powers of the sun. Once, in a fit of rage she tried to kill all of mankind, and was stopped when Ra tricked her into getting drunk.Answer: SekhmetC. (10) She was the goddess of truth and justice. When people died, Anubis would weigh their hearts against one of her feathers to determine their fate in the afterlife.Answer: Maat
6. FTPE, answer the following about the Supreme Court and affirmative action.A. (10) In this case a Colorado construction company sued because it lost a government contract to a minority operated business in spite of submitting the low bid on it.Answer: Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. PenaB. (10) Involving a white applicant twice rejected by UC Davis Medical School, this Supreme Court case made the definitive stance on affirmative action in higher education.Answer: Regents of the University of California v. BakkeC. (10) The deciding vote in Bakke was cast by this justice, who determined that affirmative action was acceptable if used for the purposes of diversity.Answer: Lewis Powell7. Linear algebra terms, FTPE.A. (10) If c is an eigenvalue of matrix A then this property of c is the number of times c is repeated as a root to the characteristic equation of A.Answer: algebraic multiplicityB. (10) If a matrix has an eigenvalue with a geometric multiplicity that is less than its algebraic multiplicity, then the eigenvalue is not complete, and the matrix is given this name. Answer: defective matrixC. (10) These two properties of a matrix, the dimensions of its range and null space, when added together equal the dimension of the matrix.Answer: rank and nullity (both needed for a correct answer)8. Roman poets, FTPE.A. (10) Known for his elegies, he was also the subject of Ezra Pound's famous "Homage."Answer: Sextus PropertiusB. (10) He is remembered for his passionate love poetry to his mistress Lesbia, as well as his prolific use of crude and obscene language.Answer: Gaius Valerius CatullusC. (10) His most famous works are his epigrams, which were short, satirical verses that each ended with a characteristically sarcastic or vulgar twist.Answer: Marcus Valerius Martialis 9. FTPE answer the following on the history of nuclear technology and international relations.A. (10) Proposed in 1946 by an American financier and government advisor, this plan called for international ownership and control of all nuclear resources.Answer: Baruch PlanB. (10) The Baruch Plan was a revision of this plan drafted by two men, one of whom would become Truman's third secretary of state and the other a former TVA director.Answer: Acheson-Lilienthal Plan (accept the names in reverse order too)C. (10) In 1957, the U.N. established this body to promote the peaceful usage of nuclear energy and enforce environmental and nuclear safety standards. Its current head is Mohamed El Baradei. Answer: International Atomic Energy Agency (or IAEA)10. Identify the body part, 30-20-10. A. (30) Here, macrophages called Kupffer cells clean up the debris of dead cells and provide immunological protection from microbes.B. (20) Thin walled sinusoids form a network across this organ through which blood enters and drains into the central veins of the lobules.C. (10) Blood from the other major organs of the body flows through the hepatic portal vein into this organ, where it is filtered of toxins.Answer: liver
11. Answer the following questions about anti-war protestors, FTPE. A. (10) Police tried to determine whether it was an accident or suicide when a protestor fell to his death from this California landmark.Answer: Golden Gate BridgeB. (10) As part of this program, groups of activists from various nations were bussed down to Iraq to protest war by guarding military and civilian targets, but many soon left, complaining that the Iraqi regime was too repressive.Answer: Operation Human ShieldC. (10) When she was asked to explain the lack of vocal criticism of military actions when Clinton was president, this comedian said "it wasn't very hip" to protest his decisions.Answer: Janeane Garofalo12. Answer these questions about a biblical story, FTSNOP. A. (10) For ten points, he owned a vineyard in Jezreel, but when he refused to give it to the King of Samaria, he was tried for blasphemy and stoned, and the dogs licked up his blood.Answer: NabothB. (5,5) For five points each, name both the king and his treacherous wife who plotted Naboth's death.Answer: Ahab and JezebelC. (10) Chosen by God to become King of Israel, this chariot driver ordered the defenestration of Jezebel and led the violent massacre of the house of Ahab.Answer: Jehu13. FTPE, identify these sources of market failure.A. (10) This type of behavior occurs when people use legal and political action in an attempt to influence public policy towards creating economically favorable conditions for them.Answer: rent seekingB. (10) In a market where buyers cannot accurately gauge the quality of the product that they are buying, it is likely that the marketplace will contain generally poor quality products as a result of this phenomenon. Answer: adverse selectionC. (10) When protected by insurance, people behave more recklessly and fail to take precautions to avoid disaster.Answer: moral hazard14. Gabriel Garcia Marquez novels from plots, FTPE.A. (10) Florentino Ariza spends his whole life consumed by unrequited love for Fermina Daza.  When her husband dies after their 50 year marriage, he finally pursues her.Answer: Love in the Time of Cholera (or El Amor en Los Tiempos de Colera)B. (10) Though local villagers know of the Vicario brothers' publicly expressed plans to kill Santiago Nasar and avenge their sister Angela's virginity, nobody tries to stop them.Answer: Chronicle of a Death Foretold (or Cronica de una Muerte Anunciada)C. (10) This fictionalized account of the last seven months of Simon Bolivar's life has him reflect on his past achievements and failures as he sails down the Magdalena River.Answer: The General in his Labyrinth (or El general en su Laberinto)15. Questions about the 1748 Treaty of Aix-La-Chapelle, 5-10-15.A. (5) The treaty upheld this 1713 declaration of Charles VI that gave Maria Theresa the Hapsburg inheritance in Austria.Answer: pragmatic sanctionB. (10) Prussia was awarded this resource-rich duchy as a result of the treaty. Answer: Silesia C. (15) This powerful statesman represented Austria at negotiations for the treaty, and became chancellor of Austria in 1753.Answer: Weznel von Kaunitz
16. Name the artist from a famous self-portrait, FTPE. A. (10) His most notable self-portrait was done in 1500, at age 28, and shocked viewers because he portrayed himself with a heavy resemblance to Christ.Answer: Albrecht DurerB. (10) In a famous self-portrait, he painted himself as he appeared in a round, curved mirror, which explains why his hands appear so large in proportion to his face.Answer: Parmigianino (or Parmigiano)C. (10) In a famous 1972 self-portrait painted one year before the artist's death, the wide eyes impart the fear of his own impending mortality. Answer: Pablo Ruiz y Picasso 17. Lots of hit rap songs just rip off the music of past rock and pop hits. Given a rap song and its artist, name the original song and artist being copied FFPE.A. (5,5) Vanilla Ice, "Ice Ice Baby"Answer: Queen; "Under Pressure"B. (5,5) Puff Daddy, "I'll be Missin' You"Answer: The Police; "Every Breath You Take"C. (5,5) 2Pac, "Changes"Answer: Bruce Hornsby and the Range; "The Way it is"18. Name these structures associated with crustal deformation, FTPE.A. (10) Usually associated with compressive stresses, these are undulations in rock strata. The most common types are anticlines and synclines.Answer: foldsB. (10) Showing dip-slip or strike-slip, these are fractures in the crust along which appreciable displacement has taken place.Answer: faultsC. (10) These are fractures in rocks along which no appreciable displacement has occurred. The columnar type is produced by shrinkage fracturing. Answer: joints 19. Given island groups that make up a nation, name it, FTPE.A. (10) The Windward Group and the Leeward Group.Answer: Cape VerdeB. (10) The Phoenix Islands, the Gilbert Islands, and the Line Islands.Answer: Kiribati (Kiri-BASS)C. (10) The Ralik Chain and the Ratak Chain.Answer: Marshall Islands20. Novels by Scandinavian-born authors, 15 points from plot, 5 if you need the author.A. (15) Norwegian pioneers Per and Beret Hansa immigrate to the South Dakota prairie and face hardships from the land and troubles in their marriage.(5) O.E. RolvaagAnswer: Giants in the EarthB. (15) In this autobiographical novel the author interacts with members of the native Kikuyu tribe while running a coffee plantation in Kenya.(5) Isak DinesenAnswer: Out of Africa