TOSSUPS - MARYLAND			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Maryland (Andy Hu, Daniel Greenstein and Mahmood Ahmad)1. He served in the Russian navy, helping to defeat the Turks in the Black Sea, but was soon discharged and died in France during the Revolution. His grave there was forgotten until 1905 when the U.S. ambassador discovered it and had his remains moved to Annapolis, where they were enshrined in a crypt. Born in Scotland, he fled to Philadelphia to avoid trial for murdering a sailor. During the American Revolution, his first command in British waters was the Ranger. FTP, what captain of the Bonhomme Richard reportedly said, "I have not yet begun to fight" and then captured HMS Serapis. 	Answer:	 John Paul Jones 2. Most of this novel is in the form of flashbacks as the main character goes on a motor trip across England to persuade a former housekeeper to return to Darlington Hall.  During this journey, he reflects on his life, and starts to question the belief that he served a "great man."  By the end, he realizes that he had missed his opportunity of finding happiness with Miss Kenton, and that Lord Darlington whom he had idolized was a disloyal Nazi sympathizer. FTP, name this novel about Stevens, a model English butler, the masterpiece of Kazuo Ishiguro. 	Answer:	 The Remains of the Day3. First the Jesuits and then the Dominicans abandoned the mission stations here in 1768 and 1773 because the native inhabitants had been decimated by disease.  Sierra San Pedro Martir and Sierra de la Giganta form the backbone of this peninsula, which due to its latitude and west coast location is mostly desert.  Separated from the rest of its country by the Colorado River and the Sea of Cortez, FTP, identify this peninsula in western Mexico that features the cities of La Paz, Ensenada and Tijuana.	Answer:	 Baja California4. He supported artistic and literary radicalism in his Literary and Pictorial Art, where he attacked the literary art of the day and proposed Cubism and Expressionism as models for the development of a modern literary style.  His The Hangman is a protest against the everlasting brutality in the world, while his play Let Man Live, sometimes called a "stage oratorio", deals with man's readiness throughout history to judge his fellows and condemn them even to death.  FTP, name this writer who wrote The Dwarf and Barabbas, the 1951 Nobel Prize winner in Literarture.	Answer:	  Par Fabian Lagerkvist5. A planet one and a half times the size of Jupiter and four astronomical units from this star was postulated by van de Kamp, but the Hubble Space Telescope has not yet proven this.  Located in the constellation Ophiuchus but not visible to the naked eye due to its 9.6 apparent magnitude, it has the largest known proper motion of all stars, moving about one degree every 350 years.  FTP, identify this red dwarf about six light years from Earth that was named after an early 20th century astronomer.	Answer:	 Barnard's star6. Their first king is used by Vishnu as a couch and has 1,000 heads that form into a giant hood on which Earth rests.  The second king is called Vasuki and he was used by the gods and demons in churning the cosmic sea of milk.  They live in an underground kingdom called Patala-loka, and they were relegated to the nether regions by Brahma where they are commanded to bite only the truly evil or those destined to die prematurely.  FTP, name these half-human, half-serpentine semidivine beings of Hindu mythology.	Answer:	  Nagas (or: Nagis)7. Its main characters must find "a cow as white as milk, a cape as red as blood, hair as yellow as corn, and a slipper as pure as gold" so that they may have a baby.  Only four main characters survive until the end-the baker, Jack, Cinderella, and Little Red Riding Hood.  FTP, Vanessa Williams appears in a recent revival of this Stephen Sondheim musical that won three Tonys when Bernadette Peters appeared in the 1989 original.	Answer:	 Into the Woods8. He helped to steer Athens into an anti-Spartan alliance with the city states of Argos, Elis, and Mantineia, and when the alliance was defeated by Sparta, escaped ostracism by joining forces with Nicias against Hyperbolus.  In 415 BCE, before an expedition against the city of Syracuse, he was accused of originating sacrilege as well as having profaned the Eleusinian Mysteries, and on the expedition, he learned he was sentence to death in absentia.  FTP, name this statesman that was a womanizer and ward of Pericles who was killed by Pharnabazus at the behest of Lysander.	Answer:	  Alcibiades9. At the end of this work, the main character is deported to America, where she dies.  At the beginning of the opera, the title character, the sister of the Sergeant of the King's Guards, enters an inn filled with students, including the cynical man who becomes her lover, Chevalier de Grieux.  However, she is seduced by the wealthy Treasurer-General Geronte de Revoir, and de Grieux goes to lengths to save his love from the old man.  FTP, name this heartthrob title character and you name the 1893 opera by Giacomo Puccini.	Answer:	 Manon Lescaut10. On December 5th, 2001, she gave an honorary lecture at the Swedish Academy entitled "Witness: The Inward Testimony" in which she described the September 11th attacks and the writer's role as a witness of history. In fact, most of her novels and short works function as evidence of the conflict and injustices that enveloped her homeland during most of the 20th century, and exactly ten years earlier she gave another lecture in Sweden after receiving the Nobel Prize. FTP, what author of the novels The Pickup and A Guest of Honor has lived for more than 50 years in Johannesburg and is more famous for July's People and The Conservationist. 	Answer:	 Nadine Gordimer11. The basic framework of this school of thought was adopted from the works of N.S. Trubetzkoy and the founder focused on unconscious infrastructure as well as an emphasis on the relationship between terms, rather than on terms as entities in themselves.   In analyzing kinship terminology, the founder suggested that the unit of kinship on which all systems are built is a set of four organically linked relationships.  FTP, name this school of cultural anthropology founded Claude Levi-Strauss.	Answer:	  structuralism12. Currently he is a professor of mathematics and computer science at the University of Texas.  Born in the Netherlands, he was the originator of the semaphore concept now used in every major operating system as well as concurrency problems such as the bounded buffer, dining philosophers and sleeping barber problems in "Hierarchical Ordering of Sequential Processes." FTP, identify this man whose algorithm, along with those by Prim and Kruskal, finds the shortest path within a graph.	Answer:	 Edsger Wybe Dijkstra13. Elements of Catholicism are included in this religion, some of whose believers see St. Peter as Oggun, a patron of miners and workers.  St. Barbara, who is the Christian patron of artillery, becomes the warrior orisha Chango.  The priests or advocates are believed to possess ache, the magical power of the orishas. Some of the ritual devotions include offerings of food and animal sacrifice and divination with fetishes made of bones or shells.  FTP, name this religion that  originated in Cuba and spread to the neighboring islands, based on the traditions of the Yoruba people.	Answer:	  Santeria14. According to his biographer, Gomes Eanes de Zurara, his career started when he and his brothers, Duarte and Pedro helped his father King John capture the Moroccan city of Ceuta in 1415.  In 1419 he became governor of the Algarve, and founded a small court at Sagres where he attracted cartographers, shipbuilders, and seamen.  In 1420 he was made grand master of the Order of Christ, and that's one reason why all of his ships bore a red cross on their sails.  FTP, name this man, who got his nickname not because he ever sailed on voyages of discovery, but because of his patronage of exploring seamen.	Answer:	  Prince Henry the Navigator (or: Infante Henrique o Navegador)15. Born in Lanus, he played for Los Cebollitos as a kid, becoming his country's youngest ever international at the age of 16. During his career, he has played for clubs in Spain, Brazil, Italy as well as his native country. Perhaps most remembered for his superhuman performance in the 1986 World Cup, FTP, name this Argentine soccer prodigy whose downfall was caused by an infamous drug addiction.	Answer:	 Diego Maradona16. This process wasn't commercially feasible before the theoretical advances made by Dalton and Raoult and developments in the equipment needed to carry it out. Nitrogen gas used in the Haber process is usually obtained from air by this process, and it is also used in the refining of wines and crude oil. FTP, name this process by which components in a chemical mixture are separated according to their differing boiling points.	Answer:	 fractional distillation17. In 1939, he immigrated to the US where he became a research associate with the Progressive Education Association at the University of Chicago.  He won acclaim for his article "Individual and Mass Behavior in Extreme Situations", which examined human adaptability to the stresses of concentration camp life and considered the effects of Nazi terrorism on personality.  FTP, best known for treating emotionally disturbed children, he was the author of The Informed Heart, Children of the Dream, and The Uses of Enchantment.	Answer:	  Bruno Bettelheim18. He was awarded the Africa Prize for Leadership for the Sustainable End of Hunger in September  1988 by the US-based Hunger Project and received the Nehru award the next year.  Educated at the University College of Fort Hare, in 1963, he helped the Reverend Sithole (see-TOE-lay) to form the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU).  He was joint leader with Nkomo for the Patriotic Front of Zimbabwe against Prime Minister Ian Smith's government.  FTP, name the first Prime Minister of Zimbabwe.	Answer:	  Robert Gabriel Mugabe19. They live in hot springs, extremely alkaline or acidic water, digestive tracts, deep underground petroleum deposits and next to extremely hot deep sea rift vents.  One of the most studied genera of this taxonomic group is Halobacterium, which lives in hypersaline water.  This domain was proposed in the late 1970s by Dr. Carl Woese as the ancestors of Eukaryotes and Eubacteria.  FTP, name this domain that features the thermophiles and halophiles that was originally and mistakenly named Archaebacteria.	Answer:	 Archaea (accept: Archaebacteria before it is mentioned)20. This painting was the only one the artist signed with his full name.  The figure on the right wears a long brownish robe.  The figure on the left wears a fur coat, has a medallion around his neck and holds an eyepiece.  Between them is a mantle covered by a red Oriental rug on which sit various instruments including a globe.  The mantle and a wooden table on the marble floor affront a green damask curtain in the background.  For ten points, identify this painting whose most unusual component is an anamorphous skull along the bottom of the canvas, a 1533 work by Hans Holbein the Younger.	Answer:	 The Ambassadors (alternately, The French Ambassadors or The Two Ambassadors)21. Truman vetoed the act stating, "...stifling of the free expression of opinion is a long step towards totalitarianism."  The congress overrode his veto by votes of 248-48 in the Houses of Representatives and 57-10 in the Senate.  The act required registration with the Attorney General of the American Communist Party and affiliated organizations and made it unlawful to conspire a totalitarian dictatorship among other anti-communist provisions.  FTP, identify this act that was also called the McCarran-Wood Act.	Answer:	  the Internal Security Act (also accept: McCarran-Wood Act before it is mentioned)22. His recent works of poetry includes What Have I Ever Lost by Dying?  Collected Prose Poem and Meditations on the Insatiable Soul.  In 1966, he co-founded the organization American Writers Against the Vietnam War.  Earlier, he founded a magazine called The Fifties that published his translations of works by foreign poets.  FTP, name this writer who wrote Iron John and won the 1968 National Book Award for The Light Around the Body.	Answer:	  Robert Bly23. "...Grab a brush and put on a little makeup, hide the scars to fade away the shakeup, Why'd you leave the keys upon the table?  Here you go creating another fable...." are the actual lyrics to the part of this song that is barely comprehensible.  The song has religious overtones, talking about being forsaken by God and committing self-righteous suicide.  FTP, name this song that also claims "...I, cry, when angels deserve to die" by System of a Down, whose name has nothing to do with its content.	Answer:	  Chop Suey
BONI - MARYLAND			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Andy Hu, Daniel Greenstein and Mahmood Ahmad1. Name the Don DeLillo novels for 10 points each.1. Gary Harkness, the narrator of the novel, is the star running back for Logos College. He gets high on pot before the last game of the season and leaves in the middle of a game because he had the munchies.       Answer:	  End Zone2. The novel begins with a mass wedding of 13,000 in Yankee Stadium by the Rev. Sun Myung Moon.  It tells the story of Bill Gray, a recluse who became entangled in a world of political violence.       Answer:	  Mao II3.  Important characters in this work include Nicholas Branch, who is writing a secret history of the assassination of JFK and Win Everett, a CIA man who plans an event that will bring the anti-Castro movement back to life.  The novel is mainly a fictional portrayal of Lee Harvey Oswald.       Answer:	  Libra2. Somewhat related Supreme Court Justices, 10 points each.1. After an unsuccessful bid to secure the nomination for the Massachusetts attorney general in 1860, he was appointed justice to the state supreme court in 1864.  He was appointed by President Arthur and served for 21 years.       Answer:	  Horace Gray2.   This recently deceased All-American football player was also a Rhodes scholar. He was appointed to the court in 1962, succeeding Charles E. Whittaker.       Answer:	  Byron Raymond White3.  He served from 1927-1937 as a senator from Alabama.  His past membership in the KKK caused opposition in the Senate to his appointment, but he was a staunch defender of civil liberties in the court.       Answer:	  Hugo LaFayette Black3. This woman, the wife of Louis VIII was twice the regent of France from 1226-34 and 1248-52.1.  For 10 points, name this mother of Saint Louis IX.       Answer:	  Blanche of Castile2. For another 10, name Blanche's maternal grandmother, who was married to Louis VII of France and Henry II of England.       Answer:	  Eleanor of Aquitaine3.  Blanche was a devout Catholic and fought in a crusade with her husband against this heretical sect flourishing in southern France, who believed that good and evil had two separate creators.       Answer:	  the Cathars (or: Cathari)4. For the stated number of points:1. (10) A substance in this state will shoot out of an open container like a fountain if light is shone upon it.  Name this phenomenon that is present at extremely low temperatures and in which the viscosity is zero.       Answer:	 superfluidity2. (10) Name the temperature point related to superfluidity so named because the graph of temperature and specific heat capacity is in the shape of the eponymous letter.       Answer:	 lambda point3. (5,5) Superfluidity was co-discovered in 1938 in separate laboratories.  For five points each, name the discoverers, one Canadian and the other Russian.       Answer:	 John F. Allen and Peter Kapitsa5. Most asteroids lie within the Asteroid Belt.  However, other asteroids inhabit the outer solar system.  For 10 points each:1. The first asteroid outside of the orbit of Jupiter was discovered in 1977.  Discovered by Charles Kowal, this body with an orbital period of 51 years orbits between Saturn and Uranus.Answer:	 Chiron2. In 1992 a strange reddish asteroid was discovered orbiting between Saturn and Neptune.  Having an orbital period of 92 years, it was the third such outer solar system asteroid discovered.  Identify this body named after the brother of Chiron.       Answer:	 Pholus3. By 2001 the number of outer solar system asteroids discovered had increased to 28.  Although they are called Centaurs, after the race of Chiron and Pholus, they are also considered members of this group of bodies that are concentrated outside the orbit of Neptune.       Answer:	 Kuiper belt6. Identify the Samuel Richardson works 5-10-15.1. (5) In this work, the title character preserves her chastity while the son of her mistress tries to seduce her.         Answer:	  Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded 2. (10) The title character runs away with Lovelace, nephew of Lord M to avoid being forced into a loveless marriage by her family to improve their fortunes.         Answer:	  Clarissa Harlowe or Clarissa: or, The History of a Young Lady3. (15) The hero is torn between love for Harriet Byron and Signora Clementina.  He is saved from choosing when Clementina refuses to marry him.       Answer:	  The History of Sir Charles Grandison7. Answer the following about Ajax the Greater for 10 points each.1.  This man was his father.       Answer:	  Telamon2. Ajax competed with this man for the armor of Achilles and lost, causing him to go mad and later commit suicide.       Answer:	  Odysseus3. Ajax was from this island, where he had a festival called Aianteia celebrated in his honor.       Answer:	  Salamis8. Give the shared name, 30-20-10.30. Leah now works for Morgan Stanley and is most famous for the M-squared index for evaluating portfolio performance which she developed with her more famous grandfather. 20. That grandfather, named Franco, won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1985 for work on the life cycle hypothesis and for a capital structures model with Miller. 10. Amedeo was an Italian painter and sculptor of the early 20th century whose works often used Mannerist techniques.        Answer:	 Modigliani 9. Given a conflict, name the treaty that ended it for 10 points each.1. Second Opium War       Answer:	  Treaty of Tientsin2.  First Opium War       Answer:	  Treaty of Nanking3. Sino-Japanese War       Answer:	  Treaty of Shimonoseki10. Everyone's favorite medieval pope, or just the busiest? Answer these questions about Innocent III, for 10 points each.1. Innocent tried to stop the Fourth Crusade from besieging this Christian city on the Adriatic. At the urging of the Venetians, the crusaders sacked it anyway.	Answer:	 Zara2. He also presided over this November 1215 assembly of the church, which denounced the Magna Carta and removed church sanction from the practice of trial by ordeal.	Answer:	 the Fourth Lateran Council3. Innocent successfully installed the child emperor Frederick II Hohenstaufen on the throne of this contested Mediterranean island.	Answer:	 Sicily11. Identify the genetics terms for 10 points each.1. Plants with red and white flowers are crossed and produce red, white and pink flowers.  Such plants exhibit this type of dominance.       Answer:	 incomplete or partial dominance2. This term refers to traits with no distinct boundaries, like hair color, height, and blood pressure.       Answer:	 polygenic3. Sickle cell anemia is an example of this condition in which an allele has more than one phenotypic effect.       Answer:	 pleiotropy12. Name the actress from movies in which she appeared, 30-20-10.30. The Last Supper, Keys to Tulsa.20. A Life Less Ordinary, Being John Malkovich10. Charlie's Angels, There's Something About Mary       Answer:	  Cameron Diaz13. Answer the following about the independence of Mexico for 10 points each.1. This man led an army under the banner of the Virgin of Guadalupe and captured several cities west of the capital.  Considered the father of Mexican independence, he was defeated at Calderon in January 1811.       Answer:	  Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla2.  He left law school to fight under Jose Maria Morelos in 1812.  After the death of Morelos, he waged guerilla war against the Spaniards from the mountains around Veracruz and Puebla.         Answer:	  Guadalupe Victoria (or: Manuel Felix Fernandez)3.  He established the Plan de Iguala with Vicente Guerrero and established the army of Three Guarantees that achieved independence.  He was overthrown after he crowned himself emperor.        Answer:	  Agustin de Iturbide (or: Agustin I)14. For ten points each, identify these geographical features of Georgia.1. Rowing events for the 1996 Olympics were held on this lake near Gainesville named after a poet.       Answer:	 Lake Sidney Lanier2. This river, which was dammed to form Lake Sidney Lanier, separates Atlanta from Cobb county to the northwest.  It forms the southern half of Georgia's boundary with Alabama.       Answer:	 Chattahoochee River3. This river forms Georgia's border with South Carolina.        Answer:	 Savannah River15. Answer the following about Ezra Pound for 10 points each.1. At the University of Pennsylvania, he met this other poet who became a lifelong friend and who would one day write Paterson.       Answer:	  William Carlos Williams2.  Before he left for Paris he published this 18-part poem, which ranged from close observation of the artist and society to the horrors of mass production and World War I.       Answer:	  Hugh Selwyn Mauberley3. This is probably his best known work, unfinished although it is over 800 pages long.       Answer:	  Cantos16. 5-10-15.  Answer these questions about two days of upheaval in Venezuela.1. Name the Venezuelan president, a friend of Fidel Castro, who resigned on April 12th but returned to power two days later.       Answer:	 Hugo Chavez2. This man, who is likely to be charged with treason, became interim president following the resignation of Chavez. He resigned himself a day later as Chavez supporters staged a  counterrevolution.       Answer:	 Pedro Carmona3. Chavez resigned after a strike, called to protest his dealings with the state oil company, turned violent. Name the company, the third largest oil exporter to the United States.       Answer:	 Petroleos de Venezuela, SA17. Name these female mathematicians for 10 points each.1. This 5th century mathematician created a student edition of Euclid's Elements and wrote commentary on Diophantus' Arithmetica and Apollonius' Conics.       Answer:	 Hypatia of Alexandria2. Her namesake theorem proves a relationship between symmetries in physics and conservation principles.       Answer:	 Emmy Amalie Noether3. In 1874, this Russian mathematician wrote papers on partial differential equations and Abelian integrals while studying in Berlin.	Answer:	 Sofia Vasilyevna Kovalevskaya18. Identify these designers of new capital cities for the stated number of points.1. (10) This Frenchman designed the pattern of diagonal avenues that meet at circles and squares for Washington, D.C.       Answer:	 Pierre Charles L'Enfant2. (10) This American designer of the Australian capital city did not foresee Canberra's growth beyond its original boundaries.       Answer:	 Walter Burley Griffin3. (5,5) Brasilia has two recognized architects, one who created the overall plan and another who designed the city's internationally recognized concrete buildings and monuments.  Name them for five points each.       Answers: Lucio Costa and Oscar Soares Filho Niemeyer19. Name the Confederate officers for 10 points each.1. He lost an arm at Gettysburg, a leg at Chickamauga, and Atlanta to William Tecumseh Sherman.       Answer:	  John Bell Hood2. He commanded the forces that bombarded Fort Sumter and assumed command at Shiloh after the death of Albert Sidney Johnston.         Answer:	  Pierre Gustave Toutant Beauregard3. He directed the attack at Chickamauga that broke the Federal lines and was severely wounded in the Wilderness.  He was also Lee's second in command at Gettysburg.       Answer:	  James Longstreet20. For 10 points each: He was chosen to succeed Leon Walras in the chair of political economy at the University of Lausanne, Switzerland. His first work, Cours d'economie politique, included his law of income distribution.1.  First, name him.       Answer:	  Vilfredo Pareto2.  In his greatest work he inquired into the nature and bases of individual and social action.       Answer:	  Mind and Society3.   His theory of the superiority of the elite has sometimes been associated with this political ideology.       Answer:	  fascismOT 1. Identify the German author from works on a 15-5 basis.1. (15) Miss Sarah Sampson, Minna von Barnhelm     (5) Nathan the Wise       Answer:	  Gotthold Ephraim Lessing2. (15) The Schroffenstein Family, Katherine of Heilbronn     (5) Michael Kolhaas       Answer:	  Bernd Heinrich Wilhelm von Kleist