TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	According to its creator, this work was inspired both by Robert Rauschenberg's White Paintings and a visit to an anechoic chamber at Harvard, where the composer heard two sounds, his nervous system and his blood circulating.  It was incorrectly entitled "Four Pieces" at its debut, where it was performed by David Tudor in Maverick Concert Hall.  That was ideal in that the back of the hall was open to the surrounding forest, allowing the wind in the trees and the sound of raindrops to be heard during its three movements, which were signaled by Tudor raising and lowering the piano lid.  FTP name this avant-garde piece of (alleged) music by John Cage notable for its absence of notes.	Answer: 4'33"  [Four Minutes, 33 Seconds; accept Four Thirty-Three]2.	This poem ends by stating that the speakers will die soon. Opening with the lines "The Pool Players/ Seven at the Golden Shovel", the speakers go on to exclaim that they left school, lurk late, strike straight, and sing sin. FTP, what is this famous poem by Gwendolyn Brooks?	Answer: We Real Cool3.	This is the principal process by which saturated compounds are transformed to unsaturated compounds. Usually achieved through the action of acids, bases, or metals and, in some cases, by heating to a high temperature, they are commonly known by the kinds of atoms or groups of atoms involved, as in dehydration and dehydrohalogenation, and they are also classified based on reaction rate as either E1 or E2. FTP, what are these organic chemical reactions in which a pair of atoms or group of atoms are removed from a molecule?	Answer: elimination reactions4	.After the death of heir apparent Rudolf and his father Charles Louis, this man was next in line for the throne, but he was embittered because, due to his ill health, many considered his younger brother Otto the true heir. He aroused controversy by marrying Sophie, Countess von Chotek, leading to conflict with his uncle, Emperor Francis Joseph.  But from 1906 onward his military influence grew, and in 1913 he became inspector general of the Austrian army.  It was in this capacity that he crossed paths with Gavrilo Princip in June 1914. FTP, who was this Austrian archduke whose assassination touched off World War I?	Answer: Archduke Francis (or Franz) Ferdinand5.	This mythological being finally came to rest in the void Ginnungagap, where four dwarfs hold up his skull, while the fence around Midgard was made from his eyelashes. Created when the ice of Niflheim met the heat of Muspelheim, his legs produced a six-headed son, while a male and female grew under his arm. Nourished by the milk of Audhumla, he was killed by Odin, Ve, and Vili, who created the earth from his flesh. FTP, who was this first being of Norse mythology?	Answer: Ymir or Aurgelmir6.	At the end of this play, the protagonist's brother insinuates that the protagonist's actions were merely a scheme to inherit more money from his wealthy relative Morten Kiil. Earlier, Captain Horster had provided a hall in which the protagonist gave a speech condemning the tyranny of the majority, prompted when the mayor of the town convinced Hovstad and Aslaksen to not report Dr. Thomas Stockmann's discovery of the contamination of the town's profitable bathing complex. FTP, what is this drama by Henrik Ibsen?	Answer: An Enemy of the People7.	This director was killed in an automobile accident shortly after codirecting Tabu with Robert Flaherty. Originally surnamed Plumpe, his best work in America is possibly his adaptation of Sudermann's Trip to Tilsit entitled Sunrise.  But he is best known for two films from his Berlin period, one about a humiliated petty bourgeois, the other a version of the Dracula story. FTP name this director of The Last Laugh and Nosferatu.	Answer: Friedrich Wilhelm Murnau
8.	One of this man's more novel ideas was to dye the polar ice caps in order to warm the earth. Known for his "axiomatic method", as a mathematician he defined ordinal numbers, solved a special case of Hilbert's fifth problem, formulated and proved the "ergodic hypothesis", and developed the rings of operators now known as his algebras. Today he is associated with work in another field, including formulation of the minimax principle and publication with Osker Morgenstern of 1944's Theory of Games and Economic Behavior. FTP, who was this Hungarian, considered the father of game theory?	Answer: John von Neumann9.	This man was the last surviving general officer of the Revolutionary War. After the fall of Charleston in 1780 he escaped to North Carolina, where he became a brigadier general, but after successes at Catawba and Hanging Rock was defeated at Fishing Creek. Later, he defeated Mayor Wemyss at Fishdam Ford and Banastre Tarleton at Blackstock, earning the nickname the "Carolina Gamecock". FTP, who was this Revolutionary War officer for whom a fort in Charleston Harbor was named?	Answer: Thomas Sumter10.	This moon possesses an extremely thin atmosphere of nitrogen and methane, and has a surface temperature of -400 degrees Fahrenheit, making it the coldest known object in the solar system. Measuring 1,700 miles in diameter, scientists theorize that a phenomenon called "icy volcanism" is responsible for its enormous expanses of ice containing long, ridgelike structures that cut across each other. Discovered in 1846 by William Lassell, FTP, what is this moon with a retrograde orbit, the largest known satellite of Neptune?	Answer: Triton11.	The fertile northern coast of this island is drained by the Solo and Brantas Rivers. Home to the cities of Surabaja, Bandung, and Semarang, it is traversed from east to west by a chain of volcanic mountains, the highest of which is Mount Semeru. At 51,000 square miles the 13th largest island in the world, FTP, what is this densely-populated island which is home to Jakarta, Indonesia?	Answer: Java12.	The murder at the center of this novel's plot is solved by the detective Mr. Bucket, and it ends with the protagonist marrying Dr. Woodcourt. A subplot tells of Richard Carstone and Ada Clare's involvement in the lawsuit Jarndyce v. Jarndyce, while the main plot tells of Mr. Jarndyce's ward Esther Summerson, who lives with him at the title abode until the lawyer Mr. Tulkinghorn discovers she is the illegitimate daughter of Captain Hawdon and Lady Dedlock.  FTP, such describes what depressing-sounding novel by Charles Dickens?	Answer: Bleak House13.	The drug mibolerone is allowed only as an estrus suppressant.  If an edible big game animal is killed, the animal must be gutted and no teams are allowed to pass until the gutting is complete.  These are just two of the many rules that govern this race that runs along a mail and supply route notably used in 1925 to deliver much-needed diphtheria serum.  FTP, identify this dog race that runs from Anchorage to Nome, Alaska.	Answer:  Iditarod14.	After his military endeavours this man became prior of the Augustinian monastery of Neufmoustier, which he founded. In 1096 he led his followers into Nicomedia as part of the First Crusade, but was unable to maintain discipline, and when he returned to Constantinople to seek the aid of Alexius I his army was annihilated by the Turks. He had raised that army when, after Urban II declared the Crusade at Clermont, he travelled from central France down the Meuse Valley to Cologne preaching on behalf of the endeavour. FTP, who was this man known as the Hermit?	Answer: Peter the Hermit
15.	In ancient times it was allegedly attached to a piece of metal bearing a prophecy, and according to one legend it was the pillow upon which Jacob rested at Bethel when he beheld the visions of angels. Decorated only with a Latin cross, it is pale yellow, weighs 336 pounds, and measures 26 inches by 16 inches by 11 inches. It supposedly traveled from the Holy Land to Egypt, Sicily, and Spain, finally reaching Ireland and set upon the hills of Tara. Currently found beneath the Coronation Chair, FTP, what is this stone associated with the crowning of Scottish kings?	Answer: Stone of Scone16.	Rising to power after the Battle of Tecoac, this man encouraged foreign investment in his country due to the influence of his two principal advisors, Jose Limantour and Matias Romero. A mestizo of humble origin, he overthrew the government of Sebastian Lerdo de Tejada, serving for president for four years. In 1884, he ran for president against his hand-picked successor, Manuel Gonzalez, beginning a 27-year period in which he ruled as the head of a strong centralized Mexican government. FTP, who was this president overthrown by Francisco Madero in 1911?	Answer: Porfirio Diaz17.	Briefly engaged to Regina Olsen, he broke it off due to a belief that the life of a writer was incompatible with the married life. His first important philosophical contribution was his M.A. dissertation, The Concept of Irony, while his late, religious works include Works of Love and Christian Discourses. Stressing the importance of the "existing individual", much of his work was a direct rebuttal to Hegel, including Philosophical Fragments, Concluding Unscientific Postscript, and The Sickness Unto Death. FTP, who was this Danish philosopher, author of Either/Or?	Answer: Soren Kierkegaard18.	These subcellular organelles are affected by Hurler's syndrome, and each of them is surrounded by a membrane that maintains the acidic environment necessary for their proper function, thus preventing the cell from degradation in case of leakage. They originate by budding off from the membrane of the trans-Golgi network, and materials are transported to them via endocytosis, autophagocytosis, and phagocytosis.  Discovered by Christian Rene de Duve, FTP, what are these organelles responsible for the cell's digestion of macromolecules, old cells parts, and microorganisms?	Answer: lysosomes19.	At the end of this novel featuring the characters Frederick Beale and Gaston Godin, the protagonist decides that since he has broken every moral law, he should break legal ones as well, leading to his arrest for murder. Told through a manuscript subtitled The Confession of a White Widowed Male, it tells of the protagonist's first, unsatisfied love for Annabel, which is followed by his marriage to Valeria, who leaves him on the eve of their emigration from France to America. Then he moves to Ramsdale, where he marries Charlotte Haze in order to have complete access to her daughter Dolores, the 12-year-old nymphet he desires. FTP, what is this novel about Humbert Humbert by Vladimir Nabokov?	Answer: Lolita20.	This saint's legendary narrative is the Acta Sanctorum, and his feast day is June 2. A spurious legend holds that he was a bishop in Syria who miraculously endured tortures under Diocletian in Lebanon, after which an angel guided him to Formia, where he performed miracles. One of the Fourteen Holy Helpers, he was invoked by those suffering from intestinal problems due to the legend that he was martyred by being disemboweled. FTP, who is this saint, one of the patrons of sailors whose name is given to the glow at the tips of masts during stormy weather?	Answer: St. Elmo or St. Erasmus 
21.	After collapsing while leaving a subway station, the protagonist of this novel is taken in by Mary Rambo, and later his disillusionment is evidenced by his fight with Ras the Exhorter. His grandfather's deathbed declaration that life is an unrelenting battle fought in quiet and insidious ways is born out by the events of his life, including being forced into a boxing match on the night he was to give a speech on humility to wealthy white businessmen and being deceived by the college president Dr. Bledsoe, who tricks him into moving to New York, where he become a tool of a Black Nationalist Group. FTP, this describes what novel about an unnamed narrator by Ralph Ellison?	Answer: Invisible Man22.	This musical work ends when most of the main characters find themselves in prison with the drunken jailor Frosch. To gain revenge for a prank played the previous year, Falke convinces his friend Baron von Eisenstein to attend a masked ball in "gay Vienna" rather that start his jail term, but also invites the Frank, the warden of the jail, and the Baron's wife Rosalinda, who does not know the Baron is in attendance. Using a libretto by Haffner and Genee based on  the farce Le Reveillon, FTP, what is this operetta named for the costume worn by Falke, written by Johann Strauss, Jr.?	Answer: Die Fledermaus (or The Bat)23.	This chemist's first scientific paper dealt with his isolation of tartaric acid from cream of tartar, and in the last years of his life he was the first to isolate lactic acid. The discoverer of the green pigment named for him, as well as glycerine, he wrote only one book, Chemical Observations and Experiments on Air and Fire, and because of the delay in the publication of many of his results, he is rarely given credit for the unequaled number of new substances he discovered. FTP, who was this Swedish chemist who anticipated by two years Joseph Priestley's discovery of oxygen?	Answer: Carl Scheele24.	Leaders of this group included George Curtis, Henry Cabot Lodge, and Theodore Roosevelt. Their name was first used in the New York Sun by Charles A. Dana and was derived from a work meaning "big chief" or "great man". A reform-oriented faction of the Republican Party, FTP, what was this group who supported Grover Cleveland instead of James Blaine in the election of 1884?	Answer: mugwumps25.	By the late 1960's this artist had moved away from the style with which he is most associated in favor of Color Field Painting, as seen in his "Open" series, while paintings like Africa and Indian Summer #2 showed interest in diverse techniques.  Known for his ability to evoke a sense of movement by utilizing massive black forms, he also directed the publication of the series "The Documents of Modern Art", and from 1958-71 he was married to painter Helen Frankenthaler.  Known as the most important spokesman for Abstract Expressionism, FTP, name this American painter of nearly 150 paintings in his series "Elegy to the Spanish Republic".	Answer: Robert Motherwell
BONI - KENTUCKY				MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Given descriptions, name these Puccini operas FTPE.1. (10 points) Set in 1850 in a goldmining town, Minnie falls in love with the disguised outlaw Dick Johnson, who is wounded by the sheriff, Jack Rance. In the end, Minnie wins Dick's freedom in a poker game.	Answer: The Girl of the Golden West2. (10 points) Set in Rome in 1800, the protagonist reveals the hiding place of the political offender Angelotti to save the painter Cavaradossi from torture, then kills the chief of police, Baron Scarpia, and throws herself from the battlements of the prison.	Answer: Tosca3. (10 points) The title figure refuses the marriage proposal of Prince Yamadori because of her faith in the love of Pinkerton. When she learns that Pinkerton has married and has a child, she kills herself.	Answer: Madama Butterfly2.	Lava stuff, FTPE.1. (10 points) This type of lava flow is characterized by smooth, gently undulating, or broadly hummocky surfaces. The lava flowing beneath the thin crust wrinkles it into folds and rolls resembling twisted rope.	Answer: pahoehoe2. (10 points) In contrast to pahoehoe, the surface of lava resulting from this type of lava flow is exceedingly rough, covered with a layer of partly loose, irregular fragments called clinker.	Answer: aa3. (10 points) Both pahoehoe and aa flows result from lava composed of this kind of extrusive igneous rock characterized by low silica content, dark color, and high iron and magnesium content.	Answer: basalt3.	FTSNOP, answer the following about a certain Civil War battle.1. (5 pts) After early skirmishing here, Union forces took up defensive positions at Cemetery Ridge, and after the failure of an infamous charge against the Union center Lee's Army of Northern Virginia fell to defeat.	Answer: Gettysburg2. (10 points) The charge against Cemetery Ridge at Gettysburg was led and named for this Confederate major general, also known for holding the Confederate center at Fredericksburg.	Answer: George Pickett3. (5 points) The Army of the Potomac was led at Gettysburg by this former engineer who has taken command just two days before the battle.	Answer: George Meade4.  (10 points) On the battle's 2nd day, Col. Joshua Chamberlain and the 20th Maine may have saved the Union by holding this critical piece of high ground, though recent dramatizations exaggerated his isolation in doing so.	Answer:  Little Round Top4.	FTPE, name these works by Herman Melville.1. This early novel tells of the hero and Toby, who jump ship and end up in the title valley. Taken prisoner, the hero is tempted to stay with the beautiful Fayaway, but finally decides to escape and return to civilization.	Answer: Typee: A Peep at Polynesian Life2. The central motif of Melville's last novel, the constantly shifting`masquerade' of passengers on the Mississippi steamboat Fidèle, can be seen as a symbol of American cultural history.	Answer: The Confidence Man3. This long poem is subtitled "A Poem and a Pilgrimage in the Holy Land." It tells of a young theological student who leaves his beloved Ruth for a pilgrimage, where he engages in philosophical discussions about science and loss of faith with Nehemiah, Vine, Derwent, Margoth, and others.	Answer: Clarel: A Poem and a Pilgrimage in the Holy Land
5. FTPE, name these people who dissed the Roman Catholic Church and its beliefs.      1. Believed to be the author of Bazaar of Heraclides, this abbot of Antioch was named patriarch of Constantinople in 428, but became a heretic by claiming that Jesus was two distinct persons, closely and inseparably united. He was pimp-caned at the Council of Ephesus.	Answer: Nestorius [accept Nestor; there are other Nestors, but a few sources called this guy that too]      2. Author of Expositions of Thirteen Epistles of St. Paul, this celebrated monk and theologian, along with his followers Celestius and Julian of Eclannum, attacked St. Augustine's theory of man's total dependance on grace, arguing that humanity has the natural capacity to reject evil. He was cold-busted at the Council of Ephesus.	Answer: Pelagius      3. Also a physician with a gift for dissection who discovered that some blood flows through the lungs, this Spaniard aroused controversy with his works De trinitatis erroribus and De trinitate, in which he gave a novel interpretation to the trinity. Condemnation by Calvin damaged his street cred, and he was burned by the Inquisition in 1553.	Answer: Michael Servetus (or Miguel Serveto) (prompt on Michel de Villeneuve)6.	OK, name your poison - Cold War politics or Supreme Court decisions.  [PAUSE FOR CHOICE][IF COLD WAR]FTPE, name these people involved in post-WWII Cold War politics.1. In an anonymous July 1947 article signed X that appeared in Foreign Affairs magazine, this diplomat proposed the "containment" policy to oppose Soviet expansion.	Answer: George Kennan2. In 1947 this man was made commander in chief of the U.S forces in Europe and military governor of the U.S. Zone in Germany, and oversaw the Berlin airlift.	Answer: Lucius Clay3. Popularly known as "assistant president for domestic affairs" as head of the Office of War Mobilization during WWII, this man served as Secretary of State under Truman from 1945-47, and proposed that if the Soviet Union opposed unification of Germany, the other world powers should unify their parts into a new state.	Answer: James Byrnes[IF SUPREME COURT]FTPE name these Supreme Court decisions.1. In this 1905 decision, the court struck down a limit on the working hours of bakers.	Answer: Lochner v. New York2. In this 1972 case, the court held that a state law requiring children to attend public or private school violated the Amish's right to freedom of religion.	Answer: Wisconsin v. Yoder3. In this 1996 case, the court struck down Colorado's Amendment 2, which precluded the passage of ordinances protecting homosexuals of discrimination.	Answer: Romer v. Evans7.	30-20-10, name the scientist.      (30) This man made the definitive theoretical study of Saturn's rings, showing that they are composed of swarms of tiny satellites, while his pioneering contributions to the theory of steam-engine governors laid the foundations for cybernetics.      (20) While working on the kinetic theory of gases he developed his distribution law, sometimes called his and Boltzmann's distribution law, giving the number of gas molecules in thermal equilibrium whose velocities lie in a given range of values. His effect is the double refraction of a viscous liquid having anisotropic molecules.      (10) He is best known for a hypothetical demon and four laws of electromagnetism.	Answer: James Clerk Maxwell
8.	Style six, substance zero.  Identify the pop group from album titles F5PE:5) Millennium, Black and Blue	Backstreet Boys5) Forever	Spice Girls5) Writing on the Wall	Destiny's Child5) Home for Christmas, No Strings Attached	'N Sync5) It Was All a Dream	Dream5) Can't Get Enough, Reaching Out, Lo Mejor de lo Mejor, 20 Exitos	Menudo9.	FTPE, name these important existentialist philosophers.1.  This atheistic existentialist distinguished between being-in-itself and being-for-itself in Being and Nothingness.	Answer: Jean-Paul Sartre2. This German described his philosophy as a third way between religion and nihilism. He examined man in "extreme situations" in General Psychopathology, and worked to develop a "perennial philosophy" in works like Psychology of World Views and Man and the Modern World.	Answer: Karl Jaspers3. This Frenchman developed his "philosophy of ambiguity" in Phenomenology of Perception, Humanism and Terror, and Adventures of the Dialectic.	Answer: Maurice Merleau-Ponty10.	Identify these national epics FTSNOP:5: The story centers around Charlemagne, Emperor of the Franks and the battle of Roncesvalles in which the Franks defeat the Muslim Saracens.           Answer: The Song of Roland10: It is split into two parts beginning with two cantos or aventiuren that introduce Kriemhild and Sigfried. Other characters include King Gunther and the woman Brunhilde.         Answer: The Nibelungenlied or Song of the Nibelungs5: The story speaks of Rodrigo Diaz De Vivar, a Castilian military leader whose popular name, the Title of this story, is Spanish Arabic for "lord". He conquered the city of Valencia where he died in 1099.Answer: El Cid10: Its three heroes are the smith Ilmarinen, the poet Vainamoinen, and the warrior Lemminkainen.Answer:  the Kalevala11.	FTPE, answer the following about unrest in South Africa.1. On March 21, 1960, the newly-form Pan-Africanist Congress encouraged thousands of unarmed Africans to invite arrest by presenting themselves at police stations without passes. Police opened fire on such a crowd at this site near Johannesburg, killing at least 67.	Answer: Sharpeville2. On June 16, 1976, in this township outside Johannesburg, thousands of children demonstrated against the government's insistence that they should be taught in Afrikaans rather than English. Police opened fire.	Answer: Soweto3. This founder of the Black Consciousness Movement and the Zimele Trust Fund was arrested in 1977, and became a martyr after dying from brain lesions suffered during police beatings while in custody.	Answer: Stephen Biko
12.	FTPE, name the following about a major film director.1. This Frenchman directed the films Day for Night and Shoot the Piano Player, but secured his reputation with one of his first films, 1959's The 400 Blows.	Answer: Francois Truffaut2. The title characters in this 1961 Truffaut film both fall in love with the same woman yet remain friends.	Answer: Jules et [or and] Jim 3. New Wave cinema grew from this theory of film criticism and analysis which was originated by Truffaut. It held that although films are collaborative efforts, they should ultimately bear the artistic stamp of the director.	Answer: auteur theory (or author theory)13.	FTPE, name the following about viruses.1. This is the name for the infective extracellular form of the virus consisting of an outer protein shell and an inner core of nucleic acid.	Answer: virion2. This is the outer protein shell that surrounds the nucleic acid, and provides specificity to the virus.	Answer: capsid3. Retroviruses are equipped with this enzyme which copies single-stranded RNA to form double-stranded DNA.	Answer: reverse transcriptase (prompt on transcriptase)14.	FTPE, name the following about a real-life doctor who has found his way into the world of pop culture.1. This doctor was accused of murdering his pregnant wife in Bay Village, Ohio on July 4, 1954, providing the inspiration for the television show The Fugitive. He shares his name with an actor and playwright.	Answer: Sam Shephard2. Sam Shephard was defended during his murder trial by this lawyer who later gained fame as the member of the O.J. Simpson dream team who cross-examined Mark Fuhrman.	Answer: F. Lee Bailey3. After gaining his freedom, Shephard became a professional wrestler, where he used his medical knowledge to invent this submission hold now used by Mick Foley.	Answer: the mandible claw15.	FTPE name these Latin American authors.1. This author of The Story of a Shipwrecked Sailor, The General in His Labyrinth, and Love in the Time of Cholera won the Nobel Prize in 1982.	Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez2. This Mexican author of Terra Nostra and Distant Relations is best known for The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Answer: Carlos Fuentes3. This Argentinian-born Chilean writer rose to fame with How to Read Donald Duck, and has gone on to write Last Waltz in Santiago, Widows, The Last Song of Manuel Sendero, and Death and the Maiden.	Answer: Ariel Dorfman
16.	FTPE name these Russian poets.1. This lyric poet wrote My Sister, Life and Theme and Variation, but is best known for the novel Dr. Zhivago.	Answer: Boris Pasternak2. With Voznesensky, this poet sparked new interest in poetry in the Soviet Union during the 1960s. Author of A Prococious Autobiography, Black and White, and Monologue of a Polar Fox on an Alaskan Fur Farm, he is best known for Babi Yar.	Answer: Yevgeny Yevtushenko3. He became the leading Russian poet of the early 20th century with works like I, A Cloud in Trousers, 150,000,000, and the unfinished With Full Voice, as well as the plays Mystery-Bouffe, The Bedbug, and The Bathhouse.	Answer: Vladimir Mayakovsky17.	Again, name your poison: late 17th century, or early 18th century, history.  [PAUSE FOR CHOICE]       [IF LATE 17TH CENTURY]5-10-15, name the following from late 17th century English history.1. (5 points) This brother of Charles II became king of England in 1685, but was deposed in the Glorious Revolution and defeated in his attempt to regain the throne in the battle of the Boyne.	Answer: James II2. (10 points) This duke, the son of Charles II, became popular in England for defeating the Scottish Covenanters at Bothwell Bridge. Some Protestants tried to have him named heir to the throne instead of James II, and on Charles' death he led an unsuccessful 1685 rebellion which was put down at Sedgemoor.	Answer: James Scott, Duke of Monmouth (or James Fitzroy or James Crofts)3. (15 points) After the collapse of Monmouth's Rebellion, these notoriously unjust trials was held by Lord Chief Justice George Jeffreys, and saw hundreds of actual or presumed supporters of Monmouth executed or sold into slavery.	Answer: Bloody Assizes       [IF EARLY 18TH CENTURY]FTPE, name these important battles of the War of the Spanish Succession.1. The Palace of the same name was built for the Duke of Marlborough due to his 1704 victory in this battle in which Marlborough overwhelmed the French and Eugene of Savoy defeated the Elector of Bavaria.	Answer: Blenheim2. This April 25, 1707 battle saw 25,000 Franco-Spanish troops under the Duke of Berwick defeat the 15,000 Portuguese and English Allied forces of the Earl of Galway and Das Minas.	Answer: Almansa3. In an attempt to force France to accept harsh peace terms, Marlborough attempted to invade France, winning this September 11, 1709 battle near the Belgian border, but the losses on both sides led to the abandonment of the invasion.	Answer: Malplaquet18.	Name these Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood painters who aren't Dante Gabriel Rossetti from works, FTPE.1. (10 points) Autumn Leaves, Christ in the Carpenter's Shop, Ferdinand Lured by Ariel, Ophelia	Answer: John Everett Millais2. (10 points) The Scapegoat, A Converted British Family Sheltering a Christian Missionary from the Persecution of the Druids, The Hireling Shepherd	Answer: William Holman Hunt3. (10 points) King Cophetua and the Beggar Maid, The Golden Stairs, Pygmalion and the Image Series	Answer: Edward Burne-Jones
19.	FTPE, name these bodies of water.1. This lake in northwestern Iran is the largest in the Middle East, covering an area that varies from 2,000 to 2,300 square miles. Like the Dead Sea, it is notable for its extreme salinity.	Answer: Lake Urmia (or Daryacheh-ye Orumiyeh)2. Once the fourth-largest lake in the world, this sea east of the Caspian on the Kazakhstan-Uzbekistan border has shrunk considerably due to diversion of the waters of the Syr Darya and Amu Darya rivers.	Answer: Aral Sea (or Orol Sea)3. The largest body of water in Turkey and second in the Middle East behind Lake Urmia, this lake located near Iran covers 1,4,34 square miles and is triangular in shape.	Answer: Lake Van20.	F15PE, name these methods of representing chemical compounds.1. This is a representation of the conformation of a molecule in which the viewer's eye is considered to be sighting down a carbon-carbon bond, with the front carbon represented by a point and the back carbon by a circle.	Answer: Newman projection2. In this method for representing the spatial arrangement of groups around chiral carbon atoms, the four bonds to the chiral carbon are represented by a cross, with the assumption that the horizontal bonds project toward the viewer and the vertical bonds away from the viewer.	Answer: Fischer projection21.	FTPE, name the founders of these religious groups.1. (10 points) Presbyterianism	Answer: John Knox2. (10 points) The United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing, or The Millennial Church	Answer: Ann Lee3. (10 points) Jehovah's Witnesses	Answer: Charles Russell22.	30-20-10, name the poet from volumes of poetry.1. (30 points) A Witness Tree, Steeple Bush(20 points) In the Clearing, New Hampshire(10 points) North of Boston, A Boy's Will	Answer: Robert Frost23.	FTPE, name these people responsible for certain conventions about constellations.1. (10 points) Introduced in his star atlas Uranometria, this German developed the system named for him for naming stars in constellations by Greek letters roughly according to brightness.	Answer: Johann Bayer2. (10 points) This man was made the first Royal Astronomer by Charles II to develop better means for determining longitude at sea, and the Greenwich Observatory was built for him. He developed the method of numbering stars in constellations in order of right ascension.	Answer: John Flamsteed3. (10 points) This German established the northern constellations as we know them today, and added 7 new constellations still recognized.	Answer: Johannes Hevelius
24.	FTPE, name these types of psychological illusions.1. (10 points) This is the distortion in the length of a line when it is enclosed in acute angles in comparison to a line enclosed by obtuse lines.	Answer: Muller-Lyer Illusion2. (10 points) In this illusion, a straight line appears to become jagged when passing through two parallel rectangles.	Answer: Poggendorf illusion3. (10 points) This is an illusion in which parallel lines intersected by numerous short diagonal lines slanting in the opposite direction seem to diverge.	Answer: Zollner illusion