TOSSUPS --	ILLINOIS NORTHERN AGGRESSORS		 MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UTC)	1.	He was a notorious womanizer, and it mattered not to him how old the women were or their marriage status. The first years of his reign were dominated by his relationship with his power-hungry cousin, the Kingmaker, whom he would later defeat at the Battle of Barnet. His other military exploits included being a part of the disaster at Wakefield, where his father and his brother Edmund were killed, and defeating Jasper Tudor at Mortimer's Cross. FTP, name this king from the House of York who struggled for power against his cousin Richard Neville, Earl of Warwick.	Answer: _Edward IV_2.	It is the first step in a Southern Blot analysis and the last step in the Dideoxy DNA sequencing procedure. Ethidium bromide is often used because it absorbs UV light and will show up when viewed through a UV transilluminator. This technique is possible because of the negatively charged phosphate backbone of DNA, which will be attracted to a positive pole of an electric field. FTP, name this laboratory technique which is used to separate different-sized pieces of DNA based on how far they will migrate through an agarose gel in an electric field.	Answer: gel _electrophoresis_3.	Corbaccio disinherits his own son in this man's favor and Corvino offers him his own wife. They do this because they expect to inherit his fortune but the whole thing is a ruse created to gain more money. In 1928 Romains and Zweig rewrote the ending so that his servant Mosca inherits all of his money, but according to the original ending he and Mosca, as well as Corvino and Corbaccio, are punished according to their crimes. FTP, the preceding describes what titular character created by Ben Jonson?	Answer: _Volpone_4.	This son of Clymene fell into the river Eridanus, which is now a constellation. His named has passed into English as a name for an automobile and a four-wheeled, horse-drawn carriage. But hopefully anyone driving either of these will drive better than he did as he caused the Earth to alternate between freezing and scorching before being struck down by Zeus. FTP, name this ill-fated youth who was granted permission by his father Helios to fly his sun chariot across the sky.	Answer: _Pha‘thon_5.	This opera completed in 1867, debuted in its entirety in Linz and was conducted by Anton Bruckner. Sixtus Beckmesser plays the part of the antagonist who hopes to win the hand of Pogner's daughter Eva. Eva and the protagonist, Walther von Stolzing, wish to marry but Eva's father has already decreed that the winner of a singing contest shall be her husband. With a little bit of trickery and the help of Hans Sachs, Walther wins the contest. FTP, name this Wagner opera.Answer: _Die Meistersinger von NŸrnberg" (accept: The _Mastersingers of Nuremberg from idiots) 6.	The units holding this vital point were Fredendall's 1st armored division and 168th Regimental Combat Team. The attackers launched from Faid and managed to drive the Americans 21 miles in nine days. Just when it appeared that the 10th and 21st Panzer divisions would score a major victory, the Allies received reinforcements in the form of air support and the British 6th Armoured. FTP, name this battle fought from February 14th-26th, 1943 between the Allies and the Afrika Korps under Erwin Rommel.	Answer: _Kasserine Pass_
7.	This chemical can undergo an aldol condensation reaction with itself to form 4-hydroxy-4methyl-2-pentanone. When reacted with water it can form the diol known as 2,2-propanediol. When it is reduced, it will form the compound 2-propanol since secondary alcohols are the product of the reduction of a ketone. FTP, name this dimethyl ketone, which is the simplest of all of the ketones, with the formula CH3COCH3.	Answer: _acetone_8.	This painting exhibits linear perspective, with two vanishing points: the lines of the house converge on the head of Jesus while a second vanishing point determines the steps and stone rails at the right. The shadows of the figures are cast to the left, which was done because the acutal light source in the Brancacci Chapel that it is housed in is on the right. There is a group of disciples in the center; Peter is in the background on the left opening up a fish to find money. FTP, name this fresco completed around 1427 that was painted by Masaccio.	Answer: The _Tribute Money_9.	This Florida-born author served as a consul to both Venezuela and Nicaragua. His autobiography, published in 1933, is entitled "Along This Way." His first book of poetry was "Fifty Years and Other Poems." In 1912 he anonymously published a novel concerning an unnamed mulatto narrator entitled "The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man." He also served as the Secretary of the NAACP from 1916-1930. FTP, name this African-American author perhaps best remembered for seven sermons in free verse entitled "God's Trombones."	Answer: James Weldon _Johnson_10.	This effect for hydrogen atoms was described by the Bohr theory of the atom. It also marked the first use of perturbation theory in quantum mechanics as it is described by regarding the electric field as a perturbation on the quantum states and energy levels of an atom in the absence of an electric field. It is the electrical analog of the Zeeman effect and was named for its German discoverer. FTP, name this splitting of lines in the spectra of a hydrogen atom due to the presence of a strong electric field.	Answer: _Stark_ effect11.	This basketball star, born in Martin's Ferry, Ohio, had originally signed with the NFL's Cleveland Browns but later backed out of it. Noted for his endurance and ability to get steals, he shot 60% from the field in the 1960 NCAA season. At the time of his retirement, he held several records which included: most 1,000 point seasons at 16, and most games played at 1,270. In 1980 he was named to the All-Time NBA team. FTP, name this basketballer nicknamed "Hondo" who led Ohio State to the 1960 NCAA Championship as well as the Celtics to 8 NBA crowns.	Answer: John _Havlicek_12.	These often only exist in the spring and summer, and if the lakes are shallow enough, won't appear at all. Permanent ones in deep tropical lakes have resulted in the stratification of life. Since water is densest at 4 degrees Celsius, any different temperature will result in a less dense water that floats to the top. This results in a layer of warm water floating on top of a considerably cooler layer. FTP name this feature of lakes which is a well-defined temperature zone.	Answer: _thermocline_13.	One of his first lines, which comes from scene one, part three, is "With drinking healths to my niece. I'll drink to her as long as there is a passage in my throat and drink in Illyria." That speech ends with "Here comes Sir Andrew Agueface." He actually refers to Sir Andrew Aguecheek, and was probably under the influence of alcohol, as he is through most of the play. He gets drinking money from Andrew by offering to advance Andrew's suit for his niece Olivia. FTP, name this boisterous drunken uncle of Olivia in "Twelfth Night."	Answer: Sir _Toby Belch_14.	This relatively short, silent film starred Lil Dagover as the beautiful Jane. Conrad Veidt played the role of Cesare, a hollow-eyed sleepwalker who commits murder while under a spell. A nightmarish story and a surreal setting are the main ingredients of this early German horror classic which starred Werner Krauss in the title role. FTP, name this film about an evil hypnotist that was directed by Robert Wiene.	Answer: The _Cabinet of Dr. Caligari_15.	This peninsula is separated from the mainland by a canal that was begun in 1909 by August Belmont. Towns on it include Provincetown, Chatham, and Hyannis. For ten points, name this hook-shaped peninsula in Massachusetts.ANSWER: Cape Cod16.	This novel, first published in 1928, recounts the author's own experiences at Oxford. The main character gets expelled from Oxford and is forced to teach at a lower-class school. There he falls in love with Margot, who is the mother of one of his students. He is thrown in prison for unknowingly working in Margot's white slave trade. After he is released he returns to Oxford as student. FTP, this describes the plot of what novel concerning Paul Pennyfeather that was written by Evelyn Waugh?	Answer: _Decline and Fall_17.	Commissioned as a colonel in the Continental Army in 1776, he became a brigadier general in 1777, stormed the British fort at Stony Point in 1779, and helped lay siege to Yorktown in 1781. FTP identify this Revolutionary War general who later destroyed the Northwest Indian Confederation at the Battle of Fallen Timbers.ANSWER:  "Mad" Anthony Wayne18.	By the age of nine, he had a knowledge of 13 different languages and by 15 he had read "Principia." His first paper, published in 1827, concerned optics and he proposed a new approach to dynamics which he proposed independently of Carl Jacobi. One of his discoveries led to the successful introduction of vectors into physical problems because they split naturally into one- and three-dimensional parts. FTP, name this mathematician, whose discovery of quaternions was the seed of much modern algebra.	Answer: William Rowan _Hamilton_19.	Unable to live up to his father's example, this emperor of Rome's reign degenerated into one of despotism. At one time he imagined that he was the god Hercules and renamed Rome after himself. His sister Lucilla tried to have him killed and he eventually was killed when his mistress Marcia had him strangled by Narcissus, a famous athlete. His death brought an end to the dynasty of Antonine rulers. FTP, name this Roman emperor who ruled from 161-192 AD, who was the son of Marcus Aurelius.	Answer: Lucius Aurelius _Commodus_20.	This Old Testament prophet cast his mantle on Elisha, whom he had annointed prophet in his stead. From First Kings, chapter 19 comes the story of his discouragement under the Juniper tree. He was fed by ravens near the stream Cherith and by Zarephath's widow during the great drought which he had foretold. FTP, name this prophet who vanquished 450 prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel and who was taken to heaven in a whirlwind.	Answer: _Elijah_21.	"The mental features discoursed of as the analytical, are, in themselves, but little susceptible to analysis."  So begins a short story in which two women are found murdered, and the murderer is found to be an ourangoutan.  For the points, give the title of this short story by Edgar Allan Poe, the first featuring Auguste Dupin, and perhaps the first so-called detective story.ANSWER: The Murders in the Rue Morgue22.	This linguist and anthropologist came to the U.S. in 1889 and studied ethnology and American Indian languages at Columbia University. He is considered one of the founders of ethnolinguistics and is known particularly for his study of the relationship between language and culture. His best-known book "Language" expounded his theory of the effect grammatical structure of language on the perception of the people who speak it. FTP, name this sociologist who developed a hypothesis with his student Benjamin Whorf.	Answer: Edward _Sapir_23.	Born Marcel Hall in Harlem in 1964 and made his video debut as a beat box in 1985's "Def Fresh Crew." Atlanta declared April 28th his holiday, and he undoubtedly leads all musicians in number of songs which have his name in the title (around 10). He boasts one of the largest collections of rare karate videos and his albums include "Goin' Off", "I Need a Haircut" and "All Samples Cleared." But he will most likely always be remembered for a certain video in which he dressed up like Ludwig van Beethoven. FTP, name this dude who sang "Just a Friend."	Answer: _Bizmarkie_
BONI -- ILLINOIS NORTHERN AGGRESSORS	MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UTC)	1.	Identify these titular objects from works by Russian authors FTPE:1. This title object of a Gogol work leaves its owner, parades about town, and wears clothes and rides in a carriage.		Answer: The _Nose_2. This titular place created by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn represents a microcosm of Soviet society. Its main inhabitant is Oleg Kostoglotov, and the novel created such a stir that it was banned in the Soviet Union.	Answer: The _Cancer Ward_3. This titular place of a work by Kuznetsov is a ravine outside of Kiev where the Nazis killed and burned the bodies of more than 100,000 local inhabitants.	Answer: _Babi Yar_2.	Identify the following terms from U.S. politics in the second half of the 19th century FTPE:1. This term, which became part of the language after a Massachusetts congressman made a dramatic display of one, referred to the tactic of reminding the electorate of the northern states that the men who had taken the South out of the Union had been Democrats, and that if Democrats were reelected, former rebels would run the government.	Answer: _bloody shirt_2. This was the name certain southern politicians gave to themselves. They included William Yancey, Jefferson Davis, John Slidell, and James Hammond. They were the most ardent supporters of slavery and called for a federal slave code as well as annexation of Cuba.	Answer: _fire-eaters_3. This was the name given to northern "Peace Democrats" during the Civil War.	Answer: _Copperheads_3.	It's time for a chain bonus. Football players and movies seem to naturally go together. Just look at all of those Brian Bosworth movies. Connect the names of these football players to the movies being described for five points each:1. A defensive tackle from Notre Dame who anchors the 49ers defensive line meets a movie about a scientist starring Yahoo Serious which, as most Yahoo Serious movies, bombed at the box office.	Answer: _Bryant Young Einstein_2. A wide receiver who played for the Giants and now the Broncos meets a crappy sequel starring Michael Madsen about some stupid whale and an oil slick.	Answer: _Ed McCaffrey Willy 2_3. A safety who has played for the Cardinals and Buccaneers among others meets a flick starring Tommy Davidson and Jamie Foxx who make several late-night expeditions in search of condoms.	Answer: _John Booty Call_4. An overrated quarterback from Alcorn State now playing for the Oilers meets a movie starring Kevin Bacon as an NBA recruiter who finds a tall Kenyan guy who can play hoops (note: leave off article of movie).	Answer: _Steve McNair Up There_5. A mediocre quarterback who once played for the 49ers & Chiefs who now plays for the Panthers meets an equally mediocre movie with Ray Liotta and Lance Henricksen about an island prison.	Answer: _Steve Bono Escape_6. An up-and-coming Giants fullback who recently made the pro-bowl meets some garbage chick flick starring the likes of Angela Bassett and Whitney Houston.	Answer: _Charles Waiting to Exhale_
4.	Identify these poems by John Keats from lines FTPE:1. This poem begins with the line "A thing of beauty is a joy for ever:"	Answer: _Endymion_2. This poem, written as three books, opens with the lines "Deep in the shady sadness of a vale/ Far sunken from the healthy breath of morn, Far from the fiery noon, and eve's one star, Sat gray-hair'd Saturn, quiet as stone."	Answer: _Hyperion_3. This poem contains the lines "With a sweet kernel; to set budding more,/ And still more, later flowers for the bees,/ Until they think warm days will never cease,/ For Summer has o'er brimm'd their clammy cells."	Answer: _To Autumn_5.	Answer the following questions about a certain biological process FTSNOP:For 5: This process begins when helicase unwinds the DNA into single strands. DNADNA polymerase III does most of the work in this process.	Answer: DNA _replication_For 10: DNA synthesis only occurs in this direction (hint: what prime to what prime?)	Answer: _5 prime to 3 prime_For 15: These fragments, named after their Japanese discoverer are newly formed DNAstrands that make up the lagging strand in DNA replication. DNA ligase links them together to give a continuous strand.	Answer: _Okazaki_ fragments6.	Identify these Greek dudes who did cool things:1. He was known as "the laughing philosopher" because he was constantly laughing at people's shortcomings. He also developed a theory whereby the world consists of an infinite number of everlasting atoms whose different characteristics and random combinations accounted for everything in the world.	Answer: _Democritus_2. According to legend, this philosopher jumped into Mount Etna's crater to support his own prediction that he would one day be taken up to heaven by the gods. He described the fall of man in "Purifications."	Answer: _Empedocles_3. His wife Lucilia gave him a love potion that drove him mad and made him commit suicide. He is best remembered for his "De Rerum Natura" or "On the Nature of Things."	Answer: _Lucretius_7.	Answer the following questions about the Rye House Plot FTPE:1. What king, who had come to power in 1660 was the target of the Rye House plot?	Answer: _Charles II_2. Like all actions in England, this one ended with its share of beheadings. One of the executed men was the grandnephew of the poet who wrote "Astrophel and Stella." Name him.	Answer: _A_lgernon _Sidney_3.Charles was unpopular enough that there was another plot five years earlier to kill him. Name this fabricated account that arose from anti-Catholic sentiment after the marriage of Charles' niece Mary to William of Orange.	Answer: _Popish_ Plot8.	Identify the composers of these "variations" FTPE:1. "Abegg Variations"	Answer: Robert _Schumann_2. Enigma Variations	Answer: Edward _Elgar_3. Handel Variations	Answer: Johannes _Brahms_
9.	Alec Guinness is a fine actor and deserves to have a bonus about him, dammit. So identify these films that he starred in FTPE:1. This powerful film features Guinness as a stiff-upper-lipped British commander who uses the task that he is required to do as a way of proving British authority. Guinness won the 1957 Best Actor Oscar for his performance.	Answer: The _Bridge on the River Kwai_2. Guinness plays an unassuming scientist who discovers a fabric that can't be torn, frayed, or stained in this 1952 film.	Answer: The _Man in the White Suit_3. Peter Sellers and Herbert Lom team up with Guinness in this film about three small-time criminals who devise the perfect crime but are thwarted by a sweet old landlady.	Answer: The _Ladykillers_EDITOR'S NOTE: I waited my entire playing career but no one ever asked about the last two before, dammit.10.	Identify these pieces of legislation from the decade of the 1910's FTPE:1. This act, passed in 1910, prohibited transportation of women across state lines for immoral purposes.	Answer: _Mann_ Act2. This act, passed in 1916, barred goods manufactured by the labor of children under 16 from interstate commerce.	Answer: _Keating-Owens_ Child Labor Act3. This act, probably the worst in American history, denied people liquor of any kind. It was sponsored by and named for some jerk from Minnesota.	Answer: _Volstead Act_11.	Answer the following questions about the comedy "As You Like It" FTPE:1. This court jester hits on the dull-witted Audrey.	Answer: _Touchstone_2. This shepherd tries to pick up on Phebe.	Answer: _Silvius_3. This brother of Orlando woos Celia.	Answer: _Oliver_12.	Identify these eponymous terms from physics FTPE:1. Represented by lambda, this is equal to h/mv. It is associated with the wave of a moving particle.	Answer: _de Broglie wavelength_2. This is the temperature at which a ferromagnetic substance loses its ferromagnetism and becomes only paramagnetic.	Answer: _Curie point_3. This is the time taken for a photon moving at the speed of light to a certain distance. It is given by the equation t sub p equals the square root of G times h divided by c to the fifth.	Answer: _Planck time_
13.	Identify the bands or singers who recorded each of the following songs that finished in the Billboard Top Ten for 1987 for five points each.1. "Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now"	Answer: _Starship_2. "I Knew You Were Waiting For Me" (hint: it's a duet, and one of the two hasn't disgraced herself recently)	Answer: Aretha _Franklin_ and George _Michael_3. "Heaven is a Place on Earth"	Answer: Belinda _Carlisle_4. "You Keep Me Hangin' On"	Answer: Kim _Wilde_5. "I Heard a Rumor"	Answer: _Bananarama_6. "C'est La Vie"	Answer: Robbie _Nevil_14	.It's time for Colvin math, boyee! The following questions are related to math, but one need no actual knowledge of math to answer them:1. Holders of this prestigious mathematics post at Cambridge have included Stephen Hawking and Isaac Newton.	Answer: _Lucasian Chair_ or _Lucasian professor_2. This German mathematician's fame rests mainly on a set of 23 research problems he presented in 1900 at the International Mathematical Congress in Paris.	Answer: David _Hilbert_3. This highly-prized award was established in 1932 and named for the man who began it. It is given out every four years to mathematicians under 40.	Answer: _Fields medal_15.	Identify the following novels by Theodore Dreiser FTPE.1. This novel deals with the titular character who becomes pregnant and is forced to leave home. She was to marry an Ohio senator but he died so she becomes the mistress of Lester Kane.	Answer: _Jennie Gerhardt_2. The real life case of Chester Gillette, who murdered Grace Brown at Big Moose Lake in the Adirondacks in July 1906, is the basis for this novel.	Answer: _An American Tragedy_3. This semiautobiographical novel concerns Eugene Witla, the art director of a midwestern magazine corporation. He is financially successful, but suffers a breakdown much like Dreiser did.	Answer: The _Genius_16.	Tenebrism in art is the strong use of shade and chiaroscuro in a painting so that it achieves a spotlight effect of sorts. FTPE identify these users of tenebrism:1. This artist, who once killed a guy over the score of a tennis match, was perhaps the most famous employer of tenebrism. It can be seen in such paintings as "The Calling of St. Matthew" in which Matthew is bathed in light as well as "Supper at Emmaus."	Answer: _Caravaggio_2. This Spanish painter also used heavy tenebrism; in his "The Crucifixion", which now hangs in the Chicago Art Institute, Christ's body is a glowing white which contrasts to the pitch black background. His "Saint Serapion" also showed heavy use of tenebrism.	Answer: Francisco de _Zurbaran_3. While not a bona fide follower of tenebrism, this artist was influenced a great deal by Caravaggio; his painting, "The Jewish Bride" shows the strong light and dark effects of tenebrism.	Answer: _Rembrandt_ van Rijn
17.	Answer the following questions related to Irish history on a 5-10-15 basis:5: This was the rebellion the Sinn Fein launched in 1916 in Dublin.Answer: _Easter Rising_ or _Easter Rebellion_ (if the year 1916 is included in answer, that's ok)10: He was imprisoned in 1916 for his part in the Easter Rising. After his release, he along with Arthur Griffith, signed the1921 treaty that created the Irish Free State. If you're really hard up for points, there was a crappy movie made about him starring Liam Neeson.	Answer: Michael _Collins_15: He toured the U.S. as President of the Irish Republic from 1919-1920. He created theRepublican Opposition Party in 1926 which entered the Irish Free State Dail.	Answer: Eamon _de Valera_18.	Identify these groups from Norse mythology FTPE:1. Freya, Frigg, and Njord were among this race of gods and goddesses.	Answer: _Vanir_2. This was the race of giants that sprung from Ymir.	Answer: _Jotuns_3. These badass warriors were uncontrollable in battle and were possessed of supernatural strength and fury. They were thought to be descended from the eight-handed Starkader.	Answer: _berserkers_19.		Answer the following questions related to aromaticity FTPE:1. The rule for determining aromaticity was developed and named after this German in 1931.	Answer: _Huckel's Rule_2. Huckel's rule applies to what kind of electrons?	Answer: _pi_ electrons3. Let's say you had six compounds with the following numbers of pi electrons: 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10. FTP, all or nothing, which three would be aromatic?	Answer: _2, 6, and 10_20.	Identify these regions of Germany FTPE:1. This historic region on the Baltic Sea coast was divided into the districts of Rostock, Schwerin, and Neubrandenburg in 1952. It later became part of a state with Vorpommerania; if you're hard up for points, it shares its name with a white linebacker named Karl who played for the Broncos.	Answer: _Mecklenburg_2. This region, named for a river, is on the French-German border and has changed hands several times. It is a small state that shares its first four letters with those of its capital.	Answer: das _Saarland_ or _Saar_ (capital at Saarbrucken)3. This region contains such towns as Oberammergau, which is famed for its passion play as well as Bayreuth and MŸnchen.	Answer: _Bayern_ (accept _Bavaria_ with a sigh) 