TOSSUPS -- GEORGIA TECH II			MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UT-CHATTANOOGA)1. This school of philosophy arose in reaction to the abstract rationalism of Hegelian thought.  Gabrielle Marcel coined its name.  Stressing human freedom and responsibility, it asserts that people have the need to make choices in in religion, philosophy, and life. FTP, identify this philosophical movement whose major writers include Camus and Sartre. Answer: Existentialism (accept existence philosophy)  2. He may be the only graduate of Ontario Agricultural College to teach at the Harvard University and Princeton University. He later served on the National Defense Advisory Commission and was an editor of Fortune Magazine from 1943 to 1948 and JFK's ambassador to India from 1961 to 1963. Among his non-academic works are The Triumph and A Tenured Professor. FTP, name this economist most famous for his The Affluent Society.Answer: John Kenneth Galbraith3. Carboxylation, reduction, regeneration, carbohydrate synthesis, are all steps in this carbon dioxide fixing cycle. Combining carbon dioxide with ATP and NADPH, this plant cycle creates glucose molecules. FTP, identify this cycle in phtosynthesis named after the winner of the 1961 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Ans: The Calvin Cycle 4. Born in Northamptonshire, this poet, dramatist, and critic, graduated from Cambridge in 1654. Some of his most notable dramas include All for Love, a retelling of Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra and the comedy Marriage à la Mode. Other writings include Absalom and Achitophel, a political satire on Monmouth and Shaftesbury, and MacFlecknoe, an attack on Thomas Shadwell. FTP, identify this British author, England's first poet laureate. Answer: John Dryden  5.  This soft, silver-white, extremely active metal is used in fertilizers, soaps, explosives, and fireworks and helps to form javelle water, water glass, Rochelle salt, tartar, and alum. The seventh most abundant element in the earth's crust, this element produces a purple color in flame tests. FTP, identify this element, discovered by Humphry Davy in 1807, whose atomic number is 19. Answer: Potassium  6. The heroine abandons her life of revelry to live happily with her lover. Trouble comes when Alfredo's father convinces her to leave Alfredo before her scandalous past destroys Alfredo's future. Aware of Aldredo's rage at her apparant betrayal and overcome with grief, Violetta becomes mortally ill and the opera ends with Violetta's death. Based on the novel La Dame aux Camélias by Dumas, FTP, name this popular Verdi opera, whose title translates to "The Fallen Woman". Ans: La Traviata 7. They were formed in 1770 to confront a sheriff's party sent by New York to evict the local residents, and they were victorious, whipping the New Yorkers with birch rods.  This irregular force was used effectively by Benedict Arnold while he was still on our side.  For ten points, name this group under the command of Ethan Allan which played a key role in the capture of Fort Ticonderoga.ANSWER: Green Mountain Boys8. He went to Paris in 1920 to write his first novel, The Beginning of Wisdom, but he considered himself to be chiefly a poet. FTP name this American poet known for his Civil War epic, John Brown's Body, and the short story "The Devil and Daniel Webster."ANSWER: Stephen Vincent Benét
9. Born in Salem, Ill., he served as a U.S. representative from 1891 to 1895. After losing his bid for the Senate, he spent two years as editor in chief of the Omaha World-Herald. At age 36, he was the Democratic nominee for president. He served as Secretary of State under Woodrow Wilson and aided the prosecution in the Scopes trial. FTP, identify this politician who ran for the presidency three times, but was defeated by McKinley and Taft. Answer: William Jennings Bryan10. In one of his more famous works, this philosopher tells the story of the Ass of Verona, which was believed the ass on which Christ rode into Jerusalem.  That same work includes entries on Atrology, Sect, Love, and Religion.  He is also well known for his attack on organized religion as expressed his slogan Ecrasez l'infame! or "Crush the infamous thing!"  For ten points name the author of the works Zaire, Brutus, Micromegas, and the Philosophical Dictionary.Answer: Voltaire or Francois Marie Arouet11. In this battle of 1297, the Scots were drawn up on the slopes of the Abbey Craig and were wielding 12ft pikes while fighting in an oval shaped spear-ring called the schilltron.  When Surrey and Cressingham, the leaders of the English forces, arrived at the battle they made a critical mistake by not crossing River Forth a short way upstream where a hundred horsemen could cross abreast.  Instead, they crossed at a narrow bridge, thus ensuring their defeat.  For ten points name this battle the first major victory of William Wallace which was inaccurately depicted in Braveheart.Battle of Stirling Bridge12. In 1920, he founded the Institute for Theoretical Physics where he remained director for the rest of his life except for during World War II when he fled to the United States in a British plane's empty bomb rack. FTP, name this physicist and Nobel laureate, famous for his model of the atom, whose institute was renamed in his honor and today bears his name.ANSWER: Niels Bohr13. The main character's plot is ruined when his mentally-retarded brother-in-law is accidentally killed by the explosives that were intended to destroy the Greenwich Observatory.  The main character's wife Winnie murders him in a fit of rage.  She then commits suicide after Ossipion, one of her husband's fellow anarchists, betrays her.  For ten points name the novel written by Joseph Conrad in which Adolf Verloc poses as a London shop owner.The Secret Agent14. This eleven letter word is the term for the condition humorously depicted by Michael Landon in the 1950s, Dean Stockwell in the 1970's, and Michael J. Fox, in the 1980s.  In psychology, this condition is expanded to any psychosis in which the patients mistakenly believe they are animals.  FTP, what is this condition, featured in numerous legends and movies, where the victim transforms into a wolf, and feeds on human flesh? Lycanthropy or lycanthrope15. He worked in various clerical jobs and he went to work as a Calvinist missionary among the Borinage coal miners in 1878.  He was primarily self-taught but began by imitating Millet, although he would later be influenced by Impressionism.  The struggles of his life were chronicled in a correspondence with his brother Theo, which became publish as Complete Letters.  For ten points name this artist whose bold, slashing strokes in thick impasto can be seen in his most well-known paintings such as Sunflowers and Starry Night.Vincent Van Gogh
16. His death in 1977 came just 4 years before the revival of his most famous character would become the centerpiece of one of the most successful ad campaigns of all time.  It was only thanks to a recent movie about his life that many people realized he was one of the first in Hollywood to speak out against the Nazis, lampooning the Fuhrer in The Great Dictator.  FTP name the creator of Modern Times and The Gold Rush, whose "Little Tramp" helped usher in the new era of the PC for IBM.Charlie Chaplin17. In this inherited disorder, the abnormal gene disrupts the transfer of chloride in and out of cells, and thereby prevents chloride from pulling water from the body's tissues. Without this water, mucus builds up in the exocrine glands and blocks off their ducts, specifically affecting the lungs and liver, and generally leading to an early death.  Current treatments include high-protein diets, vitamins, Pulmozyne, and antibiotics, but the only cure is an experimental genetic therapy that replaces the abnormal gene in the patient's DNA.  FTP, what is this condition, often abbreviated CF?Cystic Fibrosis18. This form of art traces its roots back to Dada, but only took full form in the beatnik "happenings" of the 1960s.  It incorporates elements from visual arts, pantomime, dance, music and drama.  It stresses spontaneity and originality, and often exhibits a keen sense of absurdity, humor, or pathos.  Some of it s more famous patrons are Laurie Anderson, Eric Bogosian, and John Kelly.  FTP, what is this often lampooned form of modern art, typified by the Blue Man Group?Answer: Performance art19. Congress confirmed the election of this Popular Unity candidate after he agreed to support 10 constitutional amendments of the Christian Democrats. Respectful of due process and civil liberties, he nonetheless sparked conservative opposition with his takeover of some copper companies. For ten points, who supposedly shot himself during a 1973 military coup attacking the presidential palace in Santiago, Chile?ANSWER: Salvador Allende Gossens20. As a child, he was hidden in the Dictean cave on the island of Crete and raised by the divine goat, Amaltheia. When he was mature, he managed to seduce his wife by turning into a cuckoo. Griffins guarded all of his gold. A stone which was sacred to him was sent to Delphi where it was rubbed with oil by priests daily. For 10 points name this Greek god whose wife was Hera.Answer: Zeus21. Constructed over a four year period, it was completed in 1974.  It was designed by the Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, and reflected modern styling for the time.  Structurally it is supported by squares tubes of welded steel, with an exterior of black aluminum and bronze-toned glass cut by black bands and topped by a 20-story tower.  FTP, name this Chicago landmark, standing 1,454 ft tall, the tallest building in the world.Answer: Sears Roebuck Tower22. The last name's the same.  Maria was a professor of astronomy at Vassar College in 1865, and the first woman to be elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Martha was the loose cannon wife of a leading figure in the Watergate scandal. William was the commander of the American expeditionary force air force in WWI whose public criticism of the military's underused air power lead him to a court martial.  Margaret wrote only one book, but it was immortalized in 1939's movie of the year. FTP, what is the common name to these four, the most famous of which wrote "Gone with the Wind"?Answer: Mitchell
BONI -- GEORGIA TECH II			MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UT-CHATTANOOGA)1. Name the historical figure on a 30-20-10 basis.(30) Before his greatest victory he was nearly killed when Sir Henry de Bohun charged him, but he managed to kill de Bohun with one blow of his axe.(20) In Greyfriers Kirk in Dumfries he stabbed Red Comyn to death, and was then excommunicated for killing a man on holy ground.(10) His most important victory was at the 1314 Battle of Bannockburn.(Robert I) or (Robert the Bruce)2. Identify the following museums from clues for 10 points each.(1) It paid 22 million dollars for Fra Bartolommeo's The Rest on the Flight Into Egypt with Saint John the Baptist. The world's best endowed museum, this popular museum located in Malibu, California is housed in a re-creation of the 1st century B.C. Villa dei Paryri at Herculaneum, complete with elaborate gardens.J. Paul Getty Museum(2) Founded in 1937, this excellent collection of modern drawings, prints, paintings, and sculpture, housed in a stunning Frank Lloyd Wright building in New York, emphasizes abstract and nonobjective subjects.The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum(3) Founded in 1879, it includes such famous works as Seurat's Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte and Cassatt's The Bath.The Art Institute of Chicago3. The Big Dipper is useful in finding other stars. FTSNOP name:5 pts.: The two stars at the front of the Big Dipper are known as the pointers because they point to this star.ANSWER: Polaris or the North or Pole Star15 pts.: Give the common (Arabic) name for either of the two pointers. Dubhe or Merak10 pts.: Following the arc of the handle leads to Arcturus, in this constellation.ANSWER: Bootes /BOO tess/4. Identify the composers based on clues FTPE.Part I: This composer of Duke Bluebeard's Castle died of leukemia in 1945.Answer: Béla Bartók Part II: He was a composer and a chemist. His most famous work, "Prince Igor" was completed posthumously by Rimsky-Korsakov and Glazunov.Answer: Alexander BorodinPart III: He was born in Baltimore. His father owned a radio repair shop. He graduated from the University of Chicago at age 19. He wrote the film scores to "A Brief History of Time" and "Koyaanisqatsi."Answer: Philip Glass5. To make our Northern guests happy, FTPE answer the following about hockey.The first goalie to wear a protective mask in a game, he won the Vezina Trophy seven times while playing for the Montreal Canadiens.		Answer: Jacques PlanteHe scored 544 regular-season and 82 playoff goals and starred on eight Stanley Cup championships while playing right wing for the Montreal Canadiens.		Answer: Maurice RichardTwice chosen as the NHL's most valuable player in 1990 and 1992, this one time Edmonton Oiler led the Rangers to the team's first Stanley Cup championship in 54 years.		Answer: Mark Messier
6. Name the author from works on a 30-20-10 basis.(30) Battle-Pieces and Aspects of War and Timoleon(20) Israel Potter, Benito Cereno and John Marr, and Other Sailors(10) Typee and White-JacketHerman Melville7. In Greek mythology, nymphs are spirits of nature. However, they were given different names depending on the terrain in which they lived and presided. So, FFPE, given the terrain, tell me what the nymphs in the area would be called.Part I: Forests Answer: DryadsPart II: Springs and rivers Answer: NaiadsPart III: The Mediterranean Answer: NereidPart IV: The Sea Answer: OceanidsPart V: Mountains Answer: OreadsPart VI: Meadows Answer: Limoniads8. Identify the following explorers, for ten points each:a. The Spaniard who led the first stable settlement in the New World at Darin, Panama, and who in 1513 became the first European to see the Pacific Ocean.ANSWER: Vasco Nunez de Balboab. The Portuguese navigator who in 1500 accidentally discovered Brazil on what was supposed to be the second major expedition around the Cape of Good Hope to India.ANSWER: Pedro Alvares Cabralc. The one-time governor of Guatemala who, in 1542, became the first European to explore the coast of California.                    ANSWER: Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo9. Identify the following Russian authors from works on a 10-5 basis.(10) Mirgorod(5) Dead Souls	Nikolai Gogol(10) My Sister-Life(5) Doctor Zhivago	Boris Pasternak(10) Motley Tales(5) The Duel	Anton Chekhov
10. For ten points each answer the following graph theory questions.a. Every graph is planar if and only if it does not contain either of what two simplest fundamental graphs.Answer: K sub 5, and K sub 3, 3 (the complete graph with five vertices, and the complete bipartite graph with 3 vertices in each set or partition)b. It is a bijective mapping of all the vertices of graph G onto the graph H such that an edge exists between two vertices in H if and only if an edge connected the corresponding vertices of G.  For ten points name this property which is equated with congruency of graphs.Answer: isomorphismc.In this type of graph all edges and internal vertices are distinct, while the first and last vertices are identical.Answer: cycle11. Identify the Shakespearean characters from plays on 10-5 bases.(10) Abraham, Sampson, Gregory(5) Benvolio, Mercutio, Escalus	Answer: Romeo and Juliet(10) Stephano, Balthazar, Jessica(5) Lorenzo, Launcelot, Antonio	Answer: The Merchant of Venice(10) Froth, Elbow, Lucio(5) Vicentio, Angelo, Claudio	Answer: Measure for Measure12. Name the economist from a description FTPE or FFP if you need a work.Part I: He was born in New York City in 1912. He graduated from Rutgers University, and attended the University of Chicago for graduate studies where he met Rose Director, his future wife. Part Ib: A Monetary History of the United States.	Answer: Milton FriedmanPart II: An English banker, he is best known for his argument that wages naturally leaned towards a minimum level corresponding to the basic needs of the workers. Part IIb: Principles of Political Economy and Taxation	Answer: David RicardoPart III: He graduated from the University of Chicago and did graduate studies at Harvard University. He won the David A. Wells prize in 1941. He began teaching at M.I.T. in 1947. He has six children, which includes a set of triplet boys.Part IIIb: Foundations of Economic Analysis	Answer: Paul Samuelson13. FTP each, given a clue, identify the person involved in the Watergate affair. 1. A former CIA member and one of the convicted burglars, this man admitted there was a massive coverup of the burglary. Ans: James McCord 2. Formerly Attorney General, this man led the Committee to Re-Elect the President, or CREEP. Ans: John Mitchell 3. Nixon's chief domestic coordinator, this recently-deceased man directed the plumbers. Ans: John Ehrlichman 14.	I will give the Latin, you give me the English for one of the Seven Deadly Sins, for ten points each.a. Gula					ANSWER: Gluttonyb. Superbia				ANSWER: Pridec. Ira					ANSWER: Anger or Wrath
15. FTP each, given the color produced by a flame test and its atomic weight, identify the element. If you need the atomic number, you will receive 5 points. 1. FTP, Red flame, Atomic mass: 6.941 For 5 pts, atomic number 3 Answer: Lithium 2. FTP, Green flame, Atomic mass: 137.33 For 5 pts, atomic number 56 Answer: Barium 3. FTP, blue flame, Atomic mass: 132.91 For 5 pts, atomic number 55 Answer: Cesium  16.	Identify the following Matthew Arnold poems from lines for the stated number of points.(10) Be neither saint- nor sophist-led, but be a man!(5) The sea is calm tonight. The tide is full, the moon lies fair.(15) Dotting the shoreless watery wild, We mortal millions live alone.Answers:		(10) Empedocles on Etna	(5) Dover Beach	(15) To Marguerite, Continued17. For ten points apiece identify the following historical figures who all have something in common.(10) In 1952 General Neguib's coup in Egypt forced this man's abdication and exile.Farouk I(10) The name adopted by Harry S Truman for his post-World War II liberal and pro-labor domestic policies, specifically a series of 24 bills of which only one actually became law.Fair Deal(10) This man's The Wretched of the Earth became the inspiration for liberation struggles in Third World countries.Frantz Fanon18. Known to the Romans as the Pontus Euxinus, or "friendly sea", to the north, it is bounded by the Kerch Straight. For ten points, the cities of Varna, Yalta, Odessa, and Sevastopol are located on what body of water?ANSWER: Black SeaGive the body of water separated from the Black Sea by the following straits FTPE:Kerch Strait			ANSWER: Sea of AzovBosporus Strait		ANSWER: Sea of Marmara 19. Identify the following concerning muscle fibers.       1. For five points each, give the thin and thick filaments which make up myofibrils.        Ans: actin and myosin       2. FTP, identify the plasma membrane of the muscle cell.       Ans: sarcolemma       3. FTP, give the name of the cytoplasm of the muscle cell.       Ans: sarcoplasm 
20. Given the motto, identify the state FFPE.      Part I: "She flies with her own wings"      ANSWER: Oregon      Part II: "The crossroads of America"      ANSWER: Indiana      Part III: "With God, all things are possible"      ANSWER: Ohio      Part IV: "Qui Transtulit Sustinet" meaning "He Who Transplanted Still Sustains"      ANSWER: Connecticut      Part V: "Excelsior" meaning "Ever Upward"      ANSWER: New York      Part VI: "Dirigo" meaning "I lead"      ANSWER: Maine       