TOSSUPS - FCCJ/RUTGERS B	       MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Chip Thomas, Elliott Almanza, Dave Suss, Sarat Munjuluri, and Brendan Doohan with help from Tulane's Jason Horn1.	One of the scholars at his court was Waerferth, Bishop of Worcester, who translated Pope Gregory the Great's Dialogues into English. His law code, the first in his kingdom for two hundred years, drew upon the lost laws of King Offa of Mercia. But he is better known for his warlike exploits, including the building of sixty-oar longships to ward off the Vikings. The biography written by Asser, a Welsh monk, is our chief source about, FTP, what ninth-century king of Wessex?       Answer: 	Alfred the Great 2.	One hundred years after his liberation, his followers split into the Digambara (Dee-gah-BAH-rah) and the Svetambara (Sfet-tah-BAH-rah) sects.  He achieved enlightenment at the age forty-two and then spread his teachings for thirty years.  He is not the religion's founder, but only one of the twenty-four tirthankaras (tear-TAN-ka-ras), or spiritual teachers. FTP, "the Great One" is what twenty-fouth tirthankara of Jainism?	Answer:	 Mahavira3.	 Two old men are tired of laws, politics, courts, and the antics of their fellow citizens, so they decide to seek a place to live out the rest of their days in peace and tranquility. In their travels, they encounter Hoopoe, a mythical king, who informs them that there is no place in the known world that can evade the far-reaching clutches of the Athenian Empire. However, in their subsequent conversation, Hoopoe inspires in Makedo a brilliant idea - to found a city in the sky and live among, FTP, which creatures, also the title of this play by Aristophanes?	Answer:	 The Birds4.	This eukaryotic division has no flagellated stages in the life cycle.  Nucleic acid sequencing has revealed that the flagella were lost during the recent evolution of this type of algae .  They contain an accessory pigment called phycobilin; however, not all are the characteristic color.  They are most abundant in the warm coastal waters of tropical oceans, and are generally multicellular.  FTP, name this type of algae, whose scientific name is Rhodophyta.	Answer:  	red algae (accept: Rhodophyta before it is mentioned)5.	Music was highly influential in his paintings: some of them have titles like Improvisations, Impressions, and Compositions.  He was a pioneer of abstraction, and once said "I applied streaks and blobs of colors onto the canvas with a palette knife, and I made them sing with all the intensity I could."  He formed the Blue Rider (Der Blaue Reiter) group, named for his fondness for blue and partner Franz Marc's love of horses.  FTP, name this Russian painter, influenced by the impressionists, a founder of Abstract Expressionism.	Answer:	Wassily Kandinsky6.	The public was baffled by his appearance as a gangster in a B movie called A Dry Fellow, and his biographer Henry Scott-Stokes noted the air of vulgarity about a volume of photographs, Torture by Roses for which this man posed. His first novel, The Forest in Bloom, was hailed as a richly evocative masterpiece, but by the 1969 publication of a huge tetralogy about reincarnation, The Sea of Fertility, he had fallen from grace with critics. FTP, name the author of Confessions of a Mask, who committed seppuku in 1970. 	Answer:	Yukio  Mishima 7.	Adrien Scott died a broken man at 61, Lester Cole and Herbert Biberman never recovered, and Edward Dmytryk turned snitch. "Friendly" witnesses like Gary Cooper and Ronald Reagan were able to evade the blacklists, but this group of "unfriendly" ones like Dalton Trumbo is now legendary.  FTP, give the name (and number) of the radical and perhaps red residents of Hollywood called to testify in 1947. 	Answer:	The Hollywood Ten (accept House Committee on Un-American Activities or HUAC before "this group")
8.	Light passes through a rotating, water-driven wheel, reflects off of a distant mirror, and returns through the spinning wheel. When the rate of the running water (and thus the spinning of the wheel) is synchronized so that returning pulses are eclipsed, then "c" can be calculated. FTP, what 1851 "method", an attempt to measure the speed of light, was one of the first truly relativistic experiments? 	Answer:	Fizeau  method (or experiment, etc.) 9.	His 1904 work Adolescence was the first serious study of the American teenager. This American academic claimed that the individual passes through the same developmental stages as the species does, and in 1909, he introduced psychoanalysis into the United States by inviting Freud and Jung to speak at Clark University. FTP, name this pioneer who was the first president of the American Psychological Association, founded the American Journal of Psychology, and set up the first formal psychology laboratory in the United States at Johns Hopkins. 	Answer:	Granville Stanley  Hall  10.	Judit Masco, Paulina Porizkova, Vendela, Daniela Pestova, Christie Brinkley, Tyra Banks, Heidi Klum, and Elle MacPherson, Kathy Ireland, and Rachel Hunter all at the same time.  FTP, these people appeared on the cover of what special edition of a well-known magazine?	Answer:	Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue (or equivalent)11.	This author of the play Katzelmacher and subject of the biography Love is Colder than Death put his mother in a number of his films, using her maiden name Pempeit. His commercial breakthrough was 1971's The Merchant of Four Seasons, and 1974's Ali-Fear Eats the Soul won the International Critics Prize at Cannes.  FTP, who before succumbing to pills and liquor directed 41 movies in 14 years, most notably Berlin Alexanderplatz and The Marriage of Maria Braun? 	Answer:	Rainer Werner Fassbinder 12.	In math, this term literally means coming to a point with time. As a model of communication, this concept postulates that as people interact with each other they tend to form a homogeneous distribution. In biology, similarities cannot always be used to argue descent because of parallel pressures exerted by similar environments.  FTP, give the term that describes the tendency for quite different groups to develop parallel structures.	Answer:	convergence 13.	During World War Two, Lord Cherwell opposed Marshall's plan for an invasion of Europe, claiming he was arguing against the casualties of this battle. Despite the first use of tanks at Flers on September 15, it came to a halt in mud and rain two months later. FTP, name this first major battle of Kitchener's "new armies," that saw nearly sixty thousand British casualties on the single day of July 1st, 1916.	Answer:	 First Battle of the Somme14.	This book's principal subject, aged twelve, had been brought up with her sister in one of the capital's most celebrated abbeys where, they "had been denied no counsels, no masters, no books, and no polite talents". She is endowed with a delicate sensibility, virginal air and supple, resilient body, but is struck by lightning at the end of the novel while her venal, debauched sister Juliette has lived a long and happy life. FTP, what novel with a full title that positions it as the antithesis of Samuel Richardson's Pamela; or Virtue Rewarded, was a bestseller for the Marquis de Sade?	Answer:	Justine or  Good Conduct Well Chastised  (accept anything close to the latter) 15.	On Halloween 1983, they supported the Cramps at a show in New York under the pseudonym It Crawled From the South. However, they had already established themselves under their current name, having released their first album in April 1983. In June of 1988, the band signed to Warner Brothers, with whom they released their next seven albums. Among them, 1991's Out of Time reached number one on the US charts two months after its release in March of that year. Just as recording for their eleventh album, Up, was beginning, drummer Bill Berry quit the band, leaving his bandmates to continue as a trio. For ten points, name this band, who released their twelfth album, Reveal, in May of 2001.	Answer:	 R.E.M.
16.	A tenth-century Saxon nun named Hrotsvitha described it as "the ornament of the world," an apt term for a city that boasted Europe's first streetlights and a library of four hundred thousand volumes. A complex of marble, stucco, ivory, and onyx, the caliphal residence Madinat al-Zahra took forty years to build, cost close to one-third of the city's revenue, and was, until destroyed in the eleventh century, one of the wonders of the age.  FTP, name this Andalusian city, the center of Islam in Europe during the rule of the Abbasids.	Answer:	 Cordoba17.	His books include Geometrical Investigations on the Theory of Parallels and 1855's Pangeometry, and in 1834, he found a method for the approximation of the roots of algebraic equations that is suitable for methods using today's computers. This man's geometry--which corresponds to that of Bolyai--is sometimes called hyperbolic, as its figures correspond to figures made on a saddle-shaped surface. FTP, name this Russian who, in 1829, by examining what is possible if the fifth axiom in Euclid's Elements is neglected, produced the first non-Euclidean geometry. 	Answer:	Nikolai  Lobachevski 18.	This man came to power after his nation was defeated by Illyria. His primary method of creating alliances was through marriage, and his most important union was to Olympias, whom he wed in 357 BCE. His greatest victory came at the Battle of Chaeronea in 338, where he defeated both Athens and Thebes, leaving Sparta as the only Greek city-state not under his control. FTP, name this king of Macedonia, father of Alexander the Great.	Answer:	 Philip II 19.	This expatriate became friends with Sartre, de Beauvoir, and Franz Fanon, and deep thoughts abound in his French novels like The Long Dream and The Outsider. "Cesspool", a Joycean treatment of a Chicago postal worker's existence, appeared posthumously as "Lawd Today!" and a mischievous boy sets fire to his house and embraces atheism in his fictionalized memoir, "American Hunger. FTP, name this son of Natchez, Mississippi, the first best-selling Black novelist, who also wrote Uncle Tom's Children and Native Son. 	Answer:	Richard Wright20.	Aleister Crowley wrote that this substance offers man " the semblance of divinity, only that he may know himself a worm" in an essay sharing its title. An alternate chemical name for it is benzoylmethyl-ecgonine, its chemical formula is C17 H21 NO4.  South American natives add an alkali-like powdered lime or ashes to a wad of dried leaves of it, then work this ball in their mouths for energy. Just Remember the Fact that you can't get back, and FTP identify this high status white powder. 	Answer:	cocaine21. 	A skilled viola player, he joined the band that became the nucleus of the New Provisional Theater Orchestra, and won the Austrian state stipendium three times-in 1874, 1876, and 1877.  He later immigrated to the United States, where he wrote his most famous works.  FTP, name this Czech composer of The Spectre's Bride, Saint Ludmilla, and his famous ninth symphony, called the New World Symphony.	Answer:	Antonin Dvorak22.	In the West Indies he met Dominic Cervoni, a man who was later the model for his adventurous characters. Years passed, he rose in rank, and finally commanded his own ship, the Otago. His destinations included Australia, India, Borneo, South America, and the South Pacific Islands. However, the most influential locales on his writing were the East Indies and Central Africa. At age 34, he retired from sea life and settled down to write, drawing on his experiences in his travels. FTP, name this Polish-born author, whose works include The Secret Sharer and Lord Jim.	Answer:	 Joseph Conrad  (or: J—zef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski)23.	This Indian tribe possesses six specialized esoteric cults with restricted memberships, and during its Shalako Festival, dancers from each wear giant masks that represent rain deities. When discovered by Spanish explorers during the 16th century, they inhabited drab mud huts that were confused with the Seven Golden Cities of Cibola. FTP, identify this group that attempted unsuccessful rebellions against the Spanish in 1632 and 1680, and was subsequently consolidated within a present pueblo in western New Mexico. 	Answer:	Zuni  ( prompt on  Pueblo  ) 
24.	A number of unearthed earthenware vases partially validate of the Book of Daniel and show that this son of Nabonidus existed. The last of the kings of Babylon, his name was a request for protection from the deity Bel. FTP, the kingdom of the Chaldeans came to an end after what monarch drank out of vessels sacred to the Hebrews, then perceived in the midst of his mad revelry the literal "writing on the wall?"	Answer:	Belshazzar  25.	A doomed fishing town's population is obscenely corrupted by intermingling with a race of undersea creaturesin one of his stories, 'The Shadow over Innsmouth'. This writer constantly evoked the topography, history and society of New England in stories like "Arthur Jermyn", "The Color Out of Space", and "Herbert West, Re-Animator". FTP, the works of what misanthropic son of Providence, Rhode Island utilized a pseudo-mythical framework involving an Elder Race that once dominated the Earth...the Cthulhu? 	Answer:	Howard Phillips Lovecraft26.	Diodorus calls them 'philosophers', Strabo calls them bards and soothsayers, and their name is thought to derive from Greek and Indo-European words which translate into the absurd 'oak-knower'. Tacitus mentions them "uttering dire curses and stretching their hands towards heaven" terrifying Roman soldiers, and Julius Caesar portrays them as overseeing bloody religious rituals. FTP, although dozens of books have been written about them, almost nothing is known about what caste of "wise men" of the Celts? 	Answer:	druids 27.	He is told by Sir Topas that he is an ignorant lunatic who shall remain in darkness, and he vows at the end of events that he will be revenged. He throws a ring intended for Cesario to the ground, and fooled by a forged letter, he dons yellow stockings and crossgarters which repulse Olivia . FTP, name this loser from Shakespeare's play Twelfth Night, a vain, pompous, and self-important Steward whose very name suggests "bad will." 	Answer:	Malvolio 
BONI - FCCJ/RUTGERS B	       MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Chip Thomas, Elliott Almanza, Dave Suss, Sarat Munjuluri, and Brendan Doohan with help from Tulane's Jason Horn1.	FTPE answer the following about a literary work:(10) The cynical Tom Wingfield gets some memorable lines in this play which made Tennessee Williams famous.	Answer:	The  Glass Menagerie (10) Jim, the "gentleman caller," uses this as a nickname for the frail Laura as they have their one solo conversation in the Wingfields' dingy St. Louis apartment.  It came from her anecdote about misunderstanding the name of a disease. 	Answer:	"Blue Roses"(10) Jim's whirling Laura around causes this animal, the most special piece in her glass menagerie, to fall and shatter.	Answer:	her unicorn2.	Name the following compounds, FTPE.a. HC2H302	Answer:	acetic acidb. NaN3	Answer:	sodium azidec. C8H10N4O2	Answer:	caffeine3.	Answer the following questions about American attempts to help the Allies prior to Pearl Harbor FTPE:1. President Roosevelt's September 1940 deal with Churchill offered the British fifty of these ships in exchange for certain British bases in the Western hemisphere.		Answer:	 destroyers2. In March 1941, this act went into effect. It would supply the Allies with almost fifty billion dollars in military aid.		Answer:	 the Lend-Lease Act3. This Roosevelt confidant became the first administrator of the Lend-Lease program.		Answer:	 Harry Lloyd Hopkins4.	Name these awful things brought to you by British TV FTPE.a. Born Sacha Baron Cohen, this guy has created an exaggerated urban personality, complete with its own language, and the Brits just eat it up.  On this side of the pond, maybe you saw him as host of the 2001 MTV Europe Awards. Boyaka!	Answer:	Ali Gb. Jerry Falwell made this kids show a lot more famous than it should have been. It features four unintelligible creatures and an infant's face as the sun.	Answer:	Teletubbiesc. Edina Monsoon and her best friend Patsy drive Eddie's sensible daughter Patsy off the wall with their constant drug abuse and outrageous selfishness in this show created by Jennifer Saunders and Dawn French.       	Answer:	Absolutely Fabulous (also accept Ab Fab)5.	Since your packet's special guest authors are from Tulane, here's an obligatory Mardi Gras bonus. FTPE:a. These organizations put on the parades each year and many also throw formal balls following their parades.	Answer:	Krewesb. The Krewe of Orpheus was founded in 1993 by this musician, actor, and native New Orleanian.	Answer:	Harry Connick, Jr.c. This is a delicious multi-color confection with a plastic baby inside, served during the Carnival season.	Answer:	king cake       6.	Name the Shakespeare play from characters FTPE.a. Balthasar, Dromeo, Dromeo, Antipholus, Antipholus (No, this is not a typo.)	Answer:	A Comedy of Errorsb. Leontes, Polixenes, Hermione, Mamillius	Answer:	The Winter's Talec. Don Pedro, Benedick, Beatrice, Don John	Answer:	Much Ado About Nothing
7.	Identify these countries, given their neighbors, for 10 points each.1. Georgia, Armenia, Iran, and Russia.       	Answer:	 Azerbaijan2.  Saudi Arabia, Oman, and Qatar.       	Answer:	 United Arab Emirates3. Suriname, Venezuela and Brazil.       	Answer:	 Guyana8.	Answer these questions about DNA replication for 10 points each.1.  When a double stranded DNA molecule unwinds to expose the two single-stranded template strands for DNA replication, this Y-shaped structure is formed.         Answer:	 replication fork2. DNA replication normally involves the synthesis of these short DNA segments that are subsequently linked together by the action of DNA polymerase.       Answer:	 Okazaki fragments3.  As the helicases untwist the double helix, the resulting single stranded DNA could potentially reform a double-helical molecule or fold on itself, impeding the path of DNA polymerase.  This action is prevented through the binding of what molecules?Answer:       single-stranded DNA binding proteins or SSB proteins (also accept: helix-destabilizing proteins) 9.	Answer these questions concerning the civil war in Angola for 10 points each.1. This rebel group recently agreed to a cease-fire with the Angolan government.       	Answer:	 Unita (in full: National Union for the Total Independence of Angola)2. A month before the cease-fire, government commandos killed this founder of Unita.       	Answer:	 Jonas Savimbi3. Before 1975, Angola was a colony of this European country.       	Answer:	 Portugal10.	Name these types of games from game theory FTPE.a. You and another person are both arrested for the same crime. If you turn him in, and he doesn't turn you in, you go free. If you don't turn him in, and he turns you in, you go to jail for a long time. If neither of you says anything, you both get a short sentence.	Answer:	Prisoner's Dilemmab. When played properly, this game results in a tie. Tic-tac-toe is a type of these.	Answer:	Futile gamec. In this type of game, the combined winnings of all players must equal the combined losses of all players.	Answer:	Zero-sum game 11. Name these late 20th century American authors FTPE.a. A native of New Hampshire, most of his books, including The Hotel New Hampshire and The Cider House Rules, take place in his home state.	Answer:	John Irvingb. This very funny playwright has written many one acts, including "Words, Words, Words," "Sure Thing," and "Mini-Golf and the Art of the Fugue"	Answer:	David Ivesc. Her large family moved many times between Mexico and Chicago during her childhood. This combination of heritages shows in her works, most notably The House on Mango Street.	Answer:	Sandra Cisneros12.	For 10 points each, given the major orchestral works, name the composer.1. Capriccio on Gypsy Themes, Symphonic Dances, Symphony No. 1 in D Minor       	Answer:	 Sergei Vasilievich Rachmaninoff2. Imperial March, Symphony No. 1 in A Flat, Falstaff       	Answer:	 Sir Edward Elgar3. Finlandia, Seventh Symphony Op. 105, Tapiola       	Answer:	 Jean Sibelius
13.	Name these people involved in the Saratoga campaign, for the stated number of points.1. (5, 5) The commanding generals on each side.	Answers: John Burgoyne (British) and Horatio Gates (American)2. (10) Banished from the front by Gates, this man returned to lead his troops in storming a British redoubt, where he was severely wounded. It was to be his last battle in American service.       	Answer:	 Benedict Arnold3. (10) This British brigadier, one of the few aggressive generals in Burgoyne's army, was mortally wounded at Freeman's farm on September 19th.       	Answer:	 Simon Fraser14,	Answer these laser-related questions FTPE.a. When pumped with a weak microwave beam, this device produces a cascade of transitions in ammonia molecules, reinforcing the beam. The first one was built by Charles Townes in 1954. Name this precursor to the laser.	Answer:	MASER (also accept microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation)b. This man invented the first optical laser, a small ruby one, in 1960.	Answer:	Theodore Maimanc.  The excimer laser is used for this procedure, first approved in 1991, used to correct myopia up to -6.00 diopters and astigmatism up to -4.00 diopters.	Answer:	Lasik surgery (or laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis; also accept PRK or photorefractive keratotomy, but not RK or radial keratotomy)15.	Answer the following questions about the early history of baseball FTPE. (A) This arrogant second baseman failed to win the first National League MVP despite a .424 batting average, since his Cardinals won but 65 games. 	Answer:	Rogers Hornsby (B) In 1884, this "old horse" of a pitcher worked an unreal 678 innings en route to a 59-12 record. 	Answer:	Old Hoss Radbourn (C) Nicknamed "the Old Roman," this first baseman was the first to play away from the bag.  You'd think a former player would be more generous, but his outrageously cheapskate ways as White Sox owner prompted the Black Sox scandal. 	Answer:	Charles Comiskey16.	Answer these New Testament questions FTSNOP.a. (10 pts.) This was the location of the garden was where Jesus spent the night before he was captured.	Answer:	Gethsemaneb. FFPE, Name the four horsemen of the apocalypse from the Book of Revelation.	Answer:	death, famine, pestilence, war (for pestilence, accept disease or  pollution)17.	Name these stars FTPE.a. With a spectral type G2V, it is actually the closest star to earth. What is the official astronomical name for our sun?	Answer:	Solb. Named after its discoverer, this red dwarf is the second closest star to our solar system at 5.97 light years away. 	Answer:	Barnard starc. This orange giant's name means "bear-guard" or "bear-keeper." The fourth brightest star in the sky, it is located 37 light years away in the constellation Bootes (The Herdsman).	Answer:	Arcturus18.	Answer these questions about Coleridge's favorite khan, Kublai, for the stated number of points.1. (5) Name Kublai's grandfather, who was born with the name Temujin.       	Answer:	 Genghis Khan2. (10) Name the dynasty founded by Kublai in China       	Answer:	 Yuan3. (15) Give the name of Kublai's capital, now called Beijing.       	Answer:	 Cambaluc (or: Ta-tu)
19.	Identify these classic conceptions of pop psychology FTP each. (A) They are 'agitators without a slogan, revolutionaries without a program, and psychopaths who cannot delay gratifications according to Robert M. Lindner. 	Answer:	Rebel without a Cause  (B) Colin Wilson and A.E. Van Vogt concocted these dominant individuals whose fragile self-esteem rests upon absolute control of their domestic sphere. 	Answer:	right man (or woman) (C) They are childlike in their adoration of the present, hope to be 'with it', and crave closeness with a mutilated God trapped within their bodies, according to Norman Mailer. 	Answer:	White Negro  20.	Identify the writer from clues for 30-20-10 30-This writer's successful novels Delphine and Corinne depicted lonely, gifted women caught in a clash of cultures, but "De la litterature consideree dans ses rapports avec les institutions socials" established her literary reputation. 20-The subject of the biography Mistress to an Age, she established a salon at Coppet on Lake Geneva after being banned from Paris by Napoleon. 10-This daughter of the politician Jacques Necker was a Swiss-French writer famous for her literary production and flamboyant life. 	Answer:	Madame de Stael  (accept Anne Louise Germaine Necker, or equivalents) 21.	Name the New York City museum from works from its permanent collection FTPE.a. Vincent Van Gogh's Starry Night, Henri Rousseau's The Dream and Pablo Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon	Answer:	Museum of Modern Art (also accept MOMA)b. Tutankhamen's sarcophagus, El Greco's View of Toledo, and Edgar Degas's The Dance Class	Answer:	Metropolitan Museum of Art (also accept The Met)c. Wassily Kandinsky's Improvisation 28, Georges Seurat's Farm Women at Work, and Roy Lichtenstein's Grrrrrrrrrr!!	Answer:	Guggenheim Museum       22.	Supply the legal terms from brief descriptions FTP each. (A) This written document states a person's wishes regarding life-support or other medical treatment in certain circumstances. 	Answer:	 living will  (accept medical directive or advance directive; prompt on directive ) (B) This term refers to a party that's allowed to provide information to a court even though the party isn't directly involved in the case at hand. 	Answer:	Amicus Curiae  (C) This term refers to the order that a court issues so that it can review the proceedings in a lower court for irregularities. 	Answer:	certiorari 23.	Answer these questions about arthropods, for the stated number of points.1. (5,5) All arthropods have three characteristics in common. For five points each, name any two.       Answers: an exoskeleton, a segmented body, and jointed (or: paired) appendages2. (5) Arthropod body regions consist of a head, thorax, and abdomen. Often, though, the head is fused to the thorax to form this structure.  Name it for 5 points.       	Answer:	 cephalothorax3. (15) Spiders have these appendages on the cephalothorax. Each contains a basal segment and a fang. The basal segments contain the venom glands and include cuticular teeth which are used to digest prey.        	Answer:	  chelicerae24.	Given several short stories that appear in a collection by F. Scott Fitzgerald, name the collection FTPE:1. "Bernice Bobs Her Hair", "The Ice Palace", "Benediction", "The Off-Shore Pirate"       	Answer:	 Flappers and Philosophers2. "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz", "The Jelly Bean", "May Day"       	Answer:	 Tales of the Jazz Age3. "The Rich Boy", "Absolution"       	Answer:	 All the Sad Young Men