TOSSUPS - ILLINOIS A			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by J.P. Lien, Nick Rothfuss, Adam Malamen, and Adam Newman1.	Three of the objects it contains don't really exist, as they were mistakes made by their observer.  It was begun when its creator was a clerk at the Naval Observatory, and designed to an aid in the search for comets by listing objects that might potentially be confused with them.  The first is the Crab Nebula, while the 31st is Andromeda.  FTP, what is this catalogue of stellar objects, each designated with an M number after the its French creator.	Answer:	 Messier catalog, or Messier objects2.	Kenneth Trachtenberg, Uncle Benn Crader, Tommy Wilhelm, Asa Leventhal, Joseph, Dean Albert Corde, Charlie Citrine, Abe Ravelstein, Eugene Henderson, Arthur Sammler, Von Humboldt Fleischer, Moses Herzog, and Augie March.  FTP, all of these characters were created by what author of "Mr. Sammler's Planet", "Herzog", and "Humboldt's Gift"?	Answer:	 Saul Bellow 3.	He first earned his populist reputation in 1980 by refusing to enforce foreclosure orders on the homes of laid-off steelworkers.  He was in trouble with the law as early as 1983, when he successfully defended himself on bribery charges by claiming that, as Mahoning County Sheriff, he had taken money from mobsters as part of a secret sting operation involving only himself.  He's been in trouble more recently for taking kickbacks from "legitimate" businessmen, as well as forcing his staff to do manual labor on his farm.  FTP, Identify this Youngstown-area Congressman, recently convicted on ten charges of racketeering and bribery.	Answer:	 James Traficant4.	Their latest video was directed by Wim Wenders [VIM VENDERS], who plans to use their music as the soundtrack to a forthcoming short film. Guests on their albums have included Grant Lee Phillips, Peter Buck, and John Parish. Lead singer Mark Oliver Everett goes by the stage name E in, FTP, this band, which last month released their fourth album, Souljacker, and who are best known for their 1996 hit, "Novocaine For The Soul".	Answer:	 Eels5.	He was initiated at an early age in the Carmine monastery, and his failure as a monk was as spectacular as his success as an artist.  A woman named Lucrezia Buti, who may have been a nun, bore him a son not long after posing for him as the Madonna.  His fresco cycles can be seen in the cathedrals of Prato and Spoleto, and his "Novitiate Altarpiece" and "Coronation of the Virgin" hang in the room devoted to him in the Uffizzi.  For ten points, name this Florentine monk and painter, a teacher of Botticelli.	Answer:	 Fra Lippo Lippi or Fra Fillipo Lippi  	(prompt on just "Lippi", as full name is needed to distinguish from his son Fillipino Lippi, also a famous Florentine artist)6.	Start with some ammonia.  Oxidize it in air over a platinum-rhodium gauze to form nitrogen monoxide.  Cool, then pass with air through a water absorption column.  The end product is useful in creating guncotton, gunpowder, and TNT.  FTP, this process for creating Nitric Acid bears the name of what German chemist, who won the Nobel Prize in 1909 for his research on catalysts.	Answer:	  Ostwald Process7.	The main character of this novel, after being rejected by the woman he loves, dies from Typhus he contracts during an unsanitary autopsy.  The woman who spurned him was Anna Odintsov, whom he met at a dance.  His friend Arkady marries her sister Katya, while Arkady's genteel uncle Pavel Kirsanov challenges his friend to a duel due to his rude manners.  FTP, what is this novel about the nihilist Bazarov, the best known of Ivan Turgenev.	Answer:	  Fathers and Sons or Ottsi y Deti8.	Thermal noise in a communications system.  A polar plot of system response vs. frequency.  An equation relating the number of poles in the right half-plane in open and closed loop systems to the number of encirclements of the point (-1,0) in that same plot.   FTP, what Bell Labs engineer developed all of these, but is most famous for a theorem he developed with Claude Shannon, which says that to avoid aliasing, a signal band-limited to some frequency B must be sampled with a period greater than 1/2B (One over two B).	Answer:	 Harry Nyquist
9.	The first purchase of land from the Indians by the United States government in this state was negotiated by Zebulon Pike. The land would become the site of Fort Snelling, guarding a critical river junction near the future state capital. Before Statehood, there was a move to have the state extend east-west as opposed to the current north-south. Such a move would have left valuable iron ore mines and the many lakes in the northern part outside of the state's borders.  FTP name this state, which entered the Union in 1858 and was the first to offer troops to put down the Southern rebellion.	Answer:	 Minnesota (Note: Gov. Alexander Ramsey was in Washington at the time Fort Sumter was fired on.)10.	This prophetic book of the Old Testament written most likely after the fall of Judah speaks of the destruction that will befall Judah's neighbor, the kingdom of Edom (EE-dum), for not coming to Judah's aid when Babylon attacked. One of the minor prophets, it falls between the books of Amos and Jonah. FTP, name this book, which, at merely 21 verses in a single chapter, is the shortest book in the Old Testament.	Answer:	Obadiah11.	About 85 percent of children with this disorder have IQs of 70 or below, probably due to the small brain that is one of its characteristics.  Occurring at a frequency of 0.5 to 3 live births per 1,000 in Western countries, other problems include growth deficiencies, joint, limb, and heart malformations, and small eye openings.  FTP, name this syndrome which occurs in the 40 percent of all children of women who drink heavily during pregnancy.	Answer:	Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS)12.	In the Eastern Enclosure, excavators found six bird figures carved out of soapstone. They are believed to represent messengers to the spirits of the ancestral kings, who would summon rain and defend the nation from its enemies. Their powers must have waned in the early sixteenth century, when its buildings were abandoned and its subjects taken over by the Monomotapa empire. FTP, name this site whose name, a Shona word for "houses of stone," was applied to the country known under the racist rule of Ian Smith as Rhodesia.        Answer: 	Great Zimbabwe 13.	One of the definitive nationalist works, it is a tone poem in six parts, written between 1874 and 1879 after its composer had gone completely deaf.  Its sections are named for: an Amazon leader, a Hussite stronghold, a mountain, a castle, and a river.  The mountain is called Blanik, the river Vltava, and the castle is in Prague.  FTP, what is this work of Smetana, most famous for its second section, known as "The Moldau"?	Answer:	 Ma Vlast or My Fatherland or My Country or equivalent translations14.	2 ANSWERS REQUIRED: Members of Thebes' royal family, they fight on the side of Creon against Theseus' Athenians, and are captured by the enemy.  In Athens, both men fall in love with Emilia, the sister of Theseus' queen Hippolyta.  A great tournament is organized in which they will fight for her hand.  The winner of the battle is mortally wounded, however, and yields Emily's hand to the other.  FTP, identify these men who are the subject of Boccacio's "Teseida", Fletcher's "Two Noble Kinsmen", a Dryden work named form them, and Chaucer's "Knight's Tale".	Answer:	 Palomon and Arcite  (ACCEPT: similar answers)15.	The soccer team named for it has won its league title 16 times since 1932, and is the archrival of Boca Juniors.  From its surface you can still barely see the rusting hulk of the German pocket-battleship Graf Spee, scuttled there in 1939.  It is formed by the confluence of the Pelotas, Uruguay, and Parana rivers.  FTP, name this South American river on the banks of which lie the capitals of two countries, Uruguay and Argentina.	Answer:	 Rio De La Plata or River Plate16.	This disorder is caused by the body's inability to synthesize hydroxyproline (hy-DROX-ee-PRO-lean).  It is characterized by subdermal bleeding, and stiffness of the joints, which occur because the body cannot repair its own tissues.  No new collagen is being produced because of a lack of its essential precursor, ascorbic acid. FTP, sufferers of what disease also exhibit swollen, bleeding gums, caused by the absence of Vitamin C?	Answer:	 	Scurvy17.	The 1997 American Association MVP and Rookie of the Year with the Nashville Sounds, he made his major league debut on August 29th of that year. In 2001, he became the first player in American League history to hit .300 with 40 doubles, 30 home runs, 100 RBIs and 25 stolen bases. FTP, name this Venezuelan, a three-time all-star right fielder for the Chicago White Sox.	Answer:	 Magglio Ordonez
18.	Americans may be familiar with the phrase "chicken in every pot" from the 1928 presidential campaign of Herbert Hoover, but the phrase actually originated much earlier. The speaker was referring to the dish known as "pot au feu", and was campaigning for the monarchy in his own way, given that he was a Protestant in a predominantly Catholic country. Unfortunately, promising a chicken wasn't good enough for the citizens of Paris, giving rise to his other famous expression, "Paris is worth a mass". FTP name the French monarch who uttered these sayings, converted from Protestantism to Catholicism, and thus helped unite France after the Wars of Religion.	Answer:	 Henry IV  or Henry of Navarre (prompt on Henry)19.	Eliot's The Waste Land begins with a passage from the Satyricon in which one of them declares her wish to finally die.  Five of them are depicted on the Sistine Chapel ceiling, interspersed with biblical prophets.  The books named for them were peddled to Tarquinus Superbus, and kept hidden under the altar of Jupiter on the Capitoline for use in times of emergency.  FTP, who are these seers of classical mythology, who come in Persian, Erythraen, Libyan, and Cumaen varieties?	Answer:	 Sibyl(s)20.	Her husband is writing a thesis on the "Domestic Industries of Brabant," which she finds interesting only in that it may land his a job as a university professor.  She destroys Lovborg, her husband's academic rival, by hiding the manuscript of his second book.  After encouraging him to commit suicide with her pistol, she is blackmailed by Judge Brack.  FTP, identify this Henrik Ibsen title character, who "dies beautifully" when she shoots herself in the head.	Answer:	 Hedda Gabler21.	After a 1959 show in El Paso, Texas, he approached a young Native American girl and allegedly asked her to work as a coat check girl in his Missouri night club.  Within two weeks she was arrested for prostitution, leading to his indictment for violating the Mann Act, forbidding the transportation of women across state lines for immoral purposes.  Although both "Promised Land", and "Nadine" were hits after his release, he never returned to his former success.  FTP, what real king of Rock and Roll is known for his on-stage Duck Walk, as well as the hits "Memphis, Tennesee" and "Maybelline"?	Answer:	 Chuck Berry22.	The story is told to, and in parts by, Shreve McCannon.  Confederate colonel Thomas moved from West Virginia to leave behind his sordid past and start a new life as a Mississippi gentleman.  His past comes back to haunt him though, when his abandoned and unacknowledged son Charles Bon becomes engaged to his daughter Judith.  Thomas' legitimate son Henry Sutpen kills Charles, and Thomas himself is killed by Wash Jones.  FTP, this describes the action of what Faulker novel which takes its name from a son of David killed while hanging in a tree?	Answer:	 Absalom, Absalom23.	In the Strauss Opera about her, the story of her rescue by Dionysus is used.  In other versions, she dies in childbirth, or is killed by Artemis.  Abandoned by her lover, without explanation, on the island of Naxos, perhaps even less explicable is the fact that her own sister later goes on to marry the man who abandoned her.  FTP, who is this daughter of Minos and Pacifae (PASS-ih-fay), whom Theseus ditched on his journey back to Athens, the girl who had provided him the means to survive the labyrinth.	Answer:	 Ariadne24.	The existence of this ancient people was doubted until the discovery by German archeologists in the mid-nineteenth century of ruins near the Turkish village of Bogazkoy (boh-AS-koy). Before then, the only signs of this once-mighty civilization were scattered references in the Bible and temple paintings in Egypt telling of a great battle during the reign of Ramses II with a northern kingdom.  FTP, name this ancient people, who included the biblical Uriah, and who fought at the battle of Kadesh.	Answer:	 the Hittites25.	Much like France's Carolingians, the regents of the Fujiwara family were the real power behind the throne for much of this period, which began with the relocation of the capital to modern Kyoto.  The central government became increasingly irrelevant as private estates grew, and eventually fell as warlords seized power in the provinces.  Rather than efficient administration, its hallmark was its courtly life.  FTP what Japanese historical period is chronicled in the Pillow Book and Lady Murasaki's Tale of Genji?	Answer:	 	Heian period
BONI - ILLINOIS A				MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by J.P. Lien, Nick Rothfuss, Adam Malamen, and Adam Newman1.	It's time for an American Civil War bonus. Only this time, no battles or generals, but songs.  Identify the song from the given lyrics or clues, FTPE.  1. (10) Written by Henry Clay Work, it opens "Bring the good ol' Bugle, boys! We'll sing another song."  It still evokes enough anger in the South that Jimmy Carter asked that it no longer be played at events when he was introduced.	Answer:	 Marching Through Georgia2.(10) A humorous Southern song from late in the war, the title object, a euphemism for peanuts, is eaten by the soldiers in many places from campsites to just before a battle, when according to the third verse, the entire Georgia militia is eating them and makes enough sound to simulate distant gunfire.	Answer:	 Goober Peas3.(10) A grim Irish ballad about a soldier so badly wounded he's unrecognizable was adapted into a popular Northern song telling of the reaction of a town to the return of its soldiers at the end of the war. A phrase that might limit its use in future wars is, "And they'll all feel gay."	Answer:	 When Johnny Comes Marching Home2.	Identify the Magical Realists, FTPE1. (10)  A candidate for the Peruvian presidency in 1990, this author's works include "Conversations in the Cathedral", which is set in a bar, and "Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter"	Answer:	 Mario Vargas Llosa2. (10) This man won the Nobel Prize in 1990, and the Cervantes prize in 1982.  His works include "The Other Mexico", and "Labyrinths of Solitude".	Answer:	 Octavio Paz3. (10) This Argentinian fled to Paris to escape Juan Peron.  He is remembered for his short stores like "Blow-Up" and "The End of the Game", as well as novels like "Hopscotch".	Answer:	 Julio Cortazar3.	Identify the following from optics, FTPE1. (10)  For a beam of light passing through a translucent surface, this law relates the sines of the angles of incidence and refraction, to the indices of refraction of the two materials.	Answer:	 Snell's Law2. (10) This is the term for the reflection made of an object made by the surface of a smooth object.	Answer:	 Specular Reflection3. (10) This phenomenon occurs when the angle of incidence is greater than the critical angle, which is defined by the ratio of the two indices of refraction.  It prevents any refracted image from forming.	Answer:	 Total Internal Reflection4.	Identify the following things from past Israeli-Palestinian conflicts, FTP.1.(10) In 1982 Israeli launched a controversial invasion of Lebanon at the urging of this man, Begin's Defense Minister. 	Answer:	 Ariel Sharon2.(10) The objective of the Israeli invasion was to destroy the PLO headquartered in this city.	Answer:	 Beirut3.(10) Israel was unable to capture most of the PLO leadership, including Yasser Arafat. Instead, they received free passage to this North African city, where the PLO was headquartered until Arafat's return to the West Bank in the 1990's.	Answer:	 Tunis5.	When shows get axed, the networks gotta show something.  Identify the midseason replacements FTPE.1.(10) Originally on New York City public access TV, it got called up to the bigs, premiering on Fox in late March.  It features Seth Green, Eugene Levy, and Dan Milano as the voice of the title character, star of the fictitious kiddie show Sweetknuckle Junction.	Answer:	 Greg the Bunny2.(10) I haven't seen it, but I've heard this show featuring Arija Bareikis described as "Ally McBeal in London". That's enough to make me never watch it, ever.	Answer:	 The American Embassy3.(10) The big gimmick of this show is that its title is also the time it's on. Yeah, that's gonna work.	Answer:	 Wednesday 9:30 (8:30 Central)
6.	Identify the following major works of philosophy, FTPE.1. (10) This collaboration of Whitehead and Russell set out to define the foundation for all of mathematics, and features a lengthy proof that 1+1=2.  The effort was largely based on the misguided notion of logical completeness.	Answer:	 Principia Mathematica2. (10) Similarly misguided, this 1675 work of the Dutch philosopher Spinoza sought to provide a logical proof of the ways in which humans ought to behave, using methods identical to those of Euclid's Elements.	Answer:	 Ethics3. (10) Our tour of poor foresight ends with this work, in which Arthur Schopenhauer declares that life means striving without satisfaction, so not only should we not bother reproducing, but we might as well kill ourselves as well.	Answer:	 The World as Will and Idea OR The World as Will and Representation7.	So what do you know about electrochemistry?  Answer the following FTSNOP.1. (5 + 5) The most general type of cell is one in which a spontaneous redox reaction us used to generate electrical energy.  This type of cell is commonly known by two names, both Italian scientists who did early electrical experiments.  For Five points each, name both.	Answer:	 Allessandro Volta and Luigi Galvani 	 ACCEPT: of course, Voltaic and Galvanic cells2. (10) In a simple Voltaic cell, two half cells are joined by the electrical circuit being powered, as well as by this device, which completes the circuit by allowing charges to move without the battery chemicals coming into direct contact.	Answer:	 Salt Bridge3. (10)  The other major cell type is the electrolytic cell, in which electricity drives a non-spontaneous reaction.  Electrolytic cells are governed by laws named for this man, pupil of Sir Humphrey Davy, and namesake of an SI unit.	Answer:	 Michael Faraday or Faraday's laws8.	Name the Roman Emperor from clues, FTPE.1.(10) Successor to Augustus, he owed his position to the fact that his mother was AugustusU wife. According to the historian Tacitus, his reign saw more than one reign of terror, although he himself spent much time indulging in illicit pleasures on the island of Capri.	Answer:	 Tiberius2.(10) The fourth emporer in the Year of the Four Emperors, he brought unity back to the Roman Empire and founded the Flavian dynasty, ruling from 69 to 79.	Answer:	 Vespasian3. (10) The second son of Vespasian and also the last of the Flavian line, he initiated a persecution of the Christians like Nero had done earlier. Also like Nero, he also was overthrown violently and assassinated.	Answer:	 Domitian9.	Name the Puccini operas, FTPE.1.  (10)  This is the story of Cio Cio San, and her love for the American naval officer Pinkerton, who has no interest in being faithful to her.	Answer:	 Madame Butterfly2.  (10)  The title character, a famous soprano, is loved by the painter Cavaradossi.  He is persecuted for Scaripia for his Napoleonic political leanings.	Answer:	 Tosca3.  (10)  Based on a play by Belasco, the title character is Minnie, the proprietress of the Polka saloon, who savers her lover, the outlaw Dick Johnson, from lynching.	Answer:	 The Girl of the Golden West[Note:  I'm not making that up... his name is really Dick Johnson]10.	Answer the following about American poets, FTPE.1.(10) She wrote "The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America", and mention of her causes members of our team to exclaim "I wish she'd been in her house when it burned!"	Answer:	 Anne Bradstreet2.(10) This collection of Longfellow poems is modeled on the Canterbury Tales, and includes "Paul Revere's Ride"	Answer:	 Tales of a Wayside Inn3.(10) This lengthy poem by James Russell Lowell satirizes a variety of contemporary authors including Cooper, Emerson, Longfellow and of course, the author himself.	Answer:	 A Fable for Critics
11.	Name the term relating to groundwater given a description, FTPE1. (10) A rock layer that is permeable to groundwater flow in useable amounts.	Answer:	 Aquifer2. (10) Groundwater that is confined under pressure	Answer:	 Artesian water3. (10) The upper limit of water that collects in the zone of saturation       Answer:	 Water Table12.	Identify the film directors, FTPE.1.(10) This man, who died in March 2002, directed a whole pile of beloved Hollywood films, including "The Front Page," "Sabrina," "Stalag 17," and "Some Like it Hot".	Answer:	 Billy Wilder2.(10) This American director is known for collaborations with Bogart in "Treasure of the Sierra Madre," "The African Queen," and "The Maltese Falcon."  He also made the original "Moulin Rouge," and the gangster pic "Prizzi's Honor."	Answer:	 John Huston3.(10) The master of American westerns, he directed over 100 of them.  He also made stars out of John Wayne and Henry Fonda.  His films include "How Green was my Valley" and "Stagecoach"	Answer:	 John Ford13.	Name the following battles, events, and generals from the lesser known Eastern Front of World War I, FTPE1.(10)  The first large battle of the war in the East, this battle fought in late August 1914 was a resounding defeat of the Russian invasion of German East Prussia. German intercepts of Russian wireless communiques allowed them to combine forces and destroy the Russian 2nd army.	Answer:	 Tannenberg2. (10) Perhaps the most famous Russian general of the war, his name is most often connected with a offensive in June 1916 that was one of the few Russian successes. The Russians advanced on a wide front, inflicting over 700,000 casualties by the end of the month. Later, he would join the Reds in the Civil War, seeing it as the patriotic thing to do.	Answer:	 Alexei Brusilov3. (10) In response to calls for help from their Serbian ally, the British and French landed troops at this Greek port on the northern Aegean Sea in October 1915. However, they were unable to save Serbia from defeat and were promptly confined to the port by German and Bulgarian forces. They would only break out in September 1918 leading to the collapse of Bulgaria.Answer:	 Salonika or Thessalonika or Thessaloniki14.	Name the Kurt Vonnegut novel from a clue, 10 points each:1.(10) This novel features Dwayne Hoover, Kilgore Trout, and Vonnegut himself. It's notable for its drawings, especially the one of an asshole.	Answer:	 Breakfast of Champions2.(10) In this novel, the children of atomic scientist Dr. Felix Hoenikker possess the only sample of his last and most dangerous creation, ice-9.  Oh, and there's also this illicit religion called Bokononism on the Caribbean island of San Lorenzo...	Answer:	 Cat's Cradle3.(10) This novel, Vonnegut's first, revolves around Paul Proteus, manager of the Ilium Works	Answer:	 Player Piano15.	My God - this bonus is full of stars.  FTPE answer the following:1. (10) This is the Alpha star of Canis Minor, and the eight brightest in the night sky.  A white dwarf was discovered as its companion after the main star was seen to wobble in 1844.	Answer:	 Procyon2.(10) At the present time, this is the star, other than the Sun, that is closest to our own system.  This will eventually change, however, as it is revolving around the central stars in its system with a preiod of approximately 500,000 years.	Answer:	 Proxima Centauri  or Alpha Centauri C   or Rigil Kent C 	(PROMPT: on just Alpha Centauri or just Rigil Kent)3.(10) This woman, daughter of a Delaware state Senator, developed the Harvard system of stellar classification.  She then used it to classify over 200,000 catalogued stars.	Answer:	 Annie Jump Cannon
16.	F5PE, given the names of hormones in humans, name the gland that secretes them:a)  Melatonin	Answer:	pineal glandb)  Oxytocin and prolactin	Answer:	pituitaryc) Epinephrine and norepinephrine	Answer:	adrenal medulla [prompt on adrenal]d) Progesterone       Answer: 	ovaries [accept corpus luteum]e)  Follicle-stimulating hormone, melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and luteinizing hormone       Answer: 	pituitaryf) Aldosterone and cortisol	Answer:	adrenal cortex [prompt on adrenal]	17.	Identify the following men who've chaired the Republican National Committee in recent years, FTPE.1. (10) This former Montana Governor is the current RNC chair.	Answer:	 Marc Racicot2. (10) This governor of Virginia was ousted following the party's poor performance in the 2001 elections, which included losing to the Democrats - irony of ironies -- the Virginia Governor's Mansion.	Answer:	 Jim Gilmore3. (10) This chair, who took credit when the GOP nabbed both houses of Congress in 1994, was nearly indicted after his term as chairman for, irony of ironies, taking campaign funds from Chinese nationals for use in those same elections.	Answer:	 Haley BarbourEDITOR'S NOTE: And let's not forget one of the RNC's most successful past chairs, Bill Brock from... Chattanooga.18.	Identify J.p.'s favorite comic strips, FTPE1.  (10)  Its main characters have been transplanted to Woodcrest from Chicago's south side.  Recent themes have included "Grand Theft Auto 3", the Image awards, and whichever rap stars have been arrested lately.	Answer:	 The Boondocks2. (10) Written by Hillary Price, it chronicles the travails of the 20-something childless set, and is distinguished by its hand-drawn look, with the leftmost panel always bearing the day's title.  Price says that its name is indicative of its uniqueness, and its web site bears the slogan "Fresh and Pulpy"	Answer:	 Rhymes with Orange3. (10)  J.p.'s favorite comic ever is this bulwark of liberalism, whose core of characters are alumni of "Walden" college.  Its ever-hilarious parody of Hunter S. Thompson has recently been seen selling Stem Cells on the black market.	Answer:	 Doonesbury19.	Identify the following regions of Europe on a 10-5 basis.  10 if you get it from the capital, 5 from an easier clue.1.(10) Katowice    (5) The seizure of this region by Frederick the Great led to the War of the Austrian Succession.  Parts of it now lie in Poland, Germany, and the Czech Republic	Answer:	 Silesia2.(10) Bordeaux    (5) This part of southwestern France was long an English possession thanks to Henry II's marriage to a certain Eleanor	Answer:	 Aquitaine3.(10) Since 1917, the capital has been Kiel.     (5) The Prussians swiped this prime turf of southern Jutland from the Danes in 1864, and then fought the Austro-Prussian war in 1866 to keep hold of it.	Answer:	 Schleswig- Holstein20.	Identify the following early historians, FTPE1.This man is called "the Father of History", or if you prefer "the Father of Lies", for his "Histories of the Persian Wars"	Answer:	 Herodotus2. Exiled from Athens for his failure as a general, he wrote the "History of the Peloponnesian War"	Answer:	 Thucydides3. This later Greek wrote about the Roman world in his 47-volume "Historical Sketches", which is lost, and his extant 17-volume "Geography"	Answer:	 Strabo
21.	Name the authors, FTPE.1. (10) Born in Japan, he moved to England when he was 6.  His novels include "The Remains of the Day", and "The Unconsoled".	Answer:	 Kazuo Ishiguro2. (10) Known for his Horatio Hornblower saga, this author also wrote "The African Queen"	Answer:	 Cecil Scott Forrester3. (10) Known principally for the works of his "Titus" Trilogy, which he also illustrated.  They are "Titus Groan", "Ghormenghast" and "Titus Alone".	Answer:	 Mervyn Peake22.	Identify the following particles, FTSNOP1. (10) This class of particles has integer spin, and doesn't obey Pauli's Exclusion Principle.	Answer:	 Bosons2. (10) This group includes the Bosons are composed of quarks.	Answer:	 Mesons3. (5+5) For Five each: These Bosons not made of quarks mediate the weak force.	Answer:	 W and Z bosons23.	Answer the following from the 1300-plus-year history of the Bulgarian nation, FTPE.1. (10) Tsar of Bulgaria from 852 to 889, he was the first Bulgarian ruler to accept Christianity, becoming a saint in the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the process. No, he did not have any problems dealing with  Moose and Squirrel.	Answer:	 Boris I2.(10) Bulgaria would achieve independence from the Ottoman yoke following the Treaty of San Stefano ending the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-78. However, the nascent Bulgarian state was truncated by this Europe-wide gathering of diplomats held in 1878, earning the ire of Bulgarian nationalists for years to come.	Answer:	 Congress of Berlin 3.(10) The first ruler of Communist Bulgaria, his body, like that of Lenin, lay preserved in a mausoleum in downtown Sofia. Unlike Lenin's, though, the body was buried a few years ago and the mausoleum was blown up. In the 1930's, he was put on trial by the Nazis for the Reichstag fire and, amazingly enough, was acquitted.	Answer:	 Georgi Dimitrov24.	Given cities through which they flow, name the following rivers of France on a 10-5 basis.1.(10) Rouen    (5)Paris 	Answer:	 the Seine2.(10) Lyon   (5)Marseilles	Answer:	 the Rhone3.(10) Nantes   (5) Orleans	Answer:	 the Loire25.	Name the Nobel Prize in Economics winner, 10 points from the year they won, 5 points from an additional clue:1 (10) 1991      (5) He has a theorem named after him that states "If there are zero transaction costs, the efficient outcome will occur regardless of legal entitlement"	Answer:	 Ronald H. Coase2 (10) 1973    (5) This Russian is known for work in Input-Output economics	Answer:	 Wassily Leontief3 (10) 1998     (5) This Indian-born economist is known for his work "On Economic Inequality" and his contributions to welfare economics.	Answer:	 Amartya Sen