TOSSUPS - CARLETON			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Carleton (Brant Beyer, Shane Ewert, Chris Idemmili, Gabe Lyon, and Neal Schuster) 1. One was born in 1150 and suffered a fatal seizure at the age of 22, but at her funeral woke up, flew to the ceiling, conversed with God, and walked home for lunch with her sisters.  Thereafter, detesting the smell of humans, she spent her time in millponds, deserts, and trees.  Another converted to Catholicism and moved to Rome upon her 1654 abdication of the throne of Sweden.  FTP, give the shared name of the saint, known as the "Astonishing," and the queen whose 5 a.m. philosophy lessons caused a fatal case of pneumonia in René Descartes.	Answer:  Christina2. It stipulated that Japan assume Germany's position in Kiaochow; that Manchuria and Mongolia be reserved to Japan for exploitation and colonization; that Japan control the main coal deposits of China; that the other powers be excluded from further territorial concessions; and that Japan guide China's military, commercial, and financial affairs.  FTP, these were only a few of the conditions grouped under what collective name indicating the number of orders that Japan gave China in 1915?	Answer:  Twenty-one Demands3. It forms the core of some large mountain ranges like the Sierra Nevada, and according to plate tectonics, it is created when magma rises in subduction zones along continental margins where one plate sinks beneath another.  The solidified magma becomes the central axis of a rising mountain range, resulting in the deformation of rocks on either side.  FTP, what large, irregular mass of intrusive igneous rock, usually granite, takes its name from the Greek word for "deep stone?"	Answer:  batholith4. While working at Brooklyn College in the 1940s, he became so enamored of his then-mentors, the Gestalt psychologist Max Wertheimer and the anthropologist Ruth Benedict, that he took notes on their personalities. The theories that arose from these observations made him a leader in what he referred to as a "third force" beyond Freudian theory and behaviorism.  FTP, name this humanistic psychologist who argued that peak experiences  are the frequent mark of people like Benedict, whose self-actualization fulfills the top tier of the hierarchy of needs.	Answer:  Abraham Maslow5. Its author did little field work, but kept up a vast correspondence with hundreds of missionaries, traders, and travelers in remote parts of the globe.  The original impetus for writing it, however, was to satisfy a modest curiosity concerning a custom that took place in a sacred grove near Lake Nemi, in which a priest of Diana known as the King of the Wood achieved his position by killing the previous holder.  FTP, a title referring to the color of plucked mistletoe was given to what thirteen-volume study in comparative religion by James Frazer?	Answer:  The Golden Bough6. He devised the theory of partial differential equations, and the principle that now bears his name was first published in his Traité de dynamique in 1743 as an extension of Isaac Newton's third law of motion.  He maintained that the law was valid not merely for a static body, but also for mobile bodies, and within a year he had found a means of applying his principle to the theory of equilibrium and the motion of fluids.  FTP, name this Frenchman who wrote the "Discours préliminaire" for the Encyclopédie he helped plan with Denis Diderot.	Answer:  Jean le Rond d'Alembert7. Galen dedicated his treatise On the Anatomy of the Uterus to one of them, and his description of the ones consulted by Boethius' spouse rates them as "the best in Rome."  Justinian's Code for the year 531 notes that they were the highest-paid of female slaves. In the later Roman Empire there is evidence that being one was not a full-time role, for Eunapius mentions one who was called away from working in a wine-bar, despite Soranus' insistence that they should always be sober.  FTP, name these laborers that Hippocrates occasionally refers to as female "helpers" or "cordcutters."	Answer:  midwives
8. A memorial to him stands at the south end of the Plaza de la Revolution and is the tallest monument in the Caribbean.  Born in 1853, he was exiled to Spain after an arrest at age sixteen for subversion, though he returned to his homeland three times before his death. He earned a living as a journalist and as a Uruguayan consul, but is better known for several collections of verse, including Versos libres and Ismaelillo.  FTP, name this poet whose final trip to his native country ended with his death in an 1895 skirmish at Dos Ríos during the fight for Cuba's independence.	Answer:  José Martí9. There are many similarities between this book and Salman Rushdie's The Moor's Last Sigh.  For instance, its main character dwells on his family's history, including his mother who openly commits adultery, and he is charged with murder, works in organized crime, and is a model for many paintings.  However, his love is killed by a stray shell while getting coffee during D-Day, and he works as a stonemason before becoming a jazz musician.  The book can be considered magical realist because FTP, Oskar grows another foot  and always carries the title instrument in this Gunter Grass novel.	Answer:  The Tin Drum (or: Die Blechtrommel)10. Joseph I, who succeeded John V in 1750, was uninterested in governing it, so he left those duties to Sebastian de Carvalho, also known as the Marquis de Pombal, who succeeded in eliminating his enemies the Jesuits after the Conspiracy of the Tavoras, but was removed from his post for abuse of powers by Joseph's successor, Maria I, in 1777.  FTP, these events comprise the mid-eighteenth century history of what European country, whose capital was rebuilt by Pombal after an earthquake in 1755.	Answer:  Portugal11. Born P. J. Clapp, his acting credits include playing a two-headed alien in Men in Black 2 and a bumbling burglar who tries to smuggle a nuke onto a plane in the Barry Sonnenfeld movie Big Trouble.  And for the record, he did regret that kids took it upon themselves to do the BBQ suit stunt, which consisted of him putting on a heat suit, lying down on a live grill, and surrounding himself with steaks. FTP, identify this star of MTV's "Jackass" show who shares a stage name with his hometown in eastern Tennessee.	Answer:  Johnny Knoxville (or Phillip John)12. The name sounds the same.  One is located in the state of Brandenburg, another is in the state of Hesse, and yet another is in the county of Franklin.  Of those three, one is located on the Oder River, another is on the Main River, and the last is on the river naming the U.S. state in which it is located.  Also, one is an important banking center and the home of the European Central Bank as well as one of Europe's busiest airports.  FTP, what name is shared by all three cities, save for the spelling variation in the capital of Kentucky?	Answer:  Frankfurt or Frankfort13. His autobiography Persons and Places is the equal in many respects of The Education of Henry Adams, yet he may be best known for noting that "in the first stage of life the mind is frivolous and easily distracted" and "misses progress by failing in consecutiveness and persistence," so that "the condition of children and barbarians" is one "in which instinct has learned nothing from experience."  FTP, this is an excerpt from the 1905 book Reason in Common Sense that also contained the declaration, "those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it," of what Spanish-born philosopher?	Answer:  George Santayana14. Although the English captain John Strong made the first recorded landing on them in 1690 and named them after the First Lord of the Admiralty, they were first sighted in 1592 by the English navigator John Davis, the name of whose sailing ship, "Desire," has been emblazoned on the crest that displays their motto, "Desire on the Right."  Today, rocky, windswept moorlands have made sheep-raising a flourishing industry of the East and West islands that comprise, FTP, what British crown colony 300 miles off the coast of Argentina, with capital at Stanley?	Answer:  Falkland Islands (also accept: Islas Malvinas)
15. By age thirty, he had been inspired by John Ruskin to see the architectural wonders of France, Holland, and Venice, and his attempts at a literary career had consisted of publishing a collection of stories and poems titled Pleasures and Regrets and abandoning the long novel Jean Santeuil.  His parents' death then prompted him to move into an apartment on Paris's Boulevard Haussman with a signature cork-lined bedroom, where he began his magnum opus.  FTP, eat a madeline and remember who wrote Remembrance of Things Past.	Answer: Marcel Proust16. Discovered in 1895 by a German chemist, it makes use of the fact that the melting point of iron is 1530 degrees Celsius while aluminum oxide's is 2030 degrees Celsius.  The end products are molten metals, because the end temperature of this highly exothermic reaction is usually around 3000 degrees Celsius.  FTP, mixing rust and powdered aluminum in a ratio of about 3 to 1 yields what reaction useful in welding and incendiary weapons?	Answer:  thermite reaction (also accept: Goldschmidt process, thermit or aluminothermic process/reaction)17. Its pioneers included Halford Mackinder, who coined its name in 1904, Rudolf Kjellen, and Alfred Thayer Mahan.  Friedrich Ratzel was the first to be associated with it in its most infamous form, that of the German application in the drive for Lebensraum.  Other Germans, including Otto Maull and Rudolf Hess's teacher, Karl Haushofer, were also practitioners of this field. FTP, name this somewhat dubious science that studies the influence of geography on the practice of statecraft.	Answer:  geopolitics18. At age 7, this nephew of the Metropolitan Opera contralto Louise Homer wrote his first piano piece, Sadness. Always favoring romantic writing, he was never really respected by the modernists, though he did get a commission from Martha Graham. After 1966, he divided his time between Italy and New York, depressed and uninspired, partially due to the failure of his lastopera and his rift with his longtime collaborator and lover, Gian-Carlo Menotti. FTP, name this American composer who potently portrayed tragedy in his Adagio for Strings.	Answer:  Samuel Barber19. The author of this novel quit journalism to devote himself to writing it, but was constantly being diverted to other tasks that included a screenplay for The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky and the novella The Morning Watch.  Its introductory sketch Knoxville: Summer of 1915 creates a mood of affectionate reminiscence for the subsequent plot, beginning when Mary Follett awakes before dawn to cook breakfast for her husband Jay, whose journey to the country will lead to the title event.  FTP, name this novel which won a posthumous Pulitzer Prize for James Agee.	Answer:  A Death in the Family20. His words, "I would annex the planets if I could," aptly preface Hannah Arendt's Imperialism.  Due to ill health, he  was sent to his older brother Herbert's cotton plantation in Natal in 1870 and it was there that he became involved in the pursuits for which he is best known, for in the next eighteen years he built a claim in the Kimberley fields to the largest diamond mining company in the world.  FTP, name this man, who controlled the Cape Colony during the 1890s and served as namesake for both a country and scholarship.	Answer:  Cecil John Rhodes21. It was created in response to a military coup that placed General Gowon in power, a development that appeared to threaten what was at the time the Eastern region.  The regional governor, Ojukwu, lead throughout its short independence from 1966-1970, but once Port Harcourt was captured, the country could not export its large oil reserves, and the civil war quickly ended.  FTP, name this short-lived country that bordered Cameroon as well as the state it seceded from, Nigeria.	Answer:  Republic of Biafra22. It was built at a former naval air station in 1952 and codenamed Project Whitney, as it was a direct result of the first Russian nuclear detonation.  Originally called the University of California Radiation Laboratory, it is still operated by the University of California, although the Department of Energy also plays a large role.  FTP, what is this national laboratory that derives its name from both the town in which it is located, and the surname of the scientist whose invention led him to be called the "Atom Smasher."	Answer:  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
23. Best known until recently for having the lowest taxes in its country and for harboring the trading operations of Clinton pardonee Marc Rich, its parliament was the scene of a September 27th, 2001 shooting that killed fourteen people and wounded several others when a disgruntled man burst into the legislative session and opened fire after having quarreled with a local bus driver.  FTP, what is this Swiss canton located twenty miles south of Zurich that shares its name with the German word for "train"?	Answer:  Zug (tsoog)
BONI - CARLETON			MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Carleton (Brant Beyer, Shane Ewert, Chris Idemmili, Gabe Lyon, and Neal Schuster) 1. Name these rules from electrostatics for 10 points each.1. This law, named for a French physicist, gives the force between two charged objects as inversely proportional to the square of their distance.	Answer:  Coulomb's Law2. This law gives the force on a moving charge in the presence of both electric and magnetic fields.	Answer:  Lorentz Force Law3. This theorem, named for a British physicist and cleric, states that a charged particle cannot be held in a stable equilibrium by electrostatic forces alone.	Answer:  Earnshaw's Theorem2. Answer the following about a Shakespearean phrase, for 10 points each.1.  This play, set partly in Wales with a theme taken from Boccaccio's tale of Griselda, contains the lines "Hark! hark! the lark" and "Fear no more the heat o' the sun." 	Answer:  Cymbeline2.  This stepson of Cymbeline hires musicians to sing a song that begins, "Hark! hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings," in the hope that it will help him woo Imogen.	Answer:  Cloten3.  At a café, this Austrian composer happened to be thumbing through Shakespeare's Cymbeline when Cloten's poem struck his eye.  He drew some staves on the back of his menu and proceeded to write the song "Hark, hark, the lark" from beginning to end, the typical way in which he wrote almost six hundred other songs.	Answer:  Franz Schubert3. Name these surrealists, for 10 points each.1.  He co-wrote the Third Surrealist Manifesto with Andre Breton, but is better known for such works as The Revolution Betrayed and In Defense of Marxism.	Answer:  Leon Trotsky2.  Despite Trotsky's association with the surrealists, this artist of Self Portrait rejected their efforts at inclusion due to their lack of political commitment, referring to them as "shit and only shit" in a 1939 letter.	Answer:  Frida Kahlo3.  However apolitical the surrealists were, they did expel this painter of The Lugubrious Game for his lack of political and artistic commitment.	Answer:  Salvador Dali4. Name these sometime linguists, for 10 points each.1.  An architect by day, his linguistic analysis, published jointly with John Chadwick in Documents of Mycenaean Greek, proved that Linear B was an early form of Greek.	Answer:  Michael Ventris2.  A chemical engineer and fire prevention officer by day, he studied Native American languages in his spare time and helped to develop a hypothesis concerning the influence of language on people's perception of the world.	Answer:  Benjamin Lee Whorf3.  A theologian and Anti-Burgher secessionist minister by day, he is chiefly remembered for his monumental Etymological Dictionary of the Scottish Language.	Answer:  John Jamieson
5. When Lewis and Clark passed through Montana, they gave names to many features of that state's landscape.  Name some of these features, for the stated number of points.1.  (5,5) At Three Forks, three rivers come together to create the Missouri River.  One branch was named for Jefferson; the other two were named after his Secretary of State and Secretary of the Treasury at the time.  Name them F5PE.       Answer:  Madison and Gallatin Rivers 2.  (10)  This river used to be the Missouri, but the Missouri River was pushed south by glaciers during the last Ice Age.  The river received its name because Lewis and Clark thought that its muddy water looked like tea with this substance added.       Answer:   Milk River 3. (10)  Although these rapids on the Missouri no longer exist due to the construction of a series of hydroelectric dams, Lewis and Clark spent more than a month portaging them.  The rapids also share their name with the second largest city in Montana.	Answer: Great Falls6. Name these terms from the Islamic world, all of which begin with the letter "d," for 10 points each.1.  This unit of gold currency under the Caliphate derived its name from the Latin word for a silver coin.	Answer:  dinar2.  This was the pact or covenant granted by the Muslim state and community to the followers of other revealed religions living under Muslim rule.  It accorded protection and certain limited rights in exchange for the recognition of the supremacy of Islam.	Answer:  dhimma  3.  An Arabic word of Persian origin, probably from a root meaning "to write," it originally only referred to the central register of Muslim warriors and pensioners, but later denoted government departments in general.  It is also the name for the collected work of an Islamic poet.	Answer:  diwan7. Name these twentieth-century social scientists who encountered phrenology early on in life, for 15 points each.1. At age 11, a phrenologist recommended that he pursue "scientific and commercial banking" and "accountancy," as well as "horticulture and poultry-rearing as hobbies."  He would become famous for a theorem for controlling externalities through property rights.        Answer: Ronald Harry Coase2.  Growing up on a farm in Indiana, it was a phrenology text that first introduced him to the measurement of personality differences.  As a professor of psychology at Stanford, he would conduct a study of some 1500 gifted children.	Answer:  Lewis Madison Terman8. Answer the following about a certain member of college basketball's Mid-American Conference, for 10 points each.1.  The Eagles from this school in Ypsilanti, Michigan upset Duke University in the first round of the 1996 men's NCAA tournament before bowing to the number-one-seeded University of Connecticut. 	Answer:  Eastern Michigan University2.  Standing 5'5", this 1998 Eastern Michigan graduate and back-up guard for the Los Angeles Clippers is the NBA's shortest player.	Answer:  Earl Boykins3.  This 1987 Eastern Michigan graduate coached Kent State University's men's basketball team to their first-ever NCAA "elite eight" appearance in 2002.	Answer:  Stan Heath9. Names these morbid poets, for 10 points each.1.  This twentieth-century English poet's anthologized work includes "Musee Des Beaux Arts" and "At the Grave of Henry James," the last stanza of which asks the titular writer to pray for still-living writers.	Answer:  Wystan Hugh Auden2.  His first collection of poetry, White Buildings, published in 1926, contains the strongly American piece "At Melville's Tomb."	Answer:  Hart Crane3.  The poems of this late-nineteenth-century leader of French symbolism include "The Afternoon of a Faun" and "The Tomb of Edgar Poe."	Answer:  Stéphane Mallarmé
10. Answer these questions about the Slav Congress in Prague, for 10 points each.1. The year it took place, which saw revolutions break out all across Europe.       Answer: 18482.  This Czech historian and supporter of a moderate Austro-Slavism was the president of the Congress and is generally credited as the author of the Congress's one manifesto, entitled the "Manifesto of the First Slavic Congress to the Nations of Europe."	Answer:  Frantisek Palacky3.  One of two Russians at the Congress, this anarchist is credited with radicalizing the Congress's goals beyond the federal solution that Palacky supported.	Answer:  Mikhail Bakunin11. Name these components of Internet infrastructure, for 10 points each.1.  The opposite of a long-haul network, this computer network technology is designed to connect computers across a short distance, such as inside a building.	Answer:  Local Area Network2.  Each computer needs hardware known as an interface board to connect to this Local Area Network technology invented by the Xerox Corporation.	Answer:  Ethernet3.  Technically, it is a type of Local Area Network technology in which the network passes from computer to computer in a complete cycle.  Informally, it refers to a specific Local Area Network product sold by IBM.	Answer:  token ring12. Answer the following about the Citizen King of the French, FTPE.1. Name him.	Answer:  Louis-Philippe d'Orleans2. Name the king that Louis-Philippe had replaced after the 1830 Revolution.	Answer:  Charles X3. This French statesman was the premier when the Revolution of 1848 broke out, and after being forced to retire by the revolutionary forces wrote a history of the English Revolution.	Answer:  François Guizot13. Give these terms relating to black holes, for 10 points each.1.  This region of gaseous matter surrounds, and accelerates toward, a black hole.	Answer:  accretion disk2.  This type of black hole with no spin or charge is named for the German physicist who gave the first exact general relativistic solutions for the behavior of space near a point mass.	Answer:  Schwarzschild black hole3. Earlier this year, Emil Mottola of Los Alamos National Laboratory and Pawel Mazur of the University of South Carolina proposed another fate for imploding massive stars. According to their theory, this bubble of superdense matter will fit all current observational evidence of black holes.        Answer: gravastar14. Name these primeval entities in creation myth, for 10 points each.  1.  The first Greek description of creation, attributed to Hesiod in the Theogony, claims that Earth, Tartarus, Love, Darkness, and Night all originated from this.	Answer:  Chaos2.  In Norse mythology, the process of creation began in this vast chasm between Niflheim and Muspelheim.	Answer:  Ginnungagap3.  The earliest known creation myth is attributed to the Sumerians, who traced their existence to this primeval sea goddess who gave birth to An, the sky god, and Ki, the earth god.	Answer:  Nammu
15. Name these authors who have had multiple books selected by Oprah's Book Club, for 10 points each.1.  With this month's selection of Sula, she became the first author to have four books selected by the club.	Answer:  Toni Morrison2. Her novels The Book of Ruth and A Map of the World were named to the Club.  On the show, Sigourney Weaver, who starred in the movie version of the latter, proclaimed that book to be "so much about the resiliency of the human spirit."	Answer:  Jane Hamilton3.  Club picks include his debut novel, She's Come Undone, as well as I Know This Much to Be True, about which Oprah trumpeted, "It's not just a book, it's a life experience."	Answer:  Wally Lamb16. Name these hominid species for 15 points each.1.A Gary Larson cartoon depicts a paleontologist's dream as holding a beautiful woman in one arm and a complete skull of this species in the other. Its name, meaning "handy man," commented on the tools found with its remains.		Answer: Homo habilis2. First found at South Africa's Kromdraai quarry in 1938, this hominid had large, thick bones and massive grinding teeth. It lived between 1.5 and 2.5 million years ago.	Answer:	Australopithecus robustus 17. Answer the following about crosses, for 10 points each.1.  The crux commissa, an ancient T-shaped cross that is a monogram of the Egyptian god Thoth as well as originally a phallic emblem, is also named after this Greek letter corresponding to its shape.	Answer:  tau (TOW -- as in ouch)2.  The X-shaped cross associated with Saint Andrew is described by this Latinate adjective, which in botany refers to leaves that are arranged along a stem in pairs, with each pair at right angles to the pair above or below.	Answer:  decussate (DECK-uh-sait)3.  In his treatise On Divination, Cicero notes that the staff with which this Roman official marked out the heavens was in the shape of a cross.  The term is traditionally derived from the Latin for "directing the birds," but it may also denote increase or prosperity.	Answer:  augur18. Identify these herbs, for 10 points each.1.  Also known as pimento, it is prepared from the dried berries of Jamaica's West Indian pepper tree, and has an aroma similar to that of a mixture of cinnamon, clove, aand nutmeg.	Answer:  allspice2.  Also known as buffalo herb, purple medic, or lucerne, this member of the pea family native to Europe and Asia has spikes of small purple flowers in late summer.  In maturity, its corkscrew coiled pods sprout edible seeds. 	Answer:  alfalfa3.  Also known as witches' herb, St. Joseph's wort, American dittany, or alabahaca, this member of the mint family with small white flowers that appear on spikes is a native of the tropics.	Answer:  basil19. Name these famous horses from history, for 10 points each.1. Caligula's horse, it was named a priest and consul. Among the perks were a manger of ivory and wine served from a golden goblet. 	Answer: Incitatus2. This was Alexander the Great's horse, which successfully carried him into battle for many years.	Answer: Bucephalus3. Napoleon acquired this mount during the Egyptian campaign; he rode it until the Battle of Waterloo, when it was captured by the British and put on exhibit.	Answer: Marengo
20. For 5 points each, plus an additional 5 points for all correct,  given a location, determine if it was the site of a battle in the American Revolution, American Civil War battle, both, or neither.1.  King's Mountain.	Answer:  American Revolution2.  Perryville.	Answer:  American Civil War3.  Horseshoe Bend.	Answer:  neither4.  Pea Ridge.	Answer:  American Civil War5.  Yorktown.	Answer:  both21. Answer these questions about Greek history, for 10 points each.1.  In the sixth century B.C.E., what Greek island off the coast of Asia minor became the center of the tyrant Polycrates' rule, as well as the birthplace of Pythagoras?	Answer:  Samos2.  Herodotus notes that Polycrates was advised to throw his most precious possession into the sea, so as to ensure that the gods would not be envious of his remarkable good fortune.  What was that possession, which was unwittingly returned to its owner by a fisherman less that a week after it was discarded?	Answer:  Polycrates' ring3.  The opera Polycrates' Ring, which premiered in 1916, was the creation of what Viennese child prodigy and subsequent American film composer?	Answer:  Erich Wolfgang Korngold