TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY B				 MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Chad Money1. He moved from Wuerzberg to Munich in 1909, when his father was appointed Professor of Greek there.  Though originally interested in number theory, his 1923 doctoral dissertation was on turbulence in fluid streams.  Twenty-one years later, former Boston Red Sox catcher Moe Berg was sent by the U. S. government to shoot this man as he was lecturing in Switzerland.  Berg, however, judged by the lecture that the German nuclear weapons program was not sufficiently advanced to merit an assassination of its director and so held his fire.  FTP, name this physicist who developed matrix mechanics but is most famous for his uncertainty principle.	Answer:	Werner Heisenberg2. His only son Richard fought as a general in the Confederate army.  He was born in Virginia, moved to Kentucky as a child, and settled in Louisiana.  He spent most of his army career fighting Indians but won spectacular victories at Monterrey and Buena Vista during the Mexican War.  In February 1850, he threatened to lead the army against Southern secessionists, bringing tension to a level that only subsided when he died five months later.  FTP, give the name of "Old Rough and Ready," twelfth president of the United States.	Answer:	Zachary Taylor3. It is subtitled "Demonstrated in Geometric Order" and consists of five parts.  The first is titled "Of God," the second "Of the Nature and Origin of the Mind," and the fourth "Of Human Bondage, or the Power of the Affects."  Its author denied the immortality of the soul and believed in a God who manifests himself only in the laws of nature.  After his Treatise on Theology and Politics infuriated the Calvinists, he decided to publish this, his masterpiece, posthumously.  FTP, name this landmark 1677 work of Benedictus de Spinoza.	Answer:	Ethics4. A fragment of this work supposedly appears backwards in the Beatles' Because.  Though divided into the standard three movements, its author flouts convention by starting with the slow one.  The third is a rousing Allegretto that lasts for seven minutes, while the second lasts merely two.  It is the first movement, however, that is the most popular of this Opus 27, No. 2 in C-sharp minor dedicated to Countess Giuletta Guicciardi.  FTP, name this 1801 sonata by Ludwig van Beethoven.	Answer:	Piano Sonata No. 14 and/or "Moonlight"5. It was discovered in 1586 by Alvaro de Mendana, who named it San Francisco.  Renamed in 1796 after the Englishman who rediscovered it, the U. S. annexed it in 1899 for use as a cable station.  In 1940, work was begun on an air and naval base, owing to its suddenly strategic location.  It was the site of the only repulsed amphibious attack of World War II but was taken by the Japanese in a second attempt two weeks later.  This is, FTP, what north Pacific island which remained in Japanese hands from December 23, 1941, until the end of the war?	Answer:	Wake Island6. The son of a railway worker, at age 12 he met Mistral, who encouraged his efforts.  His first literary work was an article in La Manana, but by age 20 he had gained international fame, changing his name from Basoalto to avoid family conflicts.  Appointed consul to Burma in 1927, he traveled the world writing works like Residence on Earth and Canto General, which includes the famous "Alturas de Macchu Picchu."  Allende appointed him ambassador to France, but his health failed and he died in Santiago in 1973.  FTP, name this author of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair, the Chilean winner of the 1971 Nobel prize in literature.	Answer:	Pablo Neruda7. He took dancing and acting lessons as a child and quit school at age 13, joining the Boston Opera Company four years later.  Soon he began concentrating on dance work, partnering often with Bonnie Glass.  His first real break came in 1944, when Otto Preminger cast him as the villain in Laura, earning him an Oscar nomination.  He was nominated again in 1946 for The Razor's Edge and in 1948 for his role as Mr. Belvedere in Sitting Pretty.  Typecast as pedantic and irritable, name, FTP, this actor who starred with Barbara Stanwyck in the 1953 film Titanic and played the father in the original version of Cheaper by the Dozen.	Answer:	Clifton Webb8. 
Scipio was there, as was Fabius Maximus, son of the ex-dictator.  The invaders fronted west on the Apulian plain, near the mouth of the Aufidus river.  According to Livy, Aemilius Paullus was severely wounded at the outset of the battle, but he still managed to take command after Varro fled.  However, Paullus was killed and only 15,000 of 55,000 Romans escaped death or capture, as compared with 6,000 Carthaginian losses.  FTP, name this 216 B.C.E. battle, the classic case of the double envelopment and Hannibal's greatest victory.	Answer:	Cannae9. Version 1.1 introduced the Napalm, Hot Napalm, Liquid Dirt, and Smoke Tracers.  Version 1.2 introduced synchronous play and an augmented talk file.  Version 1.5 introduced the Cavern and Pitch Black skies as well as lasers and the Super Mag, a combination of the heavy shield, deflector, and force shield.  FTP, these are revisions of what computer game which pits player and computer tanks against one another armed with Nukes, Funky Bombs, and Death's Heads?	Answer:	Scorched Earth10. Though he lived to the age of 63, both his parents outlived him.  He won the Senior Mathematics Prize at Eton in 1899 and 1900 and entered Cambridge in 1902.  After attending lectures by Alfred Marshall, he entered the India Office but was dissatisfied with his career and returned to Cambridge in 1909 to teach economics.  He represented the Treasury at the Versailles conference but resigned in protest of the harsh reparations demanded of the Germans.  FTP, name this British economist, author of The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.	Answer:	John Maynard Keynes11. Little is known about his life except that he was briefly Hadrian's secretary.  Unlike Tacitus, he concentrated on the private lives of his subjects rather than political events.  Both he and Tacitus, however, delighted in reporting scandal in high places.  A friend of Pliny the Younger, he did at least try to report events fairly, though it is he who gave us the story of Caligula appointing his horse as a consul.  FTP, name this author of De vita Caesarum, often translated The Twelve Caesars.	Answer:	Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus12. In the background is a tree-laden vista containing numerous women in earth-tone dresses.  Several children and adults sit in front of large pillars in the left foreground observing the central figure.  To the right, a dog licks himself and a young black man fetches a drink from a tub.  A cello leans against the stool which supports the central figure, who is playing a lute.  This describes, FTP, what Rococo painting by Jean-Antoine Watteau?	Answer:	The Delights Of Life13. It exists as two isomers.  N is a fully hydrogenated linear chain of carbon atoms with a melting point of -0.6 ¡C and a boiling point of 138.3 ¡C.  I, or "iso," melts at -0.5 ¡C, boils at 159.6 ¡C, is known as R600a when used as a refrigerant, and has the systematic name 2-methylpropane.  It is a flammable, colorless gas that is used extensively as a fuel for cigarette lighters and portable stoves.  FTP, identify this alkane hydrocarbon with chemical formula C4H10.	Answer:	butane14. Mary Warren is not afraid to tell the truth but is afraid to stand alone.  Deputy Governor Danforth adheres to the law and signs the nineteen death warrants.  Rebecca Nurse's last words are "I've had no breakfast," while Giles Corey's are "More weight."  Abigail Williams robs her uncle, Reverend Parris, and plots successfully against Elizabeth Proctor.  These are characters from, FTP, what Arthur Miller play about the Salem witch trials?	Answer:	The Crucible15. Chicago radio station WLS sent reporter Herb Morrison and engineer Charles Nehlson to record a documentary on it.  However, tragedy struck and Morrison was on the scene for a scoop.  His narrative of the vessel's mooring in Lakehurst, New Jersey, was interrupted by a shout:  "It burst into flames!"  He then continued to describe the inferno and later interviewed survivors of, FTP, what German zeppelin which burned in May 1937?	Answer:	Hindenburg16. 
For the interaction of a nonrelativistic particle with an electromagnetic field, it is given in cgs units by one-half m times v dot v minus q times phi plus q times A dot v over c.  It is important because if x is a generalized coordinate in a conservative system, its partial derivative with respect to x is equal to the time derivative of its partial derivative with respect to x's time derivative.  This provides a way of expressing the equation of motion using only energy considerations.  FTP, name this physical quantity defined as kinetic energy minus potential energy and named after a French mathematician.	Answer:	Lagrangian17. He finished his autobiography, Erlebtes und Erkanntes, shortly before his death in 1920.  His ten-volume Volkerpsychologie dealt with his idea of the stages of cultural development.  He was Helmholtz's assistant from 1858 to 1864 and in 1875 became professor of philosophy at Leipzig, where he would stay until his death.  It was also in that year that he drew from his masterwork Principles of Physiological Psychology to set up one of the first two experimental psychology laboratories.  FTP, who is this man, generally referred to as the father of psychology?	Answer:	Wilhelm Wundt18. His youth misled his neighbors; ascending the throne at the age of 15, within three years he had invaded Denmark, which he easily conquered.  Russia occupied Estonia and Livonia, which technically belonged to him, so he attacked and crushed the Russian garrison at Narva.  Defeating the Poles at Klissow, he suffered defeat at Poltava and fled to the Turks.  However, his return to power was cut short when a stray shot killed him during an assault on Norway.  FTP, who is this Swedish monarch who kicked ass in the Great Northern War?	Answer:	Charles XII19. The author's first cousin was Guert Gansevoort, first officer of the U.S.S. Somers, and he may have drawn upon that ship's story to write his own.  Never finished during the author's lifetime, it was discovered among his papers in the 1920's.  The title character is impressed aboard the   H. M. S. Bellipotent during the French Wars and framed for mutiny.  He kills the antagonizing Claggart in a stammering fit of rage and calmly accepts his punishment of death.  FTP, name this Melville novel about the hanging of a good sailor by Captain Vere.	Answer:	Billy Budd, Sailor (or Foretopman)20. In the Iliad he is reported to be married to Aglaea, one of the graces.  After falling from Mount Olympus, he set up his headquarters on Lemnos.  He helped to fashion Pandora from clay and made Athena's shield, Eros' arrows, Helios' chariot, and Achilles' armor.  He also imprisoned Hera with a magic throne, and to get her back, the gods placated him by marrying him off to the adulterous Aphrodite.  FTP, name this lame but cool Greek god of fire.	Answer:	Hephaestus21. An equation of this degree or higher cannot be solved by a general formula.  It is the number of coplanar points needed to determine a conic as well as the numeral famously painted by Charles Demuth in 1928.  Demuth's friend William Carlos Williams saw it in gold on a red firetruck, and members of the genus Asteroidea are typically portrayed as having this many appendages.  FTP, name half the number of points you're going to get.	Answer:	five22. Most of World War I was the result of von Moltke's failure to carry out this.  It called for minimal support to the east and southwest while the vast majority of available forces converged in the northwest.  Here, the army would be given an overwhelmingly strong right wing which, ignoring Belgian and Dutch neutrality, would sweep out an arc that would compel the French to retreat to the east.  Paris would be taken and the dangers of a two-front war averted.  FTP, name this German plan for European conquest, named after the field marshal who devised it.	Answer:	Schlieffen plan23. Coming from a wealthy family, he entered Cambridge to study mathematics in 1703.  Elected to the Royal Society in 1712, he corresponded with de Moivre about probability and had an ongoing feud with Johann Bernoulli.  In 1715 he published Linear Perspective, a term he coined.  That same year, he published Methodus incrementorum directa et inversa, in which he introduced integration by parts, the calculus of finite differences, and his most famous contribution to mathematics.  FTP, name this man who devised a namesake expansion series involving a function and its derivatives about a point.	Answer:	Brook Taylor24. 
Ancient Romans called it the Viadrus.  It rises in the Czech Republic, but most of its 854-kilometer length flows through western Poland.  Together with the Neisse, it forms the German-Polish border.  FTP, name this second longest river in Poland after the Vistula, which also happens to be the German word for "or."	Answer:	Oder River (also accept "Odra")25. He has revived his most famous role several times, including in The Gambler Returns:  The Luck of the Draw and a TV series subtitled The Legend Continues.  The son of character actor John, his appearances have ranged from Gunsmoke to Airwolf to Lone Wolf McQuade.  However, he will always be most closely identified with a Biblically-named martial artist stuck in the Old West.  FTP, name this actor who has gained great acclaim of late for his title role in Kill Bill.	Answer:	David Carradine
BONI - KENTUCKY B				 MOON PIE CLASSIC 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Chad Money1. Name that pirate FTPE.10) No one seems to remember that this circumnavigator of the world and defeater of the Spanish Armada was, in his spare time, quite the pirate.	Answer:	Sir Francis Drake10) This Welshman spent a good part of his life in and around Jamaica kicking and plundering Spanish booty.  Rum brands notwithstanding, he in fact achieved the rank of vice admiral.   	Answer:	Sir Henry Morgan10) Let's not forget Edward Teach, who based his operations in North Carolina and sailed on the Queen Anne's Revenge until she sank in 1718.  He was better known as this.       	Answer:	Blackbeard2. Name these Nobel Prize-winning writers, all of whom hail from Africa, FTPE.10) He won the 1957 Nobel Prize in literature and wrote stuff like Caligula and La Peste.   	Answer:	Albert Camus10) Winner of the 1986 Nobel Prize in literature, this Nigerian has written such plays as Kongi's Harvest and Death and the King's Horseman.   	Answer:	Wole Soyinka10) This South African won the Nobel Prize in literature in 2003 and has written novels such as Elizabeth Costello, Waiting For The Barbarians, and Disgrace.   	Answer:	John Maxwell Coetzee   3. Identify these parts of the human brain FTPE.10) Named after its French discoverer, this area of the brain is located in the frontal lobe and is involved in assessing syntax and structure.	Answer:	Broca's area10) This area contains the hippocampus, hypothalamus, and amygdala and is among the oldest parts of the brain in evolutionary terms.	Answer:	limbic system10) This bunch of white matter connects the two cerebral hemispheres.	Answer:	corpus callosum4. Sigh.  Home runs have ruined baseball.  Name these famous clutch long ball hitters FTPE.10) In 1951 this third baseman hit the "Shot Heard 'Round the World" off Ralph Branca, clinching the pennant for the Giants.	Answer:	Bobby Thomson10) This Pirates second baseman's walk-off homer beat the Yankees in Game 7 of the 1960 World Series.	Answer:	Bill Mazerowski10) In 1988 this injured Dodger pinch-hitter sent a Dennis Eckersley ball over the fence, winning Game 1 of the World Series.       	Answer:	Kirk Gibson       5. Identify the composer of the given works FTPE.10)	Abegg variations, Julius Caesar overture, Symphonic Etudes	Answer:	Robert Schumann10) Liebestraume, Dante symphony, Transcendental Etudes	Answer:	Franz Liszt10) Perpetuum Mobile, Invitation to the Dance, Der Freischutz	Answer:	Carl Maria von Weber6. 
Identify the ancient battle FTPE.10) After the Persian defeat at Salamis, the Spartan king Pausanias led the Greeks to another victory over Mardonius at this site in 479 B. C. E.	Answer:	Battle of Plataea10) Three Roman legions under Quinctilius Varus were slaughtered by the Germans under Arminius at this site in 9 C. E.	Answer:	Battle of Teutoberg Forest10) The Goths kicked the emperor Valens' ass in 378 C. E. at this site near the present city of Edirne, Turkey.	Answer:	Battle of Adrianople7. Answer these questions about the classical harmonic oscillator FTPE.10) This constant, usually represented by a lowercase omega, is equal to the square root of the spring constant divided by the mass of the oscillating body.	Answer:	angular frequency10) If an oscillator is forced to oscillate at a frequency other than its natural one, it will do so after a transition period.  The frequency imposed upon it is called this.	Answer:	driving frequency10) If friction is considered, the amplitude of oscillation will decay with time.  An oscillator so affected is referred to by this term.	Answer:	damped8. Name the U. S. secretary of state FTPE.10) He began his career as Lincoln's secretary.  He published Pike County Ballads in 1871 and is famous for calling the 1898 conflict with Spain a "splendid little war."	Answer:	John Milton Hay10) This Tennesseean served as secretary of state for almost twelve years, longer than anyone else.  Even more remarkably, he only served under one president.	Answer:	Cordell Hull10) Deputy secretary of defense under Johnson, he resigned as secretary of state when a later president ordered a military rescue operation in Iran.	Answer:	Cyrus Roberts Vance9. Identify the artist from works F15PE, or 5 from more famous works.15) Dido Building Carthage, The Battle of Trafalgar, San Giorgio Maggiore5) The Fighting Tameraire and Rain, Steam, and Speed		Answer:	J. M. W. Turner15) Two Girls in a Yellow and Red Interior, Seated Riffian, Flowers in a Pitcher5)	The Music Lesson, The Joy Of Life		Answer:	Henri Matisse10. Given lines, identify the poem FTSNOP.5) "Eagerly I wished the morrow - vainly I had sought to borrow / From my books surcease of sorrow - sorrow for the lost Lenore"	Answer:	"The Raven"10) "So that her highborn kinsman came / And bore her away from me, / To shut her up in a sepulcher / In this kingdom by the sea"	Answer:	"Annabelle Lee"15) "While the stars that oversprinkle / All the heavens, seem to twinkle / With a crystalline delight / Keeping time, time, time / In a sort of Runic rhyme"	Answer:	"The Bells"11. 
Given a few platinum albums, name the artist FTPE.10) Days Of Future Passed, Seventh Sojourn, Long Distance Voyager	Answer:	The Moody Blues10) Bayou Country, Cosmo's Factory, Pendulum	Answer:	Creedence Clearwater Revival10) Physical Graffiti, Presence, Coda	Answer:	Led Zeppelin12. Identify these terms from algebra FTPE.10) Given a set A, this is defined as a subset of the Cartesian product of A with itself.  Sometimes symbolized R, it can exhibit properties such as reflexivity and transitivity.	Answer:	relation10) Given a relation R on a set A that is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive, for a given y in A, this is the set of all x in A that satisfy the condition that the ordered pair (x, y) is in R.	Answer:	equivalence class of y10) Given a set A, this set, symbolized P, is a set of subsets of A such that each element of P contains at least one element of A and no element of A is in more than one element of P.	Answer:	partition13. Identify the writer, 30-20-1030)	His plays include Mandragola, or The Mandrake Root, and Clizia.20)	Author of Discourses on the First Ten Books of Livy, he wrote a history of Florence and assisted in the deposition of Savonarola.10)	His most famous work is The Prince.		Answer:	Niccolo Machiavelli14. Identify the chemical element FTPE.  No, you're not getting the atomic number.10) With an atomic weight of 92.9, it has properties very similar to tantalum.  It is sometimes referred to as columbium.	Answer:	niobium10) With an atomic weight of 127.6, it played a key role in Mendeleev's organization of the periodic table and gives you horrible breath.  It is similar to selenium.	Answer:	tellurium10) A rare earth, its atomic weight is 140.9.  Its name comes from the Greek for "green twin."	Answer:	praseodymium15. Name the random philosopher FTPE.10) Flourishing around 315 B.C.E., this Confucianist's theory of the infinite goodness of the individual is expressed in his eponymous masterpiece, which consists of dialogues with various kings.	Answer:	Mencius (also accept Meng-Tzu or Mengzi)10) Archbishop of Canterbury from 1093 until 1109, he was canonized in 1494.  His Monologium and Proslogium aim to prove the existence of God.	Answer:	St. Anselm10) A founder of analytic philosophy, he was one of the greatest logicians of his day and was imprisoned for anti-war protests in 1918.  He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1950.	Answer:	Bertrand Russell16. Identify the taxonomic classification FTPE.10) This genus includes lions, tigers, and leopards and is both the most famous product of De Tomaso Automobili and one of the stupidest band names ever.	Answer:	Pantera10) This class of primitive vertebrates includes jawless fish-like creatures such as lampreys.	Answer:	Agnatha10) This phylum is divided into three classes, but the vast majority of its members are in the class Demospongia.	Answer:	Porifera17. 
Answer these questions about two famous writers FTSNOP.15) This North Carolinian Texan wrote knee-slappers like The Ransom Of Red Chief and The Gift Of The Magi.  Give either his pen name or his real name for 5 points, or both for 15.	Answer:	O. Henry, real name William Sydney Porter15) This Burmese-born Brit died in the trenches of France in 1916.  He penned gut-busters like The Peace Offering and The Interlopers, usually publishing his short stories in collections like Reginald, The Chronicles of Clovis, and Beasts and Super-Beasts.  Again, you get 5 for either the pen name or the real name and 15 for both.	Answer:	Saki, real name Hector Hugh Munro18. Answer these questions about a famous family FTSNOP.5) Born circa 1165 as Temujin, he united his people in 1206, earning a more famous moniker.	Answer:	Genghis Khan15) Genghis Khan's third son and hand-picked successor, he pushed the Mongols to the walls of Vienna before dying in 1241.	Answer:	Ogadai10) Son of Genghis' youngest son Tolui, he smashed the Sung dynasty and held court at Daidu.	Answer:	Kublai Khan19. Given a description, name the underrated general of the American Revolution FTPE.10) Heir presumptive to a British earldom, he was captured at Long Island but was released and fought bravely under Washington at Brandywine, Germantown, and Monmouth.	Answer:	Lord Stirling (also accept William Alexander)10) An ex-member of Rogers' Rangers, he commanded the Americans at Bunker Hill and Long Island before a stroke forced his retirement in 1779.  It is he, and not William Prescott, who gave the famous order "Don't fire until you see the whites of their eyes."	Answer:	Israel Putnam10) British governor of Canada for most of the war, he crushed Montgomery at Quebec and defeated Arnold at Valcour Island.  In 1782 he succeeded Clinton as commander-in-chief.	Answer:	Guy Carleton20. Name these psychologists FTPE.10) Often classified as a neo-Freudian, she was an expert on neuroses.  She postulated womb envy and discussed the struggle between the despised self and the ideal self.	Answer:	Karen Horney10) A one-time lover of Horney and an exciting writer who combined the theories of Freud and Marx, his works include The Sane Society, Escape from Freedom, and The Art of Loving.	Answer:	Erich Fromm10) Of Polish origin, he joined Adler in breaking with Freud but later tried to revive the partnership.  Poor guy; his name means "little stick."	Answer:	William Stekel21. Answer these questions pertaining to electricity and magnetism FTPE.10) In integral form, this law states that the electric flux through a closed surface is equal to the net charge enclosed within the surface divided by the permittivity of free space.	Answer:	Gauss's Law10) This term refers to a substance that is a poor conductor of electricity but an efficient supporter of electrostatic fields.  Its associated constant is typically symbolized kappa.	Answer:	dielectric10) Any physical potential that varies inversely with the first power of radial distance can be expressed as this type of expansion, which involves a summation of Legendre polynomials.	Answer:	multipole expansion22. 
30-20-10, name the author.30) His early works include The Catch, Lavish are the Dead, and Bud-Nipping, Lamb Shooting.20) The birth of his mentally handicapped son Hikari inspired Teach Us To Outgrow Our Madness.10)	He won the 1994 Nobel Prize in literature and is most famous for A Personal Matter.		Answer:	Kenzaburo Oe23. Identify these terms from economics FTSNOP.5) This is the term for a few firms dominating the market.  Often, they cooperate to the detriment of consumers.	Answer:	oligopoly10) This word is economist-speak for a measure of satisfaction.  However, the more you have, the less difference a little more makes.	Answer:	utility15) This is the term for buying an asset in one market and simultaneously selling an identical asset in a different market at a higher price.  Globalization is making this difficult.	Answer:	arbitrage24. Identify the composer F15PE, or for 5 given a well-known work.15) Ordained as a priest, he is most important for his 550 concertos.  Spending most of his life in Venice, his works include 1727's La Cetra and 1725's Il cimento dell'armonia e dell'inventione.5) Il cimento includes The Four Seasons.	Answer:	Antonio Vivaldi15) From 1682 until his death in 1695 he was organist at the Chapel Royal.  Most of his popularity came from his theatre music, and he only wrote one opera.5) That opera was Dido and Aeneas.	Answer:	Henry Purcell25. 30-20-10, name the economist.30) His life-cycle hypothesis attempts to explain the level of saving in the economy.20) The theorem named after him and Merton Miller states that, under certain assumptions, the value of a firm is not affected by whether it is financed by equity or debt.10) He left Italy for the U. S. in 1939 and won the Nobel Prize in economics in 1985.	Answer:	Franco Modigliani