TOSSUPS -- MICHIGAN		MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UT-CHATTANOOGA)Questions by Eric Feldman, Noel Erinjeri, and Paul Litwak, with Special Guest Editor Craig Barker1).	The ebullient Marianne becomes infatuated with John Willoughby, who seems to be a romantic lover but in fact is a fortune hunter.  John eventually leaves, and Marianne eventually marries the upstart Colonel Brandon.  All the while, Marianne's older sister, Elinor, marries her long time love Edward Ferrars.  FTP -- name this Jane Austen novel dealing with the plights of the Dashwood sisters made into a 1995 film starring Emma Thompson, Kate Winslet, and Hugh Grant.Answer:	Sense and Sensibility2).	Imagine a person sitting in a room with a keyboard and two screens.  This person types a series of questions, which are answered on one screen by another person, on the other by a machine. If the interrogator cannot distinguish in a reasonable amount of time whose answers are the human's and which the machine's, the machine is said to be "thinking" in any rational sense of the word.  Considered to be one of the key axioms of artificial intelligence, FTP, name this test, named for a mid-century British mathematician, one of the fathers of computer science.Answer:	Turing test (accept "imitation test")3).	The program was fraught with disaster during its early years.  Its first launch found many design flaws which made the craft uncontrollable and forced an auto-destruct while still in sub-orbital flight.  The next launch date was far more tragic as the capsule was rescued but the launch device exploded on the pad while fueling, killing several.  The third flight made it back from orbit safely, but sank to the bottom of the Aral Sea.  The fourth flight was the first manned one, on April 23, 1967, resulted in the death of a cosmonaut and an 18-month setback to the Soviet space program.  FTP, name this Soviet capsule series analogous to the U.S. Apollo project.Answer:	Soyuz4).	Its most famous landmark, Mount Eden, is somewhat misnamed, as there are plenty of trees on the lower slopes, but one tree at the top of the hill, hence the alternate name.  The city's name comes from the viceroy of India at the time of the completion of the purchase/conquest by its first governor, British naval captain William Hobson.  FTP, name this city, whose original name was Tamaki, the early Maori word for "battle."Answer:	Auckland, New Zealand5).	He was born around 1890 and has a brother George.  His mother had an affair with President Taft, and among his prized possessions are King Arthur's "Excalibur," the only existing nude photo of Mark Twain and that rare first draft of the Constitution with the word "suckers" in it.  During World War II, he was a private in the fightingest squad in the fightingest company in the third-fightingest battalion in the army.  After the war, he purchased a Fissionator 1952 Slow-Fission Reactor and has been ruling it and Springfield with an iron fist since then.  FTP, name this man who despite bankruptcy, an failed run for governor, an gunshot wound, the repeated loss of his beloved teddy bear, and a general loathing by the populace, finds everything "excellent!"Answer:	Charles Montgomery Burns6).	Jane Crofut; The Crofut Farm; ________ ________, Sutton County; New Hampshire; The United States of America, Continent of North America, Western Hemisphere; the Earth; the Solar System; the Universe; the Mind of God.  This address appears in a play that describes life in New England at the turn of the century, featuring the romance of George Gibbs and Emily Webb.  FTP, name this Thorton Wilder masterpiece or the city missing from the address.Answer:	Our Town or Grover's Corners EDITOR'S NOTE: If anyone else really cares, Sutton Co. is also fictitious.
7).	Discovered in 1864 by Guldberg and Waage, it states that (read slowly) "the equilibrium constant of a reaction is equal to the multiplicative product of the concentrations of the reaction productseach raised to their own coefficients all divided by the product of the concentrations of the reactants raised to their own coefficients."  FTP, name this Law, which was the first mathematical description of the equilibrium constant of chemical reactions.Answer:	Law of Mass Action8).	On November 14, 1862, Ambrose Burnside, commander of the Army of the Potomac, sent a corps to occupy the vicinity of Falmouth.  Lee responded by entrenching his Army of Northern Virginia in the highlands above the city.  On December 11, Union engineers laid five pontoon bridges across the Rappahannock under fire.  On the 12th, the Federal army crossed over and on December 13, Burnside mounted a series of futile frontal assaults on Prospect Hill and Marye's Heights that resulted in staggering casualties.  FTP, name this battle which ultimately led to Burnside's replacement as commander of the Army of the Potomac.Answer:	Battle of Fredericksburg (accept Marye's Heights until mentioned)9).	Born to a family of musical geniuses, this man thought he had the problems of philosophy solved by reduction when he was just 30.  His early writings influenced the logical positivists, while his later philosophy took a different approach, describing language as a game.  FTP name this philosopher, writer of such works as Tractatus Logico-Philosophus and Philosophical Investigations:Answer:	Ludwig Wittgenstein10).	He split his tribe in half, fearing the retaliation of his estranged brother.  A fertile man, he had four two wives and two concubines, which gave him a total of 13 children.  One of his sons rose to an important position in Egypt.  He has a number of names, one of which means "He who wrestles with God."  FTP, name this patriarch of the Jews and son of Isaac.Answer:	Jacob (or Israel is also acceptable)11).	The sixth segment of this novel was "tacked on" because Belgravia, the magazine publishing the serialized version of the novel, refused to pay him until he gave his novel a happy ending.  Beginning on Guy Fawkes Day, it traces the homecoming of Clym Yeobright to his home on Egdon Heath in Wessex.  FTP, name this Hardy novel where the death of Eustacia Vye at the end of book five was the way Hardy would have wanted it to end.Answer:	The Return of the Native12).	He completed his doctoral thesis, "About Combustion Tests" in 1934, less than two years after receiving his B.S.  This was originally attributed to his brilliance, though it was later revealed it was because his real thesis was a classified Army document.  His grandiosely titled autobiography, "I Aim for the Stars" was sarcastically subtitled by a comedian "But Sometimes I Hit London."  FTP, name this scientist, who worked on both the Saturn Five Moon rocket and the German V2 missile.Answer:	Wernher von BraunEDITOR'S NOTE: If anyone really wants to know, the comedian in question was Mort Sahl.  Just showing off.13).	He dealt with a severe weight problem throughout his life, and when he died in 1087 of internal injuries in suffered aboard his mount, he wouldn't even fit in the stone sarcophagus that was custom-built for him.  When his advisors attempted to squeeze him in, his distended body burst like a balloon, making it quite possibly the most odoriferous royal funeral in history.  His body remained buried in Caen, France until 1562 when the Huguenots dug him up and threw his bones all over the courtyard.  FTP, name this English monarch who introduced beheading to England in 1076, ten years after his conquest of that nation.Answer:	King William I or William the Conqueror14).	It is required by Article 2, Section 3 of the Constitution, which gives no strict timing requirement.  Breaking precedent because of his shyness, Jefferson submitted it in writing, a practice that continued until Woodrow Wilson broke that precedent in order to personally push his Fourteen Points of Peace.  FTP, name this annual presidential address, usually delivered in January or February.Answer:	State of the Union Address15).	Though he was born in British Columbia, he was raised in the Ottawa suburb of Nepean, Ontario, where his dad worked as a Canadian bureaucrat.  Named "the greatest #4 overall draft pick in NHL history" by the Hockey News, he was runner-up to Tom Barrasso for the 1983 Calder Trophy.  Named captain by coach Jacques Demers at the tender age of 21, he holds the highest single season point total for a player not named Gretzky or Lemieux.  But he suffered through 14 seasons of playoff heartbreak before sweeping his way to two straight Stanley Cups, the latter of which was joined by his Conn Smythe trophy for playoff MVP.  FTP, name this Red Wings centerman and longest-serving captain in NHL history.Answer:	Steve Yzerman16).	Dr. Cyril Callister invented it in 1922 while he was chief scientist for the Fred Walker and Company.  Using brewer's yeast from Carlton & United Breweries, he blended the yeast extract with ingredients like celery and onions, and salt to make a thick dark paste.  During World War II, soldiers, sailors, and the civilian population of Australia all had it included in their rations, and it became so popular that it fell into short supply.  FTP, name this highly acidic Kraft product popular in the Land Down Under, often called Australia's peanut butter.Answer:	Vegemite17).	Like Einstein, he refused to acknowledge the most profound consequences of his theory, but unlike Einstein, he never repented.  Terming it "an act of desperation," he tried to explain the work of the experimentalist Stefan and the theoretician Boltzman by postulating that energy was emitted only as discrete packets, which he termed "quanta."  FTP, name this scientist, for whom the constant symbolized by "h-bar" is named.Answer:	Max Planck18).	He is the only President ever to have been sworn into office by a Justice of the Peace, namely his own father.  It was widely publicized that he liked to take naps.  A man of few words, his most famous quote came as governor of Massachusetts, when he sent Boston Police officers back to work stating, "There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody, anywhere, anytime."  FTP, name this 30th president, who also stated "I do not choose to run for President in 1928."Answer: 	Calvin Coolidge19).	Farmers in the Midwest have reported an increase in the theft of the liquid fertilizer anhydrous ammonia recently, which the DEA traces to home made drug labs making this drug using a technique first pioneered by the Wehrmacht (vehr-mockt) during World War II.  The Germans added the drug to a standard issue ration called Schokakola (show-ka-cola) which would allow a downed pilot to stay awake for days as well as not needing to eat.  However, it was banned by the Nazis in 1941 after officials saw that their soldiers were showing increasing signs of addiction such as severe weight loss, hallucinations, and paranoia.  FTP, name this drug, also known as crank, which is now being made without the dangerous "hot cook" method.Answer:	methamphetamine (Accept crank until it's mentioned, also accept "Cat" and "Crystal Meth")
20).	A title of a now famous work by Plato, it details the account of Socrates' trial at the hands of the Athenians, for corrupting the youth.  Found guilty, Socrates can suggest his own punishment.  When his own suggestion is too lax, he is forced to drink the hemlock.  FTP, what is the title of this dialogue, which you might find yourself offering this to your mother on more than one occasion.?Answer:	The Apology21).	The country of Venezuela has a rather odd requirement of its presidents, one that we might find humorous here in the U.S.  If required of U.S. Presidents, Andrew Jackson might have had to give up his office weeks before his inauguration, and Grover Cleveland would have only fulfilled while in the White House.  James Buchanan was the only president never to fulfill this strange requirement in his lifetime.  FTP, name this age-old institution.Answer:	Marriage or Being Married22).	Three years before it was incorporated as a city in 1872, it was the center of rebellion over the sale of lands held by Hudson's Bay Company to the newly formed Dominion of Canada.  Local residents known as the Metis (Met-ee) led by Robert Riel (Rile) seized control of the Red River and established a provisional government with Riel in charge.  In 1911, it became the largest grain center on the North American continent and was dubbed "Chicago of the North."  FTP, name this city which also played host to the 1998 World Junior Hockey Championships as well as the 1999 Pan-American Game, the provincial capital of Manitoba.Answer:	Winnipeg
BONI -- MICHIGAN		MOON PIE CLASSIC 1999 (UT-CHATTANOOGA)Questions by Eric Feldman, Noel Erinjeri, and Paul Litwak, with Special Guest Editor Craig Barker1).	Shakespeare in Love?  No, Shakespeare in context.  Given a line from one of his works, name the speaker, 5-10-15(5)	"I am but mad north-northwest.  When the wind is southerly, I know a hawk from a handsaw."Answer:	Hamlet (Hamlet: Act II, scene ii)(10)	"The quality of mercy is not strained.  It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven, Upon the place beneath."Answer:	Portia (The Merchant of Venice: Act IV, scene i)(15)	"Why, there's a wench!  Come on, and kiss me, Kate."Answer:	Petruchio (The Taming of the Shrew: Act V, scene ii)2).	FTPE, given an amino acid, say whether its R-group is positively charged, negatively charged, or uncharged at neutral pH.Leucine				Answer:	unchargedArginine				Answer:	positively chargedSerine					Answer:	uncharged3).	Name these British military heroes of World War II, given a brief description, FTSNOP:(10 pts.)	Commanding the Eighth Army or the "Army of the Nile," this beret wearing field marshal was the first Allied general to inflict a major defeat on the Axis Powers, at El Alamein.Answer:	Field-Marshal Sir Bernard Law Montgomery, G.C.B., D.S.O.(20 pts.)	As Deputy Supreme Commander of the British-American Forces in the European theater, this man coordinated the U.S. Army Air Corps and Royal Air Forces attack during D-Day.Answer:	Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Arthur William Tedder, G.C.B.4).	Identify these chess champions for the stated number of points.(5)	This world champion has never lost a one against one tournament, except for a much talked-about match against Deeper Blue in 1997 and his first challenge to the world championship.Answer:	Garry Kasparov(10)	This is the man that Kasparov beat in his second attempt in order to gain the world championship.Answer:	Anatoly Karpov(15)	This is the author of the stellar My System, a chess player of the early twentieth century who revolutionized positional play.Answer:	Aron Nimzovitch5).	Given a description of a term relating to the American legal system, name it FTPE.Latin for "on its face."  It is a case that at first glance presents sufficient evidence for the plaintiff to win.  Such a case must be refuted in some way by the defendant for him to have a chance of prevailing at trial.Answer:	prima facieA hortatory or authoritative address of a person to the court as part of his or her plea agreement in which he or she confesses to the crime they are pleading guilty to.Answer:	allocution (accept: allocute)To intentionally destroy, obliterate or strike out records or information in files, computers, and other depositories, usually those of a juvenile offender after his or her 18th birthday.Answer:	expunge
6).	Answer the following about a non-Western work of epic literature, 5-10-15.  (5)	This subject of this work is the story of the seventh avatar of Vishnu.  Answer:  	the Ramayana  [reh-MY-ehn-ah](10)	The creation of the Ramayana is often ascribed to this poet.  Answer:  	Valmiki(15)	This woman is Ram's loving and faithful wife, whom he initially shuns after rescuing her.Answer:  	Sita7).	Answer the following questions on General Relativity, on a 5-10-15 basis.(5)	In its most famous equation, general relativity states that energy is proportional to mass by what factor?Answer:	the speed of light squared or c squared(10)	General relativity was formulated to explain the absence of what substance, despite strenuous efforts to locate it, whose existence was more or disproved by Michaelson and Morley in 1887?Answer:	ether(15)	Unwilling to accept that his theories implied the Universe was expanding or contracting, Einstein introduced what extra factor into his equations to preserve a static Universe, until Hubble proved the Universe was expanding in 1929?Answer:	cosmological constant or cosmological term8).	Given a European Royal House, Name the first and last ruler from them for five points each.  You must differentiate which one is which in your answer.(5/5)	TudorAnswer:	First:		Henry VII      Last:		Elizabeth I(5/5)	Stuart:Answer:	First:		James I      Last:		Anne(5/5)	Romanov:Answer:	First:		Michael      Last:		Nicholas II9).	College Nicknames, it's just that easy!  Well, maybe not.  For five points a piece, and a bonus five for all of them, given the name of a college that made the 1999 Division I Hockey Playoffs, give its nickname.(5)	Boston College					Answer:	Eagles(5)	Denver							Answer:	Pioneers(5)	North Dakota						Answer:	Fightin' Sioux(5)	New Hampshire and Northern Michigan		Answer:	Wildcats(5)	Maine							Answer:	Black Bears10).	Given a description, name the type of sword being described, FTPE:Of Scottish origin, it was a double handed broadsword, usually three to four feet in length, with a leather wrapped ricasso and large hilt.Answer:	ClaymoreUsed by cavalry in the 19th Century, it featured a brass pommel to guard the user's hand, and a curved blade for slicing in an upward motion.Answer:	SabreOriginating in early 17th Century Italy, this kind of sword generally has an intricately designed pommel, a steel hilt, and a narrowing scabbard.Answer:	Rapier11).	Given a year, and author, name the work that won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, FTPE:	1952, 	Herman WoukAnswer:	The Caine Mutiny	1986, 	Larry McMurtryAnswer:	Lonesome Dove	1947, 	Robert Penn WarrenAnswer:	All the King's Men12).	30-20-10, name the equation(30)	Discovered by a Dutch physicist in 1873, it is a correction for special cases of a much more famous and useful equation.(20)	The correction constants are simply termed a and b, a being the correction for repulsive forces among molecules and b is a correction for volume excluded by those molecules.(10)	It is a correction for the Ideal Gas Law, the, expressed as (read slowly) "the quantity P plus A N squared over V squared times the quantity V minus n times b equals N R T"Answer:	van der Waals equation of state13).	If the History Channel isn't showing World War II stuff, it loves to show their Civil War Journal series, often featuring the opposing generals and admirals at key battles.  FTPAP, given the commanders, name the battles.  You will get five if you need the date and state.(10)	Robert E. Lee and George Meade(5)	July 1-3, 1863; PennsylvaniaAnswer:	Gettysburg(10)	Franklin Buchanan and David Farragut(5)	August 1864; Alabama	Answer:	Mobile Bay(10)	John B. Hood and George H. Thomas(5)	December 15-16, 1864; TennesseeAnswer:	Nashville14).	Identify these terms from Zen Buddhism for the stated number of points: (5)	This is the Japanese term for an unanswerable question, meant to be meditated on to achieve enlightenment.Answer:	koan(10)	This is the term for enlightenment in Japanese.Answer:	satori(15)	 This is the type of Buddhism that Zen is classified under.Answer:	Mahayana15).	30-20-10, name the American dramatist:(30)	He was the night editor on the Michigan Daily newspaper and before his graduation from Ann Arbor with a BA degree in 1938, he had written a number of plays, including one called The Grass Still Grows.(20)	Other plays include Incident at Vichy, The Price, A View from the Bridge, A Memory of Two Mondays, and All My Sons.(10)	He is most noted for his Death of a Salesman as well as his marriage to Marilyn Monroe from 1956 to 1961.Answer:	Arthur MillerAuthor's note: Arthur Miller, hero to Wolverine English majors everywhere!
16).	Identify the philosopher from works, for ten points each:a. On the Way to Language, Being and TimeANSWER:  Martin Heideggerb.  The Philosophy of RightANSWER:  Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Hegelc.  The Reasonableness of Christianity, Essay Concerning Human UnderstandingANSWER:  John Locke17).	Answer the following questions FTPE relating to the origin of life. In 1922, Aleksandr Oparin proposed that in prehistoric Earth, electrical or heat energy caused the formation of simple organic compounds in the warm seas, which then mixed and spontaneously formed the first organic building blocks.  What two-word term did Oparin give to this mix?Answer:	Primordial soupIn 1953, this graduate student carried out an experiment in which he attempted to replicate the primordial soup with a gaseous mixture, and simulated lightning with a pair of electrodes.  This resulted in the formation of organic compounds, thus supporting Oparin's theory.  FTP, name this man.Answer:	Stanley MillerThe spontaneous formation of life from nonliving compounds would seem to contradict what principle established by Pasteur in his famous "swan neck flask" experiments of the late 19th century?Answer:	biogenesis18).	Answer the following about assassination attempts on U.S Presidents while they were not in office FTPE:The first presidential assassination attempt was made on this man while he was still president-elect.  Richard Lawrence's attempt was made from point blank range, but both pistols misfired.Answer:	Andrew JacksonThe assassination attempt made on this man occurred while he was both a former president and a presidential candidate while campaigning in Milwaukee, by would-be assassin John Schrank.  Delivering a 90-minute speech after being wounded, he excused himself explaining that he had been shot, but proclaiming that, "It takes more than that to kill a Bull-Moose!"Answer:	Theodore Roosevelt	(prompt on Roosevelt)Like Andrew Jackson, an assassination attempt was made on this man before his inauguration.  Guiseppe Zangara only succeeded in killing Chicago mayor Anton Cermak.Answer:	Franklin Roosevelt or FDR  (prompt on Roosevelt)19).	The American Society of Civil Engineers named a list of their "Seven Wonders of the Modern World," marvels that were built during the 20th Century that have overcome daunting engineering challenges or benefited humanity.  Given a description of one of these wonders, name it FTPAP.(10)	Construction at 350 <pause> Fifth Avenue began on March 17, 1930 and was completed ahead of schedule and under budget in April 1931.Answer:	Empire State Building(10)	Located at 301 Front Street, it's visible when SkyDome's roof is open and is the world's tallest freestanding structure, completed in 1976.Answer:	Canadian National Tower(10)	Landowners in six counties used their mortgages and land deeds as collateral to a $35 million bond that allowed for its construction as part of California State Highway 101.Answer:	Golden Gate Bridge20).	Given a piece of 20th Century Music, give the year in which is was debuted, FTPAP.  You'll get five points if you're within two years.(10)	George Gershwin's Rhapsody in BlueAnswer:	1924 	(5 pts. for 1922-1926)(10)	Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings, opus 11, orchestral arrangementAnswer:	1938	(5 pts. for 1936-1940)(10)	Aaron Copland's Appalachian SpringAnswer:	1944	(5 pts. for 1942-1946)