TOSSUPS -- VIRGINIA TECH A			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Well-traveled, well-spoken black boy meets sheltered, upper crust white girl.  Boy and girl elope just before boy is called to fight the Turks.  Boy is spared the fight by a convenient storm, but is instead undermined by his social-climbing standard bearer and kills girl.  When the treachery is revealed, FTP, what Moor of Venice kills himself rather than live in shame?_Othello_2.	Planned by General Giap as an attempt to break the stalemate, this action's fighting continued in Hue for nearly a month after it began and prompted Westmoreland to launch Operation Recovery to rebuild the many seriously damaged cities.  Named the General Offensive-General Uprising by the North Vietnamese, FTP give the American name for the North Vietnamese offensive named for the lunar new year holiday during which it was launched._Tet_ Offensive (accept General Offensive-General Uprising if given before read)3.	The "Question Mark" of Lord Rosse.  The Diablo Nebula.  Virgo A.  The Sagittarius Star Cloud.  These and 106 other celestial bodies form a set of objects once frequently mistaken for comets, compiled from 1758 to 1782, when discovering a comet was "the way" to make a name for oneself in the field of astronomy.  FTP, what is this list, named for its creator, whose members are indexed by the letter 'M' and a number?_Messier Catalog_(accept _Messier Objects_ before the word "list")4.	The skill and fire of a touring violin virtuoso named Bridgewater caught the attention of many in Vienna, including Beethoven.  The composer was so impressed he wrote a sonata specifically for this talent, but after a falling-out rededicated the work to another performer of the time.  Unfortunately, the new honoree considered the work beneath him and never performed, FTP, what 1803 work, known today as one of the greatest violin and piano sonatas ever written?The _Kreutzer_ Sonata5.	King Arthur's Seat overlooks this city, the home to the Walter Scott Monument.  From its eponymous castle, the Royal Mile runs to Hollyrood Palace.  It hosts one of the world's largest annual theatre festivals, and was the setting for most of the works of Irvine Welsh.  FTP, identify this city on the Firth of Forth, the home of David Hume and Adam Smith._Edinburgh_ (Give style points if they pronounce it ed-in-bur-rah)6.	Originally from Louisville, Kentucky, his 1966 book "Hell's Angels" grew out of an article he wrote for "The Nation."  Also sometimes a sports writer, his most famous work resulted from a request by another magazine to cover the Mint 400 motorcycle race in Nevada.  His other novels include "The Great Shark Hunt," and "Better than Sex: Confessions of a Political Junkie."  FTP, name this author and journalist, whose trip to Sin City on a "Rolling Stone" expense account gave us "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas."Hunter S. _Thompson_7.	TWO answers required: Richard's father ran the Sears-Roebuck catalog business.  Nathan's father had made a fortune in shipping.  Both had attended the University of Michigan, and Nathan was planning on law school at Harvard.  Richard would die in prison, however, brutally attacked with his cellmate's razor, and Nathan would spend 33 years in Joliet before being paroled and retiring to Puerto Rico.  Neither would have been spared the gallows were it not for the genius of Clarence Darrow.  FTP, who were these two Chicago boys, who on May 21st, 1924 dumped the body of Richard's neighbor, Bobby Franks, into a culvert at Wolf Lake?Nathan _Leopold_ and Richard _Loeb_8.	The son of a sailmaker, he was a professor first at Nancy, then at Lyon.  His Nobel Prize was for a set of reagents he first discovered around 1900; in the next 5 years, over 200 papers were published about them. These reagents, named for him, incorporate metals such as magnesium or lithium into alkyl halides.  FTP name this French chemist, whose 1912 Nobel prize was shared by Paul Sabatier.Francois _Grignard_9.	Hermod the Nimble was sent to ask Hela if this person might be ransomed, but the hag Thaukt prevented his return from the dead.  Dwarves, giants, Asynuir and the Vana had tried to kill him earlier by casting missiles at him, but upon his birth his mother had bound all things not to harm him, omitting only a seemingly innocuous plant.  FTP, identify this son of Odin and Frigga, god of light and summer who was killed when his blind brother Hoder stabbed him with a twig of mistletoe._Baldur_10.	The Mixtec's had a god just for them.  Also known as liberty caps or cubes, some of their active chemicals include baeocystin and norbaeocystin. Purportedly less toxic than aspirin, their more commonly known active chemicals include psilocin and psilocybin. At the beginning of the 20th century, many of their reported uses were mistakenly believed in academia to be dried peyote buds.  FTP, identify these sometimes psychoactive fungi that might explain Gargamel's belief in smurfs.Mu_shrooms_  (or psilocybes or magic mushrooms, p-cubesalthough technically just one species demonstrates a scary amount knowledge and should be accepted)11.	In 1592, Morocco's Sultan Mulai Ahmed al-Mansur sent a 4,000-man army, supplied by Elizabeth of  England, that sacked this city.  Founded in the 11th century by the Taureg people, it became a major trading  center (primarily for gold and salt) by the 14th century under Sonni Ali.  FTP, name this city, rediscovered in 1825 by Gordon Laing, the heart of the Songhai Empire.				_Timbuktu_12.	When Oerstead discovered that there was a relationship between electricity and magnetism, it took only a week for a Frenchman to determine the law that governed it.  Together with Faraday's law, it is this relationship that governs the functioning of the inductor.  Its author did not know it in the form we study today, because Maxwell added a final term to correct a minor imperfection.  FTP, what is this Law, one of Maxwell's Equations, which relates the magnetic flux around a current carrying wire to the steady current flowing through it?_Ampere's Law_ or The _Ampere-Maxwell Law_13.	The son of an upholsterer to the Bourbons, he revolutionized the comedy by casting off buffoonery and the standard formulae, basing his work instead on trenchant insights into human nature and exposing the hypocrisy he saw everywhere around him.  So scathing were his attacks against the clergy that they denied him a Christian burial upon his death.  Kleist adapted his "Amphitryon", and unlike Shakespeare's Globe, his Palais Royale theatre is still in use today.  FTP, name this French playwright, author of "the Imaginary Invalid," "The Misanthrope," and "Tartuffe."					_Moliere_ or Jean-Baptiste _Poquelin_14.	Born in England in 1727, he worked primarily in portraiture.  Although his real love was for landscapes, there was no market for them in Britain at the time.  His portraits were generally simple, featuring only the sitter and some background scenery, as can be seen in his "Miss Haverfield" of 1780.  This style contrasted with that of his greatest rival, Sir Joshua Reynolds.  FTP, name this painter, who answered Reynolds famous challenge with his portrait of "The Blue Boy."							Thomas _Gainsborough_15.	His farther was a poor farmer and fisherman in Boeotia (BOY-a-tee-a).  His brother cheated him of much of his inheritance, and then proceeded to squander it.  Despite this, however, he is known today as the father of didactic poetry in ancient Greece.  FTP, name this author, who tells his own version of the origins of the gods in "Theogeny," and is also famous for his advice on life and agronomy in "Works and Days."		_Hesiod_16.	Born and educated in Konigsberg, he taught at the university there until leaving for Gottingen.  When he returned upon his retirement, he gave a speech that ended with "We must know, we shall know."  In 1899 his "Foundations of Geometry" was hailed as the most important work in that field since Euclid, but he is most famous today for the mathematical curiosities that bear his name, including his namesake space of infinite dimension.  FTP, name this mathematician, who in 1900 at the Second International Congress in Paris put forth a set of 23 problems, many of which remain unsolved.David _Hilbert_17.	By 1100, the population had declined by 90% and was centered in small villages, a far cry from a mere 200 years prior, when the close of the "Classic" period saw this people organized in city-states, with orderly patterns of residences, pyramidal structures, and temples around courts or plazas.  Stone masonry, sculptured and stuccoed decorations, stone roofs, and paved plazas were all common in large cities of, FTP, what indigenous people with population centers at Piedras Negras, Cop‡n, and Tikal?_Maya_ or _Mayans_18.	It was a career change, but no more unusual than real estate or ambulance driving.  Raymond Kroc had sold eight of his "Mult-A-Mixer" milkshake machines to an unusual restaurant owned by brothers Maurice and Richard.  Kroc persuaded the two to allow him to franchise their business in 1954, and in 1966 bought them out.  In the first six years he franchised 228, but by his death in 1984 there were 7,500 carbon-copies of, FTP, what restaurant of the "Golden Arches"?_McDonald's_19.	Although he predated the Utilitarians, this philosopher held that promoting the welfare of all people was the highest moral obligation.  In place of the church's emphasis on faith, he felt that all belief should be based only on knowledge confirmed through experimental inquiry, and scientific rigor.  FTP, name this Frenchman, the founder of Positivism.Auguste _Comte_20.	This compound contains a four-member ring, causing the amide group to be susceptible to reactions with enzymes responsible for creating walls of foreign cells.  Nineteen percent of the general population is allergic to the G, or natural, form of this antibiotic.  The original culture was composed of seven types of, FTP, what compound, found accidentally in 1928 at the University of London by Sir Alexander Fleming?_Penicillin_21.	In statistical estimation theory, this method provides the best linear unbiased estimator.  It is part of the name for a wrestler in the WWF who was first introduced during a Sunday Night Heat event between the Job Squad and the Brood, part of the name of the CFL team in Winnipeg, and part of the name of the gay biker club in the Police Academy series.  It is also light at 470 nanometers and Nickelodeon's dog with the clues. FTP identify the color of the corvette, windows and house in the hit song by Eiffel 65._Blue_22.	How to deliver a baby.  How to fall out of a plane.  How to wash a pot. How to cheat at poker.  How to break up.  Regular sections include "Health and Science," "Great Gear," "Stuff Your Face," "World O' Sex," and a guide book "Fifty things every guy should know about women."  FTP, what is this magazine, published by Felix Dennis, which features sultry cover photos, celebrity interviews, sex, sports, beer, gadgets, clothes, and fitness?_Maxim_
BONI -- VIRGINIA TECH A			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Identify the following poems on a 10-5, excerpt-poet basis.    10:  "Had we but world enough and time,    	This coyness. lady, were no crime"5:  Andrew MarvellTo His Coy Mistress_10:  "I let my neighbor know beyond the hill;	And on a day we meet to walk the line	And set the wall between us once again.	We keep the wall between us as we go."5:  Robert Frost_Mending Wall_10:  "The Sea of Faith	Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore	Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furled.	But now I only hear	Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar..."5:  Matthew Arnold_Dover Beach_2.	For the stated number of points answer the following questions about the start of the Revolutionary War.a. (5) Both answers required, these two cities were the destinations of the midnight riders who warned of the approaching British army and the sites of the initial engagements._Concord_ and _Lexington_b. (15) For five points a piece, these three men were the midnight riders.Paul _Revere_, Charles _Dawes_, Samuel _Prescott_c. (10) It was this commander of the British regulars who had dispatched Lieutenant Colonel Francis Smith to seize the gunpowder stored in Concord.General Thomas _Gage_3.	Do you love opera, too?  Identify the following operas, FTSNPE.a. For five, a gypsy woman seduces an army captain.  She quickly grows bored of him, and leaves him for Escamillo the Bullfighter.  He becomes enraged, and when she rejects him again, he murders her outside the bullring in the finale._Carmen_b. For 10:  The title character is the deformed jester of the court of the Duke of Mantua._Rigoletto_c. For 5, Based on Dumas' "La Dame aux Camelias," it is the story of Alfredo, who falls in love with the courtesan Violetta.  They fight, but then forgive each other just in time for her to die of consumption._La Traviata_d. For 10, It updates Gay's "The Beggar's Opera" to a more modern London.  Its famously liberal author uses it as a vehicle to blame the bourgeoisie for the plight of the poor, and the thriving criminal underclass._The Threepenny Opera_
4.	A dimensionless group relates two physical effects.  Because they have no dimension, they can operate in any unit system.  5-10-15, identify the group.a. (5) This number relates the local velocity to the speed of sound._Mach_ numberb. (10) This number, important in fluid dynamics, relates velocity of a fluid to the kinematic viscosity, named after an Irish civil engineer._Reynolds_ numberc. (15) This number, important in heat transfer, relates kinematic viscosity to thermal diffusivity, named for a German engineer who contributed to mixing-length theory._Prandtl_5.	Our Charlie tribute question, only this time Jody's doing the traveling.  On his trip through Europe this summer, Jody stopped in Pamplona to see the running of the bulls.  For the stated number of points answer the following questions related to his experiences.a. (5)  Outside of the Plaza de Toros, Jody saw a large bust of this man who had made the festival famous in his book The Sun Also Rises.Ernest _Hemmingway_b.  (5)  Instead of actually seeing the bull fight, Jody sat outside and drank this alcoholic beverage made from red wine and fruit._Sangria_c.  (5)  Because Pamplona is this region of Spain, Jody had a difficult reading many of the signs which were written in this language of the same name._Basque_d.  (15)  Jody also discovered that the running of the bulls was part of larger festival held in honor of this saint who is neither the patron saint of Pamplona nor the patron saint of that region of Spain, but was however from Pamplona, and some relics from his body are still in Pamplona.San (Saint) _Fermin_6.	FTPE, identify the following novels about "utopias," none of which was written by Sir Thomas More.a.  19th century socialists adopted this 1602 Tommaso Campanella description of a place where everyone's work contributes to the welfare of the whole community.  Private property, wealth and poverty do not exist._City of the Sun_b.  This work of Yevgeny Zamyatin is often considered the most influential of the "dystopian" novels.  Written in 1924 Russia and probably heavily influenced by "Notes From the Underground," many aspects of this work were drawn on and expanded in Orwell's "1984."_We_c.  This James Hilton work tells of a Westerner who stubles onto the idealized land of Shangri-La._Lost Horizon_7.	After failed attempts to claim the English throne, Henry Plantagenet finally succeeded in 1154 by bringing to bear the resources gained through his 1152 marriage.a. For 5, England's domestic wine industry declined in 1154 when what lady introduced cheap French wines a few years after she married the 19-year old Plantagenet._Eleanor of Aquitaine_b. FFPE, name the three sons Eleanor of Aquitaine persuaded to revolt against Henry II._Henry_, _Richard_, _Geoffrey_c. For 10, Henry's many infidelities caused Eleanor to establish her own court in 1170 in what city, which became the scene of much artistic activity?_Poitiers_8.	For the stated number of points identify the following questions about glacial debris.a. (5) This term refers to any distinct accumulation or accumulations of unsorted, unstratified mixtures of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders.							_Moraine_    	(If for I don't know what reason, they say glacial till,  point out that the till is the sand, gravel, boulders  itself and the accumulation which is what is asked for is the moraine.)b. (10) This term names a sinuous ridge of sedimentary material (typically gravel or sand) deposited by streams that cut channels under or through the glacier ice._Esker_c. (15) Ranging in length from tens of meters to hundreds of kilometers, these teardrop shaped hilly remnants from the ice ages occur in groups with the blunt ends of each hill pointing in the direction the ice moved._Drumlins_9.	Answer these questions about the history of the Bible FTPE.a. This is the Greek translation of the Old Testament made in the third century B.C., credited to a group of seventy Jewish elders._Septuagint_b. In 90 C.E., Jewish elders met and finalized the selection of texts of the Old Testament, ending a process that had taken hundreds of years.  Name this synod, the city to which the pharisees moved after the destruction of the temple in 70 CE._Jamnia_ (accept _Jabneh_)c. It contains about ten books, and several prayers and additions to books in the Old Testament.  Protestants traditionally consider it to be non-canonical.The _Apocrypha_10.	Given a description, name the electronic component.  Ten points each.a.  This simple device essentially restricts current flow to one direction, consuming a small amount of power in the "forward bias" region and ideally acting as an infinite resistor in the "reverse bias" region._Diode_b.  In reality, any diode under enough reverse bias will break down.  This special type of diode is designed for predictable behavior in its breakdown region, and when placed in parallel with a load will act as a voltage regulator for that load._Zener Diode_ or _Avalanche Diode_(The two are different, but the question doesn't make the distinction)c.  This versatile component comes in BJT, JFET and MOSFET forms, and can be used as an on-off switch, as the core of an amplifier, and as a component of digital logic gates._Transistor_11.	For ten points each, identify these American "irregulars."a.  He took a rag-tag, poorly equipped, mixed-race outfit in South Carolina and created one of the most successful units of the Revolutionary War, conducting a guerilla war against the British from the swamps.Francis _Marion_b.  With his Civil War "Rangers" of the Virginia 43rd Cavalry Battalion, this daring leader led a partisan war against the Union, kidnapping Federal officers, capturing supply trains, conducting hit-and-fade attacks and performing reconnaissance missions from 1863 until the unit dissolved rather than surrender in 1865.John S. _Mosby_c.  This man was assigned an HQ unit and six combat "teams" of 400 men apiece, to wreak havoc and distract Japanese forces while the Chinese army opened the Burma Road.  His "Marauders" won a Presidential Unit Citation, and after the war were re-designated the 75th Infantry, today's 75th Ranger Regiment.Frank _Merrill
12.	Love those last-minute edits.  Given a player currently on the glorious Rotisserie team known as the Steinhice Capades, name the real major league team he plays for F5PE.[READER: accept either city or team nickname]a)	Nomar Garciaparra			Boston Red Soxb)	Quilvio Veras				Atlanta Bravesc)	Curt Schilling				Philadelphia Philliesd)	Rondell White				Montreal Expose)	Antonio Alfonseca			Florida Marlinsf)	Ricky Bottalico			Kansas City Royals13.	Identify the William Faulkner novels from a description, FTPE.a. A tale of the Compson family's self destruction, the title is from MacBeth, and refers to Benjy Compson._The Sound and The Fury_b. Told in 60 short segments, each narrated by one of the characters, it is the story of the Bundren family, and the efforts they expend as they carry Annie Bundren's body to Jefferson for burial._As I Lay Dying_c. This novel is collection of related stories about the descendants of Carothers McCaslin, including Uncle Buck and Uncle Buddy, Lucas Beauchamp, and Isaac "Ike" McCaslin.  The latter renounces his share of the family land because of his guild over their history of slaveholding._Go Down, Moses_14.	Identify these figures from Celtic myth, 10 points each.a.  He was saved from a river by Elphin, and served him thereafter.  He defended his master against King Maelgwn (MAIL-gwin), outwitting the king's schemes to prove Elphin's wife unfaithful, and is remembered as "the greatest bard," with great magical powers._Taliesin_b.  The third wave of invaders, they became early gods of Ireland after defeating the Fomorians. Their name can be translated as 'Men of the Bags'.The _Firbolg_(pronounced VEER-bolg, accept anything reasonable)c.  Daughter of Llyr (th-LUR: short 'u') and Penarddun (pen-AR-thun), she was married to the Irish king but spent three years as a slave in the kitchen.  Her name means "White Raven," but it was a starling that brought news of her imprisonment to her brother, who rescued her and was later slain by the Cauldron-Born._Branwen_15.	For 10 points a piece identify the following roles of money.a. This property describes things that are portable and readily accepted, and thus easily exchanged for goods._Liquidity_b. This property of money is applicable to any asset that can be used to transport purchasing power from one period of time to another._store_ of _value_c. This property of money gives a consistent way of quoting prices._Unit_ of _account_
16.	Answer these questions about pre-natal care, FTPE.a. Done at 10-11 weeks, this test can be done abdominally, with a needle, or cervically, with a catheter.  The probe takes tissue from the placenta, without penetrating the amniotic sac, which is then karotyped._Chorionic Villi Sampling_ (accept: _CVS_)b. An ultrasound is used for many diagnostics, including early detection of this congenital disorder, in which the spinal column is imperfectly closed so that part of the meninges or spinal cord protrudes, often resulting in hydrocephalus and other neurological disorders._spina bifida_ (accept: _schistorrhachis_)c. The Ashkenazi Jewish Genetic Diseases Screen will screen for three genetic diseases. The most common is a progressive neuro-degenerative disease that results from an enzyme deficiency, a lethal condition that often causes death by age 8.  It is an autosomal recessive disorder found almost exclusively in Jews of Eastern European descent._Tay Sachs_17.	Identify the ancient Greek sculptor from his works for the stated number of points(5) The Discus thrower, aka Discobolos_Myron_(5) The Sculptures of the Parthenon, most notably its frieze_Phidias_(10) Aphrodite and Cnidos, and Hermes and Dionysus_Praxitiles_(10) The spear bearer aka Doryphoros_Polykleitos_18.	Identify the philosophical schools from their proponents, FTPE.A.(10) Jeremy Bentham, John Stuart Mill.	A: _Utilitarianism_B.(10) Zeno, Marcus Aurelius	A: _Stoicism_C.(10) Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes	A: The _Milesian_ School (Prompt on _Pre-Socratic_)19.	Answer these questions about Ugandan rulers, ten points each.a.  President from 1962 until a coup in 1971, he crushed the "independent Buganda" movement.  He regained control after his successor fled from the Tanzanian Army, but was removed by another coup in 1985.Milton _Obote_b.  Now in exile in Saudi Arabia after fleeing the Tanzanians, this former boxer killed an estimated 300,000 during the eight year regime he began by supplanting Obote._Idi Amin_c.  Since ascending to the presidency in 1986, this man has advocated restoration of civil rights and allowed the return of the traditional kingships.  Though the people still suffer, the political situation seems relatively stable.Yoweri _Museveni_
20.	Identify these great authors from lesser known countries, for fifteen points each.a.  Called the Romanian Shakespeare, he is credited with elevating the level of Romanian letters to that of the rest of Europe.  Primarily known for his poems, although he wrote in nearly every genre, he was fervently nationalistic, and revitalized ancient Dacian themes.Mihai _Eminescu_b.  Called the Danish Moliere, as well as the father of Scandinavian Literature.  He wrote biographies, histories, poetry, essays, and novels.  Among his many comedies are "The Political Tinker", "Jeppe on the Hill", and "The Fussy Man."Luwig _Holberg_21.	It's time for fun with biological terrorism!  Identify the following toxins from descriptions.a. (5) It has been used as a weapon as far back as WWI, is primarily spread by ruminants, and thus has been called "wool-comber's disease."  When faced with inhospitable conditions, it withdraws to incredibly durable spores, capable of reviving, in theory, after thousands of years, making it the favorite of terrorists._Anthrax_b. (10) Another deadly acetylcholinesterase (a-SEAT-el-khol-in-EST-er-ace) inhibitor, it is the reason you discard canned food that hisses for more than a few seconds when the can is punctured.  This has only rarely been made useful as a weapon, due to difficulties in dispersing it. _Botulism_(acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are the most common neurotoxins)c. (15) One of the most carcinogenic and hepatotoxic substances known, this agent occurs naturally in moldy peanuts, but has never been successfully converted to a useable weapon, despite decades of research by reputable organizations like the Iraqi military._Aflatoxin_(hepatotoxins attack the liver)22.	His philosophy can be considered a break with rationalism, aligning with Schopenhauer's belief in the dominance of will over reason.  For ten points each,a.  First, name this French philosopher and professor at the College de France, winner of the 1927 Nobel Prize in Literature and author of works like "Time and Free Will" and "Creative Evolution."Henri _Bergson_b. According to Russell, Bergson's philosophy is the spiritual descendent of what swiss anti-rationalist philosopher of the enlightenment, author of "Emile", "Confessesions" and "The Social Contract."Jean-Jacques _Rousseau_c.  Bergson's dualistic philosophy holds that the world contains two opposing tendencies, the resistance of matter, and a force that he believed dominated human activity.  Name it._elan vital_ or _vital spirit_23.	A river runs through them.  Given the capitol city identify the river that runs through it for five points a piece.      a. Lisbon					Tagus      b. Vienna					Danube      c. Hanoi					Red      d. Kiev						Dnieper      e. Niamey					Niger      f. Warsaw					Vistula