TOSSUPS - TENNESSEE TECH					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1. The only extant member of the family Daubentoniidae, this nocturnal animal is brown in color and about the size of a rabbit, although an extinct relative was perhaps 5 times heavier. It is classified as an endangered species due to a projected 50%+ reduction of its population over the next ten years. Specialized features include a long, skeleton-like middle finger used to dig larvae out of dead wood and really, really large ears well suited for locating such larvae by sound.  FTP name this variety of lemur with a distinctive squirrel-like tail.	Answer: aye-aye (Daubentonia madagascariensis); prompt on lemur2. January marries May, much to the protest of May. Luckily, January is blinded, allowing May a chance to hook up with January's squire Damyan. Pluto, King of Fairyland restores January's sight in time for him to catch his wife's infidelity, but May convinces him that they weren't fornicating, merely struggling to restore January's vision. FTP identify this Canterbury Tale, told by a traveler whose wife only brought him unhappiness.	Answer: The Merchant's Tale3. Pope Urban III died within ten days of hearing the bad news. Support from the Italians disappeared when King William died before the arrival of two of the supporting kings. Frederick Barbarossa was the first to march but drowned in the River Saleph, but Philip Augustus managed to make the eastern Mediterranean shore and besiege Acre. FTP during which crusade did Richard the Lionheart do battle with Saladin for control of Jerusalem?		Answer: Third Crusade (accept Kings' Crusade; prompt on Crusades)4. He has rapped with Master P about his Fiat automobile, and sold paper shredders on the Home Shopping Network. Rambling across the country with a humility that would make Charles Kuralt blush, he has reported on everything from professional wrestling to UFO's, all the while, making fun of us Americans. FTP identify this roving reporter for BBC2, whose Weird Weekends are rebroadcast on the Bravo network.	Answer: Louis Theroux5. Though it was formally organized in this dispensation at the home of Peter Whitmer on April 6, 1830, it can trace its roots back 10 years to a boy kneeling in prayer in a grove of woods near Manchester, New York.  During that 10-year interval, the priesthood was restored and the Book of Mormon was translated.  FTP name the Salt Lake City-based church currently led by 90-yearold President Gordon B. Hinckley.	Answer: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (accept LDS, Latter-day Saints, or Mormons)6.  Pencil and paper may be required.  FTP in simplest terms, what is the value of log base 8 of 128?	Answer: 7/3 or seven-thirds or 2 and a third7. Hurdler Edwin Moses received his degree in this field from the University of Dayton. Coach Tom Landry received his degree in it from the University of Houston.  Astronaut Homer Hickam received his degree in it from Virginia Tech.  It's not too surprising that Lee Iacocca received a degree in this field from Lehigh.  FTP identify this branch of engineering which involves such topics as work methods, human factors, and statistical quality control.	Answer: industrial engineering8. In order, they are O, B, A, F, G, K, and M, from hottest to coldest.  They occupy a diagonal strip running from bottom right to top left in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram. They are essentially chemically homogeneous, and are steadily fusing hydrogen into helium in their cores. FTP, most of the stars we can easily observe are currently in what stable stage of evolution?	main sequence stars
9.  As a teen-ager, he worked as an apprentice on the anti-slavery newspaper "The Northern Indianan" which may have affected his decision to join the Union cause.  His experience in the war would mark him for life, as seen especially in his first collection, originally published as Tales of Soldiers and Civilians but later retitled In the Midst of Life - and in the biting cynicism and bitter naturalism prevalen in all his writing. "The Cynic's Word Book" was to be the name of his most famous work until his Collected Works was published and the name changed to "The Devil's Dictionary".  FTP name the author referred to by his enemies as "Almighty God," a play on his first two initials.	Answer: Ambrose G. Bierce10.	Henry T. Rainey was the Speaker of the House during it. It produced the Economy Act, which reduced the government salaries by 15%, the Glass-Steagall Act, which created the FDIC; the abandonment of the gold standard, and the authorization of the Tennessee Valley Authority. FTP give either the formal or informal name for the unprecedented special session of Congress from March 9- June 16, 1933, which also included the creation of the National Recovery Administration, the Civilian Conservation Corps and other cornerstones of FDR's New Deal?		Answer: Hundred Days or Emergency Congress (prompt on early buzz of New Deal , FDR, or 73rd Congress)11. The most common example of this type of mixture is a solution of 4.43% water and 95.57% ethyl alcohol. Constituents of such mixtures cannot be separated by ordinary distillation, but addition of another chemical may make this possible, as in the addition of benzene to the above alcohol/water solution. FTP, name this type of solution that contains the same ratio of chemical constituents after it is distilled.	Answer: azeotropic mixture12. Born in 1805 near Louisville, Kentucky, he graduated from the U.S. Military Academy in 1825 and became second lieutenant in the U.S. Army (artillery). After his most famous action, he was promoted to Brigadier  General and sent to organize Union sympathizers in his home state. FTP, name this man whose most famous battle occurred while he was still a major defending Ft. Sumter in 1861. 	Answer: Robert Anderson13. A chain of nine low-lying coral islands, it extends northeast to southwest for about 400 miles but has a population of only slightly more than 10,000. Used as a base by US forces in World War II, when it was called the Ellice Islands, its Polynesian population voted in 1974 to separate from the Micronesian-controlled Gilbert Islands.  Its most recent claim to fame has come from the $50 million leasing of its internet domain, .tv.  FTP, name this country in the South Pacific that has its capital at Funafuti.	Answer: Tuvalu14. The author drafted this work in 1917 while healing at Craiglockhart War Hospital in Edinburgh. He finished it a year later, shortly before his death. It takes place during WWI. The speaker observes through his gasmask as a soldier succumbs to poison gas, an image which punctuates the speaker's dreams. FTP identify this poem, whose title, a quote from Horace, is loosely translated "It is sweet to die for one's country."	Answer: Dulce Et Decorum Est15. Do you consider yourself an introvert or an extrovert? Carl Jung believed that although people had different backgrounds, there were only a handful of different archetypes driving how a person acted. The difference lay in one's preference for one archetype over another. In 1950, a mother and daughter took Jung's notes on the subject and devised a tool for identifying sixteen different archetypes. Since then, their test has been  administered to college students and business managers the world over. FTP, identify this test, knownby its acronym MBTI, which identifies archetypes with a series of letters, such as ISTJ or ENFP.	Answer: Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (Prompt if MBTI is given on early ring-in)
16.	QUOTE: "Let martial note in triumph float, And liberty extend its mighty hand. A flag appears 'mid thunderous cheers, The banner of the Western land." Though the words of the song are rarely heard, these lines come from a song written on Christmas Day 1896.  Its writer was the leader of a Marine band that became known as the President's Own. FTP what national march song with a distinctive piccolo line was written by John Philip Sousa?		Answer: The Stars And Stripes Forever17. An early breakthrough in this theory was made in this theory in the early 1940's when Willis Lamb and Robert Retherford showed that the energy state of the hydrogen atom had two values. This enabled physicists such as Robert Oppenheimer and Hans Bethe to remove troubling infinite terms from the equations. FTP, name this physical theory finalized by Richard Feynman, Julian Schwinger, and Sin'itiro Tomonaga that describes how electrically charged particles and electromagnetic fields interact.	Answer: Quantum Electrodynamics or QED 18. Led by Colonial Dragutin Dimitrijevic, also known as Apis, this organization also called "Union or Death" was formed in 1911.  Organized into three-to-five-member cells at the grassroots level, their goal was the creation of a Greater Serbia.  They are best known for the actions that resulted from recruiting three young men trained in bomb-throwing and marksmanship in 1914.  FTP, identify this terrorist organization held responsible for the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand by Gavrilo Princip, the immediate cause of World War One.	Answer:  Black Hand19. Born in the Ukraine Countryside on March 31, 1809, he was given his parent's surname of Ianovskii, but was later changed to claim a more noble Cossack ancestry.  After an unsuccessful attempt to publish a poem written in high school, he then turned to writing Ukrainian folklore, which was published in two volumes titled Evenings on a Farm near Dikanka.  FTP name the author known for his aggressive realism and biting satire in works such as Mirigorod and Arabesques and best known for Dead Souls.	Answer: Nikolay Vasilyevich Gogol20.	Prior to 1907, it was known as Grant University, and it remained a private Methodist-sponsored institution until 1969.  Currently a member of the Southern Conference, its more notable athletes have included longtime NBA player Gerald Wilkins and flamboyant 49ers wideout Terrell Owens.  After considerable debate over its former native American mascot, in 1997 it adopted a new mascot, a mockingbird in overalls named Scrappy.  FTP name this center of higher learning, the host of the annual Moon Pie Classic.	Answer: University of Tennessee-Chattanooga or UTCEDITOR'S NOTE: I swear I didn't write this one.  Edit a bit, yes, but write, no.21.	In 1848, Sir Henry Lumsden decided that his red felt uniform was too warm for Indian weather, so he dyed a pair of white cotton pajamas using a plant extract called mazari.  It worked so well that British colonial troops in India wore these uniquely colored uniforms that blended well with the Indian terrain.  FTP, identify this material, introduced into civilian wear by Levi's in 1906 under the Sunset label, whose name is the Hindi word for "dust-colored," and is commonly used to make pants.	Answer:  khaki22. Born in Homer, Ohio, her weekly magazine advocated vegetarianism, free love, and Socialism, among other things. It also published the first English translation of Marx and Engels' Communist Manifesto. Identify this author and editor, who ran for President in 1872, becoming the first woman to do so.	Answer: Victoria Woodhull   
23. In 1995, she won the Athlete of the Year Award in Sweden, the country's most prestigious award in sports. She has also won the Rolex Rookie of the Year award in 1994.  She also had more tournament victories than any other LPGA tour player in the 1990s.  FTP name the three-time Rolex Player of the year, who set a new 72-hole scoring record of 27-under-par to win the Standard Register PING in March of 2001.	Answer: Annika Sorenstam (Both names are necessary -- her sister, Charlotta, is also on the tour.)24. His dark, satirical plays rivaled contemporary playwright G.B. Shaw's works as far as the box office was concerned; however, this author is better known for his longer works. I guess plays such as A Man of Honour and Sheppey seem to fall to the wayside when you're the author of Liza of Lambeth. FTP identify this author of The Razor's Edge and Of Human Bondage. 	Answer: William Somerset Maugham25. Actively involved in American politics, he wrote American Power and the New Mandarins, which dealt with the Vietnam War. His transformational-generative grammar theory revolutionized the field of linguistics. He felt that the study of linguistics could be seen as a branch of cognitive psychology. FTP, identify this Professor of Modern Languages and Linguistics at MIT, author of Language and Mind, Aspects of Theory of Syntax and Syntactic Structures.	Answer: Avram Noam Chomsky
BONI - TENNESSEE TECH					MOON PIE CLASSIC 2001 - UTC1. Given a clue, identify the obscure Shakespearean character.A. In the odd induction to The Taming of the Shrew, he was a drunk tinker, abducted and made to believe he was actually a lord.	Answer:    Christopher SlyB. Quince casts this Athenian as a wall in a performance of 'Pyramus and Thisbe,' the play within a play in A Midsummer Night's Dream.	Answer:    Tom SnoutC. Name any one of two tribunes that appear at the beginning of Julius Caesar who criticize the people of Rome for forgetting Pompey. Casca tells us they were "silenced" for defacing images of Caesar.	Answer: Flavius or Marullus 2. FTPE, identify the following English battles from a description.A. It was fought on June 24, 1314 between the armies of Robert Bruce and King Edward II of England.	Answer: Battle of BannockburnB. On April 16, 1746, Scottish forces under Charles Edward Stuart had attempted to surprise the British troops by night. However, this attempt failed, and the next morning they were attacked by the British army under George II's son William Augustus, Duke of Cumberland.	Answer: Battle of Culloden MoorC. The first battle of the English Civil War, it was fought on Sunday, October 23, 1642, on an elevated ridge a few kilometers northwest of Banbury between the forces of Charles I and Robert Devereux, 3rd earl of Essex.	Answer: Battle of Edgehill3. We know what the seven wonders of the ancient world are, but can you answer the following concerning people that helped make those wonders possible? You'll get ten points for each correct answer.A. He designed and executed the construction of the Colossus of Rhodes.	Answer: Khares (Chares) of LindosB. He reconstructed the temple of Artemis at Ephesus. He went on to plan the port city of Alexandria.	Answer: Deinokrates (Dinocrates)C. This Greek architect designed the Parthenon as well as the temple to Apollo at Bassai.	Answer: Iktinos     4. Identify these elements that are found in foods and serve as nutritional supplements FTSNOP:(5) After you eat a banana you'll actually be radioactive for a short while due to high levels of this chemical element with atomic number 19.      	Answer: Potassium(5) It is found in hemoglobin and the human body contains about 4.5 grams of it. Taking supplements of it thus helps in the blood's oxygen transport function. 10-20 milligrams of it are recommended daily.      	Answer: Iron(10) About 70% of this element in the body combines with calcium in bone and tooth enamel and the remaining 30% combines with nitrogen to help the body metabolize fats and carbohydrates. One can find it in milk, legumes, nuts and grains and deficiency of it can cause rickets and osteoporosis.      	Answer: Phosphorus(10) This element is an active component of the glucose tolerance factor, which facilitates the action of insulin. The amount in standard multivitamins is plenty, but aggressive marketing has convinced many that extra amounts of its picolinate increases muscle mass and promotes weight loss.      	Answer: Chromium
5. On a 5-10-20-30 basis, name the artists of these works that can be found at the Art Institute of Chicago.A. Paris Street; Rainy Day      	Answer: Gustave CaillebotteB. The Bath      	Answer: Mary CassattC. Golden Bird      	Answer: Constantin BrancusiD.  Mao Tse-Tung      	Answer: Andy Warhol6. Over the last 40 years, Bob Dylan songs have been popular covers for other well-known artists. Identify the cover artist described by each clue, 5-10-20-30: A. Dylan was so impressed by this left-handed guitarist's version of "All Along the Watch Tower" that he started performing his arrangement of the song.	Answer: Jimi HendrixB. This "Man in Black" made "It Ain't Me Babe" a country crossover hit. 	Answer: Johnny CashC. A decade before they discovered the advisability of covering Bruce Springsteen, this group of 5 earned praise from Dylan for their renderings of songs such as "With God On Our Side" and "If You Gotta Go, Go Now, " as well as the hit "Quinn the Eskimo."	Answer: Manfred Mann (it's OK if they add the Earth Band part, although that name came later)C. In 1972 this blind Puerto Rican guitarist, who'd scored big with a cover of "Light My Fire," had a minor hit with a distinctly Hispanic version of Dylan's "Lay Lady Lay."	Answer: Jose Feliciano7. Name your poison: particles or physicists.  [PAUSE FOR CHOICE]IF PHYSICISTS:Winning a Nobel Prize in Physics might not make scientists household names, but it does make them into good trivia questions.  FTPE, identify the winner of the Nobel from a description of the contribution.A. This 1918 winner was recognized for his discovery of energy quanta.	Answer: Max PlanckB. This 1929 winner discovered the wave nature of electrons.	Answer: Prince Louis Victor de BroglieC. This 1908 winner was recognized for his method of reproducing colors photographically based on the phenomena of interference.	Answer: Gabriel LippmannIF PARTICLES:FTPE, give the fundamental charges of each of the following subatomic particles.A. muon			Answer: -1B. gluon			Answer: 0C. strange quark	Answer: +2/38. 30, 20, 10, Name the river.A. 30. It flows past Venlo and Bergen and divides into two branches. The northern branch, called the Maas River, flows northwest to join the Waal River; the southern branch empties into the North Sea.B. 20. It rises in the Langres Plateau and flows past Verdun, Sedan, and Charleville-Mizihres into BelgiumC. 10. A German objective in the Battle of the Bulge, it is joined by the Sambre River at Namur, from which it courses east to Liege, forms part of the Dutch-Belgian border, and enters the Netherlands at Maastricht.	Answer: Meuse River
9. Identify the following characters from The Lord of the Flies FTPE:10)  The twelve year old protagonist, he is elected leader of the boys, but is eventually hunted like an animal.	Answer: Ralph10)  This intellectual character has asthma.  He and the conch shell are crushed by a boulder.	Answer: Piggy prompt on Fatty10)  This leader of the choir boys turns into a cruel leader and tries to kill Ralph.	Answer: Jack10. It used to be easy to figure out who'd win the elections in Israel.  Name these political entities there on a 5-10-20-30 basis:a) Israel's current prime minister, Ariel Sharon, heads this conservative party (actually a coalition of conservative parties) whose first Prime Minister was Menachem Begin.      	Answer: Likud party.b) Begin broke the stranglehold of this party on the Israeli government, which it held for almost 30 years.		Answer: Labor party (accept Histadrut, although that's really the trade union behind it)c) For the 1999 elections, Ehud Barak cobbled together Gesher, a moderate faction within the Likud bloc, and Meimad, a breakoff from the National Religious Party, with the old Labor party to form this coalition.		Answer: One Israeld) Israel's parliamentary body, which Sharon now heads.		Answer: Knesset11. FTPE, identify the following facts from the life of William Cullen Bryant, an early American poet and newspaper editor.A. Name the New England Newspaper the Bryant was editor of from 1826 until his death in 1878.	Answer: New York Evening PostB. Name his poem that was derives its name from the Greek word for death 	Answer: ThanatopsisC. Name his 1817 poem with religious overtones directed at a passing bird.	Answer: To a Waterfowl12. On a 5-10-20-30 basis, identify the university that each set of athletes attended. Nick Anderson, Jeff George, and Simeon Rice	Answer: University of IllinoisDanny Ainge, Jim McMahon, and Wally Joyner	Answer: Brigham Young UniversityBo Jackson, Charles Barkley, and Frank Thomas	Answer: Auburn UniversityJohnny Unitas, Darrell Griffith, and Tom Jackson	Answer: University of Louisville [extra style points if they say it like Jackson does on NFL Prime Time]13. Identify the following terms associated with glaciers FTPE.10) After the ice retreats, these steep-walled valleys, which maintain a U-shaped profile, are flooded with seawater. They are prominent along the coasts of Alaska, British Columbia, and Norway.	 fjords10) An accumulation of rocky, sandy, and clayey material carried by the ice or deposited as till. They are named according to their position relative to the glacier.	moraine10) A sinuous ridge composed largely of sand and gravel deposited by a stream flowing in a tunnel beneath a glacier near its terminus.	eskers
14. Identify the following terms from linguistics.A. The study of the rules governing the way words are combined to form sentences in a language.	Answer: syntax (syntactics)B. The study of the structure or forms of words through the study of inflections and word formation.	Answer: morphologyC. The study of the sound of languages, how the patterns of distinctive sounds form in a language.	Answer: phonology15. Did you know the National Park Service actually lists 5 Civil War battlefields in North Dakota?  All 5 were U.S. forces vs. the Sioux, with no Confederate forces involved.  F5PE, identify the present day state where each of the following sets of Civil War battles actually involving Confederates were fought.A. Roan's Tan Yard, Newtonia, Fort Davidson, and Wilson's Creek	Answer: MissouriB. Corinth, Iuka, Port Gibson, and Brice's Crossroads	Answer: MississippiC. St. John's Bluff, Santa Rosa Island, and Olustee	Answer: FloridaD.  Bulls Gap, Stones River, Fort Henry, Fort Donelson	Answer: TennesseeE.  Wyse Fork, Goldsborough Bridge, Kinston, and Bentonville	Answer: North CarolinaF. Valverde and Glorieta Pass	Answer: New Mexico16.	Let's see what you know about Alexander Dumas' The Count of Monte Cristo.  FTPE:10) Who has the alias the Count of Monte Cristo when he discovers the treasure hidden on the island?		Answer: Edmund Dantes10) This is the man that tells him of the treasure on the island while they are both imprisoned in Chateau d'If.		Answer: Abbe Faria10) She is the object of Edmund's affections and his fiance when the story begins.		Answer: Mercedes17. FTPE, give the common names of the following chemicals.A. C4H6				Answer: butadieneB. Na2B4O77 (dot)10H2O			Answer: boraxC. CH3CHOHCOOH	Answer: lactic acid18. Identify the following FTSNOP:A. FTP, this group of men went on trial in September 1969 for "conspiring to cross state lines with the intent to incite a riot" at the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago.	Answer: The Chicago Seven  [do not accept Chicago Eight; they never went to trial as a group]B. F5PE, name any four of the Chicago Seven:	Answer: David Dellinger, Tom Hayden, Rennie Davis, Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin, John Froines, or Lee Weiner (accept any 4)
19.	What is the sound of one hand clapping? Luckily, this bonus won't ask you to break apart the universe through interpretations of koans, but it will ask you to answer some questions about a few authors who made Zen philosophy popular in the West.A. (5pts) This author of The Spirit of Zen and The Book: On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are was one of the first Western authors to tackle Zen. His works directly affected the works of several Beat authors.	Answer:    Alan WattsB. (10pts) This author of the Manual of Zen Buddhism and A History of Zen Buddhism was a lecturer on Zen at Columbia University. His works influenced Alan Watts, whose works are said to be watered down versions of this author's works.	Answer:    D.T. SuzukiC. (15pts) He was an unsuccessful court reporter who attended the lectures of D.T. Suzuki. Inspired by Suzuki, he sold everything he had to move to a Zen monastery in Japan. His Three Pillars of Zen was many Westerners' first introduction to the paradoxical teachings of Zen masters.	Answer:    Philip Kapleau20.	FTPE identify the following terms from the field of probability.A. A term from set theory, two or more events are said to be this if their intersection is the null event.	Answer: mutually exclusiveB. Calculated by taking the square root of the variance of a random variable, this quantity has the same units as the random variable.	Answer: standard deviationC. Two events are said to be this if knowledge of the occurrence of one event does not alter the probability of the other.	Answer: independent events21.	Krypto, Superman's loyal dog, has been recently reintroduced to the comic book world. Of course, back in the fifties and sixties, Krypto wasn't the only pet at the Fortress of Solitude. FTPE, given the description, identify the superpet.A. When exposed to the chunk of Kryptonite-X hidden in his yarn ball, this cat had all of the powers of a Kryptonian. He fought alongside Supergirl as Supercat.	Answer:    StreakyB. Originally a Greek centaur cursed to spend eternity as a horse he basically served as a pack animal to the Super Family. Nicknamed Super-Horse, he also had the weird ability to become a human whenever a certain heavenly body was in the sky.	Answer:    CometC. In the fifties, Batman also got into the superpet routine adopting this dog as Bat-Hound. Recently, he has been reintroduced to a new generation of Batman fans as Bruce Wayne's companion in the WB show Batman Beyond.	Answer:    Ace22.	Not to make a big deal about it, but you will receive 10 points for each of the following microfabrication acronyms that you can correctly identify.A. MEMS	Answer: MicroElectroMechanical SystemB. RIE	Answer: Reactive Ion EtchC. LPCVD	Answer: Low Pressure Chemical Vapor Deposition
23. FTP each, identify the scientist from the occupation and the Latin title of one of his works.A. Court physician to James I and Charles I, De Motu Cordis	Answer: William HarveyB. Contemplating the greatness and the misery of man as a member of the Port Royal Jansenist society, Pensees sur la religion et sur quelques autres sujets	Answer: Blaise PascalC. Canon of the Frauenberg cathedral, De revolutionibus orbium coelestium	Answer: Nicolaus Copernicus24. FTPE, identify the term from the field of small business management.A. A woman who starts her own business after her family is grown or when she can free herself from household duties	Answer: housewife refugeeB. A marketing system in which one party conducts business as an individual owner according to methods and terms specified by the other party	Answer: franchisingC. A seller's measure of what he or she is willing to receive in exchange for transferring ownership or use of a product or service	Answer: price25.	In 1957 Eugene O'Neill won a posthumous Pulitzer Prize for A Long Day's Journey Into Night.  He won three other Pulitzers before he died. FTP each, identify the play from the year it won the prize.A. 1921	Answer: Beyond the HorizonB. 1922	Answer: Anna ChristieC. 1928	Answer: Strange Interlude