TOSSUPS -- FLORIDA C.C.JACKSONVILLE A		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UTC 1. 	When he succumbed to AIDS in 1984, he was working on the third and final volume of his History of Sexuality, The Care of the Self. Earlier works had discussed madness, prisons, and the history of science, all in distinctively poetic style, all drawing highly controversial conclusions. FTP, name this French philosopher, author of Discipline and Punish. Answer:	 Michel Foucault 2 	This eccentric science fiction writer was obsessed with dark-haired girls, suspected that the CIA had trashed his apartment, and claimed that a beam of pink light was educating him in ancient languages at night. The pink beam inspired the novel Valis, and a sprawling mess of notes unfinished at his death in 1982 tentatively titled Exegesis. FTP, identify this paranoid, drug addled, unquestioned genius of the sci-fi genre, whose forty-odd pulp fiction novels include Solar Lottery,The Man in the High Castle, and Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep---the last the basis of the movie Bladerunner? Answer:	 Philip K Dick 3.	This man became king of the Anshan in the mid-sixth century BC, and fell in batle with nomadic tribes in 529. In that brief space of time, he broke the power of the Medes and Lydians and united the Persian tribes into a mighty nation. FTP, identify this man, spoken of approvingly in the Bible because of his tolerance, but considered great by virtually everybody. Answer:	 Cyrus the Great or Cyrus I 4.	Personally fond of fine resturants and Eastern art, this somewhat hypocritical philosopher's writings stressed chastity, voluntary poverty, and fasting, whatever served to break down the individual will. Will has no fixed end but constantly strives and is never satiated, so dissociation from its aims is our best refuge. FTP, identify this German pessimist and author of The World as Will and Representation, who in a less dissociated state of mind once threw an elderly seamstress down a flight of stairs.Answer:	 Arthur Schopenhauer 5.	Louis the 14th was so impressed with this young Dutchman's scientific prowess that he invited him to oversee all French scientific research. This prodigy had discovered the polarization of light in calcite, invented the first effective pendulum clock, and was the first man to correctly interpret Saturn's ring system. FTP, identify this man, famous for his wave theory of light and considered by some experts to be the equal of Newton as a mathematical physicist? Answer:	 Christian Huygens 6.	This man's second novel, Giovanni's Room, was originally rejected because of its homosexual theme. His last effort, The Evidence of Things Not Seen was panned by critics because of its inflammatory theory about a wave of child murders that took place in Atlanta. FTP, identify this writer whose career saw better days, including the acclaimed bestsellers The Fire Next Time, and Go Tell it On the Mountain. Answer:	 James Baldwin 7.	 When the Holy Roman Emperor Henry the Sixth died suddenly in 1197, his three-year old son's right to a kingdom was dutifully protected by the ultra-orthodox Pope Innocent the Third. That may have been a bad idea, as the young man refused to fight in any bloody crusades, was keenly interested in Moslem thought and culture, and was quite possibly an atheist. FTP, identify this intelligent and humane man, whose neglect of German power politics however, led directly to that nation's disintegration. Answer:	 Emperor Frederick the Second 
8.	Some of the greatest writers in history, including Balzac, Rabelais, Sartre, and Stendhal, have had the dubious distinction of joining this Vatican literary club. Last published in 1948, it was in actuality only declared inoperative in 1966, following the liberalizing Second Vatican Council. FTP, identify this list, first begun by Pope Paul the Fourth in 1559, of books declared off limits for Catholics because of their their blasphemous and/or ribald content. Answer:	 Index Librorum Prohibitorum, or Index of Banned (or Forbidden) Books9.	When matrices were invented even their discoverer saw no practical use for them, but this man took a class in them at Breslau anyway.  When Heisenberg introduced his new multiplication scheme for quantum mechanics, this man got physical and realized it was just matrix multiplication.  Despite his enhancement of Heisenberg's work, he was bypassed by the Nobel committee in 1932 and 1933, finalyy getting his prize in 1954 for his statistical interpretation of Schrodinger's equation.  FTP name this physical chemist, who by now you should know was also the grandfather of Olivia Newton-John.Answer:	Max Born10.	Anyone question the necessity of the American Revolution? Then explain the career of this retread, whom the British Government actually appointed colonial governor of Virginia in 1692.  He'd already been bitterly criticized for his high-handedness as governor of New York before an even more contentious stint as governor of the Dominion of New England.  FTP name this hack, shipped back to England by the people of Boston when they received news of the Glorious Revolution in 1688. Answer:	 Sir Edmund Andros 11 	The term refers to members of two completely diffferent families.  North American or scale-leaved varieties belong to the cypress family, while those in the Eastern Hemisphere are needle-leaved members of the pine family.  North American varieties include Alaska, Port Orford, Atlantic white, and Eastern red.  Among the Old World varieties are the deodar, the Atlas, and the Lebanon.  FTP name these fragrant evergreens.Answer:	cedars12. Purists will tell you that his Sun Sessions recorded with Sam Phillips were superior to any of his many #1 singles. Film critics will tell you that he showed real promise in King Creole but never got a chance to branch out.  Colonel Tom Parker could have told you that his boy loved his mother Gladys, gave away too many Cadillacs, and wolfed down too many fried peanut butter and banana sandwiches. FTP, identify this singer of Burning Love, It's Now or Never, and Hound Dog. Answer:	 Elvis Aron Presley (Elvis is ok) 13. Born in Andernach, Germany, to a harsh and violent father, this Beat writer dropped out of LA Community College in the 1940's and spent the next few decades on Skid Rows drinking, fighting, and messing up relationships and writing dozens of poems and novels about the above activities. FTP identify the cult author of the novels Ham on Rye and Post Office. Answer:	 Charles Bukowski 14. This nation was first populated by the Guarani Indians before the arrival of the White Man in the 16th century. Half of its population and much of its territory was lost in the disastrous War of the Triple Alliance of 1865-1870, and a century later thousands of countrymen disappeared during the 18 years of authoritarian rule by General Alfredo Stroessner. FTP, identify this country, the only one with a two-sided flag and whose capital city is Asuncion.Answer:	 Paraguay
15. The son of an industrious peasant, this man was apprenticed to the Florentine painter Cimabue in the late 13th century. Working in the church of St Francis of Assisi, he combined the flat-patterns and emotional charge of his master's work with rounded forms highly influened by Roman sculpture. FTP, name this painter, often considered the Father of Western painting, whose works include The Death of St Francis and The Meeting of Joachim and Anna. Answer:	 Giotto 16. . Virtually every seasoned brain bowl player knows that the Earth's mantle is seperated from its crust by some doohickey called the Mohorovicic discontinuity. A slightly greater challenge might be to supply the name, FTP, of the term for the seperation of the earth's mantle from the outer core; if you could afford one, saying a prayer out of a copy of the first printed Bible couldn't hurt.Answer:	 Gutenberg Discontinuity17. An obese, gluttinous Englishman of enormous physical strength, this Great Cham of literature was virtually blind. Nonetheless, Adam Smith pronounced him the best-read man he had ever encountered, and his literary criticism was marked by an astonishing erudition that some people found pretentious. FTP, identify this man, author of the play Rasselas and of the famous Dictionary, and immortalized by his friend Boswell. Answer:	 Samuel Johnson (accept Doctor Johnson)  18. Amneris also loves Radames, but circumstantial evidence and her searing jealousy cause her to accuse him of high treason. Sealed in a tomb, his understandable misery is abated by the sweet voice of his true love, whom has slipped past the guards to perish with him. FTP, identify this african slave girl with a serious codependency problem, subject of an 1871 opera by Giuseppi Verdi. Answer:	 Aida 19.	She studied reptiles and amphibians at college in the 1920's, but an impressive photographic study of Cornell University's campus led to a career as a hotshot photographer for Life magazine. A book-length photoessay on Russian industry,a famous photograph of Gandhi at his spinning wheel, and a marriage to writer Erskine Caldwell followed. FTP, name this woman, most famous for the 1937 book You Have Seen their Faces. Answer:	 Margaret Bourke-White 20.	Literary critics say that the character Snowball in the Orwell novel Animal Farm represents him. A pickaxe blow by Ramon Mercader ended his life in Coyocan, Mexico in 1940. FTP, identify this important Communist theorist and agitator, a leader in Russia's October Revolution of 1917, and later the leader of the opposition to Stalin?Answer:	 Leon Trotsky21 	This future president watched the Battle of Bunker Hill while holding his mother's hand. A brilliant student at Harvard, he served as Madison's secretary to Russia in 1809--just in time to see Napoleon's Grand Army invade. FTP, provide the name of America's sixth president, who received fewer popular votes than Andrew Jackson in 1824 and who served a mediocre single term--just like his dad. Answer:	 John Quincy Adams 22.	A cloud-buster gun that could make it rain. Character Armor that reflexively covers up one's anxieties. Orgone energy that causes the flickering of the stars. FTP, identify this man, expelled from both the Communist party and Freud's psycho-analytic movement for the above maverick ideas, and for his book The Mass Psychology of Fascism, which suggested that the Nazi movement was the inevitable outcome of sexual repression. Answer:	 Wilhelm Reich
BONI -- FLORIDA C.C.JACKSONVILLE A		MOON PIE CLASSIC 2000 -- UTC1.	 FTP each, identify the famous woman from a brief description 1)	 The publication of her book Silent Spring is generally acknowledged as the beginning of the modern environmental movement. Answer:	 Rachel Carson 2)	The influential psychobiographer whose works included No Man Knows My History (about Joseph Smith) and the biography of Jefferson that brought the whole Sally Hemings question to light. Answer:	 Fawn Brodie 3)	The zoologist who began her study of chimpanzees by the shores of Lake Tanganyika in the 1960's. Answer:	 Jane Goodall 2 FTP each, identify the phobic neurosis from a brief description 1. an undue fear of open or public spaces Answer:	 agoraphobia 2. an undue fear of death Answer:	 thanatophobia 3. an undue fear of the number thirteen Answer:	 triskaidekaphobia 3:Given a brief definition of a philosophical concept, FTP supply the term. 1)	 knowledge prior to and independent of sense experience Answer:	 a priori 2)	 referring to knowledge founded on experience, observations, or facts Answer:	 empirical or empiricism 3)	the medieval theory that objects lack essences and that definitions refer merely to the names which we attach to things Answer:	 nominalism 4.	 Think you know Science Fiction? FTP each, identify the prominent sci-fi writer from a list of novels1. Friday, Stranger in a Strange land, Starship Troopers. Answer:	 Robert Heinlein2. Nova, Dhalgren, Stars in My Pockets Like Grains of Sand Answer:	 Samuel Delany3. Behold the Man! The Cornelius Chronicles, Elric of Melnibone Answer:	 Michael Moorcock5	 Given a historical event, give the date of its occurrence for 10 points, or 5 if you are within 20 years. 1. Muhammed's Hegira from Mecca to Medina Answer:	 622 AD (5 pts for 602-642 AD)2.The fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks Answer:	 1453 AD (5 pts for 1433 - 1473 AD) 3. England's first Reform Bill Answer:	 1832 (5 pts for 1812 - 1852)
6.	FTP each, identify the prominent scientific law from a brief description 1)	 it is impossible to specify completely the position and momentum of a particle, such as an electron Answer:	 Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle 2)	Electric current is directly proportional to the potential difference and inversely proportional to resistance Answer:	 Ohm's Law 3)	Pressure in fluid is transmitted equally in all directions Answer:	 Pascal's Law 7.	FTP each, identify the famous African-Americans from the brief description 1)	 She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Cornell, but was unable to find a teaching job. She became an editor of the NAACP magazine The Crisis, and wrote four novels about black women from upper-crust families including The Chinaberry Tree Answer:	 Jesse Fauset 2)	 "Up you mighty race!" boomed this black nationalist, founder of the United Negro Improvement Association, but later deported to his native Jamaica. Answer:	 Marcus Garvey 3)	 This prolific conservative economic writer, perhaps the foremost American social theorist of any shade, is the author of The Economics and Politics of Race, Migrations and Culture, and The Vision of the Annointed Answer:	 Thomas Sowell 8.	Given a description, name the genetic diseases on a 5-10-15 basis.5: This genetic disorder is also called trisomy 21.  It is a major cause of mental retardation and occurs about once in every 800 births.A: _DOWN_'s Syndrome10: A syndrome occurring in men with an extra X chromosome, it usually expresses itself by sparse or abset body hair, some breast development, and small penis and testes.A:	KLINEFELTER's Syndrome15: This disorder occurs with equal frequency among both boys and girls, and is present at birth.  It results in mental retardation and, often, heart problems.  Children with the disorder tend to be very sweet-natured and have a great love for music.A: _WILLIAMS_ Syndrome9.	 FTP each, identify the Crusade from a brief description 1)	 The Venetians somehow convinced the Crusaders to sack Constantinople, a Christian city. Answer:	 The Fourth Crusade2)	 Bernard of Clairvaux stirred Europe up after the Turks took Edessa, but the ultimate result was a string of miserable military failures including an unsuccessful siege of Damascus. Answer:	 The Second Crusade 3)	Frederick Barbarossa drowned, Richard Couer de Lion was captured, and Philip Augustus had the good sense to quit while ahead. Answer:	 The Third Crusade 10	FTP each, identify the prominent author from a brief description 1)	 this self-taught midget was a great English verse satirist and author of the Dunciad. Answer:	 Alexander Pope 2)  This man's cynical plays, including The Way of the World, are considered high points of Restoration comedy. Answer:	 William Congreve 3)	 This Irishman wrote a biography of Oscar Wilde, but is better known for his fascinating if unreliable memoir, My Life and Loves. Answer:	 Frank Harris 
11.	When scientist A advances a theory, they deserve credit, but scientist B also deserves credit for verifying it.  FTPE answer the following about the laws of thermodynamics:a)	He verified the first law of thermodynamics by making the first accurate determination of the mechanical equivalent of heat.Answer: 	James Jouleb) He sought a mathematical description for hte 2nd law and in 1877 described the relation between entropy and probability with the equation S = k log W.Answer:	Ludwig Boltzmannc) Franz Eugene Simon answered the last remaining objections to the 3rd law by showing that it was obeyed even at temperatures below 1 degree Kelvin -- a nice touch, since this man, who proposed the 3rd law, had been Simon's Ph.D. advisor.Answer:	Walter Nernst12   FTP each, identify the artist given one of their works. 1. Max Schmitt in a Single Scull Answer:	 Thomas Eakins 2. Rain, Steam and Speed Joseph Turner 3. Saint Martin and the Beggar El Greco or, Theotocopoulos if you must13 	Some world capitals are just fun to pronounce.  FFPE, given the country, name its capital city. 1. Uruguay 				Answer:	Montevideo 2. Madagascar 			Answer:	 Antananarivo 3. Myanmar 				Answer:	 Yangon [oh, all right, accept Rangoon]4. Macedonia 				Answer:	 Skopje 5. Georgia 				Answer:	 Tbilisi 6. Burkina Faso 			Answer:	 Ouagadougou14 	Britain has a number of well-respected authors working right now. Here's three of them.  Given some works, name them on a 10-5 basis.1)  10: "Filth" and "The Maribou Stork Nightmares"     5: "The Acid House" and "Trainspotting"     A: Irvine _WELSH_2)  10: "Pale View of Hills" and "An Artist of the Floating World"     5: "The Remains of the Day"     A: Kazuo _ISHIGURO_3)  10: "The Ebony Tower" and "The Collector"     5: "The Magus" and "The French Lieutenant's Woman"     A: John _FOWLES_15	 FTP each, identify the pope from a brief description 1)	He employed Michelangelo to paint the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Answer:	 Julius the Second 2)	 His oration at Clermont marked the beginning of the Crusades Answer:	 Urban the Second 3)	He forced Henry the Fourth to do penance at Canossa. Gregory the Seventh or Hildebrand 
16.	FTP each, identify the earth science term from a brief description 1)	a rock layer that can store a large amount of ground water Answer:	 Aquifer 2)	a sedimentary rock that contains smooth rock fragments held together by natural cement Answer:	 conglomerate 3)	The wide tidal part of a coastal river, close to the mouth, where fresh water mixes with ocean water Answer:	 estuary 17.	American politics -- always colorful bonus fodder.  FTP each, identify these 19th century examples: 1)	 This "Continental liar from the state of Maine" was a corrupt Speaker of the House for a decade, and lost the 1884 Presidential election to Grover Cleveland. Answer:	 James G. Blaine 2)	This Great Compromiser's American system was an ambitious program of internal improvements. Answer:	 Henry Clay 3)	 A liberal Democratic governor of Illinois, he ruined his career by pardoning men convicted in the Haymarket Square Riot and protesting federal troops that broke up the Pullman strike of 1894. Answer:	John Altgeld 18.	FTP each, given the name of a few musical pieces, identify the composer 1)	 Polonaise-Fantasie, Revolutionary Etude, opus #2 Answer:	 Frederick Chopin 2)	Idomeneo, Cossi fan Tutte, Jupiter Answer:	 Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart 3)	 Tannhauser Lohengrin Parsifal Answer:	 Richard Wagner 19.	FTP each, identify the musical artist from the title of a few singles 1)	 Please Please Me, Michelle,  Eleanor RigbyAnswer:	 The Beatles 2)	 All Apologies, Come as You Are, Heart Shaped Box Answer:	 Nirvana 3)	 Queen of Hearts , The Sweetest Thing, Love's Been a Little Bit Hard on Me Answer:	 Juice Newton 20.	 Identify the author given some works. 30 points on the first try, 20 on the second, etc... 30)	 England in 1819, Masques of Anarchy 20)	 Adonais, Ozymandias 10)	 Ode to the West Wind, To a Skylark Answer:	 Percy Bysshe Shelley 21	Identify the year of US History for 30 points on the first clue, 20 on the second, and 10 on the last: 1)	 Professiona Baseball's National League established 2)	 George Custer and men massacred at Little Big Horn, Montana 3)	 Democrat Samuel Tilden outpolls Republican Rutherford B Hayes but loses the presidential election anyway Answer:	 1876 