Moon Pie 2003Shootout B1. Gaining influence during the Cultural Revolution, they twice purged Deng Xiaoping. Founded by Jiang Quing, they were formed after the 9th Party Congress in 1969 and received their name from Mao himself. The other members were Zhang Chunqiao, Yao Wenyuan and Wang Hongwen. In 1980, they were tried in court for anti-party activities and all imprisoned. This is, FTP, what group of radical members of the Chinese communist party, named for the number of members they had, for whom Mao was considered a fifth member.a. Answer:	 The Gang of Four2. Shortly after his birth, his mother sent him into hiding, where he was cared for by Bodhmall, a druid, and Liath Luachra, a warrior and trainer. He was given an extensive education by these two women, and then returned to society. He met a poet at the river Boyne and studied under him for seven years. Shortly after, he avenged his father's death by leading the Fianna and killing Goal mac Morn. FTP, name this catcher of the Salmon of Knowledge and linchpin of Irish lore.a. Answer:	  Fionn mac Cumhail, or Finn MacCool, or Finn MacCoul (accept similar pronunciations)3. Some legends say that he presented himself as a superior to Artemis as a hunter, his boasting leading to his unfortunate fate. Others claim he tried to ravish the goddess, but most say this grandson of Cadmus and son of Aristaeus and Autonoe unintentionally walked in on Artemis and her nymphs bathing. FTP, name this hunter, trained by Chiron, who was turned into a stag and killed by his own dogs.a. Answer:	 Actaeon4. This Renaissance painter burned many of his paintings following criticism that they were too sensual, often employing nude female forms. Inspired by classical mythology, he defended his work as having Christian themes, arguing that the classical figures represented Christian teachings.  Major works include the Annunciation, Calumny, Madonna del Magnificat, Adoration of the Magi, and Allegory of Spring. All of them can be found in the Uffizi gallery in the room named after, FTP, this artist, along with his Birth of Venus.a. Answer:	 Sandro Botticelli5. Pope Clement V and King Philip IV of France may have been cursed by the last grand master of this group, Jacques Molay. In 1314, Molay reportedly told the two to "meet him at the Judgment Seat of God" as they ordered a stake burning of Molay and other leaders of the order; both died later that year. With rules drawn up by Bernard of Clairvaux, it was organized in Palestine in 1118, and by the late thirteenth century, its members served as bankers to major kings. FTP, identify the religious community, given land in Jerusalem by King Baldwin II on a famous ancient site.a. Answer: Knights Templar (or Templars or Poor Fellow Soldiers of Christ and the Temple of Solomon)    6. An enchanter turns her into an ugly woman in the second half of the story in which she appears. According to one character, she is "a stout-built sturdy wench, who could pitch the bar as well as any young fellow in the parish." To the main character, however, she is idealized as a woman whose "forehead is the Elysian fields" and whose "lips are two coral portals that guard her teeth of Oriental pearl." FTP, name this peasant from the town of Toboso, born Aldonza Lorenzo, who is elevated to goddess-like status by Don Quixote.a. Answer: Dulcinea del Toboso7. Lucan's epic Bellum Civile is often called by a name derived from this battle. Taking place near a city in Thessaly more than eighty-five years before Lucan's birth, it was the last obstacle to Julius Caesar's total control of the Republic. Although his infantry was outnumbered and the enemy had a large advantage in cavalry, Caesar was able to anticipate and neutralize an outflanking cavalry maneuver led by Titus Labenius. Eventually, the experience of Caesar's Gallic war veterans turned the battle in his favor, and Pompey fled to Egypt where he was later killed. FTP, what is this 48BC battle at which Caesar routed Pompey.a. Answer: Pharsalus8. It is the basis for a type of spectroscopy that can be used to determine the oxidation state and coordination of iron. Pound, Rebka, and Snyder made use of this effect in the Harvard Tower experiment which confirmed the prediction of gravitational redshift, since the associated radiation has very high resolution. Occuring when no phonons are emitted or absorbed, it was first observed using iridium nuclei set in crystal lattices. FTP, what is this recoil-free emission of gamma radiation?a. Answer: Mossbauer effect9. He quickly rose through the political ranks in his country: mayor of Concepcion in 1955; governor of Tarlac province in 1959; secretary-general of the Liberal Party in 1966. However, he was labeled a communist by the regime in power, and sentenced to death. That sentence was commuted, but when he returned to his native land in 1983, military forces under the direction of Ferdinand Marcos assassinated him. FTP, who was this Philippine opposition leader, whose widow Corazon took up the cause and became president herself?a. Answer: Benigno S. Aquino10. The titular character is robbed of his gold and suddenly finds a golden haired child in its place.  He undergoes transition from being a member of a religious community, to being a miserly weaver, to being a loving adoptive father to Eppie, the girl he finds as a 2 year-old child and raises as his own daughter.  First published in 1861, this is, FTP, what shortest novel of George Eliot? a. Answer:	 Silas Marner11. This process starts with the exposure of plasma to tissue factor, which in turn encourages vascular constriction. Next, thrombin activates platelets, which form a platelet plug. This then turns into a fibrin mesh, and is later dissolved by plasmin.  Also termed hemostasis, this is FTP, what processes, an inability to do which is the cause of hemophilia. a. Answer:	 Coagulation (accept Clotting)12. After taking a civil service exam in 1906 and finishing poorly in economics, he commented, probably accurately, that he knew more about the subject than his examiners. He theorized that aggregate demand determined aggregate output and employment and believed price flexibility did little to cure unemployment. FTP, name this economist, who believed in the possibility of using government fiscal and monetary policy to help eliminate recessions and control economic booms.a. Answer:	 John Maynard Keynes13. This city is the home to Tribhuvan University, which was established in 1959. According to official records, it was founded in 723 CE, but over one thousand years later it was captured by Prithvi Narayan Shah, king of the Gurkhas. Isolated for centuries, an all-weather road connecting it to northern India was completed in 1956. FTP, what city, located 65 miles north of the Indian border at the southern foothills of the Himalayas, is the capital of Nepal?a. Answer: Kathmandu (or Katmandu)14. In this play, "Abram's happiness" is the name given to the fortune amassed by the title character. A refusal to pay taxes leads to a confiscation of his property, and the protagonist embarks on a revenge-laden spree of violence. He teaches his daughter Abigail to confiscate gold from the property, now owned by nuns, but when Abigail decides to become a nun herself, the protagonist murders the entire convent by sending them poisoned rice. FTP, Barabbas allies himself with the Turks but ends up falling in a bubbling cauldron in what 1589 Christopher Marlowe work?a. Answer: The Jew of Malta15. Its namesake delta has radically changed over the last thousand years, as detritus, the climate, wind, and conditioning forces of the nearby sea have altered it. Rising in the Val Padana basin, it is located almost entirely in one country, and nearly a third of the population of that country live in its region of cultivation. Nearly 650 kilometers long, it splits into a delta near Ferrara, and offshoots as far away as Bologna (Boh-lone-yuh). This is, FTP, what longest river of Italy. a. Answer:	 The Po river16. This constant was used to explain the so-called 'ultraviolet catastrophe' resulting from the Rayleigh-Jeans law for blackbody radiation. Dividing it by 2 pi gives Dirac's constant, the quantum of angular momentum, and the concepts behind it were the basis for Einstein's Nobel Prize. For 10 points, name this physical constant, often denoted h, which appears in all quantum mechanical equations.a. Answer:	 Planck's Constant17. His resume includes truck driver, janitor, hot dog vendor, adult education teacher, radio show host, jail librarian, short film producer, and security guard. Although he's only 31 years old, he looks more like 80, and his head tastes like a peanut. Perhaps his funniest quote is "Can you really execute people in a local jail?" By one count, he has narrowly escaped death 18 times, including from an exploding Gremlin car. This is, FTP, what Simpsons character, leader of the Kingdom of the Moles?a. Answer:	 Hans Moleman18. Created as the successor to NCP, this protocol was defined in RFC 793. RFC 801 discusses the transition to it, which was to be completed by January 1, 1983. The primary difference between NCP and it was a tolerance for packet loss. This is, FTP, what protocol, often paired with the Internet Protocol.a. Answer:	 Transmission Control Protocol (Do not accept TCP/IP) 19. 'The Golden Age', 'the Last Generation', and 'Earth and the Overlords' are the titles of the three sections of the book. It opens during the Cold War, when gigantic alien spaceships appear over all of Earth's major cities. By the novel's end, Jan Rodricks is the last living human, and is present to see the final consumption of earth as the rest of humanity evolves to a higher plane of existence. This is FTP what book, whose title refers to that evolution, originally published in 1953 and written by Arthur C. Clarke? a. Answer:	 Childhood's End20. It includes a pair of dwarves named Antlia, discovered in 1997, and an interacting pair known as Fornax A. About one megaparsec in radius, another of its approximately thirty members is M33, an average-sized spiral, and it will probably end up falling into the Virgo Cluster. Including the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds, FTP, identify this small cluster of gravitationally bound galaxies dominated by Andromeda and our own Milky Way.a. Answer: Local Group21. A proposed two-mile long bridge over this body of water is expected to cost five billion dollars and would be the longest suspension bridge in the world. Called the Fretum Siculum in ancient times, a ferry service now operates between Villa San Giovanni and the city that shares its name. Lying directly on a fault line, earthquakes in 1783 and 1908 killed thousands in its adjoining cities, and its tidal current and whirlpools made it the basis for the twin terrors of Scylla and Charybdis. FTP, identify this strait that separates the tip of Calabria in mainland Italy from Sicily.a. Answer: Strait of Messina22. 
An isomorphism exists between the Klein-Beltrami model and his namesake hyperbolic disk model. He developed the theory of automorphic functions, and introduced the first homotopy group. He won the Birthday Competition with a memoir which gave the first descriptions of homoclinic points and chaotic motion in discussing the three-body problem. The cousin of a Third Republic President, FTP, name this Frenchman who conjectured that every simply connected closed 3-manifold is homeomorphic to the 3-sphere.a. Answer: Jules Henri Poincaré (pwan-kah-RAY)23. Often related to early childhood anxiety, it manifests itself in two phases: stupor and agitation. During the stuporous phase, patients are not responsive to stimuli around them, but often repeat sounds and exhibit cerea flexibilitas, or a holding of postures for extended periods of time. FTP, identify this type of psychosis whose agitated phase features purposeless speech patterns and violent behavior, and is now considered a form of schizophrenia.a. Answer: catatonia (or catatonic schizophrenia)24. Divided into two sections by the Rokko Mountain Range, it has a 3-tier structure, with the Port of Hyogo and an industrial zone along the coast, residential areas on the hillsides, and mixed residential and commercial areas in the intermediate zone between the mountains and the sea. Located roughly in the center of Honshu, FTP, is this major Japanese city that was hit hard by a 1995 earthquake.a. Answer:	 Kobe, Japan.25. He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1994 NHL Draft by the Quebec Nordiques, but he spent five seasons with Pardubice (PAR-doo-bits) in the Czech Republic. He scored three points in his first NHL Game versus the Ottawa Senators, and in the 1999 playoffs, he scored two overtime goals, becoming the first rookie since 1939 to do so. A 40-goal scorer in 2000-2001, FTP, name this Colorado Avalanche right winger, the only player in the league to light the lamp 50 times this season.a. Answer: Milan Hejduk (HAY-dook)26. He grew up in Bensonhurst with his mother Adela and his stepfather Deke, who often beat them both. At age sixteen, he went to work for Joe Scully, who murdered Deke for him, and he saw his real father Mike at a racetrack when he was 21. First appearing on-screen in 1993, he owned the Paradise Lounge Strip Club, where he took in Stone Cates and convinced Karen Wexler to become a stripper. A car crash with Brenda Barrett led to a love affair, and he moved up in the mob world. Now married to Carly Spencer, FTP, identify this Port Charles gang lord, played by Maurice Benard on General Hospital.a. Answer: Sonny Corinthos27. Counter-arguments to this include the possibility that more than one God exists, or the idea that the probability god exists is zero, in the case of strict atheists, or undefined, based on the fact that we have no information of the presence of absence of a God. Derived from game theory, it likens religious belief to a gamble. FTP, name this argument found in the Pensees that rationalizes belief in monotheism on the basis that wagering for God either yields infinite reward or no penalty.a. Answer:	 Pascal's Wager28. He served as minister of education in 1920, but his collaboration with Giovanni Gentile (jen-TEE-lay) ended with the rise of fascism. In 1903, he founded La Critica, a journal of cultural criticism, in which he published nearly all of his philosophical writings. He wrote Historical Materialism and the Ethics of Karl Marx, but his most famous work divides the universal spirit into four qualities: intuitive, conceptual, vital, and moral. FTP, what native of Naples published the four-volume Philosophy of the Spirit?a. Answer: Benedetto Croce (CROW-chay)