TOSSUPS - SOUTH FLORIDA/RUTGERS C       MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Robert Fernandez with Rutgers C1. He was killed in a duel with a naval officer whose reinstatement he prevented.  He first came to prominence as a lieutenant in what Lord Nelson called "the most bold and daring act of the age," the destruction in Tripoli harbor of the captured frigate Philadelphia.  In the War of 1812, his ship the President was captured running the British blockade of New York Harbor, though earlier in the war he had captured HMS Macedonian with his vessel the United States.  FTP, name this US naval hero who gave the famous toast "Our country, right or wrong!" 	Answer:	 Stephen Decatur2. A man of ruthless ambition, he climbed his way from a violinist in the court band to Master of Music of the Royal Family in the court of Louis XIV.  He gained the power to approve the performances of operas and used it to squelch his rival composers.  Amadis de Gaule, Cadmus et Hermione, and Roland are among the major works of this man, who died of an infection after stabbing himself in the foot with his conducting stick. FTP name this French composer who collaborated on ballets with Moliere, introduced new dances such as the minuet, and is considered the father of the tragedie lyrique, or French opera.  	Answer:	Jean-Baptiste Lully3. It contains the quote,  "She would have been a good woman, if it had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life."  The harping grandmother to which that quote refers wants to go to Tennessee, but her son Bailey wants to take his wife and two children, John Wesley and June Star, to Florida instead.  On a dirt road in Georgia, they turn off to find an old plantation but discover an escaped convict named The Misfit, who slays them all.  FTP, name this short story by Flannery O'Connor, whose title is a common lament of readers of Cosmo.	Answer:	  "A Good Man Is Hard To Find"4. Recent observations of two of them suggest that they are made up of "free quarks", strange quarks not bound with other quarks in groups of three as they are usually found in atoms.  Nuclei can only be broken down into their constituent quarks by the immense pressure from these super dense objects, which are about 12 miles wide. Observed by the Chandra X-Ray telescope, one is in the constellation Australis and the other in Cassiopeia.  The latter went supernova in 1181.  FTP, name this type of collapsed star.	Answer:	 neutron star5. Twenty-six people crucified in this city in 1597 were canonized and the Oura Roman Church was built in 1864 to commemorate them. The Portuguese introduced Catholicism there in the 16th century but they were expelled by the Tokugawa shogunate, leaving the Dutch enclave as the only outpost of the West until 1850s.  When fully reopened, it became a coaling station and winter port for the Russian fleet.  FTP, name this city in western Kyushu whose shipbuilding center made it a target for the second atomic bomb dropped on Japan.  	Answer:	Nagasaki6. The Sufi sage Shibli threatened to burn it down because he thought people were more concerned with it than God.  It was said to have been built by Adam and rebuilt by Abraham on the same site.  It originally housed a white stone, possibly a meteorite, which has since turned black by absorbing the sins of pilgrims who kiss it and must circle it 14 times.  FTP, name this sacred shrine of Islam in the Great Mosque of Mecca. 	Answer:	Ka'aba7. "No glass of ours was ever raised / To toast the Queen," he wrote to rebuke editors who included him in an anthology of British verse.  His first important poem, "Digging" from Death of a Naturalist was a sort of manifesto emphasizing his ancestral connection to the soil.  Reading about the people of the peat bogs reinforced this connection and led to poems like "The Tollund Man" and "Punishment", while in Station Island he encounters ghost of famous historical and literary figures.  FTP, name this Irish poet who won the 1995 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer:	Seamus Heaney
8. He was born to a Quaker wine merchant who had invented the achromatic lens, a key part of the modern microscope.  His own revolutionary wiring of a fractured patella did much to convince skeptics of his controversial theories.  Influenced by Louis Pasteur, he set about eliminating microorganisms in the operating room with carbolic acid.  FTP, name this famed British surgeon and founder of antiseptic medicine whose name was later taken for a brand of mouthwash.	Answer:	Joseph Lister9. It is made up of two parts, the Privilege of Pope Calixtus II and the Edict of Emperor Henry V, who were the two key participants.   The Privilege says that the Pope gives Henry permission to attend the elections of church officials, while the Edict states that Henry won't give his ring or staff to any of the appointees.  For ten points, name this 1122 agreement between the Holy Roman Empire and the Catholic Church that settled the problem of lay investiture.	Answer: Concordat of Worms10. His father combined the Greek words for "away" and "look out" when giving him his first name, but he was nicknamed "Chunky" since he was one of the chubbier members of his school's roller-skating club. In 1995, at the age of 13, he lost some weight and switched to another similar sport because he wanted "to try something new." Cheered on by his father Yuki, he won the 2001 World Cup in that sport, and in Salt Lake City became the 1500m gold medalist. FTP, name this Olympic short track speed skater. 	Answer: Apolo Anton Ohno (pronounced: O-no)  11. Its name means "large administrative center on the frontier," and forces tired of guerilla warfare hunkered down here hoping to be attacked, where they were cut off by land and resupplied only by air. Not anticipating that the enemy would drag guns through the thick jungle to rain shells down from the hills, the artillery commander committed suicide with a grenade.  General Henri Navarre's misconceived plan ended with Viet Minh General Vo Nguyen Giap capturing the base and 10,000 troops.  FTP name this 1954 battle which prompted the French to withdraw from Vietnam.	Answer:	Dien Bien Phu 12. A railway switchman, a merchant, a lamplighter, a drunk, a conceited man, a businessman and a geographer all make the acquaintance of the title character.   When he reaches Earth, he meets a snake, a fox and a pilot.  Although the child leaves his home, asteroid B-612, because he learned that his rose does not love him, he eventually returns because he misses her.  FTP, name this title character of an Antoine de St. Exupery work.	Answer: The Little Prince (or: Le Petit Prince )13. Sources claim that he defeated the Muslim rulers of Persia and took their capital at Ecbatana, but the Tigris River prevented him from moving on to Jerusalem.  Guardian of the shrine of St. Thomas in Mylapore, he was a Nestorian descended from the three magi.  After the mid-14th century he was sought for in Ethiopia because no sign of him was found in Asia.  FTP, name this legendary king of a mythical Christian kingdom in the Far East.	Answer:	Prester (or Presbyter) John14. Edgar D. Mitchell took along a pack of Zener cards to conduct ESP experiments with psychics back on Earth.  Stuart Roosa stayed in the command module while the others explored the area around the Fra Mauro crater.  After splashdown near American Samoa, they were held in quarantine, the last time astronauts would be so confined.  Commander Alan Shepard made history by being the first man to golf on the moon.  FTP, identify this January 1971 mission, the third successful moon landing.	Answer:	Apollo 1415. It has been found in the Mississippi, the Ganges, the Zambezi, and the Amazon.  When spotted in Lake Nicaragua, it was thought to be a new freshwater species until it was realized some of them had fought their way upstream from the Caribbean.  These grey, nearly blind creatures are 7-10 feet long, weigh 400-500 pounds, and have been known to attack humans in as little as a foot of water.  FTP, name this animal, Carcharhinus leucas, named for its small snout which resembles that of a stubborn land animal.	Answer:	bull shark [prompt on shark]
16. She's the subject of the line, "I believe that something's wrong if she's alive right now," as sung by Lou Reed.  Her play "Up Your Ass" was finally performed in 1999, having turned up in a trunk belonging to Billy Name after being lost since 1967.  She was a prostitute and hanger-on at The Factory and sole member of the radical feminist organization whose manifesto she sold on the streets, the Society for Cutting Up Men. FTP, name the woman who served two years in prison for shooting the man to whom she entrusted the sole copy of her play, pop artist Andy Warhol.	Answer:	Valerie Solanas17. Angered that their Adjusted Compensation certificates would not come due until 1945, unemployed cannery worker Walter W. Waters led them to the banks of the Anacostia River.  Though ordered by the president only to evict them from their shantytown, troops and cavalrymen backed by tanks beat and teargassed countless protestors and spectators under the watch of Army Chief of Staff Douglas MacArthur.  FTP name this protest by World War I veterans that helped cripple the presidency of Herbert Hoover.	Answer:	Bonus Army or Bonus Expeditionary Force18. It was originally called Klaprothium by its discoverer, who extracted it from a shiny black mineral miners called pitchblende. It was used commercially in coloring glass and ceramics.  Henri Becquerel discovered it was radioactive.  Using a process called isotopic enrichment, naturally occurring isotopes are transformed into ones which can be used to fuel nuclear reactors.  FTP, name this element renamed in honor of a newly discovered planet.	Answer:	uranium19. The legend that he found his famous student drawing the sheep he was tending on a rock is recounted by Vasari.  Frescoes in the Church of San Francesco in Assisi are among his few surviving works.  He is said to have destroyed works which didn't satisfy his high standards, perhaps giving rise to his famous nickname, which means "bullheaded".  He is sometimes credited with being the first "modern" painter and breathing new life into the Byzantine style.  FTP, name this artist of Madonna Enthroned and teacher of Giotto. 	Answer:	Cimabue [chim- AH -bwe, but accept close equivalents.]20. After graduating from Harvard Divinity School he manned a pulpit in Brewster, Massachussets until he skipped town following allegations of "unnatural familiarity with boys".  In New York City, he worked with the Newsboy's Lodging House charity, presumably to spend time with the type of boys who appeared in his popular series Luck and Pluck, Tattered Tom, and Ragged Dick.  FTP, name this popular American "rags to riches" author. 	Answer:	Horatio Alger21. Zimbabwe elects its first black prime minister.  The IRA murders Lord Mountbatten.   The Sandinistas seize power in Nicaragua.  The Moral Majority, the Sony Walkman, the Susan B. Anthony coin, and Trivial Pursuit are born.  The SALT II accords are signed.  The USSR invades Afghanistan.  Khomeini takes power and the US Embassy is seized in Iran.  Margaret Thatcher is elected Prime Minister of Britain.  The Three Mile Island crisis.  FTP, name this year when "the street heats the urgency of sound," according to the Smashing Pumpkins.	Answer:	197922. The name's the same: A rival playwright of Menander in the New Comedy of Athens, a poor Phrygian man who opened his home to a disguised Zeus and Hermes and was later saved from a flood as a reward, and a Roman man whose escaped slave Onesimus was sent back by Paul, and whose name gives the title to a letter in the New Testament.  FTP give the common name.	Answer:	Philemon23. He came from a long line of rabbis but abandoned his faith for scientific study.  He examined the mechanization and alienation of the working class in "The Division of Labor and Society" and established the groundwork for his field in "The Rules of Sociological Method".  He discussed the breakdown of the ties between the individual and society and classified three types of the title act in his work "Suicide".  FTP, name the pioneering French sociologist who coined the term "anomie".	Answer:	Emile Durkheim
24. He is only two at the end of the novel that bears his name, which focuses on the struggle between Flay and the cook Swelter.  In the second book, he slays the crippled scullion Steerpike after his father Lord Sepulchrave goes mad and is eaten by owls.  In the third, unfinished book, he ventures out of the castle to a city of crystal towers and has an affair with Cheeta, the warped daughter of a scientist.  FTP, name this protagonist of Mervyn Peake's Gormenghast trilogy.	Answer:	Titus Groan25.	When the Supreme Court ruled that Vince Foster's attorney-client privilege survived his death, they inadvertently thwarted efforts by historians to gain access to the papers of Massachussets lawyer George Robinson relating to her 110 year old court case.  She claimed she was in the attic of her Fall River home looking to make fishing sinkers when her father and stepmother were killed.  FTP, name this woman thought to have delivered 81 whacks with an axe.	Answer:	Lizzie Borden 26.	He was given his title, which means "upright" or "rightly guided", as a result of military victories against the Byzantine Empire while he was still a teenager. He spent much of his 23 year reign quelling insurrections, dying during one such expedition at Tus in Iran in 809.  He is better known for the opulance and luxury of his court at Baghdad and for mingling among the common people in disguise.   FTP, name the fifth caliph of the Abbasid dynasty, immortalized in A Thousand and One Nights.	Answer:	Harun al-Rashid 27.	Dedicated to King Sebastian, it begins with the hero sailing up the east coast of Africa.  After a stop in Melinda, Bacchus attempts to shipwreck him but is prevented from doing so by Venus, and he reaches his destination, Calicut.  On his way back from India, he lands on an island of nymphs created by Venus to reward his achievement.  FTP, name this epic poem about Vasco da Gama by Luis Vaz de Camoens, the national epic of Portugal.	Answer:	Os Lusiadas or The Lusiads.28.	During World War II, he graduated from the Free University of Brussels and translated Moby Dick into Flemish.  After losing his shirt investing in a publisher of art books, he shipped his family off to Argentina while he went to teach in the US and remarried.  Under the influence of Jacques Derrida, he published an examination of Heidegger and Rousseau called Blindness and Insight.  FTP, name this Yale University deconstructionist discovered after his death to have written anti-Semitic articles for Nazi controlled Brussels newspapers.	Answer:	Paul de Man29.	He studied under Robert Henri but broke away from the Ashcan school after the 1913 Armory Show and moved towards an abstraction influenced by synthetic cubism.  Nailing a few objects to a table, he painted them over and over again, turning still lifes into pure geometric shapes in his "Eggbeater" series.  In the 1930s he painted murals like Swing Landscape for the WPA.  FTP, name this American artist whose use of product packaging and advertising in his paintings has caused him to be seen as a precursor to Pop Art.	Answer:	Stuart Davis
BONI - SOUTH FLORIDA/RUTGERS C	MOON PIE CLASSIC/PUBFEST 2002 - UTC & PRINCETONQuestions by Robert Fernandez with Rutgers C1. Lawrence Summers, the new President of Harvard, really stepped in it when he managed to alienate his African-American studies department to the point where its three most prominent academics all threatened to go work at Princeton.  FTPE, answer the following questions about those pissed off scholars.[10] Summers accused this now-Princeton professor and author of Race Matters of spending too much time on non-academic matters like working with Al Sharpton and releasing a spoken word CD, Sketches of My Culture. 	Answer:	  Cornel West[10] This literary scholar and co-editor of The Norton Anthology of African-American Literature rediscovered the novels Our Nig and The Bondswoman's Narrative, early works of black American literature.	Answer:	  Henry Louis Gates, Jr.[10] Gates and Anthony Appiah created this encyclopedia, which subsequently became a Microsoft Encarta product and a website they would sell to Time Warner for a reported $10 million in 2000.       Answer:	  Africana 2. Identify the following players in the saga of a murder that took place 26 years ago:[10] This nephew of Robert Kennedy is currently on trial for the murder of Martha Moxley, which he is alleged to have committed as a teenager.	Answer:	  Michael Skakel[10] This former member of the LAPD sparked renewed interest in the case with his book Murder in Greenwich.	Answer:	  Mark Fuhrman[10] Back in 1993, this Vanity Fair scribe and author of An Inconvenient Woman turned the Moxley case into the best selling novel  A Season in Purgatory, later made into a TV miniseries.	Answer:	  Dominick Dunne3. Answer the following questions about James Joyce's favorite subatomic particle, the quark, FTPE.[10] This flavor of quark has a mass of 175.6 billion of electron volts, over 37 times more than the other flavors.	Answer:	  top[10] What is the charge of the top quark?	Answer:	  + 2/3[10] This particle is the pairing of a quark with its antiquark of the same color.	Answer:	  meson4. Name these Canadian poets FTPE.[10] This poet is better known for her novels Surfacing, Cat's Eye, and The Robber Bridegroom.	Answer:	  Margaret Atwood[10] Born in Sri Lanka, this poet of The Cinnamon Peeler and The Collected Works of Billy the Kid also penned the novels In the Skin of the Lion and The English Patient.	Answer:	  Michael Ondaatje[10] Subject of the film Sons of Captain Poetry, he is regarded as Canada's foremost avant-garde poet.  His collections include Konfessions of an Elizabethan Fan Dancer, The True Eventual Story of Billy the Kid, and Still Water.	Answer:	 bp Nichol (Barrie Phillip Nichol)5. Name these terrorist groups involved in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.[10] At Yassir Arafat's complex in Ramallah, Israeli soldiers found an invoice from this group responsible for numerous suicide bombings.  They are named after a Muslim holy site atop the Temple Mount. 	Answer:	  Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade[10] This Lebanon-based group of Shiite militants is conducting rocket and ground attacks on Israel despite the Israeli withdrawal from that country.  Their name means "Party of God".	Answer:	  Hezbollah or Hizbullah[10] This fundamentalist movement is Arafat's chief rival for control of the Palestinian Authority.  They run a network of social services organizations and are responsible for suicide bombings.  Their name means "zeal" and is also an acronym for "Islamic Resistance Movement".	Answer:	  Hamas
6. Answer the following about The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, 5-10-15.1. (5) This is the last male survivor of Earth and the main character of the trilogy.       Answer: Arthur Dent2. (10)  This two-headed former President of the Universe has a short story named after him, wherein he "Plays it Safe."       Answer: Zaphod Beeblebrox3. (15)  Arthur's daughter by Trillian, whom he meets while he is working as a sandwich maker.       Answer: Random7. Assume two people have blood type A.  Answer the following questions:[5,5]  If these two people have a child together, the child will have one of two possible blood types.  Name them.       Answers:  	A and O[5,5]  If one of the parents is in a car accident, they can receive blood of two different types.  Name them.       Answers:  	A and O[5,5] If one of the parents decides to donate blood, the recipients of their blood can be of two different types.  Name them.       Answers:  	A and AB8. Answer the following literary questions FTPE. [10] This Jay McInerny novel follows a fact checker for Gotham magazine through 1980s Manhattan and was made into a film starring Michael J. Fox	Answer:	  Bright Lights, Big City[10] This Italo Calvino work follows a reader who sets out to discover missing pages of a novel bought from a bookstore.	Answer:	  If On A Winter's Night A Traveler...[10] Both Bright Lights, Big City and If On A Winter's Night A Traveler...share the use of this uncommon literary device throughout the narrative.	Answer:	  second person point of view or second person narrator/narrative9. Name the third century Roman emperors from clues for 10 points each: 1. This elder son of Septimus Severus became emperor in 211AD after his father's death. He is most famous for an edict extending citizenship to all free inhabitants of the empire and for his enormous baths.        Answer: Caracalla 2. This emperor who ruled from 270-275 earned the title "restutor orbis" for reuniting the empire. He defeated Zenobia of Palmyra and also erected a large fortified wall around the city of Rome.        Answer: Lucius Domitius Aurelianus3. The last emperor of the third century, he introduced a series of reforms including division of the empire into four parts ruled by four co-emperors.        Answer: Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus 10. Name the Hindu deities for 10 points each.1. God of the atmosphere, storms, rain, and battle; he rides the solar chariot across the sky and wields thunderbolts.       Answer:  Indra2. Goddess of knowledge, fertility and prosperity; she is considered the originator of speech and the arts. 	Answer:  Saraswati3. Chief minister and general of the monkey people; he is one of central figures of the Ramayana.	Answer: Hanuman 11. During last year's Moon Pie tournament, Rob boldly bragged that he would get all 30 points on a bonus question about Aristophanes, but unfortunately for his ego, they asked a question about a play he had not read.  FTPE, identify these plays of Aristophanes that Rob hasn't read.[10] A dishonest slave named Paphlagon represents Cleon in this bold comedic attack on the ruler of Athens.	Answer:	  Knights[10] Philocleon is shut in his house by his son because of his addiction to jury duty.	Answer:	  The Wasps[10] Tryagus ascends to heaven on a beetle to seek an end to war.	Answer:	  Peace
12. Answer these questions about 20th century presidents, FTSNOPE.a. (5 pts.) How many 20th century presidents also served as vice-president?	Answer:	Sevenb. (10 pts.) One of them, as president, survived 2 assassination attempts in one month's time.  Name him.	Answer:	Gerald Fordc. For 15 points for all of them, name the other 6 men in the 20th century who were both president and vice-president.	Answer:	Theodore Roosevelt, Calvin Coolidge, Harry S. Truman, Richard Nixon, Lyndon Baines Johnson, George Herbert Walker Bush, The Elder13. Sure, everyone knows about Oedipus.  Name these other rulers of the city of Thebes FTPE.[10] He was the founder of Thebes and sowed the earth with dragon's teeth to create men who would be the ancestors of the noble families of the city.	Answer:	  Cadmus[10] This Queen of Thebes became a symbol of mourning after her arrogant boasting caused her children to be slain by the gods.  She turned to stone and a stream formed from her tears.	Answer:	   Niobe[10] He was the father of Oedipus and had his son left on a mountain to die after a prophecy revealed that his son would kill him.	Answer:	  Laius14. Given a list of works, name the French Impressionist, for 10 points each.1. "Family Reunion", "Summer Scenes"       Answer: Frederic Bazille2. "A Carriage at the Races", "The Bellelli Family"       Answer: Edgar Degas3. "Spring Trees by a Lake", "Impression: Sunrise"       Answer: Claude Monet15. A colloidal dispersion or suspension is a mixture where small particles are dispersed throughout a solvent.  Given a description of the composition of a colloidal dispersion and a commonly found example, identify the type of colloidal dispersion FTPE.[10]  Gas dispersed in liquid; whipped cream	Answer:	  foam[10]  Liquid dispersed in liquid; cream and mayonaise	Answer:	 emulsion[10] Solid dispersed in a gas; dust in air	Answer:	  smoke16. Identify the following poets from works for 10 points each.1. "The Happy Warriors", "Ode on Intimations of Immortality"       Answer: William Wordsworth2. "The Day is Done",  "A Psalm of Life"       Answer: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow3. "The Chambered Nautilus", "The Deacon's Masterpiece"       Answer: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Senior       17.	Answer the following related questions FTPE.[10] Kurt Vonnegut's fictional author Kilgore Trout wrote this novel.  An actual novel by this title was written by Philip José Farmer using Trout as a pseudonym.	Answer:	Venus on the Half Shell[10] "Shiny shiny, shiny boots of leather."  This Velvet Underground song takes its title from this novel by kink pioneer Leopold von Sacher-Masoch.	Answer:	Venus in Furs[10] This Paleolithic carving of a woman found in Austria is thought to be a fertility symbol.	Answer:	Venus of Willendorf
18.	In Boston you can see Bunker Hill, the site of the Boston Massacre, and the USS Constitution.  Identify these other stops on Boston's Freedom Trail FTPE.[10] On Boston Common is a memorial to Colonel Robert Gould Shaw and the Massachusetts 54th Regiment created by this artist, probably the greatest sculptor of 19th century America.	Answer:	  Augustus St. Gaudens[10] Near Paul Revere's home is this Episcopal church immortalized by Longfellow where Robert Newman signalled from the steeple.	Answer:	  Old North Church[10] Scottish architect John Smibert designed the plans for this market building dating to 1742, where the body of Crispus Attucks lay in state after the Boston Massacre.	Answer:	  Faneuil Hall 19.  To the nearest integer, identify the pH values of the following common liquids FFPE.[5]  pure water  		Answer:	 7[5]  sea water  		Answer:	  8[5]  sulfuric acid 		Answer:	  2[5]  hydrochloric acid  		Answer:	 1[5]  ammonia  		Answer:	  12[5]  coffee  		Answer:	 520. Answer the following about the ideas of philosopher Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Hegel, FTPE[10] Key to Hegel's work is this concept that a idea gives rise to an opposing idea and they combine to form a third.	Answer:	  dialectic[10] According to Hegel's theory of the dialectic, thesis and antithesis combine to form this. 	Answer:	 synthesis[10]  Karl Marx transformed Hegel's idea into this doctrine which claimed that the thesis of capitalism clashing with the antithesis of the proletariat would form the synthesis of socialism.	Answer:	  dialectical materialism or materialist dialectic21. The great temple of Artemis at Ephesus in Ionia, one of the great wonders of the world, was destroyed no less than three times over the centuries.  FTPE:[10] Legend has it that this nutcase was able to destroy the temple in 356 BC because Artemis was away to attend the birth of Alexander the Great.  His sole motivation was to have his name remembered for posterity.	Answer:	  Herostratus[10] This tribe of barbarians destroyed the second, rebuilt temple in 262 AD.  Two centuries later, they would rule Italy under Theodoric the Great.	Answer:	  Ostrogoths[10] The remains of the temple, now mostly columns, were destroyed by this zealous Doctor of the Church and Archbishop of Constantinople in 401 AD.	Answer:	  St. John Chrysostom
22. Given the name of a volcano, identify which one of the three types of volcano it is: shield volcano, cinder cone volcano, or composite volcano, also called stratovolcano, FFPE.[5] Mount St. Helens   		Answer:	  composite or stratovolcano[5] Mauna Loa  		Answer:	 shield[5] Mount Pinatubo  		Answer:	  composite or stratovolcano[5] Mount Fuji    		Answer:	  composite or stratovolcano[5] Krakatoa   		Answer:	  cinder[5] Olympus Mons  		Answer:	  shield23.  Answer the following questions about English composer Frederick Delius, FTPE.[5] As a young man, Delius left England for a plantation on the banks of the St. John's River in this southern US state, about which he would later write an orchestral suite.	Answer:	  Florida[5] Delius' Sea Drift is a musical setting of poems by this American poet.	Answer:	  Walt Whitman[10] Delius set this opera in Florida, where the shipwrecked Spanish explorer Solano and the Seminole girl Watawa search for the Fountain of Youth and love blossoms. 	Answer:	  The Magic Fountain[10] In this Delius opera, the title character is a voodoo prince enslaved in Mississippi where whites try to prevent his marriage to the mixed-race woman Palmyra.	Answer:	  Koanga24. Theodore Ziolkowski's book A View From The Tower discusses four people who moved into towers around World War I.  Three of them were poets.  Name them FTPE.[10] This author of "Hurt Hawks" and "Shine Perishing Republic" moved into a tower in Carmel, California that he built with his bare hands.	Answer:	  Robinson Jeffers[10] He purchased and restored a ruined Norman castle called Thoor Ballylee near his friend Lady Gregory in County Galway.  His 1928 volume The Tower is named for it. 	Answer:	  William Butler Yeats[10] He took up residence in the castle of a patron, the Château de Muzot in Switzerland's Rhône Valley, where he completed his Duino Elegies and Sonnets to Orpheus.	Answer:	 Rainer Maria Rilke25.  Identify these players in the case of Soviet spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, FTPE.[10] The Rosenberg case began with the confession of this German-born Manhattan Project physicist.	Answer:	  Klaus Fuchs [pronounced FEWKS but accept... you get the idea][10] Ethel Rosenberg's brother was this Los Alamos machinist who testified against the Rosenbergs in exchange for a sentence of 15 years.	Answer:	  David Greenglass[10] He was the Rosenberg trial judge who proclaimed their crime was "worse than murder" and sentenced them to death.	Answer:	  Irving Kaufman
27.	Name the following types of 19th century British carriages FTPE.[10] This four wheeled open carriage was popular with reckless drivers because of its ability to make sharp turns.  It shares its name with the son of Helios who took his father's chariot out for that fateful ride.	Answer:	  Phaeton[10] This two wheeled, two passenger, one horse carriage was popular with bachelors.  A shortened form of its name became a term used to refer to carriages for hire.	Answer:	  Cabriolet[10] Called the "gondola of London", this two wheeled enclosed carriage was considered quite dashing.  Named after its original designer, it became the most commonly used carriage for hire.	Answer:	  Hansom cab28.	Sigmund Freud labeled five stages of psychosexual development.  They are, in alphabetical order: anal, genital, latency, oral, and phallic.  FFPE, and an extra 5 for all correct, place them in chronological order from birth to adulthood.ANSWERS:  oral, anal, phallic, latency, genital29.	Answer the following questions about some of the most famous hoaxes in the history of poetry, FTPE.[10] Scottish poet James Macpherson wrote poems which he claimed were translations from the Gaelic verse of this 3rd century poet. 	Answer:	  Ossian[10] This icon of the Romantics penned poems he attributed to a 15th century monk named Thomas Rowley.  He committed suicide in 1770 at age 18.	Answer:	  Thomas Chatterton[10] Australian poets James McAuley and Harold Stewart wrote poems attributed to this young, dead genius to fool the editor of the journal Angry Penguins.	Answer:	  Ern Malley30.	Take the following types of cells found in the human body: brain cells, red blood cells, skin cells, spermatozoa, and white blood cells.  Arrange them in order of longevity, from the shortest life span to the longest, FFPE and an extra 5 points for all correct.       Answers:  spermatozoa, skin cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, brain cells