Carleton ATossupsThe Harvard roommate of poet Frank O'Hara, he self-published his books as Fantod Press.  His first book, The Unstrung Harp, was published in 1953, and he later won a Tony award for designing sets for a Broadway version of Dracula.  Known to college students for his poster "The Gashlycrumb Tinies," and to readers for his book The Doubtful Guest, and to TV watchers as the designer of the opening of Mystery, for 10 points-name this macabre artist who died April 18, 2000. Answer: Edward St. John _Gorey_Inconsistent types of these objects are called Population II, or RR Lyrae.  The classical types were used by Harlow Shapley to determine that the earth lies near the edge of the Milky Way.  This is because their characteristic attribute is proportional to their luminosity, which was discovered by Henrietta Leavitt (lev'it) in 1912, so the difference between their real and apparent magnitudes can be used to measure their distance.  For 10 points, the this type of star whose brightness cyclically changes.Answer: _Cepheid variable_In the section of this book known as the "Antinomies" the author proves that since our minds can logically prove certain ideas are both true and false, those are beyond human understanding.  In the "Transcendental Analytic" section, he introduces the concept of categories of human understanding.  In the "Preface," he explains how a priori synthetic ideas are possible.  Published in 1781, for 10 points-name this book by Immanuel Kant.Answer: _Critique of Pure Reason_ or _Kritik der reinen Vernunft_This band recently released the album "Goodbye 20th Century" in which they performed avant-garde compositions by Christian Wolff, Yoko Ono, and John Cage.  Its two guitarists began their noisy experiments with Glenn Branca's ensemble; they've since joined with a singer and drummer Steve Shelley.  Albums include "A Thousand Leaves," "EVOL," "Daydream Nation," and "Washing Machine."  For 10 points-name this ultimate indie-rock band whose members include Kim Gordon and Thruston Moore.Answer: _Sonic Youth_Part of the phylum Aschelminthes, approximately 2,000 diverse species make up this class, most of which are less than a millimeter long.  These pseudocoelomates have a pharynx with jaws and feed mostly on bacteria and algae.  All have a crown of cilia, which help in swimming and eating.  For 10 points-name this class which derives its name from its wheel-like motion.Answer: _rotifer_s or _rotifera_A recent film adaptation of this novel brought out its so-called "hidden themes" of drug abuse, lesbianism, incest and slave trading. More obvious but less titillating motifs include estate management and the role of the clergy in Regency England, as Mary Crawford refuses to marry Edmund Bertram of the title manor because he plans to become a minister. For 10 points-name this novel focusing on the shy heroine Fanny Price, one of the lesser-known works of Jane Austen.Answer:  _Mansfield Park_The 26 members of this event were called the "wise men of the East."  They included Theodore Dwight, its secretary, former Secretary of State Timothy Pickering, Daniel Lyman, chief justice of Rhode Island, and Harrison Gray Otis, a member of the Massachusetts Senate.  George Cabot, an important man in the Federalist Party, was its president.  Its organizers were upset by a disruption in intercontinental trade and proposed secession from the United States.  For 10 points-name this gathering to oppose the War of 1812.Answer: _Hartford Convention_When 116 pages of this document were lost, work was stopped for a year, and in the interim Oliver Coudery replaced Martin Harris as the scribe.  The text was originally written in "reformed Egyptian" on a set of thin gold plates, which were translated with a device called "Urim and Thummin" by the man who found the plates and said the inspiration to do so had come in a dream to reveal the teachings of the prophet Moroni.  For 10 points-name this work translated by Joseph Smith central to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.Answer: the _Book of Mormon_The first printed reference to this song is in 1744 in the "Thesaurus Musica" but no one knows who wrote the original music or words.  The extremely nationalistic second stanza was prelaced in 1946 with one asking God to "make the nations see / That men should brothers be."  The tune has been used elsewhere, most notably in one about "shining seas" and "fruited plains."  For 10 points-the song "America!" shares its melody with what British national song?Answer: _God Save the Queen_ or _God Save the King_ do not accept _America_Son of a glovemaker, this writer was often whipped in his youth for poaching deer on private lands. Married at 19, he probably served as a schoolmaster for several years before moving to London, where he came under the patronage of "Mr. W.H.," to whom he dedicated his poem "Venus and Adonis." For 10 points-identify this Elizabethan playwright, known for lines like "All the world's a stage" and "To be or not to be."Answer:  William _Shakespeare_The poetic prologue and epilogues to it describe the righteousness and justice of the king, and the kings himself is depicted with a god above the text itself.  However, the most important part of this seven-foot high slab of black diorite is the 282 legal mandates.  For 10 points-name this document which was not really the first law code.Answer: The _Code of Hammurabi_ or _Hammurabi's Code_ This nation of 150 million citizens recently lowered its voting age to 18 for local elections to be held in December, the first since a military coup last July.  Turkish Prime Minister Ecevit didn't visit it but Bill Clinton did despite protests from its southern neighbor, with whom it is embroiled in a border dispute.  President Muhammad Rafiq Tarar retains his elected position, but General Musharraf ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in, for 10 points-what nation whose major cities include Lahore and Islamabad?Answer: the Islamic Republic of _Pakistan_The main things people do here are make a living, procure a home, train their young, engage in leisure activities, engage in religion, and community activities.  If this sounds like normal America to you, then the authors chose well.  First described in 1929, for its average population and based on Muncie, Indiana, for 10 points-name this anthropological study of American small-town life by Robert and Helen Lynd.Answer: _Middletown_ (prompt on _Muncie_, Indiana before it appears in the question)Ralph Waldo Emerson stated that the 1855 edition was "the most extraordinary piece of wit and wisdom that America has yet contributed." The 1867 edition added the pieces from the collection "Drum-Taps" to earlier poems like "Europe" and "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking." For 10 points-name this anthology whose first poem is "Song of Myself," written by Walt Whitman.Answer:  _Leaves of Grass_The Russian czar Nicholas I invited this scientist to explore the Asian continent, after which he published the book Kosmos on the earth's geography.  At one time a diplomat, he made a world-record mountain climb on a trip to Ecuador, where he also navigated the Orinoco.  For 10 points-name this scientist who gave his name to a current off the coast of South America.Answer: Friedrich Wilhelm Heinrich Alexander, Baron von _Humboldt_On this album, Jimmy Cobb plays drums, Paul Chambers bass, "Cannonball" Adderley alto sax and Bill Evans piano, though Wynton Kelly steps in on "Freddie Freeloader." Other songs include "Flamenco Sketches," "Blue in Green," and "So What," which features a tenor solo by John Coltrane. FTP, name this 1959 release, often called the greatest jazz album of all time, by the Miles Davis Quintet. Answer:	_Kind of Blue_He was raised in Kyrgyzstan, but returned to his native country in 1938 and helped in the Nazi resistance movement.  He soon became a member of the Central Committee and helped oust Antonín Novotn? and replaced him as first secretary but was expelled from the Communist Party.  While in power he promoted liberalization and democratization but a tense meeting with Soviet Union officials led to an invasion.  For 10 points-name this leader of Czechoslovakia.Answer: Alexander _Dubcek_The Laspeyres formula calculates this in the United States. First employed for collective-bargaining negotiations during World War I, it now is used to compensate for inflation on transfer payments and income tax brackets.  FTP, identify this measurement, which tracks purchasing power with respect to a fixed "market basket" of goods and services. Answer:  _Consumer Price Index_In the original experiments to determine this physical law, an ionization chamber was used to detect the scattering pattern of the x-rays.  A secondary effect was that the wavelength of x-rays was determined within one percent, and the first substances investigated were copper and salt.  The x-ray beam bounces off a crystalline substance at angles that reflect the structure of the solid.  The resulting equation is n lambda equals 2 d sin theta, or, for 10 points-what equation named after the 1915 father and son pair of Nobel Prize for Physics winners?Answer: _Bragg_ law or equationThe etymology of this word comes from the Greek word for silk.  Perhaps because Pliny thought an insect like the silkworm produced cotton, it switched meanings and now refers to anything like cotton used as padding or stuffing.  It now means speech or writing that is pretentious and inflated.  For 10 points-identify this seven letter word.Answer: _bombast_During this war, a regiment from Carolina colony attacked the settlement at St. Augustine, Florida.  On the other end of the colonies, Abenaki Indians attacked Maine and destroyed Deerfield, Massachusetts.  They were being supplied from a French base in what was known as Acadia, but after its capture by Francis Nicholson in 1710 it was called Nova Scotia.  The English also gained Newfoundland in this North American equivalent of the War of Spanish Succession.  For 10 points-what is this war named after a British monarch?Answer: _Queen Anne's_ warThe title refers to a "revolving scream machine" at the amusement park Thrill Village. After his mother has a stroke, college student Alan Parker hitches a ride to the hospital; the terrors he encounters probably reflects his author's own recent experience on Maine roads. For 10 points-identify this thriller published only as an e-book, the latest work by Stephen King.Answer:  _Riding the Bullet_The largest island in the Volcano group, its name means "sulfur island," and its soft, treacherous terrain earned certain areas names like "Death Valley" and the "Meat Grinder." The Marines captured the Japanese stronghold at Mount Suribachi on February 23, 1945, when the event the island is best remembered for took place. For 10 points-name this island and battle in the Pacific, made famous by a Joseph Rosenthal photograph of a flag-raising.Answer:  _Iwo Jima_Stanley Miller worked in the labs of this author of a book called The Planets, and he postulated that the early atmosphere of earth was like Jupiter's.  He switched fields after World War II, when he saw the results of the atomic bomb that he had helped create by separating uranium-235 from 238.  That technique was used for his most famous discovery, since he realized that heavy atoms move more slowly than lighter ones.  The winner of the 1934 Nobel Prize, for 10 points-name this discoverer of deuterium.Answer: Harold Clayton _Urey_Tennessee Williams called this his favorite play and wrote an adaptation of it called "The Notebook of Trigorin." Successful short-story writer Trigorin struggles with his lover Arkadina, while Arkadina's son, the Symbolist Trepelyev, adores the aspiring actress Nina. FTP, Nina identifies herself as what title object of a play by Anton Chekhov?Answer:  The _Seagull_
Bonus Questions1.  Composed of several flattened vesicles, it is the site of the modification, completion, and export of proteins and lipids.  For 10 points, name this organelle found in all eukaryotic cells.Answer: _Golgi apparatus_ or _Golgi body_ or _Golgi complex_2.  For 15 points, Camillo Golgi developed a method of staining tissues with what type of compound?Answer: _silver nitrate_3.  For 5 points, Golgi discovered two different types of what deadly tropical disease?Answer: _malaria_Identify the following union leaders for 10 points each.1.  This onetime president of the United Mine Workers of America joined it with seven other unions and became the president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations.Answer: John L(lewellyn) _Lewis_2.  The CIO united with the American Federation of Labor in 1955.  This former plumber organized the merger and was their president for over 20 years.Answer: George _Meany_3.  Name the current president of the AFL-CIO. Answer: John J. _Sweeney_ Identify the portrait painters from the names of their famous British subjects for 10 points each.1.  Thomas More, Jane Seymour, Henry VIIIAnswer:  Hans _Holbein_ the Younger2.  Laurence Sterne, Samuel Johnson, Sarah Siddons as the Tragic MuseAnswer:  Joshua _Reynolds_3.  Ellen Terry; Alfred, Lord Tennyson; Thomas CarlyleAnswer:  George Frederic _Watts_For 10 points each, name the diacritical mark from a description.1.  In French or Portuguese, it is added to a "c" to make it sound like the "s" in "sir," while in Turkish it sounds like the "ch" in "chair."Answer: _cedilla_2.  In French, it makes a "a" sound like the "a" in "father," an "o" sound like the "o" in "go,"  and an "e" like the "e" in "bet."Answer: _circumflex_3.  Found over an "n" in Spanish, it sounds like the "ny" in "canyon."Answer: _tilde_For 10 points apiece, identify the following novels hovering around a thousand pages each, all of which have some claim to the title "postmodern."1.  This magnum opus of Thomas Pynchon follows the adventures of Tyrone Slothrop, whose erections coincide with missile attacks.Answer: _Gravity's Rainbow_2.  This first novel of William Gaddis centers on a forger of Dutch paintings.Answer: The _Recognitions_3.  The title of this book by David Foster Wallace refers to an extraordinarily engrossing form of entertainment.Answer: _Infinite Jest_1.  For 10 points, what is the name of the equation that says the quantity of radiation emitted from a surface is proportional to the fourth power of the surface's absolute temperature?Answer: Stefan-_Boltzmann_ Law2.  The law only applies to a certain type of surface.  For 5 points, what is the term for a surface that absorbs all radiation hitting it?Answer: a _blackbody_3.  For 15 points, what early 20th century physicist identified a law of radiation to explain the spectral lines produced by a blackbody that has reached equilibrium?Answer: Max _Planck_1.  For 10 points-name the East Asian nation which ceded its independence to France in 1864 under Prince Norodom.Answer: _Cambodia_2.  For 15 points-identify Cambodia's king from 1941 to 1955 who later served as prime minister, president, and in 1993, king again.Answer: Samdech Preah Norodom _Sihanouk_3.  For 5 points, name the guerilla leader of the Khmer Rouge who ruled the nation during the late 1970's.Answer: _Pol Pot_ or _Saloth Sar_Answer these questions about literary houses for 10 points each.1.  One of the many plaintiffs in the lawsuit Jarndyce v. Jarndyce lives in this Dickens dwelling.Answer:  _Bleak House_2.  Clifford and Hepzibah Pyncheon make their miserable existence in this cursed place based on the author's home in Salem, Massachusetts.Answer:  The _House of the Seven Gables_3.  Three generations of psychically gifted Truebas live in the big "House on the Corner" in this Isabel Allende novel.Answer:  The _House of the Spirits_Give the following information about the books of the Bible for 10 points per answer.Three books of the standard Old Testament are divided into two parts.  Give all three of them for 10 points.Answer:  _Samuel_, _Kings_, _Chronicles_Name the one book of the Apocrypha which is divided into two parts.Answer:  _Maccabees_Identify the only apostle to have his name on three epistles in the New Testament. Answer:  _John_Identify these geographical features of Australia for 10 points each.1.  This large opening on the continent's north coast is bordered by Arnheim Land on the west and Cape York Peninsula on the east.Answer:  _Gulf of Carpentaria_2.  This city at the center of Northern Territory, formerly called Stuart, shares part of its name with a town in a Nevil Chute novel.Answer:   _Alice Springs_3.  The continent's longest river rises in the Great Dividing Range in Queensland and flows southwest across New South Wales.Answer:  the _Darling_1.  Founded in 1840, it only lasted four years but was the voice of the New England transcendentalist movement.  Name this magazine for 10 points.Answer: the _Dial_2.  Now for 10 points each name the two people, a man and a woman, who edited the Dial during its brief existence.Answer: Margaret _Fuller_ and Ralph Waldo _Emerson_30-20-10, name the book from pairs of chapter titles.1. (30 points) "Instinct" and "Struggle for Existence"2. (20 points) "Hybridism" and "Difficulties of the Theory"3. (10 points) "Laws of Variation" and "On the Geological Succession of Organic Beings."Answer: The _Origin of Species_Identify the following Asian authors from clues for 10 points or from their nations for 5.1. (10 points) Many of this 1994 Nobel Prize winner's novels are about his brain-damaged son, such as A Personal Matter.(5 points) SenegalAnswer: _Oe_ Kenzaburo2. (10 points) Some of his works are the novels Grimus, published in 1975, and Shame, and the collection Haroun and the Sea of Stories.(5 points) IndiaAnswer: Ahmed Salman _Rushdie_3. (10 points) He only produced about 70 poems and a handful of essays, living only to be 27, but during the 1940s he showed his country what could be done with their newly developed language, like in his most famous poem "Aku," or "Me."(5 points) IndonesiaAnswer: _Chairil_ Anwar1. It has no founder, no official sacred scriptures, and no fixed dogmas.  For 5 points name this Japanese religion.Answer: _Shinto_ism2.  For 10 points, name the Shinto sun goddess who locked herself in a cave for a while after Susano-wo destroyed her house.Answer: _Amaterasu_3.  For 15 points, identify the collective name of the Shinto deities, which also includes forces of nature and other objects of worship. Answer: _Kami_For the stated number of points, given names of breeds, identify the type of domesticated animal.1. (5 points) Manx and HimalayanAnswer: _cats_2. (10 points) Plymouth Rock, Leghorn, and New HampshireAnswer: _chickens_3. (15 points) Landrace, Large White, and DurocAnswer: _pigs_ or _swine_1.  During the fourteenth century, this man instituted the Order of the Garter and began the Hundred Years' War.  For 10 points, identify this King of England who reigned for 50 years.Answer: _Edward III_2.  During Edward's childhood, his mother Isabella had fled back to her homeland of France and led an invading army that deposed his father, her husband.  Edward then became king at age 15 thanks to his mother and what lover of hers, whom Edward hanged once he reached his majority?Answer: Roger _Mortimer_, 1st Earl of March, 8th Baron Of Wigmore3.  Perhaps the high point of Edward's rule came with the victory at this battle previous to the siege of Calais, where in 1346 the British longbowmen routed the French under Philip VI.Answer: _Crécy_ Identify the Keats ode from its final couplet on a 5-10-15 basis - and watch your prepositions.1. (5 points) "'Beauty is truth, truth beauty' - that is all / Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know."Answer:  _Ode on a Grecian Urn_2. (10 points) "Was it a vision, or a waking dream? / Fled is that music: - Do I wake or sleep?"Answer: _Ode to a Nightingale_3. (15 points) "His soul shall taste the sadness of her might, / And be among her cloudy trophies hung."Answer: _Ode to Melancholy_Lets play one degree of John Malkovich!  Given a name, identify the movie that he or she was in with John Malkovich for 10 points each.1.  Nic CageAnswer: _Con Air_2.  Clint EastwoodAnswer: _In the Line of Fire_3.  Julia RobertsAnswer: _Mary Reilly_Identify our current geochronological age:1.  For 5 points each, and a bonus five for all correct, name in order the current epoch, period, and era.Answer: _Holocene_, _Quaternary_, _Cenozoic_2.  For another 10 points, name the current eon.Answer: _Phanerozoic_Identify the following German architects for 10 points each.1.  He designed and founded the Bauhaus.Answer: Walter _Gropius_2.  He was Hitler's personal architectAnswer: Albert _Speer_3.  This designer of the Einstein tower in Potsdam shares his name with a composer and a philosopher.Answer: Erich _Mendelsohn_Identify the following types of subatomic particles for 10 points each.1.  From the Greek word for "strong," neutrons and protons are members of this class of particle.Answer: _hadron_s2.  Hadrons, depending on whether they are stable or resonant, fall into two classes.  One type is made up of three quarks, and the other is composed of a quark and an antiquark.  Name these for 10 points each.Answer: _baryon_s, _meson_sIdentify the following waystations for love-hungry rock-and-rollers from clues from the lyrics for 10 points each or five points if you need the singer.1. (10 points) Glitter covers the highway and front porch leading to this hut, where you'll need to "bang, bang, bang on the door" to get in.(5 points) The B-52sAnswer:  _Love Shack_2. (10 points) The singer dwelt in this house on Lonely Street once his baby left him.(5 points) Elvis PresleyAnswer:  _Heartbreak Hotel_3. (10 points) "You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave."(5 points) The EaglesAnswer:  _Hotel California_Given the steps in a psychologist's theory of psychological development, identify the psychologist for 10 points each.1.  Sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational, formal operationalAnswer:  Jean _Piaget_2.  Premoral, conventional morality, postconventional moralityAnswer:  Lawrence _Kohlberg_3.  First year, trust versus mistrust; second year, autonomy versus shame and doubt; third to fifth years, initiative versus guilt, etc.Answer:  Erik _Erikson_For 10 points each, name the novel from 3 chapter titles.1.  "Loomings," "Ambergris," and "Cetology"Answer: _Moby Dick_2.  "Playing Pligrims," "The Laurence Boy," and "Amy's Will"Answer: _Little Women_3.  "The Boss," "Sandy's Tale," and "Knight-Errantry as a Trade"Answer: A _Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court_Identify the following fraternal organizations for 10 points each.1.  Founded in 1872, it is an offshoot of the North American Masons devoted to philanthropy.Answer: the _Shriners_ or the _Ancient Arabic Order of the Nobles of the Mystic Shrine for North America_2.  This secretive society was founded in 1888 in Louisville, KY by Doctor T.H. Wilson.  Today it has roughly 1.5 million members in some 4000 lodges, but Teddy Roosevelt wasn't one of them.Answer: Loyal Order of the _Moose_3.  A patriotic and philanthropic association, it was founded in 1868 by a group of 15 New York City entertainers.Answer: Benevolent and Protective Order of _Elks_