TOSSUPS -- SHOOTOUT A			MOON PIE CLASSIC 2003 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Virginia A (Chris Manteuffel, Ben Mudrak, and Morgan Saxby)1. His essay "Feeling into Words" tells of his poetic struggle in avoiding the elevation of violence to a heroic level.  He wrote a series of grim swamp poems such as "The Tollund Man" and "Bog Queen" in the collection North.  Ghosts haunt the speaker in a dream sequence called "Station Island," which also features tangentially some of his frequent political concerns.  The poem "Death of a Naturalist" is noted in his 1995 Nobel citation.  FTP, name this man, perhaps most famous for his celebrated translation of Beowulf and being the most influential Irish poet since Yeats (YAY-ts).a. Answer:	 Seamus Heaney2. A recently promoted Lieutenant was chosen by the Royal Geographic Society to take this ship to observe Venus passing in front of the Sun. That man sailed this ship to Tahiti where they observed the passage and then the captain opened up his sealed orders, instructing him to search for and claim the southern continent. For ten points give the name of this ship that James Cook sailed on his first expedition. a. Answer:	 Endeavour3. This probe, built by JPL, was launched on May 4th, 1989. It used its powerful radar to map the planet it orbited to an accuracy of around 100 meters. Precise tracking of the probe in orbit allowed for the first full scale mapping of the internal rock structure of Venus. For ten points what is this probe, named after a Portuguese explorer. a. Answer:	 Magellan4. This response is governed by the Bunsen-Roscoe law and is more easily seen in early developing tissue than fully differentiated tissue.  Understood to be caused by auxin, there is still no good evidence for the mechanism by which auxin levels are altered in one part of the tissue but not another.  FTP, name this plant growth response to light, which can be positive or negative depending on whether the plant grows toward a light source or away from it.a. Answer:	 Phototropism5. This band's chief creative force earned a bachelor's and a masters in mechanical engineering at MIT. He was also a 6'5" basketball player who considered turning pro. While trying to convince a music label to take a chance on him he worked as a senior development engineer at Polaroid in the mid-1970's.  Their self-titled debut album, which had the hit "Rock and Roll Band" went platinum. For ten points give the name of this band who produced hits like "Smokin", "Peace of Mind" and "More then a Feeling".a. Answer:	 Boston6. Born near Bromsgrove in Worcestershire in 1859, he once failed out of Oxford, but went back to get a degree.  His most famous work of 63 verses was printed in 1896 and is still in print.  One of his most famous poems uses a different name for his friend Moses Jackson, where he says that the bitter stuff of poetry helps one live better and longer than malt will.  FTP, name this English poet and author of A Shropshire Lad, featuring the catchy "When I was one-and-twenty" and the more famous "To an athlete dying young."a. Answer:	 Alfred Edward Housman7. This town, that now has half a million people, was desert in 680 AD.  A battle was fought then on a desert plain where Hussein ibn Ali and his 70 followers were slaughtered by a vastly superior army. For ten points give the name of this town, 50 kilometers from Baghdad, that saw the event that created the Shia sect of Islam. a. Answer:	 Karbala8. 
A leader who follows a set of moral laws before heeding the needs of his state cannot be a good leader in this man's opinion.  The aforementioned leader has an "ethic of conviction," which is inferior to an "ethic of responsibility" as detailed in Politics as a Vocation.   Two of his most important works were World Rejection and Theodicy and The Sociology of Religion.  He was an ardent opponent of Marxist theory, and his 1920 death robbed the Weimar republic of a potentially important leader.  FTP, name this man whose ideas of the superiority of a Calvinist belief in hard work were expounded upon in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.  a. Answer:	 Max Weber (prompt on "ethic of conviction" or Politics as a Vocation before "man's")9. After her death, her successor attempted to erase her completely from history, scratching out all inscriptions including her name and smashing all her monuments. Daughter of Thutmose I, she married her half-brother Thutmose II. An able ruler, she wore a beard in all of her statues. For ten points give the name of this famous queen of Egypt. a. Answer:	 Hatshepsut10. This so-called protein system is thought to be activated in three distinct ways.  First, a pathogen can create a local environmental change that is conducive for its activation.  Second, mannose-binding proteins can bind to the surface of pathogens.  Finally, in the "classical pathway," IgM or IgG antibodies bound to a pathogen's surface activate the system.  Comprised of proteins cleverly called things like C6, C3b or C1q, FTP, name this system based on proteins found in the blood that helps tag pathogens for destruction.a. Answer:	 complement system (prompt on "C prime")11. Much action occurs in the Pump-room, a favorite haunt for the characters in this novel.  The protagonist gradually realizes she cannot stand a certain intolerable character, who calls everything "famous" and says socially inept things like "Old Allen is rich as a Jew-is not he?"  John Thorpe's sister Isabella befriends the main character, though she too becomes obnoxious by having two boyfriends, one of whom is Henry Tilney's brother.  This novel is also known for mocking the Gothic genre, especially the works of Anne Radcliffe.  FTP, name this Jane Austen novel, a bildungsroman about Catherine Morland. a. Answer:	 Northanger Abbey12. The first jawed fishes appeared and vascular plants really laid claim to the land.  In addition, the earth's climate really began to settle down, causing many glacial formations to melt.  Coral reefs and freshwater fish also appeared in, FTP, what geological period beginning approximately 440 million years ago, found between the Ordovician and Devonian.a. Answer:	 Silurian13. Duane Allman attributed his solo guitar ability to this album.  It was originally released with five tracks, though a recent re-release added a sixth alternative version of one of the songs.  It opens with two notes of Paul Chambers on bass before Bill Evans joins him on piano.  They play off each other until Jimmy Cobb comes in on drums in this first track, entitled "So What."  Wynton Kelly plays only on "Freddie Freeloader," and John Coltrane is probably the second-most famous man to play on, FTP, this seminal 1959 jazz album by Miles Davis.a. Answer:	 "Kind of Blue"14. This chart was first published in 1953, by the Bell Labs researcher it is named for. Often called the Venn Diagram of boolean logic, this simple diagram allows for the simplification of boolean expressions easily. It represents the same values as a truth table, but by using two dimensions instead of one it makes it easy to determine simplifications. For ten points give the the name for the method often called a "K-map". a. Answer:	 Karnaugh map (accept "K-map" before mention)15. Born Mutsuhito, at age 15 he gave himself a title that meant "enlightened ruler" in his language and has come to represent his entire dynasty. The year after, there was a coup. He took the Charter Oath, a 5-point oath that promised his people democracy. After that a parliament was created, but it had no real power either. For ten points give the name of this figurehead who nominally had power after the toppling of the Tokugawa Shogunate. a. Answer:	 Meiji16. Often accompanied by a lion, this goddess was reputed to have once fallen in love with one.  In the guise of Siduri the barmaid, she appears on the lip of the sea near the Land of Life.  At one time, she caused her childhood lover Tammuz, who also happened to be her brother, to be consigned to the underworld.  FTP, name this Assyro-Babylonian goddess who called upon Anu to send the Bull of Heaven to kill Gilgamesh, the goddess of war, procreation and love.a. Answer:	 Ishtar17. Discovered at the University of Kiel in 1950, it won its discoverers the Nobel Prize in chemistry.  Termed a cycloaddition reaction, it is in fact a special case of conjugate addition.  In this process, the dienophile, which can basically be any alkene, creates a cyclic transition state with a diene, most often 1,3-butadiene.  FTP, name this process that creates a cyclohexene ring, named after its two German discoverers.a. Answer:	 Diels-Alder cycloaddition reaction18. This relatively small letter, understood to be written to a man living in Asia Minor, is nonetheless slightly confusing.  It discusses a slave who is with the author, whom the author is fond of, though he is still sending the slave back to his master.  It is unclear whether or not Onesimus has stolen something from his master, as the author offers to repay any wrongdoing Onesimus may have caused.  FTP, name this one chapter New Testament letter, probably the least studied of the true Pauline letters.a. Answer:	 Philemon19. The painter Petrus Christus was a student in his workshop, and Van der Weyden's Portrait of a Lady is a response to his Man in a Red Turban, the first Western portrait in a thousand years to show the subject facing directly forward.  One of his more famous paintings shows a round mirror directly between two hand-holding figures, one wearing a black coat and top hat and the other pregnant and wearing a green dress.  That painting, Giovanni Arnolfini and his Bride, gives many glimpses into the contemporary Flemish lifestyle of, FTP, what artist, perhaps most noted for showing devotees flocking from the four corners of the Earth in his Ghent Alterpiece.a. Answer:	 Jan Van Eyck20. This river starts at Jackson Lake, near Jackson Hole, Wyoming. It then travels for 1100 miles through numerous dams like the Lower Granite and the Brownlee dam on the way. The river serves as the border between Idaho and Washington and Oregon.  The river then joins the Columbia at Pasco, Washington. For ten points name this river that flows through Hell's Canyon. a. Answer:	 Snake21. It has seven curling rinks for a population of 140,000.  L.M. Montgomery made the island famous with her Anne of Green Gables series.  Sitting in the gulf of St. Lawrence, the island is 2,184 square miles in area, it is separated from the rest of Canada by the Northumberland Strait. For ten points give the name of this province, the smallest in Canada. a. Answer:	 Prince Edward Island
22. A person's authority, possessions, kinship, power, achievements, and personality all affect moral evaluation in this social scientist's view.  He believes that American society is stratified principally by occupation and people's familial ties.  As a Harvard professor he was interested in women and dress, and sought an integrationist approach to the social sciences.  Under Malinowski's influence, he was associated with functionalism.  FTP, name this sociologist who wrote "Sociological Theory and Modern Society" and "The Structure of Social Action."a. Answer:	 Talcott Parsons23. Born in 1936, he studied English literature in college.  Early on, his Christian background made him a target of criticism in his home country as well as one assassination attempt, yet he got a job editing the Baath party's newspaper.  Later, he would become very close to Saddam Hussein, advising him for over 20 years.  FTP, name this Iraqi native, currently his country's Foreign Minister.a. Answer:	 Tariq Aziz24. In A Room of One's Own, Virginia Woolf said "all women together ought to let flowers fall upon" her tomb.  She wrote a feminist response to Rochester's bawdy poem "The Imperfect Enjoyment" about impotence, where the speaker finds "a snake" instead of "that fabulous Priapus."  She served as a spy for Charles II, but is better known as a dramatist, with plays like "The Widow Ranter," based on Bacon's Rebellion and the first English play to be set in the American colonies, as well as "The Rover."  FTP, name this woman, author of "Oroonoko."a. Answer:	 Aphra Behn