2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 8Toss-Up Questions:1. Mary Chapin Carpenter often does a cover of this former Grammy-winning song for Best Male Vocal during her concert encores.  Its video was filmed in the St. Paul Civic Center and directed by none other than Brian de Palma.  Lines such as "They say you gotta stay hungry / . . . I'm just about starving tonight," were a reflection of the song's subject, the difficulty of writing a hit single.  It opens "I get up in the evening / And I ain't got nothing to say" and later relates "I'm sick of sitting 'round here trying to write this book / I need a love reaction."  FTP, name this song which exclaims "You can't start a fire / You can't start a fire without a spark" and whose video featured a young Courtney Cox, a hit from Born In the U.S.A. by Bruce Springsteen. 	Answer: "Dancing in the Dark"  2. A picture of Elliot Gould can be seen in the background in several scenes in this movie.  The movie's central character plans on hitting it big with his song "The Touch," while another character invents a TK421 modification to try and sell some music equipment.  Alfred Molina has a brief role as a coke buyer, but more prominent are Becky Barnett and Buck Swope, played by Nicole Ari Parker and Don Cheadle.   The central character pitches the idea of a serial story featuring Chest Rockwell and Brock Landers with John C. Reilly and himself in those roles.  By the end Rollergirl is back in school and Jack Horner is once again making films with Dirk Diggler.  FTP, name this Paul Thomas Anderson film, which was inspired by the life of pornstar John Holmes.	Answer: Boogie Nights3. His first job as a head coach was at New Hampshire College, but after only a year there he moved on to coach at Wagner College.  In his twelve years coaching at a Big East school, his teams had six NCAA tournament appearances, and he was named coach of the year in 1989, when his team won 31 games.  After serving as head coach for the gold medal-winning U. S. team at the 1991 World University Games, he made the leap to the NBA, taking the head coaching job in Portland in 1994.  More recently, he has been seen on the bench in San Antonio, though he is best remembered for his stint in Golden State.  FTP, name this one-time Seton Hall head coach who was notoriously choked by Latrell Sprewell.	Answer: P. J. Carlesimo4. On the staff is Executive Pastry Chef Frederic Robert.  Hisham Jori's Red 8, Richard Chen's Wing Lei, and Takashi Yagahashi's Okada are also options, though the prize of the lot is a brasserie collaboration between Phillippe Rispoli and Daniel Boulud.  La Bete and Lure are the two club options, and an 18-hole Tom Fazio design is only available to guests.  The majority of the site was built over the property of the old Desert Inn.  FTP, name this newest and most luxurious of Las Vegas Strip casinos.	Answer: the Wynn Las Vegas
5. One of the ads he did for a car maker included a woman who was then his girlfriend and is now his wife, model Nicole Merry.  That series of ads also resulted in a word being added to the OED, his trademark phrase of "va-va-voom."  His debut for his national team was delayed partly because of the early success of his boyhood friend Nicholas Anelka.  His breakthrough came after he was transferred from his lone year at Juventus to a team coached by the man who first signed him at Monaco, Arsene Wenger.  He is now the centerpiece of an offense that also features Freddie Ljungberg, Patrick Vieira, and Dennis Bergkamp.  FTP, name this leading striker for the French national team and for Arsenal.	Answer: Thierry Henry [awn-REE]  6. Her recent projects include vocals on "What Your Soul Sings" and two other tracks on Massive Attack's 2003 album 100th Window.  She closed this year's edition of the Jammy Awards by performing with Burning Spear, which is fitting because her latest album, a series of 12 covers entitled Throw Down Your Arms, will feature four covers of Burning Spear hits.  "Mandinka" and "Troy" were two moderate hits from her debut The Lion and the Cobra, but it was with her sophomore effort and a song penned by Prince that she skyrocketed into fame.  All of her five albums since I Do Not Want What I Haven't Got have failed to go platinum.  FTP, name this singer of the massive hit "Nothing Compares 2 U," an Irish performer who infamously tore up a picture of the late pontiff on Saturday Night Live.	Answer: Sinead O'Connor7. This actress would have appeared in Schindler's List, but she turned down the role because Spielberg wouldn't promise that she could go to school during filming in Poland.  She was the first choice for the role of Rose in Titanic, but she didn't end up doing that either.  In 1997, she did appear as Kelly in The Rainmaker and as Jenny in U Turn, the latter of which resulted in Oliver Stone writing her a recommendation for admission to Yale.  More recently, she has appearaed in Igby Goes Down, The Hours, and Brokedown Palace.  FTP, name this actress who starred in The Mod Squad and Terminator 3 after getting her break as Angela Chase on TV's My So-Called Life.	Answer: Claire Danes8. He was dropped at the same time that Peter Waller, the president of his company, was replaced by Emil Brolick.  His voice was supplied by the man who plays James Garcia on Reno 911! and who also supplies the voice of Mr. Weed on Family Guy, Carlos Alazraqui.  Among his more famous pronouncements were "Mmmmm ... gooey" and "I gotta get a bigger box," which he said in reference to Godzilla.  Actually portrayed by a female named Gidget, FTP, name this advertising mascot who also said "Drop the chalupa" and "Yo quiero Taco Bell!"	Answer: the Taco Bell chihuahua (prompt on Gidget)9. One of the minor characters is upset because her husband Mickey is in jail in Havana, and Fidel Castro won't respond to her letters.  Another character gives a copy of the album "Rickshaw Boy" to her lover on Christmas Eve, but gets upset after he gives her $100 in return.  In fact, she gets so upset that she overdoses on sleeping pills, after which Dr. Dreyfus has to come over from next door to resuscitate her.  She is angry with Mr. Sheldrake because he won't leave his wife to marry her, but she's not the first employee of Consolidated Risk whom he has slept with.  In the end, Fred MacMurray's character is left sitting at a Chinese restaurant when Shirley Maclaine's character leaves him for another man.  FTP, name this movie in which C. B. Baxter loans out the titular place to a number of executives, a movie directed by Billy Wilder.	Answer: The Apartment10. In 1968 the finalists included How Now, Dow Jones and The Happy Time, both of which lost to Hallelujah, Baby!.  In 1970, Coco and Purlie were finalists, but lost to Applause.  Quilters and Grind lost to Big River in 1985, and the following year Tango Argentino and Big Deal were no match for The Mystery of Edwin Drood.  In the 1990s, winners included Kiss of the Spider Woman, Crazy for You, Titanic, and Sunset Boulevard.  FTP, name this award which has also been given to The Will Rogers Follies, The Lion King, Rent, and The Phantom of the Opera.	Answer: the Tony Award for Best Musical11. When Billy Smith won it in 1983, he was the fourth different person from his New York team to win it in the previous four years.  Glenn Hall and Roger Crozier were the first two members of losing teams to win it.  Its namesake purchased the St. Pats in 1927, after which he changed their name and gave them their distinctive blue and white sweaters.  It was first awarded to Jean Beliveau, the captain of the Canadiens, and has only gone to non-Canadians twice, when it was won by Brian Leetch in 1994 and Nicklas Lidstrom in 2002.  FTP, name this trophy which is named for a former owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs, which is presented to the MVP of the NHL playoffs.	Answer: the Conn Smythe Trophy12. This band guested on the track "Here We Go" from Run DMC's miserable album Crown Royal.  They formed in Orange County and were forced to change their name after Milton Bradley threatened legal action over their earlier moniker of Shrinky Dinx.  Their fourth and final album failed to go platinum with the poor performance of the singles "Ours" and "Answer the Phone" but still outsold their debut Lemonade and Brownies.  Their third album, 14:59, did well due to the popularity of the single "Every Morning," but it was Floored for which they became best-known.  FTP, name this band behind the catchy single "Fly" which is fronted by Mark McGrath.	Answer: Sugar Ray13. In 2003, the USA Network announced plans to produce a TV movie which would update the lives of this film's characters.  It was filmed at Skokie's Niles East High School, and some of the students in a party scene can be seen wearing Trojans letter jackets.  Jami Gertz appeared as Robin and Brian Doyle-Murray had a role as a reverend, but it is better remembered for such performances as Joan and John Cusack's, who played a "geeky girl" and Bryce respectively.  Featuring the immortal Gedde Watanabe as Long Duk Dong, this is, FTP, what 1984 film which starred Anthony Michael Hall and Molly Ringwald?	Answer: Sixteen Candles14. This novel includes six pages of text describing how the protagonist selects fish in the market.  Among the situations we see him in are a car accident followed by a confrontation with a thief and a far-from-routine squash game.  The protagonist has a wife, Rosalynd, who is a lawyer for a newspaper; a son who is a blues guitarist; and a daughter, Daisy, who is a poet.  It ends with a family reunion which is interrupted by a home invasion and begins with the protagonist witnessing a burning plane flying into Heathrow.  FTP, identify this novel about one day in the life of neurosurgeon Henry Perowne, the latest effort from Ian McEwan which is named for a day of the week.	Answer: Saturday
15. In 2004, along with Donovan McNabb, he was the only two-time winner of the Levitra Player of the Week award.  He has two cousins also in the NFL, one of whom is Samari Rolle.  He is the sixth receiver from his team ever voted to the Pro Bowl, joining a list that includes Chip Myers, and the third from his team to own a conference receiving yardage title, joining Eddie Brown and Isaac Curtis.  He now plays alongside a former teammate at Oregon State, T.J. Houshmandzadeh (whoosh-MAND-zah-DEY).  FTP, name this player known for such antics as sending Pepto Bismol to opposing cornerbacks, the number one receiver for the Cincinnati Bengals whose other NFL cousin is a man who just wants the damn ball, Keyshawn Johnson.	Answer: Chad Johnson16. This group's second album features the songs "They Saw the Fat Man Coming," which describes their reaction to mercenary lyricist Roy Freeman, and the "Black Butter" trilogy.  That album, Wake Up It's Tomorrow, was followed by 1968's The World in a Seashell and Good Morning Starshine.  After they broke up, lead guitarist Ed King joined Lynyrd Skynyrd, though it was bassist George Bunnell who wrote most of their songs.  Their debut single featured teenager Greg Munford doing the vocals, which discuss "dead kings and many things I can't define."  FTP, name this psychedelic band from Los Angeles best known for "Incense and Peppermints."	Answer: Strawberry Alarm Clock17. Jill Wagner, B.J. Novak, and Al Shearer all only appeared on the first season.  It is executive produced and was co-created by Soleil Moon Frye's husband Jason Goldberg, who is the best friend of the show's star.  Among its better-known regulars are Ahmed Ahmed and young kid Ryan Pinkston, who has appeared in seven different episodes,  though the most successful of its regulars has been Dax Shepard.  Wilmer Valderrama has been the objective three different times, the most in the show's five seasons.  FTP, name this MTV prank show hosted by Ashton Kutcher.	Answer: Punk'd18. It may have been invented by Fred Goldsmith, who first used it in 1870.  Credit for its invention, however, has gone to a star for the Baltimore Lord Baltimores and the Hartford Dark Blues, Candy Cummings, who claimed to have come up with the idea for it after tossing around clam shells on the beach.  One of the greatest of the 70s and 80s belonged to a man who retired third on the all-time strikeout list, Bert Blyleven.  One of the best of the 60s belonged to Sandy Koufax, who may have been helped by the high mound at Dodger Stadium.  FTP, name this pitch which is thrown with extra rotation, making it slower but leading to a sometimes nasty break near the plate.	Answer: the curveball or the curve19. She got her acting start opposite Ethan Hawke in the off-Broadway production Sophistry.  Her second movie role saw her as Sean Connery's daughter in Just Cause and she later starred with Eva Mendes in the kids' movie My Brother the Pig.  She had a bigger role as Kari Wuhrer's daughter in Eight Legged Freaks and more recently acted opposite John Travolta in A Love Song for Bobby Long.  Her big break came as a broken girl in The Horse Whisperer, which she made two years before co-starring in Ghost World.  Now the face of the new Calvin Klein fragrance, FTP, name this actress praised for her starring turns in Girl With a Pearl Earring and Lost in Translation.	Answer: Scarlett Johansson 20. The speaker addresses a man named "Henry" twice, asking him not to be unkind and to get off the phone.  Henry is presumably the "droogie" who is told not to "crash here" because there's only room for one.  The speaker just wants to be left alone to straighten his face, because this "mellow thighed chick just put his spine out of place."  He repeatedly warns someone not to lean on him, because "you can't afford the ticket" now that he's back from the titular location.  It first appeared on a 1972 concept album about a Martian who comes to Earth, The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars.  FTP, name this song which features a refrain of "hey man" and a loud exclamation of "wham bam thank you ma'am," a David Bowie work whose title refers to a place where Susan B. Anthony could be happy.	Answer: "Suffragette City"
Bonus Questions:1. Their 1978 debut album plaintively asked "Are We Not Men?" in its title, but triumphantly answered "We Are [blank]!"  FTPE:A.  Name this group from Akron, whose first album opened with "Uncontrollable Urge" and included "Jocko Homo" and a cover of "(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction."	Answer: DevoB.  Devo is no doubt best known for this song, in which the listener is ordered to "go forward" and "move ahead."	Answer: "Whip It"C.  Lots of bands have produced "Greatest Hits" albums, but this 1990 Devo album inverts the concept.  It includes "Penetration in the Centrefold" and "Devo Corporate Album," as well as "Booji Boy" versions of several of their finer songs.	Answer: The Greatest Misses2. Answer these questions about noted character actor David Opatoshu, FTPE.A.  In addition to being Andrew Yaphe's cousin, Opatoshu starred in numerous TV shows and films.  For instance, he played Henry Morgenthau Sr. in this 1982 film about the Armenian genocide, which was based on a novel by Franz Werfel.	Answer: 40 Days of Musa DaghB.  Opatoshu appeared as Llamajuna in "Time of the Hawk," one of my favorite episodes of this TV series.  This show featured the lovely Erin Gray as Wilma Deering and the avuncular Wilfrid Hyde-White as Dr. Goodfellow.	Answer: Buck Rogers in the 25th CenturyC.  Opatashu played Mr. Lardelli on one episode of this TV series.  It featured Mike Connors as the titular detective, who started out working for the computerized firm Intertect before branching out on his own.	Answer: Mannix3. Sure, you remember that Earl Cureton was the glue that held the 1994 Houston Rockets rogether.  But how much do you remember about his teammates?  Name these other members of that fine Rockets team FTPE:A.  This forward was second on the team in points and rebounds.  Taken by Kansas City ninth overall in the 1984 draft, he would be traded to Portland in 1995 for Clyde Drexler and of course Tracy Murray.	Answer: Otis ThorpeB.  Though he was drafted by Miami in 1990, he didn't play in the NBA until he joined the Rockets in 1994, scoring 6.8 points per game for them.  The Spurs would later send this Venezualan forward and the rights to Felipe Lopez to Vancouver in exchange for Antonio Daniels.	Answer: Carl HerreraC.  He was signed by Houston out of Iowa after going undrafted in 1990.  In 1994, he was traded to Detroit with Robert Horry for Sean Elliott, but after Elliott failed his physical this bruising forward returned to Houston and picked up a well-deserved ring.	Answer: Matt Bullard4. Though they project a wholesome image, the young actors of 7th Heaven really love to make crappy horror movies.  Name these films fitting that description which have starred some well-scrubbed veterans of the WB classic, FTPE:A.  Many were more terrified by The Rules of Attraction, but this 2003 Jessica Biel vehicle is arguably more scary.  In it she played Erin, who is returning from a trip to Mexico with her friends when they make the fatal mistake of picking up a hitchhiker.	Answer: The Texas Chainsaw MassacreB.  Barry Watson, who plays Matt Camden on the WB, starred in this 2005 film about a man who has to return to his childhood home to face his lifelong fears.  It also features Lucy Lawless as Barry's mother. 	Answer: BoogeymanC.  Before appearing as troubled Simon Camden, David Gallagher starred as Mikey Ubriacco in this 1993 film, which for sheer terror puts both The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Boogeyman to shame.  The third film in a justly-celebrated series, it may be the only movie in history to feature the diverse talents of Charles Barkley, Olympia Dukakis, and Kirstie Alley.  	Answer: Look Who's Talking Now5. Name the performers behind these recent solo performances who are better-known for their group roles, FTP each:A. His 2004 effort Grown Backwards opened with "Glass, Concrete, and Stone."  The Forest and Rei Momo are among his other solo albums.	Answer: David Byrne [of Talking Heads]B. He won a Grammy for "Gravedigger," the lead single from his 2003 solo effort Some Devil.	Answer: Dave MatthewsC. 2002's Simply Deep was her solo debut and included the hits "Stole" and "Everytime You Walk Out That Door."  However, it sold due to the duet "Dilemma," which introduced the word "boo" to much of white America.	Answer: Kelly Rowland [of Destiny's Child]6. Name these popular first person shooters, FTP each:A. This is a prequel to the movie Pitch Black in which your character, voiced by Vin Diesel, must break out of the titular prison.	Answer: Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher BayB. This series of games puts you in the role of Gordon Freeman who, like Seth Teitler, is a theoretical astrophysicist and dimension-hopping commando.  The sequel came out for the PC in November 2004.	Answer: Half-LifeC. Its first expansion pack Resurrection of Evil came out earlier this year.  You play a 22nd-century space marine called by the Union Aerospace Corporation to its troubled Mars research facility.	Answer: Doom 37. From Buck Shaw to Andy Reid, the Philadelphia Eagles have been coached by many fat white men, assuming that Buck Shaw was a fat white man.  Name these slightly less rotund head coaches of the storied franchise, FTPE:A.  When I think of the legendary coaches of the 1990s, I rarely think of this man.  He won 21 games with the Eagles in 1991 and 1992, then 15 games for the team the next two years, then went a dismal 4-28 as coach of the Jets in 1995 and 1996.	Answer: Rich KotiteB.  Like Rich Kotite, he did well his first two seasons with the Eagles, finishing 10-6 both seasons.  Then he went 3-13 in 1998, and was off to Green Bay.	Answer: Ray RhodesC.  His first Eagles team went 5-11 in 1983, and he won all of 12 games the next two years.  After that Atlanta hired him back, for reasons best known to them, and he went 11-32 with the Falcons between 1987 and 1989.	Answer: Marion Campbell8. Name these films, all of which were directed by Luis Bunuel, FTPE:A.  At the beginning of this 1977 film, a man pours a bucket of water over a woman who is standing on a train platform.  It features two different actresses playing the role of Conchita.	Answer: That Obscure Object of Desire or Cet obscure objet de désirB.  This 1969 film centers on the wacky adventures of Pierre and Jean, two tramps travelling to Santiago de Compostela on a pilgrimage.  It features Michel Piccoli as the Marquis de Sade.	Answer: The Milky Way or La Voie lactéeC.  This 1930 classic features Max Ernst.  It was Bunuel's first feature film, and its skimpy plot involves a man and a woman whose love is thwarted by society.	Answer: The Age of Gold or L'Age d'or9. Name these contemporary American authors of some of the best American short stories of the 20th century, FTPE.  We know they're the best because John Updike told us so.  A.  This author of the best short story published in 1990, "You're Ugly, Too," has also written such books as Who Will Run the Frog Hospital? and Birds of America.	Answer: Lorrie MooreB.  Updike admires this recently-deceased author's story "The Way We Live Now," in which the friends of a man who may have AIDS talk about him.  Her novels include The Volcano Lover.	Answer: Susan SontagC.  Updike suggests that the finest story published in America in 1980 was this author's "Gesturing."  His other works include Toward the End of Time and Self-Consciousness.	Answer: John Updike10. Name these notable bluegrass artists, FTPE:A.  This group originally consisted of the White brothers and called themselves the Three Little Country Boys, the name under which they released "I'm Head Over Heels in Love with You."  They hit it big after fiddler Bobby Sloane joined the group, but broke up in 1965.	Answer: the Kentucky ColonelsB.  This legendary musician and leader of the Blue Grass Boys first hit it big with "Kentucky Waltz."  You might also know his "Blue Moon of Kentucky," which was notably covered by Elvis, or his album Knee Deep in Bluegrass.	Answer: Bill MonroeC.  This great banjoist left the Foggy Mountain Boys in 1969, as did Lester Flatt.  He went on to form a namesake "revue" with his two sons, and his songs include "Flint Hill Special" and "Earl's Breakdown."	Answer: Earl Scruggs11. Answer these questions about Secretariat's 1973 season, FTP each:A. Secretariat's greatest performance came at this race, in which he completed the Triple Crown.	Answer: Belmont StakesB. Within 4, give the number of lengths by which Secretariat won in his Belmont performance.	Answer: 31 (accept 27-35)C. Secretariat shared the early Belmont lead with this horse, who had finished second to Secretariat at both the Derby and the Preakness.	Answer: Sham12. Since 1998, he's been charming Seth Teitler with his work as everyman Eric Forman.  FTPE:A.  Name this actor, who used That '70s Show as the springboard to a fine career.	Answer: Topher GraceB.  Topher Grace appeared as Pete Monash in this 2004 movie, in which Josh Duhamel plays the hunkier title character.	Answer: Win a Date with Tad Hamilton!C.  Topher played Carter Duryea, who irks Dan Foreman by becoming his boss and sleeping with his daughter Alex, in this 2004 film.  Its soundtrack featured David Byrne's "Glass, Concrete, and Stone," which you may have heard about.	Answer: In Good Company13. At 10:00 PM, the speaker drives his Bronco to the title character's real estate, jumps over his fence, and shatters his window panel with a brick.  FTPE:A.  Name this song, which concludes that "Heinz is America's favorite ketchup" after a pistol-whipping is administered to the speaker.	Answer: "Birdman Kicked My Ass"B.  "Birdman Kicked My Ass" is perhaps the masterpiece of this obese schizophrenic, whose Fabian Road Warrior album includes the classic songs "Suck a Donkey's Bootyhole" and "Suck a Cheetah's Dick."	Answer: Wesley WillisC.  Wesley Willis concluded that Wheaties is the "breakfast of champions" in a song about this musical eatery, which "is a place where they buy food to eat."	Answer: "Rock and Roll McDonalds"14.  Name these things about Mark Hamill's work outside of the Star Wars franchise, FTP each:A. Hamill most recently wielded a light saber in this 2001 comedy in which he played Cocknocker, who takes on the title characters.	Answer: Jay and Silent Bob Strike BackB. Hamill's first role after the original Star Wars was in this story of a high school kid who teams up with a Las Vegas teenage prostitute, played by the repulsive Annie Potts, in his attempt to recover a stolen car.       Answer: Corvette SummerC. In several animated movies, video games, and television series, Hamill has voiced this Batman character, also known as Jack Napier.	Answer: The Joker15. Given a description of a Michael Jackson video, name the song, FTP each:A. John Singleton directed a group that included a bare-chested Eddie Murphy, bare-chested Magic Johnson, and a non-bare-chested Iman in this video set in a place reminiscent of Egypt.	Answer: "(Do You) Remember the Time"B. Michael hit on Latoya in this video that featured him and another music legend as carnival swindlers peddling a strength tonic.	Answer: "Say, Say, Say" [with Paul McCartney]C. It consists of a montage of clips of children from Africa, Martin Luther King appearances, and a few other historical figures. 	Answer: "Man in the Mirror"16. Name these world-class strikers, FTP each:A. This Dutch striker signed a contract in 2004, after finishing second in goals in Euro 2004, to keep him playing in Old Trafford for Manchester United till 2008.	Answer: Ruud (Rutgerus) van NistelrooyB. This Barcelona striker and Brazilian national won the FIFA World Player of the Year in 2004.	Answer: Ronaldinho (or Ronaldo de Assis Moreira)C. He has recently returned to MLS play with the San Jose Earthquakes.  His two goals against Costa Rica in June put him behind only Eddie Johnson on the U.S. squad's goal scoring list for World Cup 2006 qualifying.	Answer: Landon Donovan17. Name these Food Network shows, FTP each:A. Rachel Ray travels to various cities always managing to eat three meals and sometimes more with the titular sum in this show.	Answer: $40 a DayB. Alton Brown often examines the science behind simple recipes and gives an explanation of every step of the cooking process in this show.	Answer: Good EatsC. World class pastry chef Gale Gand, part owner of Chicago's own Tru, creates a variety of confections on this weekday morning show.	Answer: Sweet Dreams18. Name these enemies of Wolverine, FTP each:A. This stereotypical Russian communist drains the life forces of his victims with his tactile carbonadium coils.  Like Eric Hillemann, he has "death pheromones."	Answer: Omega Red (or Arkady Rossovich)B. Perhaps Wolverine's greatest enemy, he also has a healing factor and adamantium, though only in his nails.  His father Graydon Creed was an ardent anti-mutant spokesman.	Answer: Sabretooth (or Victor Creed)C. Wolverine encountered the first incarnation of this beast, once a hunter named Paul Cartier, while in Canada to deal with the Hulk.  Wolverine and the Hulk teamed up to take it down.	Answer: Wendigo19.  She appeared with the group Ladies Fresh before adopting her better-known moniker.  FTPE:A.  Name this rapper who was born Dana Owens, whose first single, "Wrath of My Madness," was released in 1988.	Answer: Queen LatifahB.  This 1989 album was Queen Latifah's debut.  It features "Evil That Men Do."	Answer: All Hail the QueenC.  This 1993 album was released after Queen Latifah signed with Motown.  It features her hit "Coochie Bang," as well as "Just Another Day" and "Superstar."	Answer: Black Reign20. On May 27 of this year, Brad Hawpe hit a dangerous line drive.  FTPE:A.  That line drive struck this pitcher in the right elbow, causing a hairline fracture that kept him out for some time.	Answer: Mark PriorB.  Speaking of pitchers who got hit by batted balls ... This Indian had 20 wins in 1956, but the next year was struck in the eye by a ball hit by Gil McDougald, and only had 17 more wins for the rest of his career.	Answer: Herb ScoreC.  In 2000, this pitcher for the Red Sox had the orbital bone in his right eye broken by a line drive.  Despite two surgeries, he never made a successful comeback.	Answer: Bryce Florie