2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 3Toss-Up Questions:1. One of this man's songs is set in the "crowded lonely night" where he waits for his "love vibration."  In another song, he imagines being on a bus "on a psychedelic trip" reading "murder books trying to stay hip."  In yet another song, he "built a moon" for a "rocking chair," but someone else "built a candy cane" for the title figure, after which she took everything he gave her and ran away.  A more famous song notes that there is nothing fair, safe, sure, or pure in this world, and proclaims that it's a nice day to start again, in addition to being a nice day for the titular event.  FTP, name this rock star whose songs include "Sweet Sixteen," "Eyes Without a Face," "Dancing With Myself," and "White Wedding."	Answer: Billy Idol2.  Seven players on this team's most recent championship squad scored in double figures, but reserves Dennis Awtrey, Jackie Robinson and Paul Silas were not among them.  Tom LaGarde and John Johnson each scored 11 points per game, though the former only played 23 games due to injury.  Jack Sikma led the team in rebounding and was an All-Star, as was Dennis Johnson, though the team's leading scorer was Gus Williams.  The team won a franchise-record 52 games and won the Pacific Division title for the first time, and after defeating the Lakers and Suns in the playoffs won the title in five games.  FTP, name this team which defeated the Washington Bullets in a rematch of the previous year's finals to win the 1979 NBA championship.	Answer: the 1978-79 Seattle SuperSonics (accept either; don't prompt for the season, but if they give the wrong years it's a wrong answer, obviously)  3. One of this film's climactic scenes takes place at a dance club called Fever.  Later, one of the characters is stymied when a cell phone he stole from a guy on the street runs out of power.  After the cell phone dies, he runs from the parking structure and shoots a man in the head, thereby saving the life of a prosecuting attorney to whom he had earlier given a postcard depicting an island.  On the orders of Felix, Vincent assassinates four witnesses and incidentally kills a number of others, but in the end dies on the subway after being shot by Max.  FTP, name this recent Michael Mann film about a killer who kidnaps a cab driver, a movie starring Jamie Foxx and Tom Cruise.	Answer: Collateral4. The title character's name was originally Spider, but that name was changed by King Features Syndicate.  This character's associates include an "intellectual" named Plato and a shifty fellow named Cosmo, while the first black person to figure in his life was named Flap.  His other friends include Zero and Killer, while he has a cousin named Lois whom he visited in 1954, after which she received a comic strip of her own, along with her husband Hi.  He lives at Camp Swampy, where his superiors include Sergeant Snorkel and General Halftrack.  FTP, name this feckless member of the army, a creation of Mort Walker whose unamusing shenanigans can still be perused in the comics sections of many otherwise reputable newspapers.	Answer: Beetle Bailey
5. Like David Press, he graduated from Wichita State, but unlike David Press, he thinks Ayn Rand's critique of Kantianism is flawed.  After coaching the defensive line at his alma mater, he took a job at West Point before getting his first head coaching position at the Air Force Academy.  He worked as linebacker coach for the Patriots in between stints as an assistant to Ray Perkins on another team.  The author of The Final Season and an memoir subtitled "autobiography of the biggest Giant of them all," he led a team to the AFC championship game in 1998 two years after he led another team to the Super Bowl, where they lost to the Packers.  FTP, name this NFL coach who has been in charge of the Jets, Patriots, Giants, and most recently the Cowboys.	Answer: Bill Parcells6. This album's penultimate track was an eight minute plus alternate take of its first single, and its final track was the hidden a capella song "Your House."  Other late tracks included "Wake Up" and a song about not giving in to a friend's dependence, "Not the Doctor."  All of these songs appear on the 2005 acoustic version, which debuted exclusively at Starbucks.  The singer talked of an eating disorder in "Mary Jane" and of her own conflicted Catholic upbringing in "Forgiven."  Better-known are such hit singles as "All I Really Want" and "Head Over Feet," as well as one which references "going down" in a "theater" on a man who may be Dave Coulier.  FTP, name this album which also featured "Hand In My Pocket," "You Oughta Know," and "Ironic" and which sold 30 million copies for Alanis Morissette.	Answer: Jagged Little Pill7. He played Ernie Masters on one episode of the third season of Mr. Belvedere, and appeared as Bobby Wilson in the pilot Good Morning, Miss Bliss.  He has the minor role of Michael in the 2005 "urban romantic comedy" Who Made the Potatoe Salad?, and provided the voice of Bladebeak for the animated film Quest for Camelot.  More notably, he provided the voice for a TV cartoon character who battles Doctor Robotnik, Sonic the Hedgehog.  Even more notably, he began appearing in 1989 on a TV series which was spun off from Perfect Strangers.  FTP, name this actor who played Bruce Lee, Myrtle, Stefan Urquelle, and Steven Urkel on Family Matters.	Answer: Jaleel White8. "Urban Whisper," "Dusted Moonlight," and "Victorian Chic" are just some of the bedding lines produced by this designer, whose newest bedding line is simply known as "Play."  A series of fragrance and scent products by this designer are available for men and women under the name Be Delicious.  The namesake started out working for Anne Klein, becoming her top designer for ten years before debuting a collection in 1984.  Since then, she has become known as the "Queen of Seventh Avenue."  FTP, name this American designer who launched her ready to wear, or DKNY line, in 1990.	Answer: Donna Karan (or Donna Faske; prompt on early buzz of "DKNY")9. Molly Ringwald turned down the female lead in this film, though she played that same character in a 2004 stage version of the film which appeared in London.  That female lead used to wear "Days of the Week" panties in college when she was dating Shel Gordon, while the male lead was married to Helen Helson, an attorney who kept her name.  They first come across each other on a drive from the University of Chicago to New York, and later see their best friends, played by Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher, get married.  With characters loosely based on producer Nora Ephron and director Rob Reiner, FTP, name this romantic comedy that included an inane orgasm scene at Katz's Deli and which starred Meg Ryan and Billy Crystal in the title roles.	Answer: When Harry Met Sally10. They were taken over by a group headed by Ruth Ratny in the early '90s, who later sold them to VNU.  That take-over followed a strange event in 1991, when chairman Bill Evans failed to show up, numerous members of the staff quit after not being paid, and the ceremony dissolved into anarchy after attendees were forced to wait for hours before anything happened.  They were originally awarded in 1959, and honor achievement in such categories as "Content and Contact," "Outdoor," "Internet," and "Innovative Media."  FTP, name these awards which are given for excellence in the fields of design and advertising, and are named for a Greek muse.	Answer: the Clio Awards11. Lindsey Buckingham played acoustic guitar on the biggest hit from her second and most recent album, which included the secret track "The Wreckage."  Another guest was Pharrell, who backed up her vocals on "Who's To Say."  That album was produced by her boyfriend, former Third Eye Blind frontman Stephan Jenkins, who co-wrote the first single "White Houses."  Though it pays homage to Wallace Stevens, Harmonium has yet to match the success of her debut, Be Not Nobody, which featured the hit "Ordinary Day" and her trademark piano playing.  FTP, name this pop star best-known for her song "A Thousand Miles."	Answer: Vanessa Carlton12. Among the former world champions he defeated during his career were Ossie Ocasio, Mike Weaver, and Tim Witherspoon, and he also won notable bouts against contenders like Randall Cobb and Earnie Shavers.  In his final title bout, he lost a close 12-round match to Oliver McCall.  Known as the "Easton Assassin," he gained his first belt by winning a 15-round scrum with WBC champion Ken Norton.  He went on to win his first 48 consecutive fights as a pro, falling just one short of Rocky Marciano's record.  FTP, name this heavyweight who had a one-sided rivalry with Gerry Cooney, and who dominated the sport for a seven-year stretch before losing the IBF title to Michael Spinks in 1985.	Answer: Larry Holmes13. She appears as twins Janie and Jamie in the interactive video game Panic in the Park.  More recently, she played Aurora Ash in the smash hit Dracula 3000, which also stars Coolio and Casper Van Dien.  She was Katherine Verdoux in Bordello of Blood, and played Elly May in the film adaptation of The Beverly Hillbillies.  However, you might know her better from early roles like Stephanie Curtis on Charles in Charge and of course Shauni McClain on her best-known TV show.  FTP, name this actress and Playboy Playmate who is best remembered for her work on Baywatch.	Answer: Erika Eleniak14. In a late chapter in this novel we learn that forces ride forth from the fortresses at Mos Shirare and Camron Caan to fight in a great battle.  In the final chapter, we learn of the protagonist's involvement in that battle, a victory at Tarwin's Gap which is recounted by Agelmar, lord of Fal Dara.  The book opens as Bel Tine festivities are about to begin in Emond's Field and climaxes with a journey to the title place, where the Horn of Valere is uncovered.  FTP, name this unbelievably crappy book that ends with Moiraine [mwa-rane] proclaiming "The Dragon is Reborn," the first novel in Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series.	Answer: The Eye of the World
15. His breakthrough year came in 1998 when he had 38 home runs and 109 RBI, the first of five consecutive seasons in which he had at least 30 home runs and 100 RBI.  In his last year with his original team, 2003, he only stole 9 bases after stealing 40 the previous year.  In that year he also had a mere 25 home runs, 14 fewer than he would have with a new team the following year.  In 2004, his 366 total bases tied a team record, and he became the second player in his team's history to score 120 runs and put up 120 RBI, joining Don Baylor.  Last year he also became only the sixth player in major league history to switch leagues and win MVP honors in his new league.  FTP, name this 2004 MVP of the American League, an outfielder for the Angels.	Answer: Vladimir Guerrero16. The speaker was drowned, washed up, and left for dead, after which he fell down to his feet and saw that they bled.  Later, he frowned at the crumbs of a crust of bread and was crowned with a spike right through his head.  In his youth, he was raised by a toothless, bearded hag and schooled with a strap right across his back, having been born in a cross-fire hurricane.  FTP, name this song about a man who insists that it's all right and in fact that "it's a gas" because he is in the titular state, a work that appeared on the Through The Past Darkly album by the Rolling Stones and lent its name to a terrible 1986 film starring Whoopi Goldberg.	Answer: "Jumpin' Jack Flash"17. He once fell asleep during an aerobics class and donated a couch filled with money to Goodwill.  He got his best-known job after his obnoxious brother Bart purchased some real estate.  Easily identifiable by his numerous leisure suits, scarves, and medallions in various plaids and prints, he was also fond of monogramming his clothing with his initials of RF.  He lived as a bachelor in Apartment 101, two floors below Larry Dallas.  FTP, name this man who took over as building manager from Stanley Roper, a man often suspicious of Jack Tripper's homosexuality who was played by the immortal Don Knotts on Three's Company.	Answer: Mr. Furley (or Ralph Furley)18. The first match for it saw the winners take on Parkdale but receive nothing as its namesake forgot to have it made.  The 1977 competition for it was known as "Staplegate," and though Lui Passaglia's heroics in 1994 prevented a foreign team from taking it, the Stallions came back to win it the next year.  Among the famous teams that have vied for and owned it are the Blue Bombers of the early '60s and the Alouettes of the '50s.  Also known as the "Earl," it has been won frequently by teams from Hamilton.  FTP, name this trophy awarded annually to the champion of the CFL, or Canadian Football League.	Answer: the Grey Cup
19. His first major album featured a notable duet with Maria McKee, "Bury Me," and covers of "Ring of Fire" and "Heartaches by the Number."  After Guitars, Cadillacs, Etc., Etc. brought him to prominence, especially with its hit cover of Johnny Horton's "Honky Tonk Man," he released a 1987 album that included four Top Ten hits, including "Little Sister" and "Always Late With Your Kisses."  Hillbilly Deluxe was followed by Buenos Noches from a Lonely Room, which gave him his first #1 hit, "Streets of Bakersfield."  FTP, name this country music artist, whose other albums include Last Chance for a Thousand Years, the recent Blame the Vain, and of course his memorable tribute to Dwight Kidder, Dwight Live.	Answer: Dwight Yoakam20. Among his film roles were the voice of the toy figure Slamfist in Small Soldiers and Dr. Stone, who testifies in A Few Good Men.  Actually the Fifth Baron of Saling in Essex, his latest role is in Mrs. Henderson Presents, a comedy starring Judi Dench.  Among his best-known characters are the moderately depressed Alan Barrows and the earnest Harlan Pepper, a man who could once name every nut and who owns a bloodhound.  Better-known are his turn as a former off-off-off-off-off-Broadway director and resident of Blaine, Missouri, Corky St. Clair, and former rock legend Nigel Tufnel.  FTP, name this husband of Jamie Lee Curtis and actor/director/writer of such films as A Mighty Wind, Best in Show, and Waiting for Guffman.	Answer: Christopher Guest
Bonus Questions:1. Answer these questions about the greatest female artist born in Winchester, Virginia, FTPE.  A.  Since this is trash rather than ACF, this probably isn't a question about Willa Cather.  Instead, name the singer who was born Virginia Hensley in Winchester in 1932.  She was posthumously elected to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1973, ten years after she died in a plane crash.	Answer: Patsy ClineB.  Patsy Cline had the #1 song of 1962 with this little ditty, in which she speaks of undergoing the titular calamity each time someone speaks Eric Hillemann's name.	Answer: "I Fall to Pieces"C.  Cline had her first big hit with this song, in which she notes that she's always performing the titular activity "out in the moonlight" just like she used to do with Eric Hillemann.	Answer: "Walkin' After Midnight"2. Name these actors who are no longer on ER, FTP each:A. Some might know him best as the heir to the Soul Glow fortune, but to ER fans he was the uncompromising and cold Dr. Peter Benton.	Answer: Eriq La SalleB. She played Cynthia Hooper, a nurse who had a season long affair with Anthony Edwards' Dr. Green, and now plays Detective Olivia Benson on another show.  She had to take out a restraining order after Jared Sagoff spent two months stalking her in 2004.	Answer: Mariska HargatayC. She had a recurring role as Charlie Chiemingo, a troubled teen, who was often helped by Clooney's Doug Ross.	Answer: Kirsten Dunst3. It's time to answer some questions about one of the most dynamic NBA teams of the last two decades.  That's right, I'm talking about the 1989 Washington Bullets.  Name these members of that accomplished team, FTPE:A.  This guard, and not Bernard King, led the team in scoring with his 21.7 points per game.  A star at Mississippi State, he was drafted by Washington in 1983 and had five 20 point per game seasons for the Bullets before being sent to Utah.	Answer: Jeff MaloneB.  This forward from Oklahoma only scored 5.6 points per game for Washington in 1989, but cut him some slack since it was his rookie year.  He was consistently scoring 18 points per game by 1993, when he was traded to Portland for the Duck in a deal that only hurt both teams.	Answer: Harvey GrantC.  The 1989 Bullets had two players with the same first and last name, each of whom put up a solid 2.6 points per game for the team.  One was a forward from Albany State whose middle initial was "J," while the other was a forward from Louisville whose middle initial was "A."  Name either, thereby naming both.	Answer: Charles Jones4. Name these double-disc albums, FTP each:A. On this 20-track release, Nas touched on such subjects as his female conquests in "Remember the Times" and his impending nuptuals with "Milkshake" chanteuse Kelis in "Getting Married."	Answer: Street's DiscipleB. The second disc included new material like "Stranger in Moscow" and the R. Kelly penned "You Are Not Alone," while the first disc was all classics like "Billie Jean" and "Beat It."	Answer: HIStory: Past, Present, and Future, Book 1C. "Over and Over," "Sara," and "The Ledge" were just some of the hits from this double platinum release, the follow up to the monster hit Rumors.	Answer: Tusk [by Fleetwood Mac]5. In 1997, Leonardo DiCaprio edged out Ed Cohn in People magazine's ranking of the "Sexiest Men Alive."  Answer these questions about the only man hotter than Ed Cohn, FTPE:A.  Leo had the minor role of Guy in this 1992 classic, in which the title character moves in with the Cooper family and for reasons best known to herself seduces Tom Skerritt's character.	Answer: Poison IvyB.  Leo starred as Richard in this 2000 movie, which was directed by Danny Boyle.  In a Bangkok hotel, he finds a map to the titular Edenic location.	Answer: The BeachC.  Leo caught many a gay man's fancy when he played Arthur Rimbaud to David Thewlis's Verlaine in this 1995 film.	Answer: Total Eclipse6. Remember when the Reds thought Pokey Reese was such hot shit they wouldn't trade him to get Ken Griffey Jr.?  Answer these questions about one of the great shortstops of our era, FTPE:A.  In 1998, Pokey had four errors in his first game replacing this shortstop, who was on the DL.  In 1995, this man became the first NL shortstop to be league MVP since Maury Wills in 1962.	Answer: Barry LarkinB.  A year after refusing to trade Pokey for Griffey, the Reds traded him to the Rockies for Gabe White and Luke Hudson.  The next day, the Rockies sent the by-now-well-travelled Pokey to this American League team, in exchange for catcher Scott Hatteberg.	Answer: the Boston Red Sox (accept either)C.  When the Reds did acquire Griffey, they didn't give up Pokey but did sacrifice four other players, including this outfielder who started his career with the White Sox before being traded for Paul Konerko.	Answer: Mike Cameron7.  A 1999 box set collected "Thirty Years" of this band, including such albums as Phoenix and All the Girls in the World Beware.  FTPE:A.  Name this Southern rock group, which featured the competent drum work of Don Brewer and the bong rattling bass of Mel Schacher.	Answer: Grand Funk Railroad (prompt on Grand Funk)B.  This may be Grand Funk Railroad's best-known song.  It features "four young chiquitas in Omaha" and a dire chorus which warns that Grand Funk is coming to your town to help you party down.	Answer: "We're an American Band"C.  Many critics believe that this 1971 album, which features a dubious coin on the cover, may be Grand Funk's masterpiece.  It opens with "Footstompin' Music" and features "I Come Tumblin'" and the apparently unpersuasive "People, Let's Stop the War."	Answer: E Pluribus Funk8. Given a description of a Samuel L. Jackson monologue, name the film, FTP each.A. Jackson is in the middle of waxing eloquent on how man is more lethal than nature when he's engulfed by one of a trio of super intelligent mako sharks gone wild.	Answer: Deep Blue SeaB. After Jackson's Ordell Robie labels the Tec-9 a "crappy spray gun from South Miami," he says of the AK-47, "When you absolutely, positively got to kill every motherfucker in the room, accept no substitutes."	Answer: Jackie BrownC. Jackson delivers an inspirational student to a student which begins: "Listen son, you have to make a choice.  Do you want to chase the hos [HOSE] like Shawn Kemp, smoke the chronic like Robert Parrish, or do you want to ball like Keith Van Horn?"	Answer: Coach Carter9. Name these singers who have something in common with Mark Twain's Tom Driscoll, FTPE:A. Like Hayden Hurst, she graduated from Georgetown but with a degree in English and Fine Arts.  Alas, all the songs on her 2002 debut All I Have sounded exactly alike, though this problem was partly circumvented by the catchy first single "One Thing" from her newest album, Touch.	Answer: Amerie Rogers (accept either name)B. Her self-titled debut featured four #1 singles, including "Vision of Love" and "Someday," but it was with the release of Music Box and its hits "Dreamlover" and "Hero" that she reached her dance-pop peak.  	Answer: Mariah CareyC. Her sophomore effort A Nu Day included the top ten hit "Stranger in My House," and her latest album Still followed last year.  By the way, she's married to Grant Hill.	Answer: Tamia Washington (accept either name)10. Name these horror series given a description of the first movie in the series, FTP each:A. The first film introduced us to the Cenobites, demons who only appear when someone solves the Lament Configuration.	Answer: HellraiserB. The killer in the first film was Pamela Voorhies, whose son had drowned to death at Camp Crystal Lake several years earlier.  	Answer: Friday the 13thC. The 1993 original featured a young Jennifer Aniston.  Its most recent offerings, the fifth and sixth, have brought the titular villain to "The Hood," a.k.a. Compton, California.	Answer: Leprechaun11. Answer these questions about a figure who, next to Darko Milicic, might have been the most dominant athlete of his era, FTP each:A. Over the course of a career that saw him win three gold medals, this Russian Greco-Roman heavyweight wrestler had a 13-year undefeated streak that finally ended at the 2000 Sydney games.	Answer: Alexander KarelinB. Karelin's streak came to an end at the hands of this dashing American, who had been crushed by Karelin 5-0 in their only prior encounter.	Answer: Rulon GardnerC. Karelin's closest shave up to that point had been in the 1996 Olympic gold medal match against this American, whom Karelin outlasted by a score of 1-0.	Answer: Matt Ghaffari12. Like Chris Frankel, you cried at the end of Cool Runnings.  But how much do you really know about the career of John Candy?  Name these films that starred the beloved and obese comedian, FTPE:A.  Candy played the title character in this 1989 John Hughes-directed film, in which he babysits for his brother's three children while his brother and sister-in-law are in Indianapolis.	Answer: Uncle BuckB.  For my money, Candy did his finest work as Spike Nolan in this 1985 comedy classic, in which the title character has only 30 days to dispose of the titular quantity.	Answer: Brewster's MillionsC.  Candy played Chet Ripley in this 1988 film about a man whose vacation is spoiled by his obnoxious brother-in-law Roman Craig.	Answer: The Great Outdoors13. The title character is almost exonerated in a trial thanks to the efforts of Clarence Darrow, but after she escapes from prison and returns to New York City a naval intervention led by Teddy Roosevelt is required to defeat her.  FTPE:A.  Name this novel about a woman who likes to murder babies, but calls attention to herself when she kidnaps the infant daughter of a Spanish diplomat.	Answer: The Angel of DarknessB.  Chris Frankel may never have heard of Albert Pinkham Ryder, but this author of The Angel of Darkness clearly has, since Ryder appears in his book.	Answer: Caleb CarrC.  The Angel of Darkness is Caleb Carr's sequel to this other novel set in New York in the 1890s, which features a serial killer of boy prostitutes.	Answer: The Alienist14. Name these classic Bob Dylan albums, FTPE.  A.  "Masters of War" and "A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall" both appear on this second Dylan album, which also features a cover of "Corrina Corrina" and "Girl from the North Country."	Answer: The Freewheelin' Bob DylanB.  Dylan replaced guitarist Michael Bloomfield with Robbie Robertson for this 1966 double album, which includes "Sad Eyed Lady of the Lowlands" and "Visions of Johanna."	Answer: Blonde on BlondeC.  This 2001 album surprised many longtime Dylan fans by being really good.  Tracks on it include "Summer Days" and the meditative "Sugar Baby."	Answer: Love and Theft15. Given a bizarre occurrence, name the Real World season or city in which the incident occurred, FTP each:A. Aspiring rocker Neil had part of his tongue bitten off during an episode of this season.	Answer: London or Season FourB. On her trip out of the house Lyme Disease sufferer Irene told Stephen that a relationship between the two of them wouldn't work out because he was gay.  He proceeded to run after her car and slap her in the face.	Answer: Seattle or Season SevenC. Cast member Melissa and friend were doing the business with fellow cast member Mike in one of the house's showers.  Two other cast members, Dan and Flora, attempted to spy on the scene, which resulted in Flora falling through the bathroom window.	Answer: Miami or Season Five       16. Answer these questions about the roles of actress Colleen Dewhurst, FTP each:A. Dewhurst made her name playing such figures as Sara Melody, Josie Hogan, and Abbie Putnam, the central female characters in works created by this writer.	Answer: Eugene O'Neill [Sara Melody is in More Stately Mansions, Josie Hogan is in A Moon for the Misbegotten, and Abbie Putnam is in Desire Under the Elms]B. Late in her career Dewhurst appeared in two miniseries playing Marilla Cuthbert who, along with her brother Matthew, adopts this young orphan girl, who was played by Megan Follows.	Answer: Anne Shirley (or Anne of Green Gables or Anne of Avonlea or Anne of the Island or Anne of Windy Poplars or Anne of Ingleside or Anne of Subash's Dreams)C. In 1958 Dewhurst married this actor, with whom she acted in the title roles in Antony and Cleopatra the next year.  Among his last roles was an update of the original Lee J. Cobb Juror #3 in the 1999 version of 12 Angry Men, as well as his Oscar-winning potrayal of a man getting hit in the groin by a football.	Answer: George C. Scott17.  Name these inductees into the 2005 College Football Hall of Fame, none of whom is Seth Kendall, FTPE:A.  This linebacker starred at Alabama between 1983 and 1986 before going on to play in five Pro Bowls for the Bills.  He later played for the Falcons and Colts before his career fizzled out.	Answer: Cornelius BennettB.  In 19 years at Auburn, this coach won 153 games.	Answer: Pat DyeC.  This offensive lineman played at Pittsburgh, where he won the 1980 Outland Trophy.  He went on to a lengthy career with the Redskins as an original member of the "Hogs."	Answer: Mark May18. Answer these questions about the early work of rapper Q-Tip, FTP each:A. Q-Tip was the main MC and co-founder of this rap trio, whose major albums include Low End Theory and Midnight Marauders.	Answer: A Tribe Called QuestB. In 1989, a year after Tribe's founding, Q-Tip guested on 3 Feet High and Rising, the revolutionary debut of this rap group.	Answer: De La SoulC. The tracks "I Left My Wallet in El Segundo," "Rhythm (Dedicated to the Art of Moving Butts," and "Ham 'n' Eggs," which features the insightful lyric "I don't eat no ham and eggs, cuz they're high in cholesterol" all appeared on this debut Tribe album.	Answer: People's Instinctive Travels and the Paths of Rhythm19. One of its popular names comes from a Cantonese word which means "dominatrix of breasts," if Wikipedia can be trusted.  FTPE:A.  Name this popular beverage, also known as "boba drink" or "QQ drink" or "tran chau."	Answer: bubble tea (accept pearl tea or anything that seems reasonable)B.  The "bubbles" in bubble tea are little "pearls" of this substance, made from the cassava plant.	Answer: tapiocaC.  In 1983, this innovator introduced tapioca pearls to Taiwanese bubble tea, and history was made.  Yes, we're asking you to name the inventor of bubble tea.  	Answer: Liu Han-Chieh20. Name these golf courses now on the U.S. Open rotation, FTP each:A. When it hosted in 2002, it became the first public golf course to hold the Open.  The Open will return there in 2009, assuming the Earth hasn't been destroyed by that time.	Answer: Bethpage Black (prompt on partial answer)B. This Donald Ross masterpiece held this year's Open as well as the 1999 edition, which saw Payne Stewart hold of Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson and make a winning birdie putt on the 72nd hole.	Answer: Pinehurst No. 2 (number two) (prompt on partial answer and revile anyone who foolishly says "no. 1")C. Johnny Miller established the single round scoring record with his 63 in the final round at the 1973 Open held at this course.  In 2007 it will hold its eighth championship.	Answer: Oakmont Country Club