2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 4Toss-Up Questions:1. Their lead singer recorded two solo albums after their breakup, one of which was When You're a Boy.  After they lost their first bassist to Blood on the Saddle, they added former Runaway Michael Steele.  A second album followed which included three hit singles, the first of which was written by Prince and the last of which was "If She Knew What She Wants."  They didn't reach the success of Different Light with their follow-up efforts, but were successful with a cover of "Hazy Shade of Winter" and two hits from their third album, "In Your Room" and "Eternal Flame."  FTP, name this all-girl band fronted by Susanna Hoffs, whose biggest hits were "Manic Monday" and "Walk Like an Egyptian."	Answer: The Bangles  2. In a 1995 game against Carolina, he set a league record for yards gained per completion in a game with 44.  His first professional coach was Jack Pardee, who led him go crazy in a run-and-shoot offense with the Houston Gamblers of the USFL.  He threw for 22 touchdowns in 1986, his first season in the NFL, and in his 11 season career he would throw 237 touchdowns, 15th best all-time.  Alas, he threw for seven interceptions in the Super Bowls in which his team played, including a woeful four interception game against Washington in 1991.  FTP, name this NFL great who appeared in four consecutive Super Bowls as quarterback for the Buffalo Bills.	Answer: Jim Kelly 3. A crucial moment in this film depends upon an old Italian tailor's decision to use double rather than single stitch in sewing a pair of pants.   After arriving in New York from the Muncie College of Business Administration, the protagonist is dismayed by the announcements at the Nidus Employment Agency before getting a job in a mailroom, where he is assigned to carry a Blue Letter.  After Norville Barnes becomes President of the titular corporation, his invention of the hula hoop takes America by storm.  FTP, name this film which stars Jennifer Jason Leigh and Tim Robbins, a movie created by those clever Coen brothers. 	Answer: The Hudsucker Proxy4. Today it is produced exclusively under the control of master Richard Geoffroy.  It was first created by the addition of a blend from Ay at a site envisioned by Saint Nivard, the Abbey of Hautvilliers.  It is not released to the market until the first plenitude, a minimum seven year period, is reached, and in many years it is not made at all if deemed unworthy.  In production since 1921, it is the name given the grand cuvee [koo-vay] made by Moet and Chandon.  FTP, identify this brand of wine named after the French monk who supposedly invented champagne.	Answer: Dom Perignon5. It was rumored that some matches would be played at a new stadium at Lauderhill, Florida in this sport's next major international tournament in 2007.  Notable Caucasians in the sport include the often-overweight Andrew Flintoff and the Waugh brothers, Mark and Steve.  Two legends of the sport gave their names to the annually contested Border-Gavaskar trophy, though the best known of its annual contests is the Ashes.  Its greatest player was Sir Don Bradman, who almost averaged a "century" for his career.  FTP, name this sport popular in such loser countries as Zimbabwe, India, and England, which features such terms as batsmen, bowlers, and wickets.	Answer: cricket6. Its first track includes a guest guitar solo from Mick Ronson and starts off with a circus drum roll, while its seventh track featured R.E.M.'s Mike Mills on piano.  The shortest song was the penultimate one, "Sweet Sweet," and this album ran the gamut with softer songs like "Spaceboy" and "Luna" and heavier ones like "Quiet" and "Geek U.S.A."  The first single, "Cherub Rock," became an alternative hit, but more airplay went to "Mayonaise" and "Rocket."  FTP, name this follow-up to Gish which featured the singles "Today" and "Disarm," the sophomore effort of the Smashing Pumpkins.	Answer: Siamese Dream7. He composed the song "Til I Met You" for his band The Banana Convention, whose drummer got him accidentally caught with marijuana in his jacket.  He was later offered the chance to be a rock star in the guise of Johnny Bravo.  He once stole Raquel, a goat and mascot for Coolidge High, and got into a huge fight over the right to have the attic room.  His jobs included babysitting his siblings and making deliveries for Sam the butcher.  Played by Barry Williams for five seasons, FTP, name this eldest of the Brady children.	Answer: Greg Brady (or Gregory)8. This author wrote about what it's like to be 78 years old in her Time to Be in Earnest.  Two years later, she published a novel set at St. Anselm's theological college, in which a young man named Ronald Treeves is found suffocated in a sandbank.  An earlier novel by this author depicts the year 2021 as a dystopian future in which the human race has somehow become sterile.  In addition to Death in Holy Orders and The Children of Men, she has written such novels as Devices and Desires and A Taste for Death, which feature a poetic chief inspector who solves crimes.  FTP, name this British author of An Unsuitable Job for a Woman and Death of an Expert Witness who writes mystery novels featuring Adam Dalgliesh.	Answer: Phyllis Dorothy James9. The name's the same.  The first is a film in which Elizabeth Pena learns that she's actually the half-sister of her childhood love, the movie's hero.  That film uses flashbacks to show the hero's father, played by Matthew McConaughey, who was long suspected of killing Kris Kristofferson's Charlie Wade.  The second is a character who owns Eagle 5, a giant Winnebago, and who was left on the doorstep of a monastery in the Ford System.  That second agrees to help Dick Van Patten's King Roland.  FTP, give this name shared by a John Sayles film with Chris Cooper as a sheriff of a small Texas town and the movie character who saves Princess Vespa and is the archenemy of Dark Helmet, an antihero played by Bill Pullman in Spaceballs.	Answer: Lone Star [Pullman's character is "Lone Starr"]10. It was invented by a rich Canadian couple who sold the rights to Edwin Lowe in 1956, in return for the first 1,000 of them made.  Lowe coined its current name and made it popular by holding special "parties" devoted to it, before rights to it were sold to Milton Bradley in 1973.  Each game consists of 13 rounds, and settling for a score of zero in any of the game's 13 categories is known as "scratching."  More valuable turns include the small and large straights, which are worth 30 and 40 points each, and a roll of five of a kind, which is worth 50.  FTP, name this board game in which players roll five dice and seek to score the most points, whose name refers to its invention on a kind of boat.	Answer: Yahtzee
11. At the age of 11 she was the youngest person ever admitted to the School of American Ballet and within seven years she had released her first song, a track from the Freaky Friday soundtrack entitled "Just Let Me Cry."  Her first album included such socially conscious relationship songs as "Undiscovered" and "Giving it All Away."  She didn't contribute any lyrics to "Unreachable," but did co-write her take on her unique family situation in "Shadow" and her superficial attempt at sexuality in "Lala."  Her biggest success remains the first single from Autobiography, the pop/rock "Pieces of Me."  FTP, name this sister-in-law of Nick Lachey and younger sister of the much-better-endowed Jessica.	Answer: Ashlee Simpson12. After coaching as an assistant at Duke for four years he became an assistant with the Bucks, but left Milwaukee to go to the ABA for his first head coaching job.  Before the leagues merged, he led the Kentucky Colonels to their only ABA title.  Two seasons later he was Coach of the Year and soon winning a Central Division title as coach of the Atlanta Hawks.  He continued his coaching career by leading the Knicks to consecutive playoff appearances in the early '80s and then retired for a while.  In the interim he took up broadcasting full time, and could be seen in front of "Valvoline Man" as head commentator on the ABC Finals team this past season.  FTP, name this decrepit basketball lifer who came out of retirement in 2002 to coach the Grizzlies.	Answer: Hubie Brown  13. She was set to star in a series of female detective movies written by Robert Parker but has yet to finalize the scripts.  In the meantime, she will make her directing debut with an adaptation of Elinor Lipman's Then She Found Me.  Yet another literary source, Oscar Wilde's Lady Windermere's Fan, provided her role of Mrs. Erlynne in 2004's A Good Woman, whereas her starring role in a recently aired HBO miniseries was drawn from Richard Russo's novel Empire Falls.  She played a golf pro in Dr. T and The Women and a struggling single mom in Pay it Forward.  FTP, name this actress whose other starring roles include those in Twister, What Women Want, and As Good as It Gets, for which she won the Best Actress Oscar.	Answer: Helen Hunt14. He was drafted in the third round by Texas in 1994, which sent him to Florida the following year, along with Wilson Heredia, as "players to be named later" in a trade involving Bobby Witt.  Two years later, Texas drafted him back from Florida through the Rule 5 draft.  He made his major league debut with Seattle in 2001, but after playing in only 19 games with the Mariners over two seasons he was traded to an NL club, where he became a star while mostly playing center field.  In 2004, his 70 stolen bases led the majors, and also led him to be traded back to the AL in exchange for Carlos Lee.  FTP, name this former Brewer and current lead-off hitter for the Chicago White Sox.	Answer: Scott Podsednik15. One of his adventures features a spoiled little child known as Pericles Huevos y Bacon, and another includes a character who thinks he is at a summer day camp and speaks entirely in hieroglyphs, the Egyptian Ptenisnet (tennis net).  In another episode he unites two towns separated by the "Great Divide."  He doesn't invoke the names of such deities as Belenos and Toutatis, unlike his fellow villagers.  Those villagers include a fish monger of dubious fish, a chief who is always falling off his shield, and a druid who brews their magic potion.  FTP, name this character created by Goscinny and Uderzo, a diminutive Gaul always accompanied by his friend Obelix.	Answer: Asterix16. On his album God Is in the House, he does vocals on "Knockin' Myself Out" and "Toledo Blues," while the album also includes versions of "Lady Be Good" and "Sweet Georgia Brown."  The album Pure Genius features him along with bassist Junior Raglin, while recent CD box sets include his "complete Pablo group masterpieces" and the 119 solo performances he recorded for Norman Granz.  The I Got Rhythm CD includes recordings with his trio, which included Tiny Grimes and Slam Stewart, as well as his solo versions of "Deep Purple" and "Tea For Two."  FTP, name this jazz musician best known for his recording of "Tiger Rag," who was born almost blind but still became one of the greatest pianists in jazz history.	Answer: Art Tatum17. It is opposed by an organization known as HALT, whose mission is to inform and warn men everywhere of its evils.  Those so-called evils began in 1984, when ABC/Hearst's "Daytime" joined with Viacom's Medical Television.  One of its major programs features Dr. Andy Campbell and Dr. Luisa Delgado, who work at Rittenhouse Hospital,  In addition to Strange Medicine, it features such compelling shows as Any Day Now, I Married a Princess, and How Clean Is Your House?  FTP, name this cable network which also supplies Matt Weiner with his reruns of The Nanny, and which prides itself on being "television for women."	Answer: the Lifetime Television network18. The first coach to lead them to a winning season was Jack Patera.  Their debut season saw the offensive rookie of the year award go to their quarterback, Jim Zorn, who was a favorite of the team's first owner, John Nordstrom.  Tom Flores coached them to three losing seasons in the early 90s, a decade featuring such team stars as running back Chris Warren and receiver Brian Blades.  The previous decade saw the team coached by Chuck Knox and led by quarterback Dave Krieg and Hall-of-Famer Steve Largent.  FTP, name this team now coached by Mike Holmgren and always based in the Pacific Northwest.	Answer: Seattle Seahawks (accept either)19. The title figure stares at the world, planning his vengeance that he will soon unfold.  He had been exposed to the "great magnetic field" when he travelled through time, which caused a significant change in his body.  Because people "just turn their heads" and no longer want him, he decides to kill the people he once saved.  It is unclear whether he can walk at all, if he is alive or dead, and if he has thoughts within his head, but it is known that his "heavy boots of lead" fill his "victims full of dread."  FTP, name this title figure whose dire motives are discussed on the album Paranoid by Black Sabbath, who amazingly had never even heard of Cal Ripken when they wrote it.	Answer: "Iron Man"20. Two of the main characters are reconciled when they agree that a boat named "True Love" was "yar."  When one of those characters meets the author of a book of short stories at the local library, she walks home with him, leaving Elizabeth Embree to be stood up at the nail salon.  Later, the two of them go swimming on the night before Tracy's wedding, which leads her fiancé George Kitteredge to assume the worst.  In the end, C. K. Dexter Haven gets remarried to Tracy Lord and Sidney Kidd photographs the event for "Spy" magazine.  FTP, name this 1940 movie, directed by George Cukor, for which Jimmy Stewart won his only Best Actor Oscar, which also stars Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn.	Answer: The Philadelphia Story 
Bonus Questions:1. Name these country music albums that share their name with epithets used to describe Seth Kendall, FTP each:A. Shania Twain's poppy country second album, it included the big hits "Any Man of Mine" and "Whose Bed Have Your Boots Been Under."	Answer: The Woman in MeB. Deana Carter's 1995 debut, its sales were driven by the success of the single "Strawberry Wine."	Answer: Did I Shave My Legs for This?C. The title track to this 1979 Johnny Cash album was drawn from a Shel Silverstein tune about an adolescent who is unhappy with his moniker.	Answer: A Boy Named Sue2.  Name these individuals who have appeared on the second and perhaps final season of Chappelle's Show, FTPE:A.  In one episode, this musician helped Dave demonstrate that white people can't help dancing when they hear an electric guitar.  Later, his rendition of "Every Rose Has Its Thorns" impressed some cops.	Answer: John MayerB.  This popular comedian noted that he was hot even though the sun is far away, and then put three bullets into a watermelon.	Answer: Black Gallagher (do not accept or prompt on "Gallagher")C.  This man was notably addressed as "Darkness" and had the word "UNITY" imprinted on his forehead after being sucker-punched.  Later, he was shown some unimpressive tits.	Answer: Charlie Murphy (prompt on "Murphy")3. Name these basketball players Subash witnessed as high schoolers, FTP each:A. Subash observed this baller in the Class A Illinois State tournament.  Despite being the team's leading scorer, he was kicked off the Iowa squad this past season and faces various charges, including two counts of burglary and one each of assault and criminal mischief.	Answer: Pierre PierceB. Subash saw him play in the state semifinals his senior year alongside Ronnie Fields and a young Michael Wright for Farragut High School.  He was taken down by a team led by current NFL receiver Tai Streets.	Answer: Kevin GarnettC. Subash saw him play on a team that included four Div I players, including future pro Melvin Ely, while at Thornton High School.  He went on to play quarterback for Indiana and is now an NFL wideout.	Answer: Antwan Randle-El4. Answer these questions about the film career of one of the finest thespians of his generation: Donald Trump, FTPE:A.  The Donald plays an uncredited "Hotel Passer-by" in this 1992 sequel about the McAllister family, which features Tim Curry as Mr. Hector, Rob Schneider as a bell-hop named Cedrick, and Ally Sheedy as a ticket agent.	Answer: Home Alone 2: Lost in New YorkB.  The Donald played Waldo's dad in this 1994 comedy classic, which also featured Reba McIntire, Whoopi Goldberg, Daryl Hannah and Mel Brooks.	Answer: The Little RascalsC.  The Donald plays himself in this 2001 film about the titular male supermodel who almost assasinates the prime minister of Malaysia.	Answer: Zoolander5. Their debut album included the hits "Shake Your Tuchas" and "Oy!  It's So Humid."  FTPE:A.  Name this rap duo, whose second album was 1991's Fiddling With Tradition.	Answer: 2 Live JewsB.  This was the name of the debut album by 2 Live Jews, which was an homage to the best-known album by 2 Live Crew.	Answer: As Kosher As They Want to BeC.  Name either of the fictional rappers who constituted 2 Live Jews.  They were supposed to be Jewish men who became rappers in their old age, and were performed by Eric Lambert and Joe Stone.  Note that Paul Litvak is not an acceptable answer.	Answer: Easy Irving or Moisha MC6. Name these contemporary British novelists, FTPE:A.  He described his youth in Moab Is My Washpot, while his novels include a work about a Cambridge student who fakes a pornographic novel by Charles Dickens, The Liar.  You might know him better as an actor, since he's appeared in Wilde and on such series as Blackadder.	Answer: Stephen FryB.  This author of The Spell and The Swimming Pool Library may be England's finest gay novelist, assuming that Martin Amis is in fact straight.  	Answer: Alan HollinghurstC.  This author of Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit and Sexing the Cherry may be England's finest lesbian novelist, assuming again that Martin Amis is straight.  	Answer: Jeanette Winterson7. On July 9, 1998, he got married at home plate just prior to the Triple-A All-Star game between the Pacific Coast and International Leagues.  FTPE:A.  Name this man, who at the time was an up-and-coming outfielder for the Norfolk Tides.  He and his wife Neila both wore Hawaiian shirts to their home plate nuptuals.	Answer: Benny AgbayaniB.  The following day, Benny Agbayani made his major league debut for this National League team.  He went on to have an important double for this team in Game 3 of the 2000 World Series.	Answer: the New York Mets (accept either)C.  In 2002, the Mets traded Benny Agbayani and Todd Zeile to the Rockies in order to acquire this outfielder, who in 1995 was also sent to the Mets as part of a trade for Bobby Bonilla.	Answer: Alex Ochoa8. Answer these questions about Chinese film, FTP each:A. Zhang Yimou's most recent American success was this visual spectacle starring Zhang Ziyi as a possibly blind warrior who is a member of the titular rebel society in the dying days of the Tang Dynasty.  Here's a helpful clue: Subash thought it was seriously overrated, while Andrew enjoyed its stunning cinematography.	Answer: House of Flying Daggers (or Shi mian mai fu)B. Zhang's Hero included a performance by this actor as Broken Sword, the leader of three assassins sworn to kill the Emperor.  He also played the cop who goes undercover as a gangster in the thriller Infernal Affairs.	Answer: Tony Leung (or Tony Leung Chiu Wai)C. Infernal Affairs is being remade by Martin Scorsese as this film with Leonardo DiCaprio and Matt Damon in the central roles.	Answer: The Departed9. Name these National Historic Landmarks, all of which are located in the great state of Virginia, FTPE.  Note that none of them is "Matt Weiner's pants."A.  Highway 11 crosses over this natural wonder of the world located in Rockbridge County.  It was formed by Cedar Creek, and Rick Grimes once ate a ham steak in its vicinity.	Answer: Natural BridgeB.  This man's birthplace in Staunton is also a historic landmark, even though he spent only a few months there as a baby.  The museum honoring him holds a nice Pierce-Arrow automobile.	Answer: Woodrow WilsonC.  This university in Lexington is a historic landmark unto itself.  Its notable alumni include such luminaries of the literary world as Tom Robbins, Tom Wolfe, and Terry Brooks.	Answer: Washington and Lee University10. In 1992, they followed their debut record with the EP Unexplained and the album Stigma, after which they quickly faded into obscurity.  FTPE:A.  Name this British dance rock group, whose few hits include "Children" and "Lies."	Answer: EMFB.  EMF is best remembered for this smash hit of 1990, which featured the voice of Andrew Dice Clay intoning the titular adjective.	Answer: "Unbelievable"C.  "Unbelievable" was the biggest single on this EMF debut album, which also features "Long Summer Days" and "Girl of an Age."	Answer: Schubert Dip11.  She appeared as Jet Girl in the Lori Petty classic Tank Girl, but her career really took off the following year with her star turn in Children of the Corn IV: The Gathering.  FTPE:A.  Name this actress, who appeared as reporter Rachel Keller in a 2002 hit film and its 2005 sequel.	Answer: Naomi WattsB.  Naomi Watts starred as Diane, whose psyche fractures after she has her lover Camilla murdered, in this remarkably good David Lynch film.	Answer: Mulholland Dr.C.  Watts played Fanny Grey in this 1993 film, in which Karina Lombard starred as Antoinette Cosway.	Answer: Wide Sargasso Sea12. Name these hybrid cars, FTPE:A.  This Toyota hybrid was first sold in Japan in 1997, but is now available in the US.  Motor Trend's Car of the Year in 2004, its name is the Latin for "ahead."	Answer: the Toyota PriusB.  This Ford product is the first hybrid SUV to reach the market.  It was North American Truck of the Year in 2005, as any reader of North American Truck Fancier would know.	Answer: the Ford Escape HybridC.  This Honda was the first mass-produced hybrid available for sale in the US.  It's a two-seater hatchback which comes with manual transmission, for people who like that kind of thing.	Answer: the Honda Insight13.  Given a description of a key play in a Super Bowl, name the two players involved for 5 points per player.A.  With 25 seconds left in the first half, this Giants quarterback, who had taken over for Phil Simms late in the season, completed a touchdown pass to this wide receiver, fittingly nicknamed "Touchdown Maker," bringing the Giants within two points of the Bills.	Answer: Jeff Hostetler (quarterback) and Stephen Baker (receiver)B. This Rams linebacker tackled this Titans wide receiver on the 1-yard line as time ran out, preventing the Titans from making the tying score.	Answer: Mike Jones (linebacker) and Kevin Dyson (receiver)C. Early in the second quarter an interception and return for a touchdown by this Giants linebacker on this Ravens quarterback was nullified by a penalty.  The Giants momentum was dead and they wouldn't make it past the Ravens 29-yard line for the rest of the game.	Answer: Jesse Armstead (linebacker) and Trent Dilfer (quarterback)14.  Name these European pop bands of the 90s, FTP each:A.  This band, whose vocalist was Lisa Lamb, was often confused with fellow Britishers Saint Etienne.  Their only success was their debut, 1997's Audiopeach, which featured the alleged hit single "On My Own."	Answer: Peach UnionB. Their third effort, Crash! Boom! Bang!, was a substantial falling-off from their second album, Joyride, which included the radio hits "Spending My Time" and "Fading Like a Flower."	Answer: RoxetteC. Their American debut was a reworking of their first album, Happy Nation.  That album dominated the 1994 airwaves with such tracks as "All That She Wants" and the title track "The Sign," which opened up Chris Romero's mind and made him happy.  	Answer: Ace of Base15. Name these actors who have helped to make The O. C. Chris Zimpleman's favorite new show, FTPE:A.  As Sandy Cohen, this actor provides maturity and leadership to the cast.  Personally, I think his finest work was as the evil Chuck Cedar in Mr. Deeds.	Answer: Peter GallagherB.  He appears as Jimmy Cooper on the show.  I fondly remember him as Kevin Donaldson in SpaceCamp.	Answer: Tate DonovanC.  This actress went to high school with Kirsten Dunst, but was a year ahead of Subash's favorite star.  In addition to appearing as Summer on The O. C., she starred as a victim of sexual abuse in the 2003 short film Unbroken.	Answer: Rachel Bilson       16. The thirteenth world championships of this sport were held at the National Indoor Arena in Birmingham, England in 2003.  FTPE:A.  Name this sport, whose fourteenth world championships will be held this August at the Arrowhead Pond of Anaheim.	Answer: badmintonB.  As of May 12, 2005, the top ranked men's and women's singles players in badminton hailed from this nation.  This country's team won the 2005 Sudirman Cup by beating Indonesia 3-0.	Answer: China (that's Red China, by the way)C.  In the semifinals of this year's Sudirman Cup, this country was upset by Indonesia.  It is home to two of the best three men's singles players in the world, Peter Gade and Kenneth Jonassen.	Answer: Denmark17. Name these Lawrence Kasdan films, FTP each:A. This film about Los Angeles featured Kevin Kline as a patent attorney, Danny Glover as a tow truck driver, and Steve Martin as a film producer.	Answer: Grand CanyonB. Kline and Glover starred in this earlier Kasdan effort.  It was a lame attempt at an iconic Western, and featured a group of four cowboys who save the titular town from the bad guys, including the always-sinister Brian Dennehy.	Answer: SilveradoC. Kasdan wrote and produced this film in which Kevin Costner, an ex-Secret Service agent, takes on the title role for Whitney Houston's Rachel Marron.	Answer: The Bodyguard18. His fifth album, Electric Circus, fizzled and yielded only one minor hit, "Come Close to Me," which featured Mary J. Blige.  FTP each:A. Name this Chicago rapper whose biggest album till then had been Like Water for Chocolate, which included the Grammy-nominated single "The Light."	Answer: Common or Common Sense (or Lonnie Rashid Lynn)B. Common's latest album, this 11-track work has already been a critical success with such hits as "The Corner," "Testify" and "Go!"  It was inspired by a Paul Tillich work which gave Common the courage to keep on rapping.  	Answer: BeC. Nine of the eleven tracks on Be were produced by this fellow Chicagoan, who saturated the airwaves in early 2004 with three tracks from his The College Dropout - "Jesus Walks," "Slow Jamz," and "Through the Wire."	Answer: Kanye West19. This year, Roy Oswalt established the major-league lead for most victories against one opponent without a defeat.  FTPE:A.  Name the division rival that Oswalt beat on June 1, running his record against them to 14-0.	Answer: the Cincinnati Reds (accept either)B.  Before beating the Reds, Oswalt was tied with this pitcher, who is 13-0 against Seattle.  Since he moved to the National League after the 2004 season, he'll probably have few opportunities to improve his record against the Mariners.	Answer: Pedro MartinezC.  Next among active pitchers is this current Yankee, who is 12-0 all-time against the Cubs.  Well, who isn't?	Answer: Randy Johnson20. Given a description of a book in a fantasy series, name the book, FTP each:A. Its closing chapters include one chronicling the "Red Wedding," in which Robb and Catelyn Stark are betrayed and murdered.  It is the third book in George R.R. Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire.	Answer: A Storm of Swords B. A blatant rip-off of Lord of the Rings, this book introduces us to Shea and Flick Ohmsford and the druid Allanon.  It was the first fantasy book by noted Washington and Lee alum Terry Brooks.	Answer: The Sword of ShannaraC. It picks up a year after the events of Silverthorn and sees Pug, Tomas, and the Kingdom forces finally confront Murmandamus and the ancient Enemy at the titular site.  It is the final book in Raymond Feist's Riftwar Saga.	Answer: A Darkness at Sethanon