2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 10Toss-Up Questions:1.  Their album Time's Incinerator collects a number of outtakes from the period when they were evolving from their first incarnation as Loud Fast Rules.  Their next album, While You Were Out, concludes with the classic "Passing Sad Daydream," and was followed by the EP Clam Dip and Other Delights and Hang Time.  Their breakthrough 1992 album features "New World" and the memorable "Somebody to Shove," as well as the single for which they are most remembered.  Led by Dave Pirner, FTP, name this band from Minneapolis whose Grave Dancer's Union included the maudlin "Runaway Train."	Answer: Soul Asylum  2. He was drafted by the Supersonics but never played for them as he was traded with Benoit Benjamin in exchange for Sam Perkins.  His next team was the Knicks, for whom he played for two seasons before being traded with Herb Williams to the team for which he would briefly become the all-time scoring leader.  2000 saw him go to another team in exchange for Corliss Williamson, and while on that team he made two consecutive All-Defensive Second Teams at shooting guard.  This last season saw him move again, this time to the Magic, though he may be better-known as a King.  FTP, name this player known for the hand signals of love he sends to his wife during games and for being the grand-nephew of the author of The Mysterious Affair at Styles.	Answer: Doug Christie3. After the protagonist of this novel is fired from his job, his friend helps him get revenge on his former boss by releasing a ferret in her office.  That friend later introduces this novel's protagonist to his cousin, a philosophy student at Princeton named Vicky with whom he falls in love.  The protagonist moved to New York with his wife, a model named Amanda, and got a job in the Department of Factual Verification of a famous magazine, but he is haunted by his mother's death and with his friend Tad Allagash goes on numerous cocaine-fueled binges.  FTP, name this 1984 novel which is annoyingly written in the second person, the most famous book by Jay McInerney.	Answer: Bright Lights, Big City4. Its fifth section ends with someone whose accomplishments were said to have been fueled by more than "inebriate spite," while its third section begins with someone who is notably not compared to R. Kelly.  Its fourth section includes someone who is importantly not "wee" and someone who is notable for his "ferret-like tenacity."  At one point, it includes the analogy of Tim Duncan going one-on-one with Peter John Ramos to explain the true standing of a certain "big man."  It evoked anger with the claim that a certain individual loves Heinrich Böll, though it was a different claim which prompted R. Robert Hentzel to pillory as "ludicrous" the proposition that John Sheahan belonged at #2.  FTP, name this controversial yet infallible sorting into five "tiers" of the foremost participants in the activity in which you are now engaged, an evaluation produced by the mysterious "A" and "Z."	Answer: The Definitive Greatest Players List or The "Definitive List" of the Best Quizbowl Players Ever.  A Dialogue (accept equivalents, so long as they make clear that they're talking about a list of the greatest quizbowl players)5. He first came to prominence when he came off the bench during the second half of the Freedom Bowl in 1988, a game in which he earned MVP honors after leading a comeback against Colorado.  In his finest season, his team lost in the Holiday Bowl, which was an anticlimax after they upset top-ranked Miami earlier in the year.  In 1991, he finished third in the Heisman Trophy ballot, and went on to be drafted in the ninth round by Green Bay.  His career may have peaked in 1990, though, as he edged out Rocket Ismail to win the Heisman after his school sent numerous neckties to the media.  FTP, name this prolific college quarterback who set a slew of records at BYU, though some say he's inferior to his brother Koy.	Answer: Ty Detmer6. To support his singing career he worked at Ford Motors and as a tailor of fine suits at Saville Row.  He released a single under the name Scorched Earth but didn't chart until he adopted his current name and released "Love Really Hurts Without You."  He didn't have success in the U.S. until the release of the title track from Nights, but he followed that album up with four platinum efforts.  The third of those, Love Zone, included the #1 hit "There'll Be Sad Songs" and surpassed his earlier cover of Prince's "Loverboy" and his ballad "Suddenly."  Born Leslie Charles in Trinidad, FTP, name this singer of "Get Outta My Dreams, Get Into My Car" and "Caribbean Queen."	Answer: Billy Ocean (accept Leslie Charles on an early buzz)7. One episode of this series ends with a gladitorial contest in a gymnasium that pits one set of alleged dopplegangers against another.  In another episode, two of the characters get enormously fat in the false belief that fatness will protect them from a flesh-eating monster.  Yet another episode centers on the loss of a Happy Bake oven, and features the revelation that one of the characters is known as "Overlord" to his henchmen in a secret mountain hideaway.  Featuring the simple-minded Hesh, both Debbie and Black Debbie, and Dr. Quinn, this is, FTP, what animated series which also includes Dolphin Boy and Captain Murphy, a show set in the near future and under the sea?	Answer; Sealab 20218. His books include the "love poem" Isis in the Heart and the children's book Roadrunner's Dance.  He has written a quartet of novels devoted to each of the seasons, which ended in 1999 with Shaman Winter and began with the novel which gave the series its name, Alburquerque.  His 1976 novel about Clemente and Jason Chavez, Heart of Aztlan, and a novel about the author's stay in the Carrie Tingley Hospital, Tortuga, make up the latter two parts of his New Mexico trilogy.  The first novel in that trilogy features a sinister barber named Tenorio Trementina, whose conflicts with the title character are recounted by the narrator, Antonio Marez Luna.  FTP, name this author best known for his first novel, a 1972 work about a "curandera" named Ultima.	Answer: Rudolfo Anaya9. He's not Matt Bruce, but he worked as a roadie for the Lemonheads before attending Harvard.  He appeared as Jacob Mayer in Little Women and as Chance Geer in Disclosure, before going on to more prominent roles like Cletus in The Grave.  In 2000, he appeared as Dan Scott in The Patriot and as Dex in The Tao of Steve, a year before taking his most substantial role.  He played the evil Quinn in Blade and the even more evil Jimmy the cabdriver on a series of commercials for MTV, though his finest work came in the role of Sean Finnerty.  FTP, name this thespian who owes his immortality to his work as the chubby girl's father on the TV show Grounded for Life.	Answer: Donal Logue 10. In 1995 it went to a man who replaced Ron Gant and hit a home run off Steve Ontiveros.  In 1988 it went to a man who accounted for both of the winning team's runs, including a home run in the third inning.  In addition to Jeff Conine and Terry Steinbach, it went to the similarly-named Bill Madlock and Jon Matlack in 1975, while Angels who have won it include Leon Wagner, Fred Lynn, and Garret Anderson in 2003.  FTP, name this award now named for Ted Williams, which was won twice by such players as Willie Mays and Cal Ripken Jr., and which is given to the outstanding player in a certain game held every summer.	Answer: the Major League Baseball All-Star Game MVP (accept the Ted Williams Award before it is mentioned)11. Steven Spielberg was set to direct this film but changed his mind so as not to take away from his sister Anne, who co-wrote it.  At his first job the protagonist briefly works under James Eckhouse, of Beverly Hills 90210 fame, is assigned a cubicle next to Jon Lovitz, and quickly finds himself the rival of John Heard's character.  He only contacts his mother, played by Mercedes Ruehl, once, and becomes romantically involved with Elizabeth Perkins.  All the while, he steadily advances up the ladder of Robert Loggia's toy company.  Of course this all proves temporary when he makes a second wish at the Zoltar machine.  FTP, name this 1988 comedy in which Tom Hanks briefly lives as an adult. 	Answer: Big12. Some versions of their first album include the rare songs "Speak No Evil" and "Perhaps Some Other Aeon."  They collaborated with minimalist composer Harold Budd on The Moon and the Melodies, which was their follow up to the all acoustic Victorialand.  They became a duo after bassist Will Heggie left, but that quickly changed with the arrival of a new bassist, Simon Raymonde. Taking their name from an obscure song by fellow Scots Simple Minds, their reputation rests on three albums: Treasure, Head Over Heels, and Heaven or Las Vegas.  FTP, name this alternative band that featured the guitar of Robin Guthrie and the ethereal vocals of Elizabeth Fraser and may be named for the offspring of the author of The Blood of a Poet.	Answer: Cocteau Twins13.  Its chief editor is the author of the ebook The Road to Chadville and the co-author of In an Uncertain World with Robert Rubin.  One of its most notable critics wrote the play Blaming Mom and co-wrote Shooting to Kill with Christine Vachon.  Its "History Lesson" is written by a professor at Rutgers, David Greenberg, while the author of Forbes Greatest Business Stories of All Time, Daniel Gross, writes its "Moneybox" column.  Its "War Stories" column is written by Fred Kaplan, while its poetry is now edited by Robert Pinsky.  Also featuring David Edelstein's film reviews and columns by Christopher Hitchens, FTP, name this on-line magazine owned by Microsoft.	Answer: Slate Magazine14.  When Venus enters the constellation Libra, the time is favorable for the invocation that will create the titular thing.  After a foppish knight named Florian comes to deliver a decree from the Emperor, he strikes up a flirtation with Miriam which proves fatal when the titular entity throws him to his death from a tower.  In the end, the titular creature is undone by a small girl whom he picks up, when she inadvertently removes something from his chest.  He brings out a pardon by holding up a collapsing ceiling after some courtiers at the Rose Festival make fun of Ahasuerus, the Wandering Jew.  FTP, name this classic of German Expressionism, a film which stars director Paul Wegener as the titular being, a creation of Rabbi Löw who was made out of clay to save the Jews.	Answer: The Golem15.  One of these things was replaced on August 16, 1999, when a man named Noel gave a new one to his younger brother.  Another one was notably taunted on November 20, 2003, prompting its owner to remark "You wanna talk about my [BLANK]?  I'll lay you out!"  The latter remark was occasioned by some suicide sprints ordered by Byron Scott, which prompted Kenyon Martin to laugh at a teammate.  Both of them were afflicted with a rare disease known as focal glomerulosclerosis.  FTP, name this organ which has caused problems for Sean Elliott and Alonzo Mourning.	Answer: the kidney16. The chorus to this song was added when one of the band member's girlfriends, Anita Pallenberg, did it during a take.  In 2003 the band released it as a maxi-single with four versions, three of which were remixes by Full Phat, Fatboy Slim, and The Neptunes.  Jane's Addiction did a notable cover and another cover appeared in Interview With the Vampire as performed by Guns N' Roses.  The titular character "held a general's rank" and "laid traps for troubadours."  He also "killed the czars and his ministers" after he "stuck around St. Petersburg" and "was 'round when Jesus Christ / Had his moment of doubt and pain."  FTP, name this Rolling Stones song about a man called Lucifer.	Answer: "Sympathy For The Devil"17. She finally ended up marrying a deaf man named Sid.  Among her various married names were van Neihosenstein, Goralnik, and Litman, but not yet Litvak.  One of those husbands was better known as the "Mattress King."  Earlier, she had a bag of barley thrown at her by her on-again, off-again boyfriend, who once told her he was moving to Yemen in an attempt to get rid of her.  Played by Maggie Wheeler over several seasons, she was best known for her nasal voice and exclamation of "OH - MY - GOD!"  FTP, name this longtime girlfriend of Chandler Bing and recurring Friends character.	Answer: Janice (accept any of the surnames before they are mentioned)18. He was traded to the Angels for Mike Witt in 1990, six years after his team's owner tried to trade him for Larry Parrish and Danny Darwin.  In a game against Toronto in 1983, he killed a seagull with an outfield throw, after which he was arrested by Canadian police and charged with cruelty to animals.  When he arrived in New York in 1981, he had the biggest contract in baseball history, but his poor first season led him to be dubbed "Mr. May," and in 1984 many racist white losers were pleased when his teammate Don Mattingly edged him out on the last day of the season for the batting title.  FTP, name this outfielder who got his 3,000th hit with the Twins in 1993 after years of playing for the Padres and Yankees.	Answer: Dave Winfield19. The emcee of the 2000 Miss Universe Pageant, he had a recurring role on Resurrection Blvd. as Odell Mason.  He served as executive producer for his last major film, in which he learns that Gregory Hines is actually his dad and takes on James Coburn after being taught how to shoot by Ernie Hudson.  That film, The Cherokee Kid, followed his turns as a toy-hungry dad at war with Arnold Schwarznegger in Jingle All the Way and as a hip secret service agent in First Kid.  He had his own short-lived talk show in 1993, two years after playing defensive lineman Andre Krimm in Necessary Roughness.  FTP, name this African-American comic and actor who is notable for taking seven voyages to the buffet every time he goes out to eat.	Answer: Sinbad (or David Adkins)20. The title figure is referred to as a "teaser" who likes to turn men on, leave them burning, and then go away.  She looks for a "king" when the night is young and the music is high, and feels that "with a bit of rock music, everything is fine."  The song takes place on Friday night, when the lights are low, and the title figure feels the beat of the tambourine.  After appearing on the album Arrival, it became the group's only #1 American single in 1977.  FTP, name this song which was featured in Muriel's Wedding and the musical Mamma Mia, in which the title figure has the time of her life at the "young and sweet" age of seventeen, a classic by ABBA.	Answer: "Dancing Queen"
Bonus Questions:1. Name these artists and groups from the alternative country scene, FTPE:A.  He didn't release his first album, Guitar Town, until 1986, but this guitarist and leader of the Dukes has followed it up with a slew of records, such as Shut Up and Die Like an Aviator and Transcendental Blues.  He caused a stir in 2002 with his "John Walker's Blues," which outraged many by neglecting to condemn John Walker Lindh.	Answer: Steve EarleB.  Critics adored this group's 1996 double album Being There, but for my money their finest work was 1999's Summerteeth, which includes "A Shot in the Arm" and "How to Fight Loneliness."	Answer: WilcoC.  Their self-titled debut record features such songs as "The Liquor Store Came First" and "I'm Not in Prison," after which they mellowed out some with albums like Hollywood Town Hall and Rainy Day Music.	Answer: The Jayhawks2. Leo Wolpert's favorite character is Thom Filicia, but Matt Lafer is more impressed by the cultural touches offered by Jai Rodriguez.  FTP each:A. These fellows are part of the "Fab Five" and appear on what Bravo show?	Answer: Queer Eye for the Straight GuyB. In addition to his role in the recently released The Perfect Guy, this clothes guru is probably the best-known of the Queer Eye experts.	Answer: Carson Kressley (accept either name)C. Queer Eye has featured this men's designer on two shows.  The creator of the Polo Jeans line during his time as Vice President of men's design at Ralph Lauren, he launched his own line in 2000.  He has recently released his first fragrance and SKIN, his line of men's skin care products.	Answer: John Varvatos3. Remember when the Padres were good?  It was in 1998.  Name these players who contributed to that surprising NL champion team, FTP each.A.  Of course, Tony Gwynn led the team in batting.  However, this Mormon first baseman was second on the team in average.  In 1999, he was packaged as part of a trade that brought Ryan Klesko to the Padres.	Answer: Wally JoynerB.  The Padres acquired this outfielder from Milwaukee in 1996.  He rewarded them by supplying the power on their 1998 team, hitting 50 home runs.	Answer: Greg VaughnC.  The Padres picked up this right-hander in 1993 in a trade with the Rockies involving Brad Ausmus.  He had a superb season in 1998, going 17-9 with a 3.34 ERA for San Diego before getting bombed by the Yankees in Game 2 of the World Series.	Answer: Andy Ashby4. Name these movies in which men have followed the example of Ron Jeremy and bared all for a greater purpose, FTP each:A. Kevin showed his Bacon in this film, which gained more notoriety for the few scenes of softcore girl-on-girl action between Neve Campbell and Denise Richards.	Answer: Wild ThingsB. Harvey Keitel probably should have taken some Cialis before appearing nude in this film that saw Anna Paquin win a Best Supporting Actress Oscar.	Answer: The PianoC. Bruce Willis is a psychologist who feels the need to show us his penis in this thriller that also starred Jane March and Scott Bakula.	Answer: Color of Night5. Their self-titled debut EP featured the classic "The Lady Wore Black," while their next album, The Warning, includes "Take Hold of the Flame."  FTPE:A.  Name this metal band led by singer Goeff Tate, whose other albums include a tribute to Wallace Stevens, Rage for Order.	Answer: QueensrÿcheB.  Queensrÿche is best-known for this meditative single from the 1990 album Empire, whose title has been taken to refer to Paul Litvak's mode of contributing on many bonus questions.	Answer: "Silent Lucidity"C.  This 1988 concept album, which told the story of a man who joins a plot to assassinate corrupt politicians, was Queensrÿche's most ambitious project.	Answer: Operation: Mindcrime6. Name these characters from Dune, FTP each:A. When the novel opens this man is the head of House Atreides and has just relinquished his control of the planet of Caladan.  His son Paul is the Kwisatz Haderach.	Answer: Duke Leto AtreidesB. Among the Fremen, Paul Atreides has two names.  One is Muad'Dib after the desert mouse of Arrakis.  The other is this one, which signifies strength.	Answer: UsulC. This nephew of Baron Harkonnen was the ruler of Arrakis before the Atreides came.  He resumes his tyrannical rule after Duke Leto is betrayed and murdered.	Answer: Beast Rabban Harkonnen7. Answer these questions about a basketball player who was never nervous but often hobbled, FTPE:A.  Pervis Ellison's greatest accomplishments on the court may have come as a freshman in college, when he led this school to the 1986 NCAA title.	Answer: the University of LouisvilleB.  Of course, Pervis is most identified with the Bullets, with whom he won the NBA Most Improved Player award.  But he was drafted #1 overall by this team in 1989, who got all of 34 games out of him before trading him to Washington.	Answer: the Sacramento Kings (accept either)C.  Pervis made his playoff debut with this team in 1995, having signed with them as a free agent following his memorable stint in Washington.	Answer: the Boston Celtics (accept either)8. Name these 2005 summer films from quotes in praise of them which appeared in their advertising, FTPE:A.  Gene Shalit promised that this was "absolutely the best movie of the year so far.  By far."  Richard Roeper proclaimed this film, which features Paul Giamatti and Bruce McGill, "rousing, thrilling, and inspirational."	Answer: Cinderella ManB.  Gene Shalit pledged that this was a "wonderfull-of-fun" film and described it as "zooperlative," whatever that means.  Jeffrey Lyons assured readers that this was a "family delight" that would surely have "children and especially parents in stitches."  The movie may or may not be named after a book of poems by William D'Avenant.	Answer: MadagascarC.  Larry King thought this film was a "million laughs," while Jess Cagle proclaimed it the "best comedy since Meet the Parents," which presumably was meant to be an endorsement.  Better left unmentioned was Wanda Sykes's dreadful work in the film.	Answer: Monster-in-Law9. Name these NFL teams from clues about their mascots, FTPE:A.  This team's mascot, a bird named Blitz who wears the number zero, first appeared in 1998.  	Answer: the Seattle Seahawks (accept either)B.  According to this team's website, its mascot attended U.S.P., or the University School of Purr-fection.  Sir Purr also allegedly averages 451 hugs "purr" appearance, which is said to lead the league.	Answer: the Carolina Panthers (accept either)C.  This team's mascot, Sourdough Sam, is the only five-time Pro Bowl Mascot in the NFL.  His favorite food is garlic fries.	Answer: the San Francisco 49ers (accept either)10. Name these bands fronted by lip-syncers, for the stated number of points:A. For 5 points: The most notorious example might be this German duo of Fab Morvan and Rob Pilatus.  Our collective hearts were broken when we found that Fab and Rob didn't sing on such hits as "Blame it on the Rain" and "Baby Don't Forget My Number."	Answer: Milli VanilliB. For 15 points:This Italian house music group was primarily known in the States for the early 90s singles "Strike it Up" and "Everybody, Everybody," which actually had Martha Wash on vocals.	Answer: Black BoxC. For 10 points: Martha Wash also provided the vocals for this group's biggest hit, the title track from their 1990 album Gonna Make You Sweat, though Martha wasn't given any credit at first.  	Answer: C&C Music Factory [in reference to producers Robert Clivilles and David Cole]11. If you're anything like Matt Reece, you've been paying close attention to the new National Pro Fastpitch league.  Name these teams from the nascent softball league, FTPE:A.  This team plays its home games in Firestone Stadium.  One of two midwestern teams in the league, its "stars" include Crystal Bustos.	Answer: the Akron Racers (accept either)B.  The only team located in the southwest, it plays at Hi Corbett Field.  	Answer: the Arizona Heat (accept either)C.  Jennie Finch and Lauren Bay pitch for this team, which plays its games at Benedictine University in Lisle.	Answer: the Chicago Bandits (accept either)12. Now for a bonus on Tim McElroy's childhood crush: Jena Malone.  FTP each:A. Jena played Young Ellie Arroway in this sci-fi flick based on a Carl Sagan novel.  Casting props go to the choice of Matthew McConaughey as Palmer Joss, the spiritual voice of America.	Answer: ContactB. Tim's favorite Jena role was in this movie, which showed us that Hayden Christensen actually could act, and which starred Kevin Kline as a man with terminal cancer.	Answer: Life as a HouseC. This satire on Bible Belt Christianity sees Jena as a good Baptist teen who falls in with the wrong crowd, and includes skateboarder Patrick Fugit and wheelchair-bound Macaulay Culkin.	Answer: Saved!13. Name these Stevie Wonder songs from lyrics that have in no way been modified, FTP each:A. "No April rain / No flowers bloom / No wedding Saturday within the month of June / But what it is, is something true / Made up of these three words that I must say to Chris Romero."	Answer: "I Just Called to Say I Love You"B. "Thirteen month old baby, broke the lookin' glass / Seven years of bad luck, the good things in your past / Like Chris Romero making of himself a great big ass"	Answer: "Superstition"C. "They've been wasting most their time / Glorifying days long gone behind / They've been wasting most their days / In remembrance of Chris Romero's bogus praise."	Answer: "Pastime Paradise"14. Name these contemporary African-American novelists, FTPE:A.  His first novel, Invisible Life, focuses on the coming-of-age of a young man named Raymond, while he dealt further with African-American homosexuality in such novels as Just as I Am and And This Too Shall Pass.	Answer: E. Lynn HarrisB.  She wrote about the love of Zora Banks and Franklin Swift in her second novel, Disappearing Acts, but may be better known for a 1996 novel about a middle-aged woman who falls in love with a young man while vacationing in Jamaica.	Answer: Terry McMillanC.  Only the second African-American Rhodes Scholar, the many books by this Macarthur Genius Grant recipient include the novel Philadelphia Fire and the "Homewood" trilogy.	Answer: John Edgar Wideman15. Name these shows that ended their runs this past television season, FTP each:A. Catherine Bell can no longer do justice to a Navy uniform as this show starring David James Elliot is now over.	Answer: JAGB. Apparently Damon Wayans and Tisha Campbell weren't funny enough as a husband and wife in this family sitcom that wasn't picked up.	Answer: My Wife and KidsC. Laz and Fred's adventures working at "Yippee Hot Dogs" couldn't make Fox executives pick up this show for another season.	Answer: Life on a Stick       16. Name these football players who didn't make too many waves as actors, FTP each:A. He became the all-time leading rusher at Northwestern during the school's two Big Ten title runs in the late 90s.  At the same time, he successfully petitioned the NCAA for the right to act in a movie in Italy.  His pro career fizzled after short stints with the Bears and Eagles.	Answer: Darnell AutryB. He had a bit part in The 25th Hour and a more recent role in a Right Guard commercial.  He retired in 2001 after having contributed to the Ravens 2000 championship season as a starting defensive tackle.	Answer: Tony SiragusaC. Selected by the Colts as the number one pick in the first ever college draft in 1967, this defensive lineman also played for the Raiders and Oilers.  His acting career has been defined by his role as Moses Hightower in all six Police Academy movies.	Answer: Bubba Smith (or Charles Aaron Smith)17. Answer these questions about Bollywood actors or actresses, FTP each:A. This former Miss World and current "Queen of Bollywood" made her English language debut in Gurinder Chadha's Bride and Prejudice.  	Answer: Aishwarya Rai [rye]B. Another Gurinda Chadha film, Bend it Like Beckham, popularized this actress who has starred on ER the last two seasons as Dr. Neela Rasgotra.	Answer: Parminder Nagra [nug-ra]C. Kabir Bedi might be best known to Western audiences for his role as Gobinda, the henchman of Kamal Kan in this film, which also included Indian tennis player Vijay Amitraj and which begins with an auction of a Faberge egg.	Answer: Octopussy18. Name these Miles Davis albums, FTPE:A.  This 1954 album includes "Blue 'n' Boogie" and "Solar" before concluding with "Love Me or Leave Me."	Answer: Walkin'B.  This was Miles's debut recording for Columbia, and features "Au Leu-Cha," "Bye-Bye Blackbird," and "Dear Old Stockholm."	Answer: Round About MidnightC.  This 1959 album begins with "So What" and features "Freddie Freeloader" and "Flamenco Sketches."	Answer: Kind of Blue19. Name these films which were shown at the Cannes Film Festival this year, FTPE:A.  The festival's Grand Prize went to this Jim Jarmusch comedy, which stars Sharon Stone and Bill Murray.	Answer: Broken FlowersB.  The Dardenne brothers of Belgium directed this Palme d'Or winner about a man who sells a member of his family.	Answer: L'Enfant or The ChildC.  One of the most critically acclaimed films at Cannes was this Michael Haneke thriller about a talk-show host whose family is terrified when they start to receive some anonymously mailed videotapes.	Answer: Hidden or Cache20. This tournament has sadly neglected that most important of sports figures, the NBA journeyman.  Given a player, identify a certain percentage of the teams on which he played, FTP each:A. Before he joined the Pistons, Chauncey Billups played for four teams.  Name three of them	Answer: Boston Celtics, Toronto Raptors, Denver Nuggets, Minnesota Timberwolves (accept either city or nickname for all bonus parts, unless specified otherwise)B. Before he joined the Spurs, Big Shot Bob, a.k.a. Robert Horry, played for three teams.  Name all three.	Answer: Houston Rockets, Phoenix Suns, Los Angeles Lakers (prompt on "Los Angeles")C. Good old Christian Laettner donated $1 million to his high school in 2000, while in the later stages of his journey through six different NBA teams.  Name any three of them. 	Answer: Minnesota Timberwolves, Atlanta Hawks, Detroit Pistons, Dallas Mavericks, Washington Wizards, Miami Heat 