2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 5Toss-Up Questions:1. He signed a contract with owner Charles Weeghman of the Chicago Chi-Feds in 1914, but backed out of it before playing any games in the Federal League.  In 1916 he lost 20 games, even though he had an ERA of only 1.89 that year.  As a manager, he took over the Indians in 1933 after four seasons in charge of the team for which he played for twenty years.  He was the Most Valuable Player of the American League in 1924, when he led his team to a World Series, and in 1913, when his 36 wins, 1.14 ERA, and 243 strikeouts earned him the Triple Crown.  FTP, name this great pitcher, who retired in 1927 with the all-time strikeout record, the greatest player ever to wear a Washington Senators uniform.	Answer: Walter Johnson2. Five years after their fourth album, Waiting for the Punchline, appeared, they released a greatest hits album entitled "An Accidental Collision of Atoms."  Their third album features the songs "Seven Sundays" and "Tragic Comic" and is divided into sections entitled "Yours," "Mine," and "The Truth," which are the "three sides to every story" mentioned in the album's title.  They also went the high-concept road with their second album, which includes "Decadence Dance" and "Get the Funk Out" in its depiction of the quest for love in a fallen world.  That album, Pornograffiti, features their two biggest hists, "More Than Words" and "Hole Hearted."  FTP, name this band led by guitar wizard Nuno Bettencourt, whose goal was to take hair metal to the limit.	Answer: Extreme  3. When he was only 21, he wrote and directed a documentary about the history of mining, Coaltown.  In his most recent film, he played a man who discovers a plan to sell eggs laced with nicotine.  That film, Mr. Accident, appeared in 2000, seven years after his second feature film, which starred him as a video store owner and bank robber.  Reckless Kelly appeared five years after his best-known film, in which the title character finds a way to put bubbles in beer by splitting the beer atom.  FTP, name this man who changed his name from Greg Pead before beginning his film career in Australia, the auteur behind Young Einstein who once unsuccessfully sued the Internet corporation Yahoo!	Answer: Yahoo Serious (accept Greg Pead before it is mentioned)4. In one of his novels Congressman Evan Kendrick goes undercover to save a group of hostages in Muscat, a deed that is exploited by the secret society known as Inver Brass.  In another novel, Michael Havelok learns that his lover Jenna Karats might not be dead, and in yet another, longtime enemies Brenand Scofield and Victor Taleniekov unite to take down the titular criminal organization.  Those novels are The Icarus Agenda, The Parsifal Mosaic, and The Matarese Circle, but he's now best-known for his trilogy about a different agent.  FTP, name this author of numerous espionage novels, including three about superspy Jason Bourne.	Answer: Robert Ludlum
5. When his team retired his number he was the third player to wear it and the second offensive player, the other being defensive back Lem Barney.  His brother was also a football player and had a 1000-yard season in 1988 as a running back at Northwestern.  He was picked right behind Tony Mandarich in the draft but two spots ahead of Deion Sanders.  This happened after his junior season, the first year he didn't back up Thurman Thomas and the year in which he ran for 2,628 yards to win the Heisman.  FTP, name this running back selected third in 1989 out of Oklahoma State, the NFL's third all-time rusher after a 10-year career with the Detroit Lions. 	Answer: Barry Sanders6. Two versions of this song can be found on the debut record of the band that recorded it.  On that album, track 2 is the "dirty" version which uses the word "fucking," while track 13 is "clean."  An acoustic version of this song is the last track on the band's EP My Iron Lung, which was released between Pablo Honey and the band's first big album.  This song's title figure wants to have control, as well as wanting a perfect body and a perfect soul.  He feels that he is less special than another figure, who is said to "float like a feather" in a "beautiful world."  After asking "What the hell am I doing here?" the title figure concludes that he doesn't "belong here," because he is a "weirdo."  FTP, name this song about a man with an inferiority complex by Radiohead.	Answer: "Creep"7. He played Josh in a 2001 TV movie about a boy who fights a brain tumor, The Miracle of the Cards.  Earlier, he starred as Jack Morgan in a TV movie about a man who leaves his fortune to his dog and his dog's psychiatrist.  In addition to You Lucky Dog, he appeared for three years on a WB sitcom in which he played an artist who has to care for his three siblings while his parents live in Europe.  More recently, he has starred as Buck Williams in such films as Tribulation Force, World War III, and the original Left Behind, though his finest work probably came as Dexter Riley, who somehow acquires the knowledge of an entire encyclopedia, in The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes.  FTP, name this good Christian and mediocre actor, the step-brother of Valeri Bure who played the son of Jason and Maggie Seaver on Growing Pains.	Answer: Kirk Cameron8. It begins with your character on a train and the first characters you encounter are Biggs, Jessie, and Wedge.  Others you meet along the course of your journey include Professor Gast and Hojo, and you move through such locales as Nibelheim, Cosmo Canyon, and the Gold Saucer.  The first character to join your party does so in Midgar, and after Barrett joins Aeris quickly follows.  The game concludes with your final defeat of the Shinra and Sephiroth.  FTP, name this game in which you control Cloud Strife, a member of Square Soft's best-selling role-playing series.	Answer: Final Fantasy VII9. In a scene deleted from this movie, we learn that the protagonist has contempt for Pomona and its Sage Hens.  In a key early scene, one character is seen reading The Naked Ape in a crowd while flirting with the protagonist.  The protagonist is unenthused about attending Cal State-Dominguez Hills, where her former boyfriend goes.  The epic final scene takes place in Daytona, where the Rancho Carne Toros finish second to the Clovers.  Ian Roberts's performance as Sparky Polastri, the shifty choreographer, may be the finest work in this film, though as the Pantone siblings Jesse Bradford and Eliza Dushku also do a good job.  FTP, name this film which stars Gabrielle Union and Kirsten Dunst as opposing captains of cheerleading squads.	Answer: Bring It On10. Tourist attractions in this state include a ruined castle located in Ha Ha Tonka State Park near Camdenton.  The Downing House commemorates Ella Ewing, who was known as this state's "giantess" because she was 8 feet, 4 inches tall.  Sumner calls itself the "Wild Goose Capital of the World," while Laclede was the boyhood home of John Pershing.  In Liberty, the Jesse James Bank Museum commemorates the nation's first daytime bank robbery.  The Scott Joplin Ragtime Festival is held annually at Sedalia, while a large western city is home to the Americna Jazz Museum and the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum, as well as some notable barbecue.  FTP, name this state which also features the International Bowling Hall of Fame, the Lake of the Ozarks and the Gateway Arch.	Answer: Missouri11. She is the main spokesperson for Bimbo Bakeries, particularly its Orowheat brand of bread.  In addition, she has recently launched Axcelerate, her own line of women's active wear.  She is now a student at the University of Arizona, having officially retired from competition.  In August 2004 she unseated Kobe Bryant as the #1 searched for athlete on the web, just a few days after she surpassed Anne Poleska and Liesl Jones to achieve individual glory.  She first came to fame for the teddy bear she brought with her to competitions in Atlanta in 1996 as a 14-year-old.  FTP, name this American winner of seven Olympic medals, mostly in the breaststroke.   	Answer: Amanda Beard12. The U.K. version of their debut album featured a woman's bare bottom and hip with a leather-gloved hand resting on it.  The U.S. version featured an abstract design and replaced an earlier song with the planned B-side "When it Started."  Their lead singer is the son of the longtime chairman of the Elite Modeling Agency and his distinctive vocals can be heard on songs like "Soma" and "Barely Legal."  "Modern Girls and Old Fashioned Men" doesn't appear on either of their albums unlike "12:51," the headline single from their second album Room on Fire.  FTP, name this modern rock band headed by Julian Casablancas, whose Is This It included the hit "Last Nite." 	Answer: The Strokes13. The opening scene of the movie Live from Baghdad has Iraqis in a theater watching this movie, whose soundtrack includes "Drop Kick Me Jesus" and "It's a Cowboy Lovin' Night."  Its alternate title of Beneath Perfection is a reference to its setting of Perfection, Nevada, which is also referenced in the subtitle of the second of three sequels to this film.  Finn Carter plays Rhonda, a graduate student who is investigating seismic anomalies, and true comedy is provided by Mr. and Mrs. Gummer, a pair of survivalists with a massive weapons arsenal who are played by Michael Gross and Reba McEntire.  Fred Ward is one of the pair of heroes who must defeat a group of four "graboids."  FTP, name this 1990 comedy/monster flick starring Kevin Bacon and featuring some giant tunneling worms.	Answer: Tremors
14. It has been accused of being part of a Nazi plot to take over America because the font in which its name appears, "Blippo Black," was derived from a Bauhaus font.  In its uncarbonated form, it is allegedly an aphrodisiac for squirrels.  It first appeared in 1972, and remained the same until 2001, when a "bolder" version of it was introduced with the name "Xtra."  This product, which begs that you "put it in your head," was originally named "Peppo," but after a lawsuit the name was changed.  FTP, name this carbonated beverage made by Coca Cola, which has been described as the "poor man's Dr. Pepper."	Answer: Mr. PiBB15. With one of its first round picks, Dallas selected Uwe Blab.  Mario Elie was chosen by Milwaukee in the seventh round, well after diminutive future superstars Michael Adams and Spud Webb were selected.  With its second round pick, Washington went for Bridgeport center Manute Bol, who had inexplicably been passed over in the first round in favor of such future luminaries as Alfredrick Hughes, Keith Lee, and Washington's earlier pick, Kenny Green.  It's hard to say who made the stupidest selection this year: Atlanta made Jon Koncak the #5 pick, one spot ahead of Joe Kleine and well behind #2 pick Wayman Tisdale and #3 Benoit Benjamin.  FTP, name this NBA draft in which Joe Dumars and Karl Malone were drafted after Big East stars Chris Mullin and Patrick Ewing.	Answer: the 1985 NBA draft  16. He is diagnosed with a problem after the doctor reads The Great Gatsby to him and he can't answer any questions.  He later ends up leading a band that opens for Phil Collins, but jealousy leads Phil to lie to Skyler and cause the band's break up, leaving this character lead singer of the Lords of the Underworld no more.  That same season he attempts to train a turkey named Gobbles, but fails miserably.  He is disappointed when his former rival takes steroids to compete in the Special Olympics and tries to tell Mr. Mackey as much.  FTP, name this character voiced by Trey Parker, a handicapped adolescent on South Park based on the University of Chicago's own Mr. McElroy.	Answer: Timmy17. After serving in a navy band in Hawaii, he joined the bands of King Kolax and Joe Webb, with whom he played the alto saxophone.  He changed instruments to work with Eddie Vinson, but went back and forth before committing to the instrument for which he is best known as a member of Johnny Hodges's group.  He played in one session with Thelonious Monk's quartet after being fired from a better-known quintet, which he had joined in 1955, displacing Sonny Rollins.  In 1960, he would form his own group with such artists as Elvin Jones and McCoy Tyner, with whom he made such albums as Selflessness and Impressions.  FTP, name this great jazz saxophonist, whose other works include Giant Steps, A Love Supreme, and My Favorite Things.	Answer: John Coltrane18. Armillaria is more commonly known as the "honey" or "oak" variety of this item.  "Puffballs" are commonly referred to as the breakfast ones, while the Shaggy Parasol variety is known for its fragile gills, and the Fairy Ring for its sweet flavor.  A peppery flavor characterizes Enoki ones and those with sea-derived names include the Lobster and Oyster varieties.  Those popular in French cuisine include the Chanterelle and Morel, while the most popular Italian kind is the Porcini and Chinese cuisine often features the Shiitake.  The Portobello is also a type of, FTP, what class of often-edible fleshy fungi?	Answer: mushrooms19. The singer's mother watches too much television - "All My Children in the daytime, Dallas at night" - such that he "Can't even see the game at night or the Sugar Ray fight."  The singer's son thinks it'd be cheaper if he just got a job and "learned to be a street sweeper" because he doesn't want to go to school "cause the teacher's a jerk . . . and all the kids smoke reefer."  Its first verse describes living conditions with the lines "Got no money to move out, I guess I got no choice / Rats in the front room, roaches in the back" and the opening statement "Broken glass everywhere / People pissing on the stairs."  The famous chorus declares "It's like a jungle sometimes, it makes me wonder / how I keep from going under."  FTP, name this groundbreaking social rap by Grandmaster Flash.	Answer: "The Message"20.  Most of this movie's early scenes were drawn from Ethel White's novel The Wheel Spins.  The very first scene sees Boris the Hotel Manager rent out his best room to the heroine and her two friends.  It is at that hotel that we also meet Caldicott and Charters, two Englishmen obsessed with a cricket match going on back home, but Dr. Hartz, the chief villain, is introduced later.  The heroine, played by Margaret Lockwood, befriends Miss Froy on a train leaving a fictitious Balkan nation, only to find herself led to believe that Miss Froy never existed.  FTP, name this penultimate British film of Alfred Hitchcock, whose title refers to Miss Froy's disappearance.	Answer: The Lady Vanishes
Bonus Questions:1. Name these alternative rockers who made their name in the 1990s, FTP each:A. His landmark album was 1996's Odelay, whose popular successes included "Devil's Haircut" and a song in which he boasts of having two tunrtables and a microphone, "Where It's At."	Answer: Beck (or Beck Hansen)B. His debut single "Once Around the Block" appeared on 1999's The Hour of the Bewilderbeast, but it was for his next effort, the soundtrack to About a Boy including his hit single "Silent Sigh," that he gained recognition. 	Answer: Badly Drawn Boy (or Damon Gough)C. He might be best-known for "Miss Misery," his single off the Good Will Hunting soundtrack, which also included tracks from his album Either/Or.  He didn't see the release of his sixth and final album as he committed suicide in 2003.	Answer: Elliot Smith (or Steven Paul Smith)2. In the classic tradition of trash tournaments everywhere, answer the following absurdly specific questions about one episode of one TV show.  If you didn't happen to see the season finale of The Simpsons this year, too bad for you.  FTPE:A.  This 80s band appears at the Protestant Fun Festival, and please the crowd with their hit "Come On Feel the Lord."	Answer: Quiet Riot (accept Pious Riot, I guess, since it is the name they go by on the show - if this were a real TRASH tournament, we'd be asking for that)B.  In the epilogue to the episode, set 1,000 years in the future, we learn that Bart becomes a prophet who is killed in this manner following the treachery of his apostle Milhous.	Answer: pulled apart by snowmobiles (accept equivalents)C.  The priest who nearly succeeds in converting Bart and Homer was voiced by this Irish actor.	Answer: Liam Neeson  3. Name these great linebackers, FTPE.  Note that none of them are Matt Lafer.A.  In 1986, this great Sooner became the first man to win multiple Butkus Awards.  He went on to sign the largest contract in Seahawk history, as well as appearing in Back in Business.	Answer: Brian Bosworth or the BozB.  One of the great two-way players in collegiate history, he played linebacker and guard for some great Texas teams of the mid-60s.  In 1965, he became the first player ever drafted by the Atlanta Falcons, and would be NFL Rookie of the Year.	Answer: Tommy NobisC.  This UCLA great of the mid-70s was the first three-time consensus All-American in the history of the Pac 10.  His 468 career tackles set a UCLA record, and he went on to be a first round draft pick of the Eagles.	Answer: Jerry Robinson4. Gojira!  There's not much like seeing hundreds of Japanese extras cower before and flee from the reptilian monster.  Name these things about him, FTP each:A. Made to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Godzilla was this 1974 film in with aliens build the titular adversary, a machine version of Godzilla.	Answer: Godzilla vs. Mechagodzilla (or Godzilla vs. Cosmic Monster or Godzilla vs. Bionic Monster or Gojira tai Mekagojira)B. The 1998 U.S. Godzilla saw this fan of Vespa scooters and husband of Sarah Jessica Parker play a character by the unlikely name of Dr. Niko Tatopolous, though he'll always be Ferris Bueller to Matt Lafer.	Answer: Matthew BroderickC. Even better than the short film Godzilla vs. The Netherlands were the two cartoons featuring Godzilla first meeting this Disney character and thirty years later this character's son.	Answer: Bambi5. No trash tournament would be complete without at least one question about hockey.  Answer the following questions about this important sport, FTPE:A.  In this recent Margaret Atwood novel, one of the two title characters creates a plague that wipes out most of humanity.  In the novel's vision of a dystopian future, global warming brings an end to ice, making hockey at long last impossible to play.	Answer: Oryx and CrakeB.  The title character of this novel is interviewed by Dr. Simon Jordan, when the latter isn't busy screwing his wacky landlady.  After killing her employer and his mistress, she flees Canada with her possible lover James McDermott, but their escape is hindered when he tarries to play "ice sticking," a primitive version of hockey.	Answer: Alias GraceC.  In an early draft of this Atwood novel, the Commander played one-on-one hockey games with Offred, though Atwood decided to have them play Scrabble in the published version.	Answer: The Handmaid's Tale6. Answer these questions about songs dealing with Willie Chen's home state, FTP each:A. This band's "California" is the theme song of The O.C.  Vocalist Alex Greenwald starred in Donnie Darko and former drummer Jason Schwarzmann is also an actor, having starred in Slackers and Rushmore.	Answer: Phantom PlanetB. Rivers Cuomo takes shots at L.A. and "preppy girls" in "Beverly Hills," the first single from this latest Weezer album.	Answer: Make BelieveC. Lyrics from this song, the seven-minute title track to a 1971 album, include "I see your hair is burning; the hills are filled with fire" and a line about "cops in cars" and "topless bars."	Answer: "L.A. Woman" [by The Doors]7. Name these Most Outstanding Players of the Men's Division I Final Four, FTPE:A.  In 1993, this sweet shooter from North Carolina took the honors.  More recently, he's been lighting it up in some Swedish league before returning to this hemisphere as a member of the Idaho Stampede of the CBA.	Answer: Donald WilliamsB.  Though many felt that Stacey Augmon was more deserving, this member of the well-compensated 1990 UNLV team was given the award.	Answer: Anderson HuntC.  This Kentucky guard won in 1998, then went on to a stellar NBA career that consisted of a total of 18 games with the Hawks.	Answer: Jeff Sheppard8. She starred as Dr. Sara Jaffee in 1994's Relentless IV: Ashes to Ashes.  FTPE:A.  Name this talented actress, who also appeared as Rachel Montana in the Harvey Keitel thriller City of Industry and as Bonnie in Woody Allen's Celebrity.	Answer: Famke JanssenB.  Famke Janssen may be best known for portraying this lovely mutant in the X-Men movies.	Answer: Jean GreyC.  Famke played Elizabeth Burke in this fantastic 1998 film set at Herrington High School.  It also features Jon Stewart, Josh Hartnett, and Bebe Neuwirth.	Answer: The Faculty9. Name these action RPGs for the Xbox, FTP each:A. This series consists of two games, the second of which, "The Sith Lords," takes place roughly five years after the conclusion of the first one, which sees a climactic confrontation between Darth Revan and Darth Malak.	Answer: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (prompt on "KOTOR")B. Developer Bioware chose not to work on the "Sith Lords" in order to develop this game in which the player learns of his destiny as a Spirit Monk in service of the Water Dragon and the Betrayal of Sun Li, the Glorious Strategist.	Answer: Jade EmpireC. You control a group of four, including Tal, Ailish, and Buki, in attempting to save the land of Haskilia in this RPG developed by Climax.	Answer: Sudeki10. Name these rockabilly legends, none of whom is Matt Weiner, FTPE:A.  His "Blue Suede Shoes" was the first Sun record to sell a million copies, but after getting into a car accident on the way to perform it on the Perry Como Show his limelight was stolen by Elvis.	Answer: Carl PerkinsB.  His posthumous albums include Reminiscing and Showcase, while his self-titled 1958 album features "Rave On" and "I'm Gonna Love You Too."	Answer: Buddy HollyC.  He played a swamp monster in the movie musical The Exotic Ones, but he may be better known for songs like "Boogie Woogie Country Girl" and "Blackland Farmer," which appear on such albums as It Ain't What You Eat (It's the Way How You Chew It) and Nothin' But the Truth.	Answer: Sleepy LaBeef11. If Adam Kemezis hadn't been leading Michigan to national championships, word has it he'd be pursuing a career in this sport.  FTP each:A. Name this sport whose ranks include Sekiwake [sek-ee-waakee] and Maegashira [meg-uh-shee-ra] and whose athletes compete in six bashos [bah-shoze], or tournaments, throughout the year.	Answer: sumo wrestling (or ozumo)B. The highest rank in sumo is this one of grand champion.  Akebono became the first foreigner to attain it, while Mongolian Asashoryu [aa-sa-shore-yu] is the current standard bearer.	Answer: YokozunaC. To become Yokozuna one must win two consecutive bashos while holding this title, the rank of champion and second highest sumo ranking.	Answer: Ozeki12. Name these films directed by the talented John Dahl, FTPE:A.  Ray Liotta stars as David Krane in this 1996 film, in which he injects himself with other people's memories to discover his wife's murderer.  By answering this question, you'll prove that the film's title isn't a misnomer.	Answer: UnforgettableB.  Dahl's first major film was this 1992 noir which stars Nicolas Cage.  Cage plays Michael Williams, who is mistaken for a hitman hired by J. T. Walsh's character to kill his wife, improbably played by Lara Flynn Boyle.	Answer: Red Rock WestC.  Dahl may be best known for this 1998 film, which features Edward Norton as a gambler who enlists Matt Damon's character to help him repay a debt to John Malkovich's Russian mobster.	Answer: Rounders13. State how much one would have to pay, given standard game rules and these conditions in Monopoly, FTP each:A. If you were to land on Boardwalk, and if it had one hotel on it, you'd be out this sum.	Answer: $2,000B. When you have the monopoly of Oriental, Vermont, and Connecticut, this is how much rent you would collect from a player who lands on Connecticut with no houses or hotels.	Answer: $16C. This is the amount of rent you'd collect on Tennessee if you had four houses on that property. 	Answer: $75014. Name these brother-sister music acts, FTP each: A. He reached the Top Five in 1998 with his hit "Save Tonight;"  She had already gained success with her debut LP Raw Like Sushi, and its pop rap "Buffalo Stance."  You need to give both their first and last names.	Answer: Eagle-Eye and Neneh Cherry [his first name is really Eagle-Eye]B. This Mormon duo hosted their own variety show in the late 70s and had a duet hit with "I'm a Little Bit Country."  He now hosts the game show Pyramid.  Give their first and last names	Answer: Donny and Marie OsmondC. Jim and his sisters Andrea, Caroline, and Sharon make up this group, whose biggest stateside hit remains "Runaway" from their debut album Forgiven, Not Forgotten.	Answer: The Coors15. Name these characters from the beloved NYPD Blue, FTPE:A.  This irascible and violent detective, played by Dennis Franz, is the emotional core of the show.  Plausibility is stretched every time he hooks up with another attractive woman.	Answer: Andy Sipowicz (prompt on Andy)B.  Mark-Paul Gosselaar's Detective John Kelly replaced this Rick Schroder-played detective, who was murdered.	Answer: Danny Sorenson (accept either)C.  James McDaniel played this token black member of the cast, the squad's lieutenant.  He was replaced by token Hispanic Esai Morales in 2001.	Answer: Arthur Fancy       16. Name these things about action films and the women in them, FTP each:A.  Geena Davis and former husband Renny Harlin reunited for this movie in which Davis is an amnesiac schoolteacher who discovers she was once a deadly secret agent in the covert group known as the Chapter.	Answer: The Long Kiss GoodnightB. This American remake of the French La Femme Nikita had Bridget Fonda in the Anne Parillaud role.  The premise is that a homeless junkie is taken in and trained as an assassin by a government agency.  That's a fine premise.	Answer: Point of No ReturnC. The inspiration for Sonya Blade was this actress who, from 1981-85, was the five-time undefeated World Karate Champion in Forms & Weapons.  Among her starring roles are the China O'Brien Movies, the second of which featured Billy Blanks, and the Tiger Claws series, the second of which featured Bolo Yueng.	Answer: Cynthia Rothrock17. Name these ESPN.COM Page 2 columnists, FTP each:A. Perhaps better known as the "Sports Guy," he attempts to wax eloquent on a variety of sports and entertainment subjects and occasionally succeeds.	Answer: Bill SimmonsB. Her "Ill-Advised" column consists of brief interviews with athletes always ending with the question "what's the best piece of advice you've received?"	Answer: Rachel NicholsC. A former editor of Hoop and Slam magazines, this writer has recently begun a weekly basketball column on Page 2.	Answer: Scoop Jackson18. Sure, they suck.  But name these studio albums released by the Grateful Dead anyway, FTPE:A.  1970 was a banner year for the Dead, as they released both Workingman's Dead and this alleged classic, which features "Box of Rain," "Friend of the Devil," and of course "Truckin."	Answer: American BeautyB.  This 1987 album has been called the Dead's "least crappy record in a decade."  It features "Black Muddy River" and the only Dead song I can stomach, "Touch of Grey."	Answer: In the DarkC.  The Dead returned to Arista for this 1977 album, which was not recorded at the Metro stop in College Park.  It features covers of "Samson and Delilah" and "Dancin' in the Streets."	Answer: Terrapin Station19. Name the following popular syndicated advice columnists, FTPE.  A.  This is the nom de advice adopted by Margo Howard, the daughter of that boring old biddy Ann Landers.	Answer: PrudenceB.  She's a 30-something repatriated New Englander with a liberal arts degree and a lot of opinions, most of which appear in her lame "Tell Me About It" column.	Answer: Carolyn HaxC.  According to the Chicago Tribune website, this author of "Tales from the Front," which doesn't so much offer advice as reprint letters about relationships that losers send to the paper, "has been on the Fast Track" since 1981.	Answer: Cheryl Lavin20. This National League player captured the coveted "Spring Triple Crown" this year, leading the league in the three relevant categories as of June 1.  FTPE:A.  Name this red-hot Cub first baseman, whose stellar performance led the Cubs to a solid second place in the NL Central.	Answer: Derrek LeeB.  Derrek Lee's 17 home runs were three more than this leftfielder for the Reds, who had only hit 14 as of the beginning of June.  He already holds at least one major league record, as he struck out 195 times in 2004.	Answer: Adam DunnC.  Lee was a good 25 percentage points ahead of this Venezualan outfielder, a Marlin who was second in the league in batting average.	Answer: Miguel Cabrera