2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 1Toss-Up Questions:1. In the May 2005 issue of ESPN Magazine this baller described his pre-game ritual as being similar to Andrew Yaphe's, as it consists of "popping a can of Red Bull and two cans before a playoff game."  He left college after his freshman year and was selected in the first round of the 1998 draft by the Hornets before being traded to the Heat in 2000, who traded him again the next year.  At the University of Iowa he was known as selfish, a reputation he reinforced in a 2003 game in which he tried to miss a shot on his own team's basket in order to garner his tenth rebound and a triple double.  This contributed to the Cavaliers trading him yet another time in the 2003-04 season.  FTP, name this player who finished second in this past season's Sixth Man voting as part of the Boston Celtics. 	Answer: Ricky Davis2. This band's 1997 comeback album features such songs as "I Want to Be There (When You Come)" and the quasi-hit "Nothing Lasts Forever," on which Liam Gallagher of Oasis sings backup.  That album, Evergreen, was followed by Flowers, What Are You Going to Do With Your Life?, and the box set Crystal Days.  "Going Up" and "Happy Death Men" appear on their first album, 1980's Crocodiles, while their self-titled 1987 album includes the classic "Lips Like Sugar."  Formed in Liverpool in 1978, their key members were Will Seargent and singer Ian McCulloch.  FTP, name this rock group best known for such hits as "The Cutter" and "The Killing Moon," named for a mythical nymph and her lagomorphic henchmen.	Answer: Echo & the Bunnymen  3. Sir Mix-A-Lot once claimed that he would pay to smell this actress' farts.  His claim was possibly based on her work as Jeryline in Demon Knight, Patti in one of the vignettes in If These Walls Could Talk, or voicing Toki in the English version of Princess Mononoke.  While at the Baltimore School of Fine Arts she dated Tupac Shakur, and she won the Miss Maryland title in 1988, five years before making her film debut in Set it Off and one year after being cast in A Different World.  However, her big break came as Dr. Carla Purdy in The Nutty Professor.  FTP, name this actress who has recently played Niobe in all three Matrix films and who is married to Wil Smith.	Answer: Jada Pinkett-Smith (prompt on "Smith")4. One member of this group played a drug dealer's turncoat girlfriend in Bad Boys 2 and another was the subject of Ice Cube's desire in Friday After Next.  One of them studied ballet since the age of three and has appeared in countless performances of The Nutcracker.  Another was offered scholarships to several Ivys but opted to obtain an online degree while staying on their namesake island.  They've recently released a three track CD composed of songs from which they recite while helping such figures as a bell hop and a guy in a full-body cast.  Their names are Sophia, Lola, Capri, and Kiki, who represent grape, pineapple, strawberry, and orange and always sing "Don't You Wanna."  FTP, name this group one often sees in movie theater commercials plugging Fanta beverages.  	Answer: the Fantanas
5. He had 246 yards and two touchdowns in the 1996 Copper Bowl, which was billed as a showdown between him and Chris Fuamatu-Ma'afala, though the latter sprained his ankle during the game.  Two years later, this man was shut down by Georgia in the Outback Bowl, but he bounced back by rushing for at least 200 yards in his next two bowl games.  Rushing for over 7,000 yards in his career, he also scored 71 touchdowns in the course of leading his school to victories over UCLA and Stanford in consecutive Rose Bowls.  Selected #11 in the 2000 draft by the Giants, FTP, name this Heisman Trophy-winning running back who starred at Wisconsin.	Answer: Ron Dayne6. A paean to the American woman of the late 19th-century summarizes this album's "Gold Rush Brides," while a wife's thoughts about leaving her husband form the focus of "Jezebel."  The lead singer's voice is on full display in the soft "How You've Grown" and is mellowed down somewhat in the late track "Circle Dream."  Subash claims that "inward direction of anxiety" is expressed in "Stockton Gala Days," and we hear about an innocent man's time on death row in "I'm Not the Man."  The album opens with "Noah's Dove" and was the group's last effort before the lead singer went solo and released Tigerlily.  FTP, name this album that included "Candy Everybody Wants" and "These Are Days," the best-selling effort of 10,000 Maniacs.	Answer: Our Time in Eden7. She played Gale in a 2002 film about a business man who looks for revenge after getting fired, The Employee of the Month.  She was Toni in 2000's thrilling Alone with a Stranger, though more recently she's played Bridgette in a film about a bookstore clerk who receives three wishes after finding a first edition of Great Expectations.  She was Joanne Collins on the short-lived TV series Web Girl, while she appeared as Maureen in the short-lived sitcom The Second Half, which also featured Wayne Knight.  More recently, she's provided the voice of Velma for several Sccoby Doo features, and has reprised her most famous role in specials set "down under" and "in Paris."  FTP, name this cousin of a noted Chicago quizbowler, an actress who played a girl boarding with Edna Garrett as Natalie Green on The Facts of Life.	Answer: Mindy Cohn8. In this book, we learn that the author's father was a star athlete at the University of South Dakota and West Point who was notorious for having three testicles.  We also learn about the author's lifelong love for Jimmie Trimble, who was his sexual partner as a boy before being killed in World War II.  Chapters in this book discuss the author's grandfather, a blind senator from Oklahoma, and Jack Kerouac, whom the author claims to have sodomized.  The book also discusses such friends of the author as Paul Bowles and Jackie Kennedy, as well as such enemies as Truman Capote and Bobby Kennedy.  FTP, name this memoir by the author of Williwaw, Julian, and Lincoln, a book by Gore Vidal whose title refers to a manuscript which is reused after an earlier text has been erased.	Answer: Palimpsest9. Kurtwood Smith has a role as General Stanley Cooper, who is in charge of the project at the center of this movie.  Katherine Heigl appears as the niece of the hero, who foils the takeover of a satellite weapon that can cause earthquakes.  The hero is helped by the seemingly hapless porter played by Morris Chestnut and by the incompetence of the criminal mastermind played by Eric Bogosian.  Of course this is no skin off the back of former Navy SEAL turned chef Casey Ryback.  FTP, name this sequel that takes place almost entirely on a train and stars Steven Seagal.	Answer: Under Siege 2: Dark Territory10. The second edition of this game featured such enemies as Dando the Cursed and Funky Dynamite.  The third was subtitled "Ancient Ship of Doom," while the popular first introduced the canine beasts known as the Kelbeross and ended with a fight against Jashin, who appears after Jaquio [jak-woh].  The most recent version included Alma and Doku, two of the fiends in service to the Vigoor Empire.  All of them focus in some way on the Dragon or Dark Dragon swords.  FTP, name this series of games by Tecmo, all featuring Ryu Hayabusa [rye-oo hye-uh-boo-saa], a deadly ninja.	Answer: Ninja Gaiden11. He turned out three editions of Disorders of the Autonomic Nervous System before retiring from his post of Master of Pembroke College.  His greatest accomplishment was not thought possible until the exploits of Jules Ladoumegue and was surpassed by Australian John Landy within two months.  That feat was made possible by his friends Chris Brasher and Chris Chataway, the latter whom he trailed for much of the way.  Both men worked as "rabbits" to keep a series of 60 second paces.  FTP, name this man who, in May 1954, ran the first sub-four-minute mile.	Answer: Roger Bannister12. In About a Boy, Will gives Marcus a CD by this rapper for Christmas.  His self-titled debut received little attention other than the tracks "Here I Go" and "Ya'll Ain't Ready Yet."  His next solo effort featured the tracks "There He Go" and "Dirty South, Dirty Jerz," the latter a nod to his roots.  But Unpredictable and Ghetto Fabulous were outshone by his next two releases, the second of which, Tarantula, earned him two Grammy nods in 2003.  FTP, name this No Limit rapper from New Orleans, perhaps best known for a single from his Let's Get Ready, the James Brown like "Shake Ya Ass (Whatcha Self)."	Answer: Mystikal (or Michael Tyler)13. One character in this film made a fortune by inventing "silent Velcro" and is an admirer of Brave New World, which he thinks is by Aldous Huxtable.  Another character is a knight at Medieval Times, speaks Klingon, and is sleeping with the mother of the protagonist's friend Mark.  Mark is a gravedigger at a Jewish cemetery, where he meets up with the protagonist after the latter comes home for his mother's funeral.  While at home, he goes to a neurologist and meets Sam, a girl with epilepsy who is played by Natalie Portman.  FTP, name this film about a young actor whose life is changed when he revisits his home in New Jersey, which was written and directed by Zach Braff.	Answer: Garden State14. This product has been advertised by a creature also known as "The Beak" who may be a native of the Danger Islands.  After the creature first appeared, the makers of this product were sued by the Munsingwear clothing company, who feared that consumers would be confused by it.  The creature to whom this question keeps referring began his quest for this product after spending time as a surfer in Tierra Del Fuego, where he may have learned his disturbing catchphrase: "Dooby Dooby Doo."  This product was introduced in 1994, and the following year it lost a notable athletic event when jokes about "beechwood aging" were used by Coach Budka to inspire his team,   FTP, name this alcoholic beverage produced by Anheuser-Busch, which was marketed by a sinister penguin.		Answer: Bud Ice (accept the Bud Ice Penguin, as the question can't help being somewhat confusing)15. While pitching for Schenectady in 1948, he struck out 25 batters in one 15 inning game.  He left the Phillies organization after that season, and would end up with the Montreal Royals, the Triple A affiliate of the team with which he's most associated.  After being released following a fight with Clay Bryant in 1960, he became a scout before taking his first managerial position with the Pocatello Pioneer League team.  He went on to coach in Ogden, Spokane, and Albuquerque before becoming the designated successor to Walter Alston in 1976.  FTP, name this man who turned managing duties over to Bill Russell in 1996, ending a two decade run that saw him win the 1981 and 1988 World Series as manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers.	Answer: Tommy Lasorda16. Objects mentioned in this song include a "hooked bone" rising from some food, a "ragged cup," a "twisted mop," and the "wicked wheels" of the "meal trolley."  The speaker compares himself to a "moth that tries" to "enter the bright eye," as he shuffles out of life "just to hide in death awhile."  Earlier, he notes that Christ died upon the cross in a way that seems "so fitting," inasmuch as he was a "carpenter by trade."  In the end, he suspects that his head is burning, glowing, smoking, and melting, as he admits he lied about the crime for which he was taken from his home and put on Death Row.  FTP, name this song about a man who is electrocuted in the titular thing, a work by Nick Cave which was famously recorded by Johnny Cash.	Answer: "The Mercy Seat"17. Elliot Gould guest-starred on this show's fourth episode as The Professor, while a more recent episode featured Jay Mohr as a sap whose fiancé left him and who proposes to one of this show's regulars.  Cheryl Ladd had a recurring role in the first season and Marsha Thomason plays regular Nessa Holt.  The first episode saw Delinda Deline, the boss' daughter, caught in bed with the show's ostensible lead Danny McCoy.  Those roles are played by Molly Sims and Josh Duhamel, who at various times has been in relationships with the characters played by Nikki Cox and Vanessa Marcil.  FTP, name this NBC show in which James Caan runs the Montecito, a resort and casino in the title city.	Answer: Las Vegas18. 1930 saw the adoption of the Coulter Law, prohibiting certain types of payments to players.  Almost 30 years earlier Jack Worrall became the game's first coach.  More recently, in 1995 the Dockers entered competition and within the next two years Fitzroy had played its last match and Footscray was renamed.  Common penalties include "out on the full" and "around the neck" and teams consist of 22 players with 18 on the ground at any time.  Play is divided into four 20-minute quarters with action starting when the ball is bounced on the ground.  FTP, name this sport contested on a 50-meter arc field, in which players can move the ball in any direction by hand or foot, a variant of rugby primarily played in the homeland of Patrick White and Banjo Patterson.	Answer: Australian Rules Football or Aussie Rules Football
19. He appears as Father Michael in a recent film about a group of strangers who are kidnapped and locked together in the House of 9.  He also appears as a policeman named Krebs who abducts a dancer played by Asia Argento in the recent The Keeper, and appears as Horace in a 2002 film that starred Joseph Fiennes and Elisabeth Shue as the parents of a young Leopold Bloom, Leo.  In the 1990s, he appeared as Frank Slater in Meet the Deedles, as H. P. Lovecraft in Witch Hunt, and as King Koopa in Super Mario Brothers, as well as playing the relatively normal Clifford Worley, who gets executed by Christopher Walken's character, in True Romance.  FTP, name this actor who appears in the recent Land of the Dead and who also appeared in Hoosiers and Blue Velvet.	Answer: Dennis Hopper20. His latest album features his newest backing band, the Strange Sensation.  This is just two years after the release of a two-disc set devoted to his solo career, the compilation Sixty Six to Timbuktu.  That solo career included such hits as "Calling to You" on Fate of Nations and "Little by Little" which appeared on 1985's Shaken 'N' Stirred.  The latter was his first release after his stint as the vocalist of The Honeydrippers.  Five years earlier, his most famous band had come out with In Through the Out Door, their eighth studio album and the follow up to The Song Remains the Same.  FTP, name this singer best-known as the singer for the New Yardbirds, a.k.a. Led Zeppelin.	Answer: Robert Plant
Bonus Questions:1. If you own this man's 1994 Greatest Hits album, you can listen to "Turn the Page" or "The Fire Inside" every morning when you wake up, just like Chris Frankel.  FTPE:A.  Name this musician, whose other "hits" include "Hollywood Nights" and "In Your Time."	Answer: Bob SegerB.  At the end of this Bob Seger classic, Bob wakes up to the sound of thunder and starts humming a song from 1962, inspired by his memory of trying to make some "front-page drive-in news," whatever that might be.	Answer: "Night Moves"C.  In this song, Bob protests that he has no "kick against the west coast" and also has no objections to either the "midwest" or the "east coast," but since he's tired of "looking at the TV news" he wants to go to the titular place.	Answer: "Katmandu"2. Name these Franciscans who aren't Roger Bacon, John Duns Scotus, or William of Occam, FTP each:A. Just a few years after his time as a student in a Franciscan seminary he made his film debut in 1981's Endless Love.  Roles in Taps and The Outsiders quickly followed.	Answer: Tom Cruise (or Thomas Cruise Mapother IV)B. His father was an ex-Franciscan monk, but vows of celibacy and poverty weren't in the cards for this former VH1 personality and host of America's Funniest Home Videos from 1997-2000.  Sadly the answer is not Dave Coulier or Bob Saget.	Answer: John FugelsangC. He's not really a Franciscan, but he played a Franciscan priest in 1995's Gospa.  He's now best-known for his TV role as President Jed Bartlet.	Answer: Martin Sheen3. Name these quarterbacks of the Bobby Bowden Seminole era, none of whom have been caught wandering the streets of Tallahassee raving that they were God, FTP each:A. The first four-year starter under Bowden, he ranks second all-time on the Florida State passing yardage list.  He earned Freshman All America honors in 2001.	Answer: Chris RixB. He led the team to its second national championship.  By the time the 2000 season started, he was 28 years old and widely regarded as the John Nam of Florida State football.	Answer: Chris Weinke [wen-key]C. The first athlete in Florida prep history to win both Mr. Basketball and Mr. Football, he was kicked off the team in his sophomore year for theft and gambling.  He tried to go to Tennessee State before turning pro and playing for the Indiana Firebirds in the AFL.	Answer: Adrian McPherson4. Arnold Vosloo or Tom Michael.  One of them, but not both, starred as the villain in these movies.  Name them, FTP each:A. Though we feel that Tom would have truly inhabited the role, it was actually Vosloo who played high priest Imhotep in this movie which saw Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz as adventurers who go to the ancient city of Hamunaptra.	Answer: The MummyB. Both made the callback, but it was Vosloo who was chosen for the role of Francois Molay, a member of the evil organization E.R.I.S. and foil of the titular teen hero in this flick.	Answer: Agent Cody BanksC. Tom turned down the title role in two sequels about this character, as he was afraid that it would injure his rep with HCASC schools.  Fortunately, Vosloo was available to play Dr. Peyton Westlake.	Answer: Darkman (accept Darkman 2 or Darkman 3)5. Name these bands whose albums have been released by Merge Records, FTPE:A.  This Chapel Hill-based band was led by Ash Bowie.  Their classic albums include Shapes, Today's Active Lifestyles, and what many critics thought was the best album released in 1994, Celebrate the New Dark Age.	Answer: PolvoB.  This is Mac McCaughan's best-known band, unless you've got a weird thing for Portastatic.  Their many albums include Like Pocky for Kitty and Here's Where the Strings Come In, while Foolish contains such fine songs as "Driveway to Driveway" and "Like a Fool."	Answer: SuperchunkC.   This band's early albums, including All the Umbrellas in London and The Wayward Bus/Distant Plastic Trees, were released on Merge.  Stephin Merritt moved to Nonesuch for this group's later releases, such as 2004's i.	Answer: the Magnetic Fields6. Name these books which have appeared on the non-fiction bestseller lists in 2005, FTPE:A.  Paul Litvak has already given away numerous copies of this book by Greg Behrendy and Liz Tuccillo, which helps women understand how a typical man like Paul thinks about relationships.	Answer: He's Just Not That Into YouB.  Once Paul has persuaded his girl du jour that he's just not that into her, he has time to curl up with a copy of this Malcolm Gladwell book, which offers banal insights into decision theory by explaining how we can think "without thinking."	Answer: Blink: The Power of Thinking Without ThinkingC.  After reading Blink, Paul is inspired to start buzzing without thinking at his next tournament.  To help him in his quest to become the best quizbowl player he can be, he also ponders the lessons of this Jack Welch tome, in which the former CEO of General Electric explains how Paul can dominate his opponents.	Answer: Winning7. In honor of Danica Patrick's performance at the Indy 500, name these other woman who have excelled, or at least participated in, male-dominated sports, FTPE:A.  This former point guard for Vanderbilt became the first woman to coach a men's pro basketball team when she took over the Nashville Rhythm of the ABA.  She gained notoriety this year when she was fired by Sally Anthony, then quickly re-hired.	Answer: Ashley McElhineyB.  She became an NBA referee along with Dee Kanter in 1997, and is now the only woman official in one of the major men's professional leagues.	Answer: Violet PalmerC.  She made history in 2005 when she became the first woman to reach a title match in the PBA, though she lost to Tommy Jones in the Banquet Open final.	Answer: Liz Johnson8. He invented a "kiss-proof lipstick" called Red-Red Rouge and a ticker-tape machine before writing his first play, The Guinea Pig, in 1929.  FTPE:A.  Name this polymath, who directed such films as The Sin of Harold Dibblebock and Hail the Conquering Hero.	Answer: Preston SturgesB.  This 1942 Preston Sturges film has been called the 4th funniest film ever made.  It features the immortal Rudy Vallee as the wealthy John D. Hackensacker III, and Joel McCrea and Claudette Colbert also make appearances.	Answer: The Palm Beach StoryC.  Stanley Cavell is a big fan of this 1941 Sturges film, in which a herpetologist named Hopsie is seduced by Barbara Stanwyck, who plays Jean Harrington and the title character.	Answer: The Lady Eve9. Give these terms related to espresso, FTP each:A. It is the caramel-colored foam that appears on top of a shot of espresso during the brewing period and which soon dissipates.	Answer: crema [cray-ma]B. This word of French origin is a small, half-size cup used for serving espresso.  	Answer: demitasseC. This is an espresso featuring the shortest draw of brewed coffee, usually with the same amount of bean but half the water.  It is the strongest and most concentrated espresso drink.	Answer: espresso ristretto [Italian for "restricted"]10. Answer these questions about a new music style, FTP each:A. Such DJs as Daniel Haaksman and Philly's DJ Diplo have popularized this style that is an amalgamation of Miami bass and traditional Brazilian pop sounds, creating a samba-rap hybrid.  Rio's DJ Marlboro is considered its pioneer.	Answer: baile funk [bale]B. Baile funk artists are fond of sampling the work of this Motown artist whose 1981 album Street Songs was driven by the tracks "Give It to Me Baby" and "Super Freak."	Answer: Rick JamesC. Another popular music source for baile funk is the work of this musician, who did some sampling of his own on the smash hit from his seven-times-platinum debut album, 1990's To the Extreme.	Answer: Vanilla Ice (or Robert Van Winkle)11. Answer these questions about one of the finest baseball games played in 2005, FTPE:A.  On May 28, the Yankees gave up 17 runs at home to this American League rival, their worst loss ever to this team.	Answer: the Boston Red Sox (accept either)B.  During that Red Sox rout, this Boston infielder hit a grand slam in the fifth inning.	Answer: Edgar RenteriaC.  All those runs made it easy for this Boston pitcher, a former starter for the Cubs, to bring his record to 6-0 for the year.	Answer: Matt Clement12. Name these men who have played the romantic lead in film versions of Jane Austen novels, FTP each:A. He played Mr. Knightley opposite Gywneth Paltrow's Emma, but we'll always remember him for his turn as a computer whiz, contract killer, and Sandra Bullock's seducer in The Net.	Answer: Jeremy NorthamB. His Jane Austen role references include Mark Darcy in both Bridget Jones movies, Lord Dashwood in What a Girl Wants, and Fitzwilliam Darcy in the thorough 1996 BBC miniseries Pride and Prejudice.	Answer: Colin FirthC. His award-winning roles include hero Simon Sheppard in Dracula 2000 and Dade Murphy, a.k.a. Crash Override, opposite his one-time wife Angelina Jolie in Hackers.  He also played Edmund Bertram in 1999's Mansfield Park.	Answer: Jonny Lee Miller [the absence of an "h" is correct]13. Name these high end sports cars, FTP each:A. Seemingly ubiquitous on Cribs two seasons ago was this Lamborghini model, whose name is Italian for "bat."  It clocks in at $280,000, but that's before any customization.	Answer: Lamborghini Murcielago [moor-see-el-aago]B. Released in 2003 and named for the company's founder, this highest end Ferrari tops out at 220 miles per hour with its 660 horsepower engine.  Its limited run of 349 vehicles was sold out with preorders despite a $652,000 price tag.	Answer: Ferrari EnzoC. The 2004 Continental GT Coupe marked this luxury company's first entry into the sports car market.  Until 1998, when it was bought out by Volkswagen, its luxury cars were made on the same production line as the Rolls Royce models.	Answer: Bentley14. Answer these questions about Ed Cohn's favorite synth pop group of the 1980s, FTPE:A.  This group produced the soundtrack to the movie 1984 as well as such albums as We Too Are One and Revenge, which featured one of Ed's favorite songs, "Missionary Man."	Answer: the EurythmicsB.  Some say that the Eurythmics' greatest work is this 1983 song, the title track on an album of that year.  Who am I to disagree?	Answer: "Sweet Dreams (Are Made of This)"C.  The Eurythmics had their greatest success with this 1985 album, which features "There Must Be an Angel" as well as showcasing Aretha Franklin on "Sisters Are Doin' It For Themselves."	Answer: Be Yourself Tonight15. In honor of the recent DVD release of the third season of The Dukes of Hazzard, name these characters from the classic redneck series, FTPE:A.  Tom Wopat charmed many as Luke Duke, but cognoscenti feel that it was John Schneider's performance as this Duke sibling which anchored the show.	Answer: Bo DukeB.  James Best provided needed comic relief as this bumbling lawman, who was disturbingly attached to his dog.	Answer; Sherriff Roscoe P. Coltrane (accept either)C.  This mechanic and Duke family consigliere was played by Ben Jones.	Answer: Cooter Davenport (accept either)       16. Answer these questions about the past season in the English Premier League, FTP each:A. Despite finishing out of automatic qualifications for next year's Champions League tournament, this side won a stirring Champions League final against AC Milan, thanks in large part to goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek.	Answer: Liverpool FC (prompt on "the Reds")B. This other side from Liverpool, which plays at Goodison Park, finished fourth in the Premiership, just one spot ahead of the Reds.	Answer: EvertonC. This manager led Chelsea to a dominant first place finish in his first season with the club.  In his previous two seasons he led Porto to the UEFA Cup and then the Champions League title.	Answer: Jose Mourinho [jo-say more-eenyo]17. He charmed America as diminutive Ray Boyd in Jerry Maguire.  FTPE:A.  Name this goofy little actor, who also appeared as Justin on The Jeff Foxworthy Show.	Answer: Jonathan LipnickiB.  Jonathan Lipnicki starred as Tony Thompson in this 2000 film, which featured Rollo Weeks as the sinister, if diminutive, title character.	Answer: The Little VampireC.  Jonathan Lipnicki played George in this 2002 sequel, in which the especially diminutive title character joins Snowbell in a search for the missing canary Margalo.	Answer: Stuart Little 218. Name these bands who came back in a big way at Coachella 2005, FTP each:A. Apparently they drove the crowd wild with old favorites like "Hurt" and "Head Like a Hole" before Trent Reznor launched into stuff from this year's With Teeth.	Answer: Nine Inch NailsB. This recently reunited rap group, composed of Mos Def and Talib Kweli, released only one album, an eponymous 1998 effort that included the tracks "Definition" and "Hater Players."	Answer: Black StarC. This band made a dramatic return when singer Peter Murphy descended upside down from the ceiling and the sang the entirety of their 1978 debut single "Bela Lugosi's Dead" while he was suspended in that pose.	Answer: Bauhaus19. Given some nicknames for starting hands in Texas Hold Em, name the hands, for 5 points each.A. little slick	Answer: ace-queenB. American Airlines, pocket rockets	Answer: pair of aces or ace-ace or A-AC. sailboats	Answer: pair of fours or four-fourD. Siegfried and Roy	Answer: pair of queens or queen-queenE. the Robert Varkonyi [var-ko-nee]	Answer: queen-tenF. the Doyle Brunson	Answer: ten-two or ten-deuce20. Answer these questions about nobody's favorite basketball announcer Bill Walton, FTP each:A. Walton's record-setting 44 point, 21-of-22-from-the-field 1973 NCAA championship game performance came against what team, then coached by Gene Bartow?	Answer: Memphis State (prompt on "Tigers")B. After his injury-plagued career with the Trailblazers Walton was traded to this team, in exchange for Kermit Washington, another player, a first round pick, and some cash.	Answer: San Diego Clippers (accept either)C. Walton ended his career with this team.  He won a Sixth Man of the Year award for them while backing up Robert Parrish and Kevin McHale.	Answer: Boston Celtics (accept either)