2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 2Toss-Up Questions:1. He appeared as Terry Lennox in Robert Altman's version of The Long Goodbye.  His comeback was cut short after he went 1-3 in five starts with the Braves in 1978.  His best season was 1963, when he went 21-7 and lost to Don Drysdale in Game Three of the World Series.  He blew out his arm two years later and after leaving the Yankees started learning the knuckleball, though it wasn't until 1977 that he and a teammate came up with the idea for Big League Chew.  It was the knuckleball that led the Seattle Pilots to employ him during their lone season.  He kept a diary that season, which he used as part of the source for his book about the rampant use of "greenies" and the drinking and carousing in the majors.  FTP, name this pitcher who wrote Ball Four.	Answer: Jim Bouton2. Unlike the "people round here," who "wear beaten down eyes" and "sunk in smoke dried faces," the speaker and the title figure are "far too young and clever" to be "resigned to what their fate is."  Earlier, the speaker mourns "poor old Johnny Ray," who "moved a million hearts in mono" by sounding "sad upon the radio."  The speaker confesses that his thoughts "verge on dirty" as the title figure is "in that pretty red dress" which he urges her to take off.  At this moment, the title figure means everything to the speaker in, FTP, what 1982 hit from the album Too-Rye-Ay by Dexy's Midnight Runners?	Answer: "Come On Eileen"   3. It was originally scheduled to be filmed at Berry College, but the producers decided that it would be too expensive to produce fake snow and moved the production north.  It gave Jamie Kennedy his first film role, though he was only an uncredited extra.  Carla Belver and Kurtwood Smith appeared in it as the Perrys, while Lara Flynn Boyle had one of her first roles in it as Ginny Danburry.  More notably, it starred Josh Charles as Knox Overstreet, Robert Sean Leonard as Neil Perry, and Ethan Hawke as the brash Todd Anderson.  FTP, name this pretentious 1989 film about John Keating, an inspirational English teacher played by Robin Williams.	Answer: Dead Poets Society4. In this man's most recent novel, a Creek Indian named Junior Harjo is shot by Emmet Long after the latter takes a peach ice cream cone from one of the man characters.  That main character, Carlos Webster, grows up to become a U. S. Marshal and tracks down Jack Belmont, while dating a woman named Louly who claims to be the girlfriend of Pretty Boy Floyd.  In addition to The Hot Kid, his recent works of fiction include a novel about a high diver, Tishomingo Blues, and a novel about a man who passes as a priest in Africa after being involved in a crime, Pagan Babies.  FTP, name this American author whose other books include Cuba Libre, Freaky Deaky, Be Cool and Get Shorty.	Answer: Elmore Leonard
5. In this year the Redskins drafted David Terrell, only the one they got was a 7th round safety from UTEP rather than a loudmouth receiver from Michigan.  Other 7th round picks this year included Bears quarterback Moses Moreno and Pat Tillman.  The third round saw Pittsburgh take Hines Ward, while Denver grabbed Brian Griese and Seattle took Ahman Green.  Notable first-round picks included Kyle Turley, Kevin Dyson, and Fred Taylor, while the Bears foolishly took Curtis Enis #5 as a division rival grabbed a talented wide receiver at #21.  FTP, name this year in which Randy Moss was drafted, which also saw Charles Woodson go #4 after two big-name quarterbacks, Ryan Leaf and Peyton Manning.	Answer: the 1998 NFL draft6. The liner notes to this album feature a cartoon of a man pondering a pornographic theater, with the caption "These faded, backlit transparencies remind passerby of the live spectacle continuously taking place on the inside."  In the album's last song, the singer notes that it "seems a shame to waste your time with me" before repeatedly asking "What about me?"  Another song begins by noting that it is "20,000 miles to an oasis" and repeatedly asks "catch me if I fall."  In addition to "Me In Honey" and "Texarkana," this album features such hits as "Near Wild Heaven," "Shiny Happy People," and an opening track that features KRS-One, "Radio Song."  FTP, name this R.E.M. album which includes the hit "Losing My Religion."	Answer: Out of Time7. He claimed to be the Chubby Checker of his day, and remembers his days as a radio disc jockey with great joy.  A rumor that he wore Buddy Bands killed their business in favor of the Friendship Bracelets.  This was part of a project started by one of those under his control, Mr. Tuttle, who was also in charge of Drivers Ed.  Perhaps his most memorable exploit was taking charge of a white water rafting trip, after his unreliable brother Rod backed out at the last minute.  He only appeared briefly on the Malibu Sands episodes after first appearing as the boss of Miss Bliss.  FTP, name this character played by Dennis Haskins, the principal of Bayside High on Saved by the Bell.	Answer: Mr. Belding [his first name is apparently Richard]8. Its second recipient was born in Cocoa Beach, Florida and earned a Ph. D. in 1994, six years before earning a JD at the same school.  In 2004, it was shared by a professor of psychology at Roane State Community College and a man who can't spell the word "the."  In 2001, it was awarded to a former assistant professor of English at Georgia Tech who is best known for instituting "the System."  It has been given to denizens of Tennessee three times, though it originally went to a man from Berry College.  FTP, name this award which has been given to Robert Meredith, Don Windham, and Eric Hillemann, which honors people "for meritorious services in sustaining and enriching collegiate academic competitions."	Answer: the Dr. N. Gordon Carper Lifetime Achievement Award9. Only the fortuitous second appearance of the bumbling messenger Joe Pettibone saves this movie's central couple from a stint in jail.  This follows the second appearance of old Mrs. Baldwin, who had been briefly kidnapped by Louis, a thug in the employ of the hero.  The movie ends with that hero promising a honeymoon to Niagara Falls, though the destination is quickly changed to Albany to see through the end of the Earl Williams murder case.  Lost in the bustle is Bruce, the fiancée of Hildy Johnson, whose former husband, Walter Burns, employs a series of tricks to keep his ex in town.  FTP, name this satire on the newspaper business, a Howard Hawks film starring Rosalind Russell and Cary Grant.	Answer: His Girl Friday10. He now has his own shoe, the Icon Warrior.  After moving in with his girlfriend's mother, he was recruited as a partial qualifier out of Richards High School and had to sit out his freshman season.  At the end of his junior season, he became only the third player to record a triple double in the NCAA tournament and formed one of the nation's top backcourts alongside Travis Diener.  Now the ambassador for the Sean John men's line, he's also the main spokesperson for Converse shoes.  FTP, name this player who attended Marquette before being selected fifth overall in the 2003 draft, a point guard now known as "Flash" for the Miami Heat.	Answer: Dwayne Wade11. He has a role as Winston Boyko in Jennifer Aniston's next film, Derailed.  His first major role was in Jim Jarmusch's Coffee and Cigarettes after having scored the soundtrack for an earlier Jarmusch film.  His best-received soundtracks were his award-nominated compositions for Kill Bill volumes 1 and 2.  Better known as a producer, his albums have included such solo LPs as Bobby Digital in Stereo, a reference to one of his nicknames.  His musical career began in a group with his cousins Gary Grice and Russell Jones, whom he joined in another group that included such figures as Inspectah Deck and U-God.  FTP, name this cousin of the Genius and ODB, the chief producer of the Wu-Tang Clan.	Answer: the RZA [RIZ-uh] (or Robert Diggs or Prince Rakeem or Rzarecta or Chief Abbot or Bobby Steels; accept early buzz of Bobby Digital)12. Guest stars during its first season included Rae Dawn Chong, who played Carrie Fellows, and Ben Stein, who played a loan officer.  Antonio Sabato Jr. appeared for a season as Jack Parezi, Priscilla Presley appeared for another season as Nurse Benson, and Patrick Muldoon could be seen as Richard Hart.  More prominently, it featured Alyssa Milano, Vanessa Williams, and Lisa Rinna.  Even more prominently, it featured Daphne Zuniga, Laura Leighton, Marcia Cross and Courtney Thorne-Smith.  FTP, name this program which began airing in 1992 on Fox, a steamy melodrama which starred Andrew Shue, Heather Locklear, Josie Bissett, and of course Thomas Calabro as Michael Mancini.	Answer: Melrose Place13. He played Dr. John Polidori, the author of The Vampire, in the 1988 film Haunted Summer which starred Eric Stoltz as Percy Bysshe Shelley.  He co-wrote and co-directed a 1993 film in which Ricky Coogan goes to a South American mutant farm, Freaked.  He also wrote and directed a 1999 film in which a painter played by Henry Thomas is accused of murder, Fever.  He got his start as Hermosa in Death Wish 3, and went on to appear as Marko in The Lost Boys before getting his biggest role in a 1989 film and its 1991 sequel.  FTP, name this actor who starred as Bill S. Preston, Esq. In Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure.	Answer: Alex Winter14. Their affiliate in the Pioneer League is the Idaho Falls Chukars.  Their single A affiliate in the Western Division of the Midwest League is the Burlington Bees.  More notably, they have a triple A affiliate in the Pacific Coast league, a team located in Omaha whose 2005 roster included Calvin Pickering and Denny Hocking.  They also have a Carolina League affiliate which is Delaware's professional baseball team, the Wilmington Blue Rocks.  FTP, name this Major League Baseball team, which was squarely in last place in the AL Central when this question was written on May 20, 2005, in the aftermath of Tony Pena's resignation as manager.	Answer: the Kansas City Royals (accept either)
15. A Piece of Ass consists of equal parts of this, Southern Comfort, some ice, and Sour Mix, while a Kinky Orgasm features it mixed with Bailey's, Kahlua, and milk.  If you remove the milk from the latter recipe, the drink becomes a B-52.  It is combined with Grand Marnier and orange tea to create Blueberry Tea and an ounce of it is added to equal parts rum and beer for a Doctor Pepper.  It is actually made from the pits of apricot kernels, not the ingredient with which it is most associated.  FTP, name this liquor originally produced in the town of Saronno, Italy and known for its distinct almond flavor.	Answer: Amaretto16. Their 2001 EP Solo featured tracks from each of the member's side projects, including such albums as Empty and Stereotype Be.  After releasing a self-titled 1988 album, they put out Nu Thang and Free at Last before putting out a 1995 album that would sell more copies than any gospel album in history.  Their 2001 greatest hits album, Intermission, includes such hits as "Luv Is a Verb" and "Just Between You and Me," though it doesn't include "Dive" or "What Have We Become."  Founded by Michael Tair and Toby McKeehan, this is, FTP, what Washington, D. C.-based Christian gospel and hip-hop group, whose albums include Supernatural and Jesus Freak?	Answer: dc Talk17. Jack Nicklaus' golf coach Jim Flick played both basketball and golf at this university, which received its current nickname under longtime coach Herb Cline.  Billy Packer coached there for five years after playing there for three and another member of its Hall of Fame is former Phoenix Suns coach Frank Johnson.  Other NBA players who attended included washout Delaney Rudd and the immortal Mugsy Bogues.  More recent students here have included Loren Woods and the seemingly-ageless Rodney Rogers.  FTP, name this ACC university, also the home school of NBA finals MVP Tim Duncan and Chris Paul.	Answer: Wake Forest Demon Deacons (accept either name or nickname) 18. The Bones of Giants and The Lost Army are two illustrated novels about this character, who is also the subject of such graphic novels as Conqueror Worm and Seed of Destruction.  Among his colleagues are the unusually large homunculus Roger and the disembodied spiritualist Johann Kraus.  As created by Mike Mignola, he grows up to become an agent for the BPRD.  Among the better-known characters related to him are Abe Sapien and Liz Sherman, who is pyrokinetic.  FTP, name this comic character summoned by Rasputin, a large red-skinned demon whose story was turned into a 2004 film.	Answer: Hellboy19. One character in this film claimed that he did poorly on the SAT because he sat next to a girl who wouldn't stop fidgeting with her brassiere, after which he got distracted and lost his place on the answer sheet.  That character is shot for being a suspected CIA operative, when he's actually an advance man for the Navy.  He gets involved with a character played by Mira Sorvino, while his cousin Taylor Nichols' Ted Boynton becomes involved with a girl named Montserrat.  The film is set in the mid '80s in the title city, where the director lived and formulated his first movie Metropolitan.  FTP, name this second film by Whit Stillman, set mostly in the title Spanish city.	Answer: Barcelona
20. Like David Hume's Treatise of Human Nature, this group's later albums, such as Cryptic Writings and Youthanasia, fell still-born from the press.  Their last great album featured a hit which noted that "military intelligence" are "two words combined that can't make sense," while a medicre cover of "Anarchy in the U.K" appeared on 1988's So Far, So Good ... So What!.  They covered Nancy Sinatra's "Boots" on their first album, which like each of their first three albums features an ellipsis in its title.  Killing Is My Business ... And Business Is Good! was followed by an album which includes "Wake Up Dead," Peace Sells ... But Who's Buying?  They were falsely accused of selling out following the MTV-friendly Countdown to Extinction, which features "Symphony of Destruction."  FTP, name this thrash metal group founded by Metallica reject Dave Mustaine.	Answer: Megadeth
Bonus Questions:1. Answer these questions about Leo Wolpert's godfather, FTP each:A. In addition to being Leo Wolpert's godfather, this man is perhaps best known as the singer behind the albums Human Being and three self-titled efforts, the second of which included a song featured in Batman Forever and topped the U.S. pop charts for 12 weeks in 1995.	Answer: Seal (or Sealhenry Samuel) [the Batman song is "Kiss From a Rose"]B. This model is the host, executive producer, and co-creator of Project Runway.  Like Jesse Ventura, her nickname is "The Body."  Unlike Jesse Ventura, she is married to Seal.	Answer: Heidi KlumC. Seal recorded his debut album with the help of Trevor Horn, perhaps best-known as the bassist for this band, whose hit "Video Killed the Radio Star" was the first video ever played on MTV.	Answer: The Buggles2. Every episode began by noting that "some believe" that life began "far across the universe" with "tribes of humans" who may have been "the forefathers of the Toltecs," and may have built the "lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis."  FTP each:A.  Name this TV series, in which a "rag-tag fugitive fleet" went on a "lonely quest" for a "shining planet known as Earth."	Answer: Battlestar GalacticaB.  Lorne Greene played this heroic commander on Battlestar Galactica.  After the Cylons destroyed all the other ships, he rounded up the survivors from the 12 colonies and led them on a search for the mythical "13th colony," also known as Earth.	Answer: Commander Adama [if people claim that he had a first name other than "Commander," ignore them]C.  This dashing Viper pilot with a Melvillean moniker was played by the dashing Dirk Benedict.  In one episode, Fred Astaire played a con artist named Chameleon who pretended to be this character's father.	Answer: Lieutenant Starbuck [see instruction for the previous part]3. In 1949, he led the Bears to a six-game winning streak before throwing for a record 458 yards in the season finale against the Cardinals.  FTPE:A.  Name this two-way football star, whose eight interceptions made him an All-Pro defensively for Chicago in 1948, while his passing game made him an All-Pro on offense in 1950.	Answer: John LujackB.  Johnny Lujack had a better collegiate than professional career, as he led this school to undefeated seasons and national championships in 1946 and 1947.	Answer: Notre DameC.  When he became quarterback for the Bears, Lujack replaced this future Hall of Fame quarterback whose pioneering work in the T-formation led the Bears to NFL championships in 1940, 1941 and 1943.	Answer: Sid Luckman4. Name these movies that employ experiments in time, FTP each:A. Gwyneth Paltrow plays out two alternatives to her life after missing a London train in this 1998 romance also starring John Hannah.	Answer: Sliding DoorsB. Christopher Nolan created a work of reverse chronology in this film about Leonard Shelby, a man with short-term memory loss played by Guy Pearce.	Answer: MementoC. It opens with Tim Robbins' title character being stabbed in Vietnam and ends with the realization that everything in between was a hallucination.  In between are scenes of sex with demons, gory hospitals, and otherworldly beings in this 1990 Adrian Lyne film. 	Answer: Jacob's Ladder5. Name these famous DJs, none of whom is DJ Jazzy Weiner, FTPE:A.  This Washington, D.C. native was born Paul Miller, and is also known as the Subliminal Kid.  His advocacy of turntablism can be heard on such albums as Songs of a Dead Dreamer and File Under Futurism.	Answer: DJ SpookyB.  This member of the Invisibl Skratch Piklz worked on Dr. Octagon's Dr. Octagonecologyst album.  Considered by many to be the world's greatest turntablist, his albums include Demolition Pumpkin Squeeze Music.	Answer: DJ Q-BertC.  This former member of the Kentucky quizbowl team is a leader of the Miami booty music scene.  His albums include The Booty Mix Live: Music for Your A$$.	Answer: DJ Cash Money6. Name these opponents, who exhibit all kinds of racial, cultural, and sexual stereotypes, from the original Nintendo version of Mike Tyson's Punchout, FTP each:A. His original name was Vodka Drunkenski, but Nintendo thought that was too offensive.  He is the source of such lines as "I drink to prepare for a fight.  Tonight I am very prepared" and "I'm going to make you feel punch drunk."	Answer: Soda PopinskiB. This fighter from Madrid gives off homosexual vibes including hitting on the referee Mario and saying such things as "People like my hair.  Don't mess my hair!" and "I'm a beautiful fighter.  I have such a style."	Answer: Don FlamencoC. The undefeated World Circuit Champion and last fighter before Tyson, he taunts Little Mac by proclaiming, "I work on my tan harder than I'll have to work on you!"	Answer: Super Macho Man7. In honor of the peripatetic Larry Brown, name these teams which he coached for brief periods FTPE:A.  Larry started his coaching career with this ABA franchise, and was ABA coach of the year with them in 1973.	Answer: the Carolina Cougars (accept either)B.  After coaching in Carolina and Denver, Larry tired of the pro game and went to coach this college team.  He won 20 and 22 games with them starting in 1980, before returning to the NBA.	Answer: UCLAC.  After coaching the Nets for two seasons, Larry once again tired of professional athletes and took another college job.  He spent five seasons at this school, quitting after his team won the 1988 national title.	Answer: the University of Kansas8. She appeared with her future husband in 1972's The Getaway, and after spending a few years away from acting returned to the big screen in another Sam Peckinpah film, Convoy.  FTPE:A.  Name this actress, whose troubled life with Steve McQueen is described in her memoir Moving Pictures.	Answer: Ali MacGrawB.  Ali MacGraw may be best remembered for her work in this 1970 tear jerker, which reminds Matt Weiner that love of ACF means never having to say you're sorry about hating CBI.  Ryan O'Neal also appeared in it as a Harvard Law student prophetically based on Mike Zarren.	Answer: Love StoryC.  In 1969, Ali MacGraw appeared as Brenda Patimkin in this dreadful movie, an adaptation of the first published work by the author of The Ghost Writer and Letting Go.	Answer: Goodbye, Columbus9. Name these soups that are served cold, FTP each:A. "Go back to Russia" with Lisa Simpson and enjoy this soup of Spanish origin, which is usually made of chopped tomatoes, sweet bell peppers, onions, celery, cucumber, breadcrumbs, garlic, olive oil, vinegar, and sometimes lemon juice.	Answer: gazpachoB. This Polish soup is usually made with beets, onions, cucumbers, and sometimes veal or shellfish.  It is served with sour cream.	Answer: chlodnik [klod neek]C. This Greek sauce of yogurt, cucumbers, and garlic, which is often served with pita bread and which always accompanies gyros [jee rose], is thinned out and eaten as a soup in Turkey.	Answer: tzatziki [zut-zee-kee] or jajiki [juh-jee-kee] (or cacik [ka-sik])10. Name these important figures from the world of free jazz, FTPE:A.  This great free jazz pianist is best known for the two albums he recorded for Blue Note in 1966, Unit Structures and Conquistador.	Answer: Cecil TaylorB.  The best-known free jazz artist, his many albums include Tomorrow Is the Question! and The Shape of Jazz to Come.	Answer: Ornette ColemanC.  One of the finest bass clarinet players in the history of jazz, his career was cut short when he died of diabetes at the age of 36.  Before his death, he released such albums as Here and There, Outward Bound, and Out There.	Answer: Eric Dolphy11. Name these runners who have perpetrated some fraud upon David Press among others, FTP each:A. In the 1980 Boston marathon this woman was the first to cross the finish line, but her title was quickly stripped when several crowd members reported that she joined the race only at the last mile and when it was learned that she had ridden the New York subway in cheating in the New York marathon that year.	Answer: Rosie RuizB. He's not the author of Mortimer his Fall or The Devil is an Ass, but he is the Canadian sprinter who juiced up before winning the 100 meter dash at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.   	Answer: Ben JohnsonC. After sampling both Victor Conte's "clear" and "cream" this U.S. sprinter went on to win the 100 and 200 meter races at both the U.S. Championships and the World Championships in 2003.  She is now in the midst of a two-year ban from the sport.	Answer: Kelli White12. In 1991, he played Demetrius in Mississippi Masala and Nick Styles in Ricochet.  FTPE:A.  Name this actor, who had previously appeared in The Mighty Quinn and as Dr. Philip Chandler on St. Elsewhere.	Answer: Denzel WashingtonB.  Denzel played Easy Rawlins in this 1995 film adaptaion of a Walter Mosley novel.  The movie also features Tom Sizemore and Jennifer Beals, so you know it's good.	Answer: Devil in a Blue DressC.  Denzel played Jake Shuttlesworth in this Spike Lee joint, which showed us that Ray Allen is a better actor than Milla Jovovich.	Answer: He Got Game13. Name these classic science fiction stories, FTPE:A.  In this tale by Arthur C. Clarke, a Tibetan monastery orders an Automatic Sequence Computer to print out the titular words and thereby bring about the end of the world.	Answer: "The Nine Billion Names of God"B.  The author of Madrigals Macabre brings hope to some pessimistic Martians by reading to them from the titular Biblical book in this story by Roger Zelazny.	Answer: "A Rose for Ecclesiastes"C.  This story opens with an epigraph from Emerson's Nature and ends with a riot at the Observatory run by Saro University.  In between comes much of the leaden dialogue characteristic of its author, Isaac Asimov.	Answer: "Nightfall"14. Name these B-list rappers who have made some B-list movies, FTP each:A. This group parlayed the success of their collaboration with the Beach Boys, "Wipeout," into their own feature film, Disorderlies.	Answer: the Fat BoysB. This duo, former hosts of Yo MTV Raps!, played a couple of barbers who become cops in 1993's Who's The Man? Name them both.	Answer: Ed Lover (or James Roberts) AND Doctor Dre (or Andre Brown)C. This former husband of TLC's "T-Boz" was part of the shortlived but spectacular rap group Westside Connection with Ice Cube and WC.  He headlined 2002's Random Acts of Violence, starred with Bizzy Bone in Cutthroat Alley, and with Fat Joe in Thicker than Water.	Answer: Mack 10 (or David Rolison)15. Answer these questions about some actresses, FTP each:A. What actress played Tom Hanks' dead wife in Sleepless in Seattle four years after getting her big break as Bond girl Pam Bouvier in License to Kill?	Answer: Carey LowellB. Her mother once wrote for Guiding Light and she herself wrote an unpublished novel about a young woman in 1911 Scotland.  Her roles have included Janet in Miss Congeniality 2 and appearances in 15 episodes of Angel as detective Kate Lockley.	Answer: Elisabeth Rohm C. Both Carey Lowell and Elisabeth Rohm are probably best known for their former roles working in the New York District Attorney's office alongside Sam Waterston's Jack McCoy in this NBC show.	Answer: Law and Order       16. Name these tennis players from a description of the women in their life, FTP each:A. He didn't take long to impregnate girlfriend, soap star, and fellow Australian Bec Cartwright after Kim Clijsters, his former fiancée, called off their wedding.	Answer: Lleyton HewittB. His younger sister Dinara has won two WTA titles and he's won two Grand Slams, including this year's Australian Open.	Answer: Marat SafinC. His cousin Misty May teamed up with Keri Walsh to win gold in beach volleyball at Athens.  He finished 2004 as #32 in the world, and the #3 American behind only Andy Roddick and Andre Agassi.	Answer: Taylor Dent17. Answer these questions about the acting career of Aaron Stanford, FTP each:A. Stanford got his break as 15-year old Oscar Grubman, an avid reader of Voltaire in love with his stepmother, Sigourney Weaver, but seduced by her best friend, Bebe Neuwirth, in this 2002 indie flick.	Answer: TadpoleB. Stanford's next big turn was as the impetuous John Allerdyce, a.k.a. Pyro, in this 2003 film	Answer: X2: X-Men United or X-Men 2: X-Men United (do not prompt on just "X-Men")C. The next year Stanford had a minor role as the boyfriend of the president's daughter, who gets kidnapped and sold into a white slavery ring before being rescued by Special Ops agent Val Kilmer, in this David Mamet conspiracy thriller.	Answer: Spartan18. Name these songs or singers on RuPaul's iTunes playlist, FTP each:A. Blondie's second comeback album, The Curse of Blondie, sold well primarily due to this hit single, the second track on the album.	Answer: "Good Boys"B. Rupaul says of this woman's song "Should I Go" from her album, "the woman emerges with depth and experience."  Rupaul made no mention of her starring role in the sitcom Moesha.	Answer: Brandy or Brandy NorwoodC. Rupaul says of this singer's "Send Me a Lover, "It's a gospel-inspired power ballad that always delivers."  She's better-known for top ten hits like "I'll Be Your Shelter," "Tell it to My Heart," and "Love Will Lead You Back."	Answer: Taylor Dayne (or Leslie Wonderman)19. Answer these questions about some notable actors who died in May of this year, FTPE:A.  The death of Thurl Ravenscroft, who provided the voice of this lovable cereal mascot, was far from great.	Answer: Tony the TigerB.  Two days before Ravenscroft died, the world lost Henry Corden, who was best known as the voice of this lovably chauvinistic caveman.	Answer: Fred FlintstoneC.  A day after Corden died, this French author of Time and Narrative and Freud and Philosophy also died.  He provided the voice of Gabriel Marcel for the cartoon version of Jean-Paul Sartre's The Words.	Answer: Paul Ricoeur20. In 2005, his number 10 was retired by the Cincinnati Reds.  FTPE:A.  Name this man, who won 863 games in nine seasons as manager of the Reds, making him the winningest manager in club history.	Answer: Sparky AndersonB.  Aside from Jackie Robinson's #42, the Reds have retired six other numbers.  Name any four of the men who have been honored by the team, for five points each.	Answers: Johnny Bench and Joe Morgan and Tony Perez and Frank Robinson and Fred Hutchinson and Ted Kluszewski