2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 6Toss-Up Questions:1. Greg Kinnear was originally offered the part of the villain in this film, but passed on it.  Jodie Foster was originally going to be the female lead, but dropped it after becoming pregnant.  Daniel Lapaine had the coveted role of "Handsome Internet Expert," while Bruce Campbell played a bartender and Annabeth Gish played Angie Green.  The four-year-old son of the main characters, Matty, was played by Benjamin Weir, while his parents, Nick and Libby Parsons, were played by Bruce Greenwood and Ashley Judd.  FTP, name this 1999 film starring Tommy Lee Jones, whose plot turns on a ludicrous misunderstanding of an aspect of the American judicial system.	Answer: Double Jeopardy 2. After the original lead singer left this group, he was replaced by Andy Prieboy for such albums as Seven Days in Sammystown and the live album The Ugly Americans in Australia.  Their first full-length album, Dark Continent, appeared in 1981, and was followed by a much better known album the following year.  That second album features such tracks as "Factory," "Lost Weekend," and the titular tale of a loser who goes to California to pursue his dreams, "Call of the West."  However, that album is best known for a wacky single which was sung by Stan Ridgway.  FTP, name this group that gave us "Mexican Radio."	Answer: Wall of Voodoo  3. At the end of the 1998 season he was his franchise's career leader in points, rebounds, and games played.  His career went downhill thereafter, as he only started 14 games in the 1998-99 season and was out of the league two years later.  After scoring 21 points per game in his senior year of college, he was named the Big Eight Player of the year, having earlier received a notable nickname from a teammate who was amused by the fact that this man had never been in a plane prior to college.  In 1995 he was drafted sixth overall, right behind Kevin Garnett.  FTP, name this first player ever drafted by the Vancouver Grizzlies, a center from Oklahoma State nicknamed "Big Country."	Answer: Bryant Reeves (prompt on "Big Country")4. He so impressed the owner at Joe Allen's Restaurant that Joe Allen paid his tuition to the French Culinary Institute, which gave this man its first ever Outstanding Graduate Award.  His second cookbook, From My Kitchen to Your Table, appeared in 1998, and in 2004 he opened a Las Vegas version of one of his restaurants in Caesar's Palace.  Among the shows he currently hosts is Food Nation, which takes him far away from his home base of New York and his two restaurants Bolo and Mesa Grill.  FTP, name this red-headed chef known for his southwestern flavors and use of the grill.	Answer: Bobby Flay
5. The speaker laments that "times are gone for honest men," and notes that sometimes they are "far too long for snakes," whatever that means.  After wishing that "Heaven send Hell away," he also laments that "no one sings like you anymore."  Earlier, he describes a bleak scene which may be a quizbowl tournament, inasmuch as it features both "boiling heat" and "summer stench."  After asking that his name be called "through the cream," he implores the titular object to come and wash away the rain.  FTP, name this strange song from 1994's album Superunknown, in which Chris Cornell of Soundgarden rants about an implausible astronomical phenomenon. 	Answer: "Black Hole Sun"6. After transferring from UCSB he played tight end at Fresno State, also graduating summa cum laude from the school in 1973.  Frank Falk currently coaches tight ends under him, Bob Babich coaches linebackers, and Bill Kollar is in charge of the defensive line.  His two coordinators, in their second year and third year on the job, are Steve Fairchild and Larry Marmie.  His entire NFL career has been with one team except for a two-year stint as the Redskins quarterbacks coach.  In his four years as a head coach, his teams have won two division titles and produced one MVP, in 2001.  FTP, name this former coordinator under Dick Vermeil, the eccentric offensive "genius" and head coach of the St. Louis Rams.	Answer: Mike Martz7. One of the characters on this show briefly managed a band known as the Donatello Triplets and appeared as the same character on several other shows, including Ladies Man and Blossom.  It was the only American sitcom on which Julio Iglesias appeared and Leslie Nielsen had a recurring role in the final season.  One character was fond of telling "Picture This" stories and another character had a sleazy ex-husband named Stan.  The main characters' surnames were Nylund, Devereaux, Petrillo, and Zbornak.  FTP, name this show in which Bea Arthur, Rue McClanahan, Betty White, and Estelle Getty played the titular disturbing senior citizens.	Answer: Golden Girls8. While working for the New York Globe he turned in an expose of a man who confessed to being the serial killer known as the Sin-Eater, but the confessor was lying.  In his subsequent humiliation he ended up in Our Lady of Saints church, where his transformation took place.  He later became a vigilante in San Francisco after being tricked into thinking he killed his arch enemy on a South Sea island.  He eventually teams up with that enemy in a fight against the villain Carnage.  FTP, name this figure who is a combination of Eddie Brock and an alien symbiote, characterized by his black costume that is an imitation of his enemy Spider-Man.	Answer: Venom (accept Eddie Brock on an early buzz)9. It featured a relatively young F. Murray Abraham as Sergeant Paul Leeper, while security guard Frank Wills played himself.  A young Stephen Collins played Hugh Sloan, Jr., while Meredith Baxter and Jane Alexander both appeared in it, as Debbie Sloan and Judy Hoback.  Martin Balsam played Howard Simons, while Hal Hobrook played a man with a secret identity.  The man who wrote the screenplay for The Princess Bride, William Goldman, also wrote the screenplay for this Alan Pakula-directed film, in which Jason Robards chewed some scenery as a newspaper editor.  FTP, name this 1976 film which starred Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman as Woodward and Bernstein.	Answer: All the President's Men
10. After graduating from high school at the age of 15, he won a scholarship to Tuskegee Institute, where he was a classmate of Ralph Ellison.  Unlike Ellison, he was thrown out of school for selling bootleg whiskey to his fellow students, after which he returned to Chicago.  His late works include The Long White Con and Airtight Willie and Me, though he is more admired for his portrayal of a cross-dressing gay man in Mama Black Widow.  A 1967 novel told the story of a light-skinned man who decides not to pass for white, Trick Baby, though he may be best known for the memoir he published that year, Pimp: The Story of My Life.  FTP, name this man born Robert Beck, a noted author and pimp whose street name refers to his ability to treat his prostitutes with cold dispassion.	Answer: Iceberg Slim (accept Robert Beck before it is mentioned)11. This athlete picked up a Super Middleweight title by beating Shirvelle Williams in 2002, and added another title that year with a victory over Mahfood in Las Vegas.  In 2004, this fighter canceled a bout in Abuja after discovering that there were no flights scheduled to Nigeria at the right time, but the fight against O'Neil ended up taking place in Atlanta that fall.  After winning that fight, this boxer added a Light Heavyweight title and accumulated a perfect record of 19 wins without a loss.  In a memorable 2001 pay-per-view event, this fighter squared off against Frazier and won in an eight round decision, after which she took a year off before picking up a WIBA title.  FTP, name this female boxer, the daughter of a man who floated like a butterfly and stung like a bee.	Answer: Laila Ali12. Their collaborative efforts have included a three-track split effort with Jebediah and some work with Mates of State, their current opening act on tour.  This band's name was taken from a cartoon drawing relating to the two brothers of one of their members.  They self-promoted their first album, which included "Call it in the Air" and "Anderson Mesa," the latter a nod to their roots.  However, the failure of Static Prevails was diminished by their next release Clarity.  Their newest release Futures has had success with the single "Pain," but they're best-known for a hit from the album originally titled Bleed American.  FTP, name this emo rock group behind the 2001 hit "The Middle" whose name in no way refers to the sexual practices of former Georgia Tech star Jim Dendy.	Answer: Jimmy Eat World13. One of this movie's characters was named Verheiden in homage to the creator of the original comic on which this movie was partly based.  The ship in the beginning of this movie is named Piper Maru, a reference to The X-Files, and the name of the company financing the project, Weyland-Yutani Corp, is also referential.  That reference is to the character of Charles Bishop Weyland, who dies about halfway through, and in fact only Alexa Woods, the character of Sanaa Lathan, survives.  The trouble begins with an expedition to an Aztec temple in Antarctica.  FTP, name this action flick pitting monsters from two movie franchises against each other. 	Answer: AVP: Alien vs. Predator (accept either underlined answer)14. Her mother Sheila has only been seen once, and her father Ira has never made an appearance.  After leaving the U.S., she moved to Brazil to live with her lover Kennedy.  Earlier, she had helped Kennedy and some other people save the world by aiding them in destroying the First Evil, after herself almost causing the end of the world out of rage over the murder of her girlfriend by Warren, whom she murdered in retaliation.  Before dating Tara and discovering the joy of Wicca, she was involved in a heterosexual relationship with a werewolf named Oz.  FTP, name this witch played by Alyson Hannigan on Buffy the Vampire Slayer.  	Answer: Willow Rosenberg15. Game 2 was won by the home team in the tenth inning, when Billy Bates managed to get a single and was driven home by Joe Oliver.  In game 3, Mike Moore gave up two home runs to the same player and his team went down 3-0.  The losing team had added Willie McGee and Harold Baines to its roster during the season, and boasted a pitcher who had won 27 games during the regular season, Bob Welch.  But the hitting of Eric Davis and Chris Sabo, combined with the pitching of Jose Rijo and sensational relievers Randy Myers and Rob Dibble, proved too much for the American League champs.  FTP, name this World Series, in which Oakland was swept by the Cincinnati Reds a year after sweeping the Giants in a series delayed by the Loma Prieta earthquake.	Answer: the 1990 World Series (prompt on Oakland-Cincinnati or A's-Reds or anything that doesn't mention the year)16. They originally spelled their name with a "y" as an homage to the Byrds, and like the Byrds they had their first hit single with a Dylan cover, "It Ain't Me Babe."  After having early success with "You Baby" and "Let Me Be," they faded in 1966 before coming back the following year on the strength of such songs as "You Know What I Mean" and "She'd Rather Be With Me."  In 1968, they pretended to be eleven different groups that were being "presented" in a "battle of the bands," a concept album which included the singles "You Showed Me" and "Elenore."  FTP, name this band best known for its #1 single in 1967, "Happy Together," whose last major album was named for a kind of reptilian soup.	Answer: The Turtles17. According to a recent article, this is the book that changed Kirsten Dunst's life when she read it in high school.  When Darvin Ham checks into hotels on road trips, his alias is the title of this book.  Seth Kendall is said to read this book once a year to renew his focus.  The third part of this book, "The Chance of the Alternatives," includes a chapter on "the historical commitment of philosophy," while the first section includes chapters on the "closing of the universe of discourse" and the "conquest of the unhappy consciousness."  The first two parts consider "society" and "thought" as they are characterized by the titular adjective, while the book as a whole argues that American mass culture prevents the emergence of diversity.  FTP, name this 1964 work by Herbert Marcuse, whose title doesn't refer to players who only play trash while ignoring all other formats.	Answer: One-Dimensional Man 18. This past season saw Le Moyne rank second in scoring amongst women's teams in this sport.  The women's coach of the year was Kelly Amonte Hiller who oversaw an undefeated season and national championship for her Northwestern squad.  Navy has twice made it to the final game on the men's side, most recently in 2004, and this past season saw Duke make it to the finals for the first time.  However, the sport has been dominated by seven schools and most recently the trio of Virginia, Princeton, and Syracuse.  FTP, name this sport derived from Native Americans, a ball and goal game in which players possess a long-handled stick with a webbed pouch.	Answer: lacrosse
19. His latest project was the planned direction of a film entitled The Goddess, having just wrapped up work on The White Countess.  His first producing credit came with the feature film The Householder, and he used the same screenwriter for his next film, Shakespeare Wallah, which was set in his native country.  He returned home almost two decades later to produce another film, Heat and Dust, adapted from a novel by one of his longtime collaborators, Ruth Prawer Jhabvala.  He's best-known as the producer of such films as A Room with a View, Howards End, and The Remains of the Day.  FTP, name this recently deceased Indian producer and longtime of partner of James Ivory.	Answer: Ismail Merchant20. The first #1 song from this album was originally written for the band Loverboy.  The original album cover had the band in a mine shaft, which was replaced by a well-endowed girl in a wet t-shirt, and then came the final version, a wet trash bag with the album title.  It ends with "Never Say Goodbye" and "Wild in the Streets" and also includes "Social Disease" and the Top 40 hit "I'd Die For You."  It opens with "Let it Rock" and its second #1 song tells the tale of two kids named Tommy and Gina.  FTP, identify this 1986 album that included "You Give Love a Bad Name" and "Livin' on A Prayer," a Bon Jovi effort that took its name from the band's observance of some strippers taking a shower on stage.	Answer: Slippery When Wet
Bonus Questions:1. Name these noted alums of Georgetown basketball, FTP each:A. He started in 66 of 67 games he played for the Hoyas and was Big East Defensive Player of the Year for two years as well.  He captured his fourth NBA scoring title this past season.	Answer: Allen IversonB. This guard was drafted in 1983 by the Nets though he spent much of that season and the next five with the Warriors, before another five and a half seasons in Houston.  His playoff record-setting 29 points in the fourth quarter and 39 in the second half in a 1987 game belie his enervating nickname.	Answer: Eric "Sleepy" FloydC. He left school behind only Allen Iverson in career scoring average.  The Knicks drafted him in 2003, and he has played power forward coming off the bench for them the last two seasons.	Answer: Mike Sweetney 2. In the late 90s, he appeared as "Eric Roman Brady #6" on Days of Our Lives.  FTPE:A.  Name this brooding heartthrob, who also appeared as Alec on Dark Angel and as C. J. on Dawson's Creek.	Answer: Jensen AcklesB.  Jenson Ackles did his finest work to date on the most recent season of this WB program, in which he played Jason Teague, the son of Jane Seymour's Genevieve Teague.	Answer: SmallvilleC.  Jenson was so good on Smallville that the WB is giving him his own show in the fall.  Name the program in which he will appear as Dean Winchester, who drives across the country with his brother trying to solve the mystery of their mother's murder.	Answer: Supernatural3. Oh Bobby Brown.  Name these things about Mr. Whitney Houston, FTP each:A. Brown got his start as a member of this teen group, Maurice Starr's precursor to New Kids on the Block.  Their biggest hit was "Candy Girl," and three other members later went on to start Bell Biv Devoe, which had a smash hit with "Poison."  	Answer: New EditionB. Brown's solo career took off with this 1988 album, which included the hits "Every Little Step," "My Prerogative," and the title track.	Answer: Don't Be CruelC. This singer recently covered Brown's "My Prerogative," which was released on her November 2004 Greatest Hits album, timed to coincide with the launch of her perfume Curious.	Answer: Britney Spears4. As a cellist, his work has been heard on the Melissa Etheridge album Never Enuogh and on the debut EP of Papercranes, the band fronted by Rain and Summer Phoenix.  FTPE:A.  Name this actor, who met his future wife Catherine Keener on the set of Survival Quest.	Answer: Dermot MulroneyB.  Dermot Mulroney memorably played Michael O'Neal, the title character in this 1997 film which featured Cameron Diaz and Julia Roberts as the women who love him.	Answer: My Best Friend's WeddingC.  One of Mulroney's meatiest early roles came as Dirty Steve Stephens in this 1988 film, whose star-studded cast included Terence Stamp, Jack Palance, and of course Lou Diamond Phillips as José Chavez y Chavez.	Answer: Young Guns5. Identify these New Wave bands if you dare, FTPE:A.  They're best known for a song about their house in the middle of the street, which appeared on 1982's The Rise and Fall.  Their other albums include Keep Moving and One Step Beyond.	Answer: MadnessB.  Their early albums include Dirk Wears White Sox and Kings of the Wild Frontier, which includes the hit "Physical."  Their lead singer's solo career included such albums as Vive Le Rock and Friend or Foe, which featured "Goody Two Shoes."	Answer: Adam and the AntsC.  A They Might Be Giants song imagines a battle between this band and Adam Ant.  When not engaged in that epic struggle, this group led by Andy Partridge produced such albums as Skylarking and The Big Express.	Answer: XTC6. Answer these questions about hidden characters and the Mortal Kombat series, FTP each:A. In the 1992 original a player could fight this character by executing a Fatality when fighting on The Pit stage without taking any damage or pressing the block button in the winning round.  He became playable in MK2.	Answer: ReptileB. In MK2, a player could take on this ninja by winning 50 consecutive fights in 2-player mode.	Answer: Noob SaibotC. In MK2 on the Pit II stage there is a bridge in the background featuring two characters, one of which is either Liu Kang or Johnny Cage and the other of which was this character who could not be fought.  He did become playable under a different name in Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance.  Give the original name.	Answer: Torch (do not accept or prompt on "Blaze")7. In 1992, Scott Sanderson became only the ninth pitcher to record wins over all 26 major league teams.  Name these other men who accomplished the dated feat, FTPE:A.  He won 288 games in his 26 year career.  164 of those wins came after he had surgery to replace the elbow tendon on his pitching arm in 1974.	Answer: Tommy JohnB.  Known as the "Ancient Mariner," his 22-year career began with the Giants in 1962.  When he won the Cy Young for the Padres in 1978, he became the first man ever to win the award in both leagues.	Answer: Gaylord PerryC.  He won 17 games for the Blue Jays in both 1984 and 1985, but was dealt to the Braves in 1986.  They quickly turned around and traded him for a young John Smoltz.	Answer: Doyle Alexander8. Name these prequels released after the original film, FTP each:A. This 2005 film was uninspiringly subtitled "Prequel to the Exorcist."  The hero, Father Lankester Merrin, is played by Stellan Skarsgard.	Answer: Dominion: Prequel to the ExorcistB. Christian Bale became the latest to play the titular character in this summer film that reveals the origin of the caped crusader of Gotham.	Answer: Batman BeginsC. Derek Richardson and Eric Christian Olsen were newcomers to the roles of Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne in this 2003 prequel.	Answer: Dumb and Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd9. They first appeared in 1984, a year in which they launched their first business enterprise, the ill-fated Tofu Hut.  FTPE:A.  Name this pair of fictional characters, who may or may not be gay lovers but who definitely both wear fezzes.	Answer: Akbar and Jeff (need both names)B.  Akbar and Jeff appear in this comic strip, which is drawn by Matt Groening.	Answer: Life in HellC.  This strange bunny rabbit was the original central character of Life in Hell.  He has a girlfriend named Sheba and a one-eared son named Bongo.	Answer: Binky10. Justify your love of Glen Frey and identify these Eagles songs, FTPE:A.  This song wonders whether the title character's feet get cold in the winter time, and notes that like Leo Wolpert's, his prison is walking through this world all alone.  	Answer: "Desperado"B.  In this song, the speaker notes that he likes the way somebody's sparkling earrings lay against her skin, and wants to sleep with her in the desert tonight because he possesses the titular thing.	Answer: "Peaceful, Easy Feeling"C.  The title character has raven hair and ruby lips, and somehow drove herself to madness with a silver spoon.  Also, she's been sleeping in the devil's bed, so you might want to reconsider taking her as a lover, Chris Frankel.	Answer: "Witchy Woman"11. Name these victims in the Year of the Tiger, Tiger Woods' 2000 season, FTP each:A. This South African, nicknamed "Big Easy" because of the smooth tempo of his swing, finished second in the first three majors of the year, losing the U.S. and British Opens to Tiger by a combined 23 strokes.	Answer: Ernie ElsB. The highest ranked Dane in the world, in 2000 he tied with Els second behind Tiger at the British and finished in solo third behind Tiger at the PGA.	Answer: Thomas Bjorn [byorn]C. Tiger was taken to a playoff in the PGA by this golfer, who has never won on the PGA tour.  It was mostly this man's junior records that Tiger broke while growing up in Southern California.	Answer: Bob May12. Name these films directed by the prolific John Frankenheimer, FTPE:A.  This 1970 film starred Gregory Peck as Sheriff Henry Tawes, who has an affair with Tuesday Weld's Alma.  It is more memorable for the soundtrack by Johnny Cash, whose first #1 hit provides the film with its title.	Answer: I Walk the LineB.  In this 1998 film, Robert De Niro's Sam plays one of a group of freelancing agents who are trying to locate a mysterious suitcase.  Jean Reno and the always compelling Stellan Skarsgard also make appearances.	Answer: RoninC.  Frankenheimer may be best known for this 1962 adaptation of a Richard Condon novel, which starred Frank Sinatra and the sinister Angela Lansbury.	Answer: The Manchurian Candidate13. Name these chicken dishes one might encounter in an Indian restaurant, FTP each:A. It gets its red color from the mixture of cumin and chili powders that are in the marinade, and not from the traditional clay oven that gives this dish its name.	Answer: Tandoori ChickenB. Legend has it this dish was invented when a Britisher demanded gravy for his tandoori chicken and the cook added a can of Campbell's tomato soup.  It is now characterized by its orange glow, usually created with the tomato and butter or cream sauce.	Answer: Chicken Tikka MasalaC. Chicken is just one of the ingredients that can be used to characterize this generic Indian dish of meat and/or vegetables with rice.  Whereas in biryani the rice is fried first and then added to the ingredients, in this dish everything is cooked together.	Answer: pullao [puh-low]14. Name these Yankees who have figured in Seinfeld episodes, FTP each:A. George was bringing this Yankee and one-time Royal to a telethon but became obsessed with following a driver who might have flicked them off.  On the way we saw this slugger eat his Snickers with a knife and fork.	Answer: Danny TartabullB. Kramer credited this player with creating Central Park.  A few years earlier Kramer had a run in with this old timer when Kramer brushed him off the plate two times, causing a brawl at Mickey Mantle's Fantasy Camp.	Answer: Joe PepitoneC. Kramer pressures him into hitting two home runs for a young boy named Bobby, but the second doesn't count as it's ruled a triple with an error.  This surly right fielder played for the Reds before coming to the Yanks.	Answer: Paul O'Neill15. Name these things about an indie rock group, FTP each:A. Drummer Nathan Good left this group before the release of We Have the Facts and We're Voting Yes, their second album and follow-up to Something About Airplanes.   The group began as the solo project of singer/guitarist Ben Gibbard.	Answer: Death Cab for CutieB. Death Cab for Cutie achieved widespread success with this 2003 album featuring the poppy rock hits "Title and Registration," "Death of an Interior Decorator," and "Expo 86."	Answer: TransatlanticismC. Transatlanticism was helped by frequent mentions on this show, which made stars out of Adam Brody and Mischa Barton.	Answer: The O.C.       16. As you know, unless you're Eric Hillemann, the Milwaukee Bucks had the #1 pick in this year's NBA draft lottery.  Answer these questions about players they drafted the other times they picked first, FTPE:A.  Their best pick came in 1969, when they won the rights to select first following a coin flip with the Suns and took this center out of UCLA, who would easily win Rookie of the Year honors. 	Answer: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (accept either) or Lew AlcindorB.  The Bucks didn't pick quite so wisely in 1977, when they chose this center out of Indiana with the first pick.  He was famously punched by former Milwaukee #1 pick Kareem during his rookie season, which got Kareem a 20 game suspension.	Answer: Kent BensonC.  In 1994, the Bucks selected this Purdue star as the first overall pick.  He's playing for the Spurs right now.	Answer: Glenn "Big Dog" Robinson17. Name these recent documentaries, FTP each:A. One could learn about the early years of pro bowling and the attempt to repackage the sport through such personalities as Pete Weber in this recent effort, which disappointed R. Robert Hentzel by not being a sequel to his favorite film of 2003.	Answer: A League of Ordinary GentlemanB. This 2002 doc followed eight kids on their quest to win the 1999 edition of an annual competition run by Scripps Howard.  The winning kid was unsuccessfully flirted with by Jeremy Newtson at the 2005 NAQT ICT. 	Answer: SpellboundC. This year's Oscar winner for Best Documentary, this film portrays the lives of several children of prostitutes in Calcutta.  There's nothing funny about that.	Answer: Born Into Brothels18. Name these members of the electronica movement, FTP each:A. Eminem took a shot at this musician by rapping that "nobody listens to techno" nomore.  His last big electronica album was 1999's Play, which had pop success because of the Gwen Stefani vocals on "South Side."	Answer: Moby (or Richard Melville Hall)B. Their dance-rock-rap fusion was at its best in their debut album, Exit Planet Dust, and their third effort, Dig Your Own Hole.	Answer: The Chemical BrothersC. This Omaha, Nebraska band scored the biggest success since Blank Wave Arcade with last year's Wet From Birth, which included the moderate hits "Southern Belles in London Sing" and "Desperate Guys."	Answer: The Faint19. It features a novelist named Steadman who goes to Ecuador to obtain hallucinogenic drugs in hopes of overcoming his writer's block.  FTPE:A.  Name this 2005 novel, in which drugs cause Steadman to lose his sight but enable him to write the Book of Revelation.  The novel also features a party where Bill Clinton is the guest of honor.	Answer: Blinding LightB.  This author of The Mosquito Coast and Sir Vidia's Shadow wrote Blinding Light.	Answer: Paul TherouxC.  Theroux may be best known for this 1975 book, in which he travelled by train from Victoria Station to Tokyo Central.	Answer: The Great Railway Bazaar20. His professional career ended in 2003, when his eye socket was broken by a teammate during a practice drill.  FTPE:A.  Name this former NFL tight end, who was drafted out of Washington State in 2002.	Answer: Marcus WilliamsB.  This crazed linebacker, whose post-NFL career has included a recent appearance in the remake of The Longest Yard, delivered that notable punch that ended the career of Marcus Williams.	Answer: Bill RomanowskiC.  Williams and Romanowski were both playing for this AFC team when the fateful incident took place.	Answer: the Oakland Raiders (accept either)