2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 7Toss-Up Questions:1. This group's outtake album, Saturnine Martial and Lunatic, includes such gems as a cover of David Bowie's "Ashes to Ashes" and the single "The Way You Are."  After one of the founding members left the group in the early 90s, they released such albums as Elemental and Raoul and the Kings of Spain.  After the mild success of their debut album, The Hurting, they took off with a 1985 album which includes "Head Over Heels" and their two biggest hits, one of which makes a dubious claim about human motivation while the other urges listeners to "let it all out."  FTP, name this British rock group whose Songs from the Big Chair features "Shout" and "Everybody Wants to Rule the World."	Answer: Tears for Fears  2. In their last season, they traded the man who had led the league in rebounds the previous year, getting Marty Byrnes and Ron Lee from Phoenix in exchange for Truck Robinson.  They played their first season at the Municipal Auditorium, where they were coached by Scotty Robertson, Elgin Baylor, and Bill Van Breda Koff.  Although they finished fifth in their third season, one of their players led the league in scoring, putting up 31.1 points per game in the 1976-77 season.  After only five years, the team left town.  FTP, name this one-time NBA team whose stars included Gail Goodrich and Pistol Pete Maravich, which relocated in 1979 to Utah.	Answer: the New Orleans Jazz (prompt on Jazz; do not accept Utah Jazz)3. In a deleted scene from this film, one of the main characters hits a dog with his car, while another deleted scene features that character picking up a Vicodin prescription.   Early in this film, the aforementioned character steals $1000 from his mother, who hides her money in an Ajax can in her bedroom.  In the movie's finest scene, one character is severely beaten with a motorcycle helmet in a hotel parking lot, after which he stages an accident to make it appear that he was injured in a car crash.  After one character is married to his Armenian fiancée, his friend, a failed novelist, gets back together with Maya.  FTP, name this 2004 movie about two pathetic guys who spend a week in the California wine country, which featured Sandra Oh, Thomas Haden Church and Paul Giamatti.	Answer: Sideways4. During his time at Oklahoma State and while later earning his MBA at the University of Seattle, he earned numerous awards for his success as a door-to-door Bible salesman.  As a high-schooler he never lost a track race in distances between 200 and 5,000 meters.  He won the first ever PPT event by defeating Chris Bigler heads-up, after having already won two times at the Festa al Lago earlier in 2004.  At five, he is tied with Scotty Nguyen for most WPT final table appearances without a win, and he has finished in the top five three of the last four years in Card Player's Player of the Year standings.  FTP, name this poker player originally from Indonesia.	Answer: John Juanda
5. In 1999 he released his own calendar to benefit First Book, a children's charity.  His college scholarship was briefly revoked after his freshman year because he had been home schooled, but he was reinstated and went on to make consecutive Mid American All Conference teams at linebacker and defensive lineman.  As a result he was selected in the third round in 1997 out of Akron University.  His current defensive teammates include Mario Edwards, fellow lineman David Bowens, and his brother-in-law, linebacker Zach Thomas.  FTP, name this first spokesperson for the Neutrogena Men Skin Care line and all-pro defensive end for the Miami Dolphins.	Answer: Jason Taylor6. The second song on this album notes that the speaker "can't lick that far" when he sees someone "sticky as lips" and "licky as trips," and he laments that he "can't get that small" when he notes "the how you purr."  Another song begins with the title figure remarking "you look like you could do with a friend" before asking to be called "fabulous," though it doesn't touch the singer at all.  In addition to "high" and "wendy time," this album features a song which concludes that love is in vain and the singer is "miles and miles and miles and miles and miles away from home again."  "from the edge of the deep green sea."  More famously, it includes "a letter to elise" and the popular "friday i'm in love."  FTP, name this typically maudlin 1992 album in which Robert Smith and the Cure did their best to bring down the world's spirits, which also includes the song "to wish impossible things."	Answer: wish7. One episode features a growth serum which is used to create a flock of giant chickens who threaten to take over the world.  In another one, a plague of pyramids threaten to sink a European nation, while the world is flooded with instant custard in a later episode.  Another episode features the Bone Idol which can control every dog on Earth, while another episode features El Loco, who teams up with the principal villain in a diabolical plot to put cactus needles in all the important chairs of the world.  The protagonist is assisted by Agent 57, while his opponents include Mad Manuel, the Flamenco Assassin, and the vampiric Count Duckula.  His greatest opponent has a pet caterpillar named Nero, and has a crow assistant named Stiletto.  FTP, name this greatest secret agent in the world, a superhero who perpetually foils the schemes of Baron Silas Greenback with the help of his sidekick, a timid hamster named Penfold.	Answer: Danger Mouse (accept: DM)8. Like Jason Taylor she loves children, and in 2004 she created Winner's Circle, a children's cancer charity.  In that year she also received the Great Cross of the Order of the Crown, her nation's highest civilian honor.  The year her mother died, she met current coach Carlos Rodriguez with whom she has worked for 14 years.  Her breakthrough came in 1999 when she became only the fifth WTA player to win her debut event, which she did at Antwerp.  She is now the defending Olympic champion, a feat achieved during her sabbatical to recover from cytomegalovirus.  Her recovery was complete when she won her fourth Grand Slam this year.  FTP, name this diminutive winner of the 2005 French Open, a tennis player from Belgium.	Answer: Justin Henin-Hardenne
9. He was the last man killed on Gunsmoke, and has more recently played the Hooded Fang in Jacob Two Two Meets the Hooded Fang.  He has appeared on two episodes of Entourage, both times highlighting his career as a celebrity sculptor.  He played over-the-hill pitcher Chet Steadman in the baseball movie Rookie of the Year, detective Eddie Lomax in The Firm, and a crazy ex-army guy in the Chris Farley vehicle Black Sheep.  Perhaps his high points have been roles as the head of a government team in Predator 2 and as Keanu's mentor and partner in Point Break.  FTP, name this eccentric blond actor occasionally confused with Nick Nolte.	Answer: Gary Busey10. This man's second novel features Melinda, a fur-covered girl, who accompanies the protagonist through a land where the air is an opaque green fog and to Vacaville, where the people change houses and occupations twice a week.  In his latest book, a collection of essays, he writes about the 21 times he watched Star Wars when he was 13 and about his admiration for the films of John Cassavetes.  In addition to Amnesia Moon, his stories include "Vanilla Dunk" and "Forever, Said the Duck," collected in The Wall of the Sky, The Wall of the Eye.  More notably, he has written about detectives, as in his first novel, Gun, with Occasional Music and Motherless Brooklyn.  FTP, name this author of the recent collection Men and Cartoons, who wrote The Fortress of Solitude.	Answer: Jonathan Lethem11. The European indoor champion in the shorter version of this event, Frenchman Ladji Doucoure, is expected to be an outside challenger to the world's top two ranked athletes in this summer's competitions.  The current Olympic silver medal holder, American Terrence Trammell, doesn't hold any of the ten fastest times, unlike the bronze medalist from Cuba, Anier Garcia.  The co-world record holder is retired Englishman Colin Jackson, but the event's number one ranked male is actually from China, current Olympic champion Liu Xiang.  The event's greatest runner has been American Allen Johnson, who has run within a hundredth of a second of the world record of 12.91.  FTP, name this male sprinting event in which each competitor must bound over ten obstacles.	Answer: 110 meter hurdles12. Her big break came when record executive Andre Harrell heard a tape of her singing Anita Baker's "Caught Up in the Rapture" into a karaoke machine.  Her self-titled fourth album included writing credits for Elton John, whose "Bennie and the Jets" provided the source material for "Deep Inside," and Lauryn Hill, who wrote and produced the lead single "All That I Can Say."  These tracks marked a drastic change from My Life and Share My World, and particularly her debut, which featured "Sweet Thing" and "Real Love."  FTP, name this queen of hip-hop soul who finally matched the success of What's the 411? with 2001's No More Drama.	Answer: Mary J. Blige
13. The first sequel to this film featured Colm Feore as Yuri and Maury Chaykin as Downs.  The second and perhaps unnecessary sequel to this film featured a Peruvian village which is taken over by a former Nazi, and starred Sonny Chiba and F. Dalton Thompson.  The third and definitely unnecessary sequel involved some people who were implicated in selling toxic waste, and featured Jason Cadieux as Doug Masters, since Jason Gedrick was apparently too big a star to reprise his role from the original.  That original features David Suchet as a minister of defense and a dubious plot in which the protagonist has to steal two fighter planes to rescue Doug's father after he's shot down by MiGs belonging to a Middle Eastern country.  FTP, name this 1986 film which spawned three successsors, all of which starred the immortal Louis Gossett Jr.  	Answer: Iron Eagle14. He has two children, Meltdown and Fuelrod, who attend Hollywood High.  His parents, Ebb and Flo, may have sold him to a circus when he was a child.  His cat, Dingy, often demands a cigar and martini, while his dog Starhound likes to sniff out celebrities.  Lucky Strike employee Vizeen Nurney is attracted to him, though he is married to Zerbina.  He has little in common with Mr. The Toad, who embodies the worst aspects of capitalism, while his critique of modern society is shared by Griffy, the artist's alter ego.  FTP, name this strangely-dressed and media-obsessed comic strip character, a creation of Bill Griffith who has a twin brother named Lippy.	Answer: Zippy the Pinhead15. One of the greatest players at this position in the 1920s was Cleveland's Steve O'Neill, while the Giants' Harry "The Horse" Danning is one of the greatest Jews ever to play the position.  The National League record for errors at this position is held by Ivey Wingo, while the American League's is held by Wally Schang.  In the American League, the record for most consecutive games without an error at this position is held by Rick Cerone, who had a 159 game streak.  More notable players at this position include the 1971 National League MVP, Joe Torre, and one of the greatest Cubs of the 20s and 30s, Gabby Hartnett.  FTP, name this position which is also played by Jason Kendall and Ivan Rodriguez.	Answer: catcher16. All of the songs on their only album, a namesake effort, were initially recorded live with the exception of "Candela," which was later scratched for a live version.  Their worldwide performances resulted from a trip taken by guitarist and producer Ry Cooder, whose work with the group led to such recordings as "Murmullo" and the more popular "Chan Chan."  A Grammy followed and they also became the subject of a namesake 2000 film by Wim Wenders.  Including such figures as Ibrahim Ferrer, Compay Segundo, and Ruben Gonzalez, FTP, identify this group of Cuban musicians named for an exclusive Havana establishment.	Answer: Buena Vista Social Club17. He plays a chess club member who loses and then gets some candy from Josh Waitzkin in Searching for Bobby Fischer.  Better known is his television career, which has included roles as Manu on Frasier, Albert Shepley on Ally McBeal, and Dr. Banton on The X Files.  In his second major TV series he played a horror novelist with writer's block.  However, he first gained fame playing a taxi driver on Nantucket.  It was those roles on Stark Raving Mad and as Antonio Scarpacci on Wings that partly led to his current TV gig as a San Francisco detective.  FTP, name this Emmy-award winning actor who plays a sleuth with obsessive-compulsive disorder on his USA show Monk.	Answer: Tony Shalhoub18. He is known as the "Hijo Predilecto" or "famous son" of the little town of Collado Mediano, where he lives.  This year he became the only player ever to win all three competitions in the Melody Amber tournament more than once.  He first learned the game he is associated with while briefly growing up in the Philippines, where he won the World Junior Championship in 1987.  More attention came when he finished a clear first in Reggio Emilia in 1991, and he contested for the PCA title in 1995, but it was only upon beating Alexei Shirov that he became the 15th FIDE Champion, a title he has since lost.  Known as the "Lightning Kid," among active players he is the world #1.  FTP, name this chess player from India who is not Subash Maddipoti.	Answer: Vishy Anand (or Anand Vishwanathan; this is actually his correct name, though he is known as Vishy Anand in the West)19. The title character of this film is determined to get to a job working under a typically bronzed George Hamilton.  One scene sees the title character's predecessor drunkenly recite Whitman's "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking," and in another scene the title character pisses on a series of hunter markers with the woman he loves to save some deer.  Bridget Fonda's character frequently comes on to him, whereas Woody Harrelson tries to sell him insurance in the midst of jealous outbursts over his feelings for Julie Warner's Vialula.  It is set primarily in the town of Grady, Mississippi, where the protagonist is forced to serve as town physician to make up for a traffic accident.  FTP, name this comedy in which Michael J. Fox sets out to become a plastic surgeon in L.A.	Answer: Doc Hollywood20. His unimpressive albums of the mid-80s include Penetrator, Little Miss Dangerous, and the unfortunately-titled If You Can't Lick 'Em ... Lick 'Em.  His first solo album was a self-titled 1975 release which featured such tracks as "You Make Me Feel Right at Home" and "Queen of the Forest," and was followed by an album which included "Street Rats" and a song about a notable riot of 1967, "Dog Eat Dog."  Free-for-All was followed by his greatest album, a 1977 effort which includes "Workin' Hard, Playin' Hard" and the classic "Wang Dang Sweet Poontang."  Justly renowned for his live album Double Live Gonzo, which includes "Just What the Doctor Ordered" and "Motor City Madhouse," this one-time member of the Amboy Dukes and Damn Yankees may be best known for Cat Scratch Fever.  FTP, name this legendary Detroit guitarist and bow hunter.	Answer: Ted Nugent
Bonus Questions:1. His 1998 album Euphonic Sounds features compositions by Louis Chauvin and Joe Jordan, as well as such compositions of his own as "Space Coaster Ride" and "The Daredevil's Gallop."  FTPE:A.  Name this Chicagoan, a high-school dropout whose prodigious ragtime abilities earned him a recent Macarthur Genius grant.	Answer: Reginald RobinsonB.  The first track on Reginald Robinson's Euphonic Sounds is a "song fragment" by this composer, which Robinson transcribed from a photograph of this man's piano.  Other works by this man on the album include the title track and "The Entertainer."	Answer: Scott JoplinC.  Robinson's first album, The Strongman, opens with what is now considered a definitive recording of this Scott Joplin classic, which as NAQT has taught us isn't really about Canada.	Answer: "Maple Leaf Rag"2. Answer these questions about characters who got iced on The Sopranos, FTP each:A. The penultimate episode of Season 5 saw her character Adriana take two bullets to the head.  Good thing she had her role on Joey all lined up.	Answer: Drea de MatteoB. Tony, Paulie, and Silvio took care of this fellow crew member played by Vincent Pastore in the final episode of Season 2.	Answer: Big Pussy or Sal Bompensiero (accept either)C. David Proval played this character, who was Adriana's uncle and a boyhood rival of Tony.  He was done in by none other than Janice Soprano, his then-girlfriend.	Answer: Richie Aprile (accept either)3. The Clippers have had little to brag about, save for the unlimited devotion of Matt Lafer.  Name these legends of the franchise, FTP each:A. He is second in games played and the team's career leader in three pointers attempted and made.  He left the team in 2003 to sign with the Rockets and was traded to the Bulls this past season.	Answer: Eric PiatkowskiB. He is the team's all time rebound leader, though Elton Brand is only 125 offensive rebounds behind him.  You might know him better for his role as a starting front line player on the 1989 Michigan NCAA Championship team.	Answer: Loy VaughtC. Fourth in assists, third in steals, and third in scoring average is this guard and chronic stutterer, who may be best known for his supporting role in three Bulls and two Lakers championship teams between 1996-2001.	Answer: Ron Harper4. Given the following films, say whether they featured the talents of Doug E. Doug, Doug E. Fresh, both, or neither.  You'll get 5 points for 1, 10 points for 2, 20 points for 3, and 30 points for all 4 correct.A.  Whiteboys	Answer: Doug E. FreshB.  White Men Can't Jump	Answer: neitherC.  Let's Get Bizzee	Answer: Doug E. FreshD.  Operation Dumbo Drop	Answer: Doug E. Doug5. It ends with "Zombie Zoo," while the other songs on this album include "Face in the Crowd" and a cover of the Byrds' "I'll Feel a Whole Lot Better."  FTPE:A.  Name this 1989 solo album, perhaps the best work by its artist since 1979's Damn the Torpedoes.	Answer: Full Moon FeverB.  This singer ditched the Heartbreakers to record Full Moon Fever, which includes his classic "Runnin' Down a Dream."	Answer: Tom PettyC.  This is the first track on Full Moon Fever.  It features a good girl who loves her mama, Jesus, and America too, in addition to being crazy about Elvis.	Answer: "Free Fallin'"6. Answer these questions about a business mogul, FTP each:A. This man began his multimillion dollar fortune by starting the record label Roc-a-Fella with Damon Dash.  The label really exploded with the release of his Volume 2 album, subtitled Hard Knock Life.	Answer: Jay-Z (or Shawn Carter)B. Jay-Z and Dash own interest in and promote this triple distilled vodka from Scotland.  Its packaging consists of a transparent bottle with a black banner and simple tartan design.	Answer: ArmadaleC. Jay-Z is part of the group of investors who had their $300 million bid to purchase this NBA team approved by the league's board of governors earlier this year.	Answer: New Jersey Nets (accept either)7. Name these pitchers who had some of the finest seasons of the 20th century, FTPE:A.  His 1.12 ERA in 1968 was one of the lowest ERAs of the century.  In that season, he won 22 games for the Cardinals, including a streak of 15 straight wins.	Answer: Bob GibsonB.  He won 26 of the 116 games won by the Cubs in 1906, and his 1.04 ERA that season was the second-lowest in the century.	Answer: Mordecai "Three Finger" BrownC.  In 1914, this Red Sox pitcher won 19 games and set the all-time record for ERA in a season, 0.96.  He also threw two no-hitters in his career following his record season.	Answer: Dutch Leonard8. Luis Guzman: the myth, the man, the legend.  Answer these questions about his varied but always stellar career, FTP each:A. Guzman voiced this character, a druglord and one-time employer and later victim of Tommy Vercetti, in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.	Answer: Ricardo DiazB. Guzman played Jacopo the Maggot, the valet of Jim Caviezel's [kuh-vee-zul] character, in this 2002 movie based on Mike Zarren's favorite revenge novel.	Answer: The Count of Monte CristoC. Guzman played Chango in this unintentionally comedic flick starring Woody Harrelson and Kiefer Sutherland as two rodeo competitors who find themselves in the big city of New York.	Answer: The Cowboy Way9. Name these soap operas from a summary of events which took place on them in the last week of May, FTPE:A.  When Ned stole her gambling party invitation, Fancy got in on the arm of an unsavory character, but later ran for help after she was almost raped.  Also, Luis still couldn't believe Sheridan on blind faith regarding Marty.	Answer: PassionsB.  Erica and Jack were married and set off for their honeymoon in a yacht she gave him.  As Tad wondered if Di could really be Dixie, David paid her off for lying to Tad.  Also, Maddie sought revenge against Zach.	Answer: All My ChildrenC.  Daniel was arrested during his swearing-in ceremoony and charged with murder.  Nora was stunned to learn the truth, including news of Daniel and Mark's affair.  When Jack had trouble breathing, newly arrived Dr. Spencer Sterling cut open his throat and saved Jack's life, but Todd didn't trust him.	Answer; One Life to Live10. Following the success of their self-titled debut they released G-Sides, a collection of B-sides.  FTP each:A. Name this virtual hip-hop group perhaps best-known for their single "Clint Eastwood" and its accompanying animated video.	Answer: GorillazB. One of the member's of Gorillaz is David Albarn, the lead singer of this British rock group whose albums include Modern Life is Rubbish, The Great Escape, and Parklife.	Answer: BlurC. Another Gorillaz contributor is this cousin of Ice Cube, a rapper whose best solo albums are Both Sides of the Brain and his debut I Wish My Brother George Was Here.	Answer: Del tha Funkee Homosapien (or Teren Delvon Jones; prompt on "Deltron Zero")11. Name these NFL players who are "so Raven," FTPE:A.  This safety from the University of Miami was named Defensive Player of the Year in 2004.	Answer: Ed ReedB.  At Arizona State, he broke Ken Dyer's team record for catches by a tight end.  Then he was drafted by Baltimore in 2001, and the rest is history.	Answer: Todd HeapC.  The Ravens took this offensive lineman in the fourth round of the 1999 draft.  He often lines up at left guard next to Jonathan Ogden.	Answer: Edwin Mulitalo12. It centers on Ryan Harrison, a sexy violinist who is sentenced to death after Lauren Goodhue's husband is murdered.  FTPE:A.  Name this 1998 film, which offers a comic take on The Fugitive.	Answer: Wrongfully AccusedB.  This legendary actor starred as Ryan in Wrongfully Accused.  He has also been seen as Dick Dix in 2001: A Space Travesty and as President Harris in Scary Movie 3.	Answer: Leslie NielsenC.  The lovely Lauren Goodhue was played by this talented actress.  You might have enjoyed her work with then-husband Steven Seagal in Hard to Kill, though many think her career reached its height with Weird Science.	Answer: Kelly LeBrock13. Name the authors who created these detectives, FTP each:A. Broken Prey is the 17th in this author's "Prey" series of Lucas Davenport novels.  Much like Paul Litvak, Davenport divides his time between chasing a serial killer and compiling a list of the 100 greatest rock songs of all time for his iPod.	Answer: John SandfordB. Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider are two of this author's novels, which follow the exploits of detective Alex Cross.  Subash proclaims "this guy is awful," though Al Michaels made a fuss during the NBA finals about Larry Brown's astounding ability to read a whole entire book by this man while the playoffs were in progress.	Answer: James PattersonC. Twisted and Rage are two of his novels about psychologist and crime solver Alex Delaware.	Answer: Jonathan Kellerman14. Answer these questions about songs relating to abuse, FTP each:A. This Aerosmith song from Pump implies sexual abuse by a father of his child, the titular girl who exacts revenge with the titular weapon.	Answer: "Janie's Got a Gun"B. The second hit from Suzanne Vega's Solitude Standing album was about this title character, who lives on the second floor and is a victim of domestic abuse.	Answer: "Luka"C. This band's song "Date Rape" on 40 Oz. to Freedom, their debut album, told of a rapist who got what was coming to him.	Answer: Sublime15. Toward the end of his life, he toured the country with a one-man show, "Say Goodnight Gracie," in which he appeared as George Burns.  FTPE:A.  Name this noted impressionist, who died in May 2005.	Answer: Frank GorshinB.  Frank Gorshin is best known for his portrayal of this zany character on Batman.	Answer: The RiddlerC.  You might have seen Gorshin in a posthumous appearance on this TV show, in which he impersonated Ed Sullivan.  The episode was directed by Quentin Tarantino.	Answer: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation       16. Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie weren't the first to do it.  Name these other films that involved co-stars getting it on, FTP each:A. Perhaps the most publicized recent example was this 2000 flick starring a then-married Meg Ryan and her lover Russell Crowe.	Answer: Proof of LifeB. Madonna and Sean Penn's affair couldn't help this awful movie in which Penn played a fortune hunter looking for a way out of China.	Answer: Shanghai SurpriseC. Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger got together during the filming of this 1991 bomb, which saw Baldwin forced to wed Basinger, who played Bugsy Siegel's girlfriend.	Answer: The Marrying Man17. Name these players who own some lesser known NFL records, FTP each:A. Beginning with Cleveland in 1960 and continuing for 19 more seasons with his only other team, this defensive end played in 282 consecutive games, 42 more than #2 on the list, his teammate Mick Tingelhoff.	Answer: Jim Marshall [that team was the Minnesota Vikings]B. In 1960 this Packer halfback and kicker scored 176 points by producing 17 touchdowns, kicking 15 field goals, and 41 PATs.  Gary Anderson is #2 with 164 points, but it took Anderson four more games for his total than this man's 12 games. 	Answer: Paul HornungC. Three field goal kickers have had a 100% kicking percentage in a season.  One was the aforementioned Anderson, another was Tony Zendejas for the Rams in 1991, and the most recent was this Rams kicker in 2000.	Answer: Jeff Wilkins18. Some song titles just cry out to be mocked.  Given some lame ones, name the pop album from the last ten years on which the songs appeared, FTP each:A. "If You Want It to Be Good Girl (Get Yourself a Bad Boy)" and "Quit Playing Games (With My Heart)"	Answer: Backstreet Boys [by guess who]B. "From the Bottom of My Broken Heart" and "E-Mail My Heart"	Answer: ...Baby One More Time [by Britney Spears]C. "God Must Have Spent a Little More Time on You" and "Tearin' Up My Heart"	Answer: *NSYNC19. Given an excerpt, name the authors of the following blogs FTPE.  Note that if you wrote the entry, "me" is an acceptable answer.  Further note that each of these authors may or may not be a member of NAQT.A. Just a thought: if you're going to cross a busy street, for God's sake, don't take your sweet time about it. . . .I may have been reckless as a pedestrian (and I appreciate what drivers go through now a lot more than I did a year ago), but at least I wasn't slow.	Answer: Samer IsmailB. I think anuses and sex are a poor mix for either women or men but that's just my taste...Mouths and sex are a different story.  I claim I'd recoil at a male mouth but with no obvious way of knowing.  Nothing about the practice seems gross to me, though again any social or political policy based on that reaction would be absurd.	Answer: Matt BruceC. I was watching...You don't trade for a punter.  Now then where was I... You don't trade for a punter.  S'anyway... You don't trade for a punter.	Answer: Dwight Kidder20. Since there's no NHL season to ask about this year, answer these questions about the American Hockey League FTPE:A.  This John Anderson-coached team won the AHL championship in 2002, and reached the finals again in 2005 after winning the West Division of the Western Conference.  They didn't do so well in the finals, disappointing avid fan Mike Sorice.	Answer: the Chicago Wolves (accept either)B.  The Chicago Wolves squared off in the finals against this John Stevens-coached team, which finished second in the East Division of the Eastern Conference.  Their previous AHL title came in 1998.	Answer; the Philadephia Phantoms (accept either)C.  The Wolves and Phantoms competed for this trophy, which is awarded to the winner of the AHL championship series.	Answer: the Calder Cup