2005 Mordecai Richler Memorial Trash OpenRound 9Toss-Up Questions:1. He was traded to the Cardinals in a deal that brought Terry Kennedy to his former team, but after only four days in St. Louis he joined Pete Vuckovich in a trade for Sixto Lezcano.  He memorably tricked Johnny Bench into thinking that he was going to intentionally walk him, then struck him out in a World Series game.  His best season came in 1981, when he walked only 13 batters in the course of winning six games and saving 28, thereby figuring in over 50% of Milwaukee's wins.  That earned him both the Cy Young and the American League MVP award, after he earned the World Series MVP award in 1974 with Oakland.  FTP, name this second relief pitcher elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame, who is also remembered for his spectacular handlebar mustache.	Answer: Rollie Fingers  2. After an eight year hiatus, they returned to the studio in 1997 and produced the album Too Hot to Sleep.  The group was founded by the former lead singer of Ides of March and guitarist Frankie Sullivan.  Those two recruited Dave Bickler, the lead singer for their biggest hit.  After Bickler's departure Jimi Jamison took over vocals and the band had Top Ten hits with "The Search is Over" and "High On You."  However, they remain best-known for their contributions to two movie soundtracks in 1982 and 1985.  FTP, name this band best-known for "Burning Heart" and "Eye of the Tiger," their contributions to the Rocky series.	Answer: Survivor  3. He missed out on the audition for Mr. Pink in Reservoir Dogs because he had to babysit for his niece, and didn't come through as the favorite to land the role of Chandler Bing because he had to send an audition tape from London, where he was in a play.  He played a pilot who couldn't see in Hot Shots and a stock broker who poses as high schooler Maxwell Hauser to get away from the Mob in Hiding Out.  However, he made his name as Duckie, the best friend and secret admirer of Molly Ringwald in Pretty in Pink.  FTP, name this actor, now starring opposite Charlie Sheen in the CBS sitcom Two and a Half Men.	Answer: Jon Cryer4.  This film was partially funded by Ed Asner, who sent a check after the director sent him a letter begging for money.  Some of the other money for the film was raised through bingo games, while yet another portion came from a settlement the director received after being fired from Mother Jones magazine for putting a friend on the cover of an issue.  After this film was released, its director was sued by Larry Stecco, who argued that the presentation of him at a fundraising ball was an inaccurate reflection of his character as a lawyer who worked pro bono for the poor.  Among those who appear in the film are Anita Bryant, Pat Boone, and Bob Eubanks, though the first of the two title figures tried hard not to appear in it.  FTP, name this 1989 movie about a director's attempts to ask the CEO of General Motors about his downsizing of a plant in Flint, a work by Michael Moore.	Answer: Roger & Me
5. He last played in the NBA for the Warriors in 2002, but only appeared in 35 games and scored a mere 3.4 points per game, the only season in which he didn't finish with a double digit scoring average.  In the 1996-97 NBA season, he led the league in three-pointers attempted, and he attempted the most three-pointers in the history of the team with which he is most associated.  A three-time member of the All-Defensive Second Team, he appeared on the All-Defensive First Team in both 1994 and 1995, while he is one of only three players to lead the NBA in steals in consecutive seasons.  Though he started with New Jersey, in 1992 this guard from Oklahoma was traded to Atlanta.  FTP, name this stellar Hawk point guard for whom the band Pearl Jam was originally named.	Answer: Mookie Blaylock 6. The singer in this song references such relatives of his muse as her Aunt Louise and her brother Cliff, who never really liked him anyway.  Lines also claim that she may instruct her dog to bite his leg or say he moved to Arkansas before concluding that the singer's mind might be walkin' out on him one day.  Earlier lines relate that she may tell his lips to tell his fingertips to not reach out for her no more.  She can do all those things as long as she doesn't tell anything to the title object, whom the singer just doesn't think would understand but might rather blow up and kill this man.  FTP, name this 1992 line-dancing anthem for one-hit country wonder Billy Ray Cyrus.	Answer: "Achy, Breaky Heart"7. An unemployed ice cream truck driver named Michael Larson won $110, 237 on it, as described in Big Bucks, which at the time was the biggest win in game show history.  The final episode, which aired on September 26, 1986, saw Karen win $39, 583.  In each episode, three contestants answered trivia questions, with each correct response earning them three spins on the big board.  Savage Steve Holland provided the voice of this show's most memorable character, who would take a contestant's money if landed upon.  FTP, name this show hosted by the lovable Peter Tomarken, in which the dreaded Whammy prevented most people from racking up too much money.	Answer: Press Your Luck8. In the first book in which he appeared, he interviews Dr. Bradford to discover why the physician diagnosed a dead man with heart failure.  In fact, Peter Barstow had been murdered, and this man discovers that Peter died after using a golf club from the bag of his neighbor E. D. Kimball.  That golf club was capable of holding a poisoned dart, which this man conjectures was designed by Carlo Maffei.  In fact, Manuel Kimball wanted the dart to kill his father, as he admits before crashing a plane in which his father is flying.  This man sends his assistant Archie Goodwin to do most of this legwork, though he almost dies when the titular snake shows up in his desk drawer.  FTP, name this sleuth who appears in Fer-De-Lance, a fat detective who solves cases from his armchair in the work of Rex Stout.	Answer: Nero Wolfe
9. This film's chief male character has a former girlfriend named Naomi whom he calls in a scene deleted from the final version.  That character's current girlfriend works in a bookstore, though her inability to pronounce "library" correctly and her tendency to read magazines rather than books embarasses him.  The two of them met when he noticed her orange sweatshirt at a beach party, and they enjoy eating Chinese food at Kang's and watching drive-in movies without paying to get in before reuniting at Montauk.  In the end, they realize what happened to them when they play an audiotape sent by Mary to all the clients of Lacuna, Inc.  FTP, name this 2004 film which features Elijah Wood and  Kirsten Dunst, while the central wacky couple, Clementine and Joel, is played by Kate Winslet and Jim Carrey.	Answer: Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind10. The first non-American winner was Britain's Geoff Capes, who took his first title in 1983 before retiring to raise budgerigars.  Since then, Britain's Jamie Reeves and Gary Taylor have also won, but 1993 was the last time it was won by anybody from an English-speaking nation.  In 2003 three Canadians, including Geoff Dolan and Jessen Paulin, finished in the top ten, while Eastern Europeans dominated the top spots, including runner-up Zydrunas Savickas and the winner, Poland's Mariusz Pudzianowski.  Other winners have included Jon Pall Sigmarsson and three-time champion Magnus ver Magnusson.  FTP, name this competition funded by Met-Rx and run by the International Federation of Strength Athletes, whose ludicrous events include the car pull.	Answer: World's Strongest Man11. Its less successful lines have included the X300, Point and Shoot, and the early Tour Cleek series.  It now sells the Revolution, D-Tec, and Black Max balls under the Maxfli banner and also oversees production of the Noodle ball.  More recent offerings have included the LCG and Super Steel lines, as well as the more popular Firesole clubs.  The company now promotes its RAC irons and wedges and its new R7 driver.  Perhaps best-known for its Burner clubs and early bubble-shaft technology, FTP, name this equipment company whose slogan promises the best in "old, rough, and ready golf products."	Answer: Taylor Made Golf12. The second single from this album borrowed a sample from Leon Haywood's "I Want'a Do Something Freaky to You."  That song also took shots at such figures as Jerry Heller and Tim Dog.  Its biggest hit featured the work of a performer who had debuted earlier that year on the single "Deep Cover."  The album loses pace with such late tracks as "High Powered," "The Doctor's Office," and "Stranded on Death Row," but charted primarily for the first half, which included "Lil' Ghetto Boy," "Deeez Nuuuts," and the better known "Let Me Ride."  However, this 1992 release was primarily pushed by "Nuthin' but a G Thang" and the novel rapping style of Snoop Dogg.  FTP, name this debut album by Dr. Dre whose title derives from a synonym for crack cocaine.	Answer: The Chronic13. The central character has two underlings named Ron to help with business decisions.  Angie Dickinson has a small role as a lush, and her husband Richard Crenna has a larger role as business tycoon Patrick Tyson, whose electronics company might merge with that of his future in-laws.  The title character had been away for a couple of years studying to be a photographer, and her return threatens the nuptials of Lauren Holly and the young playboy David, who is played by Greg Kinnear.  David's older brother takes action but falls in love with Julia Ormond's title character instead.  FTP, name this movie starring Harrison Ford, a remake of a 1954 classic with William Holden, Humphrey Bogart, and Audrey Hepburn in the title role.	Answer: Sabrina14. Oliver Wendell Holmes called this dish "the most wonderful object of domestic art."  It had come to America in the 18th century and was commonly referred to as Tipsy Hedgehog or Tipsy Parson.  The original English recipe is somewhat related to the Spanish Bizcocho Borracho and more closely to the Italian Zuppa Ingles.  Only around 1750 was fruit added, and only in the early 1900's were namesake dishes invented to display it.  Most modern recipes call for some form of jam, sponge cake, fruit, and custard.  FTP, name this layered dessert, to which Rachel famously added meat on an episode of Friends.	Answer: trifle (accept trifle pudding, trifle cake, trifle dessert, etc.)15. When the score of this game was tied 3-3 at the half, it marked the first time in the game's history that the teams were tied at that point.  The losing team took a third quarter lead on a 93 yard kickoff return by Stanford Jennings, and took another lead late in the fourth on a Jim Breech field goal, but with 34 seconds left the winning touchdown was caught by John Taylor.  The winning team became the first NFC team to win three Super Bowls by winning its third title in the 1980s.  FTP, name this game in which Joe Montana threw for a record 357 yards and MVP Jerry Rice had a record 215 receiving yards, a win for San Francisco over Cincinnati in 1989.	Answer: Super Bowl XXIII or Super Bowl 23 (prompt on any answer that doesn't give the number)16.  He broke with Columbia Records in 1988 after releasing a techno album, Perfect Machine.  When he was only 11, he played a Mozart concerto with the Chicago Symphony, and he released his debut album at the age of 22.  That album featured "Three Bags Full" and "Watermelon Man," and the success of Takin' Off earned him an invitation to join Miles Davis's band.  Known for such funk albums as Fat Albert Rotunda, the score for Antonioni's Blow Up, and the early MTV hit "Rockit," FTP, name this pioneering jazz pianist, the great-great-grandson of a president of the Second Continental Congress.	Answer: Herbie Hancock17. Aspiring doctor Ben is humiliated when he can't help an unconscious person in front of this woman, who at the time is dating Rick, the periodontist who does Giuliani's gums.  We later learn that she is marrying a Mr. Ranawat.  However, she calls off the wedding when finds out that the groom, Pinter, slept with her maid-of-honor.  We also know that she is the heiress to the Oh Henry! candy bar fortune and was once outbid for a set of J.F.K.'s golf clubs.  FTP, name this former high school classmate of Elaine on several Seinfeld episodes, a woman who never wears a bra except as a top.  	Answer: Sue Ellen Mischke [mish-kee] (accept either name)18. In one of his novels Jim Ironheart utters the word "lifeline" before going off to save people based on premonitions.  In another novel Laura Shane's life is altered by time traveler Stefan, who must destroy a Nazi time machine.  Yet another work tells of Travis Connell, the super intelligent dog Einstein, and their attempt to escape "The Outsider." His book about the return of Hatch Harrison from the dead was adapted into a movie with Jeff Goldblum and Alicia Silverstone.  FTP, name this author of such best-selling yet crappy novels as Coldfire, Lightning, Watchers, and Hideaway and other works of science fiction and suspense. 	Answer: Dean R. Koontz
19. This band surpassed the 25 album barrier this century with such efforts as For the Love and Imagination.  They released a single as The Mascots before renaming themselves in favor of a Cleveland DJ who mentored them.  They finally hit the R&B charts with "I'll Be Sweeter Than Tomorrow" and continued to make the Top Ten with their next six albums, which included Survival and Ship Ahoy.  However, it was a track from 1972's Back Stabbers for which this Philadelphia soul group remains best-known.  That song is the subject of the final scene in Last Days of Disco and is the focus of a series of new Coors Light commercials.  FTP, name this group that created the optimistic anthem "Love Train" and definitely did not name themselves in honor of a great USC running back and buddy of Kato Kaelin.	Answer: The O'Jays20. Among the players they selected in their first draft were George Wilson, McCoy McLemore, and David Lattin.  Their trainer for their first 32 years was a man known league-wide as "Magic Fingers," Joe Proski.  The second season brought the arrival of center Neal Walk and forward Paul Silas.  Within a decade they had made their first trip to the finals, upsetting defending champion Golden State and taking the Celtics to six games.  Among those players in the team's Hall of Fame are inaugural team member Dick Van Arsdale, leading scorer Walter Davis, and point guard Kevin Johnson.  FTP, name this team which now features Joe Johnson, Shawn Marion, Amare Stoudemire, and Steve Nash.	Answer: Phoenix Suns (accept either)
Bonus Questions:1. The tenth anniversary of this album saw the release of a two CD set subtitled "L.A.'s Desert Origins," which added such extra tracks as "Flux = Rad" to the original.  FTPE:A.  Name this seminal 1994 album, whose numerous classic songs include "Silence Kit" and "Range Life."	Answer: Crooked Rain, Crooked RainB.  Crooked Rain, Crooked Rain is the masterpiece of this Stephen Malkmus-led group, whose other albums include Slanted and Enchanted and Terror Twilight.	Answer: PavementC.  The fourth track on Crooked Rain, Crooked Rain may be Pavement's most popular song, as it received some alternative radio airplay as the album's chief single.  Name that song, which begins with the adjuration "Darling don't you go and" perform the titular activity.	Answer: "Cut Your Hair"2. Name these Looney Tunes characters who appeared in numerous TV cartoons, FTP each:A. This loudmouthed Southern rooster would often begin his mini monologues with the words "I say" (ah SAY).	Answer: Foghorn LeghornB. Called the French Canadian Yosemite Sam, this fellow was an arch nemesis of Bugs, who tricked him in a card game and later prevented him from monopolizing a water supply with his dam.	Answer: Blacque Jacque ShellacqueC. Sylvester the "Gringo Pussygato" was the chief hunter of his fastest mouse in all of Mexico known for his cry of "Andale, Tim McElroy, Andale!"	Answer: Speedy Gonzalez3. Name these prolific shot blockers, FTP each:A. He tied David Robinson's NCAA single game record with 14 blocks for Brigham Young.  Now in his ninth year with the Dallas Mavericks, this 7'6" Mormon seems to be everyone's favorite dunk target.	Answer: Shawn BradleyB. A two-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year, this massive but incredibly slow white guy blocked a remarkable 5.56 shots per game in the 1984-85 season with his longtime team, the Jazz.	Answer: Mark EatonC. A block machine drafted by the Buffalo Braves in 1972, he owns the NBA's single game blocks record with 17, which he did for the Lakers in 1974.  He might be better known as the center included in the trade that brought Kareem from the Bucks to the Lakers.	Answer: Elmore Smith4. Like Jurassic Park and The Firm, many classics of 20th century literature have also become blockbuster films.  Name these lesser-known film adaptations of some inferior novels, FTPE:A.  Kris Kristofferson starred as the title character in this 1976 film version of a Japanese novel, which moves the location to Dover but otherwise remains faithful to the plot of the book, in which a boy seeks revenge against his mother's lover.	Answer: The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the SeaB.  Maximilian Schell played the protagonist in this 1968 adaptation of an unfinished German novel.  It also featured the lovely Cordula Trantow as Frieda.	Answer: The Castle or Das SchlossC.  This 2000 film, directed by Chantal Akerman, features Sylvie Testud as Ariane and Stanislas Merhar as Simon.  It's loosely based on the fifth part of Remembrance of Things Past.	Answer: La Captive or The Captive 5. Name the artists responsible for these minor hits of the 1980s, FTPE:A.  Their only #1 single, "I Just Died in Your Arms," may be more familiar to today's youth from its appearance on the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City soundtrack.	Answer: Cutting CrewB.  He was only 21 when his First Offense album appeared in 1983, which featured his mega-hit "Sunglasses at Night."	Answer: Corey HartC.  This British group was originally known as Art Nouveau, but changed to a name which was created by altering a phonetic transcription of baby talk.  Their hit "Too Shy" is deservedly remembered.	Answer: Kajagoogoo6. Name these worlds of the Star Wars universe, FTP each:A. This planet just south of the Rishi Maze is home to turbulent oceans and endless storms.  In Episode II we meet its prime minister Lama Su and learn of its chief export - clones.	Answer: KaminoB. This volcanic planet is the site of Darth Vader's murder of the Separatist Council and his climactic duel with Obi-Wan.	Answer: MustafarC. Home of the kath hound, this planet was also home to a Jedi enclave destroyed by Darth Malak.  Leia tries to fool Grand Moff Tarkin into believing the Rebel base was located on this planet.	Answer: Dantooine7. Name these African-American quarterbacks no longer in the NFL, FTP each:A. Although nine of his ten seasons were at receiver, he was best-known for starting as a rookie quarterback for the Broncos in 1968, making him the first African-American to start at the position in the modern era.	Answer: Marlin BriscoeB. Now an ordained Protestant minister, this running quarterback made his name playing for the Eagles between 1985 and 1995.  In his first year with the Vikings, in 1997, he led them to a late comeback against the Giants in the playoffs.	Answer: Randall CunninghamC. As of June 15th of this year, he is no longer in the league.  That's quite a comedown for a quarterback selected #3 out of Oregon behind only Tim Couch and Donovan McNabb in the 1999 draft.	Answer: Akili Smith (or Kabisa Akili Maradufu Smith)8. He was the bastard son of Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree, which makes him the bastard nephew of Max Beerbohm.  FTPE:A.  Name this director, whose early films include The Stars Look Down, Kipps, and The Young Mr. Pitt.	Answer: Sir Carol ReedB.  Carol Reed famously directed The Third Man, but Subash prefers his work on this 1959 film, in which Alec Guinness plays the titular operative and Burl Ives plays Dr. Hasselbacher.	Answer: Our Man in HavanaC.  This 1968 Carol Reed film was the last G-rated movie to win the Best Picture Oscar.	Answer: Oliver!9. His Opus 1 is a piano sonata in C major which was going to be used in the soundtrack for Twister before being dropped at the last minute.  FTPE:A.  Name this composer, whose Opus 9, Variations on a Theme of Robert Schumann, was used in the soundtracks of three different Wim Wenders films.	Answer: Johannes BrahmsB.  The Opus 24 of Brahms is a set of variations and fugue on a theme by this German composer, whose own Keyboard Suites are heard on the soundtrack of The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D.	Answer: George Friedrich HandelC.  More famous is Brahms's Opus 35, a set of variations on a theme by this composer which can be heard faintly in the background in one scene of the recent Cedric the Entertainer movie The Honeymooners.	Answer: Niccolo Paganini10. As you know, Andre Agassi lost in the first round of this year's French Open to the noted Finnish tennis star Jarkko Nieminen.  Answer these questions about Agassi's other embarrassing first-round losses, FTPE:A.  Before his recent fade, Agassi stunned many at this major in 1996, where he came in as the 3 seed and was quickly dispatched by Doug Flach, a qualifier who was ranked 281st in the world.	Answer: WimbledonB.  Agassi came into the 1993 U. S. Open as the 16 seed, but immediately lost to this Swede.  The following year, Agassi won the tournament.	Answer: Thomas EnqvistC.  This is the only one of the four majors which Agassi has never lost in the first round.  It's been his best tournament, as he's won four titles in his eight appearances.	Answer: the Australian Open11. Answer these questions about an old school R&B singer, FTP each:A. She had a #1 hit in 1974 with "Feel Like Makin' Love," the year after releasing her best known song, "Killing Me Softly With His Song," which was later popularized by a Fugees cover.	Answer: Roberta FlackB. Roberta Flack's last chart appearance was with 1991's "Set the Night to Music," a duet with this British reggae star whose biggest hit in America was the single "Close to You," off his 1990 album Bonafide.	Answer: Maxi PriestC. Flack's most successful duet, "Tonight I Celebrate My Love," was done in 1983 with this R&B singer, whose own ballads include "I'm So Into You" and "If Ever You're in My Arms Again."	Answer: Peabo Bryson 12. No trash tournament would be truly complete without a mention of the "Muscles from Brussels."  Name these films featuring the talents of Dick Cheney's favorite actor, FTP each:A. He may have learned to speak English from watching The Flintstones and been married five times, but Jean-Claude Van Damme is best-known for this biopic of Frank Dux, the first foreign winner of the Kumite [koo-mee-tay].	Answer: BloodsportB. Van Damme goes undercover in prison and takes on "The Sandman," the man who killed his partner, in this film's climactic fight.	Answer: Death WarrantC. Plausibility was challenged in this 1998 movie in which Rob Schneider is an undercover CIA agent and Van Damme is a Hong Kong fashion designer.	Answer: Knock Off  13.  If you're anything like Seth Teitler, you stayed up late on the night of May 17th to see how your favorite singers would do at the Academy of Country Music Awards.  Name these country stars who made Seth happy by cleaning up that fateful day FTPE:A.  This singer won the top single and best song awards for his "Live Like You Were Dying," which daringly advises his fans to live their lives to the fullest.	Answer: Tim McGrawB.  This diminutive newlywed won the Entertainer of the Year award, and performed his hit "Anything But Mine."	Answer: Kenny ChesneyC.  This best female vocalist winner was also the top new artist.  You might know her from her popular song about Selene Koo, "Redneck Woman."	Answer: Gretchen Wilson14. Name these Transformers who, much like Hamilton Fish, were more than meets the eye, FTP each:A. The 7th episode featured the introduction of this moronic trio.  Despite the intellectual failings of Grimlock, Slag, and Sludge, they eventually proved to be valuable Autobot allies.  Two members were added later.	Answer: DinobotsB. The miniseries "Five Faces of Darkness" concluded with this largest and most powerful of the Autobots defeating Trypticon.  He was the living core of Autobot City.	Answer: MetroplexC. This giant robot was the result of the six Constructicons merging together.  He was often taken on by Defensor, the robot created by the Protectobots going Voltron-style.	Answer: Devastator15. Name these works by Larry McMurtry, FTP each:A. McMurtry's latest effort, this work is a biography of Buffalo Bill and Annie Oakley that argues that they were the world's first superstars.	Answer: The Colonel and Little MissieB. This massive western soap opera uses a cattle drive from Texas to Canada as the canvas for a story that primarily revolves around Woodrow Call and Gus McCrae.  It won McMurtry a Pultizer in 1986.	Answer: Lonesome DoveC. This sequel to Lonesome Dove sees a now-truly-aged Woodrow Call take to the saddle once again to hunt down train robber and killer Joey Garza.	Answer: Streets of Laredo16. She has won four Primetime Emmy awards, one each for her work on Hill Street Blues, L. A. Law, Miss Evers' Boys, and The Practice.  FTPE:A.  Name this talented actress, who also appeared in The Core, K-PAX, and the greatest movie ever made about the author of The City in History: Mumford.	Answer: Alfre WoodardB.  It was possible to buy an Alfre Woodard action figure following the release of this 1996 film, in which she played Lily Sloane.  James Cromwell appeared in it as Zefrem Cochrane, the hard-drinking inventor of warp drive.	Answer: Star Trek: First Contact (prompt on partial title)C.  Woodard received an Oscar nomination for her work as Geechee in this 1983 film, which starred Mary Steenburgen as Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings.	Answer: Cross Creek17. On May 22 of this year, he injured himself in his hotel room when he scratched his eye on a feather protruding from his pillow.  FTPE:A.  Name this former Cub, a left-handed pitcher who missed several games due to the dangerous feather.	Answer: Terry MulhollandB.  Earlier in the month, this infielder, a teammate of Terry Mulholland, also hurt himself in his hotel room when he tore off a fingernail while changing the channel on the TV.	Answer: Jason BartlettC.  Both Mulholland and Jason Bartlett were members of this injury-prone AL Central team at the time of their injuries.	Answer: the Minnesota Twins (accept either)18. After this band broke up in the 1980s, guitarist Neil Schon formed Bad English.  FTPE:A.  Name this group, whose many power ballads include "Open Arms" and "Send Her My Love."	Answer: JourneyB.  The speaker of this Journey classic laments that someone is tearin' him apart every day, but derives spiteful satisfaction from the realization that someone else is tearin' his former girlfriend apart every day as well.	Answer: "Lovin', Touchin', Squeezin'"C.  This Journey song notes that "She loves to move / She loves to groove / She loves a lot of things."  It was heard during an inexplicable party which broke out at the end of a Simpsons episode featuring Rodney Dangerfield as Larry Burns.	Answer: "Any Way You Want It"19. Name these members of the Kansas City Chiefs Hall of Fame, FTP each:A. He was George Bush's 832nd point of light as well as the man who had a league record seven sacks in a 1990 game.  This linebacker died in 2000 after a car accident.	Answer: Derrick ThomasB. An alum of Rutgers, this free safety was elected to six straight Pro Bowls from 1983-88, five as a starter.  He was also one of the nine original owners of the Jacksonville Jaguars.	Answer: Deron CherryC. He won the AFL passing title four times and was MVP of Super Bowl IV.  He has more recently served as the longtime host of HBO's Inside the NFL.	Answer: Len Dawson20. Release your inner Dave Hamilton and answer these questions about the game of North American Euchre, FTP each:A. If trump is clubs, then this would be the second most powerful card in the 24 card deck.	Answer: jack of spades (prompt on "left bower" or "left jack")B. This rule variation states that the dealer must name a trump suit if it passed to him or her in the second round. 	Answer: screw the dealer or stick the dealerC. When playing by this rule, a player may exchange three of his cards for the three face down cards in the kitty if he or she has any combination of three nines or tens.	Answer: Farmer's Hand