1. Tossup Fine Arts
This musical includes The Telephone Song, I'd Give My Life For You, and The American Dream. The plot twists involve a marriage to Ellen and a baby named Tam, and the main characters are Chris, Kim, and The Engineer. It premiered in London in 1989 and is based on Madame Butterfly. Name this musical set at the end of the Vietnam War.

ANSWER: Miss Saigon

BONUS (Four Parts)
The phrase 'jukebox musical' is used to describe musicals whose soundtracks include songs that were already hits. They often are based on the work of a single artist or group, and they have become popular in recent years. Name these jukebox musicals:
A. This 2002 Twyla Tharp musical is based on music by Billy Joel
B. This 2001 Catherine Johnson musical is based on music by ABBA
C. This winner of several 2006 Tony Awards is based on Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons
D. This 1992 musical uses Gershwin music

A. Movin' Out     B. Mamma Mia!     C. Jersey Boys     D. Crazy For You

2. Tossup Science
It is usually about ten inches long and ends at the ligament of Treitz. Containing Brunner's glands, it is the location where the pancreatic duct provides assistance for digestion. Name this tube which comes before the jejunum and ileum in the small intestine.

ANSWER: Duodenum

BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer these questions about reptiles:
A. Which era is sometimes called the age of reptiles?
B. Which protein, sometimes contrasted with collagen, plays a major role in the scales of reptiles? Give the general name.
C. Give the common name for the type of reptile with the longest established lifespan. One of them is known to have lived to the age of 188. The answer is eight letters long.
D. Give the Latin name for any of the orders of modern reptiles

A. Mesozoic     B. Keratin     C. Tortoise
D. Chelonia, Crocodilia, Rhynchocephalia, Sphenodontia, Squamata, or Testudine






3. Tossup Math (Computational)
Give your answer in the form of a number times a trigonometric function, such as five times the secant of eighty-four degrees. What do you get when you divide the length of the side of a regular pentagon by the length of its apothem?

ANSWER: 2 Tangent 36 (or 2 Cotangent 54) (accept abbreviations)

BONUS (Five Parts)
Evaluate the following:
A. 'Cotangent Squared of Theta' minus 'Cosecant Squared of Theta'
B. 'Sine of Theta' times the 'Cosine of the Complement of Theta' plus 'Cosine of Theta' times the 'Sine of the Complement of Theta'
C. 'Sine of Theta' times the 'Cosine of the Supplement of Theta' plus 'Cosine of Theta' times the 'Sine of the Supplement of Theta'
D. 'Tangent of Theta' times 'Cosine of Theta' Divided by the quantity 'Secant of Theta' times 'Sine of Two Theta'
E. 'Sine of the Quantity Theta Plus Pi Over Two End Quantity' plus 'Cosine of the Quantity Theta Plus Pi End Quantity'

A. -1     B. 1     C. 0     D. 1/2 or .5     E. 0

4. Tossup Literature
Though told by an anonymous narrator, much of this story involves a character named Douglas reading from a manuscript. The manuscript features a boy named Miles and a girl named Flora who are taken care of by a twenty-year-old Governess. Name this ghost story from the 1890s written by Henry James.

ANSWER: (The) Turn of the Screw

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these characters from The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. First or last names are acceptable:
A. She owns Jim
B. The sister of Aunt Polly who is married to Silas.
C. A recently deceased man whose brothers are named Harvey and William
D. She figures out that Huck is a boy based on how he threads a needle

A. (Miss) Watson     B. Sally Phelps     C. Peter Wilks     D. Judith Loftus








5. Tossup Social Studies
During this man's Presidency, an explosion on the USS Princeton killed Secretary of the Navy Gilmer and Secretary of State Upshur. At the end of his Presidency, Florida became a state and Congress passed a resolution to annex Texas. Name this Virginian who became the first man to serve as President without being elected to the office. This Whig took office upon the death of William Henry Harrison.

ANSWER: (John) Tyler

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these former Governors of New York:
A. Governor from 1777-1795 and 1801-1804, he served as Vice President under Jefferson and Madison
B. Governor from 1795 to 1801, he negotiated a treaty with the British in 1794 and held a position now generally viewed as more important before becoming Governor
C. Governor for a few months in 1829, he resigned to become Andrew Jackson's Secretary of State
D. Named after Alexander Hamilton, he was Governor from 1849 to 1850 and later served as Grant's Secretary of State

A. (George) Clinton     B. (John) Jay     C. (Martin) Van Buren     D. (Hamilton) Fish

6. Tossup Miscellaneous
Two sequels about this character were written by Charles Tritten, she is the subject of a new musical in Europe, and she was once portrayed by Shirley Temple. She did not get along with Miss Rottenmeier, but at the same time she was able to help Clara Sesemann. Name this orphan from Switzerland created by Johanna Spyri.

ANSWER: Heidi

BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer the following questions about the recent Academy Award winning film The Departed:
A. It was based on what 2002 Hong Kong film? Give the English title.
B. What city does it take place in?
C. Who played Staff Sergeant Dignam? He was nominated for a Supporting Actor Oscar.
D. Who was originally offered the role of Dignam but turned it down because he was working on the TV show Rescue Me?

A. Infernal Affairs     B. Boston     C. (Mark) Wahlberg (prompt Marky Mark)
D. (Denis) Leary





7. Tossup Science
Often grouped with carbon dioxide and methane, humans account for over ten percent of the production of this gas. It affects the level of ozone in the atmosphere and absorbs infrared radiation, which is why it is considered a major greenhouse gas. It is created as a byproduct with some synthetic materials and is also a byproduct of fertilization. Name this gas that is also sometimes used by dentists.

ANSWER: Nitrous Oxide (accept Dinitrogen Oxide, Dinitrogen Monoxide, or N2O)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these optical properties of minerals:
A. Appearance of surface in reflected light
B. Color of the mineral's fine powder
C. Also known as play of color, this describes effect of light from different angles
D. Ability of mineral to emit light after exposure to it

A. Luster     B. Streak     C. Iridescence     D. Phosphorescence

8. Tossup Math (Computational)
Give your answer as a reduced fraction. Three random numbers are chosen. The first number is any one of the integers from one to four. The second number is any one of the integers from one to three. The third number is either one or two. Repeats are allowed. What is the probability that the sum of the three numbers is 8?

ANSWER: 1/8 (or .125)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Fifi's favorite videos are The Care Bears and My Little Pony. They are placed on a shelf with Fifi's other videos at random. Find the probability that those two videos are adjacent to each other if:
A. Fifi owns a total of three videos
B. Fifi owns a total of four videos
C. Fifi owns a total of five videos
D. Fifi owns a total of six videos

A. 2/3     B. 1/2     C. 2/5     D. 1/3

9. Tossup Literature
The first one is about a bad person who is sainted, the second is about a Jew who converts to Catholicism, the third is about a wise Jew who befriends Saladin, and many others follow. Before them is a Proem that begins: "Tis humane to have compassion on the afflicted." The frame story takes place in the hills overlooking Florence and involves three men and seven women. Name this Fourteenth Century work by Boccaccio.

ANSWER: (The) Decameron (Tales)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Name these characters from James Joyce's Ulysses. Give first and last names:
A. Main character in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and major character in Ulysses
B. Medical student mentioned in the first sentence of the novel
C. Main character in Ulysses though he does not appear in the first few chapters
D. The final chapter is told from this character's point of view

A. Stephen Dedalus (do not accept Stephen Hero)     B. Buck Mulligan
C. Leopold Bloom     D. Molly Bloom

10. Tossup Social Studies
This nation, consisting of a group of atolls, gained its independence from Britain in 1965. It has been ruled for a long time by President Gayyoom, who survived a coup attempt thanks to help from India. Name the least populous Islamic nation in the world, which is located in the Indian Ocean.

ANSWER: (The Republic of) Maldives

BONUS (Four Parts)
Given the name of a city more populous than Chicago, name the country it is in:
A. Nagoya
B. Jeddah
C. Chittagong
D. Busan

A. Japan     B. Saudi Arabia     C. Bangladesh     D. South Korea (accept Republic of Korea, prompt Korea, do not accept Democratic People's Republic of Korea)

11. Tossup Fine Arts
The name of this musical piece is based on the second beat of the sixteenth measure of its second movement. It is the 2nd of the 12 London symphonies and was first performed in 1792. Give the nickname of Symphony 94 by Joseph Haydn that contains a sudden loud chord.

ANSWER: Surprise (Symphony) (or Haydn Symphony 94 on early buzz)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these music terms
A. Name the clef whose center line is the B above middle C. It is very common.
B. Name the clef whose center line is middle C.
C. What is the British term for an eighth note? It begins with the letter Q.
D. What is the British term for a whole note?

A. Treble (or G) (Clef)     B. Alto (or Counter-Tenor) (Clef)
C. Quaver     D. Semibreve (do not accept Breve)
12. Tossup Science
Sometimes known as Laplace's Law, this law involves the integral of the cross product of a length of wire with a vector going to the location of the field divided by the distance between them cubed. This integral is multiplied by the current in the wire times a constant to get the strength of the magnetic field. Name this fundamental law of magnetism named after two 19th Century French physicists.

ANSWER: Biot-Savart (Law)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Find the centripetal accelerations for the following objects. Give your answers in meters per square second, and you do not need to say meters per square second:
A. Moving at 4 meters per second around a circle with a radius of 2 meters
B. Moving at 4 meters per second around a circle with a period of 2 seconds
C. Moving around a circle with a radius of 4 meters with a period of 2 seconds
D. Moving 2 meters per second in the direction of rotation and 2 meters per second outward from the center of the circle with a coriolis acceleration of 4 meters per square second

A. 8     B. 4 Pi     C. 4 Pi Squared     D. 2

13. Tossup Computer Science
Your answer should be a five-letter word. This programming language and server was developed by Vince Bonfanti and released by Blue World Communications. It was developed to handle FileMaker Pro databases. Name this application server whose name begins with the letter L.

ANSWER: Lasso

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these programming terms:
A. These can hold data and functions; they are used to group variables or build objects
B. These are similar to stacks but are used for permanent objects
C. This term is used for object initialization routines
D. This term refers to a variable that holds the address of another variable

A. Class(es)     B. Heap(s)     C. Constructor(s)     D. Pointer(s)

14. Tossup Language Arts
Give the term beginning with the letter D that describes a cedilla, caron, titlo, ogonek, macron, or circumflex. These are sometimes used with English words borrowed from other languages, though the current trend is not to even use them for those words. They are still used extensively in some languages, such as Croatian, Hungarian, and Polish. Name these marks often used to denote pronunciation.

ANSWER: Diacritic(al Mark)

BONUS (Five Parts)
Give these Yiddish words that can be found in English dictionaries:
A. This word for piece is used to refer to entertainment gimmicks
B. This word for small towns is usually associated with Eastern Europe
C. This insult beginning with the letter N refers to boring pests
D. This word for squeeze refers to rambling complaints
E. This word for expert was popularized by William Safire

A. Shtick     B. Shtetl     C. Nudnik     D. Kvetch (accept different forms)     E. Maven

15. Tossup Religion
Give the term beginning with the letter E that means thanksgiving in Greek. Several biblical verses are given as the justification for this practice, especially First Corinthians Chapter Eleven, Verses 24 and 25. These verses generally quote Jesus at the Last Supper. Name this rite, sometimes called the Divine Liturgy or Great Offering, associated with transubstantiation and communion.

ANSWER: Eucharist (accept other word forms)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer the following questions about The Book of Ruth:
A. Ruth's first husband dies. Who is Ruth's first mother-in-law?
B. What city is Ruth from? A city with the same name is near Arches National Park in Utah.
C. Who becomes Ruth's second husband?
D. Who was Ruth's great grandson? He became the King of Judah when Saul died.

A. Naomi     B. Moab     C. Boaz     D. David

16. Tossup Miscellaneous
He was an assistant coach at Tulsa, Wisconsin, Arizona State, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Ohio State before moving to the NFL. His wife is named MaryAnne, his three kids all have names that begin with the letter M, and his mother is blind. Name this man from Gladewater, Texas who is a long-time friend of Bob Babich. By a margin of three hours, he became the first African American head coach to win a Conference Championship game. He did so on January 21st, 2007.

ANSWER: (Lovie) Smith







BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer these questions about what the Bears have done since losing the Super Bowl:
A. Who did the Bears trade to the New York Jets while exchanging 2nd Round draft picks?
B. The Bears traded their sixth round pick to the Redskins for what former Saint Louis Rams safety?
C. The Bears signed which former 49er defensive tackle in free agency?
D. Which Bears wide receiver signed with the Tennessee Titans?
E. Which tight end did the Bears select in the first round of the draft?

A. (Thomas) Jones     B. (Adam) Archuleta     C. (Anthony) Adams
D. (Justin) Gage     E. (Greg) Olsen

17. Tossup Science
This procedure is named after the Belgian industrial scientist who developed it in the 1860s. Two of its basic ingredients are salt and limestone-the limestone is decomposed into calcium oxide and carbon dioxide. The other basic ingredient is coal, which is separated by distillation into coke, gas, coal tar, and ammonia. This process produces calcium chloride, baking soda, and, most importantly, soda ash.

ANSWER: Solvay (Process) (prompt Ammonia-Soda Process)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer these questions about spectroscopy:
A. Light wavelengths are often measured between 4000 and 7500 of what unit?
B. Name the scientist who has two laws of electric circuits and three laws of spectroscopy named after him.
C. Name the scientist who used an early spectroscope to discover cesium and rubidium. He is best known thanks to a gas control valve developed by one of his assistants.
D. Name the scientist who discovered a property of gamma rays which has been used in spectrometers for the past fifty years.

A. Angstrom(s)     B. (Gustav) Kirchhoff
C. (Robert) Bunsen     D. (Rudolph) Mossbauer

18. Tossup Math (Computational)
Find the height, measured from the center of one side to the center of the opposite side, of a regular dodecagon with each side of length one unit.

ANSWER: 2 + Root 3 (Units)






BONUS (Four Parts)
Find the lengths of the following diagonals. Ignore units:
A. The length of a diagonal of a square with an area of 50
B. The length of the shorter diagonal of a rhombus with a larger diagonal of 10 and an area of 20
C. The length of the longer diagonal of a parallelogram with sides of length 1 and 2 and an interior angle of 60 degrees
D. The longest diagonal in a hexagonal prism in which all the edges are of length 1

A. 10     B. 4     C. Square Root of 7     D. Square Root of 5

19. Tossup Literature
This Shakespeare character tells his wife: "When I told you My state was nothing, I should then have told you That I was worse than nothing." His wife pretends to get upset at him for giving his wedding ring to a lawyer, but the lawyer was actually his wife in disguise. Name this young man who borrows money from Antonio in The Merchant of Venice.

ANSWER: Bassanio

BONUS (Four Parts)
Given some Dukes, name the Shakespeare play they appear in:
A. The Dukes of Albany and Cornwall, whose wives are sisters
B. Duke Senior and Duke Frederick, who are brothers
C-D. Name any two of the four plays containing the Duke of York. Do not include Parts with the same name as separate choices.

A. (King) Lear     B. As You Like It     C. Henry V, Henry VI, Richard II, Richard III

20. Tossup Social Studies
Named after somebody who lived from 1851 to 1902, it was run until recently by George Weightman. Weightman was fired March 1st and replaced by Major General Eric Schoomaker. These changes came about because of reporting in the Washington Post by Dana Priest and Anne Hull complaining of a lack of security, a lack of heat, and excessive amounts of mold. Name this Army Medical Center in Washington, DC.

ANSWER: Walter Reed (Army Medical Center) (prompt Reed)









BONUS (Four Parts)
Given the name of a former member of President Bush's Cabinet, name the current member. For example, if I said Colin Powell, you would say Condoleeza Rice.
A. Donald Rumsfeld
B. Rod Paige
C. Paul O'Neill and John Snow
D. John Ashcroft

A. (Robert) Gates     B. (Margaret) Spellings
C. (Henry) Paulson     D. (Alberto) Gonzales

21. Tossup Fine Arts
The painter of this picture said, "It speaks of manual labor, and how they have honestly earned their food." It has an overhead lamp, but it is very dark. There are five people seated around a table, including one viewed from behind and one pouring tea. In the left half of the picture, two peasants are dividing up the food that is mentioned in the title. Name this work by Vincent van Gogh.

ANSWER: (The) Potato Eaters

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these Baroque painters:
A. He completed two picture involving Saint Matthew in 1600 for a church in Rome
B. He completed Massacre of the Innocents in 1611 and The Descent from the Cross a few years later
C. He completed a painting sometimes called Night Watch and about one hundred self-portraits
D. This extended family included many painters, including Annibale, Agostino, Lodovico, and Francesco

A. (Michelangelo Merisi da) Caravaggio (do not accept Michelangelo)
B. (Peter Paul) Rubens     C. Rembrandt (Harmenszoon van Rijn)     D. Carracci

22. Tossup Science
The first one of these chemicals studied was Bombykol in the late 1950s, which is used by silkworms. Nasonov, which attracts bees, is another example, and ants use them to form trails. It is believed that humans use them, but it is still a controversial subject involving a lot of false advertising. Name these hormones that transmit messages from one organism to another. 

ANSWER: Pheromone(s)





BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer the following questions about disaccharides:
A. Disccharides are formed by the combination of two monosaccharides and the loss of one molecule of what substance?
B. Give the seven-letter name for the most common example of a disaccharide. It is also known as table sugar or cane sugar.
C. Name the two monosaccharides combined to form the disaccharide in Part B.
D. Give the seven-letter name for the disaccharide associated with germinated barley.

A. Water (accept chemical equivalents)     B. Sucrose     C. Glucose and Fructose
D. Maltose

23. Tossup Math (Computational)
Bill has exactly ten coins worth exactly fifty cents. All of the coins he has are standard American coins. What is the largest possible number of dimes that Bill can have?

ANSWER: 4

BONUS (Four Parts)
Each of the following rational functions has one hole. Find the x- and y-coordinates of each hole:
A. y = (x2+4x+3) / (x+3)
B. y = (x2+8x+15) / (x2+7x+10)
C. y = (x3+8x2+12x) / (x3+3x2+3x+2)
D. y = (x3-3x2+3x-1) / (x3-x2)

A. (-3,-2)     B. (-5,2/3)     C. (-2,-8/3)     D. (1,0)
(Note: -2 2/3 is equivalent to -8/3)

24. Tossup Literature
The area surrounding this building creates a sense described as the light of setting suns, and the round ocean and the living air, and the blue sky, and in the mind of man. These lines are written by a poet who visits the building after a five year absence. The building was abandoned in 1536, and the poem was written on July 13, 1798. Identify this religious location by the Wye River written about by William Wordsworth.

ANSWER: Tintern Abbey









BONUS (Five Parts)
Given the name of a work of satire, name the writer:
A. The Rape of the Lock
B. Hudibras
C. Absalom and Achitophel
D. The True-Born Englishman
E. A Modest Proposal

A. (Alexander) Pope     B. (Samuel) Butler     C. (John) Dryden
D. (Daniel) Defoe     E. (Jonathan) Swift

25. Tossup Social Studies
This period lasted fifteen years, and its end is now celebrated as Unity Day on November 4th. It began when the national leader died and was replaced by his brother-in-law, and it ended due to uprisings under Kuzma Minin and Prince Pozharsky. It included the rule of a man who falsely claimed to be Dimitri, the youngest son of a previous ruler. Name this period that started with the rule of Boris Godunov lasting from 1598 to 1613 in Russia.

ANSWER: (The) Time of Troubles (or Smutnoye Vremya)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Given the name of a King or Queen, state the year ending in 00 when he or she was on the throne. For example, you would say 1900 for Queen Victoria.
A. Peter The Great Romanov
B. Maximilian I Habsburg
C. Francis Joseph Austrian Habsburg
D. William III Stuart

A. 1700     B. 1500     C. 1900     D. 1700

26. Tossup Fine Arts
This complex has included buildings for Sinclair Oil, Eastern Airlines, Simon & Schuster, and Lehman Brothers. It has a famous plaza in the center that contains a statue of Prometheus, and it also includes Garden Park and McGraw-Hill Park. This group of nineteen buildings was constructed during the 1930s in Midtown Manhattan. Name this landmark containing the GE Building named after a very wealthy American family.

ANSWER: Rockefeller (Center)








BONUS (Four Parts)
UNESCO makes a list of sites that are important to the world's culture. Name these UNESCO World Heritage sites or their designers in the United States:
A. The only site in Illinois, it is not in Chicago
B. The only site in New York, it is on a small island
C. This building is the only site in Pennsylvania
D. Name the person who designed both sites in Virginia

A. Cahokia Mounds (prompt Cahokia)
B. Statue of Liberty (or Liberty Enlightening the World)
C. Independence Hall     D. (Thomas) Jefferson

27. Tossup Science
This hyphenated phrase is used to classify Scattered disc objects, Cubewanos, and Oort Cloud objects. It includes the dwarf planets Eris and Pluto, the latter of which is in the Kuiper Belt. Give this phrase defined as objects in our solar system beyond the eighth planet.

ANSWER: Trans-Neptunian (Objects) (accept different forms of the word)

BONUS (Five Parts)
Identify these moons:
A. The innermost of the Galilean moons, its surface shows very little impact craters
B. This Galilean moon has the strongest magnetic field of all moons in the solar system
C. This is by far the largest moon of Neptune
D. Name either one of the two moons first discovered around Uranus. They are named after the King and Queen of the fairies from A Midsummer Night's Dream.
E. Scientists believe this moon of Saturn has the densest atmosphere of all the moons in our solar system

A. Io     B. Ganymede     C. Triton     D. Titania or Oberon     E. Titan

28. Tossup Math (Computational)
If the integral from zero to k of f of x dx is sixteen, what is the integral from zero to four k of four times f of the quantity x over 4 dx?

ANSWER: 256

BONUS (Four Parts)
Evaluate the following integrals. Answers must be fully simplified:
A. The integral from zero to pi over three of tangent x dx
B. The integral from zero to pi of secant x dx
C. The integral from pi over four to pi over three of tangent x secant x dx
D. The integral from zero to pi over four of secant squared x dx

A. Natural Log (of) 2 (or LN 2)     B. 0     C. 2 - Root 2     D. 1

29. Tossup Literature
This name is given to two different works, one probably composed during the 10th Century and the other during the 13th Century. One of the stories in these collections is The Lay of Thrym, in which a God disguised as a bride eats an entire ox. Name these Icelandic works that contain Norse mythology.

ANSWER: Edda(s)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Answer the following about Electra:
A. Electra appears in which trilogy by Aeschylus named after her brother?
B. Name both of Electra's parents; her father was a Greek Commander.
C. Which friend of Electra's brother became, according to some stories, her husband?
D. A different Electra appeared in Greek mythology who was one of the seven daughters of Atlas. What was the collective name for these women-it is also used for a well-known star cluster?

A. (The) Oresteia     B. Agamemnon & Clytemnestra     C. Pylades     D. Pleiades

30. Tossup Social Studies
One of the major people in this 2005 book is Edward Bates, who was from Missouri. Several members of the Blair family also play major roles, as do Salmon Chase and William Seward. Name this work of popular history about the first Republican Administration written by Doris Kearns Goodwin.
 
ANSWER: Team of Rivals(: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln)

BONUS (Four Parts)
Identify these people who have written books about the Civil War:
A. This poet followed up Abraham Lincoln: The Prairie Years with Abraham Lincoln: The War Years
B. This writer, who died in 1978, wrote many books about The Civil War, including Stillness at Appomattox
C. In 1992, this Northwestern professor wrote Lincoln at Gettysburg
D. This author and historian, who died in 2005, wrote a 3000 page book titled Civil War: A Narrative

A. (Carl) Sandburg     B. (Bruce) Catton     C. (Garry) Wills     D. (Shelby) Foote

Extra Tossup:
Ignore air resistance, include units in your answer, and let g=9.8 meters per square second. How high in the air will an object get if it is tossed up from ground level with an initial speed of 98 meters per second?

490 Meters

He met his wife, Duchess Sophia Charlotte, on their wedding day, and they eventually had fifteen children. The Prime Ministers who served during his reign included The Earl of Bute, George Grenville, and a father and son named William Pitt. He ruled for almost sixty years, though near the end he supposedly could not differentiate between a tree and the King of Prussia. Name this King of England during the American Revolution. 

(King) George III (or George William Frederick)
