Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Tossups by Columbia (Grace Chan, Leebyn Chong, Jason Pflueger, Brendan Price, Noam Prywes, Goda Thangada, Meixin Wang, Lok-Kin Yeung)

1. John Heathcoat and Charles Lacy were among the men targeted by this group, whose members were executed at the York Assizes. Originating in Nottingham, they dubbed themselves the "Army of Redressers," and George IV put up a fifty-pound reward for information about this group. Stanley Perceval mandated the death penalty for "frame breaking," targeted this movement, which followed a mythical King Ned. For 10 points, identify these workers who perceived a threat to their jobs from automated textile equipment, and whose name is used today as a pejorative for opponents of technological progress. 
ANSWER: Luddites

2. The preface is relayed by man who entrusts the narrator with records labeled "For Madmen Only." The protagonist is suffering from "the sickness of the times themselves" and meets a drug-dealing saxophonist, who would rather listen to Mozart. The title character takes foxtrot lessons and picks up Maria. Later, the sentence of "eternal life" is handed down after an incident in a hall of mirrors, where Pablo's lover Hermine is stabbed by the title character. For 10 points, name this novel about Harry Haller, written by Herman Hesse. 
ANSWER: Steppenwolf

3. His time in his highest post was interrupted for four years by the man who led the Soviet occupation of Latvia, Andrey Vyshinsky, and he gained that post because of the Jewish background of his predecessor, Maxim Litvinov. Following his inclusion in the "Anti-Party Group," he became a delegate to the International Atomic Energy Agency and ambassador to Mongolia. He took a pseudonym meaning "hammer," which lent its name to Finnish soldiers' anti-tank weapons. For 10 points, name this longtime Soviet foreign minister, who signed a pact with Joachim von Ribbentrop in 1939. 
ANSWER: Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov [or Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Skryabin]

4. One of her works concludes with Erminia's love for Philander being revealed. Another of her plays was based on Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso; that play follows a woman who has been alloted a period of hedonism before being put into a convent by her brother, as well as a ship's captain who is visiting a carnival. Hellena and Willmore fall for each other in that play, and this author also wrote a novel in which the King of Coromantien's desire for Imoinda leads the title character to become a slave in Suriname. For 10 points, name this author of The Forced Marriage, The Rover, and Oronooko. 
ANSWER: Aphra Behn

5. Carl Boggs slammed this book as a "political fantasy" written to make its author a celebrity, and alleges that it ignores the rise of gangs, self-help groups, institutionally connected environmentalists, and other institutions which the author dismisses as "countertrends." First published in the Journal of Democracy in 1995, it was expanded into a book subtitled "The Collapse and Revival of American Community," which claims that the civic institutions praised by Tocqueville are in decline.  For 10 points, identify this Robert Putnam work which analyzes the "radical privatization" and "individualization" of leisure time in America. 
ANSWER: Bowling Alone

6. A scoutmaster with the unlikely name Murray McMurray was the subject of his book For God and Country, one of many of his works turned into films; others include the novel Long Remember. Despite the failure of his first novel, Diversey, he went on to write a verse novel about the adjustment of World War II veterans to civilian life, Glory For Me. The characters of "Rebel" and "Yankee" make up another of his works, set in Georgia at an infamous Confederate POW camp. For 10 points, name this author of Andersonville. 
ANSWER: MacKinlay Kantor


7. In his last term in the House of Representatives, he helped draft William McKinley's Tariff Act of 1890. As state governor, he sent agents to read off the results of roll-call votes in the home districts of nay-voting legislators, and he formulated an "idea" named for his state, in which university professors played a large role in writing bills and filling regulatory positions. The "laboratory for democracy" that he produced propelled him to join Burton Wheeler on a third-party presidential ticket which took seventeen percent of the vote in 1924. For 10 points, name this Wisconsin politician and face of the Progressive Party. 
ANSWER: Robert Marion La Follette

8. Beginning at San Francisco's Blackhawk nightclub, their first album was the product of a collegiate tour and was entitled Jazz at Oberlin. Its leader was taught composition by Darius Milhaud, and this group recorded the first jazz instrumental to sell over a million copies, a song often performed in the manner of Haydn's Farewell Symphony and written by saxophonist Paul Desmond. For 10 points, name this jazz group which also included Eugene Wright and Joe Morello, known for playing in unusual time signatures and for such songs as "Three to Get Ready," "Blue Rondo a la Turk," and "Take Five." 
ANSWER: Dave Brubeck Quartet

9. In the original game of this series, one could increase contenment by building Bach's Cathedral, and the Great Lighthouse ended the threat of lost triremes. The second game resolved the problem of powerful phalanxes that could defeat battleships, and the third incarnation introduced the idea of cultural borders, while the fourth allowed the player to found and spread religions. In the first two games, victory was achieved by conquering all the other computer players, or by sending a spaceship to Alpha Centauri. For 10 points, name this turn-based strategy game series created by Sid Meier and now made by Firaxis. 
ANSWER: Civilization

10. One of this deity's assistants was known as the "Lord of the Massacre" and was a lion-headed man who used his knife to fix those who displeased this goddess-fix them good. The glyph for her name is commonly seen as a platform on which Ptah stands. Appearing as a winged woman wearing a crown, she served her most important function in the Hall of the Two Truths, where she uses a feather to condemn souls either to Ammit or the Fields of Peace, depending on how much the heart weighs. For 10 points, name this Egyptian goddess of law and justice. 
ANSWER: Ma'at

11. The Duhem-Madelung model for it does not give a unique response for a given input and the Preisach model is considered the best. This property's namesake coefficient is found in Steinmetz's equation that measures loss of energy. If its namesake effect is small, the remnant field is nearly zero and Barkhausen pattern reproducibility depends on the size of its namesake loop, which is found on a graph plotting magnetic induction and magnetic field. A hard disk device takes advantage of this it, which often occurs in ferromagnetic materials.  For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which a body lags in response to changes.  
ANSWER: hysteresis

12. In a novel by this author, Hippolyte attempts to remake his life after his dreams. During the siege of Sarajevo, this author directed a 1993 production of Waiting for Godot in the city, and she also directed the Swedish films Brother Carl and Duet for Cannibals. Betsy, Lewis, and Kate respond to the AIDS diagnosis of their friend Max in her story "The Way We Live Now," and she also addressed AIDS in a work criticizing the militant language used to discuss disease. She also advocated experience over analysis in approaching art. For 10 points, name this author of Illness as Metaphor and Against Interpretation. 
ANSWER: Susan Sontag

13. This group uses the tifinagh system of writing and was once called the Maxyes. The Kabyle and Chleuh belong to this group. A southern subgroup of this people is often called the "blue men of the desert" for their face-covering veils. Shluh, Zenaga, and Numidian are among the languages in their namesake branch of the Afro-Asiatic family. Also including the Tuaregs, this group uses the ja'amah as its basic unit of governance, and is found in Tunisia, Libya, Morocco, and Algeria. For 10 points, name this North African ethnic group that gives its name to the Barbary Coast. 
ANSWER: Berbers [or Imazighen] 

14. This state's "defeat" at the casualty-free Battle of the Ugra saw it lose control of some territory, and its leader Mamai was earlier defeated at "Snipes Field" by a man named for a river. Its de facto leader Edigü  ended a plot by one of its deposed rulers to ally with Vytautus and seize its throne again. Economically centered at Bolgary, its cities also included the capital Sarai. Responsible for the 1240 burning of Kiev, this state was founded by Batu, and exercized suzerainty over Russia for several centuries. For 10 points, identify this Mongol polity, whose common name comes from the color of Batu's tents. 
ANSWER: the Golden Horde [or Kipchak Khanate]

15. A quadruple one was written by Alan Hovhanness, while the first one to appear on a film soundtrack was in Virgil Thomson's score for Louisana Story. The "school" variety is seen in Ravel's Tomb of Couperin, and Arthur Honneger revised part of "Amphion" into a work entitled "prelude, this, and postlude for orchestra." Beethoven's Great one and Shostakovich's twenty-four preludes and these are other examples of this form, which begins with an exposition involving an instrument playing the subject and other voices repeating. For 10 points, name this musical form seen in Bach's "Well-Tempered Clavier." 
ANSWER: fugue

16. The Shafiites support the total precedence of these, while the Malikiyah believe that r'ay and qiyas are of equal importance to them. Some of them are collected in the Book of Good Qualities. Each is composed of a matn and an isnad, the latter of which can be considered either sound, good, or weak. Deriving their name from the word for "news" or "story," they are sometimes ranked based on the quality of their chain of tranmission, with Shiites only accepting those passed down by relatives of Muhammad. For 10 points, name this extra-Quranical sayings of Muhammad, a supplementary source of Islamic law. 
ANSWER: hadith

17. When the dot product is taken between this and any unit vector, the directional derivative is obtained. Line integrals through it are path independent, as shown by its namesake theorem, which is also known as the fundamental theorem of calculus for line integrals.  The tangent plane to any level surface is defined with this as the normal vector. The maximum value of the directional derivative at a point is its magnitude and is in the same direction as its vector. For 10 points, name this vector field denoted by nabla f and defined as the vector field whose components are the partial derivatives of f. 
ANSWER: Gradient

18. Czyz developed a replacement for it to be used in marine environments. Developed by its namesake along with Frank Lee and William Durston, it requires mutations in the excision repair system and lipopolysaccharide synthesis, the latter of which makes the cell wall more permeable. A mammalian liver extra is often used in this mutational reversion assay that employs several strains of Salmonella typhimurium, each of which has a different mutation in the operon responsible for histidine. For 10 points, name this test used to detect carcinogens. 
ANSWER: Ames test

19. At the end of this work, one character recites the couplet "I lost my way in the hills, having taken a road/That would lead, I hope, to a teacher of the Law" in the section entitled "The Floating Bridge of Dreams." It begins with the story of the title character's birth to a concubine whose nobility is questionable. The title character is exiled to Suma for fooling around with his half-brother's concubine. There, he finds a beautiful ten year-old girl who he kidnaps and trains as his ideal woman. For 10 points, name this eleventh-century novel by Mursaki Shikibu. 
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji [or Genji Monogatari]

20. In one of his later paintings, a woman in a black dress is reading a magazine while a younger woman in a bikini sits on the side of a porch, and the right side is dominated by blurry trees. In another paintings, yellow and black shades interrupt the red painting of the exterior wall in his depiction of a deserted city block with a fire hydrant on the left and a barber's pole on the right. In addition to Second Story Sunlight and Early Sunday Morning, he showed two large percolators one one side of a triangular wooden counter, behind which a white-hatted man serves three patrons. For 10 points, name this painter of Nighthawks. 
ANSWER: Edward Hopper


Tiebreaker Tossups

21. A proton-ionizable group is found in the "lariat" form of these compounds, which are NOT cleaved into carboxylic acids during a positive result in the Zeisel method. Lithium-containing compounds are used to transform them in the 1,2-Wittig rearrangement, and they easily undergo oxidation to form peroxides. An acid catalyst and two primary alcohols are needed in a condensation reaction to create these compounds while the most famous way to produce them involves nucleophilic substitution of an alkyl halide by an alkoxide. For 10 points, name this class of molecules with formula R-O-R that are produced in a reaction named for Williamson. 
ANSWER: ethers

22. They were originally led by the strategoi, but the attempt to rely on these structures ultimately failed and was replaced by the use of the Varangian Guard and other mercenaries. Formally created by Constans II, they included a confusingly named "Thracian" one that was not in Thrace, as well as the Carabisiani and  Anatolikon. Used to encourage the spreading of soldiers to farms throughout the empire as a bulwark against Muslim expansion, the eventual substitution of taxes for military service led to their devolution into feudal units. For 10 points, name these military districts of the Byzantine empire. 
ANSWER: themes [or tagmata]


Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Bonuses by Columbia (Grace Chan, Leebyn Chong, Jason Pflueger, Brendan Price, Noam Prywes, Goda Thangada, Meixin Wang, Lok-Kin Yeung)

1 Identify the following from economics, for 10 points each. 
[10] This public policy essentially acts as a Pigouvian tax that corrects the negative externalities associated with driving. It has been implemented in London and Stockholm, and New York may soon follow. 
ANSWER: Congestion pricing [or congestion charging; or congestion taxing]. 
[10] This branch of economics studies first-price and second-price forms of the eponymous pricing regimen. A major result was the revenue-equivalence theorem. 
ANSWER: Auction theory [or auctions] 
[10] Congestion pricing and the revenue-equivalence theorem were both contributions of this Columbia University economist. 
ANSWER: William Vickrey

2. It was written by a man who also published the Political Register and used the pseudonym "Peter Porcupine." For 10 points each:  
[10] Name this 1830 examination of the English countryside, written after a tour by William Cobbett, which is critical of the effects of the Industrial Revolution.  
ANSWER: Rural Rides  
[10] Cobbett was one of the more radical legislators elected to Parliament after the elimination of rotten boroughs and other changes put into place by this enfranchising act pushed through by Earl Grey.  
ANSWER: Great Reform Bill [or First Reform Bill or Reform Bill of 1832; prompt on Reform Bill]  
[10] Cobbett was a longtime foe of this man, the secretary of war under Canning and prime minister for the last half of 1827. Cobbett nicknamed him Prosperity Robinson and Goody Goderich  
ANSWER: Frederick John Robinson, 1st Earl of Ripon, Viscount Goderich Of Nocton [accept Robinson] 

3. Identify these paintings inspired by mythology, for 10 points each.  
[10] Both Rubens and Goya notably painted this subject in identically titled works. The paintings show a gruesome image of the title deity performing this action out of fear that his offspring would one day overthrow him.
ANSWER: "Saturn Devouring His Son" 
[10] This painting, long attributed to Pieter Bruegel the Elder, shows a ploughman, shepherd and angler going about their daily routine while the unobserved death of the title character occurs in the bottom right of the painting.  
ANSWER: "Landscape with the Fall of Icarus" 
[10] His only surviving work on a mythological subject, this El Greco painting depicts the punishment of the title priest for his attempt to warn his fellow Trojans of the wooden horse.  
ANSWER: "Laocoön"

4. Identify these Robert Frost poems, for 10 points each. 
[10] This prepositionally titled poem says, "The buzz-saw snarled and rattled in the yard / And made dust and dropped stove-length sticks of wood / And they, since they / Were not the one dead, turned to their affairs."
ANSWER: "Out, Out-" 
[10] This poem includes the line "I am overtired / Of the great harvest I myself desired. /My long two-pointed ladder's sticking through a tree / Toward heaven still."
ANSWER: "After Apple Picking" 
[10] This often-mistitled poem says "He gives his harness bells a shake / To ask if there is some mistake. /But I have promises to keep / And miles to go before I sleep."
ANSWER: "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening"


5. Identify these Canterbury Tales, for 10 points each. 
[10] The protagonist in this tale, a knight, is sent on a quest to find out what women really want more than anything else. He learns that it is "to have the sovereignty as well upon their husband as their love."
ANSWER: The Wife of Bath's Tale 
[10] Seeking vengeance against Death but finding treasure instead, three friends end up poisoning each other for a larger share of the gold in this tale, which warns that "avarice is the root of all evil." 
ANSWER: The Pardoner's Tale 
[10] This tale, an animal fable, warns against flattery through the story of the rooster Chanticleer who falls prey to the charm of a fox, though he manages to escape. 
ANSWER: The Nun Priest's Tale

6. Name these relatives of the title characters from Friends, for 10 points each. 
[10] Played by Reese Witherspoon, this sister of Rachel visited in the sixth season. Later, she is said to have gotten fat, because "carbs got her" while on the Atkins diet. 
ANSWER: Jill Green 
[10] Played by Morgan Fairchild, she is Chandler's romance-novel writing mother who embarrasses him on national television. 
ANSWER: Nora Bing 
[10] Played by Denise Richards, she is Monica and Ross' attractive cousin who has a hypnotising effect on men and Phoebe. 
ANSWER: Cassie Geller

7. Answer these questions on Arthurian legend for 10 points each. 
[10] Its guardian is the wounded Fisher King, who is neither living nor dead. The recovery of him and his kingdom depends on the successful completion of the quest for this, which has been seen only by Sir Galahad and Percival. 
ANSWER: the Holy Grail [or Sangreal] 
[10] Sometimes identified with Glastonbury, King Arthur is taken to this island when he dies. 
ANSWER: Avalon 
[10] This knight is with King Arthur when he is dying, and returns Excalibur to the Lady of the Lake. 
ANSWER: Sir Bedivere [also accept Bedwyr, Bedevere, or Bédoier]

8. Its invention may have been facilitated by Kary Mullis' use of LSD. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this in vitro method of amplifying DNA that often uses Taq polymerase.  
ANSWER: Polymerase Chain Reaction 
[10] For PCR, these short nucleic-acid segments should start and end with one or two GC pairs. Also, they should be checked for similarities with repetitive sequences using the BLAST program. 
ANSWER: primers 
[10] The heat pumps used in PCR often make use of this effect, named for a French scientist. In it, electric current is reversed in order to switch from heating up to cooling down. 
ANSWER: Jean Charles Athanase Peltier

9. Identify the following about methods for measuring stellar distances, for 10 points each. 
[10] This first method used to measure stellar distances fails at over 200 light years because the angle subtended is too small. 
ANSWER: parallax 
[10] This mission by the European Space Agency in 1989 measured stellar parallax and the motions of stars, cataloguing over 100,000 stars with an accuracy of 1 milliarcsec. 
ANSWER: Hipparcos [or High Precision Parallax Collecting Satellite] 
[10] The Hipparcos probably messed up in saying this open star cluster located in the constellation of Taurus is only 380 light years away. Its brightest stars include Alcyone, Atlas, and Electra. 
ANSWER: Pleiades [accept M45; or Seven Sisters; or Subaru]


10. Answer these questions about the Zulu empire, for 10 points each. 
[10] Name the founder of the Zulu empire who executed 7000 people in honor of his mother.  
ANSWER: Shaka 
[10] The 104 British soldiers at this missionary station held out against 4000 Zulu soldiers during the Anglo-Zulu War.  
ANSWER: Rorke's Drift 
[10] After the Bambatha rebellion, this Indian lawyer encouraged the British to give military training to Indians in South Africa for defense against the Zulus.  
ANSWER: Mohandas K. Gandhi 

11. His namesake cycle operates in large steam-based power plants. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this Scottish scientist who is also the namesake of an absolute temperature scale in which zero corresponds to 459.7 degrees Fahrenheit. 
ANSWER: William John Macquorn Rankine 
[10] Rankine along with this Frenchman formulated an equation to govern shock waves and give the jump conditions across a magneto-hydrodynamic discontinuity. 
ANSWER: Pierre Henri Hugoniot 
[10] A shock wave can be generated when an aircraft exceeds a value of one for this Austrian's namesake number, which is equal to the ratio of an object's velocity to the sound's velocity in a medium. 
ANSWER: Ernst Mach 

12. Answer these questions concerning a famous detective novel, for 10 points each. 
[10] This character is the protagonist and is the original "hard-boiled" detective, the basis for other characters such as Philip Marlowe. His features are described as "V-shaped," and his partner is Miles Archer. 
ANSWER: Sam Spade 
[10] Name the novel in which Sam Spade appears. 
ANSWER: The Maltese Falcon 
[10] This woman hires Sam Spade to locate her missing sister, which is a cover-up for her real reasons. 
ANSWER: Brigid O'Shaughnessy [or Ruth Wonderly; accept either or both names in either version]

13. Random stuff from organic chemistry, for 10 points each. 
[10] According to this rule, the major product of an elimination reaction is the more stable alkene. Don't be foolish like Nathan James (the pride of Furman!) and confuse it with Markovnikov's rule. 
ANSWER: Zaitsev's rule (accept the other million ways to spell it) 
[10] Developed by Perdue's Herbert Brown, this two step reaction first uses BH3 in tetrahydrofuran to create a pi complex intermediate and then hydrogen peroxide to give an anti-Markovnikov alcohol.  
ANSWER: hydroboration-oxidation reaction 
[10] Another way to add an OH group to an alkene is by using MCPBA to form one of these compounds, then cleaving it. The Johnson-Corey-Chaykovsky reaction, along with the Darzens reaction, makes them. 
ANSWER: epoxide [if you loooove epoxides, check out page 828 of the July 2002 issue of JCE] 

14. Answer these questions about one of the satellites of the Soviet Union, for 10 points each. 
[10] Before it split into two countries in 1993, this Eastern European country attempted to reform its repressing policies in 1968 under Alexander Dub?ek. 
ANSWER: Czechoslovakia [or ?eskoslovensko] 
[10] Name that 1968 attempt at political liberalization, which was referred to as "Socialism with a human face." 
ANSWER: the Prague Spring 
[10] After the Prague Spring was crushed, Dub?ek was replaced as the head of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia by this Slovak politican. 
ANSWER: Gustáv Husák


15. Identify the following from Russian history, for the stated number of points. 
[10] For 10 points, he served as emperor of Russia from 1801 to 1825. Although he began his reign with liberal sympathies, he became increasingly conservative after Napoleon's failed invasion of Russia. 
ANSWER: Emperor Alexander I [prompt on Alexander] 
[10] For 10 points, upon Napoleon's ultimate defeat in 1815, Alexander was instrumental in the creation of this pact among Russia, Prussia, and Austria. 
ANSWER: The Holy Alliance
[5/5] For five points each, identify Alexander's two brothers, one his successor as emperor, the other a grand duke who ruled Poland in Alexander's stead. 
ANSWER: Emperor Nicholas I [prompt on Nicholas] and Grand Duke Constantine

16. Answer these questions on Scottish poets who didn't always write in English, for 10 points each.  
[10] Scots annually honor this poet on January 25 with a feast of haggis and a recitation of his "Ode tae a haggis".  
ANSWER: Robert Burns 
[10] James Macpherson "translated" this poet who was said to have composed epics in ancient Scots Gaelic. 
ANSWER: Ossian 
[10] Known as the Ettrick Shepherd, this self-educated poet wrote the novel The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner, known to have influenced fellow Scots Robert Louis Stevenson and Irvine Walsh  
ANSWER: James Hogg

17. Identify the following physical constants, for 10 points each. 
[10] Often denoted sigma, this doubly-eponymous constant relates the total energy radiated per unit surface area per unit time by a blackbody to the fourth power of its temperature.  
ANSWER: Stefan-Boltzmann constant 
[10] This eponymous cross section of the electron is equal to 0.665 times 10 to the -28th power. 
ANSWER: Thomson cross section 
[10] Sometimes named for Sommerfeld, this dimensionless constant is equal to the charge of the electron squared, divided by the quantity h-bar times the speed of light. In other words, about 1 divided by 137. 
ANSWER: fine structure constant

18. Name these rivers in India, for 10 points each. 
[10] Legend has it that the king Bhagiratha brought the goddess of this river from heaven to purify the ashes of his ancestor Sagara's 60,000 sinful sons. Flowing east from the Himalayas, it empties into the Bay of Bengal.  
ANSWER: Ganga [or Ganges] 
[10] Said to be a gift from Rama to the sage Agastya, this South Indian river flows from the Western Ghats through the states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, forming the Sivanasamudra Falls.  
ANSWER: Kaveri [or Cauvery] 
[10] Krishna is said to have grown up on the banks of this river, which flows from the Himalayas through the cities Delhi and Agra to merge with the Ganges in Allahabad.  
ANSWER: Yamuna [or Jamuna] 

19. Identify the following from the history of the Roman Republic, for 10 points each. 
[10] Elected tribune of the plebs in 133 B.C., this Roman statesman sought land reform on behalf of displaced legionnaires, a cause taken up by his younger brother ten years later. 
ANSWER: Tiberius Gracchus [prompt on partial answer] 
[10] Tiberius was murdered after he attempted to fund his proposed reforms with revenue from this new Roman acquisition, a city-state in Ionia. Its last king, Attalus III, had bequeathed the city to Rome in his will. 
ANSWER: Pergamum [or Pergamon] 
[10] The likely architect of Tiberius's murder was a member of this prominent Roman family. Its most notable members were Africanus, and Aemilianus, who effected the final destruction of Carthage. 
ANSWER: Scipio


20. Answer the following questions about a US president, for 10 points each. 
[10] The thirty-first president, he was in office when the Great Depression struck on October 29, 1929. 
ANSWER: Herbert Hoover 
[10] During World War I, Hoover was appointed head of this organization, where he established "Meatless Mondays" and "Wheatless Wednesdays" 
ANSWER: American Food Administration 
[10] Hoover signed this act in 1930 in an effort to help the depression. Instead it reduced American imports and exports by half and negatively impacted the world economy. 
ANSWER: Hawley-Smoot Tariff Act


