Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Tossups by Vanderbilt (Matt Keller, Paul Gauthier, Tyler Ritchie)

1. This work's second section opens with the line "In my beginning is my end," while its first section opens with a reflection on time and roses, as well as a pool filled with sunlight. The last section takes its name from a lay community frequented by Charles I, and the first section takes its name from a burned-down English manor. Written after its author's baptism in the Church of England, its third section takes its name from a group of rocks off the English coast, "The Dry Salvages." It also includes the sections "Burnt Norton," "East Coker," and "Little Gidding." For 10 points, name this musically titled cycle of poems by T. S. Eliot. 
ANSWER: Four Quartets

2. He told a probation officer that he was unlikely to commit another crime since his wife, who later participates in the "bundle of joy," had already left him and wouldn't do it again "just for kicks." He was once found crying while watching an episode of Oprah but claimed to have just bitten into a pepper.  In a 1960 film, he is a former World War II sergeant leading a group of ex-paratroopers, while in a 2004 film, he was declared to be better than François Toulour, who had ratted him out to Terry Benedict. For 10 points, name this character who, along with associates like Linus and Rusty, stole a Fabergé egg, robbed several Las Vegas casinos, and was played by George Clooney. 
ANSWER: Danny Ocean

3. He developed a plan to convert the city of Lucca into an island, and he designed what is now the Scholar's Rotunda as a central octagon with sixteen-sided exterior at Santa Maria degli Angeli. Various shapes disappear in a systematic way when looking down the nave of his San Lorenzo basilica, and he designed the facade of the Foundling Hospital. He won a notable commission and showed that an armature would not be needed by using a herringbone pattern between eight primary ribs. For 10 points, name this early Renaissance architect who lost the competition for the Florence Baptistry doors but won the design for the dome of the Florence Cathedral.  
ANSWER: Filippo Brunelleschi

4. One form of it includes an omega subunit that helps in its assembly and may provide a chaperone effect for its binding beta prime subunit. The cofactor greA can increase its cleavage ability.  In prokaryotes, it can bind to the Pribnow box, and the cessation of its activity is often associated with rho factor, after being initiated with the binding of sigma factor to make the holoenzyme. In eukaryotes, type two binds to factors recruited by a protein that binds the minor groove in the TATA box.  For 10 points, name this enzyme responsible for transcription that makes a copy of its namesake substance from a DNA template.
ANSWER: RNA polymerase

5. One of this group's prominent members published his views in works such as "Explication of the Economic Picture" and "The Friend of Mankind," which was strongly influenced by the work of Richard Cantillon. Their model of cash flow and support for a single tax may have been based on blood flow, as its leader was a physician who proposed a division among proprietary, sterile, and productive classes, the latter consisting of farmers, in his Tableau Economique. For 10 points, name this group of economists who held that land was the source of wealth, which included Le Trosne, the Marquis de Mirabeau, and its founder, Francois Quesnay. 
ANSWER: physiocrats

6. After she barely survived smallpox, she promulgated a general inoculation policy, and this female ruler also  regulated the payment for peasant labor via the Robot Patent. The last major conflict during her rule was ended by the Congress of Teschen, and her husband had to give up Lorraine to marry her. She changed her country's allegiance from Britain to France prior to a conflict which kept Silesia in the hands of Prussia, which had invaded it to contest the wishes of her father, Charles VI. For 10 points, name this Holy Roman empress whose reign was secured by the Pragmatic Sanction and the succeeding War of Austrian Succession. 
ANSWER: Maria Theresa


7. One of his early works follows Claire Boltwood on a car trip from New York to Seattle, and another sees Una Golden move to New York to become a commercial real estate agent and marry Edward Schwirtz. Besides Free Air and The Job, he wrote a novel featuring the travails of journalist Doremus Jessup against the fascist regime of president Buzz Windrip, It Can't Happen Here. His novel Dodsworth is set in the town of Zenith, the same setting as a novel in which boosters like Vergil Gunch strongly influence the titular realtor, and he also created the town of Gopher Prairie, home of Carol Kennicott. For 10 points, name this author of Babbitt and Main Street. 
ANSWER: Sinclair Lewis

8. A model of it can be extended into the 4-dimensional Coleman-Weinberg model, and a value of one over the square root of two for the model's namesake parameter separates two classes of it. The discovery of the isotope effect in mercury provided experimental evidence for another theory of this phenomenon and the ratio of the coherence length to penetration depth is the basis of the Ginzburg-Landau theory. Phonon exchange with the crystal lattice condenses two electrons into a Cooper pair in the model that explains the Meissner effect, known as the BCS theory. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which a material has no electrical resistance.
ANSWER: superconductivity [accept word forms]

9. They were a strong influence of the March First Movement in Korea, and they were recommended by a group known as the Inquiry, which included Walter Lippmann and Colonel Edward House. First enunciated before a joint session of the US Congress, they advocated an "absolutely impartial adjustment of all colonial claims" and the readjustment of Italian borders, while the last one proposed a group strongly opposed by the likes of Henry Cabot Lodge. For 10 points, name this agenda, which focused on national self-determination and the establishment of the League of Nations, proposed by Woodrow Wilson during World War I. 
ANSWER: Fourteen Points

10. Its third book opens with the description of a temple adorned with pictures of the victories of Augustus. Its last book includes an epyllion about the efforts of Aristaeus to regain lost bees. Its third book describes a plague in southern Italy, and its first book ends with a series of bad omens foreshadowing the death of Julius Caesar. Its first book also notes that one can determine the quality of a soil by taste, and its third gives advice on the raising of livestock. Its second book discusses the care of trees and viticulture, and its last book apiculture. Ending with an allusion to its author's Eclogues, for 10 points, identify this four-book poem about farming, written by Virgil. 
ANSWER: The Georgics [or Georgicon]

11. In a ten year span, he held eleven different cabinet posts, including Minister of Veterans and War Victims and Delegate to the Council of Europe. He allegedly falsified health reports to hide his fatal cancer for fifteen years. In his most powerful position, he appointed Edith Cresson as the first woman prime minister, a post earlier held under him by Pierre Mauroy and later by Edouard Balladur. During a period known as "cohabitation," this Socialist shared power with the prime minister later succeeded him as President, Jacques Chirac. For 10 points, name this President of France from 1981 to 1995. 
ANSWER: François Mitterrand

12. This body of water contains the beginning of the Ninetyeast Ridge. The Coromandel Coast runs along it, and Sagar Island is found just off the coast of its namesake land region. The only notable island chains are found in its east, where the Nicobar Islands are joined in a union territory with the islands naming the sea to its east, the Andaman Islands. Connected to the Gulf of Mannar by the Palk Strait, its major ports include Trincomalee, Chittagong, and Chennai, and it receives the waters of the Cooum, Kavari, and Brahmaputra. For 10 points, name this body of water stretching south to the Indian Ocean between Sri Lanka and Sumatra, which lies east of India. 
ANSWER: Bay of Bengal

13. This philosopher used a pair of shoes from a van Gogh painting to distinguish real things from art in his The Origin of the Work of Art, and he defined "enframing" as the essence of the title entity in The Question Concerning Technology. His thought underwent "the turn" shortly after works like "What is Metaphysics?" signaled his split from his mentor at Freiburg, who was the dedicatee of his first major work, which uses existence, thrownness, and fallenness to describe the temporality of the existence that he called dasein, or "being-there." For 10 points, name this one-time assistant to Husserl, a Nazi-sympathizing forerunner of existentialism and author of Being and Time. 
ANSWER: Martin Heidegger

14. This region is the target of the current Chikyu Hakken mission.  Lehmann and Hales discovered eponymous points of change within it, and a recent experiment refuted the thought that its D double prime layer, the source of a change in anisotropy named for Gutenberg, consists of post-perovskite. Heat rising as diapirs may create notable features within it that creates flood basalt upon decompression melting and are known as its namesake plumes. The Moho discontinuity is the upper boundary of, for 10 points, what layer of the earth above the outer core and below the crust.
ANSWER: mantle

15. This ruler adopted a name meaning "conqueror of the world," and he expanded his territory to the south through the conquest of the kingdoms of Bijapur and Golconda. He restored the long-abandoned jizyah tax and executed Tegh Bahadur, alienating many Sikhs, who began a long rebellion against his rule. The port city of Surat was twice sacked by his rival Sivaji, chief of the Marathas, who were instrumental in weakening his power after he expanded his empire to its greatest reach. As a child, he was held hostage by Jahangir after an attempted rebellion by his father, Shah Jahan. For 10 points, name this last "great" Mughal Emperor, who reigned from 1658 to 1707.  
ANSWER: Aurangzeb [or Alamgir I; or Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad]

16. In Sparta, she had the epithets "the Avenger" and "the Black One." Triptolemus was her first priest, and she had the lover Iasion, to whom she bore Plutus. The Haloa festival was celebrated in her honor, as was the Thesmophoria. She is the addressee of one of the longest Homeric Hymns, which describes her role in the creation of the Eleusinian mysteries. A sister of Zeus but not an Olympian, she is sometimes depicted riding a chariot pulled by dragons. The Chloia was dedicated to her in her role as "the green," the bringer of vegetation. For 10 points, identify this Greek goddess of grain and mother of Persephone. 
ANSWER: Demeter

17. This author's first work began as a letter to his nephew Thomas and was then expanded into The Apprentice's Vade Mecum. Several women, including Clementina and Emily, romantically pursue the title character, who falls in love with Harriet Byron after rescuing her from Hargrave Pollexfen, in his work Sir Charles Grandison. In another work, Colonel Morden kills Robert Lovelace, the suitor-turned-rapist of the titular character, who earlier refused to marry Mr. Solmes. Another of his heroines is kidnapped by but later marries Mr. B. For 10 points, name this author of the longest novel in English and a novel parodied twice by Henry Fielding, the epistolaries Clarissa and Pamela. 
ANSWER: Samuel Richardson

18. In a Lucas Cranach the Younger painting by this name, the central figure wears a suit of armor and raises his helmet's visor to look toward the red-caped figure in the top left. In Michelangelo's version, the main figure is supported by a man in yellow as he lies on the ground, holding his head, while others look up in terror. In another version, there is no choir of angels or figure of Christ, but only a bright light from above not seen by the servant or large horse that stands over the title figure, who lies on his back and reaches up. For 10 points, name this Caravaggio work depicting the blinding that led to the transformation of an epistle-writing apostle.  
ANSWER: The Conversion of Saint Paul [accept The Conversion of Saul]

19. They can be summed in a pair-wise fashion to create the generalized Hamaker theory.  In addition to contributions from ionic double layers, they comprise a major part of DLVO theory, and they are the source of the term raised to the sixth power in the Lennard-Jones potential.  Recent studies have developed carbon nanotube hairs able to exploit them in a manner similar to geckos, which use them to stick to surfaces. They include permanent, induced, and transient interactions, the latter known as London dispersion. For 10 points, name these general intermolecular forces, named for a Dutch scientist.
ANSWER: van der Waals forces [prompt on London dispersion forces before read]

20. He visits a shadowy group known as the "Mothers" in Act I of a certain play, and takes up land reclamation in Act V. He helps out the finances of the Holy Roman Emperor by introducing a system of paper money backed by undiscovered buried treasure, and also helps the emperor win a battle. A homunculus is created on Walpurgisnacht in a play about this man, who fathers Euphorian with a woman he conjured, Helen of Troy. For 10 points, identify this title character of a two-part play, a German alchemist who sells his soul to the devil in the dramatic magnum opus of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (GERR-tuh).
ANSWER: Faust

Sudden-death tiebreakers

21. One ruler of this house died after falling off his horse while torching Mantes. The third ruler of this house, known as the Lion of Justice, defeated his oldest brother at the Battle of Tinchebray after succeeding another older brother, who replaced Lanfranc with Anselm as archbishop and stopped an invasion by Malcolm III. A period known as The Anarchy followed the ascension of its last ruler, who also belong to the "House of Blois" and battled Matilda for the throne before agreeing that her son Henry of Anjou would succeed him, starting the Plantagenet line. For 10 points, name this English royal house including Henry I, William Rufus, and William the Conqueror. 
ANSWER: Norman house/dynasty [or House of Normandy]

22. With another composer, he was granted a music publishing monopoly by the queen of his nation, and he published three sets of Cantiones Sacrae. He also published the collections Psalmes, Sonets & Song and Songs of Sundrie Natures. He attempted to set all of the proper texts of the mass in his Gradualia, and he composed a noted setting of the Great Service, as well as exactly three Latin Masses, one for three voices, one for four voices, and one five voices. For 10 points, identify this English composer of the late Renaissance who secretly remained Catholic after the English Reformation, and who shares his surname with a dude who flew over both poles.
ANSWER: William Byrd

Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Bonuses by Vanderbilt (Matt Keller, Paul Gauthier, Tyler Ritchie)

1. It opens with Mario Cavaradossi, the title character's love interest, painting a portrait of Mary Magdalene. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this opera that ends with the title character committing suicide after realizing that Baron Scarpia had duped her, and Mario really was executed by firing squad. 
ANSWER: Tosca 
[10] This guy composed Tosca, as well as La Boheme and Madame Butterfly. 
ANSWER: Giacomo Puccini 
[10] Tosca sings this famous aria in Act II in which she questions God for having to choose between her dignity and Mario's life. 
ANSWER: Vissi d'arte or I lived for my art

2. The most famous version of this work was compiled by Sin-l?qi-unninni (SIN LE-ki un-NIN-ni). It chronicles the exploits of the two-thirds-divine son of Ninsun. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this epic about a king of Uruk. 
ANSWER: The Epic of Gilgamesh [or ?a naqba ?muru; or He who Saw the Deep; or ??tur eli ?arr?; or Surpassing all other Kings] 
[10] The Epic of Gilgamesh includes a description of the great flood told by this man, who survived it by building a boat at the instruction of the god Ea. 
ANSWER: Utanapishtim 
[10] This ferryman took Gilgamesh to see Ut-napishtim despite Gilgamesh killing a bunch of giants usually needed for the journey. 
ANSWER: Urshanabi

3. It was first described in the work "Experimental Studies on the Seeing of Motion." For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this effect in which observers perceive motion by looking at a series of discrete images lit up in sequence, as in a film or a bulb marquee. 
ANSWER: phi phenomenon 
[10] The discovery of the phi phenomenon by Max Wertheimer was an early milestone for this school of psychology, often known for the adage that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. 
ANSWER: gestalt 
[10] Wertheimer used this term, German for "conciseness" or "precision," for his theory that less energy is expended in grasping things as a whole, and that we tend to group things as simply as possible. 
ANSWER: prägnanz

4. A shining moment sees the title character pay Becky a dollar to have sex on the roof of an orphanage. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this novel in which the titular boy falls in with the gang, including Otto Berman, of the bootlegging mobster Dutch Schultz. 
ANSWER: Billy Bathgate 
[10] Billy Bathgate was written by this author of Drinks Before Dinner, who is best known for the historical fiction novel Ragtime. 
ANSWER: Edgar Lawrence Doctorow 
[10] This Biblically titled Doctorow work about the execution of Paul and Rochelle Isaacson, told from their kids' point of view largely in flashback, was based on the case of the Rosenbergs. 
ANSWER: The Book of Daniel


5. In Russian, this trivial mountain is known as Bolshaya Gora, which means "Great Mountain." For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this highest mountain in North America, whose preferred name means "the high one" in Athabascan and also names the national park in Alaska in which it is found. 
ANSWER: Denali [or Mt. McKinley] 
[10] Denali has about 800 feet on this second-highest mountain in North America, which is found in another country. 
ANSWER: Mount Logan 
[10] Mount Logan is found in this range, a subgroup of the Pacific Coast Ranges which encompasses Glacier Bay National Park. Its namesake mountain is somehow the second-highest in both the US and Canada. 
ANSWER: Saint Elias Mountains

6. Name these recent Rookies of the Year from different professional sports leagues, for 10 points each. 
[10] This Pittsburgh Penguin forward came over from Russia to win the Calder trophy by netting 33 goals and 52 assists in his first year, 2006-07. He is also known for not being Sidney Crosby. 
ANSWER: Evgeni Malkin 
[10] This Brewers third baseman set a rookie record for slugging percentage with .634. He hit 34 home runs after being called up on May 25 to narrowly edge Troy Tulowitzki as the 2007 National League Rookie of the Year.  
ANSWER: Ryan "Hebrew Hammer" Braun 
[10] This former Oklahoma Sooner and current Minnesota Viking gained an NFL single-game record of 296 rushing yards against the Chargers. He was named the NFL's Offensive Rookie of the Year for 2007. 
ANSWER: Adrian Lewis Peterson

7. His third symphony shares its name with Beethoven's sixth, "Pastoral." For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this composer who, also like Beethoven, wrote nine symphonies, the first of which is known as his Sea Symphony. 
ANSWER: Ralph Vaughan Williams 
[10] This is the name given to Vaughan Williams' Second Symphony, which includes a section intended to imitate Big Ben. 
ANSWER: A London Symphony 
[10] This name is given to Vaughan Williams' Seventh Symphony, which he based on the score he wrote for a movie about the last expedition of Robert Falcon Scott 
ANSWER: Sinfonia Antartica  

8.  It was formerly known as Xena for a time, and is officially designated 2003 UB313. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this largest dwarf planet in the solar system, which was found beyond the orbit of Pluto.
ANSWER: Eris
[10] Eris is the largest object in the Kuiper belt, which is thought to be the source for the short-period type of these astronomical objects.  Longer period ones are thought to come from the Oort cloud.
ANSWER: comets
[10] These icy planetoids orbiting between Jupiter and Neptune may have originated in the Kuiper belt.  Examples include Chiron, Echeclus and Chariklo while Saturn's moon Phoebe may be a captured one.
ANSWER: centaurs

9. This American satirist penned the lines "Candy is dandy but liquor is quicker." For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this author of The Bad Parents' Garden of Verse, as well as the introductions to each movement of Camille Saint-Sean's Carnival of the Animals. 
ANSWER: Ogden Nash 
[10] Ogden Nash wrote a poem distinguishing between the meaning of this word when it begins with one l and when it begins with two l's. He says "I will be bet a silk pajama there isn't any three-l" variety. 
ANSWER: The Lama [accept anything that mentions a lama or llama] 
[10] Froggy Ogden is the one-armed cousin of Caroline in Appointment in Samarra, a book that is way better than anything Ogden Nash ever wrote and was penned by this author of From the Terrace and Butterfield 8. 
ANSWER: John O'Hara


10. It was first proposed at the Congress of Angostura. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this republic formalized at the Congress of Cúcuta, whose long-time vice president was Francisco de Paula Santander. 
ANSWER: Grán Colombia [or Republic of Colombia; grudgingly accept Great Colombia] 
[10] This South American liberator was the President of Grán Colombia from 1819 to 1830. 
ANSWER: Simón Bólivar 
[10] After the dissolution of Grán Colombia, its territory was divided between the new countries of Venezuela and Ecuador, along with this region, with the same name as the former Spanish viceroyalty in the same area. 
ANSWER: New Granada [or La Nueva Granada]

11.  It is quite useful in Cramer's Rule and is only defined for a square matrix. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this function that, for a 2 by 2 matrix, is calculated by subtracting the product of the upper right and lower left entries from the product of the upper left and lower right entries.
ANSWER: determinant
[10] If the determinant of a matrix is zero, the matrix does not have an inverse and is described by this term.
ANSWER: singular
[10] This function is the determinant of a matrix whose first row is a set of functions, with the nth row of that matrix equal to the nth derivative of the functions.
ANSWER: Wronskian

12. Answer the following about Jewish law for 10 points each. 
[10] This code of Jewish oral law is divided into six sederim. 
ANSWER: The Mishnah  
[10] The Mishnah was compiled under this second century A.D. head of the Sanhedrin. 
ANSWER: Rabbi Judah the Prince [or Rabbi Yehuda ha Nasi] 
[10] This term is given to the Mishnah and commentaries on it known as the Gemara. There are a Babylonian version and a Palestinian version. 
ANSWER: Talmud

13. Name these things related to American involvement in wars against the Barbary Pirates for 10 points each. 
[10] The First Barbary War was incited by monetary demands made by Yusuf Karamanli, the pasha of this independent regency whose shores are mentioned in the Marine Hymn.  
ANSWER: Tripoli [or Tripolitania] 
[10] One of the heroes of the Barbary Wars was this US Navy lieutenant who snuck into Tripoli harbor and burned the captured USS Philadelphia. 
ANSWER: Stephen Decatur, Jr. 
[10] The Second Barbary War began in 1812 after Umar ben Muhammad, the Dey of Algiers, expelled this American consul, who had earlier negotiated the end to the First Barbary War. 
ANSWER: Tobias Lear V

14.  This 51 amino acid peptide exerts its effects by binding to a receptor tyrosine kinase. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this metabolic hormone whose numerous effects include increased glycogen and fatty acid synthesis, as well as lowering blood glucose levels.
ANSWER: insulin
[10] Insulin is produced by these cells, which make up the majority of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas.
ANSWER: beta cells
[10] Recently discovered epsilon cells in the islets of Langerhans produce this hormone, also produced in the stomach, which stimulates appetite and generally opposes the actions of leptin.
ANSWER: ghrelin


15. The title character goes ape after having his wealth seized and kills a bunch of nuns. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this play in which the title character collaborates with the Turkish conquerors and kills Abigail with poisoned rice, only to be executed for later treason in a boiling cauldron. 
ANSWER: The Jew of Malta 
[10] This Elizabethan dramatist of Edward II and Tamburlaine the Great died in a bar brawl, but not before he wrote The Jew of Malta. 
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe 
[10] Marlowe's first extant play, Dido, Queen of Carthage, was written with this University Wit. His own works include Summer's Last Will and Testament and a picaresque novel about Jack Wilton. 
ANSWER: Thomas Nashe

16. He was described as "the first citizen of Athens" by Thucydides, who recorded his Funeral Oration. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this orator and statesman who led Athens from around 461 to 429 BCE, including the opening of the Peloponnesian War.  
ANSWER: Pericles 
[10] Pericles came to power after the assassination of this bastion of democracy, who helped reduce the power of the Areopagus by elevating the Ecclesia and Boule. 
ANSWER: Ephialtes 
[10] Ephialtes and Pericles had accused this conservative rival of betraying the city to Sparta, and ostracized him for allegedly accepting a bribe from Alexander I of Macedon.  
ANSWER: Cimon 

17.  Its consequences include length contraction, time dilation, and the equation E = mc2. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theory of Einstein's that said the laws of physics are the same in any inertial frame of reference, and that the speed of light in a vacuum is always constant.
ANSWER: special relativity
[10] Special relativity can be nicely formulated in this four dimensional manifold, with three spatial dimensions and one time dimension.
ANSWER: Minkowski space
[10] This is a representation of the history of an object in space-time. In Minkowski space, they must fall within so-called light cones that represent the boundary of moving at the speed of light.
ANSWER: world lines

18. His landscapes include Sunrise in the Catskills and a "view from Mount Holyoke" called The Oxbow. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this painter whose allegorical works include the four-part series The Voyage of Life and the epic five-part The Course of Empire. 
ANSWER: Thomas Cole 
[10] Thomas Cole is considered the founder of this group of American landscape painters centered in upstate New York, which included Asher Durand and in its later phases also became known as luminism. 
ANSWER: Hudson River School 
[10] This later member of the Hudson River School is known for his depictions of the West, such as Mount Corcoran, Sunrise in the Sierras, Storm in the Rocky Mountains, and The Rocky Mountains: Lander's Peak. 
ANSWER: Albert Bierstadt

19. It elicited a similarly titled response by Gottfried Leibniz. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this 1690 empiricist work that puts forth a theory of personal identity, distinguishes between simple and complex "ideas," and posits that the mind is a blank slate at birth to be filled through experience. 
ANSWER: An Essay Concerning Human Understanding 
[10] This Englishman wrote An Essay Concerning Human Understanding, as well as Two Treatises of Government. 
ANSWER: John Locke 
[10] This work by Locke was originally published anonymously in Latin in 1689 and suggests the acceptance of different Christian factions as a means of limiting civil unrest. He wrote two follow-ups with similar titles. 
ANSWER: A Letter Concerning Toleration [or Epistola de Tolerantia]

20. Name these people involved in the establishment of the Commonwealth of England, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Commonwealth existed during an interregnum following the execution of this King, and prior to the restoration of the monarchy under his son. 
ANSWER: Charles I 
[10] The Rump Parliament, which legislated between 1648 and 1653, was created by a Purge of Royalist MPs led by this man, a colonel in the New Model Army.  
ANSWER: Sir Thomas Pride 
[10] With Oliver Cromwell as his second-in-command, this parliamentary commander-in-chief won major victories at Marston Moor and Naseby. 
ANSWER: Sir Thomas Fairfax, Third Baron Fairfax

Extra bonuses

21. It was likely inspired in part by its author's religious conversion. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work about the titular expiring judge, who finally feels pity for his wife Praskovya and son Vasya after being struck by "some force" near the work's end.
ANSWER: The Death of Ivan Ilyich [or Smert' Ivana Ilyicha]
[10] This guy wrote The Death of Ivan Ilyich, along with a major tome about Pierre Bezuhov that may have originally been called War, What is it Good For?
ANSWER: Leo Tolstoy
[10] This servant boy is the only one who initially understands Ivan, because he is unafraid of death.
ANSWER: Gerasim

22. Identify these related Egyptian gods for 10 points each.
[10] This god of Thebes, usually considered the creator god, was the major patron of the Middle and New Kingdoms. His consort was Mut, and the temple at Karnak was dedicated to him
ANSWER: Amun [or Amen; or Amon; or Imn]
[10] This sun god, later conflated with Amun, rose to prominence at the end of the Old Kingdom. He was a major patron of the nineteenth and twentieth dynasties, and the Heliopolitans thought he created Shu.
ANSWER: Ra [or Re]
[10] Generally considered a child of Ra, her name means something like "moist waters." With Shu, she gave birth to Geb and Nut.
ANSWER: Tefnut [or Tphenis]

23.  Name these laws from chemistry, for 10 points each.
[10] Cato Guldberg and Peter Waage discovered this law that states when a system reaches equilibrium at a given temperature, the ratio of quantities in the reaction quotient has a constant value.
ANSWER: law of mass action [prompt on law of chemical equilibrium]
[10] Lavoisier developed this basic law on the basis of combustion experiments. 
ANSWER: law of conservation of mass [accept law of mass conservation]
[10] The law stating pressure exerted by a fixed amount of gas is directly proportional to temperature is named for this deaf French scientist of the late 17th century. He also studied the laws of friction.
ANSWER: Guillaume Amontons

24. His reign included the updating of Arabic astronomical tables. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Spanish monarch, the tenth king of his name, who ruled from 1252 to 1284 and was known as 'el Sabio' because of his encouragement of learning.
ANSWER: Alfonso X
[10] Alfonso is credited as the author of this legal code, which was used to govern Spain and its colonies until the nineteenth century.
ANSWER: Siete Partidas [or Seven Divisions of Law; or Seven-Part Code or clear equivalents]
[10] Alfonso was the king of Leon as well as this kingdom in northwestern Spain, whose language he used in his court as part of its evolution into modern Spanish. It was later joined with Aragon when Isabella married Ferdinand. 
ANSWER: Castile [or Castilla]

