Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Tossups by Brandeis (Hannah Kirsch, Evan Nagler, Lee Marmor)

1. The Battle of Desio ousted the Della Torre from this city, but the new rulers pissed off Pope John XXII and earned an interdict on it. Under Diocletian, it was the capital of the Western empire, but the Lombards abandoned it for Pavia. Its territorial expansion was halted by the 1454 Peace of Lodi, and it was later the origin of Mussolini's March on Rome. The victor at Lake Garda ended two centuries of rule in this city by the Visconti, and that condottiere founded a dynasty which included Ludovico or "Il Moro." For 10 points, name this city of northern Italy, long ruled by the Sforza.
ANWSER: Milan [or Milano]

2. Gower and Portland are embryonic types of this molecule and the Bart form results in its namesake H disease, which is a type of thalassemia. The change between its tense and relaxed structure results from a 15 degree rotation between its two alpha-beta dimers. Its ability to neutralize hydrogen ions is described by the Haldane effect, while the impact of pH on it is described by the Bohr effect. Impacted by 2,3-DPG, a variant of this protein has a valine substituted for a glutamic acid. For 10 points, name this iron-containing component of red blood cells that carry oxygen. 
ANSWER: hemoglobin

3. This state had only one Senator from 1899 to 1901, when its legislature was unable to agree on a candidate after the dissolution of the People's Party and Liberal Party. It lost another Senator in 1906, when Arthur Brown was fatally shot by his mistress. It was unable to seat the winner of its first House election because of the effects of Reynolds v. U.S., a Supreme Court decision arising out of this place. Colonel Patrick Connor camped in this state throughout the Civil War, fearing another rebellion by the instigator of the Mountain Meadows Massacre. For 10 points, name this state, originally called Deseret, whose first territorial governor was Brigham Young. 
ANSWER: Utah

4. She wrote "I am a word/ in a foreign language" in her poem "Disembarking at Quebec." In one of her short stories, Estelle has a fetish in which she escapes rape by helping her attacker reach catharsis. That story, "Rape Fantasies," was published in the collection Dancing Girls. One novel by this author features two characters who name themselves after animals featured in the game Extinctathon and attend, respectively, Martha Graham Academy and an institution nicknamed "Asperger's U." In addition to Oryx and Crake, she wrote Cat's Eye and The Blind Assassin. For 10 points, name this Canadian author who created Offred in the dystopian The Handmaid's Tale. 
ANSWER: Margaret Atwood

5. One character instructs another, "Keep right on lying to me. That's what I want you to do" while discussing former lovers. That character's "toy riding-crop" belonged to a former love killed during the Battle of the Somme. The surgeon Rinaldi's high living and professions of love are attributed to syphilis by the narrator, who himself defies death to rescue a block of cheese. A hard-drinking ambulance driver, falls in love with a blonde nurse, who dies giving birth to a stillborn son, in this novel about Catherine and Lieutenant Henry. For 10 points, what is this semi-autobiographical novel by Ernest Hemingway? 
ANSWER: A Farewell to Arms

6. Svensmark and Friis-Christensen showed the correlation between these object and Earth's cloud cover. A high-energy variety violates the Greisen-Zatsepin-Kuzmin limit on their energies a Forbush decrease occurs in one type after a coronal mass ejection. A bi-static radar using VHF transmitters is used in the MARIACHI apparatus to detect them, and Shmoos are used in the CHICOS project. Detected by charge coupled devices or the particle track-etch technique, they help form the Van Allen belts. Victor Hess used Wulf electrometers to discover the extraterrestrial origin of, for 10 points, what charged particles composed mostly of protons. 
ANSWER: cosmic rays

7. The Marder collection and a Poisson solve are used to correct error's in it when running algorithms for relativistic PIC plasma simulations. The gravitational application of this law can be used to prove the force of a spherically symmetric object on another can be considered as though both objects were point masses at their centers. Equivalent to Coulomb's law for static charges, it can be used to derive an equation for the electric field given a symmetrical charge distribution. For 10 points, name this law that states the net outward flux through a closed surface is equal to the net charge inside the surface, divided by the permittivity of free space. 
ANSWER: Gauss' Law



8. Each movement in this work is a major third higher in key than the previous movement. In the coda, a shocking orchestral unison passage introduces a new variation. The finale opens with four descending bass notes that lead into a horn theme reminiscent of the "Fate Motif" from Beethoven's fifth. That symphony's influence can also be seen in the structure of this composition, and in its nickanem, "Beethoven's Tenth." In the fifteen years between starting work on this composition and premiering it, its composer wrote the Hungarian Dances and German Requiem. For 10 points, name this C minor piece by Johannes Brahms. 
ANSWER: Brahms's Symphony No. 1 [accept obvious equivalents; accept Brahms's Symphony in C minor before "C minor" is read; require Brahms before his name is read]

9. Its formulator suggested that being taught authenticity, refreshing of conciousness, and the value of self-control would help people satisfy it, and the ability of thinkers such as Viktor Frankl to work while interned in concentration camps is a common objection to this concept. Kurt Goldstein's The Organism originated one of its basic components, it was described in the paper "A Theory of Human Motivation" and the book Motivation and Personality. It says that physiological requirements such as food, shelter, and sex must be met before self-actualization can occur. For 10 points, what is this psychological concept first proposed by Abraham Maslow? 
ANSWER: Maslow's hierarchy of needs [accept self-actualization before  ]

10. This work says that one woman's "garments writhe and glisten like long snakes," while another part advises "ascend beyond the sickly atmosphere." In the preface, the author writes that "His Majesty, Satan Thrice-Great, lulls our charmed soul" before declaring that ennui is the greatest monster of all. This volume's poems "The Vampire's Metamorphoses" and "To She Who Is Too Gay" were censored and later published separately as Scraps. Dedicated to the "master and friend" Theophile Gautier, the book is divided into five sections, later adding the Tableaux Parisiens, and including "Spleen and Ideal." For 10 points, name this book of poetry by Charles Baudelaire. 
ANSWER: Les Fleurs du mal [or The Flowers of Evil or equivalents]

11. Thirty years before his death, he published the 114 Songs and stopped composing. The title of his piano trio's second movement, TSIAJ, stands for "This Scherzo is a Joke" and exemplifies the folk humor and nostalgia that he favored. His second symphony incorporates a favorite patriotic folk tune, "Columbia the Gem of the Ocean," and a shocking "mistake" in the brass, a divergence from the influence of his teacher Horatio Parker. This was one of his first expeditions into the polytonality also seen in his Variations on "America" and The Unanswered Question. For 10 points, name this American composer of the Camp Meeting Symphony and Three Places in New England. 
ANSWER: Charles Ives

12. She turned a gardener into a frog after accepting his baskets of dates, and she once cured the infertility of a king who was carried to her throne by an eagle. Despite the fact that she had a footlong beard and spent part of her time transformed into a chunk of rotting meat, she was able to use the musical accompaniment of Kulitta and Ninatta to seduce a man often stolen by the Gallu. She has to battle with Ereshkigal and strip naked before the gates of the underworld in order to retrieve her lover and revive the soil. For 10 points, name this goddess who was involved with Tammuz and sent the Bull of Heaven to Uruk after being spurned by Gilgamesh. 
ANSWER: Ishtar [prompt on Inanna or Astarte]

13. A suggestion that a clergyman marry his cousin revolts the cousin in question, who later turns down yet another proposal in this novel. One character is bribed into marrying the younger sister of the woman he loves; that woman changes her feelings about his failed marriage proposal after seeing the display. Luckily, Georgiana and Mr. Wickham had never followed through on their plans to elope, leaving him free to marry Lydia. The opening of the work declares "that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife." For 10 points, Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth marry after all in what "romantic comedy" by Jane Austen? 
ANSWER: Pride and Prejudice

14. Hoffland studied how fungi tunnel along natural productivity gradients in types of this mineral. Prevalent in arkose, these framework silicates of aluminum react with water to form kaolinite. High-calcium rocks tend to be enriched in the K-variant and two variants of this mineral in one composition can form intergrowths and twin-wall intersections. Albite and labradorite are examples of a type of one of these that are depicted on the continuous branch of Bowen's reaction series moving from calcium-rich to sodium-rich. Sixty percent of Earth's crust is composed of, for 10 points, what type of mineral that includes plagioclase and orthoclase.  
ANSWER: feldspars



15. He presented the "Tunnel of Doom" "Wet World Challenge" and "Expert Express" in his namesake typing instructor. When he needed to wrestle at the Glitz Pit for Grubba, he adopted the stage name "the Great Gonzales." This character adopted his current name for the "bombs away" and "cement factory" titles in the Game & Watch series, but he was originally known as Jumpman when he had to rescue Pauline. In other games, he uses Kuribo's Shoe and must advance through Chocolate Island in order to defeat the Koopas. His latest flagship title depicts his "galaxy." For 10 points, name this frequent rescuer of Princess Peach, a plumber who is the brother of Luigi. ANSWER Mario Mario 

16. At one point, the plot of The Third Policeman uses the basic structure of this story. The protagonist describes certain sensations as "streams of pulsating fire heating him to an intolerable temperature." He is "no vulgar assassin," but a planter with "long dark hair" and a "well-fitting frock coat." His home, "thank God, is as yet outside their lines," but when he successfully escapes to his wife and home, a man who had attempted to sabotage the title structure dies instantly with the discovery that the entire narrative has been imagined in the instant before his hanging. For 10 points, name this Ambrose Bierce short story about a strange happening  to Peyton Farquhar. 
ANSWER: "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"

17. He criticized the sodomy laws in Offences Against One's Self. One of his sociological works was translated into French and published by Étienne Dumont twenty years before it appeared in English, and he alleged that Adam Smith did not follow his own principles in a work written in Russia, Defence of Usury, and he lambasted William Blackstone's work as "ignorance on stilts" in his Fragment on Government. He created the "felicific calculus" in An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation. For 10 points, name this philosopher who attempted to promote the "greatest happiness principle," the inventor of both the panopticon and utilitarianism. 
ANSWER: Jeremy Bentham

18. The ruins of an abbey near his home may have inspired such works as Cloister Graveyard in the Snow and Abbey in the Oaks. An ornate frame with five sculpted heads and a Masonic eye-in-a-pyramid houses a painting of his that shows three rays of light behind several pine trees on a rocky outcropping, where a Biblical event is taking place. A ship is capsized among several blocks of the titular substance in another painting, and he also showed the back of a man in a waistcoat, holding a long walking stick, in Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog. For 10 points, name this painter of Sea of Ice and Cross in the Mountains. 
ANSWER: Caspar David Friedrich

19. The Hittite prince Zannanza was murdered while trying to marry this man's widow. Near the end of his rule, he dispatched an army to help the Mitanni against A??ur-Uballit I of the Hittites. His regime was dominated by the vizier Ay and general Horemheb after he succeeded his brother Smenkhkare. He largely undid the Amarna Revolution of Akhenaton, and he was later placed in KV62, only to be found by Howard Carter. For 10 points, name this youthful king of Egypt, whose fame lies in his nearly intact tomb. 
ANSWER: Tutankhamun [or Tutankhaten]

20. He allied with Henry II of France to defeat a rebellion at Val-ès-Dunes, and this king patronized the scholar Lanfranc of Pavia, who later replaced Stigand in an important post. This man signed the Treaty of Blancheland with Fulk the Surly, ensuring the secession to the countship of Maine for his son, Robert Curthose. After this man's birth, his mother married Viscount Herluin and gave birth to his half-brother Odo of Bayeux. Much like Charlemagne, he was crowned on Christmas Day, though his ceremony took place in Westminster Abbey after his victory over Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Hastings.  For 10 points, name this duke of Normandy who seized England in 1066. 
ANSWER: William the Conqueror [or William I]


Tiebreaker Tossups

21. The capital of the state by this name is home to Case de Montejo, and the state by this name borders both Campeche and Quintana Roo and is centered on Mérida. The region by this name produces the fiber henequen and gets water from sinkholes, locally known as cenotes (see-NOH-tays). Islands off its coast include the Island of Women and Cozumel. It is the site of Chixculub, the impact crater of an asteroid that may have led to the extinction of the dinosaurs. For 10 points, name this home to Chichen Itza and Cancun, a peninsula which separates the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean Sea. 
ANSWER: The Yucatán Peninsula



Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Bonuses by Brandeis (Hannah Kirsch, Evan Nagler, Lee Marmor)

1. Identify some theorems from economics, for 10 points each. 
[10] The Leontief paradox is the notable counterexample to this theorem, which states that if two countries have trade, the more capital-abundant country will export more capital-intensive goods, while the more labor-abundant country will export more labor-abundant goods. 
ANSWER: Heckscher-Ohlin theorem 
[10] This theorem states that if the available amount of a production factor is increased, the amount of a good intensive in that factor that will be produced will increase, while non-intensive goods will be produced less. 
ANSWER: Rybczynski theorem 
[10] Finally, name this other production theorem which states that as the price of a good goes up, the price of the factors used more intensively in its production increase, while the prices of other factors decrease. 
ANSWER: Stolper-Samuelson theorem

2. He is as famous for his fantastic mustache as for his melting clocks. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this iconic Spanish painter of The Persistence of Memory. 
ANSWER: Salvador Dali 
[10] This Dali work from his Paranoic-Critical period features a complex optical illusion involving a lake and two species of animal. 
ANSWER: Swans Reflecting Elephants 
[10] Although a fully functional device, this object is also a surrealist piece of art, designed so that the user's mouth juxtaposes with the genitalia of the animal featured. 
ANSWER: Lobster Telephone [or Aphrodisiac Telephone]

3. Name some volcanoes you might sea if you were taking a Mediterranean cruise, for 10 points each. 
[10] This volcano's eruption in 79 CE destroyed the cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum on the Bay of Naples. 
ANSWER: Mt. Vesuvius 
[10] The largest active volcano in Europe, it erupts almost constantly on the east coast of Sicily.  
ANSWER: Mt. Etna 
[10] This volcano in the Aeolian Islands also erupts almost continuously with great arcs of incandescent lava earning it the nickname "lighthouse of the Mediterranean." 
ANSWER: Stromboli

4. They formed in Athens, Georgia and often feature depressing lyrics played to upbeat melodies in songs like "Old People in the Cemetary." For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this band, fronted by Kevin Barnes. 
ANSWER: Of Montreal 
[10] Of Montreal originated from this group of indie musicians. Based officially in Denver, this collective's members began such other bands as The Olivia Tremor Control and The Apples in Stereo. 
ANSWER: Elephant Six Recording Collective 
[10] This other Elephant 6 band, led by Jeff Magnum, began with the album On Avery Island and played its last show to date in Auckland. 
ANSWER: Neutral Milk Hotel

5. Name these E.M. Forster works for 10 points each: 
[10] Adela falsely accuses the Muslim Dr. Aziz of attempted rape after visiting the Marabar Caves in this novel. 
ANSWER: A Passage to India 
[10] This short science fiction story features a dystopian future society in which the titular controlling device is worshipped by underground-dwelling humans. 
ANSWER: "The Machine Stops" 
[10] In this novel, Harriet kidnaps her sister-in-law Lilia's baby in order to reclaim him for British society. The work's title is a quote from a famous work by Alexander Pope. 
ANSWER: Where Angels Fear to Tread


6. In 1279, he conquered China and established a Mongol dynasty. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this great Khan who succeeded his brother Mongke. 
ANSWER: Kublai Khan 
[10] Name the dynasty Kublai established in China after its conquest. 
ANSWER: Yuan Dynasty 
[10] Name the Chinese dynasty the Yuan supplanted, which is allegedly known for improving gunpowder warfare. 
ANSWER: Song Dynasty

7. The definite type of these mathematical objects have upper and lower limits. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these objects, one of which is named for Stieltjes and replaces "dx" with "dg(x)" [d g of x]. 
ANSWER: integral 
[10] The most common type of integral is named for this man whose namesake sums are another method of calculating the area under a curve. 
ANSWER: Bernhard Riemann 
[10] This alternative to the Riemann integral considers measure theory. Named for a Frenchman, it is associated with theorems like the dominated convergence theorem. 
ANSWER: Lebesgue [luh beg] integral

8. Kazu falls in love with her client Yuken Noguchi and gives up proprietorship of the Setsugoan, only to return to it after becoming disillusioned with politics. For 10 points each: 
[10] What is the title of this Japanese novel about a restauranteur who marries an ambassador? 
ANSWER: After the Banquet 
[10] This author of After the Banquet also wrote The Sound of Waves and Forbidden Colors. 
ANSWER: Yukio Mishima 
[10] In this Mishima work, Noboru Kuroda becomes increasingly violent after his mother begins an affair with the ship's officer Ryuji Tsukazaki, who is drawn to her despite a deep love for the ocean. 
ANSWER: The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea

9. Name these works of Friedrich Nietzche for 10 points each. 
[10] This expansion of Thus Spake Zarathustra attacks historical philosophers for their lack of criticism and unquestioning acceptance of Christian morality. 
ANSWER: Beyond Good and Evil 
[10] The conflict between the Dionysian and Apollonion aspects of Greek culture occupies this work. 
ANSWER: The Birth of Tragedy 
[10] Nietzche advocates the Dionysian philosopher in this book, with chapter names like "Why I Am So Wise" and "Why I Am So Clever." 
ANSWER: Ecce Homo

10. Name some islands featured in Greek mythology for 10 points each. 
[10] This island in the Ionian Sea was the home of the hero Odysseus. 
ANSWER: Ithaca 
[10] Mt. Dikte on this island was where Zeus was born. It is also the site of the labyrinth and Minotaur in the palace of Minos. 
ANSWER: Crete 
[10] This island in the Cyclades is where Theseus abandoned Ariadne who was then found by Dionysus, the island's main god. 
ANSWER: Naxos

11. Name these American women poets for 10 points each. 
[10] She wrote such poems as "Upon the Burning of Our House, July 10th, 1666" and "To My Dear and Loving Husband" after she emigrated to America on the Arbella. 
ANSWER: Anne Bradstreet 
[10] A Pulitzer Prize winner, she is probably best known for her poems "Euclid Alone Has Looked on Beauty Bare" and "Renascence," as well as her scandalous bisexuality. 
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent Millay 
[10] Famous poems like "The Bee Meeting," "Tulips" and "Daddy" were published in her posthumous volume Ariel. 
ANSWER: Sylvia Plath


12. It states that a sample's absorption of light is proportional to the concentration of and path length through the sample.  For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this law of optics. 
ANSWER: Beer's law [accept Beer-Lambert-Bouguer Law] 
[10] This term in Beer's Law measures the intrinsic light absorption of a substance at a standard wavelength. 
ANSWER: molar absorptivity [accept molar extinction coefficient; accept absorption coefficient] 
[10] Instead of absorption, this quantity can also be used in expressing the Beer-Lambert law. It is defined as the fraction of a given wavelength of incident light that passes through a sample. 
ANSWER: transmittance

13. Name these compositions of Leos Janacek for 10 points each. 
[10] Finished when he was 60 years old, this opera features a titular peasant girl impregnated by her lout of a cousin. 
ANSWER: Jenufa [or Her Story or Her Foster Daughter] 
[10] This religious choral work, written in the liturgical language of the Orthodox Church, exemplifies Janacek's talent in composing for the inflections of his native tongue. 
ANSWER: Slavonic Mass [or Glagolitic Mass or Festival Mass] 
[10] Janacek also wrote this famous orchestral work, a fanfare dedicated to the armed forces of his native country. 
ANSWER: Sinfonietta

14. In 1862, he expelled Jews from parts of Mississippi, Kentucky, and Tennessee for their supposed involvement in the blackmarket cotton trade. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name the Union general who issued this order. 
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant 
[10] Grant felt it necessary to explain his order to a fellow Union commander more famous for his "March to the Sea" in Georgia 
ANSWER: William Tecumseh Sherman  
[10] While Grant didn't have to worry about Northern Jews during the Civil War, this Southern Jew served in the Cabinet of the Confederate States of America. 
ANSWER: Judah Benjamin

15. He drew from his own weakening faith in writing The Fair Haven and his new life as a sheep farmer in A First Year in Canterbury Settlement. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this British-turned-New-Zealander author of The Way of All Flesh. 
ANSWER: Samuel Butler 
[10] This Butler novel is a thinly veiled criticism of Victorian life and society; its utopian/dystopian elements strongly influenced Aldous Huxley's Brave new World. 
ANSWER: Erewhon 
[10] This is the Erewhonian goddess, a contradictory, "sometimes cruel and absurd" deity whose name is drawn from that of a character in the play Speed the Plough. 
ANSWER: Ydgrun

16. With the ascension of Henry VII 1485, the War of the Roses came to a close. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name the king who Henry overthrew and who was responsible for imprisoning and possibly murdering the "Princes in the Tower." 
ANSWER: King Richard III  
[10] Richard III was a member of the House of York. Name the House opposing York in the War of the Roses. 
ANSWER: The House of Lancaster  
[10] This was the 1485 battle in which Richard III was overthrown by Henry VII. 
ANSWER: The Battle of Bosworth Field


17. Name these ancient Greek tragedies for 10 points each: 
[10] The title character of this Euripides work is told by the Dioscuri how to atone for helping Orestes push a sword down Clytemnestra's throat. 
ANSWER: Electra 
[10] In this work by Sophocles, the chorus famously instructs "you residents of Thebes" that "we cannot call a mortal being happy/ before he's passed beyond life free from pain." 
ANSWER: Oedipus Rex or Oedipus the King  
[10] According to this work, "every art of mankind comes from" the title character, who ultimately loses his war of wills against a tyrannical Zeus. 
ANSWER: Prometheus Bound

18. Name some Jewish life-cycle events for 10 points each. 
[10] This ceremony marks a boy's passage into adulthood. These days, it is usually celebrated with a huge party. 
ANSWER: Bar Mitzvah 
[10] Well before a boy has his bar mitzvah, he is ritually circumcised at 8 days old in this ceremony. 
ANSWER: Bris [or Brit or Brit Milah or Bris Milah]  
[10] When a close family member dies, the family "sits" this for 7 days. 
ANSWER: Shiva

19. The namesake of this effect worked with Dirk Polder. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this attractive effect that acts between two closed parallel uncharged conducting plates in a vacuum and falls off as the fourth power of distance. 
ANSWER: Casimir effect 
[10] A repulsive Casimir force is produced by members of this class of particles with half-integral spin that are subject to the Pauli exclusion principle. 
ANSWER: fermions 
[10] In 1997 at Los Alamos, this scientist reported the first high precision measurements of the Casimir effect by using a torsional pendulum and a sphere-plate configuration. 
ANSWER: Steve Lamoreaux

20. Name these things related to programmed cell death, for 10 points each. 
[10] Apoptosis is carried out with the help of these cysteine proteases, an example of which is ICE. 
ANSWER: caspases 
[10] The release of cytochrome c from this organelle promotes the calcium release that initiates the caspase cascade. This organelle, which has its own DNA, is also crucial for its role in ATP production. 
ANSWER: mitochondria 
[10] This cell cycle-regulating transcription factor and tumor suppressor can activate an apoptosis pathway when DNA is irreparably damaged. 
ANSWER: p53

Extra Bonuses

21. It embraced both expensive hand-crafted works in ebony and mass-produced functional items of Bakelite. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this style, in part a reaction to the fussy detail of Art Nouveau. 
ANSWER: Art Deco 
[10] This show, intended to strengthen France's position in the world of luxury goods, defined and solidified the emergence of Art Deco. 
ANSWER: 1925 Exhibition of Decorative Arts in Paris 
[10] After exhibiting several glass works at the Paris Exhibition, this Art Deco jeweler and glass artist began mass-producing his trademark vases and, later, frosted-glasshood ornaments. 
ANSWER: Rene Lalique


