Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Tossups by VCU (Andrew Alexander, Evan Adams, Timothy Fox)

1. In one story he accidentally makes love to his sister after his nemesis gives him a potion that turns out to be alcohol. His twin is a dog-like figure who journeys with him into Mictlan to retrieve some bones, with which this god creates humanity. In another story he discovers corn by turning into an ant, and then makes a crack in a mountain so people can use it. After seeing himself in a mirror held by Tezcatlipoca, he immolates himself only to be reborn as the morning star. For 10 points, name this Aztec god known as the Feathered Serpent. 
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl

2. Glen McCloud has compared this poem to Marcel Duchamp's Fountain, while Roy Pearce identifies the inspiration for this poem as an object with the words "special" and "made in Canada" embossed on it, a "Dominion wide mouth" model. It first appeared between "Bantams in Pine-Woods" and "Palace of the Babies," and it describes the title object as "gray and bare" and "tall and of a port in air." The title object "took dominion every where" and "did not give of bird or bush" after the speaker attracted the "slovenly wilderness" around a hill by placing the title object on the ground in Tennessee. For 10 points, name this poem by Wallace Stevens about a food vessel. 
ANSWER: "Anecdote of the Jar"

3. One of its creators claimed that, at its premiere, he filled his pockets with rocks to throw at the audience. The concept arose from a dream in which a cloud slices the moon in half. Eight years after the first scene takes place, a transvestite nun played by one of the creators falls dead while riding a bicycle. A woman defends herself from a sexual assault with a tennis-racket in this film, which also includes scenes of ants crawling from a man's hand and a man pulling a piano loaded down with two priests and a dead donkey. For 10 points, name this film in which a woman randomly has her eye sliced open by a razor, a surrealist work by Luis Bunuel and Salvador Dali.  
ANSWER: "Un Chien Andalou" [or "an Andalusian dog"]

4. 320 entities of this name, including 20 deluxe editions, were produced by Rrose Sélavy and contained 93 facsimile reproductions of notes, drawings, and photographs. The more famous entity of this name depicts "malic" molds that the creator claimed were "the projection of the main points of a three-dimensional body." These nine figures are aided by a series of sieves filled with dust and a coffee grinder in performing the titular action upon a figure in the upper part, whose sexual fulfillment is symbolized by a pink cloud. For 10 points, name this artistic work that depicts dressmaker's models denuding a strange female mechanical figure, a work by Marcel Duchamp.  
ANSWER: The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even [or The Large Glass; prompt on "the Green Box"]

5. This film features the autogyro "Little Nellie," which is equipped with rockets, a machine gun, heat-seeking missiles, and air mines. Other nifty gadgets in the film include a gun that fires rocket-propelled bullets, and projectile-launching cigarettes. Directed by Lewis Gilbert, its plot is driven by the terrorist organization SPECTRE's attempts to cause war between the US and the USSR by sabotaging each nation's space missions. Stars in the film include Mie Hama, Donald Pleasence, and Akiko Wakabayashi, plus Sean Connery, who was replaced by George Lazenby in the next film. For 10 points, name this Bond film which includes Japan's "secret ninja service." 
ANSWER: You Only Live Twice

6. The narrator of this poem mentions how brightly the deeds of one group "might have danced in a green bay." The narrator extols men whose "blind eyes could be blaze like meteors" despite being "near death" because they "see with blinding sight." The narrator claims that even "wise men" heed his advice after realizing that "their words had forked no lightning." In addition to the wise, good men, wild men, and grave men all recognize that "old age should burn at close of day." For 10 points, name this villanelle in which the narrator urges his father to "rage, rage against the dying of the light," written by Dylan Thomas.  
ANSWER: "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night"

##. In a Nickolas Poussin painting, it can be seen destroying a statue of a dragon. According to one hadith, the Mahdi will remove it from Lake Tiberias during the end times. A man named Uzzah supposedly died while trying to correct the transport of this and a son of Solomon steals this object in Kebra Nagast, the national epic of Ethiopia. According to Exodus, a pure gold mercy seat rested on top of it and was used for sacrifices on Yom Kippur. For 10 points, name this Old Testament object which contained some mana, Aaron's staff and the Ten Commandments. 
ANSWER: the Ark of the Covenant [accept aron habrit in case Charles Meigs happens to know Hebrew]



8. The author wrote essays to accompany the photography of David Goldblatt in her the collection "On the Mines." Sonny tries to attend to his family and his upholstery business but gets drawn to the underground movement in this wrtier's My Son's Story, and in Adamson, Mwete receives power but abuses it in her novel A Guest of Honor. She wrote about Maureen Smales abandoning her family in another novel, while a man buys 400 acres to have a rendeszvous spot with his mistress in another work. For 10 points, name this author who created Rosa, the child of anti-apartheid activists, in Burgher's Daughter and also wrote July's People and The Conservationist. 
ANSWER: Nadine Gordimer

9. Variables from the Kompaneets equation can be transformed to its namesake y-parameter. The inverse of this effect causes the intensity of CMB radiation to be distorted when measured in the direction of a cluster of galaxies, which is known as the Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect, and the quantum mechanical version of its cross section can be described by the Klein-Nishina formula. Discovered by using a molybdenum target, a graphite block, and a Bragg spectrometer with a calcite crystal, it is equal to the Thomas variety in non-relativistic cases. For 10 points, name this effect associated with the scattering of x rays by free electrons. 
ANSWER: Compton effect/scattering

10. The Bamberger rearrangement creates the aminated type of these compounds. The sodium salt of one of these compounds reacts under high pressure with carbon dioxide in the Kolbe-Schmitt reaction, and an aryl ester is promoted to a ring-acylated derivative of this type of compound in the Fries rearrangement. This class of compounds is created along with acetone in the cumene process and methylated versions of them with a pKa of approximately nine are known as cresols. For 10 points, name this class whose parent compound, which was used by Joseph Lister as a surgical antiseptic, is also known as hydroxybeneze. 
ANSWER: phenols [accept benzenols; or carbolic acids]

11. Schopenhauer discussed various attempts to prove it and claimed it's a "synthetic proposition a priori." Klügel's doctoral thesis sought to demonstrate flaws in 28 proofs of it, and Beltrami showed that no proof was possible. A stronger form was developed by Playfair and Brodie that showed it was equivalent to the Pythagorean theorem. Abandoned by Bolyai and Lobachevsky in their independent development of hyperbolic geometry, it was also discarded in an elliptical geometry developed by Riemann. For 10 points,, give this axiom of geometry proposed by Euclid involving non-intersecting lines.  
ANSWER: parallel postulate [or Euclid's Fifth postulate]

12. The first references the creator's wife, Alice, while the last is dedicated to Edoo. Although another bears the initials of the organist at Hereford Cathedral, George Sinclair, it is believed to have been inspired by Dan, Sinclair's bulldog, as he paddles about in the River Wye. The ninth, which allegedly captures a conversation between the creator and A. J. Jaeger concerning Beethoven's slow movements, is entitled Nimrod. The counterpoint to the central theme of the work has could be Rule Britannica or Auld Lang Syne. For 10 points, name this orchestral work which represents how fourteen individuals might play a certain piano piece, written by Edward Elgar.  
ANSWER: the Enigma Variations [or Variations on an Original Theme for orchestra, Op. 36]

13. It lies within a saddle-like depression of the sphenoid bone known as the sella turcica. One of its regions develops from Rathke's pouch while another arises from neuroectoderm of the diencephalon. That region contains neurosecretroy neurons with cells bodies located in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of a superior structure. Cortiotropes and gonadotropes can be found within its pars distalis while its secretions include ACTH, somatotropin, FSH, and LH. Composed of the adenohypophysis and the neurohypophysis, for 10 points, name this structure located below the hypothalamus that is divided into an anterior and posterior lobe.  
ANSWER: Pituitary gland [or hypophysis] 


14. This country once had both an ordinary Communist party and a "national communist" group known as the Murba. In this country, General Nasution escaped the murder of six of his colleagues by the September Movement, which led to the fall of a man who thought the world was divided into "Nefos" and "Oldefos" and ruled through the "Guided Democracy" program. The new ruler skimmed money from the Pertamina oil concern and instituted a "New Order," which included seizing a Portugese colony. For 10 points, name this country long ruled by Sukarno and Suharto, an archipelago which contains the world's largest Muslim population. 
ANSWER: Republic of Indonesia

15. Richard King and "Shanghai" Pierce were some of the notable people who used it regularly, while the Pryor Brothers took a large commission to use it in 1884. It was first used in 1867 by O.W. Wheeler, and at its peak it ended at Joseph McCoy's depot, which linked to the Kansas Pacific Railroad. Its terminus was chosen as the most convenient point outside of the quarantine area declared to fight "Texas fever," and its southern portion followed the same route as the Shawnee Trail. It took three months for a thirteen-man crew to transverse, with 2500 units to sell at the end. For 10 points, name this cattle-drive route extending from the San Antonio area to Abilene, Kansas 
ANSWER: Chisholm Trail 

16. This story is framed by the narrator receiving a letter with a photo of an African man holding a statue. That leads him to recall meeting the protagonist of the work after she had climbed up the fire escape into his room to escape a drunken date. Beginning "I am always drawn back to places I have lived," this novel reveals that the protagonist took a new name after becoming the child bride of a veterinarian and was born Lula Mae Barnes. After being abandoned by José, the main character flies to Brazil, abandoning the title New York jewelry store. For 10 points, name this novel about Holly Golightly by Truman Capote. 
ANSWER: Breakfast at Tiffany's

17. The Bahnar and Sedang groups are some of the "Montagnards" who live in the hills of this country, which was the birthplace of the secret society known as the Hoa Hao. Descendants of immigrants often live in Cholon, and its highest areas may be found near the Clear River. A notable museum here is the Cercle Sportif, while a refugee movement from this country in the 1970s was the origin of the term "boat people." Its large cities include Hua and a capital found on the Red River. For 10 points, name this country which also includes the Mekong River, the Gulf of Tonkin, and the city of Hanoi. 
ANSWER: Vietnam

18. At the end of his major work, he endorses the use of broad intellectual fields such as anthropology in place of the title approach, and says that Jacque Berke, Roger Owen, and Clifford Geertz are some authors who get it right. Susan Fraiman took this author to task for calling Mansfield Park a pro-colonialist work in his own study Culture and Imperialism. Sylvestre de Sacy and Edward Lane are some of the people he lambasts in another book, and he frequently refers to Hamilton Gibb, a Harvard professor who asserted that a certain group of people are incapable of thought. For 10 points, name this writer who attacked the way the Middle East is studied in his book Orientalism. 
ANSWER: Edward Said

19. In 2003, Wickramasinghe suggested that the SARS virus could have originated from here, and Paul Crutzen has suggested injecting sulfate particles into this location, which transports water vapor out via the Brewer-Dobson cycle. Home to horizontal wind currents and nacreous clouds, it was discovered by Léon Teisserenc de Bort, who noted its temperature increases with increase of altitude. For 10 points, name this region of the atmosphere situated between 5 and 30 miles above the surface, located above the troposphere and below the mesosphere, and home to the ozone layer. 
ANSWER: stratosphere

20. One of this President's Supreme Court nominees wrote decisions overturning laws against teaching German and requiring that all children attend public schools in the Meyer and Pierce cases. That man was his former Attorney General, James McReynolds. McReynolds prevented an official photo of the Court from being taken because he refused to sit next to a Jew, namely another one of this President's nominees, Louis Brandeis. His third Court appointment, John Clarke, replaced Charles Evans Hughes, who resigned to run against this man in 1916. For 10 points, name this President who "kept us out of war" until he didn't, the last Democratic executive before Roosevelt. 
ANSWER: Thomas Woodrow Wilson

Tiebreaker Tossup

21. Don Carlos's victory at Bitonto in this war led to him becoming Charles III of Sicily. France's first ally in this war was the kingdom of Sardinia & Savoy, which helped besiege Mantua. The person who led the Confederation of Dzików had previously held the job in question under Swedish domination and was the father-in-law of Louis XV. Perhaps the most important result of the two peaces of Vienna, which ended this war, was the laying of seeds for a similar war a year later as France guaranteed the Pragmatic Sanction. For 10 points, name this conflict in which Frederick Augustus of Saxony and Stanislaw Leszczynski vied for a European crown. 
ANSWER: War of the Polish Succession


Penn Bowl XVII: The Friends and Enemies of Modern Music
Bonuses by VCU (Andrew Alexander, Evan Adams, Timothy Fox)

1. For 10 points each, name these people related to Sherlock Holmes. 
[10] This co resident of 221B Baker Street and habitual narrator meets Sherlock in A Study in Scarlet.  
ANSWER: Dr. John Hamish Watson 
[10] Sherlock claims this smarter but lazier brother of his occasionally "is the British government." Holmes tells Watson that the government uses him as a sort of database. 
ANSWER: Mycroft Holmes 
[10] This "gentleman thief" was created by Doyle's brother-in-law E.W. Hornung to be an analog to Sherlock Holmes. Rich people love him because he's a fantastic cricket player. He steals their stuff. 
ANSWER: A. J. Raffles

2. Give the works of Gianlorenzo Bernini, for 10 points each. 
[10] One of the titular figures is in the process of becoming a laurel tree as the love-struck Greek god of prophecy pursues in this sculpture. 
ANSWER: Apollo and Daphne  
[10] Berini constructed the tomb of this pope, which depicts two white marble figures representing the Virtues and should not to be confused with the tomb of Alexander VII, largely executed by Bernini's pupils.  
ANSWER: Urban VIII 
[10] This Bernini sculpture depicts the titular trio as they flee a burning Troy.  
ANSWER: Aeneas, Anchises, and Ascanius Fleeing Troy

3. Answer the following about musical works appearing in Disney's Fantasia, for 10 points each. 
[10] It provides the music for an animated dance sequence which depicts changing seasons, and contains sections such as the Waltz of the Flowers and the Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairies.  
ANSWER: The Nutcracker Suite 
[10] His The Sorcerer's Apprentice provides the music for an eight minute sequence based of a ballad by Goethe which involves the wizard Yen Sid and an extremely lazy Mickey Mouse.  
ANSWER: Paul Dukas  
[10] Taken from the opera La Gioconda, a group of animals perform ballet in the place of Duke Alvisa to this musical piece.  
ANSWER: "Dance of the Hours"

4. For 10 points each, name these adorable critters on or around Yggdrasil. 
[10] This notoriously gossipy squirrel runs up and down Yggdrasil delivering messages. 
ANSWER: Ratatoskr
 [10] This dragon gnaws at the deepest roots of Yggdrasil when he is not using Ratatosk to bicker with the eagle at the top of the tree. 
ANSWER: Nidhoggr 
[10] Although there is some debate as to whether it is an eagle or a rooster at the top, it is generally accepted that this hawk sits on top of the bird at the top of the tree. 
ANSWER: Vedrfolnir

5. It was chartered in 1567 and tasked with purging the Low Countries of all heretical and rebellious elements. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this court brought to the Spanish Netherlands during their independence revolt. 
ANSWER: Council Of Troubles [or Council Of Blood; or Raad Van Beroerten; or Bloedraad] 
[10] This rival of Ruy Gómez de Silva instituted the "Tenth Penny" policy and the Council of Troubles as governor of the Netherlands, and later led the Spanish conquest of Portugal. 
ANSWER: the Duke of Alba [or Duke of Alva; or Fernando Álvarez de Toledo y Pimentel]  
[10] The independence of the Netherlands was finally recognized by Spain at this 1648 treaty, which ended the Thirty Years War. 
ANSWER: Peace of Westphalia


6. Iowa: the Iowa of the Midwest. For 10 points each: 
[10] This seat of Lynn County is where one might find Mount Mercy and Coe Colleges, and is the second-largest city in Iowa after Des Moines. 
ANSWER: Cedar Rapids 
[10] If you're not in Bettendorf, Rock Island, or East Moline, then you must be in this other member of the Iowa and Illinois "Quad Cities," the birthplace of the chiropractic movement. 
ANSWER: Davenport 
[10] If you're ever in this city on the South Skunk River, don't miss the National Animal Disease Center. It's also home to Iowa State University. 
ANSWER: Ames

7. The post of Supreme Leader is the real authority in Iran. For 10 points each: 
[10] This man was the first Supreme Leader of Iran, as he seized power after joining with leftists to overthrow the Shah in 1979. 
ANSWER: Grand Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini 
[10] This man replaced Khomeini as Supreme Leader in 1989 and still holds the post.   
ANSWER: Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
[10] This former Iranian president currently leads the Expediency Council, the bridge between the religious and democratic leaders of Iran. 
ANSWER: Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani

8. Answer some questions concerning leukocytes, for 10 points each. 
[10] They express immunoglobulins M and D on their cell surfaces and differentiate into plasma cells that can synthesize and secrete antibodies. 
ANSWER: B cells  
[10] These lymphocytes kill viruses and tumor cells by reacting to cells lacking the MHC class I marker.  
ANSWER: NK cells [or natural killer cells]  
[10] This glycoprotein located on cytotoxic T cells binds to MCH I and aids in antigen-specific activation. 
ANSWER: CD8 [or cluster of differentiation 8] 

9. He was a retired candy manufacturer who gave the presentation now sold as The Blue Book. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this respondent in a 1974 Supreme Court case brought by Elmer Gertz, which found that the First Amendment does not create a general right to call lawyers Communists for filing lawsuits against police officers. 
ANSWER: Robert H.W. Welch, Jr. 
[10] Welch had a lot of practice at calling people Communists, because he was the founder of this right-wing group, named for a missionary killed in China, which memorably accused Dwight Eisenhower of being a Marxist agent. 
ANSWER: John Birch Society 
[10] The John Birch Society also called Henry Kissinger a Communist, because he opened talks to give up American control of this structure, which was signed over to its namesake country by Jimmy Carter in 1979. 
ANSWER: the Panama Canal

10. Answer the following about mortals who had their lives screwed up by Greek gods, for 10 points each.: 
[10] As soon as he was born he was placed into a chest, only to have Aphrodite and Persephone fight over him. Eventually he was killed by boar sent by Artemis. 
ANSWER: Adonis 
[10] The moon goddess Selene loved this man so much that she put him in an everlasting sleep. 
ANSWER: Endymion 
[10] The fates declared that this hero would only live as long as a wooden brand remained unconsumed by fire.  
ANSWER: Meleager


11. Consider the Korean language. For 10 points each: 
[10] Like Japanese, Korean is tentatively placed in this language family, whose more definite members include Turkish, Mongolian, and Uzbek. 
ANSWER: Altaic [Ural-Altaic is not really right] 
[10] This twenty-four-letter alphabet, invented under the reign of King Sejong, is used to write Korean. 
ANSWER: hangul [or choson muntcha or onmun] 
[10] This least formal register of Korean speech omits many verb endings and is used to address one's social inferiors or by teenagers trying to sound cool. 
ANSWER: banmal

12. It was performed in 1909 with the help of Harvey Fletcher. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this experiment performed at the University of Chicago that measured the charge of an electron. 
ANSWER: oil-drop experiment 
[10] The oil-drop experiment was performed by this scientist, whose namesake scale measures electronegativity by subtracting the electron affinity by the ionization energy and dividing by two. 
ANSWER: Robert Mullikan 
[10] Mullikan's work supposedly demonstrated that the charge of the electrons could only assume discrete values which disagreed with this rival's experimental data suggesting charge of an electron was variable. 
ANSWER: Felix Ehrenhaft

13. The first person to hold this status was Carol I, who took office in 1881 and was targeted by a 1907 peasant revolt. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this position, later held twice by Michael I until it was abolished by the Communists. 
ANSWER: King of Romania 
[10] This man joined with the Iron Guard to establish the National Legionary State in 1940, but was overthrown by the return of King Michael for his Nazi collaboration. 
ANSWER: Ion Antonescu 
[10] This successor of Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej was the Communist dictator of Romania from 1965 until 1989, when he was executed by the army. 
ANSWER: Nicolae Ceausescu

14. For 10 points each, name some Japanese writers. 
[10] This author wrote the Pillow Book, a collection of lists, poetry and commentary on the court. 
ANSWER: Sei Sh?nagon  
[10] This Heian scholar and poet is supposedly buried next to Murasaki. He was known for his wit in dealing with Emperor Saga. 
ANSWER: Ono no Takamura 
[10] This author of "The Spider Thread" and "Hell Screen" wrote two works which were combined into a movie, "In a Grove" and "Rashomon." 
ANSWER: Ryonusuke Akutugawa

15. This weak base has a trigonal pyramidal shape according to VSEPR theory. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this compound formed in the Haber process, over 80% of which is used in fertilizer.  
ANSWER: ammonia [prompt on NH3] 
[10] Sodium in liquid ammonia is often used in this reaction named for an Australian chemist. It reduces the ring of an arene, such as benzene, to a non-conjugated diene, such as 1,4-cyclohexadiene. 
ANSWER: Birch reduction 
[10] Another famous Australian chemist is this co-developer of VSEPR theory with Ronald Gillespie.  
ANSWER:  Ronald Sydney Nyholm


16. First exhibited at the Salon des Refusés, it depicts two men engaged in conversation while a nude woman stares at the viewer. A second women is seen bathing in the background. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this Manet painting in which the aforementioned nude woman is an ammelgemation of Manet's wife Suzanne Leenhoff and the model Victorine Meurent.  
ANSWER: Luncheon on the Grass [or Le Déjeuner sur l'herbe] 
[10] Luncheon on the Grass has striking parallels to this Giorgione and Titian work, which depicts two naked muses inspiring a pair of musicians in a country scene. 
ANSWER: Pastoral Concert  
[10] This later Manet work depicts a barmaid with a curiously deadpan expression and assorted alcoholic beverages. Odds are she's smashed.  
ANSWER: A Bar at the Folies-Bergeres

17. They display self-similarity on all scales. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name these objects that can be described by a power law with a Hausdorff dimension, an example of which is Gosper island.  
ANSWER: fractals 
[10] This fractal can be constructed through the chaos game and is an iteration of triangles within triangles.  
ANSWER: Sierpinski's Triangle  
[10] First considered by L. F. Richardson, it states that sinuosity of a certain entity increases with a smaller measuring device so that the length of the entity is dependent on the measuring device used. 
ANSWER: Coastline paradox

18. It asks "Why did our emperor wake up so early,and sit at the greatest gate of the city, on the throne, solemn, wearing the crown?" For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this poem, which concludes that the title people "were some kind of solution." 
ANSWER: "Waiting for the Barbarians" 
[10] This Greek poet wrote "Waiting for the Barbarians," as well as "Thermopyle," "Trojans," and "Ionian Song." 
ANSWER: Constantine Petrou Cavafy [or Konstantinos Petrou Kavafis] 
[10] This author of Foe and The Life and Times of Michael K named his novel about the Magistrate of a frontier town after this poem. 
ANSWER: John Maxwell Coetzee

19. It was never delivered at the trial because of a nervous fit by its author. For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this defense oration which becamse known in published form, composed for the Optimate rival of Julius Caesar, who was charged with murder following an incident at Bovillae. 
ANSWER: Pro Milone 
[10] This author of Pro Milone, as well as the Hortensius, was a noted Roman rhetoritician and consul, who had his own extralegal rivalry with Catiline. 
ANSWER: Marcus Tullius Cicero [or Tully] 
[10] Milo was on trial for killing this man, a rival political boss who was once accused of incest after he disguised himself as a female harpist to sneak into Caesar's house. 
ANSWER: Publius Clodius Pulcher

20. She wrote the libretto for the opera The King's Henchman as well as poems like "The Philosopher" and "To Kathleen." For 10 points each: 
[10] Name this woman who penned the lines "Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand: Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand!" as well as the collection Renascence. 
ANSWER: Edna St. Vincent Millay 
[10] That poem is the "Second Fig" of this collection in which Millay famously stated that her "candle burns at both ends." 
ANSWER: A Few Figs from Thistles 
[10] Millay also wrote a collection titled after this poem, in which a poor mother uses the title instrument to make clothes for her son. 
ANSWER: "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver"
