RMP Fest 2: Hay any Worke for Cooper?
B. Arthur, S. Jha, and D. Machado, eds. 
Round 6

Tossups 

1. The opening line of the Brhadaranyaka Upanishad states that this animal's head is the dawn before going on to compare each of its body parts to something and telling a story about death transforming himself into this animal. Uchaishravas was a flying animal of this kind that emerged from the churning of the milk ocean and was eventually acquired by Indra. The ashvamedha ceremony involved mimicked copulation between this animal and the queen and functioned as a kingship ritual that ended in this animal's sacrifice, a key ceremony in Vedic and Proto-Indo-European religion whose sacrificial victims would be selected for prowess in racing. For ten points, name this animal that says "neigh". 
ANSWER: horse [accept: ashva from an adhvaryu priest before "ashvamedha"]

2. This work presents a method of "eating one's cake and having it" which is illustrated by quotation and concatenation in the section "Definition and the Double Life." It posits the substitutivity of identity in the statement "'Tully was a Roman' is trochaic", leading to a discussion of opacity in a section on the "Vagaries of Reference." This work also features sections on the "Flight from Intension" and "Ontogenesis of Reference", while its first chapter uses the one word sentence "Ouch" to discuss "The Objective Pull; Or, E Pluribus Unum." One of this work's major ideas was expanded in its author's later Ontological Relativity, and is illustrated by the different ways one could translate a native's utterance of the word "gavagai." Putting forth the thesis of indeterminacy of translation, for 10 points, name this 1960 work of Willard Van Orman Quine.
ANSWER: Word and Object

3. Shmuel Eisenstadt wrote a 1982 book about the emergence of visions and officials related to this concept. This concept was expanded to cover the emergence of Newton, Freud, and Einstein by Karen Armstrong. Support for this historical concept is weakened by the fact that its creator mistakenly believed that Zoroaster lived during the Seleucid Empire. This term was first coined in The Origin and Goal of History, and its creator held that it encompassed Platonism and the Upanishads. For ten points, give this term coined by Karl Jaspers that refers to a unique transforming and pivotal era where religious thinking was revolutionized by Jesus, Buddha, and Socrates. 
ANSWER: axial age [accept: axis age; Achsenzeit]

4. This object is found inside of Laegjarn's chest, which is fastened by nine locks and guarded by Sinmora the giantess. This object was created using runes, and its creator is currently tied to a rock where serpent's venom drips on him. This object created by Loki can be used against a figure who lives on top of the Tree of Mimir, which is usually taken to mean on top of Yggdrasil. For ten points, name this only weapon that can be used to slay Vidofnir the rooster, a sword from norse myth whose name translates as "wounding wand". 
ANSWER: Laevateinn [accept: Haevateinn]

5. One god of this phenomenon wore a headdress with Glyph C on it, while the Mayan god of this was depicted with shells on his ear and worshipped at places called cenotes, which were often converted sinkholes. Apart from the Zapotec god Cocijo, the Incan god of this, Ilyapa, was influenced by the use of dog torture, while the Aztec god of this had goggle eyes and fangs and received child sacrifice at his half of the Great Temple. For ten points, name this phenomenon associated with Chaac and Tlaloc, defined as water falling from the sky. 
ANSWER: rain

6. When one wife of this man threatens to runs away, he claims he will turn himself into a pike, an otter, or an eagle to catch her, but that wife is later transformed into a seagull. This figure once created a cow, but was displeased with it because it lay in the forest and wasted its milk. One task completed by this brother of Annikki had previously only been completed by the devil. Apart from plowing a field of vipers, this man attempts to steal moonlight from the top of a giant fir tree that he had been tricked into climbing, after which he is blown away by winds and told to create a device that produces grain, salt, and gold coins. For ten points, name this forger of the Sampo, the eternal smith of the Kalevala. 
ANSWER: Ilmarinen

7. Morathi and mondo mogo are two classes of medicine men described by this book, who may sacrifice a lamb to ensure rain, and this book details three types of ancestor worship, based on family, clan, and age group. One chapter of this book is dedicated to "The New Religion" and describes the Watch-Tower Movement and quasi-Christian cults. This book observes that only clans or families, not individuals, may pray to the great sky god Ngai, whose earthly abode is in the heights. The introduction to this book was written by Bronislaw Malinowski and states "Anthropology begins at home". For ten points, name this book about the Kikuyu culture of Kenya by Jomo Kenyatta, whose name refers to a mountain. 
ANSWER: Facing Mount Kenya

8. This figure's father used weapons such as the rainbow and the Milky Way, as well as the bloodthirsty spear Brionac. This student of Scathach defeated Aiofe, earning his most notable weapon. After Cathbad prophesized that the next owner of some weapons would lead a short, glorious life, this man took those weapons. He is the husband of Emer and the father of Connla. He defeats Connaught and wields the spear Gae Bulg.  For ten points, name this son of Lugh and hero of the Cattle Raid of Cooley, the protagonist of the Ulster Cycle of Irish mythology. 
ANSWER: Cuchulainn [accept: Setanta]

9. This work claims that "the true becomes a Bacchantic orgy in which no one escapes being drunk." It discusses the revealing of the particular forms of the "Furies" and the equal respect accorded Zeus while discussing "the spiritual work of art" and refers to "the simple ultimate being undifferentiated within itself" as "pure insight."  In a chapter entitled "The Truth of Self-Certainty," the author describes the process of Anerkennung as a struggle for recognition as part of a larger social, personal, and political conflict. This work articulates the development of self-consciousness through the interplay between "Lordship and Bondage," now described as the "master-slave" relationship. Intended to be the first part of the author's Wissenschaft; it tracks the title concept through an idealist history from Stoicism to Absolute Knowing. For 10 points, name this foundational work of philosophy written by Georg Hegel.
ANSWER: The Phenomenology of Spirit [or Phanomenologie des Geistes; accept Phenomenology of Mind]

10. This country was home to Rabbi Meir Atlas. Important Jewish settlements in this modern-day country were found at Shavel and Kelm. This country was the original home of the Telshe Yeshiva, once led by Rabbi Eliezer Gordon. A group of Jews from this country named the Perushim made aliyah in 1808 and this country's capital was home to Rebbe Elijah, a Gaon who led opposition to early Hasidism. For ten points, name this Baltic country whose Jews are called "Litvaks", and whose capital is Vilnius. 
ANSWER: Lithuania [accept: Lietuva; Litva until "Litvak"]

11. In Indonesia, this holiday is observed by the festival of Tabuik, during which a tall bamboo structure is built and then thrown into the sea. A disputed hadith states that on this day, Noah's ark struck land and Moses defeated the Pharaoh's army, which Sunnis use to justify celebratory fasting on this day. Other customs on this holiday include chanting "why was I not born in time" while self-flagellating with a chain and striking one's chest while dressed in black. During the run-up to this holiday, services take place not in a mosque but in a special structure sometimes called an imanbarah. This holiday on the 10th of Muharram commemorates the losing commander at the Battle of Karbala. For ten points, name this primarily Shi'ite holiday of mourning for Husain, the son of Ali. 
ANSWER: Day of Ashura

12. Children of this god include Koyash, a sun goddess who rides a winged horse, and this deity was often syncretized or identified with the similar god Ulgen. This deity granted the gift of kut to rulers, which was used to legitimize kingship. A rebellious son of this figure became the villainous underworld ruler Erlik. In one tradition, this god has the consort Yer Tanri. Ethnic groups that worshipped this god include the Tuvans and the Volga Bulgars. Often depicted as a terrible creature with an angry blue face, for ten points, name this Central Asian sky god worshipped by pre-Islamic Turks and Mongols. 
ANSWER: Tengri [accept Tangra from Bulgars]

13. One of this man's works considers "Proust's Conversion" in the section "Beyond Scandal."  One of this man's works recounts a narrative by Philostratus in which the Ephesians stone a man for being a "plague demon", thus illustrating the power of contagion in polarizing groups; that section, "The Horrible Miracle of Apollonius of Tyana", appears in this man's I See Satan Fall Like Lightning. One of his works considers Peter's denial of Jesus as a skandalon, and discusses the victimage mechanism of archaic religions and the process of hominization in its first section. That work also considers "The Double Semantic Sense of the Word 'Scapegoat'", and he argued that subsequent to conflict arising from a mutual pursuit of objects, violent competition morphs into an antagonism directed against a single person. For 10 points, name this French philosopher of anthropology, who elucidated his theory of mimetic desire in works such as Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World and The Violence and the Sacred.
ANSWER: René Girard

14. This man first befriended and then condemned the rogue Spanish theologian Michael Servetus, who was eventually burned at the stake for disagreeing with this man. This thinker drafted the "Consensus Tigurinus", a memorandum addressing the doctrine of the Real Presence, by which this man hoped to unite his movement with that of fellow reformer Heinrich Bullinger. This man's views were defended by his student Theodore Beza at the Council of Dort, where they were attacked by Jakob Hermann, also called Arminius. Total Depravity is one of the "Five Points" of this man's theology, which he summated in Institutes of the Christian Religion. For ten points, name this Geneva-based founder of a branch of Christianity that believes in predestination. 
ANSWER: John Calvin

15. According to one account of this figure's death, when he begged his killers for his life, one of them replied that to let thus figure live would be as absurd as giving a wig to a captured priest. This figure claimed that he was raised in the mountains by the sun god Utu and did not know his mother or father, while in another account he claims to be the son of a mountain and a cave. This figure had seven auras, which were re-distributed after his death, and he once rejected a bribe of little shoes, big shoes, and the concubine Matur, responding to each offer with one of his seven terrors. An expedition of fifty men without wives or children were sent to fight this figure, and they were aided by the twelve winds of Shamash, the patron god of this figure's killer. For ten points, name this being appointed by Enlil to protect the Cedar forests, the first monster killed by Gilgamesh. 
ANSWER: Humbaba the Terrible [accept: Huwawa]

16. This work claims that "radical nationalism" leads to Puritanism because elites are afraid of the nation being embarrassed. Early in this text, the author describes being treated as invisible or hearing the ultimate nonword, yes, and then being accepted after running during the breakup of an "superorganism" This text claims that by shouting out "six", "five", or "brown", observers are actually affirming their social ties. The author notes that traveling combatants are presumed to be the most skilled, as otherwise they would not take the effort of traveling. The titular activity, which is a dramatization of status concerns, has such high stakes that to play it seems irrational. For ten points, name this last chapter of The Interpretation of Cultures by Clifford Geertz, which deals with fowl-related gambling on a certain island. 
ANSWER: Deep Play: Notes on the Balinese Cockight [prompt on "Interpretation of Cultures" until mention]

17. One of this man's genetic descendants founded the Udasi, an ascetic sect that does not follow some of the rules set down by this man, and one legend about this man says that when he was a child, a venomous cobra shielded him from the sun. Biographies of this man are known as the Vars or Janamsakhis and were written by such men as Bhai Bala and Bhai Gurdas. This man set forth principle of Naam Japna, or worship of God, which forms one of his three pillars alongside making an honest living and sharing with others. This man's followers worship in gudwaras and follow the Five K's. For ten points, name this first guru and founder of Sikhism. 
ANSWER: Guru Nanak Dev Ji

18. After killing Sinis, Theseus purified himself at an altar to this deity at the river Cephissus. When Aristaeus made a sacrifice to this figure, he sent the Etesian winds to Ceos, which brought an end to a severe drought. Temples dedicated to this deity include one at Sicyon to his aspect as Meilichios or gracious and one at Parna to his aspect of Apemios or the averter of Ills. One of this figure's sons, Iasion, fathered of Philomelus and Plutus with Demeter and another, Dardanus, founded Troy. Both of those children were results of his dalliance with the future wife of Pylades, Electra. This god, who disguised himself as Amphitryon in order to sleep with Alcmena, also fathered the three judges of the Underworld, Aeacus, Rhadamanthys and Minos by two different woman: Aegina and Europa. For ten points, identify this son of Cronus and the king of Olympus.
ANSWER: Zeus

19. The people who occupied the town of Messana at the outbreak of the First Punic War were given a name meaning sons of this deity. Ovid claims that this deity's sacred bird was the woodpecker and along with Vulcan, this god was associated festival in which the trumpets of Rome were purified, the Tubilustria. Another festival to this deity featured a day of horse racing and was known as the Equirria. Sometimes known as Gradivus, this god's mother used the advice of Flora to find a flower from Olenus, which allowed her to give birth to this deity without the help of her husband. This god's priests guarded the arma ancilia, the twelve shields that this god made rain from the sky during the reign of Numa Pompilius. More famously, this god raped a Vestal Virgin, known as Ilia or Rhea Silvia, making him the father of Rome's founder. For ten points, name this father of Remus, the Roman god of war.
ANSWER: Mars

20. One of this author's works claims "the petals of a mysterious rose of joy are unfolding" while discussing "The Wheel of Smiles", and that work is divided into "The Clinic" and "History." Another work discusses "mother phobia" in a chapter "From Filth to Defilement" and is subtitled "An Essay on Abjection." Besides New Maladies of the Soul and Powers of Horror, this thinker wrote an "Open Letter to Harlem Desir" in a work which also features a chapter devoted to her novel The Samurai. This author of Nations Without Nationalism published her thesis as Revolution in Poetic Language and borrowed from Timaeus to develop the "semiotic chora."  She talked of Duras and "the malady of grief" as well as beauty as the depressive's other realm in Black Sun. For 10 points, name this Bulgarian structuralist feminist, associated with Helene Cixous and Luce Irigaray.
ANSWER: Julia Kristeva

21. This man compared the impressions and opinions of the mind to the rays of light on a dish of water. He distinguished the "protreptic" and "elenctic" modes amongst the three modes of philosophical discussion. He claimed that "Conduct me, Zeus, and thou o Destiny the way that I am bid by you to go" is amongst the maxims one must always keep at hand. He also argued that one must always behave as at a dinner party, and that a father who runs away to weep when his child is ill behaves less naturally than a man who stays by his child's bedside. He used Aristotle's term prohairesis to refer to volition and the capacity for choice and asked "Must I then die lamenting?" to which he responded "I must be put in chains." He claimed "some things are in our control and some are not" at the beginning of one work, compiled by his student Arrian. For 10 points, name this former slave and Stoic, whose sayings were collected in his Enchiridion and Discourses. 
ANSWER: Epictetus

TB. Archaeologists have discovered a prayer inscription addressed to this god, whose speaker asks this god for the stamina to please his woman all night long, which this god is described as being capable of doing. The hippopotamus is sacred to this god, which led to an unpopular ban on hippo hunting during a foreign dynasty of Asiatic invaders who worshipped this god, the Hyksos. Though he doesn't do so every night, this god occasionally uses a spear to slay Apophis in the underworld. In one story, this red-haired consort of Astarte is tricked into eating semen-laced lettuce by Horus, who avenges a murder committed by this god. For ten points, name this desert-dwelling Egyptian god of chaos, perhaps best known for killing Osiris. 
ANSWER: Seth [accept: Set; Seti; Sutekh; Setech]
