1998 South Carolina Invitational 
Tossups by Furman and Wake Forest

1. This American author, who spent most of his life as a recluse in Providence, RI, is most famous for his horror tales written in the Poe tradition.  His work was first published in Little Magazines, but from 1923 to his death it appeared most frequently in Weird Tales.  FTP, name this man, the author of The Shadow Over Innsmouth, "The Color Out of Space", and "The Case of  Charles Dexter Ward".
	Answer: H.P. Lovecraft

2. He was known to be rash, uncontrollable, and immensely strong, yet friendly and reliable to his own people. He nearly fishes the Midgaard Serpent from the oceanic depths; he would later clash with this same serpent at the battle of Ragnarok. Resembling both the Christian crucifix and the swastika was Mjollnir, his gigantic hammer. For ten points, who was this deity, the Norse god of thunder?
	Answer: Thor

3. In non-ideal solutions, if the departures from ideal solutions behavior are great, certain solutions may vaporize to produce a vapor that has the same composition as the liquid.  FTP, give the term that denotes these solutions that boil at a constant temperature and whose components cannot be separated by fractional distillation.
	Answer: Azeotropes

4. Born in Votkinsk, Russia, in 1840, he studied law in Saint Petersburg and took music classes at the St. Petersburg Conservatory.  His first opera, The Voyevoda, was first performed in 1868 and numerous works followed.  For ten points, name this composer of such works as "Romeo and Juliet," "Pathetique,"
and, if you need a giveaway, the "1812 Overture."
	Answer: Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky

5. During the 1780s and 1790s the settlers of the Tennessee and Kentucky country needed an outlet for their produce. Ideally, they desired to ship their goods down the Mississippi rather than to pay duties at Charleston, Baltimore, and other cities.  FTP, what 1796 treaty gave these farmers the right to export their produce from New Orleans?
	Answer: Pinckney's Treaty

6. Universal to all religions, it is considered the understanding of nature, of human life, and of history in terms of their goals or destinies.  It can be present in either an implicit or explicit state and is often associated with beliefs concerning life after death, judgment, and heaven and hell.  FTP, give this term that translates from the Latin for "doctrine of last things."
	Answer: eschatology

7. It was incorporated in 1911 in a merger of three small companies. In 1924, after further acquisitions, it assumed its current name. That same year, Thomas Watson arrived and begin to build the floundering company into an industrial giant.  For ten points,name the company, originally known as "Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company," whose nickname is "Big Blue."
	Answer: IBM (International Business Machines)

8. Named after the Bell Laboratories scientist who first noted the relationship, it is the highest audio frequency that can be accurately sampled by a digital audio recorder.  FTP, name this rate or frequency, that allows us to sample a 20 kilohertz signal by using a sampling rate of 40 kilohertz.
	Answer: Nyquist frequency scale

9. Born in Calw, Germany in 1877, he enrolled in a seminary but soon left school because of his dislike of formal education.  Thereafter, he educated himself through reading, working for a bookseller and doing freelance journalism. For ten points, name this author of Peter Camenzind, Beneath the Wheel, 
and Siddhartha.
	Answer: Hermann Hesse

10. In 1438, the Gallican church reaffirmed the council power over the papacy, and declared its independence administratively from the Holy See, slowed payments to home, and forbade the Pope from intervening in the appointment of French prelates.  FTP, name the declaration that started this, and greatly weakened the Pope's power in France.
	Answer: Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges

11. Born in St. Louis, Missouri, he was the editor of The Egoist and The Criterion, two prominent literary journals of the early 20th century. Through these journals he advanced a cultural and political conservatism based upon traditional Anglicanism and a staunchsupport of the monarchy.  FTP, name this poet who wrote Notes Toward a Definition of Culture and The Wasteland.
	Answer: Thomas Stearns Eliot

12. Necromania, Take It Out In Trade, The Sinister Urge, and Glen or Glenda were some of the movies he directed.  His notoriously bad movies occasionally featured Tor Johnson, and Steve Reeves. However, in his most famous movie, it's the dead actor who got all the attention. FTP, name this director of Plan 9 From Outer Space and titular character of a 1994 Tim Burton film.
  	Answer: Ed Wood

13. This operator is the sum of the spatial partial second derivatives in the Cartesian
coordinate system, and it's named for the inventor of the SI, or "metric," system of units.  FTP, what is this operator, usually written as del squared?
       Answer: the Laplacian
  
14. A member of an aristocratic Virginia family, he was chosen as the vice-presidential candidate in hopes that he would attract conservative Democratic votes.  In fact, as hoped for in a famous campaign song, his ticket beat "little Van, Van, Van."  In his own time, Henry Clay called him a traitor to Whiggery, when he became a president without a party upon the death of his predecessor.  FTP, name this first Veep to succeed to the Presidency.  
       Answer: John TYLER

15. 16. He wrote many novels, all in Italian, such as The Late Mattia Pascal and One, None, and a Hundred-Thousand, as well as many plays, such as Right You Are- If You Think You Are and Tonight We Improvise. He became well known when his most famous play was performed in Paris in 1923.  FTP, name the author of Enrico IV and Six Characters in Search of an Author.
       answer: Luigi PIRANDELLO

16. Ned Buntline led a group of Bowery toughs into a theater in New York with the intention of lynching a haughty English actor named William Macready who was playing Shakespeare on stage. Police and militia tried to stop them and began firing. All told 31 people died and 150 were injured. FTP, name this riot, by naming the fashionable New york theater where it occured.
       Answer: Astor Place riot

17. Some of his most important work was in co-authoring a highly mathematical book called _The Theory of Island Biogeography_ with Robert MacArthur in which they proposed a population equilibrium on islands.  He is probably better known, however, among entomologists for his extensive studies of
ants and among environmentalists as a champion of biodiversity.  FTP, who is this biologist who also became famous by publishing _Sociobiology: The New Synthesis_, a book that suggested a link between sociology and genetics?
       Answer: Edward Wilson

18. He worked for the Comintern in Moscow, Vienna, and Italy. He was arrested in Rome with other Communists when the Fascists outlawed their party. It was in prison, where he remained until shortly before his death, that his wrote his most memorable works, _Letters From Prison_ and _Prison Notebooks_. FTP, identify the founder of the Italian Communist Party.
       Answer: Antonio Gramsci

19. At any specific temperature, it emits in each part of the electromagnetic spectrum, the maximum energy obtainable from any radiator. The Stefan-Boltzmann law shows that this type of radiated energy is proportional to the fourth power of absolute temperature. FTP, name this type of radiation emitted by an object which absorbs all the energy which falls upon it. 
       Answer: Blackbody radiation

20. In this tale, a young wife is forbidden to open a room in the castle of her new husband. Eventually, she is overcome with curosity and opens the door only to find the slain bodies of her husband's former wives. When her husband finds out, he tries to kill her, but she is saved by one of her brothers. FTP, name the husband and you'll name the fairy tale which was written by Perault and laid the basis for an opera by Bartok.
       Answer: Bluebeard (acc: Duke Bluebeard)
 




1998 South Carolina Invitational
Bonuses by Furman

1. Answer each of the following questions relating to stereochemistry 
for the stated number of points.
a. For five points, give the term that denotes compounds which are mirror image stereoisomers of each other.
	Answer: enantiomers
b. For ten points, give the term which denotes a mixture which is composed of an equal amount of each of a pair of enantiomers.
	Answer: racemic mixture
c. For fifteen points, give the term which describes a compound which has stereocenters but no net chirality due to the presence of internal symmetry.
	Answer: meso compound

2. Name the author from works, 30-20-10
30. "The Dover Road" and "Red House Mystery"
20. "Mr. Pim Passes By" and "When We Were Very Young"
10. "Now We Are Six" and "Winnie-the-Pooh"
	Answer: Alan Alexander Milne

3. For five points, this unanimous decision shot down an attempt of a state to tax the Second Bank of the United States, confirming the constitutionality of implied powers and strengthening the U.S Government.
	Answer: McCullough V. Maryland
FTP, This 1919 decision, also unanimous, declared that the First Amendment could be cutailed in a situation that would pose "clear and present danger" to the nation.
	Answer: Schenck V. U.S.
F15P, This 1877 decision held that states were allowed to regulate businesses when a public interest was involved. 
	Answer: Munn V. Illinois

4. For five points each, and a five point bonus for all correct, given the following martial arts, name the country of its origin.
a. kenpo					Answer: Japan
b. eastern kickboxing			Answer: Thailand
c. aikido					Answer: Japan
d. hapkido				Answer: Korea
e. capoera				Answer: Brazil

5. Identify the poem by its lines: 30-20-10-5.
30: "...But being spent, the worse and worst/Times still succeed the former."
20: "For, having lost but once your prime,/ you may forever tarry." 
10: "Then be not coy, but use your time..."
5:  "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may..."
	Answer: To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time (accept: To the Virgins) 

6. Answer each of the following questions about time, for the stated number of points.
a. For five points each, name the four time zones of the United States other than the Eastern, Central, Mountain, and Pacific.
	Answers: Atlantic, Alaska, Hawaii-Aleutian, Samoa
b. For ten points, what does the abbreviation UTC stand for (not the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga)
	Answer: Universal Time Coordinated

7. Name the man, 30-20-10
30. Born in England in 1792, he became a fellow of the Royal Society in 1816 and was active in the founding of the Analytical, the Royal Astronomical, and the Statistical Societies.
20. In 1832, he published "Economy of Machines and Manufactures" which initied the field of study known as operational reseach.
10. In 1820, he begin working of his Difference Engine, which he was never able to complete due to lack of funding, but which, when assembled in 1991 following his instructions, worked flawlessly.
	Answer: Charles Babbage

8. The nervous system relies on chemical couriers to communicate information between neurons; a few of these couriers have been known to affect certain aspects of behavior. Based on a description, name the chemical for the stated number of points.
a. For five points, this family of chemicals have been compared to drugs such as opium. They inhibit the release of a neurotransmitter that delivers pain signals to the brain and have been attributed to "runner's high".
	Answer: endorphins
FTP, this neurotransmitter is the only one that communicate between motor neurons and voluntary muscles. It is known to contribute to attention, arousal, and memory processes. An inadequate amount of it in the brain has been linked to Alzheimer's disease.
	Answer: Acetlycholine or ACH
F15P, this neurotransmitter appears to be responsible for many inhibitory functions in the central nervous system. Lowered levels of it has been known to cause anxiety and tranquilizers increase its activity.
	Answer: Gamma-ammino butyric acid or GABA

9. How well do you know your Arab dynasties? Time to find out. FFPE.
A. This dynasty's power peaked under Harun-Al Rashid. They were responsible for shifting the capital of the Caliphate from Damascus to Baghdad.
_Abbasid_
B. Founded by Saladin, this dynasty promoted a stron Orthodox and religious and educational policy. Their reign came to an end when the Mamelukes took over in 1249.
_Ayyubid_
C. This dynasty was given the boot by Saladin in 1171. During their reign, Egypt experienced economic and cultural vitality. The name of this dynasty comes from the daughter of Muhammed.
_Fatimid_
D. It was under this dynasty that the great Persian poet Firdawsi wrote the epic Shah Namah. Mahmud of Ghazni was thir greatest ruler. After his death, conflicts among his sons led to the crumbling of the empire.
_Ghaznavid_
E. Muhammed Ali massacred them in what is called the Auspicious Incident. They were a group of landholding aristocracy who replinished their ranks by adding military slaves. They overthrew the Ayyubid dynasty in 1250 and ruled until 1517 when the Ottomans came in. They hung around as a class until the nineteenth century.
_Mamelukes_
F. This dynasty was established in 661. They reached their greatest extent under al-Walid I. They were overthrown by the Abbasids. However, part of the dynasty remained, ruling over their Spanish possession of Cordoba.
_Umayyads_

10. Identify these architects who all worked on the reconstruction of  St. Peters Basilica, FTPE.
A. Considered one of the first men to whom the term "Renaissance man" can be applied, he began the planning for the remodeling  of the old St. Peter's Basilica. He dedicated the Italian edition of his "On Painting" to Bruelleschi.
Leon Battista _Alberti_
B. When Julius II ascended to the Papacy in 1503, he commissioned this man to begin construction of the new St. Peter's. Unfortunately, his death in 1514 made it difficult to get past the planning stage. 
Donato _Bramante_
C. This man enlarged the scale, modified the most of the interior details, and raised the drum for the dome. Most likely, this was not to make sure that his Pieta, which can be found in St. Peter's, could fit.
_Michelangelo_ Buonarotti

11. In 1879, a war broke out in South America between Chile and the allied armies of Peru and Bolivia. Answer the following questions about that dispute. 5-10-15
A. For five points, what was the name of that war? War of the _Pacific_
B. For ten points, at the end of the war, Chile got Bolivia's only coastal territory, loaded with nitrates.
_Atacama.
C. For 15 points, name the treaty which ended the war? treaty of _Valparaiso_

12. France has always had its share of Nobel laureates in literature, too many in fact. Show your well-roundedness and identify these nobel laureates who all share something in common--other than the fact that none of them is from France.
A. Most famous for his _The Great Weaver from Kasmir_, his finest novel is generally regarded to be Iceland's Bell. He won the nobel in 1955.
Halldor K. _Laxness_
B. His two most famous novels are _Bosnian Days_ and _Bridge on the Drina_. He won the nobel in 1961.
Ivo _Andric_
C. _The Men of Maize_ is generally believed to be his masterpiece. His novel _The President_ is a bitter endictment of then-president of Guatemala Manuel Cabrera. He won the nobel in 1967.
Miguel _Asturias_

13. 30-20-10. Name the desert.
30: It is a region of plateaus which is brken by hills and the Atlai mountains.
20: An ocean covered the area during the Permian Period, but that is long gone, disappearing about 100 million years ago.
10: It is the coldest desert and the northernmost.
_Gobi_

14. Given a religious text, identify to which religion each belongs.
A. Hadith					_Islam_
B. Avesta					_Zoroastrianism_
C. Nag Hammadi Papyri			_Gnosticism_

15. . FTP each, answer the following questions about famous names in superconductivity.
A. The BCS theory states that conduction electrons condense into a state where the pairs correlate between one another. What three scientists gave their name to the BCS theory?
	John _Bardeen_, Leon _Cooper_, and John _Schrieffer_
B. In 1933, a German physicist discovered that magnetic fields of less strength than the critical magnetic field are expelled from superconductors. Name him and you name this effect.
			Walter _Meissner_
C. This Dutchman is credited with discovering, in 1911, superconductivity.
			Heike _Kamerlingh Onnes_

16. Given the historical reference for a Shakespearean play, provide me with the title, FTP each.
A. Supposes by George Gascoigne		The Taming of the Shrew
B. Gl'ingannati by Anonymous		Twelfth Night
C. Diana Enamorada by Jorge de Montemayor	The Two Gentlemen of Verona

17. Identify these people all associated with business and economics.
A.  A founder of supply-side economics, he has a curve named after him which shows that Government revenue rises as tax rates are lowered.		Peter _Laffer_
B. This author of The Road to Serfdom shared the 1974 Nobel Prize in Economics with Gunnar Myrdal.	Friederich Von _Hayek_
C. This management guru and economist is author of The Changing World of the Executive.
		Peter _Drucker_

18. Love those Russian poets! FTP each identify:
A. The woman who, with her husband, Nikolai Gumilev, founded the poetic genre of acmeism.
			Anna _Akhmatova_ or Anna _Gorenko_
B. The author of "The Prisoner of the Caucasus".	Alexsandr _Pushkin_
C. The author, killed in a duel, of "A Hero of Our Time"	Mikhail _Lermontov_

19. Answer these related questions on famous chemists FTSNOP. 
10: This German organic chemist developed the theory of radicals. He became professor at the University of Giessen at the age of 23, and for the next 28 years the chemistry department there was famous throughout the world. His Annalen der Pharmacie became the preeminent chemistry journal in the world.
ANS: Justus _Liebig_
10: With Liebig, this man wrote a famous paper on the benzoyl radical. He is known for synthesizing urea.
ANS: Friedrich _Wohler_
5: This man, a student of Liebig's is famous for a dream which provided him the idea of the structure of benzene.
Friedrich August _Kekule_ von Stradonitz
5: A student of Kekule's, this man is famous for developing a flask which bears his name. He was professor at the Munich Polytechnic School
Richard _Erlenmeyer_

20. Supply the answers to these related questions about a Swiss sociologist.

A. This man was professor at the University of Stockholm and wrote _Asian Drama_ and _Challenge of World Poverty_.
ANS: Gunnar _Myrdal_
B. This work was Myrdal's most famous. It is a sociological study of black Americans. 
ANS:_An American Dilemma_: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy
C. This man was chief assistant to Myrdal when he was working on _An American Dilemma_. This was before he became under secretary general of the UN until his resignation in 1971. He won the 1950 nobel peace prize.
ANS: Ralphe _Bunche_
D. This psychologist participated in the study of the racial problem by Myrdal. In 1950, he proposed that segregation was impairing the development of both white and black students. He is the author of _Dark Ghetto_.
ANS: Kenneth _Clarke_
E. In 1974, Mydal shared the Nobel Prize in Economics with this man known for his work, _The Road to Serfdom_.
ANS: Friedrich August von _Hayek_
F. Myrdal's wife also won a Nobel. However, hers came in Peace and was conferred in 1982. She is remembered for her talks on disarmament.
_Alva_ Myrdal













