1998 South Carolina InvitationalTossups by Kentucky1. This novel's title is derived from a children's rhyme sung by the inhabitants of Shalimar, Virginia. In the novel, a search for his Aunt Pilate's hidden gold turns into a journey of self-discovery for Milkman Dead, who rediscovers his family heritage before his climatic fight with Guitar Bains, member of the Seven Days vigilante group. FTP, this is the plot of what 1977 novel by Toni Morrison?	Answer: Song of Solomon2. Enrico, the treacherous brother of this operatic title character, forces this woman to marry Arturo in an attempt to regain his family's fortune. However, she really loves Edgardo, and when Edgardo learns of her marriageto Arturo, he storms into the wedding hall and tears his ring from this woman's finger, prompting her madness and her subsequent murder of Arturo. FTP, name this heroine of a Donizetti opera.	Answer: Lucia di Lammermoor3. The failure of the Confederate army to follow up on this 1863 victory led to the resignation of General Braxton Bragg. The battle began at 9 AM with a heavy Confederate assault on the Union left flank, and continued until sundown. On the next day, September 20, Confederate reserves under James Longstreet broke the Union line, and only General George Thomas was able to withstand repeated attacks on the Union left, allowing the Army of the Cumberland to retreat to Chattonooga. FTP, identify this northern Georgia battle fought near its namesake creek.	Answer: Chickamauga4. This philosopher developed the theory of conceptualism, which held that both particular objects and universal forms were real, as a compromise to the opposing views of two of his teachers, Roscellinus and William of Champeaux. Persecuted as a heretic by Saint Bernard of Clairvaux because of his rationalistic approach to Church dogma, this theologian traveled to Rome in 1142 to seek relief from his harasser, but died on the way. FTP, name this author of "Sic et non" and "Historia calamitatum", the latter of which inspired his famous love affair with Heloise.	Answer: Pierre or Peter Abelard5. Leibniz said that this scientist "was a great man with all his faults; without them he would have been incomparable." A gambling addict, his "Book on Games of Chance" was the first serious treatise on probability theory. Known as a physician and astrologer who routinely carried on lively conversations with his guardian spirit, he was continually the center of controversies, including the publication of his book "In Praise of Nero" and the accusation of intellectual fraud by his fellow mathematician Tartaglia. FTP, name this scientist whose "Ars Magna" contained his solution to the general cubic equation.	Answer: Gerolamo Cardano6. This region has a population of 152,000, and is home to extensive tropical rain forests and offshore petroleum reserves. Malembo was developed as this exclave's deepwater port during the 1970s. It is bounded on the West by the Atlantic Ocean, on the north by Congo, and on the east and south by Zaire. FTP, name this isolated district of Angola.	Answer: Cabinda7. This novel's main character befriends Sebastian, a schoolmate at Oxford, and often visits Sebastian's family estate. He marries Celia, the sister of one of his friends, and spends the next ten years developing his skill as an architectural painter, until he falls in love with Sebastian's sister Julia Marchmain, who refuses to marry him because it would betray her Catholic beliefs. FTP, this is described in what novel subtitled "The Sacred and Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder", the most popular novel by Evelyn Waugh?	Answer: Brideshead Revisitied8. In 1850, this historian lost his chair of jurisprudence at the University of Leipzig due to his political beliefs. He later taught at the University of Berlin, where in 1873 he was elected perpetual secretary of the academy. During his time in Berlin he edited the Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum, a body of Latin inscriptions, and became widely acclaimed as the author of two books on history, "Roman Provinces", and its prequel, "Roman History". FTP, name this German, the winner of the 1902 Nobel Prize in Literature.	Answer: Theodor Mommson9. This device created in 1887 consisted of a central half-silvered mirror surrounded by a light source, two other mirrors, and an interferometer. It was designed to split a beam of light into two parts, one of which would continue in a straight path, with the other bent sideways, in order to determine if the ether thought necessary to transmit light was in motion with respect to the earth. FTP, name this apparatus named for the two scientists who rebuked the ether theory.	Answer: Michelson-Morley apparatus10. These people, who currently number around 250,000, believe in a supreme god, Engai, who blesses them with children and livestock. Cattle are the center of their culture, providing their food, clothing, and only recognizedform of wealth, and they are nomadic to provide grazing and water for their cattle. They roamed the Great Rift Valley of East Africa until the late 19th century, when European encroachment forced them onto land reserves. FTP, name this tribe currently living in Kenya and Tanzania.	Answer: Masai11. This native of Kharkiv, Ukraine, immigrated to the US in 1922 and subsequently taught economics at the University of Pennsylvania, Johns Hopkins, and Harvard. Author of "National Income and Its Composition", "Modern Economic Growth", and "Toward a Theory of Economic Growth", this empiricist developed the concept of the gross national product. FTP, name this recipient of the 1971 Nobel Prize in economics.	Answer: Simon Kuznets12. It would explain the high rotation rate of galaxies near the Milky Way and the existence of large galaxy clusters, and would validate the inflationary big bang theory. Candidates include neutrinos with mass, undetected brown dwarfs, black holes, and exotic subatomic particles whose properties preclude detection by observing electromagnetic radiation. FTP, name this theoretical non-luminous matter which could contain 90% of the universe's mass.	Answer: dark matter13. This 1969 novel, which contains some of the author's most inventive verbal games and experiments with time, consists of five parts, and describes the efforts of one of the protagonists to write his philosophical treatise "The Texture of Time". Set in the land of Amerussia on the planet Antiterra, this novel consists of the memoirs of Van Veen, with additional commentary by the title character, Veen's lover and sister. FTP, name this experimental work by Vladimir Nabokov.	Answer: Ada or Ardor: A Family Chronicle14. Alarmed by the large transfer of territories by the countries involved, other European countries forced this treaty to be replaced by the more moderate Treaty of Berlin. Signed on March 3, 1878, it recognized the independence of Serbia, Montenegro, Romania, and Bulgaria, forced Turkey to surrender the Ardahan, Batum and Bayazid areas, and gave Russia the right to occupy Bulgaria for two years. FTP, name this treaty which ended the Russo-Turkey War of 1877-78.	Answer: Treaty of San Stefano15. This artistic group was founded in Dresden in 1905, moved to Berlin in 1910, and disbanded in controversy 3 years later. Although most of the members of this group were not trained as artists, its members, including Fritz Bleyl, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, successfully expressed their vivid imaginations with harsh colors and distorted shapes, typified by the painting "Five Women in the Street" and in their woodcuts, a medium which they revived. FTP, what is the name of this expressionist group which symbolized the common interested linking its members?	Answer: Die Brucke (or the Bridge)16. This steel-gray metallic element has 14 radioactive isotopes, the most common and stable of which is 231, which is used in geochronology. Exhibiting a valence of +4 or +5, this member of group IIIB is the third member of the actinide series, and was discovered by the British chemists Frederick Soddy and John Cranston, and independently by Otto Hahn and Lise Meitner. FTP, name this radioactive element with atomic number 91.	Answer: Protactinium17. A graduate of Uppsala University, this man's scientific achievements include the invention of a system for moving large boats overland and machinery for working salt springs. In 1745 he underwent a transcendental experience and devoted himself to theology. He rejected original sin and atonement and proclaimed that God was forever manifest in Christ in the works "Arcana coelestia" and "Heaven and Hell". FTP, name this Swedish theologian whose teachings led to the formation of the Church of the New Jerusalem.	Answer: Emanuel Swedenborg (accept: Swedborg)18. This social historian was educated at the Universities of Heidelberg, Berlin, and Gottingen, and later edited the "Archive for Social Science and Social Politics". An opponent of the Marxist theory of economic determinism, he attempted to show that religious ideas strongly influenced the development of capitalism in the three-volume work "The Religions of the East". FTP, name this author of "The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism."	Answer: Max Weber19. This French physicist and military engineer was the son of Lazare, a leader of the French Revolution known as the Organizer of Victory. During his short life he discovered that heat cannot pass from a colder body to awarmer body, and that the efficiency of an engine depends upon the amount of heat it is able to utilize, a discovery which is the basis of the second law of thermodynamics. FTP, name this scientist who described a perfect enginewhich is now named after him.	Answer: Nicolas Leonard Sadi-Carnot20. His employer, the Master of Chancery of the state of New York, described him as "Pallidly neat, pitiably respectable, incurably forlorn." Alone in the world, this co-worker of Turkey, Nippers, and Ginger Nut spent all ofhis time in his employer's office copying large quantities of law documents, ut when asked to perform any of the other usual law-copyist duties, replied "I would prefer not to." FTP, identify this title character of a Melvilleshort story.	Answer: Bartleby the ScrivenerThis river, ice-free for 8 months of the year, has as major tributaries the Berezina and Desna rivers. Once known as the Borysthenes, it rises in the Valday Hills, flows in a southerly direction past the Pripyat' Marshes, and empties into the Black Sea. With a length of 1,420 miles, it is surpassed among European rivers by only the Volga and Danube. FTP, name this important traffic artery of Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine.	Answer: Dnieper1998 South Carolina InvitationalBonuses by Kentucky1. 1. FTPE, identify these key developments in the history of the internet.A. In 1962, this experimental 4-computer network was established by the Department of Defense so that research scientists could communicate. It was officially disbanded in 1990.	Answer: ARPAnetB. In the late 80s this public network used mainly by computer science graduates and university professors was launched. It was expanded in 1991and renamed the National Research and Educational Network.	Answer: NSFnet or National Science Foundation netC. In 1993, the National Center for Supercomputer Applications released this first graphical web browser.	Answer: mosaic2. F5PE and a 5 point bonus for all 5, name these American novels from protagonists.A. Alexandra Bergson			Answer: O PioneersB. Edna Pontellier				Answer: The AwakeningC. Antonapoulos and Mr. Singer		Answer: The Heart is a Lonely HunterD. Scout Finch				Answer: To Kill a MockingbirdE. Jenny Brown and David Scott		Answer: Ship of Fools3. FTPE, identify the following editions of a famous series of Bibles.A. Published in 1535, this was the first complete English Bible to be printed. It is named for its publisher and translator, who drew heavily from Latin and German sources.	Answer: Coverdale BibleB. This 1539 revision of Coverdale's Bible was made at the request of Thomas Cromwell. Its name comes from its size of 10 by 15 inches.	Answer: Great BibleC. This name is given to the Great Bible published a year later in 1540. It contains a prologue by the Archbishop for whom it is named.	Answer: Cranmer Bible4. Identify these Latin American revolutionaries FTPE.A. This former slave, known as "the Precursor", liberated the Haitians from French control in 1801 and declared himself president for life of the new republic.	Answer: Francois Dominique Toussaint L'OvertureB. This general defeated the Spanish forces at Pichincha in 1822, freeing Quito from Spanish rule, and from 1823-25 served with Bolivar in Peru, where he won the Battle of Ayacucho, securing Peruvian independence.	Answer: Antonio Jose de SucreC. This general originally fought in the Spanish army, but sympathized with the cause of Spain's colonies so much that he returned to his home of Argentina and established a revolutionary army. After winning the decisive Battle of Maipu in 1818, he established a nationalist government in Chile, but refused the presidency in favor of his lieutenant Bernardo O'Higgins.	Answer: Jose de San Martin5. FTPE, name the described works by Jon Dryden.A. This political satire attacks Puritan attempts to exclude the duke of York from the throne of England because of his Catholicism, and describes the efforts of the earl of Shaftsbury to incite Charles II's illegitimate son to rebellion.	Answer: Absalom and AchitophelB. This satirical poem was directed against Thomas Shadwell, who was to succeed Dryden as poet laureate. The title refers to an Irish priest renowned for his bad verse.	Answer: MacFlecknoeC. This blank verse tragedy describes the last day on earth of Antony and Cleopatra.	Answer: All For Love, or The World Well Lost6. Given a king of France, identify the house to which he belonged, FTPE.A. Louis-Phillippe		Answer: OrleansB. Henry IV of Navarre		Answer: BourbonC. John II the Good		Answer: Valois7. How much do you know about organic compounds? Let's find out. Name the following FTPE.A. These are substitutes for hydrogen in an alkane which determine many of the chemical properties of compounds. Examples include the chlorine atom in ethyl chloride, the CH group in alcohol, and the NH2 group in ethyl amine.	Answer: Functional groupsB. When four different groups of atoms are attached to a central carbon atom, 2 different molecules can be constructed in space, molecules which are related in the same way that an object and its mirror image are related. Name these dual compounds, an example of which is dextro and levolactic acid.	Answer: Optical isomersC. Double bonds in carbon compounds give rise to these isomers if each double bond has different groups attached. An example is 2-heptene, which may be arranged two ways in space because rotation about the double bond is restricted.	Answer: Geometric isomers8. 30-20-10, name the composer from works.A. The sacred anthem "My Heart Is Inditing" and a masque adapted from "A Midsummer Night's Dream"B. The dramatic works "Dioclesian", "King Arthur", "The Fairy Queen", and "The Indian Queen"C. the opera "Dido and Aeneas"	Answer: Henry Purcell9. FTPE, identify these major women in the history of math.A. This 18th century Italian is considered to be the first woman in the Western world to gain a reputation in mathematics. Her famous work "Analytical Institutions for the Use of Italian Youth" contains reference to the versed sine curve with which she is most often associated.	Answer: Maria Gaetana AgnesiB. This 20th century abstract algebraist developed a general theory for ideal rings, and built up a unified theory of non-commutative algebras, as discussed in her papers "Concerning Moduli in Non-Commutative Fields" and "Hypercomplex Number Systems and Their Representation".	Answer: (Amalie) Emmy NoetherC. This head of the Alexandrian Neoplatonist school during the early 5th century is considered to be the first notable woman in mathematics. Author of commentaries on Diophantus' "Arithmetica" and the "Conics" of Apollonius, she was murdered in 415 by a mob of monks, who dragged her into the street and scrapped the skin off of her body with seashells due to her friendship with Alexandria's pagan prefect.	Answer: Hypatia10. FTPE, name these famous Supreme Court cases.A. In 1819, the Court ruled that a state could not arbitrarily alter the terms of a college's contract.	Answer: Trustees of Dartmouth College v. WoodwardB. In 1925, the Court ruled that the 1st amendment prohibition against government abridgment of the freedom of speech applied to the states, thus ruling that the 14th amendment extended to the states.	Answer: Gitlow v. New YorkC. In 1961, the Court ruled that evidence obtained in violation of the 4th amendment guarantee against unreasonable search and seizure must be excluded for use at state as well as federal trials.	Answer: Mapp v. Ohio11. FTPE, identify these prominent modern Japanese novelists.A. This Nobel Laureate penned the science fiction best-seller "The Treatment Tower", as well as "The Silent Cry", "The Catch", and "The Floodwaters Have Come in Unto My Soul."	Answer: Oe KenzaburoB. This novelist authored "The Sea of Fertility", "The Temple of the Golden Pavilion", and "The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea". His ritualistic suicide in 1970 is considered his final protest against thesterility of modern Japanese society.	Answer: Mishima Yukio or Kimitake HiraokaC. This novelist, the first Japanese writer to win a Nobel Prize, explored the themes of loneliness and the outer fringes of sexuality in such works as "Snow Country", "Thousand Cranes", and "The Sound of the Mountain".	Answer: Kawabata Yasunari12. Given a National Park, identify the state in which it can be found, F5PE and 5 points for all five.A. Wind Cave			Answer: South Dakota (SD)B. Zion				Answer: Utah (UT)C. Kenai Fjords			Answer: Alaska or (AK)D. Crater Lake			Answer: Oregon (OR)E. Dry Tortugas			Answer: Florida (FL) 13. March Madness is in full swing, and for some teams March was really maddening. In fact, eight teams seeded 10th or lower made it to the second round. FFPE, can you name six.	Answer: Western Michigan University, West Virginia University, Florida St., Valparaiso, University of 		Richmond, University of Washington, University of Detroit, University of St. Louis14. Identify these people and events from German history, 5-10-15.A. This group of German socialists led an uprising in January 1919 against the moderate German republic. F5P, name this group which took its name from the leader of a great slave revolt in ancient Rome.	Answer: SparticistsB. FTP, this leader of the Sparticists, author of "The Accumulation of Capital", was murdered by government troops on January 15 along with her co-conspirator, Karl Liebknecht.	Answer: Rosa LuxemburgC. F15P, the uprising sought to unseat this first leader of the Weimar Republic.	Answer: Friedrich Ebert15. FTPE, identify these parts of the human nose.A. The margins of the nostrils are lined with these stiff hairs that project across the openings and arrest the passage of foreign substances such as dust and small insects.	Answer: vibrissaeB. The internal portion of the nose consists of these two principle cavities, which are separated by a vertical septum and subdivided by spongy bones that project from the outer wall.	Answer: nasal fossaeC. The nasal fossae are subdivided into three of these passages with which sinuses in the ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, and superior maxillary bones communicate by narrow apertures.	Answer: meatuses16. FTPE, answer these questions about the Punic Wars.A. In 260 BCE, the first large naval fleet ever built by the Romans defeated the Carthaginian fleet near this town off the coast of northern Sicily, allowing Rome to take over Corsica.	Answer: MylaeB. In 207 BCE, this brother of Hannibal crossed the Alps with an army intending to join Hannibal's army in southern Italy, but was waylaid at the Metaurus River, where he was killed and his army was routed.	Answer: HasdrubalC. The Second Punic War was effectively ended by Hannibal's defeat at this site in northern Africa at the hands of Scipio Africanus the Elder in 202 BCE.	Answer: Zama17. FTPE, give the requested information concerning a certain filmmaker.A. First, name the Austrian-American silent film director of "Blind Husbands", "The Devil's Pass Key", and "Foolish Wives", known for producing ultra-realistic movies which were extremely long and over-budget.	Answer: Erich von StroheimB. This 1925 film, now considered von Stroheim's masterpiece, was originally a flop at the theaters. It depicts the corrupting influence of unearned money on its three main characters.	Answer: GreedC. Greed was based on this 1899 naturalistic novel by Frank Norris.	Answer: McTeague18. FTPE, identify these figures of speech.A. This is the insertion of an extra word or words in the middle of a word or phrase. Name it for ten bloody points.	Answer: TmesisB. In this figure of speech from the Greek for "to put in", an extra syllable is added to the pronunciation of a word.	Answer: EpenthesisC. This figure of speech is the opposite of hyperbole, and occurs when someone makes a negative understatement. An example occurs when someone says that a brilliant idea is "not bad".	Answer: Litotes19. FTPE, identify these terms from astronomy.A. In contrast to conjunction in celestial longitude, two bodies are said to be in conjunction in this if they are North and South of each other with respect to the North celestial pole.	Answer: right ascensionB. This term refers to the arrangement where the coordinates of two bodies differ by exactly ninety degrees.	Answer: quadratureC. This is the term for the geocentric angular separation between the sun and another celestial body.	Answer: elongation20. Given works, name these philosophers who influenced existentialism, F15PE.A. "Man and the Modern World", "The Future of Mankind", "The Great Philosophers"	Answer: Karl JaspersB. "Logical Inquiries", "Thoughts Toward a Pure Phenomenology and Phenomenological Philosophy"	Answer: Edmund Husserl21. 30-20-10, name the scientist.A. 30: This physicist served as Galilio's secretary from 1641-42, then succeeded him as professor of philosophy and mathematics at the Florentine Academy.B. 20: He stirred controversy with one of his experiments, in which a beaker of water was filled, then turned on end. When the level of the water was lowered, he theorized that a vacuum was created in the tube, which contradicted the current Aristotelian view of a vacuum's impossibility.C. 10: A unit of atmospheric pressure is named for this inventor of the barometer.Evangelista _Torricelli_ 