Questions on the Crum 1998Tossups by Penn Big Gay Al1.  Sometimes genius does run in the family.  In 1904, the grandfather discovered the effect of pH on oxygen uptake by hemoglobin in red blood cells.  In 1975, the grandson won a Nobel Prize for his collective motion theory of the atomic nucleus.  In between, the son discovered the quantized nature of energy emitted when the  electron of a hydrogen atom is in an excited state, and he won his own Nobel.  For ten points, give the common surname of  Christian, Aage, and Niels.	Answer BOHR2.  The West German government officially declared him dead in 1973, 27 years after he was tried in absentia and sentenced to die at Nuremberg.   He became Nazi Party Chief of Staff in 1933 and took over Rudolf Hess's  duties when Hess parachuted into Scotland in 1941.  For ten points, name this war criminal who died in Hitler's Berlin bunker.	Answer: Martin BORMANN 3. This poem's preface quotes Plato's Epigram on Aster and blames a bad review in the English literary journal Quarterly Review for depressing its subject and bursting a blood vessel in his lungs.  In 55 allegorical Spencerian stanzas, the author mourns his friend and fellow poet who died of consumption in Italy.  For ten points, name this elegy for John Keats by Percy Shelley.	Answer: ADONAIS: An Elegy on the Death of John Keats4. Today this city consists of an old section built in the middle ages and a new section built after the Russian conquest in the 19th century.  Before Alexander the Great captured it in 329 B.C., it was called Maracanda and was the capital of the Persian province of Sogdiana.  Today it is the second-largest city in Uzbekistan.  For ten points, name this ancient city, the capital of Tamerlane's empire.	Answer: SAMARKAND 5.  He was the last apostle to die and the only one to die of natural causes.  According to tradition, he traveled as a missionary to Syria and to India, where a king gave him money to build a palace, but where he used the money to help the poor.  His name means twin in both Aramaic and Greek, and he explicitly recognized Christ's divinity only after Christ appeared to him and he touched Christ's wounds.  For ten points, name this apostle whose name forms half of an epithet for excessive skepticism.	Answer: Saint THOMAS  6.  Jean-Claude Gayssot, the Communist transport minister, wants the government to retain control, but the government plans to sell off twenty percent of this company in June.  Twenty percent, however, is too little for Christian Blanc, its former Chairman of the Board who resigned in protest after pushing for full privatization.  For ten points, name this airline, Air Inter's international counterpart.	Answer: AIR FRANCE7.  In 1935, he became England's Minister to the League of Nations and then Foreign Secretary, but he resigned in 1938 because he disagreed with Chamberlain's policy of appeasement.  In 1940, however, he joined Churchill's emergency government as Secretary of War and then as Foreign Secretary and leader of Parliament. For ten points, name this son-in-law of Churchill who resigned as prime minister after the 1956 Suez Crisis.	Answer: Anthony EDEN8.  It lived about 150 million years ago.  It lacked a keeled sternum for pectoral muscle attachment, but it did have elongated digits.  This suggested it had wings, but only the discovery of a fossil with the imprint of feathers confirmed this.  For ten points, name this evolutionary link between reptiles and birds.	Answer: ARCHEOPTERYX9. With Amedee Ozenfant, he founded the journal The New Spirit and wrote many articles that defended his functionalist theories of architecture.  His early designs were private homes that he called "machines to be lived  in," including Savoye (sav-wa) House, but his most famous works include the  Palace for the League of Nations and the High Court Buildings in Chandigahr, India.  For ten points, name this French architect born Charles Edouard Jeanneret.	Answer: LE CORBUSIER (Accept Jeanneret on an early buzz)10.  "I have received your new book against the human race, and thank you for it.  Never was such a cleverness used in the design of making us all stupid."  That bitter critique by Voltaire was a response to this treatise on government by his rival, the musician-turned-philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau.  For ten points, name this 1762 work by Rousseau that begins "Man is born free, yet everywhere he is in chains."	Answer: THE SOCIAL CONTRACT11.  When Joe DiMaggio heard it, he threatened to sue Paul Simon until Simon assured him that he used the Yankee's name as a symbol of goodness. When Mickey Mantle listened to this song he asked Simon why he used Joe DiMaggio's name instead of his, and Simon answered that it was a matter of syllables, not favoritism.  For ten points, here's to you if you can name this song sung by Simon and Garfunkel about a character played by Anne Bancroft in The Graduate.	Answer: MRS. ROBINSON12.  He committed suicide when his mother died from tuberculosis.  One of his popular characters, Solomon Cain, first appeared in the magazine Weird Tales, but he is most famous for a series of pulp novels about one particular character, a barbarian descendent of Kull.  For ten points, name this creator of Conan the Barbarian.	Answer: Robert E. HOWARD13.  Icelandic Annals say it was discovered in 1194, and its name means "cold coast." Once a base for expeditions to the North Pole, today it is a coal mining region.  For ten points, name this archipelago that includes Northeast Land and Spitsbergen whose resource rights are occasionally disputed between Norway and Russia.	Answer: SVALBARD14.  Against an army of 250,000 men, Alexander attacked the Persian left flank with 40,000 soldiers.  This did little immediate damage, but it drew the Persian cavalry to the left flank and exposed the Persian infantry.  Alexander then led a cavalry charge into the Persian infantry, broke their ranks, and attacked the Persian rear.  For ten points, name this October 1, 331 B.C. battle in which the Persians suffered 40,000 to 90,000 casualties while the Macedonians suffered fewer than 500.	Answer: Battle of ARBELA or GAUGAMELA 15. One correct answer is that he is a Scottish novelist who moved to Canada in 1825 and wrote a book about Scottish settlers in Canada called Lawrie Todd and a biography of his friend, Lord Byron.  However, the more famous answer is "I am the first man of ability who refused to do penance for my virtues or let them be used as the tools of my destruction."  For ten points, what is this four word question that begins Ayn Rand's novel, Atlas Shrugged?	Answer: WHO IS JOHN GALT? (Prompt before "this four word question" on Galt or John Galt)16.  Marie Perey discovered it in 1939 at the Curie Laboratory in Paris.  It forms when Actinium disintegrates, and its longest-lived isotope has a half-life of 22 minutes.  For ten points, name this element with atomic number 87, the heaviest of the alkali metals and the most electropositive element.	Answer: FRANCIUM17. In the 1920s, he worked as an artist and a teacher until he met Anna Freud, who encouraged him to study psychoanalysis.  He immigrated to the US in 1933, where he worked at Harvard Medical School and then Yale University.  He won a National Book Award abd a Pulitzer Prize for his book Gandhi's Truth, but his most famous work was his first, Childhood and Society.  FTP, name this psychologist who developed the concept of the identity crisis.	Answer: Erik ERIKSON18.  In 1164, the Archbishop of Canterbury first agreed to them, but then repudiated them and fled to France.  They limited the temporal authority of the church and gave royal courts authority over ecclesiastical ones.  For ten points, name this set of 16 articles that Henry I presented to Thomas a Becket and his bishops in the English town for which they are named.	Answer: CONSTITUTIONS OF CLARENDON19..  In France, it became popular in the 16th century in the work of Pierre de Ronsard and Alexander Pope mocks it in Part II of his Essay on Criticism.  A series of 12th century French Romances about Alexander the Great written in this verse form gave it its name.  For ten points, identify this verse form, a line of 12 syllables in 6 iambic feet.	Answer: ALEXANDRINE 20. He studied under Rimsky-Korsakov and Max Bruch before becoming professor of composition at St. Cecilia Academy in Rome. He is famous for some of his operas including Lucrezia, Semirama, and Belfagor. However, his orchestral pieces concerning the place where he lived most of his life and died. FTP, name this composer of The Pines of Rome and The Fountains of Rome.	Answer: Ottorino RespighiQuestions on the Crum VII, 1998Boni by Penn Big Gay Al1.  30-20-10.  Name the author from works.30) A Burnt out Case ; The Comedians20) Brighton Rock ; The End of the Affair10) The Heart of the Matter ; The Power and the Glory	Answer: Graham GREENE2.  Name these parts of the brain for ten points apiece.a) This part rests behind the eyes and above the pituitary gland.  It regulates body temperature and receives nerve inputs from erogenous zones, viscera, and the limbic system.Answer: HYPOTHALAMUSb) This is the site of decussation of the left and right portions of the second cranial nerve before they enter the brain.  Answer: OPTIC CHIASMAc) This large commissure connects the two cerebral hemispheres.  Doctors sometimes sever it to treat severe epilepsy.Answer: CORPUS CALLOSUM3.  Everyone knows ancient Romans from what the history books say they did. But, for ten points apiece, name these figures in Roman history from their adventures with Xena the Warrior Princess!a) Years before Xena met Gabrielle, she fell for this famous Roman who she kidnapped, made love to, and ransomed to Rome. Later he ambushed her pirate ship and crucified her, but a sensual Gallic slave chick Xena and taught her fighting skills to use against Rome.  Answer: Gaius Julius CAESARb) Xena met this Roman when he squabbled with Julius Caesar over who could build a new aqueduct.  At a banquet he asked Xena to assassinate Caesar and flirtatiously told her "I like you," to which Xena answered with Warrior Princess machismo "I'm not a likable person." Answer: Gnaeus POMPEIUS Magnus or POMPEY the Greatc) Still pissed at Caesar, Xena traveled to Britannia to help this woman resist his invasion.  The warrior women held their own against the Roman legions until Xena left the front to save Gabrielle from the fiery talons of the evil god Dahak!Answer: BOADECIA  or BOUDICCA4.  Now, time for a real Roman history bonus.  The last bonus mentioned Julius Caesar and Pompey the Great.a) For five points, name the third member of the First Triumvirate.Answer: Marcus Licinius CRASSUSb) Now for ten points, tell me in what battle did Caesar defeat Pompey on August 9, 48 B.C. Answer: PHARSALUSc) Now, for a final five points apiece, name the three members of Rome's Second Triumvirate.Answer: Marcus Aemiius LEPIDUS ; Marc ANTONY (Accept Marc ANTHONY or Marcus ANTONIUS) ; Gaius OCTAVIUS (Accept Gaius Julius Caesar OCTAVIAN or OCTAVIANUS)5.  5-10-15.  Name these German politicians.5 pts) This Christian Democrat was elected Chancellor in 1982 and has won reelection three times.Answer: Helmut KOHL10 pts) This Social Democrat just won reelection to the premiership of Lower Saxony and is expected to challenge Kohl in this year's elections.Answer: Gerhard SCHROEDER15 pts) This Social Democrat, the party chairman, ran against Kohl in 1990, but is now expected to let Schršder lead his part in the fall.Answer: Oskar LAFONTAINE6.  Name these cell organelles for ten points apiece.a) Biologists believe these organelles are primordially engulfed bacteria which explains their double membrane.  They are the site of the Krebs cycle and oxidative phosphorylation.Answer: MITOCHONDRIAb) These low pH organelles receive hydrolytic enzymes tagged with a molecule of mannose 6 phosphate.  They digest nutrients and broken-down organelles.Answer: LYSOSOMESc) Initial N-linked glycosylation of a protein to a high mannose form occurs in the lumen of this organelle with the help of catalysis by the enzyme oligosaccharyl transferase.Answer: ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM7. For ten points apiece, identify these Symbolist painters from works.a) The Sick Child ; Between Clock and BedAnswer: Edvard MUNCHb) Apparition ; Oedipus and the SphinxAnswer: Gustave MOREAUc) The Eye Like a Strange Balloon Mounts Toward Infinity ; OrpheusAnswer: Odilon REDON8.  For ten points apiece, identify these works by Yukio Mishima.a) This is Mishima's first novel.  In it, a young man in post-war Japan learns to accept his homosexuality.Answer: CONFESSIONS OF A MASKb) This 1956 novel tells the story of a young acolyte who burns down the temple in which he lives because he is so overwhelmed by its beauty.Answer: THE TEMPLE OF THE GOLDEN PAVILIONc) This four volume epic about Japan's transformation into a modern but sterile society consists of Spring Snow, Runaway Horses, The Temple of Dawn, and The Decay of the Angel.Answer: THE SEA OF FERTILITY9.  Name these Christian heresies for ten points apiece.a) A priest of Alexandria proposed this eponymous heresy that the Council of Nicea condemned.  It says that God is divine because he has always existed, but Christ was born like man, so he is not divine.Answer: ARIANISM or the ARIAN heresyb) The Council of Ephesus declared this doctrine of the Archbishop of Constantinople a heresy.  It argues that Christ's divine and human natures acted together but did not join in the unity of a single individual.Answer: NESTORIANISM or the NESTORIAN heresyc) This heresy claims that Christ has only a divine nature.  In the 6th century, its followers split into three factions including the Tritheists who the other two factions expelled for heresy.Answer: EUTYCHIANISM or MONOPHYSITISM or the MONOPHYSITE heresy10. 5-10-15.  Name these French Premiers.a) He was educated as a doctor and worked in Connecticut during the American Civil War as a French news correspondent.  He served as premier from 1906 to 1909 and from 1917 to 1920 during which time he helped write the Treaty of Versailles.Answer: Georges CLEMENCEAUb) He worked as a history teacher until he entered politics in 1924.  He was elected premiere three times, but his second government lasted only eleven days.  In his final term, he negotiated the Munich Pact with Hitler, Mussolini, and Chamberlain.Answer: Eduard DALADIERc) He served as premiere from March to June 1940 and opposed appeasement of German aggression.  When Hitler invaded France, he resigned and was imprisoned.  In 1958 he led the commission that drafted the Constitution of the Fifth Republic.Answer: Paul REYNAUD11.  Answer these questions about Malaysia for the stated number of points.5 pts) What is Malaysia's capital?Answer: KUALA LUMPUR10 pts) Who is the current Prime Minister of Malaysia?Answer: Mahatir MOHAMED5 pts) Within one, how many states make up Malaysia?Answer: 13 (Accept between 12 and 14)10 possible pts) For five points apiece, name any two of the 13 Malay states.Answer: SELANGOR, PERAK, PERLIS, TERENGGANU, KEDAH, KELANTAN, MALACCA, NEGERI SEMBILAN, JOHORE, PAHANG, SARAWAK, SABAH, PENANG12. 30-20-10.  Name the man.30) In 1952, he built the first computer that used a flexible stored program, MANIAC I.20) He contributed to quantum mechanics the mathematical concept of "rings of operators." 10) With economist Oskar Morgenstern, he wrote "Theory of Games and Economic Behavior"Answer: John von NEUMANN13.  For ten points apiece, name these works by Beethoven.a) Josef Sonleither wrote the libretto to this opera, whose characters include Florestan, Leonora, and Marcellina.Answer: FIDELIOb) A music critic named Rellstab gave this 1801 sonata its popular nickname when he said it reminded him of visiting Lake Lucerne at night.Answer: MOONLIGHT SONATA or SONATA QUASI UNA FANTASIA Opus 27, No. 2c) Beethoven called this 1823 work his "biggest and most perfect achievement." He composed it for his friend Archduke Rudolphe but sold it to several princes and publishers at the same time to make more money.Answer: MISSA SOLEMNIS in D (opus 123)14.  30-20-10.  Name the man.30) Feminist poet Robin Morgan wrote a poem suggesting that he be dismembered.20) Both his wife and the woman he left her for, Assia Wevill, committed suicide by putting their heads in gas ovens.10) His newest collection of poetry, Birthday Letters, defends his relationship with Sylvia Plath.Answer: Ted HUGHES15. 5-10-15.  Answer these questions about radioactivity.5 pts) What is the standard unit of measurement for radioactivity, the amount of a substance in which 37 billion atoms per second undergo radioactive disintegration?Answer: CURIE10 pts) What French physicist discovered radiation in 1896?Answer: Henri BECQUEREL15 pts) After it emits an alpha particle, what will the atomic number and atomic mass be of an atom with original atomic number 32 and original atomic mass 64?Answer: Atomic number 30 and atomic mass 6016) 5-10-15.  Name these children of King Priam.5 pts) Apollo taught this daughter of Priam the art of prophecy, but when she refused his advances, the god ordained that no one would ever believe her prophecies.Answer: CASSANDRA10 pts) Odysseus captured this Trojan seer who revealed how the Greeks could take Troy.  After the war, he founded the city of Buthrotum and later prophesied to Aeneas the founding of Rome.Answer: HELENUS15) When Troy fell, Achilles' son Neoptolemus sacrificed this daughter of Priam and Hecuba on Achilles' grave like the ghost of his father demanded.Answer: POLYXENA17) For ten points apiece, answer these questions about the Flying Circus...the fighter squadron, not the comedy troupe.a) What German pilot nicknamed the Red Baron led the Flying Circus until April 1918?Answer: Manfred von RICHTHOFENb) What Canadian ace flying for the British shot down Richthofen on April 21?Answer: A.R. BROWNc) When Richthofen died, what 25 year old pilot replaced him as squadron leader?Answer: Hermann GOERING18.  For ten points apiece, name these Pulitzer Prize-winning plays from their authors and the year they won the Pulitzer.a) Archibald MacLeish, 1959		Answer: J.B.b) Edward Albee, 1967			Answer: A DELICATE BALANCEc) Robert Schenkkan, 1992			Answer: THE KENTUCKY CYCLE19.  Identify these math terms for ten points apiece.a) This is the neighborhood of a given radius around a point, not including those points at the length of the radius.Answer: OPEN BALL (Prompt on only Ball)b) This is a set of elements and an operation such that the set is closed on that operation, the operation is associative, there is an identity, and every element has an inverse.Answer: GROUPc) The deformation of a shape in space changing it to another shape without ever cutting and rejoining the shape.Answer: ISOTOPY20.  For ten points apiece, name the ruling family or dynasties of these countries in 200 B.C.a) Egypt			Answer: PTOLEMAIC (Accept reasonable equivalents)b) China			Answer: HANc) Syria			Answer: ANTIGONID