Questions by Devang Parekh and editors-round 31. The first kind results from storage of electrons ejected by Potassium-40 gamma radiation in lattice defects. The second type results from breaking certain bonds, creating free bonds which absorb and ionize nitrogen. Materials displaying it include fluorite and sphalerite (pron. SSFA-ler-ite), and maple syrup sucrose produces an especially strong effect. Commonly seen in wintergreen lifesavers, FTP name this property of some materials that become luminous upon being scratched or crushed.      Ans: triboluminescence2. Ginger/IT was rumored to be one of these items, which can be prototyped with coffee cups or test tubes. The Schmidt theory is a simple isothermal method for calculating its performance. Since no combustion or explosions take place inside the cylinders, it is very quiet. It does not expend burned fuel, so its theoretical efficiency approaches the Carnot efficiency. FTP, name this heat engine invented by the Scottish Reverend Robert.      Ans: Stirling engine3. The Laplace transform of this function is s over 1 plus s squared, and its Fourier transform is one-half times the sum of two Dirac delta functions. It's the sum from n equals zero to infinity of minus one to the n times x to the 2n over 2n factorial. The Fourier representation of any even, periodic function is a series in this function, which is the real part of e to the ix. FTP, name this ratio of the adjacent side over the hypotenuse.      Ans: cosine (accept cos, cosine x, cosine theta, etc.)4. The Ekman number is the ratio of viscous forces to it, while the Rossby number is the ratio of inertia force to it. It must be equal to the pressure gradient force for geostrophic flow. In plane polar coordinates it is given by two times the mass times the rate of change of theta times the rate of change of r. On Earth, it produces a horizontal deflection of falling masses, and the precession of Foucalt's pendulum. FTP, name this apparent force which rotates hurricanes but doesn't do much to your toilet.      Ans: Coriolis effect or force5. In plants, it serves as an intermediate for ethylene production, tricarbon molecules for the Calvin cycle, and a source of sulfur for cysteine (pron. SIS-teen) and disulfur bridges. Its terminal methyl group is essential for DNA methylation processes in all organisms, while its breakdown in humans produces succinyl-CoA (pron. SUCKS-in-ill coh-ay). In proteins however, it is more rare, perhaps because of a better-known function. FTP, name this amino acid, encoded by the codon AUG, the start codon of protein translation.	Ans: methionine6. The Kleinmann-Low nebula and the Becklin-Neugebauer (pron. BECK-lin NOO-geh-bow-er) object are found in the molecular cloud associated with it. At a distance of 1500 light years, it is the closest star-forming region. Powered by the central Trapezium cluster, it is also known as M42. Sometimes called "the jewel in the sword," FTP name this famous emission nebula that lies south of the belt of a winter constellation.      Ans: Orion nebula or Great nebula in Orion7. The exception to the rule occurs under conditions where free radicals or peroxides are present, disrupting the normal course of the reaction. It was first observed during the addition of hydrogen bromide to alkenes, but it has also been observed during acid-catalyzed hydration. The acid proton attaches itself to the sp2 carbon containing the most hydrogens by, FTP, what rule named for its Russian discoverer?      Ans: Markonikov's rule8. An example of the relic problem in cosmology, Blas Cabrera reported detecting one in 1982, but was not substantiated. Its charge is a multiple of 68.5 esu, and it has a mass-energy of at most 1026 electron volts. Dirac showed that its existence could explain quantization of electric charge, and its experimental absence results in one of Maxwell's Equations. Magnetic fields are divergence-free in the absence of, FTP, what free magnetic charge?      Ans: magnetic monopole9. If x(t)=2t for all t was the input or output of a system this type of stability would not hold.  However, if the input is x(t)=1 and the output is y(t)=2 for all t then it does hold. FTP, name this stability that requires both the input and output of a circuit network to be less than a constant for all t.      Ans: BIBO or Bounded-Input, Bounded-Output stability10. They often secrete enzymes on which they feed; when two of these combine from different parents, the structure is called a dikaryon (pron. die-CARE-ee-on). They are often incompletely separated by means of septa and sometimes form a large mass called a mycelium (pron. my-SEE-lee-um). FTP, name these thin, branched, tubular filaments that make up fungi.	Ans: hypha or hyphae11. Produced by lithification of mud, it can be metamorphosed to hornfels, slate, or gneiss. It splits easily across thin bedding planes, and with mudstone and siltstone it makes up nearly 75% of all sedimentary rocks. They can contain abundant diagenetically altered organic matter, which can sometimes be distilled by heating to yield oil. FTP, name this sedimentary rock which makes up the Burgess formation in the Canadian Rockies.	Ans: shale12. Formed from tetrapyrroles, bacterial subtypes may contain geranyl-geranyl side chains instead of phytyl side chains. Carotenoids, phyco-cyanins, and phyco-ery-thrins handle color spectra that this molecule cannot absorb. Consisting of a porphyrin ring surrounding a central magnesium atom, this is FTP, what class of green pigments essential to photosynthesis?	Ans: chlorophyll13. At this man's condensation temperature, the number of atoms in excited states is equal to the total number of atoms, and below it the ground state occupancy is macroscopic. Debye improved on his early theory of heat capacity, which assumed a single vibrational frequency in solids. He was the first to understand that the probabilities for stimulated emission and absorption are the same for a given transition. FTP, name the man who postulated that light behaves like particles in a paper on the photoelectric effect.	Ans: Albert Einstein14. Lord Kelvin first discovered this theorem, mailing it to its namesake, who gave it as a problem on an exam to students at Cambridge. For a differential form w with compact support, and an oriented manifold M with boundary, the generalized version equates the integral of the external derivative of w over M to the integral of w over the boundary of M. FTP, name this theorem regarded as a higher dimensional version of Green's Theorem.      Ans: Stokes' theorem (prompt on curl theorem)15. It is the location of protein disulfide isomerase, calnexin, and calreticulin, all of which are protein folding chaperones. Secreted proteins are returned to it by the presence of the amino acid sequence K-D-E-L. The site of initial glycosylation (pron. glie-cos-ill-AY-shun), proteins are targeted to it by the signal recognition particle and are transported inside through the translocon. Often continuous with the outer nuclear envelope, these tubes and sacs are a part of, FTP, what network of membranes that can be classified as either rough or smooth?	Ans: endoplasmic reticulum or ER16. A relation named for Barbier and this man states that the surface radiative flux of a star is determined by the source function at an optical depth of 2/3. Mass loss driven by radiation pressure occurs if a star's luminosity exceeds his limit. He provided a theoretical basis for the pulsating hypothesis advanced by Shapley to explain Cepheid variables. FTP, name this man who wrote The Internal Constitution of Stars, and led a 1919 solar-eclipse expedition which provided confirmation of general relativity.	Ans: Arthur Stanley Eddington17. In Java, these can be caused by an erroneous class cast, an out-of-bounds array access, or an attempt to dereference the null pointer, and they can be handled using try/catch blocks. If one occurs at runtime and the programmer failed to provide code for handling it, the program aborts. FTP name these objects typically used to signal the abnormal termination of a procedure.      Ans: exceptions18. This theory is used to describe the additional free energy arising from the energy of interaction of electrical charges on ions on chemical potential. This theory elucidates the limiting behavior of the activity coefficient while providing an approximate structure of the ionic solution. It assumes that electrolyte solutions are fully dissociated and that nonideal behavior arises out of electrostatic interactions between ions. FTP, name this theory published in 1923 by its two eponymous scientists.	Ans: Debye-HŸckel theory19. Useful in analyzing molecular rotation spectra, its description was the first application of degenerate perturbation theory in quantum mechanics. Under conditions where this effect is observed, the Hamiltonian acquires a term proportial to the dot product of the field with the electronic dipole moment. Energy levels can be shifted up and down in an asymmetric manner, distinguishing it from its magnetic counterpart. Analogous to the Zeeman effect, FTP name this splitting of spectral lines in a strong electric field.	Ans: Stark effect or splitting20. In low plasma concentrations, it causes a decrease in FSH and LH levels in response to GnRH, while higher levels causes LH levels to increase triggering ovulation. Concurrent treatment with progesterone prevents ovulation, a strategy used in the morning-after pill. FTP, name this steroid hormone, best known for its increase in production during female puberty.	Ans: estrogen
1. Answer these questions pertaining to symbiosis FTPE.10) This is an arrangement between species in which each benefits from one another and neither is harmed by the relationship.      Ans: mutualism10) This is an arrangement between species in which one species benefits while the other is neither harmed nor benefited by the relationship.      Ans: commensalism10) Appearing as root nodules, this is the symbiotic relationship between plants and fungi essential to nitrogen fixation.	Ans: mycorhizzae or mycorhizza2. Name these scattering processes F15PE.15) The scattering of light from acoustic modes, it is explained classically by changes in a medium's index of refraction due to compression. From a quantum viewpoint it occurs due to interaction of photons and phonons.      Ans: Brillouin scattering15) Like Rayleigh scattering, it depends on the polarizability of the molecules. This inelastic process results in scattered photons with shifted frequencies. 	Ans: Raman scattering3. 5-10-15 Data compression.5) This quantity is the information content of the information source and can be defined for discrete and continuous sources.      Ans: entropy10) This fixed to variable-length compression scheme depends on the probabilities of the source inputs. It also creates the minimum average code word length.      Ans: Huffman coding15) This universal compression algorithm is a variable to fixed-length coding scheme. ZIP, ZOO, LZH, and ARJ are implementations of various versions of it.      Ans: Lempel-Ziv algorithm4. 30-20-10 Earth science30) This deep upwelling of cold, nutrient-rich water is predominant in the third quarter of the year.20) This slow-moving, broad, shallow, eastern boundary current flows into the low-sea-level region left by the South Equatorial current.10) This current flows northward along the west coast of South America from Antarctica.      Ans: Humboldt or Peru current5. Name these physical constants FTPE.10) The frequency 3.2899 x1015 Hz is the product of the constant of the same name with the speed of light.      Ans: Rydberg frequency10) With a value of 52.92x10-12 m this constant is named after the 1922 Physics Nobel winner.      Ans: Bohr radius10) Equal to 1/12 the mass of Avogadro's number of carbon atoms, this constant is equivalent to 931.5 MeV/c^2.      Ans: Atomic Mass Unit or AMU6. Name these basic reaction types of alkyl halides FTPE.10) This reaction is unlikely on first-degree alkyl halides, but produces racemic (pron. ra-SEE-mic) products and rearranged products due to its carbocation (pron. car-boe-CAT-i-on) intermediate. It usually involves a strongly nucleophilic solvent. Most importantly, the halide group is substituted for the solvent anion in two steps.	Ans:  SN1 Reaction or Substitution, Nucleophilic, Unimolecular10) This reaction begins much like the SN1 reaction, but instead the base abstracts a proton from an adjacent carbon to the reaction center, forming an alkene.	Ans: E1 Reaction or Elimination, Unimolecular10) This reaction takes place with a strong base present, which abstracts a proton from an adjacent methyl group forming an alkene, following the Saytzeff rule.	Ans: E2 Reaction or Elimination, Bimolecular7. Name these types of noise, FTPE.10) It has an autocorrelation function zero everywhere but 0, and is also called Johnson or Nyquist-Johnson noise. It is the type of noise produced by a resistor.      Ans: White noise or thermal10) This type of white noise names the time-dependent fluctuations in electrical current caused by the discreteness of the electron charge.      Ans: Shot noise10) This colorful type of noise has a 1 over f squared spectrum, and shows a random walk behavior simulating a certain type of motion with a similar name.	Ans: brown noise8. Name these boxes related to transcription for F15PE.15) With a consensus sequence of TATAAA, this is the location of RNA polymerase binding in the promoter region of eukaryotes. It is located approximately 25 base pairs prior to the transcription start site.	Ans: TATA or Hogness box15) Unlike the TATA box, this box with consensus sequence of TATAAT functions as the location of RNA polymerase binding in the promoter region of prokaryotes. It is located approximately 10 base pairs prior to the transcription start site.	Ans: Pribnow box9. FTPE, types of telescopes.10) A reflecting telescope where light focused by the primary mirror is intercepted short of the focal point and reflected by a second mirror through a hole in the primary mirror.       Ans: Cassegrain telescope10) A reflecting telescope where the light from the primary mirror is reflected to the side by a secondary mirror.      Ans: Newtonian telescope10) A refracting telescope in which the eyepiece is a concave lens instead of a convex lens.      Ans: Galilean telescope10. Remember your high school chemistry? FTPE, name these properties given trends on the periodic table.10) This property goes down within a period, and up within its group.      Ans: atomic radius10) This property increases up and to the right of the periodic table, with chlorine being the highest.      Ans: electron affinity10) This property increases up and to the right with fluorine having the highest value.      Ans: electronegativity11. Identify the following theorems from abstract algebra, F15PE.15) Every group is isomorphic to a group of permutations under permutation multiplication.	Ans: Cayley's Theorem15) Any two composition series of a group are isomorphic. It follows from the Zassenhaus or Butterfly Lemma, or from Schreier's Theorem.	Ans: Jordan-Hšlder theorem12. Consider a pendulum in simple harmonic motion on a string that is slowly pulled up, so that the length of the pendulum is constantly decreasing. FTPE:10) Energy is not conserved in this system, but this other quantity, the time integral of the Lagrangian, is conserved.      Ans: action10) The action is an example of this type of invariant, helpful in calculating approximately periodic motions to high accuracy.      Ans: adiabatic10) What physicist solved this problem one day after it was presented by H. Lorentz at a physics congress?      Ans: Albert Einstein13. FTPE, answer these questions about blood clotting.10) These cell fragments that float in the blood release several factors that act in clotting.	Ans: platelets10) Hemophiliacs genetically lack this numbered factor, whose injection is a frequent treatment for the disease.	Ans: factor VIII10) This protein present in the blood is broken apart by thrombin to form the protein net for clots.	Ans: fibrinogen14. Invasive plants, FTPE10) Scientific name Pueraria lobata, this vine has smothered the South. It has large leaves in groups of three with thick stems and can pull down trees.      Ans: Kudzu10) Scientific name Poa pratensis, this grass is invading Effigy Mounds National monument. Its name is the combination of a state and its nickname.      Ans: Kentucky bluegrass10) Scientific name Acer patanoides, this large tree has white sap. It's fall foliage is yellow, and it suppresses growth of grass and garden plants beneath it.      Ans: Norway maple15. 5-10-15 Programming languages5) This programming language was created by Bjarne Stroustrup.      Ans: C++10) Originally just a simulation language, synthesis was added later, and today it is the most widely used hardware description language.      Ans: Verilog15) This new language is partly based on OCaML (pron. Oh-Camel) and is set to be a part of Microsoft's .NET initiative.       Ans: F#16. Name these structures of the flatworm FTPE.10) This is the head of the flatworm which consists of 3-4 suckers and hooks through which it attaches to the intestinal wall of the host.	Ans: scolex10) These are the segments of the flatworm which are hermaphroditic (pron. her-ma-froh-DIT-ic).	Ans: gravid proglottid10) Gametes are released through this single hole on each proglottid.	Ans: genital pore 17. Given the cation, give the common oxidation state FTPE.10) Scandium      Ans: +310) Vanadium      Ans: +410) Zinc      Ans: +218. Identify the following stuff concerning blackbodies FTSNOP.5) This empirical law states that the wavelength of maximum emission times the blackbody temperature is a constant.	Ans: Wien's displacement law or Wien's first law10) Since blackbodies are perfect absorbers, they must also be perfect emitters, according to this law. Applied to gases, it states that when a gas is hot, it emits at the frequencies which it absorbs when it's cold.	Ans: Kirchoff's law 5) Derived from classical physics, it allocates energy to available modes in accordance with equipartition, and approximates the blackbody spectrum well at low frequencies.	Ans: Rayleigh-Jeans's Law10) The number of available modes predicted by classical physics increases without limit for higher frequencies, causing the Rayleigh-Jeans approximation to diverge. This problem is given what name?	Ans: ultraviolet catastrophe19. Identify the following measures of earthquake activity FTPE.10) This qualitative scale attempts to assign a value to the destructiveness of an earthquake.	Ans: Modified Mercalli Intensity Scale10) This scale devised by a California seismologist measures the amplitude of ground motion due to local earthquakes on a logarithmic scale.	Ans: Richter Magnitude or Scale10) Seismologists prefer this physically meaningful measurement, which is given by the product of the fault slip, the area of the fault break, and the rigidity of the rock.	Ans: Scalar Moment Magnitude (prompt on M-naught)20. Balance the following oxidation-reduction reaction: propane reacts with oxygen gas to yield carbon dioxide and water. I'll give you the coefficient in front of propane; you give the other three coefficients, FTPE. Recall the reaction is C3H8 + {blank) O2 => {blank) CO2 + {blank) H2O + energy. The coefficient in front of C3H8 is one. You have 15 seconds.	Ans: C3H8 + 5O2 => 3CO2 + 4H2O + energy