Questions by editors-round 81. The Peterson and Knoevenagel reactions give the same products, but are not stereo- and regiospecific. Intermediates in this reaction included betaines (pron. BAY-ta-eens), which form a 4-membered oxaphosphetane (pron. ox-a-FOS-feh-tane) ring. This ring then collapses and forms tri-phenyl-phosphine oxide and the product. FTP, name this reaction which converts the carbonyl group of an aldehyde and ketone into an alkene by means of phosphonium ylides (pron. il-LIDS), named for the 1979 Nobel Prize winner in Chemistry.	Ans: Wittig reaction2. The Leydig cells are not part of these structures; they lie between them. Sertoli cells form a cylinder around the structure and are separated by tight junctions. The location of the production of the hormone inhibin, it gives rise to spermatogonia that are released into a fluid-filled lumen. Extending over 2 football fields, this is, FTP, what network of coiled tubes in the testes that develop sperm? 	Ans: seminiferous tubules3. In a plasma where the electrons and ions are at the same temperature and concentration, a positive point charge will experience this effect. The attracted electrons have too much thermal energy to collapse onto the positive charge, so interparticle collisions will result in an electron cloud in equilibrium with the rest of the plasma around the positive charge, reducing its electric field. FTP identify this phenomenon which takes its name from the man who first proposed the concept of phonons.      Ans: Debye shielding4. It includes Markarian's chain, starting from M84 and M86, and its dominant member is M87. Located about 50 million light-years away in the direction of the namesake constellation, some of its over 2000 members show the largest blueshifts of any galaxies. The Local Group will probably end up falling and merging into it, as it lies at the physical center of the Local Supercluster. FTP name this closest rich galaxy cluster.      Ans: Virgo cluster5. It was so named because it uses a single physical medium to transmit bits to every node, much as its namesake substance was once thought to transmit electromagnetic waves through space. Collision detecting with carrier sensing is among the features it introduced, and it typically runs over twisted-pair copper wire, though it can also be used in a wireless network. FTP name this networking technology otherwise known as IEEE 802.3, the most popular low-level protocol for local area networks.      Ans: Ethernet (accept IEEE 802.3 before mention in question)6. Odd ones in the "T" series are icosahedral and are short, while even ones in the "T" series have an icosahderal head, a capsid that consists primarily of three proteins, a long tail, a connecting neck with a collar and long "whiskers", and a complex base plate. The lambda subtype became the first to be completely sequenced. Infection occurs via injection into the host and leads to either a lytic or lysogenic response. FTP, name this class of viruses which invade bacteria.	Ans: bacteriophage7. A similar equation exists for weak bases that calculates pOH. Below pH 4 or above pH 10, the equation becomes an approximation due to the electrolytic effects of hydrogen and hydroxyl ions. When conjugate acid and conjugate base concentrations are equal, pH is equal to pKa, or where the strength of the buffer is the highest. FTP, name this equation which states that the pH of a buffer is equal to the pKa plus the logarithm of conjugate base or conjugate acid concentration.      Ans: Henderson-Hasselbach equation8. The Neumann formula gives it in terms of a double line integral, and can be derived by expressing the flux in terms of the vector potential, then expressing the vector potential in terms of the generating currrent. The resulting constant depends only on the geometry of the arrangement, and is unchanged if the roles of the two loops are switched. It is the constant of proportionality between the magnetic flux through a loop and the current generating the magnetic field. FTP, name this quantity which can be measured in henries.	Ans: mutual inductance9. The plasmalogen (pron. plaz-MAL-oh-jen) subclass of these compounds have ambiguous function, while the sphinomyelins (pron. sphin-oh-MY-ell-ins) insulate nerve cells and gangliosides (pron. GANG-lee-oh-sides) are receptors on brain cells. Their transport across membranes is passively catalyzed by flipases and actively catalyzed by translocases. Consisting of a glycerol, two long fatty acid chains, and a polar phosphate moiety, this is, FTP, what class of compounds that are the primary components of the cell membrane?      Ans: phospholipids10. This mineral series has end members fayalite and forsterite. A possible mechanism for deep earthquakes is its phase transition to spinel structure in the upper mantle. It is the first mineral to crystallize in the discontinuous branch of Bowen's reaction series, and its structure consists of isolated tetrahedra. FTP, name this mineral which makes up most of such ultramafic rocks as dunites and peridotites, and can be altered to serpentine. 	Ans: olivine11. Early companies selling this technology include Meridian Data and Reference Technology. Debate continues today about whether cyanine or phthalocyanine dye is the best, because cyanine uses Long Write strategy and phthalocyanine uses Short Write strategy. Previously available only to businesses, FTP, what is this technology wherein a laser pulse makes pits in a dyed polymer disc?      Ans: CD-R (compact disk recording; accept anything similar [writable CDs, etc.] so long as "CD" and something relating to writing is mentioned)12. N-adic reciprocity theorems relate the statements p is an n-adic one of these mod q and q is an n-adic one mod p. A theorem of this name states that the value of a contour integral for any contour in the complex plane depends only on these values at the poles contained in the contour. The number b in the congruence a congruent to b mod m is one of these mod m. FTP give this term which also denotes the constant term in the Laurent series of a function.	Ans: residue13. The differential of this quantity equals negative S dT minus p dV. If the change in this quantity of isobaric and isothermal system is negative, the reaction is spontaneous. Defined as the internal energy minus temperature times entropy, FTP, identify this thermodynamic concept which is similar to Gibbs free energy.	Ans: Helmholtz free energy14. Overexpression of an enzyme that renews and elongates these structures may contribute to the immortalization of cancer cells. Underexpression leads to shorting due to the inability of DNA polymerase to synthesize the extreme 5 prime end of the lagging strand. Consisting of 1000 or more tandem repeats of TTAGGG, FTP, name these structures at the ends of chromosomes.	Ans: telomeres15. This technique was introduced to avoid the overhead associated with processor stalls or compiler-managed delay slots, necessary for correctly handling certain instructions in a pipelined architecture. Earlier Pentium processors implemented it using a two-bit counter, so that the program must deviate from its previous behavior twice for the processor to forecast a different result. FTP name this processor feature that dynamically guesses the result of a conditional instruction before the value of the condition is known.      Ans: branch prediction16. In 1998, Yale researchers discovered an analog of this effect in two separated parts of a Bose-Einstein condensate. Its namesake followed up on earlier work by Esaki and Giaever to discover it in 1962 and it is useful in measuring extremely small magnetic fields. Its namesake won the 1973 physics Nobel, and it occurs when two superconductors are separated by an insulator thin enough that electrons can tunnel through it. FTP, name this effect which occurs at a junction of the same name.      Ans: Josephson effect17. With strontium, it is used in ultra-long half-life dating analysis, while its 87 isotope used in the first demonstration of the Bose-Einstein condensate. A component of lepidolite with lithium, it was discovered in 1859 by Kirchoff and Bunsen. FTP, name this alkali metal with atomic number 37, distinguished by its red spectroscopic lines.	Ans: rubidium18. Edwin Salpeter and Fred Hoyle were the first to elucidate this two step process. The second step is a resonant reaction which relies on the existence of an excited nuclear state of carbon -12. The first step produces a beryllium-8 nucleus, which has less binding energy per nucleon than the two namesake particles. Allowing the formation of heavier elements, FTP identify this reaction, named for the three helium-4 nuclei it consumes.	Ans: triple alpha reaction19. "r" strategists easily avoid extinction by reaching and holding this value quickly. Inclusion of this value modifies logarithmic population increases into sigmoid population increases, as stated by the Verhulst-Pearl equation. FTP, name this concept designated by the capital K that refers to the maximum number of organisms a habitat can support.	Ans: carrying capacity20. Lifshitz points are a topic of interest in the study of these events, which may have formed topological defects in the early universe through the Kibble mechanism. The Ising model is the simplest model to exhibit one in a magnetic system. The Landau theory supposes that systems can be described by a single order parameter. Metastability, hysteresis, and a latent heat characterize the first order variety. Sublimation, condensation, and freezing are all examples of, FTP, what changes in the state of matter?	Ans: phase transitions or phase transformations (prompt on "change of state," grudgingly accept phase changes)
1. Identify the following useful things from continuum mechanics, F15PE.15) This formula for differentiating an integral whose limits vary with time equates the time derivative of a material property in some control volume to its time rate of change within the control volume plus its flux across the surface of the control volume.	Ans: Reynolds transport theorem15) This tensor maps an infinitesimal line element in the original configuration to an infinitesimal line element in the current configuration. Its determinant must be positive, and is 1 for an incompressible material.	Ans: deformation gradient2. Name these neurotransmitters FTPE.10) Along with glycine, this four-lettered compound is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. Valium enhances the action of this amino acid-like neurotransmitter.	Ans: GABA or gamma-aminobutyric acid10) Along with dynophins and kephalins, these neurotransmitters constitute the endogenous opioids. They are implicated in the runner's "second wind" and the "jogger's high", as well as orgasm.	Ans: endorphins10) The active ingredient in Robotussin, it is similar to morphine but is not as addictive. It activates the same receptors as the endorphins.	Ans: codeine3. Name the following things related to the history of Earth's climate FTPE.10) This long sunspot minimum, lasting from 1645 to 1715, appears to be correlated with one of the coldest intervals of the Little Ice Age.	Ans: Maunder sunspot minimum10) This theory attempted to explain ice sheet changes in the northern hemisphere on the basis of changing insolation due to orbital changes.	Ans: Milankovitch cycles or theory10) In the Archean, the Sun should have been at 75% present luminosity, resulting in a snowball Earth, but liquid water was present, resulting in this as-yet unresolved problem. 	Ans: faint early Sun or faint young Sun paradox or problem4. Verifications of general relativity FTPE.10) The prediction of an additional 43 seconds of arc per century of perihelion advance for this planet was one of the first triumphs of general relativity.	Ans: Mercury10) Using a torsion balance, he demonstrated that gravitational mass and inertial mass are equivalent to less than 5 parts in a billion.	Ans: Baron Roland von Eotvos10) In this 1960 experiment, the Mossbauer effect was used to measure the gravitational redshift of photons emitted from the top and bottom of a building to within 1% predictions.	Ans: Harvard tower or Jefferson Tower or Jefferson Laboratory or Pound-Rebka-Snyder experiment5. Computer arithmetic, FTPE.10) Most computers use this system for representing numbers in binary, which has the advantage of only one representation for zero but the disadvantage of a negative number with no positive counterpart.      Ans: two's complement10) Assuming that an integer is 8 bits long, convert the number -42 into two's complement binary. You have 10 seconds.      Ans: 11010110 (42 decimal = 00101010 binary; invert the bits and add 1)10) This standard for representing floating point numbers, in which 32-bit real numbers are represented using a sign bit, an 8-bit exponent, and a 23-bit fraction, was developed by Berkeley professor William Kahan.      Ans IEEE 7546. Identify these terms about crystals FTPE.10) This is defined as the amount of energy required to separate an ionic crystal into its component atoms, molecules, or ions.	Ans: lattice energy10) If a space in a crystal exists where another atom can be inserted, it that space is called this.	Ans: interstitial space10) This constant is used when calculating the lattice energies of crystals, and varies with the composition of the crystal. It can be expressed as an infinite series of attractions and repulsions.	Ans: Madelung constant or M7. Identify the following things having to do with the field of rational numbers, FTPE.10) These are infinite proper subsets of the rational numbers which have no largest element, and, given an element x in the set, contain all rational numbers less than x. They can be used to construct the reals from the rationals.	Ans: Dedekind cut10) The rational numbers are a subfield of the real numbers displaying this property, which means that for any two distinct real numbers, there exists a rational number between them.	Ans: dense10) The rational numbers are an infinite set of this type, meaning that there is a bijection between the rational numbers and the natural numbers.	Ans: countable8. Name these processes from microfabrication FTPE.10) The first important step is implantating impurities in semiconductors. By what name is this process known?      Ans: doping10) To secure the crystalline structure of the implanted wafer, the doped silicon is heated and then allowed to cool in order to fixate the dopants. What is the term for this process?      Ans: annealing10) In order to remove unwanted layers, a wafer may be exposed to x-rays or other light. What is the term for this process of removing material by exposure to light?      Ans: lithography9. Identify the following about momentum transfer FTPE.10) If the radiation pressure on a perfect absorber due to an electromagnetic wave is P, then what would be the radiation pressure on a perfect reflector due to the same wave?	Ans: 2P (the momentum switches direction, instead of simply being absorbed)10) This man calculated that the probability for alpha particle scattering by stationary atomic nuclei is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the momentum transfer to the alpha particle. This helped explain the results of the gold foil experiment.	Ans: Ernest Rutherford10) This tensor gives the electromagnetic force per unit area acting on a surface, while its negative is the momentum flux density transported by electromagnetic fields.	Ans: Maxwell's stress tensor or electromagnetic stress-energy tensor10. Given the side chain structure, name the amino acid FTPE.10) Isopropyl group. CHCH3CH3	Ans: valine10) Hydrogen, H	Ans: glycine10) Methylthiol group, CH2SH	Ans: cysteine11. Identify the following ancient astronomers who worked on modelling the solar system F15PE.15) Often referred to as the Copernicus of antiquity, he believed that the Sun was larger than the Earth, proposed a heliocentric theory, and explained the lack of apparent stellar parallax by claiming the stars were infinitely far away.	Ans: Aristarchus of Samos15) His system utilized 27 spheres rotating on axes through the center of the Earth, with most of the axes also rotating. Aristotle believed his system represented physical reality.	Ans: Eudoxus of Cnidus12. Identify the following types of igneous intrusions FTPE.10) This is a tabular discordant intrusion that cuts across structures of the country rock.	Ans: dike10) This is a horizontal, tabular, concordant intrusion running between layers of the country rock.	Ans: sill10) This is the generic term for any large igneous intrusion formed at depth in the crust. Types include stocks and batholiths.	Ans: pluton13. Name these chromatographic techniques FTPE.10) A spot of an unknown substance is placed on a permeable absorbent material, then left upright in a pool of solvent that covers just the end. The solvent rises, carries along the unknown, and separates it according to size.	Ans: paper chromatography10) Instead of paper, a layer of silica acts by capillary action to separate the unknown by size, without the use of a solvent.	Ans: thin-layer chromatography or TLC10) Variants of this type of chromatography often use receptor-bound beads, silica gels, or porous beads to separate unknowns according to size, charge, or affinity to a receptor. The sample is loaded at the top of a tube and moves down by gravity, the speed of which is determined by the contents of the tube.	Ans: column chromatography14. Identify the following concerned with parity violation FTPE.10) Parity is not conserved in interactions involving this fundamental force.	Ans: weak nuclear force10) A solution to the tau-theta puzzle based on violation of parity in weak interactions, along with several experiments to test whether parity is conserved in weak interactions, were proposed by two men. Name either.	Ans: Tsung-Dao Lee or Chen Ning Yang10) After talking with Lee, she led a group that experimentally verified parity violation in weak decays of oriented cobalt nuclei.	Ans: Chien-Shiung Wu15. Pencil and paper may be required. Under conditions of Hardy-Weinburg equilibrium, there are two alleles, A and B. Allele A is present with a frequency of 60 per 100 individuals and is dominant to B. Answer the following questions FTPE; you have 15 seconds per part. [Accept equivalent fractional or decimal values.]10) What is the frequency of allele B?	Ans: 40 per 100 individuals or .410) What is the proportion of the individuals in this population expected to be homozygous dominant?	Ans: 36 per 100 individuals or .3610) What is the proportion of the individuals in this population expected to be heterozygous?	Ans: 48 per 100 individuals or .4816. Answer the questions about Unix filesystems FTPE.10) Like an alias in MacOS or a shortcut in Windows, this is a file that points to another file. It can be either hard or symbolic.      Ans: link10) Block 1 on the disk typically contains the number of disk blocks, the start of the free list, and other crucial filesystem information. What is it called?      Ans: superblock10) These data structures are 64 bytes long; each one contains accounting information about one file, including its size, permissions, and pointers to the disk blocks that hold its data.      Ans: i-nodes17. Identify the following straight-chain alkanes FTPE.10) C8H18	Ans: octane10) C17H36	Ans: heptadecane10) C20H42	Ans: icosane18. Identify the following constants 15-5.15) It is equal to one plus the electric susceptibility, and is also called the relative permittivity.5) Usually, it is approximately the square of the index of refraction. When the namesake type of material is inserted into a capacitor, the capacitance is increased by this factor. 	Ans: dielectric constant15) In SI units, Poynting's vector is defined as one over this constant times the cross product of the electric and magnetic field vectors.5) It is equal to one plus the magnetic susceptibility, times the value in free space. It is usually symbolized mu.	Ans: permeability (accept permeability of free space on the 15 only)19. Identify these plant flower parts FTPE.10) This is the top portion of the filament that bears pollen.	Ans: anther10) This is the receptive portion of the style which extends above the ovary.	Ans: stigma [not the pistil!]10) Usually green because of their photosynthetic activity, these structures enclose the other parts of the flower inside the bud.	Ans: sepal20. Give the electronic configuration for the following elements FTPE. You have 10 seconds for each part.10) helium	Ans: 1s210) neon	Ans: 1s2 2s22p610) copper	Ans: 1s2 2s22p6 3s23p6 4s13d10