Questions by editors-round 21. Decontamination of poisonous chlorinated ethenes is often done by saturating the soil with a solution of this potent oxidizer. This ion participates in producing benzoic acid derivatives and cleavage of alkynes (pron. al-KINES). In the presence of alkenes, it produces an alcohol and a brown precipitate. Usually appearing with potassium or sodium, FTP, name this polyatomic ion that when dissolved in water is dark purple with formula MnO4-1.      Ans: permanganates2. Detected in roots by staining with resorcin blue, they are separated from the surface by the pericycle and they form inside the stele. Each of its conducting elements is separated by sieve plates and is associated with specialized parenchyma (pron. pair-en-KIE-ma) cells called companion cells. These sit end to end, forming a continuous tube. FTP, name these tubes, the principle food transport system of plants.	Ans: phloem3. Nonabelian groups in which every subgroup is of this type are called Hamiltonian. A group with more than one element and no nontrivial subgroups of this type is called simple. For a group H, any subgroup G of this type must be the kernel of a homomorphism from H onto the factor group of H by G. FTP, name this class of subgroups which have the property that every left coset of the subgroup is also a right coset of the subgroup.	Ans: normal4. In accordance with the Pauli exclusion principle, electrons at absolute zero pack into the lowest available level and build up a sea of electron energy states. In a metal, to be active in conduction an electron must be at or above it. Generally lying between the valence and conduction bands, in semiconductors it may be shifted by doping. FTP, what is this highest occupied electron energy level at absolute zero?      Ans: Fermi energy level5. Large landforms composed of several of these are known as draas, and major types include parabolic and barchan. Smaller ones known as ripples can usually be observed migrating over the backs of larger ones by saltation. Extensive regions or seas of these objects are called ergs. Started by some obstacle which generates a sand drift, FTP name these features typically found in beaches and deserts.	Ans: dunes6. Their effective background temperature is about 2 Kelvin, and their helicity is negative one. The Z boson interacts by influencing their scattering cross sections. First observed in 1953 by Reines and Cowan, there are about 300 per cubic centimeter. Hypothesized to satisfy conservation of energy and momentum in beta decay, the observed solar flux deficit has been explained by oscillations, which imply that they have mass. FTP, name these neutral leptons which rarely interact with matter.	Ans: neutrinos7. Like adenosine, a secondary function of this molecule is to serve as a very fast-acting excitatory transmitter. Among its plethora of substrates are troponin in muscle, Ras and Rab proteins in vesicle transport, protein folding chaperones, and sodium/potassium transport channels. F0 / F1 proteins produce this molecule in the electron transport chain, while magnesium chelation (pron. kell-AY-shun) occurs during its production in glycolysis. FTP, name this primary energy-storing molecule in biology, consisting of three phosphates attached to an adenosine moiety.	Ans: ATP or adenosine triphosphate8. In 1959 Texas Instruments and Fairchild Semiconductor both obtained patents for its invention. Based on the type of transistors it contains, it can be classified into two groups, bipolar junction and metal-oxide semiconductor. Its name comes from the fact that the entire device can be produced in a single process and can contain many different operational elements. Operational amplifiers and microprocessors are example of, FTP, what device invented independently by Jack Kilby and Robert Noyce?      Ans: integrated circuit9. Introduced in Traite de la Lumiere, it works only for an odd number of space dimensions. In diffraction theory, the Stokes inclination factor is used to eliminate the directionality problem, which corresponds to advanced potentials. Kirchoff showed that with Fresnel's addition of amplitude superposition, it follows from the wave equation. Snell's law and the law of reflection can be derived from, FTP, what principle which states that every point on a wavefront serves as a wavesource?	Ans: Huygens' principle10. One of the first compilers to use these extensively was the Rabbit compiler for Scheme, which influenced Appel's Standard ML of New Jersey compiler. They are widely used in code generation for functional languages because translating programs so that all functions pass them makes control flow explicit. FTP name these functions, similar to callbacks, which represent the operations remaining to be performed after another function is called.      Ans: continuations11. It can be found by multiplying the temperature by the partial derivative of entropy with respect to temperature at constant volume. For monatomic ideal gases, it's 3/2 times the ideal gas constant R for isothermal processes, while it is 5/2 times R for isobaric processes. For monatomic solids, the law of Dulong and Petit states that it's equal to 3R. FTP, name this value, the amount of heat a system needs to increase its temperature by one degree Celsius.	Ans: heat capacity12. Stars in this constellation include Rukbat and WR 104, a Wolf-Rayet star with a dust spiral tail. Best viewed in late summer, it lies between Corona Australis and Scutum. The Lagoon and Triffid nebulae lie above the spout and the Omega Nebula lies above the lid of the teapot asterism in this constellation. The center of the Milky Way lies at its edge, on the border with Ophiuchus (pron. oh-fee-OOH-cuss) and Scorpius. FTP name this zodiac constellation of an archer.	Ans: Sagittarius13. This system explains how a trout orients itself with its head upstream. Movement of water past the cupulae activates the sensory hairs on each organ, transmitting them to the fish brain. Each cupula projects into a canal beneath the surface of specialized scales. FTP, what is this system of motion sensors that lie underneath scales, forming a horizontal line on the body of bony fishes?	Ans: lateral line system14. Its bifurcation diagram is similar in some parts to that of the logistic map, and it was first extensively studied by Henri Poincare. It has analogues in nonlinear electrical circuits that feature resistance, and approximations of its motion may be made near zero by linearizing the sine term. FTP, identify this mechanical system that differs from the simple type because it contains both friction and a driving force, but still swings back and forth.      Ans: damped driven pendulum (or some permutation thereof)15. If f and g are maps from the circle to the plane with a point deleted, then one of these will preserve the winding number of the image circle around the deleted point. If the image of f intersects a fixed submanifold in the target transversally, then it preserves the transversal intersection for some positive interval, though not necessarily forever, hence transversality is stable under this object. FTP, what is a map from X crossed with [0,1] (read: the closed interval from 0 to 1) which agrees with f on X cross 0 and with g on X cross 1?      Ans: homotopy or homotopy between f and g or homotopy from f to g16. The McLafferty rearrangement is a characteristic fragmentation of aldehydes and ketones in this analytic process. In a vacuum, the sample is bombarded by electrons and split into various cations. These are accelerated through a slit and bent by a magnetic field, which focuses cations of a certain size on a detector, producing a graph whose peaks indicate the prevalence of fragments at given mass/charge ratios. FTP, name this technique useful in determining molecular masses, relative atomic masses, and abundance of isotopes.      Ans: mass spectrometry or mass spec [not mass spectroscopy]17. When present in metamorphic rocks they can produce foliation. Often a major component of schist, they are found in felsic rocks along with feldspar, amphibole, and quartz. These potassium-aluminum silicates are, with clay minerals, the most abundant sheet silicates. Weak bonds between sandwiched layers of cations and silica sheets result in perfect cleavage. FTP, identify these minerals whose types include muscovite and biotite.      Ans: micas18. Pulmonate gastropods were one of two taxa discussed in the original theory. Based on part on rectangular distribution, it opposed the prevailing idea of phyletic gradualism. Purporting that the period of transition between old and new species is short, it hypothesizes that new species arise during short outbursts of speciation. FTP, identify this theory of evolution first proposed in 1972 by Niles Eldridge and Stephen Jay Gould.	Ans: punctuated equilibrium19. For black-body radiation, it is one-third times the energy density, while for a non-relativistic perfect gas it is equal to two-thirds times the internal energy density. In a perfect monatomic gas, the square of the speed of sound is 5/3 times this quantity divided by the density. For an adiabatic process, the infinitesimal change in internal energy is equal to the negative of this quantity times the infinitesimal change in volume. FTP, identify this quantity which for an ideal gas is equal to NRT/V.	Ans: pressure20. It was the first reaction to be understood by the Woodward-Hoffmann rules of conservation of orbital symmetry. It has a stereochemical preference for any electron withdrawing substituents to go into the "endo" position. Always forming one more ring than its reactants, FTP, name this reaction in which a diene bonds with an electron poor dienophile, discovered by its two eponymous German chemists.	Ans: Diels-Alder reaction
1. In metric units, Gauss's law in free space states that the electric field flux through a closed surface is equal to the enclosed charge divided by the permittivity of free space. F15PE:15) A charge of 1 Coulomb is placed at the center of a cube. What is the flux through any face of the cube? Leave your answer in Coulombs divided by the permittivity of free space. You have 10 seconds.	Ans: 1/615) A charge of 1 Coulomb is placed at a corner of a cube. The flux through the three sides which share that corner is zero. What is the flux through any of the other sides? Leave your answer in Coulombs divided by the permittivity of free space. You have 10 seconds.	Ans: 1/242. Answer these questions about prions (pron. PREE-ons) FTPE.10) Found in the Fore (pron. FOR-ay) people of Papua New Guinea, this rare prion disease is transmitted by ingesting brain tissue of deceased relatives.	Ans: kuru10) Prions are actually modifications of normal proteins found in neurons. Thought to function in long-term survival of Purkinje fibers and circadian rhythms, this is the name of the protein that refolds to form the aggregates responsible for the symptoms of disease.	Ans: PrP10) Prion diseases thus can be transmitted hereditarily by a mutation whose phenotype leads to aggregation. It has been found to be prevalent in this prion disease of sheep.	Ans: scrapie3. Name these programming languages FTPE.10) This was the first functional language and was developed by John McCarthy. Its major applications are in artificial intelligence and the emacs text editor, but some deride its lack of concrete syntax.      Ans: Lisp10) This language introduced block structure and lexical scope, concepts which have appeared in almost every programming language since. There were two major definitions of it, appearing in 1960 and 1968.      Ans: Algol10) This language derives its name from the notion of a cluster, a way of defining abstract datatypes which today would be called an object. It never achieved popular success, but some of its features, such as iterators and  exceptions, are seen in Java.      Ans: CLU4. 30-20-10, identify the man.30) His father invented plywood, and his brothers were oil magnates, known as the Rockfellers of the North.20) He was never married, and had little contact with Gustav Mittag-Leffler, his country's most famous mathematician. There is no evidence to suggest they may have had a falling-out.10) His most famous invention is the result of mixing nitroglycerine with absorbent silica. He also invented the blasting cap.      Ans: Alfred Bernhard Nobel5. Identify these terms from coordination chemistry FTPE.10) This is any ion or molecule that is bound to a central atom or ion through coordination of its lone electron pairs.	Ans: ligand10) From the Greek for "crab's claw", this is the inorganic complex to which a ligand is coordinated to the central atom or ion, so that there is a ring of atoms around the metal. 	Ans: chelate or chelating agent10) This compound reversibly chelates iron and is often used in bacterial cultures. It is used as a food preservative to prevent spoiling from contact with metals, and is also used to decontaminate radioactivity and serve as an antidote to metal poisoning.	Ans: EDTA or Ethylenediaminetetraacetate6. Overseas broadcast: a flash! Godzilla kills Mothra! (Rodan named successor.)10) This is a mnemonic in order of decreasing effective temperatures for a classification scheme that was initially primarily based on decreasing strength of hydrogen-absorption lines. FTP, name this important stellar classification scheme.	Ans: spectral type10) Spectral types were assigned primarily on the basis of strength of hydrogen-absorption lines by Pickering and this woman.	Ans: Annie Jump Cannon10) Cannon's original classification scheme was compiled in this stellar catalogue.	Ans: The Henry Draper Catalogue7. Name the equivalent things, 10-5:10) For 10, given an indexed family of sets, this axiom asserts the existence of a function from the index set to the union of the family, such that the value of the function on any index is an element of the set with that index.      Ans: Axiom of Choice5) For 5, this lemma, equivalent to the Axiom of Choice, states that any partially ordered set such that every totally ordered subset has an upper bound, must have a maximal element.      Ans: Zorn's Lemma10) For 10, the real numbers have this property, stating that any Cauchy sequence has a limit.      Ans: completeness5) For 5, completeness of the real numbers is equivalent to the existence of this for each bounded set S of real numbers. This is the unique upper bound for S which is also a lower bound for the set of upper bounds of S.      Ans: supremum or least upper bound8. Particles from clues FTPE.10) Discovered in cosmic ray experiments in 1937, it had no known role in nature, prompting Rabi to remark, "Who ordered that?" Name this lepton 207 times heavier than an electron.	Ans: muon10) Together with its anti-particle, it makes up the J-psi meson. At a mass of about 1500 MeV, it is the third heaviest of the quarks.	Ans: charm quark10) These massive intermediate vector bosons have electric charge, and participate in changing the flavor of quarks.	Ans: W particle or boson (accept W plus or W minus)9. Answer these questions about mimicry FTPE.10) This is the term for the bright warning coloration that warns potential predators to avoid consuming potential prey.      Ans: aposematic coloration10) This is the term for the type of mimicry in which both model and mimic are unpalatable.      Ans: Mullerian mimicry10) This is the term for the type of mimicry in which the model and mimic are physically similar, but the model is the only one that is unpalatable.      Ans: Batesian mimicry10. Identify the following things which originate underwater FTPE.10) These submarine landslides are triggered by slumps on the continental slope caused by an earthquake. They can form submarine canyons and fans.	Ans: turbidity currents 10) These rock suites found on land contain mafic igneous intrusions, submarine basaltic lavas, and deep-sea sediments. They are interpreted as fragments of oceanic crust that arrive on land through tectonics.	Ans: ophiolite sequences or suites10) Underwater volcanic eruptions can produce these piles of sacklike blocks of basalt.	Ans: pillow lavas11. Name these concepts associated with the conformational analysis of alkanes FTPE.10) Conformations are often analyzed by looking straight down a bond connecting two carbon atoms and showing its substituents by lines to the center, forming two Y's.	Ans: Newman projections10) When the back and front Y's of Newman projection overlap, the molecule is said to be in this conformation.	Ans: eclipsed conformation10) When the major substituents on the back and front Y's are separated by a dihedral angle of 60 degrees, the molecule is said to be in this conformation.	Ans: gauche conformation12. Identify these various things from quantum mechanics named after people FTPE10) Since quantum electrodynamics requires an absence of vacuum polarization near the nucleus of the hydrogen atom, the s orbital is slightly higher in energy than the p orbital.      Ans: Lamb shift10) This relativistic equation describes the quantum mechanical properties of 1/2-spin particles.      Ans: Dirac equation10) Straight lines are fermions, wavy lines are bosons, the Higgs boson is usually a dashed line, and gluons are usually loops in these eponymous diagrams that describe quantum electrodynamical interactions.      Ans: Feynman diagram13. Identify the following components of a prokaryotic cell, FTPE.10) DNA in prokaryotes is highly supercoiled, but not bound in a membrane. Instead, it is located in this darkly staining portion of the cell.	Ans: nucleoid10) These structures that consist of DNA are circular and often encode resistance factors to viruses or antibiotics.	Ans: plasmid10) These infoldings of the plasma membrane function in cell division or energy releasing reactions.	Ans: mesosomes14. Name the following bright things on the Sun, FTPE.10) Thought to be caused by collapse of the magnetic field in a plage, they are the biggest explosions in the solar system, tens of millions of degrees hot, and reaching the corona.	Ans: solar flares10) These are dense clouds of incandescent gas projecting above the chromosphere into the corona, held in place by the Sun's magnetic field. They can last for hours or even days.	Ans: solar prominences10) These events often send more than 10 billion tons of plasma from the corona into outer space at around one million miles per hour, creating a shock wave in the solar wind. 	Ans: Coronal Mass Ejection 15. Answer these questions about liquid-liquid solutions FTPE.10) This process separates a solution by evaporating the lower boiling solvent or solute and then recondensing it elsewhere.      Ans: fractional distillation10) Fractional distillation cannot completely separate two substances if a maximum or minimum appear in the vapor pressure curve, at which point the composition of the vapor is the same as that of the liquid. Name this condition.      Ans: azeotropes10) Azeotropes are deviations in this law that states that the partial vapor pressure of a solvent is proportional to its mole fraction.	Ans: Raoult's law16. Identify the following components of cellular signaling FTPE.10) This term describes signaling over long distances from one part of the body, through the blood stream, to another. It also describes the type of gland that releases signals directly into the blood stream.	Ans: endocrine10) Binding of epinephrine to cell membrane receptors activates these molecules that bind compounds like GDP, GTP, and other guanine nucleotides. They are made up of beta, gamma, and alpha subunits, the latter of which can detach and migrate from the protein.	Ans: G proteins10) Often G proteins activate other internal chemicals such as cAMP or diacyglycerol. Name this class of signaling molecules that amplifies the effect of G proteins.	Ans: second messenger17. Answer these questions about concurrent programming, FTPE.10) These are often called lightweight processes, because they represent separate streams of executing code but share a common address space.      Ans: threads10) This two-word phrase refers to preventing two different threads from accessing the same piece of data at the same time. It can be guaranteed via the proper use of locks.      Ans: mutual exclusion10) A generalization of locks, this data structure has two basic operations: wait and signal. A thread can call "wait" on it to block until another thread satisfies a certain condition; it can call "signal" on it to signal waiting threads that the condition has been satisfied.      Ans: condition variable18. Identify these thermodynamic cycles named after Germans F15PE.15) An engine using this cycle was designed in 1861. It consists of an intake stroke, a compression stroke, an explosion, a power stroke, a valve exhaust, and an exhaust stroke.      Ans: Otto cycle15) This cycle differs from the Otto cycle in that only air is admitted on the intake stroke. The air is adiabatically compressed and hot air is injected, approximating an isobaric explosion and eliminating shock waves.      Ans: Diesel cycle19. Pencil and paper may be required. Find the pressure, volume, or temperature of a gas given the following values. Assume that the ideal gas constant is .1 liters atmospheres per mole Kelvin. Assume the gas is ideal. Make sure to identify your units. You have 10 seconds for each part. 10) Initial pressure is 1 atmosphere, initial volume is 1 liter, and final volume is .5 liters. Temperature is constant. What is the final pressure?	Ans: 2 atmospheres or 1520 torr or 202750 pascals10) Volume and pressure are both constant, while the initial temperature is 300 degrees Kelvin. One mole of gas is added to the one mole of gas already in the system. What is the final temperature?	Ans: 150 degrees Kelvin or -123.16 degrees Celsius or centrigrade10) One mole of a gas is initially at 300 degrees Kelvin, at pressure of 1520 torr, and in a container of size 15,000 centimeters cubed. The temperature drops to 150 degrees Kelvin, while the container remains the same size. What is the final pressure of the container?	Ans: 760 torr or 1 atmosphere or 101325 pascals20. Name these structures related to the skeletal system FTPE.10) Comprising much of the skeletons of embryos and babies, it is converted to bone over the course of development into adulthood.	Ans: cartilage10) These are the bone-forming cells that convert cartilage to bone.	Ans: osteoblasts10) These canals are interconnected and contain nerve fibers and blood vessels that supply osteoclasts.	Ans: Haversian canals