Questions by editors-round 61. The Big Bang produced a cosmic abundance of about 0.02%, which has declined since stars and brown dwarves consume it in net. The amount produced in the Big Bang can be used to estimate current baryon density. It is produced in the first step of the proton-proton chain; one proton undergoes inverse beta decay, and the resulting nucleon combines with another proton to form it. Containing 3 up quarks, 3 down quarks, and an electron, FTP name this isotope of hydrogen.	Ans: deuterium2. The Linde process of liquification of air takes advantage of deviations in Boyle's law caused by this effect. Ideal gases avoid this effect in which heat drawn from the environment is converted into work used to overcome van der Waals forces between individual gas particles. It describes the temperature drop of a gas during rapid free expansion and drop in pressure. FTP, name this effect named for the two 19th century British scientists who discovered it, demonstrated in cool air escaping from a tire valve.      Ans: Joule-Thomson effect or Joule-Kelvin effect3. The Sather language includes it in a manageable way by separating subtyping from subclassing, and allowing it with respect to one but not the other. Java supports it in a limited way using interfaces, and Smalltalk doesn't allow it at all. FTP, name this object-oriented language feature that has acquired a bad reputation due to C++'s naive implementation of it, which can lead to unpredictable resolution of methods defined in more than one superclass.      Ans: multiple inheritance (do not prompt on inheritance)4. Most of these found in living systems belong to the D series of optical isomers, with the straight chain and the predominant ring form existing in equilibrium with each other when dissolved in water. Produced by plants, cells use it as a source for carbon atoms and for energy. Two ring forms differ in the placement of the -H and -OH groups attached to carbon 1, giving rise to alpha and beta varieties. FTP name this predominant type of monosaccharide with chemical formula C6H12O6.	Ans: glucose5. Named for its developers, it successfully predicts the charmed particles, the bottom and top quarks, the W+ and W- bosons and the Z boson, as well as their masses. Combined with Quantum Chromodynamics, it forms the Standard Model of particle physics. The 1979 physics Nobel went to the three men who created, FTP, what namesake theory unifying electromagnetism and the weak force?      Ans: Glashow-Weinberg-Salam theory (accept any permutation of names)6. A binary Gray code can solve the corresponding graph. The Lucas correspondence relating Pascal's triangle to the graph can prove minimality. It's isomorphic to finding a Hamiltonian path on an n-hypercube. The binary carry sequence plus one gives the number to be moved at the nth step of the solution, which takes 2n-1 steps. Algorithms for a four-peg variant are known, but none have been proved minimal. FTP, name this puzzle asking the minimum number of legal moves to move a stack of disks from one of three rods to another.	Ans: towers of Hanoi7. It is classified as aphanitic (pron. ay-fa-NIT-ic), but commonly exhibits porphyritic (por-fir-IT-ic) texture. Many of the volcanic structures encircling the Pacific Ocean are composed of this rock, which has intermediate composition. It is the extrusive equivalent of diorite, and its properties lie between those of rhyolite and basalt. FTP, name this igneous rock which is a major component of many volcanoes in a certain South American mountain range. 	Ans: andesite8. The Klenow fragment of this enzyme loses the error-checking 5 prime to 3 prime exonuclease activity of its precursor. Type II participates in DNA repair, while type III's absence is lethal. Type III differs from Type I in its lack of ability to catalyze nick translation, which is handled by DNA ligase in the replisome. FTP, name this enzyme of DNA replication, the synthesizer of new strands of DNA.      Ans: DNA polymerase9. It does not follow from Newton's laws except in the case of central force motion, and is violated in the case of two moving charged particles unless the mechanical properties of electromagnetic fields are taken into account. Kepler's second law is equivalent to this law, since the area swept out in an infinitesimal amount of time is proportional to the conserved quantity. FTP name this conservation law that holds for torque-free motion.	Ans: conservation of angular momentum10. This class of compounds shows an IR stretching absorption just above 2200 inverse centimeters. Primary amides may be converted to these compounds by the action of POCl3, while reactions involving this compound class include conversion to amines by the action of organolithium catalysts or conversion to imines by action of Grignard reagents. FTP, name these organic compounds characterized by a carbon triple bonded to nitrogen.      Ans: nitriles11. Its origins lie in the Natural Sciences Tripos, founded in 1851, and the money for its construction was donated by a member of the family for which it is named. James Clerk Maxwell was its first director, and subsequent heads include Lord Rayleigh, Ernest Rutherford, Sir Lawrence Bragg, and J.J. Thomson, who discovered the electron there. FTP, identify this pillar of British science, built at Cambridge in 1870 and named for a relative of Henry, a prominent late-18th century English chemist and physicist.      Ans: Cavendish Laboratory12. It was founded in 1999 when Brad Fitzpatrick allowed his friends to use a database-backed Web site he had developed for his personal use. Its mascot is Frank the Goat, and offers clients for emacs, Palm OS and Mozilla as well as more conventional OSes. Accounts are free, but paid members get perks such as faster servers, personalized domain names, and more user pictures. FTP name this site which allows people and groups to maintain weblogs.      Ans: LiveJournal.com13. Either the lack of production or the lack of sensitivity to this hormone causes diabetes insipidus. The mechanism of action is the exocytosis of protein channels called aquaporins that increase the water permeability of the collecting ducts. FTP, name this peptide hormone produced in the posterior pituitary which increases water resorption in the kidney.     Ans: vasopressin or ADH or Antidiuretic Hormone14. In the Bose-Einstein distribution, it serves as a Lagrange multiplier assuring number conservation. For an ideal monatomic gas, it's proportional to the natural log of the number density over the quantum density. In a boson system it must always be lower in energy than the ground state, and two systems in diffusive equilibrium must have equal values. Equal to the Gibbs free energy per particle, FTP name this quantity whose value for electrons at zero Kelvin is the Fermi energy.	Ans: chemical potential (prompt on Fermi level)15. Bessel postulated the existence of its companion to explain an apparent wobble. It can be found by following Orion's belt down and to the left. This type A star's companion was the first white dwarf to be discovered. Together with Procyon (pron. PRO-see-on) and Betelgeuse (pron. beetlejuice) it forms the Winter Triangle. It has apparent magnitude -1.46, making it the brightest star after the Sun. Also known as Alpha Canis Major, FTP name this "dog star." 	Ans: Sirius A or Canicula or Aschere or Alpha Canis Majoris before mention in question; prompt on "Dog Star" before mention in question; do not accept Sirius B16. The lack of this process in slime molds creates a plasmodium, while phragmoplast (pron. FRAG-moh-plast) formation highlights this process in plant cells. In humans, astral microtubules determine the location of this event. The degradation of cyclin B leads to the dephosphorylation (pron. dee-fos-for-ill-AY-shun) of myosin light chains, forming a ring of microfilaments and the beginning of contraction. Starting in telophase, FTP, name this event in which the cell divides from one to two in mitosis and meiosis.      Ans: cytokinesis17. For a self-adjoint operator on a finite-dimensional real inner product space, this function must split. It splits for any diagonalizable linear operator. The Cayley-Hamilton theorem states that if its argument is the associated linear operator on a finite-dimensional vector space, it gives the zero transformation. Defined for argument x as the determinant of T minus x times the identity operator, FTP, what is this polynomial whose zeros are the eigenvalues of the associated linear operator?	Ans: characteristic polynomial 18. This concept arises out of the necessary kinetic energy to obtain a potential energy minimum required. Most often this barrier arises out of the steric hindrances or electron charge repulsion; catalysts reduce this quantity by relaxing those steric hindrances or providing positive charges to stabilize the transition state. FTP, what is this name for the minimum energy over the ground state energy for a chemical reaction to occur?      Ans: activation energy19. If A is a regular language, then there is a number p such that if s is a string in A whose length is at least p, then s may be divided into three pieces, xyz. x followed by any number of repetitions of y followed by z is in A, the length of y is greater than 0, and the length of x plus the length of y is less than p. FTP name this theorem that can be used to prove that certain languages are not regular, based on the observation that strings in a language must have a repetitive structure for a finite automaton to recognize it.      Ans: pumping lemma20. When it is used, Maxwell's equations reduce to two inhomogeneous wave equations relating the d'Alembertian (dal-em-BER-shan) of the scalar and vector potentials to the charge and current densities, respectively. It consists of setting the divergence of the vector potential equal to the partial time derivative of the scalar potential times a constant. This choice of the vector potential's divergence sets, FTP, what gauge due to Ludwig Valentine, not Hendrik Antoon?	Ans: Lorenz gauge or relation1. Name these biological laboratory techniques and tools FTPE.10) This is the injection of genetic material via plasmids into bacterial cells by heat shock or electroporation.	Ans: transformation10) The most common bacteria used in molecular biology is this, found in the human intestines and sometimes cause of diarrheal disease.	Ans: Escherichia coli10) The separation of DNA, RNA, and proteins can be accomplished by this method which separates according to size and charge either through the use of agarose or polyacrylamide.	Ans: gel electrophoresis2. Identify the following about discontinuities and layers of the Earth, FTPE.10) The Conrad discontinuity separates the upper and lower portions of this layer.	Ans: crust10) The Gutenberg discontinuity lies at the base of this layer.		Ans: mantle10) This discontinuity separates the crust and the mantle.	Ans: Mohorovicic3. Name these things associated with waves traveling in materials FTPE.10) Given by the derivative of the frequency with respect to the wavenumber, this is the speed at which a wave transports energy.	Ans: group velocity10) This is the general term for variation in wave speed with wavelength, exemplified in the operation of a prism.	Ans: dispersion10) This term describes the inability of a dispersive medium to transmit waves above (or possibly below) a certain critical frequency.	Ans: cutoff4. Database systems F15PE.15) It incorporates a data definition languages, for creating databases and defining their structure, and a data manipulation language that allows users to query databases using keywords like "select", "from", and "where". Name this language originally developed at IBM.      Ans: Structured Query Language or SQL (pron. sequel)15) SQL is used for querying databases that are based on this formalism, which includes the usual set operations as well as database-specific operations such as selection, projection, and join.      Ans: relational algebra5. Answer these questions related to a certain chemical concept FTPE.10) A solution has this property when it is connected to another solution with different concentration of solutes by a semipermeable membrane. Strictly speaking it is the pressure needed to stop the migration of a solute through the membrane.	Ans: osmotic pressure10) Osmotic pressure is, along with boiling point elevation and freezing point depression, in a class of properties that is dependent on the molality of the solution.	Ans: colligative properties10) This equation states that the osmotic pressure is proportional to the product of the molar concentration, the ideal gas constant, and the temperature. It differs from the ideal gas law only in its namesake constant, "i".      Ans: van't Hoff equation6. Identify these substructures of the muscle sarcomere FTPE.10) This protein makes up the thick filaments of muscle.	Ans: myosin10) Each sarcomere is bounded by this line, described vaguely by its letter.	Ans: Z line10) This zone is located in the center of the A band, and corresponds to the region of thick filaments that do not overlap with thin filaments. Again, it is described vaguely by its letter.	Ans: H zone7. Name the following related things from math, FTPE.10) This largest sporadic, finite, simple group has approximately 8 times 10 to the 53 elements. 	Ans: Monster group10) This conjecture, formulated by John Conway and Simon Norton, relates the Monster Group to modular functions.	Ans: Monstrous Moonshine conjecture10) This 1998 Fields medallist proved the Moonshine conjecture using vertex algebras and some ideas from string theory.	Ans: Richard Ewen Borcherds8. Identify the following important temperatures, FTSNOP.5) This is the temperature above which a ferromagnet loses its permanent magnetism.	Ans: Curie temperature5) Above this temperature, liquid and vapor phases coexist as a single fluid phase.	Ans: critical temperature10) This is the temperature at the triple point where normal liquid helium I, superfluid liquid helium II, and helium vapor coexist.	Ans: lambda point or temperature10) Also called the antiferromagnetic Curie point, above this temperature, antiferromagnets become paramagnetic.	Ans: NŽel point or temperature9. Answer these questions related to inhibition of enzymes FTPE.10) This is the phenomenon where another compound other than the substrate binds to the enzyme at a different site other than the active site and causes a decrease in its activity.	Ans: allosteric inhibition10) This type of inhibitor binds to the active site and prevents the substrate from reacting with the enzyme.	Ans: competitive inhibitor10) This type of inhibitor binds to the enzyme-substrate complex but not to the free enzyme, rendering the enzyme inactive.	Ans: uncompetitive inhibitor10. Answer the following on the Cosmic Background Radiation, or CBR, FTSNOP.5;5) These two men shared the 1978 Physics Nobel with Kapitsa for their discovery of the CBR.	Ans: Arno Allan Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson10) In this era about 300,000 years after the Big Bang, matter and radiation decoupled. The Universe became transparent; the photons emitted when atoms formed comprise the CBR. 	Ans: recombination era10) He proposed that nucleosynthesis of heavy elements took place after a hot Big Bang, and, with Alpher, predicted the existence of the CBR.	Ans: George Gamow11. Identify these concepts associated with stereochemistry FTPE.10) These are a pair of nonsuperimposible mirror-image molecules.	Ans: enantiomers10) These are stereoisomers that are not enantiomers.	Ans: diastereomers10) These are compounds may contain chiral carbon atoms, but are actually achiral.	Ans: meso compounds12. Physicists from clues, 15 points each.15) This Russian theoretical physicist's name combines with that of Douglas Hartree to name an approximation method in quantum mechanics.      Ans: Vladimid Aleksandrovich Fock15) The youngest son of Sweden's first rabbi, he was interested in five-dimensional space; with Kaluza his name is given to a theory attempting to unify electromagnetism and gravity. He and Gordon developed the first relativistic equation which described spinless particles.      Ans: Oscar Klein13. Identify these regions of the atmosphere associated with the ionosphere, FTPE.10) This region is the upper boundary of the mesosphere and lower boundary of the ionosphere. It is the coldest region of the atmosphere.	Ans: mesopause10) Predicted in 1902, it is also known as the E region of the ionosphere. This conducting layer allows radio waves to follow the Earth's curvature.	Ans: Kennelly-Heaviside layer10) Also known as the F2 layer, it exists in the upper ionosphere. Higher than the Heaviside layer and electrically stronger, it is a dependable radio wave reflector.	Ans: Appleton layer14. Name these commonly used acid-base indicators FTPE.10) Commonly used as a laxative, it changes from color from colorless at pH 8 to red at pH 10.      Ans: phenolphthalein [fe-nol-thay-lene]10) This indicator is used from about pH 4.4 to 6.2 and turns red in acid and yellow in base.      Ans: methyl orange10) This indicator works best from a pH of 3.0 to 4.4. It turns yellow in acid and blue-violet in base.      Ans: bromphenol blue [not bromophenol blue]15. Name these genetic disorders FTPE.10) This disorder arises out of trisomy XXY whose phenotype is a mentally retarded and sterile male, with feminizing features.	Ans: Klinefelter's Syndrome10) This disorder arises out of monosomy XO whose phenotype is a mentally retarded and sterile female with masculizing features.	Ans: Turner's Syndrome10) This disorder arises out of the heterozygous deletion of the short arm of chromosome 5, whose phenotype is small head, moonlike face, mental retardation, and a characteristic, mewing cry.	Ans: cri du chat16. Answer the questions about graph algorithms FTSNOP.5;5) There are two standard ways to represent a graph; one uses a two-dimensional data structures and the other uses a collection of linked data structures. FFPE name them.      Ans: adjacency matrix and adjacency list5;5) There are two standard types of searching algorithms for graphs; one always explores a path as deeply as possible before continuing to other paths, the other always processes all the children of a node before descending to any child's children. FFPE name them.      Ans: breadth-first search and depth-first search10) An application of depth-first search, this algorithm takes a directed acyclic graph and orders it such that every node follows all its ancestors. FTP, name this algorithm whose name suggests a branch of mathematics that deals with geometrical structures.      Ans: topological sort17. Identify the following eponymous laws important in electromagnetism FTPE.10) This law relates the curl of the electric field to the partial time derivative of the magnetic field, describing electromagnetic induction.	Ans: Faraday's Law10) This law gives the minus sign in Faraday's Law. It states that the induced current flows such that the flux it produces opposes the change in flux.	Ans: Lenz's Law10) This law gives the electromagnetic force on any moving charged particle. It is named for a Dutch physicist who gave a theoretical basis for the Zeeman Effect.	Ans: Lorentz's Force Law18. Given a compound or a polyatomic ion and an atom in that compound or ion, give the atom's oxidation number FTPE.10) N2, nitrogen	Ans: 010) Cr2O7-2, chromium	Ans: +610) BH3, boron	Ans: -319. Name these terms associated with neurons FTPE.10) This is the space between myelin-forming cells where the axon is exposed to extracellular space.	Ans: nodes of Ranvier10) This is the protein that forms the sheath that runs down the length of the axon.	Ans: myelin10) These star-shaped glial cells form end feet on blood vessels and contribute to neuron metabolism and ion balance. They also give neurons structural support and release growth factors for the repair of nerve cells.	Ans: astroglia or astrocytes20. Name these things from quantum mechanics F15PE.15) In 1948, the namesake of this effect showed that two neutral parallel conducting plates would attract each other because they reflect oscillating fields, producing a small pressure.       Ans: (Hendrik) Casimir effect15) Usually made of a lead alloy and/or niobium, these devices consist of tiny loops of superconductors employing Josephson junctions to achieve superposition. They can detect tiny magnetic fields.      Ans: SQUID or superconducting quantum interference device