Questions by editors-round 41. The London equation relates the current density's time derivative to the electric field. The Hubbard model and nearly antiferromagnetic Fermi liquid theory are candidate models with high critical temperature. First observed in mercury in 1911, materials displaying the first type are perfect diamagnets, demonstrating the Meissner (pron. MICE-ner) effect. Modeled by BCS theory and first observed by Kammerlingh-Onnes, FTP name this vanishing of resistance at low temperatures.	Ans: superconductivity (accept high-temperature superconductivity until "mercury in 1911")2. In the case of a chiral (pron. KIE-ral) center, the characteristic backside attack of this reaction is a prime example of the Walden inversion. The transition state in this reaction is a highly reactive intermediate in which electrophilic and nucleophilic molecules are half-bonded to a trivalent carbon atom. Good nucleophiles like the methoxide ion are required to drive the reaction, but cannot act as leaving groups. Undergoing first order kinetics, FTP, name this class of reaction in which substitution occurs in a concerted manner.	Ans : SN2 Reaction or Substitution, Nucleophilic, Bimolecular3. Problems for which this type of algorithm is optimal include the activity-scheduling problem, the fractional knapsack problem (although not the 0-1 knapsack problem), Huffman coding, and making change using a given  combination of coins. The theory of matroids determines when such algorithms yield an optimal solution. FTP name this class of algorithms, which always make the choice that seems best at the moment.      Ans: greedy algorithms4. Most members of this phylum are divided into three functional layers: an outer epithelial layer, a gelatinous, protein-rich matrix known as the mesenchyme (pron. MESS-en-kime), and an inner layer lined by its characteristic choanocytes (pron. koh-an-oh-site). Other characteristic features are their minute silica needles called spicules and a large pore, the osculum (pron. OS-cue-lum). FTP, name this phylum of animals whose best-known members are sponges.	Ans: Phylum Porifera5. The J phase, which has never been observed, might interrupt the shadow zone from about 105 degrees to 180 degrees which they display. These body waves move at a speed given by the square root of the rigidity over the density, and exhibit motion parallel to the wavefront. These waves cause no volume change and cannot propagate through liquids. FTP, name these seismic waves which travel slower than P waves.	Ans: Shear waves6. The term was coined by Ted Nelson in 1965, who envisioned it extending beyond its basic, verbal form to incorporate sound, graphics, and other media. Its first widely used application was in a programming languages for novices that was bundled with Macintosh computer in the1980s. FTP name this term that describes a collection of linked, cross-referenced documents, the concept that formed the basis for the World Wide Web.      Ans: hypertext7. A reluctance to discuss meaning or reality, instead focusing interpretive discussions exclusively on observables; the identification of the state vector with knowledge of the system; the complementarity principle; the statistical interpretation of the wave function; and finally the uncertainty principle, are all elements of this concept. FTP, what is this interpretation of quantum mechanics formulated by Neils Bohr in a namesake city?      Ans: Copenhagen Interpretation8. Theodor Schwann accounted for the Pasteur Effect in yeast by describing this process. One pathway converts pyruvate (pron. pie-ROO-vate) into acet-aldehyde (pron. ass-et-AL-de-hide) and carbon dioxide, and then converts acet-aldehyde to an alcohol in order to reoxidize NADH used the electron transport chain. The other pathway has lactic acid as its end product. FTP, name this metabolic process which occurs after glycolysis (pron. glie-COL-i-sis) when the body lacks oxygen.	Ans: fermentation9. The Kaps-Rentrop or Rosenbrock methods are a generalization of this algorithm, which has a local error on the order of the fifth power of the step size. This recursive method uses a weighted average with four "slopes," so it involves four functional evaluations at each step, but it still beats the Improved Euler Method. FTP, name this method of numerically integrating ordinary differential equations.      Ans: Runge-Kutta Method10. Compounds such as copper fluoride, chromium fluoride, and hydrous copper chloride have tetrahedral symmetry below a certain temperature, but transition to an octahedral symmetry above it. This phenomenon of symmetry distortion is caused by this effect. Discovered in 1937 by its two namesake scientists, FTP, name this effect that states that if a nonlinear molecule or polyatomic ion has degenerate orbitals, the actual structure is distorted in order to lower the degeneracy.	Ans: Jahn-Teller effect11. The Faber-Jackson law describes the line of sight dispersion of star velocities in these objects, and their surface brightness profiles usually obey de Vaucouleurs (pron. de VAW-coo-lures) law. B L Lacertae objects are thought to be examples with quasar-like centers. Sometimes called cosmic footballs, they typically consist of old population II stars. FTP name this type of galaxy which might form as a gravitational merger of two giant spiral galaxies.	Ans: elliptical galaxies12. This organelle is responsible for the disappearance of the tail of a tadpole as it develops into a frog. It fuses with phagosomes (pron. FAY-go-somes) containing foreign objects and releases enzymes that hydrolyze the particles in a low pH environment. After digestion products exit through the membrane, undigested materials are released by fusion with the plasma membrane. FTP, name this component especially important in white blood cells that pinches off from the Golgi apparatus to break down the food molecules taken up by phagocytosis (pron. FA-go-sigh-toe-sis).	Ans: lysosome13. With Fresnel, his name adorns a diffraction integral in scalar diffraction theory, and two stress tensors are named for himself and Piola. He calculated that alternating current in a zero-resistance conductor flows at the speed of light. He identified the Fraunhofer (pron. FROWN-hoffer) lines with the emission lines of various substances, and founded spectroscopy with Bunsen. FTP, name this man whose laws for electric circuits are the loop and junction rules.	Ans: Gustav Robert Kirchoff14. On either side lie the Ferrel cells. The intertropical convergence zone marks the region where the north and south ones meet. Differential heating between continents and oceans pulls them over the continents in winter and the ocean in winter, resulting in monsoonal circulation. Coriolis deflection in the descending arm produces the sub-tropical jet-stream. FTP, name this large scale, organized, tropical atmospheric convection system.	Ans: Hadley cells or Hadley circulation (prompt on mean meridional circulation)15. The inducer gene sequence is located upstream of the promoter region and encodes the repressor, which binds to the operator and prevents transcription. An inducer functions to remove the repressor from operator and allow transcription. First used to describe the increase in expression of galactoside permease (pron. ga-lac-TOE-si-dase PER-me-ase) and beta-galactosidase in response to increased lactose levels, FTP, name these units of genetic expression first posited by Jacob (pron. YA-cob) and Monod (pron. mo-NOD), the most famous example of which is the lac model.      Ans: operon16. Trouton's Rule describes its value for vaporization as approximately 90 joules per Kelvin mole. At phase transitions and reversible, isothermal processes, its change is equal to the heat input or output divided by temperature. Its absolute value is equal to Boltzmann's constant times the natural log of the complexion or multiplicity of the system. FTP, what is this always-increasing thermodynamic concept, the measure of a system's disorder?	Ans: entropy or S17. A Boltzmann Machine is a special case of this type of probabilistic reasoning system evaluated with stochastic (pron. stow-CAST-ic) simulation. Approximate inference algorithms like Markov Chain Monte Carlo are often used to evaluate this data structure which compactly represents joint probability distributions. FTP identify this formalism used in artificial intelligence named after a reverend.      Ansr: Bayesian Networks or Belief Networks18. The natural log of all the activities of the reduced species divided by the activities of the oxidized species is given as the reaction quotient in this equation. Stated as the energy of a system equals the standard energy plus R times T over number of moles times Faraday's constant, all times the natural log of the reaction quotient, this is, FTP, what equation used to determine the voltage of a battery from its standard voltage?      Ans: Nernst equation19. The solution of these equations is the path for which the action integral is stationary; thus, Fermat's principle of least time may be derived directly from them. Any quantity which satisfies them bears the name of one of the people for whom they are named. FTP, identify these differential equations named for a Swiss and a French-Italian mathematician, which appear as derivatives of the Lagrangian with respect to generalized coordinates.      Ans: Euler-Lagrange equations20. The folia of this structure consist of interposed nuclei found between fastigial (pron. fas-TIJ-ee-al) and dentate nuclei. The floculo (pron. FLOC-you-low) nodular lobe connects to the vestibular (pron. ves-TIB-you-lar) nucleus to control balance and eye movement. The vermis goes to the fastigial nucleus to control proximal muscles. Its cortex is made up of input climbing and mossy fibers, stellate and basket inhibition cells, Golgi feedback cells, and small granule cells making up the parallel fibers of the surface. Arranged into the molecular, granular, and Purkinje (pron. purr-KIN-jee) layers, this is, FTP, what older region of the brain found behind the pons that coordinates motor movement?	Ans: cerebellum
1. Name these photosynthetic strategies FTPE.10) This is the type of photosynthesis in which CO2 is taken up by widely spaced mesophyll (pron. MESS-oh-fill) cells which pass to the veins and are then directly passed to the photosynthetic cells.	Ans: C310) This is the type of photosynthesis in which CO2 is integrated into tricarbon compounds that are then passed to bundle-sheath cells, where CO2 is released for use in the Calvin cycle.	Ans: C410) In this type of photosynthesis, CO2 enters during the night where it is stored for photosynthesis during the day. This strategy is often used in dry environments where water is easily lost.	Ans: CAM or crassulacean acid metabolism2. Identify the following scientists whose eponymous equations are used to define stellar temperature scales FTSNOP.5) The color temperature is obtained by fitting the shape of a star's continuous spectrum to this man's blackbody radiation function.	Ans: Max Planck10) The excitation temperature is defined by this man's equation which gives the ratio of the number of atoms in two different energy states in terms of the number of degenerate states and his eponymous factor.	Ans: Ludwig Boltzmann5) The distribution function named for Boltzmann and this Scottish physicist is used to define the kinetic temperature.	Ans: James Clerk Maxwell10) This Indian astrophysicist's equation, used to define the ionization temperature, gives the amount of thermal ionization of a monatomic gas in terms of its ionization energy and the temperature and pressure of the environment.	Ans: Meghnad N. Saha3. Answer the following concerning dimensionless numbers, FTPE.10) The Mach number is the ratio of the speed of an object to the ambient value of this quantity.	Ans: speed of sound or acoustic speed10) The Peclet (pron. pe-CLAY) number is often expressed as the ratio of this bulk heat transfer process over the conduction of heat. It is heat transport due to fluid flow, and is sometimes limited to horizontal transfer of heat.	Ans: advection10) The Prandtl (pron. PRANTL) number, which characterizes convection regimes, is equal to this coefficient describing momentum diffusion divided by the thermal diffusivity. This coefficient is equal to the dynamic viscosity divided by the density.	Ans: kinematic viscosity4. Name the following things associated with differential forms, FTPE.10) A differential form is of this type if its external derivative is zero.	Ans: closed10) A differential form is of this type if it is either zero or the external derivative of some differential form. Every C1 (read: C one) differential form of this type is closed.	Ans: exact10) This cohomology group is zero for a region R if every closed k-form on R is exact, and non-zero otherwise. It provides a measure of the difference between closed and exact k-forms.	Ans: kth de Rham cohomology group5. Name these concepts associated with cyclic alkane chemistry FTPE.10) Name the cyclic alkane containing 6 carbon atoms in the ring.	Ans: cyclohexane10) This conformation of cyclohexane is puckered, and has the advantage of no angle strain or torsional strain. One end of the cyclohexane points down, while the other points up.	Ans: chair conformation10) This conformation also has no angle strain, but does have torsional strain because the flagpole hydrogens sterically overlap. Both ends point up.	Ans: boat conformation6. Identify the following relating to Earth's magnetic field FTPE.10) It is thought that Earth's magnetic field is generated by a forced convective dynamo mechanism operating in this fluid layer of the Earth.	Ans: outer core (prompt on core)10) Crystallization of this element onto the inner core is thought to be a source of heat and compositional buoyancy for the geodynamo.	Ans: iron10) With Chebyshev polynomial expansions, they can be used to numerically simulate the dynamo using a spectral method. They are the angular portion of the solution to Laplace's equation in spherical coordinates where azimuthal symmetry is not present. 	Ans: spherical harmonics7. Identify these things from the early development of quantum mechanics, 5-10-15.5) This model combined classical notions of energy and momentum with a nonclassical quantization rule. It correctly described the most important properties of the hydrogen atom.      Ans: Bohr model10) This principle, named after after a Czech-born physicist, states that when the expectation values are taken, quantum mechanical equations reduce to their classical form.      Ans: Ehrenfest principle15) This model extended the Bohr model to include a second condition on elliptical orbits and took special relativity into account. It removes the electron degeneracy of Bohr's model through the use of two quantum numbers.      Ans: Sommerfeld model8. Identify these institutions important in the development of American science FTPE10) Established with money donated by a British scientist who had never been to the USA, James Polk signed it into existence in 1846. Joseph Henry was its first director.      Ans: Smithsonian Institution10) Founded in 1930 by Louis Bamberger and Caroline Bamberger Fuld, it consists of five schools but has no official program or curriculum. Affiliated with Princeton University, more than a dozen Nobel Laureates have worked here.      Ans: Institute for Advanced Study or IAS10) J. Robert Oppenheimer and Ed McMillan persuaded Leslie Groves to change the site from Jemez Springs to its present location in northern New Mexico. The bulk of the Manhattan Project was completed here.      Ans: Los Alamos National Laboratory9. Theory of computation FTPE.10) Formally defined, it's a 7-tuple consisting of a set of states, an input alphabet, a tape alphabet, a transition function, a start state, an accept state, and a reject state. Informally, it's a construct that can solve any problem that can be defined by an algorithm.      Ans: Turing machine10) A Turing machine whose transition function returns a set of states rather than a single state is referred to by this adjective.      Ans: nondeterministic10) A language such that some Turing machine accepts any string that belongs to it and rejects any string that does not in a finite amount of time is called this.      Ans: Turing-decidable or recursive10. Name these components on the outside of bacteria FTPE.10) This is the space between the outer membrane and the cell membrane in gram-negative bacteria, filled with a sugary gel.	Ans: periplasm10) Gram positive bacteria lack the periplasm, and instead have a coating consisting mainly of this complex of disaccharide (pron. die-SAC-a-ride) molecules cross-linked by short amino acid chains.	Ans: peptidoglycans10) These hair-like structures help bacteria attach to certain substrates, but are better known for their activity during bacterial conjugation.	Ans: pili or pilus11. Given the industrial process, name the chemical compound produced FTSNOP.5) Haber-Bosch process	Ans: ammonia5) Frasch process	Ans: sulfur10) Ostwald process	Ans: nitric acid10) Raschig process	Ans: hydrazine or N2H412. Identify these types of nebulae FTPE.10) They tend to appear blue due to Rayleigh scattering of light from embedded stars.	Ans: reflection nebula10) Small ones known as Bok globules are believed to be sites of low-mass star birth. The Horsehead Nebula is an example of these nebulae observed by obscuration of a bright background.	Ans: dark or absorption nebula10) Sometimes called Stromgren spheres, these are interstellar clouds of hydrogen plasma ionized by ultraviolet radiation from a hot and bright embedded newborn star.	Ans: HII regions ("H 2 regions")13. Identify these things about mappings and functions, FTPE.10) A mapping of metric space X into metric space Y has this property if and only if the inverse map always takes open sets to open sets, or closed sets to closed sets.	Ans: continuous10) According to this theorem, if f is a real continuous function which is differentiable on [a, b] (READ: "the closed interval a b"), then there is a point x in the interval such that f(b) - f(a) = (b - a) f'(x) (READ: "f of b minus f of a equals b minus a time f prime of x").	Ans: mean value theorem10) According to this theorem, if f is a continuous complex function on [a, b] (READ: "the closed interval a b"), there exists a sequence of polynomials which converge uniformly to f on [a, b]. Michael Stone made the best-known generalization.	Ans: Weierstrass Approximation Theorem14. FTPE, name these terms associated with a class of blood conditions.10) This is defined as a decrease in the ability of the blood to carry oxygen.	Ans: anemia10) This type of anemia is caused by protein defect of a single amino acid change from glutamate to valine that provides some resistance to malaria.	Ans: sickle-cell anemia10) This type of anemia is caused by a deficiency of cyanocobalamin (pron. sigh-a-no-co-BAL-a-min) and causes erythrocytes (eh-RITH-ro-sites) to overgrow.	Ans: pernicious anemia15. Name the following about a technique used to solve problems in electrostatics, F15PE.15) This theorem states that the solution to Laplace's equation is determined by the boundary values of the potential, or, for a region surrounded by conductors, by the total charge on each conductor and the charge distribution in the region.	Ans: uniqueness theorem15) It considers a problem where conductors have been removed, and introduces mirrored charges which produce the same boundary conditions. By uniqueness, this new setup has the same field in the region of interest.      Ans: method of images or image method16. Answer these things about the analysis of gases FTPE.10) This gas law states that volume is inversely proportional to pressure for fixed temperature.	Ans: Boyle's Law10) If you divide a cylinder filled with gas, and take the pressure at each part of the cylinder, the pressure is the same. This is the term that describes properties that are same throughout the gas.	Ans: intensive properties10) For substances such as aluminum chloride and formic acid, vaporization might actually give less pressure than anticipated. This phenomenon is exhibited by what process, the doubling of liquid molecules in air?	Ans: dimerization17. Identify the following people who did important work in optics, FTPE.10) He discovered stress birefringence (pron. by-re-FRIN-jens) and invented the kaleidoscope. Light incident at his angle on a boundary between two materials will have a polarized reflected wave.	Ans: Sir David Brewster10) This man's equations give the reflected and transmitted amplitudes of electromagnetic waves incident on a boundary between two materials. His name describes near-field diffraction involving spherical waves.	Ans: Augustin Jean Fresnel10) He suggested the use of diffraction gratings, derived from his principle of interference, which he deduced from his double slit experiment.	Ans: Thomas Young18. Answer the following questions about meiosis FTPE.10) A human cell contains 2N ploidy (pron. PLOY-dee). What is the ploidy of the gametes, the cells resulting from meiosis?	Ans: 1N or N10) The centromeres split and sister chromatids are pulled to opposite poles by the spindle fibers in this phase of meiosis (pron. my-OH-sis).	Ans: anaphase II10) Homologous chromosomes are paired together, or synapsed during this subphase of Prophase I. The pairing remains incomplete until the next subphase, pachytene (pron. pack-ih-TEEN).	Ans: zygotene19. A sample is placed in a very strong magnetic field and is exposed to a radio beam, which, when turned off, causes atoms in the sample to reorient themselves and absorb radiation at a characteristic magnetic field frequency. FTPE:10) What method of chemical analysis has been performed?	Ans: NMR or nuclear magnetic resonance [grudgingly accept MRI]10) When an atom's electrons spin perpendicular to the strong magnetic field, they provide some resistance such that the field frequency must be increased for the nucleus to absorb more radiation. What is this phenomenon called?	Ans: shielding10) Other nuclei nearby may also increase or decrease resistance to the magnetic field, increasing the number of peaks on an NMR diagram. What is this phenomenon called?	Ans: spin-spin splitting20. Terminology of average values in systems, F15PE.15) Sometimes called a thermal average or the expectation value, it consists of taking a group of similar systems, one in each accessible quantum state, and calculating the average of the property in question over the group.	Ans: ensemble average15) This adjective describes systems in which time averages and ensemble averages are equivalent.	Ans: ergodic