The Spring Offensive 
B. Arthur, Ed.

FINALS

Tossups

1. Tun Perak once served as regent of this city. This city was founded by Parameswara, a Hindu prince who converted to Islam and took the name Iskandar Shah. An attempt by the Sultan of this city to assassinate the explorer Diogo de Sequeira was used as a pretext for the Duke of (*) Albuquerque to annex this city for Portugal. This city was later captured by the Dutch, who used it to control the spice trade. This city lost its status as a major port when Sir Stamford Raffles founded nearby Singapore. For ten points, name this port in modern Malaysia, which shares its name with an important strait. 
ANSWER: Malacca

2. Late in this career, this politician was caricatured as an Egyptian sarcophagus in Thomas Nast cartoons. He was nicknamed "the usufruct" for his previous career as a lawyer specializing in railroad mergers. This man was linked to William T. Pelton, his nephew, via the (*) "Cipher Dispatches", which suggested that this man was involved in an attempt to bribe members of the electoral college. This Presidential candidate was supported by Henry Watterson, a Louisville newspaper editor who threatened to organize an army to march on Washington. This man broke up the Canal Ring but rose to fame for his opposition to Boss Tweed. For ten points, name this Democrat and New York Governor who lost the election of 1876 to Rutherford Hayes. 
ANSWER: Samuel Jones Tilden

3. Lord Overstone criticized this entity as "hocus-pocus machinery". In the 1770's, this entity was re-established after it was advocated in a pamphlet by the nonconformist minister Richard Price. The Earl of Stanhope was the first so suggest this entity, though a similar device was established in Holland in 1655. This entity was funded in part by (*) surpluses from the redemption of funds from the South Sea Company, and a few years later this entity helped Britain survive the South Sea Bubble. For ten points, name this creation of Sir Robert Walpole, a fund used to reduce the British national debt. 
ANSWER: sinking fund

4. It quotes John Hobson's analysis of partitioning China in a section on "parasitism and decay," while Karl Kautsky's ideas on an "ultra" variety of the title concept are declared "ultra-nonsense." The fifth section considers the "comedy of oil" wherein Deutsche Bank failed at thwarting the Rockefeller oil trust in the "division of the world." The preface to the French and German editions of this work describes how superprofits are used to bribe labour leaders and claims the recent Treaties (*) of Brest-Litovsk and Versailles exemplify the central thesis. Originally written in Zurich in 1916, this work links colonialism to the export of capital rather than goods, a phenomenon that characterizes the age of monopolies. For 10 points, name this Vladimir Lenin work, which claims the title concept is the highest stage of capitalism.  
ANSWER: Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism

5. According to legend, this man taught his army table manners in one night after their habit of eating with their hands shocked some conquered nobles. This loser of the Battle of Nikiou and victor of the Battle of Pelusium deposed the Melkite bishop Cyrus of Phasis and replaced him with Patriarch Benjamin I. He converted the princes Jayfar and Abd al Julanda when Mohammad sent him to annex modern-day Oman, of which he became the first Muslim governor. On a more famous military campaign that was not in Mesopotamia, he captured the Fortress of Babylon in the name of Caliph Omar. A notable mosque named for this man was built in the barracks city he founded, Fustat, which is now part of Cairo. For fifteen points, name this Muslim general who conquered Egypt. 
ANSWER: Amr ibn al-'As

6. Letters condemning this treaty were publicly released by French Foreign Minister Drouyn de Lhuys and British Prime Minister Lord Russell. At the negotiations that led to this treaty, one party was represented by Count Blome, who was an envoy of the foreign minister Count Mensdorff. Just prior to the negotiation of this treaty, one party fired their leading minister, Anton von Schmerling. Obscure provisions in this treaty include the purchase of the Duchy of Lauenburg, as well as the designation of the city of Rendsburg as a fortress of the German Confederation. This treaty (*) divided control of two territories that had just been seized from Denmark. For ten points, name this 1865 treaty between Austria and Prussia that ended the Schleswig-Holstein War, whose violation led to the Seven Weeks War. 
ANSWER: Gastein Convention

7. One of this man's chancellors fell due to his affection for the sorcerors Cheng Gongying and Gongsun Chang, and that chancellor told this ruler of Hou Junji's plans to defect. Besides employing Zhang Liang, he commissioned Yan Liben to paint the 24 portraits at Lingyan Pavilion. This man broke a marriage treaty with Yi'nan, a prince of Xueyantuo, and his campaigns included those against Tufan, the Xiyu states, and the Ashina clan of the Gokturk Khanate. He withdrew from his war with (*) Goguryeo, and in earlier life he shot the arrow that killed his brother Li Jiancheng at the Incident at Xuanwu Gate, which ensured his succession among the sons of Emperor Gaozu. For 10 points, name this second emperor of the Tang dynasty. 
ANSWER: Taizong of Tang or Li Shimin

8. As governor, this politician was allowed to examine any board, department, bureau, or commission after the passage of the Moreland Act. As chief justice, this politician overturned Adkins v. Children's Hospital by upholding minimum wage legislation in West Coast Co. v. Parrish. This politician also supported the freedom of the press in Near v. Minnesota but ruled against regulation in (*) Schechter Poultry Corp. v. U.S. This politician led the American delegation at the Washington Naval Conference. Charles W. Fairbanks and this future chief justice were defeated by Thomas R. Marshall and Woodrow Wilson in the 1916 presidential election. For 10 points, name this chief justice who served from 1930 until 1941. 
ANSWER: Charles Evans Hughes

9. Prior to this battle, one of the losing officers placed gilded statues of Jupiter at nearby passes, and the Georgian general Bacurius Hiberios died in its early stages. According to Claudian and Sozomen, the winning commander sent Eutropius to an old Egyptian monk who prophesied his victory, and it is said that commander prayed throughout the night, which was possibly answered when the Bora winds buffeted his opponents. Flavius Eugenius was beheaded and (*) Arbogast committed suicide in its aftermath, which signaled the dominance of Christianity in the empire. For 10 points, name this victory, which consolidated the Eastern and Western halves of the Roman Empire in the hands of Theodosius I. 
ANSWER: Battle of the Frigidus or Battle of the Frigid River

10. This man first came to prominence when Sir John Coke sent him as an ambassador to Marie de Medici. This man wrote the play The Lost Lady. He obtained his highest political office by buying it from Sir Francis Wyatt. In that office, this man was eventually succeeded by Herbert Jeffreys. Forces loyal to this man caused the tragic death of Major Thomas Cheeseman. This owner of the (*) Green Spring estate attempted to halt attacks against the Doeg and Susquehannock tribes, and as a result was targeted by the Long Assembly and the Declaration of the People of Virginia. For ten points, name this colonial governor of Virginia, the target of Bacon's Rebellion. 
ANSWER: William Berkeley

11. One man with this given name was defeated at the Battle of Bisamberg by Charles of Lorraine and was a losing cavalry commander at the Battle of Zenta. That man led a pro-Ottoman rebellion against Habsburg rule at the time of the Second Battle of Vienna. Apart from Count Thokoly, a king with this given name lost the coastal city of Zara to Venice at the beginning of the Fourth Crusade. A canonized Arpad prince with this name was killed in a (*) boar hunting accident and was the eldest son of St. Stephen. Pal Maleter served as defense minister in the cabinet of a man with this name who was hanged after sparking a Warsaw Pact invasion of his country. For ten points, name this Hungarian personal name held by the leader of the 1956 revolution, Nagy, and by philosopher of science Lakatos. 
ANSWER: Imre [accept: Emeric; Emmerich]

12. During the 1980's, African-American communities attempted to secede from this city and create the new municipality of Mandela. During the Revolutionary War, the British were driven from this city after Henry Knox fortified the (*) Dorchester Heights in a single night. Attractions in this home of Mary Baker Eddy include the global headquarters of Christian Science. The suburbs of this city were the scene of the Sacco and Vanzetti trials. Political speeches were often given at this city's Faneuil Hall and people killed in this city include Crispus Attucks. For ten points, name this American city that names a massacre and a tea party, the largest in Massachusetts.  
ANSWER: Boston

13. A novel examining this man's heinous actions opens with the kidnapping of Maruja Pachon and Beatriz Villamizar de Guerrero. As a young man, this man is rumored to have made money by stealing tombstones, sanding off the names, and selling them to smugglers from Panama. This man gained power by filling the vacuum created by the death of Fabio Restrepo. After his fall, this man was pursued by an alliance of his enemies known as "Los Pepes." He gained notoriety through his policy of  "Plata o Plomo," and after being arrested, he built his own (*) luxurious prison, complete with a Jacuzzi, called "La Catedral." The subject of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's News of a Kidnapping, this man was opposed by the Cali Cartel and centered his cartel in Medellin. For 10 points, name this late-20th century Colombian drug lord.
ANSWER: Pablo Escobar

14. This man once received the village of Sakamoto Castle as a reward. Acting on the orders of his master, this man used a diplomatic trick to capture Yakami Castle, after which this man's mother was killed by the Hatano Clan. According to legend, this man was slain by a bandit named Nakamura. This man's most famous act resulted in the death of the young page Mori Ranmaru, who bravely committed suicide. That act took place inside the namesake (*) temple in Kyoto. This man was defeated at the Battle of Yamazaki by Toyotomi Hideyoshi, but for thirteen days after the Incident at Honno-Ji this man had ruled Japan. For ten points, name this man who forced Oda Nobunaga to commit suicide. 
ANSWER: Akechi Mitsuhide

15. This ruler left an inscription boasting of his deportation of the "people of the land of Omri." In his first military campaign, this ruler reversed the conquests of Sarduri II by defeating Rusa I and thereby vanquishing the Kingdom of Urartu in modern Armenia. This ruler took the alternate name (*) "Pulu" when he conquered Babylon. This king's alliance with Ahaz of Judea resulted in this man's destruction of the Arameans and to his sacking of northern Israel. This man was succeeded by Shalmaneser V, and the polity that this man re-established would be later be ruled by Sennacherib and Ashurbanipal. For ten points, name this founder of the Neo-Assyrian Empire with a hyphenated name.  
ANSWER: Tigleth-Pileser III [accept Pulu on early buzz]

16. Natalia Lopukhina had her tongue cut out because of allegations her son had supported a prince of this name. Another prince of this name refused his father's orders to return from the standing on the Ugra and was known as Molodoy. A ruler with this name commissioned the Palace of the Facets and invited Ridolfo di Fioravante to build the second of the great Dormition Cathedrals. That ruler compiled the first Sudebnik, while the first ruler of this name was called (*) "Kalita" or "Moneybags." The fourth ruler of this name may have killed his heir Ivan and was succeeded by Feodor the Bell ringer; that man had formed the oprichniki. For 10 points, give this name of six Russian tsars, the fourth of whom was called "terrible."  
ANSWER: Ivan 

17. This text prescribes being "cooked in a big jar" as the punishment for having an affair with the queen. This text is divided into fifteen sections that include "The Removal of Thorns" and "The End of the Six-Fold Policy". This text lists piety, material gain, lust, and fear as the four tests that should be used when selecting (*) government ministers. This text includes a detailed schedule for every 1.5 hours of an ideal day, and this text uses the metaphor "seven ways to greet your neighbour" to describe the seven possible kinds of foreign policy. The author of this text wrote it under the pseudonym Kautilya. For ten points, name this book by Chanakya, a political treatise written for Chandragupta Maurya.
ANSWER: Arthashastra [prompt on "the shastra"]

18. One ruler with this first name was advised by the Count of Floridablanca, was the son of Elisabeth Farnese, and expelled the Jesuits after succeeding his brother Ferdinand IV as King of the Two Sicilies. The Treaty of the Hague was an unsuccessful effort to (*) define the heirs of another king with this first name. One French king with this name was defeated at the Battle of Fornovo during his invasion of Renaissance Italy, while another ruler with this first name defeated the Schmalkaldic League. For ten points, give this name held by the Holy Roman Emperor who held the Diet of Worms, as well as by French kings nicknamed "the Fat" and "the Bald". 
ANSWER: Charles

19. This man organized an expedition led by Jean Ribault that established Fort Caroline near modern-day Jacksonville, Florida. As a military officer, this man first came to prominence for defending the city of St. Quentin from a Spanish siege. This man also served as a commander for the losing side at the battles of Druex and Moncontour and this man allied with Louis, Prince of Conde to promote the cause he is (*) most associated with. This man was planning an expedition to Australia when he was defenestrated on August 23, 1572, possibly on the orders of Catherine d'Medici, sparking the St. Bartholemew Day's Massacre. For ten points, name this French naval officer, notable as the leader of the Huguenots.  
ANSWER: Admiral Gaspard de Coligny

20. This political faction walked out of the Utica Convention and established their own convention at Syracuse, which was organized by this faction's first leader, Francis Granger. This group called their rival faction "wooly-heads" and controlled newspapers such as the (*) Buffalo Commercial Advertiser. The most notable characteristic of this group is that they supported the Compromise of 1850 and recognized Millard Fillmore rather than William H. Seward as the head of their party. For ten points, name this conservative faction of the Whig Party that existed in New York during the 1850's and takes its name from the color of old people's hair. 
ANSWER: Silver-Grays

