TOSSUPS -- FINALS				SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice, Robert Trent, and DavidSwindell, plus Swarthmore and various other Penn Bowl contributors1.	Born in Furth, Germany, he published an academic journal called Confluence, and from 1943 to 1946 he served in the U.S. Army, primarily as part of the occupational government of Germany.  His first book was Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy published in 1957 and he consulted the Eisenhower, Johnson and Kennedy administrations on foreign policy.  And in his spare time he consorted with high-profile babes like Jill St. John.  FTP, name this man, Nixon's National Security Advisor and later Secretary of State.Henry Kissinger2.	Descended from Bohemian nobles, he was born in Darmstadt, Germany in 1829.  He first studied architecture, but soon switched to chemistry under the influence of Justus von Liebig.  He went to London in 1853, and while riding on a bus there, he dreamed of carbon atoms linking together to form longer and longer chains, a dream which led to his theory of the tetravalency of carbon and which became the basis of structural chemistry.  FTP, name this chemist, who later dreamed of a snake biting its own tail, thus divining the structure of benzene.Friedrich August von Kekule3.	A polyglot, he published translations from Chinese, Japanese, and Greek.  He was indicted for treason after broadcasting anti-Semitic and pro-fascist propaganda in Italy during World War II, but was ruled mentally unfit to stand trial and confined to a mental hospital for a time after returning to the U.S. He was a leader of the poetic schools of imagism and vorticism, and encouraged many young poets, including his one-time fiancee H.D.  FTP name this poet, author of Hugh Selwyn Mauberley, Homage to Sextus Propertius, and Cantos.Ezra Pound4.	It has two major basins separated by the Lomonosov Ridge, and it has outlets to other bodies of water near the Chukchi Sea and via the Fram Strait, which lies to the west of Svalbard.  Much of its surface area is taken up by shallow marginal seas such as the Kara, and its islands include Wrangel, Ellesmere, and Franz Josef Land.  Prudhoe Bay and Murmansk lie on extensions of, FTP, what northernmost ocean in the world?ANSWER: Arctic Ocean 5.	In 1647, he became the director-general of a 21-year-old colony in North America. He remained in charge of that colony until it was surrendered to Great Britain in 1664.  FTP, name this man, born in 1592, who, despite the fact that he was missing a limb, served as the director-general of the New-Netherlands Colony.ANS: Peter Stuyvesant6.    	X rays or gamma rays, operating as photons, transfer some energy and momentum to a loosely-bound electron.  Since the rays' energy and momentum are proportional to their frequency, the photon has a longer wavelength after the collision. The wavelength's exact value, though, depends on the angle between the incident rays & target material.  FTP name this physical effect, discovered in 1923 and predicted by quantum mechanics.Compton Effect7.	The phrase "conventional wisdom" was coined in this work which argues that a higher level of unemployment would be preferable to the contemporary situation, where unnecessary goods were being produced so that the economy operated at capacity.  Its suggestion that resources be shifted to public-sector social service programs was often cited by proponents of Johnson's "war on poverty."  FTP, name this 1958 book by John Kenneth Galbraith.ANSWER: The Affluent Society
8.	At the beginning, the four title characters are discussing what to each other for Christmas, but decide to buy something for Marmee instead.  As the novel goes on, some of the characters visit Mrs. Gardiner's house for a New Year's Eve party, go to Vanity Fair, visit Laurence to go camping, travel to New York City, and attend Meg's wedding at the beginning of part two.  FTP, name this Louisa May Alcott novel.ANSWER: 	Little Women9.	It originated in Florence, and early leaders in its practice include Jacopo da Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino.  Other noted practitioners include Bronzino, Giulio Romano, and Parmigianino, the title of whose Madonna with the Long Neck suggests a key feature of the movement.  FTP, name this style of art exemplified by Michelangelo's Last Judgment, known for its figures' contorted poses and for its use of foreshortening.Answer: _Mannerism_10.	The environmental damage done by rapid clear-cutting of this unique tree was worsened by industrial byproducts from its commercial use.  It was the dominant foliage in a specialized ecosystem that supported the swomee-swan, the brown barbaloot, and the hummingfish.  For 10 points, what colorful kind of tree was being destroyed in the Dr. Seuss story, The Lorax,?ANSWER: Truffula Trees 11.	He has been called an agent of catharsis, since his most important lines amount to no more than, "Clean this mess up."   The namesake of the family dog in A Wrinkle in Time, he was recently depicted by Casey Affleck as a stockholder.   This prince of Norway finally arrives in Denmark only after Hamlet has died in a duel.   FTP name this character, who in a widely circulated Scooby-Doo ending to Hamlet is unmasked as the perpetrator behind all the strange goings-on in Elsinore.ANS: Fortinbras12.	The first person to be elected to a major US office by write-in ballot, this former teacher resigned less than two years later, only to be elected again within months.  He married his second wife in 1968, the same year he published The Faith We Have Not Kept.  He set a world record by speaking for 24 hours, 18 minutes straight about civil rights the year after he wrote the "Southern Manifesto" against Brown v. Board of Education.  FTP, name this loser of both a 1950 Senate race and the 1948 presidential election, still serving in the U.S. Senate.James Strom Thurmond13.	All you really need to construct one of these is a read/write head, a finite set of symbols , a table of instructions, some media, and of course a state holding element. It was originally devised as a solution to Hilbert's question about "decidability" in mathematics. FTP, name this construct of computer science whose namesake theorem states that a function is computable if it can be computed on this device. Turing Machine (Accept the theorem name Turing-Church if given)14.	While this philosophy was not created until the 19th century, its name had been applied earlier to some heretics during the middle ages.  Profoundly influenced by earlier thinkers such as Feuerbach, Darwin, and Herbert Spencer, this philosophy rejected aetheticism in favor of utilitarianism and scientific rationalism.  It was first referred to in its present meaning in an article in The Messenger of Europe by N. I. Nadezhdin with regard to Pushkin.  FTP, name this school of philosophy which originated in Russia, popularized by Turgenev's Fathers and Sons.nihilism
15.	He studied the flute as a child and enrolled at the University of Chicago at the age of 15.  After graduating he went to Julliard and later to Paris where (like Copland) he studied under Nadia Boulanger.  He also met sitarist Ravi Shankar who influenced him to reject traditional musical structures such as harmony and tempo.  Later works of his include the operas The Voyage, and Satyagraha on Gandhi.  FTP, name this composer of Einstein on the Beach, satirically presented as the composer of the school's winter musical on South Park.Philip Glass16.	Historians usually place his death at 1357 BCE, and rumor has it that his biggest feat was done at the urging of his high-stature wife. This most famous accomplishment was introducing monotheism to his kingdom. FTP, name this Pharaoh, whose wife, Nefertiti, is said to have convinced him to convert to the monotheistic worship of Aten, the sun god?ANS: Akhenaten or Amenhotep IV17.	This man was a student of Charcot's, and was involved in Charcot's study of hysteria and hypnotism.   With a colleague, he wrote a highly perceptive analysis of Sister Jeanne des Anges' account of her "hysterical illness" which was caused by a priest's unrequited love. He was shot by a deluded woman who had been a patient at the famous Salpêtrière hospital.  In an 1885 paper this man described nine patients who had involuntary movements and vocalizations, often accompanied by compulsions, which FTP, caused a disease to be named for him.ANSWER:  Gilles de la Tourette 18.	The antagonist of this work is not Jake Blues, but he does claim to be on a mission from God, a mission that usually involves stealing from lonely widows. When Harry Powell learns that Ben Harper had hidden 10,000 dollars with the Harper children, John and Pearl, he wastes no time in marrying their mother and killing her. The children then flee down a river. FTP, this describes what Davis Grubb novel, made into a 1955 thriller starring Robert Mitchum, famous for the tattoos on his character's knuckles, spelling out "Love" and "Hate"?Night of the Hunter19.	This contradictory god is often depicted having stoned eyes, for he drinks a concoction made from hemp. He is associated with reproduction and fertility, and his symbol is the phallus. He is depicted as dancing upon the broken back of a demon, with his third eye closed (though not blind) and his four arms swaying in rhythm. FTP, name this god of the Trimurti, husband of Kali and destroyer god of the Hindu faith.Shiva20.	The protagonist attempts to gain the affections of the titular woman. He maintains a longstanding friendship with her paramour even as he feels dirty when they start talking cute. He inquires where a female of similar caliber might be located, as the title woman is unattainable, watching her boyfriend with her eyes, and very likely loving him with her body. FTP name this song, in which Rick Springfield wonders "Where can I find a woman like that?"Jessie's Girl21.	He collaborated with Bill Moyers on an acclaimed short-run PBS series.  This late scholar, the former chair of the department of Comparative Mythology at Sarah Lawrence College, brought his theories of the universality and the importance of myth to the public within the last fifty years. FTP, name this scholar, author of several acclaimed works including The Hero with a Thousand Faces.ANS: Joseph Campbell
22.	The twelfth longest river in the world, it is known to the Chinese as the Lantsang Kiang and it rises in Tibet as the Dza Chu (Qu).  It forms a natural border for East Burma and West Laos, as well as Laos and Thailand.  At the four arms point it joins with the Tonle Sap and it later divides into the river proper and the Bassac.  FTP, Identify this river for which Pnom Penh is a major port.ANSWER:  Mekong23.	In 1995 Lawrence Fishburne, Cuba Gooding Jr., and Malcolm-Jamal Warner co-started in an HBO film based on the true story of the Fighting 99th Fighter Squadron.  For 10 points - what two-word name was given to this first squadron of African American combat fighter pilots?ANSWER: Tuskeegee Airmen
BONI -- FINALS					SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice, Robert Trent, and DavidSwindell, plus Swarthmore and various other Penn Bowl contributors1.	Given the protagonist of a dystopian novel written in the 20th century, name the novel, FTP each.  If you need the author, you'll get 5 points each. a10. Winston Smitha5. George Orwellanswer: _1984_b10. Offredb5. Margaret Atwoodanswer: The _Handmaid's Tale_c10. Bernard Marx (or maybe John the Savage)c5. Aldous Huxleyanswer: _Brave New World_2.	A nebula is a localized conglomerate of gaseous and finely divided dust particles. FTPE, give the common names of the following nebulae.[10] Some nebulae are the fragments of supernovae, like this famous nebula, M1, located in Taurus.Answer: Crab Nebula[10] Planetary nebulae are formed from the ejected atmospheres of red giant stars.  This well known example, M57, is in Lyra.Answer: Ring Nebula[10] A dark diffuse nebula neither reflects nor emits much light.  This well-known dark nebula, Barnard 33, is located in Orion.Answer: Horsehead Nebula 3.	Identify these Civil War battles of Grant's 1864 overland campaign, FTPE.a) In this first major battle of the campaign, the Army of the Potomac crossed the Rapidan River in Virginia.  The resulting battle lasted from May 5th to 6th, and the armies could barely maneuver or see each other in the underbrush.Battle of the Wildernessb) After the Wilderness, Grant chased Lee to this indecisive engagement.  It featured the famous last words of Gen. John Sedgwick, "Come, come!  Why, they couldn't hit an elephant at this dist--."Battle of Spotsylvania Courthousec) Fought on June 3, 1864, more than 5000 Union soldiers died in the attack's first hour, ending Grant's advance through the Virginia wilderness.Battle of Cold Harbor4.	FTPE, answer these questions about first millennium Christianity.[10] This man, first the Roman emperor of the west and later of all the empire, prohibited all worship of the pagan gods in 392 and performed a famous act of penance.Answer: Flavius Theodosius I or Theodosius the Great[10] This Byzantine emperor ruled 527-565 and built the Hagia Sophia.  His codification of Roman law placed many restrictions on pagans, heretics, Jews, and Samaritans.Answer: Justinian I or Flavius Justinianus or Petrus Sabbatius[10] This controversy centered around whether a certain practice constituted worship of graven images.  In 730, Leo III officially banned the items that caused this controversy.Answer: Iconoclastic Controversy; accept iconoclasm5. 
FTPE, name these innovators in blue-eyed soul.[10] Her highest-charting single in the United States was "Wishin' and Hopin'"; these days, thanks to Quentin Tarrantino, more people recognize "Son of a Preacher Man".Answer: Dusty Springfield[10] Before he was in Big Star, Alex Chilton was in this band. His vocals on their "The Letter" were so gravelly many listeners assumed Chilton was black.Answer: The Box Tops[10] Originally the Rivieras, this band was discovered while opening for the Dave Clark Five in Michigan. Their hits included "Devil with the Blue Dress," "Jenny, Take a Ride" and "Little Latin Lupe Lu".Answer: Mitch Ryder and the Detroit Wheels6.	5-10-15: Answer questions about the human kidney.a) This structure, the kidney's functional unit, processes blood filtrate into urine.nephronb) Each nephron consists of a single long tubule and this ball of capillaries.glomerulusc) The glomerulus lies within Bowman's capsule. Name the specialized cells of the capsule, permeable to water and small solutes, that filter blood from the glomerulus.podocyte7.	Given 2 main characters from a 19th century American novel, name that novel FTP each.  If you need the author, you'll get 5 points each.a10. Jim Conklin, Henry Fleminga5. Stephen Craneanswer: The _Red Badge of Courage_b10. Colonel Pyncheon, Matthew Mauleb5. Nathaniel Hawthorneanswer: The _House of the Seven Gables_c10. Muff Potter, Becky Thatcherc5. Mark Twainanswer: The Adventures of _Tom Sawyer_  [DO NOT accept Huckleberry Finn]8.	Name the philosophers from clues FTPE.[10] He taught TS Eliot among others at Harvard and wrote a novel called The Last Puritan.ANSWER:  George Santayana[10] Knighted in 1965, he taught at New Zealand from 1937-1945.  He also wrote The Open Society and Its Enemies and The Logic of Scientific Discovery.ANSWER:  Karl Popper[10] He won the Nobel Prize Literature in 1927.  He also wrote Matter & Memory and Creative Evolution.ANSWER:  Henri Bergson9.	On July 27, 1794, a coup was staged by French conservatives, ousting and executing this man without trial.  For 5 points, name this leading proponent of the Reign of Terror.ANSWER:  Maximilien RobespierreFor 10 points, name the political party or club with which Robespierre rose to power.ANSWER:  the JacobinsFor an additional 15 points, what is the name given to the overthrow and arrest of Robespierre?ANSWER:  the Thermidor Reaction
10.	Given a work or works, name the composer for the stated number of points.[5] Clair de Lune, La MerANS: Claude Debussy[10] The Sorceror's ApprenticeANS: Paul Dukas [15] Bachianas BrasilierasANS: Heitor Villa-Lobos11.	Ernest Gaines is one of the few men to appear on Oprah Winfrey's book club.  FTPE name these Gaines novels:[10] Grant Wiggins is a plantation schoolteacher.  His godmother asks him to prove to her son Jefferson that he is a man, not a hog, before he is executed for a murder of which he is innocent.Answer: A Lesson Before Dying[10] It traces the struggles of the title character, played by Cicely Tyson in an acclaimed 1974 TV-movie, from her slave childhood in the 1850's to her defying authority by drinking from a whites-only fountain as a 110-year-old.Answer: The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman[10] Eighteen elderly black man all claim responsibility for the murder of Beau Boutan, a Cajun farmer.  Each explains his motives for the crime.Answer: A Gathering of Old Men12.	5-10-15: Given the animal, name its order.a) Platypus.monotremata or monotremeb) Capybara.rodentia or rodentc) Armadillo.accept either edentata or edentate, or the new proposed name xenarthra13.	The Treaty of Paris (OK, one of the treaties of Paris) had left the border between part of the United States and Canada in question.  This dispute resulted in the arrest of trespassers.      [10] what is this bloodless conflict that took place between 1838 and 1839?      Aroostook War [10] what treaty resolved the conflict in the Aroostook war by setting a definite boundary between the U.S. and Canada?      Webster-Ashburton Treaty       [5] EACH, name the state and the Canadian province involved in the conflict.Maine and New Brunswick14.	30-20-10-5: Name the following 70's television show based on characters [30] Marvin Suggs, Lew Zealand, Crazy Harry[20] Floyd Pepper, Sweetums, Dr. Julius Strangepork[10] Dr. Teeth, Scooter, Sam the Eagle, Rowlf[5] Gonzo the Great, Animal, Miss PiggyANS: The Muppet Show 
15.	Name these West African empires FTP each.The first of the great medieval African trade empires, this Soninke (so-NEEN-kuh) kingdom flourished between the 7th and 13th centuries with gold being its most precious commodity, but was really destroyed by the Almoravid invasion in 1076.      GhanaThe Susu occupied Ghana's capital and in 1240 it was destroyed by Sunidata, who established this empire.  Timbuktu and Gao were absorbed during its prime, under the rule of Mansa Musa.      MaliIt became independent during Mali's decline.  Flourishing in the 15th and 16th centuries, its capital was established at Gao.  Djenné and Timbuktu flourished during its time in power.      Songhai16.	Name the subatomic particle given a description, 5-10-15.5 - Composed of one down and two up quarks, this baryon has a charge of +1, and spin of 1/2, and a mass of 938 mega-electron volts.proton10 - Composed of an up or a down, and an anti-up or an anti-down, this lightest meson has a charge of +1, 0, or -1, and no spin.pion15 - The strangest particle, this baryon is composed of three strange quarks, with a charge of -1, and a spin of 3/2.omega-minus17.	Break out your Cahiers du Cinema and name these figures of the French New Wave, FTP each.a. Noted for his book-length interview of Hitchcock, he is also known for his own films such as The 400 Blows and Jules & Jimanswer: François _Truffaut_b. He founded the radical Vertov group, which produced Letter to Jane and Sympathy for the Devil.  He is best remembered for such films as Breathless and Alphaville.answer: Jean-Luc _Godard_c. His New Wave film Elevator to the Gallows is stylistically different from his later films like Atlantic City and Au Revoir les Enfants.answer: Louis _Malle_18.	Given the country, name its cool sounding capital FTPE:[10] BurundiANS: Bujumbura[10] Burkina FasoANS: Ouagadougou[10] CameroonANS: Yaounde19.	Where's Robert Trent when we need him?  Given a list of works, identify the author FTPE.[10] La ley del amor, Como agua para chocolateLaura _Esquivel_[10] Betrayed by Rita Hayworth, Kiss of the Spider WomanManuel _Puig_[10] Chronicle of a Death Foretold, The General in His LabyrinthGabriel _Garcia Marquez_
20.	Answer the following question about the second pillar of Islam 5-10-15.[5] What is the second pillar of Islam?ANSWER:  Pray five times a day (or Salat, accept equivalents)[10] The Friday noon prayer is lead by this person.ANSWER:  Imam[15] Give the name of the person that announces the call to prayer (adhan).ANSWER:  Muezzin21.	Museum treasures.  Name the museum that is home to the following treasures for 5 points apiece.A- The Venus de Milo				ANSWER: the Louvre (loov) B- The Rosetta Stone				ANSWER: the British MuseumC- The mummy of Ramses II			ANSWER: the Cairo MuseumD-A Sunday on La Grande Jatte			ANSWER:  Art Institute of ChicagoE-The Temple of Dendur				ANSWER: the Metropolitan Museum of Art F-The Hall of Remembrance and the Avenue of the Righteous	ANSWER:  Yad Vashem22.	In the American democratic tradition, power is divided among the three branches of government in a system of checks and balances: the legislative, the executive, and the judicial.  Grounded in the Justinian and Napoleonic Codes as well as English Common Law, the American legal system is divided into three broad categories of legal doctrine.  First, for 5 points, name the branch of law that defines exactly what an illegal action is as assigns punishment for that action, classified by the seriousness of the offense such as treason, felony, and misdemeanor.ANSWER:  Criminal LawFor 10 points, what is that branch of law dealing with the rights of private citizens intended to codify the means by which individuals engage one another in society, including such relationships as marriage, divorce, and negligence.ANSWER:  Civil LawFor 15 points, name the lesser-known, though very large, branch of American law governing the activities of public agencies as they carry out the tasks of the executive branch, which is designed to ensure that appropriate standards are used by such agencies in developing and enforcing regulations.ANSWER:  Administrative Law