TOSSUPS -- KEYSTONE KOPS 4			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. Admiral Brueys' fleet lay in a strong defensive position inside a sandy bay, protected by a shore battery. The British found it shortly before sunset, and Nelson immediately gave the order to attack. The climax occurred at 10:00 PM when L'Orient, the French flagship, blew up, taking most of the crew with it. FTP, name this Egyptian naval battle, in which the British navy destroyed the French fleet supporting Napoleon's expedition.Answer: Battle of Aboukir Bay OR Battle of  the Nile2. In 1997, he had both of his testicles removed after one was discovered to be cancerous - this five years after his companion died.  He had mysterious nosebleeds and developed arthritis, for which he would take medicine hidden in Starbucks blueberry muffins.  For ten points, who suffered from a kidney disease which eventually claimed him on November 28, 1999 at the age of 28, a giant panda at the National Zoo?Answer:  Hsing-Hsing (pronounced "SHING-shing")3. According to Jerome, this man's wife gave him a love potion, which made him insane and eventually led to suicide. At the time of his death, his greatest work, namely a didactic poem in six books, was unfinished and Cicero prepared it for publication. FTP, name this Roman poet who set forth a complete science of the universe, based on the philosophies of Democritus and Epicurus, in On the Nature of Things.  Answer: Lucretius4. Approximately 150 million years old, the fossils of this creature were first discovered in 1855.  It was classified as a small reptile due to its teeth, tail, and pelvis designed for running.  Several years later, closer inspection revealed the faint imprints of feathers.  For ten points, name this "missing link" whose name means "old wing." ANSWER: Archaeopteryx  (ar-kee-op-ter-iks)5. The hundreds of characters in this book include an ambitious light bulb named Byron and some characters that had appeared in the author's first two novels, such as Kurt Mondaugen and Bloody Chiclitz.  The main character, or at least the character that has the most written about him, is an American GI named Tyrone Slothrop.  FTP, name this third and most baffling of Thomas Pynchon's novels.Answer: Gravity's Rainbow6. His "Its Only Us" is the theme song to EA Sports "FIFA 2000" video game, while his "Let Me Entertain You" served as a musical backdrop to a fall NBC promotional campaign.  He has said that he wants to be the next James Bond, and has made an audition tape of sorts with a 1999 music video.  FTP, name this Brit, whose "The Ego Has Landed" album spawned the single "Millennium."Answer: Robbie Williams7. He awakes from a dream saying, "Surely the Lord was in this place and I, I did not know it."  His name means ankle, because he grabbed the ankle of his twin brother at birth in an attempt to be the first-born.  He works fourteen years in order to marry the bride of his choice, and wins a second name that means "he who wrestles with angels."  FTP, name this third Old Testament patriarch, father of Joseph and son of Isaac.Answer: Jacob
8. William Cullen Bryant wrote a song of his men, who were mostly of Irish descent. His men comprised the only Revolutionary fighting force in South Carolina, which now has a National Forest that bears his name.  But it was is knowledge of the backwoods and guerrilla tactics that earned him his legendary moniker.  FTP, name this Revolutionary War officer who was nicknamed "The Swamp Fox."Answer:  Francis Marion9. With Debussy and Liszt among his influences, this composer secured his own fame through his use of Hungarian folk rhythms and a highly chromatic style.  He also wrote many teaching pieces for the piano, including "Mikrokosmos" in 1935. FTP, name this composer of "The Miraculous Mandarin" and "Duke Bluebeard's Castle."ANSWER: Bela Bartok10. It was granted tax-exempt status in 1954 because it was among a group "that test for the public safety."  However, a number of failures and fires in recent years have seen public safety officials and fire marshals calling for a Congressional investigation into it and it's testing services.  FTP, name this organization, the world's largest independent product-testing service, who's service mark is stamped on 15 billion products a year.Answer: Underwriters Laboratories11. It manufactures cellulose and pectin, in addition to its better-known functions.  Proteins and lipids manufactured in the endoplasmic reticulum bud off in vesicles and fuse with this organelle, merging with the cis side, traveling through its cisternae, and exiting as a fully packaged lipid or protein via the organelle's trans side.  FTP, identify this organelle that appears as a stack of flattened sacs, named after an Italian anatomist.Answer: Golgi body or apparatus or complex12. The fact that his mother was an Anglophone of Scottish descent helped him achieve total fluency in English, as well as in French. He taught law in his native Montréal until being elected to Parliament in 1965 as a Liberal. Only three years later, he had become prime minister, a post he held until 1979, and again from 1980 to 1984. FTP, name this French-speaking Canadian leader, an advocate of national unity but also of bilingualism. Answer: Pierre Elliott Trudeau13. The title song of this Western movie details the movie's plot, including the imminent arrival of the main villain, Frank Miller.  Sung from the point of view of the hero, the song is a plea to the hero's new bride not to leave him in his time of need, with the refrain of "Do not forsake me, oh my darling."  FTP, name this 1952 Fred Zinneman film, which starred Gary Cooper as a town marshal facing a band of killers by himself.Answer: High Noon14.  Her current release, Daughter of Fortune, portrays a young woman's migration to California during the Gold Rush, while in 1995 she published a nonfiction work based on her daughter Paula, who lapsed into an irreversible coma.  For ten points, what author of The House of the Spirits, had an uncle Salvador who died in a 1973 coup led by Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet?Answer:  Isabel Allende15. After he drove away a temptress sent by his brothers to corrupt him of his virtue, two angels appeared while he slept and girded him with the girdle of "perpetual virginity."  He stated that "the ultimate beatitude of man consists in the use of his highest function, which is the operation of his intellect...Hence the blessed see the essence of God." FTP, name this patron of all Catholic schools and universities, who devised five proofs of God.Answer: St. Thomas Aquinas16. Though similar to alcohols, this compound is more acidic due to the presence of conjugated double bonds.  It can be synthesized by the hydrolysis of chlorobenzene via the Dow process, and is used in combination with chloroform to extract DNA.  FTP, name this chemical consisting of a hydroxyl group attached to a benzene ring.ANSWER:  Phenol17. In 1960, it was 25,660 sq. mi. in area, but by 1987 it had split in half. Today, its salinity has almost tripled, threatening its 24 indigenous species of fish. Overirrigation is the major culprit for these calamities, as its principal sources, the Amu Darya (dar-YA) and Syr (sear) Darya have almost disappeared. FTP, identify this saltwater lake which straddles the boundary between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.ANSWER: Aral Sea18. Born in Heraklion, a city on Crete, this man studied law at Athens University.  However, law was not his calling and he found his passion after traveling through Europe and Asia.  His first novel was published in 1929, but he is best known for his 1946 work that was made into a film in 1964 starring Anthony Quinn. FTP, name the author of The Odyssey, a Modern Sequel and Zorba the Greek.Answer: Nikos Kazantzakis 19. In 1932 American physicist Carl David Anderson experimentally confirmed its existence.  In the annihilation process, when it interacts with an electron, they destroy each other, producing gamma rays.  For ten points, what elementary antimatter particle, first suggested by Dirac, has a mass equal to that of an electron, but an opposite charge?Answer:  Positron20. A 1926 alumnus of the University of Chicago law school, he was the senior advisor to the US delegation at the first meeting of the UN General Assembly in 1946.  14 years later, he was appointed US ambassador to the United Nations, where he served until his death from a heart attack in London on July 14, 1965.  FTP, name this grandson of a vice-president who lost back-to-back presidential elections to Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956.ANSWER: Adlai Ewing Stevenson21. While it more closely resembles a bear, it belongs to the marsupial family. It generally consumes beetle larvae, but has attacked poultry and can be seen scavenging on dead wallabies and sheep. It is also known for its large jaws, strong teeth, and very nasty temper, a possible source of its common name. FTP, identify the creature, who in Warner Brothers cartoons constantly attempts to eat Bugs Bunny.ANSWER: Tasmanian Devil  (Do NOT accept "Taz")22.  In the same sub-family as Gothic, Burgundian, and Vandalic, this language was spoken by East German tribes who settled in the Po valley of Italy in the 6th Century C.E.  This now-extinct language was the only non-High German language to undergo the second consonant shift.  The name of the language now belongs to a province in modern-day Italy.  FTP, name this language, a shortening of the word "Longobard."   Answer: Lombard (accept any variation thereof)
BONI -- KEYSTONE KOPS 4			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1.  Answer the following about a group of diseases for ten points each.a.  From the Greek for "dance," it is a clinical manifestation of certain diseases, characterized by involuntary, purposeless, spasmodic movements of the entire body.Answer:  Choreab.  The most common type of chorea, the patient suffers depletion of certain neurotransmitters as well as the build-up of another, dopamine, and also brain cell death in the basal ganglia.Answer:  Huntington's diseasec.  Also called rheumatic chorea, and named after an English physician, it primarily affects the face, tongue, and upper extremities.Answer:  Sydenham's chorea (accept St. Vitus's Dance)2. Answer the following about the Incan Empire, 5-10-15.a.  What Spanish conquistador overthrew Atahualpa, the last Incan emperor, in 1533?Answer:  Francisco Pizarrob. Who was the emperor Pizarro overthrew, whose betrayal is depicted in Peter Shaffer's play The Royal Hunt of the Sun?Answer: Atahualpac.  Identify the language of the Incas.Answer:  Quechua3. Identify the poet from works on a 30-20-10-5 basis.a. 30- The Axe Helve, In a Disused Graveyard b. 20-A Girl's Gardenc. 10-The Pasture, Fire and Iced. 5-Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening, The Road Not TakenANSWER: Robert Frost4. 30-20-10, identify the psychiatrist.a. [30] His early interests were in zoology, but he became interested in psychology, combining his biological training with his interest in epistemology.b. [20] He defined the stages of life as sensorimotor, preoperational, concrete operational, and formal.c. [10] This Swiss psychologist was the first to make a systematic study of the acquisition of understanding in children.Answer: Jean Piaget5. Identify these compositions of Aaron Copland, 5-10-15.a.  Copland's 1944 masterpiece, it includes folk material like the Shaker tune "Simple Gifts."Answer:  "Appalachian Spring"b.  His Third Symphony (1946) incorporates this work of four years earlier, which over the years has served as both college-graduation music and a title tune for TV news coverage of the Olympics.Answer:  "Fanfare for the Common Man"c.  A patriotic contribution to the World War II effort, it features spoken excerpts from a President's writings accompanied by folk tunes that President might have known.Answer:  "Lincoln Portrait"
6. Travels with Iphigenia.  For ten points each:a.  When Agamemnon sacrificed her to Artemis in order to calm a north wind, Iphigenia was forced to travel what Greek harbor?Answer:  Aulisb.  The playwright Euripides did not have Iphigenia slain, but instead had Artemis substitute a deer for the sacrifice and carried her to this spot, where she became the chief priestess of the goddess's temple.Answer:  Taurisc.  Finally, after many years what brother of Iphigenia rescued her from Tauris, allowing her to return to Mycenae?Answer:  Orestes7. Identify the physical limit FTPE.A. Above this temperature, the magnetic dipoles in a ferromagnet randomize such that only weak paramagnetism remains.      Answer: _Curie_ temperatureB. This is the maximum mass possible for a white dwarf star.      Answer: _Chandrasekhar_ limitC. Below this temperature of 2.18 Kelvin, helium-4 begins to demonstrate superfluidity.      Answer: _Lambda_ point8. Identify the following works of Mario Vargas Llosa for ten points each.a.  His first work depicted cruel treatment inside Peruvian military schools. Officials at the school he attended burned hundreds of copies.Answer:  The Time of the Hero (or La ciudad y los perros)b.  Vargas Llosa set this work in the titular bar, which explores the world of sexual and political intrigue during the Odría dictatorship.Answer:  Conversations in the Cathedral (or Conversaciones en la Catedral)c.  The nineteenth century rebellion against the military in northeast Brazil was the subject of this 1981 work.Answer:  The War of the End of the World (or La Guerra del Fin del Mundo)9. Answer the following related questions, 5-10-15.a. [5] This ship of the White Star Line sank on April 14-15, 1912 in the North Atlantic.Answer: RMS Titanicb. [10] This U.S. aircraft carrier, CV-5, sank on June 7, 1942 after the Battle of Midway.Answer: U.S.S. Yorktownc. [15] He was the oceanographer that headed the teams that discovered the hulks of the Titanic and Yorktown.Answer: Robert Ballard10. 30-20-10 identify the team:30:  They won the National Basketball League title in their first season, 1945-46, as well as an NBA title in 1950-51, but they have not won a championship since.20:  Both titles were earned while in Rochester.  Since then they have had franchise stops in Cincinnati, Omaha, and Kansas City before moving to their current location in 1985.10:  One of the premier young teams this season, stars include Vlade Divac, Jason Williams, and Chris Webber.Answer:  Sacramento Kings (either acceptable; prompt on "Rochester Royals" on the 30-point clue)
11. Answer these questions about the career of astronomer Sandra Moore Faber, for ten points each.a. Faber played a role in diagnosing the spherical aberration in this object's flawed mirror, and in developing the successful plan to fix it.ANSWER: Hubble Space Telescopeb. Faber was part of this nicknamed collaboration of six observers and one theorist, which found irregularities in the Hubble flow of galaxies.ANSWER: Seven Samuraic. The Seven Samurai identified this nearest huge supercluster of galaxies, of which the Local Supercluster is just a "suburb."ANSWER: Great Attractor12. Given a couple lines from a poem, identify the American woman who penned them for fifteen points each.  If you need the title of the poem, you will get ten points.a.  15:  "Under a splintered mast, torn from the ship and cast near her hull,            A stumbling shepherd found embedded in the ground, a seagull"     10:  "A Talisman"Answer:  Marianne Mooreb.  15:  "Is it the tinkling of mandolins which disturb you?            Or the dropping of bitter-orange petals among the coffee-cups?"     10:  "Little Ivory Figures Pulled with String"Answer:  Amy Lowell13. Identify the year in which each of these events occur from clues for fifteen points each.  If you need an easier clue, you'll earn five points.a.  15:  Mustafa Kemal Ataturk declares an independent Turkey, while the Treaty of Neuilly forces Bulgaria to recognize an independent Yugoslavia.       5:  The Treaty of Versailles is signed less than three months after World War I ends.Answer:  1919b.  15:  The state of Liberia is founded, while King George III dies.       5:  The Missouri Compromise is enacted, admitting Maine as a free state.Answer:  182014. 30-20-10 identify the historical figure:30:  In 1824 he started a newspaper, _The Colonial Advocate_, through which he launched a series of bitter attacks on the British provincial government.  20:  In 1834 he was elected first mayor of Toronto.  When his Reform Party was defeated by the Tories, he started a second newspaper, _The Constitution_, in which he advocated open rebellion.10:  He led a group of armed insurgents on Toronto in 1837, but was defeated. This namesake of a later Prime Minister fled to the USA, but returned to Canada in 1849.Answer:  William Lyon Mackenzie15. 30-20-10 identify the mineral:30:  It is an ingredient in French chalk and pigments.  An acid metasilicate of magnesium, it was used in the manufacture of pottery in ancient times and has been called potstone.20:  Most often found in metamorphic rock in a foliated compact form known as soapstone, it exhibits perfect basal cleavage.10:  Its hardness is between 1 and 1.5, making it the softest mineral on the Mohs scale.Answer:  Talc16. Given works, name the artist, 30-20-10.a. [30] Fresh Air, The Rustics, The New Novelb. [20] A Wall, Nassau; Mending the Nets; Shark Fishingc. [10] Cracking the Whip, The Gulf StreamANSWER: Winslow Homer17.	For five points each and a five-point bonus for getting them in order from largest to smallest, name the five largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea.Answers:  Sicily (9926 square miles), Sardinia (9300), Cyprus (3572), Corsica (3351), Crete (3218)18. Identify the following freedom of speech court cases from a year and a description for ten points each.a.  1919, freedom of speech is not protected if it poses a "clear and present danger"Answer:  Schenck v. U.S.b.  1964, a newspaper would be held liable for misstatements only if they were published "knowingly" or in "reckless disregard" of the possibility of their being falseAnswer:  New York Times v. Sullivanc.  1969, even KKK speech was protected unless it incited immediate unlawful conductAnswer:  Brandenburg v. Ohio19. Lady Antonia Fraser has written biography, history, and fiction.a. For five, she wrote a biography of what British monarch with six wives?Anwer: Henry VIIIb. For ten, what 1605 attempted assassination is discussed in her 1996 book Faith and Treason?Answer: Gunpowder Plotc. For fifteen, name Fraser's female detective character and BBC journalist featured in the novels Political Death  and Wild Island.Answer: Jemima Shore20.	 This bonus will test your knowledge of branches of Buddhism.a.  For five points each, identify the two major branches, which translate as "The Way of the Elders" and "The Great Vehicle."Answers:  Theravada and Mahayanab.  For ten points, also known as Vajrayana, or the Diamond Vehicle, this form of Buddhism developed in the seventh century AD as a blend of Mahayana and popular folk belief and magic in northern India.Answer:  Buddhist Tantrism (or Tantra)c.  For ten points, the Indian monk Bodhidharma founded this sect in AD 520 when he arrived in China.  It emphasizes personal enlightenment and practice rather than doctrine.  Answer:  Zen Buddhism21.	Identify these related ecology terms, FTPE.a. The smallest unit of a habitat that is occupied by an organism.  It can also be used to describe the role of an organism.Answer: nicheb. An interacting group of various species in a relatively localized area.Answer: communityc. The largest geographic biotic unit, a major community of plants and animals with similar life forms and environmental conditions.Answer: biome