TOSSUPS - FLORIDA A/MARYLAND B	  SWORD BOWL/PENN BOWL 2006 (UTC/Penn/Oklahoma/Drake)Questions by Florida A (Doug Robeson and Stephen Jackson) with Maryland B (Michael Bentley et al.)1.	When the first edition was published in July of 1813, it sold out all 750 copies.  In it, we learn that taking long walks in the rain in Cleveland can make you very sick, that women sometimes marry men just for their money like Lucy Steele, and that everything works out in the end for Edward Ferrars and Colonel Brandon.  Published under the pseudonym "a lady," FTP, name this Jane Austen novel about Marianne and Elinor Dashwood.	Answer:	 Sense and Sensibility2.	(MD) It has been suggested that it was part of a vast trading network that extended to China and its construction has been credited to both the Phoenicians and the Queen of Sheba but most now credit the Lemba. It is divided into the Hill Complex, Valley Complex and the Great Enclosure and the first Europeans to see it were the Portuguese in the 16th century. FTP, name this ancient ruin of Southern Africa now located between Mozambique and its namesake state.	Answer:	Great Zimbabwe3.	Among his accomplishments is playing Leslie St. Clair on the series Charmed for six episodes. More recently, it was alleged by Danielle Calo, a student at Ohio State, that he coerced her into a hotel room for a make-out session.  His representatives deny those rumors, but he was in town to film a broadcast of ESPN's College GameDay.  This may or may not have something to do with why Jessica Simpson separated from, FTP, what former member of 98 Degrees?	Answer:	 Nick Lachey4.	(MD) This Nobel laureate's work on the effect of electrostatic and magnetic fields on anode rays influenced the creation of the mass spectrometer.  A mentor to Ernest Rutherford, his most famous discovery was inspired by the discovery of X-Rays, allowing him to conclude that a single charge-to-mass particle, which he called a corpuscle, must exist.   FTP, identify this man who was responsible for finding the first subatomic particle to be discovered, the electron.	Answer:	Sir Joseph John Thomson5.	Prince Albert, although ill with typhoid, intervened from his sickbed to soften Lord Palmerston's ultimatum to the U.S., which he felt was too belligerent.  The original ultimatum demanded an apology and the release of the two Confederate diplomats bound for France. It was written in response to Charles Wilkes on the USS San Jacinto stopping the namesake British mail steamer and removing John Slidell and James Mason in, FTP, what 1861 diplomatic incident? 	Answer:	 Trent Affair6.	(MD) The main character of this work is chastised for stealing an apple after he sees it turn red as the rest of the world exists in black and white.  At the Ceremony of Twelve, all members of the society are assigned occupations that they will work in until their release from the society at age 65.  FTP, identify this novel where main character Jonas, serving as Receiver of Memory, is transmitted all of the society's history by the title character.	Answer:	The Giver7.	A statue of him in the General Post Office in Dublin shows his demise, as does the 1966 ten cent shilling.  His enemies knew he could not refuse a meal and he also could not eat dog meat, so they offered him a meal of dog meat, forcing him to break one of his vows, which spiritually weakened him and led to his demise. Lugaid's spear mortally wounded him, but he tied himself to a stone pillar to remain standing.   Conall Cernach avenged the death of, FTP, what Irish mythical hero of the Ulster Cycle?	Answer:	 Cuchulain8.	One explanation for this was offered by Edgar Allan Poe in 1848.  Poe postulated that since the speed of light is finite, if the distance was far enough away, we would not yet be able to see the light.  Another explanation is akin to the rational numbers sitting inside the real numbers.  Although the rationals are infinite, if one were to pick a random spot on the real number line, the odds are just about zero that the number picked would be rational.  Another explanation is that the universe is not transparent, but this would result in uniform radiation from all directions.  FTP, name this paradox postulated by its namesake German astronomer, which states that since there are an infinite number of stars, the night sky should be bright. 	Answer:	 Olbers' Paradox
9.	After the failure of the revolt of Henry Stafford, he became the leading contender from his house to the throne.  To strengthen his claim, he agreed to marry Elizabeth of York, the daughter and heir of Edward IV.  With this marriage plan, he united the houses of York and Lancaster and helped to end to the War of the Roses.  FTP, name this man who defeated Richard III at Bosworth Field in 1485 to become the first Tudor king of England. 	Answer:	 Henry VII [prompt on Tudor]10.	Noted arias in it include "Che gelida manina" and "O soave fanciulla."  It predates by just one year a work by the same title by Ruggiero Leoncavallo, who used the same subject matter but concentrated on a different relationship within the story.  It opened in Turin on Feb. 1, 1896, with Arturo Toscanini conducting. The action begins with Marcello painting while Roldolfo gazes out the window on a cold Christmas Eve.  And unlike Rent, Mimi dies in the end.  FTP, name this opera by Giacomo Puccini.  	Answer:	 La Boheme11.	(MD) One of its measures, popularly named the Murder Act, abolished the local administration of government, placing the role solely the governor's hands. The Quebec Act, while not officially part of these acts, angered American Protestants by granting Catholics religious tolerance.  FTP, identify these acts passed in retribution of the Boston Tea Party that forced colonists to house British troops and closed the Port of Boston.	Answer:	Intolerable Acts (also accept Coercive Acts and Punitive Acts)12.	In it, chemicals were all sealed inside a sterile array of glass tubes and flasks connected together in a loop, with one flask half-full of liquid water and another flask containing a pair of electrodes.  The liquid water was heated to induce evaporation, sparks were fired through the atmosphere and water vapor to simulate lightning, and then the atmosphere was cooled again so that the water could condense and trickle back into the first flask in a continuous cycle.  The conditions were meant to simulate early earth conditions and the experiment originally took place in Chicago in 1953. FTP, name this experiment, named for the two scientists, which showed that water, methane, ammonia, and hydrogen can form amino acids on their own.   	Answer:	 Miller-Urey Experiment or Urey-Miller experiment13.	He quit his computer company job after he became seriously overweight and started doing stand-up, then joined a noted L.A. improv comedy troupe, the Groundlings.  His film and TV career included parts in Thoroughly Modern Millie and on M*A*S*H, as well as an unlikely pairing with Jay Leno in the cop-buddy movie Collision Course.  He had the pleasure of working with both Hilary Swank and Elisabeth Shue for their first movies and was nominated for a 1984 Best Supporting Actor Academy Award.  Remembered for his line "Wax on, wax off," FTP, name this Japanese American who played Arnold on Happy Days and Mr. Miyagi in The Karate Kid. 	Answer:	 Pat Morita14.   (FL/MD) A new compilation of many of his short stories and plays, Towards the Radical Center, was published in 1990. The Gestapo had ranked him as public enemy # 2 in Czechoslovakia until he refused to eat and died of pneumonia.  A writer of detective stories, novels, fairy tales, gardening books, and science fiction plays, he is better known for his many allegorical and satirical plays, including The Insect Play and The War With the Newts.  FTP, name this Czech playwright most famous for popularizing a word coined by his brother Joseph in his play Rossum's Universal Robots.	Answer:	Karel ?apek15.	They are known for their theory of the transmigration of souls, and also for their theory that numbers constitute the true nature of things. They performed purification rites and followed ascetic, dietary and moral rules which they believed would enable their soul to achieve a higher rank among the gods.  It was those dietary beliefs that, according to one legend, led to the death of their leader who refused to cross a field of beans because beans were a vile food that cause flatulence.  FTP, name this Greek school led by a man who did not come up with his namesake mathematical theorem.	Answer:	 Pythagoreans16.	(MD) The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service administers this area, which borders Iwavik and Vuntut National Parks in Canada.  It consists of six different ecological zones on 19 million acres, and is home to animals such as the muskoxen, the dall sheep and several species of caribou.  It is free of paved roads and the Athabascan and Inupiaq tribes both reside in it.  But it is the coastal plain that is the most famous part of, FTP, what oil-rich area, twice saved from drilling in close Congressional votes in late 2005?	Answer:	ANWR or Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
17.	In 1934 he published his first volume of poetry, Permit Me Voyage, with a foreword by Archibald Macleish.  Along with photographer Walker Evans, he wrote about their experiences staying with Alabama sharecroppers in Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.   He wrote for Fortune, Time, and The Nation, the latter two as film critic, then turned to screenwriting, most notably The African Queen.  FTP, name this writer who posthumously won the 1958 Pulitzer Prize for his autobiographical novel A Death in the Family. 	Answer:	 James Agee18.	Legend has it that this man made a point of swimming across every river in India for exercise.  Having lost Samarkand and Fargana at the age of 17, he spent three years building up his army, crossed the Hindu Kush, and took Kabul.  Vastly outnumbered at the First Battle of Panipat, he routed his enemy and took both Agra and Delhi.  Three years later, in 1529, at the Battle of Ghagra, he crushed the last remnant of resistance in north India.  FTP, name this descendant of Tamerlane, the first emperor of the Mughal dynasty. 	Answer:	 Babur19.	Han van Meegeren forged many of this man's works, and therefore it is not known how many paintings are really his, but most scholars estimate between 34 and 37.  Some historians believe he used a camera obscura to achieve precise positioning in his compositions, and this view seems to be supported by certain light and perspective effects which would be the result of lenses and not the naked eye, especially in his work View of Delft.  FTP, name this Dutch artist of The Milkmaid and Girl with a Pearl Earring. 	Answer:	 Johannes Vermeer20.	(MD) Fumarase, aconitase, and malate dehydrogenase are among the enzymes in this process.  The main input into it is acetyl-COA, produced by glycolysis.  While it does not use oxygen, its immediate successor, oxidative phosphorylation, does.  FTP, identify this second phase of ATP production which breaks down pyruvate in eukaryotes, named for a German biochemist who discovered many of its key steps in 1937.	Answer:	Krebs Cycle (also accept Citric Acid Cycle, Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle and TCA Cycle)21.	One of its effects has been the significant increase of trilingual label of products in English, French, and Spanish.  A controversial part of it is its Chapter 11 which allows corporations to sue federal governments if they feel a regulation or government decision adversely effects their investments, which Methanex, a Canadian company, used to sue the U.S., and Metaclad, an American corporation, used to sue Mexico.  FTP, name this 1993 agreement that gradually phased out tariffs between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada.	Answer:	 North American Free Trade Agreement or NAFTA22.	His basis theorem states that, if K is a field, then every ideal in the ring of multivariate polynomials with coefficients in K is finitely generated.  His axioms are a set of 20 assumptions designed to form the foundation for a modern treatment of Euclidean geometry.  His space is an inner product space that is complete with respect to the norm defined by the inner product.  He is also well known for his leadership in the mathematical community in the early twentieth century.  FTP, name this man who, at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Paris in 1900, put forth a most influential list of 23 unsolved problems which include the continuum hypothesis and the Riemann hypothesis. 	Answer:	 David Hilbert23.	(MD) Its creators have called it the spiritual successor to Ico, as it features the same minimalist story.  The protagonist rides from point to point on his horse Agro in an attempt to slay the title objects through attacking their vital points with an ancient sword.  FTP, identify this 2005 Playstation 2 game that features main character Wander's quest to slay 16 mythical boss characters. 	Answer:	Shadow of the Colossus 
BONI - FLORIDA A/MARYLAND B		SWORD BOWL/PENN BOWL 2006 (UTC/Penn/Oklahoma/Drake)Questions by Florida A (Doug Robeson and Stephen Jackson) with Maryland B (Michael Bentley et al.)1.	(MD) FTPE, name the British novel from the opening line.  You will receive five points if you need the author.[10] "It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen."[5] George Orwell	Answer:	1984[10] "Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show."[5] Charles Dickens	Answer:	David Copperfield[10] "No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy would have supposed her born to be an heroine."[5] Jane Austen	Answer:	Northanger Abbey2. (MD) What?  No, we weren't playing Age of Empires - we were researching this bonus on ancient civilizations. FTPE:[10] These early Mesopotamians called themselves the black-headed people; major cities included Ur, Uruk, and Kish.	Answer:	Sumerians (also accept the Sumer civilization, Shumer, Sangar, Shinar and ki-en-gir)[10] The Old Testament refers to them as Children of Heth, their language is one of the oldest known Indo-European languages, and their last known king was Suppiluliuma II.	Answer:	Hittites (Also accept kingdom of Hatti)[10] These Canaanites were famous for their purple dye and for founding such cities as Tyre and Carthage.	Answer:	Phoenicians3.	I hear good things about carbon... probably because my girlfriend keeps asking for a diamond.  FTPE, how many carbon atoms are in:[10] Carborundum	Answer:	One (formula SiC)[10] Butane	Answer:	Four (formula C4H10)[10] Ethane	Answer:	Two (formula C2H6)4.	(MD) Identify the following data structures from computer science, FTPE.[10] This data structure must support the push and pop operations, which add and remove elements from it.  It operates on a last in, first out principle.	Answer:	Stack[10] Values in this data structure are retrieved by using a formula on associated keys to determine their positions in the structure.	Answer:	Hash Table (also accept Hash Map)[10] This type of data structure consists of nodes with zero or more children, but only at most one parent node.  Specific types include AVL and Red Black.	Answer:	Tree (do not accept any more specific type of tree)5.	He described the system as a "method of composing with 12 notes which are related only to one another". FTPE, [10] Identify this composer, famous for inventing the 12-tone technique and using it in his Variations for Orchestra. 	Answer:	 Arnold Schoenberg[10] Schoenberg's friend and fellow 12-tone aficionado, he is perhaps most well known for his operas Lulu and Wozzeck. 	Answer:	 Alban Berg[10] Schoenberg, Berg, and Anton Webern were considered part of this group because of where they lived and did most of their work.  	Answer:	Second Viennese School or Second Vienna School [prompt on Viennese/Vienna]
6.	(MD) Find a confessional camera and expose your knowledge of reality television programs, FTPE.[10] This FX show is a spin-off of host Morgan Spurlock's documentary, Supersize Me. Contestants live a different lifestyle than they're accustomed to for the title time period. 	Answer:	30 Days[10] This Fox show mixed daredevil stunts in with business tasks as contestants vied for host Richard Branson's job as president of Virgin Worldwide.	Answer:	The Rebel Billionaire[10] Contestants on this summer show on Fox had to endure the constant barrage of criticism from Chef Gordon Ramsay as they fought to obtain their own restaurant.	Answer:	Hell's Kitchen7.	FTPE, answer these questions relating to malfunctions in the liver.A. This condition is characterized by a buildup of bilirubin in the body when the liver fails to break down dead red blood cells.	Answer:	JaundiceB. This liver ailment is characterized by fatigue, malaise, joint aches, abdominal pain, vomiting 2-3 times per day for the first 5 days, loss of appetite, dark urine, enlarged liver, and jaundice .	Answer:	HepatitisC. This condition, which alcohol abuse can cause, is the buildup of fibrous tissue in the liver, causing death of liver cells. 	Answer:	Cirrhosis8.	FTPE, answer the following about the classic American drama Death of a Salesman: [10] He is the title salesman who commits suicide at the plays end. 	Answer:	 Willy Loman [prompt on Loman][10] Willy's youngest son, he's a chronic liar and lives in an apartment in New York.  He tells his mom that he's going to get married, but he doesn't even have a girlfriend. 	Answer:	 Happy Loman[10] Oh, all right.  Who wrote Death of a Salesman? 	Answer:	 Arthur Miller [prompt on Miller - there's another Pulitzer-winning playwright named Jason Miller.  In fact, just to confuse you further, Jason Miller was also an actor and played Arthur Miller in a TV-movie.]9.	(MD) Answer these questions about things relating to a certain American President, FTPE.[10] He was the last Whig to become president, obtaining the position after Zachary Taylor died of acute indigestion.	Answer:	Millard Fillmore[10] One of Fillmore's greatest accomplishments was sending this American Commodore, who opened Japan to the West.	Answer:	Matthew Perry[10] In 1856 Fillmore ran for president on the ticket of this party, who opposed immigration of Catholics and were nicknamed for their secrecy.	Answer:	Know Nothing (accept America, American, American Republican, or Native American) Party 10.	(MD) Identify the country from its geographical features for ten points each.  If you need an easier clue, you will be awarded five points for a correct answer.[10] The Pennines mountain range, called the backbone of this country, has its highest peak at Cross Fell at 2930 feet.[5] Major rivers of this island country include the Severn and the Tyne.	Answer:	England (Prompt on Great Britain and United Kingdom)[10] Its most populous city is Guayaquil, containing a population of 2 million people.[5] This country also possesses the Galapagos Islands.	Answer:	The Republic of Ecuador[10] It borders Libya, Chad, the Central African Republic, Kenya and five other nations.[5] It is the largest country in Africa, and the Blue and White Nile meet inside its border.	Answer:	Sudan 
11.	(MD) Answer the following questions about the religion everybody's talking about, Islam, FPTE.[10] This mystical branch of Islam may be most famous for its whirling dervishes.	Answer:	Sufism[10] This third pillar of Islam is a tax on all believers to provide money for the community and the less fortunate.	Answer:	Zakat (Also accept Zakah and Alms Giving or equivalents)[10] This first caliph had led the prayers when Muhammad was sick and was the father of Muhammad's wife Aisha.	Answer:	Abu Bakr (Also accept Abi Bakr, Abu Bakar) 12.	Name these Supreme Court cases that occurred during John Marshall's tenure as Chief Justice FTPE.  [10] The ruling in this case was that Congress had the authority to charter a national bank under the 'necessary and proper' clause, and that the Second National Bank was immune to taxation from Baltimore County. 	Answer:	 McCulloch v. Maryland[10] In this case, the court upheld a state Supreme Court decision to prosecute two brothers for selling District of Columbia lottery tickets in Virginia, violating state laws there. 	Answer:	 Cohens v. Virginia[10]  In this 1832 case, the court ruled that Georgia could not remove the Cherokees, but Andrew Jackson refused to enforce the order and they were removed anyway.  	Answer:	 Worcester v. Georgia13.	(MD) Name the figure who retired in 2005 from clues, FTPE.[10] This former world champion of chess retired from playing in March so he could focus on politics and "everything in his power to resist Vladimir Putin's dictatorship."	Answer:	Garry Kasparov[10] This 15-time All-Star hockey player retired from the New York Rangers in September, ending with 694 goals and 1,193 assists.	Answer:	Mark Messier[10] This thoroughbred racehorse was retired in December after winning last year's Preakness and Belmont Stakes, ending his career with eight wins in twelve starts.	Answer:	Afleet Alex14.	All elementary particles are either these or bosons.  FTPE, [10] Identify these particles with half-integer spins that are named after an Italian physicist.	Answer:	Fermions[10] Fermions are separated into two different groups.  These fermions make up protons and neutrons and there are six of them. 	Answer:	Quarks[10] The other type of fermion, these make up electrons.  	Answer:	Leptons15.	(FL/MD) FTPE, name these Moliere plays from their plot synopses.[10] The unseen character, "the prince," sees through the title character's religious hypocrisy and arrests him. Earlier, that character's facade fools Orgon, who demands that his daughter Mariane marry him.       Answer: Tartuffe[10] Argan, the main character of this last of Moliere's play, is a hypochondriac who marries his daughter Angelique off to a medical student so that he can have a doctor attending him all the time.       Answer: The Imaginary Invalid or Le Malade Imaginaire  [10] Much of the plot of this play centers around a money box that Harpagon has planted out in the garden. When the box is stolen, he accuses Valere of having taken the money, hilarity ensues. 	Answer:	 The Miser or L'Avare 
16.	(MD) Name the Romanov leader of Russia FTPE:[10] He was shot and killed along with his entire family in 1918, making him the last czar of Russia.	Answer:	Czar Nicholas II[10] He was brought up by Catherine the Great and was czar of Russia during the Napoleonic Wars.	Answer:	Czar Alexander I[10] She was the first czarina of Russia and reached "The Eternal Peace" with Poland.  In 1689, she was overthrown by supporters of Peter the Great; she died in 1704.	Answer:	Czarina Sofia Alexeevna17.	Although there is no evidence that the Greeks took their myth from the Sumerians, there are many parallels between this Titan and Enkidu.  FTPE:[10]  Name this Greek hunter whose name literally means "mountain man."	Answer:	 Orion[10] In the early myths, Orion was represented as "marrying" Side (see-dah), a name that in Boeotia means this. This fruit also figures prominently in the Persephone myth.  	Answer:	 Pomegranate[10] In another story, Orion fell in love with this woman, the daughter of Oenopion.  Oenopion did not approve, so Orion raped her.  Oenopion then got Orion drunk and stabbed out his eyes.  	Answer:	 Merope 18.	 (MD) FTPE, name these things related to cosmology.[10] This theory proposed that the universe's expansion was balanced by continuous creation of matter, keeping the appearance of the universe constant.	Answer:	Steady State Theory[10] The steady state theory has been gradually replaced by this theory, which holds that the universe rapidly expanded from an extremely dense state approximately 13.7 billion years ago.	Answer:	Big Bang theory [10] Occurring at -1043 seconds, this earliest period of time after the Big Bang is characterized by the unification of the four fundamental forces.	Answer:	Planck epoch19.	(MD) Answer these questions about an American architect FTPE.[10] A pupil of Louis Sullivan, he was the most notable member of the Prairie School and built the Robie House, the Unity Temple, and Fallingwater.	Answer:	Frank Lloyd Wright[10] Meaning "shining brow" in Welsh, this house contained Wright's studio and living quarters, and was rebuilt twice after being destroyed by fires.	Answer:	Taliesin[10] This name refers to both Wright's vision for American landscape architecture and the more than 100 one-story houses he constructed, of which the Jacobs House is the most famous.	Answer:	Usonia or Usonian houses20.	(MD) Answer the following about a work from American Literature, for the stated number of points.[10] This essay collection published anonymously in 1836 is split into sections such as Beauty, Language and Discipline that describe the title entity and the work is often seen as the first declaration of a distinctly American style of writing.	Answer:	Nature[5] Although published anonymously, Nature is attributed to this transcendentalist who was also responsible for Civil Disobedience.	Answer:	Ralph Waldo Emerson[15] Emerson describes his experience in nature as becoming this, which he describes by stating "I am nothing; I see all; the currents of the Universal Being flow through me; I am part or particle of God."	Answer:	Transparent Eye-ball
21.  The story goes that William Randolph Hearst told him to supply the pictures and Hearst would supply the war.  FTPE:[10] Name this illustrator, sketcher, and later sculptor of the American West. 	Answer:	 Frederic Remington[10] One of Remington's most famous sculptures, it features a man on a horse that's up on its back two legs.  The man is hanging on with one arm and the other is outstretched.  	Answer:	 Bronco Buster[10] Remington did most of his sculptures in bronze.  Today, copies are made repeatedly using this method which consists of making a plaster shell, filling the shell with wax, removing the shell, and then coating the wax with clay.  After removing the wax, you have a ceramic mold that is then filled with bronze to create a copy of the sculpture. 	Answer:	 Lost Wax Method22.	(MD) Identify these sulfide minerals FTPE.[10] Having the chemical formula FeS2, this most common sulfide is composed of isometric crystals and may contain trace amounts of gold, contrary to its nickname.	Answer:	Pyrite[10] This brownish-red sulfide with a chemical formula of HgS is mainly mined as a source of mercury and has the highest refractive index of any known mineral.	Answer:	Cinnabar or cinnabarite[10] This sulfide of arsenic with a chemical formula of As4S4 is named for the Arabic words meaning "powder of the mine" and often appears by deposits of the orpiment.	Answer:	Realgar (The Arabic words are rahj al-gh?r)23.	Currently, six states and the District of Columbia allow same-sex marriages to some extent.  F5PE, name them.        Answers:  	California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Maine, New Jersey, and Vermont