TOSSUPS -- KEYSTONE KOPS 2			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. Comparing himself to Polonius, he says he too is an attendant lord, deferential, full of high sentence, but a bit obtuse, almost ridiculous.  He wears a rich and modest necktie asserted by a simple pin, but his arms and legs are thin.  He is no prophet, but he has seen his head brought in upon a platter and the moment of his greatness flicker.  FTP, name this literary lover who wonders, "Do I dare disturb the universe?"Answer: J. Alfred Prufrock2. During the French Revolution, it was used to conceal a wagonload of ammunition.  A lawyer then took it home and stored it in his attic for thirty years-a bit of a comedown for an item that used to be prominently displayed on feast days.  FTP, name this medieval work of art that tells the story of Harold Godwinson and was partly made to justify William the Conquerer's invasion of England.Answer: Bayeux Tapestry3.   This man may have traveled to India as an adolescent, going by the name Issa, to study Buddhism in a prominent monastery.  He has been likened to Socrates, as both preached a message deemed dangerous by the ruling class and whose works and philosophies survive thanks to a few devoted followers.  FTP identify this man, who George W. Bush recently identified as his favorite philosopher.Answer: Jesus of Nazareth  (also accept Christ or Jesus Christ)4.  It is used diagnostically in patients with gastric disturbances, because it stimulates the flow of gastric juices.  Found in minute qualities of ergot and putrefied meat products, it is synthesized in the basophil.  For ten points, identify the compound which causes dilation of blood vessels, for which over 25 allergy drugs have been developed to combat it?Answer:  Histamine5. Its overture begins with a majestic theme in horns, suggestive of the calm of the forest, before turning suddenly to the sinister theme of the Black Huntsman.  It then rises to the wild music of the incantation scene and introduces the theme from Agathe's aria.  FTP, name this opera, an outstanding example of singspiel first performed in 1821, composed by Carl Maria von Weber.ANSWER:  Der Frieschutz (accept "The Free Shooter")6. In one of this writer's novels two lovers embrace for a kiss. The male makes himself vomit, covering his lover's mouth with his own & spewing directly down her throat. She then reciprocates, and this mutual exchange continues for several minutes. FTP, name the French writer responsible for this graphic scene in Justine, the man to whom the term "sadism" is attributed.Answer: Marquis de Sade7. In what was perhaps the worst editing of a film ever, a movie theatre manager, in Seoul, South Korea, decided that the running time of this film was too long. He shortened it by cutting out all the songs, even "My Favorite Things" and "Do Re Mi". FTP, name this 1965 Academy-Award Best Picture winner starring Julie Andrews as Maria, governess of the von Trapp family.Answer: The Sound of Music
8. Her baby brother, Tommie, dies as a result of abusive, drunkard parents. Her brother, Jimmie, is a truck driver, while she works in a collar-and-cuff factory. Seduced by a bartender named Pete, she is disowned by her family and becomes a prostitute, before drowning herself. For ten points, name this "Girl of the Streets" in a Stephen Crane novel.ANSWER: Maggie Johnson9. Its main emphasis was on the employees right not to strike or join unions, with another focus on the rights of the employer to complain to the National Labor Relations Board. Naturally, the unions hated these provisions, which is a lot of the reason why Truman vetoed the act. FTP, name this 1947 law that Congress passed despite Truman's veto.Answer: Taft-Hartley Act10. It consists of two types of conducting cells: smaller companion cells, which control the process, and larger sieve-tube elements, which are perforated by numerous pores through which dissolved materials can pass.  For ten points, identify the vascular tissue in plants that conducts sugars and other synthesized food materials from regions of manufacture to those of consumption and storage.Answer:  Phloem11. In what may be the most bizarre example ever of home-field advantage, a city council ordinance deems it unlawful to for any visiting football team or player to transport or propel the football into, or otherwise score points in, this team's endzone -- or anywhere in Pima County, for that matter. FTP, name the PAC-10 school with such a bizarre rule, home of the Wildcats.Answer: University of Arizona12.  The title character fears that her husband is untrue to her, and attempts to catch him in the act. However, she not only unwittingly discovers that the woman she had thought to be a harlot was in fact her own mother, but also nearly gets caught in the apartment of another man. FTP, identify this Oscar Wilde play in which the title character's prize possession is almost her undoing.Answer: Lady Windermere's Fan13.  This man recently composed a 58 page, handwritten, brief asking the 9th Circuit Federal Appeals Court to allow him to withdraw his earlier guilty verdict and stand trial.  Quite a gamble, as a trial could result in a trip to death row.  FTP, identify this Harvard-trained mathematician, universally known as the Unabomber.Answer: Theodore Kaczynski  (prompt on an early Unabomber buzz)14.  It probably would not have succeeded had Gerd von Rundstadt not decided to save his tanks for the next phase of his attack. That allowed the destroyers and a large percentage of all the privately owned small craft in Britain to race across the Channel. FTP, name the small French town from which almost 350,000 Allied troops were "miraculously" evacuated in late May of 1940.ANSWER: Dunkerque or Dunkirk15. Samar, Panay, Bohol, Negros, Mindoro, Leyte (lay-tee), Corregidor (core-reh-GUH-door), and Palawan are among over 7,100 islands that make up this country of about 65 million people, the second largest archipelago in the world. FTP, name this country presently helmed by Joseph Estrada, who predecessor was Fidel Ramos.ANSWER: The Philippines
16.  Marking the transition from one year to the next, this holiday was regarded as one of the four most important holidays in Celtic lore. In Britain, the Romans mixed the customs of this holiday into their own celebration of Pomona, the goddess of fruit trees. FTP, name this holiday beginning at sundown on October 31, whose celebrations were the precursor to modern-day Halloween festivities.Answer: Samhain (pronounced sau-WEEN; accept reasonable attempts)17. Doped with three atoms of potassium it displays superconductive properties, and derivatives of it can be used to attack cancer.  These molecules are large enough to contain one atom of every known element, and they are made by passing an electric arc between two carbon electrodes in a helium atmosphere.  FTP, identify this allotrope of carbon-60 named after the architect that designed the geodesic dome.Answer: buckyballs or buckminsterfullerenes18.  Chapter titles include "The Chapter of the Four Torches" and "The Chapter of Not Dying A Second Time in Khert-Neter."   Also known as the Papyrus of Ani, it was written around 1240 B.C. and much of it is spoken by Osiris.  FTP, name this sacred Egyptian book, a collection of prayers and beliefs about the afterlife.Answer: Book of the Dead19.  After being repulsed at Quebec in 1775, this American general moved slowly back to Lake Champlain, where he created a small fleet. He then used this to deny the British access to the lake, keeping General Burgoyne's men from penetrating south to Fort Ticonderoga. FTP, identify this American, best known for a deal he made with Major Andre about West Point.Answer: Benedict Arnold20. He served as the conservator of physics in the German Academy of Science from 1823 until his death three years later.  This optician instituted many improvements in the manufacture of optical glass and lens grinding.  He invented the spectroscope and developed the science of spectroscopy.  FTP, identify this German physicist whose name is better associated with the dark lines due to absorption in the solar spectrum.Answer: Joseph von Fraunhofer21.  It begins with the young lawyer Norman Mushari plotting on how to cash in on a fortune worth more than 87 million dollars.  That fortune ends up going to the title character's fellow townspeople, such as Diana Moon Glamperses.  The title character has two phones: a black one for Foundation calls and a red one for fire calls because he is obssessed with volunteer firemen.  FTP, name this 1965 novel by Kurt Vonnegut.Answer: God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater22. He made a name for himself with writings on electoral reform and government administration before being elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1897.  From 1903-05 he served as minister of education and from 1907-09 as minister of justice, resuming that portfolio in 1914.  FTP, name this man who became Prime Minister in October of 1917 and represented Italy at the Versailles Peace Conference.Answer:  Vittorio Orlando 23.	This powder can be used as a fabric dye, as well as a spice in both savory and succulent dishes. Although legend has it that this powder costs more than its weight in gold, it can be purchased for about thirty dollars an ounce these days. FTP, name this powder created by grinding up the stigmas of crocuses.ANSWER:  Saffron  
BONI -- KEYSTONE KOPS 2			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. FTPE, give the name of the common plastic based on its abbreviation and clues.A. A clear, rigid plastic, it is brittle and can crack easily.  It has good chemical resistance, but none to oxygen or moisture.  Its abbreviation is PS.Answer: PolystyreneB. An easily molded plastic, it has decent chemical and moisture resistance.  Usually clear, it can be made in many colors.  Its abbreviation is PP.Answer: PolypropyleneC. This plastic is used for strength, impact resistance, clarity, and resistance to oxygen, moisture, and many chemicals.  It is most often seen in carbonated beverage bottles.  Its abbreviation is PETE.Answer: Polyethylene Terephthalate2. This bonus deals with the Alger Hiss spy case.  a.  For ten points, Hiss was the secretary-general of the conference that put together what organization in 1945?Answer:  United Nationsb.  For ten points each, identify both the American writer and _Time_ magazine editor who accused Hiss, and the HUAC member who pressed the case against Hiss.Answers:  Whittaker Chambers; Richard M. Nixon3. Identify these athletes, all of whom went to Miami University, of Ohio, 5-10-15A. [5] This 6' 7" small forward from Cold Spring Harbor, NY was drafted sixth overall by the Minnesota Timberwolves in the 1999 NBA Draft.Answer: Wally Szczerbiak (Sir-bee-ack) (or rough equivalents)B. [10] This 6' 6" guard and 1986 Miami grad's career has gone from the Cavs, to the Clips, to the Bulls, and now the Lakers.Answer: Ron HarperC. [15] This running back set the NCAA career Division I record for touchdowns with his 73rd TD against Buffalo on November 20, 1999.Answer: Travis Prentice4.  30-20-10 name the authorA. [30] Her final work, Les Blancs, a play about African Liberation, was published in 1972, seven years after her death.B. [20] Her second play, The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window, closed the night she died at age 34 from cancer.C. [10] Her first play, A Raisin in the Sun, is based on her childhood experiences of desegregating a white neighborhood.Answer:  Lorraine Hansberry5. 30-20-10, name the warriorA. [30] In Greek Mythology, he was the leader of the Salaminians during the Trojan War.B. [20] Nicknamed "the wall" by Homer, this son of Telemon was the first to stand his ground against Hector in the war.C. [10] Angered because he was not awarded the armor of Achilles, he plotted to kill Agamemnon and Menelaus, but was driven insane by the goddess Athena and committed suicide instead.Answer: (Telemonian) Ajax (accept Aias)
6.  FTPE, identify the following instruments that can be used to measure certain quantities in electrical circuits. A. Used in the construction of ammeters and voltmeters, it uses the torque acting on a coil of wire in a magnetic field to help measure currents or potential differences. Answer: galvanometerB. To make a galvanometer act as an ammeter, it can be placed in parallel with this type of resistor, which must have a very small resistance relative to the galvanometer.Answer: shunt resistorC. This type of circuit can be used to measure an unknown resistance, where the unknown resistor is placed in a particular arrangement with three known resistors and a galvanometer, and one of the known resistors is varied until the galvanometer reads zero.Answer: Wheatstone bridge 7. FTPE, name the following symphonic works from their movements.A. March to the Scaffold, Dream of a Witches' Sabbath  Answer: Symphonie Fantastique (or Fantastic Symphony)B. The Catacombs, The Hut on Chicken's LegsAnswer: Pictures at an ExhibitionC. Dance of the Earth, Sacrificial DanceAnswer: The Rite of Spring (or Le Sacre du Printemps)8. Answer the following questions about the poetry of Lewis Carroll for the stated number of points.a.  For 5 points each, in Jabberwocky, the hero is warned to avoid these two other types of creatures in addition to the title monster.ANSWER: Jub-jub Bird and Bandersnatchb.  FTP, this poem begins with the Bellman declaring three times over that this area looks like the perfect place to look for the title creature.ANSWER: The Hunting of the Snarkc.   FTP, this work consists of 7 cantos and tells the story of a ghost who comes to visit the narrator in his study one winter night.ANSWER: Phantasmogoria9. FTPE, answer these questions about 19th century French artist Honoré Daumier.A. Daumier started his professional career with pieces created with this process, in which a design on a metal plate is treated and inked so that image areas of the design retain the ink and non-image areas repel the ink.  The design is then pressed to paper.Answer: LithographyB. A scathing lithograph of this French king done for the magazine "La Caricature" landed Daumier in prison for six months.Answer: Louis-PhilippeC. Daumier switched to oil painting in his forties, and produced over one hundred works by this method.  His leftist slant is evident in this work, a study of riders in a railroad passenger car.Answer: The Third-Class Carriage
10. FTPE, Answer the following about American fighter planes of World War II.A. This product of the Lockheed Skunk Works was used to intercept and shoot down Admiral Yamamoto and was known as the "Fork-Tailed Devil."  Answer: P-38 or LightningB. The heaviest single-engine, single place piston fighter ever developed was this Republic-designed aircraft, known as the "Jug" to its pilots.Answer: P-47 or ThunderboltC. The full potential of this North American Aircraft design was not realized until after its original Allison engine was replaced by the Rolls Royce Merlin.  Answer: P-51 or Mustang11. Answer the following regarding endocrinology FTPE:A.  This hormone increases the permeability of the nephron's collecting duct to water, thus increasing blood volume.Answer: antidiuretic hormone or ADHB.  This hormone stimulates the production of milk in the female mammary glandsAnswer: prolactinc.  This hormone decreases plasma calcium ion concentration by inhibiting the release of calcium from bone.Answer: calcitonin12. Answer the following about Barry Levinson's on-going Baltimore film saga, 5-10-15.A. [5] This 1982 movie starring Steve Guttenberg, Kevin Bacon, and Daniel Stern shows five men in 1959 who spend all of their time hanging out in the title object.Answer: DinerB. [10] This 1999 movie starring Joe Mantegna and Bebe Neuwirth examines the nature of prejudices in post-World War II urban America.Answer: Liberty HeightsC. [15] This 1990 movie traces a Jewish family's life in America from the beginning of the century through the late 1950s as they build a better life in America.Answer: Avalon13. Answer these related questions for ten points each.A. Name this Athenian general, who after he arrived too late to save the Athenian colony of Amphipolis from the Spartans was exiled from Athens.Answer:  ThucydidesB. Now name Thucydides' work that chronicles the struggle between Athens and Sparta from 431 to 404 BCE.Answer:  "History of the Peloponnesian War"C. Finally, name the Spartan commander who besieged the colony of Amphipolis that Thucydides was unable to prevent.Answer:  Brasidas
14. Given the name of a servant in a Shakespeare play, identify the character that they serve or attend to FTP each:A. Angelica, the nurse in Romeo and JulietAnswer: JulietB. Emilia in OthelloAnswer: DesdemonaC. The Earl of Kent, disguised as Caius, attends to this title characterAnswer: King Lear15. Name the following syndromes, which may or may not be related, FTPE:A. First identified in 1973, it is a syndrome in which captives become emotionally attached to their captors as a means to endure captivity.Answer: Stockholm SyndromeB. First identified in 1983, visitors to the city it is named for begin to identify, and then believe they are figures from the Bible.Answer: Jerusalem SyndromeC. First released in 1979, this Academy Award nominated movie dealt with a near-meltdown at a nuclear plant and a TV reporter, played by Jane Fonda, who attempts to expose the cover-up.Answer: The China Syndrome16. Given a definition from philosophy, identify the -ism FTP each.a. The notion that oneself is the only reality and that everything else is in one's imagination..ANSWER: Solipsismb. The doctrine that the natural world is as much a part of God as the spiritual world, so that everything is God and God is everything.ANSWER: Pantheismc. It maintains that reality ultimately consists of minds and ideas and that matter has no existence independently of our ideas of it.ANSWER: Idealism17. Name the longest ruling monarch of each of the following countries, FTPE (for instance, if I said Great Britain, you'd say Victoria)a. [10] RussiaANSWER: Ivan IV or Ivan the Terrible (Do not accept "Ivan the Great")b. [10] FranceANSWER: Louis XIVc. [10] HungaryANSWER: Francis Joseph I or Franz Josef I18.	Identify the playwright from works, 30-20-10.a. [30] I'll Leave it to You and The Vortexb. [20] Hay Fever and Design for Livingc. [10] Blithe Spirit and Private LivesAnswer: Sir Noël (Pierce) Coward
19. FTPE, identify the following people who played important roles in the 1949 peace negotiations following Israel's War of Independence:A. The UN mediator in the Israel-Egypt talks was this African American, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950.Answer: Ralph Bunche B. This man was Israel's Foreign Minister after the war, and he eventually became Israel's second Prime Minister when he succeeded David Ben Gurion in 1954.Answer: Moshe SharettC. This Jordanian king took part in a few productive peace negotiations before being assassinated in February of 1951.Answer: Abdullah I 20. Answer these questions about digital logic FTSNOP.  (Hint: this is not a binary bonus)A. Logic circuits are generally classified into two types, one whose outputs depend only on the current inputs, and one whose outputs depend on both current inputs and the state of the circuit.  FTPE, name these two types.Answer:  Combinational and SequentialB. The state changes of most sequential circuits occur at times specified by the change an independent input signal.  FTP, name this signal, which has a period and a frequency, and is produced by a quartz-crystal oscillator in many digital systems.Answer: Clock21.	The US defeated China 5-4 on penalty kicks in the 1999 Women's World Cup.a. For five points each, name the five women who scored PK's for the US.ANSWER: Carla Overbeck, Joy Fawcett, Kristine Lilly, Mia Hamm, Brandi Chastainb. For a final five, who was the only Chinese player to miss a PK.ANSWER: Liu Ying