TOSSUPS - WOFFORD (with help from MIT)		SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1. It's a creek near Philadelphia which shares its name with the fictional river that runs through Buckland near the Old Forest in The Lord of the Rings.  When the counterattack at Germantown in October failed to undo the British gains won there, Washington was forced to winter at Valley Forge.  FTP name this creek, where on September 11, 1777, British forces under General Howe defeated Washington's troops and cleared the way for the occupation of Philadelphia.BRANDYWINE2. Although born in Gulfport, LA, this pianist's recordings were made mostly in Chicago.  His band was the Red Hot Peppers and his piano solos made best sellers of tunes such as "King Porter Stomp" and "Wolverine Blues."  FTP name this self-proclaimed inventor of jazz, whose given name was Ferdinand.Jelly Roll MORTON3. First recorded in 1826 in the Chicago Tribune, the Oxford English Dictionary gives an alternate definition of this word as "an inexperienced, awkward, or unsophisticated person," but declares its origin "unknown."  Webster's New World Dictionary does little better, speculating that it may have similarities to a colloquial word for "something big."  FTP give this nickname, also the title of a 1986 film starring Gene Hackman, for a native from a basketball-obsessed Midwestern state.HOOSIER(S)4. One example is the set of rules for doing simple multiplication.  It is defined as a set of explicit, finite and precisely determined rules, a step-by-step application of which will yield a solution to a complex problem.  FTP name this concept which, because no judgment is not required to apply one, can be programmed into a computer.  ALGORITHM5. Despite his belief that "to work is to live without dying," this poet never settled down, working odd-jobs such as secretary to Rodin.  Born in 1875, his mother dressed him in girl's clothes beyond age five.  By some accounts, this was a great stimulus to his career, leading to the disenchanted female lovers and artists in his works.  FTP name this German lyric poet, creator of the Object Poem, and author of such works as Das Stunden-Buch, and Sonette an Orpheus.ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke6. Its chemical formula is C10H20O, and it has a melting point of 43 degrees Celsius.  A waxy solid, it can be used as a mild antiseptic, a decongestant and a flavoring.  It is the main constituent of oil of peppermint.  FTP name this aromatic compound, perhaps best known for its use in cigarette brands with green labels.MENTHOL7. Discovered in 1966, this is the tenth natural satellite of Saturn.  It is named for an ancient Roman divinity, for which there is no Greek equivalent.  FTP name that Roman deity, who guards gates and doors, acts as the god of beginnings, and is depicted with two faces.JANUS8. This composer studied law while working as a violinist and keyboard player in the Hamburg opera orchestra.  Some of his most memorable work was completed after a stroke in 1737, including Saul and Israel in Egypt.  FTP name this man, who developed the English oratorio and created such masterpieces as Judas Maccabeus and The Messiah.	George Frideric HANDEL9. 
Talk about losing big! Within one month, he lost his wife, a presidential election, and his life.  Although the popular vote was close, he lost in the Electoral College by a four-to-one margin. Ironically, in that election, he ran with the support of the political party that he'd been fighting against for his entire life.  FTP, name this crusading newspaper editor and 1872 Democratic presidential candidate.Answer: Horace Greeley10. Employed by the Tip Corporation of Marion, Virginia, William H. Jones was given a recipe for a failed whiskey mixer.  He turned the flavor into a soft drink, eventually finding success by adding orange juice to the original formula.  After 1964, it was marketed under slogans such as "It'll tickle yore innards" and "Zero-proof hillbilly moonshine" by its new owner, Pepsi.  FTP, name this soft drink recognizable by its high content of both FD&C Yellow #5 and caffeine.ANSWER: Mountain Dew11. Heavily influenced by Theodore Sturgeon, this wunderkind had eight acclaimed novels before he turned thirty, beginning with The Jewels of Aptor (1962.)  He also had a massive nervous breakdown, which he later recounted in the Hugo-winning memoir The Motion of Light in Water.  For ten points, name one of the most prominent African American science fiction writers of the twentieth century, the author of Triton, Stars in My Pockets Like Grains of Sand, Tales of Nevèrÿon, and Babel-17.Samuel R. DELANY12. Born in Breslau, Germany, his scientific brilliance is overshadowed by the impact of his advice to the German government on the use of his nastiest compounds.  Unofficially dubbed the Father of Chemical Warfare, he invented a process for making ammonia from the nitrogen in the air.  FTP name this chemist,  awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1918.  	Fritz HABER13. The Discarded Image and The Allegory of Love are his most famous scholarly works, but he is far more popularly known as a writer of fiction.  He objected to the character of Satan in Milton's Paradise Lost because he couldn't tolerate the fact that the devil was such a great poet, and he modeled his version of hell after the Mafia.  His marriage late in life was the subject of the stage play and film Shadowlands. .FTP name member of the Inklings and author of Perelandra and The Screwtape Letters. C.S. (Clive Staples) LEWIS14. Organisms of this phylum exhibit a remarkable ability to regenerate new adult organisms from as little as a single isolated cell.  The typical life cycle include fertilization to an embryo, development to the larva stage during which the organism swims through the sea looking for a permanent home, and an adult stage.  FTP, identify this phylum, whose organisms obtain food by filtering sea water, and taxonomic home of the sponges.ANSWER: Porifera15. A prominent fraternal organization for Revolutionary War veterans was named for him, which in turn inspired the naming of a major Midwestern city.   He was given absolute power to rescue the Roman army of Minucius from the Aequi in 458.  FTP name the 5th century BCE Roman statesman and farmer who became a folk hero when he surrendered that power after his victory so that he could return to his farm.  Lucius Quinctius CINCINNATUS16. Popular in the U.K., types of this game include "alley" and "table", and  its goal is to knock down nine pins with a ball.  The pins are smaller than in bowling and set manually. FTP name this game, which in the U.S., is also the name of a colorful fruit-flavored candy.SKITTLES17. 
In the Cartoon Guide to the Universe, Larry Gonick calls him "the cutest, sexiest, and toughest hero in Hindu mythology," partly because of his trick of duplicating himself 99 times so that he could sleep with 100 cowgirls at once.  He is the eighth incarnation of the deity Vishnu.  FTP name this figure who, disguised as a charioteer, is the narrator of the Bhagavad-Gita.KRISHNA18. In latitudes with distinct seasons, seasonal ones occur as a result of solar heating. Deepest near the equator, they can begin about 200 meters below the ocean surface.  Temporary or permanent, little or no water flow across them.  FTP, what are these boundary layers between warm and cold water masses that forms in oceans and lakes?Answer: thermoclines19. This author was given the opportunity to write by the Federal Writers' Project during the Depression, joined the Communist Party in 1932, and published his first work, Uncle Tom's Children, in 1938. 3 years later, his most famous novel was made into a Broadway play by Orson Welles. It also played a role in the beginning of the movie American History X. FTP, name this author of The Outsider, Black Boy, and Native Son.ANSWER: Richard Wright20. The questionable Casket Letters suggest the she had an affair with James Hepburn, fourth earl of Boswell, during her marriage to Henry Stuart, the third Earl of Boswell.  The fact the she married Hepburn after the death of Stuart enraged the nobility enough to depose her in favor of her one-year old son, James.  FTP, identify this woman, briefly queen consort of France by her marriage to Francis II, and ruler of Scotland from 1542 to 1567.ANSWER:  Mary Stuart or Mary, Queen of Scots21. The first British Law passed on this issue was tested by Regina v. Hicklin in 1868, and Alexander Cockburn's decision in that case set the standard in both England and the U.S. until a 1934 decision by John Woolsey.  In the U.S., this issue was first addressed by the Comstock Law and has come up in such cases as Miller v. California and Roth v. U.S.  FTP, this is what term, described by Potter Stewart as "I know it when I see it," a term sometimes applied to such works as Fanny Hill and Ulysses?ANSWER: obscenity or obscene22. As a proper noun, this term refers to the part of the traditional Catholic Mass beginning after the Preface and Sanctus and ending just before the Lord's Prayer.  As a common noun, it has been applied to the art of dead white men, books of the Bible, and stories about Star Trek characters.  FTP give the term that indicates that a work or set of works has been accepted as authentic.CANON 23. This term refers to the medieval citadel of a Russian town.  The most famous one was built in the 12th century and added to throughout the centuries so that it now reflects a multitude of architectural styles.  FTP name this building in Moscow, the seat of the Tsars until 1712.KREMLIN24. For at least one minute, minimum velocity must increase by at least 8 meters per second and reach 11 meters per second before declining rapidly.  FTP name this meteorological term for a sudden increase in wind speed.SQUALL
BONI - WOFFORD (with help from MIT)		SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1. 30-20-10:  identify this musical group.30:  This band was formed in 1970, but did not achieve its first #1 U.S. single until a 1998 release from the soundtrack of a movie co-starring a band member's daughter.  Their own film career includes a villainous stint in Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Heart Clubs Band, in which they cover "Come Together."20: Original members were Tom Hamilton, Joey Kramer, Ray Tabano, Steven Tyler and Joe Perry10: Their albums include Get Your Wings, Nine Lives, Pump and Toys in the Attic		AEROSMITH2. For 10 points each, identify the following terms from the science of optics.a. Circular arcs of light, often with reddish inner edges, surrounding the Sun or full moonHALOS      b. The bending of a wave as it enters a different mediumREFRACTIONc. The process whereby the individual wavelengths comprising a beam of light are separated at the boundary between two transparent mediaDISPERSION3. What do you know about the Oscars?  For 5 points each given the year and the winner of the Academy Award for Best Actress, name the winning film in which these actresses starred.a. Meryl Streep, 1982				SOPHIE'S CHOICEb. Emma Thompson, 1992			HOWARD'S ENDc. & d . Sally Field, 1979 & 1984 (either order)	NORMA RAE and PLACES IN THE HEARTe. & f.. Jodie Foster, 1988 & 1991(either order)	THE ACCUSED and THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS 4. You've probably had questions on the Roman numeral system before, so this should be easy.  For 5 points each, given the number in Roman numerals, please provide the binary equivalent.a. II		    10				d. XXX	11110b. IX		 1001				e. L		110010c. XVI		10000				f.  XCIX	11000115. 30-20-10: Given the clues, identify this substance.30:  It is a catechol derivative from plants, which can form strong complexes with many metals.  Its chemical formula is C9H11NO420:  It is used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, reducing symptoms in 2/3 of patients.10:  After a report in the 1960s that it increased libido in male patients, it was briefly used as an aphrodisiac.  It didn't work.  Its name is sometimes preceded by an L, an indication of the exact configuration of the molecule.	DOPA or DIHYDROXYPHENUYLALANINE (accept L-DOPA or DOPAMINE)6. Whoever wrote this bonus was intentionally or otherwise sucking up to the tournament director.  How well do you know the Library of Congress cataloging system?  For 5 points each, given the general category, match it with one of the following Library of Congress symbols.  B, H, K P, Q, R,a. Science							Qb. Philosophy and Religion				Bc. Language and Literature				Pd. Law							Ke. Social Sciences and Economics			Hf. Medicine						REDITOR'S NOTE: So why in the world did the Library of Congress assign Bible studies the heading BS?7. 
For ten points each, identify the Scandinavian monarchs.[10] Important Norwegian monarchs by this name include the 4th, who secured Greenland and Iceland in the 13th century, and the 7th, who headed the government in exile during World War II.ANSWER:  Haakon[10] Daughter of King Gustav II Adolf, she became queen-elect at age six.  Known for her brilliance, Descartes died while teaching her philosophy.  She abdicated the throne in 1654.ANSWER: Christina[10] He spent most of his reign fighting the Great Northern War, including a disastrous invasion of Russia.  However, inspired by the early Enlightenment, he made significant domestic reforms.ANSWER: Charles XII8.  30-20-10:  identify this ancient god   30:  He is often considered the Egyptian equivalent of the Greek god Hermes20:  Sometimes he's depicted with the head of an ibis, other times with the head of a baboon, and he wears a crown showing the moon's disc10:  He is the god of words, magic and scribes, and in the underworld; he records the souls of the dead	THOTH9. If you're a student, you probably use a computer, and you probably have used Microsoft's products, but there are other companies out there.  FTSNOP, name the company that makes each software product.   a. For 5 points:  Navigator			NETSCAPE	 b. For 5 points:  Photoshop			ADOBE      c. For 10 points: Dreamweaver		MACROMEDIA      d. For 10 points:  WordPerfect		NOVELL10. For 10 points each, given the couplet from a sonnet, provide the name of the author who wrote it.  If you need the work's title you'll only get 5 pts.(1a) "Except you enthrall me, never shall be free, / Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me"(1b) "Hymn to Christ, at the Author's Last Going Into Germany"John DONNE  (2a) "When Nature made her chief work, Stella's eyes, / In color black why wrapped she beams so bright?"(2b) "Astrophel and Stella"Sir Philip SIDNEY(3a)  "So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, / So long lives this, and this gives life to thee."(3b)  "Sonnet XVIII."  There.  You happy now?William SHAKESPEARE11. 30-20-10:  identify the following political figure30:  She admits to lobbying her state legislature "shamelessly" for the Outstanding Schools Act which resulted in smaller class sizes and more computers in her home state20:  She is a newly elected Democratic Senator who has thus far declined to say whether she will vote to confirm longtime political foe John Ashcroft as Attorney General.10:  She is serving as an appointee in place of her husband Mel, who won his Senate race despite having died in a plane crash before the electionJEAN CARNAHAN 12. Identify the scientist 30-20-10[30] With Merle Randall, he wrote Thermodynamics in 1923, which quickly became a standard text in physical chemistry.[20] He invented the concepts of fugacity, activity, and partial molar quantities.[10] He is probably best known for his pairing rules and bonding structures, as well as work in acids and bases.ANSWER:  Gilbert N. Lewis13. 
Identify the following Booker Prize winning novels, for ten points each: [10] The 1,001 title characters of this Salman Rushdie novel are people who were born in India during the first hour of the day that it became independent.ANSWER: Midnight's Children[10] This A.S. Byatt novel deals with two literary scholars, Maud Bailey and Roland Michell, who unearth evidence of a love affair between a pair of Victorian writers.ANSWER: Possession: A Romance[10] This 1983 J.M. Coetzee [COOT-ZUR] work records the experiences of a disfigured outcast in the midst of a fictional South African civil war.ANSWER: The Life and Times of Michael K14. 	Identify these English monarchs, ten points each:[10] The son of Robert I 'the Magnificent', duke of Normandy, and Herleve, a tanner's daughter, he asserted his right to the duchy by defeating rebels at Val-es-Dunes in 1047.ANSWER: William I or William the Conqueror or William the Bastard[10] A sixteenth-century myth stated that Henry VI prophesied that he would one day be king. After the Battle of Tewkesbury, he fled with his uncle Jasper to Brittany. Name this first Tudor monarch.ANSWER: Henry VII[10] He reportedly said, "There are kings enough in England. I am nothing there." Name this monarch, who, at age sixty, led his troops into the Battle of Dettingen in 1743, the last monarch to do so.ANSWER: George II15. The English prefix "poly" comes from the Greek "polus", meaning "much" or "many".  For ten points each, given the definition, provide the word beginning with "poly"a. Music in more than one part, generally implying counterpoint rather than simple chordal texture.		POLYPHONYb. In mathematics, a solid completely bounded by plane surfaces.  There are only five regular ones.		POLYHEDRONc. The coexistence of two or more genetically distinct forms of an organism within the same interbreeding population, where the frequency of the rarest type is not maintained by mutation alone.		POLYMORPHISM16. 30-20-10. Identify the author from works.[30]	Incognita, Letter Concerning Humour in Comedy[20]	The Double-Dealer, The Mourning Bride, Amendments of Mr. Collier's False and Imperfect Citations[10]	The Way of the World, Love for LoveANSWER: William Congreve17. 30-20-10:  Given the names of paintings, identify this late 18th century / early 19th century artist30:  The Consecration of the Emperor Napoleon and Coronation of the Empress Josephine, 2nd December 180420:  Madame Trudaine; The Sabine Women10:  The Oath of the Horatii	Jacques Louis DAVID18. Identify the group, 30-20-10.[30] It was founded and led by Col. Draqutin Dimitrijevic (Deh-meh-treh-yeh-vich)[20] Dimitrijevic and two other leaders of this group were tried and executed by Prince Alexander, commander-in-chief of the expatriate Serbian army in 1917.[10] This group was instrumental in the assassination of the Austrian archduke Franz Ferdinand, bringing about World War I.ANSWER:  The Black Hand19. How do you feel about time?  For 10 points each, given two periods, provide the geological era in which those periods occurred.a. Riphean, Early Proterozoic		PRECAMBRIANb. Permian, Jurassic			MESOZOICc. Cambrian, Ordovician			PALAEOZOIC20. For 10 points each, given the quotation, provide the book of the Bible from which it comes.(a) "O that you would kiss me with the kisses of your mouth! For your love is better than wine"		SONG OF SOLOMON(b) "Of the making many books there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh"			ECCLESIASTES(c)  "Blessed is he who reads aloud the words of the prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written therein; for the time is near"				REVELATIONS (Revelations or the Apocalypse of St. John the Divine)21. 30-20-10:  Identify this medieval poet.30:  his real name was François de Montcorbier, a native of Paris20;  while attending the university in Paris in 1455, he fatally wounded a priest in a street brawl and had to flee, joining a criminal organization called the "Brotherhood of the Coquille"10: His works include Le Lais (The Legacy) and Le Grand Testament.  He was pardoned in 1456, but received a death sentence in 1463, which was commuted to banishment.  Nothing is known of him after he fled Paris a second time.François VILLON22. Let's do world capitals!  For 5 points each, given the capital city, provide the country.a. Port-au-Prince			HAITIb. Kathmandu				NEPALc. Dakar				SENEGALd. Manila				PHILIPPINESe. Luanda				ANGOLAf.  Moroni				COMOROS or Comoro Islands23. In the Christian calendar there are movable feasts, like Easter, and immovable feasts like Christmas.  Given date, name the immovable feast day for the stated number of points.  Because Wofford is such a friendly place, all dates are given according to the Gregorian calendar.a.  For 5 points, November 1			Feast of ALL SAINTSb. For 5 points, November 2			Feast of ALL SOULSc. For 10 points, December 8	Feast of the IMMACULATE CONCEPTIONd. For 10 points, December 28			Feast of the HOLY INNOCENTS24. And a final bonus for science fiction fans.  For ten points each, given the names of characters, provide the title of the science fiction television show they appear on.a. Beka Valentine, Tyr Anasazi, Seamus Harper		ANDROMEDAb. Aeryn Sun, Chiana, Rigel XVI				FARSCAPEc. Renée Palmer, Ronald Sandoval, Augur			EARTH: FINAL CONFLICT