TOSSUPS -- UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH I		SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  He fathered 7 children by his first wife and 13 by his second wife, Anna Magdalena; the old joke says it was because there were no stops on his organ.  It was as an organist that he achieved fame in his lifetime.  FTP name this man, now better known for such compositions as St. Matthew's Passion and The Well-Tempered Clavier.  A.  Johann Sebastian Bach2. Glucose-1-phosphate is transported to this organelle for the final stage of gluconeogenesis [GLUE-coe-knee-oh-JEN-uh-sis].  Shown to be continuous with the nuclear envelope, it is involved in protein processing, including glycosylation [GLY-kos-uh-LAY-shun], and disulfide bridge formation in addition to serving as a means for intracellular transport.  For 10 points--identify this cellular network that comes in both rough and smooth varieties.Answer:	endoplasmic reticulum3.	Illnesses of this type are classified as organic, caused by toxins, senility, late-stage syphilis or epilepsy, or functional, which can stem from manic depression.  Characterized by severe mood swings and inappropriate emotional responses, symptoms also include delusions and hallucinations.  For 10 points--identify this type of psychological disorder in which the patient cannot act rationally.Answer:	psychosis  (also accept psychotic or other variations)4. 	This man, surprisingly enough, is a Christian.  He is Iraqi, and, what is more, is a confidant of Saddam Hussein.  This is not so surprising considering that the two grew up together in Tikrit.  During the Gulf War he was the Iraqi mouthpiece, as he was fluent in English, and as he held the post of Foreign Minister.  Nowadays, he is still their mouthpiece, this time as deputy prime minister.  Name this Copt who is also a member of the Ba'ath.A:  Tariq Aziz5.  It occurs in hexagonal crystals, commonly having the form of a six-sided prism terminating in a six-sided pyramid.  Different colored forms of it are known by such names as chrysoprase, hornstone, jasper, agate, and onyx.  FTP what common mineral has the chemical formula SiO2 or silicon dioxide?  A.  Quartz6.  He could be called the precursor of refrigerator poetry.  Before settling into the more structured surrealist style of such works as "Approximate Man," his unique style of poetry consisted of words randomly arranged from cut-up newspaper articles.  FTP name this Romanian poet, born Samuel Rosenstock, best known as one of the founders of the Dadaist movement.  A.  Tristan Tzara7.	First having commercial application during World War one as a substitute for glycerol in explosives, this is a very efficient heat transfer fluid.  Odorless, completely miscible with water,  it can be used as a solvent, dehydrator,and is often involved in making semiconductor chips.  FTP, name this colorless syrup alcohol, formula HOCH2CH2OH, commonly called "anti-freeze"A:  Ethylene glycol8.  He devised the doctrine of "permanent revolution," wherein the proletariat would have to take the reins of the revolution from the bourgeoisie, to reconcile Marxist theory to Russian conditions   Born Lev Davidovich Bronstein, this man became one of Lenin's top aides in Bolshevik Russia, only to fall from grace after Stalin's rise to power.  He was exiled from the Soviet Union, eventually settling in Mexico, where he was assassinated in 1940.  FTP name this revolutionary.  A.  Leon Trotsky
9.  He claimed he could receive messages from outer space through the tips of his handlebar mustache.  His influences included impressionism and futurism, and he explored cubism, precise realism, and neoclassicism before charting his own course.  FTP name this surrealist known for dreamlike landscapes of everyday objects appearing in unexpected ways, as in "Atmospheric Skull Sodomizing a Grand Piano" and "The Persistence of Memory." Answer: Salvador Dali 10.  An army chaplain in World War I, Angelo Roncalli then became a Vatican diplomat, and while in Turkey in World War II took risks to help Jewish refugees.  Because of his advanced age, he was expected to be a mere caretaker when elected Pope in 1958.  FTP name this humanist Catholic reformer who initiated the Second Vatican Council.   A.  Pope John XXIII11. Sometimes, you have to resort to desperate measures to survive a siege.  In this 1759 satire,  "The Old Woman", as she was later known,  had to lose a buttock to feed the defenders of a fort.  She survived the attack,however, and, despite being the daughter of Urban X, ended up in the service of Cunegonde. Cunegonde was the beloved of the title character in, FTP, what satirical masterwork by Voltaire?ANSWER: Candide12. This man became the first emperor of Persia by defeating the Medes and uniting them into his kingdom. He then conquered most of Southwest Asia. He was known as a fair ruler who used policies of conciliation with those he conquered.  FTP, identify this king who established the first postal system and issued the first declaration of human rights. ANSWER: Cyrus the Great13.	His was an eventful 85-year life.  Early novels of romantic dreams and idyllic German landscapes brought him fame, but he fell from favor for advocating pacifism in World War I.  Ironically, the protagonist in his next novel, Demian, provided an unusual justification for German soldiers who killed impersonally.  Also ironically, his books weren't banned by the Nazis till 1943 despite his emigration to Switzerland.  FTP name the author of Magister Ludi and Steppenwolf.   A.  Hermann Hesse14.  Its president, a former paratrooper, has threatened to dissolve the country's Congress if the Constitution is not rewritten.  This is unusual in that this South American country has had a multiparty democratic government since the 1958 ouster of a military junta and election of Romulo Betancourt.  FTP name this nation, whose major cities include Valencia, Maracaibo, and Caracas..   A.  Venezuela15.	She knows your destiny but won't tell you.  The patron of marriage and motherhood, the goddess of love and fertility, she can often be found assisting women in labor. Her hall in Asgard is Fensalir, the "water halls."  Being the wife of Odin she can lay claim to the title "Queen of the Heavens." FTP, what is her name?Answer :  Frigga or Frigg16.  Born in China to American parents, his later works include the novels My Petition for More Space, The Child Buyer, and The War Lover.  But he couldn't sustain the fame he got as a war correspondent and reinforced with war-themed works such as The Wall and his nonfiction masterpiece Hiroshima.  FTP name this man, who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1945 for his novel A Bell For Adano.   A.  John Hersey
17.	A quark must be joined with other particles by gluons, since a single quark cannot exist on its own because it would have a color. One such union is the union between a quark and its antiquark, a combination which creates an unstable class of particles, which are converted to other particles as the quark and antiquark annihilate each other.  For ten points, identify this class of particles, examples of which include positive and neutral pions, positive kaons, D plus, and J / psi.A: Mesons18.	The lead plaintiff in this case was a neighbor of Nashville attorney Tommy Osborn in 1955; with the help of the Nashville Democratic machine, Osborn got his case heard by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1962, after it refused review of the similar 1946 Illinois case on reapportionment. For 10 points, what famous decision established the principle "one man one vote"?Answer:	Baker v. Carr19.	His television career began in early 1989, when he appeared in several commercials.  Since then, he has made appearances with Susan Lucci, B.B. King and Kristi Yamaguchi.  He's also started an adoption foundation, which reflects his own childhood, and written books including Well Done.  For 10 points--identify this down-home spokesman for Wendy's restaurants.Answer:	Dave Thomas20.	His father commanded the Queen Charlotte in the fleet of the Comte de Grasse at Yorktown; his mother was the captain's Creole mistress in Santo Domingo who died soon after his birth.  His lazy nature led to several business failures, and he took a job as a taxidermist before his art career flourished, thanks in large part to the efforts of collaborator Alexander MacGillivray.  FTP name the author and illustrator of Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America and The Birds of America.			John James Audubon21.	These microorganisms can be crystallized for an indefinite period of time; they do not carry out any metabolic activities on their own and reproduce by infecting other cells. They are thus immune to antibiotics but vaccinations, such as the one developed by Salk and Sabin against polio seem to be our best defense. FTP, what pathogen is also responsible for yellow fever, rubella and the common cold? Answer :  Viruses22.	He was an Olympic gold medalist oarsman, a failed Presidential candidate, and a bestselling author.  Second in all-time sales to the Bible, his book's 7th edition has just been published posthumously.  For 10 points, name this pediatrician who revolutionized childrearing for a generation.Answer:	Benjamin Spock
BONI -- UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH I		SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Name the saint who is the patron of each of the following groups F5PE.        	A) Musicians				ANSWER: St. Cecilia	B)Young people			ANSWER: St. Aloysius Gonzaga (accept either name)	C) Physicians				ANSWER: St. Luke	D) Accountants			ANSWER: St. Matthew	E) Dancers				ANSWER: St. Vitus	F) Cuckolds				ANSWER: St. Joseph2.  How much do you know about the early Soviet space program? If you can answer, for ten points each, these three questions, you probably know a good bit.A) This capsule, ordered by Khrushchev as a response to the Gemini program, was nothing more than a highly modified Vostok.  The vehicle only flew twice; on its first flight it was the first vehicle to carry three  cosmonauts. On its second flight, it was Alexei Leonov's base for the first space walk in history.ANSWER: VoskhodB) In an effort to beat the U.S. to the moon, Soviet rocket designers built this huge rocket, unique because of its (highly unstable!) use of a large number of clustered engines rather than a few high-output engines. One is believed to have exploded on the pad in early July of 1969, demolishing its own launch complex as well as that of another rocket of its type on a pad a few kilometers away.ANSWER: N-1 or "Super Booster"C) The Soviet Union never admitted how many tried and died before this man became the first human to enter and return alive from outer space.ANSWER: Yuri Gagarin3.	Name the abolitionists for ten points each.A) In his paper, The Liberator, he said, "I am in earnest-I will not equivocate-I will not excuse-I will not retreat a single inch; and I WILL BE HEARD!" ANSWER: William Lloyd GarrisonB) Born on a plantation in Maryland, he escaped to become one of the abolition movement's most brilliant writers and orators. In an 1852 speech in Rochester, he referred to the 4th of July as "a day that reveals to him, more than all other days in the year, the gross injustice and cruelty to which he is the constant victim."ANSWER: Frederick DouglassC) He was the Presidential candidate of the antislavery Liberty Party in 1840 and 1844.ANSWER: James G. Birney4.	Name the following chemical elements from the clues FTPE.; if you need the atomic number, 5 pts. eachA) 10 pts.: Unlike the other three commonly found elements in Group VII, this element's  compound with hydrogen is a weak acid. Perhaps this isn't surprising when you think about its rather high core charge.	5 pts.: 9ANSWER: fluorineB) This element may be prepared synthetically by reacting uranium-238 with alpha particles. In fact, if you want any, that's the way you have to prepare it, as its atomic number is two more than that of the largest naturally occurring element.	5 pts.: 94ANSWER: plutoniumC) Its oxide and boride are used in electronic vacuum tubes.  It is not found naturally in an uncombined form but may be found in the rare earth minerals monazite and bastnasite.	5 pts.: 57ANSWER: lanthanum
5.	Philosophy is an interesting field. However, some find philosophers to be even more interesting than their philosophy.  Name these oddballs from anecdotes FTP; if you need a work you'll get only 5 pts.A) 10 pts.: This lifelong homosexual referred to marriage and children as a "noose" after marrying one Alice Barnham for her money, which he needed to retire substantial debts. His statement, "I have taken all  knowledge to be my province,"  looks pretty stupid when one considers that he proposed eating chopped mummies as a cure for head colds and died of pneumonia which he contracted while stuffing a hen with snow as an experiment.5 pts.: Novum OrganumANSWER: Francis Bacon (prompt on Bacon)B) 10 pts.: Raised in a house full of women, this man was a lifelong misogynist, saying, "Do you go to a woman? Bring a whip!"  Nonetheless, he went to them often enough to contract syphilis, which drove him mad. 5 pts.: Twilight of the IdolsANSWER: Friedrich NietzscheC)  When a nurse came to light the candle at the side of this Frenchman's deathbed, he asked "What? The flames already?"  This shrimp (he was only five-foot-one) invited the husband of his mistress to live with the two ofthem, and once had a fellow poet thrown into the Bastille. 5 pts.: Essay on General History and on the Customs and the Character of NationsANSWER: Voltaire OR Francois-Marie Arouet6.	Name these authors from works on a 10-5 basis:A) (10 pts.)Vita Nuova      (5 pts.) Inferno						ANSWER: Dante AligheriB) (10 pts.) The Shepheardes Calendar     (5 pts.) The Faerie Queene					ANSWER: Edmund SpenserC) (10 pts.) La Mandragola (The Mandrake)     (5 pts.)  Il Principe (The Prince)				ANSWER: Niccolo Machiavelli7.	 Anybody up for some game theory? Answer the following three questions, playfully, FTPEA) The game you're playing right now is an example of this sort of game, where any given match will result in one winner and one loser.ANSWER: Zero-sumB)  A criminal is in police custody with his partner. He can't communicate with his partner, and a detective is asking him to confess. If he confesses and his partner sticks to his story, he'll be let off scot free. If his partner does the same and he sticks to the story, he will face the full wrath of the law. If both stick to the story, they'll be released for lack of evidence. If both confess, they'll both be punished, but more mildly than the player would be if his partner confessed and he didn't. Name this game, which Richard Dawkins uses to explain intraspecies altruism in The Selfish Gene.ANSWER: The Prisoner's DilemmaC) Name the Hungarian-born American mathematician who founded game theory and, with Oskar Morgenstern, wrote Theory of Games and Economic Behavior.ANSWER: John von Neumann8.	Given a city, name the river that flows through it. Five points each.A) Budapest			ANSWER: DanubeB) Dublin			ANSWER: LiffeyC) Quebec City		ANSWER: St. LawrenceD) Kiev			ANSWER: DneiperE) Phnom Penh		ANSWER: Mekong; accept Tonle SapF) Warsaw			ANSWER: Vistula
9.	Given a line, name the character who utters it in Sherman Edwards' historical musical 1776 FTSNOP.A) 5 pts.: "Good God, consider yourselves fortunate that you have <blank> to abuse, for no sane man would tolerate it!"ANSWER: John AdamsB) 10 pts.: "I'll just stop off in Stratford long enough to refresh the missus, and straight to the matter!"ANSWER: Richard Henry LeeC) 5 pts.: "Calling me an Englishman is like calling an ox a bull. He's thankful for the honor, but he'd much rather have restored what's rightfully his." ANSWER: Benjamin FranklinD) 10 pts.: "I cannot write with any style or proper etiquette/I don't know a participle from a predicate/I am just a simple cobbler from Connecticut."ANSWER: Roger Sherman10. 	30-20-10, given a series of clues about the President, name him.a) (30 pts.) An opponent of a strong navy, he built a fleet of small gunboats for coastal defense, many of which foundered uselessly in high seas.b) (20 pts.) President Kennedy once told a group of Nobel laureates that they were the finest group of minds ever to dine in the White House since this man ate there alone.c) (10 pts. ) He deemed three of his achievements worth noting on his tombstone, including authoring Virginia's principles of religious liberty and founding the University of Virginia -- but not being President.ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson11.	Identify the following about Herman Melville's Billy Budd FTPE:1: The ship upon which the story takes placeA: Indomitable2: The captain of the shipA: Captain Vere3: The ship's master-of-arms, who was killed by Billy after attempting toimplicate Billy in an attempted mutinyA: Jack Claggart12.	Consider the geometric series ... (3/2)n.<<<REPEAT AS NECESSARY W/IN TIME LIMIT.>>> Answer the following for five points each.A) Does the series converge?ANSWER: YESB) What is its ratio?ANSWER: (1/2)C) What is its sum?ANSWER: 6D) For 15 points, name the Scottish mathematician who used power series, which are similar in principle to the geometric series above to approximate functions. A Taylor series centered about zero bears his name.ANSWER: Colin Maclaurin13.	Given a hormone it produces, name the endocrine gland. Five points each.A) Epinephrine			ANSWER: Adrenal glandB) Glucagon				ANSWER: PancreasC) Oxytocin				ANSWER: Pituitary glandD) Cortisol				ANSWER: Adrenal glandE) Thyroxine				ANSWER: Thyroid (not parathyroid)F) Testosterone			ANSWER: Testes
14.	Name the Confederate general from the War of Northern Aggression for ten points apiece.A) A brilliant cavalryman, this man made the Confederate horsemen a force to be reckoned with, but his reputation was tarnished by his role in the massacre at Fort Pillow as well as his postwar activities.ANSWER: Nathan Bedford ForrestB)  He distinguished himself at Fredericksburg and later in the Wilderness campaign and led a memorable charge at Chickamauga, but his delay in taking the offensive is sometimes said to have cost Lee the battle at Gettysburg.  ANSWER: James LongstreetC) This West Point graduate was an ordained Episcopal priest, and was Bishop of Louisiana when he "buckled the sword over the gown," becoming a major general. He served valiantly until his death from a cannon wound in 1864. His most lasting accomplishment was the foundation of the University of the South in 1858.ANSWER: Leonidas PolkEDITOR'S NOTE: Gen. Polk uttered perhaps the single stupidest quote at the Battle of Chickamauga, about 10 miles from here.  Ask Charlie about it later -- it's a long story.15.	Given a quote from a Shakespeare play, give the name of the play FTSNOP:A) 5 pts.: 	"The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers."ANSWER: Henry VI, Part IIB) 10 pts.:  	"I must dance barefoot on her wedding day, and for your love to her, lead apes in hell."ANSWER: Taming of the ShrewC) 15 pts.:	"Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,/Might stop a hole to keep the wind away."ANSWER: Hamlet16.	Given a villain in a James Bond movie, name the movie, ten points each.A) StrombergANSWER: The Spy Who Loved MeB) Hugo DraxANSWER: MoonrakerC) ScaramangaANSWER: The Man with the Golden Gun17.	For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the types of magnetism exhibited by materials.1.  The strongest type of magnetism by far, it is exhibited by elements such as iron that possess a spontaneous magnetic moment in the absence of an applied field.Answer:	Ferromagnetism2.  Materials possessing this magnetic behavior have a weak magnetic moment induced parallel to the direction of an applied magnetic field.Answer:	Paramagnetism3.  This type of magnetic behavior is characterized by induced moments that align anti-paralled to the direction of an applied field.  The Meissner effect in superconductors is the ultimate limit of such a response.Answer:	Diamagnetism
18.	Merovingian rule of France was overthrown in the mid-8th century.  FTPE,  answer the following questions about the origin of the Carolingian dynasty.(i)  This son of Charles Martel deposed the last Merovingian ruler in 731 and became the founder of the Carolingian dynasty.A:  Pepin the Short(ii)  Grandson of Pepin and son of Charlemagne, his death and the 843 Treaty of Verdun, which divided the kingdom among his three sons, ended the dynasty's glory days. A:  Louis I(iii)  Louis' third son, he founded the French Carolingian dynasty, which maanged to hold power more or less till 987.A:  Charles II or Charles the Bald19. Name the composer from works, 30-20-1030: The Voyage, and Akhnaten20: Satyagraha, and La Belle et la Bete10: Einstein on the BeachA: Philip Glass20.	Given a line or set of lines which describes a character from James  Joyce's Ulysses, name the character for 15 points each.A) "The figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round tower was that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed stronglimbed frankeyed redhaired freely freckled shaggybearded widemouthed largenosed longheaded deepvoiced barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfaced sinewyarmed hero."ANSWER: The Citizen.B) "Cousin <blank>, you will never be a saint. Isle of saints. You were awfully holy, weren't you? You prayed to the Blessed Virgin that you might not have a red nose."ANSWER: Stephen Dedalus