TOSSUPS - YALE/DARTMOUTH/PRINCETON		SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	It had numerous exceptions, including obligations arising from the Covenant of the League of Nations, the Monroe Doctrine, and post-Versailles treaties. Arising out of a bilateral treaty suggested by France in 1927, it was originally directed against German aggression. Also called the Pact of Paris-for 10 points-name this idealistic 1928 document that tried to "outlaw" war as an instrument of national policy.	Answer:	 Kellogg-Briand Pact [accept Pact of Paris on early buzz]2.	In 1997, his 23-game hitting streak tied an Astros record, and 1998 saw his first 20-homer season. Acquired by his current team in a trade for Karim Garcia, he gained national attention in 1999 with a 30-game hitting streak. For 10 points-name this Diamondbacks outfielder who, in 2001, hit 57 home runs, and drove in the World Series-winning run.	Answer:	 Luis Gonzalez3.	They presume that Russell-Sanders coupling occurs, and that electron configurations can be considered unique. They dictate that the highest total angular momentum state be used if a shell is more than half full, and that the lowest be used otherwise. Often simplified-for 10 points-name these rules that dictate that all orbitals of the same energy receive one electron before any receives two.	Answer:	 Hund's rules4.	Adapted into a Broadway play in 1963, it was first serialized in 1914. The author's childhood memories of Lewistown and Petersburg, Illinois provided the basis for its 244 characters. In free verse monologues, they relate episodes from their lives, and reflect on events like the Spanish-American War and Midwestern social trends. For 10 points-name this collection by Edgar Lee Masters of epitaphs from a fictional graveyard.	Answer:	 Spoon River Anthology5.	The son of Alyattes [al-YAH-tees], he ruled from his capital at Sardis. The last king of his land, Herodotus attributes his downfall to delayed retribution for the crimes of his ancestor, the usurper Gyges-in the form of misleading oracles from Delphi, who encouraged him to begin a ruinous war with Persia. For 10 points-name this king of Lydia, who lost his throne, his freedom, and his proverbial wealth.	Answer:	 Croesus6.	Chapter six gave the Imperial Diet the power to approve budgets. Chapter four created the Privy Council with limitless powers. Authored primarily by Ito Hirobumi, Chapter one invests all sovereignty in the emperor, "sacred and inviolable;" his ordinances have force of law. For 10 points-name this 1889 document, foundation of the Japanese government after the Tokugawa shogunate fell, named for the emperor who led that period's restoration.	Answer:	 Meiji Constitution7.	He joined pianist Jay McShann's band in 1938, performing solo on such recordings as Sepian Bounce and Hootie Blues. In Kansas City for his father's funeral, he joined Harlan Leonard's Rockets, a band he would tour with for five years. Later associated with Earl Hines, Dizzy Gillespie, and Thelonius Monk-for 10 points-name this saxophonist nicknamed "Bird" or "Yardbird."	Answer:	 Charles Christopher "Charlie" Parker, Jr. [accept "Bird" or "Yardbird" on early buzz]8.	Especially common with AMD Athlon chips, if done at home this procedure will void the warranty of any CPU, because it runs the risk of completely melting the chip's circuitry. FTP name this cheap way of souping up computers, running a CPU at speeds beyond those specified by the manufacturer, which requires tweaking the BIOS settings for bus speed and clock multiplier.	Answer:	 overclocking9.	The daughter of a poor dancer and a disreputable opera singer, in her attempt to achieve respectability, she enrolls in Miss Pinkerton's Academy, where she meets Amelia Sedley, who offers her a place to stay before she becomes a governess for Sir Pitt Crawley. She tries to marry Amelia's brother, Joseph, but marries Rawdon Crawley after the Sedleys go broke. For 10 points-name this character from William Thackeray's Vanity Fair.	Answer:	 Becky Sharp or Becky (or Rebecca) Sharp10.	Educated at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, this US Senator and lieutenant governor of Connecticut is more famous for exploits published in his Journal of an Expedition Across Venezuela and Colombia and Across South America. The real-life model for Indiana Jones-for 10 points-name this archaeologist who discovered Machu Picchu.	Answer:	 Hiram Bingham11.	One solution is physicalism, which states that fixed elements describe all possible events completely; there is nothing over and above an event except its physical explanation. This solves the problem of causal overdetermination, or the problem that a physical event can have both mental and physical causes. Descartes, however, offered Cartesian dualism to solve for 10 points-what epistemological problem of the relationship between mental and physical states?	Answer:	 mind-body problem [accept clear-knowledge equivalents]12.	The event in the title is used as a reminder and a sign of self-renewal. Poems in this collection include "Blue Flannel Suit," "The Beach," "The Rabbit Catcher," and "Epiphany." Many critics felt the author was trying to reply publicly to the criticism he took after his wife's 1963 suicide. Dedicated to Sylvia Plath-for 10 points-name this 1998 work by then-poet laureate Ted Hughes.	Answer:	 Birthday Letters13.	He led Company H of the First Territorial Infantry in the Spanish-American War. As a lawyer he defended Wayne Brazel, accused of murdering Pat Garrett, and is rumored to have conspired in Garrett's murder. One of the first senators from New Mexico-FTP-name this Secretary of the Interior best known for his role in the Teapot Dome Scandal.	Answer:	 Albert Bacon Fall14.	Ependymomas [uh-PEN-dih-MOH-muhs] and astrocytomas [ah-stroh-SYE-toh-muhs] are tumors of this cell type. Predominantly found in the white matter of the brain, these cells surround and protect neurons, and produce the substance that gives white matter its color. Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system are analogs of-for 10 points-what cells of the central nervous system that produce myelin?	Answer:	 (neuro)glia or glial cells15.	A bridge built over the estuary of this 585-mile-long river is considered its nation's biggest environmental disaster of the 1990s. Originating in the mountains east of Madrid, its estuary is considered one of Europe's best natural harbors. FTP-name this river, called the Tejo by the Spanish, which bisects northern and southern Portugal.	Answer:	 Tagus River or Rio Tejo or R’o Tajo16.	Before showing this painting in Paris at the Salon of 1851, its artist held a series of one-man exhibitions in the provinces to reach those less cultivated audiences which had provided the raw material for the work. A small dog stands in the foreground next to a newly dug grave which invades the space of the observer and joins that observer to the provincial community in mourning for the artist's own grandfather. FTP, what painting along with the Stonebreakers is the most famous work of Gustave Courbet?	Answer:	 A Burial at Ornans (or A Funeral at Ornans)17.	Saccharin can be synthesized from this compound, which is also used as an anti-knock agent in gasoline. This colorless, flammable solvent is also used in jet fuel and to synthesize phenol. FTP-name this seven-carbon aromatic compound, which, when nitrated, becomes TNT.	Answer:	 toluene or methylbenzene [do not prompt on "TNT"]18.	The protagonist drags a bag full of clothes and pictures down a hill, and waits several weeks before paying the bills. Though she says "it's a shame we have to play these games," she maintains that for all the lies he told, this is what he owes. These events, and a shopping spree at Nieman Marcus, are a cheated lover's revenge in-for 10 points-what song by Blu Cantrell?	Answer:	 "Hit 'Em Up Style"19.	The hole collapses at this site were not fixed until the site's director invented the drive pipe. After cost overruns, the Seneca Oil Company abandoned the project, leaving the director to finance it himself; detractors thought this was a major folly on his part. But he proved critics wrong when he struck oil in 1859 in-for 10 points-what first oil well in the US?	Answer:	 Drake's Well [accept Drake's Folly ; accept Titusville, PA, during first sentence; prompt on it after]20.	Tony takes a deep interest in the family, and maintaining its respectability. Thomas, drawn to the family business, wishes to follow in his father's footsteps. Christian, erratic and irresponsible, cares for neither. They are the three children of Jean, the patriarch of-for 10 points-what titular merchant family from LŸbeck in a novel by Thomas Mann?	Answer:	 Die Buddenbrooks or Buddenbrooks [accept clear-knowledge equivalents]21.	Famous examples include directions to curse at a bride, an accusation of worm tasting, and a mention of a boiled icicle. Though many examples attributed to their namesake reverend are thought to be apocryphal, the term has lived on since the late 1800s. For 10 points-what is this process of switching parts of words, such as "Three cheers for the queer old dean?"	Answer:	 spoonerisms22.	Paul Weyrich believes in saving this company by rebuilding it. But if it cannot achieve self-sufficiency without government subsidies by December 2002, Weyrich's reform council will give Congress a plan for a restructured system-that may or may not include this company. Chaired by Michael Dukakis-for 10 points-name this company, still losing money despite a recent surge in ticket sales, also called the National Railroad Passenger Corporation.	Answer:	 Amtrak [accept National Railroad Passenger Corporation on early buzz]23.	Although she was described as an actress, her most prominent roles before 2001 were in a cable TV movie and as a contestant on "Blind Date." She must have enjoyed playing herself, though, since she did it again for 27 days in Australia. FTP, name this member of the Ogakor and Barramundi tribes who schemed with Amber, humiliated Keith and mooned over Colby until the tribe spoke and it was, thankfully, time for her to go.	Answer:	 Jerri  Manthey   
BONI - YALE/DARTMOUTH/PRINCETON			SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Never mind Sputnik -- the Soviet Union had satellites on Earth, too. FTPE: [10]	Imre Nagy's [nazh] attempt to increase this country's independence from Moscow was brutally suppressed by the military in 1956.		Answer:	 Hungary[10]	Alexander Dubcek's liberal reforms led to this 1968 Czech event, which was rudely interrupted by Soviet tanks.		Answer:	 Prague Spring[10]	The strangest of the Soviets' many strange puppets, this Romanian cultivated a semi-independent image in the West while running a repressive regime, letting his wife claim joint authorship of every paper published elsewhere by Romanian scientists, and reputedly giving his son Nadia Comaneci as a sex slave.		Answer:	Nicolae Ceaucescu 2.	A number of diseases are caused by chromosomal defects. FTPE:[10]	Trisomy 21 causes this disorder of both growth and mental function.		Answer:	 Down's syndrome[10]	A deletion of the tip of chromosome 5 results in this syndrome, which causes mental retardation and its namesake vocal effect.		Answer:	 cri du chat syndrome [prompt on "5q-minus" syndrome][10]	A rare form of Down's syndrome involves this type of translocation, combining the long arms of two chromosomes-14 and 21-whose centromeres are at one end.		Answer:	 Robertsonian translocation3.	The 70s saw some great football quotes. FTPE:[10]	Dallas linebacker Thomas Henderson said this Steelers quarterback and current Fox analyst was "so dumb he couldn't spell 'cat' if you spotted him the 'C' and the 'T.'"		Answer:	 Terry Paxton Bradshaw[10]	When asked "What do you think of your team's execution tonight?," John McKay, coach for this franchise's winless inaugural season, quipped, "I think it's a good idea."		Answer:	 Tampa Bay or Tampa Bay Buccaneers[10]	Raiders linebacker Phil Villapiano -not Ted Hendricks-once said of the Immaculate Reception, "Had I been as lazy as [blank], that ball would've come to me waist-high."		Answer:	 Franco [accept Harris, even though Villapiano just said the first name]4,	30-20-10, name the novel from characters.[30]	Sibyl Frey, Montgomery Irwin, Gummy Larsen[20]	Adam Stanton, Sugar Boy, Sadie Burke[10]	 Jack Burden, Willie Stark		Answer:	 All the King's Men5.	Given the subtitle, name the Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, FTPE:[10]	The Town of Titipu				Answer:	 The Mikado[10]	The Slave of Duty				Answer:	 The Pirates of Penzance[10]	The King of Barataria				Answer:	 The Gondoliers6.	Consider an n by n matrix, where, for an element in row i and column j, if i does not equal j, then that element equals zero. FTPE:[10]	Name this type of matrix.		Answer:	 diagonal(ized) matrix[10]	This is the sum of the elements of the diagonal.		Answer:	 trace[10]	This "spookily-named" theorem states that a self-adjoint matrix can be diagonalized.		Answer:	 spectral theorem
7.	It established abortion as a constitutionally protected right-in certain cases. For 10 points each:[10]	This 1973 Supreme Court decision was handed down the same day as a similar decision on a Georgia case.		Answer:	 Roe v. Wade [10]	This plaintiff, who went by "Roe" in the case, is now a pro-life activist.		Answer:	 Norma Leah McCorvey[10]	Since the GOP adopted a strong stance against abortion in the 1980's, Republicans have downplayed the fact that this justice, who wrote the majority opinion in Roe v. Wade, was a Nixon appointee		Answer:	Harry Blackmun8.	Name these plays by J.M. Synge [sing], FTPE:[10]	This 1907 play caused riots at its Abbey Theatre premiere. The main character boasts of having just killed his father-and loses face when the father turns up alive.		Answer:	 The Playboy of the Western World[10]	In this one-act drama from 1904, four characters discuss the body of a man washed up in Donegal.		Answer:	 Riders to the Sea[10]	Left unfinished at his death, this play dramatizes the love story of a figure from Celtic myth.		Answer:	 Deirdre of the Sorrows9.	FTP each answer these questions about anthropologist Margaret Mead.[10] Mead's first and most famous work, it discusses the experiences of adolescent girls, as well as how the culture of the title island vastly differs from that of America.	Answer:	 Coming of Age in Samoa[10] This 1930 follow-up to Coming of Age in Samoa studies children of the Manus tribe and contrasts the sexual practices of Manus adults with that of the Samoans.	Answer:	 Growing Up in New Guinea[10] This Australian professor published The Fateful Hoaxing of Margaret Mead in 1999 and has been one of the strongest critics of Mead's studies and writings.	Answer:	 Derek Freeman10.	Name these Constantin Brancusi works, FTPE:[10]	In this series of over 15 sculptures, Brancusi tried to depict the essence of flight in avian creatures.		Answer:	 Bird in Space or L'Oiseau dans l'espace[10]	This 1908 work, highly influenced by primitivism, is considered his first truly original work, showing two entwined adolescents in a stone block.		Answer:	 The Kiss or Le Baiser[10]	It caused a scandal at the 1920 Paris Salon exhibition by depicting an imaginary person in the shape of a phallus. The police removed it; disgusted, Brancusi moved to the US.		Answer:	 Princess X or Princesse X11.	Name these famous places in music, FTPE:[10]	In 1990, Marc Cohn made it big singing about walking around in this town.		Answer:	 Memphis, Tennessee[10]	Elvis was born here, and Van Morrison would say they make some sweet honey.		Answer:	 Tupelo, Mississippi[10]	The Eagles are standing on a corner in this town, where they see a girl, My Lord!		Answer:	 Winslow, Arizona12.	Excitable boys, they all said.  Name these barbarians from their rampages FTPE:[10]	They invaded from Dacia, plundering the Balkans before their famous sack of Rome in AD 410. They later held territory in Spain until the Muslim invasion.		Answer:	 Visigoths[10]	This Visigoth king led that sack of Rome in AD 410 but died of an illness later that year.		Answer:	 Alaric I [10]	Subjugated by Attila, after the collapse of his empire, they fled the Black Sea area, invading northern Italy and establishing a kingdom there in 493.		Answer:	 Ostrogoths
13.	A small body under the gravitational influence can reach certain points of equilibrium. FTPE:[10]	Name these points.		Answer:	 Lagrange or Lagrangian points[10]	Counting both the stable and unstable ones, how many Lagrange points are there for any two-body system?		Answer:	 five [three stable, two unstable][10]	This planet has large asteroids that remain in two of the Lagrange points in its orbit around the Sun.		Answer:	 Jupiter14.	Henry James called it "a treasure-house of detail." Answer the following FTPE:[10]	In this 86-chapter novel, published in eight installments in 1871 and 1872, several characters such as Lydgate and Rosamond have to deal with consequences of choosing a vocation and/or spouse without enough forethought.		Answer:	 Middlemarch[10]	Born Mary Ann Evans, this author of Middlemarch was writing book four when book one was published.		Answer:	 George Eliot[10]	This protagonist of Middlemarch marries Mr. Casaubon because she feels it is proper. Eventually, she makes a life for herself despite his efforts to control her.		Answer:	 Dorothea or Dorothea Brooke15.	Answer these questions about Citizen Kane, the man, FTPE:[10]	Kane publishes what newspaper?		Answer:	 The Inquirer[10]	What is the name of Kane's mansion?		Answer:	 Xanadu[10]	Kane bought an opera house for what singer, his mistress/second wife?		Answer:	 Susan or Susan Alexander[You were not expecting a question on what "Rosebud" refers to, were you? -Ed.]16.	Name these American tariffs, 10 points each.[10]	Signed in 1930, this tariff raised rates on industrial and farm products more than Hoover intended, and led to a sharp decrease in foreign trade.		Answer:	 Smoot-Hawley Tariff[10]	John Quincy Adams imposed this tariff on imported manufactured goods, raising the tariff by nearly 50%, and raising the ire of many Southerners.		Answer:	 Tariff of Abominations or Tariff Act of 1828[10]	Henry Clay and John Calhoun cooperated on this tariff, which reduced duties for 10 years after it was implemented; this ended the Nullification crisis.		Answer:	 Tariff of 1833 or Compromise Tariff17.	Answer these questions about Hanukkah FTPE.  Sorry, you do not get the full eight days to answer.[10]	Hanukkah celebrates what family's victory over their Greek rulers, and the rededication of the temple in Jerusalem?		Answer:	 the Maccabees or Machabees[10]	Which Seleucid ruler's harsh policies, including the desecration of the Holy of Holies in Jerusalem, led the Maccabees to revolt?		Answer:	 Antiochus IV Epiphanes or Antiochus the Mad or Antiochus Epimanes[10]	Five points each-on what day and month of the Jewish calendar does Hanukkah start?		Answer:	 25th day of Kislev18.	Name these Edgar Allan Poe poems from quotes, FTPE:[10]	"On desperate seas long wont to roam/Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face,/Thy Naiad airs have brought me home."		Answer:	 "To Helen"[10]	"The winged seraphs of heaven/ Coveted her and me."		Answer:	 "Annabel Lee"[10]	"But see, amid the mimic rout,/A crawling shape intrude!/A blood-red thing that writhes from out/The scenic solitude!"		Answer:	 "The Conqueror Worm"
19.	Name these economic terms from mathematical definitions, FTPE:[10]	The sum of wages, interest, rent, and profit.		Answer:	 national income[10]	Price level times output, divided by money supply		Answer:	 velocity [do not prompt on "speed"][10]	Change in quantity demanded divided by change in price		Answer:	 elasticity20.	In 1987, the first superconductor with a transition temperature greater than the boiling point of nitrogen was discovered. For the stated number of points.[10]	Within 10, to the nearest Kelvin, what is the boiling point of nitrogen?		Answer:	 77 K [accept 67 to 87][20]	The superconductor was composed of four elements. Five points each-name them.		Answer:	 Yttrium; Barium; copper or Cu; and Oxygen 21.	The Bush administration is having problems with civil rights. FTPE:[10]	John Ashcroft was recently called to defend his investigative tactics before the Senate Judiciary Committee, chaired by this Democrat.		Answer:	 Sen. Patrick Joseph Leahy[10]	The current chairwoman of this government body has refused to seat Peter Kirsanow, Bush's new appointee for chair.		Answer:	 US Commission on Civil Rights [prompt on "CCR"][10]	This current CCR chair, appointed in January 2001, claims her term should run six years, and is set for a long legal battle.		Answer:	 Victoria Wilson22.	Given some languages, name the language family, 10 points each.[10]	English, Frisian		Answer:	 Germanic[10]	Nahuatl [nah-WAH-til], Southern Paiute [PAY-oot], Comanche, Shoshone		Answer:	 Uto-Aztecan or Aztec-Tanoan[10]	Hungarian, Estonian, Lappish		Answer:	 Finno-Ugric23.	The US took home the bronze in women's gymnastics at Barcelona in 1992. FTPE:[10]	Which team won the gold all-around medal?		Answer:	 Unified Team [accept "CIS" or "Commonwealth of Independent States"][10]	This woman won the individual all-around gold after falling off the balance beam in the team competition. Viewers were treated to seeing her crying with her mascara running.		Answer:	 Tatiana Gutsu [goot-SOO][10]	This American, also on the '96 squad, finished second in the all-around by just .012 points.		Answer:	 Shannon Miller