TOSSUPS - FLORIDA					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by all those UF players who are at Penn Bowl this weekend1.	With chemical formula C17H21NO4, it operates by blocking the reuptake of dopamine at presynaptic terminals and thereby causing sensory overload.  First isolated in 1859, it became widely used in liquid form by doctors for conditions such as toothache, exhaustion, and morphine addiction.  Frequently used by Sherlock Holmes and promoted by Sigmund Freud and Thomas Edison, it reached a new high in legal popularity in 1886 when John Pemberton included it in the original formula for Coca-Cola.  FTP, what is this narcotic derived from the coca leaf?	Answer:	cocaine2.	Catiline, his first play, was inspired by Shakespeare and the revolutions of 1848. In 1850 he failed the entrance exams required to enter medical school, so he devoted himself to poetry and drama, writing such works as The Warrior's Barrow, Love's Comedy, and The Pillars of Society. He met critical success with the last of his "Great Eight" plays, Hedda Gabler. FTP name this Norwegian playwright of A Doll's House.	Answer:	Henrik Johan Ibsen 3.	A 1997 Sports Illustrated article about him boosted his stock to let him be drafted in the first round out of Arizona State.  Undersized as a linebacker, he moved to safety when he got to the NFL.  Recording 7 tackles in his last game with the Cardinals, his number, 42, was recently retired by Arizona State.  FTP name this Arizona Cardinal who became an Army Ranger after the events of September 11th, but who was killed in action in 2004 in Afghanistan.	Answer:	Pat Tillman4.	The third occurrence resulted in the death of Czechoslovakia's only remaining non-socialist minister.  The first resulted in seven deaths and occurred during the reign of Wenceslas IV, who collapsed when told of the incident.   Soon afterwards, the Hussite Wars broke out.  The second time, nobody was seriously hurt due to the cushioning effect of a pile of manure, but the event was instrumental in starting the Thirty Years' War.  FTP identify these incidents involving people getting tossed out of windows.	Answer:	Defenestration(s) of Prague [accept variants]5.	Over 2,000 people have died during this event since 1990, the largest number of those deaths occurring when a crowded tunnel resulted in mass suffocation.  Participants walk between the hills of Safa and Marwa seven times, journey to the hill of Arafat, and throw pebbles at three columns outside Mina which represent the devil.  The last step is the tawaf, which consists of circling the Kaaba seven times.  FTP, name this fifth pillar of Islam.	Answer:	hajj [do not prompt on "hijrah" or "Hegira"]6.	When the bartender at the Lavender Room refuses to serve him, he dances with three out-of-town women who stick him with their tab.  The next night he goes to Radio City, the Museum of Natural History, Central Park, and finally his family's apartment where he admits to his sister Phoebe he has been expelled from another school.  He ends his narrative the next day, scrapping plans to leave New York. For 10 points-name this main character of The Catcher in the Rye.	Answer:	Holden Caulfield [accept either]7.	This group's first press conference was held on May 4, 2004.  Their first advertisement, entitled "Any Questions?", began airing in battleground states in August 2004, featuring 13 of their 250 members.  Three more ads were later produced and group spokesperson John O'Neill published the book Unfit for Command.  FTP, name this 527 group consisting of Vietnam veterans.	Answer:	Swift Boat Veterans for Truth [accept Swift Vets and POWs for Truth]8.	The subject on the left was an Italian merchant who had come to the Netherlands on business; to the left of him is an open window with fruit on the sill.  His feet are bare, as are those of the woman's whose right hand he holds.  At her feet stands a small dog and behind the couple is a mirror that reflects the couple, the artist, and a witness to the ceremony.  FTP, name this 1434 portrait by Jan Van Eyck representing a couple's engagement.  		Answer:	 Betrothal of the Arnolfini or Arnolfini Wedding; accept variants because no one agrees on this. 
9.	A form of this statement can be derived for any two properties that do not commute; it can be used to find decay times of particles, based on tehir energy. Arising from the dual nature of waves and particles, it was first postulated in 1927 after its namesake worked with Niels Bohr. For 10 points-name this principle of quantum mechanics that holds, among other things, that you cannot simultaneously know a particle's exact momentum and position.	Answer:	Heisenberg('s) uncertainty (or indeterminacy) principle [accept any underlined answer] 10.	As envisioned in original drafts, there were hundreds of these creatures and they were able to be killed with some effort.   Later, this number was cut down to nine and their power was greatly increased.   Debates still rage as whether or not these creatures possessed wings.  Their leader, Gothmog, was killed with at least other during the Fall of Gondolin.   One is known to have survived the First Age, fleeing to the roots of the Misty Mountains.  FTP identify this type of creature fought by Gandalf in Moria during The Fellowship Of The Ring.	Answer:	Balrog11.	Future Treasury Secretary Albert Gallatin called his participation in this event his "only political sin." The two men convicted of treason in its aftermath both received presidential pardons; it began after an angry mob killed a local militia man and burned the house of the tax collector in charge of enforcing the excise tax on liquors and distilled beverages. For 10 points-name this 1794 uprising put down by troops under President George Washington.	Answer:	Whiskey Rebellion12.  Heavily bombed out by the Allies in 1943, this has been closed for the past three years for acoustic renovations and to finally remove all the leftover rubble.  It reopened according to tradition on the feast day of Milan's patron saint, December 7, 2004, with Riccardo Muti conducting L'europa Riconosciuta [ri-co-no-SIU-ta] by Salieri, the same work that opened its first season in 1778.  FTP, what is this landmark Milan opera house whose name means "heater of the Stairway"?	Answer:	La Scala [or Teatro alla Scala]13.	Due to developmental changes in their anatomy, they can easily be used for purposes of stratigraphy.  Paradoxides harlani was one of the largest types of the creatures, growing to 18 inches.  There were several varieties, including both eyeless or compound eyed, but all consisted of three body segments, and like all arthropods had an exoskeleton.  Appearing fully developed in the Cambrian Period, they persisted until the end of the Permian Period.  FTP, name this type of fossil arthropod.	Answer:	trilobite14.	In the second book, Socrates talks with his brother Glaucon about justice and a magical ring that turns its wearer invisible.  In subsequent books Plato gives his theories on education and how best to run a government.  The principle question of the work is whether it is best to live justly or unjustly.  It is in this work that Plato gives the analogy of the cave, that human perception is nothing more than a shadow.  FTP, name this monumental work of Plato, consisting of ten books describing the perfect city state.	Answer:	The Republic15.	A recent article by him, "Cold Turkey", touted the merits of quitting the use of fossil fuels and quickly switching to alternative energy.  His political views have always been prevalent in his works, as in Lonesome No More and Bluebeard.  More recent works include Timequake and a collection of short stories, Bagambo Snuff Box, which are less popular than works like Sirens of Titan and Galapagos.  FTP, name this author of Breakfast of Champions, Cat's Cradle, and Slaughter-House Five.  	Answer:	Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.16.	The foothills of the Wasatch Range define its basin on the north, east, and south while a namesake desert lies to the west.  Fed by the Bear, Weber, and Jordan Rivers, it is the largest surviving remnant of the prehistoric Lake Bonneville.  Visited by Jim Bridger in 1824, the taste of its water led him to believe that it was the Pacific Ocean.  FTP, name this large inland body of salt water in northern Utah.	Answer:	Great Salt Lake
17.	A onetime Minister for Industry, he participated in the failed Kinshasa rebellion in the Congo. In June of 1997, a team of Cuban and Argentinean scientists recovered his skeleton, missing both hands.  After graduating medical school, he intended to go volunteer at a leper colony, but the journey on his motorcycle opened his eyes to poverty of the land and encouraged him to take up his future position.  FTP name this revolutionary, whose Motorcycle Diaries was made into a film.  	Answer:	Ernesto "Ché" Guevara [accept either]18.	The discovery of 1992QB1 confirmed its existence almost twenty years after the death of the man who hypothesized it.  Its members are classified into two different groups, those having an orbital duration coinciding with Neptune and others with a more circular orbit.  Jupiter Family comets, having orbital periods of approximately 20 years originate here, as opposed to the oribital periods of millions of years typical of Oort Cloud members.  FTP, name this region of space beyond the solar system, named for the Dutch astronomer who first suggested its existence.	Answer:	Kuiper belt19.	Some of his earliest short stories appeared in The United States Democratic Review, though it wasn't until after 1837 that he began to publish under his own name. Herman Melville, a friend of his, praised his Mosses from an Old Manse. The darker side of human nature informs many of his short stories, including "The Birthmark," "The Minister's Black Veil," "Rappaccini's Daughter," and "Young Goodman Brown." FTP name this author of The Scarlet Letter.	Answer:	Nathaniel Hawthorne20.	Joseph Conrad's 1904 novel Nostromo is set in one, and Macondo in One Hundred Years of Solitude briefly becomes one. The original was considered to be Honduras, because of the power of United Fruit Company.  The term has only been applied to Central American and Caribbean countries, and it is often misleading as the countries are usually led by dictators, meaning they aren't actually republics.  FTP identify this term, also the name of a popular clothing store.	Answer:	Banana Republic21.	Founded in 1922 it was originally designed to set up to provide a nationwide network of radio transmitters to provide free service.  It became what it is best known as today in 1927, when a board of governors was set up to manage it and a Director General seat was established.  It is thought by Zimbabwe to be a terrorist organization and so is banned form broadcasting there.  There are currently 9 television stations, which air some shows you might have heard of such as The Office, Are you Being Served, and Absolutely Fabulous.  FTP name this UK staple of television.	Answer:	BBC or British Broadcasting Corporation22.	The first was held over 6 days in 1810 to celebrate the wedding of Prince Ludwig of Bavaria.  The next year an agricultural fair was introduced and in 1818 food and drink were added.  A special, darker Marzen beer is served by Munich brewers in tents known as bierzelte over the sixteen days of this event.  FTP, name this annual German beer festival.	Answer:	Oktoberfest23.	This composer was sent into two years of depression when Stalin walked out of Lady Macbeth of Mzensk.  He regained favor when authorities declared Symphony #5 a triumph of the heroic style, but it was rumored that he kept a packed suitcase by the door in case Stalin changed his mind.  His 13th Symphony, "Babi Yar", was ostensibly about a Nazi massacre but widely understood as a criticism of Stalin's anti-Semitic policies.  FTP, name this Russian composer of the "Leningrad" Symphony.	Answer:	Dmitri Shostakovich
BONI - FLORIDA					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by all those UF players who are at Penn Bowl this weekend1. Before you get any ideas about how to behave tonight, FTPE identify these figures who all met their demise in bar fights:A.  This playwright of The Jew of Malta and Faustus met his demise after an argument over the tab in a Deptford tavern.	Answer:	  Christopher MarloweB.  This man served as personal secretary to Thomas Jefferson and explored the Louisiana Territory before being shot in Grinder's Stand, a tavern along the Natchez Trace in middle Tennessee.	Answer:	  Meriwether LewisC.  His 1963 rape conviction was initially overturned, but this plaintiff of a landmark 1966 Supreme Court case served 10 years in prison and in 1976 was stabbed in a Phoenix bar.	Answer:	  Ernesto Miranda2.	Name these layers of the Earth's atmosphere, 10 points each.[10]	It can be divided into the D, E, F-1, and F-2 layers.  Its highest layer, the Appleton layer, has the highest concentration of charged particles due to the low density of its gases.	Answer:	ionosphere[10]	This layer contains 90% of the air in Earth's atmosphere, and all its weather patterns.	Answer:	troposphere[10]	Solar radiation causes temperatures in this layer to reach 1500 degrees Celsius. Most man-made satellites, and NASA space shuttles, orbit Earth in this layer.	Answer:	thermosphere [do not accept "exosphere"] 3.	Name the Russian author from a list of his works, FTPE.(10) The Idiot, Notes from the Underground, The Brothers Karamazov	Answer:	 Fyodor Dostoevsky(10) Dead Souls, "Diary of a Madman", The Inspector-General	Answer:	 Nikolai Gogol(10) The Torrents of Spring, A Nest of Gentlefolk, Fathers and Sons	Answer:	 Ivan Turgenev4.	Given a French monarch, identify their more-significant royal queen FTP each10pts - Louis VII	Answer:	 Eleanor of Aquitaine10pts - Henry II	Answer:	 Catherine de Medici10pts - Francis II	Answer:	 Mary Stuart (accept Mary Queen of Scots)5.	FTPE identify the following operas from Wagner's Ring Cycle:(10) In this second opera, Siegmund is killed and Brünnhilde is put to sleep for defying Wotan.  It features the "Ride of the Valkyries".	Answer:	 Die Walkure(10) In this opera, Alberich steals the Rhinemaidens' treasure, Wotan and Loge cheat him out of it, and the giants Fafnir and Fasolt get the gold in the end.	Answer:	 Das Rheingold(10)  Siegfried is tricked into marrying Gudrun, Hagen stabs him in the back, and the Ring returns to the Rhinemaidens as everything else goes up in flames.	Answer:	 Götterdämmerung	
6.	FTSNOP, give the author of these works set in the West(5) "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County"	Answer:	Mark Twain, or Samuel L. Clemens(5) "The Luck of Roaring Camp" and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat"	Answer:	Bret Harte(10) The Virginian	Answer:	Owen Wister(10) Riders of the Purple Sage, and over 80 other novels.	Answer:	Zane Grey7.	Identify these diseases of the lungs FTPE.(10)This disease is frequently cause by smoking, but environmental factors such as air pollution can also contribute, results when the elasticity of the alveoli is lost, making expiration more difficult.	Answer: 	Emphysema(10) First described in the 16th century this type of pneumoconiosis occurs almost specifically in coal miners.	Answer: 	Black lung disease (10) This rare cancer of the lining of the lung is cause by asbestos, and in contrast to asbestosis, it can result after relatively little exposure to asbestos. 	Answer: 	Mesothelioma8.	Answer the following about the greatest day of Michael Napier's life FTP each.(10) On October 25th, 2004 Jeremy Foley announced the firing of this UF coach after a "culmination of disappointments".	Answer:	 Ron Zook(10) The firing came after a loss to this Sylvester Croom-coached team, then ranked 119th out of 119 football Div 1A teams.	Answer:	 Mississippi State [do not accept or prompt on Mississippi](10)  Zook's replacement is this former Utah coach who led the Utes to an undefeated season.	Answer:	 Urban Meyer9.	Name these figures in the British surrender at Yorktown, 10 points each.[10]	This British general sent his deputy, Charles O'Hara, to present the surrender, insulting Washington.	Answer:	Lord Charles Cornwallis[10]	Adding to the insult, O'Hara first tried to surrender to this French commander.	Answer:	Marquis de Lafayette[10]	A French fleet led by this man blocked the British troops from retreating or receiving reinforcements.	Answer:	Comte de Grasse10.  Given a European capital, identify the major river flowing through or beside it for 5 pts. each or 30 for all 5 correct:a)Vienna		Answer:	 Danubeb) Paris		Answer:	 Seinec) Budapest		Answer:	 Danubed) Lisbon		Answer:	 Taguse) Bratislava		Answer:	 Danube11.	Identify these terms from astrophysics FTP each:(10) This chart plots luminosity and temperature and is used to give letter classification of stars.	Answer:	 Hertzsprung- Russell diagram(10) This is the method used to find the distance from earth to nearby stars.	Answer:	 parallax(10) Objects that are quickly receeding away from the earth give this characteristic Doppler trait.	Answer:	 red shift
12.	Identify these Shakespearean plays from characters on a 10-5 basis.(10)  Roderigo, Bianca, Lodovico(5)  Michael Cassio, Iago	Answer:	  Othello(10)  Don Pedro, Don Juan, Hero(5)  Claudio, Beatrice	Answer:	  Much Ado About Nothing(10)  Tybalt, Benvolio(5)  Mercutio, Friar Lawrence	Answer:	  Romeo and Juliet13.	Name these British empiricist philosophers, FTP each:(10) This Scotsman argued that humans are more creatures of sentiment than reason, and that no metaphysics is possible in works like Treatise of Human Nature.	Answer:	 David Hume(10)  He wrote Essay Concerning Human Understanding and Letter Concerning Toleration.	Answer:	  John Locke(10) An Irish bishop sometimes considered the link between Locke and Hume, he wrote Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge and Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous.	Answer:	 Bishop George Berkeley14.	Teddy Roosevelt had several major foreign policy quote, accomplishments, unquote. FTPE:[10]	In 1906 Roosevelt won the Nobel Peace Prize for his role in this treaty that ended the Russo-Japanese War.	Answer:	Treaty of Portsmouth[10]	Roosevelt's administration also pushed for support of this statement of principles, formulated by John Hay for China. Unfortunately, other nations demanded they be applied elsewhere.	Answer:	Open Door Policy[10]	This unwritten understanding came about after the San Francisco school board banned Japanese children from public schools. To have the ban lifted, Japan agreed to restrict immigration.	Answer:	Gentleman's Agreement15.	When their experimental spacecraft flew through a field of cosmic rays, poorly trained astronauts gained a Marvel comic book franchise that has lasted for decades. FTPE:[10]	Name the team formed by this accident.	Answer:	Fantastic Four[10]	The Fantastic Four were plagued by constant attacks from this evil dictator of Latveria. A ride named for him at Universal's Islands of Adventure features a lot of bouncing up and down.	Answer:	Doctor Doom or Victor Von Doom [prompt on partial answers][10]	This son of Reed and Sue Richards was nearly omnipotent until he created mental blocks that closed off his powers, making him just a normal boy.	Answer:	Franklin Richards16.	FTPE answer the following about an engagement of World War II:[10]	In May 1941 this German battleship, accompanied by the heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen, passed through the Denmark Strait into the North Atlantic.	Answer:	Bismarck[10]	South of Iceland they found an 8-ship British fleet. The Bismarck sank this British battle cruiser less than five minutes into the battle.  Only three crew members survived, one of whom,Ted Briggs, is still (as of mid-2004) alive.	Answer:	HMS Hood[10] For a final 10 points, name either the damaged British destroyer that nonetheless shadowed the Bismarck as she headed to port for repairs, or the carrier whose torpedo planes damaged the Bismarck's rudder and left her helpless.	Answer:	either HMS Prince of Wales or HMS Ark Royal
17.	Give the authors of these novels of the sea FTP each10) The Sea Wolf	Answer:	 Jack London10) Two Years Before The Mast		Answer:	 Richard Henry Dana10) Master and Commander	Answer:	 Patrick O'Brian18.	Identify these chemical rules FTPE.(10) Useful in predicting the molecular structures of products of addition reactions, this rule states that in addition reactions to unsymmetrical alkenes, the electron-rich component of the reagent adds to the carbon atom with fewer hydrogen atoms.	Answer:	 Markovikov Rule(10) This law states that the changes in certain related properties of a liquid occur when a substance is dissolved in the liquid are proportional to the number of molecules of dissolved substance.	Answer:	 Raoult's Law(10) He has two rules - the loop rule, which states that the sum of the potential differences encountered in a round trip around any closed loop in a circuit is zero; and the point rule, which says the sum of the currents toward a branch point is equal to the sum of the currents away from the same branch point.	Answer:	 Gustave R. Kirchhoff 19.	Name these Thomas Eakins [AY-kins] works that feature nudity, 10 points each.[10]	This Eakins painting shows the title character in black, lecturing a medical school audience on the operation he has just performed.	Answer:	The Gross Clinic[10]	Eakins received $750 for painting this portrait of a retiring physician, which now hangs in the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. Unlike The Gross Clinic, it is a horizontal canvas, with most of the key figures in white.	Answer:	The Agnew Clinic[10]	Eakins is the observer in the lower right corner, watching five nude boys at the title location.	Answer:	The Swimming Hole20.	Name these women who slept with David, 10 points each.[10]	She was the daughter of Saul and brother of Jonathan.	Answer:	Michal[10]	After the death of Nabal, this woman, his widow, married David and bore him Chileab.	Answer:	Abigail [10]	David lies with this wife of Uriah, and then arranges for Uriah's death. God punished David by killing their child.	Answer:	Bathsheba [do not prompt on "Sheba" or "Queen of Sheba"]21. 30-20-10 Identify the ruler30: He died after being shot with an arrow while hunting in the New Forest. Some believe his brother and eventual successor may have been responsible.20: Nicknamed Rufus from his complexion, he reunited his father's domain when he gained control of Normandy in 1096.10: The third surviving son of William the Conquerer, he was succeeded by his younger brother Henry I.	Answer:	 William II Rufus22.	Answer these questions about observations arising from the thermoelectric power generator 15 points each.(15) This man observed that at the junction of two conductors, a temperature difference existed within the magnetic field.	Answer:	 Thomas Seebeck(15) This watchmaker noticed that in the same device, the amount of heat generated was inconsistent with the amount predicted by Curie charts.	Answer:	 Jean-Charles Peltier