TOSSUPS - FINALS						SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by VCU's Matt Weiner, with a few strays from other Penn Bowlers and additions by Stephen Taylor 1 One version involves the name in Badrinath for Vishnu Narayana, who may have inspired the story of the murdered apprentice of Daedelus, carried to heaven by Athena in the form of a bird. Athena was the patron of this phrase's second creature; the ancient legend of Perdix was phonetically garbled and transcribed onto Christ and the cross. This explains the origins of- FTP -what gift that follows French hens and turtle doves?			Answer:	partridge in a pear tree [prompt on "partridge"] 2 Justices Potter and Black dissented, arguing from a strict constructionist viewpoint that the Due Process Clause could not be invoked in this 1965 case.  Justice William O. Douglas, delivering the court's opinion, began with a defense of judicial activism before asserting the key concept that the First, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendments, taken together, imply a "penumbral" right to privacy which would later be used in Roe v. Wade.  FTP name this decision which struck down a Connecticut law against providing contraceptive information to married couples.			Answer:	Griswold v. Connecticut3 The Barksdale valve made it easier to use, by allowing quick recompression, mitigating the problem of heat disposal. Perhaps its greatest success came in 1964 at Brookhaven, when it was used to discover the omega minus particle. It increases pressure until a liquid's boiling point is reduced below its temperature, creating a superheated state. FTP -Donald Glaser invented what device that detects charged particles by gas trails?			Answer:	bubble chamber4 The princess of France appears to demand repayment of a loan as Anthony Dull banters with Nathaniel and Holofernes. The rules of the court include a ban on all interaction with women. That ban is quickly flouted in-FTP -which Shakespeare comedy in which Ferdinand of Navarre eventually relents and joins in a year of hermitage to win the ladies' hands?			Answer:	Love's Labour's Lost: A Poetic Comedy5 His 1888 cantata Velleda [vuh-LAY-duh] won him his second Prix de Rome. A music critic for the Weekly Review and the Gazette des Beaux-Arts, his later works include the Sonnet de Ronsard and the ballet La Péri [pay-REE], or The Genie. Despite a one-hit wonder reputation, opera scholars note his 1907 Ariane and Bluebeard. FTP -name this composer who adopted a Goethe ballad into The Sorcerer's Apprentice.			Answer:	Paul(-Abraham) Dukas [doo-KAH]6 He lost his inheritance because of a club foot, so he joined the Church and was named Bishop of Autun; in 1789, he proposed the revolutionary government seize all church property. He wrote the constitution of the Bourbon restoration, and sparked the XYZ affair by demanding an American bribe. FTP -name this foreign minister under the Directory and Napoleon, who represented France at the Congress of Vienna.			Answer:	Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord7 First synthesized in 1961 as part of a decade-long test of treatments for ultraviolet burns in guinea pigs. This compound with formula C13H18O2 works by inhibiting synthesis of prostaglandin. Originally intended as a prescription treatment for arthritis, it has been sold over the counter since 1983. FTP -name this anti-inflammatory painkiller found in Motrin and Advil.			Answer:	ibuprofen [or (±)-2-(para-isobutylphenyl)propionic acid] 8 Late in his life, he edited The Cornhill and wrote Denis Duval and The Adventures of Philip. He exposed the infidelity of his rival Dickens, tried to top A Christmas Carol in The Rose and the Ring, and scuffled with Dickens at the Garrick Club. An American lecture tour inspired him to write The Virginians. FTP -name this author who wrote of Rawdon Crawley, Amelia Sedley, and Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair.			Answer:	William Makepeace Thackeray9 
The current scheme for assigning them is being phased out in favor of CIDR, which uses a slash followed by a prefix number. Currently assigned by ARIN, RIPE NCC and APNIC, they are divided into five classes, though Class E is experimental and Class D is reserved for multicasting. FTP -name these identifiers, written as 32-bit numbers separated into four parts by decimals, used to route messages in a namesake network protocol.			Answer:	IP (or Internet Protocol) addresses10 Based on the short story "The Hildebrand Rarity," causes of death include an impaling on a forklift blade and a bodily explosion in a vacuum chamber. The supporting cast includes Talisa Soto and Carey Lowell as allies against Robert Davi's character, drug lord Frank Sanchez. The death of Della Leiter is avenged by Timothy Dalton after M revokes-FTP -the title document of what Bond film?			Answer:	Licence to Kill11 Side plots include a meeting with Varenka in Germany, Mary's dalliance with Nicholas, and Lydia Ivanova's involvement with a mystic sect. The novel opens as Dolly discovers her husband has had an affair with the governess. Eventually, Prince Oblonsky, the title character's brother, reconciles Kostya and Kitty; the title character leaves her husband for a train. FTP -name this novel by Tolstoy.			Answer:	Anna Karenina 12 He died in a cell at Fort-de-Joux [joo] after he was captured by Charles Leclerc. His adopted name means "he who finds an opening," referring to his "seven battles in seven days" strategy of victory through speed. He defeated the revolt of André Rigaud [rih-GOH] and later conquered Santo Domingo. FTP -name this leader of a 1793 slave rebellion which became a briefly successful war of independence in Haiti.		Answer:	François Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture or Toussaint Breda [accept any underlined answer]13 Called Mafkat, or "country of turquoise," in ancient times, it's home to the world's oldest known mines, operated by the indigenous Monitu [MOH-nee-too]. Port Said [SYE-eed] and Al Arish lie on its northern coast, the Tabah; Mount Catherine lies in the south. Mostly desert, it borders the Mediterranean, the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aqaba, and Israel. FTP -name this peninsula that lies east of the Suez Canal.			Answer:	Sinai Peninsula14 Four times more prevalent in boys than in girls, it was first described by Dr. Leo Kanner in 1943; one year, later, Hans Asperger described one high-functioning form of it now named for him. Those affected display a combination of symptoms, including resistance to change, difficulty in verbal and non-verbal communication, little or no eye contact, and trouble with social interactions.  For ten points, identify this Pervasive Developmental Disorder that afflicted Raymond Babbitt in Rainman. 	Answer:	 autism15 Its members included Thomas Woolner, Frederick George Stephens, and William Morris. Their rules included bright backgrounds with liberal use of white, realistic detail, and a self-limitation to significant subjects. Inspired by the German group called the Nazarenes, they defended their work in The Germ. FTP -name this group led by Millais [mih-LAY] and Rossetti that tried to recapture the spirit of medieval art.			Answer:	Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood or the Pre-Raphaelites16 Supplemental resolutions to its best-known agenda included demands for term limits for president and vice president, a secret ballot, liberal pensions for ex-Union soldiers, restrictions on immigration, and the abolition of the Pinkerton system.  But the primary focus of its platform was economic reform, in the form of a graduated income tax, banks controlled by the post office, and government ownership of railroads and telegraph lines.  FTP name this American political party whose 1892 Omaha Platform called for the "free and unlimited coinage of silver."			Answer:	People's Party or Populist Party  (prompt on Omaha platform before mentioned)17 Described as "arrayed in purple and scarlet, and bedecked with gold and jewels and pearls," she holds a "golden cup full of abominations and impurities." She sits atop a scarlet beast with seven heads and ten horns. Christians disagree on whether she represents Roman emperors or kings of Jerusalem, and some equate her with the Catholic Church itself. FTP -name this "mother of harlots" described in chapter 17 of Revelation.			Answer:	the Whore of Babylon [accept equivalents]18 
In the persona of Talangar [TAH-lin-gar], he was traumatized by seeing a man covered in Thousand Island dressing. He placed an ad in Forbes to lure other rich families to his hometown and tried to live among magic lions. He helped convince the governor to release Cartman from his prison sentence for hate crimes. FTP -name this African-American member of the fourth-grade class at South Park Elementary.			Answer:	Token Williams (Please use this!)19 His latest novel was printed in Iceland in a run of only 50,000 copies. Such idiosyncracies are old hat, though, for this editor of McSweeney's, who parlayed the success of his first book into a post-modern publishing empire. For 10 points-name this masked man, the author of You Know Us by Our Velocity and A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.		Answer:	David Eggers20 This semi-precious stone is mostly aluminum silicate, with occasional fluoride or hydroxide ions. When irradiated it turns clear; heating the clear stone turns it blue. Because of its natural yellowish color, though, it is often confused with citrine. For 10 points-name this mineral, the birthstone for November and an 8 on the Mohs scale.		Answer:	topaz21 Prunella and Esmerelda in a 1965 TV version of a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical. Calliope and Minerva in Rodgers and Hammerstein's original. Javotte and an unnamed counterpart in Perrault [peh-ROH]. Clorinda and Tisbe according to Rossini, and Drizella and Anastasia according to Disney. In most versions, they dress in red velvet and gold to attend a ball at the castle, taunting their housemate, who must attend to them. FTP -name these women who find their feet are too big for a certain glass slipper.			Answer:	Cinderella's stepsisters [accept equivalents]22 Stilicho stopped their early ventures into Italy after he became a Roman. This tribe migrated from the Danube valley to Spain under Gunderic; under Gaiseric, they built an empire that harassed Italy's coast with pirate attacks until they were crushed by Belisarius. Their siege of Hippo led to the death of Saint Augustine. FTP -name this Germanic tribe that established a capital at Carthage.			Answer:	Vandals23 Its current members include John Hayes for agriculture, Oliver Letwin for home secretary, and Michael Ancram for foreign secretary. In addition to providing a perpetually visible slate of candidates, each member is responsible for keeping up with his portfolio so he can direct criticism of the government on relevant issues. FTP -name this group, the chief opposition party's desired cabinet members, which lacks conspiratorial connotations in the U.K.			Answer:	shadow government [accept shadow cabinet]24 The data has largely been discredited, but this book is famous for a smear campaign against its author which led to the Ribicoff hearings. It's also been blamed for worsening the 1970s energy crisis. Its first chapter claims that, for a savings of four dollars per unit, the manufacturer omitted a key suspension component in a rear-engined car, causing rollovers and fishtailing in the Chevy Corvair. FTP -name this 1965 manifesto by Ralph Nader.			Answer:	Unsafe at Any Speed: The Designed-in Dangers of the American Automobile
BONI - FINALS						SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by VCU's Matt Weiner, with a few strays from other Penn Bowlers and additions by Stephen Taylor 1.	Your genial quizmaster thinks these aren't repeats.  Name these amino acids FTP each.[10] The simplest amino acid and the only one which is not optically active, it is involved in neurotransmission and the synthesis of other acids. Its formula is C2H5NO2.	Answer:	glycine[10] The most common amino acid in humans, it is the next simplest, with the formula C3H7NO2.	Answer:	alanine[10] The least common essential amino acid in humans, it is a precursor to serotonin. Each Thanksgiving, fluff news pieces report that it may put a person to sleep.	Answer:	tryptophan 2.	Name these Nathaniel Hawthorne short stories from plots FTP  each.[10] In the company of Mr. Smooth-it-away, the narrator views the modern transportation recently established between landmarks of Pilgrim's Progress.	Answer:	"The Celestial Railroad"[10] Student Giovanni Guasconti is in love with the untouchable title character, Beatrice, while Pietro Bagolini plans to rid the world of evil by any means necessary.	Answer:	"Rappacini's Daughter"[10] The narrator seeks the title character, hoping to take advantage of his hospitality, but finds him most unpopular in the community	Answer:	"My Kinsman, Major Molineux" 3.	Some baseball players aren't dumb jocks. 10 points each.[10]	He earned an engineering degree from Penn; his thesis covered the traffic impact of a proposed new stadium for the Phillies-for whom he's the center fielder.		Answer:	Doug(las) Glanville[10]	This shortstop led Georgia Tech to a second-place College World Series. He also won an Olympic gold medal during his attendance from 1991 to 1994.		Answer:	(Anthony) Nomar Garciaparra[10]	This catcher of the 20s and 30s was said to "speak twelve languages and hit in none of them." He worked as a spy in the offseason and once tried to assassinate Werner Heisenberg.		Answer:	Morris "Moe" Berg4.	Name these leaders of Italian unification FTP each.[10] In 1860, he led a thousand "Redshirts" in the capture of Sicily and Naples.	Answer:	Giussepe Garibaldi[10] This Sardinian premier contrived to have France attack Austria and cede Lombardy to Victor Emmanuel II.	Answer:	Camillo Benso, Conte di Cavour[10] This founder of Young Italy envisioned a unified Italian republic and opposed the efforts of Garibaldi and Cavour to create a kingdom.	Answer:	Giuseppe Mazzini 5.	Name these musicians with something surprising in common, 10 points each.[10]	This 60s bubblegum group had such hits as "Hanky Panky," "I Think We're Alone Now," and "Crimson and Clover."		Answer:	Tommy James and the Shondells [prompt on partial answers][10]	With the Blackhearts, this artist followed her smash "I Love Rock and Roll" in 1981 with a Top 10 cover of "Crimson and Clover."		Answer:	Joan Jett (and the Blackhearts)[10]	Parts of "Crimson and Clover" are borrowed in "Praise Chorus" by this band, popular on MTV, behind "Lucky Denver Mint," "The Middle," and "Sweetness."		Answer:	Jimmy Eat World
6.	Name these D. W. Griffith films, 10 points each.[10]	The longest, most technically innovative film to date, this 1915 adaptation of an incredibly racist Thomas Dixon novel starred Lillian Gish and Henry B. Walthall.		Answer:	Birth of a Nation[10]	Responding to criticism of Birth of a Nation, Griffith created this massive film interweaving four stories of inhumanity, from Babylon to modern California.		Answer:	Intolerance[10]	This 1919 film, the first by United Artists, depicts the abuse of Lucy by an opium addict who was once an influential Buddhist preacher.		Answer:	Broken Blossoms: The Yellow Man and the Girl 7.	Given their gist, identify these economic laws named for people FTP  each.[10] "Supply creates its own demand."	Answer:	Say's Law[10] "GDP drops two point five percent for every one percent that the real unemployment rate exceeds the natural unemployment rate."	Answer:	Okun's Law[10] "When unchecked by misery or vice, population increases geometrically while food supply increases arithmetically."	Answer:	Malthus's Law of Population 8.	Name these Native American wars FTP  each.[10] Beginning with the death of John Oldham in 1636, this war ended with the death of the entirety of the namesake tribe at Stonington during the following year.	Answer:	Pequot War[10] This war of the 1670s between the Wampanoag and New England settlers ended with the establishment of a corn ration provided by the British to natives in Maine.	Answer:	King Philip's War [prompt on "Metacom(et)"][10] This Alabama war lasted from 1813, when Red Eagle attacked Fort Mims, to 1814, when Andrew Jackson won the Battle of Horseshoe Bend.	Answer:	Creek War9.	Name these people who may or may not be other people FTP; if you need works they've written, you just get 5.a) [10]	In 1997, this reclusive author denied that he used the pseudonym "Wanda Tinasky" to denounce Alice Walker in the Anderson Valley Advertiser.   [5] Gravity's Rainbow and V		Answer:	Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr.b) [10]	Richard Weisz, the screenwriter of the 1998 film Ronin, is actually this playwright.    [5] American Buffalo	, Glengarry Glen Ross	Answer:	David Alan Mametc) [10]	Many readers agree with angry prank victim Hunter S. Thompson: this man wrote Letters From a Nut under the pseudonym "Ted L. Nancy."     [5] Sein Language		Answer:	Jerome "Jerry" Seinfeld 10.	Name these astronomical limits, 10 points each.[10]	Beyond this point in an orbit, tidal forces from the primary body exceed a satellite's surface gravity, causing disintegration.		Answer:	Roche limit[10]	This limit is equal to 1.4 solar masses and predicts whether a collapsing star will become a white dwarf or a neutron star.		Answer:	Chandrasekhar limit[10]	Named for the leader of a 1919 expedition supporting general relativity, this is the limit at which the photon pressure on a light-emitting body exceeds the body's gravity.		Answer:	Eddington limit 
11.	Name these characters from the myth of Medea, 5-10-15:[5]	Medea exacted her revenge on this leader of the Argonauts.		Answer:	Jason[10]	Medea fled in the chariot of this son of Hyperion and Thea.		Answer:	Helios[15]	Medea gave birth to a son, Medus, with this man.		Answer:	Aegeus [EE-jee-is]12.	Answer these related questions, 10 points each.[10]	What 1983 song by Culture Club proclaims, "loving would be easy if your colors were like my dreams: red, gold, and green?"		Answer:	"Karma Chameleon"[10]	What 20th-century religion considers red, gold, and green clothing a holy symbol?		Answer:	Rastafarianism[10]	Which country's flag consists of red, gold, and green stripes with a black star in the middle?		Answer:	Republic of Ghana13.	His novels include Daisy Miller and The Golden Bowl. 10 points each.[10]	Name this author.		Answer:	Henry James [prompt on "James"][10]	In this Henry James novel, Beale Farrange, Miss Overmore, Sir Claude, and Mrs. Wix vie for the approval of the young title character.		Answer:	What Maisie Knew[10]	In this James novel, Isabel Archer must choose to marry Casper Goodwood or Gilbert Osmond.		Answer:	Portrait of a Lady14.	Given works, name the Russian composer FTP  each.[10] The Divine Poem, Poem of Ecstasy, Prometheus	Answer:	Aleksandr Nikolayevich Scriabin[10] Aleko, Isle of the Dead	Answer:	Sergei Vasilievich Rachmaninoff[10] Scheherazade, "Flight of the Bumblebee"	Answer:	Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov15.	[30] One system for classifying particles creates three classes: those which travel slower than light; those which travel at the speed of light, such as photons; and those which travel faster than light. FTP  each, give these names, derived from the Latin for "slow" and "light" and the Greek for "swift."	Answer:	tardons, luxons, tachyons16.	Name these leaders of Hawaii, 10 points each.[10]	In 1810, this king of the island of Hawaii finished uniting the archipelago as a kingdom under his rule.		Answer:	Kamehameha I (or the Great or Nui)[10]	Deposed in 1893, this queen was the last Hawaiian monarch.		Answer:	Lydia Kamekeha Paki Liliuokalani or Mrs. John Owen Dominis[10]	This president of the independent Republic of Hawaii from 1894 to 1900 became its territorial governor after American annexation.		Answer:	Sanford Ballard Dole 17.	Name these Mexican authors FTP  each.[10] His novels include Where the Air is Clear and The Death of Artemio Cruz.	Answer:	Carlos Fuentes[10] This onetime ambassador to India wrote The Pears of the Elm, The Sun Stone, and The Labyrinth of Solitude.	Answer:	Octavio Paz[10] This seventeenth-century nun wrote The Trials of a Noble House, Response to Filotea, and Allegorical Neptune.	Answer:	Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz [or Juana de Asbaje y Ramírez] [accept any underlined answer] 18.	Name these French philosophers from works FTP  each.[10] Provincial Letters, Pensées	Answer:	Blaise Pascal[10] Parisian Letters, The Spirit of the Laws	Answer:	Charles Louis de Secondat, Baron de la Brede et de Montesquieu[10] A Treatise on Nature and Grace, On the Search for Truth	Answer:	Nicolas de Malebranche 19.	Answer these questions about statistical mechanics, 10 points each.[10]	Which statistics are obeyed by particles with half-integral spins, such as electrons?ANSWER:	Fermi-Dirac statistics[10]	Often used in statistical quantum mechanics, what ensemble fixes chemical potential, temperature, and volume, but not the number of particles?ANSWER:	grand canonical ensemble[10]	What formula is the classical limit of the frequency distribution of a gas of photons in thermal equilibrium in a three-dimensional box? Hint: it led to the "ultraviolet catastrophe."ANSWER:	Rayleigh-Jeans formula20.	Given the owner, name the Presidential estate, 5-10-20-30:[a]	Thomas Jefferson		Answer:	Monticello[b]	James Monroe		Answer:	Ash Lawn[c]	James Madison	Answer:	Montpelier[d]	James Buchanan	Answer:	Wheatland	21.	Name these language families from members, 10 points each.[10]	Tamil, Telugu [teh-LOO-goo], Kennada [kuh-NAH-duh]		Answer:	Dravidian [druh-VIH-dee-in][10]	Swahili, Zulu, Fulani [foo-LAH-nee]		Answer:	Niger-Congo [accept Bantu][10]	Turkish, Mongolian, Japanese		Answer:	Altaic [awl-TAY-ik]22.	For ten points each, given their four star difficulty ending, name the character from Super Street Fighter II.[10] She is revolted by the revelation that she once had an affair with M. Bison.  Her military friends comfort her and take her home.	Answer:	 Cammy[10] After exclaiming his dreams could come true "only in America," we see him in a yellow suit and on a couch with lots of gold and moneybags.	Answer:	 Balrog[10] The ex-president exits a helicopter and tells this character he has made his country proud.  They then perform a Russian dance.	Answer:	 Zangief23..	Answer the following about leadership changes in 2002 for the stated points.[10]this former vice-president is now "on first" in China after taking the reigns of the Communist Party from Jiang Zemin.	Answer:	Hu Jintao[15] For 15, this Justice and Development Party member became prime minister in another country because party chair Recep Tayyip Erdogan is banned from office.	Answer:	Abdullah Gul[5] For 5 points, Gul is the prime minister in this bicontinental country, where his party's Muslim base may threaten the tradition of militant secularism.	Answer:	Republic of Turkey [or Türkiye Cumhuriyeti]