TOSSUPS -- VALENCIA COMM. COLL.		SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Chris Borglum1)  By Ptolemaic times, he had been deified as the son of the god Ptah (pee-tah) and became the god of medicine to the Egyptians.  He was, however, a real person, the counselor to the ancient pharaoh Zoser.  FTP, name this Egyptian scholar, architect of the funerary temple of Zoser at Saqqara, and the creator of the pyramid.A.  Imhotep2)  Their headquarters are in Clearwater, Florida.  The highest level of this group is the Sea Organization, named after the members who followed their leader to a watery exile when legal problems beset them in many countries in the 1960s.  To become a member of the Sea Org, one must be continually audited to produce positive engrams, and probably dole out thousands of dollars to the group.  FTP, name this pseudo-religion founded by a former science fiction writer, popular with Hollywood celebrities like John Travolta and Tom Cruise.A.  Church of Scientology3)  It was founded in 618 when Tai-tsung allied Turkish tribes and marched on Ch'ang-an.  While it effectively ended in 885, this dynasty had problems throughout its life including an interregnum from 755 to 763 during An Lu-shan's rebellion.  During its peak in the seventh century, it expanded from Korea to Iran and from the Ili valley to Vietnam.  FTP identify this Chinese dynasty preceded by the Sui Dynasty that eventually collapsed into the Five Dynasties, A:  Tang Dynasty4) This process consists of 10 reactions and involves kinases and substrate-level phosphorylation (fos-for-il-ation).  NAD is reduced and water is given off.  The first step in aerobic and anaerobic respiration, a glucose molecule is partially oxidized to pyruvate.  FTP, name this process.Answer :  Glycolysis5)  Now that Roseanne Barr has been asked to guest-edit an issue of The National Enquirer, she has said of an earlier guest-editing stint at this more prestigious magazine, "It might have sucked, but nobody reads it anyway."  This is a likely overstatement, though this staid journal did lose readers during the editorship of Tina Brown.  FTP name this snooty magazine which has featured more sainted editors like Harold Ross, and which takes its name from the city in which it is based.A.  The New Yorker6)  A mysterious knight challenges the hero of this tale to exchange blows with him, on the condition that this knight will be beheaded if the hero returns to battle him on his own turf in one year.  One year later, our hero stops by a castle near the chapel of the mysterious knight and exchanges gifts with the castle's lord.  His best gift is that he tells the lord of the castle that his wife has been wooing him.  Confused yet?  Well, it turns out that the lord of the castle is the mysterious knight, who happens to wear green.  FTP, name the hero of this tale, a knight of Arthur's Round Table.A.  Gawain (accept Gawain and the Green Knight at any point)7)  Hold a finger up about a foot in front of your nose.  Now close one eye and look at the finger.  Next, close your other eye, opening the other of course, and look at the finger.  It will appear to have moved across the background.  This is a simple demonstration, FTP, of what apparent shift based on the observer, helpful to astronomers gauging celestial distances?A.  parallax
8) He wasn't educated at the University of Walloomalloo, but he wrote "The Fifth Philosopher's Song".  He was an agnostic, but he wrote "Heaven and Hell".  Although partially blind, he wrote The Art of Seeing.  His other works include The Devils of Loudon, The Doors of Perception, and Eyeless in Gaza.  FTP name this scion of a British family of letters, whose most famous work is Brave New World.				Answer: Aldous Huxley9)  From the 16th to 19th century, it belonged to the city-state of Genoa.  In the 19th century, however, the French took over this small Mediterranean island north of Sardinia, despite uprisings led by Pascal Paoli.  FTP name this island, the ultimate revenge of which might be its infliction of native son Napoleon Bonaparte on the French.A.  Corsica10)  This literary term comes from a Spanish word for a rogue.  It generally describes episodic, loosely plotted adventure tales, often associated with erratic travels.  Huckleberry Finn, Moll Flanders, and Candide could all fit the description.  FTP name this term most often associated with Spanish works of the Renaissance, such as Don Quixote.A.  picaresque (novel)11)  His vicious beating of a high school classmate soured the interest of Notre Dame.  Lou Holtz, however, recommended him to Bobby Bowden, who, being a generous soul to hard-luck cases with 4.2 speed in the 40, took him on.  But while at Florida State, he violated his parole by failing a drug test.  He stayed clean for three years back in his home state of West Virginia at Marshall, which won the 1-AA national championship behind his catches of former Florida quarterback Eric Kresser's passes.  FTP name this Minnesota Viking rookie who has quickly become perhaps the most feared receiver in pro football.A.  Randy Moss12)  When a statue of this former Kennedy cabinet member and later chair of the International Monetary Fund was unveiled by then Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter in 1974, gonzo journalist Hunter Thompson asked "Where's the blood on his hands?"  FTP name this former Secretary of Defense, who has recently admitted personal guilt in the escalation of American involvement in the Vietnam war.A.  Robert McNamara13)  He is currently planning a run for mayor of New York.  He certainly has the name recognition, though it's not often that a man only a few years removed from jail time served for shooting people can be a strong candidate.  FTP name this man who in 1984 earned the sobriquet "The Subway Vigilante" for shooting four teenagers who attempted to rob him.A.  Bernard Goetz14)  The name's the same: Edward was an American astronomer who discovered Jupiter's fifth moon and has a fast-moving star near our solar system named for him.  Christian was the South African doctor who first transplanted a human heart.  FTP what's the common name?A.  Barnard15) He was born to Alexander and Marie, former princess of Denmark in 1868.  Before taking the thrown he was a Colonel in the army and married a German princess, Alex of Hess.  During World War I, he took control of the military and left the running of the country to Czarina Alexandra and her advisor Rasputin.  FTP, name this man, the last czar of Russia, whom was force to abdicate the thrown in 1917 and who just received a proper burial in fall of 1998.Answer : Nicholas II16) Hours after sending the proof of his novel, News of A Kidnapping, to his publisher, real-life kidnappers kidnapped the brother of President Cesar Gaviria and demanded that the author take over as president to "save the fatherland." One of the leading exponents of  'magical realism,'  his works include The General in His Labyrinth and Love in the Time of Cholera.  FTP, name the winner of the 1982 Nobel Prize for Literature, author of One Hundred Years of Solitude.A: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on either Garcia or Marquez]    17)  A Frenchman, he studied under William of Ockham and anticipated Newton's first law of motion by suggesting that God had put the spheres of the heavens into motion, and they therefore required no extra effort to keep them moving.  He's best known, however, for his example of the impossibility of action by free will in which he  positis a creature placed equally between two exactly similar bales of hay.  FTP, name this man best known for his ass.A. Jean Buridan18) His father won the Congressional Medal of Honor for bravery in the Battle of Chattanooga; they remain the only father-son recipients. A graduate of West Point in 1903, he commanded a brigade in France during World War I and in 1930 became Army Chief of Staff.  FTP, name this general that was the first commander of a UN military action and who told his troops in the Philippines, "I shall return!"Answer : _ Douglas MacArthur _19)  This word can describe the course of an aircraft as designated by air traffic control.  It also refers to any agent that transmits parasitic microorganisms and/or infectious diseases from one host to another.  FTP what is this word which in math refers to a quantity possessing both magnitude and direction?A.  vector20)  His grandfather, Moses, was moderately well known in 18th century Europe as a Jewish theologian and philosopher.  His compositions were wildly popular with 19th century audiences, and he became fairly wealthy.  His influence in the music world was strong enough that he was able to single-handedly revive interest in the music of J. S. Bach.  FTP name this composer of the oratorio Elijah and the Scottish and Italian Symphonies.A.  Felix Mendelssohn21)  It became a republic in 1923 and currently has the second largest military in NATO, behind only the U. S.  FTP name this nation which occupies the Anatolian peninsula and has its capital at Ankara.A.  Turkey22)  It was the 43rd state admitted to the Union, joining in 1890.  Its population topped the one-million mark in the late 1980s, but only its capital has a population of over 100,000.  FTP name this Gem State, which includes cities such as Lewiston, Pocatello, and the capital, Boise.A.  Idaho
BONI -- VALENCIA COMM. COLL.		SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Chris Borglum1)  Let's see how much attention you've been paying to the crises facing the Republican Party during the impeachment process.  Name the following Republicans for the stated number of points.1.	What Louisiana Republican was slated to follow Newt Gingrich as Speaker of the House?A.  Bob Livingston2.	Whom did the Republicans eventually select when Livingston melted down?A.  Dennis Hastert3.	Hastert is considered by some to be to beholden to this man, the House Majority Whip.A.  Tom DeLay2) Given a descriptions of elements, name them on a 5-10-15 basis:1.  F5P, this has the lowest atomic number of any element which is solid at room temperature.Answer: Lithium2.  FTP, this halogen, atomic number 35 is a dark red liquid at room temperature and has a suffocating odor.Answer : Bromine3.  F15P, this element was key in the famous [or infamous] cold fusion experiments of 1989.  Number 46 on the periodic table, this silver-white malleable metal was named for an asteroid.Answer :  Palladium3)  30-20-10 Name the author from works.30	Jonah's Gourd Vine; I Love Myself When I Am Laughing and Then Again When I Am Looking Mean and Impressive20	Dust Tracks on a Road; Mules and Men10	Their Eyes Were Watching God		A.  Zora Neale Hurston4) FTPE name these grass roots movements:    a. The rioters who took to destroying machinery in the factories of northern England between 1811 and 1816, especially textile factories.A:    Luddites    b.  The working class group who pushed for universal adult male suffrage, the secret ballot, annual elections to the House of Commons and the payment of MP's, named after a document they drafted in 1838.  A:    Chartists    c.  A group of religious pacifists in Cromwellian England, led by Gerrard  Winstanley, who didn't believe in private property and who cultivated others' land. A:    Diggers    5) "As You Like It" and "Twelfth Night" are Shakespeare's best-known romantic comedies, but they're alike in more ways than that.  Identify the following concerning their similarities:A.	For 5 points--identify the cross-dressing heroine of either play.Answer:	Viola (TN) or Rosalind (AYLI)B.	For 10 points--name either the woman who falls in love with Viola in "Twelfth Night" or the woman who worships Rosalind in "As You Like It."Answer:	Olivia or PhebeC.	For 15 points, name either the man who marries Olivia in "Twelfth Night" or the man who marries Phebe in "As You Like It."Answer:	Sebastian or Silvius
6) Name the directors of the following American films for five points each.A. The Godfather				A. Francis Ford CoppolaB. On the Waterfront				A.  Elia KazanC. Stagecoach				A.  John FordD. Forrest Gump				A.  Robert ZemeckisE. 2001: A Space Odyssey			A.  Stanley KubrickF. Ordinary People				A.  Robert Redford7)  Given a definition, provide the following heart-related terms for ten points each.1. This is the period of the cardiac cycle in which ventricles are not contracting.	A.   diastole (or diastolic)2. This is the general term for contraction of the heart muscle.	A.  systole (or systolic)3. This is the electrocardiographic representation of electrical activity preceding ventricular relaxation in systole.	A.  T wave8)  From a definition, name the family of numbers described for ten points each.1. Real irrational numbers which aren't algebraic (e.g.  pi and e)	A.  Transcendentals2. The integers plus all fractions positive and negative.		A.  Rationals3. The real numbers plus all the imaginaries.				A.  Complex numbers9)  Name the Christian sect from clues for ten points each.1.	They are a strict Mennonite community distinguished by a lifestyle that rejects technology.	A.  Amish2.	This group recognizes St. Mark as its founder and flourishes in Egypt and Ethiopia.	A.  Coptics (or Copts)3.	This group believes in communal property and, though dying out, is known for its simple furniture style.	A.  Shakers10)  Provided a definition, name the following terms from the world of dance for ten points each.1.	A turn of the body while standing on one leg with the raised leg held in position.	A.  pirouette2.	A dance for two performers.	A.  pas de deux3.	A gliding step from fifth to second to fifth position.	A.  glissade11)  30-20-10 name the figure from American history.30) He was to have been the candidate of the Essex Junto, a Federalist offshoot, for Governor of New York.20) After an aborted attempt at establishing a western empire for himself in the southwest, he was placed on trial for treason.  After his acquittal, he fled to Europe and tried to convince Napoleon to invade the U. S.10) He is best known for shooting Alexander Hamilton in a duel.	A.  Aaron Burr12)  30-20-10 Name the scientist.30) Though Pauli theorized the neutrino, this man named it.20) He was placed in charge of the grounds of the Manhattan project despite his status as an "enemy alien" due to his country of birth.10) Element 100 is named for this Italian physicist, as is the particle accelerator at the University of Chicago.	A.  Enrico Fermi
13)  Given the name of a star performer, fill in the blank to complete the name of his/her band.1. Bruce Springsteen and the 			A.  E Street Band2. Bob Seger and the 				A.  Silver Bullet Band3. Adam and the					A.  Ants4. Patty Smythe and				A.  Scandal5. Frankie Valli and the 				A.  Four Seasons6. Bruce Hornsby and the			A.  RangeEDITOR'S NOTE: If you'll note on your restaurant list, former Four Seasons drummer Gary Volpe runs the Electric Submarine in downtown Chattanooga.  Unfortunately, he can't keep time there, either.14)  Given an Asian nation, provide its capital for five points each.1. North Korea		A.  Pyongyang2. Sri Lanka		A.  Colombo3. Thailand		A.  Bangkok4. South Korea		A.  Seoul5. Nepal			A.  Katmandu6. Afghanistan		A.  Kabul15)  Complete the following well known short story titles F5PE.  Heck, we'll throw in the author's name.1. Hills Like               (Ernest Hemingway)			A.  White Elephants2. The Yellow            (Charlotte Perkins Gilman)		A.  Wallpaper3. The Lady with the  (Anton Chekhov)			A.  Pet Dog4. The Jilting of 	        (Katherine Anne Porter)		A.  Granny Weatherall5. A Rose for	        (William Faulkner)			A.  Emily6. Rappacinni's	        (Nathaniel Hawthorne)		A.  Daughter16)  Name the following composers from their operas for ten points each.1. Dido and Aeneas			A.  Henry Purcell2. Salome				A.  Richard Strauss3. Faust				A.  Charles Gounod17)  Name the philosopher from works on a 10-5 basis.1.	10) Sickness Unto Death	5)   Fear and Trembling		A.  Soren Kierkegaard2.	10) The Philosophy of Right	5)   Phenomenology of Spirit		A.  Georg F. W. Hegel3.	10) On Laughter	5)   Creative Evolution			.  Henri Bergson18) Name the novel, 30-20-1030) The protagonist absorbs a modern political, scientific, and cultural education from other patients in a Swiss sanatorium.20) Its protagonist is young Hans Castorp, who visits his cousin who is suffering from tuberculosis.10) In its original tongue this Thomas Mann work is titled Der ZauberBerg (zow-burr-burg)	A.  The Magic Mountain
19)  Given the defeated Democratic candidate, name the man who won the Presidency for ten points.  If you need the year, you'll receive five.10:	Martin Van Buren5:	1840			A.  William Henry Harrison10:	Horatio Seymour5:	1868			A.  Ulysses S. Grant10:	George McGovern5:	1972			A.  Richard Nixon20)  Given the nickname of a medieval scholastic thinker, name that thinker for ten points each.The Angelic Doctor		A.  Thomas AquinasThe Invincible Doctor		A.  William of OckhamThe Admirable Doctor	A.  Roger Bacon