TOSSUPS - KENTUCKY A				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Kentucky A with one or two by your genial quizmaster, Charlie SteinhiceEDITOR'S NOTE: (please read before Tossup 1)  Even though we did have some teams that contributed packets for this tournament, today's tournament would not be possible without the assistance of Samer Ismail, TD of Penn Bowl, thanks to whom we had an additional 20 packets of raw material to work with.  Thanks also to Stephen Taylor of Macon State for yeoman (yeoperson?) service in sifting through those 20 packets for suitable questions.  Ironically, we begin the tournament with the only packet that doesn't contains a single question from the Penn Bowl sets.1. A member of the provisional Confederate Congress in 1861, he died before he could assume his elected office in the true Confederate House of Representatives.  A vocal supporter of states' rights in the U.S. House from 1816 to 1821, he he opposed the Missouri Compromise.  He served twice as governor of Virginia and, as U. S. Senator, formed an unlikely alliance with Clay and Webster against the Jacksonian Democrats.  His leftover Democratic sentiments caused turmoil within his new party not long after William Henry Harrison died in office.  FTP, name this man, 10th president of the U.S.	Answer:	 John Tyler2.	For a massless particle, it is the total energy divided by the speed of light.  Newton's Second Law states that its time derivative is equal to the net force exerted on a body, assuming the body's mass is constant.  Hamilton's equations and the uncertainty principle relate this quantity with a particle's position.  Its square is numerically equal to two times the mass times the kinetic energy.  FTP, what is this vector quantity whose linear variety is defined as mass times velocity and symbolized by a lowercase p?	Answer:	 Momentum3.	It is landlocked, with a land area slightly greater than that of Arkansas.  A constitutional monarchy, it has been independent since 1768 and has a population of roughly 27 million.  It has a very distinctive flag in the shape of two overlapping right triangles which features a stylized sun and moon.  It also contains eight of the world's ten tallest peaks, including Everest on the Chinese border.  FTP, name this nation with its capital at K-K-K-K-K-K-K-Kathmandu.  [pronounce it "kuh-kuh-kuh-kuh-kuh-kuh-kuh Cat Man Dew"]	Answer:	 Nepal4.	6079 Smith W. is fascinated by antiques, and his passion for them leads to his undoing.  When he first meets Julia, he so hates her that he fantasizes about raping and killing her, but soon the two fall madly in love.  They approach O'Brien about joining the Brotherhood, but he betrays them both to the Ministry of Love, where they sell each other out and are brainwashed back into a semblance of their old lives.  All the action takes place on Airstrip One under the watchful eye of Big Brother.  This is, FTP, the plot of what novel by George Orwell?	Answer:	 19845.	Larvell Jones is a human beat box, while Laverne Hooks can barely speak.  Sergeant Callahan loyally serves the senile Commandant Lassard, while Lieutenant Harris tries to undercut him.  Moses Hightower's strength is matched by Eugene Tackleberry's firearm skills.  Through it all, Karen Thompson (played by Kim Cattrall) is ruthlessly pursued by Carey Mahoney.  These are, FTP, the main characters from what 1984 movie starring Steve Guttenberg which has spawned six sequels?	Answer:	 Police Academy6.	He was a fine scholar, the last known person who could read Etruscan, but his physical deformities convinced many around him that he was an idiot.  He had bad luck with wives; his first was an insufferable nymphomaniac and his second poisoned him.  A grandson of both Augustus and Marc Antony, he held no public office until age 46, when his nephew made him a consul.  Less than four years later, he was found cowering in the imperial palace and proclaimed emperor.  FTP, name this uncle of Caligula and predecessor of Nero.	Answer:	 Claudius
7.	After he is released from prison, he plans to rob the bishop Myriel, but abandons this idea.  He forfeits his parole by committing a minor crime, gives up his new life to save an innocent man, and escapes from Toulon prison.  He then adopts Cosette, who falls in love with the revolutionary Marius.  Through it all, he is relentlessly pursued by Inspector Javert.  FTP, name this main character of Victor Hugo's Les Miserables.	Answer:	 Jean Valjean [accept M. Madeleine, his assumed name]8.	It was discovered in 1921 by Frederick Banting and his associates, winning Banting a Nobel in Medicine in 1923.  Its 777-atom molecule was closely studied during the 1960's by Dorothy Hodgkin.  It is useful in helping the body process glucose as well as in storing nutrients when there is too much sugar in the blood.  FTP, name this hormone, it is secreted by the islet cells of the pancreas.	Answer:	 Insulin9.	Born in 1908 in Brooklyn, he received his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin.  Shortly thereafter, he met several prominent German psychologists who were emigrating to the U.S.  One of these was Kurt Goldstein, who introduced him to the idea of self-actualization.  This served as the capstone to his most famous theory, which begins with physiological needs and works up through safety, belonging, and esteem needs before culminating in self-actualization.  FTP, name this psychologist who developed the theory of the hierarchy of needs.	Answer:	 Abraham Maslow10.	It was parodied in the movie M*A*S*H, when the dentist Painless decided to commit suicide.  Completed in 1498, it has recently been controversially restored, but it remains one of the most recognizable paintings of all time.  Bartholomew and Simon are seated at the edges, while John and James sit closest to the central figure and Thomas whispers in his ear.  Most of the figures seem engrossed in conversation, but Jesus himself appears quite serene.  FTP, name this painting depicting the institution of the Eucharist by Leonardo da Vinci.	Answer:	 The Last Supper11.	It was launched on Valentine's Day, 1939, at the Blohm & Voss shipyards in Hamburg.  Commanded by Ernst Lindemann, this sister ship of the Tirpitz clearly violated the Anglo-German Naval Agreement.  Slated for commerce raiding, it sailed with the heavy cruiser Prinz Eugen on its first mission in May 1940.  This proved to be its last mission, however, as after it sank H. M. S. Hood, the entire British Home Fleet pursued and sank it.  FTP, name this German battleship immortalized by Johnny Horton and named after the Iron Chancellor.	Answer:	 Bismarck12.	He dedicated his brilliant first piano concerto to Hans von Bulow after his former teacher Rubinstein had rejected it.  He dedicated his 4th Symphony to Madame von Meck, the wealthy patroness he never met in person.  While successful, such operas as The Queen Of Spades and Eugene Onegin never attained the popularity of his orchestral works or his ballets.  FTP, name this Russian composer of Sleeping Beauty, Swan Lake, and the Nutcracker.	Answer:	Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky [be lenient on pronunciation - there are multiple transliterated versions]13.	Its namesake, a professor at Harvard, developed the concept almost single-handedly but is virtually unheard of today.  Still, it is one of the most important concepts in all of chemistry.  When the change in this quantity for a reaction is negative, the reaction is spontaneous, and when the change in it is positive, the reaction is nonspontaneous.  Defined as enthalpy minus temperature times entropy, it is the energy available for doing work in a reaction.  FTP, name this state function symbolized by a capital G.	Answer:	 Gibbs free energy14.	Writing of the Seven Sages, Plutarch said that only this man's "wisdom stepped, in speculation, beyond the limits of practical utility."  The son of Examyes and Cleobuline, he is sometimes said to be of Phoenician origins.  It is thought that he defined the constellation Ursa Major, and he is commonly reported to have predicted the solar eclipse of 585 B.C.E.  His biggest claim to fame is being widely considered the first major Greek philosopher.  FTP, name this teacher of Anaximander who thought that water was the primary element of the universe.	Answer:	 Thales of Miletus
15.	Its sequel, Polly, was banned by the Lord Chamberlain, probably for fear that it would be another successful parody of the Walpole government.  The artist William Hogarth liked it and painted several of its scenes.  It is so scathing a satire that it even satires its own form, using popular tunes like "Greensleeves" for its airs and the basest vernacular for its libretto.  Tracing the plight of the robber Macheath, it ends with an intervention on his behalf by the title character, its purported author.  FTP, name this 1727 work, the most famous by John Gay.	Answer:	 The Beggar's Opera16.	He graduated from West Point in 1947 and received the Distinguished Service Cross for heroism in Vietnam.  Promoted to full general in 1972, he became White House Chief of Staff the next year.  He held this position until recalled to active duty, after which he became commander of NATO's European forces.  His most famous post, though, was as Ronald Reagan's secretary of state.  FTP, name this man who said "I'm in charge here" after Reagan was shot in 1981.	Answer:	 Alexander Haig17.	While attending the University of Vienna, he was inspired by the brilliant Friedrich Hasenhoerl.  Serving as an artillery officer during World War I, he became the chair of theoretical physics at Zurich in 1921.  His 1944 book What Is Life? proposed the concept of negative entropy and remains popular today.  It was his work in quantum mechanics, however, that earned him the 1933 Nobel Prize in physics, which he shared with Dirac.  FTP, name this man whose mathematical development of wave mechanics may be less famous than his hypothetical cat.	Answer:	 Erwin Schroedinger [pronounced Shray-din-jer, but accept phonetically plausible variants]18.	In the final chapter, Theodor learns that there is no afterlife and that everything is an illusion.  He, Seppi, and Nikolaus first encounter the title character in the forest, where he amazes them with his power.  However, their new friend eventually causes Nikolaus's death and drives Father Peter to insanity after proving his innocence at his trial.  His name is Satan, though he is named after his uncle.  FTP, name this novella, one of the last by Mark Twain.	Answer:	 The Mysterious Stranger19.	It was constructed by the dwarf Dvalin and was obtained by Loki.  Loki gave it to its Sif's husband's father as a partial reparation for the theft of her hair.  It was said that an oath sworn on its tip could not be broken, and it is represented by the runic symbol Gar.  Like Thor's hammer, when thrown it always returns to its owner's hand.  FTP, name this spear of Odin.	Answer:	 Gungnir20.	In her debut video, during the second verse she aims and cocks a gun at her errant partner while cooing, "I've got something for y'all."  Her second album, Wanderland, was a big letdown compared to her debut album, Kaleidoscope, which included "Mafia," "Mars," and the hit single "Caught Out There."  But this artist, nicknamed "Thunder Bitch," has fared much better with her third album.  FTP name this singer, whose album Tasty features the hit single "Milkshake." 	Answer:	Kelis, or Kelis Rogers [pronounced kuh-LEASE, but accept phonetically plausible variants]21.	The title character is found by the polar explorer Robert Walton, relates his story, and quells a mutiny aboard Walton's ship.  Tormented by the knowledge that he is responsible for the deaths of William, Justine, Clerval, and his beloved Elizabeth, he then dies.  The true murderer then appears and tells Walton that he is going to the North Pole to commit suicide.  FTP, name this novel, subtitled The Modern Prometheus, the most famous work of Mary Shelley.	Answer:	 Frankenstein22.	Janssen first obtained its spectrum in 1868, but it remained undiscovered on Earth until 1895.  It makes up about 1 part in 200,000 in the atmosphere, but Ramsay finally isolated it from the uranium mineral cleveite.  It has the lowest melting point of any element and never solidifies at standard pressure.  In 1907, Rutherford declared that alpha particles are this element's nuclei.  FTP, name this second most abundant element in the universe with atomic number 2.	Answer:	 Helium23.	The original idea for it was conceived by Harry Chamberlin, who went on to make an eponymous version independently.  However, this instrument was developed by the Bradley brothers in the 1960's and has since been revised many times.  It functions by playing a loop of tape when a key is pressed, thereby recreating string and brass sounds.  First used by the Moody Blues and soon after in the Beatles' "Strawberry Fields Forever," it deserves recognition as the first synthesizer.  FTP, name this instrument whose name is short for Melody Electronics.	Answer:	 Mellotron
BONI - KENTUCKY A				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Kentucky A with one or two by your genial quizmaster, Charlie Steinhice1. Name these Kurt Vonnegut works FTPE.10)	This somewhat autobiographical 1963 novel about the Hoenikker family was Vonnegut's first major success.		Answer:	 Cat's Cradle10) Part of this 1968 collection of short stories was published previously as Canary in a Cathouse.	Answer:	 Welcome to the Monkey House10)	Perhaps his most famous novel is this one about Billy Pilgrim and the bombing of Dresden.		Answer:	 Slaughterhouse-Five2. Identify these books of the Christian Protestant Bible FTPE.10)	Its name comes from the Greek for "second law," since it is an account of Moses restating the Hebrew code.		Answer:	 Deuteronomy10) This book makes no mention of God but instead relates the story of the title character, who with her uncle Mordecai thwarts the Persian Haman.		Answer:	 Esther10) The one non-synoptic Gospel contains what many consider the Bible's most important verse in Chapter 3.		Answer:	 John3. Name these phases of mitosis FTPE.10) In this early phase, the chromatin condenses into chromosomes, and the nuclear envelope breaks down into vesicles.		Answer:	 prophase10) After prophase, the chromosomes align at the equatorial plate and are held in place by microtubules attached to the mitotic spindle and to part of the centromere.		Answer:	 metaphase10)	After metaphase and before telophase, the centromeres divide, and sister chromatids separate and move toward the corresponding poles.		Answer:	 anaphase4. Identify these European wars FTPE.10) Gustavus Adolphus was a key figure in this nasty war of religious intolerance and shifting alliances, which ended with the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.		Answer:	 Thirty Years' War10) This continent-wide conflict was spearheaded by Frederick the Great of Prussia and Louis XV of France, manifesting itself in America as the French and Indian War.		Answer:	 Seven Years' War10) In 1568 the Dutch revolted against Philip II of Spain.  William the Silent led them to independence in 1581, though fighting continued on and off until the Peace of Westphalia resolved it as well.		Answer:	 Eighty Years' War5. The more things change, the more they stay the same.  FTPE name these current or former NFL quarterbacks:a)  This week this Hall of Famer, winning quarterback in Super Bowl III, announced he's begun counseling for alcohol abuse in the wake of his embarrassing slurred requests for a kiss from ESPN sideline reporter Suzy Kolber.	Answer:	Joe Namathb)  Ten days ago (1/14/04) this 49ers QB was arrested for drunk driving with a Breathalyzer reading nearly triple the California legal limit.	Answer:	Jeff Garciac)  Here's hope for both: Given a second chance by the Giants after his release by the Panthers and Saints, he's stayed clean and sober since going through rehab in the aftermath of his own 1998 drunk driving arrest.	Answer:	Kerry Collins [need 1st name or initial to distinguish from former contemporary Todd Collins]6. 
Name these 20th-century authors FTPE.10) This Englishman is famous for Women In Love, Sons And Lovers, and Lady Chatterly's Lover.	Answer:	 D. H. Lawrence10)	This American won a Pulitzer Prize for Conquistador and also wrote J. B., a modern adaptation of the Biblical book of Job.	Answer:	 Archibald MacLeish10)	This American committed suicide by drinking a bottle of Lysol and wrote Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight, Factory Windows are Always Broken, and The Congo.	Answer:	 Vachel Lindsay7. Identify these laws from chemistry FTPE.10) According to this law, equal volumes of gases at equal pressures and temperatures contain an equal number of molecules.  The number is 6 times 10 to the 23rd per mole, by the way.	Answer:	 Avogadro's Law10) This law combines Avogadro's Law with Boyle's and Charles' and can be symbolized by the equation PV = nRT.  It is named after the substance it describes.	Answer:	 Ideal Gas Law10)	This law states that the partial pressure of a solvent over an ideal solution is given by the vapor pressure of the pure solvent times the mole fraction of the solvent in the solution.	Answer:	 Raoult's Law8. Name these economics terms FTPE.10) This adjective refers to the increase in a quantity such as cost or productivity due to the addition of one more unit.	Answer:	 marginal10) This term refers to the correlation of one quantity, such as demand, upon another, like price.	Answer:	 elasticity10) Popularized by Adam Smith in The Wealth Of Nations, this term is a symbol of the unseen forces which guide economic stability.	Answer:	 invisible hand9. Identify these ancient battles FTPE.10) Fought in 490 B.C.E, this was a Greek victory against the Persians under Darius.  Pheidippides ran the 25 or so miles back to Athens to announce the good news, then died.	Answer:	 Battle of Marathon10) Darius's son Xerxes won this 480 B.C.E. battle with the help of the traitor Ephialtes.  The Greeks, under the Spartan Leonidas, put up a fantastic fight at a narrow pass.	Answer:	 Battle of Thermopylae10) The Persian victory at Thermopylae came to nothing after this naval battle, in which 300 Greek ships under Themistocles and Eurybiades defeated a Persian force twice their size.	Answer:	 Battle of Salamis10. Name these unrelated artists from works FTPE.10) This Baroque master painted Judith Beheading Holofernes, The Crucifixion of St. Peter, & The Death Of The Virgin.	Answer:	 Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio10) This Rococo artist painted Pilgimage to Cythera, Gersaint's Shopsign, and The Delights Of Life.	Answer:	 Jean-Antoine Watteau10) This Surrealist is famous for Autumn Cannibalism, Tuna Fishing, and The Persistence of Memory.	Answer:	 Salvador Dali11. Name these characters from Homer's Odyssey FTPE.10) The first four books relate the tale of this son of Odysseus.	Answer:	 Telemachus10) One of the people Telemachus visits is this heroic Achaean, husband of the infamous Helen.	Answer:	 Menelaus10)	When Odysseus finally gets home, he finds a bunch of guys courting this woman, his wife.	Answer:	 Penelope12. Identify these fantastic base stealers from clues FTSNOP.5) The all-time batting average leader and the first man to collect 4000 hits, he stole 892 bases in a career that lasted from 1905 to 1928, mostly with the Detroit Tigers.	Answer:	 Ty Cobb10) He broke Ty Cobb's single-season mark of 96 by stealing 104 bags in 1962 for the Dodgers.	Answer:	 Maury Wills10) He finally broke Cobb's lifetime mark and finished with 938, playing mostly with St. Louis.	Answer:	 Lou Brock5) The all-time stolen base king is this man, who stole 130 in 1982 and is the only major leaguer ever to steal more than 1000 bases.	Answer:	 Rickey Henderson13. Name these pioneers of nuclear fission FTPE.10) Working at the University of Berlin from 1926 until 1938, this woman named fission but was forced to flee because of her Jewish descent.  Element 109 is named in her honor.	Answer:	 Lise Meitner10) Meitner's principal collaborator was this man, who downplayed her role in their work and won the 1946 Nobel Prize in physics.	Answer:	 Otto Hahn10) This Danish physicist helped Meitner flee to Sweden and confirmed her theories on fission.  He is also famous for his model of the atom and his work in quantum mechanics.	Answer:	 Niels Bohr14. Identify these Constitutional amendments FTPE.10) Ratified in 1913, it called for the direct election of Senators.	Answer:	 17th Amendment10) Ratified in 1933, it repealed the most heinous 18th Amendment.	Answer:	 21st Amendment10) Ratified in 1967, this Constitutional amendment strengthened the procedures for filling vacated presidencies and vice-presidencies.  It came in handy when Nixon resigned.	Answer:	 25th Amendment15. Name these philosophers mentioned in that old Monty Python song FTPE.10) This underconsuming German's works included The Basis of Morality and The World as Will and Idea.	Answer:	 Arthur Schopenhauer10) The author Being And Time, he developed existential phenomenology and could think you under the table.	Answer:	 Martin Heidegger10)	This Brit dabbled in mathematics and wrote Leviathan.  They say he was fond of his dram.	Answer:	 Thomas Hobbes16. Answer these questions about your question writer's random train of thought FTSNOP.10) Five points each:  In Shakespeare's Hamlet, these two gents plot with Claudius to get Hamlet to go to England, though Claudius doesn't tell them he plans to have Hamlet executed.  They die, of course.Answers:  Rosencranz and Guildenstern10) This playwright wrote Rosencranz and Guildenstern are Dead as well as, with Marc Norman, the screenplay for Shakespeare In Love.	Answer:	 Tom Stoppard10) Stoppard is sometimes grouped with Samuel Beckett, Eugene Ionesco, and Harold Pinter in this drama movement.	Answer:	 Theater of the Absurd17. 
Answer these questions about a certain composer FTPE:.(10) This amazing French and Polish pianist wrote free-wheeling stuff like mazurkas, nocturnes, and the Fantasie Impromptu.  He died of tuberculosis in Paris in 1849.	Answer:	 Frederic Francois Chopin(10) Chopin got on quite well for a while with Aurore Dudevant, who wrote novels under this pen name.	Answer:	 George Sand(10) This awesome Chopin work is Opus 10, Number 12 in C minor.  It works the left hand to death and is named after either the Russian invasion of Poland or the 1830 French uprising.	Answer:	 Revolutionary Etude18. Identify the mathematician, 30-20-10.30) He made a surprisingly accurate and unique prediction of the orbit of the asteroid Ceres, which was discovered when he was 23, using the new least-squares method.20) The unit corresponding to one ten-thousandth of a tesla is named in his honor.10)	His more famous accomplishments include the construction of a regular heptadecagon with only compass and straightedge and, as a child, summing the integers from 1 to 100 in an instant.	Answer:	 Carl Friedrich Gauss19. Name these figures from the First World War FTSNOP.5) The British First Lord of the Admiralty, he was responsible for the Gallipoli fiasco.  He still held his post at the outbreak of World War II but soon was elected to a higher position.	Answer:	 Winston Churchill10) Succeeding Nivelle as French commander-in-chief, he was himself succeeded by Foch.  He later headed Vichy France during World War II and died in prison, convicted of treason.	Answer:	 Henri-Philippe Petain15) Perhaps the best German general of the war was this man, who commanded the First Army, the all-important right wing on the Western front, and nearly took Paris.	Answer:	 Alexander von Kluck20. Name the city, 30-20-10.30) Founded in 1819, it became its state's capital in 1846.  It was here that Rosa Parks launched the Civil Rights movement.20) It served as the Confederate capital before Virginia seceded from the Union, so it was also here that Jefferson Davis was sworn in as president.10) It still serves as the capital of the state of Alabama.	Answer:	 Montgomery21. Name these characters from Dante's Inferno for 15 points each, or for 5 from more information.15) He serves as Dante's guide through Hell and saves him from grave peril on many occasions.5) He was also the author of the Aenead.	Answer:	 Virgil15) Along with Brutus and Cassius, this man is chewed up by Lucifer at the very bottom of Hell.5) He betrayed Jesus for thirty pieces of silver.	Answer:	 Judas Iscariot22. Identify the Chinese dynasty from clues FTPE.10) Founded by Liu Pang, it lasted from 202 B.C.E. to 220 C.E. and ended with the Three Kingdoms period.	Answer:	 Han dynasty10) During this dynasty which lasted from 1279 to 1368, China was ruled by the Mongols, starting with Kublai Khan.	Answer:	 Yuan dynasty10) Also called the Qing dynasty, this was the last Chinese dynasty and lasted from 1644 to 1911.	Answer:	 Manchu dynasty23. 
Given a plot summary, identify the Friday the 13th sequel by its number and subtitle FTSNOP.10) Jason first dons his trademark hockey mask in this installment, which features the fatuous Shelley and the hard-to-kill criminal Ali.  It has no subtitle, so pick a number for 10 points.	Answer:	 Friday the 13th Part III10) Tommy Jarvis does time at a crazy farm.  Jason makes no appearance, but a paramedic dons the garb and commits the murders.  Great nudity.  5 points each for number and subtitle.	Answer:	 Friday the 13th Part V:  New Beginning10) Jason wreaks havoc on a cruise ship and tracks the surviving passengers when they disembark in the Big Apple.  5 points each for number and subtitle.	Answer:	 Friday the 13th Part VIII:  Jason Takes Manhattan24. Name these "men" FTPE.10) Between 1929 and 1937, several skulls and some other bones of this "man" were found in northern China.  Of species Homo erectus, the bones are 300,000 to 500,000 years old.	Answer:	 Peking man10) Also a Homo erectus, this "man" was found by the Dutch on an Indonesian island in 1890.	Answer:	 Java man10) This "man who never was" was an admirable hoax pulled in the 1910's in Great Britain.	Answer:	 Piltdown man