TOSSUPS - WASH. U./WILLIAMS				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Washington U. in St. Louis and Williams College with help from Johns Hopkins1. His first collection of poetry, Departmental Ditties, included "Pink Dominoes," "Arithmetic on the Frontier," and "Recessional."  Several short story collections like Soldiers Three glorified the British soldier stationed in his birth land of India. He became the first British winner of a Literature Nobel Prize five years after publishing his Just So Stories.  For ten points, name this author of Kim and the Jungle Book.	Answer:	 Rudyard Kipling2.  Numbers in this form whose digits are strictly increasing from left to right are called "metadromes." If you've used HTML, you've probably used it to specify the color of text. Computer programmers use it because just two digits can encode a byte. FTP, name this base, like the decimal system but with more digits.       Answer:	Hexadecimal OR Base-16 (Accept clear equivalents)3.	This event took place on August 24, 1572, as a result of the policies of Catherine de Medici.  Resenting the power of de Gaspar de Coligny, an advisor of her son, King Charles IX, she had de Coligny assassinated.  She proceeded to warn Charles of an apocryphal Protestant plot to kill him.  For ten points, name Charles's response, an event named after the holiday on which it took place, in which the French Catholics killed many Huguenots.       Answer:	the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre4.	With Ronald Bass, he co-wrote the screenplay for the 1994 study of alcoholism, When a Man Loves a Woman.  He has five Emmys for writing and producing, plus a Grammy for best comedy album in 1997.  This Harvard grad once denied Henry Kissinger's request for Saturday Night Live tickets because Kissinger authorized the Christmas bombing of Cambodia.  A frequent collaborator with Tom Davis, he once quit SNL when the "Weekend Update" job was given to Norm McDonald.  FTP name this writer-actor responsible for the character of Stuart Smalley and the book Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot.	Answer:	 Al Franken5.  By adulthood, the enzyme that adds these sequences to our DNA is not very active.  However, that enzyme is very active in randomly dividing cells, making it a good indicator of cancer. For ten points, name these structures at the end of eukaryotic chromosomes that protect the ends of DNA from being degraded after many rounds of replication.       Answer:	telomeres (do not accept telomerase)6.  He was the son of a shepherd, Everes, and a nymph, Chariclo.  He told Pentheus to accept Dionysus as a god, Creon to sacrifice his son, Menoeceus in order to win the War of the Seven Against Thebes, and he told Oedipus that he had married his mother and killed his father.  He is the reason Odysseus descended to Hades, to learn how to return home.  For ten points, identify this Theban prophet who was blinded by a goddess in a fit of rage.       Answer:	Tiresias7.	This nation commemorates its Independence Day on the date Portugal granted it freedom, despite the fact that it was attacked and occupied by a neighboring nation nine days later.  It did not gain true independence for another 26 years, losing well over 100,000 lives to two decades of "pacification" by the invaders and their supporters.  Since the second word in its name means "Orient" in the Malay language, its name could be considered redundant.  FTP name this southeast Asian island nation, which under a UN-supervised referendum in 2002 gained independence from Indonesia.       Answer:	 East Timor8.	It contains three stars, the nearest of which is the dimmest.  The brighter two stars are only separated by a distance roughly the same as that between the Sun and Uranus.  The brightest of the three, Rigil Kentaurus, is the fourth-brightest star in the night sky, and is the same type of star as Earth's sun, though it cannot be seen in much of the northern hemisphere.  FTP, name this star system, the nearest system to our solar system. 	Answer:	Alpha Centauri
9. 	This family lives across the street from the Paradise Dance Hall, in an apartment they must enter and exit using the fire escape.  Over the course of the play the mother in this family learns that her daughter has quit a business college.  Already abandoned by her husband sixteen years earlier, the mother is abandoned by her son following the visit of Jim O'Conner.  FTP name this troubled family headed by matriarch Amanda in Tennessee Williams' The Glass Menagerie. 	Answer:	the Wingfield family10.	His father James raised and educated him, keeping him from associating with others his own age.  His writings supported capitalists like Smith and Ricardo, and opposed the subjugation of women, but his foremost principle was provided by his idol, Jeremy Bentham.  FTP, name this author of Utilitarianism, who, according to Monty Python, of his own free will, on half a pint of shandy got particularly ill.	Answer:	John Stuart Mill11.	It was authored by a German immigrant who also co-authored the legislation creating the US Housing Authority. Designed to protect workers' rights, particularly the right to unionize, parts of it were later held to infringe upon the right not to join a union, leading to its successor, the Taft-Hartley Act. For 10 points-name this bill which replaced the unconstitutional National Industrial Recovery Act, which, in 1935, created the National Labor Relations Board.	Answer:	Wagner Act [accept National Labor Relations Act of 1935 before "created"]12. The first section was published in 1913 and its author continued work on it until his death in 1922.  This work was finally when the author's brother Robert edited and published in 1927 the final section which translates as "Time Regained."  Three families are the focus of the first section in the narrator's childhood home in Combray.  One family includes the character Swann who marries Odette, and all these memories flood back to the narrator following tasting a madeleine.  For ten points, identify this lengthy novel credited to Marcel Proust.	Answer:  Remembrance of Things Past.; also accept In Search of Lost Time, or A la recherché du temps perdu 13.	It increases as you go up the periodic table, or to the right, excepting the noble gases. The concept was invented to explain unbalanced orbitals in molecular compounds. The difference in the value for two atoms is related to the nature of the bond between them. FTP, name this atomic property which Linus Pauling defined as "the power of an atom in a molecule to attract electrons to itself."       Answer:	Electronegativity14.	Born in 1882 in Nyack, New York, this painter often portrayed the world as chilling and alienating, beginning with early examples such as Le pavillon de flore. After failing to impress at the 1913 Armory Show, he worked as an illustrator for ten years before returning to painting, finally breaking out with critical acclaim for 1925's The House by the Railroad. For ten points, name this American realist painter, creator of works such as Nighthawks.	Answer:	Edward Hopper15.  This range is divided into five sections. Geologically, it was formed in two stages, with its eastern sections approximately as old as the Alps in Europe. Home to the Berbers, its highest peak is named Jabal Toubkal.  FTP name this mountain range of north Africa, which stretches from Morocco to Tunisia but does not appear responsible for holding up the rest of the world.       Answer:	 Atlas Mountains16.  His father was a photographer for the Montreal Canadiens, which allowed him to get up close and personal with Patrick Roy, whom many say he is heir to. When both Chris Terreri and Craig Billington were injured, he made his NHL debut for the Devils. Among his list of accomplishments are the 1994 Calder Trophy, the 2003 Vezina Trophy, and three Stanley Cups. FTP, name this goalie who had seven shutouts in the 2003 playoffs for the New Jersey Devils.Answer:	Martin Brodeur17.  Born in Kiev in 1889, he became the first man to pilot a four engine aircraft in 1913. After his S-6-A plane won international recognition in 1912, he began supplying the Russian army with aircraft. After the Revolution and WWI, he immigrated to America, where he founded his own company on Long Island, where it is still a leader in the aeronautics industry. In 1939, his VS-300 became the first successful helicopter. FTP, name this aviation pioneer.	Answer:	Igor Sikorsky
18. 	This title was coined in Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan nearly two centuries before it got its own cover.  Published in 1847, it is subtitled A Novel Without a Hero.  Set during the Napoleonic Wars, it deals with Amelia Sedley and her rival at Miss Pinkerton's Academy who has designs on Amelia's brother Joseph.  For ten points, name this novel about the immoral Becky Sharp by William Makepeace Thackeray. 	Answer:	Vanity Fair19.	Led Zeppelin stole a lyric from his "Travelin' Roadside Blues" for "The Lemon Song."  The Blues Brothers covered his "Sweet Home Chicago."  The Rolling Stones covered "Love in Vain."  Cream covered "From Four Until Late" and most notably combined "Walkin' Blues" and "Crossroad Blues" into "Crossroads."  FTP, name this 1920s bluesman who supposedly sold his soul to Satan for his guitar skill.	Answer:	Robert Johnson20.  It was the site of one-third of the battles of the American Revolution, but no Civil War battles were fought on its soil. Its flag geatures two goddesses, Justice and Liberty. The eleventh state to ratify the Constitution, it was the birthplace of two mediocre 19th-century presidents, Millard Fillmore and Martin Van Buren. FTP name this state which produced two more noteworthy presidents in Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt.	Answer:	New York21.	Built at a cost of $250,000, it was once known as "Weeghman Field," after the man who built it, and housed his Federals, and later his Whales there for the short-lived Federal League. The current scoreboard went up in 1937 under the management of Bill Veeck; hand-operated, it has never been hit by a batted ball. For 10 points-name this baseball stadium that opened in 1914, which was renamed in 1926 after its chewing-gum magnate owner.	Answer:	Wrigley Field22. In 1912, he disappeared from his office and abandoned his wife and family and moved to Chicago.  The recipient of the first Dial Award, he once shared a New Orleans apartment with Faulkner during which time he wrote the novel Dark Laughter.  Other novels include Marching Men and Windy McPherson's Son , but he is best known for an episodic work united by the character, George Willard.  For ten points, name this author of Winesburg, Ohio. 	Answer:	Sherwood Anderson23.  Born circa 995 A.D., this man's courtiers claimed that "he could command the tides of the sea to go back." Victorious at the Battle of Ashingdon, he later conquered all of England.  Later, his kingdom would include Denmark and Norway.  For 10 points, name this Viking who was known with the epithet, "the great".         Answer:	 Canute (DO NOT accept Hardecanute)
BONI -WASH. U./WILLIAMS				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Washington U. in St. Louis and Williams College with help from Johns Hopkins1.	FTPE identify the following about a particular author:[10] This man's works include Nostromo, The Secret Sharer, and Lord Jim.       Answer:	Joseph Conrad[10] Francis Ford Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" was a modern adaptation of this novel, about a quest deep into the jungle to find the messianic Kurtz.       Answer:	Heart of Darkness [10] The narrator of Heart of Darkness, he appeared in some of Conrad's other works.         Answer:	Marlowe2. For the stated number of points, given the molecular or ionic formula, give the IUPAC standard name.[5] H2SO4	Answer:	sulfuric acid (DNA: sulfurous acid)[10] FeO	Answer:	iron (II) oxide OR ferrous oxide (Prompt on "iron oxide", DNA ferric oxide)[5] CO2	Answer:	carbon dioxide[10] N2O	Answer:	dinitrogen monoxide3.	America bought, fought for, or (if you like) stole land from foreign powers in order to form the 50 states.  F5PE or 30 for all five, name the country that controlled the land that makes up the following states immediately prior to its purchase, capture, or seizure by the United States.a) Florida	Answer:	Spainb) Alaska	Answer:	Russiac) Utah	Answer:	Mexicod) Illinois	Answer:	Great Britain or United Kingdom (charitably, accept England) e) Nebraska	Answer:	France4.	FTPE answer the following questions about National Parks in the United States.[10] This national park in Maine, the first east of the Mississippi, was created by President Woodrow Wilson in 1919.       Answer:	 Acadia National Park [accept Lafayette National Park, its original name.][10] Naturalist John Muir's struggle against the destruction of the subalpine meadows surrounding this California region led to its National Park designation in 1890.         Answer:	 Yosemite National Park[10] In Nov. 2003, with little fanfare, this South Carolina swamp became the nation's newest National Park.  The name "swamp" was dropped from its former name as a National Monument.       Answer:	 Congaree National Park5.	Name these comic book doctors, 10 points each.[10]	This deposed Latverian monarch was recently sent to hell by the Fantastic Four.	Answer:	Dr. Victor von Doom[10]	This cybernetics expert has led several incarnations of the Sinister Six in efforts to destroy Spider-Man.	Answer:	Dr. Octopus or Otto Octavius [accept Doc Ock][10]	In Alan Moore's Watchmen, the US government gives Jon Osterman this identity to imply that his unlimited power makes him a walking nuclear weapon.	Answer:	Dr. Manhattan
6. And now, the obligatory name-the-British-monarch question, from dates of their reigns FTPE or from other facts for 5:a)	10-  Reigned 1154-11895- His holdings in Britain, France, and other European countries, combined with his wife Eleanor's ownership of the Aquitaine, were known as the Angevin Empire.	Answer:	Henry II (Plantagenet)b)	10- Reigned 1820-18305- This playboy "Dark Prince" effectively ruled as regent during the last 10 years of his father's reign due to dad's insanity. 	Answer:	George IV (Hanover)c)	10- Reigned 1936-1936.  No, that's not a typo.5- While Henry II had set precedent for English monarchs marrying divorced women, public sentiment led this man to abdicate in order to marry Wallis Warfield Simpson. 	Answer:	Edward VIII (Windsor)7.	Name these plays which end with characters offing themselves FTPE, five if you need the author:1.	[10]	In this 1896 play, Dom tells Arkadina the sound they hear is an ether bottle exploding. He then confides to Trigorin it was Konstantin shooting himself.	[5] Anton Chekhov		Answer:	The Seagull or Chayka2.	[10]	In this 1946 play, Don Parritt commits suicide at Harry Hope's birthday party in remorse for turning his aging anarchist mother in to the police. 	[5] Eugene O'Neill		Answer:	The Iceman Cometh3.	[10] In this 1677 play, the title character dies from poison she drinks to atone for causing the death of her stepson. 	[5]  Jean Racine			Answer:	Phaedra or Phédre8.	30-20-10, name the work of music.30: For half of the traditional 18 verses, the title character details the cool stuff he's bought for his lady, who takes it but refuses to love him.20: The title character, whose name describes the uniforms of his entourage, speaks with both sorrow and hope, as reflected in the rise and fall of the melody as well as the shifts between major and minor intervals.10: The melody, purportedly written by Henry VIII, is also used in the Christmas hymn "What Child Is This?" 	Answer:	"Greensleeves"9.	FTPE answer the following about nucleotides.[5, 5] Name the sugar used to make an RNA nucleotide and its slightly altered counterpart in DNA.       Answer:	ribose and deoxyribose[10] Name both the one DNA nitrogenous base not present in RNA, and the nitrogenous base used in place of it in RNA (both are needed).       Answer:	thymine and uracil[10] Which purine nucleotide is altered in two reactions to make AMP and GMP?       Answer:	IMP or inosine monophosphate 10.	Given the following descriptions, name the scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project FTPE:[10] This Italian immigrant won the 1938 Nobel Prize for physics, and created the first self-sustaining chain reaction in uranium at the University of Chicago in 1942.	Answer:	Enrico Fermi[10] This man served as the director of the project, and later chairman of the general advisory committee of the US Atomic Energy Commission and a proponent of civilian and international control of atomic energy.	Answer:	J(ulius) Robert Oppenheimer[10] He fled his native Hungary to escape the Nazis, and while he developed the first atomic bomb, he is also considered the father of the hydrogen bomb.	Answer:	Edward (or Ege) Teller
11.	[10, 10, 10] FTPE, identify the subjects of Immanuel Kant's three book-length critiques, each of which was cleverly titled Critiques of [blank].       Answers: Critique of Pure Reason, Practical Reason, and Judgment.12.	When mid-level conferences started griping about the BCS this season, were you paying attention? Name the team from a description of their 2003 season.[10] They made it all the way up to #4 in the BCS rankings before a loss to Southern Miss sentenced them to the Liberty Bowl.       Answer:	Texas Christian University Horned Frogs[10] A 7-0 start which included victories over two then-Top 25 teams, Alabama and Maryland, was ruined by losses to Bowling Green and Toledo, and this team wound up missing out on the bowl scene entirely.       Answer:	Northern Illinois Huskies (Prompt on NIU)[10] After an opening loss to Iowa, this team won 11 of their next 13 games by more than two touchdowns to earn a #15 ranking and a GMAC Bowl victory.       Answer:	Miami of Ohio Redhawks13.	Identify these historical battles from a brief description FTPE.a)  Commodore George Dewey's decisive victory in this battle of May 1, 1898 immediately established the U.S. as a worldwide naval power.	Answer:	Manila Bayb)  This December 1944 counteroffensive focused on the town of Bastogne, which was held by the besieged 101st airborne before they were supported by General Patton's Third Army.	Answer:	Battle of the Bulgec)  Fought between 29 February and 10 of March, 1904, this battle in which 330,000 Russians and 270,000 Japanese fought marked the end of the ground campaign in the Russo-Japanese War.	Answer:	Mukden14.	Identify the following objects from novels FTPE.a) At the end of the novel, Joel Cairo and Casper Gutman realize that Kemidov foiled their earlier attempt to steal this title object, so they go to Istanbul to renew their search.	Answer:	The Maltese Falcon, or the black birdb) Elrond presents this sword to Bilbo Baggins in The Hobbit, and Frodo uses it to keep Gollum in line during The Lord of the Rings.	Answer:	Stingc) Its shattering of this ceremonial object foreshadowed the literal fate of Piggy's skull and the symbolic fate of lawful peace between factions led by Ralph and Jack.	Answer:	The conch shell (Lord of the Flies)15.	Answer the following miscellaneous art history questions FTPE.a)  This Bulgarian-born artist fond of pink plastic is known for large-scale works such as Running Fence and The Umbrellas.	Answer:	Christo Javacheffb) This scholar advanced our understanding of art considerably when he wrote the classic The Lives of the Artists.	Answer:	Giorigo Vasaric) This British artist painted The Haywain.	Answer:	John Constable16.	Name these related things about nineteenth-century American politics, for ten points each.[10] Called "The American Louis-Philippe," he was the second chief executive who was not elected to the presidency.	Answer:	Millard Fillmore [10] Fillmore's most controversial action was his support for this law, section five of the Compromise of 1850.  It turned northern Whigs against him and helped keep him from winning the presidential nomination in 1852.	Answer:	The Fugitive Slave Act[10] Fillmore ran for the presidency again in 1856, representing this political party.	Answer:	The American Party (also accept: "Know-Nothing Party")
17. Given the years of their laureateship and a major work, identify these poet-laureates of England.[10] 1668-1688, Absalom and Achitophel.             Answer:	John Dryden[10] 1850-1892, In Memoriam: A.H.H.      	Answer:	Alfred, Lord Tennyson[10] 1999-Present, Wainewright the Poisoner           Answer:	Andrew Motion18. Given the quantum mechanical operator, tell what observable it measures.[10] xAnswer:	position[10] [Read "minus i h-bar times d dx"]Answer:	momentum (Prompt on p)[10] [Read "minus h-bar squared times d squared dx squared plus v of x"]Answer:	energy OR Hamiltonian (Prompt on E or H)19.	How much time do you spend in the bookstore? Name the author of these recent works of fiction FTPE.[10] The Da Vinci Code           Answer:	Dan Brown[10] Life of Pi	       Answer:	Yann Martel[10] Love		Answer:	Toni Morrison 20.	Identify the following about creation myths from a brief description[10] In Norse myth, this giant emerged from the void known as Ginnungagap.  Later, this giant was killed by three gods-Odin, Vili, and Ve, who turned his body into the earth.       Answer:	Ymir[10] In this story, the Mesopotamian creation myth, the new gods, led by Marduk defeat the monstrous elder gods, led by Tiamat.       Answer:	the Enuma Elish[10] According to some stories, this was the first wife of Adam, not Eve.  Adam could not find a mate amongst all the animals, so God created this woman, of contaminated dust.       Answer:	Lilith21.	Anyone can name the noble gases or the halides. What you need to do is give me the next row over, group 6. On a 5-10-20-30 basis, name (in any order) the four elements directly below oxygen in the periodic table.	Answers:	sulfur, selenium, tellurium, polonium22.	FTPE identify the following about Sinclair Lewis' life and works.[10] The writer's home state and setting for several of his novels.          Answer:	Minnesota.[10] The name of the central character in Lewis' masterpiece, Main Street.         Answer:	Carol Kennicott (accept either first or last name, also accept Carol Milford)[10] Lewis once spent a month working on odd jobs at the socialist community set up by this author of The Jungle, with whom he is sometimes confused.       Answer:	Upton Sinclair23.	30-20-10.  Name this Brit from accomplishments:  [30] He gained notoriety as an author of novels including Vivian Grey, The Young Duke, and Venetia.[20] Was appointed to the Chancellor of Exchequer by Lord Derby twice, in 1852 and 1858.[10] Became Prime Minister of England a second time in 1874 and won the friendship of Queen Victoria, urging her to take on the title of Empress of India.	Answer:	 Benjamin Disraeli