TOSSUPS -- WOFFORD			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. "Symphony No. 6" by Beethoven, "Dance of the Hours" by Ponchielli, "Toccata and Fugue in D Minor" By Bach, "The Nutcracker Suite" by Tchaikovsky, and "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" by Dukas were all given memorable visual interpretation in, FTP, what initially unsuccessful 1940 film by Walt Disney?	FANTASIA2. Brooke Watson, the future mayor of London, gave her a copy of Milton's Paradise Lost as a token of his admiration in 1773. George Washington invited her to his army headquarters in 1775 after she sent him a poem of praise and encouragement. Famed for her elegy "On the Death of Rev. George Whitefield. 1770," for ten points, name this colonial poet, the first African-American to publish a book.ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley3. Our knowledge of it depends primarily on translations by a Christian missionary named Ulfilas.  Spoken by tribes that held power for a time in both Italy and Spain, it is the principal language of the East Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family and leant its name to a period of medieval architecture.  FTP name this language, which today is most often heard in reference to a youth culture of black-clothes-wearing, flesh-piercing, death-obsessed teens.	GOTHIC4. Invented during the Hellenistic period, but perfected by Islamic scientists, it works by stereographic projection.  In the 14th century, Chaucer wrote a famous treatise on it for his son.  To use it, one rotates the rete over the climate to simulate the rotations of the heavens, but the invention of the telescope and the overthrow of the Ptolemeic vision of the universe have made this early astronomic instrument obsolete.	ASTROLABE5. It was a town of the tribe of Manasseh located a few miles northeast of the Philistine camp at Shunem.  In I Samuel, chapter 28, Saul goes there to consult a medium who has a vision of Samuel.  For those with more knowledge of science fiction than the Bible, it is also the name of the forest moon where Han Solo and Luke Skywalker are captured by those vicious Ewoks.  FTP give the common name.	ENDOR6. In 1979 he published After the First Death, a novel about a terrorist hijacking.  His 1983 The Bumblebee Flies Anyway is about terminally ill adolescents.  FTP name this author whose most popular book is still his exploration of peer and priestly pressure at a Catholic school in 1974's The Chocolate War.	Robert CORMIER7. His colorful past included several fatal and near-fatal duels and a bloody brawl with future ally Thomas Hart Benton.  He was accused of being an adulterer because his wife had not properly obtained a divorce from her first marriage when she married him.  The hero of Horseshoe Bend and New Orleans, he was denied election on his first attempt by a close vote in the House.  FTP name this President nicknamed "Old Hickory"	Andrew JACKSON8. It is thought to result from proton-proton collisions in association with Z particles, in which case it would decay into a quark and its antiquark.  Thought to have a mass between 60 giga-electron volts and 1 tera-electron volt, it would complete the Standard Model of modern physics, explaining why objects in the universe have mass.  FTP, identify this elusive boson named after and predicted by a Scottish physicist.Answer: Higgs particle or boson (accept Higgson)9. They are currently the world's largest ethnic group without its own state.  Settled in areas of Turkey, Iraq, Iran, Syria and the former Soviet Union, they were orignally pastoral nomads and have been Sunni Muslims since the 7th century.  FTP name this groups against which, following the Gulf War (1991), there was an Iraqi offensive which forced many to seek refuge in Turkey and Iran.	KURDS10. It's World War II and an English missionary and his sister are stranded in an African village that has been raided by German occupation troops.  After the minister dies, his sister Rose is left to depend on the drunkard Charlie Allnut and his steam launch for escape downriver to unoccupied territory.  This leads to a bold attempt to sink the German steamer Louisa.  FTP name this C.S. Forester novel, retold in a 1951 film of the same name starring Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn.	The AFRICAN QUEEN11. Its earthworks include the Mound of Hostages, a megalithic passage grave of the early 3rd millenium BC [BCE].  It is the supposed site of St. Patrick's conversion and the traditional seat of the kings of Ireland until 1022 AD [CE}.  FTP name this site which shares its name with the plantation home of the O'Hara family.	TARA12. This Wisconsin native studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Art Students' League in New York City.  She pioneered abstract art in America, but moved on to a more figurative and surrealist style, painting flowers and architectural subjects.  Famous works include:  Yellow Calla, Pelvis with Moon, and Gray Line with Black, Blue and Yellow.  FTP name this artist, often associated with closeups of flowers and cows' skulls.	Georgia O'KEEFFE13. A spiny, deciduous shrub, native to Africa and Western Asia, its leaves are oval or widest above the middle.  Several species exude an aromatic resin used in incense and perfume.  It is this last quality that accounts for its appearance as a valuable gift in the gospels of Matthew, Mark and John.  FTP name this herb, one of the three gifts of the magi.	MYRRH14. Founded in Chicago in 1905, its members included Joe Hill.  Its tactics included strikes, sabotage and violence, but the prosectution and conviction of several of its leaders caused the movement ot decay during the 1920s.  FTP name this group, informally known as Wobblies, which was led by Big Bill Haywood.	INDUSTRIAL WORKERS OF THE WORLD (IWW)15. A singing sensation at Harlem's Cotton Club by the time she turned 21, she became the first African American signed to a long term film contract.  Her movie career suffered in part because her songs were sometimes cut from film versions released in the South, and also because she refused to accept stereotyped roles, holding out for rare meatier films such as Cabin in the Sky. FTP name this elegant singer and actress whose signature song was the title song of her 1943 film Stormy Weather.	LENA HORNE16. This literary term was defined by Samuel Johnson as "a combination of dissimilar images or discovery of occult resemblances in things apparently unlike."  It is a 17th century genre notable for its extended metaphors, called "conceits."  What is this term, used to describe the poetry of George Herbert, Henry Vaughan, and John Donne?	METAPHYSICAL POETRY
17. This sport, originally called Minonette, was created in 1895 by a YMCA physical education director in Holyoke, Massachusetts.  It became an Olympic sport  in 1964 and its most well known players include Steve Timmons, Karch Kiraly and Gabrielle Reece.  While it has a number of variations, probably the best known to non-players is "Beach"  FTP name this sport.	VOLLEYBALL18. It was a result of misinterpretation of an order given by Lord Raglan which caused heavy casualties not so much in terms of raw numbers as in percentages.  This disaster occurred on October 25, 1854 during the Battle of Balaclava. FTP name this futile attack, celebrated in a poem by Lord Alfred Tennyson.	The CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE19. A complex example is the neurotransmitter acetylcholine; a simpler one is the solvent ethyl acetate.  They are sometimes used in perfumes because most simple ones have characteristic fruity odors.  FTP name this class of organic compounds with the general formula R CO2 R formed by the reaction of an alcohol and an acid.	ESTER20. His brief epistle covers roughly the same territory as 2nd Peter, chapter 2.  The movement he needs is on his shoulder.  He is enjoined to take a sad song and makes it better. And if you believe Thomas Hardy he's obscure.  FTP what name is shared by all the individuals referred to?	JUDE 21. Most Japanese sleep on a thick one with tatami matting, keeping bedding in a cupboard during the day.  The American version, with or without a frame, is popular as a guest bed or for poverty-striken graduate students too poor or cramped to afford a bed.  FTP name this versatile Japanese quilt traditionally filled with heavy cotton padding.	FUTON 22. Discovered by Galileo in 1610, it is larger than the planet Mercury.  It is named for a Trojan prince, beloved of Zeus who became cup-bearer to the gods of Olympus.  FTP name this largest & brightest of Jupiter's moons.	GANYMEDE23. This television series ran for five years, first in syndication and eventually on the cable station TNT, so that nearly every season left fans wondering whether the series would return and if so, when and where.  On the internet, hard core fans  kept up a longrunning and frequently inane rivalry with the fans of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, occasionally egged on by the series' creator.  Name this Sci-Fi series which centers arournd the struggle of humans and aliens to defeat an ancient enemy called The Shadows.	BABYLON-5
BONI -- WOFFORD			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. So, how macho are you?  You have your choice on this bonus -- Broadway or Tom Clancy.  Choose now.IF BROADWAY: For 10 points apiece, given the song titles, name the Broadway musical they come from.	a. "Life Support", "What You Own," "La Vie Boheme"		Answer: RENT	b. "Let's Have Lunch," "The Lady's Praying," "Eternal You Is Worth a Little 	Suffering"		Answer: SUNSET BOULEVARD	c. "Brand New Day," "You Can't Win," "Be a Lion"		Answer: THE WIZIF TOM CLANCY:Given the "bad guys" and what they want, identify each Tom Clancy novel for the stated number of points.	For 5 points:  PIRA terrorists want revenge on Jack Ryan for messing up a 	kidnapping attempt		Answer:  PATRIOT GAMES	For 5 points:  Russians want to get renegade submariner Marko Ramius before the Americans do		Answer:  HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER	For 10 points:  Russians want Middle Eastern oil and are willing to start WWIII to get it.		Answer: RED STORM RISING	For 10 points:  Environmentalists seek to kill off the world's human population to 	that nature can thrive		Answer:  RAINBOW SIX2. 30-20-10: Identify this famous person based on the following quotations	30: The devil has put a penalty on all things we enjoy in life.  Either we suffer in health or we suffer in soul or we get fat	20: The hardest thing in the world to understand is income tax	10: When you sit with a nice girl for two hours, it seems like two minutes.  When 	you sit on a hot stove for two minutes, it seems like two hours.  That's relativity.		Answer:  Albert EINSTEIN3. 30-20-10:  Identify this legendary character.	30: the celtic version of his name, meaning "sea-born," derives from a story that the king attempted to have him drowned as an infant	20: In a 15th century tale, his father is his uncle, and he attempts to force his stepmother to marry him, but she takes refuge in the Tower of London	10: He dies exchanging mortal wounds with King Arthur at the Battle of Camlann 	(or Salisbury)	Answer:  MORDRED or Modred, son of Arthur4. It's time to test your knowledge of English grammar.  Given the definition, provide the grammatical term for 10 points each.	a. a noun or noun phrase that immediately follows another noun or noun phrase		Answer: APPOSITIVE	b. the term used for the noun or pronoun with which a pronoun must agree in 	person and number		Answer: ANTECEDENT	c. the smallest unit of language that has meaning or serves a grammatical function		Answer:  MORPHEME
5. Given the first line of the poem, provide the title for 5 points and the author for an additional 5 points.  All of the poems were published in the 20th century.	a. "Turning and turning in the widening gyre"		Answer:  "THE SECOND COMING" by W.B. YEATS	b. "Something there is that doesn't love a wall"		Answer: "MENDING WALL" by Robert FROST	c. "April is the cruelest month, breeding"		Answer: "THE WASTELAND" by T.S. ELIOT6. For 10 points each, given the definition, provide the physiology term related to the body's internal clock	a. Term for biological rhythms which, in the absence of external cues, ususally have a cycle of about 25 hours		Answer:  CIRCADIAN RHYTHMS	b. The continual resetting of the biological clock to fit a 24 hour day		Answer: ENTRAINMENT	c. Location of the "biological clock" responsible for circadian rhythms		Answer:  SUPERCHIASMATIC NUCLEUS (if "hypothalamus" or "brain" is answered, prompt)7. Here's a royally fun opportunity to show off your knowledge of the ruling houses of Great Britain.  For 10 points each, given the monarchs, identify of name of their royal house or dynasty.	a. Edward VIII, George VI and Elizabeth II		Answer:  House of WINDSOR	b. Edward IV, Edward V and Richard III		Answer:  House of YORK	c. Henry II, Richard I and Richard II		Answer:  House of PLANTAGENET8. Identify the following colorfully named works from a plot clue for 15 points.  If you need the author, you'll receive 5 points.a. [10] Lip-lip terrorizes the title character of this work, who lives with Grey Beaver in a small Indian village. [5] Jack LondonAnswer: White Fangb. [10] Celie's letters to God are the sole narrative for the first half of this novel published in 1982.[5] Alice WalkerAnswer: The Color Purplec.  [10] Henry Fleming gets his first taste of war and decides it doesn't taste so good after all.[5] Stephen CraneAnswer: The Red Badge of Courage9. Name these generals who commanded the Army of the Potomac, with increasingly disastrous results, FTP each.a. His predictions of quick victory in the First Battle of Manassas in 1861 brought out crowds of picnicking civilians and newspapermen from Washington.ANSWER: Irvin McDowellb. He received advance intelligence of Lee's movements into Maryland in September 1862, but he delayed the attack, leading to the bloodbath of Sharpsburg (or, Antietam).ANSWER: George McClellanc. In the winter of 1862, he ordered 14 consecutive assaults against entrenched Confederate positions on the heights of Fredricksburg, resulting in 12,000 casualties.ANSWER: Ambrose E. Burnside
10.With all the hype over Eyes Wide Shut, the late, arguably great, Stanley Kubrick got some publicity this summer.  Let's journey back to 1964 and take a look at one of his early movies, Dr. Strangelove, and answer these four questions for the number of designated points.	For 5 points:  what actor, known for providing the voice for Darth Vader in Star Wars, can be seen in this film playing the part of Lieutenant Lothar Zogg?		Answer:  James Earl JONES	For 5 points:  what was the subtitle of Dr. Strangelove?		Answer: (or) HOW I LEARNED TO STOP WORRYING AND LOVE THE BOMB	For 10 points: What Brit played 3 parts, including the title character?		Answer: Peter SELLERS	And for a final 10 points: What actor, playing the character, Major T.J. "King" Kong, "rode" the first atomic bomb released in the film?		Answer:  Slim PICKENS11. Let's test your knowledge of Greek mythology.  Identify each of the following for the points specified.  Remember:  Greek names only; no credit for the Roman version!	For 5 points:  name the ever-jealous wife of the king of the Greek gods		Answer:  HERA	For 10 points: name the god of thieves, notable for his winged sandals		Answer: HERMES	For 15 points:  name the son of Apollo and Coronis, a mortal who becomes the god of medicine		Answer: ASCLEPIUS12. 30-20-10:  identify this artist from the clues	30: In 1514 he succeeded Bramante as the architect of St. Peter's in Rome, nd in 1518 for Leo X he undertook a survey of Rome's chief ancient monuments.	20: His works include "The Flaying of Marsyas," "The Holy Family," "The Entombment" and the cartoons for the tapestries of the Sistine Chapel	10: His many Madonnas include "The Sistine Madonna," "The Madonna of the Fish," and "The Madonna and the Chair." 		Answer: RAPHAEL or Raffaello SANZIO13. Nearly everyone has seen performing sea lions at aquariums and circuses, but many people don't know very much about the other pinnipeds, the seals.  For 10 points each name the variety of seal described:	a. This is the most widely distributed pinniped, inhabiting temperate and subarctic 	coastal areas on both sides of the North Atlantic and North Pacific Oceans.		Answer: HARBOR seal	b. This seal gets its name from its spotted coat.  It also has a long slender body and a large, almost reptilian, head.  It is the largest of the four Antarctic seal species.		Answer: LEOPARD seal	c. This ice breeding seal is found in the waters of the Arctic and far North Atlantic. It obtained its name from the distinctive shape of the pattern on its back.  The pups were commercially hunted for their famed "white coats"until the 1980s.		Answer: HARP seal
14. Do you know your U.S. Vice Presidents?  For 10 points each, given the U.S. President, name his Vice President, and to make it easier, all the Vice Presidents' last names are also the names of U.S. Cities.	a. James Knox Polk				Answer:  George M. DALLAS	b. Theodore Roosevelt		Answer:  Charles W. FAIRBANKS	c. 2nd VP to Thomas Jefferson and first VP for James Madison		Answer: George CLINTON15. 30-20-10:  identify this term from the clues provided	30: Collectively, they are widely known as the futhark, from the names of the first 	six of them	20: They come in several versions found in Northern Europe.  The oldest are 	preserved in inscriptions from c. 4000 BC.	10: They show some resemblance to the Roman alphabet and may have developed 	through the need to adapt Roman letters to Northern European carving styles		Answer: RUNES16. Identify the scientist, 30-20-10a. [30] He used 33 triangles to determine the length of an arc essentially in the way customarily done today.  The resulting size he calculated for the Earth, however, was 3.4 percent too small.b. [20] In 1621, as a professor of mathematics at Leiden, he discovered a graphical procedure for determining the direction of the refracted ray at a surface when the incident ray is given.c. [10] His law represents a relationship between the path of a ray of light in crossing the boundary between two contacting substances and the refractive index of each substance.Answer: Willebrord van Roijen Snell17. This summer Sydney, Australia will host the 2000 Summer Olympics.  Do you know where previous Summer Games were held?  For 5 points each, given the year, provide the city which hosted the summer Olympiad.	a. 1896		Answer:  ATHENS, Greece	b. 1972		Answer:  MUNICH, West Germany	c. 1936		Answer:  BERLIN, Germany	d. 1960		Answer:  ROME, Italy	e.  1988		Answer:  SEOUL, South Korea	f.   1952		Answer:  HELSINKI, Finland18. 30-20-10: identify the following literary character from the clues provided	a. Captain Picard retells his story in the Star Trek:  Next Generation episode, "Darmok"	b. To obtain immortality, he must stay awake six days and seven nights, a task at which he fails	c. His best friend is the wildman Enkidu, and their friendship and adventures are described in perhaps the oldest literary work in the world, dating back to 2500 BC		Answer:  GILGAMESH19. Answer the following questions about Venezuelan politics FTP each.a. Name the current president of Venezuela, who was elected in a landslide victory in December 1998.ANSWER:  Hugo Chavezb. Chavez had first gained notoriety after leading a failed 1992 coup against this former president.ANSWER:  Carlos Andres Perezc. Among the changes that Chavez is pushing for include a new constitution and a name change for the country to honor this native of Caracas.ANSWER:  Simon Bolivar (the new name would be the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela)20. How well do you know your flags of the world?  For 5 points a piece, and a 5 point bonus for getting them all, given the descriptionof its flag, provide the country.  All of the countries' English names begin with the letter "S".	a. Light blue with a white star in the center		Answer:  SOMALIA	b. Red with a centered white cross		Answer: SWITZERLAND	c. Two horizontal strips, red on top, white on the bottom.  In the upper left is a white moon and five stars		Answer:  SINGAPORE	d. Blue crossed vertically and horizontally with a gold stripe		Answer:  SWEDEN	e. Three horizontal stripes, top to bottom: red, white and black. The white stripe has two green stars in it.		Answer:  SYRIA21.  Here's a hard, but fun one.  For 10 points each, given the tongue-in-check named bestowed on them by another character, identify these characters who have appeared on Buffy:  The Vampire Slayer	a. "Big Bucket of Funny"			Answer: XANDER Harris	b. "Ironic Detachment Guy"			Answer: OZ	c. "Nasty, horrible, bigoted rodent man"	Answer: Principal SNYDER