TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH A				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Robert Scott, Donald Allex, Ehren Bendler, and Nicholas Bendler with a couple from Eric Floyd1.	1926 saw both his first novel, The Cabala, and the first production of his first play, The Trumpet Shall Sound. His novels are written conventionally, but his plays are known for using very few props and having an ambiguous plot line. FTP, name this writer acclaimed in both genres, who won Pulitzers for the novel The Bridge of San Luis Rey and the plays The Skin of Our Teeth and Our Town.       Answer:	Thornton WilderEDITOR'S NOTE: Our Town was first performed publicly 67 years ago today [1/22/05].2.	In industry it is used as an inhibitor for rust as well as a source of beta radiation for applications such as medical imaging. Discovered in 1937 within a sample of bombarded molybdenum, identify this element whose name literally means "artificial" that was the first element to be created by human research.	Answer:	Technetium3.	In Euripides play "Cyclops" they are used as the chorus for commentary. They are followers of Dionysus and in ancient artwork they are usually depicted drinking wine. Unlike the gods, their bodies aged and the older ones of them were called the Sileni. FTP, name this race of men from Greek mythology who were companions to Pan and had the bodies of humans with the legs of goats.       Answer:	Satyrs4.	On March 25, 1931, Clarence Norris, Olen Montgomery, Andy Wright, Charlie Weems, Roy Wright, Willie Roberson, Eugene Williams, Ozzie Powell, and Haywood Patterson all boarded the Southern Railroad's Chattanooga to Memphis freight train.  So did two young white women, Victoria Price and Ruby Bates. Just as the train crossed into Jackson County, Alabama, a young white man stepped on Mr. Patterson and a fight broke out; for the nine black teens mentioned above it took decades to end. FTP give the collective name for these young men, falsely accused and tried numerous times for raping Price and Bates.	Answer:	The Scottsboro Boys (prompt on Scottsboro Case)5.	It was founded in 1982 by former Apple marketer Trip Hawkins, and shipped their first products a year later for the Atari 800 and Apple II. These titles include "Pinball Construction Set" and "M.U.L.E."  Today, the company has four brands, including Pogo.com, and this past week it prompted Ubisoft to seek a "white knight" to prevent its takeover by this company. FTP, name this video game publisher, which faces a class-action suit by former employees seeking overtime compensation, and which has recently come under fire for its supposedly monopolistic practices, including the exclusive rights to all NFL-related properties for video games.	Answer:	Electronic Arts6.	The title role is filled by Michael Henchard, but the novel ends with Farfrae taking over the position. Henchard begins the story as a drunken sailor who sells his wife and daughter but sobers up later and becomes prosperous. They are eventually reunited but it is revealed that Henchard's daughter is not biologically his. Things take another turn for the worse and Henchard ends up going back to the bottle and dying. FTP, name this 1886 novel by Thomas Hardy.       Answer:	The Mayor of Casterbridge7.	Canada's only casualty in the conflict was one pig. Tensions arose when Canadian lumberjacks entered the region in 1838. They captured an US land agent who was sent to expel them, and so each side called out their miltiamen. Winfield Scott was sent to the area and he arranged an agreement that avoided any actual fighting. FTP, name this "war" that was the head of tensions on the Maine-New Brunswick boundary dispute eventually settled by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty.       Answer:	Aroostook War (accept also Pork and Beans War or Northeastern Boundary Dispute)8.	His existence, and therefore the authorship of his most famous tract, are greatly debated. Followers claim he was an archivist at the Zhou Dynasty's library, where he laid the smack down on Confucius. The cornerstones of his philosophy talked of a specific "tao" and the concept of "action through inaction." FTP, name this Chinese philosopher, whose most famous work was Dae De Jing.       Answer:	Lao Zi or Lao-Tzu 
9.	In this process, complex molecules are broken down into simpler compounds to ease transport or produce energy.  In this process, fats are broken down by lipases.  Proteins are broken down into amino acids for easier transportation into the cell, and carbohydrates are broken down to produce ATP.  FTP Give the name for this chemical process, the opposite of anabolism.	Answer:	Catabolism10.	The Baron de Saint-Julien can be seen lying on the ground in a flowering bush, gazing up at the bare legs of his mistress -- while she, adorned in a very effulgent pink dress and hat, is being pushed by her unsuspecting husband in the titular object. FTP name this painting completed in 1766 by Honore Fragonard, who got the commission from the good Baron only after another painter turned down his commission due to the salacious nature of the subject matter.       	Answer:	The Swing 11.	Created ostensibly to unite the Christians of Europe and reduce fighting amongst themselves, this group was ineffectual due to dissension in the ranks concerning political conservatism.  The conservative politics of this group may indicate that it was formed more as a means of suppressing rebellion in old monarchies than in preserving international peace.  This tension was not eased with its new member, added in 1815, that was a rival of the most divisive current member.  It's most important role in history comes from its desire to uphold the peace settlements enacted at the Congress of Vienna.  Name this alliance, championed by Tsar Alexander I that became completely ineffectual following his death.       Answer:	Holy Alliance       12.	This book only contains 4 chapters, and can be broken down into three sections.  The first section is a reminder to the Israelites of Jehovah's love for them, the second is a rebuke of priests who had been corrupted from worshipping Jehovah, and had performed abysmally in their role as faith leaders and as judges.  The third section warns of the coming of the Messiah appropriately enough in, FTP, this final book of the Old Testament.	Answer:	Malachi13.	The setting is the time of British expansion into the region of Igboland. After accidentally killing a member of his clan, Okonkwo is banished from his home and later returns to find his town under colonial law and Christian practices. For ten points, identify this 1958 novel that established the international fame of Chinua Achebe.	Answer:	Things Fall Apart14.	If the Standard Model is to be believed, these little guys with a mass of between 117 and 251 GeV give all other particles their characteristic mass. That is a big "if" since these particles with spin zero have never been proven to exist, though physicists hope to detect their existence by using the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. FTP name this so-called God particle, named for a British field theorist who predicted their existence in the 1960s.	Answer:	Higgs boson (prompt on boson; also accept God particle until mentioned)15.	One example of this is Moore's Law, which states that the complexity of semiconductor technology will double every 18 months. The stock market and political actions often hinge on them. FTP, what is this term of sociology coined by Robert K. Merton that signifies a prediction that affects actions and causes itself to become true?       Answer:	Self-fulfilling prophecy16.	A 2004 survey conducted by the BBC awarded it the title of "saddest piece of classical music ever". A rearrangement of its composer's String Quartet No.1, it has also been written as a choral work entitled Agnus Dei. Familiar to many from its use in the film Platoon, FTP name this 1936 piece of music played at the funerals of FDR, Princess Grace, and JFK, the best known work of Samuel Barber.       Answer:	Adagio for Strings17.	At first, the anti-foreigner sentiments were rejected by the Chinese government as many of the insurgents also advocated the overthrow of the government.  Following a smashing defeat from Imperial troops, the insurgents changed their tune, and the Imperial troops began to join them in attacking foreigners.  FTP, name this event that was initially lead by the Fists of Righteous Harmony and would lead to many European nations sending troops into China in the name of stability at the turn of the 20th century.	Answer:	Boxer Rebellion
18.	It arises in rhetoric due to the fact that theoretically, no speaker can give a message that is both persuasive and completely objective. In literature, it is exemplified by the death of Desdemona in Shakespeare's Othello. FTP, identify this device that is named for the Greek word for suffering that denotes an attempt to evoke pity or appeal to the emotions of a reader or audience.       Answer:	Pathos19.	It begins: "All happy families are alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way."  This novel contrasts the happy marriage of Konstantin Levin with the unhappy life of the title character. FTP, name this novel by Leo Tolstoy about a girl who leaves her marriage and her child only to commit suicide when she fears her lover has grown tired of her.	Answer:	Anna Karenina20.	These are classified into two types based on the presence (or lack thereof) of a hydrogen line in their spectrum.  Ones without the hydrogen line are called Type I, while those with the line are called Type II.  The first account of these events dates back to 1006, with reports from the Mediterranean to China and Japan of a bright flash in the sky.  Taking place near the end of a large star's life cycle, FTP, identify these stellar explosions.       Answer:	Supernova21.	Followers of this religion daily turn toward Acre, Israel for prayer. Its early origins are a man who called himself "the gate" and gave his principle student the title "glory of God". It is one of the most diverse and widespread independent religions and its primary message is racial unity. For ten points, name this religion founded in 19th century Persian based on the teachings of the Bah‡'u'll‡h.       Answer:	Bah‡'’22.	Using this type of code offers the advantages of interpreted code, such as portability, while also executing a lot faster. While usually run as though they are native executables, they are more of an intermediate step between the source and machine compiled code. When executed, an interpreted called a virtual machine is launched, which then compiles the code. FTP, name this concept that is used by languages like Python and Smalltalk, but was popularized by Java.	Answer:	byte code23.	After living in rural Hungary for 30 years, he moved to England in 1791 where he wrote his 12 London Symphonies. His stay in England also led him begin writing oratorios after hearing the music of Handel. For ten points, name this composer whose works include The Emperor Quartet, The Seasons, and the Farewell Symphony who is remembered for his job as Kapellmeister of the Esterhazy family.       Answer:	Franz Joseph Haydn24.	Despite a victory in the first day of combat, the commander of the victorious forces instructed the newly appointed Visigothic King, the most powerful of his allies, to return home and secure the throne instead of staying to help in an almost certain second day of fighting.  The Asiatic horsemen and their Ostrogoth allies saw the retirement of the Visigoths as a feint intended to bring them into a trap, and therefore quietly retreated from the battlefield.  FTP name this decisive battle that occurred in France between Aetius and Attila the Hun that ended the horseman's reign of terror.	Answer:	Battle of Chalons
BONI - GEORGIA TECH A					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Robert Scott, Donald Allex, Ehren Bendler, and Nicholas Bendler)1.	For ten points each, name the different types of electromagnetic radiation.A. Photographic plates are the typical detection devices for this type of ionizing radiation that was initially called Rontgen Rays.	Answer:	X-RaysB. This type of radiation is emitted by radioactive fallout and is the result of electron-positron annihilation.	Answer:	Gamma raysC. The kinetic energy of this radiation can be on almost any order of magnitude and it is loosely defined as any type of energetic particle that originates outside Earth.	Answer:	Cosmic rays2.	Identify the following Egyptian deities for ten points each.A. He was a helper in judging the souls of the dead, but his more important role was as god of the lunar cycles.       Answer:	ThothB. Depicted with a small head and snout, he may have been the personification of an aardvark. Originally god of strength and war, he evolved into the god of evil and foreigners.       Answer:	SetC.  His brother Set murdered him and chopped him up. Anubis and Thoth mummified him and he became the god of death and the afterworld.       Answer:	Osiris       3.	Give the answer to these questions concerning the American Civil War FTPE.A.  Everyone knows that the first successful submarine attack was performed by the CSS Hunley, but can you give the name of the ship sunk by the submersibile for ten points?	Answer:	USS HousatonicB.  This man served as Lincoln's Secretary of War after 1862.  Andrew Johnson attempted to fire him which led to the first presidential impeachment.	Answer:	Edwin StantonC.  At this battle, the Confederates had held the Union forces inside the city without supplies until Gen. Thomas arrived to relieve Rosecrans and take the offensive.  The Union forces captured Missionary Ridge and Lookout Mountain to relieve the siege of this city.	Answer:	Battle of Chattanooga  4.	FTPE, stuff about an author:A.  This man was born in Camden, Ohio in 1912 and would later move to Cleveland and Springfield.  This member of the Lost Generation would use his travels of Ohio for the setting of his most famous collection of works.	Answer:	Sherwood AndersonB.  Give the name of the collection of Sherwood Anderson works, set in a small rural town.	Answer:	Winesburg, OhioC.  The characters which populate the town of Winesburg, Ohio, are portrayed as over-exagerated versions of humans, with some characteristics being emphasized to the point of unreality.  Give the nine-letter term used to describe such characters, describing a bizarre or distorted shape, which comes from a Latin term for small hole in the ground.	Answer:	Grotesque5.	Given the description, name the island FTPEA.  This is the northern most, and second largest of the main islands of Japan.	Answer:	HokkaidoB.  This is the 10th largest island in the world, and is only the third largest in Canada.  Name this island in the Artic Ocean.	Answer:	EllesmereC.  This island is ranked 12th in area.  It's near twin is ranked 14th, and the two together form a nation in the Pacific.	Answer:	South Island, New Zealand6.	FTPE, answer the following questions about history connected to the movie Braveheart.A.  He fought in the 8th and 9th Crusades, conquered Wales, fought the Scottish rebellion and also forced Jews to wear identifying armbands during his rule of England from 1239 to 1307.       Answer:	Edward I LongshanksB.  Unknown until he and 30 men burned Lanark and killed the English sheriff in May 1297, by September he had an army large enough to defeat an English force of 50,000 at Stirling Bridge.  He was captured and executed in 1305.       Answer:	William WallaceC.  The Scottish National Party annually rallies at this battle site south of Stirling, where in 1314 Robert the Bruce defeated Edward II despite being outnumbered by more than 10,000 men.         Answer:	Bannockburn7.	For ten points each, identify the notable ballet artists from clues.A. This star of the Kirov ballet disappeared from its tour of Canada in 1974 and then sought political asylum in the United States. He might be better known to some for his recent role on Sex and the City.       Answer:	Mikhail BaryshnikovB. This artist's affair with Diaghilev helped him to receive several important roles such as the lead in Stravinsky's Petrouchka.  He's remembered though for the paranoia later in his career of a trap door opening below him on stage.       Answer:	Vaslav NijinskyC. His death due to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in 1983 was foreseen when he began to lose his balance while dancing years before. As a choreographer, his 1954 staging of The Nutcracker is largely responsible for it becoming an American holiday tradition.       Answer:	George Balanchine8.	For ten points each, answer the following questions about atomic theory.A. This man's plum pudding theory of the atom was disproved by Rutherford's gold foil experiment.	Answer:	J.J. ThomsonB. This man's model of the atom has a central nucleus with energy levels of orbiting electrons. Additionally, when electrons jump energy levels, the difference in energy is carried away by a photon.	Answer:	Niels BohrC. This pre-Socratic thinker was the first to present a theory of atoms. He believed that each atom's shape determined the properties of a material.	Answer:	Democritus9.	The author is a bit jaded on the notion of love lately. (Big surprise eh?) So for ten points each, answer the following questions about figures of literature or philosophy who ran into tough times with rejection.A. This philosopher had a fierce competition with his friend Paul Ree for the love of Lou Salome. He may have written Also Sprach Zarathustra to help himself get over her.	Answer:	Friedrich NietzscheB. This philosopher wrote extensively about seduction in his "The Seducer's Diary" and "Either/Or".	Answer:	Soren KierkegaardC. This poet wrote a ton about obtaining women in "The Loves", "The Cure for Love", and "The Art of Love", which eventually got him banished from Rome.	Answer:	Ovid 10.	Given the description, name the currently sitting member of the United States Supreme Court FTPE.A.  This is the newest justice in on a court that hasn't seen an appointment since Bill Clinton in 1994 elevated this man from his seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.  	Answer:	Stephen BreyerB.  On a court full of Republican appointed Justices, this is the only Justice aside from Breyer to have been appointed by a democrat, namely Bill Clinton.  Name this Brooklyn native, the younger of the two woman Court members.	Answer:	Ruth Bader GinsburgC.  Widely considered to be the most conservative member of the Court, this man is better described as a strict constructionist, and while he dislikes the Lemon test, he also voted for protecting the burning of a flag under the freedom of speech.  Name this trenton, New Jersey native.	Answer:	Antonin Scalia11.	For ten points each, name the following mythological groups of sisters.A. Hesiod identified them as the daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne. Each one of these nine sisters is a sponsor of a particular artistic field.       Answer:	MusesB. This group was born from the blood of Uranus when Cronus castrated him. They typically punished mortals who killed family members or tried to break the world's natural order.       Answer:	Furies (or Erinyes)C. Their names were "spinner", "allotter", and "inevitable" and even Zeus may have been subject to them. They controlled the threads of all lives.       Answer:	Fates (or Moerae) 12.	Given the name of band members, name these bands on a 10-5 basis. A. 10 points: John Paul Jones, John Bonham5 points: Jimmy Page, Robert Plant	Answer:	Led ZeppelinB. 10 points: Richard Wright, Nick Mason5 points: Roger Waters, David Gilmour	Answer:	Pink FloydC. 10 points: Bruce Palmer, Richie Furay5 points: Neil Young, Stephen Stills 	Answer:	Buffalo Springfield13.	Given the description, give the term from biology FTPEA.  Sometimes called "animal starch", this compound is found mostly in the liver, and serves as the primary storage form of glucose.	Answer:	glycogenB.  This is a small and enclosed compartment, separated from the cytosol by at least one lipid bilayer. They store, transport, or digest cellular products and wastes.	Answer:	vesicleC.  In this process, energy stored in ATP is used to convert carbon dioxide into organic compounds.  It is also known as carbon fixation or the dark reaction as it is light independent.	Answer:	Calvin cycle14.	Answer questions about the Red Scares in the United States for ten points each.A. This Wilson Attorney General believed that Communism was responsible for most of America's social problems and used this and the Alien and Sedition acts as justification for his series of eponymous raids.	Answer:	Alexander Mitchell PalmerB. This famous socialist was in jail as a result of the Palmer Raids. Despite this, he still garnered 3.4% of the presidential popular vote.	Answer:	Eugene V. DebsC. This standing congressional committee was at the heart of the second Red Scare as it attempted to root out Communist influence in the government. Its name was changed to Committee on Internal Security in 1969 and altogether dissolved in 1975.	Answer:	House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC and reasonable equivalents are OK)15.	Given the description, give the Herman Melville work FTPE:A.  After boarding a ship, a visitor notices that everyone seems to be actuing strangely.  He later finds out that the black slaves being carried by the ship have revolted and have hijacked the ship and its Spanish owner.	Answer:	Benito CerenoB.  Subtitled The World in a Man of War, this novel was highly critical of naval customs and shocked many civilians who had never been exposed to the military side of the maritime trade.	Answer:	White JacketC.  The title character of this story applies for a position as the fourth clerk for an unnamed Wall Street lawyer.  The character ends up dying in prison after refusing to leave the job he had been fired from.	Answer:	Bartleby the Scrivener16.	Given the description, name the famous individual from Middle Eastern history.A.  This man was the first in recorded history to have created an empire.  He is listed on both the Assyrian and the Sumerian king's list.  Name this man, ruler of the first empire located in Mesopotamia.	Answer:	Sargon of AkkadB.  This leader of the Turks fought Charles V for control of Hungary after successfully capturing Belgrade and Rhodes.  Nmae this man, who almost took Vienna, were it not for adverse weather	Answer:	Suleiman the MagnificentC.  This man started a revolt in the subjugated province of Judeah that would lead to the overthrow of the Seleucids in 165 B.C.  Judeah would remain independent for 100 years under a dynasty which derived its name from the leader, and namesake, of the successful rebellion.	Answer:	Judas Maccabaeus or Maccabee 17.	Given the description, name these phenomena commonly cited as natural disasters FTPEA.  Triggered by underwater earthquakes or landslides, these phenomena are barely noticeable over deep water, but cause devastation once they reach shore.	Answer:	tsunami ("tidal wave" is not acceptable because it's wrong)B.  Most of these form in an area called the intertropical convergence zone, which runs from about 10-30 degrees north and south of the equator, and their initial rotation is supplied by the Coriolis Effect.	Answer:	hurricane or tropical cyclone or typhoonC. These are thought to be extremely rare, rating an 8 on the VEI scale by ejecting over 1000 cubic kilometers of magma and pyroclastic material and wiping out virtually all life within 100+ miles of the event. 	Answer:	supervolcanoes18.	Name these types of coffee bean, for ten points each.A. This is the oldest used variety, out of Mocha and Java. It is generally considered to have superior flavor.	Answer:	ArabicaB. This is a newer variety, higher in caffeine, but due to its bitter and acidic flavor it is not used by itself. Higher quality beans are used in some espresso brands.	Answer:	RobustaC. This robusta variety comes from the droppings of the Indonesian Common Palm Civet, where the bean comes out intact and with a new and distinct flavor.	Answer:	Kopi Luwak 19.	For ten points each, name the American painters from descriptions.A.  The founder of the Hudson River School, he painted The Course of Empire and The Voyage of Life.       Answer:	Thomas ColeB. He was the prominent Hudson River School student of Thomas Cole who painted Heart of the Andes.       Answer:	Frederic ChurchC.  This American was known for painting many prominent American figures as well as The Death of Lord Chatham.       Answer:	John Singleton Copley20.	Answer the following questions about a particular author for ten points each.A. This Japanese writer, born in 1925, is remembered for his campaign to restore Bushido values to post-WWII Japan.	Answer:	Yukio MishimaB. Name the work of Yukio Mishima's that became Japan's first published homosexual biography.	Answer:	Confessions of a MaskC. Name the ritualistic samurai act of suicide that Mishima performed in 1970 to achieve a mythical status in his death.	Answer:	seppuku or hara-kiri [for once, be tough on pronunciation and don't accept hari-kari]
21.	Answer the following questions about a particular work of twentieth century philosophy, FTPE:A. This book published in 1921 has seven main propositions. It formulates the truth function and states the world is not a group of things, but rather a group of facts about things.       Answer:	Tractatus Logico-PhilosophicusB. Who is the author of Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus?       Answer:	Ludwig WittgensteinC. What philosopher and author of Principia Mathematica did Wittgenstein study extensively under at Trinity College?        Answer:	Bertrand Russell22.	For ten points each, answer the questions about French poetry.A. This movement was prominent in years between 1860 and 1880. It was a reaction against Romanticism and it emphasized objectivity. It drew its influences from Gautier and Lisle.	Answer:	ParnassiansB. This was another prominent French movement in the late 1800s. It sought to recreate human consciousness with its detail and its leaders were Rimbaud and Verlaine.	Answer:	SymbolistsC. This poet was a significant influence on the Symbolist movement. His works include "Paris Spleen" and "The Flowers of Evil".	Answer:	Charles Baudelaire23.	Answer these questions related to computability theory FTPE:A. This famous problem was shown by Alan Turing to be undeciable. The problem is to figure out if a program ever finishes given the program and its initial input. 	Answer:	halting problemB. These machines are black boxes that can be connected to Turing machines and can solve any problem in a single step, except for problems involving themselves.	Answer:	Oracle machinesC. This term refers to the laws related to the computation of non-computable functions. Recently a similar term, super-Turing computation, has come into use. A Turing machine that operates for an infinite period of time might be said to practice this.	Answer:	hypercomputation24.	Answer the following related to linguistics on a ten point basis.A. This is the term used to describe an individual sound event produced in speech in terms of its physical properties.	Answer:	PhoneB. This is the official alphabet of linguistics, which attempts to represent every sound a human can produce.	Answer:	International Phonetic Alphabet (or IPA)C. This is the term used to describe the components of words. They may be inflectional or derivational.	Answer:	morphemes