TOSSUPS -- BLIND ROUND #2			SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall1. This playwright collaborated with Thomas Dekker on The Sun's Darling and with Thomas Middleton and William Rowley on The Spanish Tragedy.  His own plays, noted for their treatment of a variety of sexual perversions, include Perkin Warbeck and The Broken Heart. FTP name this author of 'Tis Pity She's a Whore, who shares his name with the  American director of How Green was My Valley and The Quiet Man. Answer: John Ford2. In 1830 he helped overthrow the French king Charles X.  Years earlier his support for Louis XIV would probably have gotten him killed had he not allowed himself to be imprisoned in Austria until 1797.  But he is better remembered for his involvement in the American Revolution from 1777 to 1782. For 10 points name this Frenchman who assisted Washington at such battles as Brandywine Creek and Yorktown. Answer: Lafayette, Marquis Marie-Joseph-Paul-Roch-Gilbert du Matier3. A length roughly equal to 10 to the negative 33 cm, at which quantum effects in gravity can no longer be ignored; a time roughly 10 to the negative 43 seconds after the formation of the universe; a curve showingthe amount of energy of size oscillators can emit;  a law stating that the wavelength of emitted radiation is inversely proportional to its frequency, symbolized by lambda equals c over n; a constant equal to the product ofenergy multiplied by time with a metric value of 6.6260755 times 10 to the negative -34 joule-second symbolised by an h.   All are, FTP, named for what scientist,the 1918 Nobel laureate and developer of quantum physics?Answer: Max Planck (accept "superstring" after the first clue)4. Also known by the name Alexander, he was exposed on Mt. Ida at birth because his mother, Hecuba, dreamt she was giving birth to a lit torch before bearing him. While tending sheep on Mt. Ida he was picked to determine which goddess - Hera, Athena, or Aphrodite - was most beautiful; all three attempted bribery, but he chose Aphrodite when she promised him the most beautiful woman in the world, despte the fact that he was already married and, more importantly, so was she. FTP name this Trojan, who doomed Troy by kidnapping Helen.answer: Paris5. In retaliation for her strict Puritanical upbringing by her aunt Cat, which included education in a nunnery, this American author had her lovers take nude photographs of her to send back to her family. Born in 1890 sheworked as a newspaper woman in Denver and Chicago. Finally she moved to Mexico, which provided the setting of many of her stories collected in such anthologies as Flowering Judas and Pale Horse, Pale Rider, winning her a Pulitzer Prize in 1965. FTP name this woman probably most famous for her only novel, Ship of Fools. answer: Katherine Anne Porter6. His military fame was so great that Abraham Lincoln offered him a command in the Union Army in 1861 despite the fact that he wasn't even an American citizen. Beginning his career as a merchant sailor in 1832, heserved in the Sardinian Navy in 1834, in the small navy of Rio Grande de Sol against Venezuela, and in that of Uruguay against Argentina in 1842, but he was most famous for fighting on land against the Austrians at thehead of the Risorgimento with his fighting unit, the Redshirts. FTP name this Italian revolutionary.answer: Guiseppi Garibaldi
7. Animals now known by this name come mostly from the Theraphosid family and occur mainly in the Southwestern United States, Mexico, and the tropics. They have an average lifespan of twenty years, can range in size from 3 to 7 inches, and are dark in color, sluggish, with hairy legs and body. For 10 points give the name of this insect originally applied to a Lycosid archnid named for a town from Southern Italy which lends its nameto a style of dance in which victims of its poison were supposed to engage.Answer: Tarantula8. This tiny African nation is about 110 miles long and 80 miles wide and is split into four longitudinal zones, which include the Highveld to the west, which contains its highest peak in Mount Emlembe, the Middleveld andLowveld in the center, and the Lubombo escarpment to the east on the border with Mozambique. Amply watered by the Lomati, Usutu, Mkhondvo, and Komati rivers, its traditional royal capital is Lobamba, but its  administrative capital is Mbabane. For 10 points name this country almost encompassed by South Africa.Answer: Swaziland9. Though he had written his first opera, Demetrio E Polibio, at age 14 and had mastered the harpsichord, horn, and flute by age 15, this composer is famous for his laziness, a reputation earned for having written nothingin the last 13 years of his life. Before that, however,  he had already developed the bel canto style of opera in such early works as Extravagant Misunderrstanding  and Tancredi although he is best known for suchcrescendo-ridden later works as Semiramis, Cinderella,and  Otello. FTP name this Italian composer best known for William Tell.answer: Gioacchino Rossini10. After the demise of this show one of its cast members, Rik Mayall, went on to star in the forgettable film Drop Dead Fred. Another, Christopher Ryan, landed the recurring role of Edina's ex-husband Marshall onAbsolutely Fabulous, while another, Adrian Edmondson, sang its theme song. FTP name the show on which Ryan, Mayall, and Edmondson starred with Nigel Planer as four College Students named Rick, Vyvian, Neil and Mike, who might have gotten this question themselves had it come up in their game of University Challenge.Answer: The Young Ones11. The novel begins with its title character leaving his father's house with his friend Govinda in search of enlightenment.The two of then join an order of ascetics and meet the Buddha before the two friends part company, and the protagonist goes on to become a merchant and marries the courtesan Kamala, but he eventually grows dissatisfied with his life leaves and her to find nirvana as a ferryman where he meets Govinda at the end of the novel. FTP name this novel by German author Hermann Hesse.answer: Siddhartha12. They were known individually as Lee Weiner, John Froines, Rennie Davis, David Dellinger, Jerry Rubin, Abbie Hoffman, and Tom Hayden, the latter of whom writing about their courtroom experience in his book Trial.Eventually acquitted on the charge of attempting to start a riot, they were a group of anti-Vietnam protesters who were arrested for disrupting the 1968 Democratic National Convention. FTP give the numerical collective name for which they were known, taken from the location of the 1968 convention.answer: the Chicago 713. In later life this man worked with William Thomson Lord Kelvin, describing the cooling created by the expansion of gasses, the effect named for them. Born in 1818, in 1835 this man studied under Dalton at theUniversity of Manchester before publishing his study of the mathematical description of the rate at which resistance in a circuit converts electrical energy into heat,  P = I squared R, the law also named for him. FTPname this physicist, after whom the standard unit of work is also named.answer: James P. Joule
14. Readers of Dante will recognize this man as the Pilgrim's guide through the upper levels of heaven. Declared a doctor of the church in 1830, he is famous for his sermons on the Songs of Solomon, his treatise on the worship of the Virgin Mary, and for promoting the Second Crusade.  He is best known for his association with the Cistercian Order, under whose auspices he founded over 70 monasteries, including that of Clairveaux. For 10 points name this Saint after whom a large brown and white brandy carrying dog is named.Answer: Saint Bernard15. Hard working O-lan turns out to be the perfect wife for the farmer Wang Lung: she cooks, cleans, helps him work in the field, and even strangles one of her children on the day of its birth because there are too many mouths to feed. Together they bounce back from hardship and acquire land and become wealthy, though Wang is horrified to find out that their two eldest sons plan to sell the estate upon his death. This is, FTP, the plot of what 1931 work, the most famous of Pearl S. Buck?Answer: The Good Earth16. This Chaldean prince took command of father's army and defeated the Egyptians at Charchemish and Hamath in 605 B.C.before assuming the throne from his father, Nabopolassar.  His accomplishments include the rebuilding of Babylon and the construction of the Hanging Gardens, and no evidence exists to support the Book of Daniel's claim that he went mad for seven years. FTP name this ancient king perhaps most famous for sacking Jerusalem and deporting the Jews in 586 B.C.Answer: Nebuchadnezzar (Nebuchadrezzar)17. First isolated in 1783 by Juan Jose and Fausto Elhuyar, this element was detected earlier by Carl Wilhelm Scheele in the compound which bears his name. Obtained industrially by means of the Goldschmidt Process, with carbon it forms a substance measuring 9.5 on the Mohs scale, and it is mainly used commercially to harden steel and in the alloy pertinium, which is used in automobiles. For 10 points name this metal, atomic number 74, also used in lighting filaments, due to its melting point,the highest of all known elements.Answer: tungsten18. Although he earned doctorates in both physics and geometry, he is best known as an anthropologist. Founder of the International Journal of Anthropology, his works include Primitive Art, Race, Language, and Culture, and The Mind of Primitive Man. For 10 points identify this anthropologist whose fame is eclipsed today by that of his pupils at Columbia, Ruth Benedict and Margaret Mead.answer: Franz Boas19.  It was remade as the musicals Eve Knew Her Apples and You Can't Run Away from It.  The film begins on a yacht where Ellie Andrews, who has married King Westley without her father's permission, is being held captive by him. She escapes and attempts to take a bus to New York to join him, helped by the down-and-out newspaperman Peter Warner with whom she falls in love, though of course they end up together in the end. Such is the plot of, FTP, what 1934 Oscar winner for Best Picture, starring Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable?answer: It Happened One Night20. Chosen to end the discord between the Guelphs and Ghibellines, this ruler was forced to recognize the Lombard League and was excommunicated by Pope Alexander III.  He placated his cousin Henry the Lion by restoring Bavaria to him, and in 1189 he joined the Third Crusade but drowned in Cilicia.  For 10 points--identify this Hohenstaufen Holy Roman Emperor nicknamed for his beard.Answer:	Frederick I or Frederick Barbarossa	(Friedrich instead of either Frederick is OK too)
21.	The word literally means "attendant" and was originally used to designate archers. As landless vassals of the daimyo, or baron, they were only one step above the peasant class over whom they have the power of lifeand death; distinguished by their wearing of two swords, they were strict adherents to the code of bushido, which called for complete honesty, bravery, loyalty, and apology for any wrong doing by means of seppeku,orritual suicide by hari-kari. FTP name this Japanese warrior class.answer: Samurai22. After an early career as the court painter of John of Bavaria this man was summoned to Lille in the summer of 1425 to work for Philip the Good, duke of Burgundy, nboth as court painter and as diplomat who negotiatedPhillip's marriage to Isabella of Portugal. His works, signed with his motto "Als ich chan" ("the best I can") include "Portrait of a Young Man", "The Marriage of Giovanni Arnolfini and Giovanna Cenami", and the triptych"Madonna and Child with Saints". FTP name this Flemish master best known for the "Adoration of the Lamb", also known as the "Ghent Alterpeice".answer: Jan Van Eyck23. His first success as a novelist came in 1881 with the publication of _The Crime of Sylvester Bonnard_, followed by such early works as _At the Sign of the Reine Pedaque_ and _the Opinions of Jerome Goignard_. An affair with the actress Arman de Caillavet provided him with the inspiration for such works as _Thais_ and _The Red Lily_.For 10 points identify this author, also known as Jacques Thibault, a winner of the Nobel Prize for literature best known for the works _The Gods Are Athirst_ and _Penguin Island_.Answer: Anatole France24. In 1765 this scientist gained fame for his improvements on the street-lighting system in Paris, and by 1775 he was put in charge of gunpowder production for the whole of France, where he made a fortune.  He also  made agricultural improvements in France and discovered new fertilising techniques, but he is best known for naming oxygen and for discovering the role it plays  in combustion, which ended the phlogiston theory. For 10 points name this chemist, whose many accomplishments did not save him from being guillotined in 1794.Answer: Antoine _Lavoisier_
BONI -- BLIND ROUND #2			SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Seth Kendall1. Identify the Composer from clues, 30-20-10.1. 30) His early works include The Nursery and The Marriage. 2. 20) Operas left incomplete by this member of the Five include Sorochinsky Fair and Khovanschina, the latter completed by Rimsky-Korsakov.3. 10) In 1869 he wrote both the libretto and the music for his only completed opera,  Boris Godunov.  Other noted works include St. John's Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures from an ExhibitionAnswer: Modest Mussorgsky2. As a Christmas present this year the fiancee of the author of this packet gave him Metallica's collection of cover tunes, Garage Inc., and while the band demonstrates its continuing slide into mediocrity with suchclunkers as "Tuesday's Gone" and "Turn the Page", it demonstrates some of its former greatness with other tunes. Answer these questions about bands covered by Metallica from clues, 10-5.1. 10 pts: Metallica makes a decent interpretaion of this band's "Sabra Cadabra", throwing in bits of "A National Acrobat".5 pts: The band is much better known for songs like "Supernaut", "Iron Man", and "Paranoid".answer: Black Sabbath2. 10 pts: One of the best and most interesting songs on the first album is the Irish folk song "Whiskey In the Jar", whose version by this band is the one Metallica covers.5 pts: They are much better known for "The Boys are back in Town".answer: Thin Lizzy3. 10 pts: Another interesting choice is the cover of this band's "Astronomy". 5 pts: They are much better known for such hits as "Burning for You" and "Don't Fear the Reaper".answer: Blue Oyster Cult3. Answer the following related questions for the stated number of points.1. For 5 points: this literary character describes himself as a hater of the old and of heavy-handed authority, which may explain why he helps the rakish Count Almaviva elope with the maid Rosina behind the back of herstern father Dr. Bartolo. Name this character, an apothecary and perhaps the most famous fictional barber ever.Answer: Figaro2. For an additional 10 points, name the French playwright who created the character of Figaro.Answer: Pierre Auguste de Beaumarchais3. Beaumarchais wrote three plays about Figaro.  For 5 pts. each, name them.  Admittedly one of them is probably worth the full 30 points by itself, but hey, if you know it, you shouhd have the other 25 anyway.answer: The Marriage of Figaro, The Barber of Seville, and The Culpable Mother (acc. French equivalents)4. Identify the following Russian authors from works, 10 points each; if you need a more famous work, you'll only get five.1)	10 pts: "The Queen of Spades"; The Captain's Daughter; The Bronze Horseman.	 5 pts: Eugene Onegin; Boris GodunovAnswer: Aleksandr Pushkin2)	10 pts: A Confession; The Cossacks; The Death of Ivan Ilyich	 5 pts: War and Peace; Anna KareninaAnswer: Leo Tolstoy3)	10 pts: A Sportsman's Sketches; Smoke; On the Eve	 5 pts: "Torrents of Spring"; Fathers and SonsAnswer: Ivan Turgenev
5. This bonus will test your knowledge of the early trailblazers of medical science. Name the following scientists from clues, 10 points each.1. This Roman of the first century A.D. collected the works of the Hippocratics into On Medicine, whose Latin terminology was universally adopted by Renaissance physicians when the work was reprinted in the 15th century.answer: Aulus Cornelius Celsus2. Considered second only to Hippocrates in the development of medicine, this court physician to Marcus Aurelius is noted for his intensive use of experimentation dissection, though a ban on human dissection led to his propagating many anatomical errors. Famous also for his erroneous "spirit" or "humor" theory, his text On the Natural Faculties was the pre-eminent medical textbook until the advent of Vesalius.answer: Galen of Pergamum3. Named originally Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim, this Swiss scientist is considered the father of modern pharmacology because of his chemical treatment of medical ailments.  He corrected the four humours idea of Galen by ascribing disease to ``infectious seeds'', one of the 1st suggestions that disease was localized.answer: Phillipus Aureolus Paracelsus6. Identify the following works of 20th century American literature from a main character, 5 -10-15:1. 5 pts.: Adam Traskanswer: East of Eden2. 10 pts.: Alexandra Bergsonanswer: O Pioneers!3. 15 pts.:Yakov Bokanswer: The Fixer7. Given clues identify the mythological figure 30-20-10.1. 30) During the age of Pericles the admiral Cimon won fame when he returned the bones of this man to Athens from Scyros where, according to legend, he had been pushed off a cliff by king Lycomedes.2. 20) Among the crimes of this man were the abduction and rape of a twelve year old Helen of Troy and the attempted rape of Persephone, not to mwention the murder of his own son Hippolytus3. 10) He is more favorably remembered for ridding the road from Troezen to Athens of thieves and for slaying the Minotaur.Answer: Theseus8. Given a brief description of his reign, identify the English monarch, 10 points each.1. During his reign, from 1727 to 1760, the War of Austrian Succession was fought and the Seven Year's War begun.  Also, the rebellion of the Pretender Charles Stuart was crushed at the Battle of Culloden.Answer: George II2. Reigning from 1660 to 1685, this monarch had to contend with such calamities as the Anglo-Dutch War and the Great Fire of London. The Navigation Acts were also passed during his rule.Answer: Charles II3. Reigning from 1377 to 1399, this unfortunate son of the Black Prince first had to deal with the Peasant's Revolt and later with the rebellion of Henry Bolongbroke, who eventually managed to usurp the throne as Henry VII and possibly murdered the deposed king.Answer: Richard II9. The Paleozoic Era is divided into six periods. For 5 points each, name them.answer: Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, Permian
10. Given its neighbors identify the South American nation FTP each.  If you need the capital, you'll only get 5. 1)	10 pts: Ecuador, Panama, Venezuela, Brazil, Peru	 5 pts: BogotaAnswer: Colombia2)	10 pts: French Guiana, Suriname, Guyana, Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Argentina, Uruguay	5 pts: BrasiliaAnswer: Brazil3)	10 pts: Brazil, Peru, Paraguay, Chile, Argentina 	5 pts: La Paz and SucreAnswer: Bolivia11. Identify the German director from films, 10 points each.1. The Last Laugh and NosferatuAnswer: F.W. Murnau2. Vampyr and The Passion of Joan of ArcAnswer: Carl Dreyer3. Testament of Dr. Mabuse and Metropolisanswer: Fritz Lang12. Given a star, identify the constellation from which it comes, 5 points each.1. VegaAnswer: Lyra2. RigelAnswer: Orion3. DenebAnswer: Cygnus4. ArcturusAnswer: Bootes5. AldebaranAnswer: Taurus6. AltairAnswer: Aquila13. Given a brief description of a barbarian tribe, name it, 10 points each.1. In the fifth century this tribe sacked Rome and conquered North Africa, which they ruled until it was re-conquered by Belisarius. Popular opinion aside, they appear to have been no more destructive than any other invading barbarian tribe.Answer: Vandals2. In their heydey in the sixth century this tribe ruled much of what is now Spain and Portugal before being absorbed by the Moors. They are mostly famous for their 410 sack of Rome under Alaric.Answer: Visigoths3. This tribe inhabited much of Northen Europe, including much of what is now Northen Germany. In 409 they conquered England, for which they are famous. Answer: Saxons
14. Identify the following Old Testament prophets from clues, 10 points each.1. This prophet preached against the sexual excesses and moral laxity of Israel, whom he likened to "God's bride", and comparing these excesses to the infidelities of his own wife Gomer.answer: Hosea2. A herdsman from the village of Tokea in the time of Jeroboam II, he foresaw the destruction of Israel in five visions, the last of which foretelling of Israel's resurrection once all the sinners have perished by the sword.answer: Amos3. This prophet predicted the fall of Samaria in 722 BC and the troubles incurred by Israel in the time of Hezakiah in 700 BC, as well as a prophesy of the coming of the Messiah.answer: Micah15. Identify the twentieth century British playwrights from works, 10 points each.1. The Birthday Party; The Dumb-WaiterAnswer: Harold Pinter2. I Am a Camera; The ConspiratorAnswer: Christopher Isherwood3. Bitter Sweet; Blithe SpiritAnswer: Noel Coward16. Identify the following related occurrences from European history, 10 points each.1. Though hostilities began in the New World in 1754, where it would later come to be known as the French and Indian War,  in Europe this war was fought between 1756 and 1763, with Austria, France, Russia, Sweden, andSaxony fisting it out with Prussia, Britain, Portugal, and,  later, Russia, which had switched sides.answer: Seven Year's War2. Sparked by the Bohemian revolt of 1618, this war spread from a struggle between the German Princes and the Holy Roman Emperor to include such foreign powers as Sweden, Denmark, and France before hostilities were ended by the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.answer: Thirty Year's War3. Fought between 1337 and 1453, this mammoth struggle between England and France included such notable battles as Crecy, Poictiers, and Agincourt. answer: Hundred Year's War17. Identify the pair of scientists, 30-20-10; two names required:1.  30 pts.: One shares his last name with the British marine biologist remembered today for his exhaustive study of plankton, on which most of our present knowledge of the animals is based; the other's name is pronounced the same as the American physicist who collaborated with Abdus Salam in introducing an explanation of what is now known as the electroweak theory, shared the 1979 Nobel Prize in physics, and who is also known for the popular work The First Three Minutes.2. 20 points: One was a Bristish mathematician otherwise best known for his collaboration with John Littlwood on analytic number theory and the Fourier series and for introducing to the English world the works of SrinivasaRamanujan. The other was a German physician and amateur geneticist who discovered by research what the other proved by statistics.3. 10 pts.: Together they established that two or more gene alleles will have the same frequency in the genepool generation after generation, until some agent acts to change that frequency.answer:  Godfrey Hardy and Wilhelm Weinberg
18. As every academic competitor now knows, for the sciences it is always appropriate to know thy Greek. But for the social sciences it is occasionally neccesary to know thy German. Given a translation of a German word which might appear in a sociological or psycholoigcal paradigm, name it, 10 points each.1. "configuration"answer: _gestalt-2. "spirit of the age"answer: _zeitgeist_3. "world-view"answer: _weltanschauung_19. Name the following components of the Canterbury tales from their plots, 10 points each.1. When her husband Arveragus goes off to war, Dorigen flirts with the squire Aurelius and tells him she will be his when he manages to remove all the rocks from the coast of Brittany . Aurelius hires a magician to makethe rocks appear to be gone, but when Dorigen resolves to commit suicide than dishonor her marriage he releases her  from her promise, and the magician, touched, cancels his fee.answer: Franklin's Tale2.  Two college students attempt to stop a miller's defrauding  their college of grain. After the miller releases the horses, they recover it and steal into the miller's house in the dark of night, where they steal back the stolen grain and have sex with the miller's wife and daughter.answer: Reeve's Tale3. The marquis of Saluzzo marries a hardworking and patient wife, whom he decides to test by pretending to put their children to death, divorce her, and have her make preparations for his new wedding. In the end he revealsthe trick, and all live happily. answer: Clerk's tale20. Given the years he held office, identify the vice-presidents of the early 1800's for 10 points; if you need another clue, you only get 5.10 pts: He was vice-president from 1800 to 1804.5 pts: He shot and killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel on July 11, 1804Answer: Aaron Burr10 pts: He was vice-president from 1804-18125 pts: He served under two different presidents (Jefferson and Madison) and shares his name with the frontman of Parliament Funkedelic.Answer: George Clinton10 pts: He was vice-president from 1824-1832.5 pts:He served under two presidents (Quincy Adams and Jackson) and authored the _South Carolina Exposition and Protest_Answer: John C. Calhoun21. Identify the following important Naval battles from World History from description, 5-10-15.5 pts: In this 1571 battle the Ottoman turks under Ali Pasha were decisively defeated by the forces of the Christian Holy League. Answer: Lepanto10 pts: In this 1805 battle the combined forces of the French and Spanish were defeated off the coast of Spain by the British under Admiral Horatio Nelson, who died there.Answer: Trafalgar15: In this 1916 battle the British under Admiral John Jellicoe and the Germans under Admioral Wilhelm Scheer technically fought to a draw, though Scheer's withdrawal enabled the British to claim victory.Answer: Jutland (Jyland; accept also Skagerrak)22. Given a description name the couple from Greek mythology, 5 points for each correct name.1. This king of Pherae fell ill and was told that he would die unless someone agreed to take his place; when no one volunteered, his wife went, but she was saved by Heracles, who wrestled Death for her life.Answer: Admetus and Alcestis2. This Phrygian couple so impressed Zeus and Hemes with their hospitality that they given their fondest wish: to die together. At their deaths their bodies became trees whose branches intertwined.Answer: Baucis and Philemon3. Mentioned by Goethe in _Faust_, this Babylonian couple were satirized by Shakespeare in _A Midsummer Night's Dream_, though their tale of forbidden love formed the basis of his own _Romeo and Juliet_.Answer: Pyramus and Thisbe