TOSSUPS -- CASE WESTERN			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by CWRU Freshmen with Special Guest Editor Emil Thomas Chuck1. This land agent caused controversy in County Mayo, Ireland, in the 1880s by charging exorbitant rent rates, even by the standards of Irish landlords.  As a result, the people isolated him economically and socially.  For ten points, name this man, whose name now means the tactics used against him as later applied by such advocates of civil disobedience as  Martin Luther King. ANSWER: Charles Cunningham Boycott2. Growing up in Nizhniy-Novgorod, Alexei Peshkov toiled at punishing farm labor from the age of ten, which may be why this writer chose a pen name meaning "great bitterness" in his native russian. For ten points, identify this writer best known for  his masterwork The Lower Depths.ANSWER: Maxim Gorky3. Between the 4th and 7th centuries, Christians started celebrating her birth on September 8 and her purification on February 2.  For ten points, name this religious figure commemorated with the assumption of her dead body into Heaven on August 15. ANSWER: The Virgin Mary4. "Awakening of Serene Impressions on Arriving in the Country", "Scene by the Brookside", "Jolly Gathering of Country-folk", "Thunderstorm, Tempest", and "Shepherd's Song:  Gladsome and Thankful Feelings After the Storm".  These are the names of the movements of, for ten points, what symphony by Beethoven? ANSWER: Pastoral Symphony or Beethoven's Sixth Symphony5. The results of an experiment shocked its designer so much he proclaimed, "It was quite the most incredible event that has ever happened to me in my life.  It was almost as incredible as if you fired a 15-inch shell at a piece of tissue paper and it came back and hit you" when one of his assistants announced he could get alpha particles to reverse trajectories.  For ten points, name the scientist whose gold foil experiment proved the existence of a small nucleus with a positive charge. ANSWER: Ernest Rutherford6. The United States claimed that the invasion of this country was meant to protect American medical students there.  The leftist military had deposed the prime minister 12 days earlier, and the US also stated a desire to return peace and order to this nation.  For 10 points, name this Caribbean island invaded in October of 1983. ANSWER: Grenada7. Joost Burgi, a court watchmaker to Duke Wilhelm IV, published a table of these numbers in 1620 but it is thought he could have invented the concept back in 1588, and began writing his table ten years before John Napier.  For ten points, identify these "exponents" to which a base needs to be raised to get to a particular value.ANSWER: logarithm8. Olivine, pyroxene, and garnet comprise most of its upper layer.  For ten points, name this part of the earth that lies underneath the crust. ANSWER: Mantle9. Introduced by Chaucer in Troilus and Criseyde, this poetic form is believed to take its name from its later use in the poetry of King James I. For ten points name this stanza organized as a seven line, iambic pentameter stanza rhyming a b a b b c c. ANSWER: Rhyme Royal10. Applicants for custodial and other common jobs at this site were disqualified if they could read.  In other words, they wanted the janitors to be illiterate so top secret documents couldn't be read by them at this top secret site in the New Mexico desert.  For ten points, name this city where the atomic bomb was developed. ANSWER: Alamogordo, N.M.11. Established at Athens about 300 BC and taught at a school in a colonnade known as the "Painted Porch," Much of its philosophy is drawn from Crates of Thebes.  For ten points, name this philosophy whose  major figures include Zeno, Seneca, and Marcus Aurelius who believed that living according to nature and reason is living in conformity with the divine order of the universe. ANSWER: Stoicism12. Maréchal dies and leaves all of his rather large inheritance to one of two brothers.  The shafted brother searches for an answer and deduces that his brother is the result of an adulterous affair between his mother and Maréchal.  For ten points, name this work whose characters include Monsieur and Madame Roland, Madamoiselle Rosémilly, Moskovitz and its two title characters,  perhaps Guy de Maupassant's most famous.ANSWER: Pierre et (and) Jean13. This Hall of Fame pitcher is the only Major League pitcher to win a Cy Young award while playing for the last place team.  He did it in 1972, going 27-10 for a team that won only 56 games.  FTP name this standout lefthander who began his career with the Cardinals but spent most of it with the Philadelphia Phillies. ANSWER: Steve Carlton14. In the fifth century, this group of peoples used a 25-letter alphabet called Ogham to carve inscriptions on wooden or stone objects called standing stones.  The system is thought to have been inspired by Ogma, the society's goddess of eloquence.  It was used by these people until the church banned it.  For 10 points, name these peoples of the British Isles, whose powerful priest class was called the Druids. ANSWER: Celts; prompt on early buzz with Druids15. The presence of many of these organelles in a cell classifies that cell as a syncytium.  In complex organisms, it is bounded by a double membrane continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum.  For ten points, name this cellular compartment wherein lies the cell's DNA. ANSWER: Nucleus16. Founded in 1946 after an order by Admiral Chester Nimitz, this aerial demonstration team preformed its first show in June of that year in Jacksonville, Florida.  Since then, this team composed of Naval and Marine Corp personnel has moved to El Centro, California.  For ten points, name this precision team which in late October experienced unfortunate deaths in Georgia. ANSWER: Navy Blue Angels17. In its simplified form, each solution to this complex equation is associated with a given wave function called an atomic orbital.  For ten points, name this famous equation of quantum mechanics that gets its name from the scientist who developed it.   ANSWER: Schrodinger's Wave Equation18. Upon her husband's death in 1927 she moved to Vermont. In 1935 she moved back to New York and began to substitute painting for embroidery because of severe arthritis. Her early works were displayed in the show Contemporary Unknown American Painters in 1939. For ten points, name this painter, a champion of primitivism whose works include Sugaring Off and Out For the Christmas Trees. ANSWER: "Grandma" Anne Mary Moses19. An adamant anti-communist, this man nonetheless normalized relations of his country with then communist Poland, Czechoslovakia, and East Germany.  His attitude of reconciliation toward Eastern European Soviet bloc countries was known as "Ostpolitik."  For 10 points, name this chancellor of West Germany who won the 1971 Nobel Peace Prize. ANSWER: Willy Brandt20. Some say Matteo Bandello created the story; others credit Masuccio Salermitano's 1476 Novellino, which was translated and transcribed into an English long poem by Arthur Brooke.   Characters in the more famous version include Paris, Tybalt, Mercutio, and Friar Laurence.  For ten points, name this Shakespeare play about the feuding families Montague and Capulet. ANSWER: Romeo and Juliet21. By the mid-1980s Margaret Thatcher, Saddam Hussein, Manuel Noriega, George Bush had all admitted their addiction to it. Similarly, the TASS agency in the USSR, and the CIA relied upon this on a daily basis. Not bad for something that started on so small a budget it originally used fake teletype sounds in place of theme music.  FTP name this Ted Turner venture, which in 1981 revolutionized news gathering. ANSWER: Cable News Network22. This pope has the distinction of being elected as a result of the longest papal election in history.  The college of cardinals could not decide on a candidate for 31 months, so they were finally subjected to a bread and water diet and had the roof of their residence removed.  For ten points, name the pope (1271-1276) they finally decided on, whose name was Theobaldo Visconti, the archbishop of Liege. ANSWER: Pope Gregory the 10th
BONI --  -- CASE WESTERN			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by CWRU Freshmen with Special Guest Editor Emil Thomas Chuck1.	Identify these royal works of literature FTPE. a. [5]  The main character in this Shakespeare play is a bastard, literally. Much of the plot involves the Magna Carta.ANSWER: King Johnb. [10] In this roman a clef /CLAY/, Huey Long, er, Willie Stark, is assassinated in Louisiana.ANSWER: All the King's Menc. [15] This 1920 play follows Brutus as he rises from pullman porter to King of HaitiANSWER: Emperor Jones2. 	For ten points each, name the scientist from information given. a. His eponymous equation accounts for the attraction that gas molecules have for each other, causing non-ideal behaviorANSWER: Johannes Diderik van der Waalsb. He was the first to successfully isolate many of the noble gasses.ANSWER: Sir Arthur Ramsayc. Coke and PepsiCo. owe a lot to this man who discovered carbon dioxide.ANSWER: Joseph Priestley3. 	Given a jazz musician name the instrument they played.a. [5] Charlie ParkerANSWER: Alto saxophoneb. [10] Dave BrubeckANSWER: Pianoc. [15] Chick WebbANSWER: Drums4. 	Give the full names of these civil rights organizations FTPE.  if you can only give the acronym, you'll get 5 pts.a. Established in 1910, its co-founder W. E. B. DuBois [du-BOYS] edited its magazine Crisis.	National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)b. This organization was established in 1957 by the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr.	Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC)c.  This organization's members had the first-ever sit-in at a coffee shop in Chicago in 1942, and challenged segregated busing laws by sending "Freedom Riders" in May 1961.	Congress of Racial Equality (CORE)5.	Answer these questions regarding computer technology for ten points each. a. This word describes a single request a web browser requests for a single item from a web server.ANSWER: Hitb. This was the first web browser with the identical interface available for Mac, PC, and Unix platforms.ANSWER: Mosaicc. Routers, hubs, and switches all use this set of communication protocols connected to a TCP/IP network.ANSWER: Simple Network Management Protocol
6.	Answer these questions on plants for ten points each. a. In angiosperms, pollen is received by this structure resting on top of the style and the ovary.ANSWER: Stigmab. This word is used to describe the tendency for roots to grow down. ANSWER: Positive geotropismc. This layer of actively-dividing cells is responsible for forming the secondary growth of stems and roots.ANSWER: Cambium7. 	Given a year and the losing party, name the battle.  a. [5] 490 B.C., the PersiansANSWER: Marathonb. [10] 1571, the TurksANSWER: Lepantoc. [15] 1314, the English under Edward IIANSWER: Bannockburn8. 	Time for a good old fashioned musical artists and their albums bonus.  For the stated number of points name the artist given an album. a. [5] Flesh of My Flesh, Blood of My BloodANSWER: DMXb. [10] Paul's BoutiqueANSWER: The Beastie Boysc. [15] The Brown AlbumANSWER: Primus9. 	Name these works of Mark Twain from descriptions, for ten points each.a. [10] In this short story, Roxana, a slave of mixed race, exchanges her baby with that of her white owner.	The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson or the Comedy of Those Extraordinary Twinsb. [10] In this short story, Jim Smiley wins a lot of money with the help of "Daniel Webster."	"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calavaras County"c. [10] In the short story "1601", Twain takes the narrator back to the title year where he serves as a cupbearer to what monarch?	Queen Elizabeth (I)10.	For ten points each, name the artistic movement. a. Founded by Theo van Doesburg, this movement called for the rejection of expressionism and individuality in order to create work which is universal abstract and mechanically composed.ANSWER: De Stijl /STEEL/ (The Style)b. Founded in Munich in 1911, the group was led by Vasily Kandinsky and Franz Marc and generally followed expressionism. The movement disbanded after WWI.ANSWER: Der Blau Reiter (The Blue Rider)c. This German art movement founded in Dresden, was similar to Fauvism in France and was based on nature not abstraction. The group was cheifly concerned with spontaneity and emotion.ANSWER: Die Brucke /Brewke/ (The Bridge)
11.	Identify the following golf trophies for ten points each. a. The Ryder Cup goes to the better of the U.S. or European men's professionals teams while this trophy goes to the women's professional counterpart.ANSWER: Solheim Cupb. Teams of U.S. or European amateur men have played every two years for this cup that's older than the Ryder Cup and named for a USGA president.ANSWER: Walker Cupc. Teams of amateur women from the U.S. and Europe play for this golf trophy, donated by winners of the U.S. women's amateur championship in the early 1900's.ANSWER: Curtis Cup12. 	For the stated number of points, name these hominids: a. [5] Give the scientific name of this hominid which was first dicovered in the Neander Valley and flourished from 130,000 to 30,000 years ago.ANSWER: Homo sapiensb. [10] The first hominid to walk uprightANSWER: Homo erectusc. [15] The first hominid to use toolsANSWER: Homo habilis13. 	Given a description, name these African dictators for ten points each. a. [10] He was the emperor of Abyssinia for over 50 years until his overthrow in a 1974 military coup.ANSWER: Haile Selassie Ib. [10] As dictator of Uganda he expelled all Asians from the country.ANSWER: Idi Aminc. [10] When he ruled the Central African Republic in the 1970s he dined with and on his officials.ANSWER: Jean-Bedel Bokassa14. 	Given a main character from a work of American literature, identify the work FTPE:a. Simon LegreeANSWER: Uncle Tom's Cabinb. Wolf LarsenANSWER: The Sea Wolfc. Jeeter LesterANSWER: Tobacco Road15.	ID the following Stereochemistry terms from their definition. a. [10] Stereoisomers which are mirror images.ANSWER: Enantiomer(s)b. [10] A structure with more than one chiral center which is superimposable on its mirror image.ANSWER: Meso compoundc. [2x5] Name the two letters that designate the direction of optical rotation in enantiomers.ANSWERS: R (rectus for right) and S (sinister for left)16.	Only 4 United States Presidents were elected to the Presidency without having previously held elected political office.  You'll get 5 points each for the first two you name, and ten  points each for the other two. ANSWERS: Dwight Eisenhower, Ulysses Grant, Herbert Hoover, and Zachary Taylor
17. 	Name the author given works on a 30-20-10 basis. 30: A history of exploration from Phoenician times to the mid-19th century called The Discovery of the Earth and a work entitled Michael Strogoff.20:  A Trip to the Moon and The Mysterious Island10:  Five Weeks in a Balloon and A Journey to the Center  of the Earth.ANSWER: Jules Verne18. 	There are seven planetary satellites in our solar system that are larger than the planet Pluto.  For five points each, name any 6 of the 7.  ANSWERS: Callisto, Earth's Moon (Luna), Europa, Ganymede, Io, Titan, Triton19. 	As a professor at MIT, he revolutionized linguisic theory by proposing that language was learned through innate structures within the human brain, instead of by cultural conditioning. [Eilertson/ETC]a. First, for ten points, name this professor.ANSWER: Noam Chomskyb. In this political party, advocated by Chomsky, the individual is free to choose his or her own interests and party policy maintains that government and law should provide only a minimal framework of order.ANSWER: Libertarian Partyc. For a final 10 points, name the 1957 book that Chomsky wrote for which his theory of transformational grammar is explained.ANSWER: Syntactic Structures20.	On August 10, 1999, a white supremacist opened fire on a Jewish community center.  For the stated number of points identify the following about the shooting: a. For 5 points, in what city did the shooting occur?ANSWER: Los Angelesb. For 15 points, name the gunman who had been working as security guard for a white supremacist group in Hayden Lake, Idaho.ANSWER: Buford O. Furrowc. For 10 pts., what white supremacist organization did Furrow work for? ANSWER: Aryan Nations