TOSSUPS - ROUND 6 (MACON STATE)			SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Stephen Taylor, Kristi Hall, and Chris Horne with Delaware and other Penn Bowl authors1) This natural system in E. coli is often used as an example of both positive and negative control. The major carbon source present in the media controls the transcription of genes for beta-galactosidase and a permease. FTP, identify this system of genes which is repressed in the presence of glucose and activated in the presence of lactose.Answer:	Lac Operon2)  "Where the Fish Are" is not a forgotten Connie Francis tune from the 1950s, but an English translation of the Inuit name for this town.  Largely dependent on government subsidies for its economic life, it's the home of the igloo-shaped St. Jude's Anglican Cathedral.  Situated on Koojesse Inlet at the head of Frobisher Bay, FTP name this largest city and capital of Nunavut.	Answer:	Iqaluit (ee-kah-loo-it, but accept reasonable attempts; prompt on Frobisher Bay before it's mentioned, since that's the former name of the town)3) His surname is derived from the Aramaic word for "hammer."  In seeking the aid of the Romans around 165 BC, he contributed to their rising hegemony over his archenemies, the Seleucid monarchs of Syria. Incensed by the insensitivity of Antiochus Epiphanes, he led troops in a revolt aimed at purifying the Temple in Jerusalem.  FTP name this Jewish leader whose exploits form the basis of the tradition of Hanukkah.	Answer:	Judas Maccabeus or Judah Maccabee4) Her poem "The Flesh and the Spirit" examines the conflict between the desire to live a holy life and the desire to live a pleasant one, while "Meditations Divine and Moral" examines her doubts about Puritanism.  The daughter of one Massachusetts governor and wife of another, she published her most famous work in 1650.  FTP name this American poet, the author of "The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America."	Answer:	Anne Bradstreet5) He wrote an opera entitled The Village Sage, articles on music for Diderot's Encyclopedie, a posthumously published treatise on botany, and a romance entitled The New Heloise.  His idea that education should be based on expression rather than, ahem, memorization, took form in his novel Emile.  But he's more familiar as the essayist behind such works as his Discourses on the Origins of Inequality.  FTP name this philosopher, best known for The Social Contract.	Answer:	Jean Jacques Rousseau6) The first to be synthesized was coniine (cone-eye-een), obtained from the seeds of the hemlock.  Though their structure varies, they are all mildly basic and contain at least one amine group.    They are generally of plant origin and produce strong neurological reactions in humans.  FTP name this group of organic compounds, which includes solanine, reserpine, quinine, nicotine, and caffeine.  	Answer:	alkaloids7) Born in the Ukraine, he left Russia just before the Bolshevik revolution, touring internationally as a pianist before returning to a hero's welcome in 1934.  His early compositions, such as the Scythian Suite, show the influence of Stravinsky, but he quickly found a niche working within traditional forms while incorporating modern dissonant harmonies in works such as the music for the film "Lieutenant Kije" (kih-ZHAY) and his opera Love for Three Oranges.  FTP name this composer best known for the children's work Peter and the Wolf.	Answer:	Sergei Prokofiev8) First settled by Corinthians around 734 BC, it successfully defended itself against Carthaginian domination in the 480 BC Battle of Himera.  Aligned with the Spartans during the Peloponnesian War, a 415 BC battle in its harbor was described by Thucydides as the decisive event leading to the demise of Athens as a major power.  FTP name this city-state, located at the eastern tip of Sicily, whose American namesake is a major university town in upstate New York.	Answer:	Syracuse (or Siracusa)9) 
In this novel, the Nazis are compared to an epidemic of Yersinia pestis, and the French Resistance fighters in Paris appear instead as medical professionals on another continent.  Sometimes compared to Arthur Miller's The Crucible, it rejects the author's earlier fascination with existential despair by advocating a humanistic and ethically-based rebellion against tyranny.  FTP name this novel, set in Oran, the 1947 work of Algerian-born author Albert Camus.	Answer:	The Plague (or La Peste)10) His doctoral thesis, The Suppression of the African Slave Trade in America, is the first volume of the Harvard Historical Series.  At Atlanta University, he furthered the field of sociology and would eventually be a founding father of Conflict Theory.  Though he spent most of his life in the U.S., he died in Accra, Ghana in 1963.  His scholarly works include a mammoth volume on Reconstruction and his most ambitious work, The Souls of Black Folk.  For ten points, name this founding spirit of the NAACP.	Answer:	W.E.B. Dubois [pronounced du-BOYS but accept du-BWAH]11) It begins with a rigged high-stakes card game that lands four East End criminals a big debt with kingpin "Hatchet" Harry. The cast features ex-footballer Vinnie Jones as tough guy Big Chris, and it even had a cameo for Sting. For 10 points-name this comedy whose title refers to a pair of antiquated muskets, the directorial début of Mr. Madonna, Guy Ritchie.	Answer:	Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels 	[After "muskets," Snatch would be so wrong.-Ed.]12) Appointed a judge in Muslim Cordoba in 1171, he was by training a mathematician and physician, though his extensive commentaries on the works of Aristotle were translated into Latin and Hebrew and greatly influenced the Scholastics as well as contemporary Jewish theologians.  FTP identify this medieval philosopher whose writings are collected as The Harmony of Religion and Philosophy.	Answer:	Averroes (or Ibn-Rushd)13) After divorcing his wife Sophia Dorothea in 1694, he imprisoned her in Ahlden ["alden"] castle for the last 32 years of her life. His mother, also named Sophia, became heir to the English throne under the 1701 Act of [*] Settlement; when she died in 1714, he ascended to that position, and took over two months later when Queen Anne died. For 10 points-name this first Hanover king of Britain, who died in 1727.	Answer:	George I Hanover14) This linguist and explorer died on October 20, 1890.  Shortly after his death, his wife Isabelle burned all of his private diaries and letters along with his newly revised edition of his erotic best seller The Perfumed Garden.  For 10 points, name this scholar of Middle-Eastern culture, most famous for his 10-volume work The Arabian Nights.	Answer:	Sir Richard Francis Burton15) If cosmic rays or gamma rays of energies of more than 1 million electron volts are made to strike particles of matter, the result will be a pair consisting of an electron and one of these particles.  If, on the other hand, this particle interacts with an electron, they will release gamma rays and destroy each other in the process.  Posited by Dirac and experimentally confirmed by Carl Anderson in 1932, FTP name this antimatter particle, the reciprocal of an electron.	Answer:	positron16) Editor of The New Republic from 1946-1948, he gained a reputation as a dove for his criticism of Truman's "containment" policy, a criticism which caused Truman to dismiss him as secretary of commerce.  He split with the Democrats in 1948 to form a new party he labeled Progressive, placing fourth in the 1948 presidential election behind Truman, Dewey, and Strom Thurmond.   FTP name this Secretary of Agriculture and thirty-third Vice President.		Answer:	Henry Agard Wallace [no need to prompt for middle initial, but don't accept Henry C. Wallace]17) Its second coach, ironically, was Lone Star Dietz. In 1936 and 1937 Ray Flaherty led them to consecutive NFL championship games, winning the second over the Chicago Bears, 28-21, after moving to a new city. FTP what NFL franchise led by quarterback Sammy Baugh for 16 seasons, sucked for a long time, before being revived by coaches George Allen and Joe Gibbs?	Answer:	Washington Redskins [accept either]18) 
They hired officials called metsuke [met-soo-kee] to act as secret police. Through a system called the Sankin Kotai [san-kin koh-tye], they maintained the allegiance of the [*] daimyos [dame-yohs], who were required to live in the capital, Edo [ee-doh], and leave hostages when traveling. After the Meiji [may-jee] restoration, the family was permitted to hold some land in Suraga, and its head was given the title of prince. For 10 points-what powerful shogunate ruled Japan from 1603 to 1867?	Answer:	Tokugawa shogunate19) An unusual example of this principle in action: Applying heat to a live chicken will cause it to pant more, releasing excessive amounts of carbon dioxide, which robs carbon required to produce the calcium carbonate that's the main component of the shells, thus resulting in thin eggshells that can plague chicken farmers in hot climates.  More conventionally, it is described as the principle that states that when a system at equilibrium is disturbed by a change in conditions, the system responds by reestablishing equilibrium at the new conditions.  FTP name this principle, named for a 19th century French chemist.	Answer:	Le Chatelier's principle20) The manuscript for his most famous work, whose title was taken from a quote by Jonathan Swift, was finished in Puerto Rico while he served in the US Army.  After his 1969 suicide, his mother took the manuscript to Loyola University in 1976 for review by Walker Percy, who was later able to get it published by the LSU Press in 1980.  FTP who is this man who gave life to one of literature's most ingenious and repugnant characters, Ignatius J. Reilly, in his Pulitzer-winning novel A Confederacy of Dunces? 	Answer:	John Kennedy Toole21) Coming from the Sanskrit for "fatal indigestion for elephants," the initial syllable of the Spanish equivalent of this word has been lost in English and the other Romance languages. In a Malay fable, an elephant commits gluttony by eating too many of them, but in Elizabethan England, women selling these fruit were guilty of another sin. For 10 points-name this fruit whose color is the same as its name.	Answer:	orange(s) [The Spanish is anaranjado.]22) Working from bases at Sidon, Byblos, and Tyre, they traded as far afield as the mouth of the Congo River in Africa, and are believed to have visited Cornwall regularly.  Such distant trading ventures necessitated a mechanism for recording the names of key commodities in different languages, stimulating them to devise what was probably the world's first purely alphabetic script.  FTP name these traders, the ancestors of the Carthaginians, whom the Greeks called "purple people" and from whose writing system the Greek, Cyrillic and Roman alphabets are derived.	Answer:	Phoenicians23) Originally called alabamine because of early research with the element at Alabama Polytechnic Institute, it was prepared in 1940 by bombarding bismuth with high-energy alpha particles.  It is highly carcinogenic, with mammary and pituitary tumors induced in laboratory animals from a single exposure.  The first isotope synthesized had an atomic weight of 211 and a half-life of 7.2 hours.  FTP name this element, whose name comes from the Greek for "unstable" and whose atomic number is 85.	Answer:	astatine24) The convex end faces the cell nucleus, and the concave end faces the cell membrane.  A typical cell contains between ten and twenty of them, each composed of six or seven sacs called cisternae, and their primary task is the storage and packaging of proteins and lipids made in the endoplasmic reticulum.  FTP name this cell organelle, discovered by a 19th century Italian anatomist.	Answer:	Golgi apparatus or Golgi body or Golgi complex25) In 145 AD he married Faustina.  He was a very spiritual man and wrote a book of meditations known as To Himself.  To keep from overtaxing his people, he auctioned off palace treasures.  He reigned jointly with his brother Lucius Verus until Lucius died in 169 AD.  For 10 points, name this man, last of Rome's five good emperors.	Answer:	Marcus Aurelius
BONI - ROUND 6 (MACON STATE)			SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Stephen Taylor, Kristi Hall, and Chris Horne with Delaware and other Penn Bowl authors1.	Identify the following American novels from description FTPE; if you need the author, you'll get only 5 pts.a)	[10] This work centers around the trials of the son of a preacher in Kansas City, Clyde Griffiths.	[5] Theodore Dreiser		Answer:	An American Tragedyb)	[10] In this turn-of-the-century epic, wheat farmers struggle against the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad. 	[5] Frank Norris		Answer:	The Octopusc)	[10] Its author's first work, this novel deals with the socially strained love of Neil Klugman and Brenda Patimkin. 	[5] Philip Roth		Answer:	Goodbye, Columbus 2.	They follow Planck's law of radiation. Answer the following, 10 points each.[10]	Name these perfect absorbers and emitters of thermal radiation.		Answer:		blackbody or blackbodies[10]	This law states that the energy radiated by a black body is proportional to the fourth power of its temperature.		Answer:		Stefan-Boltzmann law[10]	This law gives the frequency at which the radiation emitted by Planck's law has its maximum specific intensity.		Answer:		Wien('s) [veen] displacement law3.	Identify these men who fought in the 1815 Battle of New Orleans, 5-10-15.[5] This general led the US troops defending New Orleans years before he became president. 	Answer: 	Andrew Jackson[10] This privateer and smuggler, based in nearby Barataria Bay, refused a British offer of money, land, and a royal commission in return for his help.  His men fought alongside Jackson's troops.	Answer: 	Jean Lafitte (lah-FEET) [15] This general commanded the British troops, and was killed during the battle. 	Answer: 	Sir Edward Pakenham4.	For ten points each, identify the following about a certain philosopher.10:  Beginning with ultimate skepticism and working up to God from there, this man offered a revision of Anselm's ontological argument and an argument for God as the first cause in his most famous work.	Answer:	Rene Descartes10: Descartes developed his philosophy in this work in six parts, published in 1641.	Answer:	Meditations on First Philosophy (accept Meditationes de Prima Philosophica)10: Descartes was invited to this country by Queen Christina after he became well-known, and he died there.	Answer:	Sweden5.	Name these songs from musicals, 10 points each.[10]	In this title song, handsome waiters tell the titled character "it's so nice to have you back where you belong".		Answer:		"Hello, Dolly!"[10]	The singer states he wouldn't have to work hard, he'd build a big house, and he'd have a seat by the Eastern Wall.		Answer:		"If I Were a Rich Man" [from Fiddler on the Roof][10]	The singer's going to a whoopee spot, where the gin is cold but the piano's hot. It's a noisy ball where's there a nightly brawl, and this.		Answer:		"All That Jazz" [from Chicago]
6.	Given founders, identify the following Christian denominations FTPE.[10] Anne Lee	Answer:	Shakers[10] Richard Allen	Answer:	American Methodist Episcopalian[10] William Miller	Answer:	Seventh Day Adventist7.	Identify the following amino acids from a description of their chemical structures for ten points each.[10] The simplest amino acid, its side chain consists of only a hydrogen atom.	Answer:	Glycine[10] This amino acid's alpha carbon is incorporated into a 5-membered ring.	Answer:	Proline[10] Its sulfhydryl group allows for cross links to form between polypeptide chains.	Answer:	Cysteine8.	The government of Sri Lanka met with them in 2002 for the first time in seven years. 10 points each.[10]	Name this separatist group waging civil war.		Answer:		Tamil Tigers or Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam or LTTE[10]	The Tigers have not set off a bomb in this capital of Sri Lanka since September 2001.		Answer:		Colombo[10]	The meeting took place in this Scandinavian city, where Israel and Palestine signed a 1993 accord.		Answer:		Oslo, Norway9.	Name the currently defunct band from songs for 15, or for 10 if you need their most popular song and lead singer.For 15: Sleepy Boy, Unfair Comparison, You Bore MeFor 10: Havin' a Bad Day; Derek Coile	Answer:	Blue FlannelFor 15: Nothing's Gonna Stop the Flow, Sputnik's Down, My RitualFor 10: Natural One; Lou Barlow	Answer:	Folk Implosion 10.	Communism in Czechoslovakia died peacefully. 10 points each.[10]	What two-word name is given to this 1989 event?		Answer:		Velvet Revolution[10]	This playwright who led the "Velvet Revolution" became Czechoslovakia's first non-Communist president in over 40 years.		Answer:		Vaclav Havel[10]	This supporter of the 1968 Soviet invasion, who led the Communist Party in Czechoslovakia from 1987 to 1989 was forced from power.		Answer:		Milos Jakes [YAH-kays]
11.	Name these parameter-passing methods in programming functions, for 10 points each:[10] Ada 95 called this mode "call by copy" because any changes to the parameter do not affect the original variable passed.	Answer:		call or pass by value[10] It employs a pointer to a parameter's location and can change that passed variable. In c++ it is invoked with an ampersand.	Answer:		call or pass by reference or address[10] Used in ALGOL, but otherwise rare due to potential ambiguity between local and passed variables, the actual text of a variable is substituted in the function if the parameter is evaluated.	Answer:		call or pass by name12.	In Johannesburg, the protagonist finds his sister forced into prostitution and his son accused of murder. FTPE:[10]	Name this Alan Paton novel, whose title appears in a passage that ends, "for the unborn child that is the inheritor of our fear."		Answer:	Cry, the Beloved Country[10]	Name the protagonist of Cry, the Beloved Country.		Answer:	Stephen Kumalo [accept either][10]	This actor, who played Terence Mann in Field of Dreams, played Stephen in Darrell Roodt's 1995 film adaptation.		Answer:	James Earl Jones13.	Henry II died in 1559 after being mortally wounded in a joust.[20]	Three of his sons succeeded him as king. For 5 points each, or 20 for all three-name them.Answers:	Francis II, Charles IX, Henry III [10]	Henry II's wife, and the mother of the three succeeding kings, was what Italian woman who ordered the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre?Answer:	Catherine de Medici(s)14.	Name these things that support the human brain, 10 points each.[10]	This is the collective term for the dura mater, the arachnoid membrane, and the pia mater, which form a protective layer of connective tissue around the brain and spinal cord.Answer:	meninges [muh-NIN-jeez][10]	These fluid-filled cavities contain cerebrospinal fluid which provides protection and buoyancy, carries away wastes, and transports hormones.       Answer:	ventricles[10]	Astrocytes and Schwann cells are types of this cell that provides physical structure to the brain and also handles the care and feeding of neurons throughout the body.       Answer:	glial cells or glia15.	Less successful in his own lifetime, posthumously his O.K. Imposter and "Second Variety" were adapted into films, the latter called Screamers. 10 points per answer.[10] 	Name this science fiction author who also provided the source material for the 2002 film Minority Report.		Answer:		Philip K(indred) Dick[20] 	Name the two Dick works on which the films Blade Runner and Total Recall were based.		Answer:		Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? 				"We Can Remember It for You Wholesale"
16.	Name these Transcendentalists, 10 points each.[10]	Thoreau lived in the home of this man who gave the lecture "The American Scholar."		Answer:		Ralph Waldo Emerson[10]	This founder of The Dial edited it for its first two years.		Answer:		Margaret Fuller[10]	President of Brook Farm, he later served as a literary critic for the New York Tribune.		Answer:		George Ripley 17.	FTPE identify these composers who didn't finish the number of symphonies they were purported to have.[10] This alleged composer of nine symphonies abandoned piano sketches for his seventh symphony in August 1821, and scored only two movements plus ten bars of his much more famous Eighth.	Answer:	Franz Schubert[10] Although he is credited with three symphonies, he felt that his greatest work was his Opus 35, The Bells, a choral symphony based on poems of Edgar Allen Poe.	Answer:	Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninov[10] One of the few composers to have symphonies with nonpositive numbers, he wrote two symphonies now numbered 0 and 00 (double zero), nicknamed "Study" and "Nullte."	Answer:	Anton Bruckner18.	For five points per answer, given the chemical formula for a molecule, name both the electron hybridization of the central atom and the geometric configuration of the molecule.[5,5] CH4	Answers: 	sp3 and tetrahedral[5,5] SF6	Answers: 	sp3d2 (or d2sp3) and octahedral[5,5] H2O	Answers: 	sp3 and bent19.	FTPE, identify the chief justice of the Supreme Court from decisions.a. Brown v. Board of Education, Miranda v. Arizona	Answer:	Earl Warrenb. Bailey v. Drexel Furniture, Adkin's v Children's Hospital, Myers v. US	Answer:	William Howard Taftc. Roe v. Wade, Bakke v. California Board of Regents	Answer:	Warren Burger20. Identify these writings by Karl Marx from descriptions, FTPE.A. [10] Marx's major theoretical work, it was never completed during his lifetime. Its overall project was to discuss the history, sociology, and law underlying the title concept.	Answer:	Capital (ACC: Das Kapital)B. [10] A response to an article by Bruno Bauer, this early Marx article argues that a true liberal state should not grant emancipation to the title group, but instead liberate humanity from religion as a whole.	Answer:	On the Jewish QuestionC. [10] The title of this work refers to the creation of the First Empire under the title character's uncle, and notes that while historical events may happen twice, the first time they occur "as tragedy, the second as farce."	Answer:	The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Buonaparte (ACC: Der 18te Brumaire des Louis Napoleon)
21.	Name these places in the Wild West, 10 points each.[10]	Leland Stanford and Thomas Durant met here on May 10, 1869.		Answer:		Promontory Point, Utah [accept Ogden][10] 	This Arizona location was settled by prospector Ed Schieffellin [SHIH-fih-lin] in 1877.	Answer:		Tombstone[10] 	Named for a Cherokee Native American, this Texas city was the terminus of the Chisholm trail until the trail was changed to go to Dodge City.	Answer:		Abilene22.	Answer these questions about The Addams Family original series, for 10 points each:[10] What actor played Lurch and was also seen as Injun Joe on The New Adventures of Huck Finn?	Answer:		Ted Cassidy[10] What was the name of Morticia's man-eating plant?	Answer:		Cleopatra[10] What street did the Addams live on (and no, it's not Mockingbird Lane)?	Answer:		Cemetery Lane [the Address was 000]23.	Name the terrorist groups responsible for the assassination of these European political leaders, 10 points each.[10]	Tsar Alexander II of Russia, 1881		Answer:		People's Will or Narodnaya Volya [accept People's Freedom or Will of the People or equivalents][10]	Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, 1914		Answer:		Black Hand or Ujedinjenje Ili Smrt [accept Union or Death][10]	Former Prime Minister Aldo Moro of Italy, 1978		Answer:		Red Brigades or Brigate Rosse