TOSSUPS -- KEYSTONE KOPS 1		SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. Extending 200 miles from east to west at its widest point, this crescent-shaped island shelters a well-guarded lagoon.  Originally known as Abraxa, it is now named after the king who separated it from the mainland; the country is divided into 54 shires, with its capital at Amaurote.  FTP, what is this island visited by Raphael Hythloday in a 1516 novel by Sir Thomas More?Answer:  Utopia2. Tommy Davidson, Kelly Coffield, and Jamie Foxx.  Rosie Perez as choreographer.  And, of course, Jim Carrey, David Alan Grier, and Kim, Damon, Keenan Ivory, and many other Wayans'.  All of these people were on, FTP, what sketch comedy show which premiered on FOX in April 1990 which such characters as Fire Marshall Bill and Homey the Clown?Answer: In Living Color3.  Their chief god was the Asian storm god Seketh, who they worshipped at their capital Avaris.  Their rule ended after the native Egyptian rulers of Thebes began to expansion northward, expelling them and founding the 18th dynasty.  FTP, name these Asiatic invaders of Egypt, also known as the Shepherd Kings, who around 1674 BC overran Egypt and founded the 15th dynasty.Answer:  Hyksos (accept Shepherd Kings if given early)4. "After the Race", "Clay", "Ivy Day in the Committee Room", "An Encounter", "Two Gallants", and "Eveline"..  All of these stories were in a collection first published in the U.S. in 1916.  FTP, identify this collection of short stories, including "Grace", "Araby", and "The Dead", written by James Joyce.Answer: Dubliners  [prompt on Joyce]5. In metals, the nuclei are influenced by an interaction between the spins of the conduction electrons and the applied field.  This condition results in a shift of the resonant frequency from the value observed for the same nucleus when it is present in an insulator. These so-called metallic shifts provide important information on the magnetic susceptibility, which allows scientists, FTP, to utilize what technique to help discover the structure of molecules?Answer: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (accept Magnetic Resonance Imaging before "structure")6. In Indian myth, this critter was identified with either Agni or Prajapati, was ridden by immortals and secreted the first waters from which all creation emerged.  In the Christian tradition, it represented hatred and evil, ignorance and darkness.  In Greek myth, they served as guardians of such treasures as the apples of the Hesperides and the Golden Fleece.  FTP, name this mythological creature, famously conquered by St. George.Answer:  dragon7. Legend has it that the composer wrote it for a friend, and that they were intended to be played nightly to alleviate the insomnia of the friend's employer, Count von Kayserling.  On the bass line of the aria, the composer expanded the tune, creating everything from explosive gaiety to delicate wistfulness.  FTP, name this series of keyboard pieces by Johann Sebastian Bach, generally known by the name of Bach's friend.Answer:  Goldberg Variations8. The two sections of this part of the male body are distinguished externally by the raphe.  Internally, the raphe connects to a muscular partition, the septum, which serves to divide it into its two areas.  It develops as a result of the influence of the hormone androgen and the physical pressure exerted by the testes as they descend from the body cavity.  FTP, identify this thin external sac of skin which protects the testes.Answer:  scrotum
9. After being mortally wounded, Adam Sunraider, a race-baiting Senator from New England, surprisingly calls for Reverend A. Z. Hickman, an old black minister, to attend him.  As it turns out, the senator had been raised by Hickman in a religion- and music-steeped black community not unlike the author's own childhood home.  FTP, name this 1999 novel published five years after the death of its author, Ralph Ellison.Answer:  Juneteenth10. Because of the failure of the state legislature to issue paper money and reform debtor laws, he led a force of several hundred men in forcing the state Supreme Court to adjourn.  Leading about 1,200 men, his attack on the federal arsenal in January of 1787 was repulsed and he was decisively defeated at Petersham the next month.  FTP, name this leader of the rebellion of Massachusetts farmers of 1786-87.Answer:  Daniel Shays11. The Svetambara group lists 45 principle works as part of this religion's canon:  including 11 Angas, or main texts; 12 Upangas, or subsidiary texts; and 6 Cheda-sutras, which describe the rules for ascetic life.  There was once a 12th Anga, said to be the words of the founder itself, but it has been lost for at least 14 centuries.  FTP, name this Indian religion, founded by the 24th of the Jinas, Vardhamana Mahavira.Answer:  Jainism12. Originally, the river of this name, flowing through Russia and Kazakhstan and 1509 miles in length, was known as the Jaik River, until Catherine the Great tried it for treason and condemned it to death, changing its name to its modern one.  FTP, identify this river, which shares its name with the mountain range that is traditional physiogeographic boundary between Europe and Asia.  Answer:  Ural13. He turned pro in 1990, and first came to world attention in 1991, when he qualified for the French Open and made the round of 16 before losing to eventual champion Jim Courier.  Although he was ranked as high as 5th in the world in 1994, prior to last year his highest Grand Slam appearance was the semis at Wimbledon in 1996.  FTP, name this man who took Andre Agassi to 5 sets in the 1999 U.S. Open finals.Answer:  Todd Martin14. While investigating digestive processes in 1836, he isolated the first enzyme prepared from animal tissue, pepsin.  An acquaintance of Matthew Schleiden, who advanced the cell theory for plants, this man extended it to animals.  FTP, name this scientists, who discovered the myelin sheath covering peripheral axons, which are now known by his name.Answer:  Theodor Schwann15.  Possibly, his name derives from a medieval goblin or demon.  He has a shaven head, wears a mask and particolored tights, and carries a wooden sword.  Often invisible to all but Columbine, he is a rival of Pierrot, for her love.  FTP, name this stock character of Italian comedy, who became the buffoon of French and then English pantomime.Answer:  Harlequin (or Arlequin or Arlecchino)16. He was born in Telemark, Norway and in his youth joined the army, quickly rising to the rank of captain.  In 1931, he founded his own political party, the National Union, and began to have contact with the Nazis.  He then served briefly as the head of the puppet government in Norway. FTP, name this famous traitor who was convicted of treason and shot in 1945 for his decision to aid German occupation forces.ANSWER: Vidkun Abraham Lauritz Quisling
17.  From 1751 to 1763, he remained in his birthplace of Edinburgh, except for two breaks in London, during which he wrote a History of England.  In 1734 he went to France, where he composed A Treatise of Human Nature, an attempt to formulate a full-fledged philosophical system he later repudiated as juvenile.  FTP, name this Empiricist philosopher, best known for An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.Answer:  David Hume18.  Having an apparent visual magnitude of about 1.5, it is of the same luminosity class (V) as the Sun, but is hotter, with a spectral type of B7.  Its name comes from the Latin word for king, a result of an ancient belief in the astrological importance of this star.  FTP, name this star, also known as Alpha Leonis, the brightest in the constellation Leo.Answer:  Regulus (Accept Alpha Leonis if given early)19. In the early 1970s his writing, particularly his essays, reflected a growing concern for power politics in the nuclear age and with questions involving the Third World.  Among his later works were the novel The Silent Cry, and the short story collection Teach Us to Outgrow Our Madness.  FTP, name this man, winner of the 1994 Nobel Prize in Literature.Answer: Oe Kenzaburo20.   He earned his bachelor's degree from Alabama State College, and did graduate work at Atlanta University before becoming a minister in Montgomery, Alabama, where he had as a colleague Martin Luther King, Jr.  After co-leading the successful bus boycott with King, they organized the SCLC, and upon King's death, he succeeded him as president.  FTP, name this civil rights leader who died in 1990.Answer:  Ralph David Abernathy21. A graduate of Bologna's Liceo Musicale, he wrote some one-act operas for Venice before becoming famous for the comedy An Italian in Algiers.  From then on, he wrote 2 to 4 operas a year, and an incredible 38 in 19 years, until he retired after the poor Parisian reception of what he considered his crowning achievement, the serious opera William Tell.  FTP, name this composer, best known for The Barber of Seville.Answer:  Gioacchino Rossini22. It and its alloys are indispensable in chemical laboratories for electrodes and crucibles and dishes in which materials can be heated to high temperatures, and it is used for electrical contacts and sparking points because it resists high temperatures and chemical attack of electric arcs.  FTP, name this element, whose name derives from the diminutive of the Spanish for "silver," with atomic number 78.Answer:  platinum23.	Author of the autobiography, Fighting Liberal, his lack of partisan fervor led to his dismissal from the Republican party in 1944.  Elected to the Senate in 1912, he became the leader of the Midwestern progressive Isolationist bloc.  A supporter of the New Deal, he authored the 20th Amendment, and sponsored the passage of the TVA.  FTP, identify this Nebraska politician who co-authored an anti-injunction act with Fiorello LaGuardia.Answer:  George Norris
BONI -- KEYSTONE KOPS 1			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. The Miami Dolphins lost their AFC Divisional Playoff game 62-7.  Answer the following questions about the fallout, FTPE.a. This Dolphins coach resigned from coaching for good.Answer: Jimmy Johnsonb. At the press conference, Johnson called this owner of the Dolphins the best in the business.Answer: Wayne Huizengac. This man, Johnson's assistant and former Bears head coach, has succeeded Johnson as head coach of the Dolphins.Answer: Dave Wannstedt2. Answer the following about epoxides FTP each.A. Epoxides are cyclic types of this functional group, which can be symbolized as R-O-R, or an oxygen between two carbon groups.      Answer: _ether_B. Epoxides are most commonly formed from olefins with the use of these acids with formula R-C-O3-H.      Answer: _peroxy_ acidsC. Having formula C2-H4-O, this is the simplest epoxide.Answer: _ethylene oxide_3.  Given the name of a woman, name the literary figure with which she was most associated, for the stated number of points.  For example, if I said, "Elizabeth Barrett," you'd reply "Robert Browning."a.  [5] Virginia Clemm				Answer:  Edgar Allan Poeb.  [10] June Edith Smith			Answer:  Henry Miller (accept Anais Nin)c.  [15] Elizabeth Eleanor Siddal		Answer:  Dante Gabriel Rossetti4.  Given the circumstances surrounding the death of a composer, name him FTP each.a.  In January of 1750, an English surgeon performed an operation on his eyes.  Instead of curing his blindness, his robust health was broken by the operations and medications, and he died of a stroke some six months later.Answer:  Johann Sebastian Bachb.  After hitching a ride on an open milkwagon in December of 1826, he caught a chill, and gradually weakened, falling into a coma.  On March 26, 1827, he woke up after a tremendous peal of thunder, shook his fist angrily at the sky, and fell back dead.Answer:  Ludwig van Beethovenc.  On February 11, 1883, he began an essay called, "On the Feminine in Human Nature."  In the middle of the second page, after writing the words "love-tragedy," he was seized by a fatal heart attack.Answer:  Richard Wagner5.  FTP each, given a brief description, name these films which my professor considers to be "neo"-film noir.a.  This David Lynch vehicle starred Kyle McLachlan as a teen-ager who tried to solve the mystery of a severed ear.  The really weird villainous dude was played by Dennis Hopper.ANSWER:  "Blue Velvet"b.  Set in future Los Angeles, the title character played by Harrison Ford has to "retire" replicants.ANSWER:  "Blade Runner"c.  Nicholas Van Orter, played by Michael Douglas, receives a birthday present from his brother Connie, played by Shaun Penn.  This gift leaves him thinking he's been conned out of all his money and possessions and that he's murdered his brother, leading to his attempted suicide.ANSWER:  "The Game"
6. Identify the following sculptors from works FTPE.A. "Lion of Belfort," "Liberty Enlightening the World"Answer: Frédéric-Auguste BartholdiB. "Sleeping Muse," "Princess X," "Mademoiselle Pogany" Answer: Constantin BrancusiC. "Age of Bronze," "Gates of Hell"Answer: Auguste Rodin7.  Given the chemical name of a vitamin, for the stated number of points give its letter and numerical designation.  For example, if I said, "ascorbic acid," you'd reply "vitamin C."a.  [5] retinol					ANSWER:  vitamin Ab.  [5] thiamine				ANSWER:  vitamin B1c.  [10] cyanocobalamin			ANSWER:  vitamin B12d.  [10] tocopherol				ANSWER:  vitamin E8.  For the stated number of points, identify these children of Queen Victoria.a.  [5] This man, her first son, married Alexandra of Denmark and succeeded her to the throne.Answer:  Edward VIIb.  [10] Victoria's eldest child, she married Emperor Frederick III of Germany and was the mother of Kaiser Wilhelm II.Answer:  Victoriac.  [15] The second daughter of Victoria, she married Louis of Hesse-Darmstadt; their daughter became the ill-fated wife of Tsar Nicholas II.Answer:  Alice (acc. Alix)9.  Given the title of a work of children's literature, name the author FTP each.a.  Rootabaga Stories					Answer:  Carl Sandburgb.  A Child's Garden of Verses					Answer:  Robert Louis Stevensonc.  Uncle Remus, His Songs and His Sayings	Answer:  Joel Chandler Harris10.  Given the year it took place and a brief description, name the early ecumenical council FTP each.a.  Called by Constantine, it took place in 325.  The creed which resulted from this council basically stated that the Father and Son are homoousios, "of one substance."ANSWER:  First Council of Nicaeab.  Called by Theodosius I in 381, this council amended the Creed of Nicaea into the Nicene creed, equating the Holy Spirit with the Father and the Son.ANSWER:  First Council of Constantinoplec.  The largest early council, it was called by Marcian and Pulcheria in 451.  Basically, it confirmed both the Creed of Nicaea and the Nicene Creed, and approved the term Theotokos for Christ's two natures after incarnation.ANSWER:  Council of Chalcedon
11.    For the stated number of points, name these Americans who died in August of 1999 from descriptions.a.  [5] This Hall of Fame shortstop was captain of the Brooklyn Dodgers when Jackie Robinson joined the team in 1947, and his camaraderie was crucial in dissipating the ugliness that greeted Robinson.Answer:  Harold Henry "Pee Wee" Reeseb.  [10] During his 16 year tenure as president of the AFL-CIO, from 1979 to 1995, he fought to sustain the unions' waning power, bringing renegades such as the U.A.W. and Teamsters back into the fold.Answer:  Lane Kirklandc.  [15] Known as "Mr. Beautiful," this barrel-chested actor got his break in 1940 after a brief appearance in "The Housekeeper's Daughter" generated 20,000 fan letters.  His best-known roles were in epics such as "The Robe" and "Samson and Delilah."Answer:  Victor Mature12. Answer the following questions about Neptune for the stated number of points.a.  [5] Similar to Jupiter's Great Red Spot, Neptune has one of these.Answer: Great Dark Spotb. [10]  Neptune breaks the pattern for this empirical rule which gives approximate distances from the sun.Answer: Bode's Law  (accept Titius-Bode Law)c. [15]  5 for one, 15 for both, name the two moons of Neptune known before Voyager 2 visited in 1989.Answer: Triton  and Nereid13. Answer these questions about early Roman history for the stated number of points.a.  [5] Tradition holds that this man, son of Rhea Silvia and Mars, ruled Rome from 753 to 715 BC, though those dates are historically unreliable.Answer:  Romulusb.  [10] Tradition holds that this man led the revolt which overthrew Tarquin the Proud, the last king of Rome.Answer:  Lucius Junius Brutusc.  [15] Between 343 and 290 BC, Rome fought three wars against this group of tribes of northern Italy.  Eventually, their capital at Bovianum was taken and they became autonomous allies of Rome.Answer:  Samnites14. Answer the following questions about a famous play for the stated number of points:a. The title character in this drama is an itinerant trader who gets her nickname after driving her cart through the streets of Riga during a bombardment because she was afraid that the 50 loaves of bread she was carrying would be spoiled.ANSWER: Mother Courage and Her Childrenb.  For 5 points each, 20 for all correct, name all 3 of Mother Courage's children, two sons who are killed in the army and a mute daughter who is shot for alerting a town it is being attackedANSWER: Eilif, Swiss Cheese, Kattrin15. Identify the following appointees of John F. Kennedy, 5-10-15.a. This Ford Motor executive was tapped as Secretary of Defense.Answer:  Robert McNamarac. This scholarly Georgia served both Kennedy and Johnson as Secretary of State..Answer: Dean Ruskc. This economist and author of The Affluent Society was named Ambassador to India.Answer: John Kenneth Galbraith
16.  Name the war, given the treaty which ended it, for the stated number of points.a.  [5] Treaty of PortsmouthAnswer: Russo-Japanese Warb.  [10] Treaty of ShimonosekiAnswer: Sino-Japanese Warc.  [15] Treaty of ValparaisoAnswer: War of the Pacific17. Given the works, give the British poet, for ten points apiece.a. Andrea del Sarto, Pippa PassesAnswer: Robert Browningb. The Phoenix and the TurtleAnswer: William Shakespearec. The Eve of St. AgnesAnswer: John Keats18. Time to reward the freaks who memorize the rank of lakes by their area.  Given the rank of a lake by area, for 15 points, name the lake.  You can also salvage 5 points if you need the description.a.  15 points--9th       5 points-Found in the Northwest Territories astride the Arctic Circle, it is the largest North American lake outside the Great Lakes.ANSWER:  Great Bear Lakeb.  15 points--11th       5 points--The second largest lake in North America outside the Great Lakes, it is also in the Northwest Territories, near the Alberta Border, and it is named for a local Indian tribe, not for a cause of the Civil War.ANSWER:  Great Slave Lake19.	Identify the philosopher from works, 30-20-1030- Chassidischen Bücher, or Hasidic Books20- Paths in Utopia10- I and ThouAnswer: Martin Buber20.	Identify these things related to optics for the stated number of points.a.  [10] This phenomenon occurs under conditions when Snell's law of refraction cannot be satisfied.Answer:  total internal reflectionb.  [5] The angle of incidence at which total internal reflection occurs is known as this angle, which correspond to an angle of refraction of 90 degrees.Answer:  critical anglec.  [15] These are interference fringes which are visible when white light is viewed through two parallel and parallel-sided plates whose thicknesses are in a simple ratio (1:1, 2:1, 1:3, etc.)Answer:  Brewster's bands 21.	It's been an eventful offseason as far as managerial spots go in baseball.  Given a team, name the previous manager and the new skipper for five points each.a.  Detroit Tigers				Answer:  Larry Parrish and Phil Garnerb.  Colorado Rockies				Answer:  Jim Leyland and Buddy Bellc.  Cleveland Indians				Answer:  Mike Hargrove and Charlie Manuel