TOSSUPS - ROUND 7				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Florida A with help from Iowa State and Wally Edmondson1.	The titular object is used to poison Barry Kolker, a lover who ditches the narrator's mother.  That mom is Ingrid Magnussen, a poet who wields her luminous beauty to intimidate and manipulate men.  Ingrid is incarcerated, leaving her 13-year-old daughter, Astrid to the California foster system.  In the next five years, Astrid is shot by one foster mother for sleeping with her foster mother's boyfriend, is hospitalized after being attacked by a dog, and finally settles in with the loving and compassionate Claire Richards--until Claire overdoses on sleeping pills.  FTP, this occurs in what Janet Finch novel which was recently made into a movie starring Allison Lohman, Robin Wright Penn, and Renee Zellwegger?  	Answer:	White Oleander2.	Their capital, located at present day Anyang, was moved many times due to flooding and because it was difficult to defend.  Like other dynasties, their king ruled under the mandate of Heaven, which they lost in 1122 BC when the Zhou tribe led a rebellion in the northwest frontier and conquered them.  They were the first dynasty to raise silkworms and spin their thread into silk, and their artisans established the foundations for all later Chinese ceramic art.  FTP, name this dynasty that ruled China for nearly 400 years beginning in 1500 BC, regarded as China's first.	Answer:	Shang Dynasty3.	Raymond Davis, Jr. won the 2002 Nobel in Physics for an experiment which used 100,000 gallons of dry-cleaning fluid to detect the conversion of chlorine to argon by these particles.  Other researchers at Sudbury used 1000 tons of heavy water to prove that they come in three types, two of which were not detected in Davis' experiment because they changed into tau and muon forms between the sun and Earth.  FTP, what are these nearly massless, neutrally charged byproducts of solar fusion, billions of which pass through the Earth per second, named by Enrico Fermi? 	Answer: 	neutrinos4.	Written and first performed by Leonard Cohen, this song teaches us that "love is not a victory march" and the song itself is full of differing views of love.  The Jeff Buckley version of this song appeared on The West Wing's season finale last year.  Containing biblical imagery such as the line "I heard there was a secret chord /that David played and it pleased the Lord" the song itself has a biblical title, which is repeated four times in the chorus.  Despite the strong imagery, the narrator is still bewildered by love and wonders, "Well, maybe there's a God above / but all I've ever learned from love/was how to shoot somebody who outdrew you."  FTP name this song, performed by Rufus Wainwright on the Shrek soundtrack.	Answer:	"Hallelujah"5.	It was used to condemn and execute Thomas Cromwell, but was abolished in England in 1870.  Extended in 1450 by Parliament through the "corruption by blood," applying it to the heirs as well, it was used to penalize traitors by forfeiting their property and taking away their civil rights.  For 10 points, what legislative act is also forbidden by Section 3 of Article III of the U.S. Constitution?       Answer: 	act (or bill) of attainder6.	The fourth king of this name died of a heart attack when he heard of the First Defenestration of Prague.  The third was assassinated in Olomouc in 1306 during a campaign against Poland, thus ending the Czechoslovakian Przemysl (preh-MYS-uhl) dynasty.  The first was a Bohemian Christian ruler, known for being generous to the poor, who became the patron saint of Bohemia and the main character in an 1853 Christmas carol.  FTP what is the name of this king who "looked out on the Feast of Stephen"?	Answer: 	Wenceslas7.	Born into a converted Jewish family in Vienna 1902, he became involved in Marxist politics in the 30's.  With his Jewish background in mind, he left Vienna in 1937 to go teach in New Zealand, making periodic trips England.  He finally went to England for good in 1949 to teach at London School of Economics.  He was knighted in 1965, and went on to write The Logic of Scientific Discovery where he proposed his idea of falsification.  He is perhaps know best anecdotally from his near violent clash with Ludwig Wittgenstein while speaking at a school.  FTP name this philosopher, author of The Open Society and Its Enemies.	Answer:	Karl Popper
8.	Its light was collected in a photoelectric cell and used to power the opening ceremonies of the 1933 World's Fair.  One of the few actual celestial objects mentioned in the Bible, this star appears in the spring sky following the Great Bear around the North Pole, hence its name which in Greek means "Bear-Watcher".  To the human eye it shines 113 times brighter than the Sun and is the fourth brightest star in the sky.  FTP, what is this orange giant, the alpha star of the constellation Bootes?	Answer: 	Arcturus9.	Once a showplace in a small New England town, it presents little evidence of its former grandeur after 160 years. Determined to build his home on one tract of land, its builder had Matthew Maule charged with witchcraft; while on the gallows, Maule cried that the builder's family, the Pyncheons, would forever be cursed.  His prophecy was accurate, as Colonel Pyncheon mysteriously dies the day of the house's opening.  The curse ends with Mr. Holgrave, the last descendant of Matthew Maule, marrying Phoebe Pyncheon and inheriting the Pyncheon fortune.  FTP, the title building is left to ruins in what Nathaniel Hawthorne novel?       Answer:	The House of the Seven Gables10.	Number 16 is a French overture, every third one is a canon, and the last is entitled "Quodlibet".  These were commissioned in 1741 by the Russian ambassador to Saxony, Hermann Carl von Keyserling, who supposedly paid its composer with a goblet of 100 louis d'or.  Written for the harpsichord and based around the ground line of a 32-measure aria, it is often called by the name of the musician who was to play them in order to help Keyserling's insomnia.  FTP what is this set of variations, catalog number BWV 988, by Johann Sebastian Bach?	Answer: 	the Goldberg Variations11.	To facilitate the process of ramming the new self contained Enfield rifle cartridges down the muzzle, the cartridge was heavily greased - with animal fat. Soldiers heard and quickly passed on the rumor that the grease was a mixture of cow and pig fat, successfully angering Hindus and Muslims in one fell swoop.  The growing Indian discontent with British rule erupted on May 10, 1857  as riots broke out in New Dehli, Kanpur, and Lucknow.  FTP, identify this infamous uprising which takes its name from the term given to Indian soldiers who were enlisted in the British army.	Answer:  	Sepoy Mutiny or Rebellion12.	Synthesized mostly from coal or natural gas, its low-cost production involves heating lime and roasted coal in an electric furnace to produce calcium carbide, which when added to water produces the substance along with hydrated lime.  Used widely as a light source in coal mines before battery-powered lights became available, it would commonly react with the methane gas found in coal seams and cause explosions.  FTP, identify this colorless, foul-smelling commercial alkyne often used with welding torches which, when supplied with pure oxygen, turns the color of its flame to blue.	Answer:  	acetylene13.	There are three major approaches: the Avenue de Paris, the Avenue de Saint-Cloud, and the Avenue de Sceaux.  The first building at this site was a hunting pavilion built in 1623 for Louis XIII, which he later replaced with a small brick and stone chateau.  In 1770 the Royal Opera here was opened in honor of the dauphin's marriage to Marie Antoinette, who 19 years later would flee the place as the women of Paris stormed it.  FTP what is this palace, the major construction project and residence of Louis XIV?	Answer: 	Versailles [pronounced ver-SIGH but accept ver-SAILS, etc.]14.	Speaking of Versailles, this work served as part of the theme for Louis XIV's first festival at Versailles.  Dedicated to Cardinal Ippolito d'Este, part of its plot deals with France being threatened by the heathen invaders led by King Gradasso of Sericana, whose principal reason for going to war is to obtain the sword Durindana.  The Este family's lineage is traced back to the noble heathen Ruggiero and Bradamante, the knighted sister of Rinaldo, who is the best friend of the title character.  FTP what is this 15th-century work by Ludovico Ariosto about a mad knight?	Answer: 	Orlando Furioso15.	They developed the Mousterian tradition of tool making improving on the existent Acheulean tradition. Their cranial capacity of 1400 cubic centimeters is larger than that of a modern human and their children mature faster.  They practiced burial rituals and took care of their elderly, but they still have been portrayed in a bad light.  FTP name this prehistoric member of homo sapiens, originally discovered in German valley, which has become the prototypical "caveman," as well as a name for any chauvinistic male.	Answer: 	Neandertal(s)
16.	Among the villains of this work are Kumbjankarna and Indrajit, two demons who are eventually killed, and Kaikeyi who through connivances gets King Dasartha to make her son, Bharata, the king of Ayodhya.  The main plot of the story occurs after the title hero spurns Surphanakha and her brother, Ravana, in turn, kidnaps the hero's wife.  With the help of his loyal brother Lakshmana and the monkey-god Hanuman the title hero then wins her back.  FTP this describes what Sanskrit epic, ascribed to Valmiki, about the 7th avitar of Vishnu.	Answer:	the Ramayana.17.	While a student at the University of Washington, she became involved in that state's suffrage movement, and the following year she would repeat this experience when her home state was debating its own suffrage amendment.  A devout pacifist, she alone abstained rather than support the declaration of World War II, and she alone voted against the declaration of World War I.  FTP name this woman, the first woman to serve in the US Congress.  	Answer: 	Jeannette Rankin.18.	This was started in 1917 but never got published until four years after the author's death.  The final version was gathered from notebooks and heavily edited by the author's son Christopher.    It contains five sections, only one of which actually deals with the jewels from which the book gets its title.  FTP, what is this J. R. R. Tolkien work, which contains the mythology of the elves from the Lord of the Rings?	Answer: 	the Silmarillion19.	Born in a small town in Transylvania, this man claims to have never heard of Count Dracula until he came to America.  He and his wife Marta defected from Romania the same day President Reagan was shot.  His defection still made big news, as he was entirely responsible for building up Romania's national gymnastics program and had trained Nadia Comaneci.  FTP, name this coach of Mary Lou Retton who carried a hobbled Kerri Strug out to the podium to receive her medal saying "The New York Police Department couldn't stop me from taking you out there."  	Answer:  	Bela Karoyli20.	A clutch of graylag goose eggs was divided by Konrad Lorenz, who left some with their mother and put the rest in an incubator.  The young reared by their mother followed her about as goslings, while the ones that Lorenz himself reared followed him around instead.  This can be attributed to the fact that the mother was not around during the "critical period" when learning of particular behaviors can only take place.  This describes, FTP, what term from behavioral biology that refers to learning that is limited to a specific time period in an animal's life and that is generally irreversible?	Answer:  	imprinting21.	The name is the same, but it varies in pronunciation, and on occasion spelling.  Miroslav is the Left Wing on the Sabres.  A clever spelling is track 13 on Reel Big Fish's Turn the Radio Off CD.  Another is Saddam Hussein's lover on South Park.  FTP give the common name of these things, a synonym for Lucifer, the Devil, or the bad guy downstairs.		Answer:  	Satan (accept varied pronunciations, based on where answered)22.	One of the most important books of the Middle Ages, it provided several plots for William Shakespeare and may have inspired King Edward III of England to invade France, starting the Hundred Years War.  Written 1136 and claiming to be a translation of a "very ancient book, written in the British language" it charted British History from 1100 B.C. to 689 A.D.  FTP, identify the book containing the stories of the Trojan Brutus, King Lear and King Arthur, written by Geoffrey of Monmouth.	Answer: 	History of the Kings of Britain or Historia Regum Brittania.23.	It was sparked by Pope Pius IX's promulgation of the dogma of papal infallibility in matters of faith and morals.  German bishops and most lay Catholics supported that dogma but Bismarck, who was anxious to strengthen the central power of his new German Empire, feared such a strongly organized church.  Laws were constructed to limit the influence of the church and more supervision to the clergy.  FTP, identify this conflict between the German government and the Roman Catholic Church which ultimately ended in a compromise after much of the church's power had been taken away.	Answer:  	Kulturkampf 
BONI - ROUND 7				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Florida A with help from Iowa State and Wally Edmondson1.  FTPE identify from works three Bs of music, none of whom are Bach, Beethoven, or Brahms.-- Billy Budd, Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra       Answer: 	Benjamin Britten-- Candide, On the Town	Answer: 	Leonard Bernstein-- Prince Igor, On the Steppes of Central Asia	Answer: 	Alexander Borodin 2.	Given the name of one or more families central to a play and a year in which the play won the Pulitzer Prize, name the play FTPE; 5 points if you need the winning author's name:a.	(10) Tyrone, 1957       (5) Eugene O'Neill        Answer:	Long Day's Journey Into Nightb.	(10) Gibbs and Webb, 1938       (5) Thornton Wilder       Answer:	Our Townc.	(10) Werthan, 1988       (5) Alfred Uhry       Answer:	Driving Miss Daisy3.	30-20-10, name the chemist from clues.30: He attempted to find a process to extract gold from sea water to help pay off Germany's war debts.20: He has the dubious honor as the father of modern chemical warfare for organizing and directing the first chemicalwarfare attack during World War I.10: He was awarded the Nobel in Chemistry in 1918 for his namesake process of synthesizing ammonia from nitrogen.	Answer: Fritz Haber.4.	It's time for great nutcases of history!  Given the name of the president (or ex-president), name the man who assassinated them (or at least tried to) FTPEA. James A. Garfield	Answer: Charles Guiteau. B. William McKinley	Answer: Leon F Czolgosz. C.  Theodore Roosevelt	Answer: John Schrank. 5.	5-10-20-30, answer the following related to guest appearances on the TV show "Friends":1. He appeared on the 2001 Thanksgiving episode as Will, a commodities broker who had co-founded the "I Hate Rachel Green Club" with Ross while in high school.  He also happens to be the husband of one of the stars of Friends.       Answer:  Brad Pitt2. She guested during the 2nd season as Susie Moss, a girl whom Chandler had known in the fourth grade and had embarrased by lifting her skirt during the class play. She comes on really strong but it turns out to be an elaborate scheme to get back at him when he ends up in the men's bathroom at a restaurant wearing nothing but a pink thong.       Answer:  Julia Roberts3. He has made recurring guest appearances on the show over the years as Jack Geller, father of both Ross and Monica.       Answer:  Elliot Gould4.	Pitt, Roberts, and Gould all appeared in what 2001 Steven Soderbergh film?       Answer:	Ocean's Eleven
6.	Stars, planets, and the occasional UFO aren't the only things visible in the night sky.  Answer these questions about Messier [MESSY-YAY] objects FTSNOP.(5) Designated M1, this nebula is the remains of a supernova which was visible in 1054 in daylight for 23 days.	Answer: Crab Nebula. (5) M31; containing the first extragalactic supernova, it's the closest galaxy to the Milky Way in the local group.	Answer: Andromeda Galaxy(10) Designated M44, this star cluster is also know by its Latin name, Praesepe, which translates to "manger."	Answer: Beehive Cluster. (10) M57, considered the prototype of planetary nebula, it is named for its distinctive shape. 	Answer: Ring Nebula.7.	Given a character from a work written by a Bronte, name the novel FTPE, or for 5 if you need the author:A. 10:	Heathcliff    5:	Emily Bronte       Answer:	Wuthering Heights.B. 10:	Helen Graham   5:	Anne BronteAnswer:	The Tenant of Wildfell Hall.C. 10:	Brocklehurst    5:	Charlotte BronteAnswer:	Jane Eyre.8.	Given a few rulers and their country, tell which Asian dynasty they belonged to, FTPE.A. Shah Jahan, Aurengzeb  - India.	Answer: Moghul or Mughul (but nor MongolB. Darius I, Xerxes  - Persian.	Answer: Achaemenid.C. Shunzhi, Qianlong  - China.	Answer: Qing or Ching.9.	VISUAL BONUS [READER: HAND OUT ATTACHMENT]F5PE name each painting, and for another 5 points each name the Dutch painter responsible for it.   Answers:1.	The Night Watch by Rembrandt van Rijn (also accept The Company of Frans Banning Cock Preparing to March Out from Mr. Pocket Protector over there)2.	The Betrothal of the Arnolfini by Jan van Eyck (accept Arnolfini's Wedding or pretty much anything with Arnolfini in it that also mentions a wedding of some type)3.	Broadway Boogie Woogie by Piet Mondrian ("the one with the lines" is not an acceptable answer.)10.	Identify these honorees of buffalobeast.com's 50 Most Loathsome People in America 2002, 10 points given the Beast's description, 5 for a nonbiased one:(10) Number 42 is this filmmaker who "wears his dissident credentials not on his sleeve, but on his head and his waistline: his mesh baseball cap and fat body are now the leading brand-ID marker for political discontent among the ... 'enlightened left' demographic."  (5) Directed Roger and Me, TV Nation, and Bowling for Columbine	Answer: Michael Moore(10) "The official voice of white teenage suburban boys, [Number 12] has already worn out his shock value to the extent that his next album will have to include slurs against paraplegics and land-mine victims just to raise eyebrows."  (5) Recently appeared in 8 Mile and released The [self-titled] Show.	Answer: Eminem (accept Marshall Mathers) (10) # 1 is this columnist, "Eva Braun meets Sex and the City meets Alpha Rho Lambda.  In an age when every Hollywood hero is a CIA administrator and people express their rebelliousness by playing the stock market, it only makes sense that we'd have a sex symbol who lobbies to massacre foreigners and forcibly convert the survivors to Christianity."  (5) Her most recent books include Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right and High Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Case Against Bill Clinton.	Answer: Ann Coulter
11.	FTPE, name the following concerning the life of mathematician and computer-scientist John Backus:1.  Backus is best known for inventing this, first released in 1957, the world's first high-level programming language.	Answer:  	FORTRAN2.  This is the company for whom Backus was working when he invented FORTRAN.	Answer:  	IBM  (International Business Machines)3.  In 1959, Backus invented this standard notation for describing the syntax of high-level programming languages.  It is still taught in Computer Science programs today, over 40 years later, an eternity in the world of computers.	Answer:  	Backus Naur Form or Backus Normal Form  (Grudgingly accept BNF)12.	FTPE, given a brief description of a World War II Operation, supply its code name.a) The first phase was a German attack on the Russian border to destroy the Red Army, the 2nd phase aimed at establishing a front from the Volga River to Archangel          Answer:	Operation Barbarossab)  The largest airborne attack of the war, in it three Allied divisions parachuted near Eindhoven, Arnhem, and Nijmegen         Answer:	Operation Market-Gardenc) Eisenhower felt this operation was necessary to the success of Overlord because it would pin down German forces in southern France, with Allied troops landing between Cannes and Toulon            Answer:	Operation Anvil13.	Answer these questions about Arctic bodies of water that are not the Northwest Passage FTPE.A. Franz Joseph Land, Svalbard, Novaya Zemlya, and the port of Murmansk touch this sea named for a Dutch navigator. 	Answer: Barents SeaB. Discovered by John Davies in 1585, this bay is bordered by Greenland and the fifth-largest island in the world, with which it shares its name.	Answer: Baffin BayC. Partially screened by the Aleutian Islands from the Pacific Ocean, the Yukon River empties into it.  Its discoverer was commissioned by Peter I to explore northeastern Siberia.	Answer: Bering Sea (do NOT accept Bering Strait)14.	FTSNOP, name the land Gulliver traveled to when given a brief description.5-An island near Van Dieman's Land, inhabited by a race of people six inches tall.       Answer:	Lilliput5-A land inhabited by a race of giants possessing great moral stature       Answer:	Brobdingnag10-The flying island inhabited by a race of impractical visionaries       Answer:	Laputa10-The land where the immortal Struldbruggs live.       Answer:	Luggnagg15.	Let's test your knowledge of Quantum Field Theory.  Answer these three questions for 10 points apiece.A. Name the effect in which a small attractive force acts between two close parallel uncharged conducting plates.	Answer: Casimir effectB. In addition to predicting the Casimir Effect, Hendrick Casimir is also known for developing a general theory in 1934 of what phenomenon, where the resistance of a substance drops to zero when cooled to very low temperatures?	Answer:	Superconductivity	C. The Casimir Effect is a physical manifestation type of this energy type, defined as the minimum energy possessed by a particle when it is confined in a potential energy well, which is also what keeps electrons from collapsing into the nucleus.	Zero Point energy or Vacuum energy.16.	For 10 points each-give the authors of these philosophical works.a) Either/Or.	Answer:	 Soren Kierkegaardb)  Philosophical Investigations	Answer:	Ludwig Wittgensteinc)  An Essay on Human Understanding	Answer:	John Locke
17.	Name the author given works on 10-5 basis.a.	(10)  Endgame       (5)  Waiting for Godot       Answer:	Samuel Beckettb.	(10) Rites of Passage       (5)  Lord of the Flies       Answer:	William Goldingc.	(10)  Marriage and Morals       (5)  A History of Western Philosophy and Why I Am Not a Christian       Answer:	Bertrand Russell18.	Civil War Battles FTPE. A. The siege of this city known as "The Gibraltar of the Confederacy lasted from March 29th to July 4th 1863. Its surrender gave the north control of the Mississippi River. 	Answer: Vicksburg.B. Located in Arkansas, this March 1862 battle between Dorn's 16,000 Confederates and Curtis's 10,250 union soldiers was the largest battle west of the Mississippi. Elkhorn Tavern is one of the nearby landmarks.	Answer: Pea Ridge.C. This 1863 battle took place after the Union debacle at Chickamauga and saw Grant defeat Bragg to gain control of Tennessee.  Lookout Mountain, where the "Battle above the Clouds" was fought is one of the landmarks.	Answer: Chattanooga .19.	Identify the following terms/concepts from Hinduism FTPE1.	This term which is synonymous to nirvana depicts the release from the cycle of  reincarnation after death       Answer:  moksa (mohk-sha)2.   This is the name given to the cycle of reincarnation in Hindu philosophy       Answer:  samsara3.   Considered the most sacred syllable in the ancient language of Sanksrit, it is considered in Hinduism to represent all scriptural revelation in a single symbol.       Answer:  Om20.	FTPE, identify the following dealing with plant anatomy and physiology1. This vascular tissue conveys water and dissolved minerals upwards from roots to the shoots in plantsAnswer:  xylem2. These are small bumps on roots containing symbiotic bacteria that convert nitrogen into nitrogenous compounds that the plant can absorb as proteins or organic molecules.Answer:  root nodules3. These are roots that rise aboveground from stems or even as leaves.  They function as props to help support tall stems.  A good example of plants where you would find these would be on corn stalks.Answer:  adventitious roots21.	Seven people have been named Time Magazines Person of the Year twice.  Name any six of them for five points each.  There are 3 American Presidents, 2 Chinese heads of state, an American General, and a Russian leader.       Answers:	Chiang Kai-Shek, Harry S Truman, George C. Marshall, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, Deng Xiaoping, and Mikhail Gorbachev22.	FTSNOP, name these worlds of Norse mythology.A. For 5 points, this realm is the highest, and it is protected by thick stone walls that had been built by Blast. It is the homeland of the Aesir and the Vanir, and contained within is Valhalla.       Answer:	Asgard.B. For 10 points, this world is situated in Midgard, the land of men, and is the home of the mighty rock and frost giants, the sworn enemies of the Aesir.       Answer:	Jotunheim.C. For 15 points, this world is within Niflheim, and is the Norse world of death. It is a cold and dark place, ruled by the daughter of Loki and Angrboda.       Answer:	Helheim.