TOSSUPS -- LEE U.					SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	A self-education woman, she founded a semi-monthly periodical named "The Lily," which discussed matter of  interest to women.  A campaigner against sexual discrimination and an advocate of temperance and women's suffrage as well as dress reform, she lectured in full trousers gathered at the ankle beneath a short skirt  For ten points, name this woman, the namesake of the garment she wore.AMELIA JENKS BLOOMER2.	In addition to his award-winning work, he studied osmosis and investigated properties of toxins and antitoxins.  His eponymous equation defines the relationship between Gibbs free energy and activation energy for a reaction.  For 10 points--name this winner of the 1903 Nobel in chemistry for his theory of electrolytic dissociation and the accompanying theory of acids and bases.Answer:	Svante August Arrhenius3.	Modern scholars believe they came from Caphtor, which may be identified with Crete.  Their skirmishes with the Danites mark their first appearance as aggressive enemies, a trend which continued until their empire was incorporated into the Jewish empire under Solomon.  Their five princes ruled the cities of Gaza, Ashdod, Askelon, Gath, and Ekron. For ten points, identify these highly civilized inhabitants of the coastal region of Palestine, routed repeatedly in battle by King David and, according to 1 Samuel, for whom Goliath served as a representative.A: Philistines4.	After spending five years in the tea business, he studied for the bar exam, but found that he preferred writing.  He was a close friend of Charles Dickens, travelling with Dickens, writing plays for Dickens to act in, and publishing his two greatest novels in journals edited by Dickens.  In fact,. these two novels have led many critics to consider him as the originator of detective fiction.  For ten point name this author of The Moonstone and The Woman In White.(WILLIAM) WILKIE COLLINS5.	At 6' 3" and 225 pounds, he was a consensus All American at Pittsburgh in 1960 and was the Bears' #1 pick in the NFL draft.  He was named Rookie of the Year in 1961, played with the Bears for six years before going to the Eagles and, then, the Cowboys.  In 1988, he became the first tight end enshrined in the Football Hall of Fame.  You may know him better since his new nice-guy approach has gotten him into the news even though it hasn't gotten his new team many wins.   FTP, name this current head coach of the New Orleans Saints.Mike DITKA6.	At the command of his king, he was taken in a swan-drawn boat to Antwerp where he fought for and married Elsa of Brabant, on the condition that she never ask his name or his origin.  When she broke the vow, he disappeared.  For ten points name this son of the Percival who served as the subject of a Wagner opera.LOHENGRIN7	.In October 1780, nine hundred frontiersmen trapped a thousand loyalist militia under the command of Major Patrick Ferguson on a low, isolated ridge.  While the Americans suffered 28 dead and 62 wounded, they killed, wounded or captured the entire enemy force. This halted Cornwallis' advance into North Carolina and forced Cornwallis to retreat south.  For ten points, name the South Carolina military battle.KINGS MOUNTAIN
8.	Two varieties of this animal, the pig footed and the Ceram Island long-nosed, are thought to be extinct and both species of the rabbit genus are endangered.  It is distinguished from other marsupials by possessing both of two divergent characteristics, fused second and third toes like kangaroos and the presence of many incisor teeth like the carnivores.  FTP, name this animal made more notorious by Pizza Hut commercials and Nintendo.BANDICOOT9.	Poet Laureate for Illinois since the death of Carl Sandburg, she published her first volume of poetry in 1945.  Subsequent volumes have included In The Mecca, Aloneness, and Children Coming Home.  In 1950 she received the Pulitzer Prize in poetry and in 1989 she received the National Endowment for the Arts Lifetime Achievement Award.  FTP name this African-American author of A Street In Bronzeville and Annie Allen.GWENDOLYN BROOKS10.	He began painting at age 17 and studied abroad in Paris by age 22, thanks to a state grant.  His next 20 years were spent in Paris and Berlin.  Influenced by the loss of his sister and mother to tuberculosis, his work often reflects the anxiety and trauma of childhood.  Indeed, his 1892 exhibit was so shocking that it was closed by Berlin authorities.  FTP name this Norwegian painter of Between Clock and Bed, The Sick Child, and The Scream.EDVARD MUNCH11.	Here, you can experience the grandeur of the stately Otestaga Resort Hotel and its classic Leatherstocking Golf Course. You can spend the evening visiting the critically acclaimed Glimmerglass Opera or spend part of your day on a journey back in time at The Farmer's Museum.  However, this town became truly noteworthy in 1939 when 25 immortals were officially enshrined in what can be considered Mecca for all baseball fans.  FTP, name this upstate New York town.COOPERSTOWN12.	Born in 1835, his debut as a pianist came at age 10 and he later studied organ and harmony at the Paris Conservatoire.  In 1853, he composed his first symphony, and from 1858 to 1877 he was organist at the Church of the Madeleine in Paris.  He spent the last part of his life touring widely in North Africa and the Americas.  His works include Omphale's Spinning Wheel and Danse Macabre.  For ten points, name this composer, famous for Samson et Dalila, and Carnival of the Animals. Charles Camille Saint-Saens13.	He was ordained a priest in 1779, became abbot of Saint-Denis, was appointed agent general of French clergy, and eventually was named bishop of Autun.  He served as minister of foreign affairs from 1797 to 1807, opposed Napoleon's Russian and Spanish policies, and helped to restore the Bourbons to power.  In the early 1830s he was an ambassador to Great Britain, helping to bring about good relations between the countries.  FTP, name this French statesman who represented France at the Congress of Vienna.CHARLES MAURICE DE TALLEYRAND-PÉRIGORD14.	A high speed killer standing just under three feet tall, its name means "swift robber."  While a 1971 discovery of a protoceratops skeleton found entangled with this carnivore proved that dinosaurs fought with one another, this creature didn't become very well-known until a 1993 Spielberg film.  For ten points, name this small dinosaur with a bad attitude.VELOCIRAPTOR
15.	The site of George Rogers Clark's victory against the Shawnee in 1782, this city was the birthplace of poet Paul Dunbar.  As it was the home of Orville and Wilbur Wright as well, this city is also home to the Aviation Hall of Fame.  For ten points name this Ohio town which hosted a short-lived 1995 peace accord between Serbian president Slobodan Milosevic and Bosnian leader Alija Izetbegovic.DAYTON16.	As a specialist in reconnaissance, he became a hero in the defense of Mafeking during the Boer War.  Returning home he found that his military manual was being used in the schools to teach initiative and self-reliance.  In 1910 he resigned his commission to devote his time fully to training Britain's youth physically and militarily.  FTP name this former major general who formed both the Girl Guides and the Boy Scouts.ROBERT BADEN-POWELL  17.	After a massacre of between 10,000 and 30,000 Christian Ibo people of the Eastern Region of Nigeria by the Islamic Hausa and Fulani peoples, the Eastern Region, led by Odumegwu Ojukwu, proclaimed its  independence in May 1967.  As a result, a civil war ensued, until the newly formed country surrendered in January 1970.  For ten points, identify this short-lived secessionist state in southeastern Nigeria, over one millioncitizens of which died of starvation during the civil war. Republic of Biafra18.	The current version of his story was created by Silvio Fiorillo around 1600.  In a fit of jealousy, he strangles his infant son.  His wife then tries to bludgeon him, but he beats her to death and leaves the bodies in the street.  He is eventually arrested, but he escapes with a golden key and begins an allegorical journey where he triumphs over Ennui, Death, Disease, and the Devil.  For ten points name this hook nosed, hunchbacked puppet.PUNCH19.	He earned acclaim in the 1960s for such works as The Garden Party and The Memorandum, but most of his plays were banned in his native country shortly therefter.  He founded the human rights organization Charter 77 in 1977 and led the opposition group civic forum in 1989.  He was elected president of his country in '89, resigned in '92, and was re-elected in '93.  For ten points name this man who has served as president of both Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic.VACLAV HAVEL20.	Born in Brockton, New York, he was trained as a cabinet maker and a building contractor but went into manufacturing after patenting some of his innovations in another field.  He founded a town just outside of Chicago as a community for his workers, but in 1894 a violent workers strike erupted when his company lowered wages without lowering rents.  For ten points, name this inventor of the folding upper berth and the railroad sleeping car.GEORGE PULLMAN21.	While considered a great twentieth century novelist, he produced almost exclusively non-fiction in the last 46 years of his life.  He collaborated with Benjamin Britten on the opera "Billy Budd," writing the libretto for that opera.  He also wrote such collections of essays as Arbinger Harvest and Aspects of the Novel.  For ten points name this author of Howard's End and Room with a View.E(dward) M(organ) FORSTER22.	Located in Marin County, about 10 miles north of San Francisco, it is California's oldest. Built in 1852 with convict labor, some of the original buildings are still in use. Built to hold about 2,700 residents, its almost as infamous as its brother across the bay.  FTP What total institution are we talking about that made appearances in many movies including 'Blood in Blood Out: Bound By Honor'Answer : _San Quentin_
BONI -- LEE U.					SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	If you watch enough A&E or the History Channel, you should get an easy 30 points on this question about the Romans.  For ten points apiece, identify these important figures in Roman history.1.  The wife of Germanicus Caesar and granddaughter of Augustus, she gave birth to nine children including Gaius Caesar (AKA Caligula.)  After Tiberius exiled her to the island of Pandateria, she starved herself to death.AGGRIPINA The ELDER (prompt on  just "Aggripina")2. Aggripina the Elder was, of course, mother to Aggripina the Younger.  After the death of her first two husbands, the younger Agrippina married her uncle, the emperor Claudius I.  Claudius adopted this son of Aggripina and placed him next in line to the throne, bypassing his own son Britannicus.  This boy became Emperor at 17, and had Britannicus poisoned.NERO3.  The tutor of Nero, he was a philosopher and tragedian who greatly influenced Italian, French and English playwrights.  He was later implicated in the conspiracy to kill Nero led by Gaius Calperius Piso and committed suicide by imperial command.LUCIUS ANNAEUS SENECA2.	Some of us can't remember much of what happened yesterday, let alone what happened 100 years ago.  Hopefully, you will do better.  FTSNOP answer these questions on scientific feats in the year 1899:1.  FTP, Ernest Rutherford discovers the isotope of mass 200 for this element.RADON2.  FTP, French Chemist André Louis Debierne discovers this element which has an atomic number of 89.ACTINIUM3.  For five points each, Marconi establishes wireless commercial communication which will work in all types of weather between these two countries.ENGLAND and FRANCE3.	Name the author on a 30-20-10 basis from the clues provded.30)  An editor for the journal Punch, he first became known for such plays as Mr. Pim Passes By, Wurzel-Flummery, and The Dover Road.20)  His works for children included a dramatic adaptation of Kenneth Grahame's The Wind In The Willows and an collection of stories called A Treasury of Children.10)  His most renowned works were two books of verse and two collections of short stories based upon his son and the boy's stuffed toys.A(LAN) A(LEXANDER) MILNE4.	For ten points each, answer the following questions about Seward's Icebox, also known as Alaska.1. In what year was Alaska admitted as the 49th state?		19592. What is the northern-most ice-free harbor in North America, also called the Trans-Atlantic pipeline terminal?						 		VALDEZ3. In what national park is Mt. McKinley located?			 DENALI NATIONAL PARK5.  Identify the religious order of the Catholic Church for each of these notable members associated with it F5PE: 1. Bonaventura			1. FRANCISCAN2. Thomas Aquinas			2. DOMINICAN 3. Bernard of Clairveaux		3. CISTERCIAN4. Gregor Mendel			4. AUGUSTINIAN5. The Venerable Bede		5. BENEDICTINE6. Girolamo Savonarola		6. DOMINICAN
6.	In honor of January 30th, this bonus deals solely upon this day in history.  For five points a piece, identify these people associated (if loosely) with this day.1.  This US president was born in Hyde Park, NY, on January 30, 1882.	FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT or FDR (prompt on "Roosevelt")2.  This inventor of the wind tunnel and aviation pioneer died January 30, 1948.	ORVILLE WRIGHT (prompt on "Wright")3.  On January 30, 1933, Hindenberg appointed this man chancellor of Germany.	ADOLF HITLER4.  He was assassinated by Nathuram Godse on January 30, 1948.	MOHANDAS KARAMCHAND GANDHI (accept MAHATMA GANDHI)5.  He was beheaded on January 30, 1649.	CHARLES I of England6.  This British philosopher, born January 30, 1846, was the author of Appearance and Reality and was the first philosopher to receive the Order of Merit.	FRANCIS HERBERT BRADLEY7.  With few exceptions, the major characters in Thomas Hardy's novels end unhappily.  Wonder why there aren't more operas based on 'em.  Given a description of the fate of the title character, name the Hardy novel FTPE:  1.  The main character leaves town before his daughter's real father arrives, and he dies alone in the house of a man he had scorned years before.THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE2.  After the death of his wife and her lover, he goes blind from years of studying without proper light.RETURN OF THE NATIVE3. After the murder/suicide of his children, he returns to his 1st wife only for her to abandon him on his deathbed. JUDE THE OBSCURE 8.	Identify the blues legend from the description given, ten points each.1. In 1965 this former Memphis disk jockey's album Live at the Regal crossed over to the pop charts.  He's won numerous Grammys, among them one in 1970 for his song  "The Thrill Is Gone," one in 1992 for the album  Blues Summit, and a Lifetime Achievement Grammy Award in 1987.			(Riley) B.B. KING2.  Born in Rolling Fork, MS, under the name McKinley Morganfield, he was discovered by Alan Lomax and John Work and became a staple of the rhythm and blues circuit in the 1950.  His 1971 and 1972 albums, the latter one being called London Sessions, both won Grammy Awards.			MUDDY WATERS3.  A coronet soloist at the World's Columbian Exhibition in Chicago in 1893, from 1900 to 1902 he taught music at the Agricultural and Mechanical College in Huntsville, AL, but turned to composition in 1907.  His first published song, " Memphis Blues," brought blues into the arena of popular music.			W(illiam) C(hristopher) HANDY9.	Sure you know their names, but do you know their history?  FTPE name the current Supreme Court Justice based upon resume items before their appointment to the highest court in the land.1. Harvard Law grad; spent a year as a clerk for Justice Arthur Goldberg.  Taught law at Harvard; served as a special prosecutor during Watergate.  Appointed to the 1st Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston.STEPHEN BREYER2. Six years practicing corporate law;taught at the Virginia and Chicago Law Schools.  Had several jobs in the Justice Department.  Appointed by Reagan to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.ANTONIN SCALIA3.  Educated at Stanford and Harvard.  Private practice, first in San Francisco then in Sacramento, taught law at the University of the Pacific.  Named in 1975 by Ford to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit.ANTHONY KENNEDY 
10.	Most of the best known actors began in little-known films.  For ten points a piece, given the first film in which a famous actor appeared, name the actor.  You will receive five points if you need the last film in which he appeared.10 pts.: 	first film:  Service De Luxe 5 pts.:  	last film:  Edward Scissorhands		VINCENT PRICE10 pts. 		first film:  Sinner's Holiday5 pts.: 		last film:  Ragtime			JAMES CAGNEY10 pts.  	first film:  The Farmer Takes a Wife5 pts.    	last film:   On Golden Pond		HENRY FONDA  (prompt on "Fonda")The name is the same.  Given a description, provide the shared name for these cities, 30-20-10.30)  Originally called Rabbath Ammon when it was the capital of the Ammonites, it was captured, rebuilt and renamed by Ptolemy II in the 3rd century BC.20)  This city in Asia Minor was built by the king of Pergamum in the 2nd century BC.  It became a commercial center and early center for Christianity.  It was one of the 7 churches mentioned in Revelations.10)  The home of such universities as Drexell, LaSalle, and Temple, it originally consisted of a 22 by 8 block grid pattern extending between the Delaware and Schuylkill rivers and served as the capital of the colony of Pennsylvania before 1799.PHILADELPHIA11.	Given the name of a star or star cluster, name the zodiac constellation in which it appears F5PE.1.  Spica		VIRGO		4.Hamal			ARIES2.  Antares		SCORPIO		5.Praesepe or "the Beehive"	CANCER3.  Regulus		LEO			6.Rukbat			SAGITTARIUS12.  On Dec. 28, 1998, the NFL had their version of Black Monday -- five NFL coaches lost their jobs in a single day.  First, F5PE, name the five coaches who got the sack one day after the last game of the regular season.Ray RHODES (Philadelphia)			Dom CAPERS (Carolina)Ted MARCHIBRODA (Baltimore)		Dave WANNSTEDT (Chicago)Denis ERICKSON (Seattle)2.  Now for another five, name the NFL coach who survived Black Monday but soon thereafter, on the heels of his first losing season there, resigned his position as coach of the Kansas City Chiefs.Marty SCHOTTENHEIMER13.	Unable to think of an original place to meet, the warring powers of Europe seem to pick Paris for the site to sign treaties.  Given the year of the signing, name the war that the treaty ended, for five points each and a five point bonus for all correct1.  1856		CRIMEAN WAR2.  1783		AMERICAN REVOLUTION or REVOLUTIONARY WAR3.  1763		SEVEN YEARS' WAR  (accept  FRENCH-AND-INDIAN WAR )4.  1814		THE NAPOLEONIC WARS (or a reasonable version)5.  1898		SPANISH-AMERICAN WAR14.	Name the artist from the paintings FTPE.  You will receive five points if you need more famous works.1. (10)  The Bellelli Family, The Fallen Jockey, The Pedicure.     (5)   The Foyer , Two Ballerinas on Stage, Dance Class.			EDGAR DEGAS2. (10) Woman with Girl on a Terrace, Woman Reading, Walk in the Garden     (5) Little Girl With Watering Can, Rowers at Chatou, Dance in the City    PIERRE-AUGUST RENOIR3. (10) The Dead Toreador, The Artist's Wife on a Blue Sofa, Woman With a Cat     (5) Bar at the Folies-Bergeres, Olympia, Luncheon on the Grass		EDOUARD MANET
15.	Name these lovers made famous through literature for ten points per pair, five for each name.1.  Originally described by Ovid in his Metamorphoses, they were forbidden to marry but exchange vows through a hole in a wall.  When he believes a lion has killed her, he commits suicide; she soon follows suit.  In Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, Bottom plays the male role.PYRAMUS and THISBE2.  Real lovers who lived in 13th century Italy, she fell in love with her husband's brother.  They were both killed when the affair was discovered.  In the Inferno, she tells Dante how they realized their love while reading a story about Lancelot and Guinevere.  Leigh Hunt recounts their affair in the 1816 poem "The Story of Rimini."PAOLO and FRANCESCA3.  Their story has been told by Boccacio, Chaucer, and Shakespeare.  He was the son of Priam, King of Troy, and she was the daughter of a Trojan soothsayer.  Through they pledge eternal fidelity, she betrays him with her Greek captor, Diomedes, and he is killed in battle.TROILUS and CRESSIDA16.	We hear about them all the time, but that doesn't mean that we know what they are.  Given a description of the infirmity, provide the name for ten points each.1.  An inflamed sac of fluid over the first joint of the big toe, it causes distortion of the joint and can lead to permanent deformity if it thickens.								BUNION2.  A fungal infection of the skin also called tinea pedis, it is often caused by the species Trichophyton.  Symptoms include reddish eruptions, cracks in the skin between the toes, a watery discharge, and itching.												ATHLETE'S FOOT3.  The protrusion of an organ or part of an organ or other structure through the wall of the cavity that normal contains it.  Common types include Inguinal, Diaphramatic, and  Umbilical.				HERNIA17.	30-20-10 Name the actor.30. Born June 1st, 1937 in Memphis, he receiving a rank of #31 in October 1997s list of  "The Top 100 Movie Stars of All Time."   This was no doubt influenced by the "Silver Berlin Bear" and the Golden Globe Awards he won in 199020.  His directorial debut was in the movie Bopha! starring Danny Glover10.  While 1999 looks promising his best year was arguably 1989 with Driving Miss Daisy, Glory, and Lean On Me.   Answer : Morgan Freeman18.	Given a list of three characters, name the work FTP each.  You will receive five points if you need more well-known characters.1a.  Colonel Korn, Hungry Joe, Milo Mindbender  b.  Major Major, YossarianCATCH-222a.  Duncan Fitzhugh, Ida Scott, Jim O'Connor  b.  Tom Wingfield, Laura WingfieldTHE GLASS MENAGERIE3a. Owl Eyes, Chester McKee, Jordan Baker  b. George Wilson, Daisy BuchananTHE GREAT GATSBY
19.	Sometimes it is easy to tell what source provided the name for an element.  Take for instance, Einsteinium.  Not all are quite so recognizable.  F5PE identify whether the following elements derived their names from a person, place, or thing.1. Lutetium (Lu)		PLACE ("Lutetia," the ancient name for Paris)2. Selenium (Se)		THING ("selene," Greek for "moon")3. Gadolinium (Gd)	PERSON (Flemish chemist John Gadolin)4. Holmium (Ho)		PLACE ("Holmia," Latin term for Stockholm)5. Rhodium (Rh)		THING ("Rhodon," Greek for "rose")6. Ruthenium (Ru)	PLACE (Ruthenia, now a part of the Ukraine)20.	With unsanitary conditions, poor housing, and little food, a prison camp was not where you wanted to be during the Civil War.  Some even gained a notoriety for being abominable.  For ten points each, identify the prison camp from the description.  1.  Between Feb 1864 and April 1865 this Georgia prison held 49,485 Union army enlisted men.  More than 13,700 prisoners died in confinement, leading to the conviction and hanging of superintendent Henry Wirz.ANDERSONVILLE PRISON2.  This prison in Richmond, VA, was formerly a three-story brick building owned by a tobacco company.  Used only for Union officers, it was second in notoriety to Andersonville.LIBBY PRISON3.  This Midwestern city became an important military center during the Civil War after it established an arsenal and the largest prisoner-of-war camp in the North.COLUMBUS, OHIO21.	You may be up on the Hebrew or the Norse creations stories, but how are you with the neighbors/rivals of ancient Israel, the Egyptians?  For five points a piece, answer these questions about their take on the beginning of the world.1.  In the beginning was the ocean, but then an egg (or a flower according to some) appeared on the water and out came this god.									RA2.  Ra then brought forth four children, two daughters and two sons.  The daughters became the atmosphere and, standing on the back of one brother, held up the other.  First, for five points each, name the two goddesses who became the atmosphere.					TEFNUT and NUT3.  Now name the brother upon whose back they stood, the god who thus became the earth.	GEB4.  Next, name the brother they held up, the god who became the sky.				SHU5.  Finally, what son of Nut and Geb succeeded Ra as king of the earth but was killed by his brother.											OSIRIS	22.	Given a list of three works, name the author for ten points each.1.  The poems "On Being Brought from Africa to America" and "To The King's Most Excellent Majesty" and the collection Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and MoralPHILLIS WHEATLEY2.  The stories "My Kinsman, Major Molineux," "Roger Malvin's Burial" and "Rappaccini's Daughter"NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE3.  The poem "Annabel Lee" and the stories "William Wilson" and "The Gold Bug"EDGAR ALLAN POE