TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #3				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by, well, everyone1.	He taught for several years at Oxford, but did not live much past the age of 34, according to some sources.  There is argument over whether he was from Ireland or from England, but his commentary on the "Sentences" of Peter Lombard provides support for the Irish claim.  Equally as famous as the "Sentences" commentary is his writing on the works of Aristotle.  FTP, who is this medieval philosopher who also penned his "Questiones Quodlibitales"?	Answer:	John Duns Scotus2.	Originally titled Space Chase, creators Brian Henson and Rockne S. O'Bannon developed a pilot script and pitched it to the Fox Network, but they rejected it for another show, Space Above and Beyond. The project waited until 1999, when it was presented to the Sci-Fi channel and finally put into production. For ten points, what show, which was cancelled in 2002 because of budget constraints, featured the crewmembers of the ship Moya, including John Crichton.	Answer:	Farscape3.	He studied anthropology at the Sorbonne; his interest in Mayan culture is reflected in his early works. Returning home in the 1930s, he served as a journalist and cultural attaché to Mexico over the next two decades, while writing such works as Viento Fuerte and El Papa Verde. FTP what Guatemalan author of El Señor Presidente and Hombres de Maíz won the 1967 Nobel Prize in Literature?ANSWER: 	Miguel Angel Asturias4.	The modern translations of the epic of Gilgamesh are derived from the 12 stone tablets originally in this city's library. The city also contained the palace of Sennacherib [suh-NACK-uh-rib], and was destroyed by the [*] Scythians, Medes, and Babylonians in 612 BC. For 10 points-name this city, home to the palace of Ashurbanipal, that was the capital of Assyria.ANSWER:	Nineveh5.	Launched on October 24, 1998, it was a part of NASA's "smaller, faster, cheaper" program.  A severe setback occurred when its experimental navigational system failed, but a workaround was found. Its secondary missions included encounters with the asteroid Braille and comet Borrelly.  For ten points, name this space probe whose primary mission was to test new technologies, including an ion propulsion system.	Answer: 	Deep Space 1.6.	This man had a pension for overachieving, entering college at the age of twelve, graduating by age fifteen, being ordained as a minister at age twenty-two and holding office in the church until his death.  He wrote some 450 books in his lifetime, on subjects ranging from biographies to ways of fighting witchcraft.  FTP name this famous Puritan, author of Pietas in Patriam and Wonders of the Invisible World.	Answer: 		Cotton Mather. 7.	An electromagnetic wave propagating in a material medium is disturbed by refractive-index inhomogeneities that are small compared to the wavelength of the wave. Because the degree of disruption depend very heavily on wavelength, there is a bias towards light of a shorter wavelength. FTP, name this effect which is cited as the reason that the sky is blue.	Answer:	Rayleigh Scattering.8.	Albert Wohlstetter described this policy's theoretical framework, pointing out that it requires a rational opponent in the 1959 article "The Delicate Balance of Terror." A strategy of comparative risks, it requires second-strike capability. For 10 points-what policy seeks to prevent hostile action by promising either effective defense or overwhelming retaliation?ANSWER: deterrence (do not accept "mutual assured destruction")9.	Because the French wanted an overland path from the Red Sea to the Atlantic, Major Marchand and his men marched almost 2000 miles from Brazzaville to the Nile to stake their claim. Lord [*] Kitchner, upon hearing of this, marched in and claimed the land the French occupied, leading to-for 10 points-what non-violent conflict which saw the French relinquish their territorial claims to the upper Nile?ANSWER: 	Fashoda [fuh-SHOH-duh] incident10.	An event is certain to occur one weekday next week, but the exact day is not known in advance. Since Friday is the last day of the week, the group would expect it then, so it cannot be any later than Thursday. Similar logic makes any other day impossible as well. For 10 points-name this paradox governing the scheduling of known surprises, named for its appearance in classrooms or executions.	Answer:		hangman's paradox or unexpected exam paradox [accept equivalents]11.	The 1855 Port Elliott Treaty he signed established a reservation for the Duwamish [doo-WAH-mish] and Suquamish [soo-koo-AH-mish] Indians. He worried that his eternal sleep would be interrupted every time his name was spoken after his death, a hindrance to settlers who wanted to name a town after him. A tax levied as advance compensation for his disturbance-for 10 points-made what Indian chief the namesake of a city in the Northwest?	Answer:	Chief Seattle [or Seathl]12.	Line 15 contains a reference to the play Antigone, saying that its playwright heard the same "eternal note of sadness" as the poem's author, but "Heard it long ago on the Aegean".  The poem itself displays a negative view of the future of humanity, which seems to be eroding away like the title place.  FTP, what is this place "where ignorant armies clash by night", as described in a work by Matthew Arnold?	Answer:	Dover Beach13.	The first scientific recording of this event was in 1799 by Prussian explorer Alexander von Humboldt.  Historical notations of this celestial event have been traced back to 902 C.E. and occur at 33-year intervals.  For 10-points each, name this celestial event last seen on November 18, 2002, and name the comet whose dust causes it.		Answer: Leonid meteor storm or shower14.	Born in Lowell, Massachusetts, this man's father was a railway engineer and designed the St. Petersburg-Moscow railway for Czar Nicholas I.  He flunked out of West Point in 1854 after failing chemistry and then turned to painting.  He was accepted into Paris circles like few Americans before him and the painting that made his reputation was The White Girl.  Other notable works include The Peacock Room and Nocturne in Blue and Gold, Old Battersea Bridge, which was an inspiration to Oscar Wilde.  FTP, who is this man better know for Arrangement in Grey and Black Number 1: The Artist's Mother?	Answer:	James Abbott McNeil Whistler15.	His probability distribution, also called the Lorentzian distribution, has no mean or variance.  In a complete metric space, every sequence of his type [*] converges. His integral theorem states that the path integral of a holomorphic function around a closed curve in the complex plane is zero. For 10 points-which French mathematician, with Schwarz, has a namesake inequality in normed linear spaces?        ANSWER: 	Augustin Louis Cauchy [koh-SHEE]16.	This son of a poor farmer grew up idolizing his country's legends, Abebe Bikila [ah-BAY-bay bih-KEE-luh] and Miruts Yifter [MEE-rootsYIF-tir]. In 1992, he rose to international prominence by winning the 5,000 and 10,000 meter World Junior Championships; a year later he won the 10,000 at the Stuttgart World Championship. Disney's movie Endurance tells the story of-for 10 points-what Ethiopian world record holder?ANSWER:	Haile Gebrselassie [GEH-bir-suh-LAH-see]17.	Her three horsemen represent day, sunrise, and night. She is sometimes called "bone-legs," a reference to her  skinniness; in some stories, she has an iron tongue and iron teeth. While she grudgingly respects some children, such as Vasilisa [vah-suh-LEE-suh] the Fair, she's more likely to chase them in her mortar and pestle, and to try to eat them. For 10 points-name this crone of Russian folklore.ANSWER:	Baba Yaga18.	An extension of a familiar mnemonic used to remember them includes suberic, azelaic, and sebacic, as "sweet and succulent." The smallest ones decarboxylate on heating, while slightly longer ones form cyclic anhydrides. A derivative of one is the key reagent in the malonic ester synthesis, while another, succinic acid, figures prominently in the Krebs cycle. FTP, identify these compounds, characterized by two COOH groups.	Answer:	dicarboxylic acids19.	In the 30s he organized relief flights for starving Navajo families, and promoted "antsy pants" boxers (with red ants painted on) while running his family's department store. He then defeated Senate Majority Leader Ernest [*] McFarland's 1952 re-election bid, becoming a leading western Republican, promoting his views in Conscience of a Conservative. For 10 points-name this Arizonan who ran for president in 1964.       ANSWER: Barry (Morris) Goldwater20.	Thought to be a covert satire against the Jansenists, the first three acts provoked unprecedented amusement when they were presented in 1664 at Versailles. When it premièred in Paris, though, critics accused it of undermining the foundations of religion. A poor beggar is taken in as an honored guest in a provincial household, but deceives his hosts in-for 10 points-what play, known in English as The Hypocrite, by Molière?	Answer:		Tartuffe [tar-TOOF] [accept The Hypocrite on early buzz]21.	Carlo Maderno [muh-DARE-noh] added the nave and the façade at the behest of Paul V, turning the design from a Greek cross to a Latin one. The piazza and colonnade were designed by [*] Bernini, who also added the Baldacchino [ball-duh-KEE-noh] to the interior. Until 1987, the largest church in the world was-for 10 points-what church, designed partly by Michelangelo, in the Vatican?	Answer:		St. Peter's Basilica or Basilica di San Pietro22.	Among key positions at this battle were Breyman's Balcarre's Redoubts, near the British camp, and Bemis Heights, near the American camp.  Locals flocked to the Continental Army when [*] Jane McRae was scalped by Indian allies of Burgoyne; sharpshooters met his main force near Freeman's Farm. For 10 points-name this 1777 battle in which Horatio Gates defeated the British near Albany.ANSWER: Battle of Saratoga23.	The rotating Millennium Bridge, for pedestrians and cyclists only, connects it to Gateshead. Home to the world's first railway locomotive workshop, it later became an important center of shipbuilding. Its eponymous feature was built by the Normans in 1080, and it is connected to the North Sea by the river Tyne. For 10 points-name this city in northeast England that doesn't need any coal.ANSWER:	Newcastle(-upon-Tyne) [accept "taking coal(s) to Newcastle"]