TOSSUPS - QUARTERFINALS		SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Rutgers, Berkeley, and Iowa State1.	The film version of this play opens and ends with the song "Seamus" from Pink Floyd's album Meddle. In one scene players stage The Rape of the Sabine Women, or rather, woman, or rather, Alfred. Though the execution is not shown, we may infer the condition of the title characters from the title. For 10 points-name this play whose title characters toss coins and play at questions.	Answer:	Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead2.	Critics claim his "felicific [feh-lih-SIH-fick] calculus," a method of measuring personal happiness, was absurd, but it was a key idea in his economic views. His Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation defends his theory that all human actions must be judged by their usefulness in promoting the greatest happiness for the greatest number. For 10 points-name this founder of Utilitarianism.		Answer:	Jeremy Bentham 3.	The speech announcing it read, "We cannot allow changes in the status quo in violation of the Charter of the United Nations . . . by such subterfuges as political infiltration." Provoked by Great Britain's announcement that it could no longer afford to provide aid, Congress voted to give 400 million dollars to Greece and Turkey. For 10 points-name this 1947 policy of Communist containment.	Answer:	Truman Doctrine (prompt on containment)4.	Imagine having a full beaker with an exit at the top, shining a light into it, and watching the stuff form a fountain and shoot out of the top exit.  Even without the light, the stuff climbs the walls of the beaker and has lost all its viscosity.  Of course, this assumes you have helium and a way to cool it enough.  In short, super cold material is messed up!  FTP, name this property, achieved by Helium 4 at temperatures below 2 Kelvin.	Answer: 	Superfluidity  (prompt on early buzz with "helium" or "liquid helium," etc.)[EDITOR'S NOTE: That's a lot of Kelvin coolage.]5.	The first track of their first album is allegedly named after their original bassist, and it refers to the lead singer's favorite childhood sled, which he named Weepel. They've been through several bassists, most recently dumping the clinically insane Mikey Welsh in favor of Scott Shriner. For 10 points-name this band that released the album Pinkerton, whose frontman is Rivers Cuomo.	Answer:	Weezer6.	He left Harvard in 1937 to study with John Crowe Ransom and Allen Tate. He spent part of World War II in prison, an experience he chronicled in "Memories of West Street and Lepke." In 1946 he won a Pulitzer for Lord Weary's Castle, but it was the free-verse innovations in 1959's Life Studies, the first book of confessional poetry, that assured his fame. For 10 points-name this relative of Amy and James Russell.	Answer:	Robert Traill Spence Lowell, Jr.7.	They were discovered through experiments with E. coli using pulse labeling with radioactive thymidine and sedimentation velocity. Typically a few hundred nucleotides long in eukaryotes, they are joined by DNA ligase to allow for a new "lagging" strand to be synthesized in the 3 prime to 5 prime direction. For 10 points-identify these fragments of DNA named after a Japanese scientist.	Answer:	Okazaki fragments8.	The local leader of a revolutionary society, Katipunan, he fought fiercely but was eventually exiled by Spain in 1897. It was just a year, though, before he was back in his homeland thanks to the George Dewey and the might of the American army. While he was initially allied with the US, relations turned sour as the Treaty of Paris ceded his homeland to them. FTP, name this Philippine revolutionary leader who was proclaimed president for a short time in 1899.	Answer:	Emilio Aguinaldo 
9.	Cain and Abel. Noah's Ark on Mount Ararat. Abraham and Isaac. Jacob and Esau. Joseph being sold into slavery. Moses at Mount Sinai. Joshua at Jericho. David and Goliath. The "cosmic egg" design of the sublime creation of Eve. These subjects are panels sculpted onto-for 10 points-what famous baptistry doors of Florence's cathedral, created by Ghiberti?	Answer:	The Gates of Paradise [accept early buzz with "baptistry doors at Florence", they'd earn it.]10.	Oscar tells his story from the confines of a psychiatric hospital. Though he used to break up Nazi rallies with the title object and his glass-shattering voice, he has since lost that power. In the hospital, he tells the story of his origins, tracing them to his grandmother Anna Bronski and her skirts. For 10 points-name this book about Oskar Matzerath, the second volume in Günter Grass' Danzig Trilogy.	Answer:	The Tin Drum or Die Blechtrommel11.	His political career began in 1972 when he was elected to Parliament for the National Party. In 1989, when the president of his country fell ill, he was elected leader of his party. That same year he replaced Botha as president, and immediately began talks for a new post-apartheid constitution. For 10 points-which South African president broke down racial barriers and freed Nelson Mandela?	Answer:	F(rederik) W(illem) de Klerk12.	His First Symphony was his graduation piece, which brought early international acclaim. His Second and Third Symphonies were entitled to give a voice to revolutionary socialism. The first opera by this composer of the ballets The Bolt and The Age of Gold was The Nose, based on the Gogol work. For 10 points-name this Russian composer of symphonies nicknamed Leningrad and Babi Yar.	Answer:	Dmitri Dmitrievich Shostakovich13.	This god, often associated with an older deity known as Liber, was raised by Nysaean nymphs after his mother's death.  Juno cursed him with madness, but he was later cured by Rhea during a pilgrimage to Asia. His festival, celebrated from March 16-17, was banned by the Roman senate in 186 BC, after having been introduced to Rome less than 30 years earlier. FTP name this Roman god, the son of Jupiter and Semele, who is often equated with Dionysus, and whose celebrations were notorious for their depravity.	Answer:	Bacchus (accept Dionysus before "Juno"; prompt on it after that but before "Roman God"; do not accept it after "Roman God.")14.	If a chlorine is substituted for one of this molecule's hydrogens and then polymerized, the result is polyvinyl chloride. The Wacker process is used to turn the molecule into ethaldehyde, and is also found in plants as a gaseous hormone that promotes fruit ripening. Polymerization of this molecule leads to a material that makes up plastic bags. With formula C2H4, FTP, name this chemical, the simplest alkene.	Answer:	Ethene or Ethylene 15.	Section titles include: "A Dark Chase Requires a Silent Hound," "War Between Four Walls," "Waterloo," "The Old Gorbeau (gor - BO) House," "In What Manner M. Madeleine Looks at His Hair," "Eponine, (EP - o - NEEN)" "Little Gavroche, (gav - ROSH)" "Marius Enters the Shadow," and "Javert (zha -VAIR) Off the Track." Also featuring "Jean Valjean" (val - ZHAN), FTP, name this novel by Victor Hugo.	Answer:	Les Misérables16.	After a failed expedition against the island of Paros he was charged with treason and fined heavily. The ruler of an Athenian dependency in Gallipoli, this father of Cimon ["Simon"] was an ally of Darius I against the Scythians. Later elected to a board of generals to oppose the impending Persian invasion, he led Athens to victory in 490 BC. For 10 p0ints-name this commander at Marathon.	Answer:	Miltiades [mill-TYE-uh-deez]17.	The son of an army officer, he had originally gravitated towards painting but in 1943, he was hired as an assistant director and devoted himself to film. Although he gained international fame in the 1950s, in the 1960s he was criticized as being overly dramatic and too "western;" ironic since many westerns such as A Fistful of Dollars and The Magnificent Seven. FTP, identify this director most famous for films such as Rashomon, Yojimbo, Sanjuro, and The Seven Samurai.	Answer:	Akira Kurosawa (also accept Kurosawa Akira, as he is credited in Japanese films)
18.	Key concepts in his theories include organismic valuing, an internal process which leads to right choices. To encourage decisions based on organismic valuing, he advocated positive regard, an unconditional form of love, which he believed would help more people achieve self-actualization. For 10 points-name this humanistic psychologist who developed client-centered therapy.	Answer:	Carl Rogers19.	Among the highest ranked nation as regards length of life, data from its censuses helped DeCode Genetics to discover the Methuselah gene.   It also boasts a remarkable 99.9% literacy rate as well as one of the lowest unemployment rates.  In government, its people elected the first female president of a nation and it was the home of the first Parliament, the allthing established by Celtic and Scandinavian immigrants in 930.  FTP name this north-Atlantic island nation with capital at Reykjavik.	Answer: Iceland. 20.	Many scientists are now switching away from this in favor of the moment magnitude scale which can measure massive events more precisely.  It was first developed in 1935 by a professor at the California Institute of Technology, and obtains accurate readings by calibrating instruments with respect to one another.  For ten points, name this logarithmic scale, the most popular for measuring the magnitude of earthquakes.	Answer: 	Richter Scale.21.	 She has been portrayed by Jane Alexander, Jane Russell, Carol Burnett, Anjelica Huston, and most notably Doris Day.  A native of Princeton, Missouri, she carried mail between Custer, Montana and Deadwood, South Dakota and served as a scout for the U.S. 7th Cavalry in the Black Hills area. FTP, name this cowgirl, whose nickname comes from the threats of trouble that would come to any who crossed her, supposedly the amour of Wild Bill Hickok.	Answer: 	Calamity Jane.22.	He composed the song "The Time of Your Life" for Nine Months. He directed the documentary Sun City/The Making of Sun City. Thanks to him, the Swinging Neckbreakers appeared on The Sopranos. WAXQ New York and KDKB Phoenix owe their success to this host of Little Steven's Underground Garage. For 10 points-name this guitarist for Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band, who plays the owner of The Bada-Bing!, Silvo Dante.	Answer:	Steve(n) Van Zandt23.	This author's first books were volumes of poems including Bright November and A Frame of Mind. He was a member, along with Philip Larkin, of a literary movement called, creatively, The Movement, which was mostly an outlet for its members' aggressive ambition. His novels, like That Uncertain Feeling and I Like It Here, reflect this, leading to his inclusion among the "Angry Young Men." FTP, name this author of Lucky Jim.
	Answer:	Sir Kingsley William Amis24.	His oldest human ancestor was Sigi, brother of Skadi. Sigi's son was Rerir, who in his old age sired the grandfather of this hero, who gives his name to the saga which tells of this man's exploits. Among the exploits of this son of Sigmund were the slaying of the dragon Fafnir and the rescue of Brunhilde in Gunther's name. FTP, identify this most famous of Norse heroes, a descendant of Odin whose story is told in the Volsung saga.	Answer:	Sigurd
BONI - QUARTERFINALS			SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Rutgers, Berkeley, and Iowa State1.	Name these pieces of slavery-related legislation, 10 points each.[10]	This act allowed the two namesake states to decide if they would become free or slave states.	Answer:	Kansas-Nebraska Act[10]	This last-ditch pre-Civil War measure proposed to restore the Missouri Compromise line of 36 degrees, 30 minutes as the northern boundary of slavery, despite the Dred Scott decision.     	Answer:	Crittenden Compromise[10]	This amendment tried to exclude the further introduction of slaves into Missouri as a condition of Missouri's statehood. It provoked the crisis that led to the Missouri Compromise.     	Answer:	Tallmadge Amendment 2.	Answer the following about parodies, for 10 points each.
[10] In Dryden's MacFlecknoe the heir-apparent to the Kingdom of Nonsense is based on this Poet Laureate from 1689 to 1692, author of The Sullen Lovers. He is called Sh. in the poem.	Answer:	Thomas Shadwell[10] Richardson's Pamela gets a rough treatment in this work by Henry Fielding, which mocks Richardson's prudishness and the form of the epistolary novel.	Answer:	An Apology for the Life of Mrs. Shamela Andrews [10] Your genial quizmaster highly recommends this Harvard Lampoon work, which tells of the quest of Frito Bugger under the tutelage of the wizard Goodgulf Greyteeth, the only work to date to use the term phoneme fricatives to get a cheap laugh.	Answer:	Bored of the Rings3.	Answer these question about a work by Aristotle for 10 points apiecea. What work said it would cover Epic, Tragic, Comedic, and Dithyrambic forms, as well as others?	Answer: Poetics. b.  What, according to the Poetics, should be the cause of a tragic hero's downfall?	(10)  tragic flaw or hamartiac. What was the Roman counterpart of Poetics, written in the 1st Century BC, by the Poet Horace?	(10)  Ars Poetica or Art of Poetry.4.	Given works name the artist FTPE[10] Eggs on a Plate Without a Plate, The Hallucinogenic Toreador, The Great Masturbator 	Answer:	Salvador Dali[10] The Madonna and Child with St. Martina and St. Agnes, The Burial of Count Orgaz 	Answer:	El Greco (or Domenikos Theotokopolis, but damn him for making me type all that)[10] Girl with a Watering Can, Luncheon of the Boating Party	Answer:	Pierre-Auguste Renoir5.	Name the following concentration measurements for ten points each.[10] The number of moles of solute divided by the volume of the solution.	Answer:	Molarity[10] The number of moles of solute divided by the total number of moles in the solution.	Answer:	Mole Fraction or Mole Percentage[10] The mass of solute divided by the mass of the solution.	Answer:	Percent Composition 6.	Name these Asian archaeological sites, 10 points each.[10]	This streetless urban settlement in Anatolia dates to about 7200 BC.
	Answer:	Catal Hüyük[10]	This great city of the Khmer Empire in Cambodia lies near its namesake temple, or wat.	Answer:	Angkor [accept Angkor Wat][10]	Unlike Harappa, this city in the Indus Valley remains relatively intact. Abandoned after the Indus flooded, it was founded around 2000 BC.	Answer:	Mohenjo-Daro 
7.	For 10 points each-who is the all-time leader in Major League Baseball in:[10]	At-bats?	Answer:	Pete Rose[10]	Both walks and wild pitches?	Answer:	Nolan Ryan[10]	Saves?	Answer:	Lee Smith8.	Name these Latin American authors for ten points each. [10] This Nobel winner's poems, such as General Song and Residence on Earth, blend surrealism with Marxism, not surprising considering he was the Chilean Communist Party's 1970 presidential candidate.	Answer:	Pablo Neruda[10] In Betrayed by Rita Hayworth and Kiss of the Spider Woman, this Brazilian used movie images to contrast with reality.	Answer:	Manuel Puig[10] This Nicaraguan poet founded the modernist movement in Latin America with collections such as Azul and Kiss of the Spider Woman	Answer:	Rubén Darío or Félix Rubén García-Sarmiento 9.	Answer the following about a certain type of rock for the stated number of points.[5] For five points, this class of rock forms when magma cools. 	Answer:	Igneous rock
[5,5] Igneous rocks can be divided into two classes based on color that are named after the minerals that predominate in each class. Name them for five points each.	Answer:	Felsic and Mafic rock[Felsic from feldspar and silicon; mafic from magnesium and ferrum (Latin for iron)][15] This mafic rock is most common form of volcanic rock, the extrusive equivalent of gabbro.	Answer:	Basalt 10.	Answer the following questions about the history of Vietnam on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] This founder of the Indochinese communist party demanded reform and independence from French colonial rule.	Answer:	Ho Chi Minh[10] In 1968, U.S. soldiers massacred a large group of unarmed civilians in this location, later exposed by journalist Seymour Hersh.	Answer:	My Lai (pronounced mee - LIE or my-LIE)[15] This last reigning Nguyen emperor of Vietnam sought to reform and modernize Vietnam but was unable to win French cooperation. He fled to Hong Kong in 1946 but returned in 1949 to aid the new government.	Answer:	Bao Dai 11.	Name these American poets, 10 points each.[10]	"I too beneath your moon, almighty Sex," wrote this poet who heralded the age of the New Woman in "Renascence" [ruh-NAY-since].	Answer:	Edna St. Vincent Millay [Accept expletives before Millay.-Ed.][10]	She rejected Vachel Lindsay as a suitor. Her books include Flame and Shadow, Helen of Troy, and Love Songs, for which she won the first poetry Pulitzer.     	Answer:	Sara Teasdale[10]	She became famous for her subtle Imagist aesthetics, shown in poems like "Oread" and "Sea Rose." She was psychoanalyzed by Freud.      	Answer:	H. D. or Hilda Doolittle 12.	Answer the following information about black holes for ten points each.[10] This is the radius below which the attraction between particles causes it to collapse into a black hole.	Answer:	Schwarzschild Radius or gravitational radius[10] Virtual particle-antiparticle pairs are created near the event horizon. If one of the particles falls into the black hole, the other particle seems to be emitted from the black hole, creating this type of radiation.	Answer:	Hawking Radiation[10] The smallest black hole that can be created has this mass, equal to the square root of h times the speed of light divided the gravitational constant.	Answer:	Planck Mass 
13.	Churchill once said, "An appeaser is like a man feeding a crocodile.  It will eat him last."  Answer these questions about appeasement before the outbreak of WWII, FTPE.A. What British Prime Minister came back from a 1938 conference with Hitler, saying he had found "peace for our time"?	Answer: Arthur Neville Chamberlain.B. At that meeting in Munich, Hitler's assertion that this Czech region actually belonged to Germany went unchallenged.	Answer: Sudetenland (accept Sudeten; better yet, Sudetes or Sudety, since the rightful owners called it that!)C. Chamberlain wasn't the only chump.  This French representative to the Munich Conference also sold out Czechoslovakia.	Answer: Edouard Daladier.14.	For ten points each, name these musical terms from a description.[10] The holding of a tone or rest beyond the written value at the discretion of the performer.	Answer:	Fermata[10] A rapid alteration between notes that are a half tone or whole tone apart	Answer:	Trill or tremolo[10] This is the rapid playing of consecutive notes in a scale or scale-like passage.	Answer:	Glissando 15.	Answer these questions about the early Reformation, for ten points each. [10] Martin Luther kicked it all off by nailing 95 theses to the door of the cathedral in this city.	Answer:	Wittenberg[10] An associate of Luther, he wrote an early defense of Lutheran doctrine called Loci Communes (LO- si COM- mu -ness), as well as the Augsburg Confession.	Answer:	Philip Melanchthon (ME - lank -thon) or Philip Schwarzerd[10] Frederick the Wise sheltered Luther in this castle after his condemnation at the Diet (deet) of Worms (vorms). 	Answer:	Wartburg 16.	Its love plots concern Claudio and Hero, and Beatrice and Benedick.[10]	Name this bawdy comedy.	Answer:	Much Ado About Nothing[10]	This bumbling constable of Messina is assisted by Verges, Hugh Oatcake, and George and Francis Seacoal.	Answer:	Dogberry[10]	For 5 points each-these two princely brothers come to Messina after fighting a silly fraternal war. One is the good Prince of Aragon, the other his scurrilous bastard of a brother.	Answer:	Don Pedro and Don John     [Yes. In the 1993 film, Denzel Washington and Keanu Reeves were brothers.-Ed.]17.	Given the quote, name the 1997 film, 10 points each.[10]	"Off the record, on the QT, and very hush-hush."	Answer:	LA Confidential[10]	"Anti-wrinkle cream there may be, but anti-fat-bastard cream there is not."	Answer:	The Full Monty[10]	"You like apples? . . . Well, I got her number. How do you like them apples?"	Answer:	Good Will Hunting18.	FTPE name some of the people involved in the early part of the debate over that just won't die, over evolution:A. This scientist was the first to stress relationships between an organism and its environment, although his theory of inheritance of acquired characteristics, also known as the use-disuse theory, was inaccurate.	Answer: 	Jean-Baptiste Lamarck.B. This opponent of Lamarck introduced the theory of catastrophism to explain the discrepancy between the fossil record and modern day animals. This theory also maintained fixity of species.	Answer: 	Georges Cuvier.C. This man advocated Hutton's theory of uniformitarianism in Principles of Geology, saying the earth's surface is variable through time but that the processes working are constant, suggesting an old rather than new earth.	Answer: 	Charles Lyell.
19.	30-20-10. Name the book.[30] Minor characters include Dunbar, who decides to live forever by being bored all the time, and Capts. Pritchard & Wren.  [20]	PFC Wintergreen in the mail room is perhaps the character who truly wields the most power.  The title of the book was changed at the last minute to avoid confusion with a somewhat-similarly titled Leon Uris book.[10]	The Leon Uris novel was titled Mila 18. The main plot of this novel concerns the adventures of Captain John Yossarian on the island of Pianosa [PEE-uh-NOH-suh].	Answer:	Catch-2220.	Answer these questions about the Great Wall of China, 10 points each.[10]	Which dynasty began the earliest major work on the wall?	Answer:	Ch'in
[10]	Which Ch'in emperor ordered all sections of the wall to be connected?	Answer:	Shih Huang Ti [accept variants][10]	Shih Huang ordered the walls to be connected to defend against the invasion of the Hsiung-Nu [shung-NEW], known later to the Romans by what name?	Answer:	Hun(s)21.	Name the following terms from genetics for ten points each.[10] This is sequence within a gene that initiates transcription.	Answer:	promoter[10] This is a regulatory protein that binds to DNA and inhibits transcription.	Answer:	repressor
[10] This is an arrangement in DNA where two or more structural genes are found within a regulatory unit that is under transcriptional control of a single promoter.	Answer:	operon 22.	Given the jazz musician(s), provide their primary instrument for ten points each.[10] Duke Ellington, Count Basie	Answer:	piano[10] Max Roach, Buddy Rich	Answer:	drums[10] Stephane Grappelli	Answer:	violin23.	Name the following relating to immigration restriction for ten points each.[10] Several laws under this name passed in 1882 and 1892 prevented immigration from a specific country. It was the first time such a restriction was enacted.	Answer:	Chinese Exclusion Acts[10] In this 1907 arrangement, Japan agreed to not issue passports to emigrants to the U.S., while Teddy Roosevelt pressured San Francisco to repeal its laws segregating Japanese children in schools.	Answer:	Gentlemen's Agreement[10] This 1924 act tied the number of immigrants to be admitted to the number present in the country in 1890, effectively preventing immigration from southern and eastern Europe.	Answer:	National Origins Act 