TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #2				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by various Penn Bowl contributors1.	Curl-up-on-the-tiles, peel the label, Snap the Dragon, Bringing Up Baby, and Hump the Hostess are among the games played in this work. At the end of act two, one character decides to kill off a fictitious son. In act three, "Exorcism," Nick proves he is a stud, not a houseboy. The dysfunctional relationship of George and Martha is the focus of-for 10 points-what play by Edward Albee?	Answer:	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?2.	The female lead, Stacey Edwards, was scheduled to be married at the time of the shoot, forcing a delay in the production to accommodate her. Shot on a shoestring budget of $25,000, two frustrated young executives plan to lure in a vulnerable woman, romance her, and then dump her. For 10 points-name this 1997 film that won a prize at the Sundance Film Festival, the directorial debut of Neil LaBute.	Answer:	In the Company of Men [If you haven't seen this film, I strongly recommend it. It contains, to paraphrase Roger Ebert, one of the most chilling dénouements in all of film.-Ed.]3.	His first public speech in English was in 1840, as president of the Anti-Slavery Society. His marriage was arranged by King Leopold I of Belgium, though the bride's uncle opposed it. Nonetheless, the marriage was a happy one, producing a future king, an empress's consort, and some hemophilia carriers. For 10 points-name this husband of Queen Victoria.	Answer:		Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha4.	It is quite possibly one of the most dangerous chemicals ever created, developed by the British in 1952.  It is normally a liquid that has no odor and acts as a very powerful adhesive.  This form can be absorbed through the eyes or skin, while the gaseous form is more dangerous because it is inhaled.  It acts by binding to enzymes which transmit nerve signals, with a lethal dosage of only 10 mg.  The antidote is atropine, which can be injected into the arm or thigh for the liquid form, but must be injected straight into the heart for gaseous exposure.  FTP, name this type of nerve gas, with chemical formula CH3CH20-P(O)(CH3)-SCH2CH2N(C3H7)2, probably best known as the green blobs from the movie "The Rock."	Answer:	VX gas (prompt on "nerve gas" before it is mentioned)5.	This Catholic's oratorios include Lux Christi, The Apostles, and a work based on a poem by Cardinal Newman, The Dream of Gerontius [juh-RON-tee-iss]. His most famous symphonic work was based on the countermelody to an unheard theme, which the composer said was a well-known tune he would not identify, and which remains unknown. For 10 points-name this English composer of the Enigma Variations and Pomp and Circumstance.	Answer:		Sir Edward William Elgar6.	Because Robert E. Lee had split his forces after the Maryland Campaign, he was not ready for this battle on November 19, 1862.  Ambrose Burnside's plan relied on an unimpeded crossing of the Rappahannock River, but Lee spread his troops out over 20 miles down the river and prevented this.  As Lee watched from Telegraph Hill, above the namesake city, William Longstreet's troops overwhelmed brigades led by Meade and Burnside, who had taken over for George McClellan before the battle.  FTP, what was this Confederate victory that proved hollow, despite 12,500 Union casualties?	Answer:	Battle of Fredericksburg7.	He is quoted as saying, "I never liked photography.  Not for the sake of photography.  I like the object.  I like the photographs when you hold them in your hand."  And who wouldn't want to hold those objects in their hands, as many of his works remind us that the difference between fine art and pornography is the former is shot in black and white.  FTP, name this artist, whose most notable works are nude photographs of pornographic film stars and members of the homosexual underground.	Answer:	 Robert Mapplethorpe
7.	It was founded as a small backwater place by a pair of married cousins.  During a civil war, one of the founders' sons, Colonel Aureliano, fights as a rebel.  Later, government officials massacre striking banana plantation workers. In its decline, a woman in the founding family bears a child with a pig's tail in-for 10 points-what town, home of the Buendía family, in Gabriel Garcia Marquez' One Hundred Years of Solitude	Answer:	 	Macondo8.	In 1866, he published a paper classifying skull shapes into ethnic types, the most detailed of which was Mongolian. As superintendent of London's Earlswood Asylum, he observed patients with astonishing abilities, and coined the term idiot savant to describe them. He is also credited with first describing a condition he distinguished from cretinism. For 10 points-an extra copy of chromosome 21 results in whose namesake syndrome?	Answer:	John Langdon Haydon Down [accept Down syndrome; ask player to spell "Down's"][Note to self: the original title of that paper was "Observations on an Ethnic Classification of Idiots."]9.	Ethnographer Frank Hamilton Cushing lived with them for five years and was initiated into the Bow Priest Society. They seemed highly observant of ritual, passive, and opposed to excessive behavior, leading another observer to call them Appollonian, as opposed to the Dionysian nature of the Kwakiutl. For 10 points-Ruth Benedict studied what Native Americans known for their use of kachinas?ANSWER: Zuni10.	His poem "The Pillar of Fame" is shaped as one and the reader is told his life was chaste, thus concluding his only volume of verse entitled Hesperides. Son of a goldsmith, when he moved to [*] Devonshire religious life, the locals didn't know what to think of his lines to "Saint Ben" or his imaginary mistresses. For 10 points-name this poet whose best-known work is "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time".	Answer:	Robert Herrick11.	The latest volume of Robert Caro's biography of this man won the 2002 National Book Award for non-fiction. In 1932 he became secretary to a congressman from Texas; he was elected to the House in 1937, and to the Senate in 1948. For 10 points-name this man who responded "In your guts, you know he's nuts" to the slogan "In your heart, you know he's right," used by Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election.	Answer:		LBJ or Lyndon Baines Johnson12.	This process often correlates to second messenger production in signal transduction pathways. In most cases this process is mediated by serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases. FTP, identify this process, negated by phosphatases, defined as the addition of a phosphate group to a protein.ANSWER: phosphorylation13.	The author of this work argues that induction, the only principle by which we can have knowledge, is fundamentally flawed. Thus, there is no belief of which we can be totally certain. The analyses of these problems leads to skepticism about our ability to know the external world with certainty and undermines much of the basis of religion in-for 10 points-what work by David Hume?	Answer:	Enquiry Concering Human Understanding or Enquiries Concering Human Understanding14.	The words "I am a stubborn ox" begin a poem of this title by John Canaday. More famous is the one in which the narrator asks whether grass is the Lord's handkerchief, asks if you have felt so proud to get at the meaning of poems, loafs and invites his soul, and sounds his barbaric yawp. For 10 points, name this opus of Walt Whitman.	Answer:	 Song Of Myself15.	Compiled in the 3rd century by Judah ha-Nasi, its 63 tractates are organized into six sedarim [suh-DAH-reem] involving civil and criminal law, daily prayer and agriculture, married life, ritual purification, Sabbath and other religious rituals, and the Temple in Jerusalem. For 10 points-what oldest authoritative collection of Jewish law, together with the supplemental Gemara [guh-MAH-ruh], makes up the Talmud?	Answer:		Mishna [MISH-nuh]
16.	This country has been more stable since 1990 under President Idriss Déby; French troops intervened in a 1980s conflict with its northern neighbor over the mineral-rich Aozou [OO-zoo] Strip. Disputes have also arisen with its neighbors Nigeria, Niger, and Cameroon over the lake they share, which has shrunk 90% in recent years.  For 10 points-name this African nation with its capital at N'Djamena.	Answer:	 Chad17.	In terms of equatorial diameter, this planet is the fourth-largest in our solar system but is third-largest in terms of mass.  It is one of three planets that has rings, but its most prominent feature is its "Great Dark Spot" in its southern hemisphere that is about half the size of Jupiter's Great Red Spot.  For 10-points, name this blue-colored gas giant that has the fastest winds in the solar system.	Answer: 	Neptune18.	The first three contests saw the host school victorious over Florida State, Missouri and Pittsburgh from 1971-73.  It was sponsored by the Sunkist Citrus Growers from 1986 through 1991 and by IBM OS/2 from 1993 through 1995.  It hosted its first national championship game under the BCS system, when Tennessee beat Florida State 23-16 in 1999.  FTP, what is this college football bowl game that this year saw Ohio State beat Miami in double overtime to win the national title?	Answer:	Fiesta Bowl 19.	His run as dictator of his home country would end in 1961 when he was assasinated by army officers. Once censured by the Organization of American States, he came to power by overthrowing Hector Vazquez in 1930. FTP, he became a general only 8 years after joining the military. Identify this military dictator, who ruled the Dominican Republic for 30 years.ANSWER: Rafael Trujillo [true -HEE-yo, but accept reasonable phonetic attempts]20.	Newton was a Cleveland politician appointed Secretary of War by Woodrow Wilson in 1916. Frank was the hero of the 1911 World Series, hitting clutch home runs in back-to-back games for the A's against the Giants. Howard was a GOP Senator who played a pivotal role on the Senate Select Committee on Watergate.  For 10 points-what surname do they share with dancer Josephine and The Guardian star Simon?	ANSWER:	Baker [accept "Newton Baker," etc.]21. Jean-Joseph Marcel and Remi Raige realized its significance immediately after its discovery by Pierre Bouchard. Marcel and Galland sent images of it to scholars across Europe. Sylvestre de Sacy and J.K. Akerblad completed work on one section. Finally, building on the work of Thomas Young, it was fully deciphered in 1822 by François Champollion. FTP -name this big, black basalt slab proclaiming the coronation of Ptolemy V.			Answer:	Rosetta Stone22.	He supposedly refused the crown and set up a democracy after helping overthrow the oligarchy of Agrigentum. He developed a proto-evolutionary theory and proposed a cyclical reality in which love and hate alternately bind and separate the four elements. For 10 points-name this student of Parmenides, the subject of a Matthew Arnold poem that places him on Etna.	Answer:	 Empedocles23.	Frenchman Lambert Wilson and Italian Monica Bellucci have supporting parts, while others joining the cast are Jada Pinkett Smith as Niobe and Nona Gaye who is replacing Aaliyah as Zee.  Hugo Weaving, after his roles as Elrond in Lord of the Rings, will reprise his role from the original. Also returning are producer Joel Silver and directors Andy and Larry Wachowski.  The movie promises even more groundbreaking special effects in reaction to spoofs in Shrek and Scary Movie.  FTP name this first sequel to a popular 1999 Keanu Reeves flick.	Answer: 	The Matrix Reloaded.