TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #!				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions mostly by Delaware's Bill Tressler, with some from MIT, North Carolina, and DePauw1.	Addison considered its original 1712 cantos perfect, but the author rewrote them, adding a speech by Clarissa, a visit to the cave of Spleen, and Belinda's toilet. Addressed to Mrs. Arabella Fermor, the author explains the arcane Rosicrucian doctrine of spirits in-for 10 points-what poem, an attempt to calm tempers between two Catholic families after Arabella had some of her hair cut, by Alexander Pope?	Answer:	"The Rape of the Lock"2.	Examples include Bromeliads, Chinese Banyan, Crab Cactus, and in all about thirty percent of monocots and two percent of dicots. They are sometimes classified into Mutualistic and Commensal types, the former serving a beneficial function such as attracting [*] bees like orchids, while the latter such as Spanish Moss do no service or damage the porophyte host. The term is derived from the Greek words for "above" and "plant". For 10 points--name these air plants that do not root in soil but instead grow on other plants.	Answer:	epiphytes [prompt early on "air plant"]3.	The losing side ran the Formosa, a container ship, through the blockade, which could have sustained the conflict much longer than its actual ten weeks' duration. Its roots lay in the 1833 seizure of the territory; after two decades of failed UN negotiations, Leopoldo Galtieri used this conflict to rally his fragile government until heavy shelling prompted a June 1982 surrender in-for 10 points-what conflict between Britain and Argentina?	Answer:	Falkland (or Malvinas) Islands War [accept clear knowledge equivalents]4.	At Christmas the Dutch fill their shoes with grain for this assistant of Santa. It was conceived when the gods wanted the wall of Asgard built after the payment deadline and Loki lured the stallion away from its master. FTP name this creature that took Hermod the Bold to retrieve his brother from Hel, the eight-legged horse of Odin.	Answer:	Sleipnir [SLYPE-neer]5.	Their early successes include Pit, Flinch, Rook, and Story of the Bible. Their first success came when George invented Banking, in which people borrowed and tried to make money by speculating. Charles joined in 1888, and Edward ten years later. General Mills and Tonka have both owned-for 10 points-what company, created by three siblings, whose most famous success was the game Monopoly?	Answer:	Parker Brothers6.	The term refers to areas exhibiting Dobson unit measurements less than 300, meaning a compressed physical thickness of about three millimeters. Caused in part by reactions on the surface of ice particles and first detected in the 1970s by a British team, scientists worry that volcanic activity could spark annual springtime ones in the Arctic. For 10 points--name this phenomenon caused by CFCs destroying a layer of the atmosphere.	Answer:	 	ozone hole or equivalent7.	After the execution of Mary he became Captain of the Guard and enemies at court called him "Jack the Upstart" or "The Knave" due to his extravagant dress. His Devonshire accent caused Queen Elizabeth to call him "Warter" but her patience elapsed in 1592 when he secretly married one of her maids of honor. He later spent time in the Tower after being convicted of plotting the murder of James I. For 10 points--name this explorer, played in Black Adder II by Simon Jones, who suggested the name of Virginia for the lands he explored for his queen. 	Answer:	 	Sir Walter Raleigh 8.	The original commission intended it to depict just one figure, Eustache de Saint-Pierre. The sculptor later changed the plan to include five more figures. Meant to commemorate a 1347 event important to the town commissioning it, it was nevertheless relegated to a far-away corner of the village for many years. For 10 points-what sculpture by Rodin depicts the sacrifice of six citizens of its namesake French town?	Answer:  (Monument to) the Burghers of Calais or Monument aux Bourgeois de Calais 			do not accept "The Circumcision"]
9.	Of the several rivers feeding this 400-mile-long lake, only the Shire flows out. The southernmost of the Western Rift Valley lakes of east Africa, this lake has over 500 species of fish from the family Cichlidae [sih-KLY-day], many of which have never been described. Also known as Lake Nyasa, this is-for 10 points-what lake that lies in Tanzania, Mozambique, and its namesake country?	Answer:	 	Lake Malawi10.	He called friends at all hours to test passages of his works; his after-hours work in South America evolved into his second novel, Night Flight. Stuck in New York when Germany invaded France, he found a position with the U.S. Air Corps, who told him he could die for France, but not in one of their planes. For 10 points-name this mail carrier and aviator who disappeared during a reconnaissance flight, leaving behind The Little Prince.	Answer:	Antoine (Marie Roger) de Saint-Exupéry [san-TECK-zoo-puh-REE]11.	In its final part, six harps play after Donner causes a rainbow to appear. Its composition began in 1853 to explain the two works its composer had recently finished. The opening E-flat motif evokes the depths of a river, while three women sing about an object that they will later beg be returned to them, an object included in the ransom of Freya. For 10 points-name this first part of Wagner's Ring cycle.	Answer:	The Rhine Gold or Das Rheingold [do not prompt on "Ring cycle" or similar answers]12.	His maternal grandmother's first husband died in John Brown's raid and she influenced his writing's focus. The lyricist for [*] Weill's Street Scene, he bought a home in New York with his earnings but continued his newspaper column about a man named Simple. For 10 points--name this writer whose first poem was "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" in Du Bois' Crisis and whose last volume of verse published posthumously in 1967 was The Panther and the Lash. 	Answer:	(James) Langston Hughes13.	By its conclusion the Tethys Ocean had formed and ancient forests of ferns had reached their climax. Beginning 322 million years ago and broken into Moscovian, Kasimovian, and Gzelian epochs this period between the [*] Devonian and Permian of the Palezoic Era is not usually considered separate outside of North America. For 10 points--name this part of the Carboniferous Period that spawned coal deposits not far from where you are right now.	Answer:	Pennsylvanian Period [accept "Carboniferous" before 322 million, no prompt after as the Carboniferous began 363 million years ago]14.	Resisting marriage, he attempted to escape to England and was forced to watch the beheading of his accomplice Hans von Katte. His mother Sophia Dorothea encouraged not military might but [*] enlightened rule, and he begged Voltaire to publish his treatise against Machiavelli. He later carried poison as to take his own life if he was crushed in the Seven Years War. For 10 points--name this Great Prussian ruler.	Answer:	Frederick II (the Great)15.	The title character's name is spelled two different ways. Delia opens a spraypaint can after Otho opens the can and gives it to her. Lydia takes pictures of the Maitlands that don't show the pattern that were on the photographed sheets.  When Adam and Barbara look into a mirror, they have no reflections, are reflected in their attic windows. For 10 points--these are some of the claimed goofs that appear in what 1988 film whose name you should not say three times?	Answer:	Beetlejuice16.	The winning candidate had had a heart attack and a major abdominal operation within the past year but was nominated unanimously at the San Francisco convention. The first time since 1848 that the party that won the Presidency failed to win either house of Congress, the election was plagued by both the revolt in Hungary and the Suez crisis. For 10 points--name this presidential election, the only time since 1900 with identical major candidates from the previous election, in this case Stevenson and Eisenhower.	Answer:	Presidential election of 1956 (accept early: Eisenhower's second election or equivalent)
17.	William James called his version of Pragmatism a radical form of this earlier school, as he believed that students learned by doing. The related school of  phenomenalism was the main vehicle by which Hume questioned the existence of God. For 10 points-name this philosophy by which all reality is derived from introspection and experience, meaning that all knowledge is based on what we sense and feel.	Answer:	Empiricism18.	Its plot is based on the murder of Moscow student Ivanov by anarchist Nechaev [NEH-chuh-yev] and his followers. The deranged cast of characters includes Stepan Verkhovensky, who asserts the preeminence of Pushkin to [*] boots, and Alexei Kirilov, who believes that committing suicide will make him God. Intellectual Nikolai Stavrogin appears in-for 10 points-what novel, better translated as Demons, by Dostoevsky?	Answer:	The Possessed or The Devils or Besy [accept The Demons on early buzz] 19.	As a student, he scored 110 out of 100 possible points in his fourth standard math class.  As a professor, he once presided over a lecture by Niels Bohr, during which he had to assist Bohr in explaining a point to the class.   He left Dacca University in 1924 for Paris and the Marie Curie Laboratory, then studied with Albert Einstein, who later persuaded the university to give him a position as the head of the physics department.  Einstein became his "guru" and helped him to solve many problems in math and physics.  FTP, who is this man, famous for his work in mathematics and quantum statistics, but perhaps best known now for his work on what happens to atoms at extremely low temperatures?	Answer:	Satyendra Nath Bose20.	A proponent of handwriting analysis as a personality test, he helped found the first psychological laboratory in France. After experimenting on his own daughters, he decided perceptual-motor tests were a failure; his replacement was collaboration with Theodore Simon {see-MOHN], which was later modified by Lewis Terman at Stanford. For 10 points-who created the first standardized intelligence test?       Answer:		Alfred Binet21.	The Zaporozhian ones signed a 1654 treaty recognizing the authority of Alexis I, that also gave them autonomy, threats to which sparked revolts led by Stenka Razin and Emelian Pugachev. Their name comes from the Turkish for "free man," and by the 1400s was applied to Russian peasants fleeing serfdom. For 10 points-name these inhabitants of the northern coasts of the Black and Caspian Seas.	Answer:	Cossacks or Kazakhs22.	One of the Commerce Department's eleven leading economic indicators, it was designed with an early 1940s value assigned a baseline ten. Its forerunner was created in 1928, but it didn't reach its [*] current number of components until 1957. Gone in 2002 are Palm, US Airways, and K Mart, while eBay and Prudential were added. For 10 points--name this market index involving about sixteen times more companies than the Dow Jones Industrial.	Answer:	 	Standard & Poor('s) 50023.	It is essential for the absorption and transportation of selenium and zinc in the body.  An amino acid not synthesized by the body, it acts as a lipotropic agent to prevent excess fat buildup in the liver and is an excellent chelator of heavy metals.  This is, FTP, what amino acid that is at the start of every codon for translation of mRNA into protein and one of the sulfur-containing amino acids.	Answer:	 Methionine