TOSSUPS -- GEORGIA		SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	This nation holds the dubious distinction of being the first nation destroyed by a pyramid scheme.  In February of 1997, nine such schemes collapsed, causing its citizens to lose over $1 billion, leading to rebellions that the government couldn't quell.  Elections in July of 1997 made Communist Party chief Fatos Nano (Fot-ohs Non-oh) the Prime Minister, as Communists had been from 1945 to 1992.  For 10 points, name this Balkan nation famous only for its obscurity, whose capital is Tirana.answer: Albania2.	He made brilliant stage adaptations of "The Ballad of the Sad Cafe", "Malcolm", and "Everything in the Garden".  He also produced a stage adaptation of Nabokov's "Lolita", and has won three Pulitzer Prizes in Drama in the years 1967, 1975, and 1994.  For 10 points, name this playwright whose works include "The Death of Bessie Smith" and "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?"answer: Edward AlbeeEDITOR'S NOTE: While the death of Bessie Smith took place somewhere in Mississippi, her birth was right here in Chattanooga.3.	Born Charles-Louis de Secondat in 1689, he inherited the title by which he is Known in 1715.  He became a freemason in 1728 and published several of his works anonymously, including "The Persian Letters".  For 10 points, name this French philosopher, one of the first essayists, and author of "The Spirit of the Laws."answer: Montesquieu or Baron de la Brede et de 4.	The current fundamental theories of physics postulate that everything in the universe is made of 12 particles and their antiparticles.  Six of these particles are the quarks, and six are various types of these.  For 10 points, name this particle type, which interacts very weakly with other matter and, according to recent experiments, may not have mass.answer: neutrino5.	This word gained notoriety during the 1980s when a modified form of it was used to describe investors such as Ivan Boesky.  It is defined as the act of trading financial instruments in such a fashion as to guarantee a profit, something that, according to the laws of economics, shouldn't happen- but sometimes does.  For 10 points, what is this word?answer: Arbitrage [ahr-bi-troj] (or "Arbitrageur" [ahr-bi-troj-your] before "Boesky")6.	According to Herodotus, this ancient battle turned in favor of the Persians after the betrayal of a spy named Ephialtes.  Under Leonidas II, a Spartan force of 300 held back Xerxes and the Immortals for days, as the rest fled to regroup, in effect saving Greece from Persian conquest.  For 10 points, identify this Hot Gates Battle.answer: Thermopylae7.	The name's the same: the Bahama island which Columbus originally named "Fernandina" and which is presently home to the town of Stella Maris, and the U.S. island where you'll find the Great Peconic Bay and the cites of Massapequa, Centerreach, Oyster Bay, and a little town called Brooklyn.  FTP give the shared name.answer: Long Island8.	The speaker in this poem is the Renaissance duke of Ferrara, who, while negotiating for a marriage with the daughter of a count, points out to the count's agent a portrait of the duke's former wife.  As the duke speaks of her, there is the intimation that, because she did not properly appreciate the honor bestowed upon her by their marriage, he arranged for his spouse's murder.  For 10 points, give the title of this 1842 poem written in the form of a dramatic monologue by Robert Browning.answer: "My Last Duchess"
9.	To the right , Aristotle holds out the hand of moderation, while to the left, Socrates points upward to divine inspiration.  This painting's status as "masterpiece", stems from its simultaneous portrayal of the intellectual giants of antiquity and the Renaissance.  In the roles of the ancients, men such as Bramante, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci lend their likenesses.  For 10 points, name this Rafael painting, located in the Stanza della Segnatura.answer: "The School of Athens" (Do not accept UGA)10.	The phylum Arthropoda contains four sub-phyla, one of which comprised the majority of animals alive 500 million years ago.  These organisms had eight legs, scavenged the bottoms of bodies of water, and had distinctive three-segmented shells.  For 10 points, name these animals, which have been extinct for more than 200 million years.answer: Trilobites11.	This baseball team has, at times, begged a fan to bring his goat to a game, traded broadcasters with another team, and had eight managers at one time.  Despite all of these moves, it hasn't had consecutive winning seasons for over 25 years.  Its Walk of Fame includes stars for Stan Hack, Phil Cavaretta, Ferguson Jenkins, and Ernie Banks.  For 10 points, identify this team, which next season will try to win its first World Series in 91 years.answer: Chicago Cubs (prompt on "Chicago")12.	This manufacturer first appeared on the firearm scene in 1854 with the Volcanic.  Since then it has been synonymous with excellence for quality firearms, producing the first revolver chambered for the Magnum cartridge, the first American double action pistol, and the first stainless steel handgun.  Perhaps it greatest accolade lies in the use of its .44 Magnum 629 classic by Dirty Harry.  For 10 points, name this manufacturer.answer: Smith and Wesson13.	This element was regarded as a precious metal for the first 60 years after its discovery.  Emperor Napoleon III served his honored guests on plates made from this element, and a 100-ounce slab of it was placed atop the Washington Monument in 1885.  The very next year, however, Charles Hall and Paul Heroult independently discovered more effective means of isolating this element, causing its price to fall 98% within two years.  For 10 points, name this light metal isolated from ores such as bauxite.answer: aluminum or Al (accept "aluminium" [al-yoo-MIN-ee-um])14.	The grandson of an FDR cabinet member, this man helped Hillary Clinton with the abortive universal health care plan of 1994.  Janet Reno is pondering whether to appoint an independent counsel to investigate charges that this man perjured himself.  FTP name this man, former Chief of Staff to President Clinton, whose namesake grandfather was FDR's Secretary of the Interior.answer:  Harold Ickes15.	The author of this book owes his resulting success to his mother, though he wasn't around to enjoy it.  Written in the early 1960s, Mom sought to get the work published seven years after he died.  Better late than never, the 1980 Pulitzer Prize was awarded for these tales of Ignatius J. Reilly in New Orleans.  For 10 points, identify this novel by John Kennedy Toole.answer: "A Confederacy of Dunces"16.	This organic compound was isolated by Faraday in 1825 from condensed illuminating gas.  August Kekule proposed the first decent structure of it, after he had a dream of a snake biting its own tail.  For 10 points, name this substance with empirical formula C6H6 that is the basis for almost all aromatic compounds.answer: benzene17.	Give alms to the poor, fast during the holy month, make a holy pilgrimage and pray five times daily while facing Mecca are all major pillars of, for 10 points, what religion practiced by over 2 billion people worldwide?answer: Islam18.	When it became apparent that the 1000 Years' Reich was going to fall a little short of its goal, this man was left to sign the instruments of Nazi Germany's surrender.  He had earned the right to be Hitler's successor by his dogged pursuit of the Battle of the Atlantic, which had crippled the Allied war effort.  For 10 points, name this man, head of the German U-boat forces during World War II.answer:  Admiral Karl Doenitz [der-nitz]  (or as Jason King once said, "Mmmmm... Doenitz...")19.	This man would almost always compose with one hand on his head, for fear of it falling off.  He married a woman he had never met, only to flee to his sister 3 days later after discovering she was a nymphomaniac.  For 10 points, name this Russian composer famous for such ballets as "Sleeping Beauty," "Romeo and Juliet" and "The Nutcracker."answer: Petyr Ilyitch Tchaikovsky20.	Born in 1907, this writer trained as an engineer at Annapolis and served as a naval officer.  Many of his early works fit into his "Future History" series, in which a projected sequence of technological, political, and social developments from the years 1950 to 2600 serve as a common background, and which were collected in the book "The Past Through Tomorrow".  For 10 points, identify this science fiction author of "Starship Troopers" and "Stranger in a Strange Land".answer: Robert Anson Heinlein21.	This word has two very different meanings, depending on whom you ask.  To a chemist, it can describe certain salts or oils derived from substances whose molecules have two hydrocarbon groups separated by an oxygen atom.  It can also mean insubstantial, vague, or ephemeral; or that a plane of this name is frequently mentioned in New Age philosophy.  For 10 points, what is this word?answer:  ethereal22.	Born in 1737, he entered Parliament in 1774 and was made commissioner of trade and plantations.  The first volume of his "History", which appeared in 1776, was very well-received.  However, the chapters on Christianity provoked severe criticism from some quarters, and the succeeding volumes met a cooler reception.  For 10 points, identify this author of "The History at the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire."answer: Edward Gibbon
BONI -- GEORGIA		SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Identify these works by C.S. Lewis, none of which are set in Narnia, for 10 points each.A. This book's title emphasizes that it describes simply the core of certain religious beliefs, and began as a series of radio talks to a general audience.answer: Mere ChristianityB. Hell is a great big bureaucracy in this demonic epistolary work.answer: The Screwtape LettersC. Along with religious writings, Lewis also delved into sci-fi. Name any one of the three books in Lewis's Space Trilogy.answer: Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra, That Hideous Strength: a Modern Fairy-Tale for Grown-Ups.2.	The United States is not the only nation with an expressly-built capital city.  Answer these questions about other "artificial" capitals for 10 points each.A. Built in 1960, this South American capital city was designed in the shape of an airplane, pointing inland- away from its country's principal cities such as Sao Paulo.answer: BrasiliaB. Tanzania has fitfully been moving its government offices to the city of Dodoma in its interior and out of this city on its coast, the nation's largest.answer: Dar es SalaamC. This city was initially built on land the Russians did not own, for a navy they did not have, to replace a capital no one wanted to leave, in 1712.answer: St. Petersburg [do not accept Leningrad; it was never a capital under that name.]3.	For 5 points each, identify the century in which the following battle took place:A. Waterlooanswer: 19thB. Agincourtanswer: 15thC. Poltavaanswer: 18thD. Tannenberganswer: 20thE. Nasebyanswer: 17thF. Milvian Bridgeanswer: 4th4.	In 1998, NHL players participated in the Olympics for the first time.  Given some NHL stars who didn't trash their hotels, name the common country for 10 points each.A. Peter Forsberg (FORS-burg), Nicolas Sandstrum, Daniel Alfredssonanswer: SwedenB. Jaromir Jagr (YARE-o-meer YAH-ger), Dominik Hasek, Martin Rucinskyanswer: Czech RepublicC. Miroslav Satan (shah-TAHN), Zigmund Palffy, Peter Bondraanswer: Slovakia
5.	FTSNOP, given the composer and number of his symphony, give the nickname of the symphony.5: Beethoven, #6answer: Pastorale10: Mahler, #8answer: Symphony of 100015: Bruckner, #4answer: Romantic6.	30-20-10, name the scientist:30: His contributions to nuclear physics include early work on isospin, nuclear exchange forces, cosmic rays, and the theory of the S-matrix.  He also worked on theories of turbulence and superconductivity.20: In 1925 with Born and Jordan he developed matrix mechanics.  Historians are divided as to whether he intentionally dragged his feet or simply did a bad job heading German efforts to develop an atomic bomb.10: He is probably best known for his uncertainty principle, which states that an observer cannot know both the location and speed of a moving object.(Karl) Werner Heisenberg7.	Although the Conservative Party dominated British politics for most of the 1980s and 1990s, the Liberal Party hasn't elected a prime minister on its own since before World War I.  Identify these men FTPE:1. This man, often the verbal sparring partner of Benjamin Disraeli, was Prime Minister in four different terms between the 1870s and the 1890s.answer: William Gladstone2. The last Liberal PM, he was first forced into a coalition and then out of office due to the 1916 Irish Rebellion. answer: Herbert Asquith3: This first Liberal PM presided over Britain's debate about military intervention to aid the Confederacy during the American Civil War.answer: Viscount or Lord Palmerston8.	Given the quote, name the philosopher, 30-20-10:30: "Woman was God's second mistake."20: "Two great European narcotics: Alcohol and Christianity"10: "God is dead."answer: Friedrich (Wilhelm) Nietzsche9.	How much time passed between these pairs of related events?  You will get 10 points if you're exactly right, 5 points if within three years.A. Mexico gaining its independence from Spain, and Texas winning its independence from Mexico.answer: 15 years (5 pts for 12-18)B. The bombing of Fort Sumter, and the withdrawal of Federal troops from the South.answer: 16 years (5 pts for 13 to 19)C. The end of the Civil War, and the start (and end) of the Spanish-American War.answer: 33 years (5 pts for 30-36).10.	Given names of minor characters, name the Shakespearean play FTPE.1.  Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, YorrickAnswer :  Hamlet2.  Nerissa, Launcelot Gobbo, JessicaAnswer :  The Merchant of Venice3.  Westmoreland, Pistol, Fluellen, and of course, BoyAnswer :  Henry V
11.	Answer these questions about carbon chemistry for the stated number of points.5: This is the maximum number of bonds a carbon atom can make with other atoms.answer: 410: It's a molecule containing a carbon atom that makes only three bonds and has an unpaired electron left over.answer: free radical15: This is a compound such as CH2, which has a carbon with only two bonds and which has either a lone pair of electrons or two unpaired electrons.answer: carbene12.	There are wins, there are landslides, and there are just plain embarrassments.  For 10 points each, name the perpetrators of these historic humiliations in sports.A. This university defeated Cumberland College 222-0 in 1916, establishing an NCAA record for margin of victory that stands to this day.answer: Georgia TechB. This team won the 1940 NFL Championship game 73-0 over the Washington Redskins, a record not only for a championship, but for any NFL game.answer: Chicago Bears; prompt on Chicago (the Cardinals used to play there too)C. This team won the most lopsided major league baseball game ever 29-4 over the St. Louis Browns in 1950.answers: Boston Red Sox; again, prompt on Boston (the Braves used to play there too)13.	In 1824, no candidate secured a majority in the Electoral College, so the election went to the House of Representatives, where the candidate with the second-greatest number of popular votes won.A. For five points each, name the man who received the most popular votes, and the winner in the House.answer: Andrew Jackson and John Quincy AdamsB. In 1876, disputes over the returns from three Southern states resulted in the election going to a special committee organized by Congress, which awarded the election to the Republican candidate in exchange for his pulling the remaining troops from the South.  For five points each, name the Republican winner, and the Democrat who had won more popular votes.answer: Rutherford Hayes and Samuel TildenC. The situation in 1888 was much more straightforward; the incumbent received 150,000 more votes, but his opponent won enough states to carry the Electoral College.  For five points each, name the defeated incumbent and the victorious challenger.answer: Grover Cleveland and Benjamin Harrison.14. Answer the following concerning electromagnetism for 10 points each:A.	Defined as the magnetic field strength times the area, what quantity designated by the letter phi is measured in Webers?Answer:	magnetic flux [do not accept magnetic flux density]B.	Which law of electromagnetic induction states that the average e-m-f induced in a circuit equals the opposite of the magnetic flux change divided by the elapsed time?Answer:	Faraday's lawC.	Which law of electromagnetic induction states that the sense of the induced e-m-f is such as to oppose the change that caused it?Answer:	Lenz's law
15.	Answer the following questions about the "Bhagavad Gita" for 10 points each.A. The "Bhagavad Gita" is a chapter of what larger Indian work?answer: the MahabharataB. For 10 points, name either of the two parties at war in the "Bhagavad Gita".answer: the Pandavas and the KauravasC. Name the incarnation of Vishnu which appears in the poem.answer: Krishna16.	Given the science fiction books, name the author on a 10-5 basis.10: "Get of the Unicorn" (no, it's not a typo) 5: "Dragonflight"answer: Anne McCaffrey10: "Xenocide" 5: "Ender's Game"answer: Orson Scott Card10: "Orion Shall Rise" 5: "The Boat of a Million Years"answer: Poul Anderson17.	Given the more "technical" name of mushroom anatomy, give the common name for 10 points each.A. stipeanswer: stalk or stemB. pileusanswer: capC. lamellae (plural)answer: gills18.	For 10 points each, given the language, give the number of letters in its alphabet.A. Greekanswer: 24B. Cyrillicanswer: 33C. Latinanswer: 2319.	Identify these terms from finance, specifically the trading of options, for 10 points each.A. This term refers to selling a stock or commodity one does not own, to buy it back later at (hopefully) a lower price.answer: selling shortB. This word defines a contract to buy a stock or commodity at a certain price, leading to a profit for its holder if the stock's or commodity's price rises.answer: callC. This word defines a contract to sell a stock or commodity at a given price, which results in a profit for its holder if the price of the stock or commodity declines.answer: put
20.	FTPE answer the following questions about the fictional naval officer, Horatio Hornblower.1: Who was Hornblower's creator?answer: Cecil Scott Forester2: At the chronological beginning of the series, what rank is Hornblower?answer: midshipman3: Name either of the women that Hornblower marries in the series.answer: Maria or the Lady Barbara Wellesley; accept Wellesley21.	30-20-10, identify the element:30: It bears the German name for "white metal," and was believed to be an intermediate of the process by which copper was thought to change into silver.20: It is the heaviest element to have a non-radioactive isotope.10: Its subsalicylate (sub-sal-LISS-ill-late) is the active ingredient in one of the world's most popular stomach medications.answer: bismuth22.	It pays to know bays.  For 10 points each, name the U.S. states in which you would find the following bays:A. Willapa Bayanswer: Washington StateB. Sandusky Bayanswer: OhioC. Matagorda Bayanswer: Texas