TOSSUPS -- BLIND ROUND #1				SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Chris Borglum1.	Edmund convinces his father, the Duke of Gloucester (gluss-ter), that his brother Edgar wants the Duke's throne.  Edgar is forced to feign madness to escape his father's wrath.  Later, after combined English forces have repulsed the French from their shore, Edgar, in knightly disguise, kills Edmund, who previously had led others to put out Gloucester's eyes.  FTP, this is the major subplot in which Shakespearean tragedy, named for the monarch who tries to split his kingdom among three daughters?King Lear2.	He was a bruiser of an NBA power forward for the championship Celtic teams of  the 1960s. He also has the distinction of being the only person ever to win an NBA championship as a player and an NCAA championship as a coach.  His college career was surely helped by his ability to stand eye-to-eye with players such as Patrick Ewing and Alonzo Mourning.  FTP name this intimidating college coach who resigned on January 8th from Georgetown University.John Thompson3.	He was elected president of his island nation in 1957, and re-elected in 1961.  In 1964 he declared himself "President-for Life," a title no one would dispute due to fear of his ruthless secret police, the Tonton Macoute (tawn-tawn ma-coot).  FTP name this former physician who ran Haiti until his death in 1971.Francois or Papa Doc Duvalier; do not accept Jean-Claude or "Baby Doc".4.	Subtitled "A Digression Concerning the Origin, the Use, and Improvement of Madness in a Commonwealth," its three major characters represent Roman Catholicism, the Church of England, and Protestant dissent.  However, it is best known for its subtitular tangents, including "A Digression Upon Digressions."  For 10 points--identify this first major work of Jonathan Swift.A Tale of a Tub5.	His parents were irresponsible beatniks, incapable of disciplining him as a child.  As a result, he underwent the Spankological Protocol, which managed to beat his wildness out of him.  This procedure, however, led him to bury his anger deep within him, and he hides it with a constant cheerfulness, sprinkling his speech with odd constructions like "okely dokely."   FTP name this staunch Christian who recently admitted he is actually 60 years old, owner of the Leftorium, and neighbor of Homer Simpson.Ned Flanders6.	Born in 1466, he spent most of his first 30 years in an Augustinian monastery.  At 30, he was granted permission to enroll in the University of Paris, where he devoured classical writings and wrote The Handbook of the Christian Knight, in which he condemned the excesses of the church and urged a return to the simple teachings of Jesus.  FTP name this humanist scholar, best known for his Praise of Folly.Desiderius Erasmus7)   An East Prussian country doctor, in 1882 he discovered the bacilli of Tuberculosis.  He later isolated the bacilli which caused a form of cholera.  For this he was awarded the 1905 Nobel Prize in Medicine.  FTP name this man, sometimes called the father of bacteriology.Robert Koch
8)  Born in 1833, he was decorated for his service to the Union army in Sherman's march to the sea.  After the war he went into politics, eventually representing Ohio in the senate from 1881 to 1888.    As president, he signed the Sherman Antitrust Act and the McKinley Tariff Act.  FTP name this 23rd U. S. president who defeated Grover Cleveland in the controversial election of 1888.Benjamin Harrison9) Flanked by the Caucasus mountains on its eastern shore it rests 92 feet below sea level. Full of salt but no tides,  it is the largest inland body of water in the world. 143,630 square feet of surface area leaves no shortage of space to skip rocks.  Its deepest point is 3,363 feet. From north to south its about 750 miles leaving plenty of shoreline, some of which is covered by oil fields. FTP, what is this body of water?Caspian Sea10)  They generally consist of two conducting plates separated by a thin layer of insulation.  The earliest form of this electrical component was the Leyden Jar, developed in the 18th century.  FTP, by what general term do we know these devices used to store electric charge and provide reactance in a/c circuits?capacitor11)  Caused by a mycobacterium, this disease is characterized by loss of pigmentation, lesions in the mucous membrane, and neuritis, an inflammation of the nerves leading to loss of pain sensation.  Much of what we know of this disease has been learned by studying armadillos, who develop it in similar fashion to humans.  FTP name this condition, alternately referred to as Hansen's Disease.leprosy12)  She was born Margaretha Zelle in what's now Holland in 1866.  As a young woman she moved to Indonesia, where she claimed to learn the erotic Oriental dances for which she became celebrated throughout Europe in the early 20th century.  Name this woman, FTP, whose pseudonym is now synonymous with seductive treachery, executed for espionage for Germany after World War I.Mata Hari13)  Morton was a U. S. composer, best known for his 1942 Cowboy Rhapsody.  Chester was a cartoonist, creator of Dick Tracy.  Glenn was a Canadian virtuoso pianist, subject of 22 Short Films.  Jay tried to corner the gold market with James Fisk in 1869, triggering the Black Friday panic.  FTP what surname is common to these disparate men, as well as the Harvard scientist Stephen Jay?Gould14)  He is currently the subject of a retrospective show at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the largest survey of his work ever mounted.  A student of the realist painter Thomas Hart Benton, he began to move away from figure-based paintings in the late 1930s, having been especially impressed by a Picasso showing in New York in 1939.  After he took up with Lee Krasner in 1943, his paintings became more abstract, reaching a zenith in mammoth works like Lavender Mist and Autumn Rhythm.  FTP name this leading abstract expressionist best known for his poured paintings.Jackson Pollock15.	An Irishman who served for many years as a member of the British Parliament, he believed that humans are more ruled by their passions than their reason.  He also railed against the leveling effects of democracy and in hi Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs championed aristocracy.  FTP identify this father of conservatism who in his Reflections on the Revolution in France predicted that the revolution would end in chaos, and who is noted as the leading British voice urging more gentle treatment of the American colonies.Edmund Burke16.	His lectures at the University of Berlin in the first part of the 19th century were legendary, attracting the best minds of Europe.  He felt that the history of man pressed inexorably toward a Weltgeist (velt-guyst), or World Spirit, which was preceded by the development of powerful states.  FTP name this German philosopher, author of The Phenomenology of Spirit, who developed the dialectical method.Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel17.	George helped draft but refused to sign the Constitution due to its compromise on slavery; James Murray was nabbed by Union forces with John Slidell during the Trent Affair.  FTP what last name is common to these men as well as Charles, who surveyed the boundary between Pennsylvania and Maryland with Jeremiah Dixon?Mason18.	There seems to be some disagreement whether his surname meant "man of Kerioth," a city in Judea, or "dagger man," a term equivalent to the modern word "assassin."  In either case, he is often described as the only apostle of Jesus not a native of Galilee.  FTP, name this traitor whom Dante placed in the very mouth of Satan in The Inferno.Judas Iscariot 19.	In 1833, he invented an electric telegraph which he used to communicate between his house and the observatory at which he worked.  He also invented a surveying instrument used in geodesy, a field of which he is considered the father.  Still, it was in mathematics where he made his mark, laying the groundwork for non-Euclidean geometry and constructing a regular polygon of 17 sides using only a straightedge and compass.  FTP name this German mathematician who wowed his teachers as a ten-year old by quickly determining an algebraic method to find the sum of the first 100 integers.Karl Gauss20.	As a verb, it refers to using a commercial paper or check backed by no funds to obtain money or credit from a bank.  As a noun, it can refer to birds of prey of the genus Milvus.  FTP what is this four-letter word which most commonly refers to the type of recreational aircraft that Charlie Brown always loses in a tree?kite21.	This name describes many species of evergreen plant parasites with small flowers which belong to the family Loranthaceae (lor-an-thay-cee-i).  They derive most of their nutrients from the host plant, but also use photosynthesis.  FTP name this plant which never swore allegiance to Balder and which you don't want to be standing under when your Aunt Agnes with the mustache walks by.mistletoe
BONI -- BLIND ROUND #1				SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Chris Borglum1.	I shudder to think of certain future additions to this list.  F5PE, given a presidential nickname, name the president so described.American Fabius			A.  George WashingtonRed Fox of Kinderhook		A.  Martin Van BurenMachiavelli of Massachussetts	A.  John AdamsOld Tippecanoe			A.  William Henry HarrisonThe Great Communicator		A.   Ronald ReaganHis Accidency				A.  Harry Truman2.	Use your noggin to answer the following questions about the human skull for ten points each.First, what do we call the immovable joints found only in the skull?suturesWhat name is given to the membrane-filled spaces between cranial bones in infants?fontanelsFinally, how many bones compose the skull?223.  In an earlier round we discussed Black Monday in the NFL.  So who are the new coaches?  Well, some of 'em aren't all that new.  Name the current head coaches of the following NFL teams for five points each.Baltimore Ravens			A.  Brian BillickGreen Bay Packers			A.  Ray RhodesSeattle Seahawks			A.  Mike HolmgrenCleveland Browns			A.  Chris PalmerCarolina Panthers			A.  George SeifertChicago Bears				A.  Dick Jauron4.	Answer the following questions about Indian history for ten points each.What name is given to the muslim empire which lasted from 1536 to 1857?Moghul EmpireUnder what Moghul Emperor's rule did the ancient kingdom reach its furthest territorial extent?Akbar the GreatWhat city did the British use as their base of operations from 1687 to 1948?Bombay5.	Name the composers of these operettas FTSNOP.5 pts.:  The Pirates of Penzance and H.M.S. PinaforeArthur Sullivan [oh, all right, accept it if they say Gilbert and Sullivan]10 pts.: Orpheus in the Underworld; Life in ParisJacques Offenbach15 pts.: The Gypsy Baron; Die FledermausJohann Strauss the Younger [prompt on Strauss]6.	Name the quantity measured with the following calculations for then points each.force times lever arm					A.  torqueforce dot displacement				A.  workangular velocity times the moment of inertia		A.  angular momentum
7.	Name the following Greek mythological characters from a description for ten points each.This speedy princess was defeated in a footrace by the clever Hippomenes who dropped golden apples in her path.AtalantaShe was the statue created by Pygmalion, brought to life by Aphrodite.GalataeaHe was the son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, brother of Electra.Orestes8.	Given a famous art work from the early 20th century, name its creator for five points each, all of which are housed in New York City.  (The works, that is, not the artists.)Bicycle Wheel					A.  Marcel DuchampBroadway Boogie Woogie			A.  Piet MondrianI Saw the Figure Five in Gold			A.  Charles DeMuthTwo Children Threatened by a Nightingale	A.  Max ErnstDance, Monster, to my Soft Song		A.  Paul KleeThe Persistence of Memory			A.  Salvador Dali9.	Name the authors of the following novels on a 10-5 basis:10  Buddenbrooks5    Death in Venice			A.  Thomas Mann10  The Temple of My Familiar	5    The Color Purple			A.  Alice Walker10  Pale Fire5    Lolita				A.  Vladimir Nabokov10.	Name the following British explorers from a description for ten points each.He was an Italian who sailed for King Henry the VII and landed at Newfoundland.John CabotThe half-brother of Sir Walter Raleigh, he took possession of Newfoundland for Elizabeth the I.Humphrey GilbertThis Scottish missionary and explorer named Victoria Falls and explored the Zambezi River.A.  David Livingstone11.	FTP, in chemistry, by what alternate name do we recognize the members of the group known as the "oxygen family?"chalcogensNow for five points each, name the four members of the chalcogens other than oxygen.sulfur, selenium, tellurium, polonium12.	I'll name an English monarch, and for five points each you name the monarch who preceded him or her.A. George I			A.  AnneB. Henry VII			A.  Richard IIIC. Harold II			A.  Edward the ConfessorD. Elizabeth II		A.  George VIE. George IV			A.  George IIIF. Edward VII		A.  Victoria
13.	Given the opening sentence of a work of fiction, name the work, 10 points each.  If you need the author, take 5.1a: "It was a pleasure to burn."1b: Ray Bradbury	Fahrenheit 4512a "If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you'll probably want to know is where I was born, and what my lousy childhood was like, and how my parents were occupied and all before they had me, and all that David Copperfield kind of crap, but I don't feel like going into it, if you want to know the truth."2b: J.D. SalingerThe Catcher in the Rye3a: "Listen: Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time."3b:  Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.Slaughterhouse-Five14.	Given a capital city, name the island nation on which you'd find it for five points each:A. Valetta			A.  MaltaB. Taipei			A.  TaiwanC. Wellington			A.  New ZealandD. Antananarivo		A.  MadagascarE. Hamilton			A.  BermudaF. Funafuti			A.  Tuvalu15.	Name the poet from works, 30, 20, 10.30: "When I Have Fears That I May Cease to Be"20: "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer"10: "Ode to a Nightingale"A.  John Keats16.	Given a title of a current song and its position on the Billboard charts (as of January 20), name the artist responsible for its infliction on the world for five points each.Have You Ever (#1)			A.  BrandyJumper (#10)				A.  Third Eye BlindLove Like This (#16)			A.  Faith EvansMiami (#18)				A.  Will SmithThese Are the Times (#21)		A.  Dru HillMy Favorite Mistake (#29)		A.  Sheryl Crow17.	You'll receive ten points if you can name the Nobel Prize recipient for literature when given a work and  the year in which the award was presented.  If you need a better known work by that author, you'll get five.10	1969; Krapp's Last Tape5     	Endgame				A.  Samuel Beckett10  	1938; Dragonseed	5    	The Good Earth			A.  Pearl Buck10	1957; The Myth of Sisyphus5    	The Plague				A.  Albert Camus
18.	Mmmmm, benzene!!!  Our favorite carcinogen!!!  FTPE, answer the following questions about benzenes and its derivatives.a)  When an alcohol is directly attached to a benzene ring, this highly acidic compound is formed.  It was the first widely used antiseptic and disinfectant, the precursors to Lysol.  FTP, name this compound.Answer :  _Phenol_  (fee nol)b)  When a methyl group is attached to a benzene ring, this compound is formed.  The name of this compound is the the second "T" in TNT.Answer:  _Toluene_  (tol u een)c)  Benzene can delocalize its double bonds throughout its carbon backbone.  This type of compound is especially stable and includes benzene and its derivatives.  FTP, name this odoriferous type of compounds.Answer:  _Aromatic_19.	I'll name a book on the current nonfiction bestseller list, and you name its author for ten points each.The Greatest Generation			A.  Tom BrokawTuesdays with Morrie				A.  Mitch AlbomVenus and Mars in the Bedroom		A.  John Gray20.	Identify the year in which the following Civil War events took place for five points each.The Trent Incident				A.  1862Battle of Chancellorsville			A.  1863Farragut captures Mobile			A.  1864Battle of Chickamauga			A.  1863Second Bull Run				A.  1862Quantrill's Raiders kill 150 in Kansas		A.  186321.	The last place you want to go is the underworld. Hades  is pretty bleak and it smells bad, plus to get in you have to pass that three-headed watch dog.  Hades is surrounded by the river Styx which is in fact a series of four rivers.1.  For 5 points each name these rivers.Answer:	Acheron (accept River of Woe) , Cocytus (accept River of Lamentation) , Phlegethon (accept River of Fire); Lethe (accept River of Forgetfulness) 2.  For an additional 10 points give the name of the dog that guards the entrance. Answer : Cerberus