TOSSUPS - FLORIDA B / UNC A		SWORD BOWL/PENN BOWL 2006 (UTC/Penn/Oklahoma/Drake)Questions by Florida B (Travis Vitello, Jay Dunkelburger, Melissa Munkel, and Kaitlin Welborn) and North Carolina A with a few from your genial quizmaster1.	This poem was first published in the 1819 volume of Rosalind and Helen.  It describes a "colossal wreck, boundless and bare" where "two vast and trunkless legs of stone / Stand in the desert."  In it, the "shatter'd visage" of the "king of kings" rests near a pedestal where the words "Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!" are stamped.  FTP, identify this poem about the statue of an ancient Egyptian ruler, a work by Percy Bysshe Shelley.	Answer:	Ozymandias of Egypt2.	Along with Bruce Hellman, this man lends his name to an academic award for students at FSU, the institute where he spent his final years.  He shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with Erwin Schrödinger in 1933, one year after his predicted positron was discovered.  FTP, name this British theoretical physicist and major proponent of quantum theory, whose work on half-spin particles led to the derivation of his namesake equation and, with Enrico Fermi, to a certain type of statistics.	Answer:	Paul Dirac 3.	(UNC) Gramsci criticized the accepted view of this event as being wrongly interpreted, noting that the ruling classes dictated its final outcome and usurped control of the state from the commoners who had initially started it.  It initially began with the invasion of Naples by the Carbonari in 1820, but it was during the revolutions of 1848 that the movement began to take hold throughout the country.  Over the next two decades advocates were largely successful in bringing the provinces together, but it was not until the Franco-Prussian War that the movement was able to accede the Papal States to their territory.  FTP, name this event, which led to the unification of Italy.	Answer:	Risorgimento (accept "unification of Italy" before it is mentioned)4.	American billionaire Sidney Frank earned much of his fortune through the promotion of Grey Goose vodka and this other drink.  First introduced to the German market in 1935, Otto von Riesenthal wrote the poem that runs along the edge of its label, which also includes the image of a stag with a glowing cross between its antlers.  Often mixed with Red Bull to form a namesake "bomb," FTP, what is this liqueur whose name translates as "master hunter"?       Answer: 	Jägermeister5.	After Ea killed Apsu and imprisoned Mummu, she was left no choice but vengeance.  So when Kingu approached her, she allowed him control of her monstrous forces who marched against the gods.  Victory would have been certain, but the son of Ea would defend the gods by capturing Kingu and slaying her.  FTP, the Enuma Elish describes Marduk's victory over what primordial Babylonian she-dragon?	Answer:	Tiamat6.	(UNC) Originally discovered by scientists while studying the replication of bacteriophage DNA in E. Coli, they were identified using pulse labeling with radioactive thymidine. In cells they are created using DNA polymerase III and joined together by DNA ligase which creates phoshodiester bonds between them. FTP name these short fragments of DNA created on the lagging strand during DNA replication because DNA Polymerases can only synthesize DNA from the 5' (five prime) to 3' (three prime) end and named for a Japanese husband and wife team. 	Answer:	Okazaki fragments 7.	When a hesitant elephant asked, "You mean I'm supposed to stand on that?" he was referring to a barrel with this word written on it.  That elephant was drawn by political cartoonist Herbert Block, who originated the word on March 29, 1950.  The McCarran-Walter Act and the Smith Act were consequences of it, as was the blacklisting of authors like Clifford Odets, Lillian Hellman, and Arthur Miller, whose The Crucible was inspired by it.  Named for a senator from Wisconsin, FTP, identify this term used to describe US anti-communism during the 1950s.	Answer:	McCarthyism
8.	Background details in this painting include a woman in a black hat and yellow gloves sitting near another woman who is holding a jumelle, perhaps in order to better see the ongoing acrobatics.  The artist's signature can be found on one of the foreground's glass bottles that share counter space with a bowl of oranges and a glass holding two carnations.  Against this counter, a female worker with a flowered brooch leans towards the viewer, perhaps to take their drink order.  FTP, identify this 1882 depiction of Paris nightlife, the last major work by Edouard Manet.	Answer:	A Bar at the Folies-Bergere9.	After the St. Petersburg Gazette published this man's obituary lamenting the death of his idol, Nikolai Gogol, he was forced into exile for nearly two years.  During this time, he was able to work on A Nest of Nobles, which was followed by On the Eve and a work that introduced a character sometimes called the "first Bolshevik," Yevgeny Bazarov.  FTP, name this author, known for his nihilistic masterpiece, Fathers and Sons.	Answer:	Ivan Turgenev10.	(UNC) Born in Leicestershire, he worked a succession of odd jobs, including time spent as a shepherd which informed his theology.  His public preaching began in 1648, and he spent much of the next several decades being persecuted and imprisoned for his beliefs, until the Act of Toleration was passed in 1689.  He believed that formal education should not be a prerequisite for the ministry, and that religious experience could be had by anyone and in any location, a theological framework that still forms the basis of the church he is considered to have founded.  FTP, identify this founder of the Society of Friends.	Answer:	George Fox11.	For one it equals s inverse while for t to the n it equals n factorial over s to the n plus one.  When involving a complex argument, it is equivalent to the continuous Fourier transform of a function. Useful in solving constant coefficient non-homogenous differential equations, it can be defined as the improper integral from zero to infinity of e to the negative product of s and t times the function which is being transformed.  FTP, what is this type of transform named after a certain French mathematician?	Answer:	Laplace transform12.	Among the many things this man lends his name to include a play by Nicholas Rowe, a poem by Edgar Allen Poe, and a variety of chess that includes elephants, giraffes, and camels among its pieces.  Upon the death of his brother-in-law Husayn in 1369, he was crowned at his capital of Samarkand.  During his reign, he would conquer large parts of Russia, Persia, India, and central Asia, though he would die before he could successfully invade China.  This great-great-grandson of Genghis Khan was, FTP, what Mongol conqueror, nicknamed for an injury he received in battle?	Answer:	Tamerlane or Timur the Lame (accept clear-knowledge variations)13.	Tributaries of this river include the Indre, the Maine, and the Sarthe.  Flowing northwestward through the Massif Central, it empties into the Atlantic after passing through cities like Roanne and Nevers.  Since this river is susceptible to flooding, as in 1856, 1866, and 1910, its banks are lined with dikes, although there are no dams restricting its natural flow.  Originating in the Cevennes highlands and having its mouth at Nantes, FTP, what is this 630 mile long river, the longest in France?	Answer:	Loire River14.	(YGQM) He won the Journey Prize for his short story collection Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios, and his debut novel Self was shortlisted for the Chapters/Books in Canada First Novel Award.   He qualified for the latter because his parents were Canadian, though he was born in Spain and has lived in Alaska, Costa Rica, Mexico, Turkey, and India.  FTP name the winner of the 2002 Man Booker Prize for his novel Life of Pi.    	Answer:	  Yann Martel15.	(UNC) This sport originated at St. Moritz, Switzerland, in the 1880's. The following year, the Grand National was held, which has been the premier race in the sport ever since. First included in the Olympics when they were held in St. Moritz in 1928, the sport has had only three Olympic appearances, the most recent in 2002, where Jim Shea won the gold.  It has gained unwanted prominence due to the sexual harassment allegations against U.S. Olympic coach Tim Nardiello.  FTP name this sport, also called tobogganing, in which the competitors drive a sled in a prone, head-first position down an ice track. 	Answer:	Skeleton or skeleton tobogganing [accept "tobogganing" before "Olympics"; prompt thereafter]
16.	A mutation in the Lamin A protein gene on chromosome 1 can cause this rare medical condition that affects one in about four to eight million newborns annually.  Sometimes known as Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome, those who suffer from it will experience alopecia, atherosclerosis, and stunted growth.  Most of those that are affected will die by age 13, though they will appear to have aged far beyond that.  Derived from the Greek for "prematurely old," FTP, what is this condition which causes sufferers to mature six to eight times the rate of normal children?	Answer:	progeria (accept Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome before mentioned)17.	Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1841 visit here was the inspiration for his fictional Blithedale.  Inspired by the theories of Charles Fourier, it pursued socialist self-reliance by the production of agricultural goods, rather than consumer goods like the Oneida colony.  Established by former Unitarian minister George Ripley in West Roxbury, Massachusetts, FTP, identify this transcendentalist Utopian community.	Answer:	Brook Farm18.	His law of three stages was one of the first theories of social Darwinism.  He described that human progress consisted of a theological stage, a metaphysical stage, and a final stage that suggested that natural phenomena can be explained by their constant relationship, which he referred to as the "positive" stage.  Responsible for the word "altruism," FTP, name this French thinker and positivist, the Father of Sociology.	Answer:	Auguste Comte19.	(UNC) This functional group produces two main absorption peaks during infrared spectroscopy.  One is found at 1780-1710 cm-1 and the other at 3000-2500cm-1.  This functional group reacts with amines to form peptide bonds, alcohols to form esters, and with thionyl chloride to form acyl chlorides. Further, it can be formed in a variety of ways including from the oxidation of an alkene with potassium permanganante, with the acid or base hydrolysis of nitriles, or using Tollens' reagent.  Electronegative groups next to it greatly increase its acidity.  FTP name this functional group found in acetic and actic acid, with formula COOH.       Answer:	Carboxylic acid20.	(YGQM) It was adapted into a 1995 opera with music by Andre Previn.  Two key characters never actually appear onstage: Shep Huntleigh, the former suitor the protagonist imagines will come sweep her away, and Allan Grey, her husband whose suicide was the traumatic event that began her descent into delusion.  The titular object is used to reach Elysian Fields, the neighborhood that is home to the protagonist's sister Stella and her brutish husband Stanley Kowalski.  FTP name this Pulitzer Prize-winning 1947 play by Tennessee Williams.	Answer:	A Streetcar Named Desire21.	(UNC) This empire was quite technologically advanced during their fifteenth-century apex, with a sophisticated system of governance developed through the diplomatic acquisition of territory under the emperor Pachacuti.  At its height the empire was about the size of the thirteen American colonies, but its height lasted for only about a century before the arrival of Spanish settlers and the systematic upheaval of their way of life.  FTP, name the empire of South America which stretched from Colombia to Chile and whose last emperor was Tupac Amaru.	Answer:	Inca22.	(UNC) This little known brass instrument has faced much controversy in both US drum & bugle corps. Some groups wanted to use the more popular Key of F versions of this instrument as opposed to the standard Key of G's. Being in the Key of F allows this instrument to audibly mirror the French Horn, despite the fact it looks more like an oversized trumpet. FTP, name this instrument, exclusive to marching band. 	Answer:	Mellophone or Mellophonium 23.	A conference at Marburg failed to settle this man's difference of opinion over the Eucharist with Martin Luther.  Like Luther, he wanted to restore the purity of the church, though unlike Luther, he was a supporter of the Peasants' Revolt.  He was killed on October 11, 1531, in the Second War of Kappel, fought between the Catholic and Protestant cantons of Switzerland after he led the Reformation there.  FTP, name this Protestant reformer from Zurich.	Answer:	Huldreich Zwingli 
BONI - FLORIDA B / UNC A			SWORD BOWL/PENN BOWL 2006 (UTC/Penn/Oklahoma/Drake)Questions by Florida B (Travis Vitello, Jay Dunkelburger, Melissa Munkel, Kaitlin Welborn) & North Carolina A1.	Given a revolt, identify that slave feller who done headed it, FTPE:(10) With a solar eclipse as the signal, this 1831 revolt in Southampton County, Virginia, resulted in the gruesome deaths of 55 white folk.  As a result, the slave in charge was captured and hanged.	Answer:	Nat Turner(10) Occurring in Richmond, Virginia, this 1800 revolt was quelled by torrential rain and the intervention of James Monroe and the state militia. As a result, the slave in charge was captured and hanged.	Answer:	Gabriel Prosser(10) What would have been the largest slave revolt in US history never happened, as this 1822 rebellion in Charleston, South Carolina, didn't occur once word leaked.  This man wasn't a slave and may or may not have been in charge, but he was captured and hanged anyway.	Answer:	Denmark Vesey2.  Given a famous line, identify the Shakespearean character who said it FTPE; if you need the play, you'll get 5 pts.:(10) "O, beware, my lord, of jealousy; / It is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock / The meat it feeds on."(5) Othello	Answer:	Iago(10) "This above all: to thine own self be true, / And it must follow, as the night the day, / Thou canst not then be false to any man."(5) Hamlet	Answer:	Polonius(10) "Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, / Who is already sick and pale with grief, / That thou her maid are far more fair than she."(5) Romeo and Juliet	Answer:	Romeo 3.	(UNC) As everyone's favorite part of physics are electrical circuits, answer these questions related to them FTPE. 10: This is an effect that results from the magnetic field that forms around a current carrying conductor. It is measured in henrys. Confusingly, it is abbreviated by an italicized capital L.	Answer:	Inductance (do not accept induction) 10: This component restricts the direction of movement of charge carriers, thus only allowing the current to flow in one direction.  The first ones were vacuum tubes, although most are now made of semiconductors.	Answer:	Diode10: This law states that the voltage flowing across a resistor is a product of its resistance and the current flowing through it.	Answer:	Ohm's Law4.	Identify the Russian composer from works, FTPE:(10) A Life for the Tsar, Ruslan and Lyudmila	Answer:	Mikhail Glinka(10) The Love for Three Oranges, Peter and the Wolf	Answer:	Sergei Prokofiev(10) Polovetsian Dances, In the Steppes of Central Asia	Answer:	Alexander Borodin5.	Answer the following about a director and his films, FTPE:(10) Taking place in a futuristic city, this flick focuses on Freder and Maria who attempt to unite a division of the classes while combating a manipulative robot.	Answer:	Metropolis(10) A whistling child killer is hunted down by an underground crime syndicate in this 1931 movie with a one-letter title.	Answer:	M(10) This Austrian-born film director was responsible for the classics Metropolis and M.	Answer:	Fritz Lang
6.	(UNC) Don't get burned by this bonus!  FTPE, given a mythology, identify its god of fire.(10) Roman				Answer:	Vulcan(10) Norse				Answer:	Surt(10) Hindu				Answer:	Agni 7.	(UNC) Identify these poems from their first lines FTPE, or for 5 if you need the author. [10] I celebrate myself and sing myself/ And what I assume you shall assume/ For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you [5] Walt Whitman 	Answer:	"Song of Myself" [10] Bent double, like old beggars under sacks/ Knock-kneed, coughing like hags, we cursed through sludge/ Till on the haunting flares we turned our backs/ And towards our distant rest began to trudge [5] Wilfred Owen 	Answer:	"Dulce et Decorum Est" [10] Hail to thee, blithe spirit/ Bird thou never wert/ That from heaven, or near it/ Pourest thy full heart/ In profuse strains of premeditated art [5] Percy Bysshe Shelley 	Answer:	"To a Skylark" 8.	Identify the following things that the stereotypical quiz bowler probably hasn't seen since birth, FTPE:(10) This part of a woman's reproductive system leads from the ovaries to the upper part of the uterus.  Also known as the oviducts, they take their more familiar name from their Italian discoverer.	Answer:	fallopian tubes(10) Commonly covered by pubic hair, this part of the vulva is the pad of fatty tissue that covers the pubic bone and is the most visible part of a woman's external genitalia.	Answer:	mons pubis(10) These small, hairless inner lips of a woman's genitalia come together to form the clitoral hood which covers the clitoris, something we suspect no living quiz bowler has ever encountered.	Answer:	labia minora (prompt on labia; do not accept labia majora)9.	Identify the following battles where Napoleon fought, none of which are Waterloo, FTPE:(10) After crossing the Alps, Napoleon met the Austrians in this June 1800 battle; Napoleon was so inspired by his victory that he named his horse after it.	Answer:	Battle of Marengo(10) Commemorated by the 45 Apel-stones, this 1813 battle was both the largest battle of the Napoleonic Wars and Napoleon's most decisive defeat.	Answer:	Battle of Leipzig or Battle of the Nations(10) Russo-Austrian forces were defeated after attacking Napoleon's right flank in this 1805 battle that resulted in the signing of the Treaty of Pressburg.	Answer:	Battle of Austerlitz 10.	Give these terms from cultural anthropology from definitions, FTPE:(10) This is a prohibition backed by supernatural sanctions.  Along with "totem," it completes the title of a 1913 Freud work.	Answer:	taboo(10) Either of two kinship groups based on unilateral descent that together makes up a tribe or society constitutes one of these.	Answer:	moiety(10) This is the custom by which a widow marries the brother of her deceased husband.	Answer:	levirate
11.	(UNC) Answer some questions about American labor history FTPE.10: Founded in Philadelphia by Uriah Stephens in 1869, they were the most popular labor union of the 1880s until they were supplanted by the American Federation of Labor.	Answer:	Knights of Labor10: Born in London in 1850 and emigrating to the United States at the age of thirteen, this was the founder of the American Federation of Labor.	Answer:	Samuel Gompers10: Gompers' relative apoliticism led to the formation of this more radical labor organization in 1905, which is today headquartered in Philadelphia.  Included among its founders were Big Bill Haywood and Eugene Debs.	Answer:	IWW or Industrial (not International) Workers of the World (accept Wobblies)12.	Identify the following works with titular literary residences from clues, FTPE:(10) Sandra Cisneros wrote of Esperanza Cordero's coming to age in the Chicago ghetto in this 1983 novel.	Answer:	The House on Mango Street(10) Lily Bart's downward social spiral is captured in this work by Edith Wharton.	Answer:	The House of Mirth(10) This novel by Isabel Allende tells the life of four generations of the Trueba family in post-colonial Chile.	Answer:	The House of the Spirits13.	Its existence was first predicted in 1926 by Walter Russell.  FTPE:(10) What is this isotope of hydrogen with an atomic mass of 2.01?	Answer:	deuterium(10) Deuterium was first detected by this man, the winner of the 1934 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.	Answer:	Harold Urey(10) Deuterium can join with oxygen to form heavy water, which will emit Cherenkov radiation due to these particles.	Answer:	neutrinos14.	Given the African country, identify its capital city, 5-5-10-10:(5) Kenya	Answer:	Nairobi(5) Sudan	Answer:	Khartoum(10) Botswana	Answer:	Gaborone(10) Namibia	Answer:	Windhoek15.	30-20-10, identify the individual from clues:(30) He shares his name with both that of a manufacturer of coffee mugs and Keyser Soze's attorney / henchman in the film, The Usual Suspects.(20) One of the few times this man has ever lost was on Fox's Man vs. Beast against a Kodiak bear.(10) A native of Nagano, Japan, he is the current holder of the "Coveted Mustard Yellow Belt" and a 5-time champion of the Nathan's Coney Island hot dog eating contest.	Answer:	Takeru Kobayashi16.	Name these things associated with the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram, FTPE:(10) This is the principal diagonal running from the upper-left to lower-right corner of the H-R diagram.	Answer:	main sequence(10) These massive star varieties are found running across the top of the H-R diagram.  In the Yerkes spectral classification, they are either Ia or Ib depending on luminosity.	Answer:	supergiants(10) White dwarfs are predominantly found below the main sequence in what region of the H-R diagram?	Answer:	bottom-left (accept equivalents)
17.	It is the commonly known as the Finnish national epic.  FTPE:(10) What is this poem of 50 chapters originally compiled by Elias Lönnrot?	Answer:	Kalevala(10) This is the Kalevala's main character.	Answer:	Väinämöinen(10) This is the magical grinding mill pivotal to the plot of the Kalevala.	Answer:	Sampo18.	Name these works by Carson McCullers from clues, FTPE:(10) At the end of this McCullers work, John Henry dies of meningitis, Berenice decides to find a new partner, and Frances befriends Mary Littlejohn.	Answer:	The Member of the Wedding(10) Originally entitled The Mute, this work focuses on the experiences of John Singer in a small Georgian town.	Answer:	The Heart is a Lonely Hunter (10) "Death is always the same, but each man dies in his own way," is the famous opening line to this 1961 McCullers novel.	Answer:	Clock Without Hands (UNC) Answer the following questions about a period of Japanese history FTPE.10: This period, lasting from 1336 to 1573, acquired one of its names from its first shogun, Yoshimitsu.	Answer:	Ashikaga shogunate or Muromachi period (accept equivalents)10: The Nanban period, heralding the arrival of European traders, began in 1543 with the arrival of ships from this country, hailing from their port city of Goa on the Indian coast.	Answer:	Portugal10: The second half of the Ashikaga shogunate was marked by this period of conflict which began in 1467 and led to the breakdown of social order throughout the Japanese archipelago.	Answer:	Warring States or Sengoku period20.	Identify the following theorems from calculus from definitions, FTPE:(10) If a function f is continuous on the closed interval [a,b] and differentiable on the open interval (a,b), and f(a) = f(b), then there exists some number c in the open interval (a,b) such that f'(c) = 0.	Answer:	Rolle's theorem(10) If a function f is continuous on the closed interval [a,b], then the function g(x) defined as the definite integral from a to x of f(t) dt is continuous on the closed interval [a,b], differentiable on the open interval (a,b), and g'(x) = f(x).	Answer:	fundamental theorem of calculus(10) Let F be a vector field whose components have continuous partial derivatives on an open region in R3 and contain an oriented piecewise-smooth surface S, then the line integral around the boundary of curve S of the tangential component of F is equal to the surface integral of the normal component of the curl of F.	Answer:	Stoke's theorem21.	(UNC) Identify these famous linguists FTPE. 10: This Canadian-born linguist's works tackle topics such as language, cognitive science and evolutionary psychology. The Language Instinct is among his best known books. 	Answer:	Steven Pinker 10: This man's interest in linguistics arose while working for a fire insurance company. A student of Edward Sapir, he helped develop a hypothesis that language affects thought. 	Answer:	Benjamin Whorf 10: This man is credited with the theory of generative grammar as well as the sentence "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously." 	Answer:	Noam Chomsky 
22.	(UNC) FTPE name the song from Bizet's opera Carmen from the given lyrics. 10: "Et songe bien, oui, songe en combatant qu'un oeil noir te regarde" (Remember well that while in battle, a dark eye is watching you) 	Answer:	The Toreador Song 10: "...si tu ne m'aimes pas, je t'aime, si je t'aime, si je t'aime, prends garde à toi!" (If you don't like me, I like you, and if I like you, then you better watch out you fool!) 	Answer:	The Habanera or L'amour est un oiseau rebelle 10: "j'irai chez mon ami Lillas Pastia. Oui, mais toute seule on s'ennuie, et les vrais plaisirs sont à deux" (I'll go to my old friend Lillas Pastia's. But all alone it's not much fun. True pleasure is when you're a pair) 	Answer:	Séguedille or Seguidilla 23.	(UNC) Given the French dynasty, identify the king who was its founder FTPE.10: Carolingian			Answer:	Charles the Bald (accept Charles II)10: Valois				Answer:	Philip VI10: Bourbon				Answer:	Henry IV