TOSSUPS - DUKE etc.				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Upon hearing this phrase, uttered in response to John Cade's plans, Cade responds, "Is not this a lamentable thing, that of the skin of an innocent lamb should be made parchment?" FTP-what is this oft-quoted five-word phrase from Act 4, Scene 2 of Henry VI, Part Two, that completes the interjection by Dick the Butcher, "The first thing we do . . ."?	Answer:     "The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers!" [accept "kill all the lawyers" before "five-word"]2.	According to the Hammond postulate, lower values for this always-positive quantity imply greater similarity between reactants and their transition state. Temperature-dependent, it can be found using a reaction-coordinate diagram or the Arrhenius equation. No reaction will occur unless two particles collide with at least-FTP-what minimum energy needed for a reaction to occur?	Answer:	 activation energy or Ea [E sub a]3.	He popularized an Aleut word for "the big land" by describing Seward's Folly as "Alaska." On May 20, 1856, he delivered a speech on "The Crime Against Kansas," criticizing Senator Andrew Butler's stance on slavery. Taking offense, Butler's nephew Preston Brooks gave a beating to, FTP, which Massachusetts Republican on the Senate floor?	Answer:	 Charles Sumner4. 	The former host of VH1's comedy series Vinyl Justice, this Orlando-born comedian makes appearances as a member of the Houseful of Honkeys. During the summer of 2001, he had his own variety show on ABC. FTP-name this popular African-American comedian who appears on Whose Line is It Anyway.	Answer:	 Wayne Brady5.	This Greek shares his name with the monk who leapt into the Coliseum to stop a gladiator fight, leading to Honorius's abolition of the sport. He married Cassiphone, slew Cassiphone's mother Circe, and was assisted as a youth by the goddess Athena, disguised as Mentor. FTP-name this son of Penelope and Odysseus.	Answer:	 Telemachus6. 	By act of the Legislature, it was allowed to change its name, and leave one word out of its motto. Its trouble begans when a stranger returned to this town, claiming he had a fortune for a man who helped him many years ago. With its new motto "Lead us into temptation," this is-FTP-what town that experienced its first corruption in a short story by Mark Twain?	Answer:	 Hadleyburg [accept "The Man Who Corrupted Hadleyburg"]7.	The original was signed by Johann Bernstorff, and bears the words "via Galveston." As the British soon found out, it begins "We intend to begin on the first of February unrestricted submarine warfare." Spurring the US into World War I-FTP-name this 1917 telegram from the German Foreign Minister to his ambassador in Mexico.	Answer:	 Zimmermann telegram or note8.	A July 16, 2001 prediction that this volcano would erupt the next day was accurate to within three minutes. The lava flow threatened the town of Nicolosi, making it this volcano's most dangerous eruption since 1992, when lava entered the town of Zafferana. FTP-name this oldest active volcano in the world, found on Sicily.	Answer:	 Mount Etna9.	They include y prime equals y and z prime equals z. For small velocities, the other two reduce to the pair of equations x prime equals x minus v times t, and t prime equals t, also known as the Galilean transformations. Their validity at high speeds make them vitally important for Einstein's theory of special relativity. FTP name this set of equations.	Answer:	 Lorentz transform(ation)s10. 	On the left, peasants sit and cook in front of a large yellow fire, while a young child tries to keep warm. At the top, a few lone birds rest in bare trees, suggesting the solitude of winter.  In the background, village children play atop frozen ponds, while in the foreground the title characters, carrying sharp spears, are accompanied by a pack of hounds in-FTP-what 1565 painting by Pieter Brueghel the Elder?	Answer:	 The Hunters in the Snow
11. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled in Campbell v. Acuff-Rose determined that commercial parodies do not infringe on this. A staple of intellectual property law, game shows cannot claim them, as they cannot be held over a concept or format. FTP-name this distinction placed on almost all originally produced material, usually followed by the words "All rights reserved."	Answer:	 copyright12.	Began at Versailles as the Club Breton, it was later renamed the Society of Friends of the Constitution. At its peak, it had over 1200 related societies, even though it had just 3000 members in Paris. Now known by the location of its most famous meeting place-FTP-name this group, founded in 1789, that advocated violent suppression of all opposition, that dominated the Committee for Public Safety.	Answer:	 Jacobin Club13.	Take the series starting with 0 and 3, then doubling for each successive number.  Increase each by 4 and then divide by ten, and you get a series derived by J. D. Titius of Wittenberg to explain an astronomical relationship.  But the law that explains all this bears the name of the man who published it six years after Titius derived it.  FTP name this law, which until the discovery of Neptune gave a fair approximation of the empirical relationship between the planets' mean distances from the sun.	Answer:	Bode's Law14.	Marianna Alcoforado was wrongly believed to have written a set of them. A. R. Gurney used them in a stage play to focus on the relationship between childhood friends, Senator Andrew Ladd III and Melissa Gardener. Laurence Housman wrote a novel about those of an Englishwoman, while Cyrano de Bergerac wrote them, on Christian's behalf, to Roxanne. FTP-name these sappy pieces of correspondence between romantics.	Answer:	 love letters [accept equivalents]15.	The three acts of this 1925 work have five scenes each. Act II is a full symphony, while Act III is a set of variations; there are no arias or ensemble numbers. The title character murders his wife, Marie, before drowning himself; in the final scene, Marie's child learns of his mother's death, but continues to play with his toy horse. FTP-name this opera about a soldier by Alban Berg.	Answer:	 Wozzeck [VOH-tsek]16.	Most of our knowledge of this dynasty comes from the writings of Megasthenes, an ambassador from the Seleucids. Its capital was Pataliputra in Magadha. While it was in power, most of India, except the extreme south, was controlled by one ruler. FTP-name this oldest known Indian dynasty, whose rulers include Asoka and Chandragupta.	Answer: Mauryan Dynasty or Maurya 17.	Two months before his 17th birthday, he won his first ATP title, the youngest person to do so since Michael Chang. Two years later, he became the youngest man to win a Grand Slam doubles title at the US Open. FTP-name this Australian who avenged his 2000 semifinals loss to Pete Sampras by winning the men's singles at the 2001 US Open.	Answer:	 Lleyton Hewitt18.	When his most famous words were questioned by those present, he replied, "What I have written, I have written." After trying to claim that the case which spurned those words was not his jurisdiction, he tried to subvert popular opinion, but failed. FTP-name this political leader who washed his hands as he was forced to send one prisoner to death and release the insurrectionist Barabbas.	Answer:	 Pontius Pilate[Pilate wrote Iesu Nazoream, Rex Iudaeorum-"Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews."]19.	In 1998, a group in Delft published an article in Nature claiming that this molecule conducts electricity, but that research was discredited. Considering only pi bonds, chemists believe it should be a conductor, which might give industrial use to decades of research into its structure, folding, and sequencing. Possibly the building block of new transistors-FTP-name this compound better known for storing genetic information.	Answer:	 DNA or DeoxyriboNucleic Acid
20.	Like the Gospel of John, it begins "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the word was God." Recommended by one critic for those who like Sherlock Holmes, Montaillou, Borges, the nouvelle critique, the rule of St. Benedict, metaphysics, library design, or The Thing from the Crypt, the novel is divided into seven days, and each day by the liturgical hours. FTP-name this study in semiotics, the first novel by Umberto Eco.	Answer:	 The Name of the Rose or Il nome della rosa21. 	John Rich was a pioneer of this profession. In 1864, Tom Belling created the now-standard character "Auguste," who was later played by Lou Jacobs. English performer Joseph Grimaldi was so respected that the term "Joey" now applies-FTP-to what profession, whose most famous examples are Ronald McDonald and Bozo?	Answer:	 clown(s) [accept Harlequin before "Belling"]22. 	First articulated in the early 1800s by those seeking to understand the French Revolution, it was given full expression by Scottish social critic Thomas Carlyle in his essay On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and the Heroic in History, and it was opposed by Engels, Herbert Spencer, and other proponents of the Zeitgeist theory. FTP-name this theory that history has been shaped by exceptional individuals.	Answer:	 great man or Superman or overman or Übermensch theory23.	This four-word phrase explains why "my room is all messed up." It also explains what stopped me from going to class and to court. Indirectly, it's the reason that "now I'm a paraplegic" and why I gambled on the boat. Heck, it's why "I'm singin' the whole thing wrong." FTP-name this title phrase, offered as a reason for complete ineptitude by Afroman.	Answer:	 "Because I Got High"
BONI - DUKE etc.				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	FTPE name these characters from Shakespeare's Twelfth Night:a)  A major comic subplot has Maria, Sir Toby Belch, and Andrew Aguecheek scheming to remove this pompous steward from Olivia's favor.	Answer:	Malvoliob)  This duke of Illyria carries a torch for Olivia, but eventually marries Viola, who was disguised as a pageboy in his employ and in such capacity became the object of Olivia's affections.  Hmmm.	Answer:	Orsinoc)  Viola's long-lost lookalike twin brother, he is mistaken for the page by Olivia, who promptly marries him.	Answer:	Sebastian2.	30-20-10. Name the painter.[30]	In The Dance of Life, a couple waltzes from youth on the left to old age-unfaithful old age for the man.[20]	Two Women on the Shore is noted for its muted blacks and browns.[10]	This artist is most famous for an 1893 painting about a man on a pier in spiritual anguish.		Answer:	 Edvard Munch [prompt on "The Scream"]3.	Answer these questions about spermatogenesis, FTPE.[10]	What steroid hormone causes development of both secondary sexual characteristics and sperm?		Answer:	 testosterone[10]	Testosterone is produced by which cells, which respond to LH, or luteinizing hormone?		Answer:	 Leydig [LYE-dig] cells[10]	Sertoli cells produce sperm when they receive testosterone from Leydig cells and FSH, follicle stimulating hormone, from what gland?		Answer:	 anterior pituitary gland4.	OK, so we never hear much about the tsars named Feodor.  But FTPE answer these questions involving them:a)  In 1584 Feodor I succeeded this tsar, his father, but unlike Daddy he was weak and incompetent.	Answer:	Ivan IV or Ivan the Terribleb)  In fact, Feodor I was such a wuss he eventually let this man, his brother-in law, run the government.  This brother-in-law became tsar in name as well after Feodor I died in 1598.	Answer:	Boris Godunovc)  Godunov must have been grateful, because his son and successor was also named Feodor.  But Feodor II lasted less than a year; he was assassinated when the throne was taken by the first of four pretenders claiming to be this dead son of Ivan IV and brother of Feodor I.	Answer:	Dmitri or Demetrius5.	Name these Hemingway characters FTSNOP:[5] What old man is the protagonist of the Old Man and the Sea?	Answer:	 Santiago[10] She is the object of Jake Barnes's affection in The Sun Also Rises. She has an affair with Robert Cohn and a young bullfighter named Romero.	Answer:	 Lady Brett Ashley[5] He is the protagonist of many of Hemingway's short stories including The Killers, and is often considered to be Hemingway's alter ego.	Answer:	 Nick Adams[10] He is the main character in the novel, To Have and Have Not, who was played by Humphrey Bogart in the 1944 movie version.	Answer:	 Harry Morgan
6.	Answer the following about radioactive elements, FTPE.[10]	This entire series of elements, set below the periodic table, is radioactive.		Answer:	 actinides or actinide series [do not accept "lanthanides"][10]	This element, the lightest element without stable isotopes, is about half the atomic mass of the next such element.		Answer:	 technetium or Tc[10]	Elements with triple-digit atomic numbers, all of which are radioactive, are also known by this collective name.		Answer:	 transfermium elements7.	Answer these questions about Strange Brew, FTPE.[10]	What is the quintessentially Canadian surname of bumblers Bob and Doug?		Answer:	 McKenzie[10]	Played by Max von Sydow, who runs his evil experiments on residents of the Royal Canadian Institute for the Mentally Insane?		Answer:	 Brewmeister Smith[10]	Because the plot is essentially based on Hamlet, the brewery in the film is given this name.		Answer:	 Elsinore8.	Name these people and places prominent in the Korean War, FTPE.[10]	He was appointed commander of UN forces in Korea in 1950.		Answer:	 Douglas MacArthur[10]	A tactical error by the North Korean army allowed US troops to maintain a perimeter around this coastal city, avoiding a complete defeat in 1950.		Answer:	 Pusan or Busan[10]	In 1953 American Vice-Admiral C. Turner Joy negotiated a truce at this Korean city.		Answer:	 Panmunjom 9.	30-20-10. Give the common title.[30]	A fantasy novel by Julia Gray and a 1994 adventure game by Merit Software.[20]	A science fiction novel by Roger Zelazny and a Boris Karloff movie set in 1912 Greece.[10]	A painting by Arnold Bocklin and a tone poem by Sergei Rachmaninoff, one of whose themes is the Gregorian chant Dies Irae.		Answer:	 The Isle of the Dead10.	Answer these questions on waves, FTPE.[10]	This type of wave oscillates but does not propagate.		Answer:	 standing wave[10]	A set of three laws about waves along strings of fixed length are named for this 17th century mathematician, better known for his work on prime numbers.		Answer:	 Marin Mersenne's laws[10]	The first of Mersenne's Laws is sometimes named after this early Ionian geometer.		Answer:	 Pythagoras11.	Name these Thomas Hardy novels, 10 points each.[10]	After a troubled marriage to Sergeant Troy and a love affair with Boldwood, an insane farmer, Bathsheba Everdene sees the purity of Gabriel Oak's love and marries him.		Answer:	 Far from the Madding Crowd[10]	The newfound respectability of Michael Henchard is threatened by his old secret, that he once sold his wife & child.		Answer:	 The Mayor of Casterbridge[10] 	Dick Dewey and Vicar Maybold both propose to young schoolmistress Fancy Day, but her newfound maturity compels her to marry Dick.		Answer:	 Under the Greenwood Tree
12.	FTPE, identify the following terms from game theory [10] The best strategy regardless of any other players' strategy 	Answer:	 Dominant strategy[10] Given the other players' situations, each player cannot do any better in any other situation	Answer:	 Nash equilibrium [10] Perhaps the most well-known game of strategy, the dominant strategy for both players is to confess, though the payoff would be much greater if both remained silent. 	Answer:	 Prisoner's dilemma13.	This 1896 Supreme Court decision legitimized the notion of "separate but equal" accommodations. FTPE:[10]	Name the case, brought by a man arrested for refusing to leave a "Whites Only" railroad car in Louisiana.		Answer:	 Plessy v. Ferguson   [10]	Which Supreme Court Chief Justice presided over Plessy in 1896?		Answer:	 Melville Weston Fuller [10]	Which justice, in the lone dissenting opinion, said, "The Constitution is color blind?"		Answer:	 John Marshall Harlan14.	Name these Olympic figure skating favorites, 10 points per part.[10]	This gold medal favorite and World Champion separated from her long-time coach Frank Carroll in October.		Answer:	 Michelle Kwan[10]	This 2000 Russian World Champion can hold one skate above his head to perform a Bielmann spin.		Answer:	 Yevgeny Plushenko[5/5]	At the 2000 World Championships in Vancouver, this pairs team won the title before a "home crowd."		Answer:	 Jamie Sale and David Pelletier15,	FTPE, name these Indian figures.[10]	This 10-headed demon tormented Vishnu as Hiranyakasipu and Sisupalpa.		Answer:	 Ravana[10]	Ravana kidnapped this daughter of Janaka, Vishnu's wife.		Answer:	 Siva or Shiva[10]	This incarnation of Vishnu killed Sisupala with a flaming disk, then sucked the demon's soul into his feet.		Answer:	 Krishna16.	Given an Imagist poem, name the poet, FTPE.[10]"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"Answer:     Wallace Stevens[10] "The Walls Do Not Fall"	Answer:      H.D. or Hilda Doolittle[10] "Patterns"				Answer:      Amy Lowell17.	Name these early geologists, FTPE.[10]	This Scottish geologist advanced Hutton's theory of uniformitarianism in his 1830 thesis Principles of Geology.		Answer:	 Sir Charles Lyell[10]	This German geophysicist postulated the existence of the supercontinent Pangaea.		Answer:	 Alfred Lothar Wegener [VEH-gih-nur][10]	This English geologist's 1727 Observations on the Different Strata of Earths and Minerals espoused his theory of stratified rock formations.		Answer:	 John Strachey [STRAY-hee]
18.	FTP each, which French dynasty:[10]	Was founded by Clovis I?		Answer:	 Merovingian [prompt on "Meroveg"][10]	Ruled at the Battle of Crécy?		Answer:	 Valois[10]	Included the "Sun King"?		Answer:	 Bourbon19.	Name the capitals of these Caribbean nations, 5-10-15.[5]: Haiti	Answer:	 Port-Au-Prince [10]: Trinidad and Tobago	Answer:	 Port of Spain[15]: Barbados	Answer:	 Bridgetown 20.	Name these Biblical prophets, FTPE.[10]	He successfully revealed the meaning of Nebuchadnezzar's dreams.		Answer:	 Daniel[10]	This prophet brought David the news of God's wrath after David's indiscretions with Bathsheba.		Answer:	 Nathan[10]	The Horsemen, the Flying Scroll, and the Man with a Measuring Stick are three of this prophet's eight visions.		Answer:	 Zechariah [zeh-kuh-RYE-uh]21.	Name the instrument that represents these characters from Prokofiev's Peter and the Wolf, FTPE.[10]  The Bird				Answer:    flute[10] The Cat	Answer:    clarinet[10]  Peter's Grandfather	Answer:     bassoon22.	Name these isms that can summarize a person's belief on a 5-10-15 basis. [HN: accept word forms][5]	The belief that if things aren't bad right now, they will be soon enough.		Answer:	 pessimism[10]	Philosophy centered on the relationship between the individual and either the universe or God.		Answer:	 existentialism[15]	Belief prevalent in turn of the century America that led to the study of eugenics.		Answer:	 social Darwinism23.	Name these astronomical terms related to time, 15 points each.[15]	This is the interval between successive conjunctions or oppositions of celestial bodies, such as those of a planet or moon with the sun.		Answer:	 synod(ic)(al)[15]	This adjective denotes times based upon the axial and orbital rotation of the earth with respect to the background of stars.		Answer:	 sidereal [suh-DEH-ree-ul]