TOSSUPS - PITT etc.				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	First appearing in 1988 in the Washington City Paper, its creator is a former public defender.  Regular features include a surprisingly long list of all Americans with the middle name "Wayne" arrested in the past month for murder. With such recurring headings as "Our Litigious Society," "People Different than Us," and "People Unclear on the Concept," this is-FTP-what syndicated weekly column about various out-of-the-ordinary happenings, written by Chuck Shepherd?	Answer:	 "News of the Weird" [do not accept "The Week in Weird"]2.	First used in the 1500s to prove that the sum of the first n odd positive integers equals n squared, it is also useful for proving explicit representations of iterative sequences. FTP-what is this method for proving an infinite sequence of propositions by proving a base case, and then proving that an arbitrary element of the sequence implies the next element?	Answer:	 mathematical (proof by) induction 3.	In December 2001, Richard Cravener was chosen to lead this agency's restructuring by Commissioner James Ziglar. It plans to divide into two bureaus: one for services and one for law enforcement. It busted Golden State Transportation, and arrested ten student visa holders in San Diego who were not enrolled in school. FTP-name this Department of Justice agency that oversees movement of foreigners into the country.	Answer:	 Immigration and Naturalization Service4.	Their plantation lies four miles north of Jefferson, along their eponymous railroad. There are five men named Bayard, as well as Colonel John, whose life parallels that of the author's great-grandfather. The chief characters in The Unvanquished, this family's namesake novel, an abridged version of Flags in the Dust, was the first set in Yocona-later Yoknapatawpha-County. FTP-name this Faulkner family.	Answer:	 Sartoris 5.	Gene therapy trials for this disease began by treating patients' sinus passages. Caused by a defective channel for transporting chloride, it results in thick mucus that accumulates in the lungs, decreasing lung function and increasing the risk of infection. Named after its telltale malformations of the pancreas-FTP-what is this disease, usually diagnosed in childhood by a sweat test?	Answer:	 CF or cystic fibrosis of the pancreas [accept mucoviscoidosis on early buzz]6.	Spy Joseph Kerr revealed to the Overmountain Men and Colonel James Williams that Patrick Ferguson had camped here. The subsequent battle saw Ferguson's hilltop strategy dashed by the Americans' superior forest tactics. Ferguson was killed, Cornwallis withdrew to Winsboro, and American forces regrouped in time for Cowpens three months after-FTP-what October 1780 battle on the North Carolina/South Carolina border?	Answer:	 Battle of Kings Mountain7.	It was over 20 years after the 1902 début of his The Celestial Country that any more of his works were performed publicly. From the Steeples and the Mountains and The Circus Band are derived from folk songs and hymns of his native New England. The composer of the Robert Browning Overture and Three Places in New England-FTP-name this insurance salesman who wrote the Concord Sonata.	Answer:	 Charles Edward Ives8.	The protagonist hears of 35 affairs from José Palacios, and names a dog after himself. Set on the Magdalena River, a man tries to leave for Europe after being denied the presidency of a new government, warning against foreign intervention, and still feuding with Santander. FTP-name this Gabriel García Márquez novel set in the last days of Simón Bolívar.	Answer:	 The General in His Labyrinth or El General en Su Laberinto9.	Christian advocates of this concept, called al-qadar in Islam, include Gottschalk of Orbais and Cornelius Jansen. A dispute over it split the Methodists between Whitefield and Wesley. Its "single" form focuses on grace alone, while its "double" form, which includes evil, is a key Calvinist belief. FTP-name this religious doctrine which states that the ultimate placement of souls, or the entire history of the Universe is ordained by a deity.	Answer:	 predestination [accept equivalents]
10.	In ancient times, the only known source for this monoclinic salt was in Tibet, but it may have been the key to the "flexible glass" produced by a Roman craftsman. Consisting of interlocking chains of two similar compounds bonded to sodium and water, it is found in regions where lakes have repeatedly evaporated, and it effloresces over time to tincalconite.  FTP-name this material which is abundant in Turkey and Death Valley, the most common ore of borate and boron.	Answer:	 borax11.	Born in New York in 1882, he was sent to live with his mother's family after his father's death two years later.  He was made president of the assembly of the League of Nations in 1938, 22 years after he was spared execution only because of his U.S. citizenship, But he is better known for his three terms as taoiseach [TEH-shok], or prime minister, of Ireland. FTP-name this former leader of Sinn Féin, survivor of the Easter Rebellion and founder of Fianna Fáil.	Answer:	 Eamonn (or Edward) de Valera12.	Run by Tom Scully, it's on the way from the railroad station to Fort Romper, Nebraska. A cowboy, an Easterner, and a Swede stop in during a snowstorm. The Swede thinks the others are conspiring to rob and kill him. After a card game, an accusation of cheating, and a fight in the snow, the Swede leaves for town, where he is stabbed to death in a barfight in-FTP-what short story by Stephen Crane?	Answer:	 "The Blue Hotel"13.	In 1970, creationist Melvin Cook claimed to have found them inside an ancient human footprint. While the footprint was a hoax, these Cambrian fossils were not. They had compound eyes and were divided into the pygidium, cephalon, and thorax. This three-part segmentation lent its name-FTP-to what group of long-extinct arthropods?	Answer:	 trilobite(s) [do not accept "troglodytes"]14.	Zargari, a dialect of this language, is used chiefly by goldsmiths. A popular language for use by Omani women at home, this descendant of Saki and Khwarezmian is an Indo-European language closely related to Tadjik and Kurdish. Written in the Arabic alphabet-FTP-name this modern version of Avestan and Old Persian, the official language of Iran.	Answer:	 Western Farsi or Parsi [accept Modern Persian on early buzz]15.	It extends from Ushant Island in the north to Cape Ortegal in the south. Since 1682, it has been joined to the Mediterranean by the Languedoc Canal. It receives the Charente, Gironde, Adour, and Loire Rivers, and cities on its coast include Gijón, Bayonne, Rochefort, La Rochelle, Nantes, Bilbao, and Bordeaux. FTP-name this bay on France's western coast.	Answer:	 Bay of Biscay or Golfe de Gascogne or Golfo de Vizcaya16.	In November 2001, Austria's Justice Minister was seen stage-diving at a show by this band, which won a 2001 Echo award for "Best International Pop Single" for "Spirit of the Hawk." Their only American hit, on 1995's Sex and Violins, reworked a folk song about a man who "came to town like a midwinter storm" and prevented the song's narrator from marrying. FTP-Jeff Foxworthy might like what Swedish group behind "Cotton-Eye Joe?"	Answer:	 Rednex17.	The first philosopher to write in hexameter, he treated his studies of Pythagoreanism with Ameinias as a youthful error in his poem On Nature. He believed that the creation of entities was impossible, that motion and change were sensory illusions, and that truth comes through detached rationalism. Considered the first metaphysician-FTP-name this Greek philosopher from Elea.	Answer:	 Parmenides18.	When King Akaba asked a neighbor for land, the neighbor replied, "you can build your house here over my dead body." The corpse of the neighbor was soon used as a cornerstone for this kingdom's royal palace, gave the kingdom its name. They defeated the Popo, Zou, and Allada but were eventually subjugated, first by the Oyo and then by France. FTP-name this slave-trading kingdom of western Africa, geographically and historically related to modern Benin.	Answer:	 Dahomey
19.	His work with F.W. Aston established the existence of isotopes of neon, and his work with positive ion beams led to a means of separating atoms and molecules according to their atomic weights.  He also developed the mathematical theory of electricity and magnetism and studied the conduction of electricity through gases, for which he won the 1906 Nobel in Physics.  FTP name this physicist, perhaps best known as the discoverer of the electron.	Answer:	Sir Joseph John Thomson20.	His tragedies include Caesar and Pompey, but he earned more praise for the comedies May Day and The Widow's Tears. He completed Marlowe's poem "Hero and Leander" and collaborated with John Marston and Ben Jonson on Eastward Ho!, and brought readers to "goodly states and kingdoms" and "realms of gold." FTP-name this noted translator of The Iliad and The Odyssey, that Keats once "looked into."	Answer:	 George Chapman21.	The objects in question were not presented as an excuse; rather, Dr. Martin Blinder cited them in his testimony as evidence for depression. In fact, attorneys for Dan White didn't even get an acquittal, but rather a reduction of the charge to voluntary manslaughter, and no one claimed directly that a sugar overdose had caused the murders of George Moscone and Harvey Milk. FTP-name this misunderstood legal strategy based around a certain junk food.	Answer:	 Twinkie defense22.	Cultural attractions in this city include the Cummer Gallery of Art and the Karpeles Manuscript Library Museum. Founded as Charlesfort by Huguenots on the Saint Johns River on the site of Fort Caroline, it was renamed for a US President. Home to the University of North Florida-FTP-name this city, the second most populous, and largest by area, in Florida.	Answer:	 Jacksonville, Florida23.	After placing a parachute around his studio's skylight in 1964, he began painting mostly on brown and gray paper. Adapting the precisely delineated lines of Joseph Albers into the more blurred style of Four Darks in Red and Yellow Band, he was a founder of The Ten. Thirty years later, he painted his own favorite work, murals on a Texas chapel. FTP-what Latvian-born Abstract Expressionist painted Number 61 and Light Red over Black?	Answer:	 Mark Rothko or Marcus Rothkowitz
BONI - PITT etc.				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	In 1863, it displayed paintings denied entry to the official French salon. 10 points each.[10]	Name this parallel exhibition, which some art critics say marked the birth of "modern art."	Answer:	 Gallery of the Rejected [accept equivalents] or Salon des Refusés[10]	This Whistler painting scandalized the audience at the Salon des Refusés [reh-fyoo-ZAY]. The central figure stands in front of a curtain, holding an upside-down lily.	Answer:	 The Woman in White or Symphony in White, No. 1: The White Girl or The White Girl[10] 	While Manet, Pissarro, and Cezanne joined Whistler in exhibiting at the Salon des Refuses, Napoleon II banned this painter of The Stone Breakers from exhibiting at either it or the official Salon for political reasons.	Answer:	 Gustave Courbet 2.	Answer the following about contraception and the U.S. Postal Service for 15 points apiece.[10] This birth-control advocate and founder of the ancestor organizations to Planned Parenthood saw her novel The Woman Rebel, which discussed contraception, censored by the Postal Service.	Answer:	 Margaret Higgins Sanger[10] Sanger eventually sued and overturned this law authorizing such censorship, an 1873 act of Congress which prohibited the distribution of "pornographic" material through the mail.	Answer:	 Comstock Law [or the Act for the Suppression of Trade in, and Circulation of, Obscene Literature and Articles for Immoral Use][10]  However, many states still had laws prohibiting the spread of information about contraception until this 1965 Supreme Court case in which Justice Douglas's decision inferred from other Constitutional provisions a right to privacy.	Answer:  Griswold v. Connecticut3.	Name these Internet technologies, FTPE.[10]	Developed by Sun, this purely object-oriented, architecture-neutral language is used to create client-side applets and server-side servlets.	Answer:	 Java[10]	This technology allows any program executed on the server's output to be redirected, allowing for HTML form processing and access to persistent storage.	Answer:	 CGI or Common Gateway Interface[10]	A replacement for markup languages and interactive technologies like applets and Flash, this new client-side language is named for its copious use of a certain grouping character.	Answer:	 Curl4.	A real estate agent begins to question his life as his friend Paul Riesling is jailed for murder. FTPE.[10]	Name this novel in which Seneca Doane runs for mayor.	Answer:	 Babbitt[10]	This author of Babbitt also penned Main Street.	Answer:	 (Harry) Sinclair Lewis[10]	In this other Lewis novel, Sam, a retired auto company president, and his wife Fran travel through Europe. They find their cultural and moral compasses lacking.	Answer:	 Dodsworth5.	Name these fields of philosophical study from a definition FTPE.[10] The study of the nature of knowledge and the acquisition of knowledgeAnswer:	 epistemology[10] The study of the design or purpose of physical natureAnswer:	 teleology[10] The metaphysical study of the nature of beingAnswer:	 ontology
6.	Your genial quizmaster was going to add the term "neo-canonical" to the lead-in but couldn't keep a straight face.  Name these movies starring Hulk Hogan, 10 points each.[10]	Hogan plays Rip Thomas, a WWF wrestler targeted by Brell, the new head of the World Television Network, for defection to the new show The Battle of the Tough Guys.	Answer:	 No Holds Barred[10]	With the equally unlikely name of Shep Ramsey, Hogan stars alongside Christopher Lloyd and Shelley Duvall as an interstellar crimefighter who crashes on Earth.	Answer:	 Suburban Commando[10]	Much of the non-wrestling world got their first exposure to Hogan as the obnoxious "Thunderlips" who turn a charity event into a melee in this 1982 film.	Answer:	 Rocky III7.	Ultimately, resistance was futile and they were assimilated. Name these ancient peoples, FTPE.[10]	This southern Italian group invented a sundial and waged three wars with Rome in the 4th century BC. They opposed Sulla in the Civil War, but their defeat was marked by the oft-depicted mass rape of their women.	Answer:	 Samnite(s) or Sabine(s) or Sabini[10]	In a 55 BC battle with Rome, they killed Crassus and killed the Roman standards. Their cities in northeast Iran included Seleucia and Ctesiphon.	Answer:	 Parthian(s) or Parthia[10]	They exterminated the Philistines and brought the first horses to Greece. Probably from Turkestan, they invaded Media and Parthia, and settled in Afghanistan and India.	Answer:	 Scythians or Scolots8.	He won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1918 for developing a process to synthesize ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen. 10 points each.[10]	Name this German chemist.	Answer:	 Fritz Haber [HAH-bir or HAY-ber][10]	Haber developed a thermodynamic cycle to allow for the experimental determination of lattice energies with this 1954 Nobel Laureate in Physics, whose other claim to fame is as grandfather of Olivia Newton-John..	Answer:	 Max Born[10] Haber headed the German chemical warfare program in World War II.  Among those doing the same for the French government was this chemist who shared a 1912 Nobel for his work with a class of magnesium-based reagents.	Answer:	Francois Auguste Victor Grignard [grin-YARD]9.	FTPE answer the following about modern British drama: [10]	In this play, psychiatrist Martin Dysart treats Alan Strang, a  teenage stablehand who has blinded six horses.	Answer:	 Equus[10]	This play tells of Antonio Salieri's deadly jealousy of his musical rival, Mozart.	Answer:	 Amadeus.[10]	Equus and Amadeus were both written by this playwright, whose twin brother Anthony wrote  Sleuth. 	Answer:	 Peter Shaffer10.	He postulated four stages of cognitive development in children. FTPE.[10]	Name this Swiss psychologist.	Answer:	 Jean Piaget [pee-AH-zhay][10]	In this second stage of development, the child has language and imagination, but cannot understand perspectives other than his own.	Answer:	 pre-operational stage[10]	In this final stage, children develop theoretical reasoning and abstract thinking.	Answer:	 formal operational stage11.	Given the name of a vitamin, give its letter designation, FTPE.[10]	retinol [reh-tih-NOHL]			Answer:	 vitamin A[10]	phylloquinone [fih-loh-KWY-nohn]			Answer:	 vitamin K[10]	?-tocopherol [alpha-tuh-KAH-fuh-rol]			Answer:	 vitamin E
12.	Fronted by Rodney Anonymous, its songs include "Bitchin' Camaro," "Leggo My Ego," and "Beach Party Vietnam." FTPE.[10]	Name this 80s band from Philadelphia.	Answer:	 Dead Milkmen[10]	Milkman Dead is a character in this Toni Morrison novel.	Answer:	 Song of Solomon[10]	In the Catholic Bible, this longest prophetic book follows Song of Solomon. It condemns sacrifices by the unjust, and called Cyrus the Great an instrument of divine redemption.	Answer:	 The Book of Isaiah13.	He won a Pulitzer for The Dust Which Is God. FTPE.[10]	Name this author of a famous Reader's Encyclopedia.	Answer:	 William Rose Benét [BUH-nay] [prompt on Benet][10]	Benét's brother, this poet's collections include Merchants from Cathay and The Great White Wall.	Answer:	 Stephen Vincent Benét [again, prompt on Benet][10]	Stephen Vincent Benét's best-known poem, it ends "And yet-each road that you take,/Each dusty road leads to Appomattox now."	Answer:	 "John Brown's Body"14.	They may do nothing on Seinfeld, but they do have to eat. FTPE:[10]	Screaming at the chef, or checking for bread, will get your food taken away from you at this man's eatery.	Answer:	 the Soup Nazi[10]	Most eating scenes take place at this coffee shop, where outside syrups, jams, and jellies are prohibited.	Answer:	 Monk's Restaurant[10]	Periodic affronts to the staff at Monk's result in dining at this similar establishment, whose menu lacks egg-white omelets and big salads.	Answer:	 Reggie's15.	Name these current and former leaders of Afghanistan, FTPE.[10]	The supreme leader of the Taliban.	Answer:	 Mullah Mohammed Omar[10]	The official political leader of the Northern Alliance, whom the UN recognized as President.	Answer:	 Burhanuddin Rabbani[10]	The Pashtun tribal chief selected to head Afghanistan's interim government.	Answer:	 Hamid Karzai16.	Answer the following questions about the 7 Sacraments FTPE:a. Known commonly as communion, this was considered the highest sacrament of the medieval Catholic Church.	Answer: Eucharistb. According to medieval Catholic doctrine, the Eucharistic wine and wafer miraculously transformed into the body and blood of Christ.  By what name is this doctrine known?	Answer: transsubstantiationc. At this 1215 council called by Pope Innocent III, the Church required all Christians to confess their sins and partake of the Eucharist at least once a year.	Answer: Fourth Lateran Council17.	Name these composers who created pieces related to Don Quixote FTPE.[10] This composer, whose other works include Die Fledermaus, composed the 1896 tone poem Don Quixote: Fantastic Variations on a Theme of Knightly Character.Answer:	 Richard Georg Strauss [prompt on Strauss][10] Along with incidental music to the Thomas d'Urfey play "The Comical History of Don Quixote," he composed the semi-operas The Fairy Queen and The Indian Queen and the opera Dido and Aeneas.Answer:	 Henry Purcell[10] After working with Leo Delibes on La Source, this longtime composer for the imperial ballets of St. Petersburg wrote for such Marius Petipa ballets as the 1869 Don Quixote. Answer:	 Léon Aloisius Ludwig Minkus
18.	Given a line of poetry, name the type of rhythm used, FTPE:[10]	"I heard a thousand blended notes"			Answer:	 iambic[10]	"On the wide level of a mountain's head"			Answer:	 anapest[10]	"Glory be to God for dappled things"			Answer:	 trochee [TRO-kee] or trochaic19.	Given a post in the Confederacy, name its only officeholder during the Civil War FTSNOP.[5]	President				Answer:	 Jefferson Finis Davis[10]	Vice-President				Answer:	 Alexander Hamilton Stephens[15]	Secretary of the Navy			Answer:	 Stephen Russell Mallory20.	Answer these physics-related questions, FTPE:[10] When light passes from one medium to another, the light is said to do this.	Answer:	 Refract   [10] This is the name for when a living organism creates light.	Answer:	 Bioluminescence[10] What does the acronym LASER stand for?	Answer:	 Light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation21.	Its chairman resigned effective January 16, 2002, the date of its meeting in Austin. FTPE.[10]	Name this organization.	Answer:	 Republican National Committee[10]	Name the outgoing chairman, also the outgoing governor of Virginia.	Answer:	 James S. "Jim" Gilmore III[10]	President Bush and Karl Rove chose this former Montana governor as Gilmore's replacement.	Answer:	 Marc Racicot [RAHS-kot] 22.	Mark Wahlberg plays Chris Cole, who becomes lead singer of his favorite band. FTPE.[10]	Name this 2001 movie.	Answer:	 Rock Star[10]	Rock Star is based on a true story: in 1992, this band replaced lead singer Rob Halford.	Answer:	 Judas Priest[10]	This frontman of a Judas Priest tribute band replaced Halford.	Answer:	 Tim "Ripper" Owens23.	Given a description, name the term from historical linguistics, FTPE.[10] When the same sound appears twice in close succession, one of the sounds changes to make the word less confusing; for example, the first "L" in "colonel" becoming an "R."Answer:	 dissimilation[10] Neighboring sounds influence a sound to change gradually to an easier pronunciation; for example, a "T" between vowels becomes a "D".Answer:	 assimilation [or weakening][10] A sound is inserted in the middle of a word to provide easier transition between neighboring sounds, such as the Greek "anros" becoming "andros."Answer:	 epenthesis