TOSSUPS - UTC/UMR 2					SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice with some help from Missouri-Rolla1.	It was used in the operas The Makropoulos Affair, Duke Bluebeard's Castle, and Petroushka, and its first appearance in orchestral music was in Saint-Saens' Danse Macabre.  From the Greek for "wood sound," it has typically been equipped with tubular resonators since the 1920's and thus hard to distinguish from the marimba except for the use of harder mallets.  FTP name this percussion instrument with a keyboard of wooden blocks.	Answer:	xylophone2.	It is addressed to the poet's beloved sister Dorothy, in whose "wild eyes" he sees a harmony with the primitive that he once felt.  It concludes, "...these steep woods and lofty cliffs,/ And this green pastoral landscape were to me/ More dear, both for themselves, and for thy sake."  FTP name this blank verse poem by William Wordsworth commemorating a July 1798 roadtrip. 	Answer:	Lines Composed A Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye During a Tour, July 13, 17983.	Cold Spring Harbor.  Streetlife Serenader.  Turnstiles. Storm Front.  The Bridge.  The Nylon Curtain.  52nd Street.  The Stranger. These are all albums by the same artist.  FTP name this musician, whose other albums include An Innocent Man, River of Dreams, and Piano Man.	Answer:	Billy Joel	4.	For questions involving only the rotation around one axis, you can generally treat this as a scalar quantity as long as you remember to assign it a positive value if counterclockwise and a negative value if clockwise.  It's then simply sine theta where theta is the angle from r (the position of the particle expressed as displacement from its origin) to p (the particle's linear momentum.)  FTP name this quantity which intuitively measures how much a particle's linear momentum is directed around its origin.	Answer:	angular momentum [prompt on momentum]5.	After his pardon in 1845, he returned from exile in Paris and later served another six years in the legislature.  His first stint in the legislature began in 1809 but proved frustrating, since the appointed Legislative Council was dominated by English-speaking Canadians.  His faction, the Patriots, tried to lessen the Council's influence, finally resorting to open rebellion in 1837.  FTP name this French Canadian leader.    	Answer:	Louis Joseph Papineau6.	He took on educational issues in The Goose-Step (1923), the Sacco-Vanzetti case in Boston (1928), and religion in The Profits of Religion (1918).  One volume in his 11-volume World's End was Dragon's Teeth, for which he won a Pulitzer in 1942.  FTP name the muckraking novelist whose other works included King Coal, The Money Changers, and The Jungle.  	Answer:	Upton Sinclair7.	Free ones are found in the cytosol of all cells, and in the chloroplasts and mitochondria of eukaryotic cells.  Much recent research focuses on sequences, termed programmed translational frameshift sites, which cause them to shift reading frames efficiently, and on the role of their attendant molecules, the translational apparatus.  FTP name these tiny multi-protein complexes which can follow the code of messenger RNA in forming a particular protein.	Answer:	ribosomes8.	They cover about 36,000 miles with an average height of 13,000 to 15,000 feet.  Mostly treeless and snow covered, they are prone to especially high winds in the summer.  At the lower elevations there is pastureland along the Amu Darya river.  The majority of the region is in Tajikistan, with parts in Kyrgyzstan, China, and Afghanistan.  FTP name this region and mountain range, also called Bam i Dunya or 'roof of the world,' meeting place of the Kunlun, Tian Shan, Himalaya, and Hindu Kush ranges.    	Answer:	Pamirs 
9.	She spent three years weaving a shroud for her father-in-law, Laertes.  Every night she would unravel it again so as to keep the project alive and stall her overaggressive suitors.  When the trick was exposed, she said she would marry the suitor who could string and suit her long-lost husband's bow.  And of course the only suitor who could was a beggar who was her husband in disguise.  FTP name this queen of Ithaca and wife of Odysseus.    	Answer:	Penelope10.	A Red Army veteran and a survivor of the Long March, he became a member of the central committee of the Chinese Communist Party in 1945.  By 1956 he was General Secretary, but he was denounced for "capitalist tendencies" and dismissed during the Cultural Revolution.  It turned out he did have capitalist tendencies, or at least enough to initiate much economic modernization with the help of foreign investment after he took power in 1977.  FTP name this Chinese leader who officially retired in 1987 but still had control behind the scenes during the 1989 Tiananmen Massacre.	Answer:	Deng Xiaoping or Teng Hsaio-P'ing11.	Like so many others, this Austrian Jew fled in 1939, settling in Switzerland.  An influential theater critic, he considered fiction a sidelight.  He followed his biggest hit with the mildly successful Florian, the Emperor's Stallion, about a Lipizzaner horse.  Seems he was comfortable with quadrupeds as protagonists.  FTP name the author of Bambi.	Answer: 	Felix Salten or Siegmund Salzmann12.	TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED: A 1961 ballistics test  on the bullet that killed the bank's paymaster suggested that one of the defendants may indeed have been guilty, but most scholars are still convinced of the other's innocence.  Legal scholars all agree that the conduct of Webster Thayer, the openly bigoted judge, should have voided the conviction.  But despite protests from around the world, they were both executed in 1927.  FTP name the two anarchists convicted of a 1921 robbery in Boston, whose case highlighted mistreatment of radicals and Italian-Americans.	Answer:	Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti13.	It includes the number of alpha particles per unit area that reach the screen at angle theta, the total number of alpha particles that reach the screen, the number of atoms per unit volume in the foil, the atomic number of the foil atoms, the distance of the screen from the foil, the kinetic energy of the alpha particles, and the foil thickness.  It is based on the nuclear model of the atom and predicts the angle of deflection for alpha particles being targeted on a thin foil of a given substance, usually a metal.  The predictions agreed with the measurements of Geiger and Marsden, which supported the hypothesis of the nuclear atom.  FTP, identify this equation that gave its namesake credit for the discovery of the nucleus.       Answer:  	Rutherford scattering formula14.	Since 1987 Michel Camdessus of France has served as its Managing Director.  Rather than direct loans to its members, it uses its own Special Drawing Rates, a "basket" of other currencies, in an exchange with the troubled member nation.  This assistance is usually conditional upon agreement by the country being aided to pursue prescribed policy reforms.  FTP name this specialized intergovernmental agency of the UN, headquartered in Washington, DC, which resulted from the Bretton Woods Conference of 1944.	Answer:	International Monetary Fund or IMF15.	While most sources say the last was Felix V in the 1440's, some recognize several contemporary ones who have headed sedevacantist groups after Vatican II, including Michael I, Linus II, Pius XIII, and three different Gregory VII's.  The first was Hippolytus, a Trinitarian heretic in the time of Calixtus I.  The most famous were the ones in Avignon beginning with Clement VII.   FTP give the term used for clerical leaders, usually appointed by unauthorized religious factions, who claim the same authority as the pope.	Answer:	antipopes16.	His production company is named for the old Reconstruction promise to freed slaves of "forty acres and a mule".  He made his first commercial splash with the 1986 film She's Gotta Have It, in which he also appeared as the Mars Blackman character he reprised years later in Nike commercials.  He gave Chattanooga native Samuel L. Jackson his big break in Jungle Fever, the second of three straight films he directed starring Denzel Washington.  FTP name the director of "joints" including Crooklyn, Mo' Better Blues, Do the Right Thing, and Malcolm X.	Answer:	Spike Lee
17.	Because his father lived long enough to reign for 50 years, he never held the throne himself, but he did secure it for his son, Richard II.  As ruler of Aquitaine he was responsible for the massacre at Limoges.  FTP name this English prince, brother of John of Gaunt, who distinguished himself at Crecy and captured the French king at Poitiers.	Answer:	Edward the Black Prince18.	His grandson Claude was cinematographer for such films as The Spy Who Loved Me and Katharine Hepburn's The Madwoman of Chaillot.  His son Jean was director of the acclaimed films The Rules of the Game and The Grand Illusion.  He didn't have the chance to work with film, but he did well in his medium of choice.  FTP name the French Impressionist master, whose works include Luncheon of the Boating Party and Le Moulin de la Galette.	Answer:	Pierre Auguste Renoir19.	It raises body temperature and blood pressure by inducing the release of epinephrine and targetting the neurotransmitter serotonin; one side effect is heightened sensitivity to touch.  Dow chemist Alexander Shulgin claims credit for discovering the psychiatric potential of this drug, properly named 3,4-methylnedioxymethylamphetamine.  Serious research into its use ended when it became popular as a street drug circa 1984, and it was outlawed in the U.S. in 1985.  FTP name this euphoria-inducing drug, also called MDMA.	Answer:	ecstasy [or MDMA before the acronym is given, or the full name if someone actually says it first]20.	The underlying theme of this 1804 work is that violence is justifiable for a higher cause.  In fact, the titular hero personally assassinates the corrupt Austrian governor who had placed his son Walter's life in jeopardy.  FTP name this verse drama by Friedrich Schiller, adapted into an opera by Gioacchino Rossini, in which the hero is forced to stand 70 paces away and use his bow to shoot an apple from his son's head.	Answer:	William (or Wilhelm) Tell21.	He sat in Parliament, fought against France and Spain, and wrote his History of the World while in prison.  Released after 13 years, he led an expedition to Guiana in search of El Dorado but was betrayed to the Spanish authorities and eventually executed for treason.  FTP name this poet and explorer, perhaps best known for another failed expedition that founded an English colony at Roanoke Island.	Answer:	Sir Walter Raleigh22.	Cassette tapes are invented.  Kenya declares independence.  Betty Friedan publishes The Feminine Mystique.   Marten Schmidt discovers quasars.   Jack Nicklaus wins his first Masters.  The Diem government is overthrown in Vietnam.   Medgar Evers is assassinated.  FTP what year saw all of these events, as well as King's "I Have a Dream" speech and JFK's assassination?	Answer:	196323.	A native of Chittenango, NY, he died in Hollywood and is buried in Forest Lawn.  Along the way he ran a newspaper in Aberdeen, SD, worked for the  Chicago Post, and wrote under such pen names as Floyd Akers, Laura Bancroft, Captain Hugh Fitzgerald,and Edith Van Dyne. He first collaborated with illustrator W.W. Denslow was Father Goose, His History.  FTP name this author, who bought his Hollywood estate with proceeds from his sequels to The Wizard of Oz.	Answer:	L. Frank Baum
BONI - UTC/UMR 2						SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice with some help from Missouri-Rolla1.	Answer the following about a noted author FTPE.a)	He and a partner purchased the Drury Lane Theatre, launching a revival of Congreve works as well as producing his own works such as The Glorious First of June, The Duenna, and The Critic.	Answer:	Richard Brinsley Sheridanb)	In this Sheridan play, Sir Oliver Surface disguises himself and discovers that his son  Joseph is a hypocritical schemer who's courting Lady Teazle, the wealthy wife of an old nobleman.	Answer:	The School for Scandalc)	In this Sheridan comedy, Lydia Languish is wooed by Capt. Jack Absolute in disguise as a lowly ensign.  The most memorable character is Lydia's busybody aunt, the verbally inept Mrs. Malaprop.	Answer:	The Rivals2.	While your genial quizmaster wasn't looking, in the 1990's some distinctions in the history of the Academy Awards became less distinct.  Answer the following FTSNOP:a) 5 pts.: Old-time character actor Walter Brennan was the only male performer with 3 acting Oscars until this veteran got a 3rd in 1997, winning Best Actor for As Good As It Gets	Answer:	Jack Nicholsonb & c) 5 pts. each: Spencer Tracy was the only back-to-back winner for Best Actor until Tom Hanks bagged back-to-back Oscars for 1993 and 1994.  For 5 pts. each, name the films with Hanks' two winning roles.	Answer:	Philadelphia and Forrest Gumpd)  15 pts.: Shelley Winters had been the only two-time Best Supporting Actress winner until 1994, when this actress, winner in 1986 for Hannah and Her Sisters, got a second Oscar for Bullets Over Broadway.	Answer:	Dianne Wiest3.	FTPE answer the following about relativity:a) In 1919 this advocate of Einstein's work obtained proof of the general theory of relativity by measuring during a solar eclipse the bending of light by gravity.	Answer:	Sir Arthur Stanley Eddingtonb) One of the consequences of the special theory of relativity is that bodies contract as their velocity increases, although the contraction is only appreciable as that velocity approaches the speed of light.  That contraction is known by this name.	Answer:	Lorentz-Fitzgerald contractionc)  Postulated as a consequence of the general theory are these empty regions of space-time, resulting from the collapse of a massive star that's exhausted its fuel, that act as centers of gravitational attraction.       Answer: 	black holes4.	FTPE answer the following about a program of the U.S. government.a)  Its establishment in 1961 fulfilled a major campaign pledge by Kennedy.  From 1971 to 1981 it was part of ACTION, an umbrella government agency governing several volunteer programs.    	Answer:	Peace Corpsb)  This brother-in-law of Kennedy's, later the vice presidential running mate who in 1972 replaced Thomas Eagleton on George McGovern's ticket, was the Peace Corps' first director.    	Answer:	Sargent Shriverc)  Under Bush the Elder, the Peace Corps was headed by this man, who later served as a U.S. Senator from Georgia from 1993 till his death in 2000.    	Answer:	Paul Coverdell5.	Identify this philosophical concept on a 30-20-10 basis:30)  It was developed systematically in the work of Chou Tun-i (1017-1073) and Chu His (1130-1200.)20)  This Neo-Confucian concept focuses on the Supreme Ultimate, the intrinsic energy that flows through the universe.10)  Westerners know it mostly as in the context of martial arts. China's most popular form of exercise, it uses a series of slow, flowing movements to enhance the flow of that energy around the body.	Answer:	Tai Chi
6.	What would Russian opera be without Aleksandr Pushkin?  Name these Pushkin works from descriptions FTPE.a)	This mock heroic epic was attacked by critics from both rival schools of Russian literature of the day.  A Kievan princess is kidnapped on her wedding night by an evil magician, and her beloved endures many trials before rescuing her.	Answer:	Ruslan and Lyudmilab)	A disillusioned aristocrat and an unpolished woman named Tatiana fall in love with each other, just not at the same time.  The friend who introduces them is needlessly killed in a duel.  (Gee, thanks.)	Answer:	Eugene (or Yevgeny) Oneginc)	Hermann, a Russian officer of German descent, connives to learn an elderly aristocrat's secret to winning at faro, but frightens her to death instead and winds up thinking she's haunting him.	Answer:	"The Queen of Spades" [or "Pikovaya dama", if you really wanna show off]7.	Hey, it was a decade ago, so it's history now.  FTPE answer the following about the Persian Gulf War:a)  When Iraq invaded Kuwait, many poor Arabs elsewhere approved because of the excessive wealth and control of this family which ruled Kuwait.    	Answer:	al-Sabahb)  This father figure was commander of operations in both Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm.      	Answer:	H. Norman Schwarzkopfc)  The first major ground battle occured in neither Kuwait or Iraq, but at this small coastal town deserted by Saudi Arabia before the war, occupied by Iraq on Jan. 29, 1991, and retaken by Saudi and Qatari troops with U.S. help two days later.    	Answer:	Khafji8.	FTPE answer the following about authors who specialized in the short story:a)	Two of this Mississippi native's most-anthologized stories are "The Petrified Man" and "Why I Live at the P.O."	Answer:	Eudora Weltyb)	He considered "the interrupted event" the prime material for short stories such as "The Swimmer" and "The Enormous Radio." His collected stories won the 1978 Pulitzer for fiction, and his first novel, The Wapshot Chronicle, won a National Book Award in 1957.	Answer:	John Cheeverc)	This Scot drew on his childhood in Burma for such stories as "Sredni Vashtar."  Other notable stories include "Tobermory" and "The Open Window."	Answer:	Saki or H.H. Munro9.	FTSNOP answer the following about a famous astronomer:a) (5 pts.) He was knighted by George III for his discovery of Uranus in 1781.	Answer:	(Frederick) William Herschel	[don't require 1st name, but do not accept John or John William]b) (5 pts. each) Herschel's other discoveries included these, the two largest moons of Uranus.  Name them F5PE	Answer:	Titania and Oberonc) (10 pts.) In 1789 Herschel discovered two moons of Saturn.  FTP name either.       Answer: 	Mimas or Enceladus d) (5 pts.) In 1800, while measuring temperatures in regions where light was shining through a prism, Herschel made another important discovery which he called "calorific rays", but which we now know by this name.       Answer: 	infrared rays or radiation or light10.  FTPE answer the following about a bad boy of Greek mythology:a)  In one tale, this manly man seeks to marry the daughter of Oenopius, king of Chion.  The king has him blinded, but as he travels home eastward with a boy on his shoulders to guide him, the sun's rays restore his vision.	Answer:	Orionb)  The story that Orion died of a scorpion's sting while trying to ravage this Greek goddess is used to explain the location of Scorpio.         Answer: 	Artemis [not Diana - we said Greek, didn't we?]c)  Another astronomy-related legend involves his pursuit of these daughters of Atlas.	Answer:	the Pleiades
11.	FTPE name the Japanese authors from works:  [NOTE: accept names in Western-style reverse order]a)	Snow Country, A Thousand Cranes, The Sound of the Mountain	Answer:	Kawabata Yasunarib)	The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, The Sea of Fertility, Confessions of a Mask	Answer:	Mishima Yukioc)	The Silent Cry, "Pinch Runner's Record," Pluck the Bud and Destroy the Offspring	Answer:	Oe Kenzaburo12.	F5PE name the commanders of the Union and Confederate forces, respectively, for each of these Civil War battles:a) Antietam	Answer:	Union - George B. McClellan; Confederacy -  Robert E. Leeb) Shiloh	Answer:	Union - Ulysses S. Grant; Confederacy - Albert S. Johnstonc) Both Stones River and Chickamauga       Answer: 	Union - William S. Rosecrans; Confederacy - Braxton Bragg13.	TRAVELS WITH CHARLIE: On a roadtrip from South Carolina to DC this month, your genial quizmaster found successive radio stations with a mostly '80's format in Greenville, Spartanburg, Charlotte, and Raleigh.  Given a song that kept drilling its way into his brain for the next few days, name the artist or group who recorded it F5PE:a) "867-5309 (Jenny)"	Answer:	Tommy Tutoneb) "Hot for Teacher"	Answer:	Van Halenc) "Sunglasses at Night"	Answer:	Corey Hartd) "Back on the Chain Gang"	Answer:	the Pretenderse) "All I Want"	Answer:	Toad the Wet Sprocketf) "What's on Your Mind (Pure Energy)"	Answer:	Information Society14.	FTPE names the chemistry laws:a)  For a given amount of gas, the product of the volume, absolute temperature, and pressure are the same.	Answer:	perfect (or ideal) gas lawb)  The amount of chemical change produced is proportional to the electric charge passed, and the amount produced by a given charge depends on the ion concerned.	Answer:	Faraday's laws of electrolysisc)  The amount of heat needed to change one substance to another depends on the substances and not on the reactions involved.       Answer: 	Hess's law15. Answer the following about a certain school of thought:a)  Clark Hall and Edwin R. Guthrie are among the leading exponents of this doctrine that all human activity can be explained in terms of conditioned responses and habits formed by those responses.	Answer:	behaviorismb) Considered the founder of behaviorism is this U.S. psychologist, who rejected introspection as a psychiatric tool in favor of the study of observable behavior.	Answer:	John Watsonc)  Perhaps the best known behaviorist is this author of Beyond Freedom and Dignity and Walden Two.       Answer: 	B.(urrhus) F.(rederick Skinner
16.	Name the German composer from works FTPE:  a)  St. Paul, Elija, A Midsummer Night's Dream	Answer:	Felix Mendelssohnb)  Metamorphosen, Der Rosenkavalier, Also Sprach Zarathusra	Answer:	Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]c)  Ludus Tonalis; Murder, Hope of Women; Mathis the Painter       Answer: 	Paul Hindemith17.	So, did you pay attention to those classroom descriptions of the Roman army?  Give the following terms FTSNOPa)  Besides the short sword, or gladius, each Legionnaire carried a heavy javelin, called this.	Answer:	pilumb)  By the first century AD each of the Roman legions was divided into ten units, consisting of as many as 480 men.  These units, which were further subdivided into centuries, went by what name?	Answer:	cohortsc)  At the century level, each centurion was assigned a special assistant called an Optio, chosen because he possessed what indispensable skill?	Answer:	he could read and write [accept equivalents]18.	Given definitions from biology, name the term for ten points each.a) A bioremediation technique, this term refers to increasing bacterial activity to decompose more pollutants. 		       Answer:	bioaugmentationb) An allele that expresses its phenotype even when a recessive allele is present is known by this name.				Answer:	dominantc) This term refers to fertilizing one plant with another of a different genetic make-up.  It's also used by campaign professional to refer to romantic entanglements between staffers of different campaigns or parties.	Answer:	cross-pollination19.  On a 5-10-20-30 basis, give the art terms from definitions:a)  The technique of painting on moist lime plaster with colors ground in water	Answer:	frescob)  The rendering of light and shade in painting, especially as it's used for dramatic effect	Answer:	chiaroscuroc)  A band of painted or sculpted decoration, often at the top of a wall.       Answer: 	friezed)  The fine, detailed rendering of objects to convey the illusion that the painted objects are real and three-dimensional.	Answer:	trompe l'oeil20.	Given the capital, name the South Pacific nation F5PE:a)  Suva					Answer:	Fijib)  Funafuti					Answer:	Tuvaluc)  Wellington					Answer: 	New Zealandd)  Nuku'alofa					Answer:	Tongae)  Majuro					Answer:	Marshall Islandsf)  Port-Vila					Answer:	Vanuatu21.	FTPE answer these questions about the year 1942:a)  Japan's first major defeat in World War II was this battle of June 4-7.	Answer:	Midwayb)  This quarterback from Texas led the Washington Redskins to the 1942 NFL championship.	Answer:	Sammy Baughc)  Among those who died in 1942 was this influential anthropologist, author of The Mind of Primitive Man.       Answer: 	Franz Boas