TOSSUPS - MICHICAGO				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions mostly by Michigan and Chicago with trace amounts of Princeton, Pitt, Rochester, Dartmouth, Johns Hopkins, Ben Gross, North Carolina, Rutgers-Newark, Rutgers-New Brunswick, and Case Western1.	His Green Book, outlining his philosophy of socialism, populism, and nationalism, controls the lives of his country's people. He seized power in a bloodless 1969 coup by overthrowing King Idris [ih-DREES] I. Thirty years later, he agreed to extradite the men accused of bombing Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. FTP, name this leader who recently stated that he would no longer seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction for Libya.	Answer:	Muammar Qaddafi or Gadhafi [accept reasonable pronunciations]2.	This feature of the southern sky is notable for the open star cluster it contains, M41, with a magnitude of 4.5. Bright stars in it include Beta, Delta, and Epsilon, but it is most associated with the brightest star in the sky, Sirius. For ten points, name this constellation, known popularly as the "Great Dog."	Answer:	 Canis Major (may prompt on "Great Dog" until it is said)3.	In his "Dictionary of Received Ideas" it is said of metaphors that "there are always too many in any writer's style."   The dictionary was meant to begin the second volume (*) of Bouvard and Pecuchet, an unfinished work by this author of Salammbo.  FTP, name this French novelist better known for A Sentimental Education and Madame Bovary.	Answer: 	Gustave Flaubert4.	The American Cancer Society and American Heart Association, his beneficiaries, unsuccessfully sued in an effort to get possession of his will itself , because it's one of only six known originals of his autograph.   In 1911 this native of Greenville, SC, hit .408 for the Cleveland Naps, and is one of only three men with sufficient at-bats to own a lifetime major league batting average over .350.  Oddly, though his shoes are enshrined in the Hall of Fame, he is not -- for reasons made clear in Eight Men Out. For 10 points-name this member of the 1919 Black Sox known for his footwear, or lack thereof.	Answer:	Joe Jackson [accept Shoeless Joe][EDITOR'S NOTE: Virtually all of the few baseball items with Jackson's autograph were ones he took home and had his wife sign for him, seeing as how she was literate]5.	The perspective used in this work is the same as that of the artist's Saint Joseph and the Christ Child, and the subject matter is similar to that used in Laocoon and Christ in Agony on the Cross.  The vegetation at the bottom of the painting is fairly vibrant, but as one ascends the canvas, the grass becomes more sparse and yellowed.  The sky features ghostly gray clouds that fade into black in the distance, and all of the buildings are gray and decrepit-looking.  FTP, identify this landscape of a certain Spanish town, painted by El Greco.	Answer:  	View of Toledo 6.	When a collision produces this particle and its antiparticle, a "lego" plot will show a "lepton plus jets" event. Reported to have a cross-section of 6.8 pico-barns and a mass of 176 giga-electronvolts, it has been observed by the CDF and Do projects at Fermilab. Almost immediately after forming, it decays into a W boson and the other "first generation" particle of its type. For 10 points-name this heaviest quark, the last to be discovered.	Answer:	top quark [do not prompt on "up"]7.	His brother Alfred made his name with his Theory of the Location of Industries, but is best known for a book on "cultural history and cultural sociology."  He theorized that there are three types of authority, which he termed traditional, rational, and charismatic, while his best known book includes chapters on Luther's conception of the calling and sects like Pietism and Methodism.  FTP, name this German sociologist who wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.	Answer: 	Max Weber8.	Thomas Marshall was the only person to do this more than nine times in the 20th century. John Tyler, Calvin Coolidge, Andrew Johnson, LBJ, and Teddy Roosevelt never did it, but John Adams did it a record 29 times-one more than John C. Calhoun. Al Gore did it four times, but Dan Quayle never did. For 10 points-name this action which Dick Cheney has already done six times, most notably in April 2003 for the 2003 federal budget.	Answer:	cast a tie-breaking vote in the US Senate [accept equivalents]
9.	"The Devil Finds Work," from this author's non-fiction collection The Price of the Ticket, gives criticisms of numerous American films. He recalls how Swiss children reacted to him in "Stranger in the Village." He depicts the lives of a black actor and a black drummer in later novels, including Tell Me How Long the Train's Been Gone. The Fire Next Time reflects his support for the Nation of Islam, while Giovanni's Room reflects his homosexuality. For 10 points-name this author of Go Tell It on the Mountain.	Answer:	James Arthur Baldwin10.	Its highest point is Konigstein Peak, which rises to 8,000 feet in Brandberg Nature Reserve. Its most prominent geographical feature in the east is the large proruption called the Caprivi Strip, while in the west it is undergoing severe desertification, a serious problem, considering that it is already the most arid sub-Saharan African country. FTP, name this nation, home to the Kalahari desert, with its capital at Windhoek.	Answer: 	Namibia11.	The title character's mother-in-law claims the title character has a face of a leopard, while her daughter Magdalena has the face of a hyena. María Josefa emerges from her bedroom with a sheep she claims is her husband, and urges all of her grandchildren to marry and escape the title location. Sadly, Angustias' fiancé is chased away and Adela commits suicide in-for 10 points-what tragedy by Federico García Lorca?	Answer:	The House of Bernarda Alba or La Casa de Bernarda Alba12.	In ancient times, it was said to walk upright, a definite reference to a real animal's abilities, and it was identified with the comb-like structure atop its head. Its poison could travel through a sword to kill both the swordsman and the horse upon which he rode. Its most famous ability, though, was likely inspired by the real animal's mysterious-looking eyes. For 10 points-name this mythological creature which strongly resembles the so-called "Jesus lizard," whose gaze could turn a man to stone.	Answer:		basilisk or cockatrice13.	The trail they cut through the Wasatch Mountains saved the Mormons a lot of time, and remained the main road into Utah for a decade. The namesake of a small lake northwest of Lake Tahoe, their number included James Reed and Lansford Hastings, who, pivotal though they were, would not be likely to bask in their glory. For 10 points-identify this 87-person group formed in 1846, and named after their leader George, which, after getting trapped in the Sierra Nevadas, resorted to cannibalism.	Answer:	Donner Party14.	Along with childhood consumption of nitrosamines, infection with this pathogen is a co-carcinogen for nasopharyngeal [NAY-zoh-fuh-RIN-jee-ul] carcinoma. It uses strategies such as CG methylation to inactivate transcription of its genome, allowing it to maintain a lifelong infection in B lymphocytes, one of the two types of human cells it can infect; the other is found in the salivary gland. For 10 points-name this oncogenic virus which causes both Burkitt's lymphoma and mononucleosis.	Answer:	Epstein-Barr virus or EB virus or EBV [also accept, but do not expect to hear, human herpesvirus 4 or HHV-4]15.	The lead singer claimed that this song is about the fall of the Roman Empire, and a scene in a Hollywood bar.  Its title is an epithet for the character Marvin in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.  In homage to the Beatles' "Happiness is a Warm Gun", the song is divided into three melodic sections, connected by Johnny Greenwood's guitar solos.  FTP, identify the song with the lines "Ambition makes you look pretty ugly / Kicking squealing Gucci little piggy", the second track on Radiohead's OK Computer.	Answer: 	Paranoid Android16.	The inventors of the cyclotron and dynamite; the one who arranged the elements in the periodic table based on atomic mass; the discoverer of the atomic pile and the first controlled nuclear chain reaction; the owner of Mjolnir; the most radical campus on the West coast and the state in which the campus is located; the planet that claims Triton; the last name of Pierre and Marie; Pluto. These nouns lent their names to, FTP, what group of elements, whose most prominent member is the one named after the planet Uranus? 	Answer:	 Actinide series 
17.	He was a staff writer for The New Yorker for several years before publishing his first book, a collection of poems titled The Carpentered Hen. His first novel, published a year later, was The Poorhouse Fair; his later novels include Couples, On the Farm, and The Centaurs. For 10 points-name this American author, who wrote three books about Henry Bech, and four books about basketball player Harry Angstrom, better known as "Rabbit."	Answer:	John Updike18.	An allegro con fuoco marks its final movement with a martial theme in which a clarinet counters flutes and fiddles. Basic material for this work was found on trips to Minnehaha Falls near St. Paul and Spillville, Iowa. While this four-part work in E minor features odes to both Tchaikovsky and Beethoven, its self-conscious use of pentatonism, drone accompaniment, and strongly syncopated rhythms, was inspired by slave spirituals and Native American melodies. FTP identify this 1893 work, Antonin Dvorak's 9th symphony.	Answer:	From the New World (accept 9th Symphony of Dvorak before it is mentioned)19.	A well-known one is the translation-lookaside buffer used to look up physical addresses in a virtual memory system. Their write policies can be write-back or write-allocate, and the blocks can be divided by various degrees of associativity, from fully associative to direct-mapped, where information from memory can only be written to a single block. For 10 points-name these blocks of static RAM located between the registers and main memory, used by PCs for temporary storage and quick retrieval of data.	Answer:		cache(s)20.	Before Conan, he first used the line "What is best is to crush your enemies, see them driven before you, and hear the lamentations of their women." His successes were partly to the law of the Yasak that he introduced. Among his early conquests were the Uighurs (WEE-gurs), from whom he took the alphabet. Later campaigns were against the Tangut Empire, the Qins, Khwarizm, and pretty much the entire world, which was saved from conquest when he died in 1222. For ten points, name this badass Mongol. 	Answer:	_Genghis Khan_ or _Temujin_21.	This stage designer and scene painter's first commercial success was the diorama, which involved huge pictures, 70 feet by 45 feet in size, used to create a three-dimensional effect. His next innovation built upon the work of his collaborator, Nicephore Niepce, and used iodized silver plates. For 10 points-name this man who came up with the idea of a "latent image" which could later be "developed," the forerunner of photography.	Answer:		Louis Jacques Mande Daguerre [dah-GARE]22.	The son of a rich brewer, his time at Cambridge and later at the Abbey of Thelema amongst his disciples is described in autobiographical volumes like The Diary of a Drug Fiend. His extreme ceremonies involving sexual orgies coupled with newspaper exposes brought him notoriety and he was the subject of Maugham's novel The Magician. He founded his own mystic group, the Silver Star, after being expelled by S.L Mathers from the Order of the Golden Dawn for "diabolical practices." FTP identify this horrible poet and occult celebrity who claimed to be the Beast from the Book of Revelation.	Answer:	Aleister Crowley or Edward Alexander23.	It was inspired by a discovery presented to the author, perhaps just the night before the poem was written, by former schoolteacher Charles Clarke; the pair spent all night reading that work. Line 11 of this 1816 sonnet, the first major poem by its author, mistakenly ascribes to Cortez the feat of Balboa, the first to catch sight of Darien [DAA-ree-en]. For 10 points-name this poem by John Keats that begins, "Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold."	Answer:		"On First Looking into Chapman's Homer"
BONI - MICHICAGO					SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions mostly by Michigan and Chicago with trace amounts of Princeton, Pitt, Rochester, Dartmouth, Johns Hopkins, Ben Gross, North Carolina, Rutgers-Newark, Rutgers-New Brunswick, and Case Western1.	Pencil and paper ready. You have four resistors, each with a resistance of 2 ohms. Given an arrangement of those resistors, give the equivalent resistance, 10 points each.[10]	All four resistors in series.	ANSWER:	8 ohms[10]	All four resistors in parallel.	ANSWER:	0.5 or 1/2 ohms[10]	Three resistors in parallel, with the fourth connected in series. You have 10 seconds.	ANSWER:	5/3 ohms2.	Name these components of the British Isles, 10 points each.[10]	Northeast of Scotland, these islands are home to their famous namesake ponies and other unique wildlife.	ANSWER:	Shetland Islands or Shetlands[10]	Located just off the coast of Northwest France, these islands include Jersey.	ANSWER:	Channel Islands[10]	Northwest of Scotland, these islands are home to the Calanais stone ring, and a Gaelic-speaking traditional culture.	ANSWER:	Hebrides3.	Given the characters, name the Henrik Ibsen play, 10 points each.[10]	Morton Kiil, Dr. Thomas Stockmann, Hovstad, Aslaksen	Answer:	An Enemy of the People or En folkefiende[10]	Jakob and Regina Engstrand, Oswald and Helene Alving	Answer:	Ghosts or Gengangere[10]	Hedvig, Gregers and Hakon Werle, Hialmar Ekdal	Answer:	The Wild Duck or Vildanden4.	The communist motto, "From each according to his ability, to each according to his need," is inspired by chapter 4 of this book. 10 points each.[10]	Name this New Testament book which calls on the rich to share their wealth.	ANSWER:	Acts of the Apostles[10]	Authorship of Acts is often attributed to which Evangelist?	ANSWER:	Saint Luke[10]	Commerce Secretary Don Evans, after supposedly attending a months-long Bible study focused solely on Acts, mistakenly attributed the Parable of the Talents, in which a man is punished for not making money, to Acts, rather than this book, in which it's actually found.	ANSWER:	Gospel According to Matthew[This bonus brought to you by Al Franken's Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them.-Ed.]5.	He ended his political life as Governor of Guernsey. 10 points each.[10]	Name this man whose heavy-handed methods led to the imprisonment of British admiral Philip Carteret and alienated much of his constituency in the Dominion of New England.		Answer:		Edmund Andros[10]	Andros may be most (in)famous for being duped by Connecticut colonists who hid a certain document from him in this centuries-old tree.		Answer:		Charter Oak [prompt on "oak"][10]	This Puritan author of Cases of Conscience Concerning Evil Spirits and A History of War with the Indians, who served as president of Harvard from 1685 to 1701, bitterly opposed Andros' policies.		Answer:		Increase Mather [prompt on "Mather"]
6.	Acids and Bases FTPE1. Acids produce hydrogen ions in aqueous solution, while bases produce hydroxide ions -- this was the original concept of acids and bases published by what man?	Svante Arrhenius2. This model of acids and bases states "an acid is a proton donor and a base is a 	proton acceptor" Name this model.	Bronsted-Lowry Model3. What is the name for a substance that can act as either an acid or a base?	Amphoteric substance7.	Lots of famous symphonies were written in C Major.  For 10 points each:[10] This final symphony by Mozart, K551, was written in C.  Its popular nickname refers to its accredited "god-like perfection."	Answer: 	Jupiter Symphony or Symphony #41[10] This Shostakovich symphony, first performed in 1942, became an anthem of Russian resilience during a major siege by the Germans.	Answer: 	Leningrad Symphony or Symphony #7[10] His 9th and final symphony is nicknamed the "Great C Major" Symphony.	Answer: 	Franz Schubert8.	Name these people and things associated with the Populist Party for ten points each.[10] The Populists' first candidate for president, in 1892 was this general, also the 1880 Greenback-Labor party candidate.	Answer:	James _Weaver_[10] The party gained supporters from readers of this utopian fable featuring credit cards and an "industrial army", penned by Edward Bellamy.	Answer:	_Looking Backward_[10] In 1896, the party voted to "fuse" with the Democrats to support this man, the Boy Orator of the Platte.	Answer:	William Jennings _Bryan_9. FTPE name these Nintendo games from descriptions on the list of the 20 Worst Nintendo Games of Seanbaby.com:[10] I found out it was a lot more fun to jam my copy of the movie into the Nintendo instead and perform Singin' on a Star with a sock puppet I labeled, "Danny Aiello."	Answer: Hudson Hawk[10] There was Noah's Ark, Baby Moses, and David and Goliath. They were all like Super Mario Brothers 2, except they had less action, more ridiculous goals, and inspirational Christian quotes.	Answer: Bible Adventures[10] The only super power of his that was programmed in was his keen sense of smell. This is a very applicable skill when you're fighting the various toasters and typewriters in the game.	Answer: X-Men10.	Answer the following about a particular author FTPE:(10) He was a master of the bildungsroman, or tale of a journey of self-discovery. Notable works include Demian and Magister Ludi, or the Glass Bead Game.	Answer:	Herman Hesse(10) Hesse used Indian motifs for this book, in which the title character and his friend Govinda seek the young Buddha. 	Answer:	Siddhartha.(10)  In this Hesse novel, the alienated and depressed Harry Haller seeks to resolve the duality of his nature.	Answer:	Der Steppenwolf11.	Name these Knights of the Round Table, 10 points each.[10]	This Knight, Arthur's foster brother and seneschal, was called "the Tall."		Answer:	Sir Kay[10]	Only Arthur and this Knight, Duke of Neustria [NOO-stree-uh], survived the Battle of Camlan.		Answer:	Sir Bedivere[10]	When Sir Yniol [EE-nee-ol] lost all his possessions, this Knight returned them, and later married Yniol's daughter Enid, whom he would suspect of infidelity.		Answer:	Sir Geraint [GEH-rint]
12.	His work began with Barbizon imitations at Gleyre's studio in the 1860s, and climaxed with a cycle of paintings based on his own gardens for two 80-foot rooms in the Tuileries [TWEE-luh-ree]. 10 points each.[10]	Name this Paris-born painter.		Answer:		Claude(-Oscar) Monet[10]	This 1872 work inspired Louis Leroy to give Monet and his followers their name; in it, two boats float in a harbor early in the morning.		Answer:		Impression: Sunrise or Impression: lever de soleil[10]	In the late 1870s Monet produced several views of this Paris train station.		Answer:		Gare Saint-Lazare [san luh-ZAHR]13.	They weren't bulletproof, but FTPE you can name these monks from history.[10] This monk was born in Prokovskoe and was known for a less than pious lifestyle and his controversial political influence during the reign of Czar Nicholas.	Answer:	Gregory Efimovich Rasputin[10] Also known as the Founder of Western Monasticism, he founded the monastery at Monte Cassino, one of twelve he would found in his lifetime. The rule of his order is "Pray and work." 	Answer:	Benedict[10] This Italian religious and political reformer was born of a noble family at Ferrara and entered the Dominican order at Bologna. He used his political influence to oppose the humanist revival of the 15th century.	Answer:	Girolamo Savonarola14.	For 10 points each, answer these questions about brain lobes.[10] Damage to this lobe can cause visual defects, since it is responsible for vision reception and also helps in the recognition of shapes and colors.	Answer: 	Occipital lobe[10] Damage to the right side of this lobe can give you difficulty learning the spatial organization of a new place, whereas damage to the right side affects language ability.	Answer: 	Parietal lobe[10] The front of this lobe is important in determining personality, and the back controls motor functions.	Answer: 	Frontal lobe15.	Choose your own bonus!  Which sport would you prefer - hockey, or women's soccer?  Choose now.[pause for choice; read appropriate section only]EITHER:  Because of retirements and the constant recycling of goalies, only 4 currently active goalies have won the Stanley Cup in their careers.   Name them on a 5-10-20-30 basis:	Answers:  Martin Brodeur, Chris Osgood, Dominik Hasek, Ed BelfourOR:  [10] What country won the 2003 World Cup in women's soccer?	Answer: 	Germany[10] Who finished second?	Answer: 	Sweden[10] What nation was originally supposed to host the 2003 women's World Cup until health concerns moved it to the U.S.?	Answer: 	China16.	Name these 1st-century BC Roman statesmen, 10 points each.[10]	Defeated at Pharsalus in 48 BC, this member of the First Triumvirate smoked Mithridates VI and Tigranes of Armenia.		Answer:		Pompey the Great [or Cnaeus Pompeius Magnus][10]	This member of the Second Triumvirate became consul in 46 BC; when he tried to conquer Sicily, he was stripped of all his positions except that of Pontifex Maximus.		Answer:		Marcus Aemilius Lepidus[10]	After trying to assassinate his nemesis, he ran off to Etruria. The Allobroges alerted that nemesis, Cicero, of this man's planned coup.		Answer:		Catiline [or Lucius Sergius Catalina]
17.	Identify these terms from evolutionary theory, FTPE:(10) This theory, proposed by Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould is an attempt to explain the small jumps in fossil lineages within species or closely related species that occur in very short periods of time.	Answer: 	Punctuated Equilibrium or Punk Eek(10) These are genes that contain certain critical sequences that determine location of limbs and other body segments during development. Mutations in these areas are a critical part of the PE theory.	Answer: 	hox genes or homeobox genes(10) Hox genes were first found in this insect species.	Answer: 	Drosophila melanogaster (accept either name or both names)18.	Name these works by Goethe, 10 points each.[10]	In this disturbingly popular 1774 work, an idealistic fellow loses Lotte-or Charlotte-the love of his life to a friend. So he kills himself.		Answer:	The Sorrows of Young Werther or Die Leiden von jungen Werthers[10]	In 1810 Beethoven composed incidental music to this play.		Answer:		Egmont[10]	Goethe composed this series of poems during his stay in Italy, describing his relationship with Christiana Vulpus and his time in the title city.		Answer:		Roman Elegies or Römische Elegien19.	Answer the following concerning the Babylonian hero Gilgamesh[10] Over what city did Gilgamesh rule?	Answer:	Uruk[10] What was the name of Gilgamesh's companion who befriends him after matching him at wrestling?	Answer:	Enkidu[10] In his quest for immortality Gilgamesh crosses the waters of death to speak to the immortal survivor of the great flood.  Who was this man?	Answer:	Utnapishtim20.	Given a pair of English monarchs, FTPE name the monarch who came between them.[10]	Mary I and Elizabeth I				Answer:	Edward VI[10]	George IV and Victoria				Answer:	William IV[10]	Ethelred the Unready and Canute		Answer:	Edmund II or Edmund Ironside21.	Name these 20-something actresses appearing in current films, 10 points each.[10]	The female lead in Win a Date with Tad Hamilton!, she first appeared in The Horse Whisperer and Remember the Titans before playing Anne in Blue Crush.		Answer:		Kate Bosworth[10]	She plays the young Sandra Bloom-opposite Jessica Lange's older Sandra-in Big Fish, but she's better known for roles in White Oleander and Matchstick Men.		Answer:		Allison Lohman[10]	Appearing opposite Ashton Kutcher in The Butterfly Effect, she played James van der Geek's-er, Beek's-girlfriend in Varsity Blues, Beth in Road Trip, and Tracy in Rat Race.		Answer:		Amy Smart [Sorry. Couldn't resist.-Ed.]
22.	Given a Presidential assassination attempt, identify the President who escaped harm, FTP each.Both of Richard Lawrence's guns misfired while shooting at close range at this president, who, despite being considerably older than his assailant, proceeded to beat Lawrence up with his cane.	Answer:	Andrew JacksonLess than three weeks apart, Sara Jane Moore fired a gun in his direction in San Francisco while Squeaky Fromme aimed a gun at him that didn't go off.	Answer:	Gerald Ford  or Leslie KingIn an upcoming film, Sean Penn is set to play Samuel Byck, a man who intended to hijack a plane and crash it into this man's White House, but shot himself while in a gunfight with police.	Answer:	Richard Nixon23.	Name these metamorphic rocks, 10 points each.[10]	Consisting mainly of calcite and dolomite, this non-foliated rock is metamorphosed limestone.		Answer:		marble[10]	The recrystallization of mica and chlorite crystals in this class of orkc leads to more distinct foliation than in the parent phyllite rock. It exists in blue and green forms.		Answer:		schist[10]	These are large, relatively well-formed crystals within a fine-grained metamorphic matrix.		Answer:		porphyroblasts24.	Answer the following questions about Antarctica FTPE.[10] Name the highest point on the continent, towering 16,066 feet above sea level.	Answer: Vinson Massif[10] Vinson Massif is located in this range of the Ellsworth Mountains.	Answer: Sentinel Range[10] Finally, name the island on McMurdo Sound that is named after a British explorer and home to the volcanic Mt. Erebus.	Answer: Ross Island25.	After the death of Cardinal David Beaton, he was captured by the French and spent a year and a half as a galley slave.  FTP each:[10] Name this follower of Calvin and religious reformer of the 16th century.	Answer: John Knox[10] Knox founded this country's Protestant church.	Answer: Scotland[10] Knox was freed from the galleys at the request of this English monarch in 1549.	Answer: Edward VI26.	30-20-10, name the Supreme Court case:[30]  It arose during the First World War after the general secretary of the American socialist party was arrested for sending a mailing to draftees urging them to oppose conscription.[20]  The socialist party's general secretary was arrested for this under the Espionage act of 1917, which was limited but not overturned by this decision.[10]   The decision included the definition of illegal speech as that which posed a "clear and present danger", as well as the famous "fire in a theater" analogy.	Answer:  Schenck vs. United States