TOSSUPS -GEORGETOWN/HARVARD etc.		SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Also known as the braguette [BRAH-get], Edward III ordered his knights to embellish theirs to intimidate the French. Sometimes used as a pocket, some historians suggest that Henry VIII packed his with syphilis medication. FTP-name this article of clothing, whose name means "scrotum sack," that has nothing to do with fish.	Answer:	 codpiece2.		First postulated in 1935, their common name was coined in 1962 by John Wheeler. None have yet been discovered, but it is believed that one end of these structures could appear at the singularity of a black hole, and create a tunnel in the fabric of space-time. Also known as Einstein-Rosen bridges, these are-FTP-what hypothetical timesavers, one of which is located next to Deep Space Nine?	Answer:	 wormhole(s) [accept Einstein-Rosen bridge(s) on early buzz]3.	Flying into a hurricane, he revs the engines to 8500, increasing the engine's "pocketa-pocketa" sound. Later, on a solo mission to attack an ammo dump in Saulier, he straps on his Webley-Vickers automatic. He also goes to the store to buy puppy biscuits, and drives 55 even though his wife hates when he goes over 40. Of course, those incidents involving the plane were part of-FTP-the portrayal of the secret life of what man, written by James Thurber?	Answer:  Walter Mitty [accept "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty"]4.	They appear in a painting in which three women weep in the background. Their battle was intended to determine whether Rome or Alba Longa was supreme. Only one emerged from combat, after finishing off the three wounded Curiatii [kyoo-ree-AH-tie]. FTP-name these three brothers, subjects of a painting by David [DAH-veed].	Answer:	 the Horatii [accept The Oath of the Horatii]5.	Elected governor of New York in 1838, he was elected to the Senate in 1841, where his anti-slavery beliefs made him a leading opponent of the Kansas-Nebraska Act. He left the Whigs to organize the Republicans, and after losing their 1860 presidential nomination, he accepted a position in which he implemented expansionist policies. FTP-name this secretary of state who negotiated the purchase of Alaska.	Answer: William Henry Seward6.	Used to remove oxygen from vacuum tubes, this metal will melt in your hand and catch fire in air. Found in the mineral pollucite, its chloride salt is used in optical instruments and photoelectric cells. FTP name this element which reacts similarly to potassium, the first to be discovered with a spectroscope, an isotope of which is used in atomic clocks.	Answer:	 cesium or Cs7.	Its original proponent claimed that this state is impossible when independent social organs are sufficiently in contact and sufficiently extensive. In other words, it occurs when people and institutions are distanced from one another, and norms are confused or lacking. FTP-name this condition proposed by Émile Durkheim as a cause of suicide.	Answer:	 anomie [AH-no-mee]8.	Giorgio Viola, an aging innkeeper, fought with Garibaldi. Doctor Monygham, an alcoholic Irishman, has feelings for Mrs. Emilia Gould. Colonel Sotillo is the governor of Sulaco, where Charles Gould's San Tome [TOH-may] silver mine is threatened by rebels; the title character is asked to bury the silver. These characters live in the republic of Costaguana in-FTP-what Joseph Conrad novel?	Answer:	 Nostromo: a Tale of the Seaboard9.	The Japanese mistook an oil tanker for an aircraft carrier; the Americans hit a minor carrier rather than the two larger ones they knew were in the area. The following day, Japan lost the use of the Shokaku, while the US was forced to scuttle the badly-damaged Lexington. The Japanese invasion of Port Moresby was prevented by-FTP-what 1942 South Pacific battle?	Answer:	 Battle of (the) Coral Sea
10.	A revival of its worship in modern times was led by noted New York architect Ivo Shandor. During the rectification of the Voldrani, it came as a large and moving TOR. Tobin's Spirit Guide says its plans are often foiled by its stupid servant Vinzclortho. FTP-name this Sumerian deity, which manifested in Dana Barrett's apartment building, that was defeated by the Ghostbusters.	Answer:	 Gozer the Gozerian [do not accept "Zuul," a mere lackey]11.	He was aided in his early career by Johannes Brahms and eventually wrote a piano trio in F minor in a Brahmsian style.  However, this composer, born in 1841, is better known for works drawing heavily on Slavic folk music, particularly his Slavonic Dances and his opera Rusalka.  FTP, this writer of nine symphonies, the last of which was titled From the New World.	Answer:	 Antonin Dvorak12.	It split into two parties in 1969, 62 years after the "extreme" Home Rule faction took control. Its greatest success came in the 1940s, when it protested World War II with the "Quit India" movement. The political party of Nehru and Gandhi-FTP-name this party which has ruled India for most of its independence.	Answer:   Indian National Congress or Congress Party13.	It appears to be involved in the workings of cocoonase, the enzyme that lets adult silkworms escape their cocoons.  It is an important source of carbon atoms in the synthesis of purines and participates in the catalytic functions of chymotrypsin.  Removal of a carboxyl group from this amino acid forms a similarly named organic compound, known for the effects of its release in response to tissue injury or the presence of antigens.  FTP name this amino acid, whose derivative is a major cause of allergic reactions.	Answer:	histidine [do not accept histamine - that is ruled out by each of the first three clues]14.	"The world divides into facts." "The limits of my language mean the limits of my world." "The propositions of logic are tautologies. The propositions of logic therefore say nothing." "Logic is not a theory but a reflection of the world. Logic is transcendental." "Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent." FTP-these quotes come from what 1922 work outlining the "picture theory" of meaning, the only book by Ludwig Wittgenstein?	Answer:	 Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus [accept Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein before "work"]15.	This southern African democracy, operating successfully on a Constitution from 1965, is named after its principal ethnic group. In a unique compromise to accommodate ancient tribal customs, a fifteen member House of Chiefs has final authority on all matters relating to chieftaincies and the constitution.  It shares with Namibia two very different regions --the swamps of the Okavango River delta and the Kalahari Desert.  FTP, name the nation formed from the British colony of Bechuanaland, whose capital is Gaborone.	Answer:	  Botswana16.	It was first established in 1231 by Pope Gregory IX. Also known as the Holy Office, it was created to battle Cathars and Waldensians. It reached its zenith under Isabella's personal confessor, Tomas de Torquemada.  Staffed primarily by Franciscans and Dominicans, it had power over theological matters, although it could remand suspects to the secular arm for execution. FTP name this infamous court that no one expects.	Answer:	 (Spanish) Inquisition [accept the Congregation of the Holy Office on early buzz]17.	When Fernando Tatis hit two grand slams in the same inning; Cal Ripken, Jr., hit a home run in his final All-Star Game; and Barry Bonds hit his 71st and 72nd homeruns of the season, this pitcher was on the mound. FTP-name this pitcher recently signed by the Rangers, who never had a losing season in eight seasons for the Dodgers, the first Korean baseball player in the major leagues.	Answer:	 Chan Ho Park18.	After murdering a countryman, he changed his name and fled to exile in King Proetus's court at Argos.  Proetus's wife Arteia [ar-TAY-uh] falsely accused him of adultery, prompting the king to send him to Iobates to be killed. Born Hipponoüs-FTP-name this Greek who succeeded on Iobates' quest to kill the Chimera with the aid of Pegasus.	Answer:	 Bellerophon
19.	Its name was coined by Tschermak in 1935. Although it occurs naturally in small quantities, these tend to be flawed by poor winter hardiness and excessive stalk height. Too flaky for most flour applications, most of its consumption is as animal feed.  However, its resistance to unfavorable soils, disease, and drought promised it to be a "wonder grain" in the 1960's and 70's. FTP, identify this hybrid of wheat and rye, whose fictional "quadro-" variant was aboard Space Station K7 when it was overrun with tribbles.	Answer:	 triticale (tri-ti-KAH-lee)20.	An Army veteran, this Lions Club president was shot to death in Chicago in 1976. The only survivor of a Vermont plane crash, this optometrist witnessed the 1945 Allied firebombing of Dresden. The turning point in his life, though, was a 1967 UFO abduction by aliens from Tralfamadore. FTP-name this man who becomes "unstuck" in time, the protagonist of Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five.	Answer:	 Billy or Billy Pilgrim21. This word was first used in English around 1365, but most of its current meanings arose after 1700. Phillips used it to define a number that cannot be expressed as the root of a finite polynomial, while Kant used it to describe the presuppositions of existence. Derived from a Latin root for "climbing over," in 1844, Charles Dickens was the first to use-FTP-what word to describe a certain literary movement?	Answer:	 transcendental [accept transcendentalism]22.	In certain semiotic analyses, it can be useful in simplifying complex texts. But it can be troublesome, as one can unwittingly fall back on unfounded assumptions as one moves from the part to the whole. Its most familiar use, though, is as a literary device, in such phrases as "The pen is mightier than the sword." FTP-name this rhetorical device that uses a part to symbolize a greater whole.	Answer:	 metonymy [do not accept "synecdoche"]23.	Key figures in this movement included William O'Brien, who led the abortive Young Ireland uprising of 1848, and John Stephens, who published the journal The Irish People till it was suppressed and he had to flee.  In 1867 they outfitted and launched the ship Erin's Hope, which was predictably captured.  Potential support in America was weakened by a failed attack on Campobello Island and the ill-conceived 1865 capture by John O'Neill of Fort Erie on the Niagara, which was quickly retaken.  FTP name this secret Irish revolutionary society of the mid-19th century, which took its name from the military corps that service the legendary Irish kings.	Answer:	Fenian movement
BONI - GEORGETOWN/HARVARD etc.			SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	At the 1815 Congress of Vienna, four nations controlled Europe's future. Given a representative's nation and title, name him, FTPE:[10]	Austria's Foreign Minister		Answer:	 Prince von Metternich or Klemens Wenzel Nepomuk Lothar Metternich-Winneburg[10]	Russia's czar		Answer:	 Alexander I or Aleksandr Pavlovich[10]	France's Foreign Minister		Answer:	 Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord2.	Name these women from Toni Morrison works, FTPE:[10]	Escaped slave Sethe murders this title character, his third child, to prevent her from being taken by his former master.		Answer:	 Beloved[10]	She has affairs with Ajax and Jude, but she never truly finds friendship with anyone but Nel-with whom he fails to reconcile before her death.		Answer:	 Sula [SOO-luh][10]	In Tar Baby, this model chooses life in Paris over Son, her lover, in Florida.		Answer:	 Jadine3.	In 1963, the MVPs of the National League, American League, and NFL all wore number 32. FTPE:[10]	This Dodger pitcher won the NL MVP award with a 25-5 record.		Answer:	 Sanford "Sandy" Koufax[10]	This Cleveland running back captured the NFL MVP as the first man to rush for over a mile in one season.		Answer:	 James Nathaniel "Jim" Brown[10]	This Yankee catcher, the AL MVP, was the first black player so honored.		Answer:	 Elston Gene "Ellie" Howard4.	The 1970's weren't the only time dance music dominated the charts.  Given dance music, name the composer FTPE[10]	 Anetra's Dance, from Peer Gynt	Answer:	 Edvard Grieg[10] 	Polovtsian Dances, from Prince Igor	Answer:	 Alexander Borodin[10]	 The Dance of the Hours, from La Gioconda	Answer:	 Amilcare Ponchielli5.	FTPE Identify the chemical term for concentration from a definition. [BE SURE NOT TO GIVE ANSWERS TILL END OF QUESTION]a) Moles of solute per liter of solution	Answer:	 molarityb) Moles of solute per kilogram of solvent	Answer:	 molalityc) Equivalents of solute per liter of solution	Answer:	 normality6.	Here's the new boss, same as the old boss.  Given the old capital of a country, name its new capital FTP, or the country for 5.[10]	Lagos				Answer:	 Abuja [10] or Nigeria [5][10]	Alma-Ata			Answer:	 Akmola [10] or Kazakhstan [5][10]	Belize City			Answer:	 Belmopan [10] or Belize [5]
7.	Name these Aristophanes plays, FTPE:[10]	In this play, Socrates is the comic villain. A stupid farmer, trying to shed his creditors, hears that Socrates's Thinkery will teach a person to make the bad appear good.		Answer:	 The Clouds or Nephelai[10]	In this play, the main characters build a kingdom in the sky and intercept the sacrifices men make to the gods to starve the gods into submission.		Answer:	 The Birds or Ornithes[10]	The title characters inhabit the marshes on the river Styx. They chant a memorable song as the main character descends into Hades.		Answer:	 The Frogs or Batrachoi8.	Name the glands that secrete these hormones, FTPE:[10]	aldosterone [al-DAH-stuh-rohn]		Answer:	 adrenal or suprarenal gland[10]	melatonin					Answer:	 pineal gland or epiphysis[10]	calcitonin					Answer:	 thyroid gland9.	Turns out they had more to lose than their chains.  Name these labor uprisings, FTPE:[10]	This 1894 strike halted Chicago's rail traffic for two months. Cleveland broke it using federal troops.		Answer:	 Pullman strike[10]	Harrison sent in the National Guard after ten Pinkerton guards died trying to break this 1892 strike by the Amalgamated Association of Iron, Steel, and Tin Workers.		Answer:	 Homestead strike[10]	Demonstrators gathered to support an eight-hour workday for all trade unions in Chicago. Policemen tried to disperse them, and things got ugly. Four anarchists were hanged.		Answer:	 Haymarket Square riot(s)10.	Name these early saints, FTPE:[10]	His Ecclesiastical History of the English People provides most of our knowledge of England before AD 700.		Answer:	 Saint Bede the Venerable or the Venerable Bede or Baeda or Beda[10]	As Bishop of Caesarea, he defended the province against Arianism. He is regarded as the father of all Eastern monks.		Answer:	 Saint Basil the Great or Basilius[10]	Based in Milan, he also attacked Arianism, and helped convert St. Augustine.		Answer:	 Saint Ambrose or Ambrosius11.	Answer the following concerning the Boer War, FTPE.a) The war was effectively precipitated in 1895 when this man, with a small British force, invaded the Transvaal to aid in the uitlander uprising.         Leander Jamesonb) By March 1900, however, British General Frederick Sleigh Roberts led Canadian, Australian, and New Zealander reinforcements to capture Bloemfontein, capital of this colorful Boer state.       The Orange Free Statec) This Treaty ended the war favorably for the British in 1902.       	The Treaty of Pretoria12.	Name these board games, FTPE:[10]	Players alternate dropping checkers on a vertical grid to create a row of a certain length.		Answer:	 Connect Four[10]	In this game, players attempt to move a puck into their opponent's goal by shooting ball bearings at it.		Answer:	 Crossfire[10]	Teams advance by completing tasks in four categories: Star Performer, Creative Cat, Data Head, & Word Worm.		Answer:	 Cranium
13.	FTPE, given characters, name the Thomas Pynchon novel. [10] Oedipa Maas, Pierce Inverarity, Manny di Presso	Answer:	 The Crying of Lot 49[10] Roger Mexico, Tyrone Slothrop, Ensign Morituri 	Answer:	 Gravity's Rainbow[10] Zoyd Wheeler, Brock Vond, Isaiah Two Four 	Answer:	 Vineland 14.	Its chemical formula is SiO2. FTPE:[10]	By what name do we know silicon dioxide?		Answer:	 quartz[10]	Iron or manganese impurities turn this variety of quartz purple.		Answer:	 amethyst[10]	Also called cairngorm, this variety of quartz's black or brown color comes from its exposure to radiation.	Answer:	 smoky quartz15.	Name these movies in which Christian Slater acts all crazy-like, 10 points each.[10]	In this 1989 movie, Slater and Winona Ryder find love as they kill off a popular high school clique.		Answer:	 Heathers[10]	Slater had a good reason for killing that pimp-Elvis's ghost told him to! Little surprise that Dennis Hopper plays Slater's father in this 1993 film with Patricia Arquette.		Answer:	 True Romance[10]	In this 1998 flop, Slater puts his own inimitable stamp on a Las Vegas bachelor party by murdering a security guard to conceal a stripper's death.		Answer:	 Very Bad Things16.	Name these Alexander Pope poems, FTPE:[10]	This 1711 poem includes the lines "A little learning is a dangerous thing" and "Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."		Answer:	 An Essay on Criticism[10]	In this mock epic, two families fight over some hair cut from Belinda's head.		Answer:	 The Rape of the Lock[10]	In this ode, Pope asks, "Thus let me live, unheard, unknown;/Thus unlamented let me die."		Answer:	 "Solitude: An Ode"17.	Name these physical effects, FTPE.[10]	This is the increase in wavelength of EM radiation when electrons scatter photons.		Answer:	 Compton effect[10]	This occurs when an ion is bombarded with radiation and forced to eject an electron.		Answer:	 Auger effect[10]	In this effect, passing a current through a circuit where multiple metals are used results in temperature changes at the junctions between different metals.		Answer:	 Peltier effect [do not accept "Seebeck effect"]18.	Identify the amendment from description FTPE:[10] The right to vote cannot be taken away from any citizen due to race, color,or previous condition of servitude. 	Answer:	 15th[10]The minimum age to vote is 18. 	Answer:	 26th[10] No one can be elected president more than twice. 	Answer:	 22nd
19.	Answer the following about that scary branch of social science, behaviorism, FTPE:[10] This is a type of associative learning in which there is no contingency between response and reinforcer. An example is Pavlov's dog experiment.	Answer:	 classical conditioning[10] In this form of conditioning a desired response is paired with an unconditioned stimulus, leading to a conditioned response even in the absence of the stimulus.	Answer:	 operant conditioning[10] This device used in operant conditioning typically contains levers which an animal can press, stimulus lights and places in which reinforcers like food can be delivered. Responses are then automatically graphed.	Answer:	 Skinner box20.	Note this list: Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, or Baroque. FTP each, tell which of these periods the following cathedrals belong to.[10] Chartres (shartr)	Answer:	 Gothic[10] Pisa	Answer:	 Romanesque[10] St. Paul's of London	Answer:	 Baroque 21.	Name the authors of these "pop science" books, 10 points each.[10]	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge		Answer:	 Edward O(sborne) Wilson[10]	Six Easy Pieces: The Essentials of Physics Explained by Its Most Brilliant Teacher		Answer:	 Richard Phillips Feynman[10]	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe Without Design		Answer:	 Richard Dawkins22.	Two actors have each received nine Oscar nominations for Best Actor in a Leading Role, and three actresses have each received ten or more nominations for Best Actress in a Leading Role. Five points each, and 30 for all five, name these five actors and actresses. You have 10 seconds.	Answer:	 Ruth Elizabeth "Bette" DavisKatharine Houghton HepburnSir Laurence Kerr OlivierMary Louise "Meryl" StreepSpencer Bonaventure Tracy[HN: Jack Nicholson has earned 11 nominations, but four of those were Supporting Actor nods]23.	Born in Nairobi in 1903, he married Mary D. Nicol in 1936. FTPE.[10]	Name this Cambridge-educated archaeologist.		Answer:	 Louis Seymour Bazett Leakey[10]	Leakey is famous for his expeditions in this Tanzanian gorge.		Answer:	 Olduvai Gorge[10]	In 1959, Louis and Mary Leakey discovered in the Olduvai gorge fossils of this early hominid, nicknamed "Zinj," that lived approximately 1.75 million years ago.		Answer:	 Zinjanthropus or Australopithecus boisei24.	Answer these questions on Iberian politics in the 1720s, FTPE.[10]	A 1729 treaty between France, England, and Spain was signed in what port city, then Spain's "cultural capital?"		Answer:	 Seville or Sevilla[10]	That same year, Portugal lost what port city in modern Kenya to Arab fighters?		Answer:	 Mombasa [mom-BAH-sah][10]	The Spanish laid a 14-month siege on what British protectorate, seized during the War of Spanish Succession?		Answer:	 Gibraltar