TOSSUPS - ROUND 2				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Rutgers, Berkeley, Maryland, and Chicago 1.	When Thomas Hunt took him to Málaga, Spain, to sell him into slavery, he escaped to England and joined the Newfoundland Company. He returned to America in 1619, which he had left in 1605 with George Weymouth. Thus he was among the Wampanoag when his friend Samoset introduced him to William Bradford. For 10 points---name this Native American who interpreted for the Pilgrims.	Answer:	 	Squanto or Tisquantum 2.	He received the best education possible during his time when he attended the Lyceum in Tsarskoe Selo from 1811 to 1817. His early poems "Freedom" and "The Village" reflected his revolutionary views, but his first large work was Ruslan and Liudmilla. During his exile in Kishinev he also published Prisoner of the Caucasus and his tragedies include The Stone Guest and Mozart and Salieri. FTP, who is this celebrated Russian poet, probably most famous for the tragedy Eugene Onegin?	Answer:	 Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin3.	Despite his three attempts, he never won the Prix de Rome during his time at the Paris Conservatory, causing a scandal and subsequent shakeup in leadership. He's not Claude Debussy, he did compose Three Poems by Stephane Mallarmé, and his The Tomb of Couperin (koo-per-AN) is exemplary of the impressionist style. Also creator of Pavane for a Dead Princess and Spanish Rhapsody, FTP, name this French composer of Boléro. 	Answer:	 (Joseph-)Maurice Ravel 4.	Created from melted ice, he received nourishment from the milk of the cow Audhumla [oh-DOOM-luh]. One of his legs fathered a son, while a man and a woman were created in his armpit. Slain by his three grandchildren, led by Odin, his body became the heaven and earth and his bones became mountains. For 10 points-name this progenitor of the frost giants, the first being in Norse myth.	Answer:	 Ymir [EE-meer] 5.	It consists of five layers, including Descemet's [DEH-seh-mayz] and Bowman's membranes, and is made mostly of collagen. Its edge, or limbus, is the location of the canals of Schlemm, and it is among the easiest body parts to transplant because it contains blood vessels only at its margins. Projecting forward from and continuous with the sclera is-for 10 points-what part of the eye that covers the iris and pupil?	Answer:	cornea6.	He writes a regular column for The Citizen Informer, a publication of the Council of Conservative Citizens, a neo-Confederate organization that defends flags across the South and promotes Confederate activities. Also a member of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, he's said "the spirit of Jefferson Davis lives in the Republican platform." For 10 points-name this supporter of Strom Thurmond's 1948 presidential campaign.	Answer:	 (Chester) Trent Lott 7.	This athlete co-starred with Mike Tyson and Robert Downey, Jr. in the 1999 film Black and White. Leaving as the all-time leading scorer from the University of Tennessee, where his father Wade coached him, he was drafted in 1993 by the Pistons, but left before the 1996-97 season. Through December, he was averaging 23 points per game-for a team with a 7-13 record. For 10 points-name this guard for the Knicks.	Answer:	 Allan Houston 8.	It can suppress the transcription factor NF-kappa B, so this drug, also used to prevent the growth of HIV by suppressing tumor necrosis factor, may fight some cancers. However, the side effects of this drug include birth defects, ironic as it was first prescribed as a sedative for pregnant women. For 10 points-name this drug whose namesake "babies" had short or missing limbs.	Answer:	thalidomide [or Thalomid]
9.	He studied classical literature and philosophy at Oxford University and from 1892 to his death was a Latin Professor, first at University College then Cambridge. It is thus appropriate that he would later write the poem, "Terence this is Stupid Stuff," concerning classical poetry, which was published in A Shropshire Lad. FTP, name the man whose poems often dealt with lost youth, such as in his most famous works, "When I Was One and Twenty" and "To an Athlete Dying Young" 	Answer:	A. E. Housman.10.	Warning: two answers required. Their collaboration began when one hired the other to help develop a polygraph-like instrument to measure human sexual response. Using this device, they identified and described four stages in the sexual response cycle. Later entering the field of sex therapy, this psychologist and gynecologist fought impotence and premature ejaculation. For 10 points-name these pioneers of sexual psychology.	Answer:	William Masters and Virginia Johnson11.	Two important events are when the main character receives a last name, and when he retreats to Suma [soo-muh]. First translated in six volumes by Arthur Waley, the main character adores Fujitsubo [foo-jit-soo-boh], who looks like his mother, sends Utsu-emi secret messages, and woos a princess by playing on a zither in-for 10 points-what novel of court life in the Heian [hey-AHN] period by Murasaki Shikibu?	Answer:	The Tale of Genji or Genji Monogatari12.	He used his financial stability as the canon of Frauenberg Cathedral to begin studying the stars. It took the effort of George Rheticus to publish his most important work, which was completed in 1516. For 10 points-name this astronomer whose posthumous On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres espoused a heliocentric solar system.	Answer:	 Nicolaus Copernicus or Nikolas Kopernik13.	He makes two public appearances each year: on January 2nd, a bank holiday, and on December 23rd, his birthday; last month he turned 69. His plans for a historic visit to Korea during the 2002 World Cup were scrapped because of past diplomatic incidents between Korea and his nation. For 10 points-name this Grand Cordon of the Supreme Order of the Chrysanthemum and Order of the Rising Sun, the current emperor of Japan.	Answer:	Emperor Akihito [accept Heisei]14.	Described by both Cassius Dio and Tacitus, among its first casualties were the IXth (9th) Legion Hispania and a garrison of retired veterans at Camulodom.  However, despite the failure of Poenius Posthumus to show up with the IInd Legion Augusta, Seutonius Paulinus was still able to put down this rebellion near Veralamium in 63 A.D.  It had begun when Procurator Catus Decianus tried to seize the land of the Iceni after the death of their king, Prasutagus, and during its course Londinium had been sacked.  FTP  identify this revolt in Britain named for its Celtic female leader.	Answer:	 Boadicea or Boudicea or Boudicca's Revolt (accept Iceni before it is said).15.	 In Easley v. Cromartie, the Supreme Court deemed it legal under certain circumstances, such as the ones used by North Carolina. This practice was also prominent in the plaintiff's arguments in Baker v. Carr. Unfairly dividing a state into districts to give one political party an advantage is an example of-for 10 points-what eponymous term first associated in 1812 with the then-governor of Massachusetts?	Answer:	gerrymandering or gerrymanders16.	Now That's What I Call Music! 11 was beaten out on the charts by the début of this album that sold over 870,000 copies in 2002. Overseas, a blue disc exists that presents an "Eastern"-flavored version of this album, which already features a red "pop" version and a green "country" version. Exclamation points appear in the titles of ten of the 19 tracks on-for 10 points-what album, featuring "I'm Gonna Getcha Good!," by Shania Twain?	Answer:	Up!17.	Among the sections its header provides are one-bit push and urgent flags, a window size to manage flow control, and fields for source and destination ports. Because it is reliable and connection-oriented, it is superior in some applications to other transport layer protocols such as UDP, which is why it's used in FTP, Telnet, and HTTP. For 10 points-name this communication protocol often paired with IP.	Answer:	TCP or Transmission Control Protocol [accept Transmission Control at end of question]
18.	The image of an iron cage is used to describe modern society, and as in Adam Smith's The Wealth of Nations,  "democratization of luxuries" is a key source of early market demand. The fourth chapter, "The Religious Foundations of Worldly Asceticism," mentions the Calvinist belief in predestination, which leads Calvinists to value material success as a sign of God's favor. Discussing Lutheran theology and the work ethic is, FTP, what work by Max Weber [VAY-bir]?	Answer:	The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism or Die protestantische Ethik und der Geist des Kapitalismus.19.	It was devised in 1925 as its creator left his wife behind to retreat with his mistress to the Swiss Alps. There exist time-dependent and -independent varieties; the latter is used to calculate the equation of a particle in an infinite square well. To find the probability a particle lies in a range, it should be multiplied by its complex conjugate and integrated along that range. FTP, name this equation, the fundamental principle of quantum mechanics.	Answer:	 Schrödinger wave equation20.	Associated with the Federal Writers' Project, he published short stories and articles in such magazines as New Challenge and New Masses. He explored his early life in the 1964 essay collection Shadow and Act. Influenced by the frontier myth and music, he is noted for such characters as Rhinehart and Mary Rambo, though his most memorable character has no name. For 10 points-name this author of Juneteenth and Invisible Man.	Answer:		Ralph Ellison21.	In December, it announced a partnership with singer Thalia [THAH-lee-uh] to develop a line of clothing and accessories for its stores. One of its major subsidiaries, Bluelight, is expected to emerge from bankruptcy by July 2003. Founded in 1899, it was first listed on the NYSE in 1918 as "S.S. Kresge." For 10 points-name this recently delisted retailer whose brands include Joe Boxer and Martha Stewart.	Answer:	Kmart Corp.22.	There were supposedly forty of them, but only a handful were preserved in Aristotle's Physics. A notable use of reductio ad absurbum, they were used against opponents of Parmenides. One involves a stadium, and another uses an arrow, but Achilles and the tortoise is the most famous example of-for 10 points-what arguments against motion by a certain Eleatic philosopher?	Answer:	 Zeno's paradoxes23.	The longest lasting one was in Chile, from 1938 to 1947. One led by Leon Blum was elected in France in 1936, enacting sweeping leftist reforms until it was voted out one year later. Its election in Spain that same year precipitated the civil war there. For 10 points-name this type of government, which united Communists with other political groups opposed to fascism, spoofed in The Life of Brian.	Answer:		Popular Front(s)  [accept People's Front]
BONI - ROUND 2					SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Rutgers, Berkeley, Maryland, and Chicago 1.	Name the following relating to ancient empires, FTPE.[10] The Egyptians under Ramses II fought these people at the battle of Kadesh.	Answer:	 Hittites[10] This man is credited with founding the first empire, reigning over Akkad.	Answer:	 Sargon I or Sharru-kan or Sarru-kin[10] Tiglath-Pileser III and the cruel Ashurnasirpal II ruled over this empire, which fell to Babylonia in the late 7th century BCE.	Answer:	 Assyria or Assyrian Empire2.	30-20-10-5. Name the much-read, and much-maligned author from works.[30]	The Water-Witch; The Sea Lions; Wyandotte[20]	The Redskins; The Prairie; The Spy[10] 	The Deerslayer; The Pathfinder[5] 	The Last of the Mohicans	Answer:	 James Fenimore Cooper 3.	Identify these things from solid-state physics FTPE.[10] If most of the valence band of a material is filled and a small percentage of the available electrons is excited into the conduction band, what sort of material results?	Answer:	 semiconductor[10] Field-induced interband tunneling is an example of this type of eponymous tunneling or breakdown, best manifested in its namesake diode.	Answer:	 Zener tunneling (or breakdown)[10] This effect is used to measure the sign of charge carriers in a semiconductor. It is expressed in field which is developed across two faces of a conductor when a current flows across a magnetic field.	Answer:	 Hall effect4.	Name the slayers of these monsters from Greek myth, 10 points each.[10]	Minotaur		Answer:	Theseus [NOT Perseus][10]	Python		Answer:	Apollo[10]	Calydonian Boar						Answer:	Meleager [yes, there were others on the hunt, but Meleager got the kill]5.	These seven objects, when assembled, summon the dragon Shenlon, who can grant the possessor a wish. FTPE:[10] Name them.	Answer:	 Dragon Balls (not "Dragon Ball Z")[10] The Dragon Ball saga centers on this Saiyan, who is resurrected during the Dragon Ball Z saga to fight Vegeta.	Answer:	 Goku[10] This Namek replaced Kame as the guardian of the Earth, and has the unique ability to heal other people.	Answer:	 Dende 6.	Identify some people from United States history FTPE.[10] He was a signatory to the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution.  His most lasting contribution was (with Oliver Ellsworth) promoting the "Connecticut compromise." 	Answer:	 Roger Sherman [10] Known as the "Great Compromiser" he engineered the Missouri Compromise and the American System. His "corrupt bargain" helped John Quincy Adams win the Presidency against Andrew Jackson.	Answer:	 Henry Clay[10] Before moving into the White House, he sold all of his predecessor's furniture. His administration saw the passage of the Pendleton Act, which was prompted in part by the assassination of said predecessor, James Garfield.	Answer:	 Chester Arthur
7.	If only the Animaniacs had made a "world capitals" song then perhaps it would have helped you here. Alas, you'll have to go it on your own. Given the country, name the capital, 5-10-20-30Afghanistan	Answer:	 KabulNorth Korea	Answer:	 PyongyangHonduras	Answer:	 Tegucigalpa Tuvalu	Answer: Funafuti8.	 Name these Yeats [yates] poems from lines, 10 points each.[10]	"And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,/Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?"       	Answer:	 "The Second Coming"[10]	"A sudden blow: the great wings beating still/Above the staggering girl"       	Answer:	 "Leda and the Swan"[10]	"MacDonagh and MacBride/And Connolly and Pearse/Now and in time to be,/Wherever green is worn,/Are changed, changed utterly:/A terrible beauty is born.	Answer:	 "Easter, 1916"9.	Insects can undergo metamorphosis in several different ways. 10 points each.[10]	This is the hard cocoon structure in which a caterpillar changes into a butterfly.		Answer:	chrysalis or chrysalid or pupa[10]	This is the generic name given to larval growth stages between molts.		Answer:	instars[10]	Dragons and mayflys enter this aquatic nymph stage.		Answer:	naiads [NYE-ad]  10.	Name these theorems, 10 points each.[10]	Every polynomial of degree n has exactly n complex roots.	Answer:	fundamental theorem of algebra [prompt on partial answers][10]	The integral of f of x with respect to x from a to b equals G of b minus G of a, where G is any anti-derivative of f.	Answer:	fundamental theorem of calculus[10]	Every integer greater than one has a unique prime factorization.	Answer:	fundamental theorem of arithmetic11.	Given a play, name its title character or characters, 5 points per answer.[10]	Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona	Answer:	Valentine and Proteus[10]	Chekhov's [CHEH-kov] The Three Sisters	Answer:	Irina [ih-REE-nuh], Masha [MAH-shuh], and Olga [Natasha is not one of the sisters.][5]	Marlowe's The Jew of Malta	Answer:	Barabbas12.	FTSNOP name these painters of Last Suppers.[5]	The most famous Last Supper was painted by this military engineer and inventor. Christ sits in the center, with his disciples on either side.	Answer:	Leonardo da Vinci [accept either][10]	A table lies slanted from lower left to upper right, and is cast in dark tones; Christ's halo is the only significant source of light in the Last Supper by this apprentice of Titian.	Answer:	Tintoretto or Jacopo Robusti[15]	This artist was forced to change the title of his Last Supper to Feast in the House of Levi when he incurred the wrath of the Inquisition for depicting German peasants in the painting.	Answer:	Paolo Veronese [vay-roh-NAY-see]
13.	FTPE identify the charges of these polyatomic ions.[10] Ammonium	Answer:	 +1[10] Perchlorate	Answer:	 -1[10] Cyanate	Answer:	 -1 14.	Identify the cartoon duo; you get 5 points for each member.[10] This cat and chijuahua were created by John Kricfalusi and grossed out MTV and Nickelodeon viewers. Their adventures included transplants of butt fat and Wilbur J. Cobb.	Answer:	 Ren and Stimpy (accept Ren Hoek and Stimpson J. Cat, since those are their real names)[10] This giant blue superhero battled such evildoers as Chairface Chippendale with the help of his sidekick, to whom he repeatedly referred as a bunny, despite the fact that he was a moth.	Answer:	 The Tick and Arthur[10] The most famous creations of Mike Judge, they did America when their TV was stolen. These two guys can be seen on MTV making fun of bad 80s metal.	Answer:	 Beavis and Butthead15.	Name these Supreme Court cases dealing with the First Amendment, 10 points each.[10]	In this 1919 case, a Socialist was arrested for circulating pamphlets urging draft resistance as a violation of the Espionage Act of 1917.	Answer:	Schenck v. US[10]	In this other 1919 case, a Bolshevik immigrant was arrested for circulating leaflets advocating revolution in Russia, as a violation of federal sedition laws.	Answer:	Abrams v. US[10]	In this 1925 case, in the wake of the Red Scare, a Socialist published an anarchist manifesto, and was arrested for violating a state anarchy law.	Answer:	Gitlow v. New York16.	Name these novels by Salman Rushdie, 10 points each.[10]	Narrated by Rai Merchant, it begins with the 1989 earthquake that engulfs rock star Vina Apsaras; it then chronicles the tumultuous love affair of Vina and Ormus Cama.     Answer: 	The Ground Beneath Her Feet[10]	This novel, set in a country "not quite Pakistan," concerns the intertwining stories of Omar Khayyam Shakil and Sufia [soo-FEE-yuh] Zenobia, who embodies the title emotion.     Answer: 	Shame[10]	This Booker Prize-winning novel chronicles both the history of post-partition India and the life of Saleem Sinai.      Answer: 	Midnight's Children17.	Bacteria can take up naked DNA from the environment, often in plasmid form. 10 points each.[10]	Name this process.Answer:	transformation [accept word forms][10]	This term describes bacteria capable of transformation.Answer:	competent[10]	One common method of making bacteria competent, this uses current to poke holes in a bacteria's membrane.Answer:	electroporation [electro-poh-RAY-shun] 18.	Identify the term used in economics from a description FTPE.[10] A Latin phrase meaning "all else equal", it is used when holding all other variables constant in order to assess the effect of one particular variable on a given outcome	Answer:	 ceteris paribus[10] The measure of the price level calculated as the ratio of nominal GDP to real GDP times 100.	Answer:	 GDP deflator[10] A good for which an increase in price raises the quantity demanded.	Answer:	 Giffen good 
19.	For 10 points each-name these critiques of American society:[10] 1950 David Riesman work suggests that Americans have moved from being "inner directed" to "other-directed," placing security and conformity over personal goals.	Answer:	 The Lonely Crowd[10] This 1956 William Whyte book described unambitious people seeking only to maintain an appropriate level of consumption while moving their families at the whim of corporations.	Answer:	 The Organization Man[10] This 1962 Michael Harrington book described the poverty of Appalachia despite the nation's general affluence.	Answer:	 The Other America20.	30-20-10, identify the composer from works.[30] Songs from the Youth's Magic Horn[20] Kindertotenlieder, Symphony of a Thousand[10] Das Lied von Der Erde, Titan Symphony, Resurrection Symphony	Answer:	 Gustav Mahler 21.	Name the teams that acquired these baseball players in the 2002 offseason.[5]	Tom Glavine				Answer:	New York Mets [prompt on "New York"][5]	Jim Thome [toh-MEE]			Answer:	Philadelphia Phillies [accept either][10]	Jeremy Giambi [gee-AHM-bee]		Answer:	Boston Red Sox [accept either][10]	Elmer Dessens				Answer:	Arizona Diamondbacks [accept either]22.	For 10 points each--name the activity from which women were barred in laws upheld by these court cases:[10] U.S. v Anthony, 1873.	Answer:	 voting[10] Bradwell v. Illinois, 1872.	Answer:	 practicing law[10] Strauder v. West Virginia, 1872.	Answer:	 jury duty