TOSSUPS -- UTC						SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by lots of people including UTC players, Robert Trent, Steve Taylor, & some Penn Bowl folks1.	At last count, there were still eight of them at Sabbathday Lake in Maine.  However, the "mother church" in Mt. Lebanon, NY, was sold in 1947 and membership was declared closed in 1965.  At its peak around 1840 there were some 6,000 of them in 20 communities.  FTP give the popular name for adherents of the United Society for Believers in Christ's Second Coming, a celibate millenarian sect founded by Ann Lee.Answer:	Shakers (accept early buzz with United Society for Believers in Christ's Second Coming)2.	Ironically, the 27-year prison sentence he never served stemmed from an investigation into the shady financial dealings of the regime that replaced him.  He fled into exile in 1994, one year after resigning as Socialist Party head and 7 years after his government fell.  FTP name this former Italian Primer Minister, the first Socialist to hold the office, who died this week in exile in Tunisia.Answer:	Bettino Craxi3. This third baseman and winner of three American League batting titles experienced World Series defeat in 1986 as a member of the Red Sox, and would not be part of a championship team until 10 years later with the Yankees.  FTP, name this player, known for his habit of eating chicken before every game, who recently retired from the Tampa Bay Devil Rays with 3,010 hits.Answer: Wade Boggs4. Handel switched to oratorio because of a decline in England in the popularity of opera seria.  Opera buffa became the rage thanks to this opera, whose composer said, "I hope I may be forgiven, that I have not made my opera unnatural, like those in vogue, for I have no recitative."  FTP name this work first presented in London in 1728, the masterwork of John Gay.Answer: The Beggar's Opera5. This taxonomic order has approximately 140,000 members. Species of this order have two pairs of wings, hairy bodies, a coiled tongue for sucking, and undergo a complete metamorphosis. For ten points, name this order for which examples include moths and butterflies. ANSWER.  Lepidoptera6.   Its tone darkens as it progresses; some say this indicates a deepening of the author's Buddhist conception of the vanity of the world, while others say the last 14 chapters were written by a second author.  Its storyline is rather thin -- the loves of a prince and the different women in his life -- but it leaves an indelible portrait of a refined, elegantly aristocratic world.  FTP name this novel, written early in the 11th century by Lady Murasaki Shikibu.Answer:	The Tale of Genji, or Genji monogatari7. This economist's ideas were instrumental in bringing about the euro, Europe's new common currency, and Ronald Reagan's supply side economical policies.  He is a native of Canada, and currently a 66-year old Columbia University professor.  FTP name this man who was awarded the 1999 Nobel Prize in Economics.   ANSWER: Robert A. Mundell8. In a couplet meant to rhyme, Southern poet J. Gordon Coogler is said to have written: "Alas for the South! Her books have grown fewer / She never was much given to literature."  The supposed epigraph served as the opening for a 1917 essay in which the South was described as a cultural wasteland, "The Sahara of the Bozart." This essay was published in a volume entitled Prejudices by, FTP what author, a longtime editor of The American Mercury?ANSWER	H. L. Mencken
9. Built on low ground surrounded by hills, it could not be defended, but somehow 1300 cavalrymen led by Benjamin Davis broke through and made it back to Union lines.  The remaining 10,000 Federal troops surrended to Jackson, yielding 13,000 small arms and 73 cannons.  This Sept. 1862 battle was in fact the second time Jackson had helped capture this garrison -- he'd done the same as a Federal soldier in 1859.  FTP name this arsenal, which Jackson and Robert E. Lee had taken back from insurrectionists led by John Brown.Answer:	Harpers Ferry10. The virtuous Squire Allworthy remains in the background and emerges to ensure the conventional happy ending.  The hero, whose true identity remains unknown until the denouement, is in love with Sophia Western, but he has to go through many trial and tribulations before he gets her. FTP identify this novel by Henry Fielding.Answer: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling11. This native of  Waukegan, Illinois, sold newspapers on L.A. street corners until 1942.  He sold his first science fiction short story in 1941.  His work was chosen for best American short story in 1946, 1948, and 1952.  His awards include:  The O'Henry Memorial Award, The  Benjamin Franklin Award in 1954 and the Aviation-Space Writer's Association Award for best space article in an American magazine in 1967.  FTP name this author whose works include The Golden Apples of the Sun, A Medicine for Melancholy, Long After Midnight, Dandelion Wine, The Illustrated Man, and The Martian Chronicles.Answer: 	Ray Douglas BradburyREADER'S NOTE: Your genial tournament director didn't write this one but feels compelled to note that in Bradbury's "Something Wicked This Way Comes," evil is thwarted thanks to a librarian named Charlie.12. He was considered the greatest of the Dletsheni [dlayt-SHAY-nee].  In 1827, after the death of his mother Nandi, his rule of law became known as "The Crushing" or Mfecane [um-fay-CAH-nay].  Nevertheless, his consolidation of the Nguni-Bantu clans of the Zulu cemented a veritable empire.  FTP, name this leader.Answer: _Chaka_ or _Shaka_ or _Tshaka_13. Present in the mineral tourmaline, this element was isolated separately by Sir Humphrey Davy, Joseph Gay-Lussac, and Louis-Jacques Thenard.  Name this element, the lightest of all the elements in group 3A with atomic number 5. ANSWER: Boron14. Rivers in this state include the Patuxent and the Patapsco. Lesser known institutions of higher learning include: Salisbury State, Goucher College, and Frostburg State.  Smaller cities include Darnestown, Gaithersburg, and Bethesda.  For ten points, identify this state where a $1000 dollar fine was imposed by governor Paris Glendening during a mid-August drought. ANSWER: Maryland15.  This work was first performed in 1900 at a Jacksonville, FL, celebration of Lincoln's birthday.  The lyrics include "Sing a song full of the faith that the dark past has taught us, Sing a song full of the hope that the present has brought us, Facing the rising sun of our new day begun Let us march on till victory is won." FTP, name this anthem by James Weldon Johnson.Answer: _Lift Every Voice and Sing_ (prompt on "African-American National Anthem" or similar)16. Former Western Carolina head football coach Bob Waters, two members of the San Francisco 49ers in the late 60's, Hall of Fame pitcher Catfish Hunter, and of course Lou Gehrig, for ten points, have all been afflicted with what disease. ANSWER: Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (early prompt on "Lou Gehrig's Disease")17. A wolf guards the western door and an eagle hovers over it. It has five hundred and forty doors. The rafters are spears, the hall is roofed with shields and breast-plates litter the benches.  It is the home of those who have died in battle in Norse mythology.  FTP, name this place. Answer: _Valhalla_18. He convoked the first zemski sobor, or land assembly, representing the towns, the clergy, and the nobility.  The body, however, met only once during his reign, which lasted from 1533-1584.  He also led the conquests of Kazan and Astrakhan.  FTP, name this Russian czar whose son, Theodore, was mentally incompetent and was noted for his war on the nobility.ANSWER: Grand Duke Ivan IV The Terrible19. This quality is not changed by neutral weak interactions with a Z boson.  In fact, it is never altered except in charged weak processes. Leptons have six varieties of this quality, as do quarks.  FTP, what is this quality which in quarks include top, bottom, charm, & strange?Answer: _flavor_20. 	The original recipe is attributed to Joe Lebeau of Paducah, Kentucky, though the company itself was founded in 1937 in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.  A specially constructed store was featured in the movie Primary Colors, and after the company opened its first store in New York, Rosie O'Donnell had a conveyor belt installed on the set of her show. FTP, name this doughnut chain with a green, white and red sign.ANSWER:  Krispy Kreme21. It stands 115 cm tall & is 35 cm wide by 160 cm long.  The two 'handles' sit 40-45 cm apart.  One must cover all areas of it, while performing circular movements & scissors elements. Kurt Thomas is considered anall-time great on this apparatus.  FTP, name this gymnastics apparatus seen in men's competitions.Answer: _pommel horse_22.  This restaurant originally opened in Pasadena, California, owned and operated by a pair of brothers.  It moved to San Bernardino some years later, where in 1954, a traveling blender and mixer salesman paid a fateful visit.  For 10 points, name this restaurant, which was bought out by Ray Kroc and franchised in the U.S. and world over, now having over 20,000 franchises in the world. ANSWER: McDonald's
BONI -- -- UTC						SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Answer the following questions related to ravens FTP each.a. In Poe's "The Raven", this is the name of the lost love of the narratorANSWER:  Lenoreb. In Norse myth, these two ravens are named Hugin and Munin.  F5P each, give the English equivalents.ANSWER:  Thought and Memoryc. Before becoming a Baltimore Raven, this turnover-prone quarterback spent his first three seasons with the St. Louis Rams.ANSWER:  Tony Banks2. 	Name the authors of these works FTPE.  If you need less buoyant titles, you'll get 5 pts.(1a) An Artist of the Floating World(1b) The Remains of the DayAnswer:	Kazuo Ishiguro(2a) The Floating Light Bulb(2b) Don't Drink the Water, Getting Even, and Mighty AphroditeAnswer:	Woody Allen(3a) The Floating Opera(3b) The Sot-Weed Factor and Giles Goat-BoyAnswer:	John Barth3. 	FTPE, name these terms from the same three-page section of the Oxford Dictionary of World Religions:(a) Because it differs from the rest of the Pentateuch in both diction and homiletic style, most scholars believe this Old Testament book (whose name means "second law") was completed in some connection with the 7th century B.C. reforms of King Josiah.Answer:	Deuteronomy(b) Properly speaking, it's any member of a Muslim religious fraternity; the best-known subset, more properly termed the Mevlevis, are best known for one technique they use to eliminate outward stimuli.Answer:	Dervishes or Derwishes(c) A technique devised in the early 1970's by Ted Patrick to counteract the alleged brainwashing techniques used in recruitment by some new religions.Answer:	deprogramming4. 	Identify the law passed during the Progressive Period, FTPEa. [10] This 1906 act was enacted due to Upton Sinclair's novel The JungleANSWER: Pure Food and Drug Actb. [10] This 1913 act divided the country into 12 districts to assist in public control of the banking systemANSWER: Federal Reserve Bank Actc. [10] This 1914 act strengthened the Sherman Act by prohibiting price discrimination, interlocking directorates, and other unfair practicesANSWER: Clayton Anti-Trust Act5.	Identify the painters of these French folk of the 19th century FTP each.A. The Ox-PlowAnswer: Rosa _Bonheur_B. The Stone BreakersAnswer: Gustave _Courbet_C. The GleanersAnswer: Jean-Francois _Millet_
6.	30-20-10 Name the person from screen credits.30)  He was the uncredited football choreographer for Robert Altman's 1970 film "M*A*S*H*" and the next year served as an assistant to Altman for "McCabe and Mrs. Miller."20)  He made his directorial debut in 1969 with "The Racing Scene," a movie about a year in the life of a race car driver, starring James Garner.  He followed that up with 1973's "Stacy," starring Miss May 1967 Anne Randall. But his film career was put on hold while he was a longtime director for ABC's Monday Night Football.10)  Better known directorial efforts by this man include 1988's "Picasso Trigger," 1989's "Savage Beach," and the 1996 classic "Day of the Warrior."Answer:  Andy Sidaris7. 	Given years, identify the Roman emperor who ruled FTP each.a. 284-305 ADANSWER: Diocletianb. 41-54 AD ANSWER: Claudiusc. 69-79 ADANSWER: Vespasian 8. 	Given a short description, name the type of coal, FTPE.(a) The most recently-formed coal, it is often known as brown coal.Answer: lignite(b) Also known as soft coal, it is middling in terms of energy productionAnswer: bituminous coal(c)The hardest type of coal known, it is glossy black with a crystal strucutre.  When burned, it gives off a large amount of energy little smoke or soot.Answer: anthracite coal9. 	While a professor at Columbia, Franz Boas oversaw the studies of many leading cultural anthropologists.  Given works by one of his students, name the author for the stated number of points.5: Coming of Age in Samoa; Blackberry WinterANSWER: Margaret Mead10: The Chrysanthemum and the Sword; Patterns and CultureANSWER: Ruth Benedict15: Configurations of Culture Growth and (with wife Theodora) Ishi, Last of His TribeANSWER:  A.L. KroeberEDITOR'S NOTE: A.L. Kroeber's daughter is Ursula K. LeGuin.10.	Answer these questions on comets for the stated number of points.a. For five points, name the comet which returns every 76 years, which had its firstrecorded sighting in 240 B.C.ANSWER:  Halley's Comet  [Accept 1P]b. For ten points, name the comet, discovered on July 23, 1995, which was at its mostvisible in 1997 and is expected to return in 2,380 years.ANSWER:  Hale-Bopp Comet  [Accept O1]c. For fifteen points, name the comet, first seen in 1786, which returns every 3.28 years.ANSWER:  Encke's Comet  [Accept 2P]
11.	Name these existentialist authors from works, 5-10-15.(a) [5] The Rebel, The Myth of SisyphusAnswer: Albert Camus(b) [10] Nausea, The FliesAnswer: Jean-Paul Sartre(c) [15] Man's Fate, Man's HopeAnswer: Andre Malraux12.	FTP each, identify the Russian, or Soviet, or whatever, composer given works.a. Prince Igor, In the Steppes of Central AsiaANSWER: Alexander Borodinb. Russlan and LudmillaANSWER: Michael Glinkac. Sabre DanceANSWER: Aram Khachaturian13. 	Answer these questions about the 1937 novel _Their Eyes Were Watching God_  FTP each.A. Who is the author of this African-American classic?Answer: Zora Neale _Hurston_B. What is the name of the female narrator who seeks a personal freedom in the course of the novel?Answer: _Janie_C. Janie finally finds happiness at the end of the novel with a man called this.Answer: _Tea Cake_14. 	Name these things related to the War of the Austrian Succession, FTPE:a. The British struggle with the Spanish is known as this.ANSWER: The War of Jenkin's Earb. This treaty ended the war in 1748.ANSWER:  Treaty of Aix-la-Chapellec. This Prussian emperor touched off the conflict by occupying Silesia.ANSWER:  Frederick II15. 	Identify the amino acids from description, FTPE.(a) The simplest amino acid, its side chain consists of a single hydrogen.Answer: Glycine(b) This amino acid ends in a thiol and frequently is used to make covalent bonds connecting two different amino acid chains.Answer: Cysteine(c) This amino acid is commonly used in turns, as the nitrogen that makes that peptide bond has only one hydrogen attached to it, as opposed to the normal two.Answer: Proline16.	Evaluate the following integrals FTP each.A. The integral of x from 2 to 10.Answer: _48_B. The integral of the cosine of x from 0 to pi-halves radians.Answer: _1_C. The integral of e to the x from 0 to 1.Answer: _(e - 1)_ or _2.7_18282...17. 	FTP each, answer these questions concerning British literature.a. This comic epistolary novel, published in 1771, tells the story of the travels of the Bramble family through England and Scotland.ANSWER: The Expedition of Humphry Clinkerb. Name the Scottish satirical writer of novels such as Humphry Clinker and Roderick Random.ANSWER:  Tobias George Smollettc. Give the name of the Dublin-born satirist who wrote The Battle of the Books and A Modest Proposal.ANSWER:  Jonathan Swift18. 	Answer the following questions about the geography of Antarctica FTP each.a. The world's largest body of floating ice, it lies at the head of its namesake sea.ANSWER:  Ross Ice Shelfb. This bay forms the western extension of the Ross Sea and lies east of Victoria Land.  Up to 46 miles wide, it serves as one of the main access routes of the Antarctic continent.ANSWER:  McMurdo Soundc. Overlooking the Ronne (ron) Ice Shelf is this highest mountain in Antarctica.ANSWER:  Vinson Massif 19.	FTPE name the authors of these 20th century philosophical works:(a) Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus	Answer:	Ludwig Wittgenstein(b) Time and Free WillAnswer:	Henri Bergson(c) The Structure of Scientific RevolutionsAnswer:	Thomas Kuhn20.	For the stated number of  points, answer these questions about Jane Addams.a. [5] Addams is most associated with this mansion, donated by the Chicago businessman it is named after, a settlement house which Addams and her friend Ellen Gates Starr modeled after Toynbee Hall in London.ANSWER: Hull Houseb. [15] When Addams won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1931, she turned over her prize money to this organization, of which she was president.ANSWER: Women's International League for Peace and Freedomc. [10] Addams was a delegate to the first national convention for this political party.ANSWER: Progressive Party or Bull Moose Party21.	Identify these personages tangentially related to the Oedipus myth, FTPE.(a) King of Argos, he was the one of sons of the Seven Against Thebes who attacked and destroyed that city to avenge their father's deaths.  In the Trojan War he distinguished himself by wounding both Aphrodite and Ares.Answer: Diomedes(b) When he blinded himself, Oedipus took refuge at Colonus under auspices of this King of Athens, son of King Aegeus.Answer: Theseus(c) The legendary founder of Thebes, he was originally a Phoenician prince who was went looking for his sister Europa.  The Oracle told him to follow a cow until it died and then found a city.Answer: Cadmus