TOSSUPS -- GEORGIA TECH II				SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Brent, Christina, and Chris B.1) Critics of this organization, created in 1933, called it "a device for creating a huge patronage army loyal to the Democratic Party.  The Federal Arts Project, Federal Writers' Project, and Federal Theater Project all fell under the umbrella of this organization.  For ten points, name this New Deal organization dedicated to putting people back to work building bridges, airports, public buildings and parks.Answer: WPA or Works Progress Administration2) Shortly after completing an engineering education, he published his first novel, Poor Folk in 1846. Arrested in 1849 for membership in a secret political group, he was exiled to Siberia, an experience he recorded in The House of the Dead.  FTP, name this Russian writer better known for the works The Idiot and The Brothers Karamazov.Answer: Fydor Dostoyevsky3) This cousin of Priam escaped Troy with his son Ascanius and his father Anchises but could not find his wife Creusa in the escape.  He stopped in Thrace, Delos, and Sicily and was washed up on the African shore where he would meet Dido, queen of Carthage.  For ten points, name this hero who would marry Lavinia, producing the kingdom that the Romans would form from.Answer: Aeneas4) Henry Kelsey, in the employ of the Hudson Bay Company, was the first white man to visit the land that would eventually become this province.  Louis Riel led Metis Indians to seek self-government and the Northwest Rebellion in 1885 and it gained provincial status in 1905.  For ten points, name this Canadian province whose capitol is Regina and largest city is Saskatoon.Answer: Saskatchewan5) This biologist received a Masters at Johns Hopkins University in 1932 and did postgraduate work at Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory.  A deep interest in wildlife from childhood led to a long career with the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries.  For ten points, name this pioneering environmentalist, author of The Sea Around Us,  who brought worldwide attention to pollution with her 1962 book, Silent Spring.Answer: Rachel Carson6) His illustrations of his own works, works by Milton, and the Book of Job, are realistic in their representation of human anatomy but also radiantly imaginative, often depicting fanciful creatures in exacting detail. In his Prophetic Books, such as The Book of Thel, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, Milton, and Jerusalem, he created his own mythology in which love, energy, and imagination vie with the forces of reductive rationalism and repression.  FTP, identify this author of Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience.Answer: William Blake7) This early 19th century senator and representative from Kentucky was a supporter of the Missouri Compromise, Compromise Tariff of 1833, and the Compromise of 1850.  He acted as counsel for Aaron Burr in a Kentucky grand jury investigation of Burr's plan to establish an empire in the Southwest.  A Jeffersonian Republican, he shared that leader's distaste for slavery and was an advocate of gradual emancipation in Kentucky, but he abandoned this idea when it proved a losing cause.  For ten points, name this American statesman known as the Great Compromiser.Answer: Henry Clay
8)  He left his chair in physics in Prague to become the first professor of "inductive philosophy" at Vienna, where his emphasis on the empirical influenced Carnap, Russell and James and provoked a harsh 1909 attack from Lenin.  But his work in physics is more enduring -- not so much the parts dealing with optics or rapid movement as the work in acoustics.  FTP name this scientist, whose name is now associated with the speed of sound.Answer: Ernst Mach9) He began his career as an actor in summer stock and went into film work in 1930. An actor of rugged strength and sensitivity, he appeared in Cass Timberlane, Father of the Bride, The Last Hurrah, and as the only character in The Old Man and the Sea.  His character portrayals won him Academy Awards for Captains Courageous and Boys Town. For ten points, name this actor who appeared with Katherine Hepburn in nine films, including Woman of the Year.Answer: Spencer Tracy10) His autobiography, entitled Memories, Dreams, Reflections was published in the same year as his death, 1961.  He studied with Eugen Bleuer at the University of Zurich Psychiatric Institute and would later become a chairman there.  Who was this Swiss psychiatrist who introduced terms such as collective unconscious, archetypes, and introvert and extrovert?Answer: Carl Jung11) The Mongols conquered the last branch of this dynasty, the sultanate of Rum, in 1243.  They were originally a Turkish tribe, the Ghuzz, but converted to Islam in the 10th century and in the 11th century their leader named himself protector of the caliph.  For ten points, give the name of this Turkish dynasty whose aggressiveness was one of the causes of the First Crusade.Answer: The Seljuk Turks12) Henry Goddard, a supporter of this concept of human evolution, founded the New Jersey Vineland Training School for Feeble-Minded Boys and Girls.  Francis Galton started the English movement after looking back over his family tree and seeing the high level intelligence exhibited by most family members.  Name this movement that states undesirable traits should be weeded out of the gene pool by selective breeding.Answer: Eugenics13) Born in Peru, Indiana, this American composer and lyricist is noted for his witty, sophisticated lyrics and affecting melodies. Night and Day, Begin the Beguine and Let's Do It are among his best-known songs.  FTP, identify this man whose musicals included Kiss Me Kate and Can-Can.Answer: Cole Porter14) The ninth child of a handloom weaver, he studied English at Edinburgh University and became a regular book reviewer for The Scotsman newspaper.  In 1886 he published his first novel Better Dead that was soon followed by When A Man's Single, My Lady Nicotine, and The Little Minister.  FTP, identify this writer perhaps better known for the play "Peter Pan".Answer: James Matthew Barrie15) This type of reaction takes place in one step and requires a weakly basic leaving group.  A polar aprotic solvent and a high concentration of a strong, nucleophilic Lewis base are both factors that increase the rate of this reaction.  FTP, identify this type of substitution reaction which requires an unhindered substrate such as a methyl.Answer: SN2 or Bimolecular Nucleophilic Substitution
16) Born in Lessines, he exhibited his works first in 1927.  His works share many traits with other surrealists, yet his own style is termed magic realism.  His Madame RŽcamier de David shows a coffin reclining rather than the woman found in one of Louis David's portraits. For ten points, name the painter whose works often feature blue skies with perfect clouds and bowler hats.Answer: Rene Magritte17) An example of this type of virus is the Rous sarcoma virus that caused cancer in chickens.  The genome of the virus integrates itself in the host's DNA and then replicates itself.  For ten points name this type of virus, another example of it is the HIV virus.Answer: Retrovirus18) Founded by north German towns and German merchant communities abroad, this organization was to protect their mutual trading interests. The group dominated commercial activity in northern Europe from the 13th to the 15th century.  The organization attempted to protect its ship convoys and caravans by quelling pirates and brigands, and it fostered safe navigation by building lighthouses and training pilots.  For ten points, name this group that declined during the 1600s due to powerful nation states forming along its borders.Answer: The Hanseatic League, or Hansa19) He served as an ambulance driver in France during WWI before being drafted into United States Army.  His works include Tulips and Chimneys, Tom, and Santa Claus: A Morality.  FTP, identify this artist, playwright, poet, and novelist whose works also include The Enormous Room.Answer: e. e. cummings20) His death in 1953, on the same day as Stalin, deprived him enjoying of the relaxation in musical censorship that then took place.  After the Russian Revolution, he was given permission to travel abroad but, after staying in America and Paris, returned to Russia in 1936 to find himself out of favor with the authorities and the subject of direct censure.  FTP, identify this composer of Classical Symphony, War and Peace, and Peter and the Wolf. Ans: Sergey Prokofiev21) This expression originated at jousting tournaments in the Middle Ages.  Poorer knights who could not afford to clean their armor just painted it dark.  If a wealthy knight were to unhorse a knight of substantially less financial means he would not keep his opponent's armor as customary.  Instead he would make the defeated buy his armor back.  For ten points, name this process, now euphemized by the word "entrapment". ANSWER:  blackmail22) This river served as the border between the French and Spanish territories, Mexico, and the United States.  Contained entirely within Texas and the Louisiana Coastal Plain, it flows through a dredged, navigable channel into the Gulf of Mexico.  For ten points, name this river that serves as a modern day border to Texas and Louisiana.Answer: Sabine River23) According to Greek myth she and her son washed up on the shore of Seriphus where she would attract the eye of the king, Polydectes.  When Perseus grew into a man Polydectes sent him away to slay the Gorgon Medusa, but he would return to free his mother.  Name the daughter of Acrisus who was visited by Zeus in a shower of gold while locked away from any suitors.Answer: Danae
BONI -- GEORGIA TECH II				SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Brent, Christina, and Chris B.1) For ten points each, identify these terms related to geology.a)	James Hutton believed that the history of the earth can be interpreted solely on the basis of everyday geologic processes; his theory is called what?Answer: Uniformitarianismb)	This Scottish geologist published Principles of Geology; he was born the same year James Hutton died.Answer: Charles Lyellc)	The German geophysicist Alfred Wegener first introduced this theory in 1912 - the hypothesis of plate tectonics branched off from it.Answer: Continental Drift2) Answer, for ten points each, these questions about The Simpsons.a)  He created Our Favorite Family in 1989.	Answer:  Matt Groeningb)  The first short sketches of The Simpsons appeared on this series.	Answer: The Tracy Ullman Showc)  Who is the founder of Springfield?	Answer:  Jebediah Springfield3) For ten points each, answer these questions related to psychology.a)	Those who suffered from this disorder include Virginia Woolf, Ernest Hemingway, Lord Byron, and Jackson Pollack.  Lithium carbonate is used to treat this disorder.Answer: Bipolar disorder; accept manic-depressive disorder/manic depression, but tell 'em the term's outdatedb)	This mental illness causes many to forget his or her identity and to travel from home and re-settle elsewhere with a new identity.Answer: Fuguec)	People who experience or witness a life-threatening or frightening event often develop this disorder.Answer: Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder 4) For ten points each, identify these historical events or figures.a)	This Visigoth King sacked Rome in 410 but was forced to abandon an invasion of Sicily and North Africa.Answer: Alaric Ib)	This order of monks constructed small huts around the chapel Santa Maria degli Angeli in Assisi.  They are also called the Order of the Friars Minor.Answer: Franciscan Orderc)	In 751 AD, Pepin the Short became the first Frankish King of this dynasty - the Capetian dynasty would replace Pepin's line in 987.Answer: Carolingian (or Carlovingian)
5) For ten points each, give the name these of these genetic terms.a)  The term for two or more alternative forms of a gene resulting in different gene products and thus different phenotypes.	Answer:  Alleleb)  Mature male or female reproductive cell with a haploid set of chromosomes.	Answer:  Gametec)  The four haploid cells formed at the end of meiosis. The term was formerly used for the four chromatids making up a chromosome-pair at the first division of meiosis.	Answer:  Tetrad6) Given a children's novel, identify the author FTPEA.a)	Wind in the WillowsAnswer: Kenneth Grahame b)	The Story of Dr. DolittleAnswer: Hugh Loftingc)	Just So StoriesAnswer: Rudyard Kipling7) For ten points each, identify these art-movements.a)	Tristan Tzara picked the name for this movement at random from the dictionary - the French word for hobbyhorse.  It is a protest against Western culture.Answer: Dadab)	This movement was founded in 1924 by Andre Breton as an offshoot of Dadaism and emphasizes the unconscious in creative activity.Answer: Surrealismc)	This mid-20th century movement emphasized the assertion of the individual in the painting.  The works of Wassily Kandinsky and the surrealists contributed to the movement.Answer: Abstract Expressionism8) Answer these questions about the Hundred Years War for ten points each.a)  The turning point of the war happened at the relief of this siege in 1429	Answer:  Siege of Orleansb)  The French hero at the Siege of Orleans persuaded Charles VII to send the successful relief force, and led it.	Answer:  Joan of Arc or Jeanne d'Arcc)  After the capture and execution of Joan of Arc, Charles VII conquered Normandy and Aquitaine and at the end of the war the English were left only with this possession which it relinquished in 1558.	Answer:  Calais9) Identify the entertainer, 30-20-10.30 pt: The youngest of 8 children, he directed such films as Stir Crazy and Shoot to Kill.  20 pt: Paul claims to be his son in Guare's play Six Degrees of Separation.10 pt: He's better known for roles in such films as Guess Who's Coming to Dinner and In the Heat of the Night.Answer: Sidney Poitier
10) Identify the Theodore Dreiser works for the stated number of points.a)	Dreiser wrote 2 novels concerning fallen women.  One of these is Jennie Gerhardt.  Identify the second, published in 1900 for 10 points.Answer: Sister Carrie b)	Dreiser also wrote 2 novels concerning an American artist. One of these is The Bulwark. Identify the second, published in 1915 for 15 points.Answer: The Geniusc)	Dreiser based his novel about Clyde Griffiths drowning his pregnant lover on a true story.  Name it for 5 pts.Answer: An American Tragedy11) Identify the entertainer 30-20-1030 pt: While dancing to Chopin's Funeral March, she had a vision of her two children being threatened by evil.  A few days later, both youngsters drowned in the Seine River.20 pt: Inspired by the waves rolling into San Francisco Bay, she improvised a new kind of dance, based on walking, jumping, kneeling, running, skipping, laying down and then rising.10pt: While riding in an automobile in Nice, her long scarf caught in the spokes of the rear wheel, breaking her neck immediately.Answer: Isadora Duncan12) For ten points each, name the victorious general in the following battles:a)  Battle of Long Island	Answer:  Sir William Howeb)  Battle of Lake Erie	Answer:  Oliver Hazard Perryc)  Battle of the Alamo	Answer:  Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna13) For ten points each, identify these mythological beings.a)	Though this jackal-headed Egyptian deity is identified with Hermes in Greek myth, he is the god of the dead.  The judge of the dead, he weighs the heart against the feather of truth.Answer: Anubisb)	This creature is thought to represent strength and vigilance - it has the head, beak, and wings of an eagle, the body and legs of a lion and the tail of a serpent.Answer: Griffinc)	His name became the name of attendants of water deities.  Name the trumpeter of the deep, a son of Poseidon in Greek myth.Answer: Triton14) Given a hydrocarbon, provide the number of primary carbons in the molecule FTP each.a)	isopentaneAnswer:  2b)	cyclohexaneAnswer: 0c)	neopentaneAnswer: 4 15) Identify the author, 30-20-10.30 pt: Born to a feminist and a philosopher, she married her husband after his wife Harriet committed suicide.20 pt: At age 24, her husband, author of the poem, "Queen Mab", drowned leaving her penniless with a 2-year-old son.10 pt: She wrote Frankenstein.Answer: Mary Shelley16)  Answer the following questions about electonics.a)  An op-amp circuit that compares two inputs and provides a DC output indicating the polarity relationship between the inputs.	Answer:  Comparitorb)  A three-terminal semiconductor device that, in the digital world, can be considered to operate like a switch.	Answer:  Transistorc)  Circulating current produced in connecting materials by a varying magnetic field.	Answer:  Eddy Current17) For the stated number of points, identify these historical events or figures.a)	5 pts.:	He was the first prime minister of Canada, serving from 1867 to 1873 and 1878 to 1891.Answer: Sir John Macdonaldb)	10 pts.: These Francophones were deported from Nova Scotia to Lousiana in 1755 by the British to make room for more English-speaking settlers.Answer: The Acadians; accept Cajunsc)	15 pts.: In the French and Indian War, this chief of the Ottawa Indians laid siege for five months to Detroit after capturing the majority of the British outposts running from Pennsylvania to Lake Superior.  Answer: Chief Pontiac18) 30-20-10, name the pope:a) (30)  He was the successor of Adrian I. He was attacked about the face and eyes by members of Adrian's family, who hoped to render him unfit for the papacy.b) (20)  He recovered and fled in 799 to Charlemagne's protection at Paderborn. In 800, Charlemagne went to Rome and conducted a trial during which this pope successfully defended himself against charges of misconduct made by his enemies.c) (10)  On Christmas day, 800, he crowned Charlemagne emperor, the event that traditionally marks the beginning of the Holy Roman Empire.	Answer:  Pope Leo III19) Given a year identify the American Nobel Prize winner for Literature FTPEA.  You'll receive 5 pts. if you need a work.10 pt: 19305 pt: Main StreetAnswer: Sinclair Lewis10 pt: 19935 pt: The Bluest EyeAnswer: Toni Morrison10 pt: 19875 pt: To UraniaAnswer: Joseph Brodsky20)	Identify the capital of these states more foreign than Arkansas, for ten points each. a. ChechnyaANSWER: Groznyb. East TimorANSWER: Dilli (not Delhi)c. KosovoANSWER: Pristina21) Given the work of a Bronte sister, provide her pen name FTPEA.  You'll receive 5 pts if you need her real name.a) 10 pt: Agnes Grey5 pt: Ann BronteAnswer:  Acton Bellb) 10 pt: Jane Eyre5 pt: Charlotte BronteAnswer: Currer Bellc) 10 pt: Wuthering Heights5 pt: Emily BronteAnswer: Ellis Bell22) Name the scientist on a 30-20-10 basis.a) (30)  Despite the fact that he never received his teacher's certificate, he was appointed professor of mathematical physics at the Sorbonne in 1883.  He later was appointed head of the Sorbonne's Laboratories of Physical Research 1886.b) (20)  His scientific talents were varied, but he was best known for his contributions in the fields of optics and electricity.  He did early, important studies of piezoelectricity and of induction in superconductive circuits.  He also invented the coleostat, an instrument that allowed for long-exposure photographs of the sky by compensating for the Earth's motion during the exposure.c) (10)  Known for the innovations that resulted from his search for a direct colour-sensitive medium in photography, he won the 1908 Nobel Prize in Physics for his development of the first color photographic plate.	Answer:  Gabriel Lippmann