TOSSUPS - DEPAUW/CHICAGO				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	These four legged herbivores existed in the Late Jurassic period.  Despite a length of nearly 20 ft, this dinosaur was known for its exceptionally small brain.  Its back was lined with two rows of triangular plates which were used for heat regulation.  Its tail ended in two to three pairs of pointed spikes that were used as defensive weapons.  FTP name this dinosaur whose name means "covered lizard" or "roof lizard."	Answer:	Stegosaurus or Stegosaur2.	He has said, "It is true I have raped history, but it has produced some beautiful offspring. Known for their inaccuracies, melodrama, and plagiarism, he wrote hundreds of volumes with his "factory" of ghostwriters. His initial success came with historical plays like Napoleon Bonaparte, but-FTP-what author is better known for swashbuckling historical novels like The Black Tulip, The Count of Monte Cristo, and The Three Musketeers?	Answer:	 Alexandre Dumas pere or Elder or the Father3.	He died in exile in Paris in 1915.  His rule was marked by economic stability and prosperity for the upper class and harsh repression of the masses.  The term of his puppet successor, Manuel Gonzalez, from 1880 to 1884 lasted just long enough to change the constitution so this man could return to office.  FTP name this dictator, whose 35-year stronghold over Mexico ended with his ouster in 1911 by Francisco Maduro.	Answer:	Juan de la Cruz Porfirio Diaz4.	Born a premature weakling, his mother, Taranga threw him into the sea.  But he survived to become a hero to the people by such feats as bringing the secret of fire from the Underworld.  This god is also credited with making the days longer by cutting his wife Hina's sacred hair, and fashioning a noose.  He then snagged the sun and held it until it was so weak that it could only creep across the sky.  FTP name this Polynesian trickster god who made the day longer, for whom the second largest Hawaiian island is named.	Answer:	Maui of a-thousand-tricks5.	This franchise began in the AAFC in 1947; a year later, quarterback Y.A. Tittle joined them. Their 1958 NFL championship over the New York Giants is called "The Greatest Game Ever Played," but they lost the 1971 Super Bowl to the New York Jets. FTP-name this team for whom Johnny Unitas played from 1956 to 1972, which moved in 1983 to Indianapolis.	Answer:	 Colts or Baltimore Colts [prompt on "Indianapolis"; do not prompt on "Ravens"]6.	A music critic as well as attorney, he was director of the Bamberg Opera and a major musical influence on Schumann.  Jung and Freud were influenced by his fiction, such as The Devil's Elixirs and The Serapion Brethren, which focused on madness, horror, and the supernatural.  FTP name this author, whose writings are known today not through his own music, but through the opera by Jacques Offenbach that it inspired.	Answer: Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann7.	Pericles debated moral problems with him, and he was employed to draw up a code of laws for the Athenian colony of Thurii in 445 BCE. He is said to have been the first to make the grammatical distinctions of moods in verse and of genders in nouns. Author of Truth and On the Gods, FTP, what man, whose famous saying, "Man is the measure of all things," was the first to call himself a Sophist?	Answer:	Protagoras8.	The signatories were Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain.  Signed on February 7, 1992, while it retained the European Community's Parliament, Council, Commission, and court of Justice, it was designed to broaden the scale of monetary and economic union of the EC.  FTP, name this treaty, signed in the Netherlands, which established the European Union and the Euro as its currency.       Answer:	Treaty of Maastricht9.	Its polymeric allotrope, obtained through rapid cooling of the liquid, is insoluble in almost all solvents. At standard pressure, it has two crystalline forms, monoclinic and orthorhombic, which are stable at different temperatures. In crystals, the basic unit is a ring of eight atoms. FTP-name this element, whose hydride has the odor of bad eggs.	Answer:	 Sulfur
10.	Chinua Achebe claimed this book did not criticize European imperialism, but rather showed that its author was racist. Rather than distance the author from the character's ideology by having a narrator recount another narrator's story, Achebe claims its author reduces Africa to "props for the break-up of [a] petty European mind." Marlow recounts a voyage up the Congo in search of Kurtz in, FTP, what novella by Joseph Conrad?	Answer:	 Heart of Darkness11.	When he was just eleven, an art teacher informed his mother, quote, "there is nothing more we can teach him in St. Louis." After living in New York and Paris for a number of years, he married the actress Dolly Hass in 1943. Although initially interested in sculpture and painting, his body of work includes two separate runs of postage stamps, conceptual work on the "Rhapsody in Blue" portion of Disney's Fantasia 2000, and many line drawings. FTP, what illustrator, who often specialized in figures from Broadway and music, is known for hiding his daughter Nina's [NINE-ah's] name in all his works created after her birth?	Answer:	Al Hirschfeld12.	Discovered on January 7th of 1610, its first claim as the most likely candidate for life elsewhere in our solar system came when Voyager spacecraft found evidence of water geysers and ice.  Then in 1996 the Galileo probe found signs of liquid oceans beneath the icy surface of this moon, a year after the Hubble probe found traces of oxygen in its atmosphere.  FTP name this smallest Galilean moon of Jupiter, named for the mythological Phoenician girl who was seduced by a bull-disguised Zeus.	Answer:	Europa13.	She hopes to bore herself to death, and refuses to be informal with Aunt Julia. After competing with the redheaded manhunter Diana for control of Eilert Loevborg, she burns his manuscript. When Loevborg kills himself, and Judge Brack blackmails her, she commits suicide. FTP name this title heroine of a play by Ibsen.	Answer:	 Hedda or Hedda Gabler14.	In 388 he punished a bishop who set a synagogue on fire. When Thessalonia revolted in 390, he massacred 7,000 in a stadium. In retribution, he was denied communion for eight months by the bishop of Milan, St. Ambrose, a dire punishment for a devout Christian who had outlawed pagan worship 10 years before. FTP-name this last emperor of the united Roman Empire.	Answer:	 Theodosius I or Flavius Theodosius the Great15.	Chad Michael Murray, formerly of Dawson's Creek, plays Tristan, who torments one of this show's title characters. Keiko Agena, formerly of Felicity, plays Lane, that character's best friend. FTP-name this WB show about Lorelai and her daughter Rory, starring Alexis Bledel and Lauren Graham.	Answer:	 Gilmore Girls16.	The only fictional character to receive an obituary on the front page of the New York Times, Arthur Hastings often tells the stories of his exploits in England. First introduced in The Mysterious Affair at Styles, and retired in Curtain-FTP-name this man with an egg-shaped head, stiff black mustache, and little gray cells, a retired Belgian police detective created by Agatha Christie.	Answer:	 Hercule Poirot17.	American casualties numbered 123 while British losses totaled 135.  The American fleet consisted of nine vessels with a total of 54 guns while the British fleet was composed of six ships mounting 63 guns.  After the USS Lawrence was severely damaged, Commander Perry transferred the flag to the USS Niagara.  FTP, name this September 10, 1813 battle after which Oliver Hazard Perry sent to General William Harrison that "We have met the enemy and they are ours."	Battle of Lake Erie18.	Known to exist for just two substances, in one, it is explained by p-wave pairing of the fermionic atoms. In the other, its onset is marked by a characteristic shape in the specific heat curve at the lambda point, 2.17 Kelvins. FTP name this phenomenon shown by helium-3 and helium-4, whose liquids have almost zero viscosity and appear to defy gravity.	Answer:	 superfluidity or superfluid(s) or superfluid state
19.	Even though it afflicts some 7% of the population, it was not listed in the DSM prior to 1980, and there was not a full book devoted to the subject till the early 1990's.  Often confused with panic disorders, it can be described as irrational angst from the prospect of being judged or evaluated by others.  Sufferers are generally perfectly fine alone but are often withdrawn from society to avoid excessive nervousness they experience in interactions with the public.  FTP name this disorder, generally treated with specialized anti-depressant drugs such as Paxil.	Answer:	Social Anxiety Disorder (accept "SAD") or social phobia20.	100 miles wide and 600 miles long and at an average elevation of 2500 feet, this region includes Lauca World Biosphere Reserve and is rich in lithium, copper, iodine, and nitrates. It is made up primarily of salt basins and lava flows and its landscape has been described as "moonlike."  FTP name this desert of northern Chile that spans from the Pacific Ocean to the Andes Mountains, the driest place on Earth.	Answer:	Atacama21.	The manuscript of the first book featuring this character was completed in Southern France in 1939, after Augusto and Margret Rey fled Paris by bicycle. Originally called Fifi, a computer-animated featured film is planned for this star of dozens of children's books. FTP-name this oddly silent primate who left the African jungle to live with the enigmatic man in the yellow hat.	Answer:	 Curious George22.	In this religion, a supreme God, Bon Dieu, rules a large pantheon of local and tutelary deities, deified ancestors, and saints, who communicate with believers in dreams, trances, and ritual possessions. Combining elements of Roman Catholicism and tribal religions of western Africa, FTP name this religion which originated in Haiti, also practiced in Cuba, Trinidad, and the southern United States.	Answer:	Voodoo23.	Their production by sufficiently high-energy colliders is predicted in certain models with teraelectron-volt gravity; it is believed they would decay "democratically." The Kerr type have angular momentum. Schwarzschild solved equations for static, uncharged ones, and Hawking showed that the area of their event horizons always increase. FTP-name these regions of space-time from which light cannot escape.	Answer:	 black hole(s) [prompt on "singularities"]
BONI - DEPAUW/CHICAGO				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	It was the first American opera staged at La Scala. FTPE.[10]	Name this "folk opera" by George Gershwin.		Answer:	 Porgy and Bess[10]	Porgy is set on this street in Charleston.		Answer:	 Catfish Row [10]	Porgy was based on a novel by this South Carolina-born author, who also wrote the lyrics for "Summertime."		Answer:	 (Edwin) DuBose Heyward2.	Given the moon, name the planet it orbits FTPE:[10]	 Cordelia	Answer:	Uranus[10]	 Prometheus	Answer:	 Saturn[10]	 Charon	Answer:	Pluto3.	Answer these questions about the Brazilian empire, FTPE.[10]	What first emperor of Brazil declared independence from Portugal?		Answer:	 Pedro I or Pedro IV of Portugal [prompt on "Dom Pedro"][10]	In 1828, after a long dispute with Argentina, Pedro lost the Cisplatine Province, which then became this country.		Answer:	 Uruguay[10]	Brazil's influence in Uruguay's affairs prompted Paraguay to start what war, in which Paraguay found itself fighting not only Brazil, but Argentina and Uruguay as well?		Answer:	 War of the Triple Alliance [One of the worst ideas in history.-Ed.]4.	FTPE name the characters from the New Testament book of Acts.[10]	He and his wife Sapphira sold a field, gave some money to the church and kept the rest for themselves.	Answer:	Ananias[10]	He persecuted Christians until he had a vision on the way to Damascus, which left him temporarily blinded.	Answer:	Paul (also accept Saul)[10]	The members of the council arrested and stoned this man to death for preaching the gospel.	Answer:	Stephen5.	Answer these questions about the works of some old-time Yankee writers FTPE.[10] This Longfellow poem, beginning "This is the forest primeval," tells of the expulsion of the Acadians from Canada.	Answer:	 Evangeline[10] This Herman Melville title character answers "I prefer not to" on his third day of copying manuscripts.	Answer:	 Bartleby the Scrivener[10] In this Hawthorne story, the title character's lover gives her a supposed antidote to her slow poisoning by her father.	Answer:	 Rappaccini's Daughter6.	On a 10-5 basis, given song lyrics, tell FTP what the singer calls himself or herself in the title of the song.  For instance, if I said "Sing us a song tonight.  We're all in the mood for a melody...", you'd say "Piano Man".  You'll only get 5 points if you need the artist.a)	10 - "I don't need your authority, down with the moral majority"       5 - Green Day	Answer:	Minorityb)	10 - "I can't stand to fly, I'm not that na•ve.  I'm just out to find the better part of me."       5 - Five for Fighting	Answer:	Supermanc)	10 - "Been around the world and found out only stupid people were breeding..."       5 - Harvey Danger	Answer:	Flagpole Sitta
7.	Czech, please.  FTPE, given works, name the Czech author. [10] Immortality, Laughable Loves, The Unbearable Lightness of Being 	Answer:	 Milan Kundera[10] War with the Newts, The Gardener's Year, R.U.R. 	Answer:	 Karel Capek[10] The Increased Difficulty of Concentration, The Garden Party	Answer:	 Vaclav Havel 8.	It contains extrinsic and intrinsic proteins and has a dynamic structure. FTPE.[10]	So states what 1972 model of cell membrane structure proposed by Singer and Nicholson?		Answer:	 fluid mosaic[10]	This biomolecule composes almost half the membrane of most animal cells, and lends the membrane rigidity.		Answer:	 cholesterol[10]	In water, phospholipids will form these spheres that isolate their hydrophobic tails.		Answer:	 micelle(s)9.	FTSNOP each identify these American Presidents.[5]	While Kennedy was the youngest ever elected to the post, he was not the youngest ever to serve; this man was.	Answer:	Theodore Roosevelt[5]	Unless you lend credence to the David Rice Atchison thing, this president had the shortest term - 30 days.  	Answer:	William Henry Harrison[10]	He was the first President to have a veto overridden, and he also was the only President elected to the Congress of the Confederacy.	Answer:	John Tyler[5/5]	Not counting Tyler's stint in the Confederate Congress, only two Presidents have held elective office after the Presidency; one served briefly in the Senate before his death, the other served 18 years in the House.  Name them F5PE.	Answer:	Andrew Johnson and John Quincy Adams10.	FTPE name the authors of these... um, is it OK to use the word "seminal" when referring to feminist works?a)  The Female Eunuch (1970)	Answer:	Germaine Greerb)  The Feminine Mystique (1963)	Answer:	Betty Friedanc)  The Subjection of Women (1867)	Answer:	John Stuart Mill  [hey, we never said the authors were female...] 11.	Answer these questions on prime numbers, FTPE.[10]	What name is given to prime numbers of the form 2n - 1 [2 to the nth power minus 1], of which 39 have been found?		Answer:	 Mersenne primes[10]	In addition to being a titanic or gigantic prime, any prime number with at least one million digits also receives what (fun) name?		Answer:	 megaprime[10]	What method for finding prime numbers, in which one crosses out multiples of prime numbers, can be simplified by using certain numbers of columns?		Answer:	 sieve of Eratosthenes [eh-ruh-TAH-sthuh-neez]12.	Alfred Hitchcock is famous for making dozens of top-notch melodramas and thrillers. Given a title of a Hitchcock film, name the author of the book the film was adapted from FTPE:[10]	Rebecca					Answer:	Dame Daphne Du Maurier[10]	Psycho	Answer:	Robert Bloch[10]	The Thirty-Nine Steps	Answer:	John Buchan
13.	Name these terms from nuclear physics, FTPE.[10]	This is the absorption of an electron from an atom's innermost shell by a proton. The result is a neutron.		Answer:	 K capture or electron capture[10]	Yukawa predicted the existence of this lightest triplet of mesons, which were once thought to carry the strong nuclear force.		Answer:	 pions or pi mesons[10]	The first four are 2, 8, 20, and 28. Nuclei with these numbers of nucleons are highly stable.		Answer:	 magic numbers14.	Identify these 1950's films from plot summaries on a 10-5 basis.a)	10 -- Two struggling musicians witness the St. Valentine's Day Massacre and try to find a way out of Chicago before they are found and killed by the mob.       5 - The kicker is that the only job that will pay their way is an all-girl band, so the two dress up as women.	Answer:	Some Like it Hotb)	10 - The protagonist witnesses a murder by two of Johnny Friendly's thugs, and later meets the dead man's sister but is burdened by feeling responsible for his death.       5 - The protagonist, Terry Malloy dreams about being a prize fighter, while tending his pigeons and running errands for Johnny, the corrupt boss of the dockers union.	Answer:	On The Waterfrontc)	10 - The story is told in flashback and introduced in a narration by George Sanders as critic Addison DeWitt.       5 -- The title character maneuvers her way into the lives of Broadway star Margot [MAR-go] Channing, playwright Lloyd Richards and director Bill Sampson.  Bette Davis said she based her portrayal of Margot on Tallulah Bankhead.	Answer:	All About Eve15.	She adopted full pharaonic [fah-RAH-nik] titles and regalia, and sent an expedition to Punt. FTPE.[10]	Name this New Kingdom queen known for her funeral complex at Deir al-Bahri.		Answer:	 Hatshepsut or Hatshopsitu[10]	Hatshepsut was regent for this king; after he replaced her, he erased her name from monuments. The Egyptian empire was at its largest under him.		Answer:	 Thutmose III[10]	Thutmose and Hatshepsut both belonged to this dynasty, as did Akhenaton.		Answer:	 18th Dynasty or Dynasty XVIII16.	Given the names of some common polyatomic ions, give the formula for 5 pts. and the charge for another 5:[5/5]	Ammonium	Answer:	NH4; +1	[5/5]	Acetate	Answer:	C2 H3 O2 [or C H2 COOH]; -1[5/5]	Phosphate	Answer:	PO4; -317.	Name these roads from US history, FTPE.[10]	Running from Independence, Missouri to Fort Vancouver, many settlers followed it in the 1840s. It's the namesake of an infamous educational game.		Answer:	 Oregon Trail[10]	Authorized when Ohio joined the Union, it extended the Cumberland Road and ran from Cumberland, MD, through Columbus to Vandalia, Illinois.		Answer:	 National Road[10]	Well, you go through St. Louie, and Joplin Missouri, and Oklahoma City looks mighty pretty.... Amarillo... Gallup, New Mexico...		Answer:	 Route 66 
18.	30-20-10. Name the poet from lines.[30]	"Friends, Romans, and countrymen, lend me your ears!"/(They were all of them fond of quotations)."[20]	"The further off from England the nearer is to France-/Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance."[10]	"'The time has come,' the Walrus said, 'to talk of many things.'"		Answer:	 Lewis Carroll or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson19.	FTPE name the painting by this writer's favorite surrealist painter, Rene Magritte, from the description given:[10]	Despite a beautiful cloudy, daytime sky, the foreground depicts a nighttime scene, consisting of trees and a house lit by one lamp.	Answer:	The Empire of Lights[10]	A pipe over the French words for "This is not a pipe"	Answer:	The Treachery of Image[10]	It's raining men! Dressed up men with briefcases and bowler hats, to be more exact.	Answer:	Golconda20.	In Norse mythology, Loki, the trickster god, is the son of giants and Odin's foster brother. Loki was sometimes helpful to the gods, but for the most part, myths involving Loki describe him causing problems. But, like all the gods, Loki too had his fun. FTP each, given the description of the offspring, name Loki's children.[10]	Legend has it that he will break free at Ragnorok, but this son of Loki could only be bound by a special chain called Glepnir, and the god Tyr lost his hand in binding him.	Answer:	the Fenris-Wolf[10] 	This mistress of death was banished to Nifheim, where she resides over all who died from illness or old age.	Answer:	Hel[10] 	In order to save Freyja from marrying a giant, Loki changed his shape to lure the giant's horse away. When Loki finally returned to the gods, he was leading his son, who became Odin's faithful eight-legged steed.	Answer:	Sleipnir21.	Although all forms of Judaism have been rooted in the Hebrew Bible, contemporary Judaism is ultimately derived from the rabbinic movement of the first centuries of the Christian era in Palestine and Babylonia.  FTPE answer these related questions about specifics of the Torah:[10]	This collection of ancient Rabbinic writings from that era is the basis of religious authority in Orthodox Judaism.	Answer:	Talmud[10]	The Talmud's first section, a collection of early oral interpretations of the scriptures as compiled about A.D. 200.	Answer:	Mishnah[10]	The second part of the Talmud, consisting primarily of commentary on the Mishnah.	Answer:	Gemara22.	Answer these questions about U2, 10 points per part.[10]	Five points each-what are the stage names of Paul Hewson and David Evans?		Answer:	 Bono [BAH-no] and The Edge [respectively][10]	On what 2001 album will you find "Peace on Earth" and "Walk On?"		Answer:	 All That You Can't Leave Behind[10]	Who did Bono invite on stage at a Madison Square Garden concert in October to sing a medley of "Peace on Earth" and "Walk On?"		Answer:	 20 New York City firefighters [accept FDNY and/or equivalents]23.	30-20-10: name the painting, given the clues:30: This painting is said to reflect the anguish of the French people against their government in 1818 by depicting an event considered by most people to be an outright political attack.20: The artist avoided showing the most horrific aspects of the tragedy such as murder, cannibalism, and immense hardship, in choosing to depict the dramatic moment when the frantic castaways attempted to attract the attention of a distant ship that was eventually to rescue them.10: The romantic artist who painted this piece is Theodore Gericault. 	Answer:	Raft of the Medusa