TOSSUPS - BOSTON U./DARTMOUTH			SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Covered in capillaries one cell thick, their thin, moist surfaces are covered with surfactant, which prevents them from sticking together or collapsing. During a bout of asthma, mucus obstruction and bronchospasm prevent blood flow through them, and allow retention of carbon dioxide. Located at the end of bronchioles-FTP-name these tiny air sacs of the human lung.ANSWER: alveoli or alveolus [do not prompt on "lung" or "bronchi"]2.	Born outside of Florence, one of his first works was an angel in Verrochio's "Baptism of Christ." After being invited by the Duke of Milan, he moved to Milan in 1482 where he spent 17 years and painted "Virgin of the Rocks." Francis I of France invited him to live in Amboise in 1506 where he lived until 1519.  FTP name this artist of such works as "Ginerva di Benchi," "Adoration of the Magi", "The Last Supper" and "Mona Lisa."	Answer:	 Leonardo da Vinci or Leonardo3.	The stage directions for this play note that it is important that "the town is visible always."  At play's end, one character leaves town and marries Rachel Brown, a preacher's daughter. It is better known for the arrival of the almost poetic-talking journalist E.K. Hornbeck.  Matthew Harrison Brady prosecutes Bertram Cates in-for 10 points-name this play by Lawrence and Lee based on the 1925 Scopes Monkey Trial.	Answer:	 Inherit the Wind4. Led by Jon von Tetzchner and founded in 1995 in Oslo, Norway, this company has signed deals to bring its browser to Internet devices made by Ericsson, AMD, IBM, and Qualcomm. Its website claims it offers "the fastest browser on Earth." It made news when its 2 million users were denied access to Microsoft's MSN portal. FTP name this company, which makes the Web's third most popular browser.	Answer:	 Opera Software, Inc.5. John Langdon was the first; Richard Henry Lee the second. William Frye held this post for the longest consecutive period. Others to hold it include Albert Cummins, Henry Cabot Lodge, James O. Eastland, David Rice Atcheson, and Strom Thurmond. Elected before 1890 only for periods of Vice Presidential absence, FTP, name this position, third in line in Presidential succession, currently held by Robert Byrd.	Answer: 	president pro tempore of the United States Senate6.	This set of properties developed in 1924 and 1925 account for the cohesive nature of laser light and  the unusual behavior of superfluid helium-4. Particles following them are drawn together in the same state, not obeying the Pauli exclusion principle. For 10 points-identify these "statistics", contrasting with Fermi-Dirac statistics, and named for the Indian and German physicists who first described them.       Answer: Bose-Einstein statistics7.	It began with an 1833 sermon, "On the National Apostsasy," and was later elaborated in a series of pamphlets called Tracts for the Times. Opposition to this movement grew fierce after the 1838 publication of the "Literary Remains of Richard Hurrell Froude." Led by Froude, John Henry Newman, and Isaac Williams, for 10 points, name this attempt to bring the Church of England closer to Catholicism, named for a British university.	Answer:	 Oxford movement [accept Anglo-Catholic(ism) movement]8.	Its composer, an artillery officer, claims he fell asleep at a harpsichord and dreamt the words and music. Upon waking, he committed the entire piece to paper from memory. Taking its title from the men who sang it in 1792 as they marched into Paris at the start of the French Revolution, FTP, name this song, France's national anthem.	Answer:	 "La Marseillaise"9.	The son of the King of Shewa, his forefathers claimed to have been from the Solomonid dynasty. He ascended to the throne in 1889, signing a treaty with Italy and dedicating himself to the modernization of his empire. FTP name this great-uncle of Haile Selassie and emperor of Abyssinia from 1889 to 1914, born Sahle Mariam, who defeated an Italian invasion force at Adawa in 1896.	Answer:	 Menelik II or Menilek II or Negus Negusti [accept Sahle Mariam on early buzz]
10.	With her husband, she founded the Hogarth Press, which published some of her works including Flush, a fictional biography of the Brownings as told by their dog. The flow of time is a central theme in her works, especially the 1928 historical fantasy Orlando and the 1931 novel The Waves. FTP name this member of the Bloomsbury Group who penned A Room of One's Own and Mrs. Dalloway.	Answer:	 (Adeline) Virginia Woolf [née Stephen]11.	In its six games, 81 runs were scored, with Game 4 being the highest-scoring and longest game in postseason history to that date. Perhaps because of that 15-14 barnburner, the bats were quieter in Game 5, as Curt Schilling won a pitchers' duel 2-0. FTP Paul Molitor was MVP of what year's World Series, in which a Joe Carter homer gave the Blue Jays the title over the Phillies?	Answer:	 1993 World Series [prompt on "Toronto v. Philadelphia"]12.	This molecule boils at minus-111.9 degrees C and melts at minus-192.5 degrees C. Its uses include purifying water, sterilizing air and bleaching certain foods. A pale blue gas, it is toxic and explosive even in small quantities. It is formed artificially by passing oxygen through an electrical discharge and naturally by nitrogen oxides in the atmosphere. FTP name this gas that filters ultraviolet radiation in our atmosphere, a triatomic form of oxygen.	Answer:	 ozone or O313.	The manuscript of Friar Francisco Ximenez's translation of this has resided in the Newberry Library since 1911. This book's most famous passages chronicle the adventures of the hero twins, Hunaphu and Xbalanque (Shbahl-an-kay).  FTP name this book, one of the few surviving examples of Mayan literature, which chronicles the mythical history of the Quiché [kee-SHAY] people who today inhabit a large portion of Guatemala.  	Answer:	 Popul Vuh14.	She lost part of her vision to a savage beating in jail, which prompted her quote, "I am sick and tired of being sick and tired." A subject of the documentary Eyes on the Prize, she is best known for confronting Democrats at their 1964 national convention in Atlantic City. FTP name this African-American, vice-chairwoman of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party and key figure in the push for voting rights.	Answer:	 Fannie Lou Hamer (née Townsend)15.	This author's characteristically dark and controversially-themed poetry has been said to be more appropriate to the modern era than the nineteenth century. He is known as much for his experimentation with opium and hashish as for translating Edgar Allan Poe into his native French . His Petits Poémes en Prose is considered to be one of the most innovative experiment in prose poetry of the time. FTP -name this author of Les Fleurs du Mal, which translates as "The Flowers of Evil."	Answer:	 Charles Pierre Baudelaire16.	In 1591, Sir Richard Grenville and the Revenge were sent here to intercept a Spanish treasure ship; he ended up fighting a 53-ship Spanish fleet off the coast. Frequented by treasure ships and pirates in the colonial era, Graciosa, Pico, Faial, Flores, Corvo, Santa Maria, Terceira, São Jorge, and São Miguel are the nine main islands of, FTP, what archipelago, home to the NATO airbase at Lajes Air Field, that belongs to Portugal?ANSWER: The Azores17.	Its crystals, sometimes octahedral but usually cubic, were once widely used in crystal radio sets.  Among the accessory metals this lustrous blue-grey mineral often contains is silver, and it has sometimes been mined just for that.  But it is more often mined for the principal metal whose sulfide is its major component.  FTP name this mineral, the most important ore source of lead.	Answer:	galena18.	Her first poem was published in the Newport Mercury when she was just 14. She gained fame for a poem on the death of Reverend George Whitfield; her first poetry collection, Poems on Various Subjects, was printed in England in 1773, where she died in poverty in 1784. FTP name this poetess, a former slave.ANSWER: Phillis Wheatley
19.	 "The Spread of the Business Cycle" was the title of his doctoral thesis in economics at Uppsala University.  He wrote it while serving on a government commission on unemployment, the first of several official positions of a financial nature.  Distinguishing himself in matters of international economics, he was appointed Deputy Foreign Minister, which led to a new career in international affairs that ended on September 18, 1961 in a suspicious plane crash.  FTP name this Swede who served as the second Secretary-General of the United Nations.	Answer:	 Dag Hjalmar Agne Carl Hammarskjöld [HAH-mar-shkold]20.	In December 2001 it agreed to lease NBC's Saturday morning programming for $6 million a year. Specialized spinoff versions include Home & Leisure, Health, Kids, and Science.  Airing programs like Science Mysteries and Justice Files, its subsidiaries include TLC and Animal Planet. FTP name this channel, host of an annual Shark Week, featured prominently in a Bloodhound Gang song that says we "ain't nothing but mammals."	Answer:	 The Discovery Channel21.	In traditional Christian symbolism, it represents Christ's salvation of the world. An Italian film about its namesake tree won several awards at 1998's Venice Film Festival, while an Iranian film of the same name and year won the Chicago Film Festival. Shakespeare's parents lived in a cottage named after its tree, and in 1918, Erik Satie composed Three Pieces in the Shape of it. FTP name this fruit whose varieties include the Bosc, Anjou, prickly, and Bartlett.ANSWER: pear [accept Pyrus]22.	This 1967 Harvard graduate grew up in a housing project in Erie, Pennsylvania.  Five years later, he earned his law degree, after earning a Bronze Star in Vietnam. In 1982, he became the first Vietnam vet elected to the US House of Representatives, where he served six terms. FTP name this former governor of Pennsylvania who is now Director of Homeland Security.	Answer:	 Thomas Joseph "Tom" Ridge23.	Their October 2001 album, Secrets, is their first in six years. With seven instrumental tracks, lead vocalist Phil Oakey is less prominent than on their 80s albums Hysteria, Crash, and their most successful album, Dare. FTP name this synthesizer-heavy band from Sheffield, England, known for such tunes as "Mirror Man," "Don't You Want Me," and "Human."	Answer:	 Human League
BONI - BOSTON U./DARTMOUTH			SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Answer the following about the novel The Fountainhead, 10 points each.[10]	The Stanton Institute of Technology expelled this young architect , the work's protagonist, for considering original ideas.		Answer:	 Howard or Howard Roark[10]	At the novel's end, this daughter of Guy Francon leaves publisher Gail Wynand for Roark.		Answer:	 Dominique Francon[10]  Publication of The Fountainhead in 1943 put this author and proponent of objectivism on the literary map. 		Answer:	Ayn Rand2.	FTP each, identify each of the following physics terms that begin with the letter C.[10]	The device developed by O.E. Lawrence that accelerates charged atomic particles.		Answer:	 cyclotron[10]	A chamber in which a gas is cooled to a temperature slightly below its usual condensation point.		Answer:	 cloud chamber[10]	The minimum mass of uranium needed for a self-sustaining chain reaction.		Answer:	 critical mass3.	Must See TV? Not after Friends. Given the year and a cast member, name the sitcom that followed Friends, FTPE[10]	1995, Jonathan Silverman				Answer:	 The Single Guy[10]	1996, Christina Applegate				Answer:	 Jesse[10]	1997, Constance Marie				Answer:	 Union Square4.	There were no llamas involved.  None.  Trust us.  Name these battles of Hannibal, 10 points each.[10]	Scipio Africanus defeated Hannibal at this last battle of the Second Punic War.		Answer:	 Zama[10]	Hannibal's most famous victory, he destroyed an entire Roman army under the consul Varro by tricking them into a position where he could surround them.		Answer:	 Cannae[10]	In this battle fought by its namesake Italian lake, Hannibal hid his troops in nearby hills, and drew the Roman army into an ambush.		Answer:	 Lake Trasimene [trah-SEE-may-nay] or Lacus Trasimenus or Trasimeno5.	30-20-10. Name the artist from works.[30]	Circus Sideshow, Tree, The Gardener[20]	Landscape at Saint-Ouen [san TOO-en], The Forest at Pontaubert [pon-TOH-bare][10]	Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte		Answer:	 Georges Pierre Seurat [soo-RAH]6,	Name these Existentialist philosophers from works FTPE:[10]	Sketch for a Theory of the Emotions, Being and Nothingness		Answer:	 Jean-Paul Sartre[10]	What is Metaphysics?, Being and Time		Answer:	 Martin Heidegger[10]	The Question of German Guilt, Reason and Experience		Answer:	 Karl Theodor Jaspers7.	30-20-10, name the author.[30]	While his best-known work is a long prose piece, he also wrote a mythological treatise, a geographical dictionary, and the biographical collection De claris mulieribus.[20]	Many of his early works were verses concerning an unknown woman he calls "Fiammetta."  His earliest known work was the short poem La caccia di Diana.[10]	This author is best known for describing tales told by ten young nobles fleeing the 1348 outbreak of the Black Plague in Florence in the Decameron.		Answer:	 Giovanni Boccaccio
8.	Name these Canadian provinces from clues FTPE or from the capitals for 5 points each.a)	[10]	One of the four original provinces, its southern border wasn't settled until the Webster-Ashburton Treaty.	[5]  Fredericton		Answer:	 New Brunswickb)	[10]	This province, settled by the French in 1719, hosted the 1864 Confederation Conference that led to the Dominion of Canada, but it didn't join the dominion until 1873. 	[5]  Charlottetown		Answer:	 PEI or Prince Edward Islandc)	[10]	Part of Rupert's Land, its first permanent European settlement was Fort Chipewyan, founded in 1788. This province entered the Dominion in 1905. 	[5]  Edmonton		Answer:	 Alberta9.	Hey, we'll spot you 4 letters.  Name these terms that begin with "cyto-" [SYE-toh], 10 points each.[10]	These hormones promote cell division and inhibit the aging of green tissues in plants.		Answer:	 cytokines[10]	This is the process of cytoplasmic division during mitosis.		Answer:	 cytokinesis[10]	This type of T cell destroys cells overtaken by viruses, and will attack transplanted organs if they are recognized as foreign.		Answer:	 cytotoxic T cells10.	Your genial quizmaster has been around quizbowl in some capacity for over two decades... and this is the first bonus he's ever written (or even heard) devoted to the nation of Gabon.  Answer the following FTPE:a)  In 1913 this theologian and biographer of Bach established a hospital at Lambaréné on the Ogooué River.  This became the focus of his life's work, which led to his 1952 Nobel Peace Prize.	Answer:	Albert Schweitzerb)  Gabon was one of the few countries to recognize this nation, which declared itself independent from Nigeria in 1967, and allowed supply planes to fly there from Gabon until the new nation collapsed in 1970.	Answer:	Republic of Biafrac)  Gabon's first postcolonial president, Leon Mba [MMM-bah], was succeeded in 1967 by this man with the musical name, who still holds office today even though he was forced to permit a multiparty system in 1990.	Answer:	Omar Bongo11.	Name these Ben Jonson plays, 10 points each.[10]	Characters in this comedy include the mischievous servant Brainworm and the cowardly soldier Bobadill.		Answer:	 Every Man in His Humour[10]	The foolish Master Cokes triumphs over the angry Wasp and the hypocritical Puritan Zeal-of-the-Land Busy at the title location.		Answer:	 Bartholomew Fair or Bartholmew Fair[10]	All the characters trying to be named heirs to the scheming title character are, like the title character, given names based on the Latin for animals much like their characters.		Answer:	 Volpone12.	FTPE answer these questions about the best players in the history of the Sanex WTA Tour.[10]	With a tour best 261-23 career record on clay, this two-time Olympic silver medalist player won at least one tour title every year from 1986 to 1999.		Answer:	 Steffi Graf[10]	In the 1988 US Open finals, Graf beat this woman, her doubles partner, with whom she won the Wimbledon doubles title, the first Argentine female to do so.		Answer:	 Gabriela Sabatini[10]	Of the 10 women with the highest win/loss percentages in tour history, only one of them has never been ranked in the top 10. Being only 19, she has time. This Chinese native's 96-27 career record ranks her No. 9 above Gabriela Sabatini, and she has 11 ITF titles, but no WTA ones, yet.		Answer:	 Na Li [or Li Na]
13.	FTPE answer the following about a particular element:a)  Yet another silvery-white metal, at least this one is radioactive.  Its atomic number is 90, and thanks to the long half-life of its most stable isotopes, it is one of the few actinides readily found in nature.	Answer:	thoriumb)  Thorium oxide, or thoria, is an important component of this device, a framework of gauze impregnated with oxides of thoria and cerium oxide that produces a very bright light when heated in a gas flame.	Answer:	Welsbach mantlec) Thorium was discovered in 1828 by this Swedish chemist, who also coined the words isomer and protein and developed the modern use of symbols and formulas in chemistry.	Answer:	Jons Jakob Berzelius14. 	Given the Roman name of a deity, give the Greek equivalent, for the stated number of points.[5]	Minerva						Answer:	 Athena[5]	Vesta						Answer:	 Hestia[10]	Juventas						Answer:	 Hebe[10]	Victoria						Answer:	 Nike15.	Name these women from the American Revolution, 10 points each.[10]	Her staunch support of her firebrand husband led her to organize saltpeter drives among the women of Braintree, Massachusetts.		Answer:	 Abigail Smith Adams[10]	This playwright, a close friend of Abigail Adams, gave many first-hand accounts of events in and around Boston.		Answer:	 Mercy Otis Warren[10]	Under the assumed name Robert Shurtleff, this woman distinguished herself in combat with the 4th Massachusetts and tended to her own wounds to avoid detection.  In 1983 she was named official state heroine of Massachusetts.		Answer:	 Deborah Sam(p)son 16.	A virtuoso on the piano and organ, he was the first French composer to write symphonic poems. FTPE:[10]	Name this composer, whose works include the popular Carnival of the Animals.		Answer:	 Camille Saint-Saens[10]	Dedicated to the memory of Franz Liszt, this 1886 work calls for an orchestra with two pianos and an organ.		Answer:	 Third Symphony[10]	Saint-Saens' most popular opera, it was first performed in Germany in 1877 because of French opposition to the portrayal of Biblical characters on stage.		Answer:	 Samson et Dalila17.	His most recent novel deals with a fictional 2008 Presidential race. 10 points each.[10]	Name this author of Exodus, The Haj, and QB VII [QB seven].	ANSWER: Leon Marcus Uris[10]	Name the 1999 novel, which sees an incumbent computer geek battle a Catholic ex-Marine governor.	ANSWER: A God in Ruins [HN: On Amazon.com, it's rated 1.4/5 on 134 reviews][10]	In this 1976 novel, the conflict in Northern Ireland is seen through the Catholic Larkin family, and Conor Larkin's love of a Protestant girl.	ANSWER: Trinity18.	Name these types of tides, 10 points each.[10]	Semi-monthly tides of decreasing range, or tide currents of decreasing speed, caused by the moon being in either the first or last quarter.	ANSWER: neap tides[10]	This is a harmonic tidal constituent with a speed equal to the sum, or difference, of the speeds of two or more constituent tides.	ANSWER: compound tide[10]	Caused by toxic algae blooms containing the pigment peridinin [peh-rih-DIH-nin], it is most often seen in tidal currents in estuaries.	ANSWER: red or crimson tide
19.	Name these medieval Popes, 10 points each.[10]	Pope from 1073 to 1085, he is best known for his conflicts with Emperor Henry IV on the subject of lay investiture.		Answer:	 Saint Gregory VII or Gregory Hildebrand[10]	Born Nicholas Breakspear, he was the only British Pope. He served from 1155 to 1159.		Answer:	 Adrian IV[10]	Pope from 1088 to 1099, he launched the First Crusade.		Answer:	 Urban II or Odo of Lagery20.	Name the authors of these social science works, 10 points each.[10]	The Man versus the State				Answer:	 Herbert Spencer[10]	Anarchy, State, and Utopia			Answer:	 Robert Nozick[10]	The Road to Serfdom				Answer:	 Friedrich August von Hayek21.	30-20-10. Name the writer.[30]	This humorist appeared on NPR's This American Life from May 1996 to June 1998, in which he would read his autobiographical essays with his characteristic lisp.[20]	"The Santaland Diaries," an essay from his Barrel Fever, is a scathing, humorous account of his time as a department store elf.[10]	His more recent books, Naked and Me Talk Pretty One Day, have earned him more acclaim than his sister Amy has for her work on Strangers with Candy.		Answer:	 David Sedaris22.	Answer these questions about the new mayor of Miami, 10 points each.[10]	Name this newly elected Democrat.		Answer:	 Manny Diaz[10]	Diaz represented the Miami relatives of this boy eventually returned to his father in Cuba.		Answer:	 Elian or Elian Gonzalez[10]	Diaz defeated this man, the mayor of Miami from 1973 to 1985, in a runoff.		Answer:	 Maurice Ferré [feh-RAY]23.	Many countries don't bother to print their own money. Name these currencies FTPE:[10]	Palau and Panama both use this currency.		Answer:	 US dollar [accept equivalents][10]	This is the currency used by San Marino.		Answer:	 Italian lira[10]	Fourteen countries, including Benin, Burkina Faso, and Senegal, use the franc issued by this organization.		Answer:	 CFA or African Financial Community or Communauté financiare de l'Afrique