TOSSUPS - ROUND 8				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Case Western, Yale, and MIT with other Penn Bowl authors 1.	Its last seven verses, promising the restoration of Israel, are so different from the pessimistic tone of the rest of the book that many scholars believe they were added by a later author. Most of the book attacks Israel for oppressing the poor and defecting to the worship of pagan gods. For 10 points-identify this book of the Old Testament, between Joel and Obadiah, named after a "famous" Old Testament prophet.	Answer:	Amos2.	NCAA rules state it should be at least 15 feet wide. Barry Bonds may have strained his hamstring on one at Dodger Stadium, and J.T. Snow slipped on one at Edison Field in the World Series-perhaps because it's made out of rubber rather than dirt. For 10 points-name this safety device that lets fielders know they're approaching a fence.	Answer:	warning track	3. 	It takes place on the Mississippi riverboat Fidele, and the title character appears as such characters as a deaf mute, a quack doctor, charity collector, beggar, and for the last half of the novel as Frank Goodman. Published in 1857, and subtitled "His Masquerade," it was the last work published in the author's lifetime. FTP name this Herman Melville novel criticizing the overall gullibility of the American public.        Answer: 	The Confidence Man 4.	He served in the state legislature and became a judge in his state's third judicial circuit, becoming known as "The Fighting Judge" for his later extremism. He ran an unsuccessful gubernatorial campaign on a moderate platform in 1958, but won four years later and spent the majority of his political career as governor of Alabama.  FTP name this segregationist political figure, best known for being the 1968 candidate of the American Independent Party.	Answer:	 George C. Wallace			5.	Using SDS-PAGE, the cell lysate is denatured and separated into bands. It is then transferred to a membrane of nitrocellulose. Antibodies with enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase [FAHS-fuh-TAYS] attached, are added to the nitrocellulose. These enzymes' substrates are then introduced; the enzymes create colored bands which can be photographed. For 10 points-name this procedure of gel electrophoresis which separates not DNA or RNA but proteins and can be used to identify the presence of antibodies for diseases such as AIDS.	Answer:	Western blot			6.	The one located in California can be found in Carlsbad.  It is divided into: EXPLORE Village, Fun Town, Castle Hill, Miniland, and Imagination Zone.  Rides include: Coast Cruise, Aquazone Wave Racers, The Royal Joust, and Safari Trek.  For ten points, identify this theme park based on products from the makers of Technics and Bionicle.	Answer:	 Legoland7.	This captain in the War of 1812 later joined the South Carolina state legislature, becoming its speaker, and later South Carolina's Attorney General. At 32 he was elected to the US Senate, where he would serve until resigning, to become governor of South Carolina during the Nullification crisis. For 10 points-name this man best known for his role in a debate on the nature of the Union with Daniel Webster.	Answer:	Robert Young Hayne				8.	Two eggs are given as a birthday gift. Bunny has a justified fear of the white dog. The protagonist's aunt urinates with satisfaction on her brother's ashes. A house is pulled across the Newfoundland ice. All of these things can be found in-for 10 points-what novel, which won a Pulitzer in 1994 for E. Annie Proulx and was adapted into a movie starring Julianne Moore and Kevin Spacey? 	Answer:	 The Shipping News9.	Among other things, this principle can be used to explain the presence of magnetic fields by considering the transformation of the electric field of a moving charge. Among its invariant quantities are the magnitudes of the "four-vectors" of displacement-time and momentum-energy. Based directly on the principle that physical laws hold equally in all frames of reference, FTP, name this principle first proposed in a famous 1905 paper by Albert Einstein. 	Answer:	 special relativity
10.	Despite paternal financial support, this artist was refused by art academies and instead continued training under Agostino Tassi.  This artist's style was influenced by the brutal realism and marked chiaroscuro of Caravaggio.  For ten points, identify this artist best known for portraying strong female heroes, as evidenced in Mary Magdalen, and Judith Beheading Holfernes.	Answer:	 Artemesia Gentileschi11.	His brother Henry was a Cluniac monk who ran Glastonbury abbey and controlled the affairs of the diocese of Winchester. His mother was Adela, the daughter of William the Conqueror. Upon the death of his uncle Henry I in 1136, the English barons were to swear fealty to his daughter Matilda, which led to his usurpation and civil war.  FTP name this king of England, the only member of the House of Blois.Answer: Stephen of Blois					12.	This novel, which won its author the 1988 Booker Prize[*], takes place over a period of a little less than a week in 1956, although much of the story is the protagonist's recollection of earlier events.  The main focus of regret in the novel is the protagonist's regret that he never expressed his feelings for Miss. Kenton, now called Mrs. Benn.  For ten points, identify this work by Kazuo Ishiguro that tells of Stevens' six-day trip through West England.	Answer:	 Remains of the Day  [accept it if they add "The"]13.	Ukichiro Nakaya, a trained nuclear physicist, devised one of many classification systems for them. An international commission was created in 1951 for the same purpose. Magono and Lee expanded upon the two previous systems with their modifications. Groupings such as plates, columns, needles, and stellar crystals are divided into graupel [GRAW-pell], ice pellets, and hail. For 10 points-name these objects best known for having "no two be alike."	Answer:	snowflakes [prompt on "snow"]14.	It is voted on two days after being requested in a motion signed by at least 16 senators. Non-germane amendments are forbidden once it has been invoked, and debate is limited to 30 hours total. When a change in Senate rules is at issue, a two-thirds vote is required, but normally only three-fifths of all Senators duly chosen and sworn must vote to invoke-for 10 points-what procedure to end a filibuster?	Answer:	cloture or closure		15.	The Japanese version of this instrument, the hichiriki [hee-chee-REE-kee], is about seven inches long. Like European forms, it has holes, but unlike them, it lacks keys. Dating to the court of Louis XIV, its name is a mispronunciation of the French for "high wood." For 10 points-name this instrument, the subject of multiple concerti by Mozart and Bach, which gives the orchestra pitches for tuning.	Answer:	oboe [From the French hautbois.]16.	It took place just west of the Vorskla River. With 80,000 troops, the Russians outnumbered their winter-weary enemy four-to-one, and in the end only 1,500 enemy troops and their leader managed to escape to safety in Turkish territory. FTP, name this decisive battle of the Great Northern War, in which Peter the Great's Russian army defeated Charles XII of Sweden to become the dominant power in the Eastern Europe.	Answer:	 Battle of Poltava				17.	In the 12-Crown-4 variety of this type of compound, the four oxygen atoms each have a lone pair of electrons pointing towards the cavity.  They are formed when an alkyl group replaces the hydrogen of an alcohol.  For ten points, identify this class of compound formed in the Williamson synthesis, with formula R-O-R.	Answer:	 Ethers18.	He used trained pigeons in a homing system to guide bombs, and he later taught pigeons table tennis. The Technology of Teaching discusses his efforts to build teaching machines. His other inventions include an "air crib" for his daughter Deborah and a device that records how often an animal presses a lever to obtain food. For 10 points-name this behaviorist who wrote Beyond Freedom and Dignity and Walden Two.	Answer:	 B(urrhus) F(rederic) Skinner19.	He traveled from village to village bringing the changing of winter to spring; melting the snow and bringing about rain for a successful harvest.  It is also said that the hunch on his back depicted the sacks of seeds and songs he carried.  For ten points, identify this fertility god, prankster, healer and storyteller, a flute player of Anasazi myth.	Answer:	 Kokopelli	20.	It first appeared in Demeter and Other Poems and was inspired by an experience on the Solent.  The poet asks that "there be no sadness of [*] farewell" after his departure; he hopes to see his Pilot "face to face" after taking the title action. For 10 points-what poem, beginning "Sunset and evening star," was to be placed at the end of every subsequent collection by Tennyson?ANSWER: 	"Crossing the Bar"21.	During their namesake war, Major Meredith was sent to the Campion District. Early artillery attacks failed to yield significant results as they dispersed and outflanked their attackers. Within a week, Defense Minister George Pearce ordered a retreat, comparing them to Zulus. Today, their oil is used medicinally, and their handpainted eggs can sell for $1,500. Also ranched as a food source are-for 10 points-what large, flightless Australian birds?	Answer:	emus [accept Great Emu War]	22.	Their existence was first postulated in their namesake's 1644 Cogitata Physica-Mathematica. Some of the most recently discovered ones have been discovered by Woltman and Kurowski. That they have their most notable property can be verified by the Lucas-Lehmer test. For 10 points-name this group of 39 numbers, named after a French monk, primes of the form 2 to the nth power minus 1.	Answer:	Mersenne primes [do not prompt on "prime number"]..23.	Born in 1839, he believed science was superior to other forms of inquiry because of its flexibility. Though he had a chemistry degree, he is best known today as a philosopher, the author of the essays "How to Make Our [*] Ideas Clear" and "A Neglected Argument for the Reality of God." For 10 points-name this American founder of pragmatism.	Answer:	Charles Sanders Peirce							
BONI - ROUND 8				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Case Western, Yale, and MIT with other Penn Bowl authors 1.	5-5-10-10, identify the following from the world of electricity and magnetism.[5] This law states that voltage is equal to current times resistance.	Answer:	 Ohm's Law[5] This is the SI unit of electric potential or electromotive force.	Answer:	 Volts[10] These two laws apply the conservation of energy and charge to electrical circuits.	Answer:	 Kirchoff's Laws[10] Generally, it is a constant proportionality that exists between electric displacement and electric field density in a given medium.	Answer:	 Permittivity 2.	One of Bolivia's capitals is named in his honor. 10 points each.[10]	Name this general under Simón Bolívar who became Bolivia's first president upon its independence.		Answer:	Antonio-José de Sucre[10]	Sucre's greatest military victory was this December 1824 battle, after which the Spanish were forced to agree to withdraw their troops from Peru and Bolivia.		Answer:	Battle of Ayacucho [EYE-yuh-KOO-shoh][10]	Sucre's victory at the May 1822 Battle of Pichincha allowed rebels to occupy nearby Quito, ensuring this nation's independence.		Answer:	Ecuador3,	One of its sequels is The Man in the Iron Mask. 10 points each.[10]	Name this perhaps mis-numbered book that begins with the introduction of D'Artagnan [dahr-TAN-yin].		Answer:	The Three Musketeers or Les trois Mousquetaires[10]	In this sequel to The Three Musketeers, they travel to England to try to save Charles I.		Answer:	Twenty Years After or Vingt Ans aprés[10]	In this sequel to Twenty Years After, technically the last book, the title character is Athos's son.		Answer:	The Viscount of Bragelonne or Le Vicomte de Bragelonne [or Ten Years Later]4.	Identify these operas FTPEa. This nationalistic opera by Rossini follows the adventures of a Swiss patriot	Answer:	 William Tell b. This opera by Donizetti is based upon a novel by Walter Scott.	Answer:	 Lucia di Lammermoorc. This opera by Ruggiero Leoncavello, a reaction against Wagner, presents a play within a play, with a rustic actor as the title character.  Its title is Italian for "The Clowns."	Answer:	 I Pagliacci5. 	Name these All-Star Baseball brothers, for 5 points per answer:[10] The last pair to appear together in a game, they represented Cleveland and Baltimore in 1998.	Answer:	Sandy & Roberto Alomar [10] In 1968, before younger brother Jesus's time, this Atlanta/Pittsburgh pair finished 2nd and 3rd in batting average.	Answer:	Felipe and Matty Alou[10] While all three never appeared concurrently, these brothers of Joe Dimaggio were both all-stars.	Answer:	Dom & Vince Dimaggio6.	For 10 points each-give the genus and species of these anthropological specimens:[10] Turkana boy, Peking Man, and Java Man.	Answer:	homo erectus[10] The Taung child	Answer:	Australopithecus africanus[10] Lucy	Answer:	 Australopithecus afarensis
7.	Identify the US Secretary of State given years and accomplishments for 10 points each.  10: 1973-1977; He helped with the efforts under Nixon to open China as RichardNixon's assistant for national security affairs.	Answer:	 Henry Kissinger10: 1913-1915; While speaking on domestic issues years before becoming Secretary ofState, this man delivered the Cross of Gold speech.	Answer:	 William Jennings Bryan10: 1925-1925; This man helped develop a treaty which bears his name and the name of a French Foreign Minister.  The purpose of this treay was to outlaw war.	Answer:	 Frank B. Kellogg						8.	The River Danube forms part of the borders of ten countries. For 5 points for each one past the first, name any 7.	Answer:	 Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Moldova, Yugoslavia (accept Serbia or Serbia and Montenegro or Federal Republic of Yugoslavia-there's some disagreement internationally on what recognized country, if any, Serbia is part of)9.	Name the following parts of the throat, for ten points each:[10] This is the passageway through which food goes in travelling from the mouth to the esophagus.	Answer:	 pharynx[10] This flap covers the air passage to the lungs, assuring that food is channeled to the esophagus.	Answer:	 epiglottis[10] This tube, also known as the windpipe, conveys air from the larynx to the bronchi of the lungs.	Answer:	 trachea10.	FTSNOP, identify the following works of Nathaniel Hawthorne.[5] In this work, Hester Prynne is condemned for her sinful act.	Answer:	 The Scarlet Letter[10] In this short story the title character ventures into the woods and views his wife, Faith, at a witchcraft ritual.ANSWR: Young Goodman Brown[15] In this short story, Reuben Bourne kills his own son to, in effect, satisfy the title character, a victim of the "Indian Fighting".	Answer:	 Roger Malvin's Burial11.	Name these literary locations, 10 points each.a)  Also called Tarry Town, this hamlet near Greensburgh at the Hudson appears in The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon.		Answer:	Sleepy Hollow [accept "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"]b)	Kentuck dies holding the son of Cherokee Sal in his arms as this site is destroyed by a flood. 		Answer:	Roaring Camp [accept "The Luck of Roaring Camp"]c)  Marjorie Rawlings tells of her backwoods life in this small Florida town in a book of the same name.		Answer:	Cross Creek12.	Identify the following heresies condemned by the Catholic Church FTPE.[10] This heresy, which was on the agenda of the Council of Nicaea, denied the Divinity of Jesus Christ.  	Answer:	 Arianism[10] This heresy, centered in Carthage in the 4th century AD, believed that the validity of any sacrament depended upon the personal worthiness of the priest administering it.	Answer:	 Donatism[10] They were the only Europeans against whom a Crusade was called.  Based in the south of France, they believed in the co-existence of two mutually opposed principles, one good, and the other evil.	Answer:	 Albigensians (accept Cathars)13. 	His name means "smasher of foreheads." 10 points per answer.[10]	Name this pharaoh of Egypt's Fourth Dynasty who had the Great Pyramid built at Giza.		Answer:	 	Cheops or Khufu or Khnomkhufwey[20]	Name Cheops's son and grandson, each of whom also have pyramids at Giza.		Answer:	 	Chephren or Khafre				Mycerinus [mye-SEH-rih-nus] or Menkaure
14	FTPE, name these songs off of the Pure 80's Compilation CD from lyrics, FFPE if you need the artists:A [10] "And now we meet in an abandoned studio / we hear the playback and it seems so long ago / and you remember the jingles used to go"[5]	The Buggles	Answer:	 Video Killed the Radio StarB. [10] "But making mistakes / is a part / of life's imperfections / born of the years / is it so wrong / to be human after all"[5] 	Level 42	Answer:	 Something About YouC. [10]	"You know I feel so dirty when they start talking cute / I want to tell her that I love her but the point is probably moot"[5]	Rick Springfield	Answer:	 Jessie's Girl					.15.	Name these inorganic ions from their chemical formulas.[5]	PO4 3- [P-O-4 3 minus]								Answer:	phosphate[5]	Sn 4+ [S-n 4 plus]								Answer:	stannic [accept tin(IV)][10]	N3 1- [N-3 1 minus]								Answer:	azide [uh-ZIHD][10]	Fe(CN)6 3- [F-e parenthesis C-N parenthesis 6, 3 minus]			Answer:	hexacyanoferrate(III)16.	World War I saw several major naval battles. 10 points each.[10]	The sinking of this French steamer in March 1916 prompted Woodrow Wilson to issue an ultimatum to cease unannounced sinkings.		Answer:	Sussex[10]	In May 1918 the British tried to sink the HMS Vindictive to block this Belgian port, also known as the site where 3 American diplomats issued an unauthorized 1854 manifesto regarding acquisition of Cuba.		Answer:	Ostend[10]	The British and German navies met in this 1916 battle, that sustained the Allied blockade, about 75 miles west of the Danish coast.		Answer:	 Battle of Jutland [YOOT-land] 17.	Its major painters included Max Ernst, Joan Miro, Rene Magritte, and Salvador Dalí. 10 points each.[10]	Name this avant-garde art movement.		Answer:	Surrealism [accept word forms][10]	This French poet and critic published his Surrealist Manifesto in 1924.		Answer:	André Breton[10]	Surrealism can be said to have grown out of this nihilistic movement founded by Tristan Tzara [ZAH-rah].		Answer:	Dadaism [accept word forms]				18.	Answer the following about two structuralists who wrote similarly-titled works, for ten points each:[10] This Belgian-born social anthropologist wrote such works as Structural Anthropology and The Savage Mind in the early 1960's.	Answer:	 Claude Lévi-Strauss[10] Lévi-Strauss' greatest work is probably this four-volume series consisting of The Raw and the Cooked, From Honey to Ashes, The Origin of Table Manners, and The Naked Man.	Answer:	 Mythologiques[10] This influential semiotician and literary theorist wrote the 1957 work Mythologies, as well as Writing Degree Zero and S/Z.	Answer:	 Roland Barthes			
19.	She wrote We Have Always Lived in the Castle. 10 points each.[10]	Name this author best known for the short story "The Lottery."		Answer:	Shirley Jackson[10]	In this Jackson short story, a boy named Laurie blames his bad behavior in kindergarten on an imaginary classmate.		Answer:	"Charles"[10]	In this 1959 novel, young Luke invites experts on the paranormal to investigate a creepy estate he stands to inherit. It was recently turned into a movie whose working title was shortened.		Answer:	The Haunting of Hill House [prompt on "The Haunting"]			20. 	Name these Celtic goddesses, FTPE.A.[10] This goddess of fire, healing, and poetry, she is often connected with the Druids. Her name means "one who exaults herself" and is considered to be the White Maiden aspect of the Triple Goddess.	Answer:	 BrigidB.[10] This goddess of battle, strife, and fertility offered her love to Cuchulain, but he rejected her. She took revenge by hindering him in battle. Her name translates as either "Phantom Queen" or "Great Queen."	Answer:	 MorriganC. [10] This horse goddess accompanied the soul on its final journey and she could have originally been a fertility goddess as well. She shares her name with Link's horse in Majora's Mask.	Answer:	 Epona21.	He's in prison for his role in the June 26, 1975 murder of two FBI agents investigating the protest occupation of Wounded Knee. 10 points each.[10]	Name this political prisoner, whose prison sentence has drawn protests from Amnesty International and other human rights groups.		Answer:	Leonard Peltier[10]	Leonard Peltier was a member of this militant Native American organization which carried out the Wounded Knee occupation.		Answer:	 AIM or American Indian Movement[10]	In what state did the murders occur?		Answer:	South Dakota22.	Identify these historians of the early Middle Ages for ten points each.A. [10] This native of Caesarea was the court historian to the emperor Justinian, and he wrote such works as History of the Gothic Wars and On Buildings, but is most famous for his Secret History.Answer: ProcopiusB. [10] This Frankish writer is most famous for his work modeled on Suetonius' Life of Augustus, his Life of Charlemagne.Answer: Einhard (ACC: Eginhard)C. [10] This 6th-century bishop wrote an account of the Merovingian kingdom generally known as The History of the Franks.Answer: Gregory of Tours		23.	30-20-10, identify the philosopher.[30] His Philosophical Commentaries, first printed well after his death under the title Common-Place Book, was a scrapbook of his thoughts during his undergraduate years.[20] In 1721, back in England, this ordained bishop became concerned with a decline in religion, public spirit, and manners, as outlined in his Essay towards preventing the ruin of Great Britain.[10] This philosopher may be best known for his Principles of Human Knowledge, and Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous.	Answer:	 George Berkeley (BARK-lay)				