TOSSUPS - CARLETON				SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Ted Salk and Will Cavert with a few from other Penn Bowl teams1.	Genus Asclepias derives its common name from the large, silky seeds that are contained in rough seed pods.  The presence of cardiac glycosides make them unpalatable to most herbivores, with the notable exception of Damas plexippus, which eat it and then store the chemicals to avoid getting eaten themselves.  FTP, name this common wildflower, the primary food of monarch butterflies.ANSWER: milkweed2.	It ends, "Say, did you notice whether the girl put that screwdriver back?"  It begins, "On a hill by the Mississippi where Chippewas camped two generations ago, a girl stood in relief against the cornflower blue of Northern sky."  The girl in question begins the novel as Carol Milford, but becomes Carol Kennicott.  FTP, name this Sinclair Lewis novel of 1920, set in Gopher Prairie.ANSWER: Main Street: The Story of Carol Kennicott3.	As a boy he was sent as a hostage to Ottoman Emperor Murad II, where he was probably sexually abused.  Whether this was the cause or not, he was certainly unbalanced in later life, like when he killed 20,000 members of the Romanian nobility beneath his castle window.  FTP, name this sicko whose penchant for impaling helped him become the source for the Dracula legend.ANSWER: Vlad Tepic or the Impaler4.	Billy Dee Williams is a bar owner who just won't stop narrating.  This annoys the protagonist, who has troubles enough already trying to find a new radio show and avoiding the posse of cuckolded white guys.  As interesting a plot as this seems, not even cameos by Eugene Levy, Julianne Moore, and Will Farrell can make it watchable.  FTP, name this crappy movie about Tim Meadows' afro-puffed sex machine, Leon Phelps.ANSWER: The Ladies Man5.	Born in Antwerp in the 1580's, he used crisp brushwork and bright, broad illumination to emphasize the vitality of the human face and the exuberance of life.  He was popular in the 1620's and 1630's, when he painted several large portraits of the civic guards which are now on display in the Rijksmuseum and his namesake museum in Haarlem.  FTP, name this painter of The Banquet of the Officers of the St. George Militia Company and The Laughing Cavalier.ANSWER: Frans Hals6.	Its standard textbook, The Zohar, was written by Moses de Leon in 13th-century Spain, and was soon being read by both Christians and Jews.  Its doctrines were influenced by Neoplatonism and Manichaeism and deal with the nature of God and his contacts with humans.  FTP, name this tradition of Jewish mysticism.ANSWER: cabala7.	A yearlong Pentagon investigation concluded in December 2000 that U.S. soldiers did indeed panic and fire into a crowd of unarmed refugees in the early days of the Korean War.  There are still those who question the investigation's findings that no one actually ordered the shooting of civilians.  FTP give the three-word name of the village near which this massacre took place, as reported in a Pulitzer Prize-winning story by the Associated Press in 1999.ANSWER: No Gun Ri, 8.	Examples include polyatomic molecules where either the bonds are not equally strong  or are not equally spaced around the central atom.  Thus, water is, but carbon dioxide isn't.  When molecules that are get exposed to an electric field, they will have a preferred orientation.  FTP, give the term which refers to molecules with positive and negative ends.ANSWER: dipolar
9.	She is a courtesan in Paris who falls deeply in love with a young man of promise named Armand Duval. When Armand's father begs her not to ruin his hopes of a career and position by marrying Armand, she acquiesces and leaves her lover. However, when poverty and terminal illness overwhelm her, she discovers that Armand has not lost his love for her.   FTP identify this title character of an Alexander Dumas book.      Answer: Camille (Accept "La Dame aux camelias")10.	 At age 20 he joined the army as a stenographer, but within 12 years was the leader of the sergeants' revolt.  He left the presidency in 1944 and moved to Florida, but 8 years later came back home to rule, this time as a repressive dictator.  FTP, name this leader deposed in 1958 by Fidel Castro as president of Cuba.ANSWER: Fulgencio Batista y Zaldivar11.	In this phenomenon, voltage is directly proportional to the strain and changes sign when compression is replaced with elongation.  Discovered in 1880 by Pierre and Jacques Curie, it is used in record players and precision timepieces.  FTP, crystals can produce electricity in what effect?ANSWER: piezoelectric effect or piezoelectricity12.	Commissioned a brigadier general by the British during the War of 1812, he led the siege of Fort Meigs, covered the retreat of General Proctor after the Battle of Lake Erie, and then was killed at the Battle of the Thames.  Earlier, his plan of confederation fell apart following his brother's defeat at the Battle of Tippecanoe.  FTP, name this Shawnee chief.ANSWER: Tecumseh13.	Mathematician Richard Kaye has suggested that this game, created by Robert Donner and Curt Johnson, could be used as a model for solving the P vs. NP problem.  In the game, eight is black, seven and four are purple, six is gray, five is burgundy, three is red, two is green and one is blue.  FTP, name this simple, but addictive, computer game named after a type of ship.ANSWER: Minesweeper14.	On November 30 this man became an honorary member of the Harlem Globetrotters.  In some ways this is appropriate, since he has traveled to 122 countries during the past twenty-two years.  However, it is unlikely that this 79-year-old can dunk.  Born Karol Wojtyla, FTP name this man whose many titles include Primate of Italy and Bishop of Rome.ANSWER: Pope John Paul II (accept Karol Wojtyla early)15.	After graduating from the University of Leeds, he helped form the 1960 Masks theater company, which later became the Orisun Theatre.  He wrote novels such as The Strong Breed and The Road, and plays such as A Dance of the Forests and Kongi's Harvest.  From 1967-1969 he was imprisoned for supporting Biafra's efforts to secede from his home country.  FTP, name this Nigerian author and 1986 Nobel-Prize winner.ANSWER: Wole (Akinwande Oluwole) Soyinka16.	Freud characterized this as that part of the id which is modified by contact with the external world.  Among other functions, in Freudian psychology it is seen as mediating among social demands, moral demands, and libidinal demands, and it form the major part of human consciousness.  FTP, name this part of the psyche which in more common parlance is a quality of self associated with conceit.ANSWER: ego17	Proposed explanations for this have included space expanding so fast that distant light is almost infinitely red-shifted, the universe being finite, or that there is a cosmic horizon created by the distance light could travel since the universe began.  Today the last explanation is regarded as correct for, FTP, what paradox that asks why the night sky is mostly dark?ANSWER: Olbers' paradox
18.	He once cut off one of his fingers because it got in his way when making pottery.  He has had many jobs, but his newest is as the foreman of the intellectual narrator's lignite mine.  He begins an affair with Madame Hortense shortly after his arrival in Crete, where the narrator is eventually overtaken by the passion that characterizes, FTP, what title character created by Nikos Kazantzakis?ANSWER: Alexi Zorba (the Greek)19.	The most popular actor on the show left in 1978; not surprising, since he'd been nominated for an Oscar.  His character was replaced by a Southerner named Beau, played by Stephen Shortridge.  The theme song reached #1 on the pop charts and was written by John Sebastian.   Gabriel Kaplan, who played the title character, gave up on acting in the mid-1980s and became an investment banker.   FTP, name this ABC sitcom, featuring such Sweathogs as Washington, Epstein, Horshack, ad Barbarino.Answer: Welcome Back, Kotter20.	This nation's name translates as "Land of the Eagles."  When its sovereignty was recognized in the Treaty of London in 1913, its society was divided between the Gheg clans of the north and the Tosk of the south.  Edward Gibbon once described it as "a country within sight of Italy, which is less known than the interior of America."  FTP, name this country, which has recently received more attention with the influx of thousands of Kosovars.  ANSWER: Albania21.	Henry designed the Lincoln Memorial. Sir Nicholas was an English statesman. Nathaniel led an uprising against Gov. Berkeley, and burned Jamestown. Francis was a courtier of James I who wrote "The New Atlantis." And Kevin directed his wife Kyra Sedgwick in the Showtime movie "Losing Chase." For 10 points, give the common surname of all these people.Answer: Bacon22.	This organization launched a "Program Growth Initiative" in 1999, which had "becoming the agency of choice" as one of its aims.  Economist Donald Sweeney, who was removed from his position after he refused to change his analysis on a project to show a net benefit, claims that this agency tries to find any justification at all to build projects.  FTP, what favorite vehicle for pork delivery was recently massively criticized in a Pentagon report?Answer: Army Corps of Engineers23.	His father Harvie played the mellophone and his mother Lillian gave him his first piano lessons.  He originally played for a vaudeville troupe; when they disbanded in Kansas City in1927, he stayed there and joined the Blue Devils. When he and Duke Ellington collaborated, the song "Battle Royal" was a pun on both their names. FTP, name this big-band orchestra leader, best known for his collaborations with vocalist Joe Williams.Answer: Count Basie24.	This American founded the National Progressive Party and the Women's Peace Party during the 1910's.  Deeply impressed by London's Toynbee Hall during a trip to Europe, on her return she and her traveling companion, Ellen Starr, established one of the first settlement houses in the United States.  FTP, identify this Nobel Laureate, social reformer, and author of Twenty Years at Hull House.Answer: Jane Addams
BONI - CARLETON				SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Ted Salk and Will Cavert with a few from other Penn Bowl teams1.	Blame Florida!  Name the following people responsible, in the long run, for the mess that was the final act of the 2000 presidential election.[10] This guy started it by being the first European to sight Florida, doing so in 1513.ANSWER: Ponce de Leon[10] The two negotiators who struck this namesake treaty transferring Florida from Spain to the United States are perhaps the most at fault.ANSWER: Adams-Onis Treaty[10] The thing was settled when Florida became a state on the last day of this Whig's Presidency.ANSWER: John Tyler2.	First her sister Iphigenia was sacrificed by her father Agamemnon, then he was killed by her mother Clytemnestra, then she was married off to some peasant.  Bummer.[10] FTP, who was this unfortunate woman of Greek mythology?ANSWER: Electra[10] For 5 points each, which two Greek playwrights wrote tragedies entitled Electra? ANSWER: Euripedes and Sophocles[10] FTP, which American playwright adapted her story to the Civil War in Mourning Becomes Electra?ANSWER: Eugene O'Neill3.	Answer the following questions about hormones:[10] FTP, hormones are the central component of what communication system of the body?ANSWER: endocrine system[10] FTP, what is the term for cholesterol-derived hormones?ANSWER: steroid hormone[10] FFPE, what are the two hormones released by the pancreas that regulate blood sugar levels?ANSWER: insulin and glucagon4.	Big Willie Style.  Identify these real or fictional athletes named Willie FTPE:[10] Wesley Snipes played this showboating but kind-of talented outfielder in Major League.ANSWER: Willie Mays Hayes[10] This Willie was a star slugger for the Giants, hitting over 400 home runs, and earning the nickname "Stretch" for his skills at first base.ANSWER: Willie McCovey[10] Jamie Foxx played this brash and immature, but greatly talented, young quarterback in Oliver Stone's movie Any Given Sunday.ANSWER: Steamin' Willie Beamen5.	Answer the following about red and black, FTP each.[10] This author wrote The Red and the Black about the struggle between radicals and reactionaries in Restoration France.ANSWER: Stendhal (or Marie Henri Beyle)[10] "Red, the blood of angry men.  Black, the dark of ages past. Red, the world about to dawn. Black, the night that ends at last."  This line is from whose musical adaptation of Les Miserables?ANSWER: Claude-Michel Schonberg (or Alain Boubril)[10] Red and black are the colors of this university's sports team, nicknamed the Aztecs, whose most famous alum is probably the NFL All-Pro running back Marshall Faulk.ANSWER: San Diego State University
6.	Identify these thermodynamic quantities, FTPE.[10] The zeroth law of thermodynamics means that this quantity, which determines whether systems will be in thermal equilibrium with each other, is well-defined.Answer: temperature[10] Equal to E minus TS plus PV, this quantity can be used to determine if a reaction will occur at a given constant temperature and pressure.Answer: Gibbs free energy[10] Equal to E minus TS, this quantity is analogous to Gibbs free energy when dealing with reactions at a constant temperature and volume.Answer: Helmholtz free energy7.	30-20-10, name the novel.[30] The final words of the main character as he is stabbed to death in a quarry by a policeman are "like a dog."[20] As counsel about the titular institution, the priest tells the main character that it "makes no claims on you.  It receives you when you come and relinquishes you when you go."[10]: This Kafka novel opens with the lines: "Someone must have been telling lies about Joseph K., for without doing anything wrong he was arrested one fine morning."Answer: The Trial (Der Prozess)8.	The Russian Mussorgsky wrote "Night on Bald Mountain," but, FTPE, what Austrians composed:[10] the 1899 string sextet "Transfigured Night"?ANSWER: Arnold Schoenberg[10] a 7th Symphony also known as "Song of the Night"?ANSWER: Gustav Mahler[10] the Serenade in G whose title translates as "A Little Night Music"?ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart 9.	Answer the following questions about early Canadian history FTPE.[10] Name the Venetian in English service who, in 1497, landed in Newfoundland, establishing the basis for English claims to Canada.Answer: John Cabot[10] This Frenchman sailed up the St. Lawrence River in 1535, claiming the land he saw for France.Answer: Jacques Cartier[10] What sea route that both men were searching for was finally navigated by Roald Amundsen in 1903-1906?Answer: Northwest Passage 10.	"O what can ail thee, Knight at arms,/Alone and palely loitering?/  The sedge has withered from the lake/ And no birds sing!"[10] FTP, from what poem are these lines taken?ANSWER: La Belle Dame sans Merci[5] FFP, what poet wrote "La Belle Dame sans Merci" as well as many famous odes during his annus mirabilis?ANSWER: John Keats[15] F15P, or for 5 pts. if within 3 years, what year was Keats' annus mirabilis?ANSWER: 1819 (5 pts. for 1816-1822) 11.	Remember the 1992 Grammy Awards?  Sure you do.  FTPE:[10] Who won the song of the year award that year for "Tears in Heaven"?ANSWER: Eric Clapton[20] What two women won pop and rock vocalist Grammies that year for "Constant Craving" and "Ain't it Heavy"?ANSWER: K.D. Lang and Melissa Etheridge
12.	 FTPE, name the French novels featuring the following characters:[10] Princess Aouda and the valet PassepartoutANSWER: Around the World in Eighty Days or Le Tour du monde en quatre-vingt jours[10] Jean Tarrou and Dr. Bernard RieuxANSWER: The Plague or La Peste[10] Claude Frollo and Captain PhoebusANSWER: The Hunchback of Notre Dame or Notre Dame de Paris13.	Identify these presidential runners-up turned ambassadors, 5-10-15:[5] After being crushed by Ronald Reagan in 1984 he became Clinton's ambassador to Japan.ANSWER: Walter Mondale[10] This man once told Republicans, "If you'll stop lying about me, I'll stop telling the truth about you." Name this man that Kennedy later made ambassador to the UNANSWER: Adlai Stevenson[15] This Republican first lost his senate seat to JFK in 1952, then his bid for the 1960 GOP nomination, then lost again for VP as Nixon's running mate in 1960.ANSWER: Henry Cabot Lodge14.	Answer the following about every Scandinavian's favorite philosopher, Soren Kierkegaard, FTPE[10] In the work Concluding Unscientific Postscript, Kierkegaard attacked the systematizing efforts of this most popular philosopher of the early 19th century, who tried to fit every change into his dialectic mode of analysis.ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel[10] In this 1843 work, Kierkegaard emphasizes that one must consciously choose between the aesthetic and the ethico-religious view of life.    ANSWER: Either/Or[10] In this other 1843 work he uses the story of Abraham and Isaac to argue that one must suspend abstract ethical rules to allow personal religious growth.ANSWER: Fear and Trembling15.	30-20-10, Name the phylum.[30] There are three classes; one is free-living and two are parasitic.[20] The free-living class is Turbellaria, and the two parasitic ones are Trematoda and Cestoda.[10] This is the phylum of the flatworms.Answer:  Platyhelminthes16.	Give the novel titles naming these literary characters, F15PE:[10] Nelson Algren's Frankie MachineANSWER: The Man With the Golden Arm[10] Theodore Dreiser's Frank Algernon CowperwoodANSWER: The Financier or The Titan or The Stoic (accept any of the three)[10] F. Scott Fitzgerald's Monroe StahrANSWER: The Last Tycoon17.	5-10-15, given the name of a rebel group, name the country they are fighting against.[5] The Shining PathANSWER: Peru[10] November 17ANSWER: Greece[15] Moro Islamic Liberation FrontANSWER: the Philippines
18.	5-10-15, identify the following psychological problems caused by a dysfunction of the cerebral lobes.[5] These are disorders causing partial or total inability to recall past experiences.ANSWER: amnesias[10] This is a defect in which the comprehension or expression of words is impaired as a result of injury to or degeneration of the language centers of the cerebral cortex.ANSWER: aphasia[15] This is a neuropsychologic deficit in which an object can not be identified despite the capacity to identify its tactile or visual elements.ANSWER: agnosia19.	Identify these women guillotined in 1793, FTPE.[10] She showed her displeasure at the excesses of the revolution by stabbing Marat through the heart.  ANSWER: Marie Anne Charlotte Corday D'armont[10] She wrote many revolutionary plays and pamphlets.  The exclusion of women from the Constitutional Assembly prompted her to write The Right of Woman and Citizen.ANSWER: Olympe de Gouges[10] She was born in Austria to very upper class parents.  After trying to escape with her husband in 1791, she was imprisoned and presumably fed little cake.ANSWER: Marie Antoinette20.	Identify the following, ten each:[10] When thermal plumes in the mantle reach the surface, they cause local points of volcanic activity with this appropriate name.  Yellowstone is a famous example.ANSWER: hot spots[10] When a thermal plume first reaches the surface it creates a vast plain of this type of rock which also comprises much of the ocean floor.ANSWER: basalt[10] One classic example of a basalt plain is this plateau in central India.ANSWER: Deccan Plateau21.	Name the Gilbert and Sullivan operettas FTPE[10] It concerns Nanki-Poo, son of the title character, who consents to being beheaded if he can win the hand of Yum-Yum, the fiancee of the Lord High Executioner.ANSWER: The Mikado, or The Town of Titipu[10] Angelina initiates the title event because Edwin has fallen in love with someone else.  The matter is settled when the Learned Judge decides to marry Angelina himself.ANSWER: Trial by Jury[10] Stephen falls in love with the shepherdess Phyllis, but since he is half fairy he cannot marry her until the Queen of the Fairies helps out. It includes the notable "Nightmare Song" patter number.ANSWER: Iolanthe, or The Peer and the Peri22.	FTPE name these landmarks of ancient Rome:[10] This hill overlooks the Forum Romanum from the west, and is topped by a statue of Marcus Aurelius in front of the Italian Senate, and a namesake museum of classical sculpture. ANSWER: Capitoline[10] This area now borders the Piazza Novona.  In ancient times, however, it was the place where the census was taken and military drills were performed, which gave it its warlike name.ANSWER: Campus Martius  or Field of Mars[10] This hill was filled with imperial palaces from which emperors could watch the races at the adjacent Circus Maximus.  ANSWER: Palatine