TOSSUPS -- KEYSTONE KOPS 3			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. His attempts at investing failed, as a bank he supported folded and the cow he bought died prematurely.  After claiming to be driven by witches around the world he became a celebrity in the slave community of St. Petersburg, MO.  FTP identify this fugitve, travelling companion of Huck Finn.  Answer: Jim2. A modern version of this object is used as an elephant goad, but is grasped by the loop end.  Initially used to convey a sandal strap, it also represented a magical knot, as well as key components for glyphs representing health and happiness.  FTP, name this Coptic Cross borrowed from the Egyptian hieroglyph representing "life".Answer:  Ankh  (Accept "coptic cross" on early buzz)3. In orbital dynamics, it is defined as sqrt ( (2EL^2/mu*k^2) + 1) (read: "square root of the quantity 2 E L squared all over mu k squared all plus one") where E is total energy, L is angular momentum, mu is reduced mass, and k is the gravitational constant times the product of the masses. FTP, name this quantity, the measure of an orbit's deviation from circularity.Answer: Eccentricity4. Obscure variants include Anaconda, in which three cards of seven are passed to the player to the left, then two, then one, while bets are placed after each pass; and Indian, in which a player sees all cards but his own. There are nine possible hands, or ten if wild cards are used, ranked in a definite order. FTP, name this common card game, whose more popular variants include five-draw, seven card stud, and Texas hold 'em.Answer: Poker 5. Inspired by the historical example of Great Britain, this president of the Naval War College and his ideas reformed traditional strategies of US coastal defense. He argued that a nation could only be great if it maintained a navy powerful enough to control the seas in the face of any adversary. FTP, identify this thinker whose lectures were collected in 1890 and published as The Influence of Sea Power on History.Answer: Alfred Thayer Mahan6. On September 9, 1999, Celera Genomics Corporation announced that it had completed the physical process of reading, or "sequencing," the genes of this animal.  For the past 90 years it has been the model organism for the study of genetics and developmental biology.  FTP, name this organism, study of which has led to three Nobel Prizes in Medicine or Physiology, most notably the 1933 Prize for Thomas Morgan.Answer:  Fruit Fly (or drosophila melanogaster)7. The foremost canon lawyer of his day, he was elected pope at the age of 37 despite not being a priest.  A Papal Supremacist, he supported the newly-founded Franciscans, called crusades against the Spanish Moors and Albigensians, and convened the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215.  FTP, identify this pope who presided from 1198 to 1216, called the fourth crusade, and excommunicated Philip Augustus of France and John of England.Answer: Innocent III8. This term has five patterns: the Shadow, the Anima, the Syzygy, the Child, and the Self.  Their originator described them as a "preconscious psychic disposition that enables a (man) to react in a human manner."  They are elemental forces or spirits in every culture that arise from the "collective unconscious."  FTP, name this concept developed by Carl Jung.ANSWER:  Archetypes9. A wooden box is situated in the foreground on the right side of the painting, which bears the inscription of the artist and his subject. A green tablecloth covers the desk upon which the subject's left hand rests with a note, dated July 13th 1793. A bloody knife lies on the floor in the left corner. FTP, identify this work, depicting the famous assassination of a French revolutionary, by Jacques Louis David.Answer: Death of Marat10. This company, incorporated in 1911 as the Computer-Tabulating-Recording Company, recently pulled its sagging PCs from the market, choosing to sell them exclusively online. The reason, they claim, is cutthroat competition and a decreasing market for home PCs. FTP, name this company, which had 20 antitrust suits filed against it by its competitors in the 1970s. Answer: International Business Machines11. Beginning in an ice cave over 10,000 feet above sea level, it flows southeastwards for 1,600 miles and merges with the Brahmaputra River to form a large delta which comprises much of Bangladesh. FTP, name this sacred river of Hinduism, whose personification is the goddess Ganga.Answer: Ganges River12. In Crow tradition, mentioning the Great Spirit was taboo, so this entity took its place.  An old man, he created the people and named the creatures.  Pacific Northwest tribes viewed him as a minor power and as a messenger.  In Wasco myth, he is the powerful warrior who kills Thunderbird.  FTP, identify this figure of Native American myth, best known as a capricious trickster and scourge of Raven, not to mention nemesis of Road Runner.Answer:  Coyote13. They are produced in the seminiferous (sem-in-IF-ur-us) tubules and proceed into the epididymus (ep-ee-DID-im-us), where they are stored until necessary. They are mixed with a milky white fluid produced in the seminal vesicles, bulbourethral glands, and the prostate gland. When the occasion arises, they proceed in this fluid down the urethra to the outside of the body. FTP, name this male haploid reproductive cell.Answer: Sperm14. Among its accomplishments was the establishment of nearly 3000 schools and the foundation of several black colleges.  Perpetually hindered by low funds and Southern intransigence, its attempts to resettle farmers on confiscated lands were thwarted by President Johnson's policies despite the able leadership of General O. O. Howard.  FTP identify this agency formed to help former slaves after the Civil War.  Answer:  The Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands (or Freedmen's Bureau)15. She recently claimed on the Craig Kilborn Show to have recorded the first rap song.  She joined with Tina Weymouth, Chris Franz and Jerry Harrison to record material with The Heads, and rejoined her most famous bandmates to record 1999's "No Exit".  FTP identify this musician, the lead singer of Blondie.Answer:  Deborah Harry16. This five hour long production consists of 3 parts: Homecoming, The Hunted, and the Haunted. Set in post-Civil War New England, it portrays the Mannon family's struggle between the life force and death, with a plot loosely based on Aeschylus's (ES-ke-les's) Oresteia. FTP, Name this 1931 romantic tragedy by American playwright Eugene O'Neill.Answer: Mourning Becomes Electra
17. It originated as a generalized statement of the tendency of physical systems to undergo changes only by those processes that either minimize or maximize the abstract quantity called action.  Now, it specifies its total energy of a system in terms of the Lagrangian function derived in earlier studies of dynamics and of the position and momentum of each of the particles.  FTP, identify this function, a component of the Schršdinger equation.Answer: Hamiltonian Function18. He founded an experimental school Shantiniketan, meaning "abode of peace," which became the international university Visva-Bharati. Renouncing his knighthood after the 1919 massacre at Amritsar, it was he that named Gandhi as the Mahatma. For ten points, name this man who wrote Chandalika and Gitanjali in his native Bengali.ANSWER: Rabindranath Tagore or Rabindranath Thakur19. In WWI, he was captured at Verdun, thanks to his 6 foot, four inch height which prevented any escape.  The planning for his murder was featured in the film The Day of the Jackal.  A military theorist ahead of his time, he was appointed commander of tanks in the Fifth Army to keep him quiet.  FTP, name this youngest French general at the beginning of WWII who later became the leader of the Free French.ANSWER:  Charles De Gaulle20. In 1969 this author was made a Dame Commander in the Order of the British Empire.  Her first novel, The Loving Spirit, written in 1931, was followed by many other romantic tales, usually successful, set on the wild coast of Cornwall, including her most famous, made into a film in 1940.  For ten points, name this author of The Birds and Rebecca.ANSWER: Daphne du Maurier21.  The excavations along this fissure vein were carried to depths of more  than 1000 meters.  Excavations in the area, located in Storey County on the eastern slope of  Mount Davidson, declined after silver dollar coinage was halted, and it was virtually abandoned in 1898.  For ten points, name the metal-yielding vein which spawned the boomtown Virginia City, named for a California prospector who made his discovery public in 1859.Answer:  Comstock Lode22. An October 1794 diary entry of his mentioned a conversation with John Jay regarding treaty negotiations. In August 1823 he wrote about his Cabinet meeting's discussion of a Greek diplomatic letter. In February 1841 he discussed his efforts on behalf of Amistad defendants before the Supreme Court. FTP, name this prolific diarist, diplomat, and statesman, the sixth President of the United States.Answer: John Quincy Adams
BONI -- KEYSTONE KOPS 3			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions from numerous Penn Bowl contributors with Special Guest Editor Stephen Taylor1. Let's test your knowledge of the different studies within philosophy. For 10 points each, name these philosophical "ologies" from their definitions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a. The study of knowledge, especially its origin, nature, methods, and limits.Answer: epistemologyb. The branch of metaphysics dealing with the nature of being, reality, or ultimate substance.Answer: ontologyc. This describes any doctrine or system focused on such end-of-the-line matters as death, the afterlife, immortality, and redemptionAnswer: eschatology (ES - ka -to - lo -gee)2. Identify the author from the given works on a 30-20-10 basis.A. [30] Murphy, The UnnameableB. [20] Endgame, Happy DaysC. [10] Waiting for Godot (go - DOH)Answer: Samuel Beckett3. For the stated number of points, identify the following about the youth of Zeus.A [5]. This Titaness gave birth to Zeus in secret, presenting a stone to Cronus.Answer: RheaB [10]  The infant Zeus fed on the milk of this she-goat.  Her hide was used for the Aegis and her horn the cornucopia.Answer:  AmaltheaC [15]  A mountain nympth and milkmaid to Amalthea, she fed Zeus honey to vary his diet. Cronus turned her into an earthworm, but Zeus turned her into a Queen Bee.Answer:  Melissa4. Answer the following about molecular orbital theory, FTPE.A.  This concept describes the strength of the forces holding atoms together in MO theory.  Answer:  Bond orderB:  This property causes a substance to be attracted to an inducing magnetic field and is associated with unpaired electrons.Answer:  paramagnetismC. This type of orbital is higher in energy than the atomic orbitals of which it is composed.  The electrons are mostly distributed outside of the space between nuclei.Answer:  antibonding molecular orbital5. In November 1999, an 82-year old entrepreneur endowed a midwestern university, with $250,000 for a professorship in English.  5-10-15, answer the following.A. [5] In 1958, Mr. Hillegass founded what company that produces study guides?Answer: Cliff's NotesB. [10] Hillegass was working at a bookstore of what midwestern university at the time he developed Cliff's Notes?Answer: University of Nebraska-Lincolnc. [15] IDG Books Worldwide Inc., the maker of what popular series of books, bought Cliffs Notes for $14.2 million in 1998?Answer: "for Dummies"
6. Identify the following about German territorial concessions in the treaty of Versailles FTP each.A. Following a plebiscite, the northern portion of this region went to DenmarkAnswer:  Schleswig  (accept Schleswig-Holstein)B. This coal-rich, southeastern-most region of imperial Germany was divided into three parts following a plebiscite.  Germany ceded the most valuable portions to Poland and Czechoslovakia.Answer:  SilesiaC. The Baltic port of Memel was first placed under League of Nations jurisdiction and later transferred to this short-lived republic.Answer:  Lithuania7. Identify the following about an African American author FTP each:A lawyer, writer, and composer, he was a founder, and secretary, of the NAACP. His books of verse include _50 Years and other poems.Answer: James Weldon JohnsonB. Johnson's most famous poetic work is this 1927 collection of 7 sermons in free verse.Answer: God's TrombonesC. This 1912 work is the only novel he ever wrote and deals with the life of a light skinned black man who passes himself off in white society.Answer: The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man_8. Given the language, name the country in which it is spoken, FTSNP:A [5] AfrikaansAnswer: South AfricaB [10] TagalogAnswer: PhillipinesC [15] MalayalamAnswer: India9. Identify the following from Norse Mythology. A. For 10 points, the giant ash "world tree" that supported the universe. Answer: Yggdrasil B. For 5 points each, and an additional 5 for all correct, name the three realms to which Yggdrasil's roots extended: one a home of gods, one a land of giants, and the last the underworld.Answer: Asgard, Jotunheim, Niflheim10. Identify the following psychoanalysts from a description FTPE:A  This psychologist turned her famous name to good use, by founding ego psychology and applying psychoanalysis to the kids in works like _Normality and Pathology in childhood_.Answer: Anna FreudB  Freud said of this man "I made a pigmy great." His most important contribution was his study of the creative self and feelings of inferiority.Answer: Alfred AdlerC  This man supplanted the centrality of the Oedipus complex in the formation of neuroses with the concept of birth trauma, which the subject overcomes through individuation.Answer: Otto Rank
11. Identify the following competitors for the 1864 republican presidential ticket FTP each.A.  A major general during the Civil War and a prior candidate, he withdrew despite having been offered the nomination in August.Answer:  John Charles FremontB.  A former Ohio senator as a Democrat and Lincoln's Secretary of the Treasury, he withdrew his candidacy when Lincoln appointed him Chief Justice.Answer:  Salmon Portland ChaseC.  A former Democrat, he earned votes at the Republican convention despite his scandalous tenure as Military Governor of New Orleans. Answer:  Benjamin Franklin Butler12. Identify the following about a novel FTSNOPA [10] It follows the fortunes of two contrasted females, Aemilia and Becky, who have been educated at Miss Pinkerton's Academy.Answer: Vanity FairB [5] Who wrote _Vanity Fair_?Answer: William Makepeace ThackerayC [15 Name either the man Becky is married to,who divorces her after finding her in a compromising situation with Lord Steyne, or the vain and shallow man Aemilia marries who dies at Waterloo.Answer: Rawdon Crawley or George Osborne (accept first or last or both)13. Answer the following about the atomic bomb, FTSNP:A [5] The atomic bomb was produced by what government division, headed by J. Robert Oppenheimer and Gen. Leslie Groves?Answer: Manhattan ProjectB [10] The original bomb involved the fission of what isotope of uranium by compressing it to critical mass, thus causing an explosion?Answer: Uranium 235C [15] The second bomb involved the compression of what isotope of what other element by conventional explosives to critical mass, thus causing an explosion?Answer: Plutonium-239 14. Identify the national origin of the following men's college basketball players, FTP each.A.  Auburn senior center, Mamadou N'diyae (En-JAI)Answer:  SenegalB.  Georgetown junior center, Ruben Boumtjie-Boumtjie (Boom-CHAY Boom-CHAY)Answer:  CameroonC.  Connecticut sophomore forward, Ajou Ajou Deng  (A-joe A-joe).Answer:  the Sudan15. Identify the following regarding circuit elements.A [10] This type of technology is the basis of all modern integrated circuits.  In its most basic form it consists of two diodes lying back to back, or a pnp junction.Answer: transistors (accept CMOS [Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor])B [20] FFPE, and a bonus five for all correct, name the three inventors who share credit for the creation of the pn junction, doing so at Bell Labs in 1957.Answer: William Shockley, Walter Brattain, John Bardeen
16. Answer the following about a composer 10-5-15A [10] This Englishman looked to Hardy for inspiration on Egdon Heath, while his First Choral Symphony was inspired by Keats poems.Answer: Gustav HolstB [5] Holst's most famous work is divided into seven sections with subtitles such as: "the mystic," "the bringer of jollity," and "the bringer of war."Answer: The PlanetsC [15] Holst composed this uncharacteristically religious work taken from the apocryphal Acts of St. John, in 1917, the year after he wrote The Planets.Answer: The Hymn of Jesus17. Name the author for 30-20-10:[30] Born in April of 1939 to a cattle-dealing family, this Irish poet was the eldest of nine children...[20] While lecturing at St. Joseph's College in Belfast, he published works in the school's literary journal under the pen name "Incertus"...[10] He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1995, for volumes such as Death of a Naturalist, Field Work and his latest, Seeing Things...Answer: Seamus Heaney18. Identify the following photographers from a description FTPEA [10] This man was well known for depictions of rural poverty in 1930s America, as well as his picture within a picture technique.Answer: Walker EvansB [10] This dadaist often painted on his photos and his models, as in 1924's famed _Violin d'Ingres_.Answer: Man Ray or Emmanuel RadenskiC [10] The first photographer to exhibit at the Louvre, he worked to capture what he called the "decisive moment." Works include collections on the people of Moscow, and impressions of India and China.Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson19. 30-20-10 Identify the U.S. Supreme Court case.A.  [30] This was the first case to review the contract clause contained in Article 1, Section 10. B. [20] Chief Justice John Marshall ruled that "restrictions on State legislatures were justified by the framers' intent to protect private property."C.  [10] Land speculators successfully sued the Georgia legislature to overturn the repeal of the corruptly allocated "Yazoo grant" of 1795.Answer:  Fletcher vs. Peck20. Identify the moon, 30-20-10A [30] It is the 4th largest of the moons of Jupiter, discovered by Galileo in 1610.B [20] The Chinese ship Tsien stopped there to refuel in Arthur C. Clarke's 2010: Odyssey Two.C [10] The space probe Galileo recently discovered a world-girdling ocean underneath its ice cap.Answer: Europa21. Identify the character, 30-20-10.  A [30]:  A short and pudgy rustic, his atheism and practical personality contrasts with his master.  B [20]: Promised the governorship of the first land he and his master conquer, he owns the ass Dapple.  C [10]:  His windmill attacking companion is Don Quixote. Answer:  Sancho Panza