TOSSUPS - SEMIFINALS				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Case Western, Yale, and MIT with other Penn Bowl authors and DePauw1.	Begun in 1925, this novel was not published until 1934.  It is speculated that the Swiss hospital to which the author's own wife was committed inspired the hospital in which the protagonist meets his patient turned wife. For ten points, identify this Fitzgerald work in which Nicole eventually ruins her husband, Dick Diver.	Answer:	 Tender is the Night2.	Their potential applications range from quantum computing to nanotechnology to neural networks. They contain one thousand to one million atoms, quantum mechanically entangled so their electrons can only assume certain energy states, making the structure act in some ways like an artificial atom. For 10 points-name these nanometer-scale devices whose numbers of electrons can be artificially determined to give a number of different properties.	Answer:		quantum dots 3.	Although their origin is unclear, they were probably from Palestine and Syria, and they were a Semitic people with a nomadic lifestyle.  They made their stronghold at Avaris, and introduced horses and chariots to Egypt.  For ten points, identify this people of foreign origin that ruled Egypt from 1674-1567 BCE.	Answer:	 Hyksos4.	Inspired by Goethe, he wrote On Visions and Colors, about color perception. Inspired by Kant, he left medical school to study philosophy, publishing his thesis On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason. He believed life involved at least some suffering as human drive is manifest by a constant striving satisfaction. For 10 points-name this German philosopher who wrote The World as Will and Idea.	Answer:	Arthur Schopenhauer5.	He used to be fond of eating a snake everyday, until a Buddhist prince taught him the value of abstinence. The sworn enemy of the Kirata and the Nagas, according to the Mahabaharata, its parents gave it permission to devour bad men, but not Brahmans. It has a golden body, white face, and scarlet wings large enough to block out the sun.  Also known as the "Bird of Life" and associated with royalty in Southeast Asia, this is FTP, what mythological mount of Vishnu?	Answer:	 Garuda6.	As a partner in a successful insurance company, he invented the concept of estate planning, but was forced to retire due to chronic diabetes and a hand tremor. He is better known for winning the Pulitzer Prize for his Third Symphony, "The Camp Meeting," or his Second Symphony, which was first in its entirety 50 years after its composition. FTP, name this Connecticut born composer of The Unanswered Question and Three Places in New England.	Answer:	 Charles Ives7.	It came to an end when they were defeated at the Battle of Muhlberg ["Mule-berg"]. Led by Philip of Hesse and John Frederick I of Saxony, the Reformation spread through most of Germany under its protection.  For 10 points-name this alliance of Protestant princes and delegates of free cities, formed in 1531 to combat Charles V.	Answer:	 The Schmalkaldic League or League of Schmalkalden8.	At a party game in which each man is to reveal the worst thing he has ever done, Ferdyshchenko confesses to framing a maid for theft, but Totsky does not discuss his sexual exploitation of the young Nastasya Barashkova.  Shortly thereafter, Nastasya throws 100,000 roubles given to her by Rogozhin into the fire, gives Ganya Ivolgin permission to retrieve the money, and agrees to marry the title character but says that he would be better off with Aglaya Yepanchina.  FTP, name this Dostoevsky novel about the epileptic Prince Myshkin.	Answer:	 The Idiot 9.	The increase in the chemical tyramine which results from taking these drugs can cause high blood pressure, headaches, and even stroke.  People taking these medications should not eat chicken liver or aged cheeses for just this reason.  The drugs were taken off the market in the 1960s shortly after their introduction because so many people were becoming ill, but are now available again with dietary restrictions.  They are currently used to treat mental illnesses caused by deficits in serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine.  FTP, name this class of drugs, which increase the level of neurotransmitters in the brain of depressed people through blocking the "clean up" activity of enzymes.	Answer:	Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (accept MAOI)10. Invented in 1961 by Red Hickey, the 49ers used it to run with John Brodie and Billy Kilmer, their mobile quarterbacks.  Chicago was the first team to beat it, using their middle linebacker to attack the center, whose job becomes harder under this formation. For 10 points-name this staple of touch football, in which the quarterback lines up several yards behind the line of scrimmage.	Answer:	shotgun offense or formation11.	He has received much flak for such preposterous comments as, "The Waffen [VAH-fin] SS was a part of the Wehrmacht [VAIR-mahkt], and hence it deserves all the honor and respect of the army in public life." In 1999, his party finished second in national elections, riding a tide of anti-immigrant sentiment. For 10 points-name this disgraced right-wing politician who stepped down as leader of Austria's Freedom Party.	Answer:	Jšrg Haider [HYE-dir]12.	First demonstrated in 1879 by Karl Braun, the electron gun's beam passes between pairs of metal plates mounted so they deflect the beam both horizontally and vertically to produce a luminous pattern. The screen consists of a ten-by-eight grid, with time on the x-axis and voltage on the y-axis. For 10 points-name this electronic device used to produce visible graphical representations of electrical signals.	Answer:	oscilloscope [ah-SIH-luh-scope] [do not accept "cathode ray tube" or "television"]13.	Igor Stravinsky called him a "big, blond bloodhound . . . kind and gentle, however super-intellectual." This schoolmaster published his first work in 1925's Public School Verse; his first collection was hand-printed by Stephen Spender in 1928. His Sea and the Mirror is a verse commentary on Shakespeare's Tempest. For 10 points-what British-born poet won the 1948 Pulitzer Prize for his "baroque eclogue" The Age of Anxiety?	Answer:		W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden14.	He gained respect among his people at a young age by leading armed resistance to the passage of settlers on the Bozeman Trail. He ceded territorial claims to his people's heartland in the Fort Laramie treaty of 1869. FTP, he would later resist any involvement in the war with the US that led to the battle of Little Big Horn. Identify this man, paramount chief of the Oglala Sioux for 1860 until his death in 1909. 	Answer:	 Mahpiua Luta or Red Cloud15.	Though he earned a degree in mechanical engineering, in 1922 he took up art and was influenced by the Ashcan School. Upon moving to Paris, he met Mir— and began sculpting, initially producing a miniature circus.  However, it was his meeting with Mondrian that pushed him towards abstraction and sculptures that moved. FTP, identify this sculptor of mobiles and stabiles.	Answer:	 Alexander Calder16.	The origins of the alphabet. A story of King Solomon. A history of the domestication of animals. The origins of crabs, tides, and Malays. The evolution of the armadillo. All of these can be found in a collection of short stories whose most famous stories take place on the banks of the great gray-green greasy Limpopo. For 10 points-name this collection of stories that includes "How the Camel Got His Hump," written by Rudyard Kipling.	Answer:		Just So Stories17.	A column associated with this event resulted in a fatwa being declared by Zamfara Deputy Governor Mahamoud Shinkai against writer Isioma Daniel.  Daniel's writings led to over 200 deaths from rioting in the city of Kaduna, but riots also spread to Abuja. FTP, identify this competition, moved from Nigeria to London after Daniel wrote that "The prophet Mohammed would have approved of it."	Answer:	 Miss World Pageant18.	Retroviruses, by creating DNA genomes from their RNA, and integrating them into host chromosomes, go against the original flow of information stated by this principle. Elucidated by Francis Crick, what principle states--for 10 points--that information flows between nucleic acids, and from DNA and RNA to proteins, but not from proteins back to nucleic acids?	Answer:		Central Dogma19.	Criticized because it does not account for transfer payments and taxes, the percentage of the area below the 45 degree line that is above it is also known as the Gini coefficient. Lying between the line of perfect equality and the line of perfect inequality, it is a graphical representation of a cumulative frquency distribution, For 10 points-what curve depicting income equality?	Answer:		Lorenz curve20.	Though it is not Alaska, to travel by land from one part of this state to the rest of the continental U.S. you would need to go through Canada. Due to a geographical mistake in the Treaty of Paris, Angle Inlet and the rest of Northwest Angle State Forest are part of it despite being on the Manitoba and Ontario side of the Lake of the Woods.  FTP, name this state which besides Manitoba and Ontario borders North Dakota, South Dakota, Iowa and Wisconsin.	Answer:	 Minnesota	[The 1783 Treaty of Paris assumed that the Mississippi River ran all the way north to the Lake of the Woods.]21. This body is not subject to due process according to 1949's Williams v. New York while Gagnon v. Scarpelli allows it to decide if counsel may be present. It generally consists of three to twelve members usually appointed by the state governor. For 10 points-name this governing body that may utilize a halfway house in deciding on whether to grant a provisional release to a prisoner.	Answer:	parole board22.	While based on a minimax algorithm, it is more powerful than its predecessors due to superior pattern matching and a deeper book. It beat opponents such as Shredder and Gandalf last year to earn the right to play its most famous opponent, for which it was modified to trash talk in Shakespearean verse.  For ten points, name this computer program that played Vladimir Kramnik to a draw in October.	Answer:	 Deep Fritz23.	Her marriage to arms manufacturer Fritz Mandl schooled her in the ways of weaponry, and with composer George Antheil she invented and patented a spread spectrum technology for radio-controlled torpedoes.  But she gained greater fame as the first woman to appear naked in a feature film, the 1930's foreign sensation Ecstasy.  For ten points, name this actress known for many starring roles in movies such as Samson and Delilah.  	Answer:	 Hedy Lamarr or Hedwig Keisler
BONI - SEMIFINALS				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Case Western, Yale, and MIT with other Penn Bowl authors and DePauw1.	5-10-20-30, answer the following questions from the classic TV show, M*A*S*H.A.This character is from Crabapple Cove, Maine and was played by Alan Alda.	Answer:	Cpt. Benjamin Franklin Pierce (Accept "Hawkeye")B. This character played by Wayne Rogers was Cpt. Pierce's sidekick for the first three seasons of the series.       Answer:	Cpt. John Francis Xavier McIntyre (Accept "Trapper John")C. This character hails from Ottumwa, Iowa and was fond of Grape Nehi.	Answer:	Cpl. Walter O'Reilly  (Accept "Radar" or "Stinky")D.  One of the later additions to the show, this elitist played by David Ogden Stiers filled the void of comic foil left by the departure of Major Frank Burns.	Answer:	Maj. Charles Emerson Winchester2.	Given works, name the British poet FTPEa. "Pied Beauty", "Wreck of the Deutschland"	Answer:	Gerard Manly Hopkinsb. "My Heart Leaps Up", "The Solitary Reaper"	Answer:	William Wordsworthc. "Battle of Blenheim", "Holly Tree"	Answer:	Robert Southey3.	Identify the following concerning optics, lenses, etc. FTPE.[10] This is the angle of maximum polarization.	Answer:	 Brewster's Angle[10] In this type of lens, often used in lighthouses, the curvature of a double convex lens is reproduced by cutting away sections of the lens.	Answer:	 Fresnel lens[10] This law states that the index of refraction of the incident medium times the sine of the angle of incidence is equal to the index of refraction of the refractive medium times the sine of the angle of refraction.	Answer:	 Snell's Law4.	Identify the following concerning revolts and revolutionary groups from European history FTPE.[10] This 1381 revolt saw Wat Tyler lead the namesake group against Richard II.ANSWER: Peasant's Revolt[10] Later the Communist Party, this league that formed in the beginning of WWI counted Karl Liebknecht, Franz Mehring, and Rosa Luxemberg among its members.ANSWER: Spartacists or Spartacus League[10] This revolt was in part a reaction to the widespread poverty during the Hundred Years War.  It was named after a nickname for French peasants at the time.ANSWER: Jacquerie5.	Because I find folding paper so soothing, you get to answer some questions about paper arts for the stated number of points.  5: Identify the traditional Japanese art of paper folding.  	Answer:	 Origami 5: Nam3 the paper arts substance typically made with water, flour, and strips of paper. 	Answer:	 Paper Mache10: This is the art of rolling and shaping narrow strips of paper and arranging them to form designs.  It's named for the objects on which the paper strips were originally rolled.	Answer:	  Quillin10: This is the art of cutting out and varnishing paper shapes to other surfaces.  	Answer:	 Decoupage
6.	F5PE or 30 for all 5, name the college basketball teams from former players now in the NBA.[5]	Nick Van Exel, Kenyon MartinAnswer:		University of Cincinnati Bearcats[5]	Travis Best, Stephon [steh-FAHN] MarburyAnswer:		Georgia Institute of Technology Yellow Jackets [do not prompt on "Georgia"][5]	Antawn Jamison, Vince CarterAnswer:		University of North Carolina Tarheels[5]	Raef Lafrentz, Paul PierceAnswer:		University of Kansas Jayhawks[5]	Dan Dickau, John StocktonAnswer:		Gonzaga University Bulldogs7.	FTSNOP, identify the following Roman Emperors[5] The last of the "Five Good Emperors", he is known for his stoic work of philosophy, the "Meditations".	Answer:	 Marcus Aurelius[15] The first of the "Five Good Emperors", he was declared emperor on the same day that Domitian was assassinated.  	Answer:	 Marcus Cocceius Nerva[10] This emperor's insistence on the deification of Hadrain won him his nickname.  His reign was peaceful, marred only by an uprising in Mauretania.	Answer:	 Titus Aurelius Fulvius Boinius Antoninus Pius8.	Identify the following from organic chemistry FTSNOP[10] In this type of compound there are three carbons attached to the carbon bonded to the hydroxide group.	Answer:	 Tertiary Alcohols[5] These reagents have the formula R-Mg-X, where X is a halogen.	Answer:	 Grignard Reagents[15] This is the complete reduction of carbonyl compounds to methyl or methylene groups on heating with hydrazine hydrate and base.	Answer:	 Wolff-Kishner Reduction9.	The Persian vizier Haman attempted to mastermind the deaths of all the Jews in Shushan. 10 points each.[10]	So goes the story recounted on what Jewish holiday?		Answer:		Purim [POO-rim][10]	The story of Purim is recounted in which Biblical text?		Answer:		Book of Esther or Megillah [10]	Traditionally, Haman's name is considered so evil that when reading the Megillah [muh-GEE-luh], children are encouraged to shake these noisemakers whenever it's mentioned.		Answer:		groggers10.	Identify characters from War and Peace FTPE.a. Clumsy, stout and tall. A bastard, he marries Natasha Rostova		Answer:		Pierre Bezukhov (accept either name)b. Natasha's older brother, a cavalry officer he loves Sonya but marries Marya for money.		Answer:		Nikolai Rostovc. A wealthy nobleman, he fights valiantly at Austerlitz, dies of battle wounds in Natasha's arms.		Answer:		Andrei Bolkonsky (accept either name) 11.	FTP each, answer the following questions concerning tempo. A. A fairly slow tempo. The word means "slowly" in Italian.	Answer:	Adagio.B. A moderate, walking tempo. Not surprisingly, the word means "to walk" in Italian.	Answer:	Andante.C. A brisk and lively tempo. The word is translated as "merry" or "gay" from Italian.	Answer:	Allegro.
12.	FTSNOP, name these terms from the development of a fertilized human egg:A. [5]	It is made up of the inner cell mass and a thin trophoblast layer that encloses an open area, which gives this stage its name.	Answer:	 Blastocyst (Accept Blastula reluctantly, as Blastocyst is the slightly modified form of Blastula)B. [10] The dorsal lip of the blastopore in birds and mammals is the location of this control center, named for the scientist who discovered it.	Answer:	 Henson's NodeC. [15] FFPE, name the three classifications of developing organisms grouped by the amount of yolk in the egg	Answer:	 Isolecithal, Mesolecithal, and Telolecithal13.	Name these late battles of the Civil War, 10 points each.[10]	Joseph E. Johnston smashed Sherman's army at this battle outside Atlanta on June 27, 1864, but it didn't stop Sherman from besieging the city.       	Answer:	 Kennesaw Mountain[10]	George H. Thomas decisively defeated John B. Hood at this December 15, 1864 Tennessee battle.       	Answer:	 Nashville[10]	Grant held this city south of Richmond under siege for 10 months before Lee evacuated it in April 1865.       	Answer:	 Petersburg14.	Identify these African rivers for ten points each.[10] Forming the border between Zimbabwe and Zambia, it has many rapids and cataracts along its course to the Indian Ocean, the most notable being Victoria Falls.	Answer:	 Zambezi[10] It rises in the Witwatersrand region of South Africa, flows through Mozambique and empties into the Indian Ocean. 	Answer:	 Limpopo [10] The construction of the Akosombo Dam created one of the world's largest artificial lakes on this West African river.	Answer:	 Volta15.	FTSNOP, identify the following about an author.[10] Currently among the faculty of Bard College, this author's works about the Okonkwo family center around the effects of colonialism and westernization on Nigeria.	Answer:	 Chinua Achebe[5] In this work, Achebe depicts the downfall of Okonkwo during British occupation of Nigeria.	Answer:	 Things Fall Apart[15] The protagonists of this work are Ikem, a courageous newspaper editor, Chris, the reluctant Commissioner of Information and Beatrice, Chris's lover.	Answer:	 Anthills of the Savannah16.	Some things in mathematics are impossible. 10 points each.[10]	His incompleteness theorem says any logical system strong enough to perform number theory cannot be both consistent and complete.		Answer:	 Kurt Gšdel [GOH-dill][10]	Rice's theorem says any nontrivial property of the language recognized by these devices is undecidable.		Answer:	 Turing machines[10]	Robinson, Davis, and Putnam showed that no algorithm exists to determine if this type of equation, in which all the variables and coefficients are integers, had a solution.		Answer:	 Diophantine equations [accept Diophantus] 17.  	Name these minerals, 10 points each.[10]	Chemically copper carbonate hydroxide, this mineral is named for its deep blue color.Answer:		azurite [az-YOU-ryte][10]	This mineral, often found in association with azurite, pseudomorphs it. It has distinctive light and dark green bands.Answer:	malachite [MAA-luh-kyte][10]	Name either of the two minerals commonly referred to in gem variety as "jade."Answer:		jadeite or nephrite
18.	Name these concepts concerning linguistic determinism FTP each.A. This hypothesis states that the structure of language constrains thought, such that if a language lacks the means to explain a concept, that concept will be disfavored.       Answer:	Sapir-Whorf hypothesisB. An oft-cited example of this concept is this language from 1984, in which concepts of freedom were intentionally eliminated.	Answer:	NewspeakC. This study examined the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis as it relates to the perception of color.	Answer:	Berlin-Kay studies19.	30-20-10. Name the author from works.[30]	Babbling April and Journey Without Maps[20]	Dr. Fischer of Geneva, or The Bomb Party and Travels with My Aunt[10]	The End of the Affair and Our Man in HavanaAnswer:	(Henry) Graham Greene20.	5-10-15, identify the following "agencies" from Soviet history.[5] This agency finally achieved the status it is best known for in 1978.  Yuri Andropov was its head before he became head of state.	Answer:	 KGB[10] During WWII, this group performed widespread purges, arrests, imprisonments and executions to ensure a smooth transition to Soviet power.	Answer:	 NKVD[15] This predecessor of the NKVD was formed in 1917.  It was the first Soviet state security organization.	Answer:	 Vecheka21.	FTPE, name these quantities from economics.[10] This measure of inequality in societal distribution of income is the fraction of the area below the line of income equality that is above the Lorenz curve.	Answer:	 Gini coefficient[10] This is the ratio of the market value of a firm or of all firms to the net replacement cost of firm assets.	Answer:	 Tobin's Q[10] This is the ratio of the dollar value of current domestic production to the value of the same produced goods at base-period prices, used to determine a current-weight price index.	Answer:	 Gross Domestic Product implicit price deflator22.	Identify the Shakespearean play from characters FTPEa. Casca and the Soothsayer	Answer:	 Julius Caesarb. Robert Faulconbridge, Philip the Bastard	Answer:	 King Johnc. Caius Marcius, Volumnia	Answer:	 Coriolanus23.	Name these characters from the Enuma Elish [uh-NOO-muh uh-LEESH].[10]	The world is built from the body of this slain mother goddess. She is sometimes considered a dragon.		Answer:		Tiamat [TEE-uh-MAHT][10]	This champion warrior slayed Tiamat.		Answer:		Marduk [MAR-dook][10]	Ea [AY-uh] killed this father god of the Enuma Elish.		Answer:		Apsu