TOSSUPS - U. OF THE SOUTH (with help from Chicago)		SWORD BOWL 2001 - UTC1.	Made necessary by the controversy surrounding the Tallmadge Amendment, it remained in effect for over thirty years.  Although most Northern congressmen opposed it, Henry Clay was able to get it passed in the House of Representatives.   It admitted Maine to the Union as a free state and outlawed slavery in the unorganized Louisiana Purchase north of 36 degrees 30 minutes north latitude.  FTP, name this congressional compromise of 1820.Answer:  Missouri Compromise       2.	First referred to as "philosophers" by an unknown Greek source around 200 B.C., they were later seen as "barbarian" sages by the Stoic philosopher Posidonius.  Taken from a class of warrior nobles, their name comes from a Gaulish word thought to mean "deep knowledge" or "knowledge of the oak."  FTP, name this ancient Celtic religious order often associated with mistletoe.Answer:  Druids       3.	It can result from psychological conditions, disease in the nervous system, or muscle inflammation.  It has the potential to adversely affect both voluntary and involuntary muscles.  FTP, name this term given to the involuntary contraction of a muscle or muscles.Answer:  spasm4.	He was born in Venice on 4 March 1678, and made his debut as a violinist in the San Marco Basilica in 1696.  He reached the apex of his career in the 1720's, during which he composed numerous operas and violin concerti.  FTP, name this composer famous for his cycle of violin concerti known as The Four Seasons.Answer:  Antonio Lucio Vivaldi5.	In the early embryo stage, it is composed of two zeta and two eta subunits, while in the fetus stage, it is made of two gamma and two alpha subunits.  Six months after birth, the two gamma subunits are replaced by beta subunits.  These changes are promoted by changes in the oxygen intake of the organism during development.  FTP, identify this protein complex, whose four subunits each contain one iron atom.ANSWER:  Hemoglobin6.	This story is told in reminiscences as the main character takes a trip to the sea.  Stevens has tried to achieve greatness by faithfully serving his master, Lord Darlington, as an ideal butler would do.  As such, he denies his love for the housekeeper, Miss Kenton, until the twilight of his years.  FTP, name this Booker Prize-winning novel by Kazuo Ishiguro.Answer: The Remains of the Day7.	It was created by an act signed by President Eisenhower on 1 April 1954, and opened its doors to women in 1976.   Its chapel has the distinctive feature of 17 spires; according to a local joke, they stand for the 12 apostles and the 5 Joint Chiefs of Staff.  In order to receive admission here, candidates must be between the ages of 17 and 22 on 1 July the summer before they enter. FTP, name this academy located on a 19,000-acre site on the east slope of the Rampart Range near Colorado Springs, Colorado.Answer:  United States Air Force Academy (prompt on Air Force)8.	In technicolor theories, this is a composite particle, and the minimal supersymmetric model requires five of them.  This spin-zero particle was originally posited to explain electroweak symmetry breaking.  Physicists at ALEPH and other detectors recently reported some hints of it; however the LEP collider was shut down before any firm results could be obtained.  FTP, name this still unobserved particle that gives other particles mass.Answer: Higgs boson9.	Truganini, a woman who died in 1876, was probably the last surviving full-blooded member of this people.  The genocide began when the British began colonizing their homeland in 1804 and reportedly even hunted the indigenous people for sport.  In 1831, the remaining members of this group were removed to Flinders Island in the Bass Straight, but in 1847 they were returned to their original island, once known as Van Diemen's Land.  FTP, name this ethnic group.Answer: Tasmanians10.	Historians believe that he came from a Breton family that had relocated to England.  Thought to be a secular canon at the Chapel of St. George in Oxford Castle, he was ordained a priest at Westminster in 1152 and later became a bishop of St. Asaph in Wales.  FTP, name this author of Prophecies of Merlin and Life of Merlin, best known for The History of the Kings of Britain, which focuses largely on King Arthur.Answer:  Geoffrey of Monmouth11.	Born in Brocton, New York in 1831, he began his career as a cabinetmaker in 1848.  Later he became a contractor in Chicago before working as a shopkeeper in a Colorado mining town.  FTP, name this industrialist best known for creating the Pioneer, the first railroad sleeping car.Answer:  George Mortimer Pullman12.	On it, the horizontal axis represents a star's spectral type.  The vertical axis, meanwhile, represents the star's absolute brightness in terms of absolute visual magnitude.  FTP, name this diagram named for the Danish astrophysicist and the American astronomer who in 1911 and 1913 separately made studies of the relationships between a star's absolute magnitude and its surface temperature.Answer:  Hertzsprung-Russell diagram13.	During the Reign of Terror, this phrase came to be associated with radical republicanism.  Typically ascribed to members of the lower classes, it became widely used in 1793 to describe volunteers who joined the French Revolutionary army wearing trousers, or pantaloons.  FTP, name this French phrase which means "without knee breeches."Answer:  sans-culottes14.	She dies of "Roman fever" after walking around the Coliseum too late at night.   She scandalizes her contemporaries, including Winterbourne, by canoodling with Mr. Giovanelli.  Her brother's name is Randolph, and her real name is Annie.  For ten points, name this titular character of a Henry James short story.Answer: Daisy Miller15.	Born on 20 October 1632 in East Knoyle, Wiltshire, England, he served two brief terms as a member of Parliament.  Although he was a professor of astronomy at Gresham College, London and later at Oxford, it was as an architect that he made his mark.  FTP, name this English architect best known for his work on St. Paul's Cathedral.Answer:  Sir Christopher Wren16.	It began as a series of short segments on Nickelodeon before graduating first to half-hour specials, and finally to a weekly series of half-hour episodes.  Its characters include a math teacher with a photograph of the number 2, a shop teacher without a right hand, and a woman with a metal plate inside her head.  FTP, name this television series, set in Wellsville in the "Sideburn State," which features two brothers with the same first name.Answer:  The Adventures of Pete and Pete17.	Legend has it the Oracle told him and two others that the first of them to kiss his mother would be the next to rule Rome. He fell, thus kissing the earth and fulfilling the prophecy. He proceeded to lead a rebellion, killing Sextus and ousting Tarquinius Superbus. For ten points, name this man who along with Tarquinius Collatinus was appointed the first Roman consul.Answer: Lucius Junius Brutus or Iunius Brutus    [prompt on Brutus; do not accept Bluto]
18.	A native of Edinburgh, he entered the university there at age 12, from which he set out to "revolutionize" the moral sciences.  His philosophical writings include A Treatise of Human Nature, Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion, and Philosophical Essays Concerning the Human Understanding.  FTP, name this philosopher who concluded that man's belief in a world created by God and ruled by scientific laws could not be defended rationally.Answer:  David Hume19.	The name's the same: the second disguised herself as a Sheikah boy while Ganondorf held power; the third was imprisoned for treason and had to escape through a sewer system.  Every royal woman had this name after the first was placed in an indefinite slumber after hiding the Triforce of Wisdom from her brother, the king. FTP, name this Hyrulian woman, helped by generations of men, all named Link.Answer: Zelda20.	The only scenery is a tree, leafless in Act I, and with leaves in Act II.  The monotony of the main characters' exchanges is interrupted only by the appearances of Pozzo and Lucky, and they never actually carry out their frequent decisions to leave.  FTP, name this Samuel Beckett play featuring Vladimir and Estragon.Answer: Waiting for Godot (En attendant Godot) 21.	It was invented by a student in Paris in 1824 and quickly accepted by his peers.  However, it was not officially adopted in the English-speaking world until 1932, when agencies for the target populations in Great Britain and the United States sent representatives to meet in London.  FTP, name this code of 63 characters, each of which is composed of one to six raised dots, designed for blind people.Answer:  Braille22.	Its name is given to a nervous and respiratory disease found primarily in chickens.  Taken as one word, it is the name given to a town on the coast of New South Wales.  As two words, it is the name of cities in western Pennsylvania, eastern Indiana, and the northernmost county in Delaware.  FTP, name this English city to which, in the board game Eurorails, you can actually get paid for taking coals.Answer:  Newcastle or New Castle23.	Born in Rye, New York on 19 August 1902, he wrote 19 books of poetry during the course of his life.  In addition to his poetry, he co-wrote the musical comedy One Touch of Venus with S.J. Perelman and Kurt Weill.  FTP, name this poet noted for his collections Versus and You Can't Get There From Here.Answer:  Frederic Ogden Nash24.	Born on 10 April 1941 in Medford, Massachusetts, many of his works have been influenced by his time spent as an expatriate.  Much of the background for novels such as Girls at Play, Jungle Lovers, and Saint Jack has come from his experience as a teacher in Malawi, Uganda, and Singapore.  FTP, name this American writer known for the novel Mosquito Coast and the nonfiction works The Great Railway Bazaar:  By Train Through Asia and The Kingdom by the Sea.Answer:  Paul Theroux
BONI - U. OF THE SOUTH (with help from Chicago)			SWORD BOWL 2001 - UTC1.  It is the third-most abundant element in the Earth's crust.  FTSNOP, answer these questions about aluminum.A.  (10) Most aluminum is derived from this ore.Answer:  bauxiteB.  (10) Aluminum received its name in 1907 from this British scientist.Answer:  Sir Humphry DavyC.  FFPE, name (in either order) the process for deriving alumina from bauxite, and the process for deriving aluminum from alumina.Answers:  Bayer; Hall-Heroult2.  Identify the author from works, 30-20-10.(30) Vewe of the State of Ireland and Amoretti and Epithalamion (20) The Shepheardes Calendar and Daphnaida(10) Complaints and The Faerie QueeneAnswer:  Edmund Spenser3. This bonus will test your knowledge of the three Punic Wars.  FTPE:A.  He commanded the Carthaginian forces during the First Punic War.Answer:  Hamilcar BarcaB.  The last major battle of the Second Punic War occurred at Zama in 202 B.C., where Hannibal's army was defeated by the forces of this Roman general.Answer:  Scipio Africanus Major (prompt on partial answer)C.  The Third Punic War ended in 146 B.C., when the Roman forces, led by this commander, captured the citadel at Carthage.Answer:  Scipio Africanus Minor (prompt on partial answer)4.  They are spoken on every continent by half the people in the world today.  FTSNOP, answer the following questions about Indo-European languages.A.  (5) This branch includes Latin, Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Romanian.Answer:  Italic or RomanceB.  (5) This branch includes German, Dutch, and English.Answer:  GermanicC.  (10) This branch includes Russian, Polish, Czech, and Bulgarian.Answer:  SlavicD.  (10) This branch includes Lithuanian and Latvian.Answer:  Baltic5. 	5-10-15, identify the following achievements of Roman artists and architects.A.  This 4-story amphitheater, built between A.D. 72 and 82, supported by Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian columns, seated approximately 50,000.Answer:  ColosseumB.  The bronze equestrian statue of this Roman emperor who reigned from 161 to 180 was preserved by early Christians, who believed it was a representation of Constantine.Answer:  Marcus AureliusC.  Built between A.D. 114 and 117, the Arch of this Roman emperor who preceded Hadrian stands in Benevento.Answer:  Trajan
6. FTPE, identify the act or agency created during the New Deal era.A.  During FDR's presidency, stock exchanges were placed under the regulation of this commission.Answer:  Securities and Exchange CommissionB.  This agency is involved with the insurance of bank deposits.Answer:  Federal Deposit Insurance CorporationC.  This act established a minimum wage and maximum-hour limitations, and outlawed child labor in interstate commerce.Answer:  Fair Labor Standards Act 7. Identify the following African-American writers FTPE.A.  Besides being a patron for a whole generation of African-American women writers, she achieved critical success for the black suburb modeled on Dante's Hell in Linden Hills, but is better known for the novel The Women of Brewster Place.Answer: Gloria NaylorB.  His novel Invisible Man tells the tale of a young man's search for acceptance in the South.Answer:	Ralph EllisonC.  His works, which include Go Tell it on the Mountain, Giovanni's Room, and Another Country, deal with homosexuality and race relations.Answer:  James Baldwin8. Run away, run away!  Too late, you have failed to escape these ten-point questions on Monty Python and the Holy Grail.A.  In the first scene, the film establishes that King Arthur is not riding a horse, but is having his servant Patsy bang two pieces of this fruit together to simulate the sound of hoof-beats.Answer:  coconutsB.  Later on, Sir Galahad is saved from "almost certain temptation" at the hands of eight-score young blondes and brunettes who reside in this castle.Answer:  Castle AnthraxC.  Towards the end of the movie, King Arthur and the boys encounter an enchanter.  There are those who call him by this name.Answer:  Tim9.  FTPE, answer the following questions about learning theory.A.  Name the Russian psychologist who studied the flow of dogs' saliva in response to food and a bell.Answer:  Ivan PavlovB.  Pavlov's experiment is an example of this form of conditioning, in which one comes to associate a response with a stimulus.Answer:  classical conditioningC.  Name this other form of conditioning, which differs from classical conditioning in that it involves the reinforcement of a natural response.Answer:  operant conditioning10. Name the following dietary supplements from clues FTPE.[a] Widely prescribed in Europe, this herb, Hypericum perforatum, is used as a treatment for mild to moderate depression.Answer:  St. John's wort[b] Long used in folk medicine as an aphrodisiac, this plant of the genus Panax is said to increase energy and blood flow.  Varieties include Siberian and Korean.Answer:  Ginseng[c] This blue-green algae contains many vitamins and minerals and is believed to reduce cholesterol levels.Answer:  Spirulina 
11.  FTSNOP, answer the following questions concerning the works of Giovanni Boccaccio.A.  (5) The frame story for this masterpiece of 100 stories is set in Florence during the Black Death.Answer:  The DecameronB.  (10) In 1372, Boccaccio completed a biography, a Little Tractate in praise of this 14th-century Florentine writer.Answer:  Dante AlighieriC.  (15) When Shakespeare wrote this play, he was influenced by Boccaccio's FilostratoAnswer:  Troilus and Cressida12.  They occur because of some kind of disturbance.  FTPE, answer the following questions concerning waves.A.  In this type of wave, vibrations happen in the direction of wave motion.Answer:  longitudinal waveB.  This type of wave involves vibrations occurring perpendicular to the direction of the wave.Answer:  transverse waveC.  This wave occurs when two waves with the same wavelength and amplitude head in opposite directions.Answer:  standing wave13. Identify these terms from American History FTPE[10] John L. O'Sullivan's 1839 claim that Americans were inevitably to cross the entire continent and dominate it.Answer: Manifest Destiny[10] For John Winthrop, the "only way to avoid shipwreck and provide for our posterity" was to establish this in New England.Answer: City upon a Hill[10] Coined by Thorstein Veblen, this is the acquisition and display of expensive items to attract attention to one's wealth, real or otherwise.Answer: conspicuous consumption14. Identify the author from works, 30-20-10.        (30) Beneath the Wheel and Journey to the East        (20) Magister Ludi, or The Glass Bead Game        (10) Siddhartha, Demian and Steppenwolf        Answer:  Hermann Hesse15.  Identify early geographers from clues FTPE.A.  Using a measured longitudinal arc as a basis, this Greek attempted to determine the Earth's circumference.Answer:  EratosthenesB.  In his 17-volume work Geography, he described the world that he knew.Answer:  StraboC.  In spite of significant errors, the conclusions made by this Alexandrian were widely accepted until the 16th century.Answer:  Claudius Ptolemy of Alexandria16.  5-10-15, identify the type of chemical bond from the description.A.  This type of bond occurs when the atoms share the available outer electrons.Answer:  covalent bondB.  This type of bond, approximately 5 percent as strong as a covalent bond, involves the attraction of a hydrogen atom to a center of negative charge.Answer:  hydrogen bondC.  This weak bond involves the attraction between molecules as a result of the interaction of dipoles.Answer:  Van der Waals bond
17.  We will now repair to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where you will be asked the following questions about its history FTPE.A.  After the Congo's independence from Belgium in 1960, Joseph Kasavubu became president and this man was made premier.Answer:  Patrice LumumbaB.  In 1970, the Popular Movement for the Revolution, led by this dictator, was made the only legal party in Zaire.Answer:  Mobutu Sese SekoC.  In 1997, Mobutu was overthrown and replaced by this man.Answer:  Laurent Kabila18. Identify the following concerning an African political theorist, FTPE.[10] Born in Martinique in 1925, this man studied psychiatry before joining the Algerian Nationalist Movement, later becoming a renowned revolutionary thinker.  Name him.  Answer: Frantz Fanon[10] Published in 1963, this work of Fanon's contains a lengthy study of mental disorders in oppressed subjects, and advocates violence as necessary for liberation.Answer: The Wretched of the Earth[10] The preface to The Wretched of the Earth was written by this French existential philosopher, also known for sharing his mistress with Chicago writer Nelson Algren.Answer: Jean-Paul Sartre19. You will now be asked to identify the following programs that were cancelled by UPN FTPE.A.  In this series, which aired from 1995 to 1996, the hero, portrayed by Bruce Greenwood, did battle with a sinister conspiracy.Answer:  Nowhere ManB.  This short-lived series featured doctors saving lives in a hospital in outer space.Answer:  Mercy PointC.  This controversial sitcom depicted the Lincoln White House as seen through the eyes of a black servant.Answer:  The Secret Diary of Desmond Pfeffer 20. FTPE, answer the following questions dealing with medieval music.A.  Plainsong became widespread in Christianity largely thanks to this pope who reigned from 590 to 604, for whom a chant is named.Answer:  Gregory I (the Great)B.  This musical form developed as a result of giving new words, in Latin or French, to some parts while the tenor kept the original Latin.Answer:  motetC.  This composer wrote his treatise Ars nova c. 1323.Answer:  Philippe de Vitry21. FTPE, given the clues, identify the Chinese dynasty.A.  This dynasty ruled China from 206 B.C. to A.D. 220.Answer:  Han dynastyB.  Under this dynasty, which ruled from A.D. 618 until 906, China reached the height of its power.Answer:  T'ang dynastyC.  This dynasty, defeated by the invading Manchus, was the last indigenous dynasty to rule China.Answer:  Ming dynasty
22. FTPE, given the clues, identify the Caribbean country.A.  A French-speaking country occupying the western third of Hispaniola, whose capital is Port-au-Prince.Answer:  HaitiB.  A nation first sighted by Columbus in 1492 whose highest point is Duarte Peak and which occupies the eastern two thirds of Hispaniola.Answer:  Dominican RepublicC.  An English-speaking island nation in the Lesser Antilles whose capital is Roseau.Answer:  Dominica23.	Today, they make up the largest Native American tribe in the United States.  FTPE, answer these questions about the history of the Navajo.A.  In 1863, most Navajo were rounded up by militiamen under the command of this colonel.Answer:  Kit CarsonB.  After being captured, the Navajo were detained for four years at this New Mexico fort.Answer:  Fort SumnerC.  In 1923, this council was formed as a means of dealing collectively with the whites.Answer:  Navajo Tribal Council24.	Identify the Pauline letters from the following descriptions FTPE.A.  Paul warns against viewing the Second Coming as an excuse for sinning in this letter.Answer:  Epistle to the ThessaloniansB.  Paul probably wrote this epistle while a prisoner in Ephesus; in this one he espouses a philosophy of self-emptying love.Answer:  Epistle to the PhilippiansC.  In this, his longest letter, Paul argues that salvation comes from faith, not from adhering to human values.Answer:  Epistle to the Romans25.	Given the following clues, answer the following questions about the telescope FTPE.A.  This type of telescope uses lenses and is often used for the study of moons and planets.Answer:  refractor telescopeB.  This type of telescope uses mirrors and is often employed for extragalactic studies.Answer:  reflector telescopeC.  This type uses both mirrors and lenses in an attempt to combine the advantages of the refractor and reflector telescopes.Answer:  catadioptric telescope