TOSSUPS - VANDERBILT					SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Matt Keller, Robert Trent, Tony McCall, and Sarah Tiggelaar, with strays from Yale B, Bryn Mawr, Ben Gross, Boston University, Rochester, and Columbia1.	His original surname was given as Kutznaer, as his father was from Bremen.  He pretends to be married to Susan Barton in J.M. Coetzee's novel Foe. He becomes a sugar plantation owner in Bahia, Brazil, but on September 1, 1651, he, like Alexander Selkirk, is shipwrecked.  FTP, who is this character from York, England, originally created by Daniel Defoe?	Answer:	Robinson Crusoe     2.	It is produced primarily in the zona fasiculata, with small amounts from the zona reticularis, and is required for the vascular response to catecholamines, decreases REM sleep, and inhibits collagen I synthesis.  It has three different anti-inflammatory effects, and strongly upregulates gluconeogenesis during fasting.  FTP name this hormone produced in the adrenal cortex that also has strong immunosuppressive properties, the most prevalent of the glucocorticoids.	Answer:	cortisol [sorry, not cortisone]3.	Memorable death scenes include Angel getting chopped up by a chainsaw in a hotel bathroom and Omar getting hanged from a helicopter.  Written by Oliver Stone and directed by Brian DePalma, it chronicles the rise and fall of the main character and his friend Manny in the Miami drug trade.  FTP, name this 1983 movie featuring the line "say hello to my little friend," and starring Al Pacino as Cuban hit man turned drug lord Tony Montana.	Answer:	Scarface4.	He defeated the rebellion of his nephew, Arthur I of Brittany, three years after excluding him to the throne.  After the death of Hubert Walter, he was excommunicated by Pope Innocent III for refusing to accept Stephen Langton as Walter's successor.  FTP name this youngest son of Eleanor of Aquitaine and Henry II, who after disagreements with barons and his allies' defeats by King Philip II of France was forced to sign the Magna Carta.	Answer:	King John I of England (aka John Lackland)5.	Born in Homer, Ohio, she earned an early living as a fortune teller before divorcing her husband and moving to New York.  With support from Cornelius Vanderbilt, she started a journal with her sister Tennessee, promoting progressive causes.  She remained in publishing for the rest of her life, but became more famous for a brief stint in politics. Running in 1872 as a member of the Equal Rights Party, this was FTP, which first female presidential candidate?	Answer:	Victoria Woodhull.(accept Victoria Claflin)6.	He was elected to the House of Commons in 1722 and held that post for 32 years.  He established friendly relations with the Yamacraw people, and after a 1734 trip to England, he returned to his colony with the Wesley brothers and a ban on rum and slavery.  He could not capture St. Augustine in two separate raids, but at the Battle of Bloody Marsh in the War of Jenkin's Ear, he defeated the Spanish.  FTP, name this founder of the colony of Georgia.	Answer:	James Oglethorpe7.	Though generally considered a law of physics, this law was also stated by Descartes as the 'law of sines.'  Valued for its predictive ability, the law follows from the boundary condition that a wave be continuous across a boundary.  Derivable from Fermat's Principle, FTP name the law that gives the relationship between angles of incidence and refraction for a wave impinging on an interface between two media with different indices of refraction.	Answer:	Snell's Law8.	Feminist critic Elizabeth Goldsmith dismissed its narrative as merely "a feminine voice disguising a homoerotic male voice."  Like most novels of its time, this epistolary work has a happy ending, as the title character is reunited and married with her long-lost love, Charles. However, it was both unconventional and controversial in its psychological analysis of female sexuality and its graphic descriptions of London brothels. Often considered the first pornographic work of English literature, this is, FTP, what 1749 novel, subtitled Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure and written by John Cleland?	Answer:	Fanny Hill: Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure9.	Very large and vertically developed, they exist as individual towers or form lines of towers called squall lines.  Due to vigorous convective updrafts , their tops can easily reach 39,000 feet or higher.  At lower levels, they consist mostly of water droplets while at higher elevations, ice crystals dominate.   FTP, name this type of cloud associated with powerful thunderstorms known as supercells.	Answer:	cumulonimbus clouds [sorry, can't accept or prompt on cumulus or nimbus]10.	The background is dominated by three archways, with another open archway behind the rightmost one.  In the lower right , two grieving women comfort each other, while another woman comforts two small children.  In the center, a man holds up three swords, to which three soldiers on the left raise their arms.  FTP, name this Jacques Louis David painting depicting three brothers chosen to defend Rome against the Curatii.	Answer:	The Oath of the Horatii11.	Martini is delusional. Sefelt and Frederickson are epileptics. Scanlon has fantasies of blowing things up. Intellectual Harding commits himself rather than confront his homosexuality. Billy Bibbitt, a shy, stuttering young man, fears his dominating mother, and is befriended by newcomer Randall McMurphy. These men are residents of Nurse Ratched's ward in-for 10 points-what novel by Ken Kesey?	Answer:	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest12.	As a college junior in 1998, he led the nation in tackles with 178.  The following year, he was named the Mountain-West Conference Player of the Year while playing safety and linebacker for the University of New Mexico.  After being drafted 9th overall, he was named the 2000 NFL Defensive Rookie of the Year, and was recently named to his fourth Pro Bowl in four seasons.  FTP, name this middle linebacker for the Chicago Bears. 	Answer:	Brian Urlacher13.	It is the primary force that eliminates prior love-objects or object-cathexes, but it is imperfectly successful, since these prior traits recur in the dream state. Sometimes called the "dream-censor", it reworks latent dream images through condensation or displacement. For ten points, identify this Freudian mechanism for eliminating threatening ideas.	Answer:  	repression14.	In the Tollens Test for this functional group, aqueous silver oxide reacts with them to form elemental silver and a carboxylic acid.  Reaction with acidic permanganate ion or chromate ion via the Jones oxidation can also yield carboxylic acids.  They can react with alcohols to form acetals, and borohydride or lithium aluminum hydride can reduce them to primary alcohols.  FTP name this type of organic compound with a terminal carbonyl group.	Answer:	aldehydes15.	On July 31, 1954, Achille Compagnoni and Lino Lacedelli made the first successful ascent to the mountain's summit after eight other expeditions had failed . The mountain is currently under Pakistani jurisdiction and is an almost regular ice cone. However, its official name comes from the second European to visit it. FTP name this mountain of the Karakoram range that is only surpassed by Mount Everest in height.	Answer:	Mt. Godwin Austen or K216.	He likes to eat human navels, and the only way to avoid him is to hide under a mosquito net. He is depicted with claws and a demon's head, and carries a drum. He thwarted the Mongol invasion of 1274 by sitting atop a cloud and throwing arrows at the fleet. For ten points, name this deity whose name is composed of the Japanese words for thunder and lightning, portrayed by Christopher Lambert in the wretched Mortal Kombat movie.	Answer: Raiden17.	Bert Vogelstein worked out the sequence of genetic alterations that lead to this disease, which is more correctly called a set of diseases.  Loss of function of the APC gene is the most common initiating event for it as caused by familial adenomatous polyposis, while faulty mismatch repair genes are to blame for the hereditary non-polyposis version.  FTP, name this disease of the lower GI tract that has been given much recent exposure thanks to Katie Couric's efforts after it killed her husband.	Answer:	colon cancer or colorectal cancer
18.	The ruling family of this dynasty was the Zhao (pron: Jow, rhymes with "cow") family.  They controlled less territory than the preceding dynasty, which the Shenzong emperor, egged on by his minister Wang Anshi, tried to rectify.  Eventually extinguished by Kublai Khan, this dynasty can be divided into a northern period at Kaifeng and a southern period at Hangzhou.  FTP, name this Chinese dynasty reigning from 960 to 1279 preceding the Yuan and succeeding the Tang.	Answer:	The Song dynasty19.	The Dramatis Personae lists two set of characters, one of which is titled "Actors of the Company." The Stepdaughter will run away but the moment cannot arrive yet ; hence she looks for the titular figure. She blames the Son for the Mother's refusal to accept her children who are not by the Father. The Manager dismisses the titular group at the end when the Son commits suicide, but ignorantly refers to its members as "people." FTP, name this numbered play that is subtitled A Comedy in the Making, by Luigi Pirandello. 	Answer:	Six Characters in Search of an Author (accept _Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore_)20.	Written between 1829 and 1830, this composition would later have a sequel, Leilo, which was far less successful.  This work, however, would bring program music to the front of the Romantic Period and introduce a forerunner to the leitmotif known as the idée fixe.  Made up of five movements, the story traces the love of a man for a woman who does not return his affection, his attempted suicide, and his opium-spurred dream of murder, execution, and trip to Hell.  FTP, name this masterpiece work by Hector Berlioz.	Answer:	 Symphonie Fantastique21.	It is the seat of both its namesake county and of Akershus County, and is located on the Aker River.  Attractions in this city of about 800,000 include Frogner Park, which contains about 150 sculptures by Gustav Vigeland, the Storting building, and Kon-Tiki Museum.  The 1952 Winter Olympics and the 1993 peace talks between the PLO and Israel were held here.  FTP, name this city where you can also find the Munch Museum, the capital of Norway.	Answer:	Oslo22.	Founded in 1953, this shop was America's first all-paperback bookstore. Two years later, the cofounders created their own publishing company of the same name. Although it has expanded over the years and its clientele has changed dramatically, one can still pretend to be a Beatnik and read through a copy of "Howl" at, FTP, what San Francisco bookstore founded by Peter D. Martin and Lawrence Ferlinghetti?Answer: The City Lights Bookstore 23.	Phil Marineau, its CEO, recently oversaw the examination of its $2 billion debt by Tony Alvarez of Warnaco Group. Its debt reorganization also featured a December 2003 agreement to sell low-cost product to Target in a brand called Signature. The company took off over 130 years ago when Jacob Davis wrote the founder about a way to place metal rivets to support the pockets in denim. For 10 points-name this apparel company based in San Francisco.	Answer:	Levi's or Levi-Strauss and Co.24.	This writer was born in Lyon, France, where he worked as a commercial and wartime pilot, until he was declared missing during World War 2.   One of his lesser known works was 1931's Vol de nuit (Night Flight).  However, he is better known for writing a popular children's fable for adults.  FTP, name this author of 1943's Le Petit Prince.	Answer:	Antoine (Marie Roger) de Saint-Exupéry25.	He is raised by Marfa and Grigory when left in their care by his mother Lizaveta.  Afflicted with epilepsy, he engages in many philosophical discussions with Ivan Fyodorovich.  Ivan's words stimulate him to murder. FTP, name this illegitimate son and murderer of the father Fyodor in Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov.	Answer:	Pavel Fyodorovich Smerdyakov 
BONI - VANDERBILT					SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Matt Keller, Robert Trent, Tony McCall, and Sarah Tiggelaar, with strays from Yale B, Bryn Mawr, Ben Gross, Boston University, Rochester, and Columbia1.	Name these folks whose offseason trades were overshadowed by the ARod-for-Manny debacle, 10 points each.[10]	The Cubs vastly improved their bullpen by signing two relief pitchers, one each from the Twins and Braves. Name either.		Answer:	Kent Mercker [Braves] or LaTroy Hawkins [Twins][10]	The Orioles signed this 2002 AL MVP to a six-year, $72 million contract.		Answer:	Miguel Tejada [the-HAH-duh][10]	Andy Pettitte left the Yankees [huzzah-Ed.] and returned to this team, signing a three-year, $31 million contract.		Answer:	Houston Astros [accept either][They jack their payroll higher, and they'd have to give up Nomar, whom many in Red Sox Nation see as the very soul of the team? Honestly, what the hell were the Sox thinking?-Ed.]2.	30-20-10 name the ancient Greek.[30] He was exiled after a complicated ordeal involving money stolen by a lieutenant of Alexander the Great, returned after Alex's death, then took poison to avoid capture.[20] He is rumored to have stuffed rocks in his mouth to improve his diction and overcome a speech impediment.  Orations given include On the Peace and On the False Legation.[10] He is best known for his Phillipic Orations that urged the Greeks to defend their land against Phillip II of Macedon.	Answer:	Demosthenes3.	Given the symbol and value, name the physical constant, FTPE:[10]   symbol: NA  value: 6.023*1023mol-1	Answer:	Avogadro constant[10]   symbol: h   value: 6.626*10-34Js	Answer:	Planck constant[10]symbol: k value: 1.381*10-23JK-1	Answer:	Boltzmann constant 4.	Name the Edgar Allan Poe stories FTPE:[10] A tenant becomes obsessed with a facial feature of his landlord. After murdering the landlord, he nearly gets away with the deed before a guilty conscience exposes him.	Answer:	The Tell Tale Heart[10] Plotting revenge for an insult done to his family, the main character lures his inebriated prey to his doom with a false promise of fine wine.	Answer:	The Cask of Amontillado[10] The narrator's roommate exonerates the man accused of a crime, and determines that the actual perpetrator was an orangutan	Answer:	The Murders in the Rue Morgue5.	Answer the following about a battle from the US Civil War FTSNOP.[5] This April 30-May 6, 1863 battle in Virginia is often considered Lee's greatest victory.	Answer:	Chancellorsville[5] This other commanding Confederate general at Chancellorsville was killed by his own men during a night reconnaissance.	Answer:	Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson[10] After Jackson's death, this Confederate general took over his troops.	Answer:	JEB Stuart[10] He commanded the almost 100,000 Union troops during the battle.	Answer:	Maj. Gen. Thomas Hooker
6.	Name these Jean-Paul Sartre plays from their female lead or leads, 10 points each.[10]	Ines and Estelle		Answer:	No Exit or Huis-clos or In Camera[10]	Electra and Clytemnestra		Answer:	The Flies or Les mouches[10]	Lizzie		Answer:	The Respectful Prostitute or La putain respecteuse7.	Did you ever get your gas laws all mixed up in chemistry classes?  Let's see if you can tell them apart...FTPE, name the gas law given a description.[10] If the pressure is the same, the ratio between the volume and temperature stays constant.	Answer:	Charles' law[10] Equal volumes of different gases all contain the same number of particles if they all have the same pressure and temperature.	Answer:	Avogadro's law[10] Pressure increases as the volume of gas decreases.  Pressure multiplied by volume remains constant if the temperature and number of particles remains constant.	Answer:	Boyle's law8.	Identify the architect given works on a 10-5 basis.[10] Hospital of the Innocents, or Foundling Hospital[5]   Dome of the Florence Cathedral	Answer:	Filippo Brunelleschi[10] Church of San Giorgio Maggiore in Venice[5]   Villa Rotonda	Answer:	Palladio or Andrea di Pietro[10] Walt Disney Concert Hall in LA[5]   Guggenheim Museum Bilbao	Answer:	Frank O Gehry9.	FTPE, answer these questions about caves and caverns.[10] This cave located in Kentucky is primarily made of limestone and serves as a popular tourist attraction since it is the largest known cave system in the world.	Answer:	Mammoth Cave[10] Located in southern New Mexico, this largest underground labyrinth yet discovered contain three levels.			Answer:	Carlsbad Caverns[10] Made famous by Felix Mendelssohn, this cave on the island of Staffa off Scotland's coast goes inland 200 ft.  . 	Answer:	Fingal's Cave10.	FTPE, answer the following questions about Egyptian mythology.[10] This falcon-headed god is associated with Lower Egypt and is the son of Isis and Osiris.	Answer:	Horus[10] This ibis headed god rules over magic and wisdom. He also serves as the scribe of the gods.	Answer:	Thoth[10] She is the goddess of the sky and consort of Geb .	Answer:	Nut11.	Identify the components of Baroque opera FTPE:[10] The free declamation of a single vocal line with a simple instrumental accompaniment for support.  The melody imitates speech patterns.	Answer:	recitative [re-sit-tah-TEEV; variant pronunciations OK] or monody[10] An elaborate solo vocal piece, usually accompanied by the orchestra.	Answer:	aria[10] Between a recitative and an aria, a short vocal solo having the melodic style but not the form of an aria.	Answer:	arioso
12.	Name these terms from the taxonomy of dinosaurs, 10 points each.[10]	In 1887 British scientist Harry Seeley divided all dinosaurs into two groups, based on the shape of their pelvic structure. Name either of those groups.		Answer:	saurischians [or lizard-hipped] or ornithischians [or bird-hipped][10]	Perhaps the most prominent saurischians were members of this group, which included bipedal carnivores such as Tyrannosaurus, Velociraptor, and Deinonychus. Its name comes from the Greek for "beast-footed."		Answer:	theropods[10]	Though not technically dinosaurs, these flying reptiles were part of the same subclass, Ornithodira. They have their own pair of suborders, Pterodactyloidea, or "wing-finger," and Rhamphorhynchoidea, or "prow-beaks."		Answer:	pterosaurs13. 	Given some lyrics from a fairly recent hit, name the song FTPE.  You'll get five each if you need the artist who performed it.[10] "Someday I'll fly, someday I'll soar, someday I'll be so damn much more."[5]    John Mayer	Answer:	Bigger Than My Body[10] "I see your fantasy, you want to make it a reality paved in gold.  See inside, inside of our heads, yeah, well now that's over."[5]    Trapt	Answer:	Headstrong[10] "We're only humans girl we make mistakes, to make it up I do whatever it take.  I love you like a fat kid loves cake."[5]    50 cent	Answer:	21 Questions14. Given a quote, name the character from King Lear that utters it, FTP each.[10] "I love your majesty / According to my bond; nor more nor less."	Answer:	Cordelia  [10] "O nuncle, court holy-water in a dry / house is better than this rain-water out o' door."	Answer:	Lear's Fool  [10] "All dark and comfortless. Where's my son Edmund?"	Answer:	the Earl of Gloucester [GLAH-stir]15.	 Answer the following about Kenyan politics FTPE:[10] What ruler of Kenya was replaced by Emilio Mwai Kibaki in 2002, after holding power since 1978?	Answer:	Daniel Arap Moi[5,5] Moi attempted to appoint as his successor what son of the first president of Kenya? Five points each for first and last name.	Answer:	Uhuru Kenyatta[10] Kibaki and the Kenyattas both belong to what dominant ethnic group in Kenya?	Answer:	Kikuyu16.	Identify the basic rock type given examples of that basic rock type on a 10-5 basis.  For example, given 'basalt', you would say, 'igneous'.  [10] Graywacke, chert[5] Limestone	Answer:	sedimentary[10] Andesite, diabase[5] Granite	Answer:	igneous[10] Breccia, rhyolite[5] Dolomite	Answer:	sedimentary
17.	Name the artists of these modern art pieces FTP each.[10] Bird in Space	Answer:	Constantin Brancusi[10] Unique Forms of Continuity in Space	Answer:	Umberto Boccioni[10] Bride Stripped Bare by her Bachelors, Even	Answer:	Marcel Duchamp18.	30-20-10. Name the author from works.[30]	Poetics, Picture This, Good sas Gold[20]	No Laughing Matter, God Knows, Something Happened[10]	Closing Time, We Bombed in New Haven, Catch-22		Answer:	Joseph Heller19. 	Name the eukaryotic biological process from descriptions 30-20-10.[30] The TATA-box Binding Protein's 'C' terminal binds to the minor groove through mostly Van der Waals interactions.[20] TBP binds with general initiation factors to form the downstream portion of the ternary complex and fixes the start site.[10] The RNA polymerase holoenzyme forms an open complex and RNA begins to form. 	Answer:	transcription20.	Name these Secretaries of the Navy, 10 points each.[10]	He succeeded Frank Knox as Secretary in 1944. Truman later named him the first Secretary of Defense.		Answer:	James Vincent Forrestal[10]	Secretary of the Navy during the Civil War, he was responsible for implementing the blockades of the Anaconda Plan.		Answer:	Gideon Welles[10]	In 1798 this man became the first Secretary of the Navy.		Answer:	Benjamin Stoddert21.	Given a ruling family dynasty, name the first official leader (king, czar, etc.) of that house FTPE.  For example, if I said Stuarts, you'd say James I.[10] Romanov Dynasty	Answer:	Michael[10] House of Savoy-Carignano	Answer:	Victor Emmanuel II or Vittorio Emanuele II[10] Valois Dynasty	Answer:	Philip VI22.	Examples include automobiles and steel production. 10 points each.[10]	Name this type of market in which only a few large firms sell.		Answer:	oligopoly [accept word forms][10]	In this usually illegal practice, firms in an oligopoly may discuss practices and set policies and prices to increase profit at the consumers' expense.		Answer:	collusion [accept word forms][10]	Because oligopolies face a kinked demand curve, this curve, which helps determine the point at which profits are maximized, becomes discontinuous.		Answer:	marginal revenue curve
23.	Name these physical processes, 10 points each.[10]	The escape of electrons from the surface of a sufficiently heated metal, in the absence of light.		Answer:	thermionic emission [THUR-mee-AH-nik] [accept word forms for all parts][10]	Transfer of heat without flow of the medium, by means of molecular vibrations and free electron diffusion.		Answer:	conduction[10]	The movement of particles away from one another in a longitudinal wave.		Answer:	rarefaction24.	Given the name of a US Military Operation not during a major war and the year it was carried out, identify the country in which it took place FTPE.[10] Operation Restore Hope, 1993	Answer:	Somalia[10] Operation Urgent Fury, 1983	Answer:	Grenada[10] Operation El Dorado Canyon, 1986	Answer:	Libya