TOSSUPS - TENNESSEE					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by UT and alums1. In between getting overshoes and puppy biscuits, he assists Drs. Remington, Renshaw, Benbow and Pirtchard-Mitford in treating millionaire banker Wellington McMillan, who is suffering from coreopsis.  Shortly afterward, this self-proclaimed crack shot finds himself on trial for the murder of Gregory Fitzhurst.  Later, he picks his wife up from the hairdressers, but will no doubt have further adventures in his fervid imagination.  FTP, identify this character who leads a "secret life" in a story by James Thurber.	Answer:	 Walter Mitty2.  Named for a 19th century British mathematician, they state that the negation of a logical conjunction is the disjunction of the negatives of the propositions and vice versa, i.e. not (P and Q) is equal to (not P) or (not Q) and not (P or Q) is equal to (not P) and (not Q).  FTP, what are these laws, often used in circuit design and computer programming to simplify complex logical statments?	Answer:	 DeMorgan's laws3. His opposition to reinstating John Barron led Barron to challenge him to a duel at Bladensburg, Maryland on March 22, 1820, during which he was mortally wounded.  He first rose to prominence in 1804 when he and his men slipped into Tripoli harbor and burned the captured U.S.S. Philadelphia.  During the War of 1812 he captured the British frigate Macedonian from aboard his flagship the United States.  FTP, identify this American naval hero famous for his toast, "Our country! In her intercourse with foreign nations may she always be in the right; but our country, right or wrong!"	Answer:	 Stephen Decatur4. It was named in 1981 by psychiatrist Lorna Wing for an Austrian psychiatrist whose work on the subject was at the time not well-known.  About 75% of patients are male, and this has led some psychologists to say that those diagnosed with it are simply men whose brains are on the far end of the spectrum of male-female brain differences.  FTP, what is this disorder related to autism in which patients have difficulty understanding emotions , often characterized by intense interest in subjects such as trains or dinosaurs?	Answer:	 Asperger's Syndrome5. This country has had many names in its history, including Taprobane, Lankadweepa (from which its Internet domain .lk is derived), and Serendib (which it's called in the Arabian Nights).  Ethnic violence broke out there in 1983 and continued until a cease-fire, mediated by Norway, was agreed to in 2001 by the government and the Tamil rebels.  FTP, what is this island nation, formerly Ceylon, whose south and east coasts were devastated by the December 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami?	Answer:	 Sri Lanka
6. According to tradition, a shrine was first established here in 616 on a site then known as Thorney Island. It was said to have been miraculously consecrated after a fisherman on the River Thames saw a vision of Saint Peter. Built by Edward the Confessor between 1045-1050, its two western towers were built between 1722 and 1745 by Sir Christopher Wren and Nicholas Hawksmoor.  FTP, identify this London landmark site of the coronation of English monarchs since William the Conqueror.	Answer:	 Westminster Abbey7. He played Spider, the young bartender in Goodfellas who gets his foot shot by Joe Pesci's character.  He also must be a favorite of Spike Lee because he's appeared in Jungle Fever, Malcolm X, Clockers, and, as Scary Caller #30, in Girl 6.  His most famous role has been seen him play an aspiring screenwriter and heroin addict, who just happens to be a member of the New Jersey mob.  FTP, name this actor who plays Christopher Moltisanti on The Sopranos.	Answer:	 Michael Imperioli8. The real military influence behind the winner's success at this battle was Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa.  As commander of the left wing, he helped Octavian's fleet of small, maneuverable ships to contain the large fleet of Marc Antony and Cleopatra, until they fled from the battle and their remaining ships surrendered.  FTP name this September 2, 31 B.C. naval battle which resulted in the consolidation of Octavian's supremacy in Roman rule.	Answer:	 Actium
9. Though this author was born in 1828, his first book, Five Weeks in a Balloon, was not published until 1863.  That first work was quickly followed by others, however, and by 1874 he had written some of the most famous French novels ever, including Mysterious Island, From the Earth to the Moon, and Journey to the Center of the Earth.  FTP, who is this author, probably best known for the adventure novels Around the World in Eighty Days and 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea?	Answer:	 Jules Verne10.	It has raised concerns as a "greenhouse gas", especially when it's emitted as a byproduct from the manufacture of nylon.  It is prepared commercially by the thermal decomposition of ammonium nitrate, which must be controlled carefully to prevent explosive decomposition.  Like oxygen, it was discovered but not fully understood by Joseph Priestley; it was left to Sir Humphry Davy to determine its properties.  A colorless gas with a slightly sweet taste and odor, it is used in certain canned pressurized foods such as whipped cream, and as an anesthetic.  FTP name this compound, commonly called "laughing gas."	Answer:	nitrous oxide or N 2 O; do not accept nitric oxide11. According to the Emerald Tablet of Hermes it is produced using the following order of steps: Calcination, Dissolution, Separation, Conjunction, Fermentation, Distillation, Coagulation.  First mentioned by Zosimos the Theban in the third century, it has been associated with the Salt of the World, the Astral Body, the Elixir, and even Jesus Christ.  It has been known by several names, including the"materia prima" and the "magnum opus".  FTP, what is this medicinal substance from alchemy which could, among other things, transform base metals into gold?	Answer:	 Philosopher's Stone (grudgingly ask for more info if they say "Sorcerers's Stone")
12. 	The fighting was most intense around Khe Sanh [kay sahn], which was not officially relieved until early April.  Because American attention was already focused on Khe Sanh, the attacks on several major southern cities caught the defenders off guard, though only Hue [hway] saw any significant NVA success.  Tactically a failure, it had more impact than even the North Vietnamese expected because it burst the bubble of American overconfidence.  FTP name this offensive launched Jan. 31, 1968, the first day of the Vietnamese New Year celebration. 	Answer:	Tet Offensive [prompt on early buzz with Vietnam War, but only before "Tactically a failure..."]13. Of his work this artist said: "There is no accident, just as there is no beginning and no end."  It has been suggested that he was influenced by Native American sand paintings, made by trickling thin lines of colored sand onto a horizontal surface. His works include The She Wolf and Shimmering Substance, both housed at the MOMA in New York.  FTP, name this artist who studied under Thomas Hart Benton and who pioneered his own brand of Abstract Expressionism known as "Action Painting."	Answer:	 Jackson Pollock14. Those with half-integral spin, including the proton and neutron, are known as baryons.  Those with integral spin, including the pion and kaon, are known as mesons.  FTP, what are these particles, which experience the strong nuclear force and are composed of quarks, antiquarks, and gluons?	Answer:	 hadrons15. This novel contains 18 books, each with 9-14 chapters.  Each chapter has an amusing title, such as "Religious Cautions Against Showing Too Much Favour to Bastards; and a Great Discovery Made by Mrs. Deborah Wilkins," "Containing Such Grave Matter, That the Reader Cannot Laugh Once Through the Whole Chapter, Unless Per-adventure He Should Laugh at the Author" and "A Short Sketch of That Felicity Which Prudent Couples May Extract from Hatred: with a Short Apology for Those People Who Overlook Imperfections in Their Friends." FTP, identify this novel, whose characters include Mr. Blifil and Squire Allworthy, and which was written by Henry Fielding.	Answer:	 The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling16. Reigning from circa 871-852 BCE, this son of Omri, successfully defended Israel against Damascus and is the first Israelite to be mentioned in the Assyrian records.  With the King of Judah he made war against the Arameans, but was injured and bled to death in his chariot. According to the Old Testament, when his chariot was cleaned after the battle, dogs gathered to lick his blood, thereby fulfilling a prophecy of the prophet Elijah.  FTP, identify this King, husband of Jezebel, namesake of the captain of the Pequod.	Answer:	 Ahab
17. This film is based upon the novel D'Entre les Morts, which was written specifically for its director by co-authors Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac.  Its director invented the famous combination forward zoom and reverse tracking shot for this film in order to convey a sense of dizziness to the audience.  Appearing on Sight and Sound's 1982, 1992 and 2002 polls as one of the Top 10 greatest films of all time, it tells the story of Detective Scottie Ferguson who is hired by Gavin Elster to follow his wife Madeleine.  FTP, name this Hitchcock film which stars Jimmy Stewart as Ferguson, who suffers from the title condition.	Answer:	 Vertigo18.  He earned instant notoriety from the riots at the premieres of his early nihilistic works, notably Baal and Drums in the Night.  Beginning with 1926's Mann Ist Mann, he developed a style intended to distance the audience from the work and thus make it more thought-provoking, a style he called "epic theater."  FTP name the author of Mother Courage and Her Children, The Good Woman of Szechuan, The Caucasian Chalk Circle, and (with Kurt Weill) The Threepenny Opera. 	Answer:	Bertolt Brecht19. Lesions on it usually result in a hoarse voice, but may also cause difficulty in swallowing or talking. True to its name's Latin origins, this nerve "wanders" from the brain stem through organs in the neck, thorax and abdomen, enervating the gastrointestinal tract, heart and larynx. FTP, name this 10th and longest of the cranial nerves, which you may want to keep sharp should you head west to gamble.	Answer:	 Vagus20. In 1830, the Plymouth district unexpectedly elected him to the House of Representatives  In 1848, he collapsed on the floor of the House from a stroke and was carried to the Speaker's Room, where two days later he died.  At age 26 he was appointed Minister to the Netherlands, then promoted to the Berlin Legation. In 1802 he was elected to the United States Senate. Six years later President Madison appointed him Minister to Russia and in 1817 Monroe appointed him Secretary of State.  FTP, name this statesman, son of the 2nd president of the U.S.	Answer:	 John Quincy Adams21. It's the name of the Honolulu home built by Doris Duke in 1937.  It's the name of a recent album by Mark Knopfler.  It's the name of a Ray Davies song performed by The Kinks.  It was the name given in 1942 to the presidential retreat later renamed Camp David.  FTP, what is this mythical, Eden-like place, created by James Hilton in his novel Lost Horizon?	Answer:	 Shangri-la 22. The mother of Parthenopaeus, she was ultimately punished for her impiety by being transformed into a lion.  She is often depicted as a huntress or athlete in classical art, in part because of her involvement in the Calydonian boar hunt.  Later her father prevented her from marrying by requiring suitors to beat her in a foot-race, which she always won.  For ten points, what is the name of this heroine who was tricked into marrying Hippomenes, because she stopped running to pick up the golden apples he threw at her feet?	Answer:	 Atalanta 
23. The Mid-Atlantic ridge runs right through it, and this unusual geologic condition led to its historical significance.  The combination of smooth plains and a sharp rocky cliff made it perfect as an assembly place where a speaker could be heard by a large crowd, and so it was chosen in 930 AD as the site for the Althing to meet.  FTP, what is this geographically and culturally significant national park, home to the Icelandic parliament for over 800 years?	Answer:	 Thingvellir (The "th" in both Thingvellir and Althing are really a letter that doesn't exist in English, so be accepting about other pronunciations.)
BONI - TENNESSEE					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by UT and alums1. FTPE, name the mythological figure from the Trojan War: a. To avoid the war, he feigned insanity by sowing his fields with salt.	Answer: Odysseus (Ulysses)b. He almost sacrificed his own daughter Iphigenia so the Greeks could sail to Troy.	Answer: Agamemnonc. Achilles removed himself from battle until Hector killed this man who was wearing Achilles' armor.	Answer: Patroclus2. Every January, Discover Magazine lists the top 100 science stories for the preceding year. Answer these questions related to those stories for 2004.a.. Story #2: The Ansari X-Prize was awarded to Mojave Aerospace for their successful consecutive flights of what vessel?	Answer:	 SpaceshipOneb. Story #19: 2004 marked the discovery of two new heavy elements with atomic numbers 113 and 115. Based on those numbers, give the IUPAC temporary name for EITHER of these two new elements:	Answer:	 ununtrium OR ununpentiumc. Story #23: Caltech's Mike Brown announced the discovery of this "almost-planet", the farthest and coldest object as yet discovered in our solar system.	Answer:	 Sedna3. FTPE, answer these questions from 19th century Chinese history.a. Under the terms of this treaty ending the First Opium War, China ceded the island of Hong Kong to the British; abolished the licensed monopoly system of trade; opened 5 ports to British residence and foreign trade; and granted British nationals exemption from Chinese laws	Answer:	 Treaty of Nanjing or Nankingb. Supported by ultraconservatives and with the tacit support of the political opportunist Yuan Shikai , this Empress Dowager engineered a coup d'etat on September 21, 1898, forcing the young reform-minded Emperor Guangxu into seclusion. She took over the government as regent, rescinded the Hundred Days' Reform, and privately encouraged the Boxers to rebel in 1900.	Answer:	 Ci Xi or Tzu Shic. The 1895 Treaty of Shimonoseki forced China to cede Taiwan and the Penghu Islands to this nation.	Answer:	  Japan4. Identify these American authors from works on a 10-5 basis.a. (10) "Threnody" (1846)    (5) "Representative Men"
	Answer:	 Ralph Waldo Emersonb. (10) "A Yankee in Canada" (1866)     (5) Walden	Answer:	 Henry David Thoreauc. (10) "Summer on the Lakes in 1843"     (5) Woman in the Nineteenth Century (1856)	Answer:	 Margaret Fuller Ossoli5. Name these opera composers from works FTPE:(10) La Traviata, Aida	Answer:	 Giuseppe Verdi(10) The Elixir of Love, Lucia di Lammermoor	Answer:	 Gaetano Donizetti(10) Peter Grimes, Billy Budd	Answer:	 Benjamin Britten6. Name these physics equations FTPE:a) In an irrotational fluid, the sum of the static pressure, the weight of the fluid per unit mass times the height, and half the density times the velocity squared is constant throughout the fluid.	Answer:	Bernoulli's Equationb) For steady-state heat conduction in one dimension, the temperature distribution is the solution to this equation, which states that the second derivative of temperature with respect to displacement is zero;	Answer: 	Laplace 's equationc) There are seven variables in this equation for estimating the number of intelligent, technological species in existence in our Galaxy.  Unfortunately, we only have a reliable value for one of them so far, the rate of stars formed per year.	Answer:	Drake equation7. FTPE, answer these questions about Colonial-era Americaa. What was the name of the colony founded in 1624 and first headed by Cornelius Jacobsen May?	Answer:	 New Netherlands [sorry, not New Amsterdam - that was a city within it]a. The Fundamental Orders, adopted in 1638, served as a Constitution and created a General Assembly for what colony?	Answer:	 Connecticutb. Banished from Massachusetts in 1636, this man went to Narragansett Bay and established Rhode Island.	Answer:	 Roger Williams
8. They have HOW many people?  Name these countries you might not have realized are in the top 20 by population from their rank on the list, population and general location for 10 pts each.  You'll get 5 pts if you need the country's capital.a. (10 pts) Number 9 on the list, population 133,448,210, West Africa.     (5 pts) Abuja	Answer:	 Nigeriab. (10 pts) Number 12 on the list, population 84,619,974, Pacific Ocean.    (5 pts) Manila	Answer:	 Philippinesc. (10 pts) Number 18 on the list, population 66,557,553, East Africa.    (5 pts) Addis Ababa	Answer:	 Ethiopia9. It is the duty of an author to expose lies and to lay down the truth. FTPE, identify the authors of the following works with "lay" or "lie" in the titles.a. Play it As It Lays	Answer:	 Joan Didionb. As I Lay Dying	Answer:	 William Faulknerc. Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Answer:	 Al Franken 10. This round was co-written by two computer scientists and we'd be remiss if we didn't include at least one question about computers. FTPE name these operating systems:a. Many in the open source software community are expecting that, in the long run, this operating system developed from a kernel written by a Danish tinkerer and utilities from the GNU project will be a Microsoft Windows killer. Its logo is a Penguin named "Tux".	Answer:	 Linux (or GNU/Linux for the really nerdy)b. When AT&T permitted universities to use and extend the source code to their UNIX operating system, students at UC Berkeley used the software as a research base and eventually replaced virtually all parts of AT&T Unix, creating this operating system. Its descendants are available for free with prefixes such as "Net". "Free", and "Open. Its logo is a little red demon with a pitchfork.	Answer:	 BSD OR Berkeley Software DistributionSun Microsystems gives this name to the current flavor of their Unix SunOS operating system. It shares its name with a novel by Stanislav Lem, a video game for the Atari 2600, and a supervillain in the DC comics universe. Its logo is its name with a sun shining over it.	Answer:	 Solaris
11. Martin Luther was not the only memorable figure from the Reformation. Identify these, FTPE.a. A professor of Greek at the University of Wittenberg when he met Luther, he served as mediator between Luther and the Humanists, tempering the Protestant disapproval of worldly culture. At the Diet of Augsburg (1530) he wrote and presented the Augsburg Confession.	Answer:	 Phillip Melanchthon
b. Founder of the Reformation in Zurich, Switzerland, he had a falling out with Luther over the meaning of the Eucharist.  He was killed at the Battle of Kappel in 1531.	Answer:	 Ulrich or Huldreich Zwinglic. Using the teachings he expressed in his Spiritual Exercises, this man almost single-handedly launched the Counter Reformation, which was carried out by his order, the Jesuits.	Answer:	 Ignatius Loyola12. For each polyatomic ion, give its formula for 5 points each and its charge for another 5 points:a)  Nitrate	Answers:	N O-3; charge is minus one [accept equivalents]b)  Ammonium	Answers:	N H-4; charge is plus one [accept equivalents]c)  Dichromate	Answers:	Cr-2 O-7; charge is minus two [accept equivalents]13. FTPE, identify these figures from Arthurian legend.a. She was the Lady of the Lake and had a relationship with Merlin that lead her to seal him up in either a tree or a cave.	Answer:	 Viviane or Nimue or Ninianeb. A hero in Arthur's court, he had strength that increased from morning until noon, then declined thereafter.	Answer:	 Gawainc. In Thomas Malory's version, of the Arthurian tales Arthur slept with his half-sister Morgause, not knowing they were related and, as a result, this man was born	Answer:	 Mordred14. FTPE, identify these notable activists from the 1960'sa. At its first convention in the fall of 1966, the National Organization of women elected this woman to be their first president.  You may know her as the author of The Feminine Mystique.	Answer:	 Betty Friedanb. Born in Port of Spain, Trinidad, he joined the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and participated in the Freedom Rides, but grew disenchanted with Dr. King's nonviolent methods and launched the "Black Power" movement with a speech in 1966 and a the 1967 book Black Power, co-authored with Charles Hamilton.	Answer:	 Stokely Carmichael OR Kwame Tourec. In 1962 he founded the National Farm Workers Association, which later became the United Farm Workers.  He led the Delano grape strike, which gave the UFW its first major victory when, in 1970, grape growers agreed to accept union contracts.	Answer:	 Cesar Chavez
15. Name the NFL team from its 2004 placekicker, 5-10-20-30.  Your hint: all these teams made the playoffs.a)  David Akers	Answer:	Philadelphia and/or Eaglesb)  Adam Vinatieri	Answer:	New England and/or Patriotsc)  Ryan Longwell	Answer:	Green Bay and/or Packersd)  Nate Kaeding	Answer:	San Diego and/or Chargers 
16. Several noteworthy playwrights were working during the age of Shakespeare.  FTPE, name the Shakespearean-era author of:a. Volpone and The Alchemist	Answer:	 Ben Jonsonb. The Jew Of Malta and Edward II	Answer:	 Christopher Marlowec. The Sheep Well and The Foolish Lade	Answer:	 Lope Félix de Vega Carpio (prompt if they say "Vega", he is known and referred to by "Lope")17. Identify these art movements and/or artistic styles, FTPE.a. This name was given to a group of naturalist landscape painters who worked in the vicinity of a village on the outskirts of the Forest of Fontainebleu, southeast of Paris, in the 1840s and 1850s. Théodore Rousseau founded the group.	Answer:	 Barbizonb. This was a Neoclassical style, primarily in clothing and the decorative arts, prevalent in France during the first part of the nineteenth century and sort of named for Napoleon.	Answer:	 Empirec. A European art movement and style that developed between 1520 and 1600. It was a style that rejected the calm balance of the High Renaissance in favor of emotion and distortion.  El Greco may be its greatest exponent.	Answer:	 Mannerism18.	Name the oft-researched organism from a description, FTPE.a. This fruit fly was crucial to Thomas Hunt Morgan's investigations into genetics and heredity. 	Answer:	 Drosophila melanogaster b. This plant, commonly known as thale cress or mustard weed, is often used to study phototropism and chloroplast alignment. 	Answer:	 Arabidopsis thaliana c. This 1 millimeter-long nematode was the first multicellular organism to have its genome completely sequenced. 	Answer:	 C aenorhabditis elegans19. FTPE, identify these 3 great rulers from the Mughal Empire.a. This man founded the Mughal Empire in 1526	Answer:	 Zahir-ud-din Mohammad Babur [accept Babar]b. Considered the greatest of the Mughal emperors, he was ruler of the Mughal Empire from the time of his accession in 1556, following the Second Battle of Panipat, until his death in 1605.	Answer:	 Jalaluddin Muhammad Akbár the Greatc. Ruling from 1658-1707, this third son of emperor Shah Jahan promulgated -- often forcefully -- a didactic form of Islam. Unlike his more ecumenical predecessors, Aurangzeb dealt harshly with non-Muslims, most notably by reimposing the jizya (a tax on non-Muslims). 	Answer:	 Abul Muzaffar Muhiuddin Muhammad Aurangzeb Alamgir 20. The World Heritage Sites list was established by UNESCO in 1972 to recognize locations of great importance, either culturally or naturally, to the heritage of humankind. FTSNOP, name these examples from a brief description.1. (5 pts) This Philadelphia landmark appears on the back of the $100 bill, and, presumably, the $2 bill.	Answer:	 Independence Hall2. (10 pts) This Peruvian site was probably inhabited from about 1440 to 1532, but was then lost until 1911.	Answer:	 Machu Picchu3. (15 pts) This archaeological site in Newfoundland is the only known Viking settlement in North America.
	Answer:	 L'Anse aux Meadows
21. Identify these ancient mathematicians, FTPE.a. This mathematician of the third century B.C., possibly from Alexandria, was the author of such works as Optics, Data, and Elements, an extremely influential 13-book treatise on geometry and number theory.	Answer: 	Euclidb. This man mainly wrote commentaries on the works of other mathematicians, but is most well remembered for his namesake theorem relating the volume of a solid of revolution to its cross-sectional area.	Answer: 	Pappus (of Alexandria)c. This mathematician did much to further the study of hydrostatics and mechanics, creating machines to hinder the Roman siege of Syracuse around 212 B.C.	Answer: 	Archimedes22.	FTPE, identify these philosophical terms.a. Greek for (word", this term is used to describe the essence of the universe.  For example, for Heraclitus, who thought that the world is animated and kept in order by fire, the fire is called by this name.  Stoics called the law (or God) guiding the universe by this name.	Answer:	 Logosb. This term is used to describe any system of thought attempting to explain a series of events in terms of ends, goals, or purposes. It is opposed to mechanism, the theory that all events may be explained by mechanical principles of causation. An example of this methodology would be that because order in the world could not be accidental and since there is design, then there must be a designer, i.e. God.	Answer:	 Teleologyc. The branch of philosophy that is concerned with the nature of art and the criteria of artistic judgment. 	Answer:	 Esthetics or aesthetics23.	Given a unit of currency, name the country FTP each.1. Baht	Answer:	 Thailand2. Birr 	Answer:	 Ethiopia3. Bolivar	Answer:	 Venezuela