TOSSUPS - GEORGIA TECH A/BROWN	SWORD BOWL/PENN BOWL 2006 (UTC/Penn/Oklahoma/Drake)Questions by Georgia Tech A (Stephen Webb and Robert Scott) and Brown University (Jerry Vinokurov)1.   	(B) During the first stage of this process, IF-2 restricts the type of molecule that can participate and causes the hydrolysis of GTP. eIF-3 and eIF-6 maintain subunits in a dissociated state.  During the second stage, entry into the A site is mediated by elongation factors. Translocation results in the freeing of the A site, which can occur either when the 50S subunit moves relative to the 30S subunit, or when the tRNA moves relative to the ribosome. Completing when the ribosome reads UAA, UAG, or UGA, FTP, identify this process by which a ribosome synthesizes a polypeptide from mRNA.	Answer:	translation2.	(B) At the end of this work, the main character tells a young demonstrator about Napoleon and says that he has "never seen ploughing with such spirit." Also at the end, a denial of the request for milk motivates the generosity of James' grandson. Before returning to Ndotsheni, the main character quarrels with his brother John, who has left the Anglican church, and it is a letter from Theophilus Msimangu concerning the main character's sister Gertrude that prompts him to come to Johannesburg. It revolves around the murder of Arthur Jarvis by Mattew and Absalom, the son of Stephen Kumalo.  FTP, identify this most famous novel by Alan Paton.	Answer:	Cry, The Beloved Country3.	(B) The gable above its second north portal contains a relief of the Assumption by Nanni di Banco. The original design of this building was created in 1296 by Arnolfo di Cambio, although the main work was done under the direction of Francesco Talenti, who took over in 1343. The inside of its most famous feature contains frescoes by Giorgio Vasari, while another notable feature is a campanile completed by Andrea Pisano and begun by Giotto. Its most famous feature also used to house Donatello's Zuccone, and its baptistry's doors are the Gates of Paradise designed by Ghiberti. Located in Tuscany's capital city, FTP identify this Italian building best known for its dome designed by Brunelleschi.	Answer:	Florence Cathedral or Santa Maria del Fiore (or St. Mary of the Flowers)4.	(B) He was born in Naissaus, which is the modern day Ni? in Serbia. He was proclaimed emperor when his half-brother died in an expedition against the Picts and Scots. However not everybody agreed, as there were four claimants to the rank of emperor, so a series of wars ensued. Finally in 312 AD he defeated Maximius at the battle of Milvian Bridge, and soon after was the sole emperor in the west. In 324 he defeated Licinius to reunite the Roman Empire and declare himself the Augustus. For ten points, name this Roman Emperor, nicknamed the great, best known for being the "first Christian Emperor" and refounding the city of Byzantium.	Answer:	Constantine I or Constantine the Great 5.	Although appearing Caucasian, he has some African-American ancestry, and in a great ironic twist his wife's family owned his slave ancestor. He also was the subject of a sex change operation, or so he claimed, in which he acquired his first name from what he named his newfound member. A secessionist, he established his own nation inside the United States, and went to war by annexing Joehio [Joe-HIGH-owe]. For ten points, name this fictional character, whose spirit guide is the Fonz, and who is the patriarch of the Griffin family in Family Guy.	Answer:	Peter Griffin6.	Its name is derived from the phrase "narrow strait", referring to the short distance between the location and the nearby Helsingborg. Founded in the 1420s by Eric of Pomerania, the castle he built there in 1429 is the chief tourist attraction in this otherwise mundane Danish town. However, the town's international fame arises from a play written between 1600 and 1602, in which the town is overrun by the Norwegians under Prince Fortinbras. For ten points, name this Danish town, the setting for William Shakespeare's Hamlet.	Answer:	Elsinore7.	Francis P. Blair proposed that peace be restored by directing the attention of the Confederacy and the United States towards Emperor Maximilian in Mexico, but despite four hours of negotiation no progress was made. Taking place on board the River Queen in Newport News, Virginia, Lincoln and William Seward met with Alexander Stephens and various other Confederate officials on February 3, 1865. FTP name this meeting in which an inflexible Lincoln attempted to negotiate an end to the Civil War.	Answer:	Hampton Roads Conference
8.	(B) It took this man twelve years to attain kevala, and his eleven disciples were known as the ganadharas, of whom Jambu is believed to be the last person of the current age to attain enlightenment. His sermons are compiled in the Agam Sutras, and he was given the title of "Conqueror" or "Great Hero." Building on the teachings of his predecessor Parshvanatha, he created the five mahavratas, rules of conduct which included the renunciation of greed, sexual pleasure, and attachments to all things. Most famous for a rule forbidding the harming of living things known as ahimsa, for ten points, identify this twenty-fourth tirthankara, considered the founder of Jainism.	Answer:	Mahavira (or Vardhaman)9.	(B) Theoretically, it can be obtained by integrating the Friedmann equations, in which it depends on the vacuum energy, the gravitational constant, and the curvature. One measurement of it is the result of combining distance data from Cepheid variables and type IA supernovae, but the WMAP satellite used the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background to obtain the most precise measurement of 71 plus or minus 4 kilometers per second per megaparsec. With its inverse giving the age of the universe, for ten points, identify this parameter which gives the time-dependent expansion rate of the universe.	Answer:	Hubble's constant or parameter10.	Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge commissioned this work, first performed in 1944.  It was originally scored for an ensemble of only 13 instruments but was eventually expanded to a full orchestra because the composer believed ballet scores typically had a short shelf life.  Its name up until the day before the premiere was "Ballet for Martha".  Concluding with variations on the Shaker song "Simple Gifts," FTP name this ballet which earned a 1945 Pulitzer for composer Aaron Copland.       Answer:	Appalachian Spring 11.	He learned English from Elizabeth Gray Vining during the American occupation following World War II and represented Japan at the coronation of Elizabeth II.  He broke a long tradition in 1959 with his marriage to Michiko Shoda, daughter of the commoner Hidesaburo Shoda. Issuing wide-ranging apologies to Korea and China for Japanese aggression in World War II, despite being constitutionally bound, FTP name this unconventional Emperor of Japan who is currently the world's only crowned Emperor.	Answer:	Akihito12.	He was so intoxicated for his Nobel speech that nobody understood what he said until it appeared in print the next day, and it is widely regarded as one of the best Nobel speeches.   His last novel, Flags in the Dust, was published in 1973, eleven years after his death of a heart attack in 1962. Lesser known works include Requiem for a Nun and The Hamlet, but he is most famous for his novels set in the fictional Mississippi county of Yoknapatawpha. For ten points, name this author of Sartoris and Light in August.	Answer:	William Faulkner 13.	Organisms in this phylum are comprised of only four types of cells: choanocytes, which act as the digestive system, procytes, epidermal cells and amoebocytes, which function as a simple circulatory system. Divided into classes based upon the type of spicules in their exoskeleton, there are four of these, although demosponges are by far the largest class. Sessile filter feeders that have been identified to have lived in the Precambrian era, for ten points, name this simplest phylum of the kingdom animalia.	Answer:	porifera14.	(B) Its fifth part begins with a discussion of unions and separations which ask, "How far am I verified?", and introduces the concept of noetic pluralism. The second part concerns the meaning of the titular concept and begins with the question of whether the man goes around the squirrel. Its third section applies the title concept to the idea of substance as well as to the idea of the design of nature by God, while the sixth section concerns the titular philosophy's concept of truth and asks, "granted that the idea... be true... what concrete difference will it... make in anyone's... life?" Beginning with the section entitled, "The Present Dilemma in Philosophy," for ten points, identify this collection of eight lectures by William James which popularized the philosophy of the same name. 	Answer:	Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking
15.	He was the grandson of Philip the Fair of France as the son of the king's daughter, Isabella of France. At age eight he was made Earl of Chester, and five years later, in 1325, his father ceded the Duchy of Aquitaine to him. Taking the throne in 1327 at age fourteen, his first major military campaign set up Edward Balliol as a puppet king of Scotland, but the war that would consume the rest of his life resulted from the early death of Charles IV of France, whose heir was not yet born. For ten points, name this king of England whose claim to the French throne sparked the Hundred Years' War.	Answer:	Edward III16.  	When Europeans arrived on the site of this city, they found members of the Yelamu tribe, and due to its foggy weather, it was not until Don Gaspar de Portola led a Spanish landing party in 1770, claiming the nation for Spain. The colony was later established in 1776 by Juan Bautista de Anza, naming it for a favorite saint of the Spanish. Today it is home of the Transamerica Pyramid, Haight-Ashbury, and the City Lights Bookstore. For ten points, name this City by the Bay, home of Alcatraz and the Golden Gate Bridge.	Answer:	San Francisco17. 	(B) It is emitted by short-living radionucleides of oxygen, nitrogen, carbon, or fluorine, making possible a method of imaging named for it. It was predicted by Paul Dirac while he was trying to write a relativistic wave equation for free particles, but encountered negative energy solutions. To explain these solutions, he proposed the hole theory, where this is just a hole in the vacuum sea. It can be created in an interaction of a photon with a charged particle, if the energy is high enough. It was experimentally detected by Anderson in 1932, and was the first evidence of antimatter. For ten points, name this positively charged spin 1/2 particle, with mass of 511 keV, the antiparticle of the electron.  	Answer:	Positron (prompt on antiparticle)18.	(B) The repeal of the most noted one prompted a gift of an ivory cane from Julius Pratt to its most famous opponent. The case of Madison Washington and the ship Creole was used by Ohio's Joshua Giddings to challenge it. Its first instance was known as the Pinckney Resolution, while subsequent instances were called the Atherton Resolution and the 21st rule, which was finally repealed due to the efforts of John Quincy Adams in 1844. A similar policy in the Senate allowed the presentation of petitions but disallowed voting on them, but the most famous was first passed by the House in 1836. FTP, give the collective names of these house resolutions which stated that all petitions concerning slavery were to be tabled without discussion.	Answer:	gag rules19.	When Strepsiades goes to visit the Phronisterion, he is presented with the various mundane discoveries of its founder, such as why flies fart and the legspan of a flea, and sees starving students and pedantic jerks studying there. Pheidippides, Strepsiades' lazy son, agrees to learn rhetoric there to talk his way out of paying horse racing debts, and though he achieves this end, he also encounters new ideas that cause him to lose all respect for his father. Mocking Socrates, who claims that the title objects are the arbiters of knowledge, FTP, name this comedy by Aristophanes.	Answer:	The Clouds20.	 (B) Following its introduction, its formulator states that this concept guides "the formation of our taste... and so weeds out uncomfortable departures." The term's creator gave as a reason for one example of it that "the apparatus of living has grown... elaborate and cumbrous." In the fourth chapter of the book introducing it, the author traces it from prehistory, where economic differentiation was based on physical ability, to the present, in which the use of intoxicants and narcotics, as well as the hiring of domestic servants, serve as examples of this phenomenon. Coined by Thorsten Veblen in Theory of the Leisure Class, FTP give this two-word phrase for consumer activity meant to be seen by others. 	Answer:	conspicuous consumption21.	(B) It has a length of 2850 km. It flows through ten countries, and on the border between two of these it passes through the Iron Gate. Some of the capital cities it flows through are Bratislava, Budapest and Belgrade. There is a German school of landscape painting named after it, and at least two waltzes, including one by Johann Strauss. For ten points, name this river with a source at Schwarzwald, or the Black Forest, that flows into the Black Sea, the second longest river in Europe. 	Answer:	Danube (or Donau, or, Dunav, or Dunaj, or Dunare, or Duna or Dunay).
22. 	(B) The first person to assert this was the Flemish mathematician Albert Girard in 1629, but in a slightly different form. Leibniz 'proved' that it is false in 1702, by giving the example of x4+t4, but 40 years later Euler showed the mistake in his reasoning. After D'Alembert came close to a proof, many famous mathematicians attempted unsuccessfully to prove it. Euler sketched the proof for polynomials with real coefficients, but it wasn't until the doctoral thesis of Gauss in 1799 that it was finally proven. For ten points, what is this theorem that states every polynomial equation of degree n has n roots in the complex numbers.  	Answer:	Fundamental Theorem of Algebra (accept FTA).23.	(B) Its third verse, the one currently in use, exhorts the titular location to "flower in the light of this good fortune," in the penultimate line. Its melody was used as a theme for variations in the Emperor Quartet, opus 76 of the composer of the melody, and it originally made its appearance in a piece entitled God Save Emperor Francis. Its better known first verse mentions the titular place steadfastly holding together "both offensively and defensively... from the Maas to the Memel, from the Etsch to the Little Belt," words written in 1848 by August Heinrich Hoffman von Fallersleben. Formally adopted by the Weimar government in 1922, for ten points, identify this song that praises one country "above all else in the world," the German national anthem until 1945.	Answer:	Deutschland, Deutschland uber alles (do not accept "Deutschlandlied," the current anthem. Also, prompt on "German national anthem," since it has a title)
BONI - GEORGIA TECH A/BROWN	SWORD BOWL/PENN BOWL 2006 (UTC/Penn/Oklahoma/Drake)Questions by Georgia Tech A (Stephen Webb and Robert Scott) and Brown University (Jerry Vinokurov)1.	(GT/B) It passed the House 414 to none and the Senate 88 to 2. FTPE:[10] Identify this resolution which authorized Lyndon Johnson to take whatever he thought necessary to prevent further aggression and which passed on August 7, 1964.	Answer:	Gulf of Tonkin resolution (accept variants, i.e. Tonkin Gulf resolution)[10] This former Secretary of Defense held that post at the time of the Gulf of Tonkin incident, and has since said he was wrong in recommending that Johnson escalate US involvement in Vietnam.	Answer:	Robert McNamara[10] US escalation in Vietnam followed the coup that killed this president of South Vietnam, a rather brutal leader whose crackdown on Buddhists led many monks to protest with self-immolation.	Answer:	Ngo Dinh Diem2.	Stuff about the Protestant Reformation in Britain for ten points each:(a) Thomas Guillaume, originally a member of the Blackfriars, gave this man "a taste of the truth", and after this he went on to pen History of the Reformation, as well as helping found Presbyterianism in Scotland.	Answer:	John Knox(b) A distant precursor to the Reformation in England, his English translation of the Bible and advocacy of reforms in the Roman Catholic Church led to his being charged with blasphemy and heresy by fellow English clergy.	Answer:	John Wycliffe(c) Ultimately, England become officially non-Catholic with the passing of this 1534 law under Henry VIII, which was later repealed under Mary I, only to be reinstated again in 1559 by Elizabeth.	Answer:	Act of Supremacy3.	Identify the following contributions Richard Feynman made to physics for ten points each.(a) Feynman, along with Julian Schwinger and Sin-Itiro Tomonaga, won the Nobel Prize particularly for his development of this modern theory of the interactions between light and matter.	Answer:	Quantum Electrodynamics or QED(b) Feynman also developed this formulation of quantum mechanics, which is a weighted sum over all possible paths a quantum particle can take between a starting point and an ending point.	Answer:	path integral or functional integral formulation(c) Feynman's first major work was done at the encouragement of Robert R. Wilson, where Feynman worked at Los Alamos in this effort to develop the atomic bomb.	Answer:	Manhattan Project4.	Answer the following about Dante's Inferno for ten points each.(a) Dante meets this author, his guide through Hell and Purgatory, when confronted with three beasts in the woods.	Answer:	Virgil(b) Virgil takes Dante into Hell, where they enter past this demonic judge, who wraps his tail around each soul to indicate to which circle they will go, then hurls them there.	Answer:	Minos(c) When Virgil and Dante reach the circle of the givers of false council, they encounter this man, who relates a later tale, invented by the author, of a journey at the end of his life where he sailed to the other side of the world, saw the mountain of Purgatory, and his ship sank with all hands.	Answer:	Ulysses (accept Odysseus)5.	Given the nickname for a football rivalry game, name the two colleges involved F5PE. For example, if I said "the former Red River Shootout, now SBC Red River Rivalry," you'd say, "Oklahoma and Texas" and then curse SBC.(a) The Little Brown Jug 	Answers:	Michigan and Minnesota(b) The World's Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party	Answers:	Florida and Georgia(c) The Civil War	Answer:	Oregon and Oregon State
6.	Name the functional group, ten points each.(a) Primary ones of these have an NH2 group connected to an organic group.	Answer:	amine(b) At the end of an organic group, carbon is double-bonded to oxygen and single-bonded to a hydrogen.	Answer:	aldehyde(c) similar to an aldehyde, rather than being at the end of a group, carbon is double bonded to an oxygen and single bonded to two organic groups, R and R'.	Answer:	ketone7.	The Roman army was an effective killing machine. Identify the following people that made this possible FTPE:(a) Serving under Metellus in the Jugurthan War, he usurped his commander as Consul on the promise of quickly ending the war. Faced with this problem, he reformed the Roman army to allow unlanded Romans to join the military, and rearranged the army into cohorts.	Answer:	Gaius Marius(b) Serving as a lieutenant to Marius in the Jugurthan War, this hero of the Social War returned and fought two civil wars against Marius and Cinna, losing the first one, but winning the second, making himself dictator of Rome in 81 BC.	Answer:	Lucius Cornelius Sulla(c) Famed for his military exploits against Mediterranean pirates, and for decisively defeating Spartacus in the Third Servile War, this man also erected the first permanent theater built in the city of Rome.	Answer:	Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus or Pompey the Great8.	(B) Name these poems of William Butler Yeats from final lines, FTPE[10] "O body swayed to music, O brightening glance/How can we know the dancer from the dance?"	Answer:	Among School Children[10] "And what rough beast, its hour come round at last,/Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" 	Answer:	The Second Coming[10] "An aged man is but a paltry thing/a tattered coat upon a stick."	Answer:	Sailing to Byzantium9.	Completed in 1642, it depicts the unit commanded by Frans Banning Cocq and William van Ruytenburch. FTPE:(a) Give the popular name for this work of the Dutch golden age of art.	Answer:	The Night Watch(b) Who painted The Night Watch?	Answer:	Rembrandt van Rijn(c) The painting, which is over 11 feet by 14 feet, is currently stored in what museum in Amsterdam?	Answer:	Rijksmuseum10.	Iraq is sooo 2003. Iran is the new Iraq. Identify the following locations in Iran that the US might very soon be bombing or fighting door to door in for ten points each.(a) This city of nine million is the capital of Iran.	Answer:	Tehran(b) For five points each, name any two the next three largest cities in Iran based on city population.	Answer:	Mashad, Ishfahan, Tabriz(c) For a final ten points, this man is totally the new Saddam, having been elected President and immediately making some rather unkind comments about the Holocaust and Israel recently.	Answer:	Mahmoud Ahmadinejad11.	(B) It results from a triplet-repeat disorder of tandemly repeated CAG triplets.  FTPE:[10] Woody Guthrie died of this degenerative nervous disease that typically kicks in between the ages of 30 and 45.	Answer:	Huntington's disease or chorea[10] The accumulation of the cytoplasmic protein huntingtin in the brain causes damage to the frontal lobes and to these specialized nuclei associated with motor function. They include the striatum and the substantia nigra.	Answer:	basal ganglia[10] The severity of the disease is proportional to the number of extra residues on huntingtin of this amino acid, which is coded for by the CAG codon.	Answer:	glutamine
12.	Given a brief description, name the following works by Nobel Prize winning author Thomas Mann FTPE(a) This work tells the story of the decline of the Lübeck family and was Mann's first novel, published when he was twenty six.	Answer:	Buddenbrooks(b) Adrian Leverkühn's life as a musical prodigy who's style develops with the aid of demons is told in parallel to the earlier German morality play.	Answer:	Doktor Faustus(c) Joachim Ziemssen is visited by his cousin, Hans Castorp, at the title location. Castorp eventually contracts tuberculosis and ends up spending seven years at the sanatorium.	Answer:	The Magic Mountain13.	He was the child of Peleus and the sea nymph Thetis. For ten points each(a) name this mythological figure, who was invulnerable after being dipped in the river Styx as a child.	Answer:	Achilles(b) During the Trojan War, Achilles refused to fight with the Greeks over a feud with this leader of the Achaens, started with a feud over Chryseis.	Answer:	Agamemnon(c) Achilles' rage is shifted from Agamemnon to Hector after Hector slays this man, Achilles' lover, who had gone to fight in Achilles' armor.	Answer:	Patroclus14.	Identify the following about the Connecticut Colony for ten points each.(a) In 1614, the Dutch explorer Adriaen Block sailed up the Connecticut river to the site of this city, now the capital of Connecticut. A trade colony was finally built here in 1623.	Answer:	Hartford(b) On January 14, 1639 the colony adopted this written constitution, the first real written constitution among any of the colonies. These were replaced by a royal charter in 1662.	Answer:	Fundamental Orders(c) The English took control of the Connecticut Colony in 1635 through the aggressive actions of the son of this Puritan governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony most famous for his "City on a Hill" sermon.	Answer:	John Winthrop15.	(B) Answer the following questions about The Matrix.[10] What is the name of the main character in The Matrix, played by Keanu Reeves.	Answer:	Neo[10] Give the shared surname of the two brothers who directed The Matrix.	Answer:	Andy and Larry Wachowski[10] Give the name of the martial arts choreographer of The Matrix. He also did the choreography for Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, and Kill Bill, and directed Iron Monkey and Drunken Master.	Answer:	Yuen Woo-ping (accept either of the underlined portions).16.   (B) A new book by Stephen Koch addresses this man's relationship with Hemingway and the murder of Jose Robles. FTSNOP:[5] Identify this American author of a work about a transit-rider's view of New York, Manhattan Transfer.	Answer:	John Roderigo Dos Passos[10] Dos Passos' experiences as an ambulance driver during the First World War contributed to his writing of this 1921 novel about John Andrews, Dan Fuselli, and Chrisfield.	Answer:	Three Soldiers[5 each] Dos Passos is best known for the U.S.A. trilogy, which comprises these three works. Name them F5PE.	Answer:	The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The Big Money 
17.	(B) Name these types of numbers in mathematics, FTPE[10] These numbers can be expressed as a solution of a polynomial equation of integer degree.	Answer:	algebraic numbers[10] These numbers cannot be expressed in the form p/q, with p and q both integers.	Answer:	irrational numbers[10] The irrational numbers can either be algebraic, or this other, most numerous type of numbers. Examples include pi and e.	Answer:	transcendental numbers18.	An effort to find commonalities between all primitive religions, as well as Christianity, it takes its name from a painting by JMW Turner depicting Aeneas and the Sibyl. For ten points each(a) Name this comparative study of mythology and religion.	Answer:	The Golden Bough(b) Name the Scottish anthropologist who penned The Golden Bough.	Answer:	James George Frazer(c) The Golden Bough drew a great deal of criticism for its analysis of Christianity as the next step from pagan religions, including his assertion that this title given to Jesus in the Gospel of John was a relic from pagan religions.	Answer:	Lamb of God [accept Agnes Dei]19.	Apartheid sucked, but it spawned some pretty big things. Identify the following associated with Apartheid for the stated number of points each.(a) A militant splinter group off the African National Congress named the Pan African Congress congregated in this town to protest the Pass Law. Police opened fire, killing 69 and wounding an additional 186.	Answer:	Sharpeville(b) In 1993 two people won the Nobel Peace Prize for their efforts in repealing Apartheid. For ten points each, name these two people, one the president and the other his predecessor.	Answer:	Nelson Mandela and Frederik Willem de Klerk20.	Given a list of works, name the German-language composer for ten points each.(a) Der Freischütz	Answer:	Carl Maria von Weber(b) The "Emperor" concerto and the "Kreutzer" violin sonata	Answer:	Ludwig van Beethoven(c) The "Tragic" and "Unfinished" symphonies, and the Rosamunde quintet	Answer:	Franz Schubert21.	(B) Its composition can be determined from a graph with concentration on the x-axis and temperature on the y-axis from the point where the liquid phase borders the solid phase. For ten points each:[10] Identify this type of mixture which has a melting point lower than that of any of its constituents.	Answer:	eutectic mixture[10] Eutectic crystallization occurs at the convergence point of this Y-shaped sequence of reactions which proceeds from basalt to ryolite.	Answer:	Bowen's reaction series[10] Similar to eutectic reactions, this type of transformation refers to the reaction between a liquid and solid phase at a given temperature to yield a single solid phase.	Answer:	peritectic22.	Identify the country from clues, for 30-20-10.[30] Its longest river is the Litani, and one of its famous regions is the Bekaa valley.[20] It's famous towns include Tyre, Byblos and Baalbeck, and it is well known for cedars.[10] It is bordered by Syria, Israel and the Mediterranean sea, and its capital is Beirut.	Answer:	Lebanon