TOSSUPS - MARYLAND					SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Adam Fine, University of Maryland1.	Newborn infants have higher concentrations of the F type of this substance, which contains two alpha and two gamma chains.  The A, or adult type, contains four iron molecules, four protoporphyrin rings, and pairs of alpha and beta chains with 141 and 146 amino acids respectively.  Produced in the bone marrow and aged within a cell for 120 days, for ten points, identify this pigment that transports oxygen and gives color to red blood cells.	Answer:	 hemoglobin2.	Protestant missionary families, led by Marcus Whitman, opened up a stretch of it in 1836, while Catholic pioneer Pierre De Smet persuaded others to make the 2000-mile trip on it.  Stops along the way included Forts Kearney, Hall, and Laramie, while it ended at Fort Vancouver in the Willamette Valley.  For ten points, what Western pioneer route began in Independence, Missouri?	Answer:	 Oregon Trail     3.	He incorporated several unconventional instruments into his symphonies, including sleigh bells in his Fourth and a mandolin in his Seventh.  Three of symphonies also take melodies from his song cycle "The Boy's Magic Horn," while his Second Symphony, the Resurrection, contains an ode by Friedrich Klopstock.  For ten points, name this Austrian composer of "The Song of the Earth" and the Symphony of a Thousand.	Answer:	 Gustav Mahler4.	Settlements located on it include Tanana, Pilot Station, and Dawson.  Formed by the confluence of the Pelly and Lewes Rivers at Fort Selkirk, it flows northwest into Alaska, and then southwest to the Bering Sea at Norton Sound.  Navigable as far as Whitehorse, for ten points, identify this nearly 2000-mile river that flows through its namesake Canadian territory.	Answer:	 Yukon River5.	Hurry Harry March fights and kills Huron Indians while living with the Delaware. Set around Lake Glimmerglass, also called Lake Otsego, New York, it also features an unsuccessful attempt by Judith Hutter to secure marriage to the title character. Published in 1841, it was the last book in its series, though it was set the earliest. For 10 points-name this James Fenimore Cooper novel which introduces Chingachgook and young Natty Bumppo.	Answer:	The Deerslayer [prompt on "The Leatherstocking Tales" before "1841"]			6.	Edmund Crouchback, the younger son of Henry III, was the first earl of this house. His grandson, Henry of Grossmont, was its first duke, a title gained by John of Gaunt when he married Henry's heiress Blanche. In 1399 Henry Bolingbroke became the first king of-for 10 points-which English house, the "red" faction in the Wars of the Roses?	Answer:		House of Lancaster7.	They are named after the man who conducted the first extensive study of them in 1814, and not William H. Wollaston, who observed them twelve years earlier.  They can be used to prove the presence of a specific element within a star by matching them to an element's emission spectrum.  For the Sun, scientists have mapped over 25,000 of, for ten points, what dark lines that appear in the spectra of stars?	Answer:	 Fraunhofer lines     8.	Its designer almost met the six-month deadline he was given-and that only with the help of the magic horse Svadilfari. However, Loki drew the horse away, and since Hrimthurs, a stonemason and frost giant, didn't meet the deadline, Thor shattered his skull with his hammer. Located on a plane above Midgard, to which it is connected by the Bifrost Bridge, this is-for 10 points-what realm of the Aesir gods?	Answer:		Asgard9.	In 1996, this man published The Open Sore of a Continent, which documents postcolonial struggles in his home country.  His poetry collection A Shuttle in the Crypt was written while he served two years in prison for his opposition to war in Biafra.  FTP name this author of Swamp Dwellers and The Lion and the Jewel, the 1986 Nobel Prize winner and to date the only Nigerian so honored.	Answer:	 Wole Soyinka [pronounced Shoy-inka, but any phonetically plausible variant is OK]
10.	In recent interviews, he's spoken of late-night drunken runs to a convenience store where he bought "porn and chocolate," and pissed in a fountain in New Zealand. Born in Iowa, he has recently gained a pretentious accent, making some wish his aunt had dropped him off a cliff, rather than Macaulay Culkin, in The Good Son. For 10 points-name this 22-year-old star of North and The Faculty best known for his role as Frodo in The Lord of the Rings.	Answer:		Elijah Wood	11.	Hendrik Vroom completed two archaic versions of the subject, before a more famous artist completed the 1660 work that hangs in the Mauritshaus [MAR-itz-house] in The Hague.  Some critics accused the painter of using a camera obscura to trace images, but, in fact, an inverted telescope was used, and the buildings were moved around significantly. For 10 points-name this painting of the hometown of Jan [yahn] Vermeer.	Answer:		View of Delft12.	This avid Protestant published the Plaine Discovery of the Whole Revelation of St. John in 1593.  Better known as a scientist, his 1617 Rabdologiae (rab-doh-LOW-gee-ay) describes a multiplication table often made of ivory that used rods marked with numbers.  For ten points, what Scottish mathematician in 1614 created tables for his most significant invention, the logarithm?	Answer:	 John Napier 13.	Son of a Virginia fur trader, he was born handicapped, and his name means "pig's foot".  While fighting in the Cherokee regiment in the Battle of Horseshoe Bend, he realized that his fellow troopers could not send letters home, read military orders, or record events, and resolved to do something about it. For ten points, name the, man who created the 81 "talking leaves", a syllabary (not an alphabet) for the Cherokee language.	Answer: Sequoyah [or George Gist or Guest]14.	His "Commemoration Ode" honored Harvard students who fell during the Civil War.  1848 was a banner year for him, as he published The Vision of Sir Launfal, A Fable for Critics, and a famous series of anti-Mexican War poetry, centering on a New England farmer.  For ten points, name this first editor of the Atlantic Monthly and author of The Bigelow Papers.	Answer:	 James Russell Lowell 15.	Many of the deposits of this variety of rock, such as the fossil beds of western Kansas, were formed during the Cretaceous Period. Composed of foraminifera, algae, and bivalves, it is formed when organisms die and settle at the bottom of shallow seas, compacted and cemented by calcite.  For ten points, identify this type of fine-grained limestone, also found in the White Cliffs of Dover, and often used in classrooms.	Answer:	 chalk   16.	It has two unique stylistic features: lines in which the second part is shorter than the first, and a Hebrew alphabetic "acrostic" structure. Comprised of five songs, it is read on the Ninth of Av; its Hebrew name, Ekah [eh-KAH], means "how," which is also its first word. For 10 points-name this book of the Bible which tells of the destruction of the first Temple in Jerusalem, and follows the book of its possible author, Jeremiah.	Answer:	Lamentations of Jeremiah17.	At the time, the ultimate victors called it the "fire in the fern," while many of the ultimate losers were members of the Hauhau and Ringatu religious movements. It was fought in three phases, beginning with the Taranaki in 1860. Partly a protest over cessions made by the 1840 Treaty of Waitangi, it lasted for twelve years. For 10 points-name this war in which white settlers eventually crushed the eponymous natives on the North Island of New Zealand.	Answer:	Maori War(s) [accept (First) Taranaki War on early buzz]18.	A print ad campaign found in the December 11, 2003, issue of Rolling Stone magazine shows Michelle Branch's right arm replaced with that of this video game character, her favorite.  The only survivor of a Space Pirate attack, the Chozos rescued the child, eventually outfitting her with a Power Suit.  For ten points, what bounty hunter embarks on a mission to Zebes to fight Mother Brain and rescue the Metroid?	Answer:	 Samus Aran  
19.	In 1929, Austrian chemists Paneth and Hofeditz showed that they could be formed by the thermal decomposition of metallic alkyls (AL-kilz), such as lead tetramethyl.  In a dimerization reaction, two methyl types of these molecules bond together to form ethane.  First synthesized by Moses Gomberg, for ten points, what name is given to uncharged atoms or molecules that contain an unpaired electron?	Answer:	 free radicals20.	An 1812 painting by Henry Fuseli depicts this character in the middle of Act Two of the play in which she appears. Her death leads to her husband's "Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow" soliloquy, marking the end of her conspiracy to blame the murder of the previous king on that king's chamber guards. For 10 points-name this dagger-seizing, sleepwalking Scottish bitch, the wife of the title character of a Shakespeare tragedy.	Answer:	Lady Macbeth [do not prompt on "Macbeth"]21.	In Book One of this work, the bard Phemius sings tales of past events.  In Book Five, the sea goddess Leucothea rescues the protagonist by washing him up on the shore of Phaecea (fay-EE-shuh), where Princess Nausicaa (NAW-see-kah) finds him.  King Alcinous (al-SIN-oo-us) then gives the title character provisions for his return to Ithaca to kick some suitor butt in, for ten points, what Homeric epic that takes place after the Trojan War?	Answer:	 The Odyssey22,	He studied math and physics at Jagiellonian University, but after he read James Frazer's The Golden Bough (BOW), he decided to become an anthropologist.  Classified as an "enemy alien" during World War I, he was allowed to make three field trips:  one to Mailu Island in southern New Guinea, and the two to the Trobriand Islands.  For ten points, name this man who described the practice of kula in his 1922 work Argonauts of the Western Pacific.	Answer:	 Bronislaw Malinowski 23.	The most primitive member of this phylum is genus Psilotum (sy-LOH-tum).  Members exhibit alternation of generations, but the sporophyte is the dominant adult form, as opposed to gametophyte dominance found in mosses.  So named because of the xylem that conduct water, for ten points, which phylum contains the vascular plants, including ferns, gymnosperms, and angiosperms?	Answer:	 Tracheophyta (or tracheophytes; accept "vascular plants" until mentioned)  24.	The first of its author's plays to be performed publicly, it was performed in German even though it was written in English. Peter, a well-off suburban man with two daughters, sits on a bench in Central Park, where he's accosted by a homeless man, Jerry. Eventually, they fight, and Jerry impales himself with his own knife in-for 10 points-what 1958 one-act, two-man play by Edward Albee?	Answer:		The Zoo Story
BONI - MARYLAND					SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Adam Fine, University of Maryland1.	We celebrated Martin Luther King's Birthday less than a week ago, so answering these questions about him should be a piece of cake.  Piece of cake.  Get it?  FTPE:[10] King came to prominence while organizing the 1956 bus boycott in Mongomery, triggered when this woman refused to move to the rear of the bus.	Answer:	Rosa Parks[10] In 1960, King became the president of what religious-based civil rights organization that put together the March on Washington?	Answer:	 SCLC (or Southern Christian Leadership Conference)[10] Behind the scenes, King initially opposed plans for a major voting rights campaign in this Alabama city.  When the second attempt at a voting rights march there was dispersed by force, King came to lead the ultimately successful third march from here to Montgomery.	Answer:	 Selma, Alabama2.	Answer these questions on the pituitary gland for the stated number of points.[5x3] The pituitary gland consists of three lobes.  For five points each, name them.	Answers: 	anterior, intermediate, posterior[15] For fifteen the posterior pituitary secretes this hormone that acts on the kidneys to prevent water loss.  Low amounts of it can result in diabetes insipidus.	Answer:	 ADH (or antidiuretic hormone or vasopressin)3.	Name these fictitious holidays invented on TV shows, 10 points each.[10]	Homer Simpson practices for this holiday, which involves killing-or at least hitting-snakes with sticks.		Answer:		Whacking Day[10]	Frank Costanza invented this holiday, celebrated on December 23 with a pole, feats of strength, and the airing of grievances.		Answer:		Festivus [If Yale A misses this . . . -Ed.][10]	Seth Cohen of The OC developed this holiday, noting it's better than the two alternatives: "You have Jesus working for you, but you also have Moses!"		Answer:		Chrismukkah4.	Paradise Lost - a quizbowl classic.  FTSNOP:[5] What Englishman completed Paradise Lost in 1665?	Answer:	 John Milton[10] Paradise Lost was based partly on the drama Adamus exul, written by this Dutchman better known for his legal texts.	Answer:	 Hugo Grotius[10] In Books V-VIII of Paradise Lost, God sends which archangel to tell Adam the story of the revolt in Heaven, and to remind Adam not to eat the Forbidden Fruit?	Answer:	 Raphael[5] For a final five, Milton penned what sequel to Paradise Lost in 1671?	Answer:	 Paradise Regained5.	Identify these works by Johann Sebastian Bach for ten points each.[10] Bach created two books of this work for the harpsichord in 1722 and 1740; each part consists of 24 preludes and fugues, one set in each of the twelve major and minor keys.	Answer:	 The Well-Tempered Clavier[10] Dedicated to the Margrave of the title location, this 1721 set of six pieces combined Italian and German styles.  The Third and Sixth do not contain featured solo instruments.	Answer:	 Brandenburg Concertos[10] Though called an oratorio, this work produced in 1735 is actually a set of six cantatas.  It presents Biblical narratives from Chapter 2 of both Luke and Matthew.	Answer:	 Christmas Oratorio
6.	30-20-10 identify the organization:[30] Since 1935, they have operated under their state's Department of Public Safety.  Notable members have included Big Foot Wallace and John Coffee Hays.[20] The oldest state law enforcement agency in the United States, ten of them were originally hired in the 1820s to prevent Comanche and Apache attacks.[10] Founded by Stephen F. Austin, Cordell Walker was proud to be one; Alex Rodriguez a little less so.	Answer:	 Texas Rangers    7.	Name these crimes, 10 points each.[10]  Fraudulent and often permanent appropriation of property by a person in a relation of trust toward the rightful owner.		Answer:		embezzlement [accept word forms][10]	The subject of a 1798 act, it is the advocacy, by word or deed, of the overthrow of the government.		Answer:		sedition[10]	In English law this term once meant the cutting off of an arm or a leg. In the US it's an act of violence in which a person maliciously cripples or disfigures someone.		Answer:		mayhem8.	Identify the following relating to Kirchoff's (KEER-koffs) electrical circuit laws for ten points each.[10] According to the loop rule, the net sum of the voltage drops in each loop equals the net sum of what other quantity?	Answer:	 emf (or electromotive force)[10] Kirchoff's other law states that the net sum of the currents at what location equals zero? 	Answer:	 branch point (or node)[10] Kirchoff's Laws are a generalization of what other law that applies to simple but not complex circuits?	Answer:	 Ohm's law9.	Answer the following about Roman writers forced to commit suicide, for ten points each.  I mean, answer for ten points each, not that they committed suicide for the points.[10] This man's satire Pumpkinification discusses Emperor Claudius's physical defects.  Implicated in the Piso Conspiracy, he committed suicide by opening his veins, and ultimately suffocated in a vapor bath.	Answer:	 Lucius Annaeus Seneca[10] This author of The Satyricon chose to kill himself by slitting his wrists, using the blood to compile a list of the emperor's sins, among them the writing of bad poetry.	Answer:	 Petronius Arbiter[10] Which emperor ordered the deaths of both Seneca and Petronius?	Answer:	 Nero Claudius Caesar10.	Suppose you draw four cards from the top of a standard 52-card deck:  the five, six, seven, and eight of hearts.  FTPE, with twenty seconds per part, what is the probability that with the fifth card, you will draw a final poker hand of:[10] One pair?	Answer:	 1/4 (or 12/48 - any of the 5, 6, 7, or 8's remaining in the deck, and there are 3 each available)[10] A straight?	Answer:	 1/6 (or 8/48 - any 4 or 9 in the deck, and all 8 are still available)  [10] Any flush that is NOT a straight flush?	Answer:	 7/48 (any of the remaining hearts except for the 4 or 9)11.	FTPE identify the following NFL players whose sucky seasons helped packet author Adam Fine earn a well-deserved 3-12 record in Fantasy Football this year. [10] He caught 94 balls, including nine touchdowns, for Buffalo in 2002.  This year, for Atlanta, he had one 100-yard game and all of two TD receptions.	Answer:	 Peerless Price[10] A 2-TD performance in Week 2 made Adam believe that this Patriots tight end may repeat his 2002 output.  It's a shame that those were his only two TDs of the season.	Answer:	 Christian Fauria (FORE-ee-ay)[10] In the first round of the draft, Adam was very proud of himself when he selected this Oakland MVP quarterback - whoops.	Answer:	 Rich Gannon
12.	Protesting against British rule, Irish Volunteers and the Fenians occupied a Dublin post office.[10]	This event took place during what insurrection named after a holiday?		Answer:		Easter Rising or Easter Rebellion[5]	In what year did the Easter Rising occur?		Answer:		1916[15]	Five for one, or 15 for both-name the man who penned the poem "Easter 1916," and the Cranberries hit that says, "It's the same old theme since 1916,/In your head, in your head they're still fighting."		Answer:		W(illiam) B(utler) Yeats;   "Zombie"13.	Name the authors of the following pairs of philosophical works for ten points each.[10] The Birth of Tragedy, Beyond Good and Evil	Answer:	 Friedrich Nietzsche (NEET-shuh) [10] Time and Free Will, Matter and Memory	Answer:	 Henri Bergson[10] Meditations on First Philosophy, Discourse on Method	Answer:	 Rene Descartes14.	Name these works by the ever-cheerful Franz Kafka, 10 points each.[10]	Traveling salesman Gregor Samsa has a dream, and wakes up to find out he has become a big bug.		Answer:		The Metamorphosis[10]	This work describes a machine that takes twelve hours to kill its victims using needles to inscribe the crime deep into their backs.		Answer:		In the Penal Colony[10]	When Karl Rossman seduces a European girl, his parents ship him across the Atlantic Ocean.		Answer:		"Amerika"15.	30-20-10 identify the astronomical object:[30] In 1968, a pulsar was discovered near its center.  Its regular pulsation rate of 33 milliseconds suggests the presence of a very dense neutron star.[20] Astronomer J.H. Oort established key information about this object, located about 5000 light years away in the constellation Taurus.[10] Oort found that this gaseous object is the remnant of a supernova that was first seen in 1054, and was visible even during the daytime.	Answer:	 Crab Nebula16.	Name these American women novelists, 10 points each.[10]	A favorite of director Francis Ford Coppola, her stories about working-class teenage boys include Rumble Fish and The Outsiders.		Answer:		S(usan) E(loise) Hinton[10]	Born Chloe Anthony Wofford, she won a National Book Critics Circle Award for Song of Solomon, and a Pulitzer Prize for Beloved.		Answer:		Toni Morrison[10]	This Baltimore author of The Accidental Tourist gained acclaim with her ninth novel, 1982's Dinner at a Homesick Restaurant.		Answer:		Anne Tyler17.	Let's talk about French military leadership...  Stop laughing and identify these three leaders FTPE:[10] Commander in Chief of the Army at start of World War I, his orderly retreat (surprise) from Alsace-Lorraine led to a successful Allied counterattack at First Marne, earning him the title "Savior of France."	Answer:	 Joseph Jacques Cesaire Joffre (ZHAWF-ruh)[10] Also a World War I hero, this man conspired with the Nazis when he led the Vichy (VEE-shee) government.	Answer:	 Henri Philippe Petain (peh-TAN)[10] This commander during the French and Indian War won at Oswego and Ticonderoga, but was mortally wounded at Quebec.	Answer:	 Louis Joseph, Marquis de Montcalm
18.	Answer these questions concerning the platinum series of metals for the stated number of points.[10] For ten, the platinum series is also given this five-letter title that reflects, like their "gas cousins," the inertness of these metals.	Answer:   noble metals (prompt on "inert," though it should be obvious it's not inert, since it's in the question)[5x2] For five each, name the two metals with atomic numbers 44 and 45 that are used to keep titanium from corroding and to keep silver shining respectively.	Answers: 	ruthenium; rhodium[10] For a final ten, this least reactive of all the platinum metals is used in surgical pins, and was also found in high quantities at the K-T Boundary.	Answer:	 iridium19.	Answer these questions about the half-man, half-horse Centaurs, 10 points each.[10]	Most Centaurs were descendants of which king who mated with a cloud to create them?		Answer:		Ixion[10]	Which wisest Centaur was the son of Philyra [fih-LYE-ruh]?		Answer:		Chiron[10]	Which Titan, Chiron's father, turned himself into a horse to get it on with Philyra?		Answer:		Cronos 20.	Name these large islands FTSNOP.[15]	For 5 points each-name the three largest islands owned entirely by Indonesia.		Answer:	Sumatra or Sumatera; Celebes or Sulawesi; Java or Jawa[15]	For 5 points for one, or 15 for two-name any two of the three largest islands located entirely north of the 70th parallel.		Answer:	Ellesmere Island; Banks Island; Svalbard21. Given an art museum, identify the city in which it is located FTPE, or for five if you need a better-known art museum.[10] Reina Sofia National Art Center[5] Prado	Answer:	 Madrid, Spain[10] Pitti (PEE-tee) Palace[5] Uffizi	Answer:	 Florence, Italy[10] REFLEX Modern Art Gallery[5] Rijks (RIKES) Museum	Answer:	 Amsterdam, The Netherlands 22.	30-20-10 name the world leader from offices that he has held:[30] Co-chair (along with Ernesto Zedillo) of the United Nations Commission on the Private Sector and Development; Inaugural Chair of the G-20.[20] CEO of Canada Steamship Airlines; Member of Parliament for LaSalle-ƒmard.[10] Minister of Finance for nine years, and since December 12, 2003, Prime Minister of Canada.	Answer:	 Paul Martin23.	30-20-10 identify the poem from lines:[30] "Away in the lovable west, / On a pastoral forehead of Wales, / I was under a roof here, I was at rest, / And they the prey of the gales."[20] "Thou mastering me / God! giver of breath and bread; / World's strand, sway of the sea; / Lord of living and dead."[10] The poem is dedicated "to the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns exiles by the Falk Laws drowned between midnight and morning of Dec. 7th, 1875."	Answer:	 "The Wreck of the Deutschland" (by Gerard Manley Hopkins)