TOSSUPS - SHOOTOUT #2				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	It is divided into three sections. The first concerns the existence and nature of God and the universe, the second a moral philosophy, and the third the role of Jesus and the Sacraments in the salvation of the soul. It applied Aristotelian logic to Church doctrine and is still recognized as the doctrinal basis for all such teachings in the Church. FTP-name this work that epitomized the philosophy of Scholasticism, by St. Thomas Aquinas.	Answer:	 Summa Theologica2.	Symptoms in humans include opisthotonos (a sudden, backwards bending of the body) as well as twitching and difficulty swallowing. Sir Robert Robinson determined its chemical formula, C21 H22 N2 O2. Its crystals are colorless and bitter-tasting. FTP-name this poison derived from the Nux Vomica tree.	Answer:	 strychnine3.	He holds the high school record for most kickoffs returned for touchdowns in one game, with four. He's better known, though, for not being in the Baseball Hall of Fame despite winning back-to-back American League MVP awards. Named by Sports Illustrated as the best athlete ever from North Dakota-FTP-name this Yankee, whose most famous record was broken by Sammy Sosa in 1998.	Answer:	 Roger Eugene Maris4.	He wears a morning coat, the "collar mounting firmly to the chin," has a bald spot in the middle of his hair, and his "rich and modest" necktie, is "asserted by a simple pin." He imagines yellow fog acting like a pet, and mermaids who wreath him in seaweed. FTP-who considers approaching one of the women who "come and go/Talking of Michelangelo" in a poem by T.S. Eliot?	Answer:	 J. Alfred Prufrock [accept "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"]5.	Penba, its slightly smaller neighbor, has shared its fate over the years. In 1841, the sultan of Oman transferred his court here. Made a British protectorate in 1890, upon independence in 1963 it was briefly ruled by a sultan until rebels overthrew him and voted to join the mainland. FTP-name this island, one of the world's leading clove producers, now part of Tanzania.	Answer:	 Zanzibar6.	It inspired Robert Goodloe Harper's toast, "Millions for defense, but none for tribute," modified from Charles Pinckney's "No! No! Not a sixpence." Its name comes from three members of the French Directory, emissaries from Charles Talleyrand, who demanded bribes from Pinckney, John Marshall and Elbridge Gerry. FTP, name this scandal named after the code letters of those emissaries.	Answer: XYZ affair [accept equivalents]7.	She was worshipped in three aspects: the child, the fulfilled, and the abandoned.  Once, when it was raining, she let a wet bird hide in her bosom for warmth; it turned out to be Zeus, in one of his first seductions. In the Iliad, she borrowed Aphrodite's magical girdle to seduce him on a mountaintop.  FTP name this Greek goddess, the cranky wife of Zeus.	Answer:	 Hera (Do Not Accept Juno.)8.	Sometimes called the "flying stovepipe" because of its simple design, it lacks both compressor and turbine. Air is compressed, mixed with fuel, burned, and ejected through the nozzle. Unable to function at subsonic speeds-FTP-what is this simplest type of jet engine, the namesake of a 1960s cartoon superhero?	Answer:	 ramjet [do not accept "turbojet" or "scramjet"]9.	He wrote poems on the tombs of Poe and Baudelaire that exhibit his brand of hermetic poetry, in which obscure phrases and unorthodox syntax create a mystical, cryptic language, also visible in "The Swan." Hindemith turned his "Hérodiade" [hay-ROH-dee-ahd] into a ballet, as Debussy did to his best known work. FTP-name this Symbolist poet who wrote "The Afternoon of a Faun."	Answer:	 Stephane Mallarmé
10.	He graduated at the top of his class from Georgetown and studied in Switzerland before going to Harvard Law, where he edited the Law Review.  He left his post as Assistant Attorney General to teach until appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.  He has tended to oppose "judicial activism" in favor of "judicial restraint," which has placed him in conflict with certain of his colleagues.  FTP, identify this strict constitutional conservative, appointed in 1986 to the United States Supreme Court.	Answer:	 Antonin Scalia11.	The most common type is the osteoid form, commonly called a "bone lesion." Affecting cartilage, muscles, and blood vessels, F. Peyton Rous discovered an eponymous virus that causes this type of tumor. FTP-name this type of tumor of connective tissues, whose best known form may be Kaposi's.	Answer:	 sarcoma12.	First spotted near the end of World War II, their name may have come from the comic strip Smoky Stover. At first, pilots thought it was a new German secret weapon. Later, explanations ranging from St. Elmo's fire to ball lightning to stress-induced hallucinations were invoked, but many people believed they were UFOs. FTP-name these small lights spotted by World War II pilots that share a name with a band fronted by Dave Grohl.	Answer:	 Foo Fighters [prompt on "UFO" before "Smoky Stover"]13.	Born in Czechoslovakia in 1937, his parents soon relocated to Singapore, and his mother fled the city with him shortly before the Japanese occupied it.  Eventually, he would return to the fate of his native country and other Soviet-occupied states in his plays Dogg's Hamlet, Squaring the Circle, and Professional Foul.  However, he first achieved fame with semi-absurdist plays such as After Magritte and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.	Answer:	 Tom Stoppard14.	Free-speech groups have criticized his administration's Miscellaneous Amendments Bill, which would increase the costs of libel suits 100-fold. Clashes have erupted in Kibera, a slum near his nation's capital, after he said rents there should be lowered. He has also been criticized for trying to extend his term past its constitutional limit in 2002. FTP-name this manm who in 1978 succeeded Jomo Kenyatta as president of Kenya.	Answer:	 Daniel Toroitich arap Moi15.	His second Elegiac Trio is dedicated to the memory of his mentor, who helped arrange the premiere of his opera Aleko. Known for such piano works as the Fantasie-Tableaux [tah-BLOH] and a famous series of Preludes, his other works include his cantatas Spring and The Bells. FTP-name this Russian composer best known for works for piano and orchestra, such as the Paganini Rhapsody.	Answer:	 Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff16.	This town was founded in 1796 on the principle that one should be allowed to marry one's cousins, because they're so attractive. This town's rivalry with its neighbor ranges from a near war over a lemon tree to sports matches between its Sharks and the neighboring Isotopes. FTP-what is this town located right next to Springfield?	Answer:	 Shelbyville [accept Springfield before "principle"]17.	He was born in the kingdom of Farghana, in present-day Afghanistan, in 1483. He spent most of his early life failing to conquer Samarkand, the former capital of his ancestor Tamerlane's empire. Turning south, in 1526 he destroyed the forces of the Afghan sultan Ibrahim Lodi at Palipat, gaining control of northern India. FTP-name this founder of the Mogul empire.	Answer:	 Babar or Zahir ad-din Muhammad Babur18.	He became a minor folk hero in Sweden after he addressed the king in a distinctive Swedish dialect in his Nobel lecture. He has served as president of the American Chemical Society, chair of the Atomic Energy Commission, and Chancellor of UC/Berkeley. FTP-element 106 is named after what chemist who discovered plutonium and nine other elements?	Answer:	 Glenn Theodore Seaborg
19. In 1912, he illustrated an edition of Voltaire's Candide. Impressed by the Orphic cubism of Delaunay, his artistic peak came after World War I, when he taught at the Bauhaus. A member of the Blue Rider school-FTP-name this painter of Room Perspective with Inhabitants, The Twittering Machine, and The Kiss.	Answer:	 Paul Klee [klay]20.	The explorer Richard Burton was the first to translate it into English in its entirety. Its framework centers on King Shahriyar, (SHAH - ree - yar) who took a new wife every night and killed her at night's end. This was ended by the vizier's daughter, who nightly told him a tale she left unfinished at dawn, so his curiosity led him to spare her until its completion. FTP, name this collection of stories told by Scheherazade (shuh - HAIR - ah -zahd) that includes "Aladdin and the Wonderful Lamp."	Answer: 1001 Arabian Nights or A Thousand and One Nights or The Arabian Nights' Entertainments22.	"He rambled, he mumbled, he digressed," said students when asked of their University of Chicago professor. That may be so, for this voracious reader and turn-of-the-century economist was known for being something of an eccentric. FTP-name this American economist, whose "The Theory of the Leisure Class" was no doubt one of the liveliest and readable economics texts ever written.	Answer:    Thorstein Veblen23.	First published in 1949, the title character, an "Everyman" living an ordinary life, journey always involves a dark world, encountering a teacher, and then enduring a "supreme ordeal." Influenced heavily by Jung, the book tries to discover an archetypal "monomyth" among the world's mythologies. FTP-name this Joseph Campbell book about myths and heroes.	Answer:	 The Hero with a Thousand Faces 24.	In 1938, Douglas S. Moore adapted this short story into an opera. One of the title characters wins by arguing eloquently before a jury selected by his opponent. Jabez Stone tries to avoid paying his soul to the defeated title character of-FTP-what short story by Stephen Vincent Benét?	Answer:	 "The Devil and Daniel Webster"25.	Born into a poor family, this singer was homeless for a time before launching her professional career in 1934 with a victory in an Apollo Theater amateur contest.  When Chick* Webb died in 1939, she took over leadership of his band, which she fronted for the next two years.  FTP, identify this jazz singer of songs such as "A-Tisket-A-Tasket," and also a 13 time Grammy winner.A:  Ella Fitzgerald