TOSSUPS -- TENNESSEE TECH			SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. Book One encompasses an idyllic four months of happiness up until the time developing tensions force the title character to depart.  Book Two contains the restless, final thirteen months of the title character's life and his ultimate suicide.  FTP name this book which made blue frock coats and yellow waistcoats trendy displays of sorrow for the young men of Europe and Goethe a rising young author in the 1770s.Answer: The Sorrows of Young Werther2. After some success in Europe, this Serb born in Croatia crossed the Atlantic to see Thomas Edison about a job.  Technically masterful but unable to convince Edison of the virtues of alternating current, he took his many ideas to Edison's rival, Westinghouse.  FTP name this engineer who electrified himself and the world with his lectures and whose surname now serves as the SI unit for magnetic flux density.Answer: Nikola Tesla3.  Like Ataturk in Turkey and Nasser in Egypt, he sought to restore his Muslim country to its former greatness.  However instead of building a strong secular state, he focussed his attention on creating a fundamentalist regime.  FTP identify the Shi'ite leader who attempted to rally support after an expensive war with Iraq during the 1980s by issuing the fatwa condemning Salman Rushdie to death for his Satanic Verses.Answer: Ayatullah Ruhollah Khomeini4. Located in the Irish Sea, it is a dependency of the British crown, but not part of the United Kingdom.  Only 220 square miles in size, it is home to gambling casinos as well as a type of tailless cat.  FTP identify this taxhaven with its capital at Douglas. Answer: Isle of Man5. Born in 1624, he developed a belief in a mystical "inner light" and began preaching in 1647.  In 1650 he was imprisoned for his blasphemy at Derby.  While there he supposedly urged Judge Bennet to "quake at the word of the Lord."  FTP name the founder of the Society of Friends.Answer: George Fox6. Born in Donora, Pennsylvania, in 1920, he was a star athlete in high school.  During his 22-year career, he won seven batting crowns, three MVP awards, and amassed 3630 hits while playing outfield and first base in the confines of Sportsman's Park.  FTP name "The Man," a hero for generations of St. Louis Cardinals fans.Answer: Stan Musial7. After graduating from Yale, he stayed for a time at Upton Sinclair's socialist colony in New Jersey.  He then worked as a freelance journalist before his reputation for writing satirical novels was established.  The targets of his satire included middle class conventions, professional pettiness, and religious hypocrisy.  FTP name the first American to win the Nobel Prize for Literature for such works as Arrowsmith, Elmer Gantry, and  Babbit, Answer: Sinclair Lewis8. This scientist shared a Nobel Prize with one of his students for theorizing that the oscillations of charged particles inside atoms were the source of light. He also predicted that a strong magnetic field ought to have an effect on the oscillations and therefore on the wavelength of the light thus produced, a phenomenon subsequently demonstrated by the student.  He is better known to your average modern physics student, however, for several mathematical formulas that form the base of Einstein's theory of special relativity.  FTP, name this Danish physicist who co-won the 1902 Nobel Prize with Pieter Zeeman.Answer: Hendrik Antoon Lorentz
9. This corporation's stock was recently trading at 138 dollars per share on NASDAQ.   Founded by Andy Grove, it is currently a leading producer of microprocessors.  FTP name the chip maker who just released the specs for its Pentium III. Answer: Intel10. Born in 1808 in New Hampshire, he served as Secretary of the Treasury under Lincoln.  He is most famous though for his role as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court during the impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson.  FTP name this man whose likeness also appears on a high denomination of US currency.Answer: Salmon P. Chase11. The Homeric hymn to this goddess tells how she took the shape of an old woman and tried to make the infant Demophoon [dem-AH-foe-on] immortal by placing him in the fireplace.  Often portrayed wearing a wreath of braided corn, her sacred animals were the snake and the pig, and she was worshipped at the Thesmophoria and the Eleusinian Mysteries.  For 10 points--identify the Olympian associated with fertility and agriculture.Answer:	Demeter12.  He is a member of the Yoruba people. Following graduation from the University of Leeds in England, he returned to found the Orisun Theatre in his homeland. FTP identify this author of The Lion and the Jewel and A Dance of the Forests whose 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature was the first for his homeland, Nigeria.Answer: Wole Soyinka13. The current name of this work was first used during the Han dynasty. Before then, it had been named for its supposed author, identified by Ssu-ma Chien, China's first great historian. FTP identify this work, whose origin, according to a recent episode of "Xena:Warrior Princess," came not from the mysterious Lao-Tzu but from his wife, Lao-Ma. Answer: Tao Te Ching (accept Dao de ching)14. They are five guys from Stockbridge, Georgia, but nobody knew who they were until bandleader Ed Roland managed to get college radio stations to start playing their music.  Soon the single Shine was storming up the charts in the southeast and they were on their way to becoming the hot new band of 1994.  FTP name this rock band whose albums include Hints, Allegations, and Things Left Unsaid and Disciplined Breakdown.Answer: Collective Soul15. Born in 1797, he spent the summers between terms at Oxford making geological surveys. His most important writing effort, the aptly named Principles of Geology helped to make that science a respected field. FTPidentify this Scotsman, known for his unsuccessful attempt to prove that the flood of Noah had occurred, based on fossil records. Answer: Sir Charles, Baronet, Lyell16.	This firm spawned a Congressional inquiry that issued censures but no prosecutions.  Established in 1867 by a shovelmaker from Massachusetts, it netted profits up to 23 million dollars, and its stock holders included Henry Wilson and Schuyler Colfax.  To avoid federal regulation, some of its shares were sold to Congressmen so they'd overlook the company's relationship to Union Pacific.   For 10 points--identify this construction company scandal that broke during the 1872 presidential campaign.Answer:	Credit Mobilier of America
17. A high concentration of this at the K-T boundary is counted among evidence for the theory that a meteorite or asteroid slamming into earth caused the mass extinction of dinosaurs.  South Africa is the leading producer of ores containing this metal.  FTP name this element whose name comes from the Greek word for rainbow.Answer:  iridium18.	Although he was actively involved in Democratic Party politics, his opposition to slavery led him to join the Republican Party soon after it was founded.  From 1829 until his death, he served as co-owner and co-editor of the New York Evening Post .  FTP name this American literary figure whose most famous poem, "Thanatopsis," was written while he was still just a teen.Answer: William Cullen Bryant19.	Born in Neosho, Missouri, his "July Hay" hangs in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  The son of a member of Congress and grandnephew of a noted Senator, his murals include Susanna and the Elders and Persephone. FTP identify this muralist, regarded as one of America's foremost Regionalist painters whoselast work hangs unsigned in the Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville, Tennessee.Answer: Thomas Hart Benton 20.	This battle, was fought on high ground about 12 miles west of Leicester (pronounced Lester).  In a battle marred by treachery among King Richard III's troops, rebel forced led by Henry Tudor defeated Richard's army.  For ten points, identify this August 22, 1485 battle, described in Shakespeare's "Richard III," terminating the War of the Roses, during which Richard was killed and after which Henry Tudor was crowned king as Henry VII.A: Battle of Bosworth Field21. As a road trustee in his district, he noted the poor shape of the local highways. Under a government appointment, he led a series of experiments to find the most effective surfacing for roads, noting among other things, that roads should be raised for better drainage. As a result of his efforts, he was made Surveyor General of Metropolitan Roads in Great Britain. FTP identify this Scot essentially known for reinventing the gravel road.Answer: John Loudon McAdam22. Attracted to the US, this English inventor left his job with Jedediah Strutt and struck out to seek his fortune.  By using his amazing memory, he was able to recreate the machines invented by his former boss without the use of notes, since emigration of textile workers to America in 1789 was forbidden by British law.  FTP identify this American immigrant, the founder of the American cotton-textile industry.Answer: Samuel Slater23.This philosopher, quoted in the epigraph to T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets apparently wrote one book, but it's lost.  His views survive, however, in short fragments attributed to him by later authors.  In his cosmology, fire forms the basic material principle of an orderly universe.  FTP, name this Ephesian philosopher.Answer:  Heracleitus24. A pioneer in programmed learning, he rejected mental concepts, seeing organisms as a kind of "black box" where internal processes are not important to predicting behavior.  His studies of operant conditioning which led him to believe that behavior was shaped and maintained by consequences.  FTP identify the radical American behaviorist and author of The Behavior of Organisms.Answer: Burrhus Frederic Skinner 
BONI -- TENNESSEE TECH			SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1. As you may know, the Nobel Prize carries a cash reward.   Bet you didn't know that this reward is also tax exempt.  FTP each identify these physicists who would not have to give any of the pie to the IRS:1. This Italian won the prize in 1938 for his demonstrations of the existence of new radioactive elements produced by neutron irradiation, and his related discovery of nuclear reactions brought about by slow neutrons.Answer: Enrico _Fermi_2. This father and son tandem won the prize in 1915 for their work in the analysis of crystal structure by means of x rays.Answer: William Henry Bragg and William Lawrence _Bragg_3. This Frenchman won the 1929 prize for his discovery of the wave nature of electrons.Answer: Louis de _Broglie_2. Identify the Christian doctrines for 10 points each.1. Also found in the lyrics of Ants Marching by the Dave Matthews Band, this doctrine state's that Adam's fall rendered humanity innately tainted and unable to achieve salvation except through divine grace.Answer: _original sin_2. This doctrine was the chief cause of the split between the Eastern Orthodox and the Roman Catholic churches and represents the union between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.Answer: _trinity_3. This doctrine holds that the whole substance of the bread and wine changes into the substance of the body and blood of Jesus when consecrated in the Eucharist.Answer: _transubstantiation_3. Identify the following computer science terms from a brief description FTP each.1. A staple of the C language, this term denotes a variable that contains a memory address as its value.Answer: _pointer_2. Also called first-in, first-out lists, this term is defined as a list in which all additions are made at one end, and all deletions from the list are made at the other end.Answer: _queue_ 2. This term type of list is a linear collection of self-referential structures, called nodes, connected by pointers.Answer: _linked_ list4.  Martin Luther King may get his own holiday, but Malcolm X deserves his own bonus.  Answer the following questions about the slain civil rights leader FTP each.1.  X obviously isn't his original last name.  FTP what is?Answer: _Little_2.  Malcolm spent seven years in prison for robbery and during that time became a follower of what Black Muslim leader?Answer: Elijah _Mohammed_3.  In what New York borough was Malcolm slain in 1965?Answer: _Harlem_5.	FTP each identify the American poet given a collection of poems.1.  _Drum-Taps_Answer: Walt _Whitman_2.  _Tammerlane and Other Poems_Answer: Edgar Allan _Poe_3.  _The Bigelow Papers_Answer: _James Russell Lowell_
6. FTP each identify these terms dealing with sculpture1.  This term denotes a brownish-red baked clay that is usually unglazed.  It is specifically applied to small figurines such as those found at TanagraAnswer: _terracotta_2.  This French term is often used to denote carved figure or form that barely stands out from its background.Answer: _bas-relief_3.  This type of sculpture is made of stuffed canvas or vinyl and often serves to replicate everyday objects and foods.  Claes Oldenburg is known for this type of sculpture.Answer: _soft_ sculpture7. 	FTP each identify these not so "great" events from world history.1.  This Chinese economic policy was planned to last until 1962, but its inefficiency led to its collapse in 1960.Answer: _Great Leap Forward_2.  This movement of about 13,000 Boers allowed them to escape British rule, but that wasn't so great for the natives who would be subjected to white rule for the next 150 years.Answer: _Great Trek_3.  Things weren't so great for the Roman Catholic Church from 1378 until 1417 because there was no agreement on who the pope was.Answer: _Great Schism_8. Given a brief description, identify the Bible being described. 1.  Also called the Mazarin Bible, these were the first complete works printed in the West on movable type. Answer: _Gutenberg_ Bible 2.  Latin for "common version" this was the Latin Bible used by the Roman Catholic Church and translated primarily by St. Jerome.Answer: _Vulgate_ Bible3.  Also called the Breeches Bible, it was published by a society of sixteenth century scholars under the leadership of Miles Coverdale and John Knox, and named for the European city it was published in.Answer: _Geneva_ Bible 9. Take a deep breath.  It's time to identify the following from biology FTP each.1.  This is the common term for the highly vascular plates utilized by certain air-breathing arachnid arthropods.Answer: _book lung_2.  The small external opening of a trachea, also the name of the nasal opening of whales.Answer: _spiracle_3.  This membrane expands to serve as a temporary respiratory organ in reptiles and birds.Answer: _allantois_10.	In a memorable Peanuts strip, after a field trip to the symphony, Peppermint Patty asks whay they always play Peter and the Wolf every year.   First, for 5 pts., who composed Peter and the Wolf?Answer: Serge _Prokofiev_In it each character is represented by a unique instrument.  Given 4 characters, name the instruments representing them.  5 points for each correct match, and an additional 5 points for all correct.Duck-		ANS: OboeCat		ANS: ClarinetGrandfather	ANS: BassoonWolf		ANS: French Horns_
11. Well, now we get to find out if Jerry Krause is the genius he thinks he is.  F10PE, given a member of the 1998 Chicago Bulls NBA championship team, name his current team:1. Scotty PippenAnswer:  Houston Rockets2.  Luc LongleyAnswer: Phoenix Suns3. Toni KukocAnswer: Chicago Bulls12. FTP each identify who occupied the British throne during each of the following presidents' terms.1.  John Tyler					Answer: _Victoria_2.  Calvin Coolidge				Answer: _George V_3.  John Quincy Adams			Answer: George IV13. FTP each identify the following laws of economics from a brief description.1.  Also known as the law of markets, it holds that supply creates its own demand and that resources can never be underusedAnswer: _Say's_ Law2.  This principle states that additional use of one factor of production at first yields rapidly increasing results, but over time these yields decline unless other factors are also modified to sustain growth.Answer: law of _diminishing returns_3.  This law holds that international trade becomes advantageous when cost of production varies between one country and another.Answer: law of _comparative advantage_14. FTP each, given the first novel written by an author, identify the author.  If you need a better known work, you'll have to settle for 5 pts.1. 	(10 pts.) The Poorhouse Fair	(5 pts.) Rabbit, RunAnswer: John _Updike_2. 	(10 pts.) Dangling Man	(5 pts.) Humboldt's Gift	Answer: Saul _Bellow_3. 	(10 pts.) The Town and the City	(5 pts.) On the RoadAnswer: Jack _Kerouac_15. There has been a lot of discussion lately about what the founding fathers intended.  FTP each identify the founding father.1. He was said to have fathered 24 illegitimate children and wrote an essay entitled "Fart Proudly."Answer: Benjamin _Franklin_2.  Called the Father of the Constitution, he would go on to become our shortest president.Answer: James _Madison_3.  Along with Roger Sherman, he advanced the Connecticut Compromise at the convention and became the country's third chief justice of the Supreme Court.Answer: Oliver _Ellsworth_
16.  FTP each identify the chemical element given a brief description.  If you need the atomic number, take 5.1.   	(10 pts.) It is found most often in nature in the mineral apatite and is essential for plant and animal life.  Its atomic weight is 30.9738.	(5 pts.) 15Answer: _phosphorus_2. 	(10 pts.) T his element is used in the manufacturing of stainless steel and is a vital trace element in human nutrition.  Its atomic weight is 51.996.	(5 pts.) 24Answer: _chromium_3. 	(10 pts.) Often used to harden steels, it is highly resistant to heat and conducts electricity easily.	(5 pts.) 42Answer: _molybdenum_17. FTP each identify the country given a power-hungry leader. 1.  Idi AminAnswer: _Uganda_2.  Pol PotAnswer: _Cambodia_   (accept Kampuchea or Khmer Republic)3.  Augusto PinochetAnswer: _Chile_18. Identify the country given its capital FTP each.1.  Rabat				Answer: _Morocco_2.  Alma-Ata				Answer: _Kazakhstan_3.  Moroni				Answer: _Comoros_ Republic19.  FTP each identify the following about Victorian wit, Oscar Wilde.1.  Wilde published his first and only novel in 1891.  Name it.Answer: _The Picture of Dorian Gray_2.  Wilde was imprisoned for two years at this site for being guilty of homosexuality.Answer: _Reading Gaol_3.  A shamed man, Wilde took to drinking large amounts of brandy and absinthe before his death from syphilis in this city.Answer: _Paris_, France20.	FTP each identify the order of animal given the following examples.1.  platypus and echidnasAnswer: monotremata accept monotreme2.  butterflies and mothsAnswer: lepidoptera3.  rhinoceros and tapirAnswer: perissodactyla21.  FTP each identify the band currently being overexposed on MTV from a given song.1.  _Jumper_Answer: _Third Eye Blind_2.  _Slide_Answer: _Goo Goo Dolls_3.  __You Get What You Give__Answer: _New Radicals_