TOSSUPS - DALTON STATE COLLEGE		SWORD BOWL 1999 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Used even by creatures as primitive as the single-celled amoeba Dictyostellium, they are probably the most ancient form of animal communication.  Insecticides often use artificial preparations that mimic these sex-attracting substances excreted by the animals themselves.  FTP name these odorous substances with which some mammals mark their territory.Answer: pheromones2.	Oliver Cowdery was the primary scribe for this work, which was translated with the assistance of the Urim and Thummim.  It tells of the descendants of Lehi and includes the prophetic words of Benjamin, as quoted by his son Mosiah, Nephi, and Alma.  For 10 points--identify this book of modern scripture allegedly delivered by an angel named Moroni and translated by Joseph Smith.Answer:  the Book of Mormon3.	Consider the cosine rule and complete the following.  The expression cosine A quantity squared plus sine A quantity squared, FTP, equals what?Answer: one4.	Born in 1874 in San Francisco, he attended college at Dartmouth and Harvard, earning a living as a shoemaker, schoolteacher, farmer, and newspaper editor. In 1912, he moved to England, where he began to concentrate on poetry, publishing his first volume, A Boy's Will, in 1913.  He then returned to the United States and continued to write poetry while teaching.  FTP identify this poet, known for his verse concerning New England life, who read his poem, "The Gift Outright," at John F. Kennedy's inauguration.Answer: Robert Frost5.	It extended about 200 miles.  Named for the Minister of War who began the project, it was constructed between 1929 and 1936 to serve as a defense along France's northeastern border.  FTP name this fortification which proved useless when flanked by the Germans.Answer: Maginot Line6.	In this novel, the author's objective recording of every trait or incident that could illuminate his characters' psyches transformed a simple tale of a faithless wife into a tragedy of shattered illusion.  Its story of the heroine Emma's seduction by the rake Rodolphe also ran afoul of censors from France in the 1850's to the U.S. 100 years later.  FTP name this long novel by Gustave Flaubert.	Answer: Madame Bovary7.	The movie Amistad tells the story of 39 Africans who seized a slave ship and ultimately won their freedom in an American court.  One of the real-life heroes of the story was a New England congressman, nicknamed "Old Man Eloquent," who joins the defense team and helps win the appeal before the Supreme Court.  FTP who was the only former President to return to Washington as a member of the House of Representatives?Answer: John Quincy Adams8.	Crater Lake in Oregon occupies a spectacular basin, almost 10 miles long and 6 miles wide, which is too large to be properly called a crater.  FTP what is the correct name for such a large basin formed by the collapse of the summit of a volcanic structure?Answer: caldera
9.	Anticipating the year 2000, this island nation moved itself across the International Date Line, hoping lots of tourists will want to celebrate at the earliest possible time.  It's needed an economic boost since the phosphate deposits on Banaba Island were exhausted 20 years ago.  FTP name this nation, formerly the Gilbert Islands, whose largest island and capital city are both named Tarawa.Answer: Kiribati10.	This heroine had a very strange family background.  Her father was the son of her mother Jocasta and her grandfather, Laius.  After the death of her brothers, her uncle Creon ruled Thebes.  He buried one of her brothers, but refused burial to the other.  Name this daughter of Oedipus who hung herself after being imprisoned for giving her brother ritual burial in a play by Sophocles.Answer : Antigone11.	This painter lived to the ripe old age of 63.  At the age of 14 he attended the University of Leiden, but he left to study art, and by age 22, he was accepting pupils.  FTP, name this Dutch artist whose works include 'Christ Preaching,' 'The Blinding of Samson' 'Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp,' and 'The Night Watch'.Answers : Rembrandt van Rijn12.	Chicago, Springfield, Saint Louis, Springfield, Tulsa, Oklahoma City, Amarillo, Sante Fe, Albuquerque, Flagstaff, Kingman, Needles, Barstow, and finally Santa Monica.  This road goes through eight states and in addition to the previous mention cities travels through hundred of other dots on the map.  FTP, name this road that is part of America history and is known as the Mother Route and Main Street of America?Answer : Route 6613. His last short story, "A Meeting with Medusa," came out in 1972; after that he stuck to his novels, such as Imperial Earth and The Sentinel.  FTP name the author of Childhood's End, The City and the Stars, Rendezvous with Rama, and 2001: A Space Odyssey.Answer: Arthur C. Clarke14.	Literally this term means "split mind."  It has no single cause, and sufferers can exhibit a wide range of symptoms ranging from catatonia to excited, repetitive movement.  Persons suffering from this psychosis exhibit bizarre behaviors caused by faulty mental processes and often hallucinate, especially hearing imaginary voices.  FTP name this group of mental disorders.Answer: schizophrenia15.	He proposed reforms in farming methods and in the French monetary and taxation system.  In collaboration with Claude Louis Berthollet he greatly influenced the classification of elements and compounds.  He also determined oxygen's role in respiration.  FTP identify this French scientist who was guillotined during the Reign of Terror.Answer: Antoine Laurent Lavoisier16.	The planned companion structure, which was to be made of black marble, was never built.   The son of the ruler who was to be buried there stuck his dad next to his mom in this, the completed half of a pair of tombs.  FTP name this structure in Agra, India, considered the greatest example of Indian Muslim architecture.Answer: the Taj Mahal17.	Born on Long Island in 1937, he studied engineering at Cornell and served in the U. S. Navy before returning to complete a degree in English in 1958.  His first novel, V., was published in 1963.  His other novels include The Crying of Lot 49 and Vineland.  For ten points, identify this author, known for his experimental writing techniques, and winner of the National Book Award for Gravity's Rainbow.Answer: Thomas Pynchon18.	The Supreme Court now applies entire Bill of Rights to laws of the fifty states, not just those of the Federal government.  They did so using the "due process" clause in this amendment.  FTP name this post-Civil War amendment which expanded the concept of constitutional rights and protection.Answer: 14th Amendment19.	The 1894 Pullman strike almost halted all American railway traffic.  As President of  the American Railway Union, this man led the strike. FTP name this Socialist who received 700,000 votes in the 1912 Presidential election.Answer: Eugene V. Debs20.	Its formula is C-5 H-4 N C O O H.  Nicotinic acid is the proper name for this important B-complex vitamin.  FTP name this vitamin, sometimes designated B-3, which prevents pellagra.Answer: niacin 	[Prompt on early buzz with either B-3 or nicotinic acid]21.	In 1957 he set a speed record with the first supersonic flight from Los Angeles to New York in 3 hours and 23 minutes.  His aviation career was halted in part due to a fall in the shower which affected his equilibrium, so he turned to politics.  FTP name this crewman of both STS-95 and Friendship 7, the first American to orbit the earth, who recently became the oldest man in space.Answer: John Glenn22.	The Trans-Alaska Pipeline was constructed to move petroleum from the Alaskan oil field located on the northern slope of Alaska.  FTP name the village at the northern extremity of the pipeline.Answer: Prudhoe Bay
BONI - DALTON STATE COLLEGE		SWORD BOWL 1999 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	FTSNOP answer the following about Edith Wharton's Ethan Frome:a) 5pts.: Who is Ethan's hypochondriac wife?Answer: Zenobiab) 10 pts.: Who is Zenobia's cousin, with whom Ethan falls in love?Answer: Mattie Silver; accept Mattie or Silverc) 15 pts.: Near what Massachusetts town is the Frome farm located?Answer: Starkfield2.	To be remembered, a Vice President usually has to do something wrong. Name the following FTSNOP:a) 5 pts.: This former Indiana Senator's frequent bloopers provided much of the mirth for the Bush administration.Answer: Dan Quayleb) 10 pts.: Before Nixon resigned, his original Vice President had done so over an unrelated scandal involving kickbacks from contractors while he was Governor of Maryland.Answer: Spiro Agnewc) 15 pts.: Named by Congress to fill the Vice Presidency under Gerald Ford, this philanthropist is remembered less for his achievements as Governor of New York than for that one picture of him giving a college audience the finger and for dying of a heart attack while apparently in a tryst with his secretary.Answer: Nelson Rockefeller (prompt on Rockefeller)3.	Here comes the bonus, and I say, it's alright.  Identify these terms related to the sun for 10 points each.A.  	The innermost layer of the sun's atmosphere, this is the apparent surface from which sunlight appears to come.Answer:	photosphereB.	The Maunder minimum refers to a seventy-year period during which this eleven-year cycle essentially stopped.Answer:	sunspot cycleC.	This type of sun activity is caused by gas trapped in solar magnetic fields and is seen in emission at the solar limb.Answer:	solar prominence4.	30-20-10.  Identify the songwriter from songs.A.	"It's All Right with Me" and "All Through the Night"B.	"Brush Up Your Shakespeare" and "Begin the Beguine"C.	"Anything Goes" and "I've Got You Under My Skin"Answer:	Cole Porter5.	Not all fables are Aesop's.  FTPE identify the American authors of these fabulous works:a) The 1954 novel A Fable, an allegory of Christ's passionAnswer: William Faulknerb) The 1848 poem "A Fable for Critics," which satirized Emerson, Poe, and Longfellow among others.Answer: James Russell Lowellc)	The musical "Guys and Dolls," subtitled "A Fable of Broadway," was based on this man's short stories featuring raffish but lovable New York lowlifes.Answer: Damon Runyon
6.	Identify these ancient leagues given a brief description, 15 points each.1: Federation of cities in northern Germany and German merchants in the Low Countries, England, and the Baltic region, organized during the 13th century for the protection and enhancement of mutual commercial interest Answer: Hanseatic League2: Military alliance in the 12th and 13th centuries formed by cities in northern Italy to resist the imperialistic aims of Holy Roman Emperor Frederick IAnswer: Lombard League7.	The Nobel in Medicine and Physiology gets less attention on the quizbowl circuit than other Nobel categories, in part because no one's heard of half these guys.  Name the following exceptions from the year and achievement FTSNOP:a. 5 pts.: Shared the 1945 prize with Howard Florey and Ernest Chain for the discovery of penicillin.Answer: Alexander Flemingb. 10 pts.: Shared the 1923 prize with John Macleod for the discovery of insulin.Answer: Frederick Bantingc. 15 pts.: Won the award in 1930 for his discovery of human blood groups.Answer: Karl Landsteiner8.	Identify the following about the WNBA for 10 points each.A.	Name the league's champions in both of its two seasons.Answer:	Houston Comets  (prompt on Houston)B.	Name the Comets' star player and two-time league MVP, who has outshone her previously more celebrated teammate Sheryl Swoopes.Answer:	Cynthia CooperC.	Lastly, name any one of the four expansion teams since the league's 1996 inception.Answer:	Washington Mystics, Detroit Shock, Minnesota Lynx, or Orlando Miracle (prompt on partial answers)9.	Given a literary work, name the Nobel Prize-winning author FTSNOP:a.	5 pts.: Doctor Zhivago	Answer: Boris Pasternakb. 10 pts.: Six Characters in Search of an AuthorAnswer: Luigi Pirandelloc. 15 pts.: Quo Vadis?Answer: Henryk Sienkiewicz10.	For 10 points each, identify these artists born in the 1800's.1.  Born Maurits Cornelis in Leeuwarden, Holland in 1898, he studied linoleum cuts and graphic art.  Name this artist now famous for impossible pictures such as Drawing Hands, Relativity and Metamorphasis.Answer :  M. C. Escher2.  Born in Sun Praire, Wisconsin in 1887, she studied art in Chicago and New York.  After she moved to New Mexico, this abstract artist became known for her close-ups of desert scenes, such as Ram's Head with Hollyhock.Answer :  Georgia O'Keefe3.  Born in Northern France on the last day of 1869, this artist was the leader of the Fauve group.  His art, including his sculptures conveyed emotions through color and the human form. Several of his paintingsfeatured dancers. Answer :  Henri Matisse
11.	FTPE, given a description of the title character, name the book of the Bible.1.  In this very short book of the Old Testament, a widowed woman goes with her mother-in-law Naomi from Moab to their kinsman Boaz.Answer : Ruth2.  An Israelite taken captive to Nineveh, he prays for death, but instead God sends the angel Raphael to cure his blindness in this book of the Apocrypha.Answer : Tobit3.  The hero of this book was taken from Israel during the reign of Nebuchanezzar of Babylon, and remained through the reigns of Belshazzar and Darius, when he was thrown in a den of lions, but remained unharmed.Answer : Daniel12.	We all know how in the Civil War the North named battles after local waterways or landmarks while the South named them after local towns.  FTSNOP, given the Yankee name, give the name the South used.1.  For 5 points, the Battle of Bull RunAnswer :    Manassas 2.  For 10 points, the Battle of AntietamAnswer :    Sharpsburg 3.  For 15 points, the Battle of ShilohAnswer :   Pittsburg Landing13.	Given the year in which a chemist won the Nobel prize and the work for which a chemist won the prize, name the chemist, ten points each.1: 1961, using radioactive carbon-14, he detected the sequence of chemical reactions produced by plants in converting gaseous carbon dioxide and water into oxygen and carbohydratesAnswer: Melvin Calvin2: 1944, found traces of barium in a sample of uranium that had been bombarded with neutrons, thus providing evidence for nuclear fissionAnswer: Otto Hahn3: 1934, discovered deuterium and isolated heavy water (deuterium oxide)Answer: Harold Clayton Urey14.	Now for the voice that's launched a thousand soundtracks. . . Mademoiselle Celine Dion!A.	For 5 points--give (without singing!) the title of her record-setting song from the film "Titanic."Answer:	My Heart Will Go OnB.	This wasn't the first time she sang the love theme for a movie wherein two beautiful people fall in love and the guy dies.  For 10 points--name the 1996 weeper associated with her #1 hit "Because You Loved Me."Answer:	Up Close and PersonalC.	But the curse does not always apply, as nobody died when Celine served as the singing voice of Lady Juliana in a 1998 animated film set in King Arthur's court.  For 15 points--name the film. Answer:	Quest for Camelot or The Magic Sword15.	F10PE, given a foreign financial center, name their benchmark stock index:a) TokyoAnswer: Nikkei Dowb) ParisAnswer: C.A.C.c) Hong KongAnswer: Hang Seng (or Yang Seng)
16.	F5PE, given some oft-anthologized poems, name the poet:a) "Much Madness Is Divinest Sense" and "I Could Not Prove the Years Had Feet"Answer: Emily Dickinsonb) "The Hollow Men" and "The Cultivation of Christmas Trees"Answer: Thomas Stearns Eliotc) "The Force That Through the Green Fuse Drives the Flower" and "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night."Answer: Dylan Thomasd) "Kublai Khan" and "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridgee) "The People, Yes" and "Chicago"Answer: Carl Sandburgf)	"Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight" and "General William Booth Enters Heaven"Answer: Vachel Lindsay17.	Most people know what islands make up Hawaii but very few can do that with other island states or countries. Name the four largest islands of Japan. You'll get 5 pts. for 1, 10 pts. for 2, 20 pts. for 3, or 30 pts. for all 4.Answer : Kyushu , Shikoku , Honshu , Hokkaido18.	Given a philosophical work, name its author FTSNOP:1: (5 points) MetaphysicsAnswer: Aristotle2: (10 points) Dialogues Concerning Natural ReligionAnswer: David Hume3: (15 points) Being and TimeAnswer: Martin Heidegger19.	Given a statement of thermodynamics, provide the law in which it is stated, 10 points each:1: Since energy can be neither created nor destroyed, the amount of heat transferred into a system plus the amount of work done on a system equals the increase in internal energy of the systemAnswer :  First law of thermodynamics2: Absolute zero cannot be attained by any procedure in a finite number of steps.Answer :  Third law of thermodynamics3: When each of two systems are in equilibrium with a third, the first two systems must be in equilibrium with each other.Answer :  Zeroth law of thermodynamics20.	As history tells us, the battle of Midway was the turning point of the war in the pacific, but how well do you know the battle.  Answer the following questions for the stated number of points.  FFPE, name the Japanese admiral that designed the attack on Midway and the one that ordered it.Answers :  Yamamoto and Nagumo FTP, name the only American carrier lost in the battle of Midway.Answer : USS YorktownFor a final ten points, name any of the four Japanese carriers lost in the battle of Midway. Answer :  Akagi , Kaga , Hiryu , Soryu