TOSSUPS - UTC/UMR 1					SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice with some help from Missouri-Rolla1.	When Prasutagus, king of the Iceni, died in AD 60, he left half his kingdom to his two daughters and offered the other half in tribute to his supposed ally, Nero.  Not satisfied with half, the Romans laid waste to the kingdom, raped and enslaved the two daughters, and whipped the king's widow.  In return, she led a two-year rebellion that routed a Roman legion, destroyed three major towns including Londinium, and required massive Roman reinforcements to defeat.  FTP name this famed and feared Celtic warrior queen.	Answer:	Boudicca or Boadicea2.	It occurs naurally either as a white powder or as white hexagonal crystals which are luminescent and exhibit the piezoelectric effect.  It's used as filler in rubber and valuable as a white pigment in paints because it remains white when exposed to hydrogen sulfide or ultraviolet light.  That resistance to ultraviolet light also explains its best known use, in  ointments and lotions to protect against sunburn.  FTP name this compound with chemical formula ZnO2.       Answer:	zinc oxide3.	Parts of them were originally published anonymously in a four-part series titled Tales of My Landlord.  Among the more notable ones were Redgauntlet, Guy Mannering, The Heart of Midlothian, Kenilworth, and Rob Roy.  FTP give the collective name for this series of over two dozen novels by Sir Walter Scott, named for the 1814 novel that started the series.	Answer:	the Waverly novels4.	When its leader died of a fever, the governor it had driven from the capital exacted a bloody revenge.  It had been precipitated by high taxes compared to low crop prices and the governor's inability to defend the frontier from Native American attacks.  Governor William Berkeley also created its leader when he arrested and then released a member of the House of Burgesses who'd served on that frontier.  FTP name this rebellion of colonial Virginia in 1676.	Answer:	Bacon's Rebellion5.	Woodlark Island, the Louisiade Archipelago, the D'Entrecasteaux [DON-TRAY-CAST-OH] Islands, and the Trobriand Islands are all part of this nation, which also includes the islands of Buka, Bougainville, and the Bismarck Archipelago.  FTP name this nation, which ironically includes only part of the island for which it is named.    	Answer:	Papua New Guinea [do not accept New Guinea, as the island itself is ruled out by the 1st clues.]6.	Like many a modern women's magazine, it gave women hints on concealing their physical imperfections - although modern readers are unlikely to use crocodile dung facials as recommended.  It also offered would-be adulterers such advice as, "All love to be propositioned. And even if you fail, rejection doesn't hurt. But why should you fail... women always welcome pleasure... and find novelty exciting."  Unfortunately, it was published shortly after Augustus had exiled his own daughter for her many affairs, so it earned its author a one-way ticket to exile to the shores of the Black Sea.  FTP name this classic of salacious poetry by Ovid.	Answer:	Ars Amatoria or The Art of Love7.	In 1998 a controversial bill bearing the name of this man, who'd been a principal advocate of it, quietly passed both houses of Congress on a voice vote on an otherwise busy news day.   It gave a retroactive extension of copyright rights, many thought mainly to keep Mickey Mouse from passing into the public domain.  As a songwriter its namesake would have benefited from the law had he lived to see it pass, but in early 1998 this former mayor of Palm Springs and two-term Congressman died in a skiing accident.  FTP name this man, who wrote many of the hit songs he recorded with his second wife, Cher.	Answer: 	Sonny (Salvatore) Bono 8.	It makes heavy use of the concept of "duality," saying that two theories are dual if they can be shown to be equal under a certain interchange.   It takes the "strong coupling" limit of the type IIA [two-A] and HE superstring theories to produce an eleven-dimensional space-time framework.  FTP name this theory developed by Edward Witten of Princeton, one of the leading candidates for a "theory of everything", which unites five different superstring theories in a large arena like five islands in a sea to explain how matter is constructed.  	Answer:	M-theory [prompt on superstring theory until you get to "superstring theories"]
9.	It's subtitled "Episode in the Life of an Artist", and to make sure we understood that episode, its composer appended extensive program notes to the score.  Movements titled "A Ball," In the Country," "Reveries, Passions," and "Dream of a Witches' Sabbath" represent dreams in the deep sleep a despairing lover is in because he has poisoned himself with opium. The best known of these dreams is expressed in the fourth movement, "March to the Scaffold." FTP name this 1830 composition by Hector Berlioz.	Answer:	Symphonie Fantastique10.	Its mostly unnamed heroes were of different races and backgrounds, poor people who "ain't too proud to sleep on the floor tonight."  It tells of "voices from nowhere and voices from the larger towns/ Filled our head full of dreams, turned the world upside down."  Those given names include Frankie Lymon, Bobby Fuller, Mitch Ryder, Jackie Wilson, Shangri-Las, Young Rascals; spotlight on Martha Reeves, and don't forget James Brown.  FTP name this work by 20th century poet-philosopher John Cougar Mellencamp subtitled "A Salute to '60's Rock," from his 1985 album Scarecrow.	Answer: 	"R-O-C-K in the U.S.A." [accept Rockin' in the USA]11.	It can result from a shortage of calcium and phosphate, but is more often caused by the body's inability to regulate their levels.  A contributing factor in some cases is insufficient sunlight, which limits the skin's ability to synthesize the stuff needed to prevent it.  FTP name this disorder causing defective bone growth in children, most commonly a results of a deficiency of vitamin D.	Answer:	rickets12.	He entered Parliament in 1972 and got his first Cabinet appointment in 1978.  In 1989 he led a "palace coup" within the National Party, ousted hardliner P.W. Botha as party leader, and narrowly won the Presidency.  Within a year he removed the ban on the African National Congress, and in a whites-only 1992 referendum he engineered the end of minority rule in South Africa.  FTP name this statesman who shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela.	Answer: F.(rederick) W.(illem) de Klerk13.	While acknowledging free will, they believed in fate as an expression of the will of God that played a major role in people's lives and expected rewards or punishments after death rather than in life.  They also stressed obedience to laws of dietary purity, especially regarding those with whom they'd eat, and the importance of hand washing.  These purity issues led to their differences not only with the rival Sadducees, but also with Jesus and his followers. FTP name this religious and political party who have become identified with hypocrisy and theological nitpicking.    	Answer:	Pharisees14.	Appropriately, so far he's lived almost 40 years since he published Precocious Autobiography.  His best-known novel is Wild Berries, and he also wrote a semiautobiographical account of the 1991 triumph of Boris Yeltsin, Don't Die Before You're Dead.  But his reputation rests more on such long poems as "The Bratsk Station" and "Kazan University." FTP name this noncomformist Russian, author of "Babi Yar."	Answer:	Yevgeny Yevtushenko or Evtushenko15.	He was interested in cubism but more heavily influenced by the work of Henri Rousseau.  Using simplified, flat geometric forms and bright colors, he concentrated on traditional proletarian cultural themes ("Flower Day", "Day of the Dead", and "The Bandit Hero") and on his hopes for a Marxist future (as in "The Agitator" and "The Arsenal".)  FTP name this painter, Mexico's best known muralist.	Answer:	Diego Rivera16.	They are believed to be formed by thermal currents within the earth's mantle that break parts of the crust into large slabs.  When this creates two roughly parallel faults, it often forms grabens, or troughs of land between the faults.  A series of parallel faults can result in land sinking in steps, or block faults on either side of a graben can tilt blocks toward it.  Either of those then produces, FTP, what geological formation, of which the best known is in East Africa?	Answer:	rift valley(s)  [accept "graben" before it's said]17.	In his forties he discovered an affinity for geometry, and the writings of Euclid influenced his assertion that matter and its motion were the only valid subjects for philosophy.  And he tackled those subjects in De Corpore (1655), De Homine (1658), and De Cive (1642.)  In his best-known work he argued that man is not naturally social and only by obeying moral rules stays civilized.   FTP name the author of Leviathan.	Answer:	Thomas Hobbes
18.	Even after the publisher insisted on a rewrite for fear of being jailed, this novel still depicted enough degraded sexuality to cause scandal -- making it the author's only popular success during his lifetime.  Idealistic lawyer Horace Benbow leaves his wife because he can't stand the smell of shrimp and winds up fascinated by amoral characters such as the vicious Popeye and his corrupted victim-turned-mistress, Temple Drake.  FTP name this novel by William Faulkner.       Answer:	Sanctuary19.	Mentioned in English records as early as the 14th century, it was formalized by a 1679 act of Parliament.  Wrongful refusals were one of the grievances cited by leaders of the American Revolution, and it was considered important enough to be explicitly safeguarded in Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution.  It has been reinforced by such Supreme Court decisions as Fay v. Noia (1963) and Ex parte Milligan (1866.)  FTP name this check against unlawful imprisonment in which a judge requires a person in custody to be brought to a specific place at a specific time for legal proceedings.	Answer:	writ of habeas corpus20.	Secondary themes in this work include concerns about anthrax and anti-Irish prejudice.  It avoids stereotyping Western settlers as uncultured; townspeople refer to Shakespeare and even Nietzsche.  Paralleling many real-life scandals, the plot stems from a corrupt territorial official scheming to buy land along a railroad route with the help of railroad foreman Taggart.  FTP name this 1974 work, in which Rev. Johnson and the other citizens of Rock Ridge are saved from terror by the Waco Kid and a sheriff named Bart.	Answer:	Blazing Saddles21.	The last name's the same.  Woodleigh Marx is the children's author and illustrator of Four Fur Feet and Imaginary Menagerie.  Elbert was an editor and inspirational speaker who wrote the popular Message to Garcia.  Cal has the unusual distinction of being enshrined both in Cooperstown (as an umpire) and Canton (as a player.)  And Lafayette Ron was a science fiction author who founded Scientology.  FTP give the common last name.	Answer:	Hubbard22.	Notable collections of these have been made by Jean de la Fontaine and John Gay.  The Indian stories of the Panchatantra contain some of the oldest examples.  Typically using commonplace settings and often featuring animals as the characters, these short allegorical tales are designed to convey a moral message in simple terms.  FTP name this literary genre, for which the most famous contributor was Aesop.	Answer:	fables23.	His daughter Knox died of malaria only three months after ignoring his wishes and marrying the young Jefferson Davis.  Even though he himself was a slaveholder with a cotton plantation, he had no patience for secessionists and in February 1850 told southern leaders that he would personally lead the Army and "hang them... with less reluctance than he had hanged deserters and spies in Mexico."  American history might have been very different if not for his death in the summer of 1850.  FTP name this hero of the Mexican War who served as the 12th President of the U.S. 	Answer:	Zachary Taylor
BONI - UTC/UMR 1						SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Charlie Steinhice with some help from Missouri-Rolla1.	VISUAL BONUS	[READER: HAND OUT ATTACHMENT]The handout you've been given shows the structure of some organic compounds.  To make them easier to identify, each compound includes a distinctive functional group.  Your choices are: [READ SLOWLY]  trimethylamine (which is an amine); propamide (which is an amide); methyl ethanoate (which is an ester); propanoic acid (which is a carboxylic acid); and dimethyl ether (which is, duh, an ether.)  F5PE or 30 for all 5, tell which letter identifies each; you have 15 seconds.Answers:	a) dimethyl etherb) propanoic acidc) trimethylamined) methyl ethanoatee) propamide2.	Like "silvery-white metal" or "flu-like symptoms," here's a recyclable clue for 20th century authors: "backed the Republican cause in the Spanish Civil War."  Name these authors from works on that war FTPE or other works for 5:a)  10 pts.:  Homage to Catalonia (1938)       5 pts.:  Animal Farm	Answer: 	George Orwell (accept Eric Arthur Blair but advise whoever said it to seek professional help)b) 10 pts.:  L'Espoir, or Days of Hope      5 pts.:  Man's Fate       Answer:	Andre Malrauxc) 10 pts.:  Now here's an original title: Spain (1937)      5 pts.:  The Age of Anxiety       Answer: 	W(ystan) H(ugh) AudenXXXFor Samer's Penn Bowl use: 10: Spanish Testament (1938), 5: Darkness at Noon; answer: Arthur Koestler3.	Answer the following about Pan-American conferences FTPE:a)   Conferences in Montevideo in 1933 and Buenos Aires in 1936, called to endorse this policy of the Franklin Roosevelt administration, helped set the stage for increased cooperation between the U.S. and Latin American nations.    	Answer:	Good Neighbor policyb)   Drawn up at a 1947 conference, this treaty, formally known as the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, declared that an armed attack against one signatory was an armed attack against all.    	Answer:	Rio Treatyc)   A 1948 conference in Bogota led to the establishment of this body, which eventually incorporated the Pan American Union as its General Secretariat.    	Answer:	OAS or Organization of American States4.	This bonus was clearly written by a parent whose kids watch too much TV.  FTPE name these supporting characters from various series on Cartoon Network:a)  The slightly older and much more obnoxious rival scientific genius on Dexter's Laboratory, whose Achilles heel is his crush on Dexter's sister Dee Dee.	Answer:	Mandarkb) The buxom, sultry-voiced secretary to the mayor of Townsville on the Power Puff Girls, whose face is always off camera or hidden behind hair or bandages or something.	Answer:	Miss (Sarah) Bellumc) Johnny's best friend on Ed, Edd, and Eddy, he sometimes heroically saves the day despite being an inanimate object.	Answer:	Plank5.	FTPE name the Dutch-born artists of the following works:a) Milkmaid, View of Delft, Woman Weighing Pearls	Answer:	Jan Vermeer             b) Laughing Cavalier, Officers of the Militia Company of St. George	Answer:	Frans Halsc) Metamorphosis, Day and Night, House of Stairs        Answer: 	M.C. Escher
6.	Name the colorful authors of these literary works on a 5-10-20-30 basis:a) "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"	Answer:	Thomas Greyb) The Once and Future King	Answer:	T. H. Whitec) The End of the Affair       Answer: 	Graham Greened) Wieland	Answer:	Charles Brockden Brown7.	Identify the subatomic particles for the stated number of points.a)	5 pts.- Named for a term from James Joyce's novel Finnegan's Wake, these particles are thought to be the ultimate constituents of hadrons, the class to which protons and neutrons belong.       Answer:  quarksb)	10pts. - It is the class of simplest particles known, having no hint of internal structure or even of extension in space.  It includes the electron and the neutrino.       Answer:  leptonsc)	15 pts. - It is thought to be quite massive, on the order of a thousand times the proton mass, though no accurate predictions can be made at present.  It is the mediator of the field of the same name supposed to exist everywhere in space in order to make the Standard Model of leptons and quarks mathematically consistent; thus, finding it would be a major step toward validating the Standard Model.       Answer:  Higgs boson8.	Given a list of battles from British history, name the war in which they were fought, 5-10-20-30:a) St. Albans (twice), Tewkesbury, Bosworth	Answer: 	War(s) of the Rosesb) Alma River, Sevastopol, Balaclava	Answer:	Crimean Warc) Gibraltar, Malplaquet, Blenheim       Answer: 	War of the Spanish Successiond) Fort Dearborn, Bladensburg, Lake Champlain	Answer:	War of 1812 [hey, it was their war too]9.	FTSNOP answer the following about an influential economist:a) (10) Name the winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Economics, whose wife Rose co-authored many of his most influential works, including Capitalism and Freedom and Free to Choose.	Answer:	Milton Friedmanb) (5 each) Friedman is a leading exponent of an economic theory that asserts the importance of controlling the money supply as the means of achieving a stable economy with low inflation and steady growth.  F5PE give both the general name for this theory and the name, taken from the university where Friedman taught for 30 years, widely given to the school of thought that follows that theory.	Answer:	monetarism; Chicago Schoolc) In 1982 Friedman drew harsh criticism for praising the actions of this Chilean dictator, whose human rights record had not kept Friedman from advising him on economic policy since 1975.       Answer: 	Augusto Pinochet Ugarte10.	FTPE answer the following about a certain religious faith:a) Headquartered in Haifa, Israel, it advocates a simple life dedicated to serving others and seeks world peace through the unification of world religions.	Answer:	Baha'ib) Born Mirza Husayn Ali Nuri, this Persian considered the latest prophet of God by adherents is the founder of Baha'i and author of its scripture, the Katabi Ikan or Book of Certitude.	Answer:	(the) Baha'ullahc) The Baha'ullah claimed to be the promised one whose coming was foretold by this self-proclaimed prophet, sort of a Baha'i John the Baptist, whose secession from Islam with his followers led to his execution in 1850.         Answer: 	(the) Bab or Ba'ab
11.	Before the 1992 election, many politicos urged Bush the Elder to dump VP Dan Quayle from his ticket.  There had been precedent.  Name these Vice Presidents dropped from reelection tickets FTPE:a)	He expected FDR to retire after two terms like everyone else.  When FDR didn't say he would but didn't say he wouldn't, this man best known for likening his office to "a pitcher of warm spit" tried to force the issue by running against his boss in the California primary.  Bad idea.	Answer:	John Nance Garnerb)	Worried about his prospects for reelection in 1864, Lincoln decided to dump this VP from a state he'd surely win (Maine) in favor of the loyal Southerner Andrew Johnson.	Answer:	Hannibal Hamlinc)	In 1870 Grant's widely distrusted Vice President announced plans to retire after one term, which many saw as a move towards a run against Grant in 1872.  He changed his mind but was dumped anyway, a lucky break for Grant because shortly before the election this lame duck V.P. was implicated in the Credit Mobilier scandal.	Answer:	Schuyler Colfax12.	Name the NASCAR driver by the given number that they drove for the 2001 season.a. Number 45   Answer:	Kyle Petty b. Number 06   Answer:	Mark Martinc. Number 29   Answer:	Kevin Harvick13.	Just whip it, whip it real good, and FTPE answer the following about flagellates:a) Perhaps the best known flagellates, these single-celled freshwater organisms confused early scientists because they carry out photosynthesis like plants, but are motile and lack the cellulose cell wall of plants. Among their distinguishing features is the storage of food as the carbohydrate paramylon.	Answer:	euglenas (accept euglenoids)b) This group of flagellates is named for the whirling motion they sometimes exhibit as a consequence of the two unequal flagella they typically have.  The largest, Noctiluca, is 2 mm across and big enough to eat fish eggs.	Answer:	dinoflagellatesc) Such groups as ramicristates, pelobionts, and vampyrellids are all classified as amoeboid because they form these temporary cytoplasmic projections for locomotion and the ingestion of food. Answer: 	pseudopods14.	Name the American poet from works on a 10-5 basis:a)	10 pts.:	  "The Rhodora", "Brahma", "Fable"	5 pts.:	 "Concord Hymn"       	Answer:	Ralph Waldo Emersonb)	10 pts.:	  "Maud Muller", "Barbara Frietchie"	5 pts.:  "Snow-Bound"		Answer:	John Greenleaf Whittierc)	10 pts.:	  "Lighthearted William," "The Yachts," "By the Road to the Contagious Hospital"	5 pts.:  "The Red Wheelbarrow"       Answer:	William Carlos Williams15.  FTPE name the school of philosophy associated with the following thinkers:a) Chrysippus, Epictetus, and Zeno of Citium	Answer:	stoicismb) Ammonius Saccas, Plotinus, Porphyry	Answer:	Neo-Platonismc) Peter singer, Jeremy Bentham, John Stuart Mill       Answer: 	utilitarianism
16.	Tired of bonuses asking you to identify Dickens characters?  OK, fine.  On a 10-5 name the Charles Dickens work in which you'd find the following quotes:a)  10 pts.: I never see any difference in boys. I only know two sorts of boys. Mealy boys and beef-faced boys.       5 pts.: "If the law supposes that," said Mr. Bumble, squeezing his hat emphatically in both hands, "the law is a ass..."	Answer:	Oliver Twistb)  10 pts.: Keep out of Chancery.... It's being ground to bits in a slow mill; it's being roasted at a slow fire; it's being stung to death by single bees; it's being drowned by drops; it's going mad by grains.       5 pts.:	Jarndyce and Jarndyce drones on. This scarecrow of a suit, has, in course of time, become so complicated that no man alive knows what it means.	Answer:	Bleak Housec)  10 pts.: Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure nineteen nineteen six, result happiness. Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six, result misery.       5 pts.: I never will desert Mr. Micawber.       Answer: 	David Copperfield       17.	Given a 20th century U.S. Presidential election year and winner, name the los..., uh, first runner-up FTPE:a)	Franklin Roosevelt, 1940	Answer:	Wendell Willkieb)	Ronald Reagan, 1984	Answer:	Walter Mondalec)	Woodrow Wilson, 1916       Answer: 	Charles Evans Hughes18.	Given some of the states or provinces or whatever, name the nation, 5-10-20-30:a)  Eastern Cape, Free State, KwaZulu-Natal	Answer:	South Africab)  Liege, Limburg, Brabant Wallon       Answer:	Belgiumc)  Rondonio, Bahia, Mato Grosso       Answer: 	Brazild)  Neuchatel, Ticino, Bern, Graubunden       Answer:	Switzerland19.	Thanks to the influence of Arab astronomers, many common star names begin with the letter "A".  Given a star, tell the constellation where it can be found F5PE:a)	Antares		Answer:	Scorpiob)	Altair		Answer:	Aquilac)	Aldebaran		Answer:	Taurusd)	Arcturus		Answer:	Bootese)	Algol		Answer:	Perseusf)	Alpheratz		Answer:	Andromeda20.	From a brief description, FTPE, name the instrument used in traditional Indian music:a) With a long neck and gourdlike body, it has a main section of 3 to 7 strings and a lower course of another 12 strings.	Answer:	sitarb) This lutelike instrument is shaped much likethe sitar but has only four strings.  It produces a droning sound, playing two notes ate the same time continuously.	Answer:	tamburac) India's most popular percussion instrument is this small set of two drums with leather heads and leather tuning straps.       Answer: 	tabla21.	FTPE name the directors of these renowned foreign films:a)	The 400 Blows, Jules and Jim, The Last Metro	Answer:	Francois Truffautb)	Rashomon, The Seven Samurai, Kagemusha	Answer:	Akira Kurosawac)	Wild Strawberries, Cries and Whispers, The Seventh Seal       Answer: 	Ingmar Bergman
UTC/UMR 1	ATTACHMENT FOR VISUAL BONUS (#4)		SWORD BOWL 2002a)CH3-O-CH3 b)c)d)e)