TOSSUPS - FLORIDA STATE				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Billy Beyer with a few from Bucknell and Boston CollegeEDITOR'S NOTE: This packet originally had a tossup on Jerry Springer: The Opera, which I thought too obscure.  But I thought everyone should know that the opera includes Jesus singing a song titled "Talk to the Stigmata." 1.  An unfinished play of his follows Countess Ilse and an acting troupe in "The Mountain Giants." His first widely acclaimed novel was "The Late Mattia Pascal", but he made his reputation with plays such as "Right You Are" and "Henry IV." Winner of the 1934 Nobel Prize for Literature, his most famous work is set during a theater rehearsal and is crashed by a family looking for someone to tell their story.  For ten points -- name this Italian playwright whose magnum opus is "Six Characters in Search of an Author."	Answer:	 Luigi Pirandello2.  His marriage to Theodora, a former actress, led to many later emperors marrying outside the aristocratic class.  Procopius provides a primary source for the history of his reign which featured military expansion that was primarily through the campaigns of Belisarius.  His namesake work was largely compiled by his advocate Tribonian, and the Hagia Sophia was rebuilt during his reign.  For ten points -- name this Byzantine emperor who ruled from 527-565 CE.	Answer:	 Justinian (gladly accept Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Iustinianus)3.  In Arthur C.  Clarke's "Imperial Earth", it is home to a human colony with a population of 250,000.  Made up of half water ice and half rocky material, this body is home to a large, highly reflective area that has been unofficially named Xanadu.  Discovered in 1655 by Christiaan Huygens, it was the first moon in the solar system to be discovered after the Galilean moons of Jupiter.  The only known moon with a fully developed atmosphere that consists of more than just trace gases, it is the second largest natural satellite in the solar system.  For ten points -- name this largest moon of Saturn.	Answer:	 Titan4.  Members of this art movement would sometimes physically attack those who were not enjoying their exhibitions.  Initiated by Filippo Marinetti, echoes of this art movement still remain in Japanese culture.  Believing modern warfare was the ultimate artistic expression, its members included Carlo Carrà, Giacomo Balla, and Umberto Boccioni.  For ten points -- name this early 20th century art movement whose manifesto was "the roaring automobile is more graceful than Winged Victory."	Answer:	 Futurism5.  In a game on January 6, 2005, he went into the NBA record book with a bizarre distinction by becoming the first player in league history to lead his team in scoring without making a field goal.  Before entering the NBA, he was named Most Outstanding Player when UConn won the NCAA tournament in 1999.  Drafted by the Washington Wizards with the 7th pick in the 1999 draft, he was traded to his current team for Jerry Stackhouse.  For ten points -- name this Detroit Pistons player nicknamed Rip.	Answer:	 Richard Hamilton6.  He often called himself the little guy from Shawninigan.  The left side of his face was permanently paralyzed by a childhood attack of Bell's palsy, setting up future opponents to say he was "talking out of the side of his mouth." He was first elected to his country's House of Commons in 1963 and served as parliamentary secretary to Lester Pearson.  In 1984 he lost to John Turner in a bid to succeed the retiring Pierre Trudeau as head of the Liberal Party.  But he ousted Kim Campbell in an October 1993 election and was re-elected in 1997 and 2000.  FTP name this former Canadian Prime Minister, succeeded by Paul Martin in 2003.	Answer:	 Jean Chrétien 7.  It takes its name from the title of a 1530 Girolamo Fracastoro poem.  Paul Ehrlich first treated it with a magic bullet called arsphenamine.  Caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum, penicillin works against this disease by inhibiting cell-wall formation.  In its primary stage, a chancre (shan-ker) is the first sign that one has this disease and in the tertiary stage, which can occur ten years after first getting infected, blindness and mental illness are common.  FTP name this infectious disease typically transmitted by sexual intercourse, commonly called the French disease.	Answer:	 syphilis
8.  The epitome of chivalry and courage and obedience to sacred law, he has a brother named Laxmana.  Hanuman, a monkey-god, assists this prince of Ayodhya on his journey.  After being banished to the forest by his stepmother, his adventures begin when his wife, Sita, is kidnapped by Ravana, the king of Ceylon.  For ten points -- name this seventh avatar of Vishnu, the blue-skinned hero of the Ramayana.	Answer:	 Rama9.  In the early 1900s, this city was called the Winter Film Capital of the World.  Home of Nathan Bedford Forrest High School, and hence many race riots, it was originally called Cowford before being renamed for its state's first territorial governor.  Located on the St.  Johns River, in terms of land area it is the largest city in the contiguous United States.  FTP name this county seat of Duval County where interstate highways 10 and 95 intersect, site of next month's Super Bowl.	Answer:	 Jacksonville10.  The Song of the Family is gradually overshadowed by the Song of Evil, which first appears when Coyotito is stung by a scorpion.  One of the villagers suggests giving the titular object to the Pope as a gift, but the dealers say that it is valuable only as a curiosity and offer only a thousand pesos for it.  Kino ultimately resorts to violence after gaining wealth from the ocean in, FTP what John Steinbeck novel?	Answer:	The Pearl11. Its reactive agent is thought to be the free chloride because it is a strong oxidizing agent.  Characterized as a fuming, yellow liquid, it is prepared by mixing one volume nitric acid with three or four volumes of hydrochloric acid.  This mixture was first used by alchemists but now is used to purify scrap gold allow into pure gold.  FTP name this mixture which has a name meaning "holy water."	Answer:	aqua regia12.  This asexual composer was good friends with Vincenzo Bellini, beside whom he is buried in the Père Lachaise.  Before dying of tuberculosis at age thirty-nine, he had a ten-year liaison with the writer George Sand.  Elevating dances such as polonaises to the level of serious music, his last work was a mazurka in F minor.  For ten points -- name this Polish composer and pianist of the Romantic period.	Answer:	 Frédéric Chopin 13.  Named after the Aztec goddess of hearth and fire, it contains 390 calories and 20 grams of fat.  Varying in price between $2.65 and $2.95, the price of this six-ounce product will depend on whether one orders it to go in a paper cup or in a specially-crafted ceramic mug.  "If you ate a piece of chocolate sitting in a chocolate chair in a house made of chocolate on a chocolate street in a chocolate city, you would be surrounded by less chocolate" than this product, so says a recent advertisement.  For ten points -- name this Starbucks drink that is basically just chocolate in liquid form.	Answer:	 Chantico14.  This novel's protagonist discovers a mysterious algae-covered island infested with meerkats whose occupant has mysteriously vanished.  The ending features an alternate scenario in which the zebra is replaced by a sailor and the orangutan by the protagonist's mother, who in reality dies when a ship sinks in the Pacific Ocean.  This accident leaves Piscine Patel alone in a lifeboat with a ferocious Bengal tiger in, FTP what Booker Prize-winning novel by Yann Martel?	Answer:	Life of Pi15.  Introducing the first tactical use of railways and the invention of cigarettes, this war was started because of a dispute over the guardianship of several holy towns in Palestine and the protection of Orthodox Christians.  This war's Battle of Balaclava is best known for the British stand called the "thin red line" and the complete ineptitude displayed in it by the British.  In the Battle of Sinop, only the steamer Taif escaped from Russian battleships, and Sevastopol was the site of an 11-month French and British siege.  For ten points -- name this 1854-1856 war memorialized by Tennyson's "The Charge of the Light Brigade."	Answer:	 Crimean War 16.  The account of his life is found in the Book of Genesis, beginning in Chapter 11, at the close of a genealogy of the sons of Shem.  His father Terah was an idol-maker and he was chosen by Jehovah for an important task.  Emigrating with his wife and nephew from Ur to Canaan, he had two sons: Ishmael, via a servant named Hagar, and Isaac, via his wife Sarah.  For ten points -- name this patriarch of Judaism, Islam, and Christianity.	Answer:	 Abraham17.  This region of intense interactions among radiative, dynamical, and chemical processes has horizontal mixing of gaseous components proceeding much more rapidly than vertical mixing.  Icy winds blow through the lower parts, speeding super-sonic jets to their destinations.  In this atmospheric layer, temperature increases as altitude increases and due to an ozone layer that absorbs solar ultraviolet radiation, it is warmer than the upper troposphere.  At the equator, it is situated about 17 to 50 kilometers above the surface and it sits directly above the troposphere and directly below the mesosphere.  For ten points -- name this layer of Earth's atmosphere which has a very hot top called the stratopause.	Answer:	 stratosphere18.  The protagonist's name is drawn from a river of Russia as a homage to Pushkin's "Eugene Onegin." Divided into six parts, "Princess Mary", the longest part, deals with the protagonist flirting with the Princess while conducting an affair with an ex-lover named Vera.  Set during the reign of Tsar Nicholas I in the 1830s, the protagonist of this work kills Grushnitsky in a duel.  For ten points -- name this work centering on Grigory Pechorin, written by Mikhail Lermontov.	Answer:	 A Hero of Our Time (accept: Geroy nashego vremeni)19.  Founded under a charter from King Charles I, the inhabitants of this commonwealth based on the Bible did not wish to separate from the Church of England.  In its beginning, laws were passed by the General Court which consisted of stock-owning colonists, but after a rebellion, all men in good standing could serve in the General Court.  Eventually, as Archbishop Laud continued to add rigor to the Church hierarchy, freemen in each town in this colony elected two representatives to the General Court.  John Endicott, Simon Bradstreet, and Thomas Dudley were governors of this colony, which nine years after Plymouth celebrated its first Thanksgiving.  FTP name this "light of the world", a colony first governed by John Winthrop.	Answer:	 Massachusetts Bay Colony or Company (prompt on Massachusetts or Puritans)20.  He spent his last years teaching at Florida State University and is buried in Tallahassee.  His namesake equation provides a description of elementary spin-1/2 particles, such as electrons, and he predicted the existence of the positron.  His textbook, "Principles of Quantum Mechanics", which is still used today, introduced the Bracket notation. For ten points -- name this 20th century British scientist who won the 1933 Nobel Prize with Erwin Schrödinger for the discovery of new productive forms of atomic theory.	Answer:	 Paul Dirac21.  Three times during this historical figure's life, he worked as an electrical technician.  In 1976, he lost his job as an electrician at the Gdansk Shipyard for collecting signatures for a petition to build a memorial for the killed workers of a 1970 strike.  Serving as the spokesman of the Inter-Factory Strike Committee, he won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983.  For ten points -- name this former Polish President and labor leader, the founder of Solidarity.	Answer:	 Lech Walesa 22.  He campaigned against the persecution of Catholics in Ireland, denounced the East India Company, and had Warren Hastings impeached.  One of the first to argue the value of political parties, he wrote the pamphlet "Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents" in response to George III's attempt to regain the right to appoint ministers from Parliament.  FTP  name this Irish-born British philosopher and politician, author of "Reflections on the Revolution in France."	Answer:	 Edmund Burke23.  The experiment began in July of 1961, one year after the trial of Adolf Eichmann.  First described by a psychologist at Yale, participants for this experiment were recruited via a newspaper ad for work in a "study of memory." The results, published in an article entitled "Behavioral Study of Obedience", showed that 65% of the experimental participants administered the final 450-volt shock, even though the other participant was seemingly screaming for the experiment to stop.  For ten points -- name this experiment that intended to measure the willingness of a participant to obey an authority who instructs the participant to do something that may conflict with the participant's personal conscience.	Answer:	 Milgram experiment24.  This book is seen as the inspiration for David Foreman creating Earth First.  The titular group contains a Mormon, a surgeon, a nurse, and a crazed Vietnam veteran, and in order to protect the American west, they attack deserted bulldozers and trains.  FTP name this Edward Abbey novel that was so influential, that the term "monkey wrench" has come to mean something that disrupts.	Answer:	 The Monkey Wrench Gang 
BONI - FLORIDA STATE					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Billy Beyer with a few from Bucknell and Boston College1.  FTPE name these African countries given clues.  If you need its capital, you'll get five.(10) Lying along its namesake river, this is mainland Africa's smallest country.(5) Banjul	Answer:	 The Gambia(10) Gambia is almost entirely surrounded by this country.(5) Dakar	Answer:	 Senegal(10) Bordered by Senegal to the southwest, this country, other than Madagascar, is the only not to use a decimal currency.(5) Nouakchott (nwak-SHOT)	Answer:	 Mauritania (mor-ih-TA-ne-ah)2.  FTPE name these Flemish Baroque art works.(10) The identity of the twenty-six year-old title figure in this 1624 Frans Hals work still remains a mystery.	Answer:	 The Laughing Cavalier(10) In this Rubens work, Philistines wait at the door while one of the title figures shows her boobs and the other is getting a hair cut.	Answer:	 Samson and Delilah(10) In this 1660 Jan Vermeer painting, dark clouds are in the sky, yet the title city is bathed in warm sunshine.  	Answer:	 View of Delft3.  FTPE given classes, identify the phylum they belong to.  If you need some of the animals that the phylum contains, you'll get five points.(10) Hydrozoa, anthozoa, and scyphozoa.(5) Hydra, sea anemones, corals, and jellyfish.	Answer:	 Cnidaria(10) Calcarea, demospongiae, and hexactinellida(5) Sponges.	Answer:	 Porifera(10) Arachnida, diplopoda, and chilopoda.(5) Ticks, spiders, shrimp, lobsters, and centipedes.	Answer:	 Arthropoda (grudgingly accept Arthropods)4.  FTPE name these pharaohs from Egypt's New Kingdom.(10) The namesake of a Philip Glass opera, this pharaoh was married to Nefertiti and his exclusive worship of the Aten is often seen as the first instance of monotheism.	Answer:	 Akhenaten(10) The subject of a poem by Percy Shelley, this pharaoh battled Muwatalli II in the Battle of Kadesh.	Answer:	 Ramses II [accept Ozymandias, Ramses the Great, Ramesses II, etc.](10) General Horemheb was one of the most influential advisors to this pharaoh, the only one to have his intact tomb discovered.	Answer:	 Tutankhamen or Tutankhaton5.  FTPE name these clues about a 20th century poem.(10) "Old age should burn and rave at close of day" is the line that follows this opening line that is also the poem's title.	Answer:	 Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night(10) "Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night" is the most famous work of this Welsh poet.	Answer:	 Dylan Thomas(10) "Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night" is an example of this type of 19-line poem.	Answer:	 villanelle
6.  FTPE name these people associated with Theseus.(10) By most accounts, Theseus is the son of this legendary Athenian king.  When he mistakenly thought that Theseus' expedition to Crete failed, he threw himself into the sea.  Oops.	Answer:	 Aegeus(10) Theseus is most famed for slaying this beast that had a bull's head on a human body.	Answer:	 Minotaur(10) She gave Theseus a clew of thread to guide him out of the labyrinth.  Theseus thanked her by abandoning her after they married.	Answer:	 Ariadne7.  FTPE solve these relatively simple physics problems.(10) A simple harmonic oscillator has a frequency of 2.5 Hertz and an amplitude of .05 meters.  In seconds, what is the period of the oscillations?	Answer:	 .4 or 2/5 (the period is the reciprocal of the frequency)(10) The coefficient of kinetic friction between a block and its incline is .4.  In terms of Joules, how much work is done by the normal force on the block as it slides down the full length of the incline?	Answer:	 0 (the normal force is perpendicular to the object's displacement, hence no work)(10) In amperes, how much current does a 60 Watt light bulb draw if it operates at a voltage of 120 Volts?	Answer:	 .5 or 1/2 (60/120)8.  FTPE name these things connected with John C.  Calhoun(10) Calhoun served this state in the Senate and House of Representatives.	Answer:	 South Carolina(10) Calhoun developed this theory that stated states have the right to declare a federal law unconstitutional.	Answer:	 nullification(10) The rift between and Calhoun and Andrew Jackson was exacerbated by this 1831 sex scandal involving members of Jackson's Cabinet.	Answer:	 Petticoat Affair (accept: Eaton Affair)9.  FTPE name these characters from Washington Irving's "The Legend of Sleeping Hollow."(10) Having "feet that might have served for shovels" and "a long snipe nose [that] looked like a weather-cock", this schoolmaster eventually gets his head removed.  (Not the time to lose one's head...That's not the way to get ahead in life...It's a shame he wasn't more headstrong...He'll never be the head of a major corporation.)	Answer:	 Ichabod and/or Crane (10) Ichabod Crane is scared away from Sleepy Hollow by this man, his rival.	Answer:	 Brom Bones (accept Abraham/Brom Van Brunt)(10) Ichabod Crane and Brom Bones both seek the love of this eighteen-year-old female.	Answer:	 Katrina Van Tassel 10.  FTPE name these recent movies that you might have never heard of, but are good nevertheless.(10) Liam Neeson portrays the title character, a pioneer in the area of human sexuality research and the author of "Sexual Behavior in the Human Male."	Answer:	 Kinsey(10) Set near the end of the Tang Dynasty, police deputies named Jin and Leo are enraptured by Mei, a dancer suspected of having ties to a revolutionary faction whose name is the title of the film.	Answer:	 House of the Flying Daggers(10) Kevin Spacey directs and stars in this film, a biography of singer Bobby Darin.	Answer:	 Beyond the Sea
11.  Where would we be without science? Still monkeys banging bones together a la 2001's prologue sequence, I'd bet. So without further ado, answer these related science questions on a 5, 10, 15 basis.a. This constant is equal to 6.626 x 10-34 Joule-Seconds or 1.054 x 10-34 Joule-Seconds 	Answer: 	Planck's Constantb. Iinstrumental in defining molar quantities, the use of this constant appears in thermodynamics, stoichiometry, and many other applications.	Answer: 	Avogadro's Number or (6.02 x 1023 / mole)c.  Represented by the Greek letter "mu" with subscript "capital N," this value is equal to the proton charge (lowercase e) multiplied by Plank's constant (lowercase h) divided by two multipled by the proton rest mass (lowercase m subscript capital P) ( (eh) / (2mP) ). The numerical value is 5.051 x 10-27 Joules / Torr.	Answer: 	Nuclear Magneton 12.  FTPE name these clues about the most tragic event in the world's history, Prohibition.(10) This Act, passed on October 28, 1919, enforced the 18th Amendment and was named after a Republican representative from Minnesota.	Answer:	 Volstead Act (10) The 21st Amendment, which repealed the 18th Amendment, was passed in this year.	Answer:	 1933(10) From 1901 to 1948, Prohibition occurred in this smallest Canadian providence.	Answer:	 Prince Edward Island13.  For ten points -- name these clues about an internet search engine.(10) This search engine was originally nicknamed BackRub because the system checked backlinks to estimate a site's importance.	Answer:	 Google(10) Name either of Google's two founders.	Answer:	 Larry Page or Sergey Brin(10) In December 2003, Google announced this spin-off that searches catalogues for particular products.  	Answer:	 Froogle 14.  FTPE given a less common work of literature, name the author.  If you need a more common work, you'll get five.  (10) Kaddish, a prose poem in five parts written for the poet's mother, Naomi.(5) Howl	Answer:	 Allen Ginsberg(10) Wake Up, an unpublished biography of the Buddha(5) The Dharma Bums 	Answer:	 Jack Kerouac(10) The Finger, which recounts an event in which this author cut off part of his finger to impress a homosexual lover.   (5) Naked Lunch	Answer:	 William Seward Burroughs15.  FTPE name these Baroque composers.(10) A melody by this man is used as the theme to Benjamin Britten's "Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra."	Answer:	 Henry Purcell(10) Born during an earthquake, this man composed a concerto for flute entitled "The Goldfinch", but is best remembered for a set of four violin concertos published in 1725.	Answer:	 Antonio Vivaldi(10) His great contribution to the German Protestant church is often overshadowed by a trite 1680 piece in D major that originally featured three violins and a basso continuo.	Answer:	 Johann Pachelbel
16.	On a 30-20-10 basis -- name the singer.(30) Her second album, "Wanderland", was released exclusively in Europe and Asia after its lead single, "Young Fresh N New" failed to catch on in America.(20) Her first album, "Kaleidoscope", contains a song entitled "Caught Out There" on which this singer screams many times "I hate you so much right now." (10) Her song "Milkshake", from the album "Tasty", certainly brought all the boys to the yard.	Answer:	 Kelis (kuh-LEASE)17.  FTPE given works, name these American economists.(10) "The Instinct of Workmanship and the Irksomeness of Labor" and "The Theory of the Leisure Class"	Answer:	 Thorstein Veblen(10) "Free to Choose" and "Money Mischief: Episodes in Monetary History"	Answer:	 Milton Friedman(10) "Equilibrium Points in N-person Games" and "Two-person Cooperative Games"	Answer:	 John Forbes Nash18.  For ten points each - name these works by Nikos Kazantzakis.  (KA-zahn-za-kis)(10) This work tells a fictional version of the life of Jesus told from his own point of view.	Answer:	 The Last Temptation of Christ(10) Divided into 24 rhapsodies, the protagonist of this work eventually sails to the South Pole and dies.  	Answer:	 The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel (prompt on The Odyssey)(10) This 1946 novel was made into a 1964 film in which Anthony Quinn plays the title character and Alan Bates plays the visiting Englishman.	Answer:	 The Life of Alexis Zorbas (grudgingly accept Zorba the Greek.  That's the title of the film, but not originally the novel.  Lucky for you U.S. publishers reissued it under the new name.)19.  .  Only because Charlie requires it, FTPE name these processes in chemistry.(10) In this process, nitrogen and hydrogen are reacted over an iron catalyst and produce ammonia.	Answer:	 Haber-Bosch Process(10) In this process, ammonia is coverted into nitric acid.	Answer:	 Ostwald Process(10) This process also uses ammonia, with carbon dioxide and sodium chloride, to make soda ash or sodium carbonate.	Answer:	 Solvay Process20.  FTPE name these clues about everybody's favorite boxing champion turned dictator, General Idi Amin.(10) From 1971-1979, Amin served as dictator of this country.	Answer:	 Uganda(10) In 1971, Amin seized power in a coup while this man was in Singapore.  After Amin fled to Libya and eventually Saudi Arabia, this man again served as president of Uganda from 1980-1985.	Answer:	 Apollo Milton Obote (oh-BOH-tay)(10) While Uganda and Tanzania were engaged in war in the late 1970s, Idi Amin challenged this Tanzanian president to a boxing match.	Answer:	 Julius Nyerere  21.  FTPE given the name of a shape, identify how many sides it has.(10) Hendecagon 	Answer:	 11(10) Icosagon	Answer:	 20(10) Heptagon	Answer:	 7
22.	FTPE name these clues about a particular pillar of Islam.(10) This is the term for the fifth pillar of Islam in which believers make a pilgrimage to Mecca.	Answer:	 hajj(10) The hajj occurs during this Islamic month.	Answer:	 Dhu Al-Hijjah(10) Intended to show the equality of all pilgrims in the eyes of Allah, the hajj participant is required to dress in this, a garment consisting of two sheets of white unhemmed cloth draped over the body.	Answer:	 ihram (e-rahm)23.  FTPE given an Iraqi city, name the province in which it is located.(10) Falluja	Answer:	 Anbar(10) Mosul	Answer:	 Nineveh(10) Tikrit	Answer:	 Salahadin 24.  FTPE name these clues about a certain dynasty of Arab caliphs.(10) Having one of its capitals at Damascus, this was the first dynasty of Arab caliphs, lasting from 661-750 AD.	Answer:	 Umayyad (oo-MI-ahd) or Omayyad (o-MI-ahd)(10) Located on the Guadalquivir River, this Spanish city, the Umayyad's other capital, contains the Great Mosque and the ruins of the palace complex of Madinat al-Zahra.	Answer:	 Cordoba(10) Reigning until 680, this man was the first caliph for the Umayyad Dynasty.	Answer:	 Muawiyah I