TOSSUPS - SOUTH CAROLINA A				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Erick Bousman with a few by Case Western Reserve U. and your genial quizmaster1.	The first people to research its possible chromosomal causes were Waardenburg and Bleyer in the 1930s.  The chromosome that causes it is the second most heavily mapped gene of the Human Genome Database.  And, although many genes have been studied for their input into the effects of this disease, no gene has yet been fully linked to any feature of the disease.  Sufferers were originally called "mongoloids" by the physician who first studied them.  FTP, name this genetic disease named after this English physician, caused by trisomy on chromosome 21.  	Answer:	 Down('s )Syndrome2.	The curtain opened with an orchestration of Chopin's Les Sylphides which did little to prepare the audience for the spotlight piece.  The choreography by Vaslav Nijinsky was physically taxing to perform in the Theatre des Champs-Elysees and the performers had difficulty playing the music, like a bassoon part that was written higher than any bassoonist had yet performed.  And the performers also had to hear above the din of the booing crowd in, FTP, this dissonant ballet by Diaghilev and Stravinsky.  	Answer:	 The Rite of Spring3.	The Superior Court Judge who proposed it had suggested a similar idea eleven years earlier; this time it was adopted, by a margin of only one vote.  It suggested the three-fifths plan where every five of "all other persons", i.e. slaves, would count as 3 votes.  FTP, name this plan, suggested by Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman, that resolved the conflict between the Virginia and New Jersey Plans and laid the foundation for the House of Representatives and Senate.  	Answer:	 Connecticut Compromise or Great Compromise4.	Three years before the start of this book, the protagonist sent his mother to an old persons' home, not realizing till her funeral that she shared many of his own beliefs.  Later, he visits Masson's beach house with his neighbor Raymond Sintes and Marie, with whom he is having an affair.  It is at this party that he encounters the Arab on the beach, who he kills without reason and is thus sentenced to death.  While in prison he speaks to the chaplain about his atheism and his absurd attitude toward life.   Such are the exploits of Meursault in, FTP, this novel, the first of Albert Camus [cah-MOO].  	Answer:	 The Stranger (or L'Etranger)5.	It has the world's second largest petrified forest at Sigri.  Its area of about 1630 square kilometers makes it the seventh largest island in the Mediterranean.  Before Ireland, it was called the Emerald Island because of the olive and pine groves that cover most of it.  Its main city is Mitilini, originally settled by the Aeolians.  FTP, name this Greek island, home of poets Alcaeus and Sappho, but not Melissa Etheridge or Ellen DeGeneres.  	Answer:	 Lesbos6.   The consequences of this equation include a family of hyperbolic forms based around the complex planes in Argand Diagrams, based on the form "the natural log of negative one equals i times pi".  But this only results in the form "e to the pi times i, plus one, equals zero" which results if theta equals zero.  Most commonly stated "e to the i times theta equals cosine theta plus i times sine theta", FTP name this equation which relates the 5 most important mathematical constants. 	Answer:	 Euler equation7.	It was begun shortly after its author's first success, The Shepheardes Calender; he died still working on it, only finishing half of the twelve books he had planned.  Thus we are left with what he intended to be an allegorical poem in epic style, with Books about the knights Calidore, of Courtesy; Artegall, of Justice; the female Britomartis, of chastity; and most famously the first book about the Knight of the Red Crosse, of Holiness.  FTP, name this poem by Edmund Spenser about these knights' search for Gloriana, the titular monarch.  	Answer:	 The Faerie Queene8.	He died in 1842 in Lima, Peru, but his remains weren't returned to his homeland until 24 years later.  During the Patria Vieja period of his homeland he led his armed militia to some successes before a final loss at Rancagua.  A few years later, after crossing the Andes with help from San Martin, he began his conquest of the royalists with the victory at Casas de Chacabuco.  FTP, name this man, known as Bernardo Riquelme but better known by the surname of his illegitimate Irish father, the liberator of Chile.  	Answer:	 Bernardo O'Higgins [accept early buzz with Riquelme]
9.	Historian Gerald Holton found laboratory records that indicate that 49 of an original 107 observations were thrown out because they did not support the hypothesis.  Subsequent research at Stanford has supported the existence of a fractional subelectronic charge, which Felix Ehrenhaft asserted in his criticism of this experiment.  But it led to a Nobel Prize in 1911 for the lead scientist, although not the assistant who suggested using another medium instead of water to remove the effect of evaporation.  FTP name this famous experiment that determined the charge of an electron.	Answer: 	Millikan's Oil Drop Experiment10.	It's where you'll find a "Warning Sign," "Green Eyes," and "A Whisper" somewhere between "Amsterdam" and "Politik." "God Put a Smile Upon Your Face" if you wanted it to win the 2003 Grammy for Best Alternative Music Album.  According to its liner notes, Dan is "The Scientist."  FTP name this 2002 release by Coldplay which also includes "In My Place" and "Clocks."	Answer:	A Rush of Blood of the Head [be kind and prompt on Coldplay until it's said]11.  Book 5 contains the statement "But it isn't appropriate for an erotically inclined man to forget that all boys in the bloom of youth pique the interest of a lover of boys", while Book 4 contains an analogy about spinning tops, Book 5 supports women's rights and eugenics, Book 3 contains the Myth of the Metals, and Book 10 deals with mimesis, or imitation.  More famously the Line and the Sun are presented in 6 and the most famous Cave analogy arises in Book 7 of, FTP, this Platonic dialogue about justice.  	Answer:	 The Republic12.  On Saturday, Aug. 26th, the fighting began at 4:00 pm, and continued until midnight, with 5 to 10 thousand casualties on the defending side under the earl of Alencon.  The invaders were placed in three battalions under the control of the prince, the earl of Northampton, and the earl of Arundel.  The Genoese crossbowmen who were already fatigued from walking 6 leagues that day and the accompanying French forces were mowed down as they came within 250 yards of English forces.  FTP, name this battle, the first of the Hundred Years' War that witnessed the use of the English longbow.  	Answer:	 the battle of Crecy13.	In Greek, it is formed by adding to the present stem an epsilon for 2nd person singular and an epsilon-tau-epsilon for 2nd person plural.  In Latin, it is the same as the present stem in 2nd person singular and you add a t-e to the present stem for 2nd person plural.  In French and Spanish it is identical to the 2nd person forms, only no subject is used.  In English, it is formed simply by removing the "to" from the infinitive of a verb and often putting an exclamation point at the end of the sentence.  FTP, name this voice used to denote force or command.  	Answer:	 imperative14.	Variations in it can be measured by calculating the Abbe's number from the F, D, and C Fraunhofer lines of a spectrum.  This variation is called the dispersion, and is important in differentiating between crown and flint glasses.  In 1968, Russian physicist Victor Veselago correctly predicted that it could be negative, but the consequences of this discovery have only recently been studied.  Used in Snell's law, FTP, name this value for a material that is the ratio of the speed of light in a vacuum to the speed of light in the substance.  	Answer:	 index of refraction15.	It begins "In spring, it is the dawn. The sky at the edge of the mountains slowly starts to brighten with the approach of day, and the thinly trailing clouds nearby are tinted purple."  It contains similar musings on nature and life, as well as classified lists of items and most famously diary-like entries.  It is composed of more than 300 sections of varying length, written in 996 AD and edited until at least 1021.  FTP, identify this classic depiction of upper class court life of the Heian period written by Sei Shonagon.  	Answer:	 The Pillow Book (accept Soshi Makura)16.  Chapter 5 includes "It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay." Chapter 10 says, "Even when the fool walks along the road, his sense is lacking and he demonstrates to everyone that he is a fool."  And the penultimate sentence states that "the conclusion, when all has been heard, is: fear God and keep His commandments."  FTP, identify this book of the Bible where the Preacher speaks of things "under the sun" and "vanity of vanities" and says "to everything there is a season."	Answer:	 Ecclesiastes
17.    The 2nd section, entitled "The Great Mountains" tells of an old Mexican man, Gitano, who stays at the protagonist's ranch and rides off into the mountains carrying a sword.  In the third part, "The Promise," ranch hand Billy Buck and the protagonist's father, Carl Tiflin, decide that the protagonist should raise a colt from birth.  This stems from the more famous first section, "The Gift," in which Gabilan catches cold and escapes Billy's attempts to cure him and Jody Tiflin finds the horse's carcass being eaten alive by vultures.  Such is the story of, FTP, what four-part Steinbeck work?  	Answer:	 The Red Pony18.	Sadly, it marks the late John Ritter's last film performance, as mall manager Bob Chipeska.  When it was screened, Michael Eisner said, "Nothing appears sacred anymore. This is just not in the spirit of Walt Disney."  Scheming conmen Willie and Marcus team up in disguise as the title character and his friend.  FTP name this 2003 Terry Zwigoff film starring Tony Cox, Bernie Mac, and Billy Bob Thornton, who "doesn't care if you're naughty or nice".  	Answer:	 Bad Santa19.	His grandfather served Hadrian as city prefect and Hadrian was so impressed by his intellectual pursuits that he was given the name "Verissimus", a pun on his birth name. He learned philosophy from Epictetus and dealt with wars in Parthia, where his co-emperor died, and Germany.  He was adopted by emperor Antoninus Pius and thus came in line to become Roman emperor.  FTP, name this philosopher, author of Meditations, the last of the five good Roman emperors.  	Answer:	 Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus20.	It is obtained most commonly from the ore spodumene and all processes to isolate it require an electrolytic step because the ion is so poorly electronegative.  Its carbonate is used as a moderately effective cure for bipolar disorder and it is also commonly used in glasses and batteries.  It is a solid, silvery-white grey metal at room temperature but tarnishes after a minute or so in air.  FTP, name this alkali metal with atomic number 3 and symbol Li.  	Answer:	 lithium21. His female relationships included Madame Helvetius, a descendant of Austrian nobility; Polly Stevenson, the intelligent daughter of a London town house, and of course his wife, Deborah.  His recognized illegitimate son, William, remained loyal to the Crown as royal governor of New Jersey.  He introduced lending libraries and organized fire companies as well as the battery, lighting rod, and bifocals.  FTP name the man whose face appears on the U.S. $100 bill.	Answer:	 Benjamin Franklin22.  She proposed that the superego was formed from the dissolution of the Oedipus Complex for which she saw parents as virtually the sole influence.  She did not get along with her siblings as a child, but instead grew close to her father, which influenced her to leave teaching for his field of work.  She maintained the Hampstead Child Therapy clinic and wrote The Ego and Mechanisms of Defense.  FTP name this founder of child psychoanalysis, daughter of Sigmund.  	Answer:	 Anna Freud (accept just Freud before "Sigmund" is read)23.	She was born in Georgia and married an Army corporal, who she later divorced and then reconciled with.  She's not Harper Lee, but her simple style resembles that of Truman Capote, who she first was friends with, but later grew angry of his success and broke their friendship.  Collections of her short works include The Mortgaged Heart, The Square Root of Wonderful, and The Ballad of the Sad Cafe.  FTP, name this author of The Member of the Wedding, who wrote her first novel in 1940 at the age of 23, The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter.  	Answer:	 Carson McCullers24.	His second stint in office was marred by a rebellion led by Louis Riel, whom he later hanged for treason, leaving him unpopular in the Northwest where the rebellion occurred.  The Pacific Scandal ended his first stint in office in 1873, a result of his endeavor to create the Canadian Pacific railway.  Earlier and more famously, in 1867 he drafted the British North America Act.  FTP name the first prime minister of Canada.  	Answer:	 Sir John Macdonald25.	He emerged from the womb fully armed and used this advantage to kill many of his brothers and sisters who had decapitated his mother, Coatlicue, right before his birth.  Of his siblings, he killed his sister Coyolxauhqui and threw her head in the air where it became the moon.  He has a black face and holds a snake and a mirror.  FTP, name this Aztec deity, chief god of the city Tenochtitlan, commonly represented with the wings of a hummingbird, or as a hummingbird itself, from which he gets his name. 	Answer:	 Huitzilopochtli (my apologies to the moderator on this one) 
BONI - SOUTH CAROLINA A				SWORD BOWL 2004 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Erick Bousman1. Name these things about a certain digestive enzyme FTSNOP.  1.  FTP, This enzyme is produced in the stomach walls and the reaction involving it is much faster at 2-4 pH.  It breaks down proteins so that the constituent parts can be absorbed in the small intestine's linings.  	Answer:	 pepsin2.  FTP, Pepsin was the first animal enzyme to be discovered; it was crystallized in 1836 by this scientist who founded the basis of embryology, cofounded modern cell theory, and has a type of nervous cell named after him	Answer:	 Theodor Schwann3.  Pepsin is particularly suited to cleave the three aromatic amino acids.  FFPE name any two of those three.	Answer:	 phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine2.	FTSNOP name these characters from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. Hint: none of them are Romeo or Juliet.  1.  (10) At the beginning of the play she's the maiden with whom Romeo is infatuated.  She's not actually in the play, mind you, but they say she's pretty hot stuff. 	Answer:	 Rosaline2.  (5,5) Also at the beginning of the play, two Capulet servants get into a fight with a Montague servant.  Name any two of these three servants for five points each. 	Answer:	 Sampson, Gregory, and Abraham (in that order, for those who care)3.  (10) This punster friend of Romeo, killed in a swordfight with Tybalt, dies cursing all Montagues and Capulets.  	Answer:	 Mercutio3.	Name the conflict ended by a Treaty of Paris given the year of that treaty and the nations agreeing to it, FTPE[10] England, France, and Spain, 1763	Answer:	Seven Years' War (accept French and Indian War)[10] Russia and England, 1856	Answer:	Crimean War[10] United States of America and Great Britain	Answer:	Revolutionary War or American Revolution 4.	Given some songs on an album by a guy who's left his boy band, name him FTPE.  If you need the name of the album, you'll only get 5.  1.  (10) Senorita, What You Got (Oh No), Take It From Here(5) Justified	Answer:	 Justin Timberlake2.  (10) Shut Up, Let Go, This I Swear, Could You Love, and Carry On(5) SoulO	Answer:	 Nick Lachey (you know, the one from 98 degrees?)3.  (10) Some Girls and Blowin' Me Up (With Her Love) are scheduled to appear on his yet unreleased but highly anticipated solo album.  (5) Schizophrenia	Answer:	 JC Chasez (Accept either, but tell the responder they should really know both.  He's not just some pop icon, you know.  I mean, he's releasing a solo album, for goodness' sakes.)5.  5-10-15, name these things about an Eastern religion.  (5)  This man, who lived during the Chou dynasty, wrote mainly about individual morality and ethics and political advice, wandering the Chinese continent with a band of students much smaller than the 6 million followers he has today.  	Answer:	 K'ung Fu Tzu (accept Confucius)(10)  In this book of Confucianism, the "Classic of Changes," a system of divinity involving hexagrams is described to give philosophical insight into situations and problems. 	Answer:	 I Ching (15)  This is the highest Confucian virtue, it is benevolence or humaneness to others.  	Answer:	 rhen or jen
6.	Name these portrait paintings FTPE.  1.  This portrait of Madame Pierre Gautreau by John Singer Sargeant shocked the art world with its immodesty. 	Answer:	 Madame X2.  This 1770 canvas of Thomas Gainsborough features a confident young man with his hat in his right hand and facing directly at the viewer. 	Answer:	 Blue Boy3.  This work of Parmigianino features Mary with the baby Jesus with smooth and rounded, yet abstracted figures.  	Answer:	 Madonna with Long Neck (accept Madonna dal Collo Lungo)7.	FTPE answer these questions about the four laws known as Maxwell's equations:1.  Two of the four are named after the same man -- his law for electricity states that the electric flux out of any closed surface is proportional to the total charge enclosed within the surface, while his law for magnetism says the net magnetic flux out of any closed surface is zero.  	Answer:	 Gauss' laws2.  This law of induction states that the line integral of the electric field around a closed loop is equal to the negative of the rate of change of the magnetic flux through the area enclosed by the loop.	Answer:	 Faraday's law of induction3.   The last of Maxwell's equations, it states that the line integral of the electric field around a closed loop is equal to the negative of the rate of change of the magnetic flux through the area enclosed by the loop.  	Answer:	 Ampere's law8.	Answer the following about an author FTPE:  1.  Her husband was a politician in the colonies while she was a devoted mother of eight, including Oliver Wendell Holmes, she is the poet of such works as "The Four Elements", "The Four Humours in Man's Constitution, and "The Four Seasons of the Year".  	Answer:	 Anne Bradstreet2.  "The Four Elements", "The Four Humours in Man's Constitution", "The Four Seasons of the Year", and "The Four Ages of Man" are all sections of this work by Bradstreet.  	Answer:	 The Tenth Muse, Lately Sprung up in America, By a Gentlewoman of Those Parts3.  This poem, one of Bradstreet's most famous, begins "In silent night when rest I took,/ For sorrow near I did not look".	Answer:	 "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House"9.	Identify these terms from economics, FTPE.  1.  This is a good whose quantity demanded increases with an increase in income of a consumer. 	Answer:	 normal2.  An increase in the price of this kind of good leads to a decrease in demand for another good.  	Answer:	 complement3.  This is a kind of good where an increase in price raises the quantity demanded.  The classic example is inferior quality staple foods; when their price goes up, the poor can no longer afford more costly foods and paradoxically must increase consumption of the still-cheaper stuff.	Answer:	 giffen good10.  Name these things about a "classic" video game, Super Mario World for SNES, FTPE.  1.  This dinosaur makes his first of many appearances in Super Mario World.  Although he is green, he has cousins colored red, yellow, and blue that also appear in the game.  	Answer:	 Yoshi2.  This is the first boss you must beat in the game.  He is on a platform floating over a lava pit and Mario must push him off into the lava.  	Answer:	 Iggy3.  This is the last level of the "Special" zone that you reach after completing the star road.  Beating this level brings you back to the beginning of the game in the season of autumn. 	Answer:	 Funky
11.	Name the French Provinces described for the stated number of points.[5,5] The two provinces given to Prussia after the Franco-Prussian war, their regional capitals are Strasbourg and Metz.	Answer:	Alsace and Loraine[10] Divided into upper and lower parts, this northern province contains the Mont-Saint-Michel abbey and the regional capitals Caen and Rouen.	Answer:	Normandy [10] Located in east central France, its regional capital is Dijon and it is famous for its wines.	Answer:	Burgundy12.	Name these paired, mutually exclusive subatomic particle distinctions, in order by clues, for five points.    1.  These two are the basic building blocks of all matter.  The first contains six flavors including "up", "down", "strange", and "bottom", and the second contains electrons, muons, tauons and their neutrinos.  	Answer:	 quarks and leptons (in that order)2.  These are differentiated by spin. The first include electrons, protons, and neutrons; have half-integer spins; and follow the Pauli exclusion principle. The other have whole number spins, and an unlimited quantity can be in one energy state.  	Answer:	 fermions and bosons (in that order)3.  Quarks can come in two sets.  The first consists of two quarks, a quark and its anti-quark.  The second consists of a group of three quarks and includes protons and neutrons.  	Answer:	 mesons and baryons (in that order)13.	Identify these works of Felix Mendelssohn FTSNOP.  1.  FFP, his Opus 61 is Incidental music for this Shakespeare play featuring Titania and Oberon.  	Answer:	 A Midsummer Night's Dream2.  FTP, his Opus 70 is an oratorio based on an Old Testament prophet who was taken up in a flaming chariot. 	Answer:	 Elijah3.  F15P, his Opuses 19, 30, 38, 53, 62, 67, 85, and 102 are 8 volumes of these works for piano solo.  	Answer:	 Songs without Words (accept Lieder ohne Worte)14.	Identify these things that happened during the Vietnam War FTPE1.  Beginning on the night of January 30th, 1968, this series of battles throughout South Vietnam included fierce attacks on the U.S. base at Khe Sanh.  Technically a defeat for the North Vietnamese, it was a great propaganda boost. 	Answer:	 Tet Offensive2.  The President for three days, Duong Van Minh, announced on radio the defeat of this city on April 30, 1975, indicating the complete surrender of South Vietnam. 	Answer:	 Saigon3.  This failed North Vietnamese offensive began when General Vo Nguyen Giap took 200,000 soldiers in an attempt to conquer all of South Vietnam in March 1972, but then we set them up the bomb.  	Answer:	 Eastertide offensive (the last clause was a reference to a bad translation of Zero Wing)15.	Name these literary devices, FTPE.  1.  This is an exaggeration or overstatement, for example "I'm so hungry I could eat a horse".  	Answer:	 hyperbole2.  This is substituting a word for another word closely associated with it, like "the golden arches" for McDonalds.  	Answer:	 metonymy 3.  This is the inversion of the normal syntactic order of words.	Answer:	 anastrophe16.	Answer these things about Native American mythology and religion, FTPE.  1. This popular god/hero appears in almost every myth across several traditions as either the Creator himself, the trickster, the messenger, or the fool.  He may appear as a handsome young man, his namesake animal, or as a sacred power.  	Answer:	 Coyote2.  This bird, popular in West Coast Native American myths and always hindered by Coyote, is said to have stolen the sun and moon and placed them in the sky and brought berries and salmon to people. 	Answer:	 Raven3.  Called by some the Red Man's Messiah, this Paiute prophet was the originator of the Ghost Dance.  	Answer:	 Wovoka
17.	The presidential election of 1844 had a lot of losers.  Answer these questions about them FTPE.  1.  This famous "Great Pacifier" was the candidate for the Whigs.  He lost, however, just like he did in 1824 and 1832.  	Answer:	 Henry Clay2.  This abolitionist candidate of the Liberty party was able to take some votes from Clay in the North that contributed to Clay's loss.  He earned a whopping 2.3% of the popular vote.  	Answer:	 James Birney3.  This man lost the Democratic nomination to Polk but he returned to lose the Presidency to Taylor in 1848.  	Answer:	 Lewis Cass18.	Answer these questions about a thing that doesn't exist and a gas that most certainly does exist, FTPE. 1.  This is the hypothetical principle of flammability that was hypothesized to give metals their luster and ductility; it was not a material substance and was therefore unweighable.  	Answer:	 phlogiston2.  This man isolated and studied oxygen as well as seven other gases, calling them "dephlogisticated air" in the second half of the 1700s. 	Answer:	 Joseph Priestley3.  This man proposed that all matter in a chemical reaction, including weight, would be conserved--even with gases.  He also contributed to the understanding of combustion and respiration as a reaction with the oxygen in the air.  	Answer:	 Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier19.	Identify this person, 30-20-10.  30- Son of a political journalist, in 1937 he went to Valencia, Spain, to attend the Second International Congress of Anti-Fascist Writers.  After he returned to his home country, he co-founded the journal Workshop.  20- In 1962 he became Mexico's ambassador to India, where he wrote the books The Grammarian Monkey & East Slope.  10-It was while on diplomatic service in France, that this winner of the 1990 Nobel Prize in Literature wrote his most famous work, Labyrinth of Solitude, a study of the Mexican identity.	Answer:	 Octavio Paz20.	Given the mountain range, name its highest peak, FTPE.  1.  Andes	Answer:	 Aconcagua2.  Caucasus	Answer:	 Elbrus3.  Tharsis	Answer:	 Olympus Mons21.  Answer the following questions about a poem FTSNOP.  1.  FTP, So much depends on this object, glazed with rain water, a poem by the winner of the 1963 Pulitzer for Poetry.  	Answer:	 "The Red Wheelbarrow"2.  FFP, name the poet of "The Red Wheelbarrow".	Answer:	 William Carlos Williams3.  F15P, give the last two lines, i.e. the last four words, of the poem describing the wheelbarrow, the only lines not mentioned in this bonus.  	Answer:	 beside the white chickens22.	Identify these works of architecture that are or had been the tallest building in the world FTPE.  1.  This is the really big pair of towers in Kuala Lumpur, architected by Cesar Pelli and named after the national oil company.  	Answer:	 Petronas Towers2.  This building held the title for 17 years after its completion in 1913.  It was architected by Cass Gilbert and named after the retail chain whose headquarters it would be. 	Answer:	 Woolworth Tower3.  Currently the highest building in the world, this recently completed office building with a mall and an observatory is located in the capital of Taiwan and named for its location and how many stories it contains.  	Answer:	 Taipei 101
23.	Everyone knows there are only three types of mimicry you need to know for quizbowl.  FTPE:1.  In this mimicry, discovered in the 1850s by some English guy who it's named for, one harmless prey (like a hornet moth) mimics the markings of a harmful species (like a hornet).  The predator learns to avoid the harmless one even though it won't really get hurt.  	Answer:	 Batesian mimicry2.  In this mimicry, named after a zoo guy in Germany, a bunch of different species that all taste bad mimic each other, so the predator is hoodwinked into avoiding all of them, even though it's only tried one.  Kind of like kids at the school lunch line.  	Answer:	 Mullerian mimicry3.  In this mimicry, the predators get the upper hand and mimic something that seems to be harmless and the prey is duped into being made into a quick lunch.  Like some preying mantis in Malaysia who looks like a flower.  	Answer:	 Aggressive mimicry24.	Napoleon wondered what would have happened if a certain historical figure had been beaten at a certain battle, "having the Euphrates, the Tigris, and the deserts in his rear, without any strong places of refuge, nine hundred leagues from Macedonia!" FTPE, 1.  First, what was this famous battle of 331 BC?	Answer:	 Arbela2.  Second what famous Macedonian won the battle of Arbela, securing his conquest of practically the entire Middle Eastern world? 	Answer:	 Alexander I (the Great)3.  Last, what Persian was defeated at the battle of Arbela?	Answer:	 Darius III25.	Identify these things that seemingly have nothing to do with each other, FTPE.  1.  They Might Be Giants took the lyrics from a 1959 educational record for this song, released with Jessica, Whirlpool, and Spy on one CD. 	Answer:	 Why Does the Sun Shine? (The Sun Is a Mass of Incandescent Gas)2.  This play by Aristophanes features the titular character taking over the Acropolis of Athens with a chorus of Women in an effort to stop the Peloponnesian War.  	Answer:	 Lysistrata3.  The main sequence shows the normal star cycle on one of these diagrams, showing the relationships between a star's absolute magnitude, luminosity, stellar classification, and temperature. 	Answer:	 Hertzsprung-Russel diagram (accept H-R diagram)26.	Given the year or years, name the person or group who won the Nobel Peace Prize in those years FTPE.  You'll get another clue for five points.  1.  (10) 2003(5) She won the award "for her efforts for democracy and human rights".  For 5, name this Iranian lawyer, one of the first female judges in Iran.  	Answer:	 Shirin Ebadi2.  (10) 1986(5) He won the award as Chairman of The President's Commission on the Holocaust.  He is also the famous author of Night, Dawn, and The Accident, and the memoirs All Rivers Run to the Sea	Answer:	 Elie Wiesel3.  (10) 1954, 1981(5) It was created by the General Assembly in 1950 to help return people who have been forced out of their home country. 	Answer:	 Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (accept UNHCR)