TOSSUPS -- KENTUCKY				SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Kelly McKenzie1.	In this oil painting measuring 11 1/2 feet by 25 1/2 feet, a light bulb in the upper left center illuminates various images of suffering, including a minotaur, a dying horse, a mother with a dead child, and a woman trapped in a burning building. The painter of this 1937 work claimed that it was not he who created it, but rather the fascist soldiers responsible for the massacre for which this painting is named. FTP, identify this cubist masterpiece by Pablo Picasso.	Answer: _Guernica_2.	Baruch Blumberg won the 1976 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine for identification of the Australia antigen, which determines whether a sample of blood can transmit one form of this disease. Symptoms include pain in the upper abdomen, fever, loss of appetite, and digestion problems. The delta version of this disease cannot replicate on its own, and requires the presence of the B type to be transmitted. FTP, name this disease which causes inflammation of the liver.	Answer: _Hepatitis_3.	In this novel, the difficult courtship and fulfilling marriage of Kitty and Levin is contrasted with the life of the title character. Despite her marriage to Aleksey, the protagonist carries on an affair and eventually bears the child of Count Vronsky, but, suspecting that Vronsky is unfaithful, she throws herself before an oncoming train. FTP, name this novel by Leo Tolstoy.	Answer: _Anna Karenina_4.	As an infant, this mythological figure was taken in by Polybus, the king of Corinth, and was named for the Greek for "swollen foot". He left Corinth after an oracle predicted that he would kill his own father, not knowing that his father was not Polybus but Laius, king of Thebes. Mistaking Laius for a highwayman, he fulfilled the oracle's prediction. FTP, name this son of Jocasta who married his mother after defeating the Sphinx.	Answer: _Oedipus_5.	Taking advantage of weather that kept Allied aircraft on the ground, the Germans launched this offensive through the Ardennes and advanced 31 miles into Belgium and Luxembourg. Attempting to retake Antwerp and divide the American and British forces, their advance was halted near the Meuse in late December 1944, after suffering over 200,000 casualties. FTP, name this last German offensive of World War II.	Answer: Battle of the _Bulge_6.	The text for this opera first appearing in 1805 came from a book by Jean Nicolas Bouilly. The plot concerns the treachery of Don Pizarro, who has his enemy Florestan unfairly arrested. Although Florestan is rumored dead, his wife Leonore suspects the truth, and disguises herself as a man to obtain a job as assistant to Rocco, the chief jailer. When Pizarro arrives to kill Florestan, Leonore throws herself between them, just as the king's minister and Florestan's friend Don Fernando arrives to save the day. FTP, name this only opera completed by Ludwig van Beethoven.	Answer: _Fidelio_
7.	His father Vincenzo played an important role in the musical revolution from medieval polyphony to harmonic modulation. Among his famous publications were the "Dialogue On the Two Chief World Systems", in which he advocated the Copernican theory of planetary motion . "The Starry Messenger", in which he announced his discovery of four moons of Jupiter, and the "Discourses Concerning Two New Sciences, which included his analysis of the motion of falling bodies. FTP, name this Italian scientist remembered for his oppression by the Roman Catholic Church.	Answer: _Galileo_ Galilei8.	This building was constructed in the English style, half-timber and half-plaster. Among its occupants were Mr. Holgrave, a maker of daguerreotypes, and Phoebe, who ran a shop in the house to support Clifford, who had earlier been jailed for supposedly killing his uncle. Just as the inhabitants were about to move out, Holgrave revealed that he was in fact the descendant of Matthew Maule, the original owner of the land upon which this house had been built, who had been cheated out of his ownership by Colonel Pyncheon and had placed a curse upon the Pyncheon family. FTP, name this fictional house in Salem, Massachusetts, created by Nathaniel Hawthorne.	Answer: The _House of the Seven Gables_9.	Heavy fog often shrouds this 350 mile wide region which is crossed by the Gulf Stream and the Labrador Current. The mingling of the two currents, combined with the shallowness of its waters, provides a favorable environment for plankton, which attracts large numbers of haddock, cod, herring, and mackerel. FTP, name this region off the southeastern coast of Newfoundland famed for its fishing.	Answer: _Grand Banks_10.	President Washington invoked executive privilege to prevent House Republicans from obtaining documents related to the negotiation of this treaty. The Republicans, led by Albert Gallatin, objected to it because it required the House to allocate funds for several joint US-British commissions without giving the House input into the formation of the treaty. Thus, this treaty became a center of controversy, despite the fact that it did secure neutral shipping rights and British evacuation of the Northwest Territory. FTP, identify this 1795 treaty named for the Supreme Court justice who negotiated it.	Answer: _Jay's_ Treaty11.	There are several notable flaws in this work, including the use of several theories of value and the inability to develop an effective rent theory. Divided into five books dealing with production, distribution, economic development, economic history, and public finance, this work is dominated by two general themes: that the division of labor is the root of much of the economic progress of humanity, and that harmony of interest guides each member of society, as if by an "invisible hand", to better society by his or her actions.  FTP, name this 1776 work by Adam Smith.	Answer: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the _Wealth of Nations_12.	This isotope with a boiling point of -417.08 degrees Fahrenheit is used as a tracer element for studying problems of metabolism, and its nucleus can be readily accelerated by cyclotrons and used as an "atomic bullet" to transmute elements. It was discovered by a team led by Harold Urey in 1932, making it the first isotope to be separated in a pure form from an element. It is often found in nuclear fusion weapons when combined with lithium or oxygen, the latter being called heavy water. FTP, name this isotope of hydrogen.	Answer: _deuterium_ or _heavy hydrogen_
13.	Jean Rhys's novel "Wide Sargasso Sea" serves as a prequel to this 1847 novel. Published under the pseudonym Currer Bell, it recounts the title orphan's harsh years at a charity school and her subsequent employment as governess to a ward of the mysterious Mr. Rochester. She and Rochester fall in love, but before they can be married it is revealed that Rochester's first wife is still alive and confined in the attic of the estate. FTP, name this novel by Charlotte Bronte.	Answer: _Jane Eyre_14.	This director's first film venture was a collaboration with Roberto Rossellini on the script for "Open City". Although his initial films like "The White Sheik" were unsuccessful, he achieved international acclaim with "I Vitelloni", and went on to win Academy Awards for best foreign film for "Nights of Cabiria" and "Amarcord". FTP, name this surrealistic director of "La Dolce Vita", "La Strada", and "8 1/2".	Answer: Federico _Fellini_15.	Founded by Chu Yuan-chang, this Chinese dynasty reestablished civil government at Nanjing, and later at Beijing, extended the Great Wall, and divided China into 15 administrative provinces. After exhausting their resources repelling Mongol incursions and raids by Japanese pirates, the leaders of this dynasty were forced to put down a revolt in the Shaanxi province by enlisting the aid of the Manchus, who subsequently refused to leave the capital, forcing the government into exile. FTP, name this 1368-1644 dynasty famous for its vases.	Answer: _Ming_ dynasty16	.Among this philosopher's lesser known works are "The Reasonableness of Christianity" and "Some Thoughts Concerning Education". Adviser and physician to the 1st earl of Shaftesbury, this native of Wrington, Somerset, attacked the theory of the divine right of kings and the views of Thomas Hobbes in "Two Treatises on Government", advocating instead a government based upon natural rights and a system of checks and balances. FTP, name this empiricist who claimed that the human mind begins as a tabula rasa in his "Essay Concerning Human Understanding".	Answer: John _Locke_17.	This phenomenon was first discovered in 1911 by the Dutch physicist Heike Onnes and was better understood when Karl Meissner and R. Ochsenfeld discovered its characteristic diamagnetism. New potential for its use in such applications as electricity production and computer memory storage was made possible by the discovery of compounds such as a thallium-barium-calcium copper oxide, which has a critical temperature of 125 Kelvin, allowing liquid nitrogen to be used as a coolant. FTP, name this phenomenon in which certain conductors exhibit no resistance to the flow of electric current.	Answer: _superconductivity_18.	In the preface to the 1st edition of this poetry collection, the author held that a poet's style should be simple and natural, without orthodox meter or rhyme. It was originally published in 1855 and composed of 12 poems, but grew with each edition, until it included the author's Calamus poems, "November Boughs", and "Drum Taps", in addition to the original inclusions "I Sing the Body Electric" and "Song of Myself". FTP, name this oft edited collection by Walt Whitman.	Answer: _Leaves of Grass_
19.	This native of Selingrove, Pennsylvania, served as mayor of Massillon, Ohio, from 1931 to 1933. A self-made businessman, he proposed that Congress issue legal tender notes to be spent on public construction, thereby providing much-needed employment following the Panic of 1893. In support of this idea, he gathered a group of about 100 unemployed persons and marched from Massillon to Washington, DC, where an attempted demonstration on May 1 led to a confrontation with police and this man's arrest. FTP, name this leader of a famous "army".	Answer: Jacob _Coxey_20.	After conducting research at the Burgholzi Asylum at the University of Zurich, he coined the term complex to describe emotionally charged associations withheld from consciousness.   He differentiated four functions of the mind - thinking, feeling, sensation, and intuition - and claimed that one or more predominate in any given person. In 1912, he published the controversial "Psychology of the Unconscious", which signified the end of his 5 year collaboration with Sigmund Freud. FTP, name this psychologist who developed the theories of archtypes and the collective unconscious.	Answer: Carl Gustav _Jung_21.	Born in 1947 in Bombay, India, this author of "Haroun and the Sea of Stories" worked as an advertising copywriter in London while writing his first novel, "Grimus". He received critical and popular success with the novels "Shame" and "Midnight's Children", but is best known for a 1988 novel which describes a new, less-than-flattering theory of the origin of Islam, resulting in death threats which forced him to go into hiding. FTP, name this author of "The Satanic Verses".	Answer: Salman _Rushdie_22,	This chemist, who was born in Gottingen, Germany, in 1811, invented the ice calorimeter and the zinc-carbon electric cell. In 1834 he discovered that hydrated iron oxide was an antidote for arsenic poisoning, and collaborated with Gustav Kirchoff on the invention of the spectroscope and the discovery of cesium and rubidium. FTP, name this chemist who popularized the burner named for him.	Answer: Robert Wilhelm _Bunsen_23,	This artist studied in a free school for artisans because he was refused admittance to the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. He produced many notable sculptures during his twenties and thirties, including "Man With the Broken Nose", but did not gain renown until the debut of "The Age of Bronze", which was so realistic that it provoked accusations that he had used plaster casts from living models. In 1886 he completed the monumental bronze group "The Burghers of Calais", but is best known today for his incomplete "Gates of Hell", whose component parts are now famous as independent sculptural achievements. FTP, name this creator of "Ugolino", "The Kiss", and "The Thinker".	Answer: Auguste _Rodin_24.	These birds belong to the family Cathartidae of the order Falconiformes, and come in two main types. Characterized by black body plumage, unfeathered heads, and large white areas on their wings, they reproduce by laying single eggs on rock ledges or cave floors. The Andean has the larger wingspan of the two types, reaching about 10.5 feet, but is generally lighter than the more famous type, whose low numbers prompted the initiation of a breeding program in 1988. FTP, name these large American vultures, one type of which is found exclusively in California.	Answer: _condor_
BONI -- KENTUCKY				SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Kelly McKenzie1.	Take note of the following list (moderator, please read slowly): Latin American dictator, major league baseball shortstop, Nobel Prize winning author, World's Strongest Man competitor, astronaut, former US Secretary of State, cast member of Knight Rider. F5PE, identify the entry which applies to the following people.A. Magnus ver Magnusson	Answer: _World's Strongest Man competitor_B. Rafael Ramirez	Answer: _major league baseball shortstop_C. Miguel Asturias	Answer: _Nobel Prize winning author_D. Elihu Root	Answer: US _Secretary of State_E. Walter Shirra	Answer: _astronaut_F. Edward Mulhare	Answer: _cast member of Knight Rider_2.	It's amazing that all those early-20th century American poets had time to write poetry, what with the barrage of insults that they were consistently leveling against each other. FTPE, name these slandered poets.A. This Imagist, who TS Eliot called "the demon saleswoman of poetry", is known for her collection "A Dome of Many Colored Glass" and the often-anthologized "Patterns".	Answer: _A_my _Lowell_B. This author became famous for works such as "The Man With the Blue Guitar" and "The Emperor of Ice Cream", despite Robert Frost's claim that he was a "bric-a-brac poet".	Answer: Wallace _Stevens_C. Wallace Stevens in turn called this author of "Paterson" "anti-poetic". If you've ever read his poem "Red Wheelbarrow", you probably agree.	Answer: William Carlos _Williams_3.	Is there anything we associate more with classical music than pieces which are insanely hard to perform? FTPE, identify the following:A. This composer of the "German Requiem" and the "Hungarian Dances" once wrote a set of piano etudes which were so difficult and anti-pianistic that his friend Clara Schumann dubbed them the "Demonic variations".	Answer: Johannes _Brahms_B. This Russian's "Third Piano Concerto", while more pianistic than Brahms's "Demonic variations", is so technically difficult that it contributed to David Helfgott's mental breakdown, as depicted in the movie "Shine".	Answer: Sergei _Rachmaninoff_C. One of Rachmaninoff's most famous pieces is his Rhapsody on a Theme by this Italian, whose 24 caprices for violin are among the most difficult pieces in the repertoire.	Answer: Nicolo _Paganini_
4.	A well-known paradox in astronomy states that if the universe is infinite and filled with an infinite number of stars, then the sky should be perpetually bright, even at night, since a star would occupy any line of sight.A. First, F15P, this paradox is named for what German, who stated the problem in 1826?	Answer: Heinrich _Olbers_B. Olbers was not the first scientist to state this problem. FTP, name the 17th and 18th century astronomer who made this statement, also known for obtaining the means for publication of Newton's "Principia", and for a famous celestial body.	Answer: Edmund _Halley_C. A potential solution was proposed in 1848 by this author, who stated that as we look out into space and back in time, we might be seeing the darkness that existed before the stars were created. F5P, name this author of "The Cask of Amontillado".	Answer: Edgar Allen _Poe_5.	Name these figures prominent in the Credit Mobilier scandal, FTPE.A. This Massachusetts congressman was one of the owners of the Credit Mobilier company. When the controversy arose, he tried to halt Congress's investigation by giving various congressmen stock in the company.	Answer: Oakes _Ames_B. This future president (and future assassination victim) was still a congressman from Ohio when the New York Sun revealed that he had accepted stock from Ames.	Answer: James Abram _Garfield_C. This Speaker of the House also accepted stock from Ames, which came back to haunt him later in his political life. When nominated by the Republicans for president in 1884, the Mugwumps refused to support him because of Credit Mobilier, costing him the election.	Answer: James Gillespie _Blaine_6.	If you're anything like the writer of this question, you've often thought about murdering a rich relative for the inheritance. FTSNOP, identify these terms of which you should be aware should you ever try.A. F5P, this is a legal amendment to a will that adds or deletes a bequest or other provision.	Answer: _codicil_B. If your relative owes money, you may have trouble collecting your inheritance. FTP, give this term which refers to the legal right to take and hold property or to sell it for payment of a claim.	Answer: _lien_C. F15P, you may have to appear in this court, which supervises transfer of a decedent's assets to the rightful beneficiaries, and also attempts to see that the debts, taxes and expenses of the deceased will be paid.	Answer: _Probate_ courtEDITOR'S NOTE: Your genial tournament director would never consider such a thing, owing largely to the fact that he has no rich relatives.7.	5-10-15, name these famous characters from the novels of Fyodor Dostoyevsky.A. F5P, this impoverished student, who murders a pawnbroker and her stepsister. is the subject of "Crime and Punishment". His interrogations by Porfiry Petrovich comprise some of the greatest dialogues in world literature.	Answer: Rodion _Raskolnikov_B. FTP, this is the epileptic, illegitimate son of Fyodor Karamazov who plots the elaborate murder of his father.	Answer: _Smerdyakov_C. F15P, this protagonist of "The Idiot" is a "primitive" man whose odd behavior and lack of concern for appearances is contrasted with the sophisticated Yepanchin family.	Answer: Prince Lyov Nikolayovitch _Myshkin_
8.	FTPE, name these Christian saints from descriptions.A. This patron saint of travellers was a giant who dedicated his life to charity by carrying travellers across a river on his shoulders.	Answer: Saint _Christopher_B. This native of Alexandria rebuked the Roman emperor Maxentius for his persecution of Christians, and converted the philosophers Maxentius ordered to debate her. She was condemned to be broken on the wheel, but when the wheel miraculously broke, she was beheaded instead.	Answer: Saint _Catherine_ of AlexandriaC. This Egyptian hermit was the first Christian monk, giving away his wealth at age 20 to live a life of asceticism and solitude. He is known today through the biography written by Saint Athanasius, which describes his struggles with demons in the desert.	Answer: Saint _Anthony_9.	The outer part of the human eye is composed of three layers of tissue. The outer layer is a protective coating which covers about 5/6 of the eye's surface and is continuous with the cornea. The middle is a vascular layer lining the posterior 3/5 of the eyeball, and is continuous with the ciliary body and the iris. The innermost is the light-sensitive layer. F5P for 1, 15 for 2, or 30 for all 3, name these three layers.	Answer: _sclera_, _choroid_, _retina_10.	Identify the following "good emperors" from descriptions, FTPE.A. On his succession in 161, he voluntarily divided the government with his brother Lucius Verus. He is remembered for his "Meditations".	Answer: _Marcus Aurelius_B. Ruling from 117-138, this Spaniard was extremely unpopular in Rome, and thus spent most of his time touring the empire and consolidating the frontiers. He's especially noted for promotion of urban life in Britain.	Answer: _Hadrian_ (or Publius Aelius _Hadrianus_)C. Ruling from 138-161, his title meaning dutiful was probably conferred because of his exemplary behavior towards his adoptive father Hadrian.	Answer: _Antoninus Pius_11.	Sure, you've demonstrated your knowledge of all-things academia in this tournament, but how much do you know about the essentials of our society?  Identify the following popular musicians given a description of their appearances on "The Simpsons", FTPE. You will receive 5 points if you need one of their songs.1A. When Homer invented a new alcoholic beverage using cough syrup, Moe stole the recipe and became world-famous. One night, this band visited Moe's Tavern, and even performed one of their songs, while Moe sat in with the band.1B. "Walk This Way"	Answer: _Aerosmith_2A. When Mr. Burns wanted to court Marge, Smithers, with the help of a gun, forced this singer to perform a song for her.2B. "It's Not Unusual"	Answer: Tom _Jones_3A. When Lisa wanted to save Springfield's snake population from the barbaric activities of "clubbing day", this singer used his voice to attract the snakes to the Simpson house.3B. "I Can't Get Enough of Your Love, Babe"	Answer: Barry _White_
12.	Name these short stories by O. Henry. You will receive 5 points for 1, 15 for 2, or 30 points for all three.A. This tale set in New York City tells of a young man who, after a futile search for his missing girlfriend, commits suicide in his rented room, not knowing it's the same room where she had killed herself a week earlier.	Answer: The _Furnished Room_B. Two kidnappers make off with the son of a prominent man only to find that the child is more trouble than he is worth; in the end, they agree to pay the boy's father to take him back.	Answer: The _Ransom of Red Chief_C. James and Della Dillingham Young, a young couple in poverty, buy each other unintentionally ironic Christmas presents.	Answer: The _Gift of the Magi_13.	Identify these major Spanish artists from works, 5-10-15.A. F5P, "Christ Healing the Blind Man", "The Burial of Count Orgaz", "View of Toledo"	Answer: _El Greco_ (or Domenikos _Theotokopoulos_)B. FTP, "Third of May, 1808", The Black Paintings, "Saturn Devouring His Children"	Answer: Francisco Jose de _Goya_C. F15P, "the Rokeby Venus", "The Spinners", "The Maids of Honor", "The Drinkers"	Answer: Diego _Velazquez_14.	When dealing with points in 3-dimensional space, several coordinate systems can be used. Answer the following, FTSNOP.A. First, a coordinate P in this system is given by the ordered triple (r, theta, z), where r and theta are polar coordinates of the projection of P onto the xy-plane, and z is the directed distance from the xy-plane to P. Name this coordinate system, FTP.	Answer: _cylindrical_ coordinatesB. In this system, a point P is given by the ordered triple (r, theta, phi), where r is the distance from the origen O to P, theta is the same angle as in cylindrical coordinates, and phi is the angle between the positive z-axis and the line segment OP. Name it F5P.	Answer: _spherical_ coordinatesC. Now, F5P for one and 15 for both, convert the Cartesian coordinate (1, 1, 2) into both cylindrical and spherical coordinates. Please give your angles in degrees. You will have 25 seconds.	Answer: cylindrical: _(square root of 2, 45 degrees, 2)_		  spherical:  _(2 times the square root of 2, 45 degrees, 30 degrees)_15.	FTSNOP, identify these groups from European history known for their distinctive clothing.A. F5P, this group of 1,000 volunteers led by Giuseppe Garibaldi captured Sicily and Naples from Francis II, providing the most decisive success of the Risorgimento.	Answer: _Redshirts_B. F5P, this group known for their black uniforms began as a group of personal bodyguards for Hitler. Under Himmler they grew into a powerful political force.	Answer: _SS_ or _Schutzstaffel_ or _Protective Echelon_C. F5P, this group led by Ernst Roehm was known for their brown shirts. They were purged in 1934 by the SS.	Answer: _SA_ or _Strumabteilung_ or _stormtroopers_D. F15P, these members of a British auxiliary police force were employed in Ireland against the republicans from July 1920 until July 1921. They are noted for their attack on spectators at a football match on Bloody Sunday, and for their khaki coats and dark trousers and caps.	Answer: _Black and tans_
16.	30-20-10, name the island.A. It is inhabited by 12.5 million people, with principal cities including Banjarmasin, Pontianak, Balikpapan, and Kuching. Its aboriginal peoples are called the Dayaks.B. It is bounded on the east by the Sulu Sea, the Celebus Sea and the Strait of Makassar, on the south by the Java Sea, and on the west and north by the South China Sea.C. The third largest island in the world, it is shared by Malaysia, Brunei, and Indonesia.	Answer: _Borneo_17.	FTPE, name the Henry James works from descriptions.A. This 1878 novella concerns the title character, an unsophisticated girl from the United States who runs afoul of a group of Europeanized Americans who enforce the rules of European culture upon her.	Answer: _Daisy Miller_B. In this 1898 novella, a governess is sent to an isolated English estate to take charge of two children, Miles and Flora, who are under the evil influence of the ghosts Peter Quilt and Miss Jessel.	Answer: The _Turn of the Screw_C. In this 1903 novel, Lambert Strether is sent to Paris to persuade Chad Newsome to return to America. However, Lambert finally realizes that life holds more for Chad in Paris than in the United States.	Answer: The _Ambassadors_18.	Identify the following schools of Greek philosophy from a description of their belief systems FTPE, or F5PE if you need a famous practitioner.1A. This school, founded during the second half of the 4th century BCE, held that civilization was an artificial, unnatural condition, and advocated the return to a natural, self-sufficient lifestyle. Their name probably comes from the Greek for "dog", which was the nickname of the school's founder.1B. Diogenes of Sinope	Answer: _Cynicism_2A. Established around 300 BCE, this offshoot of Cynicism held that all people are manifestations of the one universal spirit and should live in brotherly love. The system of natural law that evolved from their philosophy was a powerful influence on Roman jurisprudence.2B. Zeno of Citium	Answer: _Stoicism_3A. This school's basic doctrine was that pleasure, which they defined as freedom from pain, is the supreme good and the main goal of life.3B. Named for its founder and most famous practitioner, other famous members of this school included Horace, Pliny the Elder, and Lucretius.	Answer: _Epicureanism_ (or the _Garden_)
19.	F5PE and a bonus 5 for all 5, name these polyatomic ions.A. NO3 minus one	Answer: _nitrate_B. NH4 plus one	Answer: _ammonium_C. CO3 minus two	Answer: _carbonate_D. MnO4 minus one	Answer: _permanganate_E. ClO2 minus one	Answer: _hypochlorite_20.	Name the authors of these biographical collections, FTPE.A. "The Lives of the Poets"	Answer: Samuel _Johnson_B. "The Lives of the Most Eminent Painters and Sculptors"	Answer: Giorgio _Vasari_C. "Parallel Lives of the Noble Grecians and Romans"	Answer: _Plutarch_ (or _Plutarchus_)21.	Identify these major figures in the women's rights movement, FTSNOP.A. F5P, this reformer, living from 1820-1906, was instrumental in the passage of the Women's Property Rights Act. From 1869 she was a leader of the National Woman Suffrage Association, becoming president of the US branch in 1892. She has been honored by the issuance of a coin bearing her image.	Answer: Susan Brownell _Anthony_B. FTP, this Quaker helped organize the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery society in 1833, and organized the Seneca Falls Convention with Elizabeth Cady Stanton.	Answer: Lucretia _Mott_C. F15P, this feminist founded the Woman's Journal and edited it with the assistance of her husband Henry Blackwell. She created controversy by retaining her maiden name as a symbol of a woman's right to individuality.	Answer: Lucy _Stone_22.	Many important Supreme Court cases were decided by the Marshall court. FTPE, name these from descriptions.A. In this 1803 case, the Court held that an act of Congress in conflict with the Constitution is void and that it is the function of the Court to determine whether such a conflict exists, thus establishing the important power of judicial review.	Answer: _Marbury v. Madison_B. In this 1824 case involving the control of steam navigation, the Court affirmed the supreme power of the federal government over the navigable waters of the United States, even when commerce is conducted on waters wholly within the domains of one state.	Answer: _Gibbons v. Ogden_C. In 1819, the court upheld the sanctity of business contracts in this case, which occurred after a state altered the original charter of one of its colleges.	Answer: _Dartmouth v. Woodward_ (or Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward)