TOSSUPS - ROUND 9				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Case Western, Yale, and MIT with other Penn Bowl authors and Iowa State1.	His origins may lie in the German comic strip Raumfahrer Rölf. He originally had a Chaplinesque mustache, smoked a cigar, and flew in a dirigible with his dimwitted assistant Fargle. Later, he flew a red spaceship, and encountered all manner of aliens, including Booger Beasts and the Bug Beings of Zartron 9. For 10 points-name this intergalactic adventurer, the alter ego of Calvin.	Answer:		Spaceman Spiff2.	One consequence of this conflict was the invasion of Florida by James Oglethorpe and the gory counteroffensives at St. Simon's Island and Bloody Marsh.  The conflict arose from interference by Spanish ships of the slave trade as it was being carried out by English vessels which the Spanish believed were really ships designed for smuggling.  The vessel in question, the Rebecca, was captained by the war's namesake, who promptly went to Prime Minister Robert Walpole and, FTP, showed off what severed piece of his body that came to name the conflict?	Answer:	War of Jenkins' Ear1. 3,	Its medical name is variola, a Latin word meaning "pustule."  It is an acute, contagious, systemic viral disease characterized by a series of eruptions that pass through the successive stages of macules (MACK-yools), papules (PAP-yools), vesicles (ve-SIK-els), pustules (PUST-yools) and crusts. For 10-points, name this disease that has killed more people than any other infectious disease in history.Answer: 	smallpox4.	Characters include the thief and student Jehan of the Mill, the beggar-chief Clopin Trouillefou, the poet Pierre Gringoire, a golden goat named Djali, the handsome solider Phoebus de Chateaupers, King Louis XI, and Esmeralda, the gypsy who is the object of affection to both the priest Claude Frollo, who eventually has her hung, and the bell-ringer of a famous French cathedral.  FTP name this Victor Hugo novel about Quasimodo.	Answer: 	The Hunchback of Notre Dame.5.	She lived in a cave in the country of the Arimoi [AH-rih-MOY] and ate unsuspecting passers-by. While some claimed she was immortal, others held the hundred-eyed giant Argus killed her when she fell asleep. She bore the Sphinx and others to one of her earlier offspring, Geryon's dog Orthus, but most of her children were with Typhon. For 10 points-name this half-woman, half-snake, the mother of the Chimera, the Hydra, and Cerberus.	Answer:		Echidna [ee-KID-nuh]6.	Its origins date back to the conservation efforts of the early 1900's.  Harry F. Sinclair and Edward L. Doheny gave over $400,000 to Albert B. Fall for opening up newly acquired land from the Naval Department for private exploitation.  After discovery of the bribe both the Elk Hills location and the namesake location were returned to the government.  FTP this describes what natural resources exploitation scandal of the Harding and Coolidge administrations?	Answer: Teapot Dome Scandal.7.	His first individual exhibition featured drawings based on the writings of Truman Capote; he later made 16 millimeter films, and wrote a novel entitled a. In 1968, he was shot by the author of the SCUM Manifesto, but he survived to keep creating the works celebrated in a Pittsburgh museum bearing his name. For 10 points-name this artist best known for his pop art renditions of soup cans and Marilyn Monroe.	Answer:	Andy Warhol or Andrew Warhola8.	This quantity explains why an object with a large cross-sectional area or a high drag coefficient will fall slower than an object with a small area or low drag coefficient.  When drag is equal to weight, there is no net force on an object, which leads to this quantity coming into play.  For ten points, identify this term, which is the constant velocity at which an object will fall once drag is equal to weight.	Answer: Terminal velocity
9.	Some of its insolvency is associated with its role as the largest holder of mobile-home loans in the US. Its bankruptcy declaration is believed to be the third largest in US history. FTP, the company, with divisions in consumer finance and insurance, owes $6.5 billion. FTP identify this company best known for its sponsorship of the arena of the Indiana Pacers.	Answer: Conseco Inc.10.	He spent his first eleven years in San Francisco before moving to the East Coast.  He attended Dartmouth and Harvard, but never earned a college degree, instead working odd jobs at mills and farms while writing numerous poems.  His first poetry collection, A Boy's Will, earned him critical and popular acclaim.  FTP, name this author of such poems as "The Oven Bird," "The Silken Tent," "Nothing Gold Can Stay," and "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening."	Answer: Robert Frost11.	He gained fame as an orator with speeches commemorating the landing of the Pilgrims and the Battle of Bunker Hill. His early success as a lawyer in Dartmouth v. Woodward resulted in his election to Congress. FTP, elected to the Senate in 1827, he would support the restrictive tariff of 1828. He would later serve as Secretary of State to both Tyler and Fillmore. Identify this Massachusetts orator often remembered for his March 7th address.	Answer: Daniel Webster12.	Works of this type include The Storm, The Water Goblin, Orpheus, The Isle of the Dead, Also Sprach Zarathustra, and Prometheus. Their popularity climaxed in the late 19th century with composers like Wagner and Strauss using them to rebel against classical form. Often based on literary works and associated with Romantic music, their form was created by Franz Liszt, whose famous ones include Tasso and Les Preludes. FTP, name these orchestral works, which consist of only one movement, are programmatic, and which share part of their name with a common literary term.	Answer:	Tone poems or symphonic poems.13.	This rock is characterized by light colored, large interlocking crystals and reaction to hydrochloric acid. Described as a nonfoliated metamorphic rock, it is chemically equivalent to calcite and dolomite. FTP, identify this rock, known from specimens quarried at Carrara and frequently used in sculpture.	Answer: marble14,	This poet's work dealt primarily with religious and moral themes as evidenced by her first published piece, an elegy to the evangelical preacher George Whitfield.  Due to this work she was invited to England by Countess Selina of Huntington to aid in the publication of her poems.  For ten points, identify this poet and admirer of George Washington, born in Senegal and the first African-American poet of note in the US.	Answer: Phyllis Wheatley15.	For an element x of a field extension the set of these is the image of x under all automorphisms fixing the base field. The sum with multiplicity of these is called the trace and their product is called the norm. In the case of the complex numbers over the reals, there is only one nontrivial automorphism sending i to minus i. Thus, for ten points, in this case what is the name given to the pair a + b i and a - b i?	Answer:  conjugates16.	This event was prompted by constant conflicts with a native tribe who lived across the Fish River and the lack of response of the colonial government of the area.  The group who undertook this journey were also upset at the "Emancipation Act" of 1833 that declared the slave trade illegal.  For ten points, identify this 1835 event in which 10,000 Boers left the Cape Colony for a land far, far away.	Answer: The Great Trek17.	He took his name from the hut in which he perfected his skill. Some of his work can be found inscribed on rocks throughout his homeland.  Most of his work was inspired by voyages that he took to such places as Nagoya, Kyoto and Osaka.  For ten points, identify this master of the banana hut, the developer of haiku.	Answer: Matsuo Basho
18.	This theory accounts for the reaction between an Iron III ion and cyanide.  In that reaction the electrons that form the bond between the iron and cyanide start out as lone pairs on the cyanide.  For ten points, identify this acid-base theory that also explains super acids, a broader update of the Arrhenius and Bronsted-Lowry theories.	Answer: Lewis acid-base theory19.	This state is home to such tourist attractions as Wall Drug, the Crazy Horse Memorial, and the geographic center of the 50 United States. Nominally admitted to the Union as the 40th state, its population was just 750,000 in the 1990 census. For 10 points-name this state home to Wind Cave National Park and Custer State Park.	Answer: South Dakota20.	Players on this team picked up the 2002 American League Cy Young and Most Valuable Player Awards.  After an AL record 20 game winning streak, this team went on to win 103 games in the regular season, and the 12th division championship in franchise history.  This all followed on the heels of a 102-win season in 2001 and the loss of several crucial free agents in the offseason.  FTP, name this team that won the American League West division championship in 2002 but lost to the Minnesota Twins in the first round of the playoffs.	Answer: Oakland Athletics21.	In September 2002 a Vermont District Judge determined that the federal statute authorizing it is unconstitutional under Ring v. Arizona. In December 2002 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, in US v. Quinones, rejected a July 2002 decision that it violated the due process clause. For 10 points-in the February 2002 decision Atkins v. Virginia, the Supreme Court held that the mentally retarded could not constitutionally be given what punishment?	Answer:	capital punishment or death penalty or execution [accept equivalents]22.	Its members are Eliot Sloan, Eddie Hedges, C.P. Roth, Tony Clark, and Emosia. Their 1995 début album, Home, included such hits as "I Believe" and "Let Me Be the One." They have since released three other albums: a self-titled album, Walking Off the Buzz, and a greatest hit album, The Singles. For 10 points-name this "heavenly" rock quintet, most famous in recent years for "Hey Leonardo" and "I Wanna Be There."	Answer:	Blessid Union of Souls23.	In some legends this patron of artists and sculptors is said to have created all things by speaking their names. His cult was centered at Memphis, and usually depicted him as a mummy with a shaved head and beard, holding a staff and wearing an amulet. For 10 points-name this husband of Sekhmet, known as "The Opener," the creative deity of ancient Egypt.	Answer:	Ptah ["tah"]
BONI - ROUND 9				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Case Western, Yale, and MIT with other Penn Bowl authors and Iowa State1.	Damn films! 10 points each.[10]	The "F" word and its variations are spoken 267 times in this 1998 movie starring David Huddleston or Jeff Bridges as the title character.	Answer:	The Big Lebowski[10]	The Big Lebowski still used the "F" word four times less than this Quentin Tarantino film.	Answer:	Pulp Fiction[10]	This 1999 film still takes the gold medal, with 399 obscene words, 128 offensive gestures, and 221 acts of violence.	Answer:	South Park: Bigger, Longer, and Uncut [prompt on partial answers]2.	What do you remember from high school about social reformers?  Demonstrate your otherwise useless knowledge by answering these questions.10, FTP, name woman who with Ellen Starr ran the Chicago settlement Hull House.	Answer: Jane Addams10:  FTP, name the African-American anti-lynching crusader and author of Southern Horrors: Lynch Law In All Its Phases who teamed with Addams to block the establishment of segregated schools in Chicago.	Answer: Ida B. Wells-Barnett (accept either Wells or Barnett by itself)10: FTP, name the 20th century American educational reformer known for his advocacy of public schooling and democracy in education, as outlined in his book (ahem) Democracy in Education.  	Answer: John Dewey3.	Ten points each, identify the Shakespearean play from characters:10: Rosalind, Orlando, Duke Senior, Duke FrederickAnswer: As You Like It10: Lysander, Demetrius, Hermia, HeleanaAnswer: A Midsummer Night's Dream10: John Gower, Antiochus, Helicanus, and the title character, a prince of Tyre.Answer: Pericles4.	Oxygen and silicon are the most common elements, by mass, in the Earth's crust. For 5 points each-name any six of the next eight. You have 10 seconds to begin your answer.Answer:	Aluminum (or aluminium); iron or Fe; 	Calcium; sodium or Na; magnesium or Mg; 			potassium or K; Titanium; Hydrogen5.	Name these mythological birds, 10 points per part.[10]	This bird of Greek and Egyptian myth built a nest of fragrant wood before setting itself on fire; a new one would spring from its ashes.	Answer:	Phoenix[10]	These two ravens sat on Odin's shoulder, and brought him the tidings of war.	Answer:	Thought and Memory [or Huginn and Muninn][10]	This bird of Persian myth had a dog's head, a peacock's body, and a lion's claws. It was so old it had seen the world destroyed three times.	Answer:	Simurgh [SYE-murg]6. 	Answer the following concerning the reign of the emperor Hadrian for ten points each.A. [10] Hadrian was the nephew of this emperor, whom he succeeded in AD 117.Answer: Trajan or TraianusB. [10] At the behest of the Athenians, Hadrian brought about the completion of this temple, begun five centuries earlier and noted for its Corinthian columns at the foot of the Acropolis.Answer: Temple of the Olympian ZeusC. [10] An amateur architect, Hadrian's greatest achievement in this field was probably his villa in this city just outside Rome, which shares its name with the famed park and gardens in Copenhagen.Answer: Tivoli
7.	Ready for some sex? Name these novels with "love scenes" and you'll score-10 points each, at least.[10]	This novel features some very wrong sexual things between the titular nymphet and Humbert Humbert.	Answer:	Lolita [I don't normally use the word 'titular.' Here, it fits. -Ed.][10]	In this Hemingway novel, Jake and Brett can't get farther than kissing in a taxi because Jake has suffered a war injury to his equipment.	Answer:	The Sun Also Rises [but not Jake -- Ed.][10]	In this John Fowles novel, the sex between Sarah Woodruff and Charles Smithson is literally over in 90 seconds.	Answer:	The French Lieutenant's Woman8.	15-10, identify the philosophical school given members[15] Cleanthe, Chrysippus[10] Epictetus, Senaca, Zeno of CitiumAnswer: Stoicism[15] Crates, Hipparchia[10] Diogenes, AntisthenesAnswer: Cynicism9.	A 1983 film version featured Linda Ronstadt as Mabel and Angela Lansbury as Ruth. 10 points each.[10]	Name this Gilbert and Sullivan operetta.	Answer:	The Pirates of Penzance: or, The Slave of Duty[10]	"My Eyes Are Fully Open," a song from act two of this other operetta, about a family cursed to do evil, was transplanted halfway into that version of Pirates.	Answer:	Ruddigore[10]	In the film's finale, the police chase the pirates through a theater at the end of this other Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, which Major General Stanley refers to as "infernal nonsense" in one of his songs.	Answer:	H.M.S. Pinafore10.	Name these rivers in Idaho, 10 points each.[10]	It falls 212 feet at Shoshone Falls in southern Idaho, a height higher than Niagara.		Answer:	Snake River [10]	The mountains around Twin Peaks and a fish share their name with this tributary of the Snake that rises in the Sawtooth Mountains.		Answer:	Salmon River[10]	Lewis & Clark enthusiasts are giving credence to a revival of traveling this tributary of the Snake with the Dworshak Dam is on its north fork.		Answer:	Clearwater River11.	Name these Tennessee Williams plays, 10 points each.[10]	In this play Lawrence Shannon is a defrocked clergyman working as a tour guide in Mexico.		Answer:	The Night of the Iguana[10]	Nobody wants "Big Daddy" to think about his cancer, while Brick drinks until his mind goes "click."		Answer:	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof[10]	Burt Lancaster starred in a 1955 film adaptation of this work about the struggle of an Italian-American widow in Louisiana after police kill her husband.		Answer:	The Rose Tattoo12.	Answer the following relating to the history of general relativity for ten points each.[10] Einstein called this his happiest thought, the postulate that the effects of a gravitational field must be indistinguishable from the effects of an object undergoing acceleration.Answer: The Equivalence Principle (principle of equivalence and other similar phrasings) [10] This English scientist led an expedition to view the light of stars near the sun during an eclipse. His measurements showed light was bent by large masses and put general relativity in the headline.Answer: Arthur Eddington[10] This Russian scientist thought the idea of a general relativity was in opposition with Communist doctrine. He tried to impose a preferred frame of reference on general relativity.Answer: Vladimir Fock
13.	For 5 points per answer, name the treaties that ended the following wars, and for another 5 points, within one year, give the year in which those treaties were signed.[10]	Mexican-American War		Answer:	Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848[10]	War of Spanish Succession	Answer:	Peace of Utrecht [OO-trekt] in 1713[10]	Great Northern War		Answer:	Treaty of Nystadt in 172114	Name these fevers, for 10 points each:[10] Caused by group A hemolytic streptococci, it causes a red rash on the body and gives the tongue a "strawberry" appearance.	Answer:	scarlet fever or Scarlatina [10] Spread by the Aedes species of mosquitoes and sometimes called West Nile fever, the hemorrhagic form of the disease is caused by a different virus.	Answer:	dengue [den-GAY] or O'nyong-nyong or break bone fever[10] Howard Taylor Ricketts proved it spread by ticks in 1907. Symptoms include a rash that begins on the wrists and ankles.	Answer:	Rocky Mountain or Spotted Fever or RMSF  15.	Given a professional sports team and a number they retired, identify the player for ten points each.[10] 	Los Angeles Lakers, number 13Answer: Wilt Chamberlain[10] 	New York Giants, football, number 56Answer: Lawrence Taylor [prompt on "L.T."][10] 	Boston Red Sox, number 8Answer: 	Carl Yastrzemski16.	Answer these related lit questions, 10 points each.[10]	What type of poem, named from the Greek for an excerpt from a literary work, is a dialogue or soliloquy, often by or about shepherds, in a pastoral setting?	Answer:		eclogue(s) [EH-klog][10]	What name is given to Virgil's collection of ten eclogues?	Answer:		Bucolics[10]	Edmund Spenser published what collection of twelve eclogues, one for each month, in 1579?	Answer:		The Shepherds' Calendar or The Shepheardes Calendar17.	Give the molecular geometry of the following molecules FTSNOP.[5] CF4				Answer: tetrahedral [5] PF5	Answer: trigonal bipyramidal [10] XeF4				Answer: square planar[10] SF4			Answer: see-saw18.	FTPE, identify the following from calculus.[10] This special case of the Mean Value Theorem occurs when f prime of c is equal to zero.Answer: Rolle's Theorem[10] This method of finding definite integrals uses many small parabolas.Answer: Simpson's Rule[10] This theorem named for an Italian mathematician, is used to solve repeated integrals.Answer: Fubini's Theorem  
19.	Given a state, identify the president when that state entered the union, FTPE.a. HawaiiAnswer: Eisenhower (1960)b. OklahomaAnswer: Theodore Roosevelt (1907)c. OhioAnswer: Jefferson (1803)20.	Given a British political leader, name the party he leads, 10 points each.[10]	Tony Blair					Answer:	Labor[10]	Iain Duncan-Smith			Answer:	Conservative or Tory Party or Conservatives or Tories[10]	David Trimble	Answer:	Ulster Unionist Party or Ulster Unionists  21.	Identify the following people who made enormous contributions to various languages FTSNOP.5:  This Greek missionary is believed to have invented the Glagolitic alphabet, a precursor to his eponymous alphabet, in order to provide the Slavs with a translation of the Bible.Answer: Saint Cyril10: This man coined thousands of new words, founded the Hebrew Language Council, and wrote the 17-volume "A Complete Dictionary of Ancient and Modern Hebrew."Answer:  Eliezer Ben-Yehuda15: Rather than accept the multiple languages used in Warsaw, he began working on what he dubbed the "Lingvo Internacia" as a high school student and finally published the first Esperanto textbook in 1887.Answer: Lazar Markovitch (also "Ludovic Lazar") Zamenhof22.	Russia, China, both, or neither. Which country borders:[5]	North Korea				Answer:	both[5]	Kazakhstan					Answer:	both[10]	Turkmenistan				Answer:	neither[10]	Afghanistan				Answer:	China23.	15-10, identify the following Chinese dynasties.[15] This dynasty is considered by some to be the age of painting and porcelain.  It also saw the rise of Neo-Confucianism among the rapidly growing commercial middle class.[10] Divided into Northern and Southern periods, its military incompetence led to China being conquered by the Mongols.Answer: Song[15] Its ruling line was interrupted by the usurpation of Wang Mang.  As a result it is sometimes divided into Western and Eastern parts.[10] During this dynasty (202 BCE - AD 220), China officially became a Confucian state, and prospered domestically.Answer: Han