TOSSUPS - OKLAHOMA				SWORD BOWL 1999 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	It bears an inscription of Leviticus 25:10.  Commissioned in 1751 for a state house and manufactured in London, it was melted down and remade twice. Moved to Allentown in 1777 to protect it from British troops, according to tradition it received its famous damage during a celebration for the death of John Marshall. FTP - name this object, cast for a third time in June of 1753, which sits in a glass case inside Independence Hall. ANSWER: Liberty Bell 2.	He stood four-foot-eleven inches tall.  His plays and novels emphasize individual creativity over social and religious authority. He's the source of the quote, "Hell is other people," which come from his play No Exit. FTP - name this atheist and member of the French resistance during WW II, whose philosophical magnum opus was Being and Nothingness. ANSWER: Jean-Paul Sartre 3.	He considered himself the father of modern radio, and used to send letters out with only those words as an address, hoping they would be delivered to him. None of them were, and he died in 1961 a depressed man. A prolific inventor, he had patents on over 300 electronic devices and electrical components. FTP - name this American pioneer in radio broadcasting, who was the first to demonstrate sound on moving film, and who invented the audion, a type of vacuum tube that revolutionized the radio industry.ANSWER: Lee De Forest 4.	It's actually a tribute to the poet's sponsoring family, and the hero represents Ruggiero D'Este, the founder of the house. Action takes place in Italy and on the moon, where the hero searches for his brain, lost because of love. FTP name this poem by Ludovico Ariosto, the title of which roughly translates as "Roland Mad."ANSWER: Orlando Furioso 5.	It has been called the year the world came to a turning point and didn't turn. In February, the Hungarian independence movement demanded autonomy from the Austrian Empire. In March, Prussian ruler Frederick William IV was forced to salute the bodies of slain revolutionaries in Berlin and agree to a liberal constitution. In June, the French government abolished the national workshops, starting an uprising. All these rebellions were crushed by military force, keeping the old order in place for another seventy years. FTP - give the year all these events happened, the same year Marx and Engels published their Communist Manifesto. ANSWER: 1848 6.	The story is broken into two parts, one that deals with the narrator's condition, and the other with more plot-oriented activities. Published in 1864, both parts are told from the insane point-of-view of an alienated man who allows his true feelings to be seen, which he feels places him in a rebellious stance with the rest of humanity. This makes the work a political manifesto for the idea that a good society cannot be ruled by reason alone. FTP -name this influential story by Fyodor Dostoyevsky. ANSWER: Notes from the Underground 7.	The working title for the project was "Laser Orgy Girls," but the producers realized the saga of Charles Manson's high school days was just too controversial for the setting, so they moved it to college, eventually dropping Manson altogether. The night before shooting was set to begin, some of the cast (which included unknowns Karen Allen and Kevin Bacon) got in a fight with a real fraternity. And yes, the bottle of Jack Daniel that John Belushi drinks is real. FTP - name this anarchic 1978 comedy directed by John Landis.ANSWER: Animal House 
8.	They withdrew from the European Community in 1985, and in 1995, the Siumut -- or "Forward" - Party won control in the national election. Source of many of the weather changes in the Northern Hemisphere, its northern edge is dotted with American weather stations, including the strategic air base at Thule. FTP - name this nation, its external affairs still guided by Denmark, the largest island in the world. ANSWER: Greenland (accept Nuuk)9.	In mathematics, it is defined as the dot product of a vector field and the normal vector of a surface, or the rate of flow through a surface. A person who is soldering sometimes uses a paste with this name as a guide. In electronics, it is the product of an electric field perpendicular to a surface and is calculated using Gauss' law. FTP - give this shared four-letter term, most commonly used to describe the process of change. ANSWER: Flux 10.	Critic Norman Friedman described him as one of the greatest champions of individuality in the poetic world, ranking his work with those of Whitman and Thoreau. An ambulance driver in WWI, he spent three months in a military prison on a false charge, the experience of which was the basis for his novel, The Enormous Room. FTP - name this American poet, whose collected works include Tulips and Chimneys, And, and Viva. ANSWER: e.e.cummings 11.	Upon finishing this work, the composer said, "Everything that I have so far written must now be pulped!" The texts he drew from in its composition are from "Songs From Benediktbeuren" (Behn- uh-dict-byer-uhn), a collection of songs representing the educated European mind around 1280. The subjects include bawdy innuendoes and ribald sarcasm. FTP - name this composition, the first lines of which translate as "O Fortune / Like the moon / You are changeable," written by Carl Orff.ANSWER: Carmina Burana 12.	The GRE test for Linguistics written by this man is now no longer in use, even though his ideas of language as an innate behavior revolutionized the science. Manufacturing Consent, a documentary about him based on his book of the same name, shows him arguing with Michel Foucault (foo-co) over the power of social change in history. FTP - name this linguist, whose theory of transformational-generative grammar revolutionized linguistics, and whose political activities have kept in the spotlight when his theories haven't. ANSWER: Noam Chomsky 13.	One of the first decrees said that Scripture had to be understood within the tradition of the church, a rejection of the "Scripture alone" principle of the Protestants. Charles V opposed discussions that might further alienate his Lutheran subjects, which might have led to the loss of additional territories his Lutheran princes ruled. Ultimately, it gave validity to the Scriptures and to tradition as sources of religious truth and authority. FTP -- name this council, begun in 1545, set up by the Roman Catholic church as a response to the Protestant Reformation. ANSWER: Council of Trent 14.	This writer thought he would die at forty of alcoholism, but he eventually found a way to stop drinking. At fifty, when he found out he was dying of cancer, he wrote the poem "Gravy" about the ten extra years he had been granted.  His tales deal with middle-class people who discover, in the course of events, that their lives are nowhere near as normal as they seem, and include such stories as "A Small, Good Thing," and "Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?" FTP - name this American author, many of whose stories were combined in Robert Altman's 1993 film Short Cuts. ANSWER: Raymond Carver 
15.	It resembles glycogen and cellulose in that it is a linear, unbranched homopolysaccharide of 10 to 15 thousand D-glucose units. It is the second most common polysaccharide in nature, and mixed with proteins, it makes up a protective substance and a point of attachment for the muscles that move certain appendages, such as pincers and legs. FTP - name this polysaccharide, the principal component in the exoskeletons of nearly a million species of arthropods. ANSWER: Chitin 16.	His first claim to fame was a documentary he filmed in color of a raft trip through the Grand Canyon.  He was the target of one of the most famous political ads in American history, which dissolved from a girl picking petals off a daisy to an atomic bomb explosion. Withdrawn after only two airings, it nevertheless helped turn the tide against this Republican candidate, who wanted to increase troop presence in Vietnam. FTP - name this 1964 GOP Presidential candidate, defeated by Lyndon Johnson. ANSWER: Barry Goldwater 17.	This substance was postulated in the late 17th century by chemists Johann Becher and Georg Stahl. It was assumed to have a negative weight, making items that contained it lighter than those without. Antoine Lavoisier, whose work proved that oxygen combined with a substance upon combustion, rather than this substance being eliminated, finally debunked it. FTP name this hypothetical element, named from the Greek for "flammable."ANSWER: Phlogiston (thanks Wichita State for the help)18	In Greek mythology, a priestess of the temple of Aphrodite at Sestos, a town on the Hellespont. In Shakespeare, a character in Much Ado About Nothing, whose chastity is called into question. In sandwiches, one served on long bread, usually in high school cafeterias. FTP - what four-letter name do these people and meals share? ANSWER: Hero 19.	It was the first naval battle where the ships involved did not encounter each other directly. On May 7, American planes sank the Japanese carrier Shoho. The next day, the Japanese responded, sinking the USS Lexington and damaging the Yorktown. Usually overlooked in the aftermath of Midway, this was the first real turning point of the war in the Pacific during WWII. FTP - name this battle, which halted an attempted Japanese invasion of Australia. ANSWER: Coral Sea 20.	One of his more famous theatrical productions was a version of Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, updated to a modern fascist state. He also performed a voodoo-based version of Macbeth, and he would film a straight version of this play in 1948, with Scottish burrs that were replaced in the re-edited version. His Don Quixote was never finished, and his version of Othello was shot over a period of ten years in three different countries as he scrambled to find money for the production.  FTP - name this director, the "enfant terrible" of RKO, whose encountered far smaller hitches in making his first film, Citizen Kane. ANSWER: Orson Welles   21.	It starts with an airplane exploding, and the two main characters falling to their supposed deaths, but as they fall, one becomes more beautiful, and the other a hideous monster. This duality is present throughout the novel, as the beautiful one is actually a psychopathic killer, and the other, kind and gentle. FTP - name this controversial novel, featuring a flame throwing prophet, that led many Muslims to call for Salman Rushdie's death for its supposed blasphemies.ANSWER: The Satanic Verses 
22.	If Alan Ladd, Jr. had gotten his way, Saturday morning cartoons would've looked much different in the mid-seventies. He wanted to cut this film up into thirty minute segments and sell it to the networks as a live-action kiddie show, commenting that this film, with a plot you could "fit on the head of a pin," would bomb. He was extremely wrong. FTP - name this film that did not bomb, and whose prequel hits the theatres in late May.ANSWER: Star Wars 23.	It's the reason a baby searches for a nipple when brushed against the cheek and why it smiles at anything that vaguely resembles a face. Innate in the lives of animals, it is a genetically programmed behavioral sequence that is virtually unchangeable. Cuckoo hatchlings perform one of these when they eject unhatched host eggs from the nest. FTP - name this innate response to a specific stimulus behavior in the lives of certain animals, abbreviated F.A.P. ANSWER: Fixed Action Pattern (accept F.A.P. on an early buzz)
BONI - OKLAHOMA				SWORD BOWL 1999 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  	The author of this packet knows nothing about Physics, preferring to think that those elves in the Nike commercial work their magic still. Knowing this, answer these Physics questions written by a film major FTPE:a)  This law indicates that a specified volume of gas at a given temperature and pressure always contains the same number of molecules,  irrespective of the gas selected:ANSWER: Avogadro's Law b)  This British chemist and physicist proposed the modern concept of the atom, based on his studies that showed that chemical elements enter into combinations based on fixed ratios of their weights:ANSWER: John Dalton c)  In 1823, this British astronomer and chemist suggested that a chemical change might be identified by examining its spectrum:ANSWER: Sir John Frederick William Herschel 2.	Name the sequels to these literary works FTP apiece:1. Catch-22				ANSWER: Closing Time2. The Murders in the Rue Morgue	ANSWER: The Mystery of Marie Roget3. The Alienist				ANSWER: The Angel of Darkness3.	Name the autosomal disorders given a brief description for the stated number of points:FFP - With occurrences of around 1 in 25,000, it strikes in middle age and features mental deterioration and uncontrollable movements:ANSWER: Huntington's disease or Huntington's choreaFTP - A form of dwarfism, the head and torso develop normally, but the arms and legs are short:ANSWER: Achondroplasia FFTP - Children with this disease cannot properly breakdown the amino acid phenylalanine, which causes mental retardation:ANSWER: Phenylketonuria (or PKU)4.	Name the film directors from films on a 10-5 basis:10 - Scenes From a Marriage, Shame 5 --- The Seventh Seal, Fanny and Alexander ANSWER: Ingmar Bergman 10 - Easy Street, The Countess From Hong Kong 5 --- City Lights, The Gold Rush ANSWER: Charlie Chaplin 10 - Killer's Kiss, The Killing, Lolita5 --- 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clockwork Orange  ANSWER: Stanley Kubrick 5.	Answer these questions about that other presidential impeachment hearing, 5-10-15:What Secretary of War did Andrew Johnson suspend, starting the crisis?ANSWER: Edwin Stanton What Act did Johnson violate by doing this?ANSWER: Tenure of Office Act What Radical Republican was president pro tempore of the Senate at the Trial, and would have become president if Johnson had been convicted?ANSWER: Benjamin Wade 
6.	Name the author from works, 30-20-10:30 pts: Nothing Like the Sun (a story of Shakespeare); Moses 20 pts.: Time for a Tiger; Enderby 10 pts.: A Clockwork Orange ANSWER: Anthony Burgess 7.	Give the titles of these symphonic works, given their composer and number, 5-10-15:5 pts.: Beethoven, Symphony No. 3:ANSWER: Eroica 10 pts. Schubert, Symphony No. 7:ANSWER: Unfinished Symphony 15 pts.: Gorecki, Symphony No. 3:ANSWER: Symphony of Sorrowful Songs 8.	Given a year and the conclusions of the Court in a Supreme Court case, name the case, 10 points each1: 1803, the Court held that an act of Congress in conflict with the Constitution was void and that it is the function of the Court to determine whether such a conflict existsANSWER: Marbury v. Madison2: 1819, the Court concluded that the Constitution provided for adoption of all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, providing the basis of the doctrine of implied powers.ANSWER: McCulloch v. Maryland3: 1866, the Court concluded that civilians could not be tried by military courts when civil courts were in operation, thus limiting the application of martial lawANSWER: Milligan, Ex Parte9.	Give the names of these moons of Jupiter, given descriptions FTP apiece:This moon is covered with a blanket of ice that cracks and vents tidally generated heat:ANSWER: Europa Evidence of ozone has been found in this moon's atmosphere, indicating that oxygen may exist within it:ANSWER: Ganymede This moon, at 135 kilometers across, is the largest of Jupiter's inner satellites:ANSWER: Amalthea 10.	The Super Bowl's tomorrow. Wow. We'll be flying on an airplane while the game's being played, so we won't get to see it. FTP apiece, name the three teams that have played - not each other, mind you - in the Super Bowl exactly twice.  If you need the teams they faced, you'll get only 5 points each.[Pause to allow chance for 10-point answers; ask the portions below only as needed.]New York Jets and Dallas CowboysANSWER: Baltimore ColtsChicago Bears and Green Bay PackersANSWER: New England Patriots San Francisco4 49ers twiceANSWER: Cincinnati Bengals:
11.	Name these feminist authors, given a list of titles FTP apiece:A Vindication of the Rights of Woman; A Vindication of the Rights of ManANSWER: Mary Wollstonecraft Indiana; Valentine; Consuelo ANSWER: George Sand The Robber Bride; Cat's Eye; Alias Grace ANSWER: Margaret Atwood 12.	FTSNOP, given the year and the country identify the house that ruled the country then.(i)  (5) 1480 AustriaA:  Hapsburg(ii)  (5) 877 FranceA:  Carolingian(iii)  (10) 1465 EnglandA:  York(iv)  (10) 1010 HungaryA:  Arpad13.	Name these famous structuralists (if there is such a thing) FTP apiece:His Course in General Linguistics revolutionized early linguistic studies:ANSWER: Ferdinand de Saussure This Belgian studied Native American tribes and published Tristes Tropiques in 1964:ANSWER: Claude Levi-Strauss A French cultural and literary critic, he wrote about the "meanings" in wrestling matches and fashion shows in his book Mythology. Other works include S/Z and Writing Degree Zero:ANSWER: Roland Barthes (bart)  14.	Name the scientist 30-20-10:30 pts.: He wrote one of the first works of science-fiction, The Somnium.20 pts.: After studying with Michael Maestlin, an adherent of the heliocentric theory of Copernicus, he presented the geometric advantages of Copernican theory in Mysterium Cosmographicum.        10 pts.: He set forth his laws of planetary motion in Astronomia Nova and Harmonia Mundi.	ANSWER: Johannes Kepler 15.	Answer these questions that may or may not be related... oh, who cares? Answer these RELATED questions for the stated number of points:FFP - He was the 11th President of the United States, the Dark Horse Candidate:ANSWER: James Polk FTP - This Belgian painter of the late19th and early 20th centuries was known for his grotesque portrayals of humanity, making him a precursor of surrealism and expressionism:ANSWER: James Ensor FTP - Triangle Man kills him, he's either a dot or a speck, and when he's underwater, he may get wet:ANSWER: Particle Man Now, FFP - what brainy rock group wrote songs about all three of these people?ANSWER: They Might Be Giants  
16. 	Name the island groups or countries given a list of islands within them for the stated number of points:5 pts.: San Salvador, Santa Maria, Santa CruzANSWER: Galapagos 10 pts.: Guadalcanal, New Georgia, San CristobalANSWER: Solomons 15 pts.: Banaba, Tarawa, RawakiANSWER: Kiribati (prompt on the Gilbert Islands, they're no longer called that)17.	Answer these question about Auguste Rodin FTP apiece:He began work on, but did not complete, a sculptured bronze door for the Museum of Decorative Arts in Paris. It was based on scenes from Dante's Inferno. ANSWER: Gates of Hell Although there is a Museum for Rodin in Paris, there is also one located in this city in the United States:ANSWER: Philadelphia She was Rodin's assistant, and her own work was overlooked in the shadow of his reputation:ANSWER: Camille Claudel 18.	Answer these questions about everyone's favorite Swede, Gustavus Adophus, FTP apiece:His entry into this conflict started the Swedish Phase of the war:ANSWER: Thirty Years' War At what battle was he fatally wounded?ANSWER: Lutzon What was Adolphus' nickname, given to him because of his brilliant leadership of Protestant forces in the Thirty Years' War?ANSWER: Lion of the North  19.	Answer these questions about John Dos Passos for the stated number of points:FTP -- Dos Passos invented his "newsreel" technique for writing with this novel, published in 1925, which deals with life in New York City from 1890 to 1925:ANSWER: Manhattan Transfer FFP - This technique was perfected in his in his most famous work, a trio of novels grouped under an overall title, which trace the growth of American materialism from the 1890's to the Great Depression. Give this overall title for the three works:ANSWER: The USA Trilogy Now, FFP apiece, name the three novels in the USA Trilogy:ANSWER: The 42nd Parallel, 1919, The Big Money 20.	Identify these terms from the field of botany FTP apiece:This type of tropism is found in climbing plants with tendrils that wrap around supporting structures:ANSWER: Thigmotropism This term comes from the Greek for "container" and "seed:"ANSWER: Angiosperm This is the tissue that composes most leaves, made up of loosely arranged cells with the spaces between them:ANSWER: Mesophyll 21.	Name the shared title 30-20-10:30 pts.: It is the American title of the British film A Matter of Life and Death.20 pts.: The O'Jays had a hit with a song with this title in 1974. The chorus contains the line "Step by step."10 pts.: It is generally considered to be Led Zeppelin's signature song.ANSWER: Stairway to Heaven