TOSSUPS - UTC					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by David Moore, John Kilby, Jimmy Beilstein, Jacob Vannucci,  Nick Bradshaw, Wally Edmondson, and Charlie Steinhice1.	While observed as early as the 1600's, it was given its name by an 1872 book by Angus Smith, twenty years after he first observed it in Manchester, England.  Natural sources such as volcanic gases and forest fires can also produce it in limited amounts, but its primary source is in exhaust from automobiles and industrial fuels.  The Helsinki Protocol of 1985 was intended to curb the production of  sulfur dioxide and various oxides of nitrogen, which combine with atmospheric moisture to form this.  FTP name this form of precipitation, usually defined as having a pH at or below 5.5.	Answer:	acid rain2.	This battle began around 3PM, when patriot forces led by Colonels Isaac Shelby and William Campbell advanced from the horseshoe they'd formed around the loyalist encampment.  Major Patrick Ferguson, the only British regular at the battle, and his loyalist forces were repeatedly pushed back, but Patriot sharpshooters hidden in the trees inflicted heavy losses on the loyalists each time they regrouped.  Ultimately Major Ferguson was shot off his horse and his second-in-command surrendered.  FTP name this battle fought on October 7, 1780, on the Carolina border, a pivotal event of the American Revolution in the South. 	Answer:	the Battle of Kings Mountain3.	Out of embarrassment, he has disowned his first novel, Grimus.  Some of the efforts he'll still admit to are Shame, set in New York City, and The Ground Beneath Her Feet, which centered on 30th century pop & rock music.  Imaginary Homelands is a collection of critical essays and memoirs by this author of the Booker Prize-winning Midnight's Children.  FTP name this Bombay-born British novelist, who had a death decree pronounced against him by the Ayatollah Khomeini for his 1988 novel The Satanic Verses.	Answer:	Salman Rushdie4.	Warning: two answers required!  One got her start as a member of the Upright Citizens Brigade while the other got her start with Chicago's Second City comedy troupe.  On the show they both currently appear on, one has portrayed Sharon Osborne and Kelly Ripa while the other became the first female head-writer in the show's history.  FTP, identify this female two-person team, the current hosts of Weekend Update on Saturday Night Live.	Answer:	Tina Fey and Amy Poehler5.	One notable example of this technique is in Leonard Bernstein's "America" from West Side Story.  It is usually found where two measures of three beats feels like three measures of two beats and vice versa.  This musical term sounds like it could be a blood disease but is actually derived from the Greek for "one and a half."  FTP, name this term that indicates a brief change in the meter of a song.  	Answer:	 hemiola6.	Described in 1835, it is the namesake of the French mathematician who reported on it in his Sur les équations du mouvement relatif des systèmes de corps. In a rotating frame of reference, it is a force that is perpendicular both to the flow direction and to the axis of rotation. However, it does not make toilets flush in opposite directions in different hemispheres. FTP, name this effect which in meteorology explains why hurricanes spin counter-clockwise and typhoons spin clockwise.	Answer:	the Coriolis Effect (acc. Coriolis Force)7.	Upon this man's death in November 1716, it is said that Isaac Newton exclaimed, "I have destroyed him!"  He said, "Nature makes no leaps," in expressing his notions of continuity.  He improved upon Pascal's mechanical calculator and was well ahead of his time in developing symbolic logic.   FTP, name this man who spent more time describing a rationalist universe with unique fundamental components called monads, but is better known today for creating the notation system of differential calculus used in today's textbooks.	Answer:	 Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz
8.	He was born in Houston on Christmas Eve 1905. By the time he was 20, his parents were dead and he inherited a lucrative patent for an oil tool drill.  He used that inheritance to build a business empire which would eventually include RKO Motion Picture Studios, several Las Vegas casinos, and a controlling interest in Trans World Airlines.  Along the way he romanced such Hollywood luminaries as Lana Turner, Rita Hayworth, Ava Gardner, and Katherine Hepburn.  FTP name this businessman and movie mogul famously plagued by mental illness, the builder of the Spruce Goose and the subject of the 2004 film The Aviator.	Answer:	Howard Hughes9.	Some of the major characters in this play are Tullus, Aufidius, Caius, Marcius, Menenius, Agrippa and Volumnia. It is based on a sixth century BCE General who was expelled from Rome because he demanded the abolition of the people's tribunate in return for distributing state grain to the starving plebeians. He gained control of a foreign army and returned to sack Rome, but was persuaded not to by the tears of his wife and mother and was subsequently killed by his men.  FTP name the subject of this play which was written around 1607 by William Shakespeare. 	Answer:	Coriolanus10.	Its distinctive flag has a circle of 10 yellow five-pointed stars against a mostly dark blue background, crossed horizontally below the center by a white band with a narrower red stripe through it.  It's prone to prolonged droughts and even dust storms due to a seasonal wind called the harmattan.  This is ironic, since it consists of islands such as Boa Vista, Sao Vicente, Fogo, Maio, and the largest, Sao Tiago.  With its capital at Praia, FTP name this island nation in the North Atlantic that became independent from Portugal in 1975.	Answer:	Cape Verde11.	Among his more socio-politically motivated works was 1927's Facing the Chair: Sacco and Vanzetti.  He was active in several literary forms as shown in his 1922 poetry collection A Pushcart at the Curb, and his plays The Garbage Man, Airways, and Fortune Heights.  But he is best known for his novels, including the early works One Man's Initiation and Three Soldiers.  FTP name this American author most famous for Manhattan Transfer and his USA Trilogy.       Answer:	John Dos Passos [prompt on Passos - the last name is Dos Passos]12.	One of this company's first employees, Bob Greenburg, helped launch Cabbage Patch Dolls in the 1980's.  Their first employee was Marc McDonald, who rejoined the company a few years ago after it bought out his company, Design Intelligence.  One of its co-founders left the company in 1983 and currently owns the Portland Trail Blazers and Seattle Seahawks.  FTP, identify this company founded by Paul Allen and Bill Gates.	Answer:	Microsoft13.	It began as a grassroots social movement and the international visibility of it was based on reform minded leaders giving official government approval to changes that were already taking place, however it only lasted about 4 months and it ultimately led to a 20 year Soviet occupation that wouldn't end until the Velvet Revolution of 1989.  The most visible leader of the movement, Alexander Dubcek spent the next 20 years in the Slovak forest service.  FTP name this political and social phenomenon that ended in August 20th-21st 1968 when 175,000 Warsaw Pact troops occupied the capital city of Czechoslovakia, the center of all the hubbub. 	Answer:	The Prague Spring	14.	Einstein wrote papers in 1939 and 1941 trying to refute the existence of these, and by the late 1960's physicists conjectured that the universe forbade "naked" ones but instead made sure they were "clothed" by an event horizon.  In 1939 Oppenheimer and Snyder demonstrated that if the final mass of a stellar core is more than three solar masses, nothing would prevent it from degenerating into one of these.  FTP identify this point at the center of a black hole, where matter is crushed to infinite density, the pull of gravity is infinitely strong, and spacetime has infinite curvature.	Answer:	singularity (or singularities) [Grudgingly prompt on "black hole" - even though that term didn't exist in Einstein's lifetime]15.	Some artists of this school include Albert Marquet, Andre Derain, Maurice de Vlaminck, and Raoul Dufy. Its style includes intensely vivid, non-naturalistic and exuberant colors. FTP, name this school of art founded at the Salon D'Automne by Henri Matisse and named by a disapproving art critic who called the painters "wild beasts."	Answer:	Fauvism or Fauves
16.	In some parts of India, their dead are not buried, but are placed on pillars of silence where they are consumed by vultures.  The followers of this faith number only about 140,000 today, most of whom are concentrated in India, a few major cities in Iran, and in Canada.  The central teachings are concentrated in five sacred hymns known as the Bathas which are collected, along with some other passages on rituals and traditions, in the one holy text of the faith, the Avesta.  They do not, as many believe, worship fire, but see fire as a symbol of their god.  FTP name this monotheistic religion which envisions the world as a dualism between the good of Ahura Mazda and the evil of Angra Mainthu, as first explained by Zarathustra.	Answer:	Zoroastrianism17.	This band's father played in a group called The Falcones.  After touring with their father in the 70's and 80's, they went to Nashville in the 90's to start their own musical career.  In 2003, they went back to Texas to record their self-titled debut album at Willie Nelson's recording studio, which hopefully has no connection to their drummer being arrested along with his wife for marijuana possession.  FTP, identify this band consisting of Henry, Jojo, and Ringo Garza whose singles include "More Than Love" and "Heaven."	Answer:	Los Lonely Boys18.	It was unsuccessfully besieged by the Huguenots in 1568, and the Peace of Bergerac was signed there in 1577.  It was captured by the Franks under Clovis I in 507, and in 732 it was on the road between here and Tours that Charles Martel decisively defeated the Saracens.  It was also the site of one of France's worst defeats in 1356, when John II and his son Philip of Burgundy were not only defeated, but captured by the English under Edward the Black Prince.  FTP name this often-contested city of southern France.	Answer:	Poitiers19.	Always round except in some cancerous cells, this sub-organelle has both granular and fibrillar components.  When inactive, it atrophies, making it hard to observe unless in an active cycle.  It consists of  transcribed RNA and associated proteins as well as special "organizers" that have the code sequence for production.  Breaking down and disappearing during prophase and starting to reappear in telophase, FTP name this sub-organelle, the site of synthesis for ribosomal RNA.	Answer:	 nucleolus (do not accept nucleus) 20.	He spent four years in exile and two more confined to his family's estate, thanks to his satirical verse portraits of figures at court and to his anti-monarchical "Ode to Liberty."  No doubt the crown preferred his tributes to Peter the Great, Poltava and The Bronze Horseman.  Rimsky-Korsakov, Mussourgsky, and Tchiakovsky all based notable operas on his works.  FTP name the author of The Golden Cockerel, The Queen of Spades, Eugene Onegin, and Boris Godunov.	Answer:	Aleksandr Sergeyevitch Pushkin21.	A wolf guards the western door and an eagle hovers over it.  The Einherjar, are prepared here for the oncoming battle of Ragnarok. When the battle commences, eight hundred warriors will march shoulder to shoulder out of each door.  It is here that the Valkyries, Odin's messengers and spirits of war, bring half of the heroes that died on the battle fields.  Those that are not brought here are taken to Folkyang, Freya's hall.  FTP name this Hall of the Slain in North Mythology presided over by Odin.	Answer:	Valhalla22.	Bertrand Russell called him "the most lovable of all philosophers."  The Jewish community in his home country didn't seem to agree, and excommunicated him along with his pantheistic ideas.  His seminal work, 1677's Ethics, contains the sentence, "It is in the nature of reason to perceive things under a certain aspect of eternity."  FTP, name this 17th century Dutch philosopher whose religious views paved the way for the Enlightenment. 	Answer:	Baruch Spinoza23.	It's no wonder he was such a pessimist -- as a child he lost a brother, a sister, and both parents.  His preoccupation with the darker aspects of life can be seen in such works as The Sick Child, The Dead Mother, Death in the Sickroom, and Ashes. He also designed sets for several plays by his friend Henrik Ibsen.  FTP name this artist, whose works include Self-Portrait with Burning Cigarette,Evening on Karl Johan, and The Scream.	Answer:	Edvard Munch [pronounced Moonk, but accept phonetically plausible attempts]
BONI - UTC					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by David Moore, John Kilby, Jimmy Beilstein, Jacob Vannucci,  Nick Bradshaw, Wally Edmondson, and Charlie Steinhice1.	VISUAL BONUS: [READER: Hand out attachment]  Name these North American skylines from a picture FTPE.  You have 15 seconds.       Answers:	(a) Chicago; (b) Toronto; (c) Detroit 2.	Name the eponymous gas law FTPE:a)  The total pressure of a mixture of ideal gases is equal to the sum of the pressures that each component would exert if it were present alone and occupied the same volume as the mixture.	Answer:	Dalton's Law of Partial Pressuresb)  The volume of an ideal gas at constant pressure is proportional to the thermodynamic temperature of that gas.	Answer:	Charles' Lawc)  The internal energy of an ideal gas is independent of its volume and pressure, depending only on its temperature.	Answer:	Joule's Second Law3.	Answer the following about a particular author FTPE:(10) Demian and Magister Ludi, or the Glass Bead Game are two of this man's novels.   	Answer:	Herman Hesse(10) In this Hesse book, the title character and his friend Govinda seek the young Buddha, as well as their inner selves.	Answer:	Siddhartha.(10) The angst-ridden Harry Haller seeks to resolve the duality of his nature in this Hesse novel.	Answer:	Der Steppenwolf4.	Name these people associated with the Crusades FTSNP.A. FFPE, name both the celebrated English king of the Third Crusade and the Muslim sultan of Egypt he fought against.      Answers:	Richard I (or the Lion-Hearted  or Couer-de-Lion) and Saladin (or Salah al-Din)B. FTP, name the Holy Roman Emperor who drowned on his way to the Middle East during the Third Crusade.	Answer:	Frederick I or Barbarossa C. FTP, name the pope who started the First Crusade in 1095 only to die fourteen days after the capture of Jerusalem without hearing the news.	Answer:	Urban II 5.	Identify the following from computer science on a 10-5 basis.a)  10: It gives the name of a computer magazine published from 1975 to 1998 that was the leading publication on microcomputers during the 70's and 80's.    5: When talking about data sizes in the computer world, one of these consists of eight bits.	Answer:	Byteb)  10: This programming language created by Bjarne Stroustrup [Be-yarn Strows-strup].    5: It was a refinement of its precursor, C, by adding features such as object-oriented programming.	Answer:	C++c)  10: Created by C.A.R. Hoare, this sorting algorithm has an average run-time of n log n.    5: This type of sort's speed is reflected in its name.	Answer:	Quicksort6.  "The War to End All Wars" - yeah, right.  FTPE answer these questions about American involvement in World War I:a)  When the Germans sank this unarmed British liner in May 1915, 128 of the 1,198 who died were Americans.  Oops.	Answer:	the Lusitaniab)  This German foreign minister sent a secret telegram saying that if the U.S. entered the war, Germany should try to get Mexico to join the war as a German ally.  Well, he thought it was a secret telegram.  Double oops.	Answer:	Arthur Zimmermannc)  In an Oct. 1918 engagement in the Argonne Forest, this Tennessean almost single-handedly killed 25 Germans and captured 132 more.  We suspect all 132 wished their leaders hadn't sunk that ship or sent that telegram.	Answer:	Alvin Cullum York7.	Answer the following about celebrity connections to those currently associated with the UTC Academic Trivia Association FTPE.10) Jacob Vannucci's grandfather owned a Memphis restaurant that once employed this singer as a short order cook.  It is unknown as to whether or not he greeted younger patrons by saying "Hello there, children."	Answer:	Isaac Hayes10) When John Kilby was in elementary school, he took a field trip to a museum which happened to have a special celebrity guest on hand to read a story.  Unfortunately, Kilby had only vaguely heard of him at the time for playing the sheriff in the TV version of In The Heat of The Night. 	Answer:	Carroll O'Connor10) Last but not least, your genial quizmaster recently got a studio audience to laugh with a lively phone exchange with this game show host who can also be seen on The View.	Answer:	Meredith VieiraEDITOR'S NOTE: To understand part (c), watch the syndicated version of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? on March 24.8.	Old School or New School?  Choose now.  [MODERATOR: pause for choice]If Old School: Answer these questions about Beowulf FTSNOP.5PE:  In either order, name both peoples in the poem, the people that Beowulf represents and eventually leads, and the people attacked by Grendel who Beowulf helps	Answer:	Geats and Danes10:  This man is the leader of the Danes, he rules from Herot.	Answer:	Hrothgar10:  This man went along with Beowulf on his final quest and killed the dragon when Beowulf fell.	Answer:	WiglafIf New School: Answer these questions about Chaucer's Canterbury Tales FTSNOP10:  This is the setting of the initial action, the place where the pilgrims gather to embark on the road to Canterbury	Answer:	The Tabard Inn5PE:  These are the names of the two chickens in the Nun's Priest Tale.	Answer:	Chanticleer and Pertelote10:  What does Nicholas receive from Absolon instead of a gold ring when he sticks his butt out the window to fart in Absolon's face?	Answer:	A red-hot poker [accept equivalents]9.   We've written a similar bonus in years past, but what the hell.  5-10-20-30, name the order each mammal belongs to:a)  Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH	Answer:	Rodentiab)  Flopsy, Mopsy, Cottontail, and Peter Rabit	Answer:	Lagomorphac)  Bartok - not the composer, the bat from the animated Anastasia	Answer:	Chiropterad)  Dumbo, assuming flying elephants were not assigned to a separate order	Answer:	Proboscidea10.	FTPE, stuff about the Babylonian hero Gilgamesh[10] Over what great walled city did Gilgamesh rule?	Answer:	Uruk[10] Initially a rival, this mortal became Gilgamesh's friend and sidekick.	Answer:	Enkidu[10] In his quest for immortality Gilgamesh crossed the waters of death to speak to this wise man of Shurrupak, survivor of the great flood.	Answer:	Utnapishtim [accept Ziusudra, the Sumerian equivalent, but whoever said it needs counseling] 
11.	Given works, give the pen name under which it was written F5PE and the author's real name for another 5 points.a)  Silas Marner and The Mill on the Floss	Answers: 	George Eliot, Mary Ann Evansb)  Song of Solomon and Beloved	Answers: 	Toni Morrison, Chloe Anthony Woffordc)  The Red and the Black	Answers: 	Stendhal; Marie-Henri Beyle12.	Your genial quizmaster wonders: Am I the only person who saw and loved Fantasia 2000?  Given a work included or excerpted in Fantasia 2000, name the composer, 5-10-20-30:a)  The Firebird	Answer:	Igor Stravinskyb)  Pomp and Circumstance March #1	Answer:	Edward Elgarc)  The Pines of Rome	Answer:	Ottorino Respighid)  The Carnival of the Animals	Answer:	Camille Saint-Saens13.	FTPE, name the U. S. political party given nominees and years:a)  Eugene V. Debs, 1904, 1908, 1912, and 1920	Answer:	Socialist Partyb)  John Y. Bell, 1860	Answer:	Constitutional Union Partyc)  William Wirt, 1832	Answer:	Anti-Masonic Party14.	FTP, name these geologic features.A. This layer begins approximately 100 km below the earth's surface and is characterized by its elasticity. 	Answer:	AsthenosphereB. This layers lies on top of the asthenosphere and supports the crust.	Answer:	LithosphereC. This discontinuity divides the crust from the mantle.	Answer:	Mohorovicic or MohoDiscontinuity (acc: Moho Line or equivalents)15.	Those who have seen Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgandy would be surprised to find out who the first choices to play the members of the Channel 4 News Team were.  Answer the following about them FTPE.10) This comedian was supposed to play Brian Fantana but ended up only taking a small role as a rival anchorman.  This may have been due to his busy 2004 schedule, which included Starsky & Hutch, Dodgeball, and Meet The Fockers.	Answer:	Ben Stiller10) Frank Vitchard was to be played by this star who provides the voice of Dennis in The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie. In Team America: World Police, he is the head of the Film Actors Guild and considered useless by Kim Jong-Il.	Answer:	Alec Baldwin10) The character of Marshall Connors was written for this actor, but was left out of the film. Famous roles for him include used car salesman Jerry Lundegaard in Fargo and horse racing announcer Tick Tock McGlaughlin in Seabiscuit.	Answer:	William H. Macy16.	FTPE name the nation given a list of present and/or past Presidents, Premiers, or Prime Ministers:a)  Raul Alfonsin, Carlos Menem, Juan Peron	Answer:	Argentinab)  Benazir Bhutto, Pervez Musharraf	Answer:	Pakistanc)  Eduard Shevardnadze, Mikheil Saakashvili	Answer:	Georgia
17.	Name the author from first lines, 30-20-10-5.(30) "The summer my father bought the bear, none of us was born-we weren't even conceived :not Frank, the oldest; not Franny, the loudest; not me, the next; and not the youngest of us, Lily and Egg."(20) "In the hospital division of the orphanage-the boys' division at St. Cloud's, Maine-two nurses were in charge of naming the new babies and checking that their little penises were healing from the obligatory circumcision." (10) "I am doomed to remember a boy with a wrecked voice-not because of his voice, or because he was the smallest person I ever knew, or even because he was the instrument of my mother's death, but because he is the reason I believe in God; I am a Christian because of Owen Meany."(5) "Garp's mother, Jenny Fields, was arrested in Boston in 1942 for wounding a man in a movie theater." 	Answer:	John Irving 18.	Name the English artist from works FTPE:a) Commodore Keppel, Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse	Answer:	Joshua Reynolds   b) Wreck of a Transport Ship, Rain Steam and Speed	Answer:	J. M. W. Turnerc) Scenes from the Massacre at Chios, The Hay Wain       Answer: 	John Constable19.	Name the famous physics experiment FTPE:a)  A thought experiment illustrating the concepts of entropy, which begins with a perfectly insulated container of gas partitioned into two equal sides, each in thermal equilibrium with the other.	Answer:	Maxwell's Demonb)  One of the first truly relativistic experiments, this 1851 experiment tried to measure the speed of light by passing it through a spinning cogwheel driven by running water, then reflecting it off a distant mirror and passing it back through the spinning cogwheel.	Answer:	Fizeau method or experimentc)  In this 1926 experiment, diffraction patterns were observed by an electron beam penetrating into a nickel target, conclusively confirming DeBroglie's hypothesis on the wave nature of electrons.	Answer:	Davisson-Germer experiment20.  Given one of the founders, each of whom was reputedly a vegetarian, name the Protestant church FTPE.  a)  John Wesley	Answer:	Methodist or Methodism [Sorry, don't accept Wesleyan - churches with that name came later.]b)  William Booth	Answer:	Salvation Armyc)  Ellen White	Answer:	Seventh-Day Adventists21.	FTPE name the American authors of the following poems:a)  "To a Waterfowl," "Thanatopsis"	Answer:	William Cullen Bryantb)  "Barbara Frietchie," "Snow-Bound"	Answer:	John Greenleaf Whittierc)  "The Duel," "Wynken, Blynken, and Nod"	Answer:	Eugene Field22.	Name these rivers from their source and outflow 5-10-15:5:	Lake Itasca (Minnesota), Gulf of Mexico	Answer:	Mississippi10: 	Black Forest, Black Sea	Answer:	Danube15:	Confluence of Nmai and Mali rivers (northern Burma), Bay of Bengal	Answer:	Irrawaddy
VISUAL BONUS FOR UTC ROUND			SWORD BOWL 2005 A. B. C.