TOSSUPS - SWARTHMORE	 etc.				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Swarthmore (Chris White, Arthur Chu, Adam Oleksa, Will Schricker, Ben Bagley, Scott Blaha, Rachel Winer, Micaela Baranello) with a few from Maryland1.	He began in politics as a member of the "Long Nine", nine state representatives who successfully moved the capital of Illinois to its current city -- all of whom were over six feet in height.  After he resumed private practice, he famously represented the defendant in Barret v. Alton & Sangamon Railroad and authored a landmark brief defending corporations' rights to alter their charters.  His unsuccessful Senate campaign against Stephen Douglas was marked by their now-famous debates on slavery.  FTP, name this sixteenth president of the United States.	Answer:	 Abraham Lincoln2.	The maximum redshift known for one is 6.4, suggesting a maximum distance and the beginning of galaxy formation.  Discovered in the late 1950s, they are currently thought to be powered by super massive black holes devouring about 10 stars per year, and one of the traits that set them apart from normal galaxies is a varying luminosity over time.  FTP, identify this astronomical object with a name shortened from quasi-stellar radio source.	Answer:	 quasar3.	The first one ever, in 1973, was Ron Blomberg, then of the Yankees.  Many players extended their careers by becoming one, including George Brett, Carl Yastrzemski, and Paul Molitor.  An annual award for these is named after Edgar Martinez of the Mariners.  National League managers compensate for their absence through techniques like the double switch.  Only allowed in the American League, FTP, give the name for a baseball player who takes the place of the pitcher in the batting lineup.	Answer:	 Designated hitter or DH4.	It had its genesis in a meeting in which one collaborator suggested a work about Ellis Island, at which point the other told him to go to hell.  Using folk tunes such as "Sis Joe", the action takes place at Burnt Ranch, and concerns the awkward Cowgirl who is spurned by the Head Wrangler, but returns triumphant and eventually chooses another, kinder cowboy.  Choreographed by Agnes De Mille, for 10 points, name this Copland ballet whose sections include "Buckaroo Holiday", "Corral Nocturne", and "Hoe-Down".	Answer:	 Rodeo5.	For a while one of the Six Idlers, he was appointed to a post in the Hanlin Academy around 742, but was exiled because of slanders.  A master of the shih form, his works include "The Hard Road" and "Bringing In The Wine," and a famous legend relates how he drowned chasing the moon's reflection, probably due to alcohol.  Introduced to the West through Ezra Pound's freely reworked translations of works like "The River-Merchant's Wife", FTP, name this contemporary of Tu Fu, the Tang dynasty poet of "Drinking Alone By Moonlight".	Answer:	 Li Po		6.	This Englishman, who made an unsuccessful claim on the throne of Castile by marriage, used his influence to protect religious reformer John Wycliffe, and was the power behind the throne for much of Richard II's reign. Upon his death, Richard confiscated his lands, which led his son Henry Bolingbroke to revolt, depose Richard, and take the throne.  FTP name this fourth son of Edward III, whose name refers to his birthplace in modern Belgium, not his appearance.	Answer:	John of Gaunt [prompt on partial answers]7.	He is last seen in a work about Flora de Barral, its author's first commercial success. He was first seen detailing the author's experiences on the Palestine, before regaling his audiences with tales of a trader in Patusan haunted by the cowardly action he took aboard the Patna. Most famously, he lies to the fiancée of the "universal genius" and tyrant Kurtz. For 10 points-name this creation of Joseph Conrad who narrates Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.	Answer:	Charlie Marlow8.	The pulsed laser variety is useful for creating thin films, and in ecology, it can be used to refer to acid rain. In law, some jurisdictions recognize an affidavit as a form of this, which is achieved by a subpoena and consists of taking sworn and recorded testimony of a witness in a non-courtroom setting.  For 10 points, identify this term that also refers to the opposite of sublimation, a phase change directly from gas to solid.	Answer:	 deposition
9.  Located in Gyeonggi Province, about 30 miles northwest of Seoul and 5 miles east of Kaesong, it straddles the Military Demarcation Line which runs through the center of the DMZ.  Considered one of the last vestiges of the Cold War, it is the headquarters of the Military Armistice Commission.  Surrounded on either side by huge numbers of troops, this is, FTP, what city on the borders of North and South Korea, where the armistice ending the Korean War was signed in 1953?	Answer:	 Panmunjom [accept Panmunjon, since your genial quizmaster says it that way too]10.	The New Testament only uses this name twice, in the first and second Epistles of John; some Biblical revisionists identify him with Paul of Tarsus. After the 1652 reforms to the Russian Orthodox Church, many Old Believers identified him with Peter the Great. St. Bellarmine said he would be Jewish to combat Protestant theories he would be a pope. Nero is believed to be the first person associated with-for 10 points-what name often used for the Beast of Revelation, an evil world leader who opposes Christ?	Answer:	Antichrist11.	A planar molecule that obeys Huckel's rule, it has 22 pi electrons in its aromatic system.  Those pi electrons allow it to easily undergo electrophilic substitution, but it is more prized for being able to contain a metal such as iron within its central cavity, a biological use of which is found in cytochromes.  FTP, identify this type of molecule, 4 pyrrole units linked by 4 methine bridges, the most well-known type of which is the oxygen-carrying heme.  	Answer:	 porphyrin12.	Son of Lagos, he was hyperarchos with Cleomenes, and the temple of Kom Abu Billo was erected during his reign.  He abdicated in favor of his son Philadelphos late in life, and was unique among the Successors in his peaceful death; his Journal is the ultimate source for much our best information about the campaigns of his famous superior.  FTP, name this general who proclaimed himself king in 305 BC and became Satrap of Egypt after Alexander the Great's death.  	Answer:	 Ptolemy I or Ptolemy Soter13.	The tree in the background recalls Cezanne, but much of the painting is in a sharper and more linear style.  At the right-hand side of the crowded path are three figures painted in a more Impressionistic style, namely a young girl holding a hoop, an older girl whose face is hidden, and a woman holding one of the title objects.  However, the scene is dominated by the more sharply-painted red-haired young woman in a black dress holding a large basket.  Unlike the other figures, she is hatless and probably getting rained upon.  FTP, name this painting by Renoir.	Answer:	  The Umbrellas or Les Parapluies14.	Born in New York City in 1903, this member of the Harlem Renaissance was raised and educated in a predominantly white community.  His work was more conservative in style than many of his contemporaries, as it was modeled on the 19th century Romantic poets and often used sonnets.  First published while still in college, his collections of poetry include "The Ballad of the Brown Girl" and "Copper Sun."  FTP, name this poet, most famous for "Color."	Answer:	  Countee Cullen (also accept Countee LeRoy Porter)15.	Known as Kukulkán to the Mayans, he went to the underworld, Mictlan, to create the current incarnation of mankind from the bones of previous races and his own blood.  Often considered the god of the morning star, his worship was often marked by human sacrifice.  Inventor of books, the calendar, and maize, Montezuma was said to have thought that Cortes' arrival in Mexico as his return.  Name, FTP, this bird-snake god of the Aztecs.	Answer:	 Quetzalcoatl16.	Attempting to avoid a "pall of fear and timidity" over speakers, Brennan supported the idea that national debate on public issues should be robust and open.  Therefore, he and a unanimous Court reversed the lower court's granting of damages to a government official.  Originally brought over errors of fact in a civil rights advertisement called "Hear Our Voices," identify, FTP, this case, in which a police chief in Montgomery, AL, sued a major paper for libel.  	Answer:	 New York Times v. Sullivan17.	Unlike its less lethal cousin, it most affected those from twenty to forty years old.  Far more important however, were the mortality rate of 2.5% and the highly viscous pneumonia, since at its peak it infected over a quarter of Americans and a fifth of the globe.  Theories on its cause included the "smoke and fumes" generated by World War 1 and the use of mustard gas on soldiers, although scientists suspect it actually originated in China.  FTP, name this great epidemic that killed 20-40 million people between 1918 and 1919.  	Answer:	 Spanish influenza (prompt on flu or influenza; also accept La Grippe)
18.	Da Fino wanted to help the Gundersons find their lost daughter Fawn.  Jesus Quintana wanted to win the beach league bowling championship, as did Donny, who loved bowling. His friend Walter Sobchak wants to finish his coffee in peace, a privilege for which he claims his buddies died face-down in the muck. Jeffrey wants to find his wayward wife Bunny. Jeffrey's daughter Maud wants a child of her own.  These desires in this Ethan and Joel Coen film, FTP, somehow involve the Dude, who mainly wants to recover his rug, which really tied the room together.	Answer:	 The Big Lebowski19.	Its most common conception assumes the premises of imperative programming.  Formally, it is anything that can be performed by a Turing-complete machine.  Named for a 9th century Arab mathematician, one important class of these is the NP-complete class, and some of the paradigms for creating them include divide-and-conquer, greed, and dynamic programming.  Some of the more well-known ones are QuickSort, Linear Search, Long Division, and the Sieve of Eratosthenes.  FTP, name this finite set of well-defined instructions for accomplishing a task.	Answer:	 algorithm20.	It takes its title from an 1850s vaudeville song whose comic surprise ending involves resurrection; the novel removes the apostrophe from the title.  The plot centers on an immigrant Irish publican, his wife and their three children, said to parallel the stories of Osiris and Isis, Finn MacCool and Grania, and the city of Dublin and the river Liffey.  Responsible for introducing the word "quark" to the English language, FTP, name this experimental novel rife with allusions and multilingual puns, the final magnum opus of James Joyce.	Answer:	 Finnegans Wake21.	In Biblical criticism it's a 9th-century text of the Gospels called the Codex Petropolitanus [PET-roh-PAH-lih-TAH-nus]. In macroeconomics, it represents inflation; in microeconomics, profit. In particle physics it names a meson composed of an up or down quark and the corresponding antiquark. In chemistry it names a bond with a node in the plane of the bond. For 10 points-name this Greek letter which in mathematics refers to the Ludolphian number, the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter.	Answer:	pi22.	His mother called him Sophia and forced him to wear girls' clothing until he was five; his father overcompensated by sending him to military school at nine. He made his début as a poet at 19 with the 1894 collection Leben und Lieder [LAY-bin oont LEE-der]; his lyrical style of poetry, developed in Paris, was highly influenced by the visual arts. The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge is a prose work by, FTP, which poet of "The Panther" and the Sonnets to Orpheus?		Answer:	Rainer Maria Rilke [REEL-kuh]23.	Around 68,000 people were killed on the Allied side over the month-long battle, but 5,000 of those were killed in as little as 10 minutes over a four-mile front.  Sir Horace Smith-Dorien commanded troops from Britain, Canada, India, and France against Duke Albrecht of Wurttemberg.  While the battle ended in a stalemate, Canadian troops, originally held in reserve, managed to reestablish the front lines despite facing a new and deadly threat.  FTP, identify this World War I battle, from April 22 to May 25 1915, the first in which poison gas was used.   	Answer:	 Second Battle of Ypres
BONI - SWARTHMORE	 etc.				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Swarthmore (Chris White, Arthur Chu, Adam Oleksa, Will Schricker, Ben Bagley, Scott Blaha, Rachel Winer, Micaela Baranello) with a few from Maryland1.	For some people, one death just isn't enough.  Name the following people were posthumously executed FTPE.[10]  This man died of a fever in 1658 but was exhumed by King Charles II so that he could be properly hung, drawn and quartered.  	Answer:	  Oliver Cromwell[10]  After his death in the Battle of Bosworth Field, this man was hanged by his successor, King Henry VII.	Answer:	  King Richard III of England[10]  He initiated the first complete English translation of the Bible, wrote Summa Theologiae, and was burned as a heretic under the direction of Pope Martin V, 12 years after dying of apoplexy. 	Answer:	  John Wycliffe2.	And now for something completely different: stuff from Monty Python's Flying Circus FTPE.[10]  Their chief weapons are fear, surprise, ruthless efficiency, an almost fanatical devotion to the Pope, and nice red uniforms.  	Answer:	  the Spanish Inquisition[10]  The title creature, who is, in fact, bleedin' demised and not simply pining for the fjords, is this variety of parrot.	Answer:	  Norwegian Blue[10]  He works all day, sleeps all night, goes shopping on Wednesdays, presses wildflowers, and enjoys wearing women's clothing, but he's okay.	Answer:	  the lumberjack3.	Name these literary figures with something in common FTPE.  [10] This Swedish playwright, novelist, and short story writer combined naturalism, psychology, and mysticism in his work, including "Miss Julie" and the Damascus trilogy.  	Answer:	 Johan August Strindberg[10] Two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize, in 1987 and 1990, he is currently writing a 10 play cycle focusing on the African-American community in each decade of the 20th century.  	Answer:	 August Wilson[10] This gluttonous boy won a Golden Ticket in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, but perished tragically while trying to drink from a chocolate river.  	Answer:	 Augustus Gloop (Accept either name.  Do not accept August Gloop.)4.	Name the random physics concepts having to do with light and such in space.[10] First formulated by Kepler and named for an astronomer from Germany, this astronomical inquiry asks why, given an infinite universe, the entire night sky is not bright due to starlight.	Answer:	 Olbers' Paradox[10] It is the basis behind echocardiograms and many instruments used to measure fluid flow, and it is used by police to measure the speed of cars.	Answer:	 Doppler effect[10] This is the result of matter-antimatter pairs occurring near an event horizon, where occasionally one half gets swallowed by the black hole with the other doesn't.	Answer:	 Hawking radiation5.	Answer the following about a group of philosophers, FTPE.[10] This diverse group of Greeks is defined mainly by working before the philosopher who Plato uses as his mouthpiece.	Answer:	 Pre-Socratics[10]  He is said to have predicted the solar eclipse of 585 BC.  Often considered the first philosopher in the Western tradition, he held that water is the origin and essence of everything.	Answer:	 Thales[10] This "speculative astronomer" meditated on the Boundless and was a student of Thales.	Answer:	 Anaximander
6.	Identify the Mozart opera from a brief description for the stated number of points.[10] Opera seria debuting in 1781 about the King of Crete who must sacrifice his son.	Answer:	Idomeneo, re di Creta (also "Idomeneus, King of Crete")[10] Fernando and Guglielmo attempt to get their betrotheds Dorabella and Fiordiligi to cheat on them in a bet with Alfonso.	Answer:	Cosi fan Tutte [5] Four act opera buffa based on a Beaumarchais about a barber from Seville.	Answer:	The Marriage of Figaro (also "Le Nozze di Figaro")[5] Singspiel in two acts about Sarastro protecting Pamina, who falls in love with Tamino, from the Queen of Night 	Answer:	The Magic Flute (also Die Zauberflöte)7.	Given an atomic number, name the element for 5 points and identify it as either an alkali metal, alkaline-earth metal, transition metal, or noble gas for another 5 points.[5/5] 36	Answer:	Krypton (also Kr) and noble gas[5/5] 19	Answer:	Potassium (also K) and alkali metal[5/5] 26	Answer:	Iron (also Fe) and transition metal8.	Identify the following battles of the American Revolutionary War FTPE.[10] At this June 28, 1778 battle, an unexpected retreat called by Charles Lee, the commander of the American advance guard, disordered Washington's forces enough to allow Clinton's army to continue its advance on New York.	Answer:	  Battle of Monmouth  Courthouse[10] It was at this June 17, 1775 battle that an American general warned his troops not to fire until they could see the whites of their opponent's eyes.	Answer:	  Battle of Bunker Hill [or Breed's Hill][10] In 1779, John Paul Jones captured the "Countess of Scarborough" and this other British ship after a three-hour battle in which he replied to an order to surrender with "I have not yet begun to fight!"	Answer:	  Serapis 9.	He was the butt of many jokes in Pope's Dunciad [DUN-see-ad]. 10 points each.[10]	Name this British Poet Laureate who wrote the libretto for Purcell's Dido and Aeneas.		Answer:	Nahum Tate[10]	Tate's execrable revision of this Shakespeare play was the only version performed for 150 years. Among its sins is a happy ending in which Edgar and Cordelia marry.		Answer:	(The Tragedy of) King Lear[10]	Tate also co-wrote Absalom and Achitophel with this poet.		Answer:	John Dryden10.	Given a continent, name the longest river on it for the stated number of points.[5] Africa	Answer:	Nile River[10] Europe	Answer:	Volga River[15] Australia	Answer:	Darling River [accept Murray-Darling, but not just Murray]11.	Those Beatles were trippy dudes. Given bizarre imagery from the lyrics, name the Beatles song, 10 points each.[10]	Plasticine porters with looking-glass ties		Answer:		"Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds"[10]	A face that she keeps in a jar by the door		Answer:		"Eleanor Rigby"[10]	Yellow matter custard dripping from a dead dog's eye		Answer:		"I Am the Walrus"
12.	Given a character, name the Ayn Rand novel, 10 points each.[10]	Ellsworth Toohey, newspaper columnist and anti-human source of ultimate evil		Answer:	The Fountainhead[10]	Francisco d'Anconia, wealthy capitalist playboy and token Jewish good guy		Answer:	Atlas Shrugged[10]	Leo Kovalensky, anti-communist rebel and hunky love interest		Answer:	We the Living13.	Graph theory was invented in 1736 while trying to solve a specific problem.  The problem was whether one could cross the bridges connecting two islands to the banks of a river so that you cross each bridge only once and end up where you started.  Answer the following, FTSNOP:[10] What is the name of this famous problem?	Answer:	 Seven Bridges of Königsberg[10] This mathematician solved the Seven Bridges of Königsberg.  Other achievements include introducing notations such as f of x for a function and i for the square root of -1.	Answer:	 Leonhard Euler [pronounced "oiler" but accept reasonable attempts][5,5] The city of Königsberg was in one country in 1736 and is now known as Kaliningrad in its current country.  Name them both for five points each.	Answers: 	Prussia, Russia14.	Answer the following about the Incan Empire, FTPE:[10] This emperor, the 13th in his line, was kidnapped and executed in 1532, after paying a huge ransom.	Answer:	 Atahualpa[10] This was the Spanish conquistador who had Atahualpa eliminated.  	Answer:	 Francisco Pizarro[10] The last indigenous leader of the Incan people, he controlled only a few dozen kilometers of territory north of Cuzco before being killed by the Spanish.  His name was taken by a late 20th century guerrilla force in Peru.	Answer:	 Tupac Amaru15.	Answer the following about a class of molecules that make up most of the cell membrane, and the fun things they do in water.[10] With a hydrophilic head and hydrophobic tail, these molecules form the bilayer of the cell membrane.	Answer:	 phosopholipids[10] Phosopholipids can also form this simple, spherical structure in water, in which there is only one layer, and all the tails converge.	Answer:	  micelle[10] Halfway between a bilayer and a micelle, this structure is a ball of phospholipids with a tiny hydrophilic core.	Answer:	 liposome16. Given an African leader, name the country of which he was their first president after independence from their colonial power.[10] Canaan Banana	Answer:	 Zimbabwe[10] Patrice Lumumba	Answer:	 Democratic Republic of the Congo[10] Jomo Kenyatta	Answer:	 Kenya17.	Time for a bonus on sisters. No, not Lynne Cheney's novel. Jane Austen novels. 10 points each.[10]	This sensible older sister of Elizabeth Bennet winds up marrying Mr. Bingley.		Answer:	Jane Bennet[10]	This older sister of Emma Woodhouse is married to John Knightley; Emma eventually marries his brother.		Answer:	Isabella Woodhouse[10]	This vain older sister of Anne Eliot is the only Eliot daughter still unmarried at the end of Persuasion.		Answer:	Elizabeth Eliot
18.	Identify representatives of the three general types of chemical messenger molecules FTPE.  [10] This hormone, derived from the amino acid tyrosine, produces the fight-or-flight response.  	Answer:	 epinephrine[10] Produced in the outer section of the adrenal glands, these steroid compounds increase glucose concentration in the blood and glycogen accumulation in the liver.	Answer:	 glucocorticoids (also accept cortisol and corticosterone)[10] This amino acid stimulates the pancreas to emit alkaline compounds in order to neutralize stomach acid.  	Answer:	 secretin19.	30-20-10, identify the artist from descriptions of his works. [30] A white apartment with a sitting area barely visible on the left has its front door open.  Outside, the ocean comes right up to the door itself.[20] A young lady stands near a red curtain in a New York movie theater, apparently waiting for a date that has stood her up.[10] Two men and a woman, looking dejected, sit at a counter in a corner coffee store while a young man clad in white serves them.	Answer:	 Edward Hopper20.	Name the following about a certain Protestant reformer for ten points each.[10] He started the Protestant reformation with the posting of his Ninety-Five Theses.	Answer:	Martin Luther[10] The city in which Luther allegedly posted the theses on the doors of Castle Church.	Answer:	Wittenberg[10] Following the Diet of Worms, Luther's prince, Frederick the Wise of Saxony, kept him in hiding in this castle.	Answer:	Wartburg Castle21.	5-10-15, identify these people, who may have something in common.[5] This man became leader of Britain's Labour Party in 1994, following the death of John Smith.  In 1997, he was elected Prime Minister, a post he still occupies.	Answer:	 Tony Blair[10] In 2003, this New York Times reporter resigned under a cloud of accusations of unethical journalism, such as manufacturing interviews and plagiarism.	Answer:	 Jayson Blair[15] This former speedskating champion was elected to the US Olympic Hall of Fame in 2004.  She won five Olympic golds in her career, all of them in the 500 and 1000 meter races.	Answer:	 Bonnie Blair 22.	Name these artificial languages, 10 points each.[10]	Tolkien used phonemes similar to Latin and Greek, and a grammar inspired by Finnish, in this ancient formal language of the High Elves; work on it predates his work on Lord of the Rings.		Answer:	Quenya[10]	Richard Adams purposely based this language's sound on Arabic, but tried to make it sound and feel appropriately "wuff-fluffy" to suit his race of sentient rabbits in Watership Down.		Answer:	Lapine[10]  The most commercial artlang is this "alien" language created by linguist Marc Okrand from a commission by Paramount.		Answer:	Klingon