TOSSUPS - USF/AUM/MIT				SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by USF's Jeremy Rasmussen, Aneesh Karve, Rob Fernandez, Auburn-Montgomery & MIT1. This book chronicles the life of a man born in Depression-era Brooklyn to Irish immigrants and raised in the slums of Limerick, Ireland. His mother has no money to feed her children since his alcoholic father rarely works. Yet his father somehow nurtures in the boy the one thing he can provide--a great story. The boy falls in love with old Irish tales of yore. This is, perhaps, the one thing that sustains him through the tough times. For 10 points, this describes what Pulitzer-winning memoirs by Frank McCourt?      Answer: Angela's Ashes2. The musical score to the old-time Flash Gordon television serial is taken from this composer's "Les Preludes."  He lived with Madame d'Agoult (better known by her pen name, Daniel Stern) from 1833 to 1844, and they had three children. Their daughter, Cosima, became the wife of Hans von Bülow and later of Wagner. For 10 points, who was this composer of the Faust Symphony and the Hungarian Rhapsodies?      Answer: Franz Liszt3. Their name comes from the Greek for "hollow-spine" and until recently, they were known chiefly from Paleozoic and Mesozoic fossil records. However, an entire school of this type of fish, at one time thought to be extinct for 70 million years, was recently discovered off the coast of South Africa. For 10 points, name this living fossil.      Answer: Coelacanth4. General Zachary Taylor, disobeying orders from the U.S. government, advanced to Saltillo (SALT-eeyo). There, he was met by General Santa Anna, who had gathered a Mexican army and made a long march north to outflank Taylor. After fierce fighting, the Mexican army finally withdrew, leaving Taylor in control of the north of Mexico. For 10 points, what was this famed 1847 battle of the Mexican War?      Answer: Battle of Buena Vista5. After he survives a serious accident, a Chicago businessman learns that he's been blessed with a certain power. At first, he uses his new skill to please his boss, but he ends up understanding so well what it is that she wants that he can't help falling in love with her. For 10 points, name this movie starring Mel Gibson as a man who can read women's minds.      Answer: What Women Want6. Since it was discovered by the German chemist Karl Lohmann in 1929, researchers seeking to understand this molecule have won a long string of Nobel Prizes. It consists of the nucleoside adenosine linked to three phosphate groups. For 10 points, identify this medium through which food is converted to useful energy for the body's every function.      Answer: ATP (or adenosine triphospate)  7. Until the rise of José Batlle y Ordóñez (Bot-YA ee Ord-OWN-nyez) early in the 20th century, this nation experienced many revolutions and counterrevolutions. In Batlle's second term as president from 1911-1915, however, began the social and material progress that has made this country one of the more stable and prosperous nations of Latin America. For 10 points, name this country whose capital is Montevideo.      Answer: Uruguay8. Europeans who have been thought by some to have preceded him in the practice of his art include Laurens Janszoon Koster, of Holland, and Pamfilo Castaldi, of Italy. However, this man from Mainz, Germany, was the first to mechanically reproduce medieval liturgical manuscripts. Identify this printer of the Mazarin Bible.      Answer: Johann Gutenberg9. They were an ancient, semi-nomadic Semitic race whose dominion, centered in Palestine, extended from the Euphrates River to the Nile. They introduced the horse-drawn chariot and the composite bow to Egypt, as well as Canaanite deities. In Egyptian art, they are depicted as barbarians who misruled the country and debased its culture. For 10 points, name this people that, between 1710-20 BC defeated the Pharaohs of the Middle Kingdom and ruled Egypt until 1570 BC.      Answer: Hyksos10. This novel follows the story of the Trueba family in a South American country from the beginning of the century up to the modern times. The author introduces various colorful characters in incredible situations--almost surreal at times. For 10 points, name this first and perhaps best novel by Chilean author Isabelle Allende.	Answer: The House of the Spirits (Accept "La casa de los Espiritus")11. In 1905, he established the famous gallery "291" at 291 Fifth Ave., in New York City, for the exhibition of photography as a fine art. The gallery soon broadened its scope to include the works of the modern French art movement and introduced to the United States the work of Cézanne, Picasso, Braque, and Brancusi. It also made known the work of such American artists Georgia O'Keeffe, whom he married in 1924.  For 10 points name this American photographer.      Answer: Alfred Stieglitz12. In 1985, Germany's Klaus Von Klitzing won the Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery of the quantized version of this. It is a potential difference observed between the edges of a conducting strip carrying a longitudinal current when placed in a magnetic field perpendicular to the plane of the strip.  For 10 points, identify this effect named for an American physicist.       Answer: Hall Effect. 13.	Excluding the NFL-AFL merger, this is the tenth team to join the NFL since 1960.  Owner Bob McNair and General Manager Charley Casserly are looking forward to moving their team into their new home, Reliant Stadium, for their first game against the Miami Dolphins in 2002.  FTP, identify the newest NFL franchise, whose team logo is a red, white, and blue steer.ANSWER: Houston Texans (accept either)14.	Only 35 years old when he was assassinated while on his way home from presiding over the "Admirable Congress," he resigned his country's presidency two years earlier after an uprising at Chuquisaca.  At age 25 he was made a general and assigned to the liberation of southern Gran Colombia, and proceeded to win battles at Pichincha and Ayacucho. FTP, name this man, Bolivia's first president, after whom one of Bolivia's two capitals is named.ANSWER: Antonio Jose de Sucre Alcala15.	Even if its victims escape the powerful bite itself, the victims of this reptile usually die because the festering meat between its teeth makes the bite septic.  Scientists are now looking at its immunity to that bacteria as a possible source for new medicines.   For 10 points, name this lizard, native to four Indonesian islands, which can grow to be ten feet long and three hundred pounds.ANSWER - Komodo dragon16.	After his old targets went away, he looked at the decay of modern society in such works as Immortality.  While he concentrated on the personal rather than the political, his disdain for Communism and oppression came through in such novels as  The Joke and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.   For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Incredible Lightness of Being.ANSWER: Milan Kundera
17.	A tireless social reformer and promoter of public works, he had a common touch but often stumbled in formal oratory - as when addressing prison inmates as "my fellow citizens."  This two-time governor of New York thought he deserved to be the national nominee again in 1932 and resented former protégé Franklin Roosevelt for getting the nod instead.  He'd also waged a hard battle for the nomination in the split convention of 1924.  FTP name this Democratic nominee who lost to Herbert Hoover in 1928, the "Happy Warrior" who broke ground for future Catholic candidates for national office.Answer: Alfred E. Smith18.	Neither Cain nor Abel appears in the genealogy of Christ.  That honor goes to a third brother, born to Adam at the age of 130.  For 10 points, name this third son of Adam and Eve.ANSWER - Seth19. This silvery-white element is one of the most reactive rare-earth metals.  Naturally occurring in xenotime, monazite, and bastnaesite, it is, along with cerium, a major component of misch metal.  For 10 points name this element with atomic number 57, the first in the f-block of the periodic table, and from which the period 6 Lanthanoid series derives its name.      Answer: Lanthanum20. Like "Seinfeld" it is about nothing, and yet was highly acclaimed.  In this multi-volume work, tedious dinner parties span hundreds of pages, and the author waxes eloquent about hawthorn bushes for hours. The first fifty pages are all about sleeping.   For 10 points, name this magnum opus of Marcel Proust, which includes such installments as Cities of the Plain and Swann's Way.	Answer: Remembrance of Things Past21 Australians are wary of these nuisances, which, during mating season have been known to attack red-haired women and mothers with baby strollers. During the 2000 Olympics, they even attacked cyclists during a race. They are related to jays but have a long, graduated tail and black-and-white or brightly colored plumage. For 10 points, name this bird which is a synonym for a person who chatters noisily.Answer: Magpie22 Andrew won the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology, Julian collaborated on "The Science of Life" with H.G. Wells, Thomas was described as "Darwin's Bulldog" for his defense of evolution, and Aldous penned "Eyeless in Gaza", among other novels. For 10 points, what was their common last name?      Answer: Huxley23. Isaiah 62:4 gives this new name to a land formerly called "Desolate." Mahalia Jackson once sang of going "sightseeing' there. It is the subject of a popular Methodist hymn written by John Sweeney and Edgar Page Stites. It's also the name of the first town settled in Crook County, Wyoming, and the title of a 1980 made-for-TV movie starring Don Johnson. For 10 points, what is this idyllic land near the end of life's journey described in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress?      Answer: Beulah Land
BONI -USF/AUM/MIT				SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by USF's Jeremy Rasmussen, Aneesh Karve, Rob Fernandez, Auburn-Montgomery & MIT1.	Answer the following questions about a series 101 poems popular in the Victorian era FTPE1. In the 12th century, this Persian poet and mathematician wrote a series of 101 quattrains that were later translated and published 700 years later as the Rubaiyat.      ANSWER:  Omar Khayyam2. This author's previous translations were popular failures, but his 1859 translation of the Rubaiyat captivated the Victorian age.	ANSWER: Edward Fitzgerald3. The rediscovery and lasting popularity of the Rubaiyat is credited to the promotional efforts of this poet and author of "The House of Life"      ANSWER:  Dante Gabriel Rossetti or DG Rossetti (prompt on Rossetti ).2.	Answer the following about cellular meiosis for 10 points apiece: [10] All gametes have (twice, half, or the same) number of chromosomes that regular cells have?      Answer: Half[10] What would be considered the opposite of meiosis?      Answer: Syngamy  (Accept "Fertilization")[10] What phase is the same in both mitosis and meiosis, but in meiosis, it is followed by two cell divisions?	Answer: Interphase3. Answer the following about the Saint Bartholomew's Day Massacre for the stated number of points:[5] What was the name given to the French Protestants killed in the massacre?	Answer: Huguenots[10] Who was the mother of Charles IX who encouraged the massacre?	Answer: Catherine de' Medici[15] At the time of the massacre, thousands of Huguenots were in Paris to celebrate the marriage of their leader, Henry of Navarre (who later became King Henry IV of France), to this sister of King Charles IX.	Answer: Margaret of Valois4.	Naughty or nice?  Choose now.  [PAUSE FOR CHOICE]      NAUGHTY:  Pride is considered one of the seven Deadly Sins.  For 5 points each, name the other six Deadly Sins.ANSWER - envy, wrath, sloth, avarice (greed), gluttony, lust - accept close equivalents      NICE: In the Roman Catholic tradition, there are seven sacraments.  For 5 points each, name six of the seven sacraments.ANSWER - baptism, penance, Holy Eucharist (communion), confirmation, Holy Orders, Matrimony and Extreme Unction (last rights)5.	They came into the NFL 33 seasons ago and this year FINALLY won a playoff game.  One.  First, FTP, name this team with a history of ineptitude that often led its fans to wear paper bags over their heads.ANSWER: New Orleans Saints (accept either city or team nickname)The Saints have hired two revered coaches with Super Bowl rings from other teams - one from the Kansas City Chiefs, the other from the Chicago Bears. Neither managed so much as a winning season with the Saints.  Name them FTPE.ANSWER:  Hank Stram and Mike Ditka6.	Identify the organic functional group from formula, FTPE[5] R-OH      		           	ANSWER: Alcohol[10] R-CN 			ANSWER: Nitrile[15] RCONH2		ANSWER: Amides 
7.	Good things come in threes; sometimes so do bad things.  Shakespeare's play King Lear is, at its simplest level, the story of hypocrisy, greed and bad daughters versus good daughter. For 5 pts. for 1 or 10 for all 3, name Lear's three daughters.ANSWER - Goneril, Regan and Cordelia (the latter being the good daughter)The Three Musketeers by Alexander Dumas is a swashbuckling tale of bravery and adventure in seventeenth century France.  Again, for 5 pts. for 1 or 10 for all 3, name the three musketeers.ANSWER - Athos, Porthos, and AramisThere were actually 4 Brothers Karamazov if you count the bastard Smerdyakov.  For 5 pts. for 1 or 10 for all 3, name the 3 legitimate sons of Fyodor Karamazov.ANSWER - Dmitri, Ivan, and Alyosha8.	For 5 points each, identify the U.S. Vice Presidents who made the following quotes, and for an additional 5 points, name the President under whom they served.[5/5] He said, "This job ain't worth a bucket of warm spit."	Answer: John Nance Garner, served under Franklin D. Roosevelt[5/5] He wrote that the Vice Presidency is "the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man contrived or his imagination conceived."	Answer: John Adams; served under George Washington[5/5] He once called his critics "nattering nabobs of negativism."	Answer: Spiro T. Agnew, served under Richard Nixon9. Given the notable sites, identify the U.S. state on a 10-5 basis:1A. Aberdeen Proving Ground, Andrews Air Force Base1B. Antietam National Battlefield Park and Camp David      Answer: Maryland2A.  McGuire Air Force Base, Grover Cleveland's birthplace, and Molly Pitcher's Well2B.  Asbury Park and Atlantic City      Answer: New Jersey3A. Fall Creek Falls, Natchez Trace Parkway, Cherokee National Forest3B  Ruby Falls, Point Park, and the Incline (but NOT Rock City)      Answer: Tennessee  [RN: Rock City is just across the Georgia line]10. Given a brief plot summary, name the nautically themed film for 10 points apiece:[10] A family in Chicago inherits the yacht formerly owned by Clark Gable. They sail it from the island of Ste. Pomme de Terre to Miami, with the assistance of an eccentric captain played by Kurt Russell.      Answer: Captain RonB. Writer Humphrey van Weyden and two fugitives find refuge aboard the sealer "Ghost," captained by Edward G. Robinson, until a mutiny and other disasters ensue.  This film is adapted from a Jack London novel.      Answer: The Sea Wolf.C. An Australian couple take a sailing trip in the Pacific to forget about a terrible accident. While on the open sea, they come across a ship with one survivor who is not at all what he seems.      Answer: Dead Calm.11. Answer the following about physical science, all answers starting with the letter "Z":[10] It's the branch of chemistry that deals with fermentation, as in making wine-making and brewing.      Answer: Zymurgy[10] It's a metallic element resembling titanium and having an atomic number of 40.	Answer: Zirconium[10] It's the dividing of a spectral line as a result of placing a radiation source in a magnetic field.	Answer: Zeeman effect
12.	Identify the following military leaders from the Revolutionary War for 10 points apiece:[10] What British general, who surrendered to Gates at Saratoga, went on to become a playwright, penning the 1786 work "The Heiress"?      Answer: John BurgoyneB. What American general built Fort Nelson, where Louisville now stands, and had successful campaigns into British-held Kaskaskia, Cahokia, and Vincennes, but failed to capture Detroit?      Answer: George Rogers ClarkC. First known for his capture of the fort at Paulus Hook (now in Jersey City), this American cavalry commander went on to be a congressman and governor of Virginia.      Answer: Lighthorse Henry Lee13. Name the following students of Franz Boas, for ten points each:[10] While a Ph. D. student under Boas, this anthropologist did fieldwork in the Pacific, resulting in the still-controversial 1928 work Coming of Age in Samoa.ANSWER: Margaret Mead[10] A hypothesis regarding the relationship of language and culture is named for this native of Germany and one of his students.ANSWER: Edward Sapir[10] Her works included compilations of African American folklore such as Mules and Men, but she's best known today for the novel  Their Eyes Were Watching God.ANSWER: Zora Neale Hurston14. Identify these astronomical measures for 10 points apiece:[10]  It is the average distance from the Earth to the Sun; or 92,960,116 miles.	Answer: 1 astronomical unit (accept AU)[10] It is a distance equal to 63,240 AU. 	Answer: 1 light year[10] It is the distance from which the earth's average distance from the sun would subtend 1 second of arc; equal to 206,265 AU.	Answer: Parsec15. Identify the following American art movements from members for ten points each.[10] Robert Henri, John SloanAnswer: Ash Can School[10] Asher Durand, Thomas ColeAnswer: Hudson River School[10] Arshile Gorky, Paul Rothko, Jackson PollockAnswer: Abstract Expressionism (Do not accept Action Painting)16. For ten points each name the Nine Inch Nails song from lyrics.[10] "You let me violate you. You let me desecrate you. You let me penetrate you. You let me complicate you."Answer: Closer[10] "You always were the one to show me how. Back then I couldn't do the things I can do now. This thing is slowly taking me apart. Grey would be the color if I had a heart"Answer: Something I Can Never Have[10] "And when the day arrives / I'll become the sky / and I'll become the sea. And the sea will come to kiss me / for I am going / home. / Nothing can stop me now."Answer: La Mer
17.  FTSNOP provide the following words that were found while reading through a copy of Joyce's Ulysses:[5] This "C" word is the use of unnecessarily long words to express an idea.      Answer: Circumlocution[5] This "P" word is bland baby food, or any type of bland or insipid writing.      Answer: Pabulum (accept "Pablum").[10] This "T" word is a bald spot on a monk's head.      Answer: Tonsure[10] This "P" word is a tablet that has been used several times after being erased; and having diverse layers under the surface.      Answer: Palimpsest18. Identify the following players in the Boxer Rebellion for 10 points each:[10] She was the empress dowager of the Ch'ing Dynasty who was looking for a way to rid her empire of foreign parasites.	Answer: Tsu Hsi[10] He was the U.S. Secretary of State who tried to negotiate an "Open Door" policy in China.	Answer: John Hay[10] This group of rebels from the northern Shandong province attracted thousands who were called "Boxers" by foreigners because they practiced martial arts.	Answer: Fists of Righteous Harmony19.	Answer the following questions about 18th and 19th century American authors for 10 points each.1. She is the author of the 1896 novel "The Country of the Pointed Firs", a series of tales about a seaport town in her native Maine.       ANSWER: Sarah Orne Jewett2. This Frenchman immigrated to Canada and then to New York.  Upon his return to Europe, he published a series of essays entitled "Letters from an American Farmer" in 1782.	ANSWER:  James Hector St. John de Crevecoeur3. This naturalist author of McTeague and The Octopus studied painting in Paris before he turned to journalism and literature.	ANSWER:  Frank Norris20. Given a famous firearm, name its inventor for 10 points apiece:[10] AK-47 assault rifle			Answer: Mikhail Timofeevich Kalashnikov[10] US M-1 carbine rifle			Answer: David M. "Carbine" Williams [10] US M16 5.56mm caliber rifle		Answer: Eugene Stoner21. No, Tiger Woods does not win EVERY golf tournament he enters. During February and March of 2000, he finished second three times. For 10 points apiece, name the winner of these three tournaments in which Tiger was runner-up:[10] Buick Invitational (Feb. 10-13)			Answer: Phil MickelsonB. World Golf Match Play Championship (Feb. 23-27)	Answer: Darren ClarkC. The Players Championship (March 23-27)		Answer: Hal Sutton22. Decipher the following terms used by hard-boiled detectives in mystery novels, for 10 points each:[10] Drop a dime on.      Answer: Make a phone call, especially to the police to inform on someone (Accept equivalents)[10] Glaum      Answer: Steal (Accept equivalent)[10] If a "girl pulled the Dutch act", what has she done?      Answer: committed suicide (Accept equivalent)