TOSSUPS - FLOYD ET AL.					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Eric Floyd with Florida, Yale, North Carolina, Boston College, Swarthmore, Williams, and Maryland1. Ironically on February 17, 1673 he died a few scant hours after performing the role of Argan, a hypochondriac, in his last theatrical work. 17th century medicine was often a topic of interest for this writer whose oeuvre included such plays as The Love Sick Doctor (no longer extant), Love is the Best Doctor, and The Doctor In Spite of Himself. FTP name this French comic playwright who unlike his character Argan in The Imaginary Invalid, was indeed sick and gave up the ghost after the curtain fell on his fourth and final performance of that play.	Answer:	Moliere (or Jean Baptiste Pouquelin)2. First detected on the Explorer I mission of 1958, these bands of highly charged particles surround the Earth in a large torus-like shape, with the inner band being made up mostly of protons and the outer band being made up mostly of electrons. This cosmic doughnut of particles can wreak havoc on solar cells and integrated circuits; therefore, the Hubble Telescope shuts down when passing through the most intense radiation within them. FTP name these bands of radiation whose namesake, a University of Iowa professor, designed the sensor that detected them on the aforementioned space flight.	Answer:	Van Allen Radiation Belts 3. In the far background, a man stands in a doorway.  A mastiff lies in the right foreground, at the foot of the title characters.  The viewer, optically, stands in the position that the royal couple is occupying, as can be told by their reflection in the mirror.  Behind a large canvas in the right foreground is the painter, Diego Velazquez.  FTP, name this 1656 Spanish court painting centered on Princess Margarita.			Answer:	Las Meninas, or The Ladies-in-Waiting4. He resigned his last official post as Chairman of the Central Military Commission in November 1989. However, it was his actions in June of that year that overshadow his legacy of modernizing the Chinese state economically. FTP name this former paramount leader of the People's Republic of China who opened his country to foreign investment in the late 1970s creating one of the greatest economic booms in history, and who ordered the brutal crackdown against the students at Tiananmen Square in the summer of '89 creating one of the most vivid televised displays of authoritarian power in history.	Answer:	Deng Xiaoping [accept Teng, in case they learned it that way from older sources, like Charlie.]5. He made his film debut with Olivia de Havilland and Errol Flynn in The Adventures of Robin Hood appearing in numerous scenes with the beautiful Ms. de Havilland. He would go on to co-star in 88 more pictures including Robin Hood of the Pecos. Changing his name from Golden Cloud to match his screen character, FTP name this equine actor, best known for being Roy Rogers' trusty mount on the Silver Screen and the Boob Tube.       Answer:	Trigger (I suppose you would have to accept Golden Cloud until mentioned) 6. Rising a majestic 6,643 feet above sea level it is the highest point in the Great Smoky Mountain National Park and is also the highest peak on the Appalachian Trail. Named in honor of a Civil War General and US Senator from North Carolina, who first measured its height and made a fortune from its natural resources, it is the third highest peak east of the Mississippi. FTP name this mountain on the Tennessee-North Carolina border which is also the highest peak in Tennessee.	Answer:	Clingman's Dome7. This concept was coined by Walter Cannon in 1932, and was a forerunner of the "control theory" of psychology. A characteristic of living things, many ecologists believe it applies to an organism's external environment as well as its internal environment. In humans it refers to how the kidneys alter the urea concentration in the blood, and the pancreas adjusting levels of glucagon and insulin. FTP identify this tendency of an open system to maintain a steady state.	Answer:	homeostasis [accept word forms]
8. After the German loss at Stalingrad the German general staff was divided as to how to proceed with a new offensive. Erich von Manstein and Heinz Guderian favored allowing the Soviet army to attack the German 6th Army in the Donets River Basin, whereupon Manstein could turn south from the recently captured Kharkov and pin the entire southern branch of the Red Army against the Sea of Azov. Kurt Zeitzler disagreed with this plan and argued that battle should be given to the Soviets where German line bulged between Orel and Kharkov; fortunately for the world Zeitzler won the day. FTP name this resulting battle, the largest tank engagement in history, which proved to be the last German offensive on the Eastern Front of WWII.	Answer:	The Battle of Kursk     9. Literary critics have called this author's sexuality into question of late because of her so-called "Boston Marriage" with Annie Fields (they lived together for years after Mr. Fields went the way of the dodo). The possibility of this liaison between two women of the late 19th century has sparked renewed interest in the literary career of this product of Berwick, Maine among the women studies set. FTP name this author of short stories and novels who wrote about what she knew best: the quaint charm of the Maine countryside where nothing, and I do mean nothing happens as illustrated in her A Country Doctor and The Country of the Pointed Firs.	Answer:	Sarah Orne Jewett10. The Yeats poem about her refers to "The broken wall, the burning roof and tower/ and Agamemnon dead."  With her husband Tyndareus, king of Sparta, she gave birth to Phoebe and Philonoe normally, but far more complicated was her bearing of two sets of twins.  FTP, name the woman who conceived, on the same night, Castor and Clytemenstra with her husband and Pollux and Helen with Zeus, in the guise of a swan.	Answer:	Leda 11. This theory does not require an aqueous medium for acid-base formation and explains why strong acids displace weak acids  from the weak acids' compounds. Acids and bases form conjugate pairs with the former donating a proton, thereby becoming a conjugate base, and the latter accepting the proton donation, and becoming a conjugate acid; water is amphoteric, and can by either a weak acid or a weak base. FTP name this acid-base theory, which takes its name from a Dane and a Brit that who independently enlightened the world with their similar findings in 1923.	Answer:	Bronsted-Lowry Theory12. "The nourishment is palatable." Those words were purported to be this man's last when he expired on March 8, 1874 while eating soup. Some forty-six years before that last utterance, this New Yorker was thrust into the political fray by Thurlow Weed's Anti-Masonic Party when he won a seat in the New York State legislature.  Contrary to popular belief, he did not put the first bathtub in the White House, but he did sign the Compromise of 1850 into law. FTP name this man, who upon the death of Zachary Taylor became the 13th President of the United States.	Answer:	Millard Fillmore13. The name's the same: this spice is also called the Jamaica pepper or allspice and comes from the berry of a West Indian tree of the myrtle family. The name is also applied to a red member of the genus capsicum that is a key ingredient to sandwiches hawked at Augusta National Golf Club. FTP name this shared name, one, which flavors practically everything in British food (curry notwithstanding), and the other which comes from the bastardization of the Spanish word for pepper and is found in green olives.	Answer:	Pimento (grudgingly accept pimiento)14. Ed Koch predicted this writer "[would] occupy the Ninth Circle of Hell" in a 2002 radio address, presumably because of her comments after 9/11. Her early novels The Benefactor and Death Kit were not exceptionally well received. However, her essays, "Godard," and "Notes on Camp" to name but two, made her a household name in the New Left movement and propelled her into the American intellectual stratosphere. FTP name this writer, who won the 2000 National Book Award with In America, and who passed away on December 28th 2004.	Answer:	Susan Sontag15. This type of virus was responsible for the June 2004 attack that temporarily impaired the operations of Akamai Technologies, a company that operates tens of thousands of servers for major websites.  Often used to overwhelm targeted computers with electronic messages, this type of computer code is concealed within harmless code.  FTP name this computer code that shares its name with the large wooden structure that hid Greek soldiers in the city of Troy.	Answer:	Trojan Horse
16. After the assassination of Caliph Uthman ibn Affan, Ali Ben Abu Talib, Muhhamad's son-in-law, was elevated to the newly vacated post, and promptly had Muawiyah I sacked as governor of Syria. Muawiyah I did not take this lying down, however, and revolted against Ali's rule in 656. FTP name the dynasty Muawiyah I founded after Ali was assassinated in 661, which had its capital at Damascus as opposed to Ali's Medina.	Answer:	Umayyad Dynasty17. Quote: "So act that the moral of thy doing shall, at thy will, become universal law." This quote taken from that 18th century page-turner, The Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals, lays the foundation for an a priori basis for morality and establishes one of the fundamental philosophical concepts of Western ethics. FTP name this concept introduced to the world by Immanuel Kant, where an absolute, unconditional moral construct, that can be universally applied via free will, is viewed as the rational condition for moral law.	Answer:	The Categorical Imperative [accept early buzz with Kant before "this concept"]18. He began his formal education at the age of 16 at Patrick Henry University, where he double-majored in physics and philosophy. From there he went to Twentieth Century Motor Works, where he designed a groundbreaking new engine that would have revolutionized the world. Unfortunately his bosses were socialists, and he went unrewarded. FTP name this Ayn Rand character from Atlas Shrugged, the epitome of rational self-interest as well as fascist pouting, who "goes on strike" against the world (thus robbing it of his good ideas). (Note: feel free to answer in the form of a question).	Answer:	"Who is" John Galt?19. There are between 10 and 20 in animal cells while hundreds can be found in plant cells where these structures make polysaccharides found in pectin and cellulose. Each structure is made up of six or seven cisternae with the cis cisternae facing the endoplasmic reticulum and the trans cisternae facing the plasma membrane. FTP name these pancake shaped organelles which package proteins and lipids for intra- and inter-celluar distribution and who take their name from the Italian who first described their structure in 1898.	Answer:	Golgi Apparatus (also Golgi Body or Golgi Complex)20. Located on Bennelong Point, it has over 1,000 rooms, including 6 bars, 4 restaurants, 5 rehearsal studios and 5 theaters. The roof has over one million white tiles imported from a town in Sweden not far from the home of its original designer. Its 1973 opening, presided over by Queen Elizabeth, featured a performance of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. For ten points, name this building, designed by J?rn Utzon, in the harbor of the capital of New South Wales.       	Answer:	Sydney Opera House 21. A popular 1840s saying was that God had made all men, but this man, an innovator in the field of remote detonators, made them equal.  By legend, it was while sailing to India that he saw a capstan rotating the boat's ropes and got the idea for his most famous invention.  FTP, name this fire-arms entrepreneur, who is best known for inventing the revolving pistol, and not for inventing a malt liquor.	Answer:	Samuel Colt22. He was the nephew of Nobel Prize winning physicist Sir C.V. Raman, and cut quite a figure himself in that discipline having been honored by NASA who named the third of its four "Great Observatories" after him. His research was dedicated to white dwarf stars, and he determined that a star with a mass of 1.44 times that of our sun could not directly become a white dwarf thereby establishing a limit that bares his name. FTP name this Lahore native who lectured at the University of Chicago until his death in 1995 and who, like his avuncular relation, won a Nobel Prize of his own in 1983.	Answer:	Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar23.  According to Mathworld.com "[it] may be stated beautifully as a Cayley-Menger determinant," (I'll spare you the statement). The proof of this theorem is found in its namesakes' work Metrica written between 100 BCE and 100 CE. FTP name this theorem, attributed to an Alexandrian mathematician (though some have argued it was Archimedes all along), which states that the area of a triangle with sides A, B, and, C, where S equals the sum of the sides A plus B plus C divided by two, can be calculated by taking the square root of S times the quantify S minus A, times the quantity S minus B, times the quantity S minus C.	Answer:	Heron's formula (also accept Hero)  
BONI - FLOYD ET AL.					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Eric Floyd with Florida, Yale, North Carolina, Boston College, Swarthmore, Williams, and Maryland1. No packet would be complete without the wildly popular Knights Templar bonus. So let's doff our caps to Dan Brown and Umberto Eco and answer the following about the Poor Knights of Christ FTSNOP.5 pts.) The Templars took their name because they believed that their headquarters at the Dome of the Rock was remnant of this Hebrew king's temple.	Answer:	Solomon5 pts.) For a time in a lull between Crusades, the Templars regrouped on this Mediterranean island, still a bone of contention between Greece and Turkey, but nominally a nation with its capital at Nicosia.	Answer:	Cyprus10 pts.) This French King rounded up the Templars in 1307 and charged them with heresy in order to appropriate their vast wealth.	Answer:	Philip the Fair (also Philip IV)10 pts.) Many of the Knights were thought to have escaped to Scotland where they eventually built this chapel to house their relics (and quite possibly the Holy Grail).	Answer:	Rosslyn Chapel 2. Mid 20th Century American Literature is often overlooked in these circles, but no longer. Name the following postmodern giants of American Literature from the 1950's and '60's FTPE.A) This short-story writer and novelist, took an MA from Johns Hopkins before he became associated with the literary movement metafiction in the mid-1950s with his publication of The Floating Opera. His other works include, Giles Goat-Boy published in 1966 and the funniest book ever written (according to this question writer) The Sot-Weed Factor published in 1960.	Answer:	John BarthB) This graduate of Bucknell University and the University of Chicago won the National Book Award for his first collection of short fiction Goodbye, Columbus in 1959. However he is probably best known for the irreverent work Portnoy's Complaint, the second funniest book ever written, which deals with masturbatory themes and the oppression of Jewish sons by Jewish mothers.	Answer:	Philip RothC) This former technical writer for Boeing, who schooled at Cornell, most recently published Mason & Dixon in 1997 which was a step-up from 1990's Vineland his prior effort. However his best efforts occurred a generation ago with The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow for which he won the National Book Award in 1973.	Answer:	Thomas Pynchon3. Given a football prize, name the two schools that play for it each year, 5 points per answer.[10]	The Old Oaken Bucket	Answers:	University of Indiana; Purdue University[10]	Paul Bunyan's Axe		Answers:	University of Wisconsin; University of Minnesota[10]	The Little Brown Jug		Answers:	University of Michigan; University of Minnesota4. Every year the Supreme Court weighs issues of national importance in the scales of their justice. FTPE answer these questions on Court cases from the 19th century.A) This court case handed down in 1819 held that a state tax could not be imposed on the Second Bank of the United States and is famous for Justice Marshall's quote "the power to tax involves the power to destroy."	Answer:	McCulloch v. MarylandB) In this court case of 1824 the Supremes granted broad authority to Congress in regulating interstate commerce and struck down a monopoly granted by the State of New York. It has since been expanded using the Commerce Clause as a buttress to include civil rights.	Answer:	Gibbons v. OgdenC) In this case decided in 1866 and gaining in relevance after September 11th, the Court called the suspension of habeas corpus unconstitutional and stated that military tribunals could not try civilians if civil courts were open.	Answer:	Ex parte Milligan
5. Answer the following about cellular respiration FTPE:A) Glucose is broken down into this substance in glycolysis.	Answer:	Pyruvic Acid (also accept Pyruvate)  B) In eukaryiotic cells pyruvic acid moves into the mitochondria where it is converted into this substance and enters the Krebs Cycle.	Answer:	Acetyl-Coenzyme A C) Along with ATP these other two fuel molecules are created in the Krebs cycle. Name either.	Answer:	GTP (also Guanosine Triphosphate) or Creatine Phospate6. Time for the Strait Dope. Answer the following concerning straits of the word FTSNOP.5 pts.) This strait separates Tierra del Fuego from the mainland of South America and is the dividing line between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.	Answer:	 Strait of Magellan10 pts.) This strait separates Sumatra from Malay Peninsula and connects the Andaman with the South China Sea.	Answer:	Strait of Malacca15 pts.) This strait separates the Arabian Peninsula from Iran and connects the Persian Gulf to the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman.	Answer:	Strait of Hormuz7. The holidays are less than a month in our rearview mirrors; therefore, an A Christmas Carol bonus is in order. Name the following from the Dickens' classic FTPE:.10 pts.) Mr. Scrooge was apprenticed to this jovial fellow who spread Christmas cheer to all his employees.	Answer:	Mr. Fezziwig10 pts.) This is the Christian name of Mr. Scrooge's nephew.	Answer:	Fred10 pts.) This was Scrooge's business partner, the guy with the chains..	Answer:	Jacob Marley8. In a tribute to my friends at the SAE House, answer the following concerning alcohols FTSNOP.5 pts.) This simplest alcohol, also called wood alcohol, can cause death and blindness when ingested. It is made by the hydrogentaion of carbon oxides in the presence of a catalyst. At the SAE House it might be given to rambunctious pledges.	Answer:	Methanol10 pts.) Simple sugars can be formed into this alcohol, sometimes called grain alcohol, by the enzyme zymase found in yeast. It is typically the alcohol the brothers at the SAE House offer their co-ed counterparts. 	Answer:	Ethanol15 pts.) There are four different isomeric structures for this alcohol with the general formula C4H10O. The base for perfumes and colognes, brothers at the SAE House might apply this alcohol to their person in order to attract ethanol-drinking co-eds.	Answer:	Butanol9. And you thought there was only one! FTPE name the Venetian artist described.10) Probably the one that instantly springs to mind, this monster of Renaissance Art is responsible for painting the Venus of Urbino and Bacchus and Ariadne among myriad other works. He lived almost 100 years and became wealthy and famous by the time of his death in 1576.	Answer:	Titian (also Tiziano  Vecellio)10) This one time student of Titian had a falling out with his master but that didn't hinder him from becoming a major influence on Mannerist art and the early Baroque. Removal of the Body of Saint Mark and a Last Supper rendering are two of his more famous works. Sartre wrote a number of essays on his art and life.	Answer:	Tintoretto (also Jacopo Robusti)10) Titian studied under this painter who spurred Venice from a Renaissance backwater into the forefront of Western art. Among his most famous paintings are The Feast of the Gods and The Ecstasy of St. Anthony.	Answer:	Giovanni Bellini
10. Answer these questions about Mexican history FTPE:People often mistakenly think Cinco de Mayo marks Mexico's Independence Day, but it actually commemorates the Mexican victory over this European nation at the Battle of Puebla.	Answer:	FranceIn 1810, on the morning of Sept. 16th, the date on which Mexicans officially celebrate their independence from Spanish rule, this Catholic priest interrupted his daily sermon to the local Indians and mestizos by urging them to rise up against the Spaniards.	Answer:	Miguel Hidalgo y CostillaThis Mexican President managed to lose Texas, return to power, then lose Texas again less than 10 years later. 	Answer:	Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana11. Name the African empires described FTPE.A) King Osei Tutu created this empire in second half of the 17th century in what is now central Ghana. They were very active in slave trade in the 18th century with the Dutch and the British, but were eventually displaced by the latter and annexed into the British Gold Coast Coloby in 1896.	Answer:	The Ashanti EmpireB) Strategically located near gold mines and the fertile Niger floodplain, this African empire reached its zenith under Mansa Musa in the first quarter of the 14th century. 	Answer:	The Mali EmpireC) This empire was founded by Berbers around 700 CE. Under the Askia dynasty's Muhhamad I this empire reached it peak and took Timbuktu from the Mali Empire in the early 16th century.	Answer:	The Songhai Empire12. Answer the following concerning quantum mechanics FTPE.A) Gustave Kirchhoff coined the term for these objects that absorb all light that fall into them. Examples of these objects' spectra in the universe include Hawking radiation from black holes and cosmic microwave background radiation. 	Answer:	Black Body(ies) (also Black-Body Radiation)B) This theory of quantum mechanics, named for its German elucidator, states that the momentum and position of a particle are impossible to measure simultaneously.	Answer:	The Heisenberg Uncertainty PrincipleC) This is one of the most important postulates of quantum mechanics, and states that no two identical fermions can occupy the same quantum state.	Answer:	The Pauli Exclusion Principle13. Name these literary movements of the 20th Century FTPE.10) This movement started at Lawrence Ferlinghetti's City Lights Books bookstore. This group of writers rejected American bourgeois values and norms by embracing sex, drugs, and Buddhism. Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg were two famous adherents.	Answer:	The Beat Movement10) With roots in Dadaism and Surrealism this movement traded on the struggle between a sensible human existence within a senseless universe. Samuel Beckett and Eugene Ionesco were the two heavyweights in this movement.	Answer:	Theatre of the Absurd10) This movement associated with Latin America imports fantastical events into an otherwise mundane setting, with an insouciance not seen in science fiction. Chief writers in this genre are Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Miguel Angel Asturias.	Answer:	Magic Realism (accept equivalents)14.	For 10 points each-what physical quantity is defined as . . . [10]	The first derivative of linear momentum with respect to time?		Answer:	force[10]	The torque on an object divided by its angular acceleration?		Answer:	moment of inertia [prompt on partial answers][10]	The third derivative of position with respect to time?		Answer:	jerk
15.	Now for something near and dear to this writer's heart, and what I think might be the first country music bonus in an academic quiz bowl tournament. Answer the following concerning inductees to the Country Music Hall of Fame FTPE.A) In 1955 he charted his first top 5 hit with "Why Baby Why" and in 1959 he had his first No.1 with "White Lightning." He is known for as much for his hard living as his performing, but is still the Rolls Royce of country vocalists with 164 charted singles.	Answer:	George JonesB) This duo, elected to the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1985, was a quintessential part of bluegrass development. Their hits include "Cabin on the Hill" and "Rollin' in My Sweet Baby's Arms."	Answer:	Lester Flatt and Earl ScruggsC) This man was born Harold Lloyd Jenkins the son of Mississippi ferryboat captain. He took his stage from two towns in Texas and Arkansas and under that name recorded 56 No. 1 hits, including "Hello Dalrin'" and "Tight Fittin' Jeans." He was inducted to the Hall in 1999.	Answer:	Conway Twitty16. The title woman is exiled and separated from her lover when the British drive the Acadians out of Nova Scotia. FTPE:[10]	Name this long poem.		Answer:		"Evangeline"[10]	Name the author of "Evangeline" who also wrote "Paul Revere's Ride."		Answer:		Henry Wadsworth Longfellow[10]  Evangeline is ultimately reunited with this man; at the end of the poem they lie aged and dying in a Philadelphia hospital.		Answer:		Gabriel Lajeunesse [accept either]17. FTPE, Given the period that came after it, name the period in Earth's history:A.  Paleogene	Answer:	NeogeneB.  Silurian	Answer:	DevonianC.  Triassic       Answer:	Jurassic18.	Given some works, name the composer for ten points, or for five if you need an easier clue.[10] Maple Leaf Rag and The Entertainer	Answer:	Scott Joplin[10] "Pick Up Sticks" , "Blue Rondo A La Turk" and "Take Five"	Answer:	Dave Brubeck[10] "Duel of the Fates", "The Imperial March"	Answer:	John Williams19. Name these important pieces of U.S. legislation in the 20th century FTPE.A) This 1947 act severely pruned the Wagner Act of 1935 by outlawing the closed shop and forbidding the contribution of unions to political parties. It also called for a 60 day cooling off period at the end of a contract when no strike could be called (which could be extended 80 more days with presidential approval vis-a-vis the national interest).	Answer:	Taft-Hartley ActB) This 1933 act separated commercial and investment banking, and created the FDIC. It also set an interest rate ceiling on bank deposits. It began to be eroded in the 1980s.	Answer:	Glass-Steagall ActC) This 1999-act totally repealed Glass-Steagal,l allowing commercial banks like Citibank to merge with investment banks like Salomon, and offer insurance.	Answer:	Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (also Financial Services Modernization Act)
20. For ten points each, name these figures from the book of Judges.[10] This man shares his name with an Israeli prime minister. He was left handed, and hid a sword on his right hip, and while presenting the tribute of Israel to Moab, stabbed the king of Moab.	Answer:	 Ehud[10] This son of Gideon murdered all Gideon's other sons and tried to rule over Israel. He died when a woman dropped an upper millstone from the roof of a tower on his head.	Answer:	 Abimelech[10] This man was an illegitimate son, and his brothers denied him the family inheritance. Later, they needed his aid to drive off the Ammonites, and promised to make him their judge if he did.	Answer:	 Jephthah21. Name these instruments FTPE:a) This brass instrument of the tuba family has a name that comes from the Greek for "beautiful sounding".  	Answer:	Euphoniumb) This is a string instrument with three or four strings whose frets are arranged in the diatonic scale.  	Answer:	Appalachian Dulcimer c) This member of the percussion family is pitched an octave lower than its cousin, the xylophone.  	Answer:	Marimba22. FTPE name these Roman historians:	A. Born around 60BC, this man wrote 142 books on the History of Rome; only 35 survive.	Answer:	LivyB. The author of monographs on the Cataline and Jugurthine wars, this first century BC historian is notorious for his narrative writings dealing with political personalities.	Answer:	SallustC. This first century AD historian is author of the Germaniae, the Historiae, and, more famously, the Annals, which describe the early years of Imperial Rome.	Answer:	Tacitus23. Name this award 30-20-10.30 pts.) The first recipient of this award was Ernest E. Just in 1915.20 pts.) Other recipients include George Washington Carver, Julian Bond, and Bill Cosby.10 pts.) Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. received this award in 1957 which is presented annually by the NAACP for the highest achievement of an African-American in the previous year.	Answer:	The Spingarn Medal24. 30-20-10 name this composer.30 pts.) This Austrian native of Kaliste, Bohemia once said that, "to write a symphony is, for me, to construct a world." By this estimation he constructed nine and a half worlds at the time of his death in 1911. The tenth was completed by Deryck Cooke in 1964.20 pts.) He studied at the Vienna Conservatory where he attended lectures by Anton Bruckner. Later in life he would conduct the New York Metropolitan Opera for a season in 1908. In 1909 He conducted the newly formed New York Philharmonic Orchestra where he debuted his Symphony No. 9 in D Major.10 pts.) He is known today as much for his mournful lieder, which include The Song of Sorrow, The Song on the Death of Children, and the Song of the Earth, as he is for his broadly influential symphonies.	Answer:	Gustav Mahler