TOSSUPS -- VANDERBILT			SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  At the age of 24, he was appointed professor of philology at the University of Basel.  In 1870, he volunteered as a medical orderly in the Franco-Prussian War and became ill.  The author of The Birth of Tragedy, he once postulated a master morality and a slave morality, and one of his works shares its name with a famous Richard Strauss work.  For ten points, name this man who proclaimed that "God is dead."Answer: Frederich _Nietschze_ 2.  Dedicated to Carl Soloman, this poem was first published in the fourth volume of City Lights' Pocket Poets series.  In May of 1957, San Francisco customs officers began seizing copies of the volume, claiming that the poem was obscene.  The charges were dropped, however, and the poem is now recognized as the first important poem of the beat movement.  FTP, name this Allen Ginsberg work.Answer: _Howl_3.  His operas have featured everything from divas on jeeps to hydraulic orchestra platforms to gigantic zeppelins.  A decidedly modern composer, he often writes his random compositions using nothing but I Ching (pronounce: ee Ching) coins.  For ten points, name this American composer, whose strange works include "Imaginary Landscape" and a piece featuring four minutes and thirty-three seconds of silence.Answer: John _Cage_4.  Known to the Romans as Vicus Calidus, this city acquired fame for its alkaline springs in the 17th century.  The families of successive French kings set the pattern of visits kept up by Napoleon III in the 19th century.  In modern times, it exports its bottled waters throughout the world.  FTP, name this city in France, better known for being the location of Marshal Philippe Pétain's collaborationist government during World War II.Answer: _Vichy_5. .  If it equals zero, the reaction is reversible.  If it is positive, the reaction is nonspontaneous.  And if it is negative, the reaction is spontaneous.  If you need another clue, it is named after the man whom many consider to be the greatest American scientist of the 19th-century.  For ten points, name this energy important in thermodynamics, defined as H-TS. Answer: _Gibbs free energy_6.  Born on October 30, 1821, he was educated at the Saint Petersburg School of Military Engineering.  Shortly after his graduation, he left the military to become a writer.  In the late 1840's, he joined a group of young radicals and was later sentenced to death by Nicholas I in 1849.  Fortunately, the sentence was changed at the last minute, and he continued writing until he died in 1881, shortly after completing his greatest work.  FTP, name this author of Poor Folk and Crime and Punishment.Answer: Fyodor Dostoyevsky_7.  Its creator, a professor emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley, received the 1989 Honda prize for his contributions to Japanese technology.  Although some countries use it in everything from elevators to air conditioners, many American scientists and thinkers believe it to be an overhyped mathematical cult that owes its popularity to its cutesy name.  For ten points, name this idea created by Lotfi Asker Zadeh, which attempts to reduce the vagueness of words by describing them in degrees of truth.Answer: _Fuzzy logic_
8. The animated movie version of this book features the song "Bright Eyes" by Art Garfunkel. The novel itself is written mostly in English, but partly in Lapine, using such terms as Tharn and Hrududu.  A sequel was released in March of 1998, and yes, Hazel and other familiar rabbits are still in it.  FTP name this book by Richard Adams.Answer: _Watership Down_9. The son of Farbauti, he had the ability to change both his shape and sex.  As punishment for one of his antics, he was chained to a rock underneath a serpent, whose poison dripped down on his face.  However, he is fated to eventually escape from his bondage and lead an army against the gods during Ragnarok.  For ten points, name this evil giant, who fathered Hel, Fenrir, and the World Serpent.Answer: _Loki_10. This Harvard graduate and Rhodes scholar from Waco taught philosophy at MIT and worked for Newsweek, Life, and the New Yorker before attending the American Film Institute.  After directing only two films, Badlands and Days of Heaven, he stopped working and moved to Paris for twenty years.  FTP, name the man who recently re-emerged to direct The Thin Red Line.Answer: Terence_Malick_11.  Born Ugolino di Segni, he became pope in 1227 and ruled until 1241.  The nephew of Innocent III, he studied theology at the University of Paris but was seemingly destined for diplomacy.  He was a  friend to St. Dominic and St. Francis of Assisi, and he firmly supported the crusades.  FTP, name this pope who promulgated the Decretals in 1234 and founded the papal Inquisition.Answer: _Gregory IX_12.  Although some forms of this device have an iron core, all you really need to build one is two coils placed close to each other.  If the primary coil has more turns than the secondary coil, the voltage Asteps down@, and if the secondary coil has more turns than the primary coil, the voltage Asteps up.@  For ten points, name this electrical device.Answer: _Transformer_   13.  Last year, German celebrated his 100th birthday at the Literaturfestival Augsburg.  Influenced by impressionism, he trained actors and developed epic drama.  Besides plays, he also wrote a musical drama, poems, and the opera The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny.  When Hitler came to power, he fled to Scandinavia and settled in California, where he wrote "The Caucasian Chalk Circle."  FTP, name this author of "Galileo" and "The Threepenny Opera."Answer: Bertolt _Brecht_14.  The cornerstone of this faith is that a man named Athe Bab@ was a manifestation of God, who in his essence is unknowable.  Its practitioners follow a 19-month calendar and devote themselves to the abolition of racial, class, and, most importantly, religious prejudices.  For ten points, name this faith, the premise of which is that all religions are one in the same.Answer: _Baha'i_ faith 15.  Born on November 26, 1832, she was trained in medicine and served with distinction as a surgeon during the Civil War.  However, because she was not a commissioned officer, she was unable to receive the usual commendation for her service to the United States.  For ten points, name this first and only female recipient of the Medal of Honor.Answer: Mary E. _Walker_
16.  Because these cellular structures are completely inherited from the mother, researchers looked at bloodlines and were able to determine that Anna Andersen was not in fact Anastasia Romanov.  A long time ago, these ex-parasitic organisms invaded eukaryotic cells and quickly established a symbiotic relationship, in which they transformed pyruvic acid and oxygen into energy for the use of the host.  For ten points, name these kidney-shaped organelles, the site of cellular respiration.Answer: _Mitochondria_ 17.   As a mathematician, he wrote about algebra and geometry.  As an astronomer, he worked to reform the calendar and helped bring about the Jalalian era.  And as a poet, he wrote a collection of quatrains that was translated in 1859 by Edward Fitzgerald.  FTP, name this author of the Rubaiyat.Answer: _Omar Khayyam_18. Named after the French mathematician who discovered it, this phenomenon was the basis for the Simpsons episode, Bart vs. Australia.  Because of it, pilots cannot fly in straight lines from one point to the next, as objects moving in a straight line above the surface of the Earth will appear to curve because the Earth is turning under it.  For ten points, name this effect, which is debatably responsible for the tendency of toilets to drain counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere.Answer: _Coriolis effect_19.  In Latin Oglasa, it is a member of the Archipelago Toscana and is situated in the Tyrrhenian Sea between the Italian mainland and Corsica, south of the island of Elba.  It is a hunting preserve owned by the state and contains the ruins of a 13th century monastery that was destroyed in 1533 by pirates.  FTP, name this island made famous by Alexandre Dumas père, who made Edmond Dantes its Count.Answer: _Montecristo_ Island20.  Born on September 9, 1754, this Englishman went to sea at the age of seven and later joined the Royal Navy in 1770.  He commanded the Director and the Glatton at the battles of Camperdown and Copenhagen, respectively.  Appointed governor of New South Wales in 1805, his allegedly oppressive behavior led to mutiny.  After the mutineers were found guilty of conspiracy, he continued in his career to the rank of vice admiral.  FTP, name the man who lost his command on April 28, 1789 to Fletcher Christian.Answer: William _Bligh_ 21.  This play takes place in the Phrontisterion, an academy where students were taught how to make a wrong argument sound right.  The main character is consulted by Strepsiades, who wants to evade his debts, and the instruction at the academy allows Strepsiades' son to defend the beating of his own father.  FTP, name this play by Aristophanes, which attacked education as imparted by the Sophists and which was used as evidence in the trial of Socrates.Answer: _Clouds_ or _Nephelai_22. For rectangular-to-spherical transformations, it is rho squared times the sine of phi.  For rectangular-to-polar transformations, it is just r.  Not to be confused with a group of French revolutionaries, it is used anytime you switch from one coordinate system to another.  For ten points, name this quantity.Answer: _Jacobian_23.  Born in February of 1766, he became a professor of history and political science at the East India Company's college in Haileybury, England.  An economic pessimist, he viewed poverty was man's inescapable lot, and his most famous theory helped check the economic optimism characteristic of the time.  For ten points, name this economist, who believed that population growth will always outstrip the production of food.Answer: Thomas Robert _Malthus_
BONI -- VANDERBILT			SWORD BOWL 1999 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.  Identify the men who proposed the following cosmological theories for ten points each.A) He proposed that the Earth is surrounded by several tangible spheres that moved both the sun and the planet at continuous speeds in perfectly circular orbits.Answer: _Aristotle_B) 400 years after Aristotle proposed his system, this man modified it to concur with astronomical observations by adding epicycles, or orbits within orbits.Answer: _Ptolemy_C) His model of the solar system was an inversion of the Copernican model, with Mercury and Venus orbiting the sun, which, of course, orbited the Earth.Answer: Tycho _Brahe_2.  Answer the following about the war in the Pacific during World War II for the stated number of points:A) 5:  Name the battle which lasted from June 3-6 1942, fought almost entirely with airplanes, which is often considered the turning point of the war in the Pacific. Answer: _Midway_ IslandB) 10: The closest that United States ground forces were to Japan, this island was first landed on by U.S. troops in April of 1945, and was only conquered after three bitter months of fighting.  There were 12,000 U.S. casualties and 100,000 Japanese casualties.Answer: _Okinawa_ C) 15: Give the code name for the Allied invasion of Japan, which was made unnecessary by the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.Answer: Operation _Olympic_3.  For ten points apiece, give the scientist who has a unit of measurement named after him.  You will receive 5 points if you need the quantity measured.A) 10: This Princeton philosophy professor aided in the design of the telegraph and once   	magnetized a needle with lightning.       5: InductanceAnswer: Joseph _Henry_B) 10: In 1819 he discovered that a magnetic needle is deflected at right angles to a conductor carrying a current.       5: Magnetic field strengthAnswer: Hans OerstedC) 10: This scientist, famous for his laws of electrochemistry, discovered and isolated benzene.       5: CapacitanceAnswer: Michael _Faraday_4.  Name the musical form given a description on a 10-5 basis.A) 10: This form replaced the minuet and is characterized by 3/4 time.       5: It translates literally as "joke."Answer: _Scherzo_B) 10: This form features a recurring theme that is extended using imitative counterpoint.         5: Bach was a master of these.Answer: _Fugue_C) 10: This form is an extended musical setting of a sacred text.         5: Haydn's The Creation and Handel's The Messiah are examples of this form.Answer: _Oratorio_
5.  For ten points each, identify the following possessions of Odin.A) His magical horse, who had eight legs and the ability to gallop over the sea.Answer: _Slepnir_B) His spear, which never misses its target.Answer: _Gungnir_C) His ring, from which eight new rings appear every ninth night.Answer: _Draupnir_6.  30-20-10. Name the author from works.30: A Tramp Abroad, The American Claimant, Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc,20: Pudd'nhead Wilson, The Mysterious Stranger, and (with Charles Warner) The Gilded Age10: Roughing It, The Innocents AbroadAnswer: Mark _Twain_ (accept Clemens)7.  FTPE, name the woman associated with Roman history who committed suicide from a  description.A) Also called Elissa, she was the daughter of the Tyrian king Mutto and the wife of Sychaeus.  Her husband was slain by her brother, and she killed herself to escape another marriage.Answer: _Dido_B) The wife of a Roman nobleman, her honor was besmirched and she demanded an oath of vengeance from her father and her husband, Lucius Tarquinius Collatinus, before she stabbed herself to death.Answer: _Lucretia_C) A golden statue of her was placed in the temple of Venus Genetrix during her first bid for power, and her second bid was thwarted by the Roman military.  After trying for a third time to seduce the leader of Rome, she resorted to suicide rather than slavery.Answer: _Cleopatra_8.	Give the philosopher who coined the following terms on a 5-10-15 basis.A) 5: The thing-in-itselfAnswer: Immanuel _Kant_B) 10: The leap into absurdityAnswer: Soren _Kierkegaard_C) 15: Elan vitalAnswer: Henri _Bergson_9. In 1925, one county north of here, the forces of fundamentalism and modern science had a head-on collision in the Scopes trial.  FTPE name:(a) The distinguished former Nebraska governor and Secretary of State who joined the prosecution team and argued against the teaching of evolution.					Answer: William Jennings Bryan(b) The distinguished criminal attorney who led Scopes' defense			Answer: Clarence Darrow(c) The distinguished journalist and social critic whose reporting for the Baltimore Sun left the most indelible impressions in the public mind of what may have been the first true media circus.	Answer: H.L. Mencken10.  For ten points each, name the physics law.A) It states that the entropy of a perfect crystal at absolute zero approaches zero.  Answer: _Third Law of Thermodynamics_B) It states that an induced current will always oppose the change that produced it.Answer: _Lenz's Law_C) It describes a relationship between the spacing of atomic planes in crystals and the angles of incidence at which these planes produce the most intense reflection of electromagnetic waves.Answer: _Bragg's Law_
11.	Name the following metaphysical poets for ten points each.A) While in Sir Thomas Egerton's service, this author of  "The Canonization" secretly married Anne Moore.  Answer: John _Donne_B) On his deathbed, this poet sent a volume of poems called The Temple to his friend Nicholas Ferrar.  Included in this volume are "The Church Porch" and "The Church Militant"Answer: George _Herbert_C) This author's political career overshadowed his poetic works, which included the political verse satire "Last Instructions to a Painter" as well as "Upon Appleton House" and "The Garden."Answer: Andrew _Marvell_12. Answer the following related about a certain document for the stated number of points.A) F5P, name the document signed on June 26, 1945 whose preamble begins, "We The Peoples".Answer: _Charter of the United Nations_ or _United Nations Charter_B) FTP, name the city in which the Charter of the United Nations was signed.Answer: _San Francisco_C) F15P, who was the first Secretary General of the UN?Answer: Trygve Lie13. Name the artists given works on a 10-5 basis.A) 10: "The Death of Sardanapalus"       5: "Liberty Leading the People"Answer: Eugene _Delacroix_B) 10: "Convergence", "Easter and the Totem"       5: "Male and Female"Answer: Jackson _Pollock_C) 10: The lithograph "The Bulls of Bordeaux", the series of etchings "The Disasters of War"       5: "The Naked Maja"Answer: Francisco de _Goya_14.  For ten points each, name the following related questions about the brain.A) This lobe of the brain is responsible for our ability to hear.Answer: _Temporal_ lobeB) This area located in the temporal lobe is responsible for language comprehension.Answer: _Wernicke's_ AreaC) This severe impairment of speech can be caused by damage to Wernicke's area, by damage to Broca's area, and by stroke.Answer: _Aphasia_15.  Answer the following about Napoleon's invasion of Russia, for the stated number of points:A) F5P, name the famous musical composition written almost 60 years later in celebration of Napoleon's defeat.Answer: _1812 Overture_B) FTP, name the battle, inspiration for the 1812 Overture, on September 7, 1812, in which the Russian army, in an attempt to halt the French advance, lost almost 45,000 men while the French lost about 30,000.Answer: _Borodino_C) F15P, name the commander of Russian forces who had halted their retreat and hastily built fortifications at Borodino. He withdrew during the night so that he might survive to drive Napoleon from Russia.Answer: Mikhail Illarionovich Golenishchev _Kutuzov_
16.  Name the following characters from Catch-22 for ten points each.A) The hero of the novel, he tries to be sent home from the war but fails because the number of required missions keeps increasing.Answer: _Yossarian_ B) This man, who is obsessed with what his superiors think of him, was responsible for increasing the number of missions.Answer: _Colonel Cathcart_C) This man, whose planes always seem to crash, disappears in the middle of the book and resurfaces at the end to give Yossarian inspiration.Answer: _Orr_17. Answer the following about London theatres at the end of the 16th and the beginning of the 17th century, FTPE:A) Name the playhouse built by Cuthbert and Richard Burbage in which the plays of William Shakespeare were performed after 1599.Answer: The _Globe_ TheatreB) Name the theatre built about 1595 by Francis Langley, one of three including the Globe, which shared the Bankside area of London.Answer: The _Swan_ TheatreC) Built by Philip Henslowe, it was home to Lord Strange's Men, the Admiral's Men, and the actor Edward Alleyn.  The third theatre of the Bankside district, it saw the first performance of Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus.  In 1989, the building foundations were rediscovered during a construction project and subsequently preserved as an unofficial historic site.Answer: The _Rose_ Theatre18. Answer the following about Chinese history for the stated number of points.  A) F5P, name the officially supported peasant uprising of 1900 that attempted to drive all foreigners from China.Answer: _Boxer Rebellion_B) F10P, name the dynasty which the Boxers were originally founded with the intention of destroying.Answer: _Ch'ing_C) F15P, "Boxers" was a name that foreigners gave to the rebels.  Give either the Chinese name or translation for the secret society, or the name of the group of which the Boxers were an offshoot.Answer: _I-ho ch'üan_ (accept Order of the _Righteous and Harmonious Fists_) or _Eight Trigrams_ Society (accept _Pa-kua chiao_)19. Answer the following related questions for ten points apiece. A) This drama was published in two parts, the first in 1808 and the second after Goethe's death.  Goethe wanted marionettes to be used instead of actors.      Answer: _Faust_B) The legend of Faust first appeared in this German book, which later served as a base for Christopher Marlowe's Tragedy of Doctor Faustus.      Answer: _Historia von Dr. Johann Fausten_ or _History of Dr. Johann Fausten_ C) This man wrote Doktor Faustus in 1947.   Answer: Thomas _Mann_ 20. FTPE, name the three seas which are found off of the coast of Japan.Answer: _East China Sea_, _Sea of Japan_ (or _East Sea_), _Sea of Okhotsk_
21.	Identify the poet from the last two lines of a poem for ten points each.A) sky lavender and cornerless, the      moon rattles like an angry piece of candy Answer: e. e. _cummings_ B) Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.      I have been one acquainted with the night. Answer:  Robert _Frost_ C) In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time.        Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars. Answer: Walt _Whitman_22.	Identify the following terms from genealogy, FTPE:A) This is the name for records of a government, organization, or institution.  It is also the place where such records are stored.Answer: _Archives_B) This is the name for a person who dies without a will.Answer: _Intestate_C) This is the legal right or share that a wife acquires by marriage in the real estate of her husband.  It is allotted to her after his death for her lifetime.Answer: _Dower_23.  30-20-10.  Name the businessman.30: A German electrical engineer, he invented the electroplating process in 1842 and was influential in the development of the telegraph.20: He founded a gigantic electronics company that bears his name.10: A unit of electrical conductance is named after him.  It is symbolized by a capital S.Answer: Werner von _Siemens_24.  For ten points each, name the constellation given its brightest star.  You will receive 5 points if you need a description of the constellation.A) 10: Rigel       5: A hunterAnswer: _Orion_B) 10: Procyon       5: A dogAnswer: _Canis minor_C) 10: Deneb      5: A swanAnswer: _Cygnus_