TOSSUPS - ROUND 5 (EMORY A) 				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Emory A with a little help from DePauw1 A bartender is seen bending down to prepare a drink for a man and woman at the bar while a lone drinker sits impassively, with his back to the viewer. Through the lighted window of a late night diner on the corner of a deserted New York street one can see the three customers, who are the title characters.  FTP, identify this 1942 painting by Edward Hopper.Answer:	Nighthawks2 The novel opens with the chilling image of the electrocution of the Rosenbergs, introducing the themes of death and pain.  The main character is a college student who spends the summer in New York as a writer for a magazine.  Frustrated by the advances of Buddy, Esther returns to Boston, where she is placed in a hospital under the care of Dr. Nolan.  She recovers, although her return to sanity is described as tenuous.  FTP, name this only novel of Sylvia Plath.Answer:	The Bell Jar3 Typically found near the nucleus, they are composed of nine sets of microtubule triplets arranged in a turbine pattern, making them structurally identical to basal bodies.  They usually occur in pairs and are positioned at right angles to each other within the cytoplasm.  Primarily limited to animal cells, FTP name these organelles that play a vital role in forming the microtubule spindle to which chromosomes attach during mitosis.Answer:	Centrioles4 He led the United Arab Republic for two years. He is more famous for being a very handsome and charismatic Arab leader advocating a movement based on Arab socialism and nationalism that carried his name. FTP, name this Egyptian dictator who helped overthrow King Farouk in a military coup in 1952 and was replaced by Anwar Sadat in 1970.Answer:	Gamal Abdel Nasser5 Developed by Christian von Ehrenfels in 1890, it posits that in order to interpret sensory information, the brain organizes this information into certain groups, allowing interpretation of the information completely without unneeded repetition. The principles of grouping include four types: similarity, proximity, continuity, and closure. FTP name this school of psychology that was promoted by Kurt Koffka, Wolfgang Kohler, and Max Wertheimer, which interprets phenomena as organized wholes rather than as distinct parts. [how valid is this description?]Answer:	Gestalt6 It was discovered in 1722 by a Dutch explorer, and is governed by the Navy, which operates the island's only organized industry, a sheep farm that provides meat for the people and wool for export.  The Chilean government took control here in 1888, but the more famous inhabitants were an unknown people who resided on the island about 800 years ago.  FTP, identify this island known primarily for its hundreds of strange statues carved from volcanic rock.Answer:	Easter Island or Rapa Nui (accept Isla de Pascua but worry about them)7 Directed by Stephen Daldry, it revolves around the lives of three 20th century women all battling with depression and issuses of freedom, resposibility and identity.  One woman is Laura Brown, a housewife, who is planning her husband's birthday party. Another is Clarissa Vaughn, a book editor, who is planning a farewell party for her former lover, Richard.  FTP name this movie about Virginia Woolf and the effects of her novel "Mrs. Dalloway" on two women, starring Nicole Kidman, Meryl Streep, and Julianne Moore.Answer:	The Hours8 He was either the grandson or the grandnephew of Sundiata and is reported to have observed that it would take a year to travel from one end of his empire to the other.  In 1324 he set out on his famous pilgrimage to Mecca, accompanied by an impressive caravan of 60,000 men including 12,000 slaves.  He also built the Great Mosque at Timbuktu and later captured the Songhai capital of Gao.  FTP, name this West African emperor of Mali.Answer:	Mansa Musa9 Boiling point elevation, freezing point depression, and lowering of vapor pressure of a solution are all forms of these. They are all directly proportional to the molal concentration of solute. The temperature difference can be calculated by knowing the molality of a solution and the proportional constant.  FTP, name these properties of solutions.Answer:	Colligative Properties of Solutions10 
Isabella, the sister of the main character is about to enter a nunnery when she finds out that her brother has been arrested by Lord Angelo, the temporary leader of Vienna.  Angelo says he will not free Isabella's brother unless she agrees to have sex with him.  The Duke, who left Angelo in charge, formulates a plan that has Mariana going to have sex with Angelo in the guise of Isabella in order to gain freedom for Claudio.  Angelo does not pardon Claudio, but the Duke intervenes, Angelo repents and Claudio is freed.  FTP, this briefly describes the plot of what Shakespeare play? 	Answer:	Measure for Measure11 Winner of the 1966 Heisman, he had an unspectacular NFL career before taking his first coaching job 1978 as quarterback coach at his alma mater.  He then became head coach at lowly Duke with unprecedented success, leading the Blue Devils to an ACC Championship.  In the 1990s, he returned to Florida as head coach, leading the Gators to 9 straight bowl appearances and a national championship in 1997.  FTP, name this "ball coach" hired by the Washington Redskins in 2002.       Answer:	Steve Spurrier12 He served as composer for Charles II's string ensemble and as organist at Westminster Abbey.  As a composer of church music, he complied with the increasing demand for verse anthems with instrumental accompaniment, although his full anthems and services show a mastery of the traditional polyphonic style.  His most famous choral works are Jubilate in D and Te Deum, but he is most famous for his only grand opera.  FTP, name this post-Restoration composer of Dido and Aeneas.       Answer:	Henry Purcell13 He has a law named after him stating that during electrolysis, one mole of electrons oxidizes and reduces one equivalent weight at each electrode. He discovered many things including electromagnetic induction, used today in electric generators. This scientist became assisstant to Sir Humphry Davy and also later discovered benzene. FTP, name this scientist whose name was applied to one mole of electrons.       Answer:	Michael Faraday14 During the course of the book about him, this title character is recruited to be a dog groomer, saddle soap salesman, smuggler, shoplifter and boxing coach.  His brother Simon settles right down with the daughter of a wealthy coal dealer, but this man needs to find love with Thea Frenchel to believe in it and in his own independence.  Eventually, he rises up from his poor Jewish Chicago upbringing and becomes a labor organizer, meanwhile invoking John the Baptist, Stonewall Jackson, the Tower of Babel, and Gandhi's India.  FTP, who is this Saul Bellow title character?	Answer:	Augie March15 The defendant was convicted of a felony in a Florida court, but the Supreme Court overturned his conviction, citing violation not only of the due process clause of the 14th Amendment but also direct violation of the 6th Amendment.  The defendant had defended himself after being denied a request for free counsel.  FTP, identify this 1963 Supreme Court decision that upheld the right to counsel.       Answer:	Gideon v. Wainwright16 Hovstad, the newspaper editor for The People's Herald, initially praises the hero of this play for his discovery, but is convinced by the mayor that the discovery is false. The protagonist, who happens to be the brother of the mayor, has recently discovered that the town's drainage system for its baths is contaminated, but the mayor remains unconvinced and tells Dr. Stockman that the necessary repairs would be too expensive.  Stockman is fired but remains in the town in order to defy authority.  FTP, name this play by Henrik Ibsen.       Answer:	An Enemy of the People17 Elected to Congress in 1824, he became a leading conservative, defending the Bank of the United States against Jacksonian attacks.  He was appointed Secretary of State in 1852 and was responsible for Commodore Matthew Perry's note to Japan, ending that nation's isolation from the West.  In 1860, he accepted the Vice Presidential nomination of the Constitution Union party.  FTP, name this man whose two-hour speech at the dedication of the cemetery at Gettysburg was overshadowed by President Lincoln's two-minute Gettysburg Address.       Answer:	Edward Everett18 
Its numerical value was first estimated by Henry Cavendish, who used two very large balls which attracted two smaller balls very slightly.  This allowed him to calculate the mass of the Earth.  Used in physics to measure the attraction between two masses, it is usually given as 6.67 times ten to the negative eleventh  Newton meters squared per kilogram squared. FTP, name this constant used for calculating the quantity of attractive force between two massive objects.       Answer:	Universal Gravitational Constant  19 Daughter of Tantalus and wife to Amphion, one legend says that before her daughter was killed, she asked the gods to spare the life of her child, and they did, resulting in the goddess Chloris. She had 14 children - seven boys and seven girls.  When she boasted that she was better than Leto because Leto had only two children, Apollo and Artemis avenged their mother's honor and killed all 14 children of, FTP, what queen of Thebes, who in most legends was turned into a weeping stone?	Answer:	Niobe20 Founded by former French journalist Claude Vorilh in 1973, this atheist, non-profit, spiritual organization consists of over 55,000 members in 84 countries and is organized into National and International membership.  Buddha, Moses, Jesus and Mohammed are considered prophets that were specially chosen and educated by the Elohim or "people from the sky".  FTP name this religious group recently in the news for collaborating with Clonaid on the disputed first human clone.       Answer:	Raelians21 The introduction to this book was written by Sir Lawrence Bragg, head of the Cavendish Laboratory at which the author worked.  Providing a personal perspective on the scientific interplay between Maurice Wilkins, Rosalind Franklin, Linus Pauling, and the protagonists at King's College, it was later made into a TV movie starring Jeff Goldblum as the author.  FTP, name this book by James D. Watson detailing the discovery of the structure of DNA, from which it gets its title.       Answer:	The Double Helix22 He was a younger son but seems to have been his father's favorite.  When his father, Huayna Capac, died in 1527, he ruled the northern part of the empire while his brother Huascar ruled the southern part.  In 1532, his army defeated that of his brother and he became the sole ruler of the empire until conquered by Francisco Pizarro that same year.  FTP, name this last Incan ruler.       Answer:	Atahualpa23 His first play, Farther Off from Heaven, was produced in Dallas, Texas, at the recommendation of Tennessee Williams. Ten years later it was revised for Broadway as The Dark at the Top of the Stairs.  Though hailed as Williams' successor, he failed to produce works of promise during the latter years of his life.  The only exception was his screenplay for Splendor in the Grass, which won him an Academy Award. Taking his life on June 10, 1973 after a deep depression, FTP name this American playwright best known for his plays Bus Stop, Come Back Little Sheba, and the Pulitzer Prize-winning Picnic.       Answer:	William Inge 24 Popular legend attributes his death to overindulgence of food and wine after a 10-day fast.  During the An Lu-shan Rebellion, he experienced extreme personal hardships, of which he gives poignant descriptions in many of his poems.  He flirted with Taoism while traveling with Li Po, but returned to the Confucianism of his youth.  FTP, name this T'ang dynasty poet of such works as "The Army Carts" and "The Beautiful Women."       Answer:	Tu Fu (also accept Du Fu)25 This minor Jewish holiday is first mentioned in the Talmud in reference to when the fiscal year begins for purposes of taxation. It is on the fifteenth day of the fifth month of the Jewish calendar (starting with the month of Tishrei). It was given more significance by the Kabbalists in the 16th century who developed a ritual meal for the holiday. FTP name this holiday commonly associated with planting trees and eating fruits, known as the New Year of the Trees.       Answer:	Tu B'Shvat
BONI - ROUND 5 (EMORY A) 				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Emory A with a little help from DePauw1.  Given a brief description of an opera, name it FTP; if you need the composer, you will only receive 5 points.a.	10pts-- Don José helps the title character evade arrest but is imprisoned in her place. When freed, Don José finds that she now loves Escamillo. Don José implores her to return to him, and when she refuses, stabs her in the heart.        5pts-- Georges Bizet 		Answer:	Carmenb.	10pts-- The titular character is a hunchbacked jester who has the Duke assassinated only to find that his daughter Gilda was killed in the Duke's place.       5pts-Giuseppe Verdi		Answer:	Rigolettoc.	10pts--The Astrologer gives the titular bird to King Dodon to warn of danger to the city.  After the bird has performed its duty, the Astrologer demands his reward, the hand of the King's wife, the Queen of Shemakha.  Dodon kills the Astrologer, the queen deserts Dodon, and he is then killed by the bird.        5pts-Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov		Answer:	The Golden Cockerel or Le Coq d'Or2. Answer the following about The Sound and the Fury, FTSNOP. (5)  Take the 5 points and run... Who wrote it?	Answer:	William Faulkner (10)  This central character commits suicide while away at Harvard two months after his sister's marriage.	Answer:	Quentin Compson  (15)  This is the name of Quentin's roommate while at Harvard.	Answer:	Shreve3. Identify the following ancient battles, FTPE.(10)  In this 480 BC naval battle, the Greek fleet under Themistocles sank 300 Persian vessels in defeating Xerxes.	Answer:	Salamis(10)  Twenty thousand Carthaginians died in this decisive 202 BC battle, the last of the Second Punic War.  As a result, Spain was ceded to Rome and Scipio was awarded the surname Africanus.	Answer:	Zama(10)  Though Pompey had twice as many men, Caesar was still able to win this 48 BC battle which caused Pompey to flee to England.  It was the decisive engagement of the ancient Roman civil war.	Answer:	Pharsalus4. FTPE identify the following types of molecular structures.a.  Compounds having the same atomic composition but differing in their chemical structure.	Answer:	Isomersb.  A structure formed by the movement of a hydrogen from one site to another within the same molecule.	Answer:	Tautomer c.  A stereoisomeric pair where both compounds are mirror images of one another.	Answer:	Enantiomers5.  Name these economists. Ten points each.a.  He is most famous for The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money. He is considered the founder of macroeconomics and advocated deficit spending by the government to combat prolonged recession.	Answer:	John Maynard Keynesb.  This Nobel-winning American economist is most noted for his advocacy of monetarism and his conservative ideas associated with laissez-faire economic policy.	Answer:	Milton Friedmanc.  He is best known for The Theory of the Leisure Class, which introduced the phrase "conspicuous consumption."	Answer:	Thorstein Veblen
6.  It probably wouldn't surprise you to hear that more than a few Super Bowls have taken place on January 25th.  Identify the Super Bowl, either by year or by pretentious Roman numeral, from the final score FTPE:(10)  New York Giants 39, Denver Broncos 20	Answer:	 Superbowl XXI, or 1987(10)  Denver Broncos 31, Green Bay Packers 24	Answer:	 Super Bowl XXII, or 1998(10)  Oakland Raiders 27, Philadephia Eagles 10	Answer:	 Super Bowl XV, or 19817.  Name the George Bernard Shaw play given a description, 5-10-15.(5)  Unlike its musical adaptation, this play ends with Eliza Doolittle spurning Henry Higgins to marry Freddy.	Answer:	Pygmalion(10)  In this play, the title character resigns from the Salvation Army due to the hypocrisy involving tainted money.	Answer:	Major Barbara(15)  Dick Dudgeon allows himself to be arrested and sentenced to death in place of Parson Anderson in this Shaw play.  The parson leads a band of men to rescue Dick.  Your genial quizmaster highly recommends the seldom-seen film version with Kirk Douglas, Burt Lancaster, and Laurence Olivier having the time of their lives.	Answer:	The Devil's Disciple8. Identify the following cases from the U.S. Supreme Court's 19th century docket, FTPE.a.  It established the principle of judicial review by declaring part of the Judiciary Act of 1789 unconstitutional.	Answer:	Marbury v. Madisonb.  Because Cherokees were not considered citizens, an Anglo-American missionary was the plaintiff in this 1832 decision.  The Court established tribal sovereignty and protected the Cherokee from state laws, but President Jackson refused to enforce this decision and the Trail of Tears ensued. 	Answer:	Worcester v. Georgiac.  Often erroneously described as declaring Lincoln's suspension of the writ of habeas corpus unconstitutional, this 1866 case actually limited the extent of martial law and said that civilians could not be tried by military tribunals unless war or disorder stopped civilian courts from functioning altogether.  (Are you listening, Mr. Ashcroft?)	Answer:	Ex parte Milligan9. Identify the following prophetesses from the Bible, FTPE.(10)  This sister of Moses led the Hebrew women in dances after the crossing of the Red Sea.	Answer:	Miriam(10)  She served as judge of Israel and was responsible for the defeat of Sisera and the Canaanites.	Answer:	Deborah(10)  She worked in the temple and immediately recognized Jesus as the Messiah.	Answer:	Anna10. Answer these related modern physics questions, 10 points each.a) In 1924, which French physicist proposed that matter, like light, had a dual wave-particle nature?       	Answer:	 Louis-Victor de Broglieb) The de Broglie wavelength for matter is given by the equation lambda equals what constant,  divided by the product of mass and velocity?       	Answer:	 Planck('s) constantc) Davisson and Germer confirmed De Broglie's hypothesis in 1927 observing electron diffraction at what laboratory?       	Answer:	 Bell Laboratories11.  FTPE, identify the following Pre-Socratic, Milesian philosophers from a brief description of their philosophies.a.  Often considered to be the first Western philosopher, he believed that water was the essence of all matter.	Answer:	Thalesb.  This philosopher believed that all matter arose out of the separation of opposite qualities from one primordial substance.	Answer:	Anaximanderc.  He believed that the origin of all things was air.	Answer:	Anaximenes
12.  Jennifer Lopez's new song "Jenny on the Block" should be renamed "Jenny's been around the Block".  FTSNOP identify these men that have featured in her love life. 5 pts--  It's rumored that Jennifer Lopez and this man, her current fiancée and reigning as People Magazine's "the Sexiest Man Alive," are expecting a baby. 	Answer:	Ben Affleck [yes, prompt on Affleck.  Extra style points if they say it like the AFLAC duck.]10 pts-Jennifer secretly married this man on September 29, 2001; however, the marriage was shor- lived and they divorced in 2002. He was one of her backup dancers and choreographer.	Answer:	 Chris Judd15pts-Jennifer's first husband, he was an aspiring model working as a waiter at Gloria Estefan's restaurant, Larios On The Beach. They were married in Miami on February 22, 1997, and divorced a little over a year later.	Answer:	Ojani Noa13.  Name the following conferences that took place during World War II, FTPE.(10) It was held in order to make financial arrangements for the postwar world after the expected defeat of Germany and Japan and drew up a project for the IMF.	Answer:	Bretton Woods  (also accept United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference)(10)  It followed the Cairo Conference, and an agreement was reached on the scope and timing of operations against Germany, including plans for the Allied invasion of France.  Stalin reaffirmed his pledge to commit Soviet forces against Japan after the defeat of Germany.	Answer:	Tehran Conference(10)  It confirmed the demanding of Germany's unconditional surrender and plans were made for dividing Germany into four zones of occupation.	Answer:	Yalta Conference14.  On a 10-5 basis, identify the Latin American author from works.a.  10pts--The Grammarian Monkey and East Slope      5pts-- The Labyrinth of Solitude	Answer:	Octavio Pazb.  10pts--Heartbreak Tango and Tropical Night Falling         5pts-- Betrayed by Rita Hayworth and Kiss of the Spider Woman 	Answer:	Manuel Puigc. 10pts-The General in His Labyrinth       5pts-100 Years of Solitude, and Love in the Time of Cholera 	Answer:	Mario Vargas Llosa [prompt on Vargas or Llosa; it's pronounced "Yosa" but accept "Losa"]15.  FTPE given a brief description of a sex-chromosome abnormality, name it.a.  Affected individuals are genotypically XXY and are phenotypically male.  They tend to be tall, do not undergo normal sexual maturation, and are sterile.  Breast enlargement and mild mental impairment is also common. 	Answer:	Klinefelter Syndromeb.  Genotypically XO, affected individuals are phenotypically female but are short in stature and without sexual matruation.  Mental abilities are typically within the normal range.	Answer:	Turner Syndromec.  Affected individuals are male and tend to be tall.  It was thought that they developed severe personality disorders and were at a high risk of committing violent crimes.  However, it was determined that these individuals have slightly impaired mental function and that most are not involved in criminal activity.	Answer:	Double Y Syndrome  or XYY  16.  Answer the following concerning the English Civil War, FTPE.(10)  It was precipitated by this war with Scotland which forced Charles I to call Parliament in order to collect taxes to support it.	Answer:	Bishop's War(10)  This 1645 [check this] battle was the turning point in the war in which the New Model Army defeated the outnumbered Royalist army.  A year later Charles I surrendered.	Answer:	Naseby(10)  Leader of the New Model Army, he eventually became lord protector of England during the Commonwealth.	Answer:	Oliver Cromwell
17.  FTSNOP identify these figures from Japanese mythology.10pts-  The Japanese god of lightning, you may know him better for his role in the Mortal Kombat series of video games.	Answer:	Raiden 10pts-. She is the sun goddess and is the ancestress of the imperial family.	Answer:	Amaterasu5 pts. each-  This brother and sister kami created the islands of Japan and were the parents of many of the kami such as Amaterasu and Susano.	Answer:	 Izanagi and Izanami18.	Identify the following characters that appear in works by Charles Dickens, FTPE.(10)  She knits the names of enemies of the Revolution and is responsible for the sentencing of Charles Darnay.	Answer:	Madame Defarge(10)  She is born and raised in prison with her siblings and father.  This title character marries Arthur Clennam in prison and they live happily ever after.	Answer:	Amy or Little Dorrit(10)  It is revealed that he is the father of Estella and the benefactor of Pip.	Answer:	Abel Magwitch 19.  Answer the following about carnivorous plants, FTPE.A. These plants live in humid, sunny, bog-like habitats and is known in the scientific community as Dionaea muscipula.	Answer:	venus fly trapB. This carnivorous plants originate in southeast Asia, especially Borneo.  They have a waxy rim and a large sac filled with digestive enzymes to catch insects, or even frogs.  Their name comes from the look of this distinctive sac.	Answer:	tropical pitcher plants (accept Nepenthes and be really impressed)C. This plant also has a pitcher-shaped "mouth" containing nectar as bait for insects.  It resembles a snake preparing to strike, hence its name.	Answer:	Cobra Lily (accept, and be impressed: Darlingtonia)20.  OK, a quickie.  Given the U.S. vice-president, name the president under whom he served,  FTPE.a.  Alben BarkleyAnswer: 	Harry S Trumanb.  John Nance Garner       Answer:	Franklin Roosevelt or FDR c.  Charles Dawes       Answer:	(John) Calvin Coolidge21.	Given a European monarch, identify the house from which he comes, FTPE.  For example, it I were to say "Henry VIII of England," you would respond "Tudor."(10)  Henry IV of France	Answer:	Bourbon(10)  Alfred the Great of England	Answer:	Wessex(10)  Maria Teresa	Answer:	Hapsburg22.	FTPE identify the following components of eukayrotic chromosomes.a. The aggregate of DNA and histone proteins that makes up a eukaryotic chromosome	Answer:	Chromatinb.  This is the region of the chromosome that is associated with spindle fibers and the participates in normal chromosome movement during mitosis and meiosis	Answer:	CentromereThe tip of the chromosome, containing a DNA sequence required for stability of the chromosome end. 	Answer:	Telomere
23.  FTPE, name these people involved in the upcoming Israeli election.a.  He is the sitting Prime Minister and is attempting to establish a coalition by holding early elections.	Answer:	Ariel Sharonb.  He is the leader of the Labor party  who wishes to unseat Sharon.	Answer:	Amram Mitznac.  This former Prime Minister of Israel unsuccessfully challenged Sharon for the leadership spot in the Likud Party	Answer:	Benjamin Netanyahu24.  According to legend, tea was discovered circa 2737 BC by the Chinese emperor Shen Nung, when a wild tea leaf fell inside his boiling pot of water.  FTPE given a brief description of a type of tea, name it.a.  This tea undergoes a complete fermentation process that involves rolling and crushing wilted leaves to release enzymes.  Oxygenation then darkens the leaves and creates pungency.  This is the most heavily bodied tea, and includes Assam, English Breakfast, and Russian Caravan teas.	Answer:	Black teab.  This is the lightest, freshest tea, with a subtle clean color and flavor.  Production includes steaming or panfiring the leaves, which destroys enzymes preventing fermentation.  It is the oldest and the most widely drank beverage in China and Japan.	Answer:	Green teac.  First manufactured in Formosa, this tea undergoes a semi-fermentation process.  Leaves are put into baskets and shaken to puncture their edges, thus stimulating fermentation.  It is known for its delicate and fragrant flavor, likened to peaches and orchids.	Answer:	Oolong tea25. FTPE, identify the following agencies and/or figures associated with inspecting rogue nations for weapons of mass destruction.a.  This former diplomat from Sweden is the head of the inspection team currently in Iraq.	Answer:	Hans Blixb.  Inspectors from this agency were recently expelled from North Korea.	Answer:	International Atomic Energy Agency (or IAEA)c.  He is the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency.	Answer:	Dr. Mohamed El Baradei26.	Identify the following Chinese dynasties from descriptions, FTPE.(10)  During this dynasty, which ruled from 1111-255 BC, the kings first called themselves the "Sons of Heaven" and iron replaced bronze for tools and weapons.  Confucius and Mencius also lived during its reign.	Answer:	Chou (or Zhou) dynasty(10)  Confucianism was established as the official state philosophy during this dynasty which was founded by Liu Pang and lasted from 202 BC until 220 AD.  The Chinese first came in contact with the Roman Empire during this time by traveling the Silk Road.	Answer:	Han dynasty(10)  The capital was moved from Nanking to Peking and the philosophy of Wang Yang-ming was first introduced during this dynasty that ruled from 1368 until 1644 AD.	Answer:	Ming dynasty