TOSSUPS - YALE etc.					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Yale B with Swarthmore, North Carolina, Williams, and UTC's John Kilby and David Moore1.	No shoes with springs in them are allowed.  Also, there is to be no hugging.  All action must take place in a 24 by 24 foot area.  Superseding guidelines by Jack Broughton and co-written by John Graham Chambers in 1867, they were named for John Sholto Douglas, an English nobleman.  First utilized in a John L. Sullivan victory in 1886, FTP, these are what historic rules governing boxing?	Answer:	Marquis (or Marquess) of Queensberry Rules2.	Its two main nutrients are phosphorus and nitrogen.  Its two types are arctic and alpine.  The word is derived from a Finnish term meaning barren or treeless land.  Its characteristics include an extremely short growing season, long, cold, dark winters, and low levels of precipitation.  FTP, name this, the simplest biologically and the coldest of all the biomes.	Answer:	Tundra3.	Her books include Germany Unified and Europe Transformed (1995) with Philip Zelikow, The Gorbachev Era (1986) with Alexander Dallin, and Uncertain Allegiance: The Soviet Union and the Czechoslovak Army (1984).  She joined the faculty of the political science department at Stanford in 1981 eventually serving as Provost of the Univeristy.  From 1989 to 1991 she served as director and then senior director of Soviet and East European Affairs in the National Security Council.  FTP name this woman who at the time of question writing was awaiting confirmation as the first African-American female Secretary of State.       Answer:	Dr. Condolleeza Rice 4.	Born in Urbino in 1483, this man was first taught by his father Giovanni before entering the workshop of Pietro Perugino. After moving to Florence in 1504, he acquired his mature style under the influence of Leonardo and Michelangelo, though his most famous works were produced in Rome under the patronage of Pope Julius II. A Renaissance painter best known for his frescoes in the Vatican Palace, this is, FTP, what artist of the Disputation on the Blessed Sacrament and The School of Athens?       Answer:	Raphael Santi or Raphaello Sanzio 5.	A famous translation of it was made by Robert Graves, and its first tale is told by Aristomenes, whose friend Socrates was turned into a beaver by Meroe.  The author was a Greek-speaking native of  North Africa, and other characters include eunuch priests, the goddess Isis, and Fotis, who accidentally turns the author/narrator Lucius into the title character. FTP name this Latin work by Apuleius.	Answer:	The Golden Ass or Transformations or Metamorphoses of Lucius Apuleius6.	He has recently been offered asylum in Iceland, a move that would allow him to escape detention in Japan, where he has spent the past six months. He was arrested there for trying to board a plane for the Philippines with an invalid passport because his American passport had been revoked for violating international sanctions against Yugoslavia. FTP name this American chess champion who traveled to Yugoslavia in 1992 to replay a match from twenty years earlier, a victory over Boris Spassky in Iceland in 1972. 	Answer:	Bobby Fischer7.	Led by Hong Xiuquan, a former village teacher who combined utopian socialist views with Protestant beliefs, it started as an uprising against Confucian customs  in China's southern regions - the last to come under the influence of the Qing dynasty, and boasting the greatest contact with the West. Although Xiuquan's forces captured Nanjing and moved as far north as Tianjin, a series of internal quarrels and mutinies combined with British and French support for the incumbent Qing government ultimately led to the movement's failure. FTP name this period of revolution from 1851-1864, during which 30 million people were killed.	Answer:	the Taiping rebellion    
8.	In the first act, there is plenty of excitement about the ice that is advancing down from New England into the mid-Atlantic, but the characters are often distracted by the creation of new parts of the alphabet or by the family pets, a dinosaur and a wooly mammoth.  The second act takes place on Atlantic City and is permeated wit the theme "Enjoy yourselves," which becomes difficult because of the oncoming worldwide flood.  The third act opens at the end of a war that pitted the army of George Antrobus against the army of his son, known as Henry or Cain.  FTP name this Pulitzer prize winning play by Thornton Wilder.	Answer:	The Skin of Our Teeth9.	He married a 13 year old girl named who translated works in English for him and also illu strated his books.  His Traite Elementaire de Chimie was the first modern chemical textbook.  Because his family had a history as tax collectors in France, was beheaded during the French Revolution.  Repeating Priestley's experiments, he demonstrated that air is composed of two parts.  FTP, name this scientist who disproved the phlogiston theory.  Answer:	Antoine Lavoisier10.	The holder of this title is a member of the House of Lords and since the time of Henry VIII has been appointed by the British monarch. The first was Saint Augustine, who arrived in 597 and was appointed to the post a year later by King Ethelbert. The current one is Rowan Williams, and previous occupants include Thomas a Becket, Thomas Cranmer, and William Laud. Also known as the Primate of All England this is, FTP, what religious official, the most senior bishop in the Anglican Church?       Answer:	Archbishop of Canterbury11.	While its author originally planned to write 12 books, his death left it uncompleted with only 6 sections.  Each book focuses on a single Christian virtue, with the books concerning holiness and chastity being the most well known.  While supposedly organized around a quest of King Arthur, most of the story is spent on the quests of individual knights, including Redcrosse and Britomart.  FTP, name this epic poem by Edmund Spencer takes its title from the ruler for whom Arthur is searching.  	Answer:	  The Faerie Queene12.	Probably beginning in 11th century France, much of Walter Benjamin's though reflects it, and the Lurianic School was known for its messianic leanings.  Moses de Leon's Book of Brightness, or Zohar, and the 3rd century Book of Creation are its two major texts.  Believing that every word, letter, and number in scripture have secret meanings, its name comes from the Hebrew for "tradition."  FTP name this often-mystical form of Jewish interpretation now found fashionable by Madonna and other celebrities.	Answer:	Kabbalah or Cabala13.	He died in 1843 in Mexico searching for a legendary lost tribe.  Born to a friend of George Washington named Nathaniel Gist and an Indian woman named Wurteh, he was angered by the concessions at the Turkeytown conference and helped settle a peace between Eastern and Western factions of his tribe after the Trail of Tears.  His house and records were destroyed by suspicious neighbors while compiling his most famous work, consisting of 86 English, Greek, and Hebrew symbols. FTP name this developer of the Cherokee alphabet.	Answer:	Sequoyah or Sequoia or George Guest (or Gist)14.	By observing Io, Ole Romer became the first person to make a quantative measurement of this.  Armond Fizeau used a system of lenses and a rotating toothed wheel to make the first non-astronomical quantitative measurement.  Leon Foucault improved on Fizeau's method of finding it by replacing the wheel with a rotating mirror.  Alfred Michelson used a series of rotating mirrors placed on two different mountains in California to find this quantity.  FTP, identify this quantity that is approximately three times ten to the eight meters per second.       	Answer: 	the speed of light (accept equivalents)15.	Shane, the oldest, acted in a 1989 television production of Our Town. Christian appeared as a seven-year-old in 1994's My Summer Story. Quinn lent her voice to 1991's TV series Wish Kid and two years later acted in The Good Son with Rory, who has appeared in ten other films, including Signs in 2002. Kieran has acted in over 15 films, most recently Igby Goes Down. FTP, all these child actors come from what prolific family whose most famous son, Macaulay, made millions with Home Alone?       Answer:	Culkin
16.	Cholecystitis is an inflammation of this part of the body.  Surgery, lithotripsy, and dissolution therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid are treatments to remove stones from here.  It is about 3 to 4 inches long, 1 inch wide, and connects to the liver via the hepatic duct.  FTP, name this hollow organ that has supplying bile to the digestive tract as its main function.	Answer:	Gall Bladder 17.	Becoming king at age 12, he often sought the advice of his mother (and former regent) Blanche de Castille, even after he came of age. An active participant in both the Seventh and Eighth Crusades, he remained in the Holy Land for six years during the former, building and strengthening Christian colonies, and died in Tunisia during the latter, in 1270. His reign saw important territorial negotiations for France, including the acquisition of Normandy and Anjou from Henry III (under the 1259 Treaty of Paris), and of Provence and Languedoc from James I of Aragon.  FTP name this French king, canonized in 1297.       Answer:	Louis IX (prompt on Saint Louis)18.	Born in Stockholm in 1948, he immigrated to the U.S. early in childhood.  After college he joined the underground comix movement, contributing to magazines such as "Real Pulp", "Bizarre Sex" and "Young Lust".  Talk about a contrast -- he now edits Little Lit, an children's anthology series of fairy tales and original stories.  His most recent major publication was a book about life after the attacks of 9/11 called In the Shadow of No Towers.  FTP name this Pulitzer-winning comic artist and author who chronicled his father's experiences in Nazi Germany in the graphic novel, Maus.	Answer:	Art Spiegelman19.	A collection of motets for three-voices were, at age 15, his first published pieces.  By the time he went to work under the Duke of Gonzaga, he had already published many other works, including his "spiritual madrigals."  His final opera L'incoronazione di Poppea was written in Venice, where he remained since being named Maestro di Cappella at St. Mark's.  FTP, name this composer who, in 1607, arguably created the genre of opera with his work Orfeo.	Answer:	Claudio Monteverdi20.	Most of his funding was provided by the Rockefeller foundation, though it withdrew his support when this man was investigated by the Reece Commission, which accused him of being connected to Communist elements. Trained as a biologist, he produced a number of monographs on gall wasps before designing a class on marriage practices at Indiana University. FTP name this pioneering sexologist whose eponymous reports on Sexual Practices in the Human Male and Female produced a furor in postwar America.	Answer:	Alfred Kinsey21.	His letters include many uses of the phrase "ha ha." Nearly all of those letters are addressed to "boss," or Charles Warren.  In a recent work, Patricia Cornwell suggested that he really was Walter Sickert, a famous painter and disciple of Whistler.  Other people have said that Duke of Clarence or Montague John Druitt were responsible.  FTP, name this famed serial killer of prostitutes in the Whitechapel district of London during the late 1880s.	Answer:	Jack the Ripper22.	She attended San Jose State University as a pre-veterinary student.  This American helped to dispel myths about the violent and aggressive nature of her subjects.  Sadly, she was killed in 1985 by poachers who retaliated against her conservation efforts.  However, to younger people, she is probably more famous for being depicted in the movie Gorillas in the Mist.  FTP, name this woman, student of Louis Leakey, famous for observing the mountain gorillas of Africa.	Answer:	Dian Fossey23.	Four plant species are honored during this time of year.  The temporary shelters utilized during this time are known by the singular of the name of the period.  With Peshah and Shavuot, it helps comprise the pilgrimage festivals.  FTP, name this Jewish holiday, which takes place from the 15-16 of Tishri, also known as the Feast of Tabernacles.	Answer:	Sukot24.	In the 1840s he charted the Missouri and Columbia rivers before a winter crossing over the Sierra Nevada turned him into a popular hero and ushered him into politics. After California seceded from Mexico this man became its military governor and would later be elected one of the state's first two senators. FTP name this mapmaker and explorer of the American West who became the first Presidential nominee of the Republican Party in 1856. 	Answer:	John Charles Fremont
BONI - YALE etc.					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Yale B with Swarthmore, North Carolina, Williams, and UTC's John Kilby and David Moore1.	Answer these questions about the Montgomery bus boycott FTPE.The boycott was triggered when this woman was arrested after refusing to give up her seat to a white man.	Answer:	Rosa ParksThis black female professor, who herself was kicked off a bus in 1949, wrote to W.A. Gayle, the mayor of Montgomery, and organized the city's black residents on the first week of the boycott in December 1955.	Answer:	Jo Ann RobinsonIn the aftermath, Martin Luther King and Ralph Abernathy became the primary founders of this civil rights organization.       Answer:	the S(outhern) C(hristian) L(eadership) C(onference)2.	FTPE identify these sculptures located in the Louvre:A. A masterpiece of the Hellenistic style of Greek art, this sculpture of a goddess standing on the prow of a ship is located at the head of one of the Louvre's main staircases, the Escalier Daru. 	Answer:	Nike of Samothrace or Winged Victory of SamothraceB. Two meters high, this statue of the Roman goddess of love dates from 130 BC and is thought to be the work of Alexandros of Antioch.	Answer:	Venus de MiloC. Originally intended for the tomb of Julius II, this 1513 Michelangelo statue now stands in the Louvre besides its companion piece, The Rebellious Slave.	Answer:	The Dying Slave3.	FTPE answer these questions about a phase of matter:A.  This phase of matter, first predicted in the 1920s, is created by utilizing the trapping of alkali atoms and laser cooling	Answer:	Bose-Einstein CondensateB.  The basis of the Bose-Einstein condensate can be traced to this property of flow, exhibited by elements such as Helium-4 at temperatures near absolute zero.	Answer:	superfluidityC.  The Bose-Einstein condensate is also considered promising in further investigation of this electrical phenomenon, discovered by Kamerlingh Onnes in 1911 when he was working with mercury at temperatures near absolute zero.	Answer:	superconductivity4.	FTPE name the Chekhov play from characters:A. Sorin, Tregorin, Nina, Arkadina, Treplev	Answer:	The Seagull (Accept Chaika)B. Firs, Varya, Trofimov, Lopakhin, Ranevskaya	Answer:	The Cherry Orchard (Accept Vishneviy Sad)C. Telegin, Sonia, Helena, Voitskaya, Serebrakov	Answer:	Uncle Vanya (Accept Dyadya Vanya)5.	Given a continent, name its largest lake by area FFPE and a bonus five for all correct.A. Africa	Answer:	Lake VictoriaB. South America	Answer:	Lake MaracaiboC. North America	Answer:	Lake SuperiorD. Australia	Answer:	Lake EyreE. Europe	Answer:	Lake Ladoga
6.	FTPE answer these questions from genetics:[10] What is the name for long strands of DNA that don't code for proteins, but exist in the eukaryotic genome?	Answer:	 Introns[10] These "jumping genes" potentially cause mutations, but appear to also be a normal part of DNA transcription.	Answer:	 Transposons[10] This woman first proposed transposons and was nearly laughed out of her profession. Since then evidence has proven this "corn lady" correct.	Answer:	 Barbara McClintock7.	Answer the following about an American writer FTPE:A.  During time spent as an ambassador to Spain, he wrote 1832's The Legends of the Alhambra.	Answer:	Washington IrvingB.  It was under this pseudonym that Irving wrote his History of New York.	Answer:	Diedrich KnickerbockerC.  Written under the pseudonym of Geoffrey Crayon, this collection of short stories contains Rip Van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.	Answer:	The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon8.	Identify the Hitchcock film from the Internet Movie Database plot summary FTPE:A. Middle-aged Madison Avenue advertising executive Roger O. Thornhill is mistaken for a government agent by a gang of spies. He is pursued across the States by both the spies and the government whilst being helped by a beautiful blonde.	Answer:	North by NorthwestB. Brandon and Philip consider themselves intellectually superior to their friend David Kentley and as a consequence decide to murder him. Together they strangle David and place the body in an old chest, then proceed to hold a small party.	Answer:	RopeC. Psychotic mother's boy Bruno Anthony meets famous tennis professional Guy Haines. Bruno wants to kill his father, while Guy wants to kill his wife. Bruno dreams up a crazy scheme whereby he and Guy exchange murders. 	Answer:	Strangers on a Train9.	Given the title associated with a Beethoven symphony, give the symphony number, FTPE:A.  "Pastorale"	Answer:	No.  6B.  "Eroica"	Answer:	No.  3C.  This symphony is sometimes called "Fate"       Answer:	No.  510.	FTPE name these foods that derive their name from the Napoleonic Wars.A. A fillet of tenderloin coated with fois gras and wrapped in puff pastry, this popular dish is named after the victor at the battle of Waterloo.	Answer:	Beef WellingtonB. Napoleon ordered this dish of chicken, mushrooms, tomatoes, and white wine served after every battle; it is named for a Piedmont city at which he defeated the Austrians in June 1800. 	Answer:	Chicken MarengoC. A Russian type of black bread is named after this 1812 battle outside of Moscow.	Answer:	Borodino11.	FTPE, identify these items on Moh's hardness scale from their number and a brief fact.    A.  An 8 on the hardness scale, this is the traditional birthstone of November.	Answer:	TopazB.  A 5 on the hardness scale, this is a birthstone of December.	Answer:	ApatiteC.  A 2 on the hardness scale, this mineral is commonly found in plaster, wall board, and some cement.	Answer:	Gypsum
12.	FTPE, given the year and the book that won the Booker Prize, name the winning author:(10) 2000, The Blind Assassin	Answer:	Margaret Atwood(10) 1990, Possession: A Romance	Answer: 	A.S. Byatt	(10) 1983, The Life and Times of Michael K	Answer:	J.M. Coetzee13.	FTPE answer these questions about the Ukrainian presidential elections:A. First, name the current Prime Minister and Russian-backed candidate, whose initial victory was annulled by the Supreme Court amid reports of widespread fraud.	Answer:	Viktor YanukovychB. Next, name the outgoing President who has headed Ukraine since 1994 and has been accused of political murder and illegal weapons sales.	Answer:	Leonid KuchmaC. Finally, name the poison that the opposition candidate, Victor Yushchenko, consumed in his soup and which may have permanently disfigured his face.	Answer:	Dioxin14.	Given three NBA players, identify the college they all attended for 10 points each.A.  Damon Stoudamire, Jason Terry, Luke Walton	Answer:	University of ArizonaB.  Joe Johnson, Jannero Pargo, Corliss Williamson	Answer:	University of ArkansasC.  Caron Butler, Emeka Okafor, Jake Voskuhl	Answer:	University of Connecticut or Uconn15.	Answer the following about an event foreshadowing the downfall of the Norse gods, the death of Balder, FTPE:A.  This plant did not promise not to harm Balder.	Answer:	MistletoeB.  He was the lone creature not to mourn Balder's death, preventing his resurrection.	Answer:	LokiC.  Balder's blind brother, Loki convinced him into throwing the deadly mistletoe dart that killed his brother.	Answer:	Hoder or Hother16.	Identify the Civil War battle, FTPE.[10] After two days in April 1862 at the Tennessee River, Ulysses S. Grant defeated Albert Sidney Johnston, but more Americans were killed than in all previous wars combined.	Answer:	 Shiloh[10] This battle, fought on September 17, 1862, was the bloodiest day in American history, but ended in a tactical draw.  Lee's withdrawal from Maryland a few days later enabled the North to claim a victory and Lincoln to issue the Emancipation Proclamation.	Answer:	 Antietam[10] In this 1863 Confederate victory, Braxton Bragg defeated William Rosecrans along a creek in northern Georgia whose name was said to mean "River of Death."	Answer:	 Chickamauga17.	Those poets are a depressing bunch.  Given a description of the end of the world, name the poet.[10] "Some say the world will end in fire / Some say in ice"	Answer:	 Robert Frost[10] "Not with a bang but a whimper"	Answer:	 T.S. Eliot[10] "Things fall apart; the center cannot hold / Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world"OK	Answer:	 W.B. Yeats 
18.	Name these branches of linguistics, FTSNOP:A.  FFP, this is simply the study of meaning in language.	Answer:	SemanticsB.  FTP, this is the study of symbols, what they represent, and how they cause us to act/think.	Answer:	SemioticsC.  F15P, this is the branch that concerns itself with studying names.	Answer:	Onomastics19.	FTPE name these archbishops of Canterbury.A.  Born in Pavia, Italy, he was a key advisor to William the Conqueror, becoming archbishop in 1070.	Answer:	LanfrancB.  He succeeded Lanfranc both as abbot of Bec in Normandy and as archbishop of Canterbury.  He is probably best known for his ontological proof of God's existence.	Answer:	St. AnselmC.  An ally of Henry VIII and formulator of the Book of Common Prayer, he was burned at the stake in 1556 during the reign of Mary Tudor.	Answer:	Thomas Cranmer20.	Talk about a bad trip . . . answer these questions about a particularly nasty acid, FTPE.a.  Name the weak acid that is capable of dissolving almost all inorganic oxides, composed of hydrogen and the most electronegative element.       Answer: 	Hydrofluoric acid or Hydrogen fluoride or HFb. Hydrofluoric acid can kill by decreasing serum levels of this monatomic ion, thereby leading to heart failure.       Answer: 	Calcium or Ca2+c. A quick application of this gel to affected areas is the standard treatment for ydrofluoric exposure.       Answer: 	Calcium gluconate or Kalcinate21.	FTPE, Identify the following modern artists given works:A.  Portrait of Elaine, Legend and Fact, various paintings of women's torsos	Answer:	Willem De KooningB.  The Red Tree, Rhythm of Black Lines, Composition with Yellow Patch	Answer:	Piet MondrianC.  Running Man, Black Square and Red Square, The Knife Grinder	Answer:	Kasimir Malevich22.	Name the classic rock band from songs on a 10-5 basis.A.  For 10, "Too Old to Rock and Roll, Too Young to Die" and "Thick as a Brick"For 5, "Bungle in the Jungle" and "Aqualung"	Answer:	Jethro TullB.  For 10, "Stage Fright" and "The Night they Drove Old Dixie Down"For 5, "Up on Cripple Creek" and "The Weight"	Answer:	The BandC.  For 10, "I Feel Free" and "Tales of Brave Ulysses"For 5, "White Room" and "Sunshine of Your Love"	Answer:	Cream (do not accept Eric Clapton)