TOSSUPS -- BLIND ROUND #1			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by David Levinson1. On May 1st, 1997 it became the only country to levy no taxes at all on trade.  The irony is that this land-locked country is not much of an exporter, being sandwiched between the two greatest Communist nations of the post-war era.  For 10 points, name  this country with a capital at Ulaan Baatar. answer:	Mongolia2. The father received the Medal of Honor for heroism at --where else? -- Chattanooga. After outstanding service in the Phillipines in 1898 and '99, he became Military Governor in 1900 and used his influence with Teddy Roosevelt to get his young son a plum staff job. The son also received the Medal of Honor. Of the Phillipines he said "I Shall Return", which he did. For 10 points - give the last name of these two United States Generals.answer:	Arthur and Douglas MacArthur3. Different stories have it that this Hellenic philosopher died by heat exhaustion at a gymnastic contest, by falling off a cliff while star-gazing, or by falling down a well. A theorem named after him says that every triangle inscribed in a semicircle is right. FTP, name this Ionian man who claimed that everything is water.Answer: Thales4. St. Dunstan, a blacksmith who would become Archbishop of Canterbury in 959, was approached one day by the devil, who asked for a special favor. Dunstan replied that in order to provide it, he would have to shackle the devil to the wall, and made the attachment of these items especially painful.  When the devil begged for mercy, Dunstan released him only if he gave an oath never to enter a house,  where -- for 10 points -- what good luck object, attached to the devil's cloven hooves, was displayed above the door?answer:	Horseshoe5.  It results in lack of oxygen, shortness of breath, and palpitations.  Deficiency of B-12, which has the largest molecular structure of any single vitamin and consequently presents a serious absorption problem, leads to this common disorder  For 10 points -- what is a deficiency of the number of red cells in the blood of the amount of hemoglobin?answer:	Anemia6. She was sent to Belgium as a spy by Charles II, but he refused to pay her return passage so she was thrown into debtor's prison. She spent time in Suriname, which inspired her most famous work. FTP, name this novelist, poet, and dramatist, according to Vita Sackville-West the first woman to make a living solely through writing, the author of Oroonoko, or the Royal Slave.Answer: Aphra Behn7. 1999 winners include: for Sociology, Steve Penfold, of York University in Toronto, for doing his dissertation on the sociology of Canadian donut shops; for Physics, Dr. Len Fisher of Bath, England and Sydney, Australia for calculating the optimal way to dunk a biscuit and  Professor Jean-Marc Vanden-Broeck of the University of East Anglia, England, and Belgium, for calculating how to make a teapot spout that does not drip; and for  literature, The British Standards Institution for its six-page specification (BS-6008)  of the proper way to make a cup of tea.  For 10 points -- name this satirical prize granting organization.answer:	Ig Nobel Prize8. Born in Albany, NY in 1836, in 1854 he moved to California. He published three books: "Outcroppings", "The Lost Galleon", and "Condensed Novels". For 10 points --  who penned the poem "The Heathen Chinee" and the "The Luck of Roaring Camp and other Sketches"? answer:	Francis Brett Harte
9. Born on Egdon Heath in 1840, this frustrated architect turned to writing.  His first published novel was "Desperate Remedies" and the next year "Under the Greenwood Tree" appeared. For 10 points -- who in 1874 wrote "Far from the Madding Crowd"?answer:	Thomas Hardy10. Placed in the instability strip of the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram, these stars' characteristic period is from five to ten days.  Harlow Shapely first attempted to construct a period-luminosity relationship for these stars.  FTP, name this class of variable stars often used as a means for calibrating distances.Answer: Cepheid variables11. An instrument of redemption to the Copts, other Christians hold a different view.  As governor, he decorated Jerusalem with images of Tiberius and built an aqueduct from temple funds.  For 10 points - name this man who presided over the trial of an upstart Nazarene.answer:	Pontius Pilate12. They are responsible for the second best selling album ever.  Jim Senefeld the drummer and Dean Felber the bassist both got married while guitarist Mark Bryan has a young daughter. Parenthood has also been experienced by the South Carolina band's lead singer Darius Rucker.  For 10 points, who blessed us with "Cracked Rear View"?answer:	Hootie and the Blowfish13. Various new age groups have claimed that the energy from this class of theoretical particle can have beneficial effects on the body by balancing the body's electro-magnetic fields.  It is one of three major types of particles, the other two being tardyons and luxons.  FTP, name this particle whose name comes from the Greek word for "very fast particle" and which moves faster than the speed of light.Answer: Tachyon14. In his own time, he was called "The Mendacious," a song by They Might Be Giants calls him "Napoleon of the Stump." FTP, name this eleventh president, a Jacksonian Democrat, elected in 1844, whose administration saw the Taos Rebellion and the Mexican War as well as the peaceful annexation most of the useful parts of the Oregon country.Answer: James Knox Polk15. It tells of a strange child's escape from a rose on his native planet B-612 and his through the universe.  The author himself was a daredevil pilot for Aeropostale, who died in a P-38 Lightning in the Mediterranean.  For 10 points, name this adventure story by France's Antoine de Saint-Exupery.answer: 	The Little Prince or Le Petit Prince.16 Founded in 966 when Piast ruler Mieszko I adopted Christianity, at its peak under the Jagiellon Dynasty it stretched from Kiev to Berlin without containing either.   In decline after wars with Sweden and Russia, it was partitioned three times in 1772, 1793, and 1795.  For 10 points - name this European nation with a capital at Warsaw? answer:	Poland17. The protagonist's first beloved turns out to be an automaton, the second sings herself to death, the third steals his reflection and goes off in a gondola, and his current flame is disgusted by his drunken behavior, leaving him no choice but to go home with his muse. FTP, name this opera, based on the stories of a 19th-century German author, by Jacques Offenbach.Answer: The Tales of Hoffman (also accept Les Contes d'Hoffmann)18. It ended when its capital was captured with the help of the Ever-Victorious army led by the English soldier Charles Gordon.  It attempted a strict segregation of the sexes, and actually had regiments of women soldiers. Led by Hong Xiuquan (Shi-quan) with its capital at Nanjing, who believed himself Jesus's younger brother, it ended with over twenty million dead.  FTP, name this Chinese rebellion that lasted from 1851 to 1864.Answer: Taiping rebellion19. In the outward form, most show pentaradial symmetry.  The only major deuterostome group besides chordates, they are grouped in the five living classes, though twenty are extinct, and most have tube feet, whichcan be used for suction, filtering or burrowing, depending on the organism.  FTP, name this phylum, members of which include sea lilies, sea cucumbers, sea urchins, brittle stars and starfish.Answer: Echinodermata or Echinoderms20. Designs for it were patented by Cornelius Brosnan, while William Middlebrook patented the machine for making these devices.  While the actual inventor is uncertain, the Norwegian Johan Vaaler may be responsible for the first prototype of the now familiar Gem design.  For 10 points -- name this useful device that keeps documents together, whose history is documented by Henry Petroski.answer:	 paperclip21. Formed in the early 1920s, it was an instant hit with department stores and elevator manufacturers. The company's customer base grew in the 1940s and 1950s when it was seen as a way to boost worker morale and productivity. In the 1980s, this Seattle-based company moved from the "background" to the "foreground" when it merged with Yesco.  For 10 points -- name this company, whose "Audio Architecture" reaches 80 million people a day in the United States at over 250,000 locations, including perhaps a dentist's office near you.answer:	Muzak (accept Audio Communications Network)22. The Chocolate Mountains are in this state, in a county named La Paz. It is bordered by the Imperial Reservoir, Lake Havasu, Lake Mohave, and Lake Mead. For 10 points -- what is this state which incorporates Apache, Cochise, and Navajo Counties, as well as the cities of Flagstaff and Tucson? answer:	Arizona23. Founded by E.W. Scripps in 1907 to cover news from around the world, in 1935 it became the first major American news service to supply news to radio stations. In 1958, it merged with William Randolph Hearst's International News Service and began the first wire service radio network, providing radio stations with voice reports from correspondents around the globe. For 10 points, name this perennial number two news service.answer: 	United Press International, accept UPI, accept United Press Associations
BONI-- BLIND ROUND #1			SWORD BOWL 2000 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by David Levinson with a few strays from Penn Bowl mixed in1. Identify these science terms beginning with "AN".FTSNOP:a [5]  An environment devoid of oxygen.	anaerobicb [10]. This word refers to biosynthesis of organic molecules.	anabolism (accept anabolic)c [15] In this type of eclipse, the apparent size of the moon is not sufficient to cover the sun,	annular2.  Name the author 5-10-15A.  Song of Solomon and Tar Baby    		answer:	Toni MorrisonB. The Temple of My Familiar and The Third Life of Grange Copeland  			answer:	Alice WalkerC. For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide- When the Rainbow is Enuf  	answer:	Ntozake Shange3. You Don't Know Jack, .... or do you?  History is not always easy to keep straight, what were the following similarly named groups called:  (a) A 1338 Peasant uprising					answer:	Jacquerie  (b) Supported James II of England and the Old Pretender	answer:	Jacobites  (c) A radical group in the French Revolution			answer:	Jacobin4.  Many of you recognize the names of various political philosphers, how well do you know them (10 each)?A. Living from 1632-1704, this Englishman advocated the "Living Contract" between man and king. answer:	John LockeB.  This Swiss Frenchman alive from 1712-1778 argued government rested upon popular consent but was asserted to possess unlimited power inthe "Social Contract"? answer:	Jean Jacques Rousseau	    C. Marx and Engels relied extensively on his dialectic but rejected the idealism of his "The Philosophy of Right."answer:	G.W.F. Hegel5. Answer the following questions about Frank Lloyd Wright FTP each.a. One of Wright's most famous works is this weekend retreat in the Alleghenies that consisted of a residence cantilevered over a waterfall.ANSWER:  Fallingwaterb.   The name of Wright's self-designed home, it was christened after a Welsh bard.ANSWER:  Taliesinc.   This was the architectural style that Wright created and used in about 50 houses in the American Midwest during the early 1900's.ANSWER:  Prairie style
6.  Identify these early North American explorers:A. In 1512 he discovered and explored Florida? answer:	Juan Ponce de LeonB. What Spaniard who was under Pisarro in Peru explored Florida, Georgia, the Carolinas, Tennessee, and discovered the Mississippi? answer:	(F)(H)ernando de SotoC. Who mapped the St. Lawrence River?   answer:	Samuel de Champlain7.  Identify these men for 15-5 basis:A.	(15)	He was born near London May 12, 1812 of Danish descent and was a landscape painter who suffered from epilepsy. He illustrated Tennyson's poems and wrote "Journals of a Landscape Painter in Greece and Albania". 	(5) He also wrote "A Book of Nonsense".answer:	Edward Lear	  B.	(15) This man was born near Rye, NY in 1901 and also wrote nonsense.	(5) He wrote "Hard Lines", "I'm a Stranger Here Myself", and "You Can't get There from Here".answer:	Ogden Nash8.  In what states are the following recreational mountain ranges:A. the Catskills		answer:	New YorkB. the Poconos		answer:	PennsylvaniaC. the Berkshires		answer:	Massachusetts9. 30-20-10 Identify this author from works A.  30: "The Suppliants", and "The Persians"B.  20: "The Women of Aetna" and "Seven Against Thebes"C.  10: "Prometheus Bound" answer:	Aeschylus10.  Answer the following related questions FTPE:A. Who married his first cousin Emma Wedgwood in 1839, after his five year voyage on the Beagle?answer:	Charles Darwin [prompt on Darwin]B. Charles Darwin wrote "The Descent of Man" but who wrote "The Ascent of Man"?answer:	Jacob BronowskiC. He wrote "Zoonomia", "Phytologia", and "The Loves of the Plants".  Appropriately, this biologist is best known for his progeny, grandson Sir Francis Galton and son Charles, both great scientists.answer:	Erasmus Darwin [prompt on Darwin]11.  When a chemist discovers a new law, it is usually named after him. Identify the following Chemical Laws by their discover (for 10 points each).A. Equal numbers of molecules are contained in equal volumes of different gases if the temperature and pressure are the same.  answer:	Avogadro's LawB. If the temperature remains constant, the volume of a given mass of gas varies inversely with the pressure.  answer:	Boyle's LawC. If the pressure does not change, the volume of a given mass of gas is directly proportional to the absolute temperature  answer:	Charles's Law 12.	FTSNOP answer the following about the Day the Music Died:A. 5 pts.:  Who immortalized the occasion as "the day the music died" in his song " American Pie"?		answer:	Don MacLean [pronounced MacLean]B.  For 5 pts. each, who were the three headliners killed in the plane crash in Clear Lake, IA?answer:	Buddy Holly, Richie Valens (or Ricardo Valenzuela), and The Big Bopper (or J.P. Richardson)C. FTP, what future country star and backup musician for Holly was bumped from the overcrowded plane?answer:	Waylon Jennings13.	Identify these early 20th century female writers on biographical clues for 10 points or works for 5 points:A.	(10) Born in 1905, for many years she lived with Dashiell Hammett.  Ask Charlie to tell you the story about her and Ronald Reagan sometime...  	(5) The Little Foxes and The Children's Hour	answer:	Lillian HELLMANB.	(10) Born in 1874,  this student of William James created verbal cubism	(5) Four Saints in Three Acts and The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklasanswer:	 Gertrude STEINC.	(10) A member of the Bloomsbury Group and relation of Thackeray, she wrote in stream of  consciousness 	(5) To the Lighthouse, Jacob's Room, A Room of One's Own, and Orlandoanswer:	 Virginia WOOLF14. 	Identify these barbarian tribes, FTPE(a) Their raids prompting the construction of Hadrian's wall.  Despite Roman attempts to subdue them, they were not conquered until 850 by Kenneth I, king of Scotland.Answer: Picts(b) Early on they divided into two groups, the Salian and the Ripaurian.  The king of the Salian branch, Clovis founder of the Merovingian dynasty, converted to Christianity in 496, ten years after overthrowing the last Roman governor of Gaul.Answer: Franks(c) Pushed to the Hungarian plain by the Pechenegs, they began raiding Central Europe in the early 10th century until defeated by the Holy Roman Emporer Henry I at Lechfeld in 933.Answer: Magyars15. Characterize the following math questions for fifteen points each. a. In the frequency domain, it lies on only one frequency value with infinite amplitude.  Name this "function" named for a Greek letter.ANSWER: Delta functionb. This type of transformation is used to change a function of time into a function of frequency and can be "fast" or "inverse."ANSWER: Fourier transform16. Henry Clay was a famous 19th Century US politician. Two men bearing his name were important business men near the turn of the Century.A. In 1911 he became President of Standard Oil, in 1928 his Shakespeare library was not secretly replaced for unsuspecting restaurant goers. answer:	Henry Clay FolgerB. He began building and operating Coke ovens in 1870, in 1889 he was made Chairman of Carnegie Bros. and Company. He was stabbed and shot by an anarchist as the result of the Homestead Steel Strike of 1892, but he survived. His art collection is housed in a namesake Washington Gallery.answer:	Henry Clay Frick
17.  SIX future U.S. Presidents served as  Secretary of State. For five points each, name them:answer:	Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, James Monroe, John Quincy Adams, Martin Van Buren, James Buchanan18. Three National Football League teams moved to the American Football Conference when the NFL-AFL merger took place. For 10 points each, name those teams? (accept past or present nickname, and past or present city)answer:	Pittsburgh Steelers, Cleveland Browns (now Baltimore Ravens), Baltimore Colts (now Indianapolis Colts)19. Name these things which may or may not be related for the stated number of points.A. (5) It was created in October 1863 in Geneva, Switzerland, to provide nonpartisan care to the wounded and sick in times of war. answer:	Red Cross (accept The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement)B. (10) This hospital care program has insurance programs throughout the United States, and is the biggest supplier to General Motors.answer:	Blue CrossC. (10) This group has been helping families pre-fund funeral expenses since 1948.answer:	Purple CrossD. (5) This famous speech on monetary policy was given by William Jennings Bryan in 1896.answer:	Cross of Gold20. Time for some elements.  Given an element's symbol or other info name it for the stated number of points. a. [5] MoANSWER: Molybdenumb. [10] PrANSWER: Praseodymiumc. [15] The element formerly known as ColumbiumANSWER: Niobium21.Identify the following famous swords:A. Arthur proved his right to rule by pulling this sword out of a stoneanswer:	ExcaliburB. This obsequious figure was seated by a tired king under a sword suspended by a hair, demonstrating the king's power answer:	Sword of DamoclesC. Once used by Hector, this sword was given to Orlando by Charlemagneanswer:	Durandan (Durandal, Durandana)