TOSSUPS - TEXAS A & M etc.				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	In this book's pivotal scene, the California-born protagonist wins a fight to the death with his vicious rival, Spitz, and becomes leader of the pack.  When the only employer he trusts, John Thornton, is killed by Indians, he heads out on his own and thrives in a lawless wilderness.   He returns each year to the site of Thornton's death, the only remaining vestige of his civilized origins.  FTP name this novel about Buck, whose survival skills reinforce the Darwinian message of the author, Jack London.	Answer:	The Call of the Wild2.	Divided into two broad classes by how they form, they are caused by either the transfer of matter from a main sequence star to its binary white dwarf companion, or the formation of an iron core. The most famous one occurred in 1054-one of seven recorded before the 17th century-and its remnants are visible today as the Crab Nebula. With an absolute magnitude around -15-FTP-name these violently exploding stars.	Answer:	 supernovas or supernovae [do not prompt on "nova"]3.	Between 1880 and 1909, at least five million people were killed or died of starvation, disease, or exhaustion in this African colony known for its rubber industry. The Conference of Berlin deeded it to Leopold II who let his country annex it in 1901. FTP-name this former colony, the subject of Adam Hochschild's King Leopold's Ghost.	Answer:	 Belgian Congo [prompt on "Congo" or "Zaire"]4.	Trained by the legendary Verne Gagne, he made his professional début in 1972; he took a one-year absence after a 1975 plane crash. In 1981, defeating his rival Dusty Rhodes, he won the first of nine titles. A member of the original Four Horsemen and its reincarnations in the NWA, WCW, and WWF, he is known for his trademark "Woo" and his finisher, the figure-four leg lock. FTP-name this wrestler dubbed "Nature Boy."	Answer:	 Ric Flair or Richard Morgan Fliehr [accept Nature Boy on early buzz]5.	Finished in 1897, it earned its author $209. Connecting the title phenomenon to his patients' neuroses, it discusses the phenomenon's double-level nature: it has both a manifest content, or superficial layer, and latent content, a subconscious free association of superficial and symbolic. FTP-name this work by Freud on the psychoanalysis of nocturnal manifestations.	Answer:	 The Interpretation of Dreams6.	Three days before, a Union advance at Blackburn's Ford was repelled. The Southern army used a battle plan modeled on Napoleon's at Austerlitz. The heaviest fighting was at Henry's House Hill where Stonewall Jackson earned his nickname. FTP-name this first major civil war battle, led by Generals Beauregard and McDowell, also known as Manassas Junction.	Answer:	 First Battle of Bull Run [accept First Battle of Manassas Junction on early buzz]7.	While in France, he attended lectures by Henri Bergson and read poetry with Alain-Fournier. His literary criticism was collected in the volume Sacred Wood, and he wrote the drama Sweeney Agonistes, but he is best known for his poetry. FTP-name this author of The Four Quartets and The Waste Land.Answer: T(homas) S(tearns) Eliot8.	It was recognized as a metal as early as the 16th century, but it was thought to be a form of lead or tim.  In 1753 Claud Geoffrey established it was an element, which exhibits more metallic properties than the others of Group Va [FIVE-A].  It's a key component of low-melting alloys such as Wood's metal and in certain insoluble compounds is useful in treating gastric disturbances.  FTP name this, the heaviest stable element.	Answer:	bismuth9.	Made popular by the bhakti movement, the Hindu Vallabhacarya sect is renowned for its devotion to them. Another sect regards the text Adi Granth as a living version of them, and it is only through their guidance that they may attain mokhsa. From the Sanskrit for "venerable," the Sikh line ended in 1708. FTP-name these religious figures who serve as a spiritual teacher or guide, an example of which is Nanak.	Answer:	 Guru(s)
10.	The artist was inspired by a summer neighbor in Maine who was crippled by polio. Set in a cornfield, at the top right is a farmhouse, while a barn occupies the top center. The painting's subject, a girl in a pink dress, is in the lower left center, sitting on the ground, facing inward towards the house. FTP-name this 1948 painting, named for its central figure, by Andrew Wyeth.	Answer:	 Christina's World11.	The name's the same. One is the son of Oileus, king of Locris. After violating Cassandra, and barely surviving a shipwreck and stoning, he was killed by Poseidon. From the blood of the other, the son of the king of Salamis, sprang a red flower bearing on its leaves the first letters of his name. He committed suicide when he failed to win Achilles' armor. FTP-what this name shared by a small but boastful Greek hero and the second most famous warrior of the Trojan war?	Answer:	 Ajax or Aias12.	A smaller freshwater group, the desmids, are often confused with these.  They are most abundant in polar and other cold waters, and many have shells with intricate sculpturing.   Kieselguhr is another name for the material formed by the deposits of their non-decaying shells on the ocean floor.  FTP name these golden-brown unicellular algae, noted for the siliceous material they secrete to form those shells.	Answer:	diatoms13.	Ilya of Murom, one of these people, features prominently in a cycle of bylinas. The 1654 Union of Pereyaslav granted them governmental privileges in exchange for military service. Traditionally led by a hetman, famous examples include Yemelyan Pugachov and Taras Bulba. "Always on the horseback, always ready to fight" is how Pushkin described-FTP-what people native to the hinterlands north of the Black and Caspian Seas?	Answer:	 Cossack(s)14.	Written when its author was just 17, it begins, "To him who in the love of Nature holds/Communion with her visible forms." Influenced by the Graveyard poets, the poem anticipates transcendentalism, rejecting Puritan dogma for Deism. Published in the North American Review in 1817-FTP-name this William Cullen Bryant poem in which every man "shall take/His chamber in the silent halls of death."	Answer:	 "Thanatopsis"15.	The British received it in the 1879 Treaty of Gandamak, and lost it 18 years later. Now covered by a railway, and traditionally controlled by the Pashtun Afridi people, it is formed from a gorge which traverses its namesake hills at the Shadi Bagiar. Used by Darius, Alexander, and Babur as the connection between the Indian sub-continent and the Middle East-FTP-Peshawar and Kabul are connected by what mountain pass?	Answer:	 Khyber Pass16.	After the death of his first wife, an intern 23 years his junior, he married a beauty queen 44 years younger. He first won election to the Senate as a write-in candidate, and holds the record for the longest single-handed filibuster, at 24 hours, 18 minutes. He won 39 electoral votes during his only run for President in 1948 as a Dixiecrat. FTP-name this ancient senator from South Carolina.	Answer:	 (James) Strom Thurmond17.	Before this daughter of a count broke off her engagement, she lashed her fiancé with a whip. Crashing her servant's party, she hounds the valet and later sleeps with him. She admits to her lover that her mother taught her to hate men. Christine, the valet's fiancée, confronts her, saying she won't let her steal her man, Jean-who gives her the razor with which she kills herself. FTP-name this title character of a play by August Strindberg.	Answer:	 Julie [accept Miss Julie] 18.	He demonstrated that arteries carry blood, not air, explained the significance of the pulse, and added greatly to knowledge about the brain and nervous system.  He was physician to the gladiatorial school at Pergamum before he came to Rome, where he served as court physician to Marcus Aurelius.  But he became such an undisputed authority that original research and medical progress were stifled for the next 14 centuries.  FTP name this influential writer and physician of the 2nd century A.D.	Answer:	Galen
19.	The 18-bar melody is first played by the basses, and next by the flute, in this piece, used in 1984 by Torvill and Dean in their Olympic-winning ice-dancing routine. The flute then gives way to the clarinet and bassoon, and various other instruments, until what has been called "the most obvious key change in the history of music" in-FTP-what work by Maurice Ravel?	Answer:	 Boléro20.	In July 2001, state officials in Kansas, New York, Illinois, and Missouri sued her employer for fraud and unlawful business practices. But Access Resource Services stands by its employee, claiming she has been a devoted Shango Shaman in training for over 20 years. Charged with falsely advertising free tarot readings-FTP-name this infamous TV psychic who offers to "find the answers for free" while "keepin' it real."	Answer:	 Miss Cleo [accept Access Resource Services, Inc. on early buzz]21.	Donald McKay of Boston was responsible for the James Baines and Lightning. Characterized by a projecting bow and radically streamlined hull, they carry an exceptionally large spread of sail on three tall masts. Designed to bring the first tea of the season from China, in 1851, the Flying Cloud traveled from New York to San Francisco in a record 89 days. FTP-name this ship of the mid-1800s, the namesake of a woeful basketball franchise.	Answer:	 Clipper ships22.	Its chief executive, Mike Ramsay, recently unveiled a marketing pact with a subsidiary of AT&T, and a licensing pact with Sony that allows for further distribution and implementation of its technology for DVR. But it must fend off a December 2001 lawsuit from its rival, SONICblue, claiming that they own the technology. FTP-name this San Jose-based company whose namesake product allows users to record TV shows without tapes.	Answer:	 TiVo [TEE-voh]23.	He trained under Adam van Noort, Otto van Veen, and Tobias Verhaecht; his first work was Portrait of a Young Man. Hired by the duke of Mantua, he moved to Italy, where he mostly copied Renaissance paintings. At the wedding of France's Henry IV, Henry's wife invited him to France. The artist of Le Coup de Lance, The Hippopotamus Hunt, and The Descent from the Cross-FTP-name this Baroque Flemish master whose name now describes full-figured women.	Answer:	 Peter Paul Rubens [prompt on "Rubenesque"]
BONI - TEXAS A & M etc.				SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	Name the current holder of a position in the Bush administration, for 15 points from the current holder in the Bartlett administration, or for 10 from the office.[15]	C.J. Cregg[10]	Press Secretary		Answer:	 Ari Fleischer[15]	Leo McGarry[10]	Chief of Staff		Answer:	 Andrew Card2.	Name these parts of the ear, FTPE.[10]	These tubes connect the middle ears to the pharynx. They equalize pressure between the ears and the atmosphere, and let you "pop" your ears when changing altitude.		Answer:	 Eustachian tubes[10]	This coiled organ of the inner ear contains an upper vestibular canal and a lower tympanic canal. Its name comes from the Latin for "snail."		Answer:	 cochlea[10]	This small organ on the floor of the cochlear [KAH-klee-ur] duct contains the actual receptor cells for the ear. It is named for an Italian anatomist.		Answer:	 organ of Corti3.	Name the authors of these letters, FTPE.[10]	His Letters Written by a Turkish Spy inaugurated a new genre of European literature. His Persian Letters became the chief representative of the genre.		Answer:	 Charles-Louis de Secondat Montesquieu [MON-teh-skew][10]	In The Drapier's Letter, he prophesied ruin to the Irish if "Wood's half-pence" were admitted into circulation. Later, he proposed a solution for Ireland's famine.		Answer:	 Jonathan Swift[10]	This author's epistolary novel Clarissa was a sequel to another epistolary which started a feud with Henry Fielding.		Answer:	 Samuel Richardson4.	Identify the following phobias which begin with the letter "A" given a description FTSNOP:1) For 5, Fear of heights:	Answer:	  Acrophobia2) For 10, fear of bees:	Answer:	 Apiphobia3) For 15, fear of peanut butter sticking to the roof of one's mouth:	Answer:	 Arachibutyrophobia5.	One critic called them a "detestable nation of Satan that poured out like devils from Tartarus." FTPE.[10]	The critic referred to this east Asian ethnic group as "Tartars."		Answer:	 Mongol(s)[10]	The first great ruler of the Mongols, after his death, the empire was split among his four sons.		Answer:	 Genghis Khan[10]	This grandson of Genghis Khan founded the Khanate [KAH-nate] of Kipchak, better known as the Golden Horde.		Answer:	 Batu Khan
6.	Name these characters from the comic book Spider Man, FTPE.[10]	This is the first and last name of Spider Man's alter ego.		Answer:	 Peter Parker [My physics prof at Yale was named Peter Parker.-Ed.][10]	Norman Osborn became this nemesis of Spidey.		Answer:	 Green Goblin[10]	After three different men used the Green Goblin's secret formula to gain powers, this other villain was created from a modified formula.		Answer:	 Hobgoblin7.	He died after his hair got tangled in a tree. FTPE.[10]	Name this son of David, the namesake of a Faulkner novel.		Answer:	 Absalom [accept Absalom, Absalom!][10]	In Absalom, Absalom!, Thomas, a member of what family, tries to maintain a slave-driven empire on the frontier?		Answer:	 Sutpen[10]	In this allegory based on 2 Samuel, the two title characters represent the earl of Shaftesbury and the duke of Monmouth.		Answer:	 Absalom and Achitophel [uh-KEE-to-fel]8.	Chattanooga is the home of that Southern fast food treasure, the Krystal.  FTPE answer the following about crystals: [10]	In this effect, a crystal converts a mechanical vibration into an electrical signal.		Answer:	 piezoelectric effect [accept word forms][10]	Also called sodium potassium tartrate tetrahydrate, this crystalline solid has a large piezoelectric effect.		Answer:	 Rochelle salt[10]	In 1883 this future Nobel laureate discovered the piezoelectric effect.		Answer:	 Pierre Curie  (prompt on Curie)9.	FTPE answer the following about a princely family of Europe: a)  The ancestral seat was an impressive Swabian castle in the Black Forest.  In 1170 Conrad of this family was appointed burgrave of Nuremberg; the family ruled part or all of Germany from then till 1918.	Answer:	Hohenzollernb)  Building on the unification of the Hohenzollerns' lands by the "great elector" Frederick William, this man was crowned first King of Prussia in 1701 and recognized as king by the Peace of Utrecht in 1713. 	Answer:	Frederick (or Friedrich) I   	[NOT Frederick the Great]c)  Thanks largely to his prime minister, Otto von Bismarck, this Hohenzollern who became king of Prussia in 1861 defeated Austria and France and in 1871 was proclaimed king of a united Germany.	Answer:	William (or Wilhelm) I10.	Name the American artist from works, FTPE:[10]	Daniel Boone Coming Through the Cumberland Gap; The Jolly Flatboatmen		Answer:	 George Caleb Bingham[10]  North American Indian Portfolio; Portrait of Buffalo Bull's Back Fat, Head Chief, Blood Tribe		Answer:	 George Catlin[10]	Persephone; Wreck of Ole 97; murals for the New School for Social Research and the Truman Library		Answer:	 Thomas Hart Benton11.	Name these not-so-happy novels set in Louisiana, FTPE.[10]	In this Ernest Gaines novel, Jefferson, a young black man, is mistakenly set to be executed Wiggins, a plantation schoolteacher, visits him in prison.		Answer:	 A Lesson Before Dying[10]	In this 1899 Kate Chopin work, Edna Pontillier has an affair with Robert LeGrun; ultimately, she commits suicide.		Answer:	 The Awakening[10]	In this 1961 Walker Percy novel, the alienated Binx Bolling looks for the meaning of life first in the title activity, and then an affair.		Answer:	The Moviegoer
12.	Name these terms from the US Constitution, FTPE.[10]	Congress cannot pass these laws which cause convicted felons to forfeit their property.		Answer:	 bills of attainder[10]	Congress can grant these letters to privateers or mercenaries, allowing them to legally retaliate against another nation via seizures or border incursions.		Answer:	 letters of marque[10]	Congress cannot pass these laws making actions illegal retroactively.		Answer:	 ex post facto laws13.	Ares and Mars are both gods of war. FTP-give the common element of the following pairs of deities, FTPE.[10]	Enki and Njord			Answer:	 water or sea or ocean [accept equivalents][10]	Agni, Ho-Musubi			Answer:	 fire[10]	Priapus, Kokopelli		Answer:	 fertility [prompt on "sex"; do not prompt on "love"]14.	Name these Mediterranean islands, FTPE.[10]	This French territory is separated from its neighbor by the Strait of Bonifacio.		Answer:	 Corsica or La Corse[10]	This Tyrrhenian Sea island at the entrance of the Gulf of Naples is famous for its Blue Grotto cave.		Answer:	 Capri[10]	Also called Mitilíni or Pentapolis, this is the third-largest Aegean island, after Crete and Euboea [yoo-BEE-uh].		Answer:	 Lesbos or Lésvos15.	Name these soap operas, FTPE.[10]	Set in Springfield, Kim Zimmer plays Reva Shayne Lewis Lewis Spaulding Lewis Cooper Lewis.		Answer:	 (The) Guiding Light[10]	Set in Pine Valley, Erica Kane Martin Brent Cudahy Chandler Montgomery Marick Marick is played by Susan Lucci.		Answer:	 All My Children[10]	Hope Williams Welch Brady, played by Kristin Alfonso, lives in Salem on this soap.		Answer:	 Days of Our Lives16.	Given a value used in physics, identify its corresponding symbol for 5 points and its common name for another 5:6.626 * 10-34 joule second	Answer:	 h [5], Planck's constant [5]1.602 * 10-19 coulomb	Answer:	 e [5], electron charge [5]4p * 10-7 Henry per meter	Answer:	 m0 (mu nought) [5], permeability of free space [5]17.	Name these doubly-sponsored Congressional acts, FTPE:[10]	In this 1864 bill, Radical Republicans and others in Congress tried to set Reconstruction policy before the Civil War ended.		Answer:	 Wade-Davis Bill[10]	This 1878 act provided for a limited resumption of the coinage of silver dollars.		Answer:	 Bland-Allison Act[10]	This 1947 bill, officially the Labor-Management Relations Act, preserved the rights of labor to organize and bargain collectively, and the rights of employees not to join unions.		Answer:	 Taft-Hartley Act
18.	Name these works by Anton Chekhov from characters on a 15-5 basis.[15]	Alexander Serebrakov, Michael Astrov[5]	Vanya Voitski		Answer:	 Uncle Vanya or Dyadya Vanya[15]	Andrey Prozorov, Natasha Ivanovna[5]	Olga, Masha, and Irina Prozorovna		Answer:	 Three Sisters or Tri sestry19.	Pencil and paper ready. Consider the following terms: open, closed, bounded, dense, compact, separable. FTPE, which of these terms describes set A, a subset of a metric space, if:[10]	Every limit point of A is in A?		Answer:	 closed[10]	A is closed and bounded?		Answer:	 compact[10]	Every point in the metric space is a limit point in A?		Answer:	 dense20.	He was a chorister in the Chapel Royal until his voice broke in 1673. FTPE.[10]	Name this British composer of Dido and Aeneas.		Answer:	 Henry Purcell[10]	Purcell, and Benjamin Britten, both wrote works honoring this woman, now considered the patron saint of music.		Answer:	 (Saint) Cecilia [accept Hail, Bright Cecilia or Hymn to Saint Cecilia][10]	Britten also drew on Purcell's music for the play Abdelazer in his Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Henry Purcell, which is much better known by this name.		Answer:	 A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra, Op. 3421.	Name these words that are or were thought to be eponyms, FTPE. [HN: accept word forms][10]	These close-fitting garments are named after a 19th century French acrobat.		Answer:	 leotard(s)[10]	This word from pompous talk is not derived from a middle name of Paracelsus, but rather from a term for cotton wool used as padding.		Answer:	 bombast(ic)[10]	A person who quibbles or fusses, or an unethical lawyer, this term may be derived, in part, from a 15th century German merchant family.		Answer:	 pettifogger22.	Name these works with interrogatory titles, FTPE.[10]	Pierre Proudhon answers the title question with a single word: "theft."		Answer:	 What is Property?[10]	This Edward Albee play is centered around George, Martha, Nick, and Honey.		Answer:	 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?[10]	This sequel to Regis Philbin's I'm Only One Man came out after the phenomenal success of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?		Answer:	 Who Wants to Be ME? 23.	Answer these questions about Bride of the Wind, FTPE.[10]	Bride of the Wind is the title of a 2001 movie about this oft-married woman, Kokoschka's muse.		Answer:	 Alma Mahler or Schindler or Werfel or Gropius[10]	Which Expressionist painter painted The Bride of the Wind, a self-portrait of himself with Alma Mahler?		Answer:	 Oskar Kokoschka[10]	Bride of the Wind is also known by this title, which it shares with a Shakespeare play.		Answer:	 The Tempest