TOSSUPS - MARYLAND etc.				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Maryland's Phil Durkos, Brad Houston, Eric Newman, Casey Retterer, and Sandeep Vahesan with strays from Bucknell, Florida, North Carolina, Rutgers-Newark, and UTC's John Kilby1.	This battle, the subject of a poem by G. K. Chesterton, ended with the defeat of Scirocco's fleet by Barbarigo's galleys.  A turning point occurred when the opposing side's flagship was boarded and its admiral beheaded, against the will of Don John of Austria, who led the Christian forces against Ali Pasha and the Turkish fleet.  FTP name this 1571 battle in which Cervantes was wounded and the Ottoman empire effectively lost control over the Mediterranean.	Answer:	Battle of Lepanto2.	From his blood sprung forth the Gigantes, Erinyes, and Meliar and in some versions of the myth Aphrodite came from his testicles when they dropped into the sea. The vasectomy was retribution for throwing the Hecatonchires and Cyclopes in Tartarus. For ten points, name this god of the sky, husband of Gaia and father of the Titans. 	Answer:	Uranus3.	International competitions feature a 35-second shot clock and seven-minute quarters. There are six field positions, plus a goalie, the only player who can cherry pick or touch the ball with both hands. In the US, the term "eggbeater" is used to describe the back and forth motion of players' legs. The goals are just one meter high and three meters wide in-for 10 points-what stamina-demanding sport played in pools at least 1.8 meters deep?	Answer:	water polo [do not prompt on "polo"]4.	Following his graduation from the University of Leeds in Britain he returned to his native country and in 1960 founded the Masks drama troupe, later the Orisun Theater.  Following his solitary confinement for two years during the Nigerian civil war, he went on to write A Play of Giants and Death and the King's Horseman.  For ten points, name this African dramatist who also wrote A Dance of the Forests and Kongi's Harvest.	Answer:	Wole Soyinka5.	He graduated from the Stevens Institute of Technology in 1919, and served fireman on a steamship until 1923, when a sunset inspired him to move to New York and join the Art Student's League. A recent exhibition at the [*] Phillips Collection in Washington, DC explored his relationship with Joan Miro mostly through his traditional sculpture, but, for ten points, what artist is better known for his wire Circus and his many mobiles?	Answer:	Alexander "Sandy" Calder6.	Atoms of gold have been observed to undergo an analogous phenomenon of approximately equal magnitude. Normally it requires a pair of highly electronegative elements, such as fluorine, nitrogen, and oxygen. It lets ice float on top of water, as water become less dense as it solidifies. For 10 points-name this intermolecular force, the result of partial electric charges of opposite polarity in molecules with a highly electronegative atom and the namesake element.	Answer:	hydrogen bonding [accept word forms]7.	"Troy Town" and "The House of Life" demonstrate his mystical, meticulously detailed poetic style. Heavily indebted to the ballad form, he depicted the Annunciation in Ecce Ancilla Domini, one of his many paintings; he also excelled in translations, such as that of François Villon's "The Ballad of Dead Ladies." For 10 points-name this poet of "The Portrait" and "The Blessed Damozel," a core member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.	Answer:	Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Dante Rossetti]8.	James Madison called it "confessedly unjust." Alexander Hamilton said it "shocks every human feeling." Gunning Bedford, Jr., of Delaware defended himself by asking, "Can it be expected that the small states will act from pure disinterestedness? Are we to act with greater purity than the rest of mankind?" Initiated by Roger Sherman, this was-for 10 points-what crucial agreement that made state representation in the House, but not the Senate, population-dependent?	Answer:	Connecticut Compromise [or Great Compromise]
9.	It was formerly known as "mongolism" because of the "similarities" between people with it and Mongolians. These characteristics include extra folds of skin under the eyes, a small skull and [*] a flattened nose bridge. Another aspect of it is mild to severe learning disability. For ten points, identify this birth defect occurring in about 1 in 800 births worldwide in which a person inherits all or part of an extra copy of chromosome 21.	Answer:	Down Syndrome10.	This nation achieved independence from Spain in 1821 and from the Central American Federation in 1842. It is known as the Land of Volcanoes because of its destructive earthquakes, volcanic activity and hurricanes. A bloody 12-year civil war ended in 1992 with the signing of Chapultepec Peace Accords. FTP name this smallest Central American country bordering Guatemala and Honduras, the only one without a coastline on Caribbean Sea.	Answer:	El Salvador11.	They appear to recur in cycles of 33 years; the most recent peak came in 2001. That 33-year cycle corresponds to the period of the orbit of comet Tempel-Tuttle. Taking place around November 17 every year, it seems to originate from its namesake constellation, the zodiac constellation for August 1. For 10 points-name this "feline" meteor shower.	Answer:	Leonid(s)12.	An oboe solo signaling the beginning of the foreign troops' incursion. Excerpts from the enemy's national anthem are heard between folk tunes before descending arpeggios suggest the descent of winter. "God Save the Tsar" comes in as church bells chime, and the famous cannon are finally heard in, for ten points, what Tchaikovsky piece commemorating the Russian repulsion of Napoleon's Grand Army?	Answer:	"1812" Overture in E Flat Major, Opus 4913.	In one scene the title character explains to his protégé that passion is a scalar quantity, but a virtue nevertheless. At times more didactic than narrative, it's the story of a tyrannized schoolboy, Emil Sinclair, who learns, in a letter from the title character, of the synthesis of good and evil in the form of the devil-god Abraxas. For 10 points-name this 1919 book about the mysterious title character Max, the first major novel by Hermann Hesse.	Answer:	Demian [The title character is Max Demian.]14.	As a young man he fought under Chief Red Cloud, who was victorious against U.S. troops in Wyoming. When gold was discovered in the Black Hills region in 1874 and prospectors swarmed the area, he joined forces with Gall and Sitting Bull. He surrendered in 1877 but was killed by a U.S. soldier, allegedly while trying to escape. FTP, name this chief of the Oglala Sioux, who with his warriors defeated and killed Custer at Little Bighorn. 	Answer:	 Crazy Horse15.	While at the University of Indiana, he invented the Air-(*)Crib, a germ free container that he put forth as the optimal environment for infants and his namesake box is used by pharmaceutical companies to observe the reactions of animals on drugs.  He formulated the principals of programmed learned while teaching animals complex tasks, such as teaching pigeons to play table tennis.  FTP, name this proponent of behaviorism, author of Science and Human Behavior and Walden Two.	Answer:	B(urrus) F(rederic) Skinner16.	His image was once placed opposite church doors to protect viewers from harm. Once a prominent figure in Catholic theology, in 1969 he was removed from the liturgical calendar. Invoked to prevent earthquakes, floods, and fires, he is best known for carrying a child across a river; that child turned out to be Jesus in disguise, with the weight of the world in his hands. For 10 points-name this patron saint of children and travelers.	Answer:	Saint Christopher17.	The output of these devices can be made discontinuous using techniques such as Q-switching, modelocking, or gain-switching.  The first one was built by Theodore Maiman in 1960.  It used a short ruby rod surrounded by a helical gaseous flashtube.  Practical uses include everything from thermonuclear fusion to transportation guidance to vision correction.  FTP, this is what kind of device which amplifies light by stimulated emission of radiation?	Answer:	Laser (Accept light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation before mentioned)
18.	Before enrolling in college in 1919, this author briefly served in the Royal Air Force, an experience which he routinely exaggerated, but which also provided the inspiration for his first published novel, Soldiers' Pay. After dabbling in poetry, he turned to fiction, creating the diverse characters of the fictional town of Jefferson in Yoknapatawpha County. FTP, what Southern writer penned such classics as As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury?	Answer:	 William Faulkner19.	He speaks six languages, English, French, Hindi, Pushtu, Dari and Urdu, and has been active in his country's politics since 1983. At a Loya Jirga he was urged to become the interim leader of the Transitional Administration, and now he is the first democratically elected leader of his country. For ten points, name this man sworn in December 7, 2004 as the president of Afghanistan.	Answer:	Hamid Karzai20.	As of December 2004, it was ranked as the 596,394,332nd best thing that ever happened to humanity. Premiering September 2, 2001, it originally only aired Sunday nights with reruns on Thursdays but now it runs Saturdays through Thursdays from 11pm-2am with encores from 2-5am.  For ten points, name the late night programming block on Cartoon Network that includes Home Movies, Sealab 2021, Cowboy Bebop, and Inuyasha.	Answer:	Adult Swim21.	The shallower northern and southern portions of it are important fishing areas, but some parts have a depth of more than 10,000 feet. A branch of a warm current flows northeast through it and makes Vladivostok the only ice-free port of eastern Russia.  For ten points, name this 405,000 square mile sea, also known as the East Sea, that connects with the East China Sea, the Pacific Ocean, and the Sea of Okhotsk through several straits.	Answer:	Sea of Japan (accept East Sea before it is given)22.   The Camera Never Blinks was an early autobiography by this graduate of Sam Houston State Teachers College.  March 9, 2005, will be his last broadcast in the position he took over 24 years ago from Walter Cronkite; however, he has asserted that he will continue to work as a correspondent for the investigative reporting of "60 Minutes 2." This kind of reporting got him in trouble when he used allegedly fake documents about President Bush's National Guard service.  For ten points, identify this longtime anchor of the "CBS Evening News."	Answer:	Dan Rather23.	This unit is equivalent to 0.293 watt-hours or 1055 joules. Its original definition -- the quantity of heat required to raise 1 lb of water 1 degree Fahrenheit at 1 atmosphere of pressure -- was not accurate enough, so it was changed. For ten points, name this non-metric measure of heat, which the average person emits 50 of every hour.	Answer:	BTU (British Thermal Unit)
BONI - MARYLAND etc.					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Maryland's Phil Durkos, Brad Houston, Eric Newman, Casey Retterer, and Sandeep Vahesan with strays from Bucknell, Florida, North Carolina, Rutgers-Newark, and UTC's John Kilby1.	Name these things you'll find underneath the skull, 10 points each.[10]	Communication between the two hemispheres of the brain is enabled by this structure made of contralateral axon projections.		Answer:	corpus callosum [KOR-pus kuh-LOH-sum][10]	Located in the frontal lobe, this area of the cerebrum named for an anthropologist is an integral part of speech production; a nonfluent aphasia results from damage to it.		Answer:	Broca's area[10] 	This outermost of the three protective membranes between the brain and the cranium is also the toughest and thickest.		Answer:	dura mater2.	Identify the following about the SpongeBob SquarePants movie for ten points each.[10] He appears as himself in a self-deprecating cameo.  SpongeBob and Patrick later tell others that they rode him.	Answer:	David Hasselhoff (also "The Hasselhoff")[10] The crown of this ruler, voiced by Jeffrey Tambor is stolen, which prompts SpongeBob and Patrick's quest.	Answer:	Neptune[10] To the surprise of no one who watches the show, this owner of the Chumbucket was the real culprit, not Mr. Krabs.	Answer:	Sheldon J. Plankton3.	Given the year it won the Pulitzer Prize for drama and some details about it, name the Eugene O'Neill work for the stated number of points.[5] 1920: it focuses on fruitless dreams of a farm family	Answer:	Beyond the Horizon[10] 1921: a noble prostitute is the title character	Answer:	Anna Christie[10] 1928: it follows the life of a woman from daughter to wife to mother	Answer:	Strange Interlude[5] 1956: O'Neill's most autobiographical work	Answer:	Long Day's Journey Into Night4.	Given a 20th century assassin, name their victim FTPE; if you need the city and year, you'll get only 5 pts.a)  10 pts.: James Earl Ray confessed and was convicted, but recanted later.       5 pts.: Memphis, 1968	Answer:	Martin Luther King, Jr.b)  10 pts.: Dr. Carl Weiss, the son-in-law of a political opponent.       5 pts.: Baton Rouge, 1935	Answer:	Huey Pierce Longc)  10 pts.: A group of gunmen disguised as soldiers, five of whom were executed a year later.       5 pts.: Cairo, 1981       Answer: 	Anwar (al-) Sadat5.	Name the artist from works on a 10-5 basis.[10]	L.H.O.O.Q.[5]	Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2		Answer:		Henri-Robert-Marcel Duchamp[10]	The films Blue Movie, Lonesome Cowboys and The Nude Restaurant.[5]	Portraits of Elvis, Marilyn Monroe, and Campbell's soup cans		Answer:		Andy Warhol (or Andrew Warhola)[10]	Composition VIII No. 260 and Composition X[5]	Yellow, Red, Blue and The Blue Rider	Answer:		Wassily Kandinksy
6.	Identify the following hydrocarbons from their molecular formulas FTPE or an application for 5 points.[10] C4H10[5] It is used as fuel for lighters and portable stoves.	Answer:	Butane[10] C3H8[5] Fueling backyard grills and providing Hank Hill a job.	Answer:	Propane[10] C8H18[5] Use in gasoline rating.	Answer:	Octane7.	Identify the following American poets from works on a 5-5-10-10 basis.[5] Poem 712, commonly called "Because I Could Nor Stop For Death."	Answer:	Emily Dickinson[5] "Fire and Ice" and "Birches"	Answer:	Robert Frost[10] "The Colored Soldiers", "Douglass" and "Sympathy"	Answer:	Paul Lawrence Dunbar[10] "To the King's Most Excellent Majesty" and "To the University of Cambridge in New England" 	Answer:	Phillis Wheatley8.	FTPE, answer the following about a Native American tribe.[10] Extending from the eastern shore of Narragansett Bay to the western end of Cape Cod, members of which tribe were kidnapped by Thomas Hunt in 1614 and sold to Spanish monks?	Answer:	Wampanoag or Massasoit or Pokanoket[10] The Wampanoag maintained peaceful relations with Europeans until what leader began enlisting neighboring tribes to slow English expansion in the late 1600s?	Answer:	King Philip or Metacomet or Wewesawanit[10] What title did the Wampanoag give to their "kings" such as Philip?	Answer:	Grand Sachem9.	It's been a while since a good music theory bonus; unfortunately, this one does not break that trend. For ten points each, given the number of sharps or flats, identify the key.[10] Three sharps	Answer:	A major (also F-sharp minor, prompt on partial answers, e.g. "A")[10] Three flats	Answer:	E-flat major (or C minor)[10] One flat	Answer:	F major (or D minor)10.	Name these participants in that staple of NFL Films, the Immaculate Reception, FTSNOP:[5-5] For five points each, name the two teams involved in the Immaculate Reception.	Answer:	Pittsburgh Steelers and Oakland Raiders (either part of either name is acceptable)[5] The Steelers quarterback who threw the pass.	Answer:	Terry Bradshaw[5] The Steelers running back who caught the ball off his shoe and ran it in for a touchdown.	Answer:	Franco Harris[10] For a final 10, name either the intended receiver, or the Raiders safety who hit him and caused the ball to ricochet.	Answer:	either John "Frenchy" Fuqua or Jack Tatum
11.	He denied the reality of change on the ground that things either exist or don't exist. 10 points each.[10]	Name this founder of the Eleatic [eh-lee-AT-ik] school of philosophy.		Answer:	Parmenides [par-MEH-nih-deez][10]	This disciple of Parmenides used a series of paradoxes to show that common-sense notions of reality were indefensible.		Answer:	Zeno of Elea[10]	This other follower of Parmenides systematized the school and commanded the Samian fleet that defeated the Athenians off the coast of Samos in 442 BC.		Answer:	Melissus of Samos12.	Answer the following about functions important to quantum mechanics for 10 points each.[10] This function has the property that it is equal to infinity at one point and its integral over all real numbers is 1.	Answer:	delta function (also accept Dirac function)[10] This equation describes the time-dependence of quantum systems won its namesake Austrian physicist the 1933 Nobel Prize.	Answer:	Schrödinger wave equation[10] This constant, symbolized h, is essential to the Schrödinger wave equation and is equal to about 6.626 x 10-34 Joule-seconds	Answer:	Planck's constant13.	Name the Moliere plays from plot summaries, for 10 points each.[10] The titular religious hypocrite attaches himself to a well-off family until his double standards are exposed.	Answer:	Tartuffe[10] Alceste is the title character who is in love with Célimene and believes that people should be completely honest at all times.	Answer:	The Misanthrope[10] Jourdain attempts to fit into upper class society where he never can.	Answer:	The Would-be Gentleman (or Le bourgeois gentilhomme)14.	Name these ancient Egyptians, 10 points each.[10]  Several pharaohs of the 19th & 20th dynasties bore this name, though the first ruled for only a single year in 1314 BC.		Answer:	Ramses or Ramesses[10]	Amenhotep IV was the original name of this pharaoh who ruled from about 1353 to 1335 BC.		Answer:	Akhenaton or Ikhnatun[10]	This chief wife of Akhenaton ruled as nearly co-equals with her husband.		Answer:	Nefertiti15.	Children's authors from works on a 10/5 basis.[10] The Night Kitchen[5] Where the Wild Things Are	Answer:	Maurice Sendak[10] The Garden of Abdul Gasazi[5] The Polar Express	Answer:	Chris Van Allsburg[10] The Silver Chair[5] The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Answer:	Clive Staples Lewis16.	Answer the following about optics for the stated number of points[10] Symbolized by n, it is the factor by which light is slowed down inside a medium.	Answer:	Refractive index[5/5] For a general material, n equals the square root of the quantity epsilon times mu. For five points each, in order, identify what epsilon and mu are.	Answer:	(respectively) dielectric constant (also permittivity) and permeability of free space[10] The angle of refraction between two materials can be calculated if both indexes are known by this law.	Answer:	Snell's law
17.	Name these figures from the fight for Indian independence, 10 points each.[10]	This son of a wealthy Kashmiri lawyer became the first prime minister of an independent India.		Answer:		Jawaharlal Nehru[10]	He led the movement for a separate homeland for India's Muslims, which led to the creation of Pakistan, where he was the first governor-general.		Answer:		Mohammed Ali Jinnah[10]	This founder of the Indian National Army rejected Gandhi's non-violent approach and believed an alliance with the Axis powers would help free India from British rule.		Answer:		Subhas Chandra Bose18.	Name these Belgian cities on a 15-10 basis.[15]	The sixth largest city in Belgium, it is a municipality and capital of the province of West Flanders.[10]	The supposed birthplace of Dr. Evil, it is sometimes called the "Venice of the North."		Answer:		Bruges [brooj][15]	It lies on the Scheldt River and contains one of the world's oldest and most famous zoos.[10]	Belgium's second-largest city, it is the center of Belgium's diamond industry, and its busiest port.		Answer:		Antwerp19.	Name the author from works, 30-20-10.[30] The Gypsy Ballads and The Shoemaker's Prodigious Wife.[20] Poet in New York and Yerma.[10] Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba.	Answer:	 Federico García Lorca [prompt on Garcia or Lorca]20.	FTPE, answer these questions about a mathematical concept.[10] The contour integral of a meromorphic function in the complex plane can be computed by summing what quantity for all singularities inside the contour and multiplying the result by 2*pi*i [two pi eye]?	Answer:	residue[10] The residue theorem generalizes the integral theorem and integral formula proved by what French mathematician?	Answer:	Augustin Louis Cauchy[10] Pencil and paper ready.  If a closed contour in the complex plane encircles the origin twice in a clockwise direction, what is the result of integrating the function 1+z along this contour?	Answer:	zero (note: no calculation is actually needed)21.	Identify the Nobel Prize winning economist from the year he won and the reason cited by the Bank of Sweden, for the stated number of points.[10] 1976; "for his achievements in the fields of consumption analysis, monetary history and theory and for his demonstration of the complexity of stabilization policy."	Answer:	Milton Friedman[10] 1985; "for his pioneering analyses of saving and of financial markets."	Answer:	Franco Modigliani[10] 1991; "for his discovery and clarification of the significance of transaction costs and property rights for the institutional structure and functioning of the economy."	Answer:	Ronald Coase22.	Identify the following concerning the Jameson raid for the stated number of points.[10] This man who endowed an eponymous scholarship at Oxford orchestrated the raid to prevent Boer-domination of the English expatriate workers or Uitlanders in Transvaal.	Answer:	Cecil Rhodes[10] Upon repulsion of the raid, Kaiser Wilhelm II provocatively sent this congratulatory message to the namesake Boer leader that inflamed anti-German sentiment in Britain.	Answer:	Kruger Telegram[10] This British colonial secretary and father of two noted political leaders was horrified by the raid and disavowed himself of any responsibility for Jameson's actions.	Answer:	Joseph Chamberlain