TOSSUPS - ROUND 1		 			SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Washington University in St. Louis (Sean Phillips, Matt Schneider, Jonathan Phair, David Kanon, Roman Garnett, Jamie Doenges, Mike Tolles, and Navin Mahadevan) with a few from Delaware and DePauwEDITOR'S NOTE: Major thanks to Samer Ismail of Penn Bowl and Tom Deaton of Dalton College for sharing material from their respective tournaments this weekend; to freelance contributors from DePauw and Iowa State; and to assistant TD Steve Taylor, for associate editorship above and beyond the call of duty.1.	 About 95% of people who encounter the mycobacterium that causes this disease never become infected. On average, it takes 5-7 years for people to develop symptoms, which has also been found in the armadillo. Also called Hansen's disease, this is-for 10 points-what ancient disease which once caused many of its victims to be ostracized?	Answer:	leprosy [accept Hansen's disease on early buzz]2.	 Their 2001 album Crown Royal featured appearances from Sugar Ray, Fred Durst, Kid Rock, and others. It will definitely be the last album released in the lifetime of all its members, as Jason Mizell was recently murdered. Known for their phat rhymes and adidas sneakers, this is-for 10 points-what rap group known for their song "It's Tricky" and a remake of Aerosmith's "Walk This Way?"	Answer:	Run DMC3.	 Its distinctive characters include wheelwright Mr. Hubble and church clerk Mr. Wopsle, who are introduced at a Christmas party hosted by Mr. and Mrs. Joe Gargery. The main action begins, though, when the protagonist gets a job visiting a wealthy matron and her adopted daughter Estella. For 10 points-name this Dickens novel in which Miss Havisham teaches Stella to break the heart of Pip.	Answer:	Great Expectations4.	 He was inducted onto the St. Louis Walk of Fame in May 1992. The year before, NASA named a new gamma-ray observatory after him, probably impressed by his work exhibiting the particle nature of x-rays. In his lab at Washington University, he discovered that when graphite scattered x-rays, their energy decreased. For 10 points-identify this 1927 Nobel Laureate in Physics, for whom this effect is named.	Answer:	Arthur Holly Compton5.  Taking over two years to negotiate, it was concluded largely thanks to Count Maximilian von Trautmansdorff.  Affirming the 1555 Peace of Augsburg, it reversed Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II's Edict of Restitution in 1629, thus allowing for greater religious toleration.  FTP, what is this 1648 treaty that ended the Thirty Years' War?	Answer:	 Treaty (or Peace) of Westphalia6.	 It covers 800,000 acres of land, containing mesas, mountains, limestone ridges, and cliffs that formed about 150 million years ago when shallow seas covered the area. Designated a US Biosphere Reserve in 1976, it became a national park in June 1944. For 10 points-what is this national park in southwest Texas named for its most prominent feature, found in the Rio Grande?	Answer:	Big Bend National Park7.	 It holds that "the sage manages affairs without doing anything, and conveys his teachings without the use of speech." Speculation abounds about whether its author really existed. Reiterating the concept of yin and yang-for 10 points-what book, whose title literally means "the classic of the way of virtue," was written around 500 BC by Lao Tzu?	Answer:	Tao Te Ching	["tao" pronounced "dow".  Do NOT accept I Ching - that's something else entirely]8.  She was supposedly the goddess to whom the Eleusinian Mysteries were dedicated.  The story goes that she came to Eleusis as a caretaker for the for the baby prince of the city.  She tries to make the child immortal by feeding him ambrosia and hides him from his parents in fire, but when discovered becomes angry and leaves the city.  For ten points, name this Greek agriculture goddess, best known as being the grieving mother of Persephone.	Answer:	 Demeter
9.	 He leaves a party and ends up looking at Chester McKee's photographs while Chester is wearing nothing but his underwear. Despite this interesting encounter, we're given the impression he prefers women-or, at least, the somewhat mannish Jordan Baker. Perhaps his most interesting relationship was with a rich former flame of his cousin, Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points-name this narrator of The Great Gatsby.	Answer:	Nick Carraway [accept either]10..  In July, she lost in the second round of the Britannic Asset Management championship in Eastbourne to Daniela Hantuchova.  She entered that tournament as part of a bet with her trainer who believed that she and her partner Natasha Zvereva could win the doubles title in Madrid. That win gave her 166 career doubles titles.  FTP, who is this tennis player whose nine Wimbledon singles titles are the most ever won by any player?	Answer:	  Martina Navratilova11..  By late October 1944, this attack was planned, but it was not until March of the following year that Admiral Raymond A. Spruance's 5th was in position.  Code-named Operation Iceberg, the invasion commenced on April 1 and left 12,000 Americans and 107,000 Japanese dead, most sealed into underground caves.  Located between Japan's southernmost island Kyushu and what is now Taiwan, FTP, name this battle, the last and bloodiest of the Pacific theater of World War II.	Answer:	  Okinawa12.	 His inheritance was cut off after he was expelled from Oxford and eloped with 16-year-old Harriet Westbrook. It was after remarrying in 1816 that he began publishing his best-known works, including Hymn to Intellectual Beauty and The Revolt of Islam. One of his most famous works details the decrepit statue of Ramses II in "Ozymandias." For 10 points-name this close friend of Lord Byron who penned Prometheus Unbound.	Answer:	Percy Bysshe Shelley13.	 He was sued for libel when he called a Baltimore ship owner a "highway robber and a murderer." His sentence did not deter him, however, and in 1831 the Tappan brothers gave him the financial means to espouse his controversial views in print. In Boston, he founded the New England Anti-Slavery Society and published editorials until 1865, when the need for abolitionist literature ended. For 10 points-name this publisher of the Liberator.	Answer:	  William Lloyd Garrison14. 	Defined as the ratio of the focal length of a lens to the effective diameter of its aperture, this quantity has confused would-be photographers for over a centaury.  When used effectively, altering its value can enhance a composition by changing the depth of field.  FTP, identify this camera setting that along with the shutter speed, controls the amount of light that reaches the film.	Answer:	  f-stop (accept f-number)15.	The object of wealthy suitor George Murchison's affections doesn't take a similar shine to him; she prefers the company of foreign student Joseph Asagai [uh-SAH-gye]. Meanwhile, her brother Walter loses her money for medical school, nearly forcing him to give up the house his mother bought in Clybourne Park, an all-white neighborhood they wish to integrate in-for 10 points-what play by Lorraine Hansberry?	Answer:	A Raisin in the Sun16.	 The Chinese called it the "White Tiger" or the "Great Bridge." The Hyades [HYE-uh-deez] make up its head, while its brightest star, Aldebaran [al-DEH-buh-RAN], forms its eye. Also containing the Pleiades [PLEE-uh-deez] and the Crab Nebula is-for 10 points-what zodiac constellation that could be called "bullish?"	Answer:	Taurus17.	He has won 15 Grammys and appeared in Woody Allen's Everyone Says I Love You. In 1986, Reagan awarded him the Medal of Liberty. Over the years, he has performed around the world with various orchestras-and with Billy Joel, despite having had polio as a child. For 10 points-name this violinist who appeared in the first concert in Russia ever given by the Israel Philharmonic.	Answer:	Itzhak Perlman
18.	The larger idea came out of the president's War of Poverty, declared a year earlier.  Then came the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which committed the federal government to help local school districts.  The National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities were created and the Department of Housing and Urban development became a cabinet level office.  FTP, these innovations as well as Medicare all came out of what plan by Lyndon Johnson?	Answer:	Great Society19.  Taking its name from a 1973 incident, the counterintuitive behaviors that have resulted from it include defense testimony and jail visits. Birgitta Lundbladh, Sven Säfström, and Elisabeth Oldgren were the initially identified cases but this condition has been variously assigned to cult members, prostitutes working under pimps, battered wives, and famously Patty Hearst. For 10 points-name this condition in which a hostage becomes supportive of his or her captor, named for the location of the bank that Jan-Erik Olsson robbed.	Answer:	Stockholm Syndrome [do not accept "Helsinki Syndrome" no matter how many ways a negged contestant whines. It is mistakenly known as that, and even Die Hard and the X-Files have mistakenly called it that]20.  If the intermolecular forces between molecules of 2 intermixed solutions are greater than the intramolecular forces between the molecules of either solution, then the vapor pressure of the mixture will be lower than predicted by this law.  Conversely, if the intramolecular attractions are greater than the intermolecular ones, then the vapor pressure of the mixed solution will be higher.  FTP, name this law which states that the vapor pressure of the mixture is a function of the vapor pressures of the individual components and their mole fractions.	Answer:	 Raoult's Law21.	According to this faith, it is the most recent of religions.  A monotheistic religion, it seeks to "bring about the oneness of humanity."  This religion also states that the spiritual truth of all religions is the same.  FTP, name this religion, founded by Mírzá 'Alí Muhammad, known as the Báb, whose adherents follow the edicts of Bahá'u'lláh, his student.	Answer:	 Ba'hai faith22.	It included the first national amateur softball championship and the introduction of the dishwasher from the precursor of KitchenAid. With the largest contribution by [*] Heinz, this event gave us the term Midway, the name given to exhibits on a strip of land near Lake Michigan that probably included the first ferris wheel. For 10 points--name this event that celebrated the 400th anniversary of Columbus' discovery of America.	Answer:	World Columbian Exposition or 1893 Chicago World's Fair or Chicago International Exposition (accept reasonable equivalents)23.	Aphorism 21 of Book 2 lists several intendeed topics to which the author enver got around. Things Book 2 does go into include Forms, which are distinguishable through the use of Tables and Arrangements of Instances. Book 1 describes flase methods that prevent the impartial study of nature known as the four Idols. For 10 points-name this work on the philosophy of science by Francis Bacon.	Answer:	Novum Organum
BONI - ROUND 1		 				SWORD BOWL 2003 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Washington University in St. Louis (Sean Phillips, Matt Schneider, Jonathan Phair, David Kanon, Roman Garnett, Jamie Doenges, Mike Tolles, and Navin Mahadevan) with a few from Delaware and DePauw1.	 Name these figures from the Acts of the Apostles, 10 points each.[10]	Regarded as the first Christian martyr, he is stoned to death while Saul and other Pharisees look on in approval.	Answer:		St. Stephen[10]	For withholding money from the Christian community, this man along with his wife is suddenly struck dead while standing before Peter.	Answer:		Ananias [ann-uh-NYE-us][10]	Most Biblical scholars hold the Gospel of Luke and the book of Acts had the same author, especially because each book begins with an address to this "most excellent" man.	Answer:		Theophilus [do not accept "Jesus"]2.	 How much do you know about the ear?  FTSNOP:[5]	Of the three bones in the ear, which is physically in the middle?	Answer:		anvil or incus[10]	What tubes connect the ears to your nostrils?	Answer:		Eustachian [yoo-STAY-shin] tubes[15]	What canals in the inner ear help maintain your balance?	Answer:		semicircular canals3.	 Answer these questions about the works of Thomas Hardy, 10 points each.[10]	In what imaginary county, based on Dorset, did Hardy set several of his novels?	Answer:		Wessex[10]	In Hardy's last novel, what character marries country girl Arabella Donn and then falls in love with his married cousin, Sue Bridehead?	Answer:		Jude Fawley [accept either][10]	In what Hardy novel does Michael Henchard get drunk at an auction, selling his wife and daughter to a sailor for five guineas?	Answer:		The Mayor of Casterbridge4.	Answer the following about some of the secondary (but not tertiary) Peanuts characters.[10] This character was once set up for a Valentine's dance with Peppermint Patty, much to her dismay.  Maybe it's because of his lack of hygiene, which made him a great mascot for a Regina vacuum cleaner ad.	Answer:	  Pigpen[10] This object of Lucy's affection loves not her but Beethoven and his grand piano.	Answer:	  Schroeder[10] This overall-clad brother of Linus and Lucy wears a helmet during harrowing rides on the back of his mother's bike.  	Answer:	  Rerun5.	 Name these rulers of Spain, 10 points each.[10] 	This brother of Catharine of Aragon became Holy Roman Emperor in 1520 and abdicated the throne in favor of his son Philip II.	Answer:	  Charles I [or Holy Roman Emperor Charles V][10] 	This grandson of Louis XIV founded the Bourbon dynasty in Spain.  When Louis accepted the throne for him it touched off the War of Spanish Succession.	Answer:	  Philip V[10] 	After discarding Salic Law, this woman was allowed to ascend the throne at the age of three in 1833, touching off the First Carlist War.	Answer:	  Isabel(la) II

6.	 Name these classes of organic compounds, 10 points each.[10]	A carbon bonded to two alkyl groups and double-bonded to oxygen.	Answer:		ketones [prompt on "carbonyl"][10]	The nitrogen analog of a ketone.	Answer:		imine [IH-meen][10]	An alkyl group bonded to a cyano group.	Answer:		nitrile [NYE-tryle]7.	  Name these Shakespearean characters FTSNOP:[10] As oldest daughter, this wife of the Duke of Albany is the first woman to praise her father.  She is also the first to take Lear in and the first to turn him out.	Answer:	  Goneril[10] The bastard brother of Don Pedro, this villain of Much Ado About Nothing struggles to break the marriage of Count Claudio and Hero. 	Answer:	  Don John[10] Name the sons of King Duncan in the tragedy Macbeth, five points per answer.	Answers:	Malcolm and Donalbain8.	30-20-10:  Name the composer from the operas given.[30] Bastien und Bastienne, Idomeneo[20] The Abduction from the Seraglio, Cosi fan Tutte[10] The Marriage of Figaro, Don Giovanni	Answer:	 Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart9.	Name these prominent Chief Justices of the United States Supreme Court.[10] The first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, this man is also known for his work in securing an important treaty.	Answer:	  John Jay[10] Following the long stewardship of John Marshall, this Chief Justice delivered the majority opinion in the case of Dred Scott v. Sanford.	Answer:	  Roger Taney[10] From a prominent Connecticut family, this man was a prominent delegate at the Continental Congress and Constitutional Convention.  He was later elected a senator before serving as the second confirmed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.	Answer:	  Oliver Ellsworth (DO NOT ACCEPT John Rutledge as he was never confirmed.) 10.	Identify the Canadian province or territory from a brief description of its history, FTPE.A. The idea for its formation came from the 1973 Inuit Tapirisat of Canada, which demonstrated the extent of Inuit aboriginal title in the Arctic.  The foundation for its government is called Footprints II.	Answer:	NunavutB. It was originally centered around the anchorage at its capital, a prime position during the colonization of North America by the Europeans.  When the American colonists were fighting the British, this colony was the only English speaking one, and thus was the place from which armies were dispatched and to which they retreated when the Yankees declared victory.  	Answer:	Nova ScotiaC. The capital of this province lies directly on the Trans-Canada Highway.  Its native peoples are the Cree Indians.  In 1868, the land was purchased by the Canadian government from the Hudson's Bay Company in order to prevent annexation by the US.  The history of this province includes not only the Indians, but also the historic Canadian Mounties.	Answer:	Saskatchewan11.	Answer these questions about the wave function of an electron, 10 points each.[10]	In the Schrödinger equation, what Greek letter is most commonly used to designate the wave function?Answer:	psi[10]	When the Schrödinger equation is written H hat psi equals E times psi, what operator is represented by H hat?Answer:	Hamiltonian operator[10]	This other operator, which takes the second derivative of the wave function with respect to each of its variables, is useful in defining the motion of a particle in a three-dimensional box.Answer:	Laplacian [luh-PLAH-see-in] operator or del squared
12.	  Identify the following works of Mark Twain FTPE:[10] Characters in this work include the Duke and the Dauphin and the escaped slave Jim	Answer:	  Huckleberry Finn[10] This novel deals with Roxy, a slave, who fears for her child's life, switching her light-skinned child with her master's.	Answer:	  Pudd'nhead Wilson[10] In one of Twain's later novels, Tom Sawyer, Huck Finn, and Jim travel across the Atlantic in a hot air balloon and they visit the Great Pyramids and Mt. Sinai.	Answer:	 Tom Sawyer Abroad13.	 Name these songs popularized by Aretha Franklin from lyrics, 10 points each.[10]	"Looking out on the morning rain/I used to feel uninspired."	Answer:		"(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman"[10]	"Knew you'd be a vision in white/How'd you get those pants so tight?/Don't know what you're doin'/But you must be livin' right."	Answer:		"Freeway of Love"[10]	"Though you don't call anymore/I sit and wait in vain/I guess I'll rap on your door/Tap on your window pane."	Answer:		"Until (accept Till) You Come Back to Me (That's What I'm Gonna Do)"
14.	  FTPE name these American industrialists.[10] This banker assisted in the creation of General Electric and also raised more than 1.4 billion  dollars to form U.S. Steel.	Answer:	  J.P. Morgan[10] Though he was one of the most important coal magnates in the country, this Pennsylvanian concluded the Homestead plant strike with 300 armed Pinkerton officers.	Answer:	  Henry Frick[10] Another Pennsylvanian, this man helped establish the Aluminum Company of America, the Gulf Oil Corporation, the Union Trust Company, and the Pittsburgh Coal Company.  He also made his mark in politics as Secretary of the Treasury under Presidents Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover.        	Answer:	  Andrew Mellon15.  FTPE name these battles of World War I. [10] Defeat in the first battle here prevented a swift German victory in the war.  Their second defeat on this French battlefield in the summer of 1918 forced the Germans back to where they started their spring offensive.	Answer:	  Battle of the Marne[10] The British spent much of 1915 attempting to take this Turkish peninsula, but despite two beachheads at Helles and Gaba Tepe, they withdrew the last of their troops on January 9, 1916.	Answer:	  Gallipoli[10] This battle on November 20, 1917, combined surprise tactics with, for the first time, the use of large numbers of tanks to help the British begin to break the trench deadlock.	Answer:	  Battle of Cambrai16.	 Answer these related questions, 10 points each.[10]	What second largest, and most massive, member of the Local Group is designated as Hubble type "S-b" or "S-c?"		Answer:	Milky Way Galaxy[10]	What plant family includes rhododendrons, blueberries, and mountain laurel, and can sometimes be called "blasted?"		Answer:	heath(s)[10]	Along with Paul Serson, what Canadian scientist discovered in 1948 that magnetic poles wander?		Answer:	Jack Clark17.  Yes, it's been asked a lot, but that means you ought to know it.  F5PE or 30 for all 5, name the Five Pillars of Islam       Answers: Declaration that there is only one God and Muhammad is his messenger,Prayers five times a day, Alms-giving, Fasting during the Ramadan, Pilgramage (hajj) to Mecca (Accept all equivalents)
18.	Given a description of a painting, name both the work and the artist for 15 points.  If you need the artist and a film in which the work has appeared, you can give title only for 5 points.[15] This pointillist work, housed in the Art Institute of Chicago, depicts Parisians involved in weekend leisure activities at a local park.[5] Cameron was mesmerized by this Georges Seurat work in Ferris Bueller's Day Off.Answer:	 Georges Seurat; Un Dimanche après-midi à l'Ile de la Grande Jatte or Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La (the) Grande Jatte [OK as long as they have "Sunday Afternoon" and "Grande Jatte" - and NOT "Park"][15] Housed in the Brooklyn Museum of Art, this work, which depicts a winged, tailed creature from behind, is part of a watercolor series that also includes The Number of the Beast is 666.[5] Francis Dolarhyde ate this William Blake work in the movie Red Dragon.Answer:	 William Blake; The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed with the Sun19. 	 Answer the following about these African writers.[10] This South African is the only author to win the Booker Prize twice: once for his 1983 apartheid-critique novel, The Life and Times of Michael K., the second time for 1999's Disgrace.	Answer:	 J.M. Coetzee (COAT-zee)[10] Plays by this Nigerian Nobel winner include The Lion and the Jewel.	Answer:	 Wole Soyinka   [shoy-YEEN-ka]
[10] Born in Kenya in 1938, he is the author of both Weep Not, Child, a 1964 novel that takes place during the Mau Mau rebellion as well as the 1980 novel, Devil on the Cross.	Answer:	 Ngugi Wa Thiongo (in-GOO-gee WA thee-ON-go)20.  	Answer the following questions about the 2002 Nobel Laureates.[5] Which American won the prize for Peace for his mediation work, particularly the Camp David Accords of 1979?	Answer:	 James "Jimmy" Carter[10] Cited particularly for his 1975 novel "Fateless", what Hungarian novelist and Auschwitz survivor won the Literature award?	Answer:	 Imre Kertesz[15] Name either of the Americans who shared the Economics prize, both of whom were cited for using psychological and experimental economics in studying decision-making.		Answer:	 Vernon Smith OR Daniel Kahneman21.  In the past election, the Senate shifted control from Democrat to Republican.  Given a winner who had a tight race, identify the state he now represents.[10] Jim Talent	Answer:	 Missouri[10] Tim Johnson	Answer:	 South Dakota[10] Saxby Chambliss	Answer:	 Georgia22.	There may not be a Sword Bowl 12, as the X-Files series finale claimed the alien invasion begins the date the Mayan calendar ends. 10 points each.[10]	In what year will that occur?		Answer:	2012 [the date is December 22 or 23 depending on the source][10]	The true source of the Mayan calendar is this early Mesoamerican civilization that existed between 1500 and 600 BC. The Aztecs called them the "rubber people."		Answer:	Olmec(s)[10]	The end of what Aztec epoch will occur in 2012?		Answer:	the fifth sun or Tonatiuh