TOSSUPS - ATHENS STATE					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGATossups by Rivers; boni by Kivin Childers; a few strays by your genial quizmaster1.	 "Beyond this place of wrath and tears / Looms but the Horror of the shade" is how its seldom-quoted third stanza begins.  The second stanza begins "In the fell clutch of circumstance" and ends with the famous "My head is bloody but unbowed."  The poem begins, "Out of the night that covers me, black as the pit from pole to pole." FTP name this famous poem by William Ernest Henley which concludes, "I am the master of my fate: I am the captain of my soul."	Answer:	Invictus2.  His rags-to-riches story returned to rags when he was swindled by his brokerage firm partner, Ferdinand Ward.  While dying of throat cancer, he restored his family's fortunes by writing acclaimed and commercially successful memoirs.  Other failed business ventures included farming and real estate, and he was a clerk in his family's leather goods store at the outbreak of the Civil War.   FTP name this reluctant graduate of West Point later made the General in Chief of the Union Army and ultimately the 18th President of the United States.  	Answer:	Ulysses S. Grant3. Speaking of U.S. Grant, though he's better associated with Galena, IL, this was the name of the Ohio town where he was born.  Co-created by former Buffy writer-producer Marti Noxon, it features two former cast members of Melrose Place - Susan Walters and Grant Show - and two more from All My Children - Samuel Page and Elizabeth Harnois.  Harnois plays the central role of the mysterious Christine Nickson, washed ashore here, who just happens to be the daughter of a mortal woman and the Devil.  FTP name this Fox TV series.         Answer:	Point Pleasant4.  A white dwarf classified as a main sequence G2 star, its surface was found by Richard C. Carrington to exhibit differential rotation.  It fuses about 600 million tons of hydrogen every second. Its chemical makeup is 71% Hydrogen, 27% Helium, and various other element compose the final 2%. It is 865,000 miles across with nine orbiting satellites. FTP name this giant nuclear furnace with a system and a card game you play alone named after it.	Answer:	Sun (accept Sol) 5.   It had nothing to do with either NFL wide receivers or bluegrass music, but Bill Schroeder and Allison Krause were two of the victims, along with Jeff Miller and Sandy Scheuer.  Though activists did block plans to construct a gym over part of the site, it took 28 years to halt parking in the four spaces where the deaths took place.  Continuing the university's efforts to gloss over the event, the memorials do not even mention the Vietnam War, let alone the invasion of Cambodia that prompted the original protest.  FTP name the Ohio university where on May 4, 1970, National Guardsmen fired on the crowd, killing four protestors.	Answer:	Kent State6. 	The odor of rotting fish can be attributed to methylamine, a member of this group. Another, emetine, is the active ingredient in ipecac.  These nitrogen-containing compounds vary widely in structure from the simple to the enormously complex, such as a synthetic one called LSD. FTP name this naturally occurring group of compounds that also include atropa Belladonna, ephedrine, morphine, and quinine.	Answer:	Alkaloids7. Ten of the other spies were killed in the plague as punishment for giving false reports on Canaan. Caleb and this man gave positive reports and were rewarded. He was the charismatic attendant to Moses and as his successor led the Israelites to conquer and divide Canaan. FTP name this biblical hero who is most famous for circling Jericho 7 times and blowing shofarim and causing the city to collapse and be destroyed.	Answer:	Joshua  [accept Caleb and Joshua or Caleb before said, since either also fits the first clue] 8.  	While contemporary critics generally praised it, the Athenaeum said it would be better if the slang were confined to the dialogue and not the narrative, while the New York Times thought portions were too intense for children and threw "an unnecessary sinister tinge over the story."  Those events were triggered by the murder of Dr. Robinson, and they involved the title character, his easily-forgotten friend Joe Harper, and another friend who was the town of St. Petersburg's social pariah. FTP name the character who took the rap for Becky Thatcher and dimed out Injun Joe.	Answer:	Tom Sawyer
9. One major record this man probably isn't proud of: the most at-bats without a single stolen base in one season, 677 in 1986.  He holds a more enviable major league record with six grand slams in one season and led the major leagues twice in hits.   He also won nine Gold Gloves and had a lifetime fielding percentage of .996. Winner of the 1985 AL MVP Award, FTP, name this Yankees first baseman nicknamed "The Hitman" and "Donnie Baseball".	Answer:	Don Mattingly10. This king ran into trouble almost immediately. When his minister George Villiers asked Parliament for money to fight a costly foreign war, Parliament refused  and compelled the king to sign the Petition of Rights. Resentment ensued, and he tried to manage the country solo from 1630 to 1640, until financial troubles forced him into calling the Short and Long Parliaments. FTP name this British monarch who lost both the English Civil War and his head to Cromwell.	Answer:	Charles I11. It includes four classes: Cestoda, Monogenea, Trematoda, and Turbellaria, the last being primarily free-living and aquatic. This phylum's characteristics include bilateral body symmetry and the lack of true body cavity. Members have true heads and brains, but their digestive system has only one opening that functions as both mouth and anus. FTP name this phylum of flatworms that include parasites such as tapeworms and flukes.	Answer:	Platyhelminthes12.  It depicts five women in a brothel. The two central figures face the viewer while the other three have primitive masks on their faces. These images are broken up into disjointed angular facets with a phallic fruit arrangement in the foreground. FTP name this masterpiece by Pablo Picasso, found in the Museum of Modern Art.	Answer:	Les Demoiselles d'Avignon [unbolded the leading article]13. One of his legs fathered a son by the other leg, while other offspring grew from his armpit.  He fed on four rivers of milk from the primordial cow Audhumla. He was formed from fire and ice in the void of Ginnungagap. FTP name this giant killed by Odin and his brothers, who then used its body to create most of the universe.	Answer:	Ymir14.  He studied economics at Keio University and the London School of Economics.  He was only 30 when he was elected to the Diet [dee-YET] and only 46 in 1988, the first time he was appointed Minister of Health and Welfare.  With a reputation as a maverick reformer within the Liberal Democratic Party, he replaced the controversial Yoshiro Mori.  FTP name the LDP member elected in April 2001 as Prime Minister of Japan 	Answer:	Junichiro Koizumi 15. Some of the characters in the novel are Mary Rambo, Tod Clifton, and Ras the Extorter.  In this novel of self-discovery, a tenant lives secretly in an abandoned basement of a New York City apartment house. FTP name this book about a black man that the white tenants refuse to see, written by Ralph Ellison.	Answer:	Invisible Man (do not accept The Invisible Man)16. He acceded to the throne at the tender age of 9 years 364 days. Absolutely enamored with all things military his main concerns were marching his regiments though their "Military Ballets" as he called them. He visited Western Europe in the guise of a carpenter to learn firsthand industrial, military, and especially naval technology to improve the deficient military situation in his own country. FTP name this Russian Czar that had his own son tortured, thrown into jail and possibly murdered as he died under mysterious circumstances while incarcerated.	Answer:	Peter the Great or Peter I17. He was the first to measure the diameter of a distant star, and he determined that despite its molten center, the Earth as a whole is a rigid body.  It was he who used the wavelength of the red line of cadmium's spectrum to measure absolutely the standard meter.  His most famous collaboration, in 1887, was a null experiment that detected no variance in the speed of light due to earth's rotation in space, thus refuting the ether hypothesis.  FTP name the first American winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics, whose 1907 award was for his development of precise measurements and thus was not shared with collaborator E.W. Morley. 	Answer:	Albert Michelson
18.	In his spare time he wrote poems and plays, including the bawdy comedy Mandragola.   His service in the office of Second Chancery gave him many opportunities to observe foreign governments and rulers.  FTP name the author of such works as Discourses on the First Ten Books of Livyand The Prince.	Answer:	Niccolo Machiavelli19. Its former main port, Sisal, lends its name to an important type of cordage hemp.  You may have heard that a huge asteroid hit the earth 65 million years ago, leading to the extinction of the dinosaur and lots more. We now know the site was the Chicxulub Crater, at the tip of this peninsula.  It's divided into three states, Quintana Roo, Campeche, and its namesake.  FTP name this peninsula which includes such Mexican tourist attractions as Merida and Chichen Itza.	Answer:	Yucatan Peninsula [prompt on Mexico till the first "this peninsula"]20. At its premiere in Milan it was a resounding failure. A critic wrote that the outrageous behavior of the audience (groaning, shouting, laughter, giggling, and sarcastic cries for encores throughout the entire performance) was better organized than the opera. This was probably true because the spectacle was engineered by rivals that were jealous of its composer's success, which in the long run included this now-beloved opera.   FTP name this Puccini opera in which the  title character , rather than live without honor (and Lt. Templeton), kills herself with a dagger.	Answer:	Madame [or Madama] Butterfly 21. A one-half scale model can be seen on the campus of the University of Missouri-Rolla.  The original has been calculated to have taken roughly 1.5 million hours to build.  Excavations have shown it to be a burial site and N.A.S.A has conjectured that it could be a link to the cosmos as a planetarium or calculator of eclipses. In danger of being "crushed by a dwarf" onstage in This Is Spinal Tap, FTP name this circular arrangement of stones built between 3,500 to 1,100 B.C.E. in Wiltshire, England.	Answer:	Stonehenge22. One of the many sons of Priam and Hecuba he and his two young sons were crushed by sea serpents while sacrificing a bull. He was the only Trojan who agreed with Cassandra about the Trojans. FTP, according to Homer, name the priest of Apollo that uttered the famous words "I fear the Greeks even bearing gifts."	Answer:	Laocoon [ lay-ah-coo-wahn, but accept other palusible23. This man began by leading his men in a daring nighttime raid on an Army stockade, killing 24 soldiers. After a year of guerilla warfare in the Florida swamps he sued for peace. FTP name the Seminole chief that took over after Osceola's surrender.	Answer:	Billy Bowlegs24. He won the 1904 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for work on digestive secretions. Oddly enough he is most famous for salivary secretions. This man was more of a physiologist than psychologist but is largely remembered for his idea of conditioned reflexes. FTP name the scientist who did the thing with the bell, dinner, and the dog.	Answer:	Ivan Pavlov25. In Arabic countries they are called wadi, and in South Africa donga. Stream erosion in the desert creates channels which are dry throughout most of the year. FTP name these geographic features that cut channels and deeply erode areas of shale to form badlands in the American west.	Answer:	Arroyo or washes
BONI - ATHENS STATE					SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGATossups by Rivers; boni by Kivin Childers; a few strays by your genial quizmaster1.  FTPE name the Scottish Kings.  a.)  A generous supporter of the church, he made a pilgrimage to Rome in 1050, but lost half his kingdom when defeated by Siward in 1054 and the rest when he was killed by Malcolm's forces in the 1057 Battle of Lumphanan.	Answer:	 Macbethb.)  Defeated at Methven in 1306, he was driven to an island refuge.  His comeback was clinched by his 1314 victory at Bannockburn, but had a lot to do with the fact that England's Edward I died in 1307 and Edward II was a weenie. 	Answer:	 Robert I or Robert the Brucec.)  Though brother-in-law to Henry VIII, he foolishly invaded England in 1513 and was killed in battle at Flodden Field. 	Answer:	 James IV2.  Name the physics law FTPE:a)  The line integral of the magnetic flux around a closed curve is proportional to the algebraic sum of electric currents flowing through that closed curve.	Answer:	Ampere's Lawb)  The electric flux through a closed surface is proportional to the algebraic sum of electric charges contained within that closed surface	Answer:	Gauss' Lawc)  The stress applied to any solid is proportional to the strain it produces within the elastic limit for that solid. The constant of that proportionality is the Young modulus of elasticity for that substance.	Answer:	Hooke's Law3.	The Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art in NYC contains some of the most popular pieces of art.  Give the artist from the name and a description of a MOMA painting."The Dream" a color 1910 painting of a nude woman in a jungle setting is by the artist of "Sleeping Gypsy."	Answer:	 Henri RousseauThe painting "Evening, Honfleur" is an example of this Artist's pointillist style.	Answer:	 Georges SeuratThe yellow blue and red "Broadway Boogie Woogie" is one of this artist's most famous paintings.	Answer:	 Piet Mondrian4. If you know a little history, this bonus is not near as hard as it sounds.  Name the U.S. state from a partial list of its counties F5PE or 30 for all 5 correct:a)  Indian River, Flagler, Osceola	Answer:	Floridab)  Glacier, Lewis and Clark, Custer, Big Horn	Answer:	Montanac)  Cherokee, Guilford, Dare	Answer:	Georgiad)  Leavenworth, Brown, Pottawatomie	Answer:	Kansase)  Keokuk, Dubuque, Black Hawk	Answer:	Iowa5. Given the name of a servant in a Shakespeare play, identify the character they serve or attend to FTP each:A. Angelica, the nurse in Romeo and Juliet	Answer:	JulietB. Emilia in Othello	Answer:	DesdemonaC. The Earl of Kent, disguised as Caius, attends to this title character	Answer:	King Lear
6. FTPE identify the 20th century playwright from works:a. Endgame and Waiting for Godot (go - DOH)	Answer:	Samuel Beckett b. Blithe Spirit and Private Lives	Answer:	Sir Noël (Pierce) Cowardc. Zooscape and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf	Answer:	Edward Albee7.	On a 10-5 basis, given a list of films, name the director.  Hint: None of them has ever won a Best Director Oscar.a)  10 pts.:  Rope, Family Plot, Strangers on a Train       5 pts.:  Rear Window, Psycho, The Birds	Answer:	Alfred Hitchcockb) 10 pts.:  Casino, The Color of Money, The Last Temptation of Christ       5 pts.: Goodfellas, Taxi Driver, The Aviator	Answer:	Martin Scorsesec) 10 pts.:  American Graffiti, THX1138       5 pts.:  Star Wars and all three of its prequels (although neither of its sequels) 	Answer:	George Lucas8. Given a definition from philosophy, identify the -ism FTP each.a. The notion that oneself is the only reality and that everything else is in one's imagination.	Answer:	Solipsismb. It asserts that the natural world is as much a part of God as the spiritual world, hence everything is God and vice versa.	Answer:	Pantheismc. It maintains that reality ultimately consists of minds and thoughts and that matter has no existence independently of our conception of it.	Answer:	Idealism9.	Answer the following questions about Neptune for the stated number of points.a.  [5] Similar to Jupiter's Great Red Spot, Neptune has one of these.	Answer:	Great Dark Spotb. [10]  Neptune breaks the pattern for this empirical rule which gives approximate distances from the sun.	Answer:	Bode's Law  (accept Titius' or Titius-Bode Law)c. [15]  5 for one, 15 for both, name the two moons of Neptune known before Voyager 2 visited in 1989.	Answer:	Triton and Nereid10.	FTPE, identify the following people who played important roles in the 1949 peace negotiations following Israel's War of Independence:A. The UN mediator in the Israel-Egypt talks was this African American, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950.	Answer:	Ralph Bunche B. Moshe Sharett was Israel's Foreign Minister after the war, and he eventually became Israel's second Prime Minister when he succeeded this man in 1954.	Answer:	David Ben-Gurion [prompt on just Gurion]C. This Jordanian king took part in a few productive peace negotiations before his February 1951 assassination.	Answer:	Abdullah I 11.	Given the chemical name of a vitamin, for the stated number of points give its letter and numerical designation (if any).  For example, if I said, "ascorbic acid," you'd reply "vitamin C."a.  [5] retinol					Answer:	 vitamin Ab.  [5] thiamine					Answer:	 vitamin B1c.  [10] cyanocobalamin				Answer:	 vitamin B12d.  [10] tocopherol				Answer:	 vitamin E
12.	Identify these literary characters FTPE.  A:  This is the name taken by the delusional retiree Alonso Quejana when he sets forth to seek adventure.       Answer:	Don QuixoteB: A short and pudgy rustic, this servant's atheism and practical personality contrast with Don Quixote.  	Answer:	 Sancho Panza [either first or last name is enough]C: Don Quixote rode an old worn-out horse; Sancho rode an ass.  FTP name either.  	Answer:	 either Rocinante or Dapple13. Given the circumstances surrounding the death of a composer, name him FTP each; 5 pts. each if you need works.a. (10) In January of 1750, an English surgeon performed an operation on his eyes.  Instead of curing his blindness, his robust health was broken by the operations and medications, and he died of a stroke some six months later.    (5) Brandenburg Concertos, Goldberg Variations	Answer:	 Johann Sebastian Bachb.  (10) After hitching a ride on an open milkwagon in December of 1826, he caught a chill, and gradually weakened, falling into a coma.  On March 26, 1827, he woke up after a tremendous peal of thunder, shook his fist angrily at the sky, and fell back dead.    (5) Fur Elise, Moonlight Sonata	Answer:	 Ludwig van Beethovenc. (10) On February 11, 1883, he began an essay called, "On the Feminine in Human Nature."  In the middle of the second page, after writing the words "love-tragedy," he was seized by a fatal heart attack.    (5) Tannhauser, Das Rheingold	Answer:	 Richard Wagner14. Lincoln's renomination for the 1864 Republican presidential ticket was not automatic.  Name these contenders FTPE:A.  This major general withdrew despite having been offered the nomination in August.  He'd gotten the 1856 Republican nomination thanks largely to his reputation as an explorer and his role in taking California in the Mexican War.	Answer:	 John Charles FremontB.  A former Ohio senator as a Democrat and Lincoln's Secretary of the Treasury, he withdrew his candidacy when Lincoln appointed him Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.  His work in getting "greenbacks" legalized as currency explains why he's pictured on the U.S. $10,000 bill.	Answer:	 Salmon Portland ChaseC. A former Democrat, he earned votes at the Republican convention despite his scandalous tenure as Military Governor of New Orleans, which had earned him the nickname "the Beast."	Answer:	 Benjamin Franklin Butler15.	Given the language, name the country in which it is most widely spoken, FTSNP:A [5] Afrikaans	Answer:	South AfricaB [10] Tagalog	Answer:	PhillipinesC [15] Romansch 	Answer:	Switzerland 16.	For the stated number of points, identify the following about the youth of Zeus.A [5]. This Titan was Zeus's not-too-proud papa who thought it wise to kill any sons he might sire. 	Answer:	CronusB [10]. This Titaness gave birth to Zeus in secret, presenting a stone to Cronus.	Answer:	RheaC [15]  The infant Zeus fed on the milk of this she-goat.  Her hide was used for the Aegis and her horn the cornucopia.	Answer:	 Amalthea
17. FTPE, Answer the following about American fighter planes of World War II.A. This product of the Lockheed Skunk Works was used to intercept and shoot down Admiral Yamamoto and was known as the "Fork-Tailed Devil."  	Answer:	P-38 or LightningB. The heaviest single-engine, single place piston fighter ever developed was this Republic-designed aircraft, known as the "Jug" to its pilots.	Answer:	P-47 or ThunderboltC. The full potential of this North American Aircraft design was not realized until after its original Allison engine was replaced by the Rolls Royce Merlin.  	Answer:	P-51 or Mustang18. Answer the following regarding endocrinology FTPE:A.  This hormone increases the permeability of the nephron's collecting duct to water, thus increasing blood volume.	Answer:	antidiuretic hormone or ADHB.  This hormone stimulates the production of milk in the female mammary glands	Answer:	prolactinc.  This hormone decreases plasma calcium ion concentration by inhibiting the release of calcium from bone.	Answer:	calcitonin 19.  FTPE name these Nobel-winning authors from award year and works:a) 1957; The Plague, The Stranger	Answer:	Albert Camus [pronounced cam-MOO but accept phonetically plausible variants]a) 1970; The Gulag Archipelago, One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovitch	Answer:	Alexander Solzhenitsyna) 1988; Cairo Trilogy	Answer:	Naguib Mahfouz20.	Answer the following questions related to Irish history FTPE:a)  This was the rebellion the Sinn Fein launched in 1916 in Dublin.	Answer:	Easter Rising or Rebellion (if the year 1916 is included in answer, that's ok)b.)  He was imprisoned in 1916 for his part in the Easter Rising. After his release, he, along with Arthur Griffith, signed the 1921 treaty that created the Irish Free State.		Answer:	Michael Collinsc)  He toured the U.S. as President of the Irish Republic from 1919-1920. He created the Republican Opposition Party in 1926 which entered the Irish Free State Dail.	Answer:	Eamon de Valera  21. FTPE, answer these questions about 19th century French artist Honoré Daumier.A. Daumier started his professional career with pieces created with this process, in which a design on a metal plate is treated and inked so that image areas of the design retain the ink and non-image areas repel the ink.  The design is then pressed to paper.	Answer:	LithographyB. A scathing lithograph of this French king done for the magazine La Caricature landed Daumier in prison for 6 months.	Answer:	Louis-PhilippeC. Daumier switched to oil painting in his forties, and produced over one hundred works by this method.  His leftist slant is evident in this work, a study of riders in a railroad passenger car.	Answer:	The Third-Class Carriage 22.  Name the longest ruling monarch of the following countries, FTPE (for instance, if I said Great Britain, you'd say Victoria)a. [10] Russia	Answer:	Ivan IV or Ivan the Terrible (Do not accept "Ivan the Great")b. [10] France	Answer:	Louis XIVc. [10] Hungary	Answer:	Francis Joseph I or Franz Josef I