TOSSUPS - FLORIDA, BC, & MO(o)RE			SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Florida, Boston College, Bucknell, North Carolina, Rutgers-Newark, Yale, and UTC's David Moore1.	The process itself begins with HAT adding lysine to four different complexes - H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 - to lessen attraction to the proteins.  This leads to unwinding, whereupon special factors can attach to a promoter region.  After it ends, several additional activities are optional, including the addition of a 7mG cap to the 5' (read:  5 prime) end or a poly-A tail to the 3' (read:  3 prime) end.  FTP, name this event, the synthesis of mRNA from DNA.	Answer:	DNA Transcription2.	Born in Torrington, Connecticut on May 9, 1800, this man dedicated his life to ending slavery in 1837.  He and his sons moved to Kansas in 1855 in response to the Kansas-Nebraska Act and participated in the bloodshed that was "Bleeding Kansas." He is however, best known for the raid he led on Harper's Ferry, Virginia on October 17, 1859 which increased the sectional divide and put the US on an inevitable path to civil war.  FTP: name this man who was hanged on December 2, 1859.	Answer:	John Brown3.	One tradition holds that his mother was a grocer, which gave Aristophanes fodder for his comedy, but it is more likely that he came from a high class family.  He first received the honor of competing in the dramatic festivals in 455 B.C., and though he won only perhaps four first prizes, he placed in the top three 20 times.  FTP, name this playwright of Hippolytus, The Bacchae, and Seven Against Thebes.	Answer:	Euripides 4.	Originally a ditch-digger, his second career proved more lucrative.  In 1961, he directed his only film, the western One-Eyed Jacks.  Nominated for eight Academy Awards, his most recent nominations were for A Dry White Season and 1973's Last Tango In Paris.   His final film role was in the Frank Oz-directed heist film The Score. One of the greatest Method actors, FTP, name this recently deceased actor, possibly best remembered now as Don Corleone in the original Godfather.	Answer:	Marlon Brando5.	The fourth one is the man-lion Narasimha. The fifth is the dwarf  Vamana. The tenth Kalki has not arrived. The first one was a fish, while the ninth was Buddha.  Between his descents he is said to lie asleep on the cosmic waters, on the top of the many-headed world snake Ananta.  FTP name these worldly incarnations of the most widely worshiped deity in Hindu religion, the most famous of which is Krishna.	Answer:	avatars of Vishnu [accept reincarnations of Vishnu]6.	Studying under Schwarzschild, he received his doctorate in 1907 for a thesis on elastic stability.  In 1912 he began a research project with von K‡rm‡n on lattice dynamics, using three dimensional Fourier analysis and periodic boundary conditions to identify the degrees of freedom of a crystal with the normal modes of vibration of the whole body.  In 1926 he began collaborating with Pauli and Heisenberg on quantum mechanics, replacing the original quantum theory, which regarded electrons as particles, with a mathematical description representing their observed behavior more accurately.  FTP name this man who in 1954 received the Nobel Prize for his statistical studies of wave functions.        Max Born7.	He is buried in Santarem, Portugal.  His dealings in Calicut, India, were cut short when he tried to convert the Muslim merchants.   With Bartholomeu Dias as one of his officers, he was sent by King Manuel II to follow the path of Vasco De Gama and establish a trade route to India; some historians question the old canard that his biggest discovery was the result of being blown off course.  FTP name the Portuguese explorer who is most famous for being the first European to see Brazil.	Answer:	Pedro Alvares Cabral
8.	Though the intensive efforts of his parents to train him, he was admitted to the Paris Conservatoire before reaching the age of 11.  His first stage work, Le Docteur miracle, was performed in Paris in 1857, but by the 1860's, his flagging interest could be seen in such works as The Pearl Fishers and The Fair Maid of Perth.  "I should write better music," he declared, "if I believed a lot of things which are not true." But a burst of maturity led to his 1875 masterwork.  FTP, name this composer of Carmen.	Answer:	Georges Bizet9.	John Searle showed that a true version of this could never exist with his Chinese room thought experiment.  Jon von Neumann also thought it not to exist, especially in the form presented in a 1943 paper, A Logical Calculus of the Ideas Immanent in Nervous Activity.  In a 1950 paper by Alan Turing, he proposed a test for determining its existence in a computer.  FTP name this concept, also a title of a 2001 Spielberg movie.	Answer:	AI or artificial intelligence [prompt on "Turing machine" before "Turing"]10.  In it, the speaker claims he could spend two hundred years to adore each breast, "but thirty thousand to the rest/An age at least to every part/And the last age should show your heart."  It closes: "Thus, though we cannot make our sun / Stand still, yet we will make him run." FTP name this 17th century poem by Andrew Marvell, which opens, "Had we but World enough, and Time/ This coyness, Lady, were no crime."	Answer:	  "To His Coy Mistress"11.	He was born in 1903 in Madisonville, TN, and graduated from Yale Law School in 1927, after which he began practicing law in Chattanooga.  In 1939 he was elected to fill the congressional seat left vacant by Sam McReynolds, then in1948 he was elected to the US Senate, where he served until his death in 1963.  Gaining national attention as chairman of the Special Committee on Organized Crime in Interstate Commerce, he twice sought the Democratic nomination for president in 1952 and '56.  Known for wearing a coonskin cap as he campaigned, FTP name this man who in 1956 was the running mate of Adlai Stevenson.       Answer: 	Carey Estes Kefauver12.	The right background of the painting is filled with the obscured skyline of a small town, including a clock tower.  The left background is dominated by a hill that slopes down to the center of the painting.  The bottom left shows a blood spattered man heaped on the ground, and the bottom right is filled with the feet of a line of soldiers who all have their back to us and their rifles up.  The line of the hill, the angle of the rifles and the lighting of the seen all draw us to a wild-faced prisoner in bright yellow pants with is arms raised in, FTP, what painting by Francisco Goya also called "The Execution of The Defenders of Madrid."		The 3rd of May, 1808 [or May 3rd 1808]13.	Among other things, he has been a prolific poet, with many collections to his credit including The Collected Works of Billy the Kid: Left Handed Poems, There's a Trick with a Knife I'm Learning to Do: Poems 1963-1978, and The Cinnamon Peeler: Selected Poems.  One of his early novels, In the Skin of a Lion, is set in Canada, his current home.  The Tamil Tigers of Sri Lanka, his birthplace, appear in his most recent novel, Anil's Ghost.  FTP name this Booker Prize-winning author of The English Patient.       Answer: 	Michael Ondaatje14.	A native of The Hague , his mathematical education was heavily influenced by Descartes, who was a family friend.  He clashed with Newton over the latter's corpuscular theory of light, and in 1678 he discovered polarization by double refraction in calcite.  In his 1659 breakthrough Systema Saturnium, he discussed his theories on the true shape and composition of Saturn's rings. FTP name this man, also the first to use a pendulum in clocks and his wave theory of light.       Answer: 	Christiaan Huygens15.	In Rotterdam, the soccer team of this name is the oldest professional sports team.  The band by this name is the culmination of the band At the Drive In,  who also took two of their members from the Mars Volta and just released their album Porcelain in July, a follow up to Wiretap Scars.  The ancient city of this name was almost destroyed by the Messenians in 640 BC, but they would survive to fight alongside Corinth in the Peloponnesian War.  FTP give this name, a famous arch rival of Athens.  	Answer:	Sparta
16.	In 1863 her half brother George died of typhoid fever contracted while in a Union prison camp.  Shortly thereafter she was nearly arrested for tearing down a Union flag someone had put on her house.  In 1890, at the age of forty, she published her first novel, At Fault.  She published three collections of short stories, including Bayou Folk, which showed the strong influence of her associations with Cajuns and Creoles.  FTP, name this female author best known for her 1899 novel, The Awakening.	Answer:	Kate Chopin17.	Recently, Pope John Paul II beatified the last ruler of this house, the first step on the path to sainthood.   It was a controversial decision as Karl I authorized his troops to use poison gas and later tried to overthrow the government of his nation to restore the monarchy.   Arising out of Switzerland, the family gained the imperial throne in the late 1200s, and ruled intermittently until the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire by Napoleon.   FTP, identify this royal house of Austria which ended with the first World War.	Answer:	Habsburg or Hapsburg18.	He won Mr. Football Indiana in 1998, after he set state records for season completions, yardage, and touchdown passes.  He redshirted in 1999 and the next year beat out the nation's top quarterback recruit for his school's starting job and became the first freshman to win MVP honors in the SEC championship game.  In 2001 he finished second in Heisman balloting to Eric Crouch and after playing one year for Ron Zook, was drafted by the Chicago Bears.  FTP, name this current NFL quarterback.	Answer:	Rex Grossman19.	The name's the same. The solar-powered aircraft developed by NASA and AeroVironment that holds the non-rocket-powered altitude record. In Deus Ex, an AI program with which a user can merge to take over the world. In Greek myth, a god whose cult was established on Rhodes, who was father to Circe and Aeetes, and who once let his son Phaeton take his chariot for a joyride. FTP what is this name that inspired the name of the second-lightest element?	Answer:	Helios20.	Bridges between 2 atoms of this element are extremely important in biology.  It is  a non-metal that is soft and low density, and has allotropic forms in any phase.  Alchemists gave it its own symbol, a triangle atop a cross.  It is a principal ingredient in gun powder and is found in match heads.  Often colored yellow and found in a 8 membered ring, this is FTP what element, number 16 on the periodic table?	Answer:	sulfur21.	The title of a 2001 movie filmed in Polish with Japanese subtitles by Mamoru Oshii, this name comes from a Welsh word meaning "apples".  Both a model with the same name and the Camry are assembled at Toyota's Georgetown, KY plant.  In Malory's Morte D'Arthur, throwing Excalibur into the surrounding lake signals a barge that ferries people over to FTP, what island where King Arthur is taken after he has been mortally wounded in the Battle of Camlann?                	Answer: 	Avalon22.	Authors from this country include Frank Sargeson and Katherine Mansfield.  It has 13 administrative divisions including the Bay of Plenty and Otago.  Its Chief of State is still the Queen of England, but its Prime Minister is Helen Clark.  Independent form the UK since 1907, it has recently become important in showbiz.  The movie Whale Rider popularized the indigenous people, the Maori, and the diverse countryside has attracted films like Lord of the Rings.  FTP name this country with capital at Wellington.	Answer:	New Zealand23.	In its history, 36 of its members have been beheaded, with Henry VIII accounting for 6 of those.  Its original purpose is unknown, but may have been an attempt to revive the legendary Round Table, although another tale claims it commemorates Edward III's actions during a dance where he coined its motto, "Evil to him who evil thinks".  Over the years membership expanded from 12 to 24 companions and now includes other members such as "extra knights" and various members of the royal family.  FTP, name this English order of knighthood.	Answer:	The Most Noble Order of the Garter
BONI- FLORIDA, BC, & MO(o)RE				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Florida, Boston College, Bucknell, North Carolina, Rutgers-Newark, and UTC's David Moore1.	5-10-20-30, given three instances, identify the NFL franchise associated with their kind.  For example, if you were given "Atlantic spotted, spinner, bottlenose," the answer would be "Miami Dolphins".  City and team required.(5) Brown, Himalayan, Kodiak	Answer:	 Chicago Bears(5) Nemean, Scar, Nala	Answer:	 Detroit Lions(x) Helios, Prometheus, Atlas	Answer:	 Tennessee Titans(x) attainder, fare, rights	Answer:	 Buffalo Bills2.	Answer these questions on amino acids for the stated number of points.[10] This is the simplest amino acid.  Its R group consists of only a hydrogen.	Answer:	 glycine[10] For 5 points each, name the two amino acids that can as neurotransmitters other than glycine.	Answer:	 glutamate (accept Glutamic Acid) and asparate (accept Aspartic Acid)[10] This is converted to serotonin.  Its contribution to sleepiness after Thanksgiving dinner is at best overstated.	Answer:	 tryptophan3.	Given the U.S. vice-president, name the president he served F5PE:Aaron Burr	Answer:	  Thomas JeffersonHannibal Hamlin	Answer:	 Abraham Lincoln Hubert Humphrey	Answer:	 Lyndon JohnsonTheodore Roosevelt	Answer:	 William McKinleyCharles Curtis 		Answer:	Herbert HooverSpiro Agnew 	Answer:	Richard Nixon4.	FTP give the author of these 19th Century British novelsVanity Fair	Answer:	 William Makepeace ThackerayPersuasion	Answer:	 Jane AustenDombey and Son	Answer:	 Charles Dickens5.	Name the Russian river from clues FTPE. (a) It measures 3,459 miles in length and is the fifth longest river in the world.  The mouth of this river measures 25 miles across as it dumps into the Arctic Ocean.			Answer:	 Ob(b) Flowing from the Caspian Sea it passes the site of the siege of Stalingrad, a city whose name was changed to one including the name of this river.			Answer:	 Volga(c) With its source at Lake Baikal it weaves for 3,440 miles past the city of Irkutsk and eventually into the Arctic Ocean. 			Answer:	 Yenisei
6.	Alright, so everybody knows about the Mona Lisa. Answer the following trivia concerning it, 5-10-20-30.[5] Also the name of a Ponchielli opera, this is the Mona Lisa's original name.	Answer:	 La Gioconda[5]  The Mona Lisa was painted in this decade.	Answer:	 1510s[x]  The Mona Lisa is one of the best-known examples of this painting technique, characterized by the smooth blending of different tones into one another and coming from the Italian for 'smoky'.	Answer:	 sfumato[1x] These are the exact dimensions of the Mona Lisa, in inches.	Answer:	 30" by 21"7.	Answer the following about intermolecular forces FTSNOP. 10) What are the attractive forces between a polar molecule and a charged molecule?	Answer:	 ion-dipole forces5 or 10) Hydrogen bonding is a result of the interaction between hydrogen and one of three nonmetals. Identify one of them for 5 points and all three for 10.   	Answer:	 Fluorine, Nitrogen, Oxygen10) Dipole-dipole interactions and London dispersion forces are collectively known as this.	Answer:	 van der Waals forces8. Given a British prime minister, name all the rulers he served under FTPE. If you name at least one, you'll earn 5 points.[10] Winston Churchill		Answer:	George VI and Elizabeth II[10] William Pitt the Elder		Answer:	George II and George III[10] Lord Palmerston	Answer:	Victoria9.	Name the following Nobel Laureates from works on a 10-5 basis.(10)	The Rebel : An Essay on Man in Revolt, Exile and the Kingdom(5)	The Fall, The Muth of Sisyphus		Albert Camus(10)	The Sleeping Beauty, The Old Capital(5)	The Izu Dancer, The Sound of the Mountain		Yasunari Kawabata(10)	Cup of Gold, The Sea of Cortez(5)	The Red Pony, East of Eden		John Steinbeck 10.	FTPE, name these 20th century composers.[10] One of the first American composers to achieve international fame, his works include the Robert Browning Overture and Three Places in New England.	Answer:	Charles Ives[10] The Miraculous Mandarin and Duke Bluebeard's Castle were written by this Hungarian.	Answer:	Bela Bartok[10] This prolific Brazilian is known for his Choros and Bachianas Brasileiras.	Answer:	Heitor (or Hector) Villa-Lobos11.	Answer these questions about the body's immune response, 10 points each.(10) These proteins are produced in response to viral attack and come in alpha, beta, and gamma varieties.	Answer:	 interferon(10) These cells do not actually kill infection, but rather activate the cytotoxic variety to do that.	Answer:	 helper t-cells(10) This type of monocyte is the primary fighter of bacteria and also activated by the helper T-cells.	Answer:	 macrophage
12.	Men in tights.  10 points each, identify the superhero given their alter ego:(10) Bruce Wayne	Answer:	 Batman(10) Tony Stark	Answer:	 Iron Man(10) Henry Pym	Answer:	 Ant-Man or Goliath13.	FTPE, name the World War I poet given a poem:a. "Trees"	Answer:	 Joyce Kilmerb. "Dulce et Decorum Est"	Answer:	 Wilfred Owenc. "It's a Queer Time"	Answer:	 Robert Graves 14.	Name these heresies, 10 points each.[10]	This heresy denied that Jesus Christ is of the same essence, nature, or substance as God.	Answer:	Arianism [accept word forms for all parts][10]	This heresy named after a 4th-century patriarch of Constantinople held that Jesus Christ had two natures, human and divine, which existed separately in his time on Earth.	Answer:	Nestorianism[10]	This heresy stated that Jesus Christ was born human, and did not receive his divine nature until after his birth.	Answer:	Adoptionism15.	Name these groups associated with America in wartime from clues FTPE. (10) Led by Bernard Baruch, this World War I group sought to coordinate industrial activity for war production. 	Answer:	 War Industries Board (10) Begun in the United States in 1940, it was ended in 1973, though all men still have to register for this service.  	Answer:	 Selective Service (10) Founded by Tom Hayden with the Port Huron Statement, this group opposed the Vietnam War. 	Answer:	 Students for a Democratic Society16.	Name these characters from Candide, 10 points each.[10] This character represents the optimism of which Voltaire is most critical; he often asserts everything will turn out fine because this world is the best of all possible worlds.		Answer:		Doctor Pangloss[10] Candide's servant while traveling across South America, he is depicted as intelligent and morally good.		Answer:		Cacambo[10] She is the object of Candide's affection, and her father's banishment is the first in Candide's litany of woes.		Answer:		Cunegonde17.	Identify the following terms from algebra for the stated number of points.[10] This type of set is closed under an operation.	Answer:	 Monoid[5] This type of set is closed under an operation, possesses an identity element, and each element of the set has an inverse.	Answer:	 Group[10] This set is an abelian group under addition and a monoid under multiplication.	Answer:	 Ring[5] This set is an abelian group under both multiplication and addition.	Answer:	 Field
18.	Given a major album and the instrument played, name the jazz musician, 10 points each.[10]	Trumpet on Bitches Brew	Answer:	Miles Davis[10]	Vocals on Lady in Satin		Answer:	Billie Holiday[10]	Saxophone on A Love Supreme		Answer:	John Coltrane19.	Identify the following three big city mayors who governed in the 1970s FTPE.10) After manufacturing some extra votes for JFK in 1960, the federal government lavished his city with special attention. George Wallace wanted him to be his running mate in 1968, but he decided to stay on as mayor of Chicago.	Answer:	 Richard J. Daley10) The term "limousine liberal" was first used to describe this patrician mayor of New York City. Under his term, New York was spared major riots, but his budget policies led to the 1970s fiscal crisis.	Answer:	 John V. Lindsay10) This ex-cop became mayor of Philadelphia in 1972. His administration was corrupt and polarized the city racially. His most famous line was "it's not the streets that are unsafe, it's the people."	Answer:	 Frank Rizzo20.	A man is anxiously trying to return home before dinnertime. Unfortunately, he is 11 light minutes from home, and must arrive home in ten minutes, and he is traveling at only 0.99c. He looks and sees that the police are not patrolling that day, so he floors the gas pedal. For the stated number of points, answer the following questions.[5] Can he possibly get home before dinner time? (Remember that the clock at his house is at rest).	Answer:	 No[5] With the pedal to the metal, the vehicle is only traveling at 0.995c. Is his kinetic energy greater than or less than the kinetic energy one would calculate using the classical formula?	Answer:	 Greater than[10] The man has a brainstorm. His home is a mobile home, and he calls his wife to drive towards him, as he approaches his home. The home can travel at one meter per second less than the speed of light. At what velocity do they approach one another?	Answer:	 Speed of light, or c[10] The man is nervous, and believes that his heart is beating quickly. He slows down to 0.8c, and measures his heart rate, and he measures it to be 60 beats per minute, as usual. According to an observer standing by the side of the road, what is his heart rate?	Answer:	 36 beats per minute21.	Identify the following about a certain election in Florida:(10) After bailing out of a Presidential run, this Democratic Senator decided to retire in 2004.	Answer:	 Bob Graham(10) This man won his seat in the 2004 election	Answer:	 Mel Martinez(10) This was Mel Martinez's opponent, a former USF President	Answer:	 Betty Castor22.	FTPE answer the following:(10) A common theme in science fiction, this term is used to describe a virtual reality within computers and computer networks.  	Answer:	 cyberspace(10) Name the Canadian author who popularized the term "cyberspace" in the novel Neuromancer	Answer:	 William Gibson(10) According to Version 4.3.1 of the Jargon File this antonym of "cyberspace"describes the real world.	Answer:	meatspace