TOSSUPS - THE KITCHEN SINK				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Williams, Rochester, Maryland, Swarthmore, Rutgers-Newark, Boston College, North Carolina, Yale1.	He was introduced in the moralistic El Burlador de Seville, though a Jose Zorrilla play made him out to be a romantic hero.  Also the subject of a Strauss tone poem, he is in Marena in a Dumas play, the title character of one of [*] Moliere's most controversial plays, and a hotshot in Hell in the third act of Shaw's Man and Superman.  FTP, name this adulterer, title character of a Byron epic poem and one of Mozart's late operas.	Answer:	Don Juan [accept Don Giovanni]2.	Its founder, Col. M. Lewis Clark, leased the land from two uncles in 1874; it opened a year later.  A new grandstand, with its impressive twin spires, was built two decades later.  The Humana Distaff, the Woodford Reserve Turf Classic, the Open Mind, the Firecracker Breeders Cup and the Crown Royal American Turf are all held here annually.  FTP name this facility located in south central Louisville, KY, that also hosts the Early Times Mint Julep, the Kentucky Oaks and the Kentucky Derby.	Answer:	Churchill Downs [prompt on Louisville or Kentucky before "its clubhouse"]3.	They're usually prepared just before use because of their volatility.  Not only do they react vigorously with compounds containing active hydrogens, such as OH and NH groups -- in fact, they are so reactive that they are known to react with the moisture in the air.  They are generated by dissolving an alkyl halide magnesium metal in a non-reactive solvent, typically a dry ether ethyl.  Earning their French discoverer the 1912 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, FTP name these reagents that behave as carbanions.	Answer:	 Grignard reagents [pronounced grin-YARD but be lenient]4.	It was settled by the British in 1627 and remained under their control until independence in 1966. Slavery was an important part of the economy until 1837, while the plantation economy, based on the cultivation of sugar and the manufacture of rum and molasses, dominated the country until only recently. The flag is composed of three equal vertical stripes, blue on the sides, gold in the middles, with a black trident head centered on the gold band. FTP, name this Caribbean country with capital at Bridgetown.	Answer:	Barbados5.	Orphaned at age 4 when his mother was murdered, he dropped out of high school to join the army. An MP in Korea, he served as chief of investigations for a hospital in Saudi Arabia from 1982 to 1984, when he was deported. In the 1990s he became a bodyguard to New York City mayor Rudolph Giuliani. In August 2001 he was appointed commissioner of the NYPD, a position from which he profited greatly. For 10 points-name this man, briefly President Bush's nominee to succeed Tom Ridge as Secretary of Homeland Security.	Answer:	Bernard Kerik6.	Born in 1806, he made his philosophical mark in 1843 with his System of Logic, which was the most influential English work in logic and philosophy of science and language of the nineteenth century. He is also known for his clerkship in the East India Company, his close friendship with the married Harriet Taylor, and his brief stint in Parliament. His politics were radically liberal for his time, expressed in works such as On the Subjugation of Women and On Liberty. Name this philosopher who, for 10 points, expounded on themes of Jeremy Bentham in his Utilitarianism.	Answer:	 John Stuart Mill7.	It invokes the sphinx in the image of "A shape with lion body and the head of a man, A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun," the movement of whose "slow thighs" send the shadows of nearby birds reeling.  Its third line was the source for the most famous Chinua Achebe title, and the author's earlier A Vision is invoked by the opening line, "Turning and turning in the widening gyre."  FTP, name this apocalyptic poem by William Butler Yeats.  	Answer:	"The Second Coming"
8.	His popular autobiography was entitled The First Half of My Life, and as he attempted to escape to Japan in 1950, he was apprehended by the Soviets and put into a prison in his native country.  He then became a gardener and was protected during the Cultural Revolution.  The puppet governor of Manchuria during WWII, he inherited his most famous position at the age of 3 but was overthrown in the 1911 republican revolution led by Sun-Yat Sen. FTP, name this last emperor of China.       Answer:	Henry Pu Yi9.	The first experimental work in the discipline may have been Eratosthenes' estimate of the earth's circumference from observations at Alexandria and Syene.  Distinct from cartography, which is concerned with smaller spatial scales, and from geology, which focuses on the composition, structure, and history of the earth, today it is primarily concerned with the three-dimensional measurement and representation of the earth and its gravitation. FTP, name this discipline that is not the study of rocks with crystals in them.	Answer:	Geodetics or Geodesy10.	The prologue assures the audience that it is based on actual events, but it is in fact more likely based on the 1887 play La Femme de Tabarin by Catulle Mendes. Although the title character is more concerned about the hunchback Tonio, his wife is in fact sleeping with Silvio. For ten points, Canio stabs Nedda on-stage in a jealous rage after she refuses to name her lover in what opera by Ruggiero Leoncavallo?	Answer:	Pagliacci (or The Clown)11.	Set in 1797, only four months following the Great Mutiny at Nore during the Napoleonic Wars, the author of this novel often questions the legitimacy of eighteenth century naval law, as in the quote, "Struck dead by an angel of God! Yet the angel must hang!"  This decision is made by Captain "Starry" Vere, so named for his intellectual nature and obsession for reading.  The title character is impressed off of his previous duty aboard the aptly named Rights of Man to serve tragically aboard the H.M.S. Bellipotent. FTP, name this novel by Herman Melville. 	Answer:	Billy Budd    12.	As a 9 year-old he followed his father to the country he would one day rule following the 1807 French invasion. His father returned to Europe as King in 1821, but he stayed behind and in 1822 proclaimed an independent country. His reign was marked by the dissolution of the [*] Constituent Assembly, an unpopular constitution, rocky relations with Portugal and a bloody war with Argentina from 1825-1828. In 1831, riots in Rio de Janeiro caused him to abdicate. FTP, name this first of two Emperors of Brazil.	Answer:	 Pedro I or Antontio Pedro Alcantara (prompt on Pedro)13.	Between 1994 and 1996, 12 people in England came down with a disease caused by this cell malfunction. They work by entering brain cells and converting the normal cell, PrP, to the abnormal form, PrPSC. The latter then infects other cells, blocking cell-to-cell communication. The medical term for diseases derived from the defect is spongiform encephalopathies. FTP, name this protein defect associated with such diseases as mad-cow disease and scrapie. 	Answer:	 prions 14.	His acting career began at age 8 in a local production of Annie Get your Gun.  While studying astronomy, history, and Japanese at Yale, he was active in the university theater productions.  In his first major role he played an altar boy accused of murder.  He has gone on to star opposite Robert DeNiro, Robin Williams, Woody Harrelson, Anthony Hopkins, Matt Damon and Brad Pitt.  FTP name the actor seen in The Rounders, Fight Club, and American History X.	Answer:	Edward Norton 15.	Developed by Edgeworth and Pareto among others in order to create a more efficient system of preference comparison, these have become a staple in modern microeconomic theory.  Driven by the assumption that the consumer practices rationality, consistency, and transitivity, they can be used to create a consumer demand curve. FTP identify these economic tools that, when paired with a budget line, can determine an optimum basket for two types of goods.	Answer:	Indifference Curves
16.	The title comes from a combination of locations, one of which is offered to Lingk on a train at the end of Act I by Richard.  At the start of Act II, Baylen investigates the burglary of Williamson's office, which we discover had been sacked by the down-on-his-luck Levene for leads.  FTP, name this 1984 David Mamet play, made into a movie with Al Pacino, Jack Lemmon, and Kevin Spacey, about cutthroat real-estate salesmen.	Answer:	Glengarry Glen Ross17.	An inductor opposes changes in current and produces a "back emf". A capacitor will stop a direct current by charging to a voltage sufficient to stop the circuit emf. Therefore, when a device is placed in series with an inductor and in parallel with a capacitor, it is protected from high frequency signals. For ten points, name this type of filter.	Answer:	 low-pass filter18.	The name's the same.   One was involved in Operations Ajax and Mockingbird and supported brinksmanship.  The other worked in the Office of Strategic Service in Berne during World War II and opposed McCarthy.  One is the namesake of a major US airport.  The other served in Congress as a Republican senator from New York.  FTP, give the surname of these brothers, CIA head Allen and Secretary of State John Foster.	Answer:	Dulles19.	While working on a film here, F. Scott Fitzgerald became repeatedly inebriated and was forced leave the project.  Recently, students have entrenched the school's long-standing Greek spirit by installing as their unofficial mascot 'Keggie the Keg.'  Nevertheless, this college has graduated such notable students as Dr. Seuss, Nelson Rockefeller, and Daniel Webster-who would later save it before the Supreme Court.  FTP, name this northernmost of the Ivy League colleges.	Answer:	Dartmouth College20.	His eyes are the subject of an Al Stewart song.  Born on December 14, 1503 in St. Remi, France this man was appointed Royal Physician to King Charles IX in 1566. Educated in the liberal arts at the University of Avignon and then in medicine at the University of Montpellier, he began a private practice treating plague victims.  Despite his skill as a physician, this man is better known for his completion of 942 cryptic quatrains organized into Centuries.  FTP, identify this 16th century "prophet."       Answer: 	Nostradamus or Michel Notredame21,	The word was derived from the name of a mythical Italian tribe who descended from the mountains to found the Latin people, ancestors of the Romans. Today it is sometimes used to refer to ethnic groups such as the Ainu of Japan, the Maasai of Kenya, and the Maori of New Zealand.  FTP, what is this term, which corresponds to the Latin words for "from the source"?	Answer:	aborigine22.	The father, Patrick, took the name by which this family is known from the Greek word for thunder. He was made rector of Haworth in the Yorkshire moors in 1820. In 1821, the mother died, soon followed by daughters Maria and Elizabeth, while son Patrick Branwell became an alcoholic. Patrick did live to see published works written by Acton, Currer, and Ellis Bell. FTP, name the English family, best known for those three siblings, better known as Anne, Charlotte and Emily.	Answer:	Bronte23.	Daughter of Ethbaal, she helped her husband obtain the vineyard of Naboth by slandering him and having him stoned to death.  She is also mentioned as the false prophet of Thyatira, one of the churches of Revelation.  From Phoenecia she came to Israel and introduced the worship of Baal, which greatly angered Yahweh.  The prophet Elijah countered her introduction of idolatry by proving that Yahweh was the one true God.  FTP name this woman married to King Ahab whose name represents an evil scheming woman.	Answer:	Jezebel
BONI - THE KITCHEN SINK				SWORD BOWL 2005 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Williams, Rochester, Maryland, Swarthmore, Rutgers-Newark, Boston College, North Carolina, Yale1.	Name the twentieth century artist, FTPE:(10) In 1923, he sold his first painting, representing a portrait of famous vocalist Evelyne Brélia, however is best known for his surrealist works, including "The Son of Man," "The Red Model," and "The Lovers."	Answer:	Rene Magritte(10) Born in May 1904 in Catalonia, Spain, this surrealist artist was characterized by a flamboyant handlebar moustache influenced by the Spanish master painter, Diego Velázquez, and is known for such unusual works as "Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bumblebee around a Pomegranate One Second Before Awakening".	Answer:	Salvador Dali(10) During his lifetime, this graphic artist created 448 lithographs, woodcuts and wood engravings as well as over 2000 drawings, including his "Puddle," "Metamorphosis I" and the famous "Ascending and Descending."	Answer:	M.C. Escher2.  It elected fourteen congressmen and two senators and held its first convention in Buffalo, New York in 1848.  FTPE:[10] Name this short-lived political party.	Answer:	Free Soil Party[10] The Free Soil party was formed after New York Democrats split over the passage of what piece of legislation that would have outlawed slavery in the Mexican Cession?	Answer:	Wilmot Proviso[10] What ex-President did the Free Soilers nominate as their first presidential candidate in 1848?	Answer:	Martin Van Buren3.	Answer the following about short stories, FTPE.a) According to Hemingway, he had a short happy life, until the hunt where his wife pseudo-accidentally shoots him.	Answer:	Francis Macomberb) Soapy, the protagonist of this O. Henry story, is inspired to do something with his life moments before getting arrested for loitering.	Answer:	 "The Cop and the Anthem,"c)  In this Gogol work, a clerk named Akaky Akakievich Bashmachkin carefully saves for months to purchase a new one of the title object, only to have it stolen.	Answer:	The Overcoat4.	Just like the Earth, the sun has different layers both above and below its surface. FTP each, what are the three main layers that compose the upper surface and area around the sun?(10) The layer at which gases are no longer transparent to photons	Answer:	Photosphere(10) An irregular layer above the photosphere where the temperature rises from 6000° C to about 20,000° C.	Answer:	Chromosphere(10) The outermost layer of the sun, with an average temperature of about one million Kelvin	Answer:	Corona  5.	Name the director from films on a 10-5 basis:   a. 10pts.  Pocketful of Miracles, State of the Union        5pts.   Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, It Happened One Night		Answer:	 Frank Capra   b. 10: Empire of the Sun, The Color Purple         5: E.T., Schindler's List			Answer:	 Steven Spielberg   c. 10: Jack, Peggy Sue Got Married       5: Apocalypse Now, The Godfather			Answer:	 Francis Ford Coppola
6.	He was the first scientist to completely identify the primary structure of a protein. 10 points each.[10]	Name this British scientist who won his first Nobel Prize in 1958 for that discovery.	Answer:	Frederick Sanger[10]	Name the molecule whose exact sequence of amino acids Sanger determined, and whose three-dimensional conformation was determined using X-ray diffraction studies by Dorothy Hodgkin in 1967.	Answer:	insulin[10]	The discovery of insulin earned a Nobel shared by this Canadian and his boss J.J.R. McLeod, but not by his colleague C.H. Best..	Answer:	Frederick Banting7.	Answer the following about the career of Daniel Webster, FTSNPE.a) FTP, give the three-word phrase that precedes "now and forever, one and inseparable" in Webster's most-quoted line. 	Answer:	Liberty and Unionb) FTP, Webster uttered that quote in rebuttal to a toast offered by this senator, who argued that South Carolina had a right to nullify federal tariffs.	Answer:	Robert Young Haynec)   FFPE, name any two of the three presidents under whom Webster served as Secretary of State.	Answer:	William Henry Harrison, John Tyler, and Millard Fillmore 8.	Given a set of arias from Gilbert and Sullivan Operetta smash hits of the late nineteenth century, name the operetta in which they are performed, FTPE:(10) "When the Foeman Bares His Steel," "Oh, Better Far to Live and Die," and "When A Felon's Not Engaged In His Employment."	Answer:	The Pirates of Penzance (10) "Oh, gentlemen, listen I pray," "Is this the Court of the Exchequer?," and "Oh, Joy Unbounded."	Answer:	Trial By Jury (10) "When I Was a Lad," "I'm Called Little Buttercup" 	Answer:	H.M.S. Pinafore9.	FTPE name these characters in an Old French epic poem, based very loosely on a minor rear guard action at Roncesvalles:[10] The title character of the story is this the nephew and paladin of Charlemagne.	Answer:	  Roland[10]  Name Roland's step-father, who conspires with the Saracens to kill Roland and the entire rear guard of Charlemagne's army.	Answer:	  Ganelon[10] Roland's honor prevents him from using his horn to summon help before it's too late.  Name this legendary horn.	Answer:	  Oliphant10.	Answer these questions about the Labors of Hercules, FTPE:a)  Name the King of Mycenae who assigned to Hercules the twelve tasks.	Answer: 	Eurystheusb)  Hercules was assigned to bring back the girdle of which Queen of the Amazons?       Answer: 	Hippolytac)  Perhaps his least pleasant labor, he took care of this by diverting a river.       Answer: 	cleaning the stables of Augeas [accept equivalents]11.	Name these explorers of Africa FTPE.A.  This Scottish surgeon explored the Niger River in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  He drowned in 1806, or crocodiles may have eaten him.	Answer:	Mungo ParkB.  In 1858 he discovered Lake Victoria, deducing it as the source of the Nile.	Answer:	John Hanning SpekeC.  Along with Speke, he discovered Lake Tanganyika, but he is probably more famous for disguising himself as a Muslim pilgrim in order to visit Mecca and his translation of The Arabian Nights.       Answer:	Richard Burton
12.	FTPE answer the following about optics:A.  This law tells the amount of bending a light ray will undergo moving from one medium to another.	Answer:	Snell's LawB.  This unit is used to measure the power of lenses.  It is equal to an inverse meter.	Answer:	DiopterC.  Reflection and refraction by ice crystals in the atmosphere produce these, which are seen far more often than rainbows.  Common types include the 22 degree variety, while rarer varieties include the 46 degree kind.	Answer:	Halos [accept sundogs]13.	Given the NCAA Division 1 basketball program, give the school's nickname FFPE.(a) North Carolina State		Answer:	 Wolfpack(b) St. John's		Answer:	 Red Storm(c) Dayton		Answer:	 Flyers(e) UC/Irvine		Answer:	 Anteaters(f) SUNY/Stony Brook		Answer:	 Sea Wolves(g) IUPUI [OO-ee-POO-ee]		Answer:	 Jaguars14.	FTPE, name the characters used for these tasks in the C programming language.[10] Pointer dereferencing	Answer:	asterisk (*)[10] Supplying a preprocessor directive	Answer:	pound (#)[10] Bitwise exclusive OR	Answer:	caret (^)15.	Identify the following about a literary movement in 18th century Germany FTPE.[10] This movement, emphasizing rebellion and reflecting man's unease in contemporary society, took its name from a play written by Friedrich Maximillian Klinger.	Answer:	 Sturm und Drang [10] The best-known work of Sturm und Drang is this semi-autobiographical work of Goethe about a man searching for identity and place in a world into which he does not easily fit.	Answer:	 The Sorrows of Young Werther or Die Leiden des jungen Werthers[10] This play by Schiller, concerning the machinations of brothers Karl and Franz and their desire for power, is considered to be one of the "genius works" of Sturm und Drang.	Answer:	 The Robbers or Die Räuber16.	In the late 16th century Japan saw the end of the Sengoku era, a period of continuous warfare between local lords, called daimyo. This reunification of Japan is often credited towards three important military leaders that brought Japan under one political rule. FTP each, what are the names of these military leaders?(10) He rose from obscurity to become the first leader in Japan's reunification	Answer:	Oda Nobunaga (10) One of Nobunaga's generals, he succeeded Nobunaga upon his assassination in 1582	Answer:	Toyotomi Hideyoshi(10) He succeeded Hideyoshi and founded the last shogunate which bears his name	Answer:	Tokugawa Ieyasu (E-ay-Ah-soo)
17.	Answer the following about phases of matter for the stated number of points[5] The changing of a solid directly into a gas.	Answer:	Sublimation[5] The changing of a gas directly into a solid.	Answer:	Deposition[10/10] For ten points each: within 50% of the real values, the pressure in atmospheres and temperature in degrees Celsius of the triple point of water.	Answer:	.006 atm and .01 C (anything between .003-.009 atm and .005-.015 C)18.	Identify the following T. S. Eliot poems from lines, FTPE.a) "April is the cruelest month"	Answer:	 "The Wasteland"b) "Tenants of the house/ Thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season"	Answer:	 "Gerontion"c) "I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each/ I do not think they will sing to me."	Answer:	 "Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"19.	Given a description of an Asian mountain range, identify it FTPE.[10] Forming the boundary between Kyrgyzstan and China and extending eastward into Sinkiang, this range's highest point is Victory Peak.  	Answer:	 Tien Shan Mountains[10] Lying just to the south and west of the Tien Shan and northwest of the Karakoram Range, this range of central Asia includes Communism Peak and Lenin Peak.	Answer:	 Pamir Mountains[10] The primary mountain range of northern Iran, it runs roughly parallel to the southern coast of the Caspian Sea and is somewhat uninhabited save for various nomad groups.	Answer:	 Elburz Mountains20.	Identify the following about a certain Neoplatonist thinker, for ten points each.[10] This noted vegetarian and student of the ascetic Ammonius Saccas convinced the Roman Emperor Gallienus to build the city described in Plato's "Republic."	Answer:	Plotinus[10] This pupil of Plotinus wrote a biography of Pythagoras, but is better known for arranging Plotinus' work into 6 collections of 9 treatises each.	Answer:	Porphyry[10] This term, Greek for "groups of nine," is applied to the body of work Porphyry compiled for Plotinus.	Answer:	Enneads21.	FTPE identify these punctuation marks based on descriptions:A row of three dots indicating an intentional omission	Answer:	EllipsisA superimposition of a question mark and an exclamation point used to express an excited question or cry of disbelief	Answer:	InterrobangA triangle formed by three asterisks used to call attention to a passage	Answer:	Asterism22.	Given a definition, state the astronomy term being described, FTPE:(10) Region around a planetary body, in which the body's magnetic field strength is balanced by ram pressure from solar wind emanating from its parent star.	Answer:	Magnetopause(10) In the solar system, it's the class of planetesimal objects with semi-major axes within the orbit of Neptune and perihelia beyond the orbit of Jupiter, thought to have been Kuiper belt objects disturbed by the Jovian planets' influence.	Answer:	Centaurs(10) This is a class of objects, considered primitive by planetary standards, with semi-major axes of approximately 10,000 AU. Perturbations of these objects by nearby stars are thought to create long period comets.	Answer:	Oort Cloud