TOSSUPS - GUTHRIE/CCS					SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Carol Guthrie with special guest star Charlie Steinhice1. 	The Karens in Burma believed these were malignant and dangerous demons.  Zulus associated them with snakes.  In Hindu mythology, the god Indra used it as a bow with which he shot his lightning arrows.  In Norse myth the Bifrost bridge was one.  FTP, name this object which is described in Genesis 9:11-17 as a sign from God.       Answer: rainbow2. 	It ended in Europe with the Peace of Hubertusburg.  The death of Tsarina Elizabeth during it resulted in Tsar Peter III withdrawing Russian troops from Prussian land.  The English success in India during this war was due to Robert Clive.  Its most active theater was North America.  FTP, name this war, known as the French and Indian War in America.       Answer: the Seven Years War       3. 	He wrote a cantata in the form of a dialogue between father and daughter over the daughter's desire to drink the newly popular continental beverage - coffee.  Director of church music at St. Thomas in Leipzig, he composed St. Matthew's Passion and Mass in B Minor.  FTP, name this pioneering Baroque composer.Answer: Johan Sebastian Bach4. 	When a non-inertial rotating coordinate system is used to analyze motion, Newton's F = ma is not correct unless one adds this to the real forces.  FTP what is this fictitious force called?	Answer: centrifugal force (NOT centripetal) 5. 	It invokes the goddess Mirth, with whom the poet wants to live, first in pastoral simplicity and then amid the "busy hum of men" in cities.  Written in rhymed octosyllabics, this lyric poem by John Milton was published in 1631.  FTP, name this poem, a companion to "Il Penseroso."	Answer: L'Allegro6. It is used in scrying and believed to have the power to make the unseen visible and the invisible seen.  Australian aborigines use this mineral in rainmaking ceremonies, while Shetland Islanders believe if you drop it into a pool where women wash their feet, that it will end barrenness.  This mineral is an essential constituent of igneous rocks, such as rhyolite and granite.  FTP, name this silica mineral, the most common of all minerals.	Answer: quartz7. 	This band's leader described their sound as "the Bay City Rollers getting molested by Black Flag."  Songs on their breakthrough album include "Drain You," "Lounge Act," "Endless Nameless," and "Lithium."  FTP, name this seminal rock bank whose members include Chris Novoselic and David Grohl, and whose albums include Insecticide, In Utero, and Nevermind.	Answer: Nirvana8. 	He won the heavyweight boxing championship in the 48th Olympiad, then set out on journeys throughout the Near East.  Returning from his travels, he set up a school/brotherhood in the Italian city of Croton dedicated to musical experimentation and the study of geometry, mathematics and astronomy.  FTP, name this Greek philosopher and mathematician who believed numbers were symbol's representing cosmic principle, and who, in all likelihood, was not the first to conceive the equation a squared plus b squared equals c squared.	Answer: Pythagoras9. 	According to Livy's account of him, his wife was Racilia, and he worked a little 3-acre farm west of the Tiber.  When the Aequi army lead by Municius threatened Rome circa 457 BCE, he was called upon by Romans to form an army and repel the invaders.  FTP, name this legendary Roman hero whose story became a morality tale for Romans.	Answer: Cincinnatus10. 	This Latin American diplomat won the Lenin Prize for Peace in 1953.  Born Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto in 1904, his literary works include Residence on Earth, General Song, and Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.  FTP, name this Chilean diplomat and poet, who won the 1971 Nobel Prize for Literature.	Answer: Pablo Neruda
11. 	This painting has been called a talisman of Venus, a magical device for capturing in the mind the influence of harmony, beauty and love associated with Venus as goddess and planet.  On the painting's right, the wind of spring, Zephyr, embraces the shy earth nymph Chloris, and turns her into Flora, the blossoming flower of spring.  FTP, identify this painting by Botticelli. 	Answer: Primavera (prompt on "Spring")12.	The evacuation of Belgium, autonomous development for the people of Austria-Hungary, removal of economic barriers, the restoration of Alsace-Lorraine to France, establishment of an independent Poland and the establishment of a general association of the world's nations.  These are some of a list of proposals presented by Woodrow Wilson at the Versailles Conference.  FTP, by what name is this list known?	Answer: the 14 Points13. 	In literature it means deliberate understatement used for emphasis or comic effect.  Greek for "lessening" or "diminution," this term is used in biology to name the reduction division process by which haploid gametes and spores are formed.  FTP, identify this term.	Answer: Meiosis14. 	First published serially in bowdlerized form in The Graphic in 1891, it is subtitled "A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented."  The title character bears a bastard child, Sorrow, who dies in infancy.  She meets and marries Angel Clare, who ditches her on their wedding night when he learns of her past.  FTP, name this novel by Thomas Hardy.	Answer: Tess of the d'Urbervilles15. 	The Dee River which rises in Bala Lake, is its principal river.  It has an irregular coastline with many bays, the largest of which is Cardigan Bay.  Almost entirely mountainous, Snowdon massif is its highest peak and its principal range is the Cambrian Mountains.  FTP, name this part of the United Kingdom whose major cities include Swansea and Cardiff.	Answer: Wales16. 	Narratology and Semiotics are branches of this critical movement which was based on the linguistic theories of Ferdinand Saussure.  FTP, name this critical movement whose proponents have included Michel Foucault, Roland Barthes and Claude Levi-Strauss.	Answer: Structuralism17. 	Formed at a convention in Buffalo New York by Barnburners, Liberty Party members and "conscience" Whigs, this Party ran John P. Hale for president in 1852.  Although he barely made a ripple in that election, his party wielded considerable power in the House of Representatives during the early 1850's.  FTP, name this party which ran ex-president Martin Van Buren for president in 1848.	Answer: Free-Soil Party18. 	Pairs of measurable quantities whose product has dimensions of energy xx time are called conjugate quantities in quantum mechanics, and have a special relation to each other, expressed in terms of this principle.  It tells us that we can measure anything with arbitrarily small precision, but in the process some other measurement gets worse.  FTP, name this principle formulated by the winner of the 1932 Nobel Prize in Physics.	Answer: Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle19. 	One of the grown children is a disgraced college professor, one is a suburban dad battling clinical depression and a dysfunctional family, and one is a chef coming to terms with her bisexuality.  Their father, Alfred, is growing increasingly demented from Parkinson's disease, while his wife, Enid, works very hard to live in blissful denial and irrationally looks forward to a "real family Christmas."  Of course, the conflict in this novel is nothing compared to the conflict its author stirred up when he declined Oprah Winfrey's offer to include it in her book club.  FTP, name this 2001 novel by Jonathan Franzen.	Answer: The Corrections
20. 	Here's yet another reason besides the food to be glad you don't live in Britain.  This artist scored his second straight #1 hit in the UK in September with a cover of Lou Bega's "Mambo #5."  Credit actor Neil Morrissey, of the original British version of the series "Men Behaving Badly."  He provides the lead vocals on that cut and the first hit, "Can We Fix It?", just as he does this character's voice on the TV series that bears his name.  FTP name this colleague of Dizzy, Roley, Lofty, and Muck, a diminutive construction worker seen on Nick Jr. 	Answer:	Bob the Builder21. 	The minor characters in this novel include Maurice, Bill and Percival Wimys Madison.  It was parodied in an episode of The Simpsons in which the elementary school bus wrecks en route to a mock-U.N. conference. Simon is the first character to die at the hands of his fellow boys, but the murder of Piggy represents the death of reason on the island.  FTP, name this allegorical novel by William Golding.	Answer: Lord of the Flies22. 	In the S1 variety, the substrate is single-stranded DNA or RNA.  In the "endo-" variety, it cleaves at internal sites in the substrate, while the "exo-" variety cleaves from the end of the substrate molecule.  FTP, what is this general class of enzymes that degrades DNA and/or RNA molecules by cleaving the phosphodiester bonds that link adjacent nucleotides?	Answer: nuclease23. 	Its leaders have included Tegh Bahadur and Angad, who developed a written script for Punjabi.  Arjan built the Golden Temple at Amritsar and Gobind Singyh founded its religious brotherhood, the Khalsa.  FTP, name this religion founded in the Punjab by Guru Nanak, whose male members never cut their hair.	Answer: Sikhism24. 	Son of Henry the Fowler, duke of Saxony, he defeated the Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld in 955.  FTP, name this Saxon king of Germany who was crowned emperor of the Romans in 962, thereby ushering in, according to some, the Holy Roman Empire.	Answer: Otto I
BONI - GUTHRIE/CCS					SWORD BOWL 2002 -- UT-CHATTANOOGAQuestions by Carol Guthrie with special guest star Charlie Steinhice1. Answer these questions about religious relics FTPE:a. After his cremation in 1948, particles of his ashes were given to several associates.  One is enshrined at Jahinea Boday.	Answer: Mohandas "Mahatma" Gandhib. The ancient Greek city of Argos harbored the bones of Pelops' father	Answer: Tantalusc. Christ's features are said to have been miraculously imprinted on this saint's veil after he used it to wipe the sweat from his brow while on the way to Calvary.	Answer: Veronica2. Answer these questions about an ancient peoples FTPE:a. These people were vassals of Sargon of Akkad, but asserted independence under Tiglath-pileser, and expanded their kingdom under Shalmaneser III in the 9th century BCE.	Answer: Assyrianb. Officially, Assyrian kings served as vice-regent to this god, the chief Assyrian deity.	Answer: Ashurc. The Assyrian Empire disintegrated with the capture of this city, its capital, by a Chaldean and Medes coalition.	Answer: Nineveh3. See if you can make an "A" on this science quiz, 10 pts. each correct.a. A hydrocarbon containing a triple carbon-carbon bond, such as acetylene.	Answer: alkyneb. Alternate forms of a gene or DNA sequence which occur on either of two homologous chromosomes in a diploid organism.	Answer: allelec. The pairing of complementary DNA or RNA sequences, via hydrogen bonding, to form a double-stranded polynucleotide, most often used to describe the binding of a short primer or probe.	Answer: anneal4. Identify these pioneers of early Socialism FTPE:a. This Frenchman, 1760-1825, advocating organizing all society into a cooperative community, to be lead by intellectuals and industrial managers.	Answer: Henri de Saint-Simonb. This British cotton manufacturer developed a cooperative community at New Lanark, Scotland.	Answer: Robert Owenc. This Frenchman, 1772-1838, created small model communities he called phalansteries.	Answer: Charles Fourier5. Answer these questions about Dante's The Divine Comedy, for the stated number of points.a. For 10 pts., all or nothing, provide the Italian names for the 3 parts of The Divine Comedy.	Answer: Inferno, Purgatorio, Paradisob. For 5 pts., name the Latin poet who meets Dante in the dark woods and guides him on part of his journey.	Answer: Virgilc. For 5 pts. Virgil says this woman sent him to rescue Dante from the dark wood.  She confronts Dante in Purgatorio and reproaches him for his sin.	Answer: Beatriced. For 5 pt. The name of the first circle of hell where unbaptised and virtuous pagans are sent.	Answer: Limboe. For 5 pts. The Divine Comedy is written in what rhyme scheme, which is aba, bcb, cdc, etc.?	Answer: terza rima
6. Identify the following Latin American nations given the name of two of its political subdivisions.a. Ayacucho and Cusco				Answer: Perub. Mendoza and La Pampa			Answer: Argentinac. Jalisco and Campeche			Answer: Mexico7. Answer these chemistry questions FTPE:a. A process by which components in a chemical mixture are separated according to their different boiling points.  Gasoline is produced from crude oil using it.	Answer: fractional distillationb. The energy required to either separate an electron from an atom or to separate the protons and neutrons of an atomic nucleus.	Answer: binding energyc. An atom in a molecule that is bonded to four different chemical species, allowing for optical isomerism, examples include the central carbon in serine.	Answer: chiral8. St. Nicholas magazine was famous for providing entertainment to young boys and girls in the early 20th century.  However, St. Nicholas, by giving awards to children who showed promise in writing and the arts, served to give a whole generation of authors their start.  Identify the following winners of St. Nicholas's awards for children.a. This flame-haired poet, the subject of the recent biography Savage Beauty, would later go on to famously proclaim "my candle burns at both ends," in her poem "First Fig."	Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millayb. This winner would grow up to poetically speculate on the condition and location of "John Brown's Body."	Answer: Stephen Vincent Benetc. Long before this author wrote his Tales of the Jazz Age, he won an award from St. Nicholas, but for his artwork instead of his writing.	Answer: F. Scott Fitzgerald9. William Henry Harrison made his name at the Battle of Tippecanoe.  FTPE, name this other battles between U.S. forces and native Americans.a. Black Kettle was the leader of group of Cheyennes slaughtered in this 1864 massacre in Colorado territory.	Answer: Sand Creekb. Anthony Wayne defeated a coalition of tribes led by Little Turtle at this 1794 battle.	Answer: Fallen Timbersc. It occurred June 25-26, 1876 in southeastern Montana.	Answer: Little Bighorn10.   Name the musical group from those with whom they've been associated 30-20-10:[30]	Acts they've opened for include Immature, SVW, Dru Hill, Boyz II Men, and Christina Aguilera.  [20]	Producers, songwriters, and collaborators include Kevin "She'kspeare" Briggs, Missy "Misdemeanor" Elliott, Sylvia Bennet Smith, Wyclef Jean, and R. Kelly.  [10]	Members this Houston-based quartet-turned-trio has ousted include Farrah Franklin, Latavia Robertson, and LaToya Luckett.	Answer:	Destiny's Child11. FTPE answer the following about a certain composer:a. This composer's distinctly American works include Lincoln Portrait and Rodeo.	Answer: Aaron Coplandb. The Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts" provides the main theme for this ballet for Martha Graham.  Copland limited its orchestration to 13 instruments because that was all that could fit in the hall where Graham had scheduled the premiere.	Answer: Appalachian Springc. Copland won and Academy Award for the musical score for this 1948 film starring Olivia de Havilland.	Answer: The Heiress
12. Name these parts of a flower, 10 points each.[10]	These green, leaf-like parts at the top of a flower stalk protect the developing bud.		Answer:	 sepal(s)[10]	Covered with sticky compounds, pollen adheres to this structure to begin fertilization.		Answer:	 stigma[10]	This "male" portion of the part is composed of the anthers and filament.		Answer:	 stamen [STAY-min]13. Since the main character in "Sex and the City" is a writer, it's only fair to combine "Sex and the City" knowledge with knowledge of great literature.  Name these literary figures who share first names with characters on the show, FTPE:a. The protaganist of Theodore Dreiser's first novel, who is prone to romantic entanglements of a less humorous variety.	Answer: Carrie (Sister Carrie)b. A Shakespearean heroine, the daughter of Prospero, who's probably too innocent and trusting to make a good lawyer.	Answer: Mirandac. The first name of the creator of perhaps the most famous strait-laced brunette good girl in literature, Jane Eyre.	Answer: Charlotte (Bronte)14. Film noir experienced something of a resurgence this year in two critically acclaimed movies.  FTPE:a. Name the 2001 film which starred Billy Bob Thornton as the barber/narrator.  In true noir fashion, this film is in black and white.	Answer: The Man Who Wasn't Thereb. Name the 2001 film which starred Guy Pearce as a man who has no short term memory.	Answer: Mementoc. Pearce also appears in this 1997 neo-film noir that garnered Kim Basinger a Best Supporting Actress Oscar.	Answer: L.A. Confidential15. Answer these questions about the Nazis and Hitler's rise to power FTPE:a. During the weekend of June 30, 1934, Hitler had the leaders of the SA executed on the pretext they were trying to take over the country.  By what name is this event known?	Answer: Night of the Long Knivesb. Head of the S.A., or Stormtroopers, this man was assassinated on the Night of the Long Knives.	Answer: Ernst Roehmc. Name the German president who appointed Hitler Chancellor in 1933, and whose death paved the way for Hitler to assume total control of Germany.	Answer: Paul von Hindenburg16.	Name the author from works, 30-20-10:30:  The Great Crash, 1929 (1955); The Liberal Hour (1960); Name-Dropping from F.D.R. On (1999)20:  American Capitalism: The Concept of Countervailing Power (1952), The New Industrial State (1967)10:  The Affluent Society (1958)	Answer:	John Kenneth Galbraith17. Name these architects FTPE:a) The first clerk in charge of the Patent Office, his plans (although modified substantially by others before their completion) were the winners of the official competition for the design of the U.S. Capitol.	Answer:	William Thorntonb) This Irish immigrant designed and supervised the building of the White House, both the first time and after its 1814 torching by the British.	Answer:	James Hobanc) Considered the first professional architect in the U.S., his designs include the first Catholic cathedral in the U.S. and the Bank of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.  From 1815 to 1817 he was engaged in the rebuilding of the Capitol.	Answer:	Benjamin Henry Latrobe
18.	Name these types of lenses, FTPE:[10]	Often used in lighthouses, they have a succession of concentric rings, assembled properly on a flat surface to produce a short focal length.		Answer:	 Fresnel [fruh-NEL] lenses[10]	They obtain additional power by fusing a piece of high-index glass on front of the main lens, then polishing a single spherical surface over both.		Answer:	 bifocal lenses[10]	These lenses can be used to invert an image or to extend the length of a system, as in a periscope.		Answer:	 relay lenses19.	In December 2001, Dubya formally declared the US would back out of the ABM treaty. 10 points each.[10]	What does ABM stand for?		Answer:	 Anti-Ballistic Missile(s)[10]	This Soviet premier signed the ABM treaty with President Nixon.		Answer:	 Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev[10]	The 1972 ABM treaty did not completely ban missile defense systems; it allowed each country one test site. In what state is the US's missile defense site?		Answer:	 North Dakota20.	Edgar Allan Poe is not the only author capable of writing a suspense classic.  FTPE, name the authors of these suspenseful short stories.a. "The Most Dangerous Game"					Answer: Richard Connellb. "The Birds"							Answer: Daphne Du Maurierc. "Man From the South"					Answer: Roald Dahl21. Answer the following science questions FTPE:a. The technique of separating charged molecules in a matrix to which is applied an electrical field.	Answer: electrophoresisb. A method of transforming DNA, especially useful for plant cells, in which high voltage pulses of electricity are used to open pores in cell membranes, through which foreign DNA can pass.	Answer: electroporationc. When an external electric field is applied to materials with this quality, they mechanically deform.	Answer: Piezoeletricity or Piezoeletric effect22.  Hope you don't look too "Poe" faced if you can't identify these these short stories written by Edgar Allan Poe FTPE:a. Distraught over the death of his wife, the title character, the narrator of this story goes to England and enters into an unhappy marriage with Lady Rowena Trevanion.	Answer: Ligeiab. As a frequent victim of catalepsy, the narrator has obsessive fears that he will be buried alive while comatose.	Answer: The Premature Burialc. The title character is named Pluto.  He has his eye cut out and is hanged.	Answer: The Black Cat23.	Answer these questions on the Dow Jones Industrial Average, 10 points per part.[10]	How many stocks are included in the Dow?		Answer:	 30[10]	In December 2001, which stock in the Dow passed Microsoft as having the largest market capitalization?		Answer:	 GE or General Electric and Microsoft[10]	Five points each-name the two stocks in the Dow with the word "International" in their names.		Answer:	 IBM or International Business Machines and International Paper [prompt on "IP"]