TOSSUPS - DARTMOUTH (with help from Cornell)	SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.	After growing up in Fort Norman, Northwest Territories as the son of a Mountie, he appropriately played a member of the RCMP in the final episode of Due South.  His brother Eric became the Deputy Prime Minister of Canada, but he went to Hollywood where he appeared in such films as Beau Geste, Gunfight in Abilene, The Poseidon Adventure, Forbidden Planet and the original pilot of Hawaii 5-0.  FTP, name this actor whose career direction changed with Airplane! and Police Squad.Leslie _Nielsen_2. Born in 1874, this classical composer began his musical career as an organist and choirmaster, but was soon unable to play the organ anymore due to neuritis in his right hand.  He then took up the trombone and studied at the Royal College of Music, corresponding with a good friend named Ralph Vaughan Williams, also a composer, and soon afterwards writing one of his earliest works, "Winter Idyll".  FTP, name this Russian-descended English composer of "The Planets".Gustav _Holst_3.	Nitrosyl chloride, chlorine, and water are formed by combining one part nitric acid and three parts hydrochloric acid in order to make this substance.  When combined with tin it helped create the "killed spirits" making it useful during the18th century.  Since both chlorine and nitrosyl chloride are yellow, this liquid is also yellow and extremely volatile.  FTP, name this liquid used to test metals, whose name is derived from its ability to dissolve both gold and platinum._aqua regia_4.	It established a court composed of Protestants and Catholics to settle land disputes and allowed for open Protestant worship in select towns and private worship in others.  Cardinal Richelieu annulled its political clauses in the Peace of Ales (ah-LEH) in 1629. Louis XIV repealed it in 1685, resulting in the exodus of 400,000 Protestants.  FTP, name this edict issued by a once-Protestant Henry IV of Navarre that granted Huguenots religious freedom.Edict of Nantes5. The Party he founded in 1953 was banned in 1968 by his country's government in the Prohibition of Political Interference Bill.  He ran a reformatory school and it was during a tour of prisons in Europe and the United States that he began writing his most famous book, published in 1948.  Among his other works are Tales From A Troubled Land, Towards the Mountain, Too Late the Phalarope and Ah But Your Land is Beautiful.  FTP, name this South African educator and writer, the author of Cry, The Beloved Country.Alan Stewart  _Paton_6. He killed himself in 1906, apparently because he was sick of science and the scientific world.  This is not surprising as he studied statistical mechanics for most of his life.  A distribution and a constant are named for him.  The value of his constant, often referred to as "k", is equal to the ideal gas constant divided by Avogadro's Number.  FTP name this suicidal Austrian physicist.Ludwig _Boltzmann_7. 	Hearing the truth you've spoken twisted by knaves to make trap for fools. Forcing your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn long after they are gone. Dreaming and not make dreams your master.  Filling the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds' worth of distance run.  Trusting yourself when all men doubt you. FTP, these are just some of the requirements for manhood put forth in which Rudyard Kipling poem. _If_8. Before the Langston Hughes Library and Civil Rights Memorial, she sculpted the first model of her most famous work out of mashed potatoes. Yet even after a spate of racial and political attacks, her "strong, clear vision" prevailed and her insistence on black marble was approved. FTP, name this architect and sculptor who while still an undergraduate designed the Vietnam Veterans' Memorial.Maya _Lin_
9. According to German legend, this was said to be put into the cradle in place of a newborn infant if the mother did not keep a constant vigil.  It was supposedly placed there by a gnome or other malignant spirit of the underworld who desired a human child, and became a staple of German mythology, with luminaries such as Jakob Grimm writing the occasional tale about it.  FTP, name this thick-headed, ancient creature, whose name was also the title of a 1622 play by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley._Changeling_10.	5. He succeeded his brother Mongke as ruler in 1260 and established his capital at Cambulac. The founder of the Yuan dynasty, he allowed all religions except Taoism to be practiced, but also made Buddhism the state religion.  The first ever foreigner to rule China, FTP name this Emperor who has been immortalized through Marco Polo's writings and Samuel Taylor Coleridge's poem._Kublai Khan_11.	Charles Darwin describes the Yagan natives of this island as wearing sealskin and guanaco cloaks, but modern tourists are encouraged to wear sunglasses and specialized clothing to avoid occasional ozone "events." Cruise lines exhort tourists to visit the glaciers of the Towers of Paine National Park and Ushaia [OO-sha-ya], the southernmost city in the world, but most joke that they've come to see if the fires are still burning. FTP, name this island shared between Chile and Argentina, which Magellan named Land of Fire in 1519. Isla Grande de _Tierra del Fuego_12.	According to some theories they are generated by the collision of ionized particles with the magnetic field of the Milky Way galaxy.  The most powerful form of electromagnetic radiation, they are measured on Earth's surface by neutron monitors that put out different readings at different altitudes.  FTP, give this term for particles and high energy light that bombard the earth from anywhere beyond its atmosphere.  _Cosmic Rays13.	Journalist Simon Jenkins, who headed the judging committee, said of her, "Three times she has been the bridesmaid, but now she is the bride."  Though the prize was only 21,000 pounds, she told the audience that included fellow nominees Kazuo Ishiguro and Michael Collins, that "this is all about books and reading and writing." Duh. FTP, name this author who on November 8, 2000 won the Booker prize for The Blind Assassin, and whose previous works include The Robber Bride and Cat's Eye.Margaret _Atwood_14.	Pencil and paper ready. Exponentiate the transcendental number required to describe a caternary by the product of the symbol of the meson formed by an up and a down quark and the small signal symbol for current.** Now add the multiplicative identity. FTP provide the value of this calculation, the additive identity, which completes Euler's famous equation, encompassing the 5 fundamantal constants of mathematics.Zero (accept -1 if the answer is given before **) (Euler's equation is e^(pi*i) + 1 = 0)15.	His diplomatic career began at age 19, when he accompanied his grandfather to the second international peace conference.  He was legal counsel to the American delegation to the 1919 Versailles peace conference, and was involved in the establishment of the United Nations, SEATO and CENTO as well as in the conclusion of a peace treaty with Japan in 1951. FTP name this promoter of "brinkmanship" whose brother was Director of the CIA from 1953 to 1961 and who was Secretary of State from 1953-1959. JOHN_Foster_DULLES_16. Taking place at a boarding school, little Nat and Dan are two street urchins who, through a generous benefactor, come to be educated.  Although they prove to be bad influences on the other students, they eventually are civilized through the influence of the headmistress. The description of the boys' changes and the learning process of the school, are based on the Temple School founded by the author's father.  FTP, name this 1871 novel subtitled Life at Plumfield with Jo's Boys, written by Louisa May Alcott._Little Men_
17.	Cyanobacteria, Oomycota, Porifera, Rotifera, Spirochaetae, Sporozoa, Phoronida, Pogonophora, Nematoda, Phaeophyta, Rhizopoda, Ciliophora, Arthropoda, Cholorphyta, Mollusca, Chordata.  FTP, these are all examples of what taxonomic division that immediately follows kingdom?_phylum_18. The subtitle of this man's 1798 work was, "as it Affects the Future Improvement of Society".  Going against Godwin and Rousseau, this man saw conditions in London growing disastrously bad as birth rates rose.  He thus saw the only means of preventing disaster as war, famine, disease, and moral restraint.  FTP, identify this political economist whose less than cheery Essay on the Principle of Population states that poverty and distress are unavoidable because population increases faster than the means of subsistence.Thomas _Malthus_19.	The native Kikuyu peoples organized it and preached violent resistance to British domination.  A campaign of sabotage and assassination followed in Kenya, but many more rebels were killed than Europeans.  British efforts to put the militant Kikuyu in concentration camps failed as they still held on to their national beliefs, and Jomo Kenyatta was jailed as its leader.  FTP, name this rebellion that spearheaded the movement for Kenyan independence.Mau Mau Rebellion20. 	A four year all-American and part of two consecutive national champion squads, she was the first person in any sport to have her number retired by USC. Nominated for the Sullivan Award in 1986, she was the first female basketball player to have been so honored.  Inducted into the basketball hall of fame in 1995, FTP, name this former coach of the Phoenix Mercury and television basketball analyst.Cheryl _Miller_21. The name's the same. Michael is a well-published Canadian investment consultant.  Bishop Christopher Edward was the fourth Episcopal Bishop of South Carolina. Oronde is a 6'2" Dolphins wide receiver out of Winston-Salem via the Arena League. James was an American minister to Mexico in the mid-19th century. FTP, identify this common name, also lent to James's successful purchase of land for construction of a southern rail route._GADSDEN_22. 	On November 1st, 2000 while exiting the Four Seasons Hotel, this woman tripped over her evening gown and fell into her car.  Just five days later, she slipped and fell at her home, Clarence House, breaking her collarbone.  Doctors elected not to set her clavicle in plaster, partially due to the fact that she celebrated her 100th birthday only 3 months earlier.  FTP, name "Britain's Favorite grandmother" the widowed wife of King George VI.Elizabeth, the _Queen Mother_23.	This musician, born in 1954, began his musical career at age nine with guitar instruction from his brother, Jimmie.  After playing guitar in many Texas blues bands including the Nightcrawlers and Triple Threat Revue, he was noticed in 1982 at a European music festival by David Bowie and played on Bowie's Let's Dance album.  For 10 points, who was this famous guitarist, killed in a helicopter crash on August 27, 1990?   Stevie Ray _Vaughan_
BONI - DARTMOUTH (with help from Cornell)	SWORD BOWL 2001 - UT-CHATTANOOGA1.Answer the following questions, for ten points each, about DNA and its structure.All or nothing, name the four nitrogenous bases of DNA._Adenine_, _Thymine_, _Cytosine_, _Guanine_Again all or nothing, how do the bases pair up in the creation of DNA?_Adenine and Thymine_, _Cytosine and Guanine_Finally, when RNA is transcribed from DNA, what nitrogenous base is used in the place of thymine?  _Uracil_2. Given part of an American poem, name the poem and poet for five points apiece.(a) Beneath in the churchyard lay the dead; in their night encampment on the hill; wrapped in silence so deep and still; that he could hear, like a sentinel's tread; the watchful night-wind, as it went.Henry Wadsworth _Longfellow_, _Paul Revere's Ride_(b) The eyes beside had wrung them dry; And breaths were gathering sure; For that last onset, when the king; Be witnessed in his power.Emily _Dickinson_, _I heard a Fly Buzz When I died_(c) He will not go behind his father's saying; And he likes having thought of it so well; He says again, Good fences make good neighbours. Robert _Frost_, The _Mending Wall_3.	Name the Supreme Court case FTP each.In this case, the Supreme Court deemed the Judiciary Act of 1801 unconstitutional.  It established the doctrine of judicial review.      Marbury v. MadisonThe Court struck down a Texas statute that criminalized abortion in this case, stating that it violated a woman's constitutional right to privacy.      Roe v. WadeIt extended Wolf v. Colorado to the state courts.  In this case, the Court ruled that evidence seized by police in violation of the Fourth Amendment was inadmissible.      Mapp v. Ohio4.	Identify these American fires for ten points apiece.On December 30, 1903, an overheated arc lamp ignited draperies used as a backdrop at this Chicago theater; 200 people were killed by the fire, while more than 400 were trampled to death.THE _IROQUOIS_ THEATERThe Hawaiian decor provided fuel for the fire on November 28, 1942, at this Boston nightclub; the death toll was 492, including many crushed trying to exit through the main revolving door.THE _COCOANUT GROVE_  84 people died and 600 more were injured when this hotel on the Las Vegas strip went up in 1980; critics blamed flammable furnishings, lack of smoke detectors, and blocked fire doors._MGM GRAND_ HOTEL5. Identify the archipelago given the individual islands for 10 points apiece.A. Ibiza, Mallorca [Ma-YORK-a], Minorca _Balearic_ IslandsB. Umnak, Atu, Kiska _Aleutian_ IslandsC. Isabela, Santa Cruz, San Christobal _Galapagos_ Islands
6.	Name the pope from clues FTPE.  We're so nice, if you get the right name but the wrong number, you'll still get 5 pts.This successor of St. Peter reigned from approximately 67 to 79 AD, though very little is known about his reign beyond a decree that had women keep their heads covered in church. His feast day is September 23.      St. LinusThis pope, born Angelo Roncalli, served in Istanbul as Apostolic Delegate during World War II, later as Patriarch of Venice, and finally elected Pope in 1958. He is well known for calling the ecumenical council known as Vatican II in 1959, opened in 1962.      John XXIIIThis pope opened some 23 Jesuit seminaries around Europe in response to the Reformation. Reigning from 1572-1585, he is most well known for papal bull, Inter Gravissimas, which established a new calendar system for the western world.      Gregory XIII7. Identify these terms from astronomy for ten points each.The visible counterpart of certain celestial sources of radio waves, they are any one of a class of blue objects that appear as stars when seen through a telescope._quasars_The systematic increase in the wavelength of all light received from a celestial object, it is seen in the shifting of individual lines toward the longer wavelength end of the visible spectrum._red shift_Typically having the mass of the sun and the radius of earth, this type of star is strangein that it is extremely hot, dense, and abnormally faint._white dwarf_8.	Identify the authors of the following similarly-titled works FTSNOP.       [5] Mrs. Dalloway       Virginia Woolf       [10] The True Apparition of One Mrs. Veal       Daniel Defoe       [5] Miss Lonelyhearts       Nathanael West       [10] Mrs. Warren's Profession       George Bernard Shaw9.	Name these American third parties FTSNOP.[10] This basically agrarian party garnered 22 electoral votes in 1892, and preached parity for agricultural goods and the unlimited coinage of silver.  Their entanglement in the free silver issue led them to endorse William Jennings Bryan in the election of 1896.      Populist Party[5] This party advocated "free speech, free labor, and free men" as well as the banning of slavery in all U.S. territories.  It nominated Martin Van Buren for the Presidency in 1848.      Free Soil Party[15] The predecessor of the Free Soil Party, it hoped that raising the slavery issue would facilitate the abolition of slavery.  Its 1844 Presidential nominee James G. Birney may have garnered enough votes to make Henry Clay lose (again).      Liberty Party
10.	For only the fourth time in the history of Major League Baseball, in 2000 a pitcher-catcher tandem won gold gloves. FTPE name:[10] the Texas Rangers catcher, who spent the last two months on the DL with a broken thumb, but still won the AL Gold Glove for the ninth straight year.      Ivan Rodriguez (accept Pudge)[10] the curveballer who went only 13-13 last season, but tied a club record by turning 6 double plays and led the AL with 9 pickoffs.      Kenny Rogers[10] the Baltimore Oriole who had won the Gold Glove four years running before Rogers ended his streak.      Mike Mussina11.	Name these things related to the famous tasks of Hercules from clues for ten points each.Hercules had to slay these marsh-dwelling birds, beloved by the god Ares, which had wreaked havoc upon Greek farmland with their poisonous excrement. There were far too many for Hercules to kill with his arrows alone, so he scared them in the air with a rattle, shot as many as possible, and left the rest to escape to an island in the Black Sea.The Stymphalian birdsThis last task of Hercules required for him to browbeat Charon into letting him cross the River Styx on his way to the underworld. There, after freeing Theseus from a magically attrative chair (ripping off half of Theseus's posterior in the process), he brought this beast by choking it just where its heads met its shoulder.CerberusThis stag, with brass hooves and golden horns, roamed wild within the Peloponnese, was captured alive by Hercules after he tracked it for a year, by shooting an arrow that flew precisely through bone and sinew, pinning the animal's two forelegs together.Arcadian stag (accept Ceryneian hind)12.	Identify the following related items, TPE.[10] In this work by Nathaniel Hawthorne, a husband returns from Europe to see that his wife has committed adultery and has borne a child with this indiscretion.ANSWER:  The Scarlet Letter[10] This Erskine Caldwell work was dramatized by Jack Kirkland and ran for 3,182 performances on Broadway.  It is a sorrowful tale of a Georgia sharecropping family.ANSWER:  Tobacco Road[10] Both the bastard child in The Scarlet Letter and the youngest daughter in Tobacco Road share a name.  Give it for another ten points. ANSWER: Pearl13.	 For ten points each, name the following chemists. a) This American discovered deuterium in 1931 and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1934. He was also a key figure in the development of the atomic bomb. Answer: Harold Clayton_UREY_ b) This Irishman was the first to separate chemistry from alchemy and the first to clearly define "element'. He wrote The Sceptical Chemist in 1661.Robert _BOYLE_ c. Name the Frenchman who shared the 1903 Nobel prize in Chemistry with Pierre and Marie Curie for the discovery of natural radioactivity. Antoine Henri_BECQUEREL_14. All right, we're sick and tired of all those easy Harry Potter questions. Harry's best friend is Ron Weasley, and Ron has six siblings, all of whom have appeared in the series at some point. Name them, for 5 points each._BILL_, _CHARLIE_, _PERCY_, _FRED_, _GEORGE_, _GINNY_
15. Given the Roman Emperors that preceded and followed, name the Roman emperor that came between for ten points each.Vitellius and Titus_Vespasian_Hadrian and Marcus Aurelius_Antoninus Pius_Septimius Severus and Macrinus_Caracalla_or _Caracallus_16. Given a short description of a French painting, identify the artist and title for five points each.(a) Completed in 1830, it features a self-portrait of the artist as a musket bearer and a woman standing in the middle holding up a bright red cloth._Liberty Leading the People_, Eugene _Delacroix_(b) Located in the National Gallery of Scotland, it is a primitivist work with the Biblical title event in the upper right hand corner and the main focus on the women praying in the foreground._Vision After the Sermon_, Jacob Wrestling with the Angel; Paul _Gauguin_(c) It features 38 different studies which the artist did in several visits to the namesake location in the Seine.  Ladies with umbrellas abound in this pointilist work._Sunday on the Island of La Grand Jatte_, Georges _Seurat_17.	30-20-10, Identify the physics equation from cluesFor 30, It can be derived many ways including using Feynman's sum over paths method or from Fermat's Principle.For 20, The form most used was actually published by Descartes but was credited to the one whose name it bears today.For 10, The equation for it is n1 times the sine of angle 1 is equal to n2 time the sine of angle 2._Snell's Law_18. FTPE, identify the professions of the following literary characters.A. Tevye in Fiddler on the Roof _Milkman_B. Ichabod Crane in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow _School_teacher_C. Frank Gilbreth, Sr. in Cheaper by the Dozen _Motion-Study Expert_ or Efficiency Expert or Industrial Engineer (accept equivalents)19. For the stated number of points, identify these famous historical letters.For five points, This letter from Germany to Mexico, along with British propaganda, the Lusitania, and unrestricted submarine warfare brought the US into World War I._Zimmerman_ TelegramFTP Although a forgery, the publishing of this letter, from the British Comintern Chairman asking them to rebel, brought down the government of Ramsay MacDonald._Zinoviev_ LetterFor fifteen points, Written to the Senate in 1844, it helped sway the anti-slavery faction of the Senate to reject John C. Calhoun's treaty for the annexation of Texas._Pakenham_ Letter20.	30-20-10, name the film from clues30: Purposefully written to make absolutely no sense, the American version released in 1929, ran for only 24 minutes.20: Written by Salvador Dali, he appears in the film as a priest.10: Famous for a scene of an eye being sliced by a razor blade, it translates into English as An Andalusian Dog._Un Chien Andalou_ (accept _An Andalusian Dog_ before the ten point clue)21.	 Identify the following facts about Presidential succession for 10 points each. a) This article of the U.S. Constitution addresses the issue of Presidential succession. Article _II_ b) This Constitutional amendment provides for Presidential succession and discharge of Presidential duties when the President is incapacitated. _25th_ Amendment c) After the Vice President, Speaker of the House, and Senate President pro tem, the succession line goes down the Cabinet.  Which two secretaries are last in line? Secretary of _Education_, Secretary of _Veterans' Affairs_22.	Many have disputed the timing of a three-day fast, since it falls on Passover and the first two days of the Feast of Unleavened Bread.  For ten points each:[10] What fast is this, called to help prepare the Jewish emissary for an audience to ask Haman to rescind his order for annihilation of the Jews?Fast of _Esther_[10] Which gospel refers to this conflict as "The Pharisee stood and prayed thus...  'I fast twice the week...'" ?_Luke_ 18:11-12[10] Esther 9:21-22 states "that they should celebrate yearly the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month of Adar, as the days on which the Jews had rest from their enemies," in what feastFeast of _Purim_23.	On October 12, 2000, the USS Cole was the target of a terrorist attack, believed to have been organized by, once again, Osama bin Laden. [5] What type of ship is the USS Cole?_Aegis_-class Guided Missle _Destroyer_[5] In what port was the USS Cole moored at the time of the attack?  City and country._Aden, Yemen_[10] The USS Cole is being carried back to the States for repairs by what Norwegian transport?The M/V _Blue Marlin_[10] Where will the USS Cole be repaired?Ingalls Shipbuilding in _Pascagoula, Mississippi_