Technophobia VII - 23 November 2002Tossups by Jordan (with some assistance from Paul and Irene)1.  Moe thinks that this is the secret to Ned's youthful appearance, Homer's great-great-grandfather stumbled onto an aphrodisiac recipe while trying to concoct a cheap substitute for this, and Homer was tucked aboard a shipment of this while fleeing from a PBS collection death squad.  Agnes claims that Santa's Little Helper unholied this, and Bart once told a story about how his dog drank all of it after eating a mound of ants.  For ten points, Homer threw himself between Bart and what sanctified liquid to prevent him from being baptized?	Holy Water (prompt on water)2.  During the world cup, a giant poster sported six giant socks with black, yellow, and red stripes from T-Mobile.  Bult by C.G. Laghans in 1791, it has 12 doric columns and is based on the propylaeum of the Acropolis in Athens.  It marks the beginning of Unter den Linten promenade toward the city's cathedral, is immediately north of Potsdammer Platz, and just East of the Reichtstag.  For ten points, identify this only remaining Tor of Berlin, a massive gate topped with a quadriga.      Brandenburger Tor (Brandenburg Gate)3.  He was pictured on the cover of Paul McCartney's 1973 album Band on the Run, his daughter is Kiss's webmistress, and he was a pall-bearer for Bruce Lee, who was also his martial arts teacher.  Initially playing a tough guy in Westerns like The Magnificent Seven and Waterhole Three and action films like Our Man Flint and The Great Escape, he moved to doing voice-overs such as Henery J. Waternoose III in Monsters Inc. after contracting rheumatoid arthritis.  For ten points identify this gruff tough man whose last film performance before his death last week was as writer Tobias Alcott in The Man from Elysian Fields.	James Coburn4.  This leader assembled one of the largest collections of coins in the world, which was auctioned by Sotheby's after his death.  He continued his father's rivalry with the populist Wafd party, and despite frequent clashes, he largely kept them out of power.  Attempting to distance himself from his nation's former British masters, he opposed the appointment of the puppet Nahhas as prime minister, who prevented him from leading the nascent League of Arab States.  For ten points identify this leader who lead his country into a disastrous war against Israel and was forced to abdicate the Egyptian throne by General Gamal Nassar.	King Farouk I5.  Their training traditionally started at three years and three months of age, but very few actually started then.  Most were not born to it, but were rather sold to, and bought by, okiya (oh-key-ya). Apprenticed to "older sisters", they undergo mizuage (mee-zu-ah-gay) and eventually change the color of their collars from red to white. Arthur Golden wrote about the life of one in his first book. Their title meant "artists", and they were trained in various instruments, singing, drama, and traditional dances. FTP, name these traditional female Japanese entertainers.      Geisha6.  After seeing how many hours and how much cotton engineers used polishing and repainting their engines, he decreed that all of his engines would be black.  His drab fiat quickly spread to the other railroads, even though he was relatively new at the business, acquiring complete control NY&H only in 1863.  Before that, he had developed large steam lines between Boston and New York, later expanding service to San Francisco via Nicaragua many years before a route through Panama.  For ten points, identify this railroad mogul, benefactor and namesake of a Nashville university.	Cornelius Vanderbilt      7.  This dramatist, whose kidnapping at the age of two by Italian brigands inspired the plot of at least one of his later works, was the author of several plays, including Foggerty's Fairy and Broken Hearts. However, he is better known for writing the nonsense verse published as The Bab Ballads, and for penning the librettos of such operettas as The Grand Duke, Patience, and The Mikado. For ten points, name the librettist who collaborated with Sir Arthur Sullivan.      Sir William S. Gilbert 8.  During this period, the use of clay puppets to act out dramas arose.  The period itself began when the puppet emperor gave the throne to Ts'ao P'eir, the son of his generalissimo, Ts'ao Ts'ao.  After the devolution of power, however, former imperial Han forces were confined to the northern Wei Empire, and was challenged by the Shu han in Szechwan and the Wu near present day Nanking.  The Wei soon conquered the Wu and Shu han and proclaimed the Chin dynasty.  For ten points, identify this period in Chinese history captured in one of the most famous works of Chinese literature.	Romance of the Tree Kingdoms  (acc. San Kuo chih yen-i)9.  He served under lord Todo Yoshitada as a samurai, and assumed his samurai name, Matsuo Manuefusa.  Upon the death of his lord around 1660, he traveled to the capital to pursue a new career.  He wrote Oku no hosomichi, The Narrow Road to the North, on this journey, he competed with local poets in composing renga linked verse, to which he added the criteria of "echo," "perfume," and "harmony" that define a good link.  For ten points, identify this poetic master of Japan considered to be the master of the haiku.	Matsuo Basho10.  The speaker crosses his fork and knife when finishing a meal to praise Jesus, and takes his orange-pulp in three sips to remember the trinity.  He considers one of his comrades guilty of blasphemies worse than that of an Arian, and wishes "Hell dry you up with its flames!"  He thinks that Lawrence speaks too fondly of his plants, and cannot stand to watch the monk as he waters his flowers.  For ten points, identify this Browning poem that begins and ends with a carnal "Grrr ..." expressing the animosity felt by the speaker in his soliloquy.	Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister11.  He led ten thousand troops in the last battle against the Lamanites.  His father, Mormon, commanded him to preserve the sad tale of the destruction of their people.  The last prophet in the Book of Mormon, he hid the plates and later appeared to Joseph  Smith sixteen hundred years later and revealed the location of the plates.  A statue of him appears on almost every LDS temple, and his likeness is on the tombstone of American servicemen who are Mormon.  For ten points, identify this last Nephite prophet who shares his name with the capital of the Comoros.	Moroni12.  Hillebrand described a gas expelled from cleveite; although he knew it differed from nitrogen, Ramsay was the first to match its spectral lines to those seen during an eclipse of the sun observed in August 1868.  This element has the lowest freezing point of any element, an atom of this element without electrons is called an alpha particle.  For ten points, identify this element with symbol He and atomic number 2.	Helium13.  It's bonds are rated AAA, despite the fact the almost all of its investments are exceedingly high risk.  Only 19 of its borrowers have become more than six months overdue, and it has never, ever, not gotten its money back eventually.  In its first four decades, no borrower defaulted, and Nicaragua was the first to do so in 1984.  Despite that Argentina has enough money in reserve, it is using non-payment as a means of negotiating with president James D. Wolfensohn.  For ten points, identify this lender of last resort when the IMF washes its hands countries in dire straights.	World Bank14.  She made her getaway in a dragon-pulled chariot provided by her grandfather, the Sun-God.  She, prentending to sympathize with the man who dumped her, gave a coronet and dress to Creon's daughter, obstensibly as a means of convincing the king to allow her children to remain in Thebes.  The gifts, however, are poisoned, and Glauce and her children are dead at the end of the play.  For ten points, identify this play of Euripides that depects the revenge of the title character on Jason.	Medea15.  Wobbles in the star suggest that it is orbited by either a brown dwarf or a planet about 11 times more massive than Jupiter.  A class K5 star, the Greeks called it torch and its Arabic name means "he who follows" because it appears to follow the Pleiades through the sky.  Positioned in front of the Hyades star - the half-sisters of the Pleiades - cluster that make up the "face" of its namesake constellation, it is often represented as the "eye" of its constellation.  For ten points, identify this brightest star of Taurus.	Aldebaran16.  It is used to prove the relationship between the hypergeometric, geometric, and arithmetic means of a given set of numbers by using the natural logarithm.  Because it can be used for a weighted mean, it can be used to prove Holder's inequality with cleverly assigned weights and the l-p norm, as the convex function.  For ten points, identify this inequality which says that the average of a convex function applied to a set of points is less than the value of the same function of the mean.	Jensen's Inequality17.  One of his works of art was used by the Social Democrat party of Hamburg during its election campaign as an emblem of vigilance and discernment, which is ironic because it was destroyed by a group of Dadaists who took him at his word.  The photograph of Lee Miller's eye on a swinging metronome was insured for a hefty amount, and this artist created several copies of the original work which he then called "Indestructible Object," rather than the apparently poorly named "Object to be Destroyed."  For ten points, identify this American Surrealist born Emanuel Rabinovitch famous for his "Rayographs."	Man Ray18.  The inner matrix contains the enzymes of the TCA cycle, while the electron-transferring molecules of the respiratory chain and the enzymes responsible for ATP synthesis are located in and on the inner membrane. The enzyme systems primarily responsible for the release and subsequent oxidation of reducing equivalents are thus closely related so that the reduced coenzymes formed during catabolism (NADH and FADH) are available as substrates for respiration. The outer membrane allows for oxidative phosphorylation, but the inner cristae do even allow the passage of small ions.  For ten points, identify this workhorse cellular organelle responsible for respiration.	Mitochondria19.  Long under the able leadership of late president Chester V. Teasdale, this nation's economic principles had been sound.  Facing bankruptcy, Mrs. Teasdale offered to lend the nation money from her personal fortune on the condition that someone close to the family take control.  Ambassador Trentino of neighboring Sylvania bought off a newly appointed member of President Firefly's inner circle, resulting in war.  After the finance minister Chicolini was caught, he was sentenced to ten years in Levenworth or eleven years in Twelveworth, but pleaded to five and ten in Woolworth.  For ten points, identify this fictional nation in the Marx Brother's Film Duck Soup.	Freedonia20.  Benedek's devotion to Stosstaktik during this war was ineffective given his superior numbers and his enemy's highly effective training and equipment.  Nevertheless, after being pushed back from Josefstadt, the rout near the Czech town of Sadowa at the hands of Helmut von Moltke was enough to convince the Austrians that the cause was hopeless and to give up Holstein, Venetia, and membership in the German Confederation.  For ten points, identify this war ended by the treaty of Prauge between Prussia and Austria named for its short duration.	Seven Weeks War (acc. Preußisch-Österreichischer Krieg only in German)21.  "An exquisite pleasure had invaded my senses, something isolated, detached, with no suggestion of its origin." These sensations are described by the narrator after stepping out of a carriage in the cold and entering his mother's house, where he dips a Madeleine cake in a cup of tea, thus eliciting a recollection of his aunt Léone on Sunday mornings at Combray.  For ten points, identify this titular event in a work by Marcel Proust.	Remembrance of Things Past  (A la recherché du temps perdu) 22.  It is the largest city in the world not to lie on a navigable body of water, and owes its founding not to its navigability, but its proximity to gold due to its location on the Witwatersrand Main Reef.  It is part of Gauteng, a Sotho word meaning "Place of Gold."  It lies on the watershed between the drainages into the Indian and Atlantic ocean, and Auckland park to the west is the center of the nation's broadcasting corporation, which broadcasts in both English, Afrikaans, and Sotho.  For ten points, identify this largest city of South Africa.	Johanesburg
1. Answer the following questions about Alexander the Great's horse.A. For five, Who gave him the horse after receiving the horse from Dimaratos the Corinthian?Phillip II of Macedon, his father  (prompt on partial answer)B. For ten, Alexander the Great was only able to ride the horse after taking it under a tree because it was afraid of what?The rider's shadowC. For five, what was the name of his horse?BucephalusD. Bucephalus died after a battle against the king Porus on the what river, a tributary of the Indus, after which Alexander founded a town to honor his horse?Jhelum or Hydaspes2. Answer the following miscellaneous questions about the film Minority Report.  A. This movie is based on a short story by what author of Blade Runner?       Phillip K. DickB. What music plays as Anderton recreates the future murder of Sarah Marks?       Shubert's Unfinished SymphonyC. What Dutch Humanist does Anderton's drug dealer quote when he says that "in the kingdom of the blind, the one eyed-man is king?"Gerard Didier Erasmus3.  Identify the following amino acids.A. This amino acid, a precursor of tyrosine, is one of the few amino acids that can cross the blood-brain barrier, thus making it an attractive painkiller.PhenylalanineB. This can be formed from choline in the liver or kidney and from the amino acids threoine and serine.  And which is used in the synthesis of hemoglobin, collagen, glutathione, and can be converted to creatine.GlycineC. It can exist free in the blood and can be carried by proteins.  The precursor of seratonin, this essential amino acid has been used to treat insomnia.  Tryptophan   4.  Mythological lineage.  Given a character from Greek mythology, give his or her mother for ten points each.A. DardanusElectraB. ArtemisLetoC. AphroditeDione5.  Given a quote from a Charles Dickens work, give the work that it appears in for ten points each.  Five if you need the speaker.A. "I passed the day in a ditch, and the night in a pigsty.  That's the way I spent my tenth birthday.  Not that a ditch was new to me, for I was born in a ditch."Josiah Bounderby      Hard TimesB. "If they are going to die, they'd better do it and decrease the surplus population."Ebenezer ScroogeA Christmas Carol C. "He do the police in different voices."Betty Higden      Our Mutual Friend6.  Identify the following rulers of Cambodia for ten points each.A. Educated in France, he was the first leader of a free Cambodia and a founder of the non-aligned countries.SihanoukB. This palindromic leader of the Khmer Republic overthrew Sihanouk in 1970.Lon NolC. For ten points, identify the current prime minister of Cambodia who serves alongside Sihanouk, who is the head of state.Hun Sen7.  Given a sport, identify the city that houses its Hall of Fame; five for one, ten for two, twenty for three, thirty for all four.A. BowlingSt. Louis, MissouriB. National BaseballCooperstown, New YorkC. PGA / World GolfPinehurst, North CarolinaD. Tennis   Newport, Rhode Island8.  Answer the following questions about an opera for ten points each.A. In what opera does a young shepherd, who is also a pathological liar, see a star with a long tail which precedes a visit of three kings to his humble hut?Amahl and the Night VisitorsB. Who wrote Amahl and the Night Visitors?Gian Carlo MenottiC. After Amahl's mother returns the gold to the three kings she has stolen, Amahl is regains the ability to walk normally after he offers what possession as a gift?His staff [acc. Equivalents]9.  Tech trees.  Give the prerequisites for the following activities found in computer games.A. In Warcraft III, humans must build what build what structure before you can upgrade scout towers to guard towers?Lumber MillB. In Civ III, what discovery allows you to build triremes?Map MakingC. In Sam and Max hit the road, from what establishment do you need to purchase the pecan logs to bribe Doug the mole man?Snuckey's (do not take Stuckey's)10.  Given the last line of a poem, identify the poem for five points each.A. The firmness makes my circle just and makes me end where I begunA Valediction: Forbidding MourningB. Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn.The world is too much with usC. And what rough beast, its hour come round at last slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?The Second Coming11.  Presidential birthplaces.  Given a president, give the state where he was born for five points each.A. Abraham LincolnKentuckyB. Gerald FordNebraskaC. Herbert HooverIowaD. Rutherford B. HayesOhioE. Woodrow WilsonVirginiaF. Andrew JacksonSouth Carolina11.  Answer the following questions about algorithms.A. What optimal algorithm would determine the shortest path between any two nodes of a graph if all weights are non-negative?Dijkstra's AlgorithmB. If we use a this sort of heap whose bins are the sum of the previous two bin sizes, Dijkstra's algorithm attains O(E+V logV) time.Fibonacci heapC. The Floyd-Warshall algorithm, which uses repeated matrix multiplication to solve the all-pairs shortest path problem, can be improved to have less that O(V [cubed]) time if we employ what multiplication algorithm?Strassen's Algorithm12.  Former place names.  Given a former name of a geographical entity, give the current name for ten points each.A. Bessarabia   MoldovaB. Gold Coast   GhanaC. Stalingrad   Volgograd13.  Fine arts visual bonus.  Given a picture of a work  called "The Kiss," identify this artist for ten points each.A. BrancusiB. Rodin C. Gustav Klimt14.  For 10 points each -- give the surnames of the following TV and moviecharacters:A. Uncle Jesse on ~Full House~.answer: _Katsopolis_B. Toula and her family in ~My Big Fat Greek Wedding~.  (It means"orange.")answer: _Portokalos_C. George, the former football player who adopted Webster, the orphanedson of a former teammate.answer: _Papadapolis_15.  Identify the chemist 30-20-10.A. He was originally interested in chemistry by seeing an experiment by Lloyd Jeffress, who showed him how to turn white surgar into a steaming mass of black carbon.B. Financial difficulties led him to withdraw from Oregon Agricultural College and work full time as a paving inspector until he got a job teaching quantatitive anaylsis chemistry class.  His work in the field of crystalline atomic structure formed the basis of his 1925 PhD.C. In 1963, upon receiving the a Nobel prize for work Caltech president Lee DuBridge said was unworthy of the honor, he resigned from Caltech.Linus Pauling16.  Author from works 30-20-10.A. Show Your Tongue and The Call of the ToadB. The Rat, Dog Years, and Two States-One NationC. Tin Drum and The FlounderGunter Grass17.  Given a description of a diagnostic test in medicine, identify the disease that it is used to detect for ten points each.A. There are three AMA recommended tests for this condition: an esophagosopy which is a manual search for tears in the lining, a barium swallow which checks to see if the radioactive barium seeps out from the upper intestinal track, or a Manometry which measures pressure in the esophagus.Hiatal HerniaB. Similar to an Osteoporosis test, a test for this condition uses a non-specialized bone density test rather than a bone mineral density test.  Common in children, they are usually tested by X-Raying the wrist and checking for holes and cavities. Rickets / OsteomalaciaC. The Adam's forward-bending test is not an effective screening process according to the Children's Chiropractic association.  Instead, a more test to measure the length of the spine and compare it to the height of the child.Scoliosis18.  You will be given three cities.  Two of them will be on the same river, one will not.  Give the common river and the city that does not lie on the river.  For example, given "St. Louis, Tokyo, and New Orleans," you would answer Mississippi and Tokyo.A. Basel, Bonn, AntwerpRhine, AntwerpB. Kazan, Kharkov, and SaratovVolga, KharkovC. Kigali, Brazzaville, and KinshasaCongo, Kigali19.  Given a post-Star Trek role, identify the Star Trek actor for five points each.A. The voice of Galvatron in Transformers: The Movie   Leonard NimoyB. Ronnie Cooke on Fox's Boston Public   Jeri RyanC. Pippin on Homeboys from Outer Space    James DoohanD. Dr. Edmunds, a stem cell researcher on The Practice episode Neighboring Species   Robert PicardoE. Morgan on The Englishman Who Went up a Hill But came Down a Mountain   Colm MeaneyF. Charles Xavier in the 2000 X-Men movie   Patrick Stewart20.  Answer the following questions about a school of thought across several social sciences.A. What theory holds that mental states are understood by their relations to input and output, other inner states, and behavioral effects?FunctionalismB. What sociologist showed that all aspects of human society work together much like the parts of a machine in his 1960 The Division of Labor in society?Emile DurkheimC. What anthropologist advanced the idea of biocultural functionalism after his studies of the Trobrianders of New Guinea?Bronislaw Malinowsk21.  The 16th Party congress of the People's Republic of China marked Jiang Zemin's quasi-handoff of power in China.  Answer the following questions about the handoff for ten points each.A. What Vice President of the Chinese Communist Party is stepping up as general secretary?Hu JintaoB. Mr. Hu was penciled in for the top job ten years ago by what former big wig who passed away in 1997?Deng XioapingC. What Jiang protégé will likely rival Hu for power as the new Vice President?Zeng Quinghong 22.  For ten points each, identify the following battles of Panipat.  Five points for an answer within twenty years, ten for the exact year.A. This ended the Mara tha attempt to overthrow the Mughals, but so weakened local forces that Britain waltzed in.   1751-1771 (1761)B. The victory of Babu over Sultan Ibrahim Lodi of Dehli, marking the start of the Mughal Empire.   1515-1535 (1525)C. This battle marked the victory of Bayram Kahn, Akbar's regent, over the Afghan pretender.1546-1566 (1556)