Technophobia 2002 PacketBy: USC B Toss-up Questions 1. It was first described in the "Voluspa," around 1000 AD, and later in the Prose Edda. After it was over, Brimir would be the place in heaven to get a good drink. The three harsh winters preceding it might be tolerable, but the sun and moon being swallowed by wolves would put a damper on many an Icelander's day. Evil would be led by Loki, good by Odin. FTP, name this Norse "twilight of the gods." Answer: Ragnarok 2. He claimed Nova Albion somewhere on the present day American west coast. Some accounts had him as a pirate, sans eye patch and Jolly Roger, though Queen Elizabeth quietly invested in his highly profitable voyages, during which he raided Spanish settlements and convoys. FTP, name this captain best known for his role in the English navy's 1588 defeat of the Spanish Armada. Answer: Sir Francis Drake 3. It belongs to the family Ornithorhynchidae, of which it is the only living member. It amazingly consumes almost its own weight in food during a 24-hour span. Its common name is derived from the Greek for "broad" and "foot." When it was first discovered in the 1700s, Europeans dismissed this animal as a hoax. FTP, name this Australian egg-laying mammal. Answer: platypus 4. Lady 3Jane, a freak of science created by the imposing Tessier-Ashpool company. A magnificent AI named Wintermute. An assassin named Molly who sports tight-fitting leather and mirror sunglass implants. One of the best cyberspace cowboys in the business, Case. FTP, these are all characters you will encounter in this modern cyberpunk classic, the first novel by William Gibson. Answer: Neuromancer 5. This band, whose motto is "no reason," was started by Miho Hatori and Yuka Honda. Their first album, "Viva! La Woman" sparked such hits as "Sugar Water" and "Know Your Chicken." They didn't realize their true musical chemistry until they went out to eat after their first rehearsal and realized they had an abnormal obsession with food. FTP, what band is named after the Italian phrase for "crazy food"? Answer: Cibo Matto 6. Covering roughly 733,600 square miles, this province is larger than the area of Alaska and California combined. Translated as "Our Land," it stretches to Amundsen Bay, off the coast of Victoria Island. Its capital, Iqaluit, is in the easternmost of its three time zones. FTP, what is this newest Canadian province, which is Inuit territory? Answer: Nunavut 7. The daughter of King Thutmose I and Queen Ahmose, she had a large tomb made for herself in the Valley of the Kings. One of the few queens of Egypt to rule the throne single-handedly, this woman insisted that she be proclaimed a pharaoh. FTP, who is this famous Egyptian queen, who adopted a Horus name and wore a fake beard? Answer: Hatshepsut 8. It describes a total solar eclipse on June 21, A.D. 528, though, in reality, no such eclipse occurred. Some of its characters include a clueless damsel named Alisande la Carteloise, who the title character calls "Sandy" and Clarence, the Boss' right-hand man. The Boss, Hank Morgan, is the title character in, FTP, what anachronism-filled novel by Mark Twain? Answer: A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court 9. It was modeled after Auguste Neyt, a Belgian soldier, and first exhibited at the Cercle Artistique et Littraire in Brussels. Also known as The Vanquished, this sculpture originally bore a spear. Its realism led to accusations that its sculptor had used casts taken directly from the model. FTP, name this 1876 sculpture of Auguste Rodin. Answer: The Age of Bronze 10. E is an arbitrary integer less than p * q and relatively prime to (p - 1) and (q - 1). D is calculated so that E * D will leave a remainder of 1 when divided by the least common multiple of (p - 1) and (q - 1). N is the product of p and q, which are both arbitrarily large prime numbers. FTP, N and E are the public key, and D is the private key of what encryption algorithm used in PGP and SSL? Answer: RSA algorithm (aka Rivest-Shamir-Adleman algorithm) 11. This part of a human cell contains three main filamentous structures: microtubules, neurofilaments, and actin microfilments. Roger Penrose theorizes this is one of the likely places responsible for quantum computations that make our brain conscious. FTP, name this part of a neuron which is responsible for the asymmetric distribution of organelles within the cytoplasm. Answer: cytoskeleton 12. This cable network features Cory Rouse, the host of a half-hour review show, which has a potential audience of six million households. Scot Rubin, a vice president and the host of one of its weekly shows describes it as a "game channel." FTP, name this cable network exclusively devoted to video games, which also shares its name with a chip used in Apple PowerMacs. Answer: G4 13. He studied at the Paris Conservatory, and won his second Grand Prix de Rome in 1888 with his cantana, Velleda. His most famous work, which was composed at the same time as Richard Strauss's Till Eulenspiegel, was based von Goethe's "Zauberlehrling." His work became so popular that it was included in Fantasia. FTP, name this composer of The Sorceror's Apprentice. Answer: Paul Dukas 14. "Imagine that the universe bursts into song. We hear no longer human voices, but those of planets and suns which revolve," is how its composer described it. It is divided into two distinct movements; the first thirty minutes, and the second sixty. Its September 12, 1910 Munich premiere was quite the spectacle, featuring an enormous orchestra and choir. FTP, name this Gustav Mahler piece. Answer: Symphony of a Thousand (aka Symphony No. 8 in Eb) 15. It was originally proposed as an explanation for the relationship between the mass and spin of hadrons. Its basic entities are one-dimensional Plank length objects whose modes of vibration correspond to different elementary particles. FTP, what is this so-called "theory of everything" which revolves around extremely small eleven dimensional objects? Answer: superstring theory 16. When this university first pitched Peter B. Lewis the idea of sponsoring a business school, six years ago, the price tag came to an optimistic $25 million. Today, members of this university's board of trustees are being demanded to resign by Mr. Lewis, as the budget has ballooned to more than $61million. FTP, this fiasco occurred at the Weatherhead School of business at what university in Cleveland? Answer: Case Western Reserve 17. This novel tells the story of a woman who tells the truth about her past during the Second World War to the narrator, Stingo. Dr. Jemand von Niemand wants the title character to decide which of her two children is to be sent to the crematorium at a Nazi concentration camp. FTP, name this novel by William Styron. Answer: Sophie's Choice 18. His father, David Bronhstein, raised him as a Jewish in the Ukraine. In 1898, he and Aleksandra Sokolovskya, his co-conspirator, were arrested and exiled to Siberia. He was one of the five original members of the Politburo when Lenin came into power. FTP, name this Russian revolutionist who was exiled by Stalin and eventually killed by a hatchet-bearing assailant in Mexico. Answer: Leon Trotsky 19. In 1995, he became the youngest player in NFL history to reach the 10,000-yard passing milestone. He only started 28 games as a college quarterback, yet ranks highly in many passing categories for his alma mater, Washington State. This season, he is within reach of Dan Marino's record for most yards passing in a season. FTP, name this former New England Patriot, now Buffalo Bill. Answer: Drew Bledsoe 20. Emigration has been so common that more nationals from this country live outside its political boundaries than within. It covers 27,137 square miles and yearly temperatures average 5 to 15 degrees Celsius. Though the soils are infertile, agriculture workers have been able to grow a significant amount of crops and have had particular success with the potato. FTP, name this "Emerald Isle." Answer: Ireland 21. He studied psychology at the University of Wisconsin and the New School of Social Research. During his tenure as the head of the psychology department at Brandeis, he published his major works, Motivation and Personality and Toward a Psychology of Being. FTP, name this American psychologist best known for his self-actualization theory of psychology. Answer: Abraham Harold Maslow 22. Today, there are three major types of this religion: Shrine, Sect, and Folk. Unlike many religions, it has no known founder, no official sacred texts, and no fixed dogmas. It means "the way of kami," though the kami cannot be known or explained. FTP, name this ancient religion which was used to promote nationalism in World War II Japan. Answer: Shinto
USC BBonus Questions 1. Give the name of the artist when given their recently released album and other information, FTPE: a.) This Seattle band's seventh studio album, Riot Act, features the single "I Am Mine." Answer: Pearl Jam b.) This "grown-up" female solo artist's recent album, Stripped, features the single "Dirrty." Answer: Christina Aguilera c.) This classic rocker recently released The Last DJ, which you won't hear on the radio because of its anti-radio themes. Answer: Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers 2. Name these wizards from the Lord of the Rings trilogy for 5, 10, and 15 points. a.) (5) This grey wanderer is instrumental in setting up the Fellowship. Answer: Gandalf b.) (10) He was the head of the Council of the Wise, until he was dethroned by his evil desires. Answer: Saruman c.) (15) This brown wizard formerly dwelt on the borders of Mirkwood, and was the last of three wizards to be sent to Middle Earth by the Valar. Answer: Radagast3. Anyone can write a death scene, but the Bard knew that the true genius simply writes out characters. For 5, 10, and 15 points name these characters: a.) (5) The audience is lead to believe that these bumbling fools found their death in England, but they never again appear on stage after Hamlet tells them to "go a little before." Answer: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern b.) (10) She warns her husband, Caesar, from going to the Senate on the Ides of March, but after that she never again appears. Answer: Calpurnia c.) (15) He disappears without a trace after describing to the Prince what happened between Tybalt, Romeo, and Mercutio. Answer: Benvolio 4. Think you know your wars from ancient history? For 5, 10, and 15 points: a.) (5) Hannibal led the Carthaginian forces across the Alps and held northern Italy for eight years, until 211 B.C., when the Romans re-captured Capua. Answer: 2nd Punic War (aka 2nd Carthaginian War) b.) (10) Its contemporary history written by Thucydides told the story of great leaders, such as Pericles and Syracuse. This war went on for 10 years, followed by a 6 year truce, followed by 11 more years of fighting. Answer: Peloponnesian War c.) (15) Perseus began making alliances with Greek city-states, much to the dismay of the Roman Empire. Three years later, the war ended when Perseus' forces were utterly defeated at the Battle of Pydna. Answer: 3rd Macedonian War 5. Computer/video game analogies (if only they had 'em on the SATs). FTPE: a.) Blizzard : Warcraft III :: (blank) : Jedi Knight II Answer: Lucas Arts (accept Raven on a technicality) b.) Toadstool : Mario :: Zelda : (blank) Answer: Link c.) Wolfenstein 3D : Return to Castle Wolfenstein :: Age of Empires II : (blank) Answer: Age of Mythology ("Age of Kings" is WRONG, because the association is sequel, not expansion pack) 6. GOOAAAAAAALLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL!!!!!! FTPE, name the following World Cup 2002 stars: a.) Brazilian player who had the second most goals on his team, who early on was fined for faking injury to draw a red card against Turkey. Answer: Rivaldo b.) 2001 FIFA Player of the Year from the Portuguese "golden generation" who definitely was bitter about their first round exit. Answer: Luis Figo c.) South Korean player who scored a golden goal against Italy only to be soon after cut from the Italian club for which he played. Answer: Ahn Jung-hwan 7. Don't get too emotional when you name these Expressionist painters from their works for 5, 10, and 15 points: a.) (5) Frieze of Life, The Voice, and The Scream Answer: Edvard Munch b.) (10) The Potato Eaters, The Bedroom, and Yellow Wheat on Cypress Answer: Vincent Van Gogh c.) (15) Entry of Christ into Brussels, Masks (Intrigues), and Skeletons Fighting for the Body of a Hanged Man Answer: James (Sydney) Ensor 8. Name these Americans who signed their John Hancocks on the Declaration of Independence, FTPE: a.) This Connecticut statesman was the only man who signed the Declaration, the Articles of Association, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution. Answer: Roger Sherman b.) The Massachusetts representative for whom the term for dividing voting districts for political advantage is coined. Answer: Elbridge Gerry c.) From Massachusetts, he has the largest signature on the Declaration. Answer: John Hancock (ha ha) 9. Identify which country in the Western Hemisphere is located at the same latitude as these places in the Eastern Hemisphere for 5, 10, and 15 points: a.) (5) Ireland Answer: Canada b.) (10) Hong Kong Answer: Mexico c.) (15) Tasmania Answer: Chile or Argentina 10. Name these Greek celestial gods and goddess FTPE: a.) He was the god of the Sun. Answer: Helios b.) She was the goddess of the Moon. Answer: Selene c.) He was the god of the sky. Answer: Uranus 11. Someone financed THAT movie? FTPE, name these big-time Hollywood flops: a.) 2002 sci-fi film starring Eddie Murphy that cost an estimated $110 million to produce and market, and grossed less than $5 million. Answer: The Adventures of Pluto Nash b.) Four hour long Michael Cimino-directed Montana western from 1980 whose $40 million budget and $1.5 million gross almost single-handedly bankrupted United Artists. Answer: Heaven's Gate c.) Two terrible lounge singers, played by Warren Beatty and Dustin Hoffman, go to Morocco to perform in this equally terrible 1987 flop. Answer: Ishtar 12. Identify these geographical features FTPE: a.) This is a flat-topped elevation with one or more cliff-like sides. Answer: mesa b.) This is a low, curving sandy or gravelly spit that forms on the inside of a river. Answer: point bar c.) This is a deep, rocky ravine or valley, especially one cut by a torrent. Answer: gulch 13. Identify the political party associated with each of these 2000 presidential candidates for 5, 10, and 15 points each: a.) (5) consumer advocate and attorney Ralph Nader Answer: Green b.) (10) investment advisor and writer Harry Browne Answer: Libertarian c.) (15) quantum physicist John Hagelin Answer: Natural Law 14. It was the best of times, it was the blurst of times. FTPE, name these Dickens novels from their characters: a.) Fagin, Nancy, Jack Dawkins Answer: Oliver Twist b.) Dr. Alexandre Manette, Charles Darnay, and Jarvis Lorry Answer: A Tale of Two Cities c.) Mr. Micawber, Betsy Trotwood, and Agnes Wickfield Answer: David Copperfield 15. FTPE, name the opera from its arias: a.) "Che Gelida Manina," "Si, Mi Chiamo Mimi," and "Ehi! Rodolfo!" Answer: La Bohme b.) "Giovanna, Ho Dei Rimorsi," "Della Mia Bella Incognita Borghese,"and "La Donna Mobile"  Answer: Rigoletto c.) "Ola Pang! Ola Pong!," "Principessa Di Morte," and "Nessun Dorma." Answer: Turandot 16. Answer these questions about the Russo-Japanese War, FTP for each answer: a.) The two territories that Russia and Japan were fighting for control over. Answers: Korea and Manchuria b.) This US president won the Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating the treaty between Russia and Japan, which ended the war. Answer: Theodore Roosevelt 17. Identify these Pagan holidays FTPE: a.) This holiday occurs on October 31st, and is called "Halloween" by most non-believers. Answer: Samhain (do not accept ALL HALLOW'S EVE) b.) On the day of the winter solstice, this is the celebration of the Sun's rebirth. Answer: Yule c.) This celebration in honor of the Sun god falls on the day of the summer solstice. Answer: Midsummer 18. Identify these schools of psychology FTPE: a.) School in which the adult mind is analyzed in terms of its simplest definable components. Answer: structuralism b.) A reaction to structuralism, this theory emphasizes that the whole is always greater than its parts. Answer: Gestalt psychology c.) School in which an organism is seen as "responding" to stimuli. Answer: behaviorism 19. For 5, 10, and 15, name the T.S. Eliot poem from its first line(s): a.) (5) "April is the cruelest month, breeding / Lilacs out of the dead land" Answer: The Wasteland b.) (10) "Let us go then, you and I" Answer: "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" c.) (15) "Twelve o'clock. / Along the reaches of the street / Held in a lunar synthesis, / Whispering lunar incantations" Answer: "Rhapsody on a Windy Night" 20. Identify the chemical element by these facts for 30 points on the first clue, 20 points on the second clue, and 10 on the third clue. (30:) This element, in ionic form, is the strongest of the weakest field ions in the spectrochemical series. (20:) It is widely used as a component in refrigerants and has a cubic crystal structure. (10:) This is the most electronegative element and is sometimes added to tap water to promote stronger tooth enamel. Answer: Fluorine 21. FTPE, name these Hapsburg monarchs: a.) He ruled both the Holy Roman Empire and Spain for almost 40 years, before abdicating. Answer: Charles V (or Charles I of Spain, prompt on simply "Charles I") b.) During the Thirty Years' War, this Holy Roman Emperor was a leading supporter of the Counter-Reformation. Answer: Ferdinand II c.) Spanish king during whose reign the Spanish Empire reached its height, though he lost its "Invincible Armada." Answer: Philip II 22. For five points each, name any six of the seven African countries which border Algeria. Answers: Tunisia, Libya, Niger, Mali, Mauritania, Western Samoa, Morocco 23. Find the limits of these functions FTPE. You have 10 seconds per function. a.) The limit of the quantity sin of x, divided by x, as x approaches zero. Answer: 1 b.) The limit of the quantity absolute value of x, divided by x, ax x approaches zero. Answer: Does not exist c.) The limit of the quantity natural log of x, divided by the quantity x minus 1, as x approaches 1. Answer: 1