Top of Form 1Technophobia Seven Packet by Berkeley B (Jon Pennington, Nick Meyer, Jeff Hoppes)Tossups1.  With Bob Cornog, he discovered the radioactivity of tritium. With Felix Bloch, he was the first to measure the magnetic moment of the electron. On his own, he designed an indoor golf-training machine for Dwight Eisenhower. He won the 1968 Nobel Prize for developing the hydrogen bubble chamber. FTP, name this physicist, who is perhaps most famous for suggesting, with his son Walter, that iridium in the K-T boundary layer might indicate adinosaur-killing asteroid.Answer: _L_ uis _Alvarez_2.  In 1972, he gave a speech at the U.N. General Assembly that sharply criticized the Kennecott Copper Company for interfering with his country's sovereignty. In 1975, the Church Committee revealed that John McCone of ITT pledged $1 million to the CIA to finance his overthrow. FTP, name this Chilean president succeeded by Augusto Pinochet.Answer: Salvador _Allende_ Gossens3.  Discovered in the 17th century, it was originally thought to be empty, but pictures from Voyager confirm that it consists of 5 bands of low density particles. Resonance prevents higher density particles from orbiting here, because its orbit speed is exactly twice as fast as the interior moon Mimas. Located between the main ring and the halo ring, FTP name this gap in Saturn's rings named after an Italian astronomer.Answer: _Cassini_ division4.  The title character of this film marries a software tycoon, but her husband's appointment as an ambassador could expose her to her former co-conspirators. In the wordless opening sequence, the main character uses lesbian sex as aa distraction to steal a diamond-studded breastplate from an actress at the Cannes film festival. Starring Antonio Banderas, FTP name this latest film directed by Brian dePalma.Answer: _Femme Fatale_5.  The female protagonist begins this story with a two-cent piece in her hand. We know this because the first line says she has only one dollar and eighty seven cents, but only 60 cents is in pennies. Lacking money, she turns to Madame Sofronie to sell her hair so she has enough to buy a platinum watch fob. This leads to an ironic ending, FTP, in what Christmas story by O. Henry?Answer: The _Gift of the Magi_6. In 1969, female protesters from the German Socialist Student Union heckled him by exposing their breasts and pelting him with flowers. A musicologist who studied under Alban Berg, his book Minima Moralia criticized the tyranny of instrumental reason, a theme he and Max Horkheimer emphasized in Dialectic of Enlightenment. FTP, name this member of the Frankfurt school who wrote The Authoritarian Personality.Answer: Theodor _Adorno_7. Because of its assumption that spectral radiation is directly proportional to temperature, it is inferior to quantum models, because it cannot explain the absence of the ultraviolet catastrophe. However, at low temperatures, it can be used as an approximation of Planck's equation. FTP identify this law for calculating blackbody radiation named after two British scientists.Answer: _Rayleigh-Jeans_ law (or formula or theory etc.)8.  He got his big break as the deejay Chris Luva Luva on Atlanta Hot 97.5 FM. This September, Pepsi hired him for a multicultural marketing campaign, but later dropped him after Bill O'Reilly denounced him as a "thug" for his lyrics on the album Word of Mouf. FTP name this "Dirty South" rapper known for the song "Roll Out."Answer: _Ludacris_ (also accept: Chris _Bridges_)9.  This body of water contains Isle La Motte, the site of the oldest coral reef in the world. According to the Abenaki Indians, it formed when Ojihozo pulled himself from the bowels of the earth between the Adirondacks and the Green Mountains. Designated the sixth Great Lake by Bill Clinton in 1998, FTP name this lake bordering Vermont named after a French explorer.Answer: Lake _Champlain_10.  Both Notre Dame and the Pittsburgh Steelers rejected him, but he finally got hired professionally after a coach received a fan letter about his work with the semipro Bloomfield Rams. Known for completing touchdowns in 47 consecutive games, he was also a salesman for the Lady Krusty Mustache Trimmer. FTP, name this legendary quarterback of the Baltimore Colts.Answer: Johnny _Unitas_11.  A close friend of E.M. Forster, he had access to Forster's unpublished manuscript for Maurice, which depicted a homosexual affair with a working class gamekeeper. After writing Aaron's Rod and the Plumed Serpent, he adopted Forster's plot about a gamekeeper, but made him heterosexual instead. FTP, who is this author of Lady Chatterley's Lover?Answer: David Herbert _Lawrence_12.  Although most members are not organized into an official church, two of the largest sects in this religion include the Bobos and the Twelve Tribes of Israel. They uphold the Holy Piby as scripture, worship the Lion of Judah, and promote the smoking of "wisdomweed" or ganja. FTP, name this group largely based in Jamaica that worships Emperor Haile SelassieAnswer: _Rasta_farians13.  In this work, Nick Shadow provides Tom with a machine that turns stone into bread, but Tom loses all his money anyway. With a libretto co-written by W.H. Auden, Act III ends with Anne Trulove visiting Tom in an asylum while inmates sing "Mourn for Adonis." Based on a series of engravings by Hogarth, FTP name this Stravinsky opera.Answer: The _Rake's Progress_ (or: A _Rake's Progress_)14.  In Islam, he is the third to the last prophet mentioned in the Koran, followed only by Jesus and Mohammad. In the first chapter of Luke, he jumps for joy in his mother Elizabeth's womb, a verse often used by pro-life activists. The son of Zechariah, FTP name this religious leader who was beheaded for challenging the marriage of Herod.Answer: _John the Baptist_ (or: _John the Baptizer_)15.  The highest price ever paid in a stamp collecting auction was for one blue and one orange stamp issued by this country in 1847. The Dutch explorers who discovered it in 1568 marveled at the many varieties of birds on this island, but now most are extinct including the blue pigeon, the Rodrigues starling, and the dodo. With a capital at Port Louis, FTP name this African island nation east of Madagascar.Answer: _Mauritius_16.  A deranged man claiming to be the archangel Gabriel proclaimed that this character is "the Shaker God incarnate" and anyone who harms him will be doomed. He "dismasted" a sea captain off the coast of Japan, which led the ivory-legged captain to pledge a gold coin to the first sailor to locate him. FTP, name this obsession of Captain Ahab in a Herman Melville novel.Answer: _Moby Dick_ (prompt on whale or the white whale) [Author's Note: Ahab consistently refers to Moby Dick as a "him."]17.  In 1922, John Gregory Tierney drowned after falling off a barge while selecting a site for this architectural project. In 1935, Patrick Tierney, John Gregory's son, also drowned after falling off an intake tower shortly after it was finished. Both worked for the Bureau of Reclamation in order to tame the Colorado River to create, FTP, what edifice now named after FDR's predecessor.Answer: _Hoover_ Dam (or: _Boulder_ Dam)18.  This work depicts the course of a relationship that included exactly two break-ups and ten sexual encounters. Sections listed in the table of contents include "Black Dog Gifts," "The Zedillo Visit," "The Isikoff Call," and "Meeting with Vernon Jordan." FTP, what is this report named after a special prosecutor investigating the Clinton White House?Answer: the _Starr_ Report19.  This man had two of the most appalling seasons by a first baseman ever in 1983 and 1986, with an on-base percentage of exactly .316 and a slugging percentage under .300 in both seasons. In 1986, his last year, he only played about half the time, despite his ability to pencil himself into the lineup whenever he wanted. Although he hit a home run, on average, about once every 85 at bats, this man holds many major-league records, including "most at-bats in a career". FTP, name this banned all-time hit leader.Answer: Pete _Rose_20.  The illegitimate son of a Huguenot woman and a Scottish merchant, he spent much of his childhood in St. Croix, Virgin Islands, which now has an airport named after him. Born in Nevis-St. Kitts, he broke a tie in the Electoral College in 1800, then won the New York governorship in 1804. FTP, name this Treasury Secretary who lost a duel to Aaron Burr.Answer: Alexander _Hamilton_21.  After hearing about the Allied victory at this battle, Louis XIV reportedly said "How could God do this to me after all I've done for Him?" Five years after the Battle of Blenheim, Eugene of Savoy and the Duke of Marlborough decisively defeated the French battalions of Villars here, but lost so many men that they could not send troops to capture Paris. FTP, name this 1709 battle, the bloodiest of the War of Spanish Succession.Answer: _Malplaquet_22.  Stravinsky premiers the Rake's Progress. The U.S. wins the Battle of Lake Champlain. FDR inaugurates the Boulder Dam. Alexander Hamilton becomes the first Secretary of the Treasury. Scientists Luis Alvarez, Giovanni Cassini, and Thomas Graham die. Moby, Sir James Jeans, Theodor Adorno, Brian de Palma, O. Henry, D.H. Lawrence, and Ludacris are born. The allied coalition defeats the French at the Battle of Malplaquet. Pete Rose gets his record-breaking hit. The Justice Department releases the Starr Report. Mauritius holds elections in 2000. Pinochet overthrows Salvador Allende. Johnny Unitas dies of a heart attack. Simultaneously celebrated as the Rastafarian New Year and the feast day commemorating the beheading of John the Baptist, FTP identify this day now better known for a terrorist attack on the Pentagon and World Trade Center.Answer: _September 11_thBonuses1.  Identify these cartoon superheroes whose abilities include knowledge of aforeign language FTP each.(10) This blue-costumed member of a Chemical-X-created superhero triohas an ability to speak both Spanish and squirrel that isn't shared byher less-ditsy sisters.Answer: _Bubbles_(10) This blue-costumed superhero was once turned into a two-headed birdthat could only speak high-school French by his enemy Brainchild, who thentried to auction him to his other enemies, including Chairface Chippendale.Answer: The _Tick_(10) This superhero only speaks Spanish, unlike her alter-ego, who speaksEnglish. She is seven years old and 460 pounds, and frequently saves heravian older brother from dire situations. Both are voiced by Charlie Adler.Answer: _Supercow_2.  Sometimes we know exactly when an invasive species managed to enter a newarea. Identify the following FTPE:(10) On March 16, 1891, Eugene Schieffelin, a New Yorker who liked birdsthat appear in Shakespeare, released these seed-stealing, fruit-eating birdsinto Central Park. A talking one appears in the book "Mary Poppins."Answer: European _starling_s (or: _Sturnus_ vulgaris)(10) Several specimens of this insect pest were accidentally releasedin Medford, MA in 1869 by Leopold Trouvelot, a French astronomer who wantedto use them to start a silk industry. They have decimated deciduous forests,defoliating as many as 13 million acres in the US in a single season.Answer: _Gypsy moth_s (or: _Lymantria dispar_)(10) This foot-long, ten-pound amphibian was released into Queensland,Australia in 1935 to eat the Grey Backed cane beetle and the Frenchie beetle;unfortunately, it preferred other species. Its poison kills many potentialpredators.Answer: _cane toad_s (or: _marine toad_s or _Bufo marinus_)3.  Answer these questions about various locales called "Cape Farewell"FTPE.(10) This island's southernmost point, Cape Farewell, is a long wayfrom its northernmost point, Cape Morris Jesup.Answer: _Greenland_(10) This island's northernmost point is Cape Farewell; its southernmostpoint lies across a narrow strait from Stewart Island.Answer: _South_ Island, New Zealand(10) There is a Cape Farewell on Promise Island near Queen CharlotteSound in this Canadian province.Answer: _British Columbia_4.  Answer these questions about deadly necklaces in mythology FTPE.(10) This goddess was given to Cadmus, founder of Thebes, as his bride;among their children was Semele, mother of Dionysus. She received anecklace wrought by Hephaestus as a wedding present which was fatalto those who wished to possess it.Answer: _Harmonia_(10) This goddess traded her favors with four dwarves to acquire her mosttreasured possession, the necklace Brisingamen. Odin was so angry uponhearing this that he demanded she sow the seeds of war among men.Answer: _Freya_ (or: _Freyja_)(10) This character from Greek myth put a golden veil around the neckof Creon's daughter, causing her to burn to ashes.Answer: _Medea_5.  (5*5 + 5) An amazing five baseball players hit two home runs in an inningin 2002. For five points each, and a bonus five for all five, namethem. Hints: One went on to hit four home runs in the game, one did it inthe same inning as the first guy, one is the brother of the second guy,one is the nephew of a Hall-of-Fame-bound Cubs infielder, and one isa current Cubs infielder whose two homers included one from each side of theplate, a National League first.Answers: Mike _Cameron_, _B_ret _Boone_, _A_aron _Boone_, Jared _Sandberg_, and Mark _Bellhorn_6.  Identify the following politicians who committed manslaughter when they were children F15PE:(15) In 1913, when he was 12 years old, he accidentally shot and killed Ruth Merwin after picking up a presumably empty rifle used in a mock military drill at a family Christmas party. Time magazine reporter William Glasgow uncovered the incident during his 1952 presidential campaign against Dwight Eisenhower, but refused to print it.Answer: Adlai Ewing _Stevenson_, Jr.(15) When he was 5 years old, he and his brother Carlos shot and killed the family's 12-year-old maid while playing war games with their father's 22-gauge shotgun. In 1998, Ernesto Zedillo, his successor as president of Mexico, imprisoned him after he was convicted for ordering the murder of his brother-in-law.Answer: Raul _Salinas_ de Gortari (accept: de _Gortari_)7.  Vandalism in Art, Part 2. Answer the following questions about vandalized artworks FTPE:(10) In 1996, Jubal Brown vandalized this artist's Composition in Red, White, and Blue by ingesting large quantities of blue gelatin and frosting so that he could expel blue projectile vomit on the painting. Brown claimed he was on a mission to vomit in primary colors on famous artworks.Answer: Piet _Mondrian_(10) In 1975, an unemployed teacher slashed this painting with a bread knife. In 1990, an escaped mental patient sprayed it with sulfuric acid, but guards ensured that only the varnish was harmed. Housed in the Rijksmuseum, it depicts a militia led by Franz Banning Cocq.Answer: the _Night Watch_(10) In 1999, retired English teacher, Dennis Heiner, threw white paint at this artist's Holy Virgin Mary, because he considered the artist's use of elephant dung to depict an Africanized Virgin Mary as blasphemous.Answer: Chris _Ofili_8.  Answer the following questions about literary hoaxes FTPE:(10) As a teenager, he wrote poems that he claimed were the work of the 15th century monk Thomas Rowley. He committed suicide at age 17 when the hoax was uncovered, but John Keats later dedicated the poem Endymion to him.Answer: Thomas _Chatterton_(10) This Latin document was written in the 8th century, but it claimed to be the record of a 4th century Roman emperor granting power over the civil government to Pope Sylvester I in exchange for curing his leprosy.Answer: the _Donation of Constantine_(10) Jonathan Swift shocked English society when he published this hoax dedicated to "PREVENTING THE CHILDREN OF POOR PEOPLE IN IRELAND FROM BEING A BURDEN TO THEIR PARENTS."Answer: A _Modest Proposal_9.  Identify the historical figure 30-20-10:(30) During the Nazi regime, this politicial leader offered to provide 100 thousand visas to Jewish refugees to come to his country. He did not do this for anti-racist reasons, but because he thought the Jews would intermarry with the local population and make their skin whiter.(20) Former poet laureate Rita Dove depicted his 1937 massacre of 20,000 Haitians for failing to pronounce the letter R in the Spanish word for parsley.(10) This former dictator of the Dominican Republic had the capital city ofhis country renamed for him in 1936; it reverted to the name "Santo Domingo"after his 1961 assassination.Answer: Rafael _Trujillo_10.  Answer these questions about finite fields FTP each.(10) The number of elements in a finite field must be one of this kind ofinteger._prime power_s(or equivalents)(accept "primes or their powers", but do not accept or prompt on "primes")(10) Finite fields are sometimes named after this mathematician, whois usually credited with their discovery. He is more famous for developingthe relationship between field extensions and group theory.Answer: Evariste _Galois_(10) The nonzero elements of a finite field form this type of groupunder multiplication.Answer: _cyclic_11. Identify the following heavy metal songs that use cowbell as a percussion instrument FTPE:(10) A recent Saturday Night Live skit parodying VH1's Behind the Music features Christopher Walken as a producer demanding "more cowbell" during the recording of this Blue Oyster Cult favorite.Answer: _Don't Fear the Reaper_(10) The Offspring famously paid tribute to this Def Leppard song that begins with producer Mutt Lange reciting "Outen Eiben Gleeben Globen" followed by some tasty cowbell.Answer: _Rock of Ages_(10) The cowbell on this song by Nazareth is used to punctuate the lead vocalist singing "Now you're messing with a son of a bitch." The song was later covered by Guns and Roses on the Spaghetti Incident album.Answer: _Hair of the Dog_12.  A recent report by three Yale University grad students criticized Yale for naming its residential colleges after alumni and former donors who owned slaves or promoted slavery. Identify three of these men FTPE:(10) Yale financed its first scholarship program with proceeds from a Rhode Island slave plantation owned by this religious official and idealist philosopher who wrote Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous.Answer: Bishop George _Berkeley_ [accept either bar-clay or bur-klee](10) Once nicknamed "the American Leonardo," this painter, inventor, and honored Yale Alumni was a member of the Nativist Party who not only supported slavery, but opposed granting citizenship to Catholics.Answer: Samuel F. B. _Morse_(10) In 1992, a group of Yale undergraduates protested that their residential college was named after this advocate of Southern slavery who served as Andrew Jackson's vice president.Answer: John Caldwell _Calhoun_13.  Name these West African nations, FTPE.(10) The first settlers from the American Colonization Society landed here in 1822.Answer: _Liberia_(10) The only German colony in western Africa, it was partitioned by the British and French during the first weeks of World War One. The British western half is now part of Ghana.Answer:_Togo_(10) A kingdom founded in the fifteenth century and famous for its bronze sculptures, its name was adopted by the colony of Dahomey on its independence from France.Answer:_Benin_14.  Name these things related to RNA, FTPE.(10) RNA uses this nitrogenous base where DNA would instead use thymine.Answer: _uracil_(10) RNA makes up sixty percent of these cellular organelles.Answer: _ribosome_s(10) This type of RNA is distinguished by its low molecular weight and its high quantity of unusual nucleotides such as purines with attached methyl groups.Answer: _t_ransfer RNA15.  Identify the barbarian groups who fought against Rome, FTPE.(10) Trajan's Column in Rome commemorates the emperor's victory over these inhabitants of present-day Romania.Answer: the _Dacians_(10) Led by Alaric, these people sacked Rome in 410.Answer: the _Visigoths_(10) The Byzantine general Belisarius destroyed their African kingdom at the battle of Tricamarum in 533.Answer: the _Vandals_16. Trials from modern France, FTPE.(10) This officer's treason trial prompted Emile Zola to write the famous later "J'accuse."Answer: Alfred _Dreyfus_(10) French newspapers in 1914 were consumed by the trial of this woman, who shot the editor of Le Figaro after he threatened to publish her lover's private letters.Answer: Madame Joseph_Caillaux_3. A hero to the nation during the First World War, he was sentenced to life imprisonment in August 1945 for his role as "chief of state" in the Vichy government.Answer: Marshal Henri-Philippe_Petain_17.  Cities in Russia, for the stated number of points.1. (5) Russia's second-largest city, its position in the delta of the Neva River was to make it a "window on the west" for a certain eighteenth-century czar.Answer:_St. Petersburg_2. (10) This city on the Sea of Japan has a name meaning "rule the east."Answer:_Vladivostok_3. (15) Located in the Urals, it was built under Stalin's first five-year plan to exploit the region's mineral wealth, becoming the site of one of the world's largest iron and steel works.Answer:_Magnitogorsk_18.  Name these unusual writing systems, FTPE.1. Michael Ventris showed that this syllabic script represents the earliest known form of Greek.Answer:_Linear B_2. Sequoyah used 86 symbols, including adaptations from the English, Greek, and Hebrew alphabets, to produce a writing system for this language.Answer:_Cherokee_3. The earliest attested forms of Irish are in this script, consisting of a series of lines etched into the edges of stone monuments.Answer:_Ogam_19. FTPE, given a quote that from the New Testament, identify the Old Testament book where it originally appeared.1. Acts 2:17: "And your sons and daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams."Answer:_Joel_(2:28)2. Matthew 22:39: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself"Answer:_Leviticus_(19:18)3. Mark 1:3: "The voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.'"Answer:_Isaiah_(40:3)20.  Name the Japanese authors, given a few of their works, FTPE.1. The Sea of Fertility, Confessions of a MaskAnswer:_Mishima_Yukio2. The Sound of the Mountain, the Izu Dancer, Snow CountryAnswer:_Kawabata_Yasunari3. Some Prefer Nettles, Diary of a Mad Old ManAnswer:_Tanizaki_Junichiro21.  German dramatic works from a description, FTPE.1. Friedrich Schiller's 1787 work about a conflict between King Philip II of Spain and his son, the title character.Answer:_Don Carlos_2. The Bertolt Brecht play describing the suffering inflicted on Germany by the Thirty Years' War.Answer:_Mother Courage and Her Children_(Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder)3. Where would a German drama bonus be without Heinrich von Kleist? Name his 1808 tragedy expanding on classical stories about the queen of the Amazons.Answer:_Penthesilia_22. Items related to medieval poetry, FTPE.1. The author of Beowulf likens the construction of this building, Hrothgar's mead-hall, to the creation of the world.Answer:_Heorot_2. The greatest work of Wolfram von Eschenbach, this tale of the Grail quest was used to produce the last opera by Richard Wagner.Answer:_Parsifal_(or: Parzival)3. This fifteenth-century Frenchman is best known for penning the line "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"Answer: Francois_Villon_ 