UCLA A Packet, Technophobia 7TOSSUPS1.  By 1960, he was one of only a handful of American disc jockeys making more than $100,000 per year.  He is, however, better known as an actor, and his filmography includes "Return to Peyton Place," "The Wicked Dreams of Paula Schultz," and the Disney films "Superdad" and "Gus."  Despite having died in 1978, seven years after the end of his most famous role, he can currently be seen in the cinema, being played by Greg Kinnear in a new film about his strange private life and mysterious murder.  FTP, name this amateur pornography enthusiast and star of the sitcom "Hogan's Heroes."ANSWER: Bob _Crane_2.  A native of upstate New York, he moved out west in 1857 where he helped establish the Republican party in Illinois.  In 1861, he moved to Colorado where he would become one of their first senators upon statehood in 1876.  He resigned that post to become Sectretary of the Interior under Chester Arthur.  However, he is best known for a statement about U.S. control of Cuba.  FTP, name this author of an amendment on the Spanish-American War.ANSWER: Henry M(oore) _Teller_3.  Inspired by Sir Walter Scott and Alexandre Dumas, he left college penniless and without a degree. He involved himself as an advance agent in a settlement in California, a trip which inspired his story "Latarnik." Later in life, he fled his homeland during World War I to live in Switzerland, where he promptly died. His most notable trip of inspiration was one to Italy, the setting for his most famous work, a love story between Vinicius and Lygia in the time of Nero. FTP, name this Polish author, most famous for Quo Vadis.ANSWER: Henryk _Sienkiewicz_ (SIN-KAY-VICH)4.  Dilbert built a vehicle based on this effect, using the sun to unevenly heat an engine to generate large amounts of power. This is highly exaggerated, since the current would actually be very small. Discovered in 1821, the effect is now exploited through the boosting of efficiency for thermal diodes. The opposite function of the Peltier effect, FTP, what is this effect in which a temperature difference between circuit junctions causes current to flow?ANSWER: _Seebeck_ effect5.  He taught mankind, among other things, the use of fishing nets, the taming of wild animals, and the breeding of silkworms.  Said to have ruled for approximately 115 years, and his wife was Nu-Gua.  Other inventions included the one hundred Chinese names and music.  FTP, name this legendary emperor, the first of the San-Huang, often depicted as a human with the body of a snake holding a panel depicting his most famousinvention, the eight tigrams on which Chinese writing is based.ANSWER: _Fu Xi_ (prompt on partial answer)6. Born in 1893, it is unclear whether she had an undetected childhood disease, a form of polio or infantile paralysis.  As she got older, her limbs became less and less useful, and later in her life she had to crawl virtually everywhere.  In 1948, her famous neighbor saw her near the family burial ground and was inspired.  FTP, give the first name of this resident of Cushing, Maine, the subject of a famous painting by Andrew Wyeth. 	ANSWER: _Christina_ (Olson)7. His most recent work, "Summerland," is aimed at young adults, and upcoming projects include the short story collection "Tales of Mystery and Imagination," and "Hatzeplatz."  He was raised in Columbia, Maryland and studied in Pittsburgh, the setting for his two first novels, one of which was "The Mysteries of Pittsburgh," and the other was adapted into a movie starring Tobey Maguire and Michael Douglas.  FTP, name this author best known for "Wonder Boys" and his Pulitzer-winning "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Klay."ANSWER: Michael _Chabon_8.  Most of the more exotic examples were discovered by Mathieu, Janko,Conway, or Fischer, and one of them has a size of roughly 10 to the 55th power.  All finite examples are either from this list of 26 odd examples, or are abelian, alternating, or of the Lie type.  This classification was originally announced in 1980 and its proof runs for some 15,000 pages. FTP, name this type of mathematical structure, a group with no proper normal subgroups.ANSWER: _simple_ groups9.  She opened for Reba McEntire at Oregon Jamboree '99, and at age eight was a two-time local level winner of the Jimmy Dean Country Showdown.  She worked with John Williams as a child singer in A.I.: Artificial Intelligence and other roles include Samantha in Donnie Darko, Joyce on "Oliver Beene" and Samara in The Ring.  She is best known, however, for providing the voice for two young girls, one Japanese, the other Hawaiian.  FTP, name this voice of Chihiro in Spirited Away and Lilo in Lilo & Stitch.ANSWER: Daveigh (da-VAY) _Chase_10.  Finishing the 2001-2002 season with a loss to Staten Island and an 11-16 record, their college hoops nickname is the Beavers and they play in Nat Holman Gymnasium. With last year's schedule featuring such in-state powerhouses as Yeshiva and Brooklyn, they haven't been ranked in an AP poll since 1950. FTP name this team, which left Division I completely in 1953, a New York City basketball one-hit wonder, best known for being the only team to win both the NIT and NCAA Championships in a single year.ANSWER: _CCNY_ or _City College of New York_ (Prompt on "Beavers" before mentioned)11.  On September 8, 1883, a twenty-four year old man stepped out of a train and spent ten days shooting bison before returning to New York. The place he came to was a town called Little Missouri, and the surroundings are now over 70,000 acres including such landmarks as the Elkhorn Ranch and the Maltese Cross cabin. FTP, name this region of badlands, given national park status in 1978 by President Jimmy Carter, and named after a president, the only national park in North Dakota.ANSWER: _Theodore Roosevelt_ National Park12.  Some argue that Abraham Lincoln could have survived his fatal gunshot wound due to only one of these two portions of his cerebrum being damaged. However, doctors probing his brain with metal instruments destroyed the other functioning half. Some principle symptoms of damage to these portions of the cerebrum include altered sexual behavior, impaired long-term memory,  impaired organization and categorization of verbal material, disorders of visual perception, and disturbance of auditory sensation and perception. FTP, identify these lobes which are important for hearing, memory, and emotional behavior.ANSWER: _Temporal_ lobes13.  He was the earliest artist whose name has been passed down to the present, and after his death he was revered as a god.  His designs were closely based on wooden examples and executed in golden-white limestone.  His imitations of palm branches were on the first recorded columns, which were attached to projecting walls, as the designer was not sure if they could support enough weight.  FTP, name this Third Dynasty royal architect, the designer of an approximately 40-acre funerary complex for King Zoser at Saqqara, renowned for its famous Step Pyramid.ANSWER: _Imhotep_14.  A 30 hectare complex surrounded by barbed wire and guard towers, itincited controversy when its founder, a mushroom entrepreneur, decided to mimic deportations by ferrying people in cattle wagons to this park. At the gala opening on April 1, guests ate borscht and drank vodka shots as Communist hymns blared from loudspeakers. FTP, name this Lithuanianattraction which boasts that "It combines the charms of a Disneyland with the worst of the Soviet gulag prison camp."ANSWER: _Stalin World_ or _Soviet Sculpture Garden at Grutas Park_15. The owner of the 20 by 11-inch box named for him is a 51-year old Israeli engineer.  He bought it in the 1970s for several hundred dollars, and lent it to the Royal Ontario Museum in 2002 for $25,000, even though it is said to be worth millions. Dated to 63 A.D., this limestone burial box has a crack between the words "brother" and "of."  FTP, what ossuary contains the inscription "son of Joseph, brother of Jesus?" 	ANSWER: _James_ (ossuary)16. When asked how he was first interested in economics, he responded: "I was studying agriculture, how to produce better chickens, better cattle, better horses...better fruit, better vegetables. This was in the early years of the Great Depression, and the thoughts crossed my mind that there wasn't a hell of a lot of us producing better crops and better livestock if you couldn't sell them." He received a PhD in agricultural economics in 1934,  and was ambassador to India during the Kennedy administration.  FTP, name this economist, author of "The New Industrial State" and "The Affluent Society".ANSWER: John Kenneth _Galbraith_17.  Entering history as lords over a portion of Iran with their capital at Isfahan, their king Tugrul Bey was sanctioned as a deputy to the Abbasid caliphate. Leaving history less than two hundred years later after being routed at Köse Dagi outside of Sivas, their greatest historical accomplishment came with the capture of Diogenes at a field north of Lake Van, Manzikert. FTP, name these Turkic peoples who saw their peak in the time of the crusades and later gave way to the Ottomans.ANSWER: _Seljuk_s or _Seljuk Turk_s18.  In a surprise, the top three finishers this year were all EasternEuropean, with the USA's John Perry coming in at number four. Won byMariusz Pudzianowski (MAH-REE-YUSH POOJ-ANOOV-SKEE) of Poland with fifty- eight points, it was a contrast to last year, when a Norwegian and a Swede competed for the title. FTP, name this event, held in Kuala Lumpur this year, which this year featured absolutely no men named Magnus in the top nine.ANSWER: _World's Strongest Man_19.  It was discovered in 1669 by a German merchant named Henning Brand through the distillation of urine, and he wrote a letter to Leibniz reporting the discovery. It has four or more allotropic forms, is insoluble in water, but is soluble in carbon disulfide. With calcium, it becomes "bone-ash" which is used to create fine chinaware. It is also an essential ingredient of all cell protoplasm and nervous tissue. FTP, name this element with atomic number 15.ANSWER: _Phosphorus_20.  Its namesake was 25 years old at the time of its creation and often shortened his first name by two letters and spelled his last name like a drunk driving infraction.  The basic divisions, in order, are "Computers, Information, & General Reference," "Philosophy and Psychology," "Religion," "Social Sciences," "Language," "Science," "Technology," "Arts and Recreation," "Literature," and "Geography and History."  Designed in 1876, for 10 points, Amherst College's librarian designed what classification system?ANSWER: _Dewey Decimal System_ or _Dewey Decimal Classification_ [Melville Dewey sometimes spelled his name Melvil Dui.]21.  The title object. Static. Blood in flowing water. A woman combing her hair in the mirror. A man looking out a window. A tree caught in heavy wind on the shore, and a fly in the upper right corner. String coming out of a woman's mouth. A burning tree. A nail piercing a finger. Maggots, followed by flies. A chair being pulled back by an unseen force, followed by a millipede. A horse's eye. An eclipse. A woman falling gracefully off a cliff. A ladder falling. A well. Hopefully by describing these objects from a section of this 2002 movie, I have not condemned you to die a week from now. FTP, identify this remake of a Hideo Nakata-directed film.ANSWER: The _Ring_ (do not accept "Ringu", which has a variant video clip)22. Long before Jesus Christ performed a similar miracle, this prophet fed a hundred men with twenty loaves of bread, and had some left over at the finish. On the path to Bethel, young boys began mocking him by calling him bald. He then proceeded to curse them in the name of God, causing two female bears to come out of the forest and destroy 42 of them. Some other events of minor interest surrounding this prophet include making an axe head float and throwing flour into a poisonous stew to make it edible. When he died, at least two men on separate occasions had touched his corpse and were healed of their disease or injury. FTP, identify this prophet, the successor to Elijah.ANSWER: _Elisha_ (Do not accept Elijah)BONUSES1.  Identify these remnants of French colonialism FTPE(10) The most populous of France's overseas departments, this island lies in the Indian Ocean, about 420 miles east of MadagascarANSWER: _Reunion_(10) Another Indian Ocean island, it is located at the north end of theMozambique Channel and claimed by Comoros.  It has a population of roughly86,000.ANSWER: _Mayotte_(10) This territory consists of its namesake island and others, such as the Loyalty Islands and Chesterfield Islands.  It is directly south of Vanuatu and roughly 1000 miles northeast of Brisbane, Australia.ANSWER: _New Caledonia_2.  Answer the following types of pendulums, FTPE.(10) This type of pendulum is an example of a simple physical system that can exhibit chaotic behavior. It can be described as "mass #2 attached to wirelength #2 attached to mass #1 attached to wirelength #1 attached to a fixed point."	ANSWER: _double_ pendulum(10) As opposed to a simple pendulum, which is a mass attached to a massless length of string, this is a pendulum in which mass is distributed along the entire length, such as a bar attached to an axle.	ANSWER: _physical_ pendulum(10) Rather than oscillating due to gravity, this type of pendulum has its rotational axis along the length of string on which it hangs. An example of this type of pendulum is a horizontal bar suspended from a thin wire, and then spun.	ANSWER: _torsional_ pendulum (accept _torsion_ pendulum)3.  Given a few details, provide the name of the following journeys, for 10 points each:(10) 36,000 men on Luzon in April 1942. 	ANSWER: _Bataan Death March_(10) Migration of Dutch settler from 1835 to 1836. 	ANSWER: _Great Trek_(10) 6,000 mile journey from 1934 to 1935. 	ANSWER: _Long March_4.  FTPE, name these former basketball stars who lingered on in other leagues.(10) This guard, once thought of as the next Walt Frazier, was draftedby New York in 1978 and was out of the league due to drug problems by1986. He has since played fourteen seasons in Europe, most recently withGolfe Juan of France.ANSWER: Michael Ray _Richardson_(10) Twice thrown out for drug abuse, this Michigan star played onlyfor Dallas Mavericks in the late 80's with a brief comeback in 1994-1995.He played the remainder of his career in Greece, Cyprus, Russia, and mostrecently, in China.ANSWER: Roy _Tarpley_(10) Not necessarily a star, he most recently played at Pau Orthezafter a seven year career with Washington and New Jersey and a not solengthy career as a movie star, only appearing in My Giant.ANSWER: Gheorghe _Muresan_5.  Identify the ancient figure on a 30-20-10 basis.30: His name was very common, so theories abound on his exact identity.Bishop Papias of Hierapolis referred to him as an interpreter of Peter,and many believe he is the son referred to in First Peter 5:13.  He isalso associated with a figure mentioned in Acts 12:12.20: His feast day in the Western Church is 25 April and he is oftenassociated with a lion10: He is the author of the shortest of the four Gospels, which beginswith an account of the ministry of John the BaptistANSWER: Saint _Mark_ the Evangelist6.  The Invisible Library at invisiblelibrary.com keeps a record of fictitious literature that exist only within real literature. For example, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy mentions a few books by Oolon Colluphid: "Where God Went Wrong", "Some More of God's Greatest Mistakes", "Who is This God Person Anyway?", and "Well, That About Wraps it Up for God". Answer the following about entries for more academic literature, FTSNP.(5) This Lewis Carroll work does not mention a book title or author, but contains a book of poetry containing "Jabberwocky".	ANSWER: _Through the Looking Glass_(5) This Charles Dickens work specifically mentions one of the titular articles by name, that being "Speculations on the Source of the Hampstead Ponds, with some observations on the Theory of Tittlebats".	ANSWER: The _Pickwick Papers_(10) This Umberto Eco novel, whose main character is an editor, mentions the works "Chronicles of the Zodiac", "Chaste Throb", and "Diary of a Young Girl's Illness".	ANSWER: _Foucault's Pendulum_(10) If you were waiting for a Kilgore Trout clue, I'm sorry to disappoint. Lastly, this F. Scott Fitzgerald novel has a psychiatrist for a main character, who writes "Attempt at a Uniform and Pragmatic Classification of the Neuroses and Psychoses" (title has been abridged significantly, as this is already a long bonus).	ANSWER: _Tender is the Night_7.  In the same vein as the Invisible Library mentioned in the last bonus, the Rocklopedia Fakebandica keeps a record of bands that only exist within TV and movies, for example, The Be Sharps with their album "Bigger Than Jesus". Answer the TV show or movie from the fake band clue, FTPE.(10) Although the song came out four years earlier, "Earache My Eye" by "Alice Bowie" appeared in this movie during a battle of the bands scene at The Roxy, including The Dils, The Whores, and The Berlin Brats.	ANSWER: _Up In Smoke_(10) The reappearing band in this Canadian offering was Rod Torfulson's Armada featuring Herman Menderchuk, who brought us the songs "Camera Man", "She Watches", and "Drink the Bleach", but decided that their one hit song was "Trampoline Girl".	ANSWER: The _Kids in the Hall_(10) Three German nihilists, one of whom is played by Flea, make up Autobahn, a ripoff of Kraftwerk in this movie. They had one album in the late 70's, called "nagelbett", which means "bed of nails".	ANSWER: The _Big Lebowski_(note: the Rocklopedia can be found here: http://www.vgg.com/tp/tp_080700_fakeband.html)8.  Name the discoverer of each of these elements FTP each.(10) Hydrogen, in 1766A: Henry _Cavendish_(10) Selenium, in 1817A: Jons Jacob _Berzelius_(10) Barium, in 1808A: Humphrey _Davy_9.  Answer the following questions about opera singer Cesira Ferrani, for 10 points each:(10) Ferrani is best remembered for originated this character, whose real name is Lucia, in 1896.ANSWER: _Mimì_ [from La Bohème](10) Ferrani also originated what other Puccini role, his first major success, whose title added a word to distinguish it from a Massenet opera of the same plot? 	ANSWER: _Manon Lescaut_(10) Puccini is not the only composer of an opera named La Bohème.  What composer, a one-time friend of Puccini, also composed a version of La Bohème, but is better known for an opera containing the famous aria "Vesti La Giubba?" 	ANSWER: Ruggiero _Leoncavallo_ [The other opera is Pagliacci.]10.  Identify these adulterous British monarchs from clues, FTP each.(10) One of the first prominent royal bastards, was Robert de Mellent,illegitimate son of this king from 1100 to 1135.ANSWER: _Henry_ the _First_(10) This king had nine children, every last one of them a bastard.  Theyincluded Charles and James Beauclerk, the sons of Nell Gwynne.ANSWER: _Charles_ the _Second_When this king died in 1837, he had five living sons.  Unfortunately, nonewere legitimate, so the throne passed to his niece.ANSWER: _William_ the _Fourth_11.  Answer the following questions about former questionably independent bodies within the United States, FTPE.(10) In 1996, this small ranch outside of Jordan, Montana, was thrustinto the national spotlight when its occupants, the Freemen had a briefstandoff with the federal government.ANSWER: _Justus Township_(10) In April 1982, after the U.S. Border Patrol blocked Highway 1,hurting the tourist industry of the Florida Keys, Key West seceded as this republic, declaring war on the U.S. and quickly surrendering and applying for economic aid.ANSWER: The _Conch Republic_(10) Its only governor was one Fulmar Skipwith, and this republic wascreated as a result of Spain's collapse in the Napoleonic Wars. It lasted for only two months, and encompassed the Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida panhandles.ANSWER: The Republic of _West Florida_12.  Answer the following, FTP each:(10) First, name the Beastie Boy married to Ione SkyeANSWER: _Ad-Roc_ or Adam _Horovitz_(10) Second, name the actress whose credits have included "Primal Fear,""Absolute Power," "The Mothman Prophecies," Truman's wife in "The TrumanShow," and Samantha Prescott in "You Can Count on Me."ANSWER: Laura _Linney_(10) Now, Adam Horovitz and Laura Linney are, respectively, the children ofIsrael Horovitz and Romulus Linney.  FTP, what career do these fathersshare?ANSWER: _playwright_s (prompt on "writer")13.  Given the title of a literary autobiography or memoir, name its author FTPeach(10) The WordsANSWER: Jean-Paul _Sartre_(10) Speak, MemoryANSWER: Vladimir _Nabokov_(10) PalimpsestANSWER: Gore _Vidal_14.  Identify the Supreme Court cases, FTPE:(10) In this 1824 decision, the Court ruled that Congress has the power to regulate commerce and that Federal law takes precedence over state laws.	ANSWER: _Gibbons v. Ogden_(10) The center of this case was Colorado Amendment 2, a state-wide anti-homosexual initiative prohibiting all branches of state government in Colorado from passing legislation or adopting policies prohibiting discrimination against homosexuals based on sexual orientation. On May 20, 1996, the Supreme Court struck down Amendment 2.	ANSWER: _Romer v. Evans_(10) This 1919 decision gave rise to the "clear-and-present-danger test", an example of which is that the Constitution would not protect a person who falsely shouts fire in a theater and starts a panic.	ANSWER: _Schenck v. U.S._15.  Given the popular name for a symphony and its key, name its composer and number for 5 points each(5,5) The Jupiter Symphony, in CA: Wolfagang Amadeus _Mozart_; Number _Forty-one_(5,5) The Surprise Symphony, in GA: Franz Joseph _Haydn_, Number _Ninety-four_(5,5) The Romantic Symphony, in E-flatA: Anton _Bruckner_; Number _Four_16.  Identify these Chaucer works, none of which is "The Canterbury Tales," FTP each.(10) This story collection is framed by a dream-vision narrative in which Chaucer himself is tried in a pastoral court of love as a sinner against the God of Love.  The intervention of Alceste helps him, and he promises to do penance by writing stories about women who are true lovers.A: The _Legend of Good Women_(10) This dream poem, written in octosyllabic couplets, commemorates Blanche ofLancaster, the first wife of John of Gaunt.A: The _Book of the Duchess_(10) This work, probably Chaucer most famous apart from the Canterbury Tales, was also the title of a Shakespearean work, although spelled differently.A: _Troilus and Criseyde_ (Moderator: be lenient on pronunciation)17. Given a very brief description from "Book-a-Minute" of an Ernest Hemingway story, name the story for 10 points each:(10) "It was in Europe after the war. We were depressed. We drank a lot. We were still depressed."answer: The _Sun Also Rises_(10)  Guy: "I'm separated from my true love in World War I Italy." Girl: "Here I am. Let's hide in Switzerland, whoops." Girl dies. Guy: "War has made me cynical."answer: A _Farewell to Arms_(10)  "If you're a writer, make sure you write things, because otherwise you might die, and then you won't get to write anything."answer: The _Snows of Kilimanjaro_18. Identify these circuits involved with digital logic design, FTPE.(10) Derived from the Latin for "many" and "folds", this is a digital circuit with multiple signal inputs, one of which is selected by separate address inputs to be sent to the single output.	ANSWER: _multiplexer_ or _mux_(10) Existing in the RS, JK, D, and T forms, this is a two-state clocked device that offers basic memory for sequential logic operations. They are often used in banks called "registers" for the storage of binary numerical data.	ANSWER: _flip-flop_(10) Existing in the RS, D, and edge-triggered forms, this generally refers to an unclocked flip-flops.	ANSWER: _latch_19.  Identify these assorted chemistry things from definitions, FTPE.(10) This is a two-unit structure formed by all family IIIA halides and oxides of phosphorus. They have twice as many atoms as indicated from their chemical names. For example, diphosphorus trioxide is P4O6.	ANSWER: _dimer_(10) This law states that the rate of diffusion of a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of its molecular weight.	ANSWER: _Graham's_ Law(10) This two-word term describes the moment in titration when enough moles of base have been added to neutralize all the moles of acid in solution, or vice versa.	ANSWER: _equivalence point_20.  Identify the following related things, for 10 points each:(10) This 1967 album includes the songs "With a Little Help From My Friends," "Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds," and "When I'm Sixty-Four." 	answer: _Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band_(10) A line from 1896's Green Fire by Scottish poet William Sharp, published under the pseudonym Fiona Macleod, provides the title for what 1940 novel made into a 1968 movie with Sandra Locke as Mick and Alan Arkin as deaf-mute John Singer. 	answer: The _Heart is a Lonely Hunter_(10) On The Simpsons, this is Mrs. Krabappel's favorite canned dinner brand. 	answer: _Chef Lonelyhearts_ (or _Chef Lonelyhearts_ Soup for One)21.  Given a list of traditional and modern anniversary gifts, provide the number of the anniversary being celebrated.(10) Traditional gifts include fruit, flowers, silk, but usually linen.  The modern gift is appliances. 	answer: _4_ or _Fourth_(10) The traditional gift is steel and the modern gift is fashion jewelry. 	answer: _11_ or _Eleventh_(10) The traditional gift and modern gift are both emerald. 	answer: _55_ or _Fifty-Fifth_22. FTSNOP, answer these questions about early offseason happenings in majorleague baseball.(10) FTP, The Chicago Cubs made the first major trade of the offseasonby acquiring what All-Star catcher from the Arizona Diamondbacks?ANSWER: Damian _Miller_(10) FTP, The Montreal Expos are close to a deal which would allow themto play several games in 2003 in Hiram Bithorn Stadium in what city?ANSWER: _San Juan_, Puerto Rico(5,5) F5PE, name both the All-Star the Seattle Mariners received ascompensation for letting manager Lou Piniella sign elsewhere and theformer Diamondbacks bench coach selected as the team's new manager.ANSWER: Randy _Winn_ and Bob _Melvin_