2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by Maryland (Brad Houston, Casey Retterer, et al.)1.  One faction had supported its rival for four years prior to this event.  The cause of it was the new king's bestowing lands in Cumbria promised to the group onto its rival instead. Most of the army recruited came from Cheshire, a region already hostile to the successor of Richard II.  Occurring on July 21, 1403, near the river Severn, the rebel leader was disinterred, impaled and quartered to prove his death afterwards.  For 10 points, identify this conflict between rebels led by Henry "Hotspur" Percy and the army of England under King Henry IV.ANSWER: Battle of Shrewsbury2.  Weaker versions of this mathematical statement include the Boolean prime ideal theorem, while concepts requiring it include Tychonoff's theorem, trichotomy involving the cardinal numbers, and that every vector space has a basis.  Proofs requiring it are always nonconstructive.  The Banach-Tarski paradox, Baire category theorem, well-ordering theorem and Zorn's lemma are all equivalent to, for 10 points, this fundamental assertion that is logically independent of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory, that states for a set of non-empty sets X, one can select a member from each set in X.ANSWER: axiom of choice3.  Written to celebrate the 25th year of Alexander II's reign, this work was dedicated to Franz Liszt, and opens with a quiet, bare high E on the violins that depicts the desolation of the title locale. An English horn then comes in and its oriental theme is meant to suggest a band of native merchants. As in his unfinished Prince Igor, the composer uses a Russian folk song that emerges out of the background, though here it is accompanied by a pizzicato string theme, suggesting camels crossing the sand. For 10 points, identify this tone poem named for the plain region of a large continent, a work by Alexander Borodin.ANSWER: In the Steppes of Central Asia4.  The ridgeline of much of the southern part of this mountain range serves as the eastern continental divide.  Extending north in New Jersey and New York as the Kittatinny and Shawangunk ranges, respectively, it serves as the easternmost major ridge of the Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians, and several major rivers cut through on their way to the piedmont at such points as Delaware Water Gap and Harper's Ferry.  Grandfather Mountain is the highest point of, for 10 points, this mountain range of the eastern United States named for their apparent color as seen from a distance.ANSWER: Blue Ridge Mountains5.  In one of his works the title figure relates his experiences in a Japanese person to Nathaniel Peacock, while in a travelogue he asserts that there is only one pleasant innkeeper on the way from Boulogne to Nice. Towards the end of his life he was jailed for an article about Admiral Knowles published in his magazine, the Critical Review, and he began his literary career with a trio of satirical poems Advice, Reproof, and "The Tears of Scotland." His less well recognized title characters include Habbakkuk Hilding and Ferdinand Fathom, but he is better known for creating figures like Peregrine Pickle and Humphrey Clinker. For 10 points, identify this Scottish author of various picaresque novels including The Adventures of Roderick Random.ANSWER: Tobias Smollett 6.  Eventually its supporters, who had drafted the "People's Constitution," were forced to flee to Chepachet. This allowed Samuel Ward King to rally his troops and hunt down the participants. During the battle for the armory, its namesake found himself fighting against his own cousin and father, both of whom supported the state's original charter that only allowed men to vote if they owned at least $134 worth of land. For 10 points, identify this 1842 event that spawned the Supreme Court case Luther v. Borden and is named for its namesake leader who declared himself governor of Rhode Island.ANSWER: Dorr's Rebellion7.  The Schilling test can determine whether the symptoms of deficiency of this vitamin are caused by lack of intrinsic factor.  The deficiency, if present, is called pernicious anemia and is traditionally treated via intramuscular injection.  The vitamin contains a central cobalt atom surrounded by a corrin ring of nitrogens.  It is only produced by bacteria produced in animals, so vegans often turn to fortified yeast extract, which only collects the vitamin when grown in animal excrement.  For 10 points, identify this compound with scientific name cyanocobalamin, the last in the series of B vitamins.ANSWER: Vitamin B12 [accept cyanocobalamin before mentioned]8.  According to Photius his masterwork contained eight books, though only four have survived. His teachings focus on the importance of achieving what is in one's power and not despairing about what one can't control; a philosophy that may have developed during his early life as a slave. He was eventually freed and after studying under Musonius Rufus would go on to found a popular school in Nicopolis.  He stressed the importance of understanding the disciplines of desire, action, and assent, in order to achieve "eudaimonia."  His only complete work, a guidebook called the Encheiridion, was compiled by his disciple, Arrian.  For 10 points, name this Stoic philosopher who argues that happiness is achieved through living according to the will of nature.ANSWER: Epictetus9.  They were commissioned by the advertising firm Brown and Bigelow in 1903.  A painter named Cassius Marcellus Coolidge got the job and finished sixteen oil paintings, nine of which, including "Waterloo" and "A Friend in Need," became a part of this famous series.  In February 2005, two of the paintings sold for more than half a million dollars, which is a lot for what most art critics would call kitsch.  For 10 points, name this series of canine-themed pop culture paintings that also includes A Bold Bluff and Looks Like Four of a Kind.ANSWER: Dogs Playing Poker10.  One of them, that ends with an image of blood rushing back to someone like a tide at the Bay of Fundy, inspired the best selling novel Quincy Adams Sawyer. Including such stand alone works as "Sunthin in the Pastoral Line," "What Mr. Robinson Thinks," and the aforementioned "The Courtin," the second series began to run in The Atlantic Monthly in 1862. Primarily focused on three characters-the Rev. Homer Wilbur, the rascal Birdofredom Sawin, and Hosea, whose last name identifies the collection-for 10 points, identify this series of poems in Yankee dialect that centered on contemporary issues such as the Mexican War and slavery, the masterwork of James Russell Lowell.ANSWER: The Biglow Papers11.  The magic number for classes in this programming language spells out the words CAFE BABE in hexadecimal notation.  The most recent release of the language added generics and enumerations and an enhanced for-loop syntax that mimics functionality already in Microsoft's C-Sharp programming language.  Commonly lauded features of the language include platform independence and automatic garbage collection.  For 10 points, identify this programming language developed by Sun Microsystems.ANSWER: Java12.  In March 1999, members of this group killed three Native American rights activists whom they believed to be CIA agents. This action was particularly egregious in light of the 1998 granting of a 42,000 square kilometer "safe haven," this was perhaps not surprising given the Strategic Plan outlined in the 1982 Seventh Guerrilla Conference. Officially formed in response to the government's attack on the Marquetalia Republic, this group originally called itself the "Southern Bloc" but changed to its present moniker in 1966 under the leadership of Jacobo Arenas. For 10 points, name this military arm of the communist party in Colombia.ANSWER: Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia or Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia13.  He replaced John Quincy Adams in the House as a Whig candidate, but he would lose his bid for governor when he ran as a Free Soiler in 1852.  This author of "A Few Thoughts for a Young Man" and "The Progressive Character of the Human Race," the brother-in-law to Nathaniel Hawthorne, ended his career in public life as president of Antioch College. After returning from a European tour, along with other likeminded men such as Henry Barnard and Samuel Howe, he pushed for improved training and more access to equipment. Of his various yearly reports, the Twelfth Annual Report most clearly articulated his vision of learning as the panacea for society's ills.  These reports were written while he served as the first secretary of the Massachusetts Board of Education.  For 10 points, identify this reformer known as the "Father of the Common School."ANSWER: Horace Mann13.  Her name probably comes from a version of the "I love you" worm infesting the web at the time of her first appearance, in email number nine. The feeling, alas, is not mutual, and later on Joe and Jake both put the blame on her. Apparently unable to tell whether or not she is making herself look worse, she still finds time to confound the pronunciation skills of Coach Z and "jock" Strong Bad in a subsequent Cheat-produced video. For 10 points, identify this "author" of a Strong Bad email and inspiration for the song "Everybody to the Limit."ANSWER: Fhqwhgads [pronounced fuh-HUG-wah-gahds; accept any reasonable attempt at pronunciation]14.  One of its sources was The Book of St. Alban's, and it includes a passage about a frog that says to "use him as though you loved him, that is, harm him as little as you may possibly, that he may live the longer." Set on a five day excursion along the Lea, its fifth edition, published in 1676, featured eight chapters added by Charles Cotton about the making and use of flies. It begins as a dialogue with Auceps, the Fowler, and Venator, the Hunter, who are convinced that they should engage in "the Contemplative Man's recreation" by the wizened Piscator.  For 10 points, name this Izaak Walton classic about the art of fishing.ANSWER: The Compleat Angler15.  Initially collected by the artist's American patron John Quinn, its predecessors were known as the "Maiastra," and some of them were set aside to decorate a temple for the Maharaja of Indore. Seven versions were made out of marble, while nine were made out of bronze, though when Edward Steichen tried to import one of the latter he was told that he would have to pay taxes on it, since it looked like a propeller blade. All of them share the slender conical footing, the elongated "body," and an oval plane that seems to represent the head and, possibly, a beak. For 10 points, identify this abstract sculpture that tries to "capture the essence of flight" a work by Constantin Brancusi.ANSWER: Bird in Space16.  Its entrance was guarded by the giantess Modgudur and it was surrounded by a river filled with sharp swords named Gjoll. The shore Nastrond can be found in this realm that lies below the third root of the world tree. Hermod was the only Aesir to visit its ruler in the hall Eliudnir, at which point he was told that all creatures must shed a tear. Audhumla sustained herself by licking the frost that emanated from this place, which is separated from Muspell by Ginnungagap. Creatures that live here include the serpent Nidhogg and the fearsome hound Garm. For 10 points, identify this land of mists and shadows, the underworld of Norse myth.ANSWER: Niflheim [prompt on Hel]17.  His father was a Methodist chaplain, and it was at a boarding school in London founded by John Wesley that he discovered his passion for singing.  His debut solo album was Read My Lips, but his most successful was Fearless.  It was in the cast of London's 1968 Hair that he met Richard O'Brien, who went on to create his most famous role.  His three Tony nominations have been for the roles of Alan Swann in My Favourite Year, Mozart in Amadeus, and King Arthur in Spamalot.  For 10 points, identify the actor who portrays Frank N. Furter in the Rocky Horror Picture Show.ANSWER: Tim Curry18.  Its final phase saw the siege of Arras and the involvement of the Spanish general Count Fuensaldana. The second phase ended with defeats at Rethel and Blanc-Champ and the commander, Viscount Turenne, throwing himself at the mercy of the court. Later he would actually lead the royal forces against the movement's third phase, but he was outmatched by the Prince of Condé at Bléneau, allowing the reconstituted army to march on Paris and forcing the Cardinal to flee France for a second time. Named for the slings that peasants used to pelt Mazarin's windows, for 10 points, name this series of wares instigated by nobles that lasted from 1648 to 1653 and began when members of the Parlement de Paris refused to pay King Louis XIV's tax.ANSWER: The Fronde 19.  This enzyme has two protein subunits, called the S and L chains; the latter contains active binding sites for its primary substrate.  With that substrate and oxygen, the enzyme produces phosphoglycolate, which can be used to produce glycine, but its more important function comes from using carbon dioxide as a substrate, producing 3-phosphoglycerate that can in turn be converted into glucose.  For 10 points, identify this plant enzyme, the rate-limiting factor of the Calvin cycle responsible for fixing carbon with ribulose and perhaps the most abundant enzyme on Earth.ANSWER: RuBisCO, or Ribulose-1,5 bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase20.  "To a Creole Lady" imagines a dusky beauty decorating an ancient mansion, while "The Gaming Room" describes harlots sitting in faded armchairs. Other notable images include "Sisina" strolling through the forest bare-chested and armed, and a speaker lying with "a Frightful Jewess." But the best remembered works included therein begin with "Benediction" and "The Albatross" and are a part of "Spleen and Ideal." Divided into sections including "Revolt," "Wine" and "Death," for 10 points, identify this poetry collection, that features a dedication to the reader which calls him a "hypocrite- [a] twin- [and a] brother," the master work of Charles Baudelaire. ANSWER: Les Fleurs du Mal or The Flowers of Evil 21.  It was first published in a 1921 monograph, although some alternative systems developed by William Holtzman and Wilfred Cassell, respectively, have become accepted. Scoring is done via a namesake scale developed by John Exner, which notes what factor the patient responds to, whether it is form, color, or even the perception of movement. All examinations are done on a one to one basis, and touching or turning any of the ten cards may indicate signs of mental damage. For 10 points, identify this method of evaluation, named for a Swiss psychologist, which uses inkblots to probe the unconscious mind of the patient.ANSWER: Rorschach Test22.  This composer's latest offering is the opera Doctor Atomic, which chronicles the hours preceding the first testing of the atomic bomb, although he is better known for an opera that takes place in 1972. That piece won him a 1989 Grammy for "Contemporary Composition," but he would not win another until 2005, when his On the Transmigration of Souls, about the September 11th attacks, won three awards to add to its 2003 Pulitzer Prize in music.  For 10 points, identify this minimalist composer who wrote Shaker Loops and Nixon in China.ANSWER: John Coolidge Adams23.  His call for a responsible and self-conscious art is expressed in the essay The Ground on Which I Stand. Many of his works were inspired by the paintings of Romare Bearden and they featured such iconic characters as the faith healer Aunt Ester, the taxi driver Becker, and the restaurant owner Memphis Lee. These aforementioned figures appeared in Gem of the Ocean, Jitney, and Two Trains Running, respectively; all are works that belong to his ten part Pittsburgh Cycle.  For 10 points, name this recently deceased African-American playwright who won Pulitzer prizes for Fences and The Piano Lesson.ANSWER: August Wilson or Frederick August Kittel
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Maryland (Brad Houston, Casey Retterer, et al.)1.  Name these rivers that do not empty into any ocean for 10 points each.[5,5] These two rivers of central Asia are heavily utilized for irrigation.  As a result, the body of water into which they issue, the Aral Sea, has shrunk greatly in the past 50 years.  Name them for 5 points each.ANSWER: Amu Darya or Oxus and Syr Darya or Jaxartes or Yaxartes[10] This river in southern Africa empties into a swamp in the Kalahari desert.  This lush area, noted for its wildlife, is known as its namesake delta.ANSWER: Okavango River[10] This longest river in the Great Basin flows in a generally southwesterly direction through the population centers of northern Nevada, rising in its namesake range before emptying into its namesake sink about 75 miles northeast of Reno.ANSWER: Humboldt River2.  For 10 points each, identify these 20th century political philosophers.[10] This Harvard academic advocated the idea of justice as fairness and introduced the "veil of ignorance" in works such as A Theory of Justice and Political Liberalism.ANSWER: John Rawls[10] While he also wrote The Examined Life and The Nature of Rationality, this contemporary and academic foil to John Rawls is most well known for his libertarian response to Rawls's work, Anarchy, State, and Utopia.ANSWER: Robert Nozick[10] This Indian built upon the work of Kenneth Arrow, developing the theory of social choice.  He is also a luminary in welfare economics noted for his 1981 work Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation.ANSWER: Amartya Sen3.  Identify these classes of trans-Neptunian objects in our solar system for 10 points each.[10] These objects are so-named because they share with Pluto its 3:2 orbital resonance with Neptune.  Examples of these objects include Ixion, Rhadamanthus, and technically, Charon.ANSWER: plutinos[10] These objects do not have orbital resonances with the outer planets and all orbit beyond 41 astronomical units.  Examples include Chaos, Varuna, and Quaoar, as well as the first trans-Neptunian object found in 1992, whose name is the source of the term.ANSWER: cubewanos [from QB1-o's][10] Orbits of objects in this classification range from the Kuiper Belt to much further out, approaching the Oort Cloud.  Examples of objects in this classification include Sedna and the so-called tenth planet, variously called 2003 UB313 or Xena.ANSWER: scattered disk objects or SDOs or scattered Kuiper Belt objects or SKBOs4.  Answer the following about a historical event that occurred on Easter Monday for 10 points each.[10] This 1232 event saw the residents of Palermo rise up against the Angevin French nobles who ruled over them. ANSWER: Sicilian Vespers[10] This Byzantine emperor financed the Sicilian Vespers in order to stave off an invasion by Charles I's Angevin forces.ANSWER: Michael VIII[10] Eventually Peter III of this Spanish kingdom, that may be more famous for producing the first of Henry VIII's wives, took control of Sicily.ANSWER: Aragon5.  For 10 points each, name the suicidal American poet:[10] This author of Bridges and "The Broken Tower" became an ex-poet when he jumped off the cruise ship Orizaba in 1932, possibly as a direct result of being beat up by a sailor whom he hit on.ANSWER: Harold Hart Crane[10] An advocate of the right to die, this author of In This Our World and editor of the Forerunner rung down the curtain when she overdosed on chloroform in 1935, explaining in her suicide note that she was choosing "a quick and easy death in place of a slow and horrible one."ANSWER: Charlotte Perkins Gilman [10] This "Prairie Troubadour" and author of "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight" and "The Congo" joined the choir invisible in 1935, when he chugged a bottle of Lysol and declared in his suicide note, "They tried to get me - I got them first!"ANSWER: Nicholas Vachel Lindsay6.  At the Edinburgh Film Festival in August 2005, the movie Stoned premiered.  Answer the following about it.[10] The movie was about the untimely death of this British rocker, whose autopsy report stated "Death by misadventure" after drowning in his own pool.ANSWER: Brian Jones[5] Brian Jones was a founding member of, for 5 points, this British rock group, the self-proclaimed "greatest rock & roll band in the world" that is still going strong in its fifth decade.ANSWER: The Rolling Stones[5/15] Five for one and 15 for both, name the only two members of the Rolling Stones to attend Jones's funeral.ANSWER: Charlie Watts and Bill Wyman7.  For 10 points each, answer these questions about queer theory.[10] This term refers to the traditional binary view of gender, that one's sexual identity is tied to one's genitalia so that men and women each have specific roles and any deviation from that is abnormal.ANSWER: heteronormativity[10] Some queer theorists focus on the fact that gender is not necessarily definable on a biological level, referring to males with this syndrome in which they have a pair of X chromosomes instead of one.ANSWER: Klinefelter's Syndrome[10] This professor at the University of Southern California has written Female Masculinity, which attempts to eliminate the notion that masculinity is an exclusively male trait, and The Drag King Book, in which she promotes the activity of women dressing as men.ANSWER: Judith Halberstam8.  For 10 points each, identify these works of Rene Magritte.[10] In his famous The Treachery of Images, this is the French text written below Magritte's drawing of a pipe.ANSWER: Ceci n'est pas une pipe[10] This is the title of his famous 1964 portrait of a suited main in a bowler hat in front of a small wall with his face obscured by an apple.ANSWER: The Son of Man[10] In this 1934 work, Magritte depicts a woman's face with her erotic zones replacing the eyes, nose and mouth.ANSWER: The Rape9.  Identify these things about a certain class of organic compounds for 10 points each.[10] This class of compounds is characterized by a terminal carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom and single-bonded to a hydrogen atom.ANSWER: aldehydes[10] Once a scientist knows that an organic compound contains a carbonyl group, he or she can determine whether it is an aldehyde or a ketone with this reagent containing silver.ANSWER: Tollen's reagent or aqueous diamminesilver (I) complex[10] Oxidizing an aldehyde will result in a product from this class of organic compounds.ANSWER: carboxylic acids10.  Answer the following about a secret organization that was brought done through the efforts of James McParlan for 10 points each.[10] With membership drawn from the Ancient Order of Hibernians this group, which sometimes resorted to violence, dominated the mining industry in Eastern Pennsylvania.ANSWER: Molly Maguires[10] The grip of the Molly Maguires on the region was loosened by this man's namesake detective agency.ANSWER: Allan Pinkerton[10] This President of Reading Railroad hired Pinkerton to clean up the land in and around his lines.ANSWER: Franklin Gowen11.  Given some lines from British poetry, identify the poet for 10 points, or 5 points if you need the title of the work.[10] "Come live with me and be my love, / And we will all the pleasures prove"[5] "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe[10] "The mind is its own place, and in itself / Can make a Heav'n of Hell, a Hell of Heav'n"[5] Paradise LostANSWER: John Milton[10] "And this same flower that smiles today/ tomorrow will be dying"[5] "To the Virgins to Make Much of Time"ANSWER: Robert Herrick12.  Answer these questions about the composer Philip Glass on a 5-10-15 point basis.[5] Glass belongs to this musical movement whose works are often simple, repetitive, and static.ANSWER: minimalism[10] Glass wrote this infamous, five-hour-long opera in 1976, the first of a series of three so-called "portrait" operas, about a famous scientist.ANSWER: Einstein on the Beach[15] Glass also composed the score to this 1988 Errol Morris documentary film about the murder of a Texas police officer who had stopped a car for a traffic violation.ANSWER: The Thin Blue Line13.  Answer the following about the first Labour government in Britain for 10 points per part.[5,5] For 5 points each, name both the Liberal leader who allowed Labour to form its first 1924 Government and the Labour leader who became prime minister.ANSWER: Herbert Henry Asquith and Ramsay MacDonald[10] MacDonald's main accomplishment during this first term in government was the forging of this 1924 implementation of the Dawes Plan dealing with reparations and French occupation of the Ruhr valley.ANSWER: London Settlement[10] Labour was voted out of power in October 1924, largely due to the publication of this letter supposedly from the Comintern addressed to the Prime Minister, calling for normalization of relations with the U.S.S.R.  The letter was later shown to be a forgery.ANSWER: Zinoviev Letter14.  Identify these crappy reality television series featuring out-of-place rich people that the author freely admits he watches for 10 points each.[10] This show airing on NBC and VH1 features the drummer of Motley Crue and his misadventures at the University of Nebraska.ANSWER: Tommy Lee Goes to College[10] This offering from MTV documents the drama leading up to major birthday parties for snobby rich girls.ANSWER: My Super Sweet 16[10] This program on E!, a cross between City Slickers and The Simple Life, shows ten children of celebrities herding cattle in Colorado.ANSWER: Filthy Rich: Cattle Drive15.  Identify the figures who showed up at Troy to defend the city, only to end up being killed themselves, on a 5-10-15 basis.[5] Achilles fell in love with this Amazon queen after he had already struck her a mortal blow.ANSWER: Penthesilea[10] This Ethiopian king and son of Tithonus and Eos killed Antilochus before Achilles cut him down.ANSWER: Memnon[15] Out of the four people with this name in Greek myth, the one who was king of Colonae in Troas was killed by Achilles and turned into a swan.ANSWER: Cycnus16.  Given a brief description, identify the mathematical theorem for 10 points each.[10] If p is prime, then (p - 1)! [quantity p minus 1 factorial] is congruent to -1 mod p.ANSWER: Wilson's Theorem[10] If p is prime and a is a positive integer such that p does not divide a, then ap-1 [a to the p minus oneth power] is congruent to 1 mod p.ANSWER: Fermat's Little Theorem[10] This theorem states there is no general solution in radicals to polynomial equations of degree 5 or greater.ANSWER: Abel-Ruffini Theorem17.  Answer the following questions about the early Edo period in Japan for 10 points each.[10] The Edo period is considered to have officially begun following this battle fought on October 21, 1600, at which the Mori and Kobayakawa clans joined the Eastern opponents of the Ishida.ANSWER: Battle of Sekigahara[10] The leader of the Eastern faction was this man, who became first shogun in 1603. Both names required.ANSWER: Tokugawa Ieyasu[10] Although Tokugawa Ieyasu officially abdicated in 1605, he was still instrumental in the composition of this 1613 document, which turned the court daimyo into ceremonial figureheads under the command of the shogun.ANSWER: Kuge Shohatto18.  For 10 points each, answer these questions about the endings of Eugene Ionesco plays.[10] Rhinoceros ends with Berenger defiantly shouting this line, refusing to conform to the status quo and become a rhinoceros like everyone else.ANSWER: I'm not capitulating! or I will not capitulate! or Je ne capitule pas![10] A deaf-mute takes the stage and, desperate to be understood by an invisible audience, scribbles a meaningless message onto a chalkboard at the end of this play.ANSWER: The Chairs[10] Mr. and Mrs. Smith have a discussion at the beginning of this work, and Mr. and Mrs. Martin performs the same bit of dialogue at the end.ANSWER: The Bald Soprano19.  Identify these things related to neurotransmitters for 10 points each.[10] This neurotransmitter modulates the brain's reward system and the control of movement.  A certain hypothesis suggests that changes in the levels of this neurotransmitter in the brain can fully explain schizophrenia.ANSWER: dopamine or 4-(2-aminoethyl)benzene-1,2-diol or DA[10] The cause of this neurodegenerative disease is linked to a decrease in dopamine production and is often treated with dopamine replacement.  Symptoms of the disease include tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia.ANSWER: Parkinson's disease or paralysis agitans[10] Other neurotransmitters are involved in the treatment of neurological disorders.  For example, the most common class of antidepressants inhibits the reuptake of this neurotransmitter.ANSWER: serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT20.  Answer the following about a military operation on Wolmido island for 10 points each.[10] This amphibious landing attempted to bypass the Pusan Perimeter and place U.S. forces in the rear of the North Korean army.ANSWER: Inchon[10] MacArthur cobbled together the remains of the 1st Marine Division and the 7th Infantry Division and renamed them to make up his strike force at Inchon. Name their new designation which uses a certain letter of the alphabet. ANSWER: the X Corps[10] The X Corps under Major General Edward Almond would later combine forces with Walton Walker to drive the North Koreans back to the shores of this river that marked the border with China. ANSWER: Yalu21.  For 10 points each, answer these questions about authors from the land down under.[10] Though born in Sydney, he is most famous for his Asian Saga, which includes the novels Shogun and Noble House.ANSWER: James Clavell[10] He won the Booker Prize in 1982 for Schindler's Ark, which became the basis for the film Schindler's List.ANSWER: Thomas Keneally[10] With novels like Riders in the Chariot, The Vivisector, and The Eye of the Storm, he won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1973, the only Australian to ever do so.ANSWER: Patrick WhiteIdentify the following people from their educational theories for 10 points each.[10] This man developed, independently from Andrew Bell, a system of school based on peer tutoring where students are rewarded for passing on their knowledge to the next set of children.  The system allowed for very large student-teacher ratios but was infamous for its harsh discipline.ANSWER: Joseph Lancaster[10] This "Schoolmaster of America" led the charge to create a dominant Protestant, Anglo-Saxon culture.  He is better known for working on a dictionary.ANSWER: Noah Webster[10] The idea of the talented tenth may have originated with this Virginian statesman, who believed that future political leaders should be plucked from the rest of the talentless masses.ANSWER: Thomas Jefferson		MD	Page 1 of 3