2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by Masters (Chris Goheen and Victor Rosenberg)1.  Below its boiling point, it is a dark blue liquid, and it exists as a blue-black crystalline solid; as a gas, it is less stable than its more common allotrope.  Discovered by Christian Friedrich Schönbein in 1840, this powerful oxidizing agent is used as a disinfectant and is produced industrially either using a mercury heat lamp or a process called cold discharge.  For 10 points, name this compound formed by lightning or the action of solar ultraviolet light on diatomic oxygen, naturally present at about ten parts per million in its namesake layer of the stratosphere.ANSWER: Ozone or O32.  In 1901 he entered the U.S. Army Signal Corps, and during World War I he was one of the most skilled air commanders, as he oversaw the first coordinated air-ground offensive at the Battle of Saint-Mihiel.  He believed that air power would be the wave of future warfare; he demonstrated air power's superiority with the sinking of several warships in the early 1920s.  However, his superiors did not share his fiery, far-reaching visions about air power.  For 10 points, name this man who was court-martialed in 1925 for insubordination for accusing the military of incompetence in the crash of the dirigible Shenandoah.ANSWER: William L. "Billy" Mitchell3.  Notorious for his erotic novels, including The Eleven Thousand Rods, this member of Puteaux group also served to develop an artistic movement with his 1913 essay Les Peintres cubists.  His groundbreaking poetry included Calligrammes, a book of concrete poetry, and the Symbolist-influenced Alcools.  His only play was turned into an opera by Poulenc thirty years after its premiere.  However, his most important lexicographical contribution first appeared in a program for the ballet Parade.  For 10 points, name this Frenchman who wrote the play Les Mamelles de Tirésias and coined the term "surrealism."ANSWER: Guillaume Apollinaire or Wilhelm Apollinaris de Kostrowitzky4.  Due to his early death from plague, only a few paintings confirmed to be his are extant, and it is believed those works left unfinished at his death were completed by contemporaries like Titian.  He used manuscript illumination techniques to highlight his Castelfranco Madonna, while there are various theories about a few men near a cave depicted in Three Philosophers.  Giorgio Vasari described this pupil of Giovanni Bellini in his Vite.  For 10 points, name this Italian painter best known for his 1506 portrait of Laura and the 1508 landscape work The Tempest.ANSWER:  Giorgione5.  Estimates of their population range up to one million.  They are organized in a feudal system of nobles, vassals and a serf class.  Their language, Tamershak, uses an alphabet related to that of ancient Libyans.  While they are nominally Muslim, their society is matrilineal.  Women are not veiled, but men are.  Known to the Europeans as fierce raiders, their traditional sources of income are taxes on caravans, raiding neighboring tribes and pastoral activities of the serf class.  For 10 points, name these Berber people.ANSWER:  Touareg or Tuareg6.  In medieval times it was thought to belong to the devil, so it could only be sown on Good Friday.  The ancient Greeks associated it with death, and according to myth Archemorus was eaten by serpents as he lay on a bed of it.  Still, the Greeks used it on food.  For ten points, give the English name of Petroselium crispum or Petroselium sativum.ANSWER:  Parsley7.  There are three species of these carnivorous mammals.  The mountain variety is found only in South America and the species Nasua nelsoni is confined to Cozumel Island in Central America, while the common or ring-tailed variety ranges throughout the forests of Central and South America.  Characterized by elongated snouts and a tail that is held erect when walking, they climb trees in search of birds and lizards, as well as fruit insects and larvae.  For 10 points, name these members of the raccoon family.ANSWER: coati8.  It was settled by Angles around 500, first along the Trent Valley.  Their first great leader was Penda, who extended his power over Wessex and East Anglia in the mid-7th century.  Offa reigned from 757-796 and had a great dike built to protect the western portion of the kingdom from the Welsh.  For ten points, name this Anglo-Saxon kingdom which eventually succumbed to the Danes and control by Alfred of Wessex in the late 9th century.ANSWER:  Mercia9.  Her novels What Diana Did and The Crux first appeared in The Forerunner, a monthly magazine she published and edited from 1909 to 1916.  Her feminist utopian novels include Herland and With Her in Ourland. The grandniece of Harriet Beecher Stowe, she married Charles Stetson in 1884 but divorced him a few years later.  Her treatment by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell for postpartum depression was described in her masterpiece, first published in New England Magazine in 1892.  For 10 points, name this author of The Yellow Wallpaper.ANSWER: Charlotte Perkins Gilman10.  When asked by a dentist, "Where do you feel the pain?" he replied, "In my mind, of course" - a suitable intellectual response from a man disillusioned at age 11 after learning that mathematical axioms couldn't be proved but had to be accepted on faith.  In 1954, at age 82, he made a famous radio broadcast, "Man's Peril," leading to a protest statement against hydrogen bomb tests co-sponsored with Albert Einstein and in turn the Pugwash Conferences, winner of the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize.  At 89 he was imprisoned for civil disobedience, and in his 90s he protested against American intervention in Vietnam.  For ten points, name this British philosopher.ANSWER:  Bertrand Russell11.  This geographic feature is formed in an area where rivers have eroded away the soft rocks of a coastal plain more quickly than the older, harder rocks of an upland region.  Since the river rapids prevented vessels from traveling further upriver and supplied power for such industries as textile and grist mills, many American cities were founded along them.  For ten points, what is this geographic boundary?ANSWER:  fall line12.  At the time of its first European settlement in 1635 it was inhabited by Munsee-speaking Indians, the Lenape.  In 1664 the English took it over from the Dutch.  It grew relatively slowly until the mid-19th century, but by 1860 it was the third largest city in the United States.  It ceased to exist as an independent city in 1898.  For ten points, name this borough.ANSWER:  Brooklyn13.  He was a partner in one of the firms that merged to form the North West Company in 1787.  He began his second voyage of exploration in 1793 and eventually led his expedition to the first overland journey north of Mexico to cross North America and reach the Pacific Ocean.  For ten points, name this Scottish-Canadian fur trader who followed his namesake river north to the Arctic Ocean on his first voyage of exploration in 1789.ANSWER:  Sir Alexander Mackenzie14.  He was a successful school principal in North Carolina, but he became so distressed by the treatment of blacks in the South that he moved his family to Cleveland and soon turned to writing.  His subtly ironic refutation of the romanticized view of plantation life, The Goophered Grapevine, was printed in the August 1887 issue of The Atlantic Monthly, the first work by a black writer in that magazine.  For 10 points, name this author of the story collections The Conjure Woman and The Wife of His Youth and Other Stories of the Color Line.ANSWER: Charles W. Chesnutt15.  Primarily the work of Valmiki, it consists of about 24,000 couplets.  Its hero, an avatar of Vishnu, is the husband of Sita and the brother of Lakshman.  With an army of monkeys headed by Hanuman its hero regains his kidnapped wife from the 10-headed monster Ravana.  For ten points, name this Indian epic.ANSWER:  Ramayana17.  It is the name of the language of an ancient empire, a modern language, and a linguistic family which still has more than 2 dozen languages in use.  It belongs to the Andean branch of the Andean-Equatorial stock of languages.  For ten points, what is this language, whose modern version is spoken by more than half the people of Peru, which was the administrative and commercial tongue of the Incan empire?ANSWER:  Quechua or Kechua or Quichua18.  He broke into the major leagues with the Cleveland Indians in 1957, but first they traded him to the Kansas City Athletics and then the Athletics traded him away.  A mistake, no doubt, as he went on to play in 7 World Series, more than any other player in the 1960s, and won two consecutive Most Valuable Player awards.  For ten points, name this player who, according to the Baseball Writers' Association and the Committee on Baseball Veterans, does not belong in the Hall of Fame even though he held a famous record for 37 years.ANSWER:  Roger Maris19.  He accompanied Samuel Johnson to London with the intent to study law, but he found his calling on the stage, a pursuit that Oliver Goldsmith later satirized in Retaliation.  With Colman, he wrote The Clandestine Marriage, and he wrote the preface to A School for Scandal.  In 1741, he distinguished himself in Shakespeare's Richard III, a scene depicted by William Hogarth, and as Sharp in The Lying Valet.  He later managed the Theatre Royal on Drury Lane, during which time he managed and acted in over twenty of Shakespeare's plays.  For 10 points, name this actor, manager and playwright of 18th century England.ANSWER: David Garrick20.  Chartered at a conference at Punta del Este, Uruguay in August 1961, it called for an annual increase in per capita income, the establishment of democratic governments, more equitable income distribution, land reform, and economic and social planning.  Latin American countries, with the exception of Cuba, pledged to invest 80 billion dollars over 10 years with a guarantee of 20 billion from the U.S.  When the signatories ignored most of its terms, the Organization of American States disbanded its permanent committee.  For 10 points, name this Kennedy-era program created to counter the appeal of revolutionary politics.ANSWER: Alliance for Progress or Allianza para el Progreso21.  He wrote biographies of religious figures Edmund Campion and Ronald, while his travel writings are collected in When the Going Was Good.  He criticized the upper classes in Decline and Fall and progress in Black Mischief and A Handful of Dust.  His satire of the California mortician industry is entitled The Loved One, while his Sword of Honor trilogy analyzes the character of World War II.  He converted to Catholicism in 1930 and his most ambitious novel examines the recovery of faith in a landed Roman Catholic family.  For 10 points, name this author of Brideshead Revisited.ANSWER: Evelyn Waugh22.  Born in 1925 to a chief and farmer in the Langi tribal area, by 1957 he was a member of the legislative council of his country.  After serving as Prime Minister from 1962-1966, he led a coup against King Mutesa II.  He himself was ousted in 1971, but was returned to power in 1980 with the help of his friend President Julius Nyerere of Tanzania.  His resettlement policies and an ongoing civil war led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people and he was ousted again in 1985.  For 10 points, name this founder of the Uganda People's Congress who died in exile in 2005.ANSWER: Apollo Milton Obote23.  Most hormones are this type of compound that consist of 17 carbon atoms arranged in four rings and have a three-dimensional nucleus.  In plants, large doses of some of them can be fatal to insect predators.  Other examples are oral contraceptives and cholesterol.  First used therapeutically in the 18th century to treat some heart conditions, for 10 points, name this class of chemical compounds, one type of which has been the subject of Congressional hearings in 2005.ANSWER:  steroids [do not accept anabolic steroids]
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Masters (Chris Goheen and Victor Rosenberg)1.  Identify this chemical element on a 30-20-10-5 basis.[30] Of all the elements, only carbon and tungsten have higher melting points and only iridium, osmium and platinum are denser.[20] It forms a superconductive alloy with molybdenum and is alloyed with tungsten for use in electronic filaments and thermocouples.  It is used as a catalyst for hydrogenation and petroleum cracking.[10] Based on his periodic law, Mendeleyev predicted the existence of this element, which he called dvi-manganese.  Discovered in 1925 in platinum and columbite ores, its chemical properties are similar to technetium, which is above it in group VIIb of the periodic table.[5] Its atomic weight is 186.2 and atomic number is 75.ANSWER:  rhenium2.  In 1798 the Federalist-controlled Congress passed 4 laws, allegedly in response to the actions of the French revolutionary government, but also designed to damage the Democratic-Republican party.  For the stated number of points, identify these laws.[5] This act broadly prohibited spoken or written criticism of the government and several prominent Jeffersonians were tried and convicted under it.ANSWER:  Sedition act[5] This act authorized the president to deport any non-citizen considered dangerous, even in peacetime. ANSWER:  Alien act[10] This act authorized the president to imprison or deport any alien associated with any nation that the United States was fighting in a declared war.ANSWER:  Alien Enemies act[10] It increased the minimum residency period for citizenship (and thus voting privileges) from 5 to 14 years.ANSWER:  Naturalization act3.  Answer the following questions about a classic novel in the Southern gothic tradition.[10] Published in 1940, it focuses on 5 main characters in a small Georgia town: black physician Dr. Copeland; drunken socialist agitator Jake Blount; Mick Kelly, a teenage girl with a passion for music; Biff Brannon, the owner of the New York Café; and a deaf mute who is left alone and isolated when his companion of 10 years goes insane.  For 10 points, name this novel.ANSWER:  The Heart is a Lonely Hunter[5] Who wrote The Heart is a Lonely Hunter? ANSWER: Carson McCullers[15] Who is the deaf mute protagonist who eventually commits suicide after his good friend Spiros Antonapoulos dies in an insane asylum?ANSWER: John Singer4.  For ten points each, identify these choreographers given the clues.[10] He choreographed and created the musical version of On the Town.  He created the dance sequences for Rodgers and Hammerstein's The King and I.  Who is this choreographer who won a Tony for his work on West Side Story?ANSWER:  Jerome Robbins[10] In 1905 he created The Dying Swan for Pavlova to the music of Saint-Saens, and in 1909 he accompanied Diaghilev to Paris.  Name this choreographer of Les Sylphides, The Firebird and The Spectre of the Rose.ANSWER: Michel Fokine[10] He was principal dancer and choreographer for Diaghilev's Ballet Russes from 1924-1929.  He became director of ballet for the Metropolitan Opera House in 1934 and helped found the School of American Ballet the same year.  Who is this man who became artistic director and principal choreographer for the New York City ballet in 1948?ANSWER: George Balanchine5.  Answer these questions about primatologists for the stated number of points.[5] Born in 1932, she studied the mountain gorillas of the Virunga region on the Rwanda-Zaire border.  She was found murdered on December 26, 1985.ANSWER:  Dian Fossey[5] She received her PhD from Cambridge in 1965 and has been the scientific director of Gombe Stream Research Center since 1967.  Who is this author of Wild Chimpanzees and In the Shadow of Man?ANSWER: Jane Goodall[10] She received a PhD in Anthropology from UCLA in 1978 has been studying orangutans in Borneo for decades.  Who is this Simon Fraser University professor?ANSWER:  Biruté Galdikas  [10] This Belgian continued the study of the Virunga mountain gorillas, but he has also published studies of the effects of armed conflict in the region on biodiversity.ANSWER:  José Kalpers6.  Answer these questions about a 2005 political scandal for the stated number of points.[5] Which Texas Republican temporarily stepped down from his post as House Majority Leader when he was indicted for conspiracy and money laundering charges related to campaign fundraising in Texas?ANSWER:  Tom DeLay[10] Which Travis County District Attorney obtained the grand jury indictment against DeLay?ANSWER:  Ronnie Earle[15] This close friend of DeLay is alleged to have paid some of the Congressman's overseas travel expenses.  Name this lobbyist who, along with New York businessman Adam Kidan, was himself indicted on fraud charges related to a deal for financing the purchase of casino boats.ANSWER:  Jack Abramoff7.  For ten points each, identify these proteolytic enzymes of the digestive system.[10] Synthesized in an inactive form in the stomach lining, it is most active in the presence of hydrochloric acid at a pH between 1 and 3.  It is most efficient at cleaving bonds involving phenylalanine, tryptophan and tyrosine.ANSWER:  pepsin[10] Produced in an inactive form in the pancreas, it is activated by the slightly alkaline environment of the small intestine.  It cleaves bonds involving the amino acids arginine and lysine and its extreme specificity makes it useful for sequencing protein amino acids.ANSWER:  trypsin[10] Similar in structure to trypsin, it is also formed in the pancreas and enters the duodenum via the pancreatic duct.  It is activated by trypsin or by its own active molecules and attacks bonds involving methionine and leucine in addition to those broken by pepsin.ANSWER:  chymotrypsin8.  For ten points each, answer these questions about medieval history.[10] This dynasty rose in the 11th century and their capital of Marrakesh was founded in 1062.  The Spanish Moors asked them to help defeat the Christian reconquest of Spain.  What is this dynasty who ruled Morocco and Muslim Spain until 1174?ANSWER:  Almoravids[10] In 1086 Yushuf ibn Tashfin entered Andalusia and defeated the Castilians.  Who was the King of Castile?ANSWER:  Alfonso VI[10] In 1174 the Almoravid empire was defeated by which other Berber dynasty?ANSWER:  Almohads9.  Identify these works by Nikolai Gogol for the stated number of points.[5] Which of Gogol's St. Petersburg stories concerns the lunatic Poprishchin, a civil servant who believes he is the king of Spain?Answer:  Diary of a Madman or Zapiski sumashedskogo[10] Which 1835 collection included Diary of a Madman, in addition to Nevsky Prospect, The Portrait, and several essays?Answer:  Arabesques or Arabeski[5] In which short novel is the title character an old Cossack who kills his traitorous son Andri during a battle over a Polish fortress?Answer:  Taras Bulba[10] In what other 1835 collection does Taras Bulba appear, along with Old-World Landowners and The Story of How Ivan Ivanovich Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich?Answer:  Mirgorod10.  Identify this person on a 30-20-10 basis.[30] In 1959 he collaborated with Truman Capote on the book Observations.  In 1974 he collaborated with James Baldwin on Nothing Personal.[20] He began a long association with Harper's Bazaar in the late 1940's.  In 1966 he went to Vogue where he created some of his most famous works.  He joined the staff of the New Yorker in 1992 and died on October 1, 2004.[10] Some of his most famous photographs include Nastasia Kinski and the Serpent and Ronald Fischer, beekeeper, both from 1981, and Marilyn Monroe, actress (1957).  A 1969 portrait focuses on Andy Warhol's heavily scarred chest.ANSWER:  Richard Avedon11.  Everyone knows that the capital of the United Arab Emirates is Abu Dhabi.[5,5,5,5,5,5] For 5 points each, name the other 6 emirates.ANSWER:  Sharjah, Dubai, Ajman, Fujairah, Umm al-Qawayn, Ras al-Khaimah12.  Give the Latin name of these muscles from the English translation, for ten points each.[10] Widest of the backANSWER:  latissimus dorsi[10] Belly of the legANSWER:  gastrocnemius[10] Tailor's ANSWER: sartorius13.  For ten points each, answer these questions about basic graph theory.[10] A graph is a series of objects (often depicted as dots) connected by links (typically represented as lines).  Two terms are commonly used for these basic objects that can be connected.  Give either term for 10 points.ANSWER:  vertices or vertex or nodes[10] Give either of the two commonly used terms for the links, which when directed are represented with an arrowhead on the line.ANSWER:  arcs or edges[10] This term, introduced by Solomon Golomb in 1972, is given to a network in which each node is labeled with an integer 0 to x in such a way that if you find the positive difference of two connecting nodes and label their common arc with it, all arcs are labeled from 1 to x.ANSWER:  graceful14.  For the stated number of points answer these questions about Seminole history.[10] On May 9, 1832, several Seminole chiefs signed a treaty relinquishing their Florida lands and agreeing to move west of the Mississippi.  At what site on the Ocklawaha River was this treaty signed?ANSWER:  Payne's Landing[5] Rumored to be the son or stepson of trader William Powell, he was so enraged by the treaty of Payne's Landing that he is said to have stabbed it.  Which Seminole military leader used guerilla tactics to hold off a vastly larger U.S. army until his capture on October 21, 1837?ANSWER:  Osceola or Asiyahola[5] On December 28, 1835 Osceola and his men killed Wiley Thompson and 4 others.  This led to what conflict that lasted until 1842?ANSWER:  the second Seminole War [prompt on Seminole War][10] Which U.S. army general agreed to meet with Osceola under a flag of truce and then ordered him captured?ANSWER:  Thomas Sidney Jesup15.  Answer these questions about Kazuo Ishiguro works for the stated number of points.[5] Which Ishiguro novel won the Booker Prize in 1989?ANSWER:  Remains of the Day[10] Set in post-war Nagasaki, it is narrated by Masuji Ono.  Name Ishiguro's second novel which won the 1986 Whitbread prize.ANSWER:  An Artist of the Floating World[15] It details the postwar memories of Etsuko, a Japanese woman trying to deal with the suicide of her daughter Keiko.  Name Ishiguro's first novel, published in 1982.ANSWER:  A Pale View of Hills16.  For ten points each, identify these philosophers.[10] A graduate of Oberlin, after obtaining his PhD in 1932 from Harvard he studied in Europe.  The author of Set Theory and Its Logic, his philosophy considered the implications of viewing language as a logical system.  Name this man who was the Edgar Pierce Chair of Philosophy at Harvard from 1956-2000.ANSWER:  William Van Orman Quince[10] While at Harvard, Quince studied with one of the co-authors of Principia Mathematica.  Name this mathematician and philosopher.ANSWER:  Alfred North Whitehead[10] While traveling in Europe on a fellowship, Quince met extensively with a prominent member of the Vienna Circle.  Who was this author of The Logical Syntax of Language, a professor at the University of Chicago from 1936-1952 and UCLA from 1954-1962?ANSWER: Rudolf Carnap17.  For ten points each, identify these players in the federal government - the government on the NBC series The West Wing, that is, and the actors that played these roles.[10] After a conservative Supreme Court justice succumbs to a fatal heart attack, President Bartlet considers a host of moderates but finds no attraction to any of them.  He engineers an agreement for the ailing liberal Chief Justice to resign so he can appoint a conservative Associate and a liberal Chief Justice.  Who played Chief Justice nominee Evelyn Baker Lang on the Season 5 episode "The Supremes"? ANSWER:  Glenn Close[10] In the season 4 cliffhanger arc, President Bartlet temporarily steps aside when his daughter is kidnapped.  The Vice-Presidency is vacant due to a recent resignation, so a Republican is named acting President in a twist almost as improbable as a distant American cousin becoming King of England.  Who played House Speaker/Acting President Glenallen Walken?ANSWER:  John Goodman[10] When Bartlet resumes the presidency, he finally gets around to filling the space in the VP's office by nominating a Colorado congressman derisively nicknamed "Bingo Bob" to the post.  Who plays Vice-President Bob Russell in seasons 5 and 6?ANSWER: Gary Cole18.  Identify these classic astronomical works for 10 points each.[10] Ptolemy's 13 volume treatise summarized much of ancient astronomical knowledge and was the definitive authority for 14 centuries.ANSWER:  the Almagest[10] Copernicus' landmark work was published in 1543, the year of his death.  Give either the Latin or English title for this book.ANSWER:  De revolutionibus orbium coelestium or On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres[10] Galileo's 1632 work was an eloquent argument for the Copernican system over the Ptolemaic.  What is the English title of this book that got Galileo in serious trouble with the Inquisition?ANSWER:  Dialogue on the Two Chief Systems of the World19.  For ten points each, identify these dynasties from the clues.[10] The first emperor of this dynasty was Michael VIII in 1281 and the last was Constantine XI in 1453.ANSWER:  Palaeologus[10] This Korean dynasty took over with the help of the Mongols in 1392 and ruled until Japan annexed Korea in 1910.ANSWER:  Yi[10] This German family ruled Brandenburg from 1415, Prussia from 1525 and Germany from 1871.  It all ended when Wilhelm II abdicated at the end of World War I.ANSWER:  Hohenzollern20.  For ten points each, name these Upton Sinclair works based on a brief description.[10] Published in 1917, this book tells the story of a 1914 Colorado mine strike.ANSWER:  King Coal[10] This 1927 novel is based on the Teapot Dome scandal of the mid 1920's.ANSWER:  Oil![10] This 1928 novel is based on the Sacco-Vanzetti case.ANSWER:  Boston21.  For ten points each, identify these Babylonian deities.[10] The first gods were Apsu, the personification of fresh water and his consort, the goddess of salt water.  When Apsu is killed by Ea, the god of wisdom, Apsu's widow takes Kingu as her consort.  Who is this mother goddess?ANSWER:  Tiamet[10] Ea married Damkina who bore him this storm god.  Who is this chief deity of Babylon who slays Tiamet?ANSWER:  Marduk[10] The sky god is the son of Anshar and Kishar.  Who is this father of Ea?ANSWER:  Anu22.  With the recent death of Chief Justice William Rehnquist, here are some questions about the tenure of Supreme Court Justices.[10] Who served the longest on the Court?ANSWER:  William O. Douglas[10] Who served for the shortest time?ANSWER:  John Rutledge[10] Who was the oldest justice ever?ANSWER:  Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.		MA	Page 2 of 4