2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by University of California(Andrew Lim of Berkeley; and Ray Luo and Charles Meigs of Los Angeles)1.  It can begin with lactate in hepatocytes, yielding NADH needed for conversion of 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, and making export of NADH from mitochondria unnecessary, as pyruvate is carboxylated to oxaloacetate, which is then decarboxylated to PEP.  In this process, fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase and glucose 6-phosphate are hydrolyzed, because no ATP need be formed.  In animals, it occurs in liver and kidneys, while in plants, an additional step turns the product to sucrose.  For 10 points, name this pathway, the reverse of glycolysis, converting pyruvate to glucose.ANSWER: gluconeogenesis2.  In 1828, he was nominated by President Adams for a spot on the Supreme Court but was not confirmed by the Senate.  He was elected twice to the Senate as a Whig but during his second term he changed party affiliation to a Know Nothing.  Along with Andrew Johnson, he authored a resolution in July 1861 declaring the goals of the Civil War to be protecting the Union, in order to keep border states such as his own in the Union.  For 10 points, name this Kentucky senator who moved to restore the guarantees of slavery given in the Missouri Compromise in his December 1860 compromise to forestall war.ANSWER: John Jordan Crittenden3.  It contains the story of Ferdinand's seduction of Lucinda away from Cardenio, and the so-called Countess Trifaldi's expedition for the heroes on a wooden horse.  Giving an account of Camacho the Rich and Basilio the Poor, it contains the killing of an underling by Roque Guinart and the "rescue" of the galley slave Gines de Pasamonte.  Teresa keeps her husband, the future governor of Barataria, in check, and the Knight of the White Moon finally defeats the protagonist.  For 10 points, name this novel containing characters like Dulcinea del Toboso and Sancho Panza, written by Miguel de Cervantes.ANSWER: El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha4.  A copy of this work by the artist is held at Boston.  A bald-headed man is trying to restrain one of the two young men in white, who are reaching out with their arms, while three scared-looking people are assigned to the rear.  Exhibited at the Royal Academy, it depicts rope hanging on the right arm of one of the titular figures, the harbors of Havana in the background, a black man with a yellow scarf on, and a hair-raised boatman stabbing a harpoon into the titular creature.  For 10 points, name this John Singleton Copley painting of a naked man about to encounter a large fish.ANSWER: Brook Watson and the Shark5.  Its highest mountain peak is at Triglav and this nation has a brief strip of coastline home to the ports of Izola and Piran.  The city of Kranj and this nation's present day capital were capitals of the historic region of Carniola, as Krain and Laibach, respectively.  Among the notable geological features of this country is the Kras Plateau, from which the term "karst" derives.  Home to the source of the Sava River, for 10 points, name this country on the Adriatic bordering Italy, Croatia, Austria, and Hungary, with capital at Ljubljana.ANSWER: Slovenia6.  David Halberstam writes in War in a Time of Peace that this man "was a Scoop Jackson Democrat who, disenchanted with his party's foreign policy, had gradually turned into a Reagan Republican, a social liberal and ... ideological purist in foreign policy."  Although he would not win his argument on lift and strike, he would return to public service after a seven-year stint as Dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.  For 10 points, name this former Deputy Secretary of Defense under Rumsfeld, who won the argument on the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and who took the helm at the World Bank in 2005.ANSWER: Paul Wolfowitz7.  His essays include The Overcrowded Barracoon and An Area of Darkness.  Writing about a revolutionary in Guerrillas, and about an English gentleman in Mr. Stone and the Knight's Companion, he penned Finding the Centre, which includes an autobiographical narrative and a story on Cote d'Ivoire.  Once a journalist for the BBC, he wrote about one man's marriage into the Tulsi family in his most famous novel.  For 10 points, name this Trinidadian novelist of A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas.ANSWER: V(idiadhar) S(urajprasad) Naipaul8.  Ironically, this man's eponymous museum became a local headquarters for the United States Department of Aid and Internal Development after his government crumbled under successor Ramiz Alia.  In 1967, he declared his nation the world's first official atheist state and one of the curious relics of his rule is the hundreds of thousands of bunkers taking up 10% of his country's arable land.  Originally aligned with Stalin, he later changed alignment to Mao and then became isolated after the defeat of the Gang of Four.  For 10 points, name this leader who ruled from World War II's end to 1985 as president of Albania.ANSWER: Enver Hoxha9.  It is inversely related to both the attenuation length and the atomic density of a thick slab.  Its value is highest for the photoelectric effect at low photon energy, and highest for pair production at high photon energy.  When a parallel beam of photons passes through a slab of matter, it is used to quantify the probability of various absorption and scattering processes.  Defined as the number of processes occurring divided by the product of the number of photons in the beam times the number of atoms per unit area, for 10 points, name this quantity with units of meters squared.ANSWER: cross section10.  Last name is the same.  Antonia wrote a trilogy of novels based on Clara Bachelor.  William Hale wrote Miriam's Schooling and Clara Hopgood.  Gilbert wrote about Selbourne and Minor Martin founded Aperture.  Walter Francis wrote the novels Fire in the Flint and Flight, and led the NAACP, while Theodore Harold wrote The View from the Fortieth Floor and won the Pulitzer Prize for 1960's The Making of the President.  Happy Valley and The Once and Future King are by Patrick and Terence Hanbury, who, for 10 points, share their last name with the author of Stuart Little and Charlotte's Web, E.B.ANSWER: White11.  Two of his descendants were sons of Adah, and lived in tents and played the harp, respectively.  Another descendant was the tool-making son of Zillah and Lamech, with Tubal added before the name given after this Biblical figure.  Grandfather of Irad, he built the city of Enoch and named his son after it.  A farmer exiled to the land of Nod, he is protected from death by a promised seven-fold punishment.  For 10 points, name this man whose gifts were not accepted by God, unlike the flocks of his brother Abel.ANSWER: Cain12.  He married second cousin Marianne Schnitger, finally moving out of his parent's home by teaching jurisprudence at Berlin.  He surveyed German agrarian problems for the Union for Social Policy and concluded that the Junker aristocracy was obsolete.  He attracted Naumann and Delbruck to advocacy of liberal imperialism as advanced in his Freiburg address.  For 10 points, name this sociologist who examined Western rationalization in Economy and Society, and wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.ANSWER: Max Weber13.  The Turin Strike Papyrus details the first strike in recorded history, which occurred during the reign of this pharaoh, who was proceeded by his father Setnakht.  The Great Harris Papyrus details an expedition to Punt, while his great funerary temple Medinet Habu on the west bank of the Nile at Thebes commemorates his campaigns against the Libyans and another force that had ravaged the Semitic states of the north.  For 10 points, name this ruler who defeated the Libyans and Sea Peoples at the expense of the Egyptian treasury, one of the last great native rulers of Egypt and the second pharaoh of the 20th dynasty.ANSWER: Ramses III or Ramesses III or Rhampsinitus III; or Ramses III or Wesermaatre-meryamun Ramesse-hekaiunu14.  Salvatore Cammarano's libretto gives the name Raimondo to the character of Bide-the-Bent.  It ends with Edgardo's suicide while thinking of his dead lover, singing "tu che a Dio spiegasti l'ali."  Enrico wanted his sister to marry Arturo, but she loves Edgardo, and is tricked into marriage, later murdering Arturo and emerging blood-stained in her Mad Scene.  Based on the story of Arthur Bucklaw's marriage to Lucy Ashton, for 10 points, name Donizetti opera based on Walter Scott's The Bride of Lammermoor.ANSWER: Lucia di Lammermoor or Lucy of Lammermoor15.  The ground, streamlined, fluted ridge, and transverse ridge types of this phenomenon have low topographic relief.  When it results in kettles, the landscape is known as hummocky topography.  The end type can become terminal when it remains stationary for a long time, and the recessional type can form around the margin.  The lateral type forms at the sides of valley, while the medial type appears as a strip of dirt in the middle of a glacier.  Made up of till and glacial outwash, for 10 points, name this accumulation of sediment deposited by a glacier after it melts, not to be confused with eskers.ANSWER: moraine16.  Motionless in time, equal to not true, and leaving "memory by memory the mind" are appropriate for the subject of this poem, which is compared to "the leaning grasses and two lights above the sea."  "Wordless as the flight of birds," its subject should be "silent as the sleeve-worn stone of casement ledges where the moss has grown," and "palpable and mute as a globed fruit."  Noting "a poem should not mean but be," for 10 points, name this Archibald MacLeish poem named for a treatise by Horace.ANSWER: Ars Poetica [accept "poem" before it is first mentioned]17.  He is perhaps the most famous graduate of Western Kentucky University, where he rushed for 1249 yards and 10 touchdowns as a senior.  Though drafted, he failed to stick with a team, and played for the Edmonton Eskimos and the Las Vegas Outlaws before finding a home with his current team.  For 10 points, name this reserve running back and special teams player for the Carolina Panthers, who recently changed his moniker from the one he made famous with the XFL Outlaws to "He Love Me."ANSWER: He Hate Me or Rod Smart18.  This work points out the stages in the substitution of individual power for communal power as identity formation, sublimation, and renunciation of aggression.  Mechanisms for coping with suffering include deflection, substitution, and intoxication, which the author elaborates on using a thesis from his own earlier work The Future of an Illusion.  Pitting Eros against Death, it begins by elaborating ego's oneness with the world that produces an "oceanic" feeling.  For 10 points, name this book about the suffering caused by conflict between individual libido and societal superego by Sigmund Freud.ANSWER: Civilization and Its Discontents or Das Unbehagen in der Kultur19.  Related to the Inquisito Eliensis and the Inquisitio comitatus Cantabrigiensis, it was assembled by the legati from hundred and shire tenants, and consisted of "Great" and "Little" parts, the latter containing returns from Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk.  Now kept in Chancery Lane, it recorded the holders of both lay and ecclesiastical estates and their wealth for purposes of taxation.  Judged irrevocable after its compilation in 1086, for 10 points, name this census survey ordered by William the Conqueror.ANSWER: Domesday [DOOMS-day] Book20.  The Coffin-Lowry mutation in the MAP kinase pathway has been linked to phosphorylation of these proteins.  Usually basic, they are regulated by the actions of deacetylases and acetyltransferases on their lysine residues.  Along with topoisomerase, this octomer maintains DNA in an underwound state, with 200 base pairs wrapped around its H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 types held together by H1.  For 10 points, name these proteins in nucleosomes responsible for the beads-on-a-string organization of DNA.ANSWER: histones21.  He went to Sicily with ambassador Charles Mordaunt, earl of Peterborough, and wrote Advice to the Tories Who Have Taken the Oaths during the Jacobite rebellion.  His proposal for building a college in Bermuda to educate Indians was abandoned after staying at Newport, Rhode Island to write Alciphron; or The Minute Philosopher, which discussed the use of words in religious argument.  He noted that subjectively, to be is to perceive, but objectively, to be is to be perceived.  For 10 points, name this Irish bishop and author of Passive Obedience and Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision.ANSWER: George Berkeley22.  In the majority opinion, the precedent set in Boyd v. U.S. was reaffirmed through the Olmstead and McNabb cases by Justice Clark.  Elaborating on an issue left open in Weeks v. U.S., it reexamined Wolf v. Colorado and concluded that the Fourth Amendment must also apply to states.  A search of the suspect's Cleveland home resulted in discovery of illegal pornographic materials, but the court ignored First Amendment implications because no valid warrant was possessed by the police.  For 10 points, name this Supreme Court case of 1961 that applied the exclusionary rule to all criminal proceedings.ANSWER: Mapp v. Ohio23.  In organic chemistry, this term refers to the process of separation of enantiomers.  In first-order logic, it is an inference algorithm that converts sentences to conjunctive normal form and attempts to find a contradiction by unifying all possible literals.  John Alan Robinson gave a derivation of this principle in an Association for Computing Machinery paper on "machine oriented logic," but it is also complete for propositional logic.  For 10 points, give this term that also refers to the number of pixels on a monitor, measured in dots per inch.ANSWER: resolution
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by University of California(Andrew Lim of Berkeley; and Ray Luo and Charles Meigs of Los Angeles)1.  For 10 points each, name these things from fluid statics.[10] Force exerted on any particle within a fluid is the same in all directions; i.e., pressure on a fluid is equal in all directions in all parts of the container.ANSWER: Pascal's law[10] A submerged body is subject to an upward force exactly equal to the weight of the fluid displaced.ANSWER: Archimedes's principle[10] Archimedes's principle implies that this point is above the center of gravity for a stable floating object.  The upward force can be considered to act at this point.ANSWER: center of buoyancy2.  He pretended to be crazy in order to escape death mandated by his uncle, and later pretended to stumble in order to kiss the soil of Rome to fulfill a prophecy.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this first consul of republican Rome who stirred up indignation against the last king of Rome Tarquinius Superbus, who shares his name with a famous assassin.ANSWER: Lucius Junius Brutus[10] This other consul along with Brutus was the husband of Lucretia, the most virtuous woman in Rome, whose purity led Tarquin's son Sextus to rape her.ANSWER: Lucius Tarquinius Collatinus[10] After the Roman republic was proclaimed, Tarquin the Proud appealed to this king of Clusium in Etruria to restore his kingdom, but his march to Rome was blocked by Horatius Cocles at the bridge of Pons Sublicius.ANSWER: Lars Porsena3.  He has an ivory figure of Christ on his wall, and has a last supper at his boss Willy Shrike's party, but fails to deliver miracles to his girlfriend Betty.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this titular character eventually shot by Peter Doyle, known by his nom de plume in writing an advice column for the New York Post-Dispatch.ANSWER: Miss Lonelyhearts[10] Name the author of Miss Lonelyhearts as well as The Day of the Locust.ANSWER: Nathanael West or Nathan Wallenstein Weinstein[10] Miss Lonelyhearts spends much of his time talking to Willy and Mary Shrike at this local bar, where he later gets drunk and punches out Goldsmith.ANSWER: Delehanty's4.  It usually begins with a piano solo, followed by a brass intro, then elaboration by vocals as Betty Roche or Ray Nance scats, singing about the "quickest way to Harlem," while Cootie Williams and Paul Gonsalves follow with trumpet and sax solos.  For ten points each:[10] Name this composition by Billy Strayhorn, a signature piece for a jazz band.ANSWER: Take the 'A' Train[10] Name the most frequent performer of "Take the 'A' Train," whose other works include "Satin Doll," "Black and Tan Fantasy," and "Mood Indigo" for the Cotton Club.ANSWER: Edward Kennedy "Duke" Ellington[10] This other exotic "jungle" piece by Ellington is built on 24-bar and 12-bar themes, as a plunger-muted cornet responds to the orchestra, "stealing" the show.ANSWER: The Mooche5.  Name these North American isthmuses; 5-10-15.[5] This isthmus is bordered on the north by the Caribbean Sea and is cut by a notable canal.ANSWER: Isthmus of Panam‡[10] It includes southeastern parts of Oaxaca [wah-HAH-kah] and Veracruz, and was once considered a region suitable for an interoceanic canal.  It is located between the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico.ANSWER: Isthmus of Tehuantepec[15] Notable geographical features in this isthmus include the Tantramar marshes, and it also is home to the border between the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.ANSWER: Isthmus of Chignecto6.  For 10 points each, name these titular figures in poems by John Dryden.[10] David represents Charles II in this Dryden poem satirizing the Popish plot, with the titular characters being the duke of Monmouth and the earl of Shaftesbury.ANSWER: Absalom and Achitophel: A Poem[10] The subject of a Dryden poem in his memory, this "Marcellus of our tongue" is cast in the same poetic mold.  Name this author of Satires Upon the Jesuits who cast the same horoscope and had the same birthday as Dryden, but died young of smallpox.ANSWER: To the Memory of Mr. Oldham[10] Ending with "the dead shall live, the living die, and music shall untune the sky," Dryden's song for this saint's day was set to music by Draghi and Purcell.ANSWER: A Song for Saint Cecilia's Day7.  Name these Sahel empires for 10 points each.[10] Achieving its zenith under rulers such as Sunni Ali and Askia Muhammad, it declined sharply after being defeated by Moroccan forces at Tondibi in 1591.ANSWER: Songhai Empire[10] Existing in some form for over 600 years, this empire ruled the area around Lake Chad and featured great kings such as Mai Idriss Alouma, who captured the Fezzan in modern-day Libya and Hausa lands in Nigeria.ANSWER: Kanem-Bornu Empire[10] Existing from the eighth to the thirteenth century, it did not rule its namesake modern country, rather having its base in modern-day Mauritania and Mali, with capital at Kumbi Saleh.ANSWER: Ghana or Wagadou Empire8.  Name the writer; 30-20-10.[30] He calls autumn "a slender maid who soon will be a woman grown," in a poem translated by Arthur Ryder.  He also wrote Cycle of the Seasons and Cloud Messenger.[20] He wrote an epic tracing the lineage of Rama to the god Raghu, and told the story of the goddess Urvasi and the mortal king Puruvaras in Vikramorvashiya, though his greatest work is about a child brought up next to the Malini river by Kanva.[10] In addition to Malavikagnimitra, this Sanskrit dramatist and poet wrote about Durvasa's curse on King Dushyanta's memory in The Recognition of Shakuntala.ANSWER: Kalidasa9.  Name these theories of the origin of the universe for 10 points each.[10] Disproved by the distribution of quasars, this theory formulated by Thomas Gold and Hermann Bondi claimed that the universe looks the same from anywhere at any time, and countered Hubble's observations by proposing uniform addition of new matter.ANSWER: steady-state theory[10] COBE's discovery of temperature variations in the cosmic background radiation and Hubble's observation of red shifting galaxies support this theory formulated by Lemaitre and later George Gamow, which postulated a primordial mass and expansion.ANSWER: big bang theory[10] Modified by Linde, Steinhardt, and Albrecht, this theory proposed by Alan Guth explained the clustering of the universe by a greater rate of early expansion.ANSWER: inflationary theory10.  A contemporary of Agga of Kish, he cut down a cedar tree with the help of Enkidu, but was attacked by Humbaba, from whom he was saved by the plea of his mom Ninsun.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this mortal king of Uruk who refused to be seduced by Ishtar, who asked Anu to send a bull of heaven against him, which he killed with the help of Enkidu.ANSWER: Gilgamesh[10] When Enkidu fell ill and died, Gilgamesh crossed the ocean of death, ferried by Urshanabi, and asked this old man how he survived the flood when warned by Ea, and whether immortality was possible, to which he suggested seeking an herb in the sea.ANSWER: Utnapishtim[10] Earlier, Gilgamesh sent this prostitute to seduce Enkidu when he lived in the wilds after being created out of clay by Aruru, forcing him into civilization.  ANSWER: Shamhat11.  Name these chain shifts in language; 5-5-10-10.[5] An English chain shift whereby high long vowels are diphthong-ized and other long vowels are raised.ANSWER: Great vowel shift[5] A shift in Germanic Indo-European in which voiceless stops became fricatives, voiced stops became voiceless, and voiced aspirated stops lost aspiration.ANSWER: Grimm's Law[10] This law explains exceptions to Grimm's Law by postulating that medial unaspirated voiceless stops followed by stressed syllables became voiced fricatives.ANSWER: Verner's Law[10] This law explains the loss of aspiration on the first of two aspirated stops in Greek and Sanskrit roots.ANSWER: Grassmann's law12.  Answer these questions about Iran's nuclear program for 10 points each.[10] Home to Iran's uranium conversion activities, the Iranian government imposed a suspension of operations here as part of negotiations with the EU, but resumed operations in August 2005.ANSWER: Isfahan[10] Of much greater concern to the west is the uranium enrichment facility here, where Iran wants to operate hundreds of centrifuges.  The West prefers none.ANSWER: Natanz[10] The election of this hard-line president in July 2005 likely complicated the European nuclear negotiations with Iran.  Accusations that he was among those revolutionaries who took American diplomats hostage in 1979 have not warmed normally testy relations with the U.S.ANSWER: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad13.  Along with cyclotetradecane and larger-sized cycloalkanes, this compound, in its chair conformation, is the only cyclo alkane with zero ring strain.  5-5-10-10:[5] Name this compound with formula C6H12.ANSWER: cyclohexane[5] This other conformation of cyclohexane is actually a transition state between its twist or skew forms, with steric overlap of its flagpole hydrogens.ANSWER: boat form[10] Although the boat form has no bond-angle strain, it does have transannular strain across the ring, a special case of this straining between eclipsing groups.ANSWER: torsional strain[10] To avoid eclipsing strain, this relatively unreactive cycloalkane, like cyclohexane, inter-converts between two conformations: envelope and half chair.ANSWER: cyclopentane14.  Answer the following about the presidency of James Knox Polk for 10 points each.[10] Polk won the 1844 election with the slogan "54-40 or fight" for Oregon, and because this party's candidate James G. Birney took votes from Henry Clay in New York.ANSWER: Liberty Party[10] Named for the secretary of the treasury, this reduced tariff placed high rates only on luxury items and allowed export of surplus American grain.ANSWER: Walker Tariff[10] This motion offered by a Pennsylvania congressman stipulated that slavery be banned in all the land acquired through the Mexican-American war.ANSWER: Wilmot Proviso15.  It may be "the one thing that is unique in this province," but the son of an ex-serf Lopakhin still thinks "the only thing unique about it is its size."  For 10 points each:[10] Name this titular plot of land whose owners, Russian aristocrats, refused to let Lopakhin chop down its trees to lease to summer villas.ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard or Vishnovy sad[10] Name the dramatist of The Cherry Orchard, The Three Sisters, and Uncle Vanya.ANSWER: Anton Chekhov[10] This sister of Gayev keeps getting telegrams from Paris asking her to return to her lover.  She had earlier left the estate after the drowning of her son Grisha.ANSWER: Lyubov Andreyevna Ranevskaya16.  Answer the following about Piaget's theory of cognitive development for 10 points each.[10] This is the process by which children use existing schemes to comprehend new information about the environment; e.g. using the "grasp" scheme on a novel object.ANSWER: assimilation[10] When the object in the environment does not fit the existing scheme, children undergo this process to modify the scheme; e.g. changing the "grasp" scheme to the "grasp and listen" scheme when the object makes a noise.ANSWER: accommodation[10] Piaget uses this term to denote children's attempt to balance perceptions with understanding of the world, using assimilation and accommodation to build schemes.ANSWER: equilibration17.  Name these military commanders from the Russian Civil War for 10 points each.[10] This man was the commander of the Red Army and also directed the suppression of the Kronstadt rebellion.  He was exiled in 1929.ANSWER: Leon Davidovich Trotsky or Lev Davidovich Bronstein[10] Surviving the Civil War, he established the Russian All-Military Union, coordinating White exile activities.  His forces surrendered in the Crimea on November 14, 1920.ANSWER: Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel [10] This Bishkek-born Bolshevik general won Central Asia for the Reds, and later took the Crimea from Wrangel.  An opponent of Trotsky and formulator of the unified military doctrine, his hometown was renamed for him in 1926.ANSWER: Mikhail Vasilyevich Frunze18.  It can take place in the absence of ATP thousands of times, and its speed of conduction is proportional to the diameter of the axon.  For ten points each.[10] Name this all-or-none response that begins in the axon hillock and propagates down the axon in one direction to the synapse.ANSWER: action potential[10] Its 4 charge-sensing positive alpha helices are moved upward by passive spread of positive charges, allowing the device to open in response to depolarization, but its inactivating segment quickly seals the opening.  Blocked by tetrodotoxin, name this entrance-guarded protein allowing influx of a certain ion in action potentials.ANSWER: voltage-gated sodium channel [prompt on "sodium channel;" accept "gated" or its equivalent on the prompt][10] Action potentials are unidirectional because voltage-gated sodium channels are plugged during this period, so positive influx has no effect on just-activated areas.ANSWER: refractory period19.  Answer the following about literary Mildreds for 10 points each.[10] Mildred Rogers is the promiscuous waitress who dumps the club-footed Philip Carey in this W. Somerset Maugham novel about love and desire.ANSWER: Of Human Bondage[10] Vain and promiscuous Mildred Douglas calls the stoker Yank Smith the titular animal in this Eugene O'Neill play where murder occurs in the zoo.ANSWER: The Hairy Ape[10] This titular Mildred in a James M. Cain novel tries to protect her spoiled daughter Veda from charges of murdering Monte Branagan.ANSWER: Mildred Pierce20.  Answer the following about Jainism for 10 points each.[10] Called founders of paths, these prophets of Jainism include the 24th, its founder Vardhamana, also called Mahavira.  They have acquired kevala, or omniscience.ANSWER: tirthankaras[10] Allowed to wear a robe, carry a bowl, and use a broom, the members of this sect of Jainism wear the mukhavastrika to avoid insects and take the five mahavratas vows.ANSWER: Svetambara[10] The naked Digambara also take the great vows, which include ahimsa, asteya, brahmacarya, aparigraha, and this, the vow of truthfulness.ANSWER: satya21.  Name these curious characters of the 2005 NFL draft for 10 points each.[10] Despite questions about his character, the Tennessee Titans made this West Virginia defensive back the 6th pick of the 2005 draft.  He responded with two arrests before signing his rookie contract.ANSWER: Adam "Pac-Man" Jones[10] The first of Tampa Bay's two 3rd round picks, this tight end from Stanford has proven more productive than a 49ers quarterback with whom he shares his name.ANSWER: Alex Smith[10] The 255th pick in the draft by the New England Patriots, this tight end out of William Penn became was 2005's Mr. Irrelevant.ANSWER: Andy Strokes22.  Answer the following about study of intelligence from different disciplines.  For 10 points each.[10] This Stanford psychologist modified the Simon-Binet IQ test to study mentally gifted children, whom he found to be healthier and more stable.ANSWER: Lewis Terman[10] Along with Jerre Levy, this Nobel Prize-winning biologist found that the right hemisphere has greater visual intelligence while the left hemisphere has greater verbal intelligence.ANSWER: Roger Sperry[10] Computer scientists Allen Newell and Herbert Simon worked with Clifford Shaw to construct this computational model of intelligent reasoning that provides solutions to logical proofs by means-ends analysis.ANSWER: General Problem Solver		UC	Page 1 of 3