2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by the Dangerous Madmen (Daniel Greenstein and Ezequiel Berdichevsky)1.  One side took their cue from the success of Admiral Cunningham's "Operation Slapdash" at Taranto, as well as the actions of Harry Yarnell, whose exercises were used as a model. Although the minesweeper Condor reported a foreign vehicle, the advancing force was thought to be a squadron of returning B-17s.  The operation, launched with the words "tora, tora, tora," focused on various sites including Hickham Field, and saw the destruction of six battleships and three destroyers, including the U.S.S. Arizona.  For 10 points, identify this December 7, 1941 Japanese attack on an American naval base on Hawaii.ANSWER: Pearl Harbor2.  The dissent by Blackmun focused on the insincerity of the majority's argument that these limits have existed "since the time of Henry IV" and goes on to dispute the plaintiff's invocation of Leviticus and Romans.  A concurring opinion by Powell noted the Eighth Amendment may have allowed the defendant to assert his rights against Georgia's willingness to hand down a 20-year sentence for a single consensual act.  For 10 points, identify this 1986 Supreme Court Case since overturned by Lawrence v. Texas that saw Byron White write the prevailing 5-4 opinion asserting that gay couples do not have a right to privacy.ANSWER: Bowers v. Hardwick3.  As a member of Henry Vane's entourage he visited the court of Gustavus Adolphus. The posthumous Brennoralt was an expansion of his tragedy Discontented Colonel, but more interesting is his "Sessions of the Poets," in which he pits contemporary poets like D'Avenant and Carew against one another. Other works include the tract An Account of Religion by Reason, the "Ballad Upon a Wedding" and a drama in which outlaws disguise themselves as the titular creatures. For 10 points, identify this cavalier poet and author of The Goblins and Aglaura, which featured his best known poems like "Why so pale and wan, fond lover." ANSWER: Sir John Suckling4.  A work believed to be his called The Bazaar of Heraclides discusses the events that led to his exile in a monastery in the Great Oasis of Hibis. The edict that sent this student of Theodore of Mopsuestia to the desert was issued on the advice of Pulcheria, the sister of the man who had earlier chosen him to succeed Sisinius II as patriarch of Constantinople. His fate was sealed when Cyril of Alexandria presided over the Council of Ephesus and convinced other religious leaders to depose him and label him a heretic at which point not even Theodosius II could help him out. For 10 points, identify this man who argued against the existence of Mary as the mother of God and for the existence of Jesus as two separate persons.ANSWER: Nestorius5.  It opens with two utterances of the work's characteristic 16-word phrase, the first five words of which are the title of this 6 minute, 55 second track.  That phrase is then repeated ten times during the second part of the song, which is credited to Chris Squire.  In between is the first part by Jon Anderson, entitled "Your Move," that encourages the audience to "take a straight and stronger course," "don't surround yourself with yourself / move on back two squares," and "move [the black queen] on to any black square," an extended allusion to a chess game.  For 10 points, name this 1971 song, joining "Yours Is No Disgrace" and "Starship Trooper" on The Yes Album.ANSWER: I've Seen All Good People6.  It reverses itself in Minkowski spaces, while a physical manifestation of this concept is the twin paradox of special relativity.  Appearing as a theorem in spaces such as the real numbers and LP [L P] spaces where p is greater than or equal to one, the Cauchy-Bunyakovski-Schwartz version is used to determine if x and y, both members of inner product spaces, are linearly dependent.  In normed vector spaces, it is defined as the norm of the sum of two vectors x and y is lesser than or equal to the sum of the norms of x and y.  For 10 points, identify this mathematical concept that in its simplest form states given three points A, B and C, the distance from A to C never exceeds the sum of the distances between A and B, and B and C.ANSWER: triangle inequality7.  His early exploits include sailing on Cook's second and third voyages and taking part in the British victory over De Grasse at the Battle of the Saintes in the West Indies. Along with his sailing master, Joseph Whidbey, he surveyed Kingston Harbor and traveled to the Sandwich Islands. His most important discovery was made after negotiations with the Spanish captain, Bodega y Quadra, which allowed him and Peter Puget to claim what was then known as Nootka Island.  For 10 points, identify this commander of the HMS Discovery now remembered as the namesake of a large island off the coast of British Columbia.ANSWER: George Vancouver8.  He produced such essays as "How the Ancients Depicted Death" and "Vindications" which tried to resurrect the reputation of Cardano. Works from his early period include "The Misogynist" and "The Young Scholar," as well as a story about a love triangle featuring the evil Lady Marwood, the ineffectual Mellefont, and the title figure, a nice middle class girl. His final work was the treatise The Education of the Human Race, though this is less well known than plays like Emilia Galotti and a famous work of criticism was written during his time as secretary to General Tauentzien and subtitled "On the Limits of Painting and Poetry." For 10 points, identify this German writer of Laokoon, Minna von Barnhelm, and Nathan the Wise.ANSWER: Gotthold Lessing9.  The center of the scene shows an animula, or little soul, swathed in a cocoon and rising up. The artist has signed his name on a letter that protrudes from the folds of the young page who is beckoning the viewer into the scene on the bottom left. He is standing next to the figures of St. Stephen and St. Augustine who are depicted in striking vestments. Completed for the church of San Tome in 1588, it features a host of men in black on the ground, while a heavenly host, anchored by Jesus himself, awaits the arrival of the slumped figure dressed in ceremonial gold armor. For 10 points, identify this masterpiece that depicts the entombment of the title nobleman, a work by El Greco.ANSWER: The Burial of Count Orgaz10.  It quotes Charles Cooley in the section "The Mass Society" where it argues that autonomous collectivities have been eroding for some time. In the section, "The Higher Immorality," this book discusses shifting attitudes towards the Greece-Turkey conflict from the 1830s until the 1940s and notes that more recent reactions serve to underscore the current separation of knowledge from what is valued by the titular group. Lamenting the death of pluralism, or what the author calls "A theory of balance," it goes on to argue that modern life is dominated by the military, the government, and the corporations: "The Big Three," and that these institutions threaten democracy. For 10 points, what is this work that seeks to critique and examine the organization of authority in the U.S., a work by C. Wright Mills. ANSWER: The Power Elite11.  The most general formula for this is the square root of the quantity coefficient of stiffness divided by the density of the medium.  In a solid, the stiffness coefficient is replaced with Young's modulus, unless the thickness is much larger than wavelength, in which case the plane wave modulus should be substituted.  In a fluid, the stiffness coefficient can be replaced by the adiabatic bulk modulus; for a gas, the adiabatic bulk modulus is the product of the adiabatic index and pressure.  A simple formula for calculating this quantity in air is 331.6 plus 0.6 times the temperature in degrees Celsius.  For 10 points, name this quantity that is about 340 meters per second, or 760 miles per hour, at sea level.ANSWER: speed of sound12.  In one of this novel's minor scenes the narrator relates the story of Blind D'Arnault, a renowned piano-playing ex-slave.  At college the narrator studies Latin under Gaston Cleric and ponders the meaning of "Optima dies . . . prima fugit," a Virgil phrase that also serves as the novel's epigraph.  However, the bulk of the novel concerns another character, who was abandoned by Larry Donovan in San Francisco and who later has eleven children with Cuzack.  The narrator is reunited with that character after he is updated on her story by two of her former friends, Tiny Soderball and Lena Lingard.  For 10 points, name this novel told as the reminisces of Jim Burden about his childhood friend, the titular Bohemian immigrant girl, a work by Willa Cather.  ANSWER: My Antonia [the Virgil phrase roughly translates to, "the best days are the first to flee"]13.  This game saw safety Jim Hudson ejected and Jim Turner kick a 26-yard field goal to give the New York Jets a 32-29 lead with 1:05 to go.  Following the kickoff, Raiders quarterback Daryle Lamonica completed two passes, the second a 43-yard touchdown pass to Charlie Smith with 42 seconds left.  Earl Christy then fumbled the ensuing kickoff and the Raiders scored another touchdown, then held on for the 43-32 win.  However, the game was more notable for Dick Kline's decision to cut away from the action to show a regularly scheduled program, which led to changes that require a game be shown in its entirety.  For 10 points, name this 1968 NFL game more famous for having its thrilling finish pre-empted on NBC by the start of a children's movie.ANSWER: the Heidi Game14.  It features a juxtaposition of triads in C major and F sharp major that is so distinctive that they it is now known as this work's namesake chord. The composer uses Russian folk songs, as well as the French tune "Elle avait un jambe en bois," in his depictions of the four separate tableaux. In the fourth and final section, the orchestra becomes a giant accordion to accompany the dances of a Peasant with a Bear and of the Wet Nurses. The work ends with the title figure's apparition chasing the Old Wizard away from the Shrovetide Fair, where he had been hacked to pieces by the Moor. For 10 points, identify this ballet that centers on a doll that comes to life, falls in love with a ballerina, and causes havoc, a work by Stravinsky.  ANSWER: Petrushka15.  The conversion of histidine into this in spoiled food has been cited as a cause of food poisoning.  As a neurotransmitter ejected from the posterior hypothalamus, it has a direct affect on wakefulness and sleep, including REM.  The four receptors that act on this substance cause a variety of reactions, including regulation release of other neurotransmitters, gastric acid secretion, and activation of certain smooth muscle and endothelial cells, which are related to hives.  Also known as 2-(4-imidazolyl)ethylamine, for 10 points, name this chemical involved in local immune responses whose existence has spawned a series of medicines to foil those responses.ANSWER: histamine16.  He appealed to the racial majority in his country by mocking the demonstrations of the rabiblancos, and kept tabs on his regime by using his Dignity battalions and secret police, the DNI, to intimidate.  He and his mentor Omar Torijos have been suspected of participating in the coup that ousted Arnulfo Arias.  After seizing control of his nation, he worked as an ally with the CIA for years, but the killing of U.S. citizen Billy Ford and a stolen election prompted George Bush to instigate "Operation Just Cause" in 1989.  Nicknamed "Pineapple Face" for his severe acne, for 10 points, name this Panamanian strongman.ANSWER: Manuel Noriega17.  He criticized Cournot's exact solution to the duopoly problem by applying Bertrand "instantly competitive result." His 1885 book Metretike detailed the application of significance tests to the theory of means and paved the way for the development of his namesake theorem, giving the correlation coefficients of the multi-dimensional normal distribution. With the support of his fellow Hempstead neighbor, William Jevons, he was appointed the first editor of the Economic Journal in 1891. Although the most famous work in his day was his Mathematical Pyschics, for 10 points, what economist is now better known for introducing the indifference curve and a namesake box.ANSWER: Francis Ysidro Edgeworth18.  The son of Maria Clementina and an English doctor named O'Connor, the narrator's first meeting with him occurs in February of '84, at Fray Bentos. The creator of a brand new way of enumeration, he is known about town for "knowing the time like a watch." Later that month when the narrator goes to retrieve his copies of Gradus ad Parnassum and Pliny's Natural History, he finds the title figure sitting in the dark, smoking, and reciting the entire contents of the Latin works he had just read. Before he dies of pulmonary congestion, he explains how his fall from a horse caused him to be able to reconstruct entire days, for 10 points, identify this title character of a short story collected in Ficciones who goes by the name "the Memorious."ANSWER: Funes, the Memorious19.  Because of its very sensitive instrumentation, this artificial object will be constructed with shields that block out major sources of infrared interference such as the Sun, Moon and Earth, and it will be deployed at the Earth-Sun L2 Lagrange point.  Its main instrument will be the Near InfraRed Camera that will allow the craft to examine the infrared remnants of the Big Bang.  Originally known as the Next Generation Space Telescope, it was renamed for NASA's second administrator in 2002.  For 10 points, name this telescope that NASA plans to use to replace the Hubble Space Telescope circa 2011.ANSWER: James Webb Space Telescope or JWST [accept Next Generation Space Telescope or NGST before mention]20.  Sandon and Kuvav, who allegedly spawned its previous rulers, the Heraclids, were the patron deities of this kingdom, whose immediate neighbors across the river Maeander were Mysia and Catria.  Its first king, who was eventually buried by his son Ardys at the site Bin Tepe, arose after the Cimmerians took Phrygia, deeded it to Sadyattes, and he defeated them.  Well known for the enormous wealth provided to its cities by the river Pactolus, it fought a famous war against Media under Alyattes, but was conquered by Cyrus.  For 10 points, name this kingdom absorbed by the Persians, whose famous kings included Gyges and Croesus.ANSWER: Lydia21.  Also the name of rivers in Michigan, Iowa and Missouri, one of them was the river from which Marquette and Joliet portaged to the Wisconsin River to eventually reach the Mississippi.  It flows northeast and issues into Lake Winnebago at Oshkosh.  It also serves as the outlet of Lake Winnebago, from which it flows northeast and empties into Green Bay.  The other major river of this name rises near Menominee Falls and flows southward, paralleling Lake Michigan and the Des Plaines River before turning southwestward and joining the Illinois River.  For 10 points, give the common animal name of these two rivers.ANSWER: Fox River22.  This mythical name identifies the brother of Cepheus and Amphidamas who killed King Areithous and took his armor during his reign in Arcadia. It is also the name of an unfortunate King who was fed, either to Panthers on Mount Rhodope, or to wild horses on Mount Pangaeus. Before this ignominious end he was blinded by Zeus and killed his own son Dryas when he mistook him for a tree. For 10 points, identify this ruler of the Edonians, a Thracian monarch who expelled Dionysus with an ox-goad and then regretted it over and over again.ANSWER: Lycurgus23.  Lionel Trilling wrote the preface to his first translation into English, which featured such independent stories as "Guy de Maupassant" and "Line and Colour." Though he wrote plays like Maria and Sunset, he is much better known for fiction which includes "The Story of my Dovecote" about surviving a pogrom. "My First Goose," "The Way to Brody," and "The Death of Dolgushov" are stories narrated by Kirill Liutov, a war correspondent who finds himself amongst a band of mostly Cossack soldiers. That series of stories is often compared with those centered on the ruthless King of the gangsters, Benia Krik. For 10 points, identify this author of Red Cavalry and Odessa Stories.ANSWER: Isaac Babel
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Dangerous Madmen (Daniel Greenstein and Ezequiel Berdichevsky)1.  They have muscular walls with three layers: the tunica intima, tunica media, and tunica adventitia.  For 10 points each:[10] Name these things in the body, examples of which are the common carotid in the neck and the radial and ulnar in the forearm, and of course the aorta.ANSWER: arteries[10] Arteries commonly form these connections to provide collateral circulation in case of blockage.  Examples include the Circle of Willis in the brain and the various ones around key joints in the body.ANSWER: anastomosis or anastomoses[10] This chief artery of the arm is the continuation of the axillary artery and divides into the radial and ulnar arteries.  Its pulsations can be felt on the medial side of the arm and in the cubital fossa.ANSWER: brachial artery2.  Identify these happenings related to a cold and snowy place for 10 points each.[10] This Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom repatriated the constitution of the eponymous country.  Its Schedule B contains the text of the Constitution Act 1982 in English and French.ANSWER: Canada Act 1982[10] This clause of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms allows the Parliament or provincial legislatures to override certain parts of the Charter.  Its adoption or rejection was a major sticking point in negotiation between the U.K., Ottawa and the provinces on the Constitution Act.ANSWER: Nonwithstanding Clause or Section 33[10] Quebec nationalists deemed November 4, 1981 this, as that was the date Pierre Trudeau and nine of the ten provincial premiers approved the Constitution Act with the inclusion of the Nonwithstanding Clause.  The dissenting premier, Rene Levesque of Quebec, was not included in the discussions of the "Kitchen Accord."ANSWER: Night of the Long Knives3.  Identify these authors who write in Portuguese from brief descriptions for ten points each:[10] This Brazilian author's most famous work, The Hour of the Star, focuses on the struggles of poor Macabea. Other works by her include The Apple in the Dark and Soulstorm.ANSWER: Clarice Lispector[10] A pioneer in the filed of ethnomusicology, this poet announced the arrival of Brazilian modernism in his 1908 work Hallucinated City.ANSWER: Mario de Andrade[10] This former communist wrote numerous novels about his native Bahia including Shepherds of the Night and The Violent Land.ANSWER: Jorge Amado4.  Identify the following things about the adventures of Thor for ten points each:[10] Thor tricked this randy dwarf and kept him from marrying his daughter Thrud by keeping him out until the day light turned him to stone.ANSWER: Alvis[10] To atone for mistakenly crushing the legs of one of Thor's goats this young boy became the thunder god's servant.ANSWER: Thialfi[10] This son of Thor and Jarnsaxa was the only other being strong enough to lift Mjolnir.ANSWER: Magdi5.  Identify the following about southwestern England for 10 points each.[10] This county and Duchy of the United Kingdom is the southwestern-most in England, featuring the spit of land known as Land's End.  The site of a significant Celtic movement, its county seat is Truro and a major port is Penzance, on Mount's Bay.ANSWER: Cornwall[10] This archipelago, whose population center is St. Mary's, lies about 30 miles from the western tip of Cornwall.  This Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, noted for its mild climate, features Bishop Rock.ANSWER: Isles of Scilly or Scillonia[10] As you would guess from the name, this city in Hampshire that lies on Portsea Island has one of the world's largest natural harbors, a ria where the Solent enters the English Channel.ANSWER: Portsmouth6.  Identify the following related to punctuated equilibrium for 10 points per part.[5,5] One of these originators claimed most of the ideas came from the other and he was mainly a "sounding board."  For 5 points each, name these originators.ANSWER: Stephen Gay Gould and Niles Eldridge[10] This scientist solved the problem of how several species could evolve from one common ancestor.  In his 1942 work Systematics and the Origin of Species, he redefined species as a group that can only breed with other members of that group.ANSWER: Ernst Mayr[10] Mayr postulated this form of speciation in which, similar to allopatric speciation, populations are isolated and thus prevented from exchanging genes.  However, for Mayr's theory, those populations tend to be vastly unequal in size.ANSWER: peripatric speciation7.  Identify some things about a novel and its writer, for ten points each:[10] Set in motion when Llewelyn Moss stumbles across some drug money near the Rio Grande, this 2005 work centers on Sheriff Bell's attempts to stop the hit man Chigurh from killing lots and lots of people.ANSWER: No Country For Old Men[10] This author of The Border Trilogy wrote No Country for Old Men.ANSWER: Cormac McCarthy[10] Focusing on the title figure, a former Patrician kid who has chosen to live on a dilapidated houseboat on the Tennessee River, this 1979 Cormac McCarthy work features lots of weird sex with animals and love. ANSWER: Suttree8.  Identify the following about a piece of British legislation for 10 points each.[10] Sydney and Beatrice Webb wrote a book analyzing the long history of these laws that were originally passed to relieve pauperism by suppressing vagrancy and begging.ANSWER: Poor Laws[10] The Poor Laws were officially formalized in 1601 and they were not superseded until the passing of this much more humane 1929 act, which tried to enhance social services and abolish workhouses.ANSWER: Local Government Act[10] Named after a district in Newbury, Berkshire, this 19th century system of relief was intended to mitigate rural poverty and was enacted outdoors.ANSWER: Speenhamland9.  Answer the following about a piece of music composed in 1908 and its creator for ten points each:[10] This suite, its composer's most challenging piano work, which is based on Bertrand's Dusty and Wormeaten Tales of the Middle Ages, ends with the section Scarbo about an angry dwarf.ANSWER: Gaspard de la nuit[10] This man who also composed La Valse composed Gaspard de la Nuit.ANSWER: Maurice Ravel[10] This Ravel work, which features the famous "sunrise" opening in its third section, is both a ballet commissioned by Fokine, as well as a suite based on said piece. ANSWER: Daphnis et Chloe10.  Answer the following about the foundations of Gestalt psychology for ten points each:[10] This compatriot of Brentano first used the term "gestalt" in an 1890 work to describe sensations that are not experienced in isolation.ANSWER: Christian von Ehrenfels[10] This man took a number of classes with Ehrenfels from 1898 to 1891. He then took a famous train ride and wrote Productive Thinking.ANSWER: Max Wertheimer[10] Gestalt is also derived from this man's work. The teacher of Robert Musil, his ideas focused on the acts of perceiving. It was called "act psychology." He also worked on music and had a famous debate with Wundt about the perception of tonal distance.ANSWER: Carl Stumpf11.  For 10 points each, name these organizations with notable connections to the 2005 Supreme Court nominees.[10] Harriet Miers was a board member of this non-denominational Christian organization that physical and spiritually assists ex-offenders in becoming productive members of society.  It is not to be confused with an organization of a similar name that promotes the straightening out of homosexuals through prayer.ANSWER: Exodus Ministries[10] Miers was president of this commission between 1995 and 2000.  In 1997, she fired executive director Lawrence Littwin five months into his job for investigating the contractor who ran the activity the commission oversees for illegal campaign contributions.ANSWER: Texas Lottery Commission[10] This organization founded in 1982, named for a work published two centuries earlier, states the role of the judicial branch is to say what the law is, not what it should be.  John Roberts was listed in its 1997-98 leadership directory, even though he denies ever having been a member.ANSWER: Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy Studies12.  Answer these questions about stereochemistry and sugars for 10 points each.[10] When the D and L isomers are present in equal amounts so that there is no optical activity this is the name given to the resulting mixture.ANSWER: racemic[10] This is the name given to diastereomers that differ in chirality at one and only one chiral center.  Mannose and galactose have this relation with glucose.ANSWER: epimers[10] In alkaline media glucose, fructose, and mannose exist as this common intermediate that has a 1,2 double bond and is a tautomer of the three sugars.ANSWER: enediol13.  Identify the following about a group of related novels and their author, for ten points each:[10] In this 1845 work, named for a strip of land in Westchester County, young Cornelius attends Princeton and saves a girl from a caged lion.ANSWER: Satanstoe[10] Satanstoe is the first part of this trilogy, the other sections include The Chainbearer and The Redskins.ANSWER: The Littlepage Manuscripts[10] The Littlepage Manuscripts was written by this author who also wrote The Red Rover and The Pilot.ANSWER: James Fennimore Cooper14.  Answer the following about a linguist and his work, for ten points each:[10] Chief of the division of anthropology at the Canadian Museum from 1910 to 1925, this man's works include Wishram Texts and Nootka Texts.ANSWER: Edward Sapir[10] Sapir may be best known for a namesake hypothesis about the limitations of language that he coauthored with this student of his.  ANSWER: Benjamin Lee Whorf[10] According to his introduction, in this 1916 work Sapir wants to attempt to read chronology into the study of linguistics and anthropology.ANSWER: Time Perspective in Aboriginal American Culture15.  Answer the following about a work of philosophy for ten points each:[10] This controversial 1748 work used experience and observation to define natural law as a "feeling which teaches us what we should not do, because we would not wish it done upon us."ANSWER: L'Homme Machine or Man a Machine[10] This doctor and philosopher who was considered extreme and immoral by Diderot wrote Man a Machine.ANSWER: Julien Offray de La Mettrie[10] The reception of this 1745 La Mettrie work, which introduced the theory that psychological phenomena were effects of physiological changes in the brain, caused him to be exiled to Holland. ANSWER: Natural History of the Soul16.  Answer the following questions about hurricanes for 10 points each.[10] These types of hurricanes, whose name is based on its geographic origin, tend to be the longest lasting and most intense hurricanes because they spend days crossing thousands of miles of very warm water.ANSWER: Cape Verde-type hurricane[10] During this process at the center of a hurricane that occurs over several hours, the hurricane usually weakens before returning and potentially surpassing its previous intensity due to its now better organization.ANSWER: eyewall replacement cycle[10] This phenomenon, which is usually limited to tropical cyclones of very high intensity, is the inward curvature of cumulonimbus clouds along the eyewall that resembles a dome.ANSWER: stadium effect17.  Answer the following about the Great Northern War for 10 points each.[10] One of the motivating factors for the war was the signing of this 1617 treaty between Michael Romanov and Gustavus Adolphus that deprived Russia of access to the Baltic, among other goodies.ANSWER: Treaty of Stolbovo[10] In 1700 Swedish forces under Charles XII won a great victory over the Russians under Eugene de Croy at this site named for a nearby river.ANSWER: Narva[10] By 1721, Frederick I of Sweden had had enough and signed this treaty that formally ended the war.ANSWER: Treaty of Nystad18.  Answer the following about a collection of poetry and its author for ten points each:[10] Including such poems as "The Slope of Reverie" and "This Century was Two Years Old," this 1831 collection focused on the romantic themes established by its author in his earlier Les Orientales.ANSWER: Les Feuilles d'Automne or Autumn Leaves[10] Name this author of Autumn Leaves who may be better known for Hernani   and Angelo, Tyrant of Padua.ANSWER: Victor Hugo[10] This Victor Hugo work features the gypsy woman Esmerelda and the evil Deacon Frollo.ANSWER: The Hunchback of Notre Dame or Notre-Dame de Paris19.  Answer the following about an Italian group of painters for ten points each:[10] Their manifesto was introduced in a 1918 work that also named the movement. It was written by the former Futurist Carlo Carra and argued that Renaissance techniques should be applied to twentieth century imagery of the irrational and the unconscious.ANSWER: the Metaphysical school[10] This man is the best known of the metaphysical painters, his desolate piazzas are evident in works like The Dream of the Poet (Guilaume Appolinaire) and The Mystery and Melancholy of a Street.ANSWER: Giorgio de Chirico[10] This man's works like Still life with a pipe and Landscape with the River Savena were painted in much the same green-gray that de Chirico used and were imbued with the rare capacity to capture strangeness.ANSWER: Giorgio Morandi20.  Last week's classic between Notre Dame and Southern California was just one of many football games to have taken place at Notre Dame Stadium involving winning streaks.  For 10 points, given a description, name the Irish's opponent.[10] In 1988, this top-ranked team, winners of 16 straight, descended on South Bend for another episode of the Catholics versus the Convicts.  The road team fell 31-30 when coach Jimmy Johnson elected to go for the two-point conversion because they "play to win."ANSWER: Miami Hurricanes [accept either][10] In 1993, another top-ranked team on a 16-game winning streak, led by Charlie Ward, rolled into town to face the #2 Irish.  Despite the Irish's 31-24 win and both teams finishing 11-1, this team won the national championship after defeating Nebraska in the Orange Bowl.ANSWER: Florida State Seminoles [accept either][10] In 1957, this team, coached by Bud Wilkinson, blew into town on a 47-game winning streak.  The streak did not hit 48 because the Irish won 7-0.ANSWER: Oklahoma Sooners [accept either]21.  Identify the following about an 1832 conflict.[10] This leader of the Sauk and Fox Indians led a band of his warriors against the U.S. Army and Illinois militia to reclaim tribal lands in Illinois.ANSWER: Black Hawk[10] Black Hawk took action despite the authority of this chief of the Sauks, who had replaced Black Hawk while he was fighting in the War of 1812 for the British.ANSWER: Keokuk[10] Following the war, the sides involved negotiated Black Hawk Purchase in what is now Iowa.  The federal government's negotiator was this general who rose to prominence in the Mexican-American War and ran for president in 1852.ANSWER: Winfield Scott22.  Name these navigational instruments for 10 points each.[10] This ancient instrument takes it name from the process of measuring a star's altitude using the alidade.  It is a hollow disk filled with several flat plates, each representing a certain latitude, along with a freely-rotating disk on which is printed stars and the ecliptic.ANSWER: astrolabe[10] Newton proposed this instrument that was invented by Hadley and Godfrey in the early 1700s.  This instrument is used to measure the angle of elevation of a celestial object above the horizon, and it is named for the part of a circle the instrument typically was scaled for.ANSWER: sextant[10] John Harrison developed this instrument that solved the problem of finding one's longitude.  It took several attempts before he created a version featuring a balanced wheel that maintained its accuracy across a long sea voyage.ANSWER: chronometer		DM	Page 1 of 3