2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by Princeton (Dan Benediktson, Philip Levitz and Kait Reilly)1.  That of cows is often taken as a dietary supplement; unlike the normal variety that it replaces, it is yellow and thick.  Higher in carbohydrates and protein than the other variety, it is correspondingly lower in fat, and it also contains many helpful antibodies.  It is also a mild laxative, which helps prevent jaundice and assists the consumer in delivering the meconium, or first stool.  Also called beestings, for 10 points, name this form of breast milk produced in the late hours of pregnancy and immediately after giving birth.ANSWER: colostrums2.  Late in their history they conquered the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, creating the first imperialist state in the western hemisphere, and some of their leaders included Huijatoo and Ozomatli. Their priests were known as "uiya tao" and their myths focused on Cozobi, the corn god, and the rain god, Cocijo, and they believed their ancestors to be born from jaguars and rocks. Centered in current-day Oaxaca [wah-HAH-kah], they developed the basis of the writing systems of the Mayas, Mixtecs, and Aztecs.  For 10 points, identify this civilization, best known for the tombs and temples at Mitla and the urban center of Monte Alban.ANSWER: Zapotec3.  The author asks, "Can it be, that their prayers and tears are fruitless?" as the parents of the main character mourn his corpse after his death from typhus. Another character spent four years before the novel's start pining for "Princess R.," a woman he met while in the corps of pages. On a visit to the city we meet the social climber Snitikov and the emancipated woman Yevdoxia Kukshin, and more important to the plot, the love interests of the two young protagonists: Katya and Anna Odintzov. Beginning with a description of the farm of Fenichka and Nikolay, for 10 points, name this Russian novel concerning the conflicts between Uncle Pavel, Arkady Kirsanov, and Bazarov, a work of Ivan Turgenev.ANSWER: Fathers and Sons or Ottsy I Deti4.  Called Alliouagana, or "land of the prickly bush," by natives, it was not settled by Westerners until 1632.  The highest part of the island was Chance's Peak, at a height of 914 m, but that recently changed, since that peak is overshadowed by an unnamed dome about 1100 m high.  Located 27 miles southwest of Antigua, its capital of Plymouth has been abandoned since 1995.  For 10 points, name this small Leeward Island devastated by the eruption of the Soufriere Hills volcano, one of the few British colonies left in the Caribbean.ANSWER: Montserrat5.  The original lineup of this group was a trio formed by people who left John Mayall's Blues Breakers, with Peter Green and Jeremy Spencer playing guitar.  After Peter Green and Jeremy Spencer split, the band was shorthanded until they heard Lindsey Buckingham playing guitar, whom they added along with his girlfriend.  They are better known for their eponymous album that debuted Buckingham and his girlfriend, and the follow-up masterpiece Rumours.  For 10 points, identify this rock band named for its bassist and drummer organizers and featuring Stevie Nicks, whose major hits include "Don't Stop," "Go Your Own Way," "Little Lies" and "Gypsy."ANSWER: Fleetwood Mac6.  Postulated and studied by astrophysicist J. Richard Gott, these objects are infinitely long and moving at speeds close to the speed of light.  Theorized to have formed loops in the early universe, possibly leading to the clumping of matter that led to galaxy formation, they are defects in the fabric of space-time, and are very thin, about the diameter of a proton, but extremely dense.  For 10 points, name these as-yet-unobserved astronomical phenomena that sound a great deal like a 10-dimensional potential theory of everything.ANSWER: cosmic string [do not accept or prompt on "string" or "superstring theory"]7.  Denmark rejected its original version but was later given an "opting out" clause, and a conservative group in England known as the "Rebels" also opposed it. It was later superseded by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and itself replaced the Single European Act. Drafted by the Delors commission, its provisions were divided into three "pillars",and it was named after the university town that is also capital of Limburg province. It established the Europol and changed the name of the European Community to the European Union.  For 10 points, name this 1992 treaty signed in the Netherlands that called for a common European currency.ANSWER: Maastricht Treaty [accept Treaty on European Union before mentioned]8.  The only manuscript with the whole poem intact is Cotton Nero A 10.  The narrator is instructed in several points of theology, such as that the woman he is with has been accepted as the Lamb's Queen, and that all inhabitants of heaven are equal members of the body of Christ.  The woman then takes the narrator to see the heavenly Jerusalem, and, in the narrator's desperation to cross the stream, he plunges into it and awakens.  Beginning in a garden, where the narrator falls asleep and dreams of his dead daughter in heaven, for 10 points, name this lengthy poem, which also names its author, who probably also wrote Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.ANSWER: Pearl9.  One section of this work paraphrases a choral work of Emil Genetz and its opening resembles Schumann's Piano Quartet. It was usually titled "Impromptu" for early performances until the composer's country gained its independence, and it was originally the seventh part of the blandly titled "Press Celebration Music".  In 1937, the opera singer Waino Sola wrote words to accompany it, but the original words were replaced in 1939 by poet V.A. Koskenniemi's text. For 10 points, name this tone poem celebrating its composer's homeland, the best-known work of Jean Sibelius.ANSWER: Finlandia10.  The deciphering of Hittite by Bedrich Hrozny vindicated his early laryngeal theory, which he set down in his "Memoir on the Original System of Vowels in the Indo-European Languages". He made the distinction between synchronic and diachronic systems and introduced the terms "parole" and "langue". In his most famous work he uses the words "twenty-one" and "thirty-one" and different instances of the word "Gentlemen!" to demonstrate his theory of the signifier. That work was created through the efforts of Charles Bally and Albert Sechehaye, his students. For 10 points, name this Swiss pseudo-author of Course in General Linguistics and the founder of linguistic Structuralism.ANSWER: Ferdinand de Saussure11.  The largest split since its founding was a claim to the title of Guardian of the Faith by Charles Mason Remey.  Several thousand split off and now refer to themselves as the Orthodox, but they were declared Covenant-Breakers by the Hands of the Cause of God.  Their Lotus Temple in Delhi, the Asian center of worship for this widespread religion, was completed in 1986, but it is less well known by Americans than the Wilmette, Illinois temple, referred to as the Mother Temple in the West.  For 10 points, what is this religion founded by Mirzá Husayn-'Alí, better known by his title of Bahá'u'lláh.ANSWER: The Baha'i Faith12.  All naïve algorithms for this process are exponential in time, but the best-known Turing machine algorithm for it, the General Number Field Sieve, runs in sub-exponential time, although it is still super-polynomial.  A polynomial time algorithm for a related problem was given by Agrawal, Saxena and Kayal.  Perhaps the most interesting known algorithm that solves it is Shor's Algorithm, which is polynomial; it was used on the first 7-qubit computer to give output 3 and 5 for input 15.  For 10 points, identify this process that, given a number n, returns the unique prime numbers that multiply to n.ANSWER: integer factorization [accept equivalents]13.  The most entertaining account of this battle consists of letters to Kentucky senator John Brown from James Wilkinson. It was preceded by three lesser skirmishes - an expedition by Josiah Harmar,  a battle at Fort Recovery, and a surprise attack on Arthur St. Clair on the Maumee River. The Shawnee and Delaware were assisted by a number of other tribes, such as the Potawatomi and Ojibwa, but the victory of the Americans led to the signing of the Treaty of Greenville the next year.  For 10 points, this is what battle where Buckongahelas, Blue Jacket and Little Turtle were defeated by "Mad" Anthony Wayne in 1794, named for the uprooted trees in the area.ANSWER: Battle of Fallen Timbers14.  The translated and shortened version by Edward Seidenstecker is the preferred version of the author. It was originally written in 64 installments while the author was a reporter for the Mainichi Shimbun newspaper. One character, based on Kitani Minoru, has his name changed in the fictionalized account of the real-life event. The book chronicles an actual 1938 event that lasted several months and 237 moves as Otaké of the Seventh Rank defeats the retiring Honnimb? Sh?sai in, for 10 points, what non-fiction novel titled for the player of a Japanese game, written by Yasunari Kawabata.ANSWER: The Master of Go or Meijin15.  The name is the same.  One was the son of King Minos of Crete, who drowned in a jar of honey but was resurrected by Asclepius and taught divination by Polyidus.  Another was a fisherman-turned-Sea God who fell love with Scylla, making Circe jealous and leading to Scylla's transformation.  Yet another was the son of Sisyphus who married Eurymede, and their child was the Chimera-slaying Pegasus-riding Bellerophon.  The most famous, however, is best known for his idiocy while fighting for Troy in the Trojan War.  Slain by Ajax, he is remembered for making a bad trade with Diomedes, offering up his gold armor for Diomedes's bronze.  For 10 points, identify the name shared by these Greek mythological figures.ANSWER: Glaucus16.  Military innovations in this period include the ban on court attire in battle by Wuling, and the strategic works of T'ai Kung and Wu Tzu. It is sometimes said to begin with the breakup of the Jin into the Han, Wei and Zhao, and ends with the fall of the Chi. Culturally, it saw the poetry of Chu Yuan, Han Feizi and Li Si's codification of Legalism, and Mo-tzu's eponymous text. Named for a book written by Liu Xiang, and immediately following the Spring and Autumn period, for 10 points, identify this turbulent-sounding period at the end of the Zhou dynasty, after which the Ch'in took power.ANSWER: Warring States Period [prompt on Zhou or Eastern Zhou before mentioned]17.  One character has high blood pressure and has a stroke after his adopted son wins a boat race. That son is engaged to Madeline Arnold, and his real father is a neurologist who later sets up a research station in the West Indies. Two characters share the same first name, one is a fighter pilot and the protagonist's first lover and the other is the protagonist's son, Gordon Evans. The Evans family curse of male insanity leaves the main character in a fix, until an affair ensues with Edmund Darrell. Meanwhile Charles Marsden lurks in the background waiting to pick up the main character, Nina Leeds.  An experimental nine-act play in which characters speak their thoughts aloud, for 10 points, what is this 1928 Pulitzer Prize-winning work of Eugene O'Neill?ANSWER: Strange Interlude18.  His portraits, including those of Jorg Fugger and Agostino Barbarigo, show the influence of Antonello da Messina. The Drunkenness of Noah, Woman at her Toilet, and a piece completed by Titian, Feast of the Gods, were some of his rare forays into secular painting, but he is best known for religious scenes. Vasari praised his now-lost works for the Great Council Hall in Venice, and notable surviving works include the San Giobbe and St. Catherine of Siena altarpieces, a Coronation of the Virgin, St. Francis in Ecstasy and especially his early Agony in the Garden. For 10 points, name this Venetian, a member of an illustrious artistic family that included his brother Gentile and his father Jacopo.ANSWER: Giovanni Bellini19.  It simplifies enzyme reactions by making the crucial assumption that the amount of enzyme-substrate complex at any given time is constant.  It also requires the assumption that the concentration of substrate is higher than the concentration of enzyme.  A rate constant that comes out of this model, referred to as KM, is widely used to this day to catalog relative enzyme activities.  For 10 points, name this kinetic model, derived by Briggs and Haldane but named after two other scientists who first proposed the link between substrate concentration and enzyme concentration.ANSWER: Michaelis-Menten Model20.  His children include Asma'aa, "the one with two belts", and Muhammad, who had a hand in the assassination of a caliph. He was said to be kind-hearted, and after the Battle of Badr he saved the captives from the death penalty. He began the Ridda wars to bring the Hejaz and Nezd tribes under Muslim control after they refused the zakat, but he only reigned for two years, when he was succeeded by Umar. Venerated by Sunni but hated by Shi'a, for 10 points, name this father of Muhammad's wife Aisha, the first Caliph of Islam and close companion of the Prophet Muhammad.ANSWER: Abu Bakr or Abd-Allah ibn Abi Quhaafah21.  One of his poems is a dialogue between a man and a street door that tells a story about a former mistress. Another is a translation of Callimachus's "Lock of Berenice", and his longest poem describes the marriage of Peleus and Thetis and the voyage of the Argonauts. Caesar is said to have invited this man for dinner immediately after he apologized for claiming Caesar could "suck down twenty or thirty million" and he also wrote many poems to his boy toy Juventius.  Best known for poems written to a certain woman, for 10 points, identify this Roman poet, writer of numerous poems addressed to Lesbia.ANSWER: Catullus22.  His strongest characteristic was his anti-naturalistic tendencies, which he exemplified by coining the term "Naturalistic Fallacy".  He invented the Open Question Argument as a means to show that a given definition is not correct, using it specifically to claim that no meaningful definition of "good" could be given.  His most famous proof is that which, from the premises of two hands, deduces that both Idealism and Skepticism are wrong.  For 10 points, name this philosopher who gave "A Proof of the External World" and also wrote Principia Ethica.ANSWER: George Edward Moore23.  In 1961, he moved to Cuba and joined the General Intelligence Directorate, but he later moved back to his home country to found the Armed Revolutionary Independence Movement, the first militant independence movement in the country.  Wanted for a bond default in 1990, he was perhaps wanted more for a Wells Fargo depot robbery in 1985.  The FBI surrounded his house in Hormigueros, Puerto Rico, and, for 10 points, assassinated what leader of the Boricua Popular Army on September 23rd, 2005.ANSWER: Filiberto Ojeda Ríos
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Princeton (Dan Benediktson, Philip Levitz and Kait Reilly)1.  Identify the following recent and upcoming software you might or might not want on your computer for 10 points each.[10] Everybody seems to know about Mozilla Firefox, the open source browser.  So, how about you name the less-well-known Mozilla standalone e-mail client.ANSWER: Mozilla Thunderbird[10] What is the current name of Microsoft's yet-to-be-released Windows operating system, formerly code-named Longhorn, which won't ship with 1/4 of the features it was promised to have, let alone those of a standard Linux distribution.ANSWER: Windows Vista[10] Instead of installing Vista, you might instead just want to use this growingly popular Linux distribution, which had its first final release in October of 2004, whose name comes from an African word/ideology meaning "humanity towards others."ANSWER: Ubuntu Linux2.  For 10 points each, answer these questions about an art movement.[10] Inspired politically by the revolutionary fervor and the Chartist movement, and artistically by fifteenth century Italian and Flemish painting, a group of British artists in the mid-19th century founded this art movement, which stressed realistic natural depiction, and often moralizing, religious, and literary themes.ANSWER: the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood[10] This co-founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood painted such famous works as The Awakening Conscience, Strayed Sheep (Our English Coasts), and The Scapegoat.ANSWER: William Holman Hunt[10] This man, who founded the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood along with Hunt and Rossetti, painted Christ in the House of His Parents, Ophelia, and Lorenzo and Isabella among other works. ANSWER: John Everett Millais3.  Identify some Matthew Arnold poems from lines for 10 points each.[10] "...And now would Night have fall'n, and found them yet / Wailing; but otherwise was Odin's will: / And thus the Father of the Ages spake..."ANSWER: Balder Dead [10] "And the first grey of morning fill'd the east, / And the fog rose out of the Oxus stream. / But all the Tartar camp along the stream / Was hush'd, and still the men were plunged in sleep..."ANSWER: Sohrab and Rustum[10] "And we are here as on a darkling plain / Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight, / Where ignorant armies clash by night."ANSWER: Dover Beach4.  Vikings in England!  For 10 points each:[10] The Vikings fought the English hard in the 9th century, conquering vast tracts of land, which eventually yielded this section of England which was under Viking legal control rather than English.ANSWER: Danelaw[10] The Danelaw was formally established after this English king defeated the Vikings and signed the Treaty of Widmore.  He reigned from 871 to 899, roughly.ANSWER: Alfred the Great[10] Alfred the Great beat the Viking leader Guthrum at this major battle, which led directly to the signing of the Treaty of Widmore and the establishment of the Danelaw.ANSWER: Battle of Edington5.  For 10 points each, answer some questions about Einsteinian [sic] work not involving relativity.[10] Einstein's 1905 explanation of this effect, which defied the classical wave view of light, won him a Nobel Prize.ANSWER: photoelectric effect[10] Also in 1905, Einstein wrote a paper explaining this movement, applying statistics to the kinetic theory of fluids to determine the motion of large particles in a sea of unobservable smaller particles.ANSWER: Brownian motion[10] Einstein formulated a theory of solids approximating atoms in a crystal as harmonic oscillators, but it failed at low temperatures.  This man, the theory's namesake, repaired the theory by allowing the oscillators to take on a distribution of frequencies.ANSWER: Debye [de-BUY]6.  For 10 points each, identify these South African geographic features.[10] Called "the barrier of spears" by the Zulu, this mountain range is the highest in South Africa, is located in the eastern part of South Africa, and runs generally southwest to northeast.ANSWER: Drakensberg[10] The largest tributary of the Orange River, this river rising in the Drakensberg forms the boundary between Transvaal and the Orange Free State.ANSWER: Vaal River[10] This river in the Drakensberg also contains a waterfall of the same name that, at 3107 feet high, is the second-tallest waterfall in the world.ANSWER: Tugela River/Falls7.  Answer the following about an economic theory for 10 points each.[10] This theory, originated by John Muth, assumes that unexpected economic events will cancel each other out, so that the outcome of a situation can generally be determined by the initial predictions of the economic actors.ANSWER: Theory of Rational Expectations[10] This economist who won the 1995 Nobel used rational expectations to show the power of individuals and companies to counteract government interference in monetary policy.ANSWER: Robert E. Lucas, Jr.[10] Lucas also wrote several books concerning these regular fluctuations in economic activity proposed by Schumpeter. Their types include Kitchin, Juglar, Kuznets, and Kondratieff.ANSWER: business cycles8.  For 10 points each, identify some literary works from the German Romantic period.[10] This early Goethe novel centers on a young character who goes on a journey of self-actualization and matures into a writer and actor.ANSWER: Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship or Wilhelm Meisters Lehrjahre[10] An opera is based on this Schiller drama depicting a Swiss national hero who refused to take off his hat.ANSWER: Wilhelm Tell or William Tell[10] This Schiller masterpiece narrates the story of a Queen's execution and her rival Queen's desire to avoid responsibility for the act.ANSWER: Maria Stuart or Mary Stuart9.  Answer the following about a composer and his work for 10 points each.[10] This well-traveled Russian wrote the Spanish overtures Jota aragonesa and Summer Night in Madrid, a Festival Polonaise and the orchestral Kamarinskaya.ANSWER: Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka[10] Glinka's most famous work is this five-act opera set in the Kievan period. It features such fantastical characters as the sorcerer Chernomor and the dwarf Finn and is based on Pushkin.ANSWER: Ruslan and Lyudmila[10] Also known by the name of its main character, Ivan Susanin, this Glinka work is the first Russian opera and concerns Ivan's sacrifice while serving under Michael Romanov.ANSWER: A Life for the Tsar or Zhizn za tsarya10.  Answer the following about a Greek for 10 points each.[10] A document found at Troezen in 1959, possibly a forgery, claimed that this man planned the evacuation of Athens and the Battle of Salamis well in advance as a trap for the Persians.Answer: Themistocles[10] Themistocles' first great victory was at this 480 naval battle off the coast of Thessaly, which occurred simultaneously with the battle of Thermopylae.Answer: Battle of Artemisium[10] The unifying efforts of Themistocles during the Persian Wars eventually led to this confederation of Greek states, whose most prominent members were Athens, Samos, and Lesbos.Answer: Delian League11.  For 10 points each, name these things from Complex Analysis.[10] This is the term for a function defined in a region of the complex plane taking complex values and which is differentiable.ANSWER: holomorphic or analytic [they are not the same, but both should be accepted][10] This theorem states that a bounded function that is holomorphic in the entire complex plane must be constant.ANSWER: Liouville's Theorem[10] This mapping theorem states that any simply connected open subset of the complex plane which is not the entire complex plane can be mapped bijectively, holomorphically, and conformally onto the unit disk.ANSWER: Riemann mapping theorem12.  Time for some good old-fashioned Plato.  Identify the following dialogues for 10 points each.[10] In addition to considering it in the Thaeatetus, Plato dealt with knowledge in this better-known dialogue, where he has Socrates claim that all knowledge is just a matter of recalling things we already knew.ANSWER: Meno[10] This dialogue features Alcibiades accusing Socrates of trying to keep all the young boys of Athens away from the other teachers for his own purposes.ANSWER: Symposium[10] This confusing dialogue between Socrates, Hermogenes, and the title character concerns the theory of language, and begins by considering whether there is a certain inherent "truth" to names.ANSWER: Cratylus13.  Identify some of the giants and giantesses of Norse Mythology, 5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four.[a] This giantess was the mother of Odin, Vili, and Ve.ANSWER: Bestla[b] This king of giants possessed powerful magic, allowing him to trick Thor into a bunch of rigged strength tests.ANSWER: Utgard-Loki or Utgarda-Loki or Utgartloki (do NOT prompt on or accept "Loki", or "Utgard" for that matter)[c] This giantess was the mother of the delightful children Fenrir, Jormungand, and Hel.ANSWER: Angrboda[d] This frost giant, grandson of Ymir, was the progenitor of the new race of frost giants when the flood of blood from his slain grandfather drowned most of the world and he escaped in a tree trunk.ANSWER: Bergelmir14.  Name these powerful Children of Midnight for 10 points each.[10] Born at the exact stroke of midnight, this main character of Midnight's Children has a runny nose that gives him telepathic powers, thus letting him become the leader of the Midnight's Children Conference.ANSWER: Saleem Sinai (prompt on "Sinai"; there are a lot in the book)[10] The other born at the stroke of midnight and Saleem's double, this destructive man is born with a pair of "prehensile knees" which he uses to kill people while in the army, rising to the rank of Major.ANSWER: Shiva[10] Born in the magicians' slums 17 seconds after midnight, her child was fathered by Shiva and raised by Saleem, and she was given immense powers of sorcery.ANSWER: Parvati the Witch15.  For 10 points each, identify these Medieval Popes.[10] Extensively educated, this highly influential Pope served during the Fourth Lateran Council.  He first demonstrated his power over political leaders in Germany, and he famously excommunicated King John I for attempting to appoint his own archbishop.ANSWER: Innocent III[10] This French Pope who began his clergy service at Cluny has become famous for one speech made at Clermont in 1095 that sparked more than two centuries of war in the East.ANSWER: Urban II[10] This political Pope opposed his predecessor Celestine V, who abdicated the Papacy.  When he was elected, he brought Charles of Valois into Florence to (unsuccessfully) settle the score between the Guelphs and the Ghibellines.ANSWER: Boniface VIII16.  For 10 points, answer these trashy questions on a theme.[10] This book supposedly was commissioned after an argument at a brewery over the world's fastest species of gamebird.ANSWER: Guinness Book of Records or Guinness World Records or Guinness Book of World Records[10] In 1759 he founded the venture that would make him world-famous even today on a 4-acre lease in Dublin.  He took a special interest in a dark drink named porter.ANSWER: Arthur Guinness[10] Early movies featured him in Charles Dickens stories, first in Great Expectations in 1946 as Herbert Pocket, then in Oliver Twist in 1948 as Fagin, but he's probably more famous as Obi-Wan Kenobi.ANSWER: Sir Alec Guinness17.  For 10 points each, identify the books of the King James Version of the Bible from which these quotations were taken. [10] "For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophesy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book."Answer: Book of Revelation[10] "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.  "Answer: Book of 1 Corinthians[10] "Wine maketh merry: but money answereth all things."Answer: Book of Ecclesiastes18.  Answer some questions about a Graham Greene novel for 10 points each.[10] This novel concerns a whiskey priest on the run for his life in a south Mexican state.ANSWER: The Power and the Glory [10] The only married priest, this man considers himself a traitor to God, but at one point he does save the whiskey priest's life by hiding him.ANSWER: Padre José[10] Probably the most important character from the priest's perspective is this girl, his daughter; the priest offers God the opportunity to give him any death he chooses, as long as God saves her.ANSWER: Brigitta19.  Five for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four, name these glacier terms from definitions.[a] A low, steep-sided hill or mound, more irregularly shaped than a drumlin, which is formed by melt water running into crevasses near the melting edge of a glacier.ANSWER: kame [KAYM][b] A semi-circular basin with steep walls formed by a glacier from a mountain.  They sometimes contain lakes.  There's a spectacular one, called the Iceberg, in Glacier National Park.ANSWER: cirque [SIRK] (or cwm [KOOM] or corrie)[c] A long, winding, narrow ridge of sand and/or gravel, formed by a glacial stream.ANSWER: esker[d] Bands of light and dark material formed below ice falls on the surface of a glacier.ANSWER: ogives [OH-jive]20.  For 10 points each, identify these Persian empires.[10] The only powerful nation at the edges of Rome, this Persian empire lasting from about 250 BCE to 225 CE defeated the Seleucids, controlled the Silk Road, and ruled, at one time or another, lands from modern-day Israel and Turkey to Tajikistan and Pakistan.ANSWER: Parthian Empire[10] Lasting from about 550-330 BCE and often referred to simply as the Persian Empire, this empire's leaders included Cyrus I and II, Darius I and II, and Xerxes I and II.ANSWER: Achaemenid Empire [10] After a long period of subjugation under the Mongols, Persian power reemerged under a militant Islamic Sufi order that established this empire, which lasted from about 1500 to 1730.ANSWER: Safavid Empire21.  Answer the following sculpture questions on a theme for 10 points each.[10] One of the most stunning of the Elgin Marbles was the single caryatid, part of a group collectively known as this, which served as columns holding up a building on the Acropolis of Athens.ANSWER: Porch of the Maidens[10] The Porch of the Maidens is part of what building on the Acropolis.ANSWER: Erechtheion[10] The idea of the caryatid columns was used by this much later sculptor who sculpted "Fallen Caryatid with Stone," showing a girl unable to carry the heavy load placed on her shoulders.ANSWER: Auguste Rodin22.  Identify these progressive educational theorists for 10 points each.[10] Considered by many the greatest educational theorist of the 20th century, this author of Experience and Education argued that educators must take into consideration the unique needs of each student, provide for a kind of civic education, and generally respond to students' own experiences.Answer: John Dewey[10] Dewey himself once called this author of Talks on Pedagogy-an advocate of moving the child to the center of the educational process and interrelating curricular subjects to enhance meaning-the father of progressive education.Answer: Francis Parker[10] This Brazilian-born theorist built on Dewey's notion of experiential education in such works as Education as the Practice of Freedom, Pedagogy in Process: The Letters to Guinea-Bissau, and most famously, Pedagogy of the Oppressed.Answer: Paulo Freire		PR	Page 1 of 3