2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by Michigan (Ezequiel Berdichevsky and Adam Kemezis)1.  In plants, F-actin may play a big role in this process, which can be anticipated by the placement of a ring-shaped structure known as PPB, which may dictate the site that a phragmoplast is eventually guided to. Vesicle trafficking aids in expanding that phragmoplast in order to create a cell plate. In animals, myosin II is a key contractile protein that forms a furrow by pinching or puckering inward at the cell equator. Beginning in anaphase and continuing through telophase, for 10 points, name this process that formally splits a cell with two or more nuclei into two separate cells.ANSWER: cytokinesis2.  Sharing its name with the longest river entirely within one state, its course is marked by a number of national parks including Dead Horse Point and Arches National Park. Its lower part was explored by Hernando Alarcon, and silt deposited by it has caused the formation of the Salton Sea. Early on, it flows through the Kewunechee Valley and Lake Granby, but its more famous tributaries are the Paria, the Virgin, the Gunnison, and the Gila rivers.  For 10 points, identify this river that flows through the Grand Canyon, which is named for the state in which its headwaters lie in the Rocky Mountains.ANSWER: Colorado River3.  This battle was preceded by a council of war at the farm of John Hunt. Most of the officers voted against an attack, but Washington insisted on attacking with an advance guard, and offered the command to his senior subordinate. He initially refused, and Lafayette was to command, but Charles Lee then changed his mind. On May 28, 1778, Lee became confused by Clinton's flank attack and allowed his army to retreat in disorder until Washington rallied them and fought to a draw. Sunstroke caused as many casualties as bullets and a soldier's wife name Molly took over a cannon at, for 10 points, this New Jersey battle that was the largest engagement of the northern phase of the Revolutionary War.ANSWER: Battle of Monmouth4.  It ends with a musing on insomnia. A girl and a soldier walk by early in this story, before two other characters begin their discussion about a niece who saved her uncle from hanging himself. Those two men have different points of view about serving an old man brandy after two in the morning. Eventually that customer heeds the young waiter and leaves to go searching for a bodega where he ends up uttering one last "nada" before noting that the bar is unpolished so the brightness does not matter. For 10 points, identify this Ernest Hemingway short story whose title describes the site at which the old man prefers to drink.ANSWER: A Clean Well Lighted Place5.  This most likely author of the Voynich manuscript criticized the Julian calendar and recognized the visible spectrum of light in a glass of water. He argued that the external senses serve man in the quest for "illumination," which helps us to recognize "authority," including that of Aquinas, as a source of error.  The most famous work of this student of Peregrinus who was at odds with scholasticism was suggested by Clement IV and contains seven parts, including sections on the grammar of science and morality.  Called Dr. Mirabilis, for 10 points, name this medieval author of Opus Principale, Opus Majus, and Opus Tertium.ANSWER: Roger Bacon6.  She played Casey Jackson in her first big screen credit, Ulee's Gold.  She has played aggressive women like Kara Wade and Abigail Whistler, but is better known for her amorous roles, cavorting with James Van Der Beek in The Rules of Attraction and canoodling with Freddie Prinze in Summer Catch.  Though she has been just been named Esquire's "Sexiest Woman Alive," provocative pictures in another magazine in 2000 caused Aaron Spelling to drop her to guest star status on her squeaky-clean prime time gig.  For 10 points, identify this former actress on 7th Heaven who recently starred in Blade Trinity and Stealth.ANSWER: Jessica Biel7.  UCLA scientists have suggested that irregularities in the surrounding gas cloud may result from a Neptune-sized planet.  It is the brightest star in a constellation that features an epsilon star known as the Double-Double and a Beta star known as Sheliak or Tortoise. Its name comes from an Arabic phrase meaning "the falling vulture" or "stone eagle," and in Chinese mythology, it represents the wife of Altair.  In 12000 years it will be the North Star.  For 10 points, name this vertex of the Summer Triangle, the fifth brightest star in the sky and the brightest in Lyra.ANSWER: Vega8.  Repeated four times, this man's name is the title of a Vachel Lindsay poem that refers to a year when the poet was sixteen and Altgeld ruled in Springfield. Its fourth section describes this hero's defeat in a stanza beginning "Then Hanna to the rescue," and calls it the "defeat of the alfalfa." That defeat would in fact be repeated twice more by this man who never won an election after his two terms in Congress from 1888-92. Secretary of State to Woodrow Wilson, model for the Cowardly Lion of Oz and expert witness on the Bible were other unsuccessful roles played by, for 10 points, this Nebraskan who "scourged the elephant plutocrats with barbed wire from the Platte" at the 1896 Democratic convention.ANSWER: William Jennings Bryan9.  The title of his collected letters An Abyss Deep Enough refers to his constant bouts with depression, a subject that would become a major theme in works like "The Engagement in San Domingo." He posited that "feeling" allowed man to come closer to infinite awareness in his On Puppetshows, but he remains better known for his plays including Katchen of Heilbronn and Amphitryon. But his most famous work concerns a righteous horse dealer turned vigilante. For 10 points, identify this German romantic author of Prince Friedrich of Homburg and Michael Kohlhaas.ANSWER: Heinrich von Kleist10.  A violin solo arrives some 60 bars into the first section, while as many as six or seven layers of sound provide texture. That section like the final one ends with a powerful forte-fortissimo as brass and percussion clash to convey the fearsome power of the piece's subject. Subtitled "three symphonic sketches," it was deeply influenced by the composer's viewing of a Hokusai painting. For 10 points, identify this impressionistic work whose sections include "From Dawn to Midday," "The Play of the Waves," and "The Dialog of the Wind" and the title location, a work by Debussy.ANSWER: La Mer or The Sea11.  In a recent update, Maurice Godelier focuses on the titular subject as an "enigma" and argues for agonistic versions of it. The original discusses the "total social facts," or contexts, of various geographic sites the author visited. In chapters like "The Extension of this System" the book argues for the title object as a symbol of socialist democracy rather than individualistic capitalism. Beginning with a discussion of maternal versus masculine goods in Samoa, it was first published in 1954. Subtitled "The Form and Reason for Exchange in Archaic Societies," for 10 points, identify this anthropological work by Marcel Mauss.ANSWER: The Gift12.  It is fabled to have been used to count the size of armies in ancient times.  In modern computer applications, it is used to solve simultaneous systems of equations using exact arithmetic and is also applied to random number generation.  The theorem has been extended to general rings and in modern parlance it can be stated that given N congruence relations of the form x equals a mod p, where the p's are relatively prime, there exists an integer solution. For 10 points, name this ancient theorem regarding simultaneous congruences, generally attributed to Sun Zi and Qin Jiushao.ANSWER: Chinese Remainder Theorem13.  This movement was encouraged by the success several years earlier of protests against the Amicable Grant, and earlier in that year a similar movement had broken out in Lincolnshire. Members took an oath written by Robert Aske and wore badges depicting the Five Wounds of Christ. Other leaders had been in touch with the Spanish ambassador and had promised aristocratic support. Lord Darcy surrendered Pontefract Castle to them, and the Duke of Norfolk was forced to negotiate after a standoff at Doncaster Bridge, but eventually Norfolk and Thomas Cromwell managed to crush, for 10 points, this revolt of 1536 that rejected the Act of Supremacy and Henry VIII's break with Rome.ANSWER: The Pilgrimage of Grace14.  Ice arrives with "a roar," while the "trees look threatening, look like judges" in this poem. Other imagery includes "screaming ladies with Brussels lace" and "the mark of the nails." The speaker uses the word "international" to describe both his people's nature and their government, before ending with the line "I am a Russian." These words follow references to Egypt, Dreyfus, and Anna Frank as he describes the dead "gently embracing each other" in "a dark room." For 10 points, identify this Yevgeny Yevtushenko work that commemorates the massacre of thousands of Jews outside of a namesake ravine near Kiev.ANSWER: Babi Yar15.  In one legend, Heracles made him invulnerable at birth by wrapping his lion skin around him. He owned a sword given to him by Hector, but was one of the original suitors of Helen. His exploits include saving Menetheus, covering Patroclus with his shield, and fathering Eurysaces, who would eventually succeeded him as king of Salamis, with Tecmessa. In the most famous story about him, Athena prompts him to go mad, murder some sheep, and fall on his own sword, much to the chagrin of his father, Telamon.  For 10 points, identify this "bulwark of the Achaeans," the second strongest Greek warrior in the Trojan War.ANSWER: Ajax the Great16.  The effect featuring this name can be diminished by replacing histidine with aspartic acid, a condition known as the Hiroshima variant. It states that an increase in carbon dioxide and a decrease in pH will act to reduce the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen. It also names a constant, abbreviated mu sub B, equal to 9.27 times ten to the negative 24 ampere meters squared, that identifies the magnetic moment of a single electron. Most famously, it describes a model that attempts to explain electronic orbitals and atomic structure in general. For 10 points, identify the common name, the surname of a family of Danish scientists.ANSWER: Bohr [accept Bohr effect and Bohr magneton]17.  The four-year hiatus in this man's thirty-five year rule came after he honored an election pledge to ban re-election of the president. After regaining power in 1880, he amended the constitution to allow indefinite re-election. This hero of an 1862 battle against the French promised in a 1908 press interview to hold free elections, but two years later the main opposition candidate was thrown into jail and, after a fraudulent election in 1911, a popular revolution threw this man out. For 10 points, name this native of Oaxaca who was followed in quick succession by Madero, Huerta and Carranza as president of Mexico.ANSWER: Porfirio Diaz Mori18.  The nine figures depicted in this canvas are arranged in a pyramid formation, though only the title figure is wearing his hat and holding out a hand, which seems to be miming the contractions of fingers. Its artist would return to the theme of the group portrait thirty years after this work was completed in his 1662 piece, Syndics of the Cloth Guild, but that painting lacked the corpse that lies at the center of this work.  For 10 points, identify this work commissioned by the seat of the surgeons' guild in Amsterdam, depicting its subject in the midst of teaching his colleagues about the human body, by Rembrandt.ANSWER: The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp19.  Minor characters in the later version of this play include the old man Corin, as well as the servants Adam and Dennis. The play also features the foppish Le Beau delighting in the prowess of Charles, a champion wrestler, while the Petrarchan tradition is spoofed in the relationship between Phebe and Silvius. Adapted from a work by Thomas Lodge, the action focuses on a banished Duke and the growing love between Orlando be Boys and a girl he thought was really a boy named Ganymede. For 10 points, identify this work that takes place in Arden forest, revolves around Rosalind, and was written by Shakespeare.ANSWER: As You Like It20.  The third king with this name was nicknamed "thunderbolt," and died on campaign against Attalus of Pergamum after a three-year reign. The second, nicknamed "gloriously victorious," faced a revolt by Diodotus, who set up an independent Greek kingdom in Bactria. One city on in Pieria and another on the Tigris opposite Ctesiphon were named for the first, who was briefly exiled to Egypt in 316 by Antigonus, but retook Babylon four years later and held Alexander's Asian possessions until his death in 281. For 10 points, give the common name of these kings, which also refers to the dynasty of Hellenistic Syrian kings that was eventually overthrown by the Parthians and the Romans.ANSWER: Seleucus21.  Chapter 6 considers the presence of "calculations and speeches," while figures that are discussed in detail in it include the Uncle with the Yellow Beard, Count Thun, and Frau Doni. It opens with considerations of external and internal excitation before it goes on to analyze the importance of "displacement" and "condensation." But it is Chapter 5 on "Material and Sources" that discusses the universal validity of Laius' son that is probably most famous in, for 10 points, this treatise that coined "Oedipus complex" in its discussions of what happens when we sleep, a work by Freud.ANSWER: The Interpretation of Dreams 22.  His literary criticism has traditionally been written on Fridays; thus, the collections that include essays like "More Troll than Cabbage" and "The Literature of Exhaustion" are named for that day. Germaine G. Pitt and Henry Burlingame III are among the characters found in LETTERS and his most recent work is a collection of short stories entitled The Book of Ten Nights and a Night. A writer and his friend, a professor, sail down the Chesapeake in his Sabbatical, while colonial Maryland is the setting for The Sot Weed Factor. For 10 points, identify this modern author of The Floating Opera and Giles Goat Boy.ANSWER: John Barth23.  In quantum field theory, it is equivalent to one-loop Feynman diagrams.  The idea is originally attributed to Lord Rayleigh, who used it to analyze the propagation of an optical disturbance in a nonuniform medium. In his version, he assumed that the wave number was proportional to the index of refraction. The rigorous mathematical theory of this approximation for linear second-order differential equations was developed by Harold Jeffreys.  For 10 points, name this approximation valid when the potential varies slowly compared to the wave function, a truncated asymptotic series named after three physicists.ANSWER: Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin-Jeffreys approximation [accept any permutation of the names or letters that contains the required/underlined information]
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Michigan (Ezequiel Berdichevsky and Adam Kemezis)1.  Identify the following associated with a religious sect for ten points each:[10] Also known as Salafism, this sect named accepts "the Book of Monotheism," by its namesake founder, as one of its primary texts.ANSWER: Wahhabism or Wahabbi[10] Abdul-Wahhab based his teachings on the writings of this man who was born in 1263 and who argued for a literal interpretation of the Koran.ANSWER: Ibn Taimiyya[10] Ibn Taimiyya declared himself to be one of these independent legal scholars of the Muslim law.ANSWER: mujtahid2.  Answer the following about a pair of related authors for 10 points each.[10] This writer produced works like the play The Years Between and the novels Frenchman's Creek and Jamaica Inn.ANSWER: Daphne Du Maurier[10] Daphne Du Maurier's grandfather, George, wrote such works as The Martian, but is best known for his novel about a hypnotized singer whose rise to fame is orchestrated by the evil Svengali.ANSWER: Trilby[10] While he worked for Punch George Du Maurier helped illustrate the work of this author, best known for The Egoist.ANSWER: George Meredith3.  Answer the following about a historical location for 10 points each.[10] Named after a Pasadena real estate broker, this area was annexed by Los Angeles in 1924 and in the subsequent decades a predominantly black population moved into several large scale housing projects, including Nickerson Gardens and Imperial Court.ANSWER: Watts[10] On August 11 of this year, Watts erupted in violence after Lee Minikus pulled over Marquette Frye and started beating him and his family before arresting all of them for a driving violation.ANSWER: 1965[10] On a more global scale, the uprising was a response to Proposition 14 that wanted to counteract this 1963 piece of legislation that was to help end racial discrimination by property owners and landlords in California.ANSWER: Rumford Fair Housing Act4.  Identify the following types of blue cheese from a brief description, for 10 points each:[10] This blue veined British cheese is named after a Huntingdonshire town and is often served with fries.ANSWER: Stilton[10] The process for making this most famous of American blues was developed by Iowa State University in 1941 and involves aging the cheese in caves, though no dishwashers were involved.ANSWER: Maytag[10] This Italian entry was named after a village that was once outside Milan and its mold is actually more green than blue.ANSWER: Gorgonzola5.  Name some handy types of distribution functions, for 10 points each.[10] This is the distribution function for a sum of Bernoulli random variables. An example is the number of heads in a given number of flips of a biased coin.ANSWER: binomial distribution[10] This discrete power-law distribution describes the frequency of word usage in the English language.ANSWER: Zipf Distribution[10] This is the distribution that represents the number of Bernoulli trials required to get your first success. You could use it to figure out how many Cracker Jack boxes you should buy to get the plastic thingy you are gunning for.ANSWER: geometric distribution6.  Answer some stuff about Brahms' works for ten points each:[10] These works for the title instrument and piano were composed in the 1860s, Opuses 38 and 99 respectively they illustrate Brahms' love for intense brooding rather than idyllic music.ANSWER: Cello Sonata[10] Before the composition of these works, opus 120, Brahms had only once used a wind instrument in his chamber music. This pair of works, inspired by virtuosity, of Richard Muhlfeld, served as his farewell to instrumental composition.ANSWER: Clarinet Sonata[10] Although Shaw once called him "the most wanton of composers" Brahms did not spend all his life with the ladies: he did find time to compose this many symphonies.ANSWER: four7.  Identify these Victorian women authors from pairs of works, 5-5-10-10.[5] Love and Friendship and Mansfield ParkANSWER: Jane Austen[5] Agnes Grey and The Tennant of Wildfell HallANSWER: Anne Bronte [10] Illustrations of Political Economy and a famous AutobiographyANSWER: Harriet Martineau[10] Cranford and Mary BartonANSWER: Elizabeth Gaskell8.  Identify the following about the history of Zimbabwe for 10 points each.[10] This British imperialist who founded the De Beer's diamond company and left his fortune to public service once lent his name to Zimbabwe.ANSWER: Cecil Rhodes[10] This Bantu people, who built the Great Zimbabwe ruins, now make up the majority of the country's population.ANSWER: Shona[10] Ian Smith's regime was succeeded by this man who first became prime minister in 1980, then president in 1987, all the while feuding with his rival Joshua Nkomo.ANSWER: Robert Mugabe9.  Your reward for getting that tossup is a bonus on thermodynamic cycles.  For 10 points each:[10] This cycle, used in most power plants to generate electricity from steam, involves the isentropic compression of a fluid, followed by isobaric heating to vapor and then expansion in a turbine and then condensation.ANSWER: Rankine cycle[10] This palindromic power cycle used in four-stroke internal combustion engines consists of intake, compression, ignition, and expansion phases. Its efficiency is proportional to the compression ratio.ANSWER: Otto cycle[10] This refrigeration cycle was patented by its namesake and Leo Szilard in 1930. It uses butane as a refrigerant and has no moving parts. The cycle has ammonia act as an inert gas to lower the partial pressure over the butane.ANSWER: Einstein cycle or Einstein refrigerator10.  Answer the following about sociology for 10 points each.[10] This sociological perspective argues that people manipulate, negotiate, and create iconic structures that give meaning to the world through their encounters with others.ANSWER: symbolic interactionism [accept variants][10] One of the critiques of symbolic interactionism is that it ignores those things that can not be accounted for by face to face encounters, such as this branch of social science, the study of human population dynamics.ANSWER: demography[10] This sociologist, who co-founded "grounded theory" with Anselm Strauss, coined the term "symbolic interactionism" in the 1937 article "Social Psychology."ANSWER: Herbert Blumer11.  Answer the following about a painting for 10 points each.[10] Finished in 1908, and now housed in Vienna,  this work portrays a man and a woman embracing and encased in a cocoon of golden clothing that decorated with rectangular and circular motifs.ANSWER: The Kiss[10] This Secession artist of the erotic portraits Danae and Judith also did The Kiss. ANSWER: Gustav Klimt[10] The scene in The Kiss, featuring one figure nuzzling the neck and hair of another, is evocative of this painting completed 14 years earlier by Edvard Munch, which depicts a red headed woman seemingly biting her the man slumped over in her lap.  ANSWER: Vampire12.  Identify the following about a 19th century novel for 10 points each.[10] In this 1840 novel, which includes sections like "Taman" and "Princess Mary," its author revisits a theme broached in earlier poems like "The Circassian Boy" and "Demon." ANSWER: A Hero of Our Time[10] A Hero of Our Time was written by this author.ANSWER: Mikhail Lermontov[10] This staff captain, whose name also titles the second part of the novel, tells the story of Pechorin and Bela in the first section of the book.ANSWER: Maxim Maximych [accept either name]13.  Answer the following about a certain treaty for 10 points each.[10] Among other stipulations, this document, approved by the Senate in 1815, provided that commissions would be set up to determine the boundary from the St. Croix River west to Lake of the Woods.ANSWER: Treaty of Ghent[10] This Swiss-born financier and statesman, the Secretary of the Treasury under Jefferson, played a key role in negotiating the Treaty of Ghent.ANSWER: Albert Gallatin[10] Another reason the British were so keen to proceed with the treaty was Thomas Macdonough's naval victory on Lake Champlain near this town in New York.ANSWER: Plattsburgh14.  Name these features of the skull for 10 points each.[10] This is the hole in the skull through which the spinal cord exits. A position further towards the front of the skull indicates bipedalism.ANSWER: foramen magnum[10] This bone forms the prominence of the cheek, and is commonly called the cheekbone. It runs below the eye socket and is formed by the articulation of the temporal bone with its namesake bone.ANSWER: zygomatic arch or zygoma or malar bone or yoke bone[10] This protrusion from the top of the skull results from prolonged, forceful chewing. It makes robust australopithecines, and some Eskimos, look like punk rockers.ANSWER: sagittal crest15.  Answer the following about the geography of Antarctica for 10 points each.[10] The Filchner and Ronne ice shelves are both located at the head of this sea that gives its name to an indigenous seal.ANSWER: Weddell Sea[10] Named after a U.S. congressman, this is the highest mountain on the continent.ANSWER: Vinson Massif[10] This body of water was the site of Roald Amundsen's base for his trek to the South Pole and is the Ross Ice Shelf's best-known inlet.ANSWER: Bay of Whales16.  Name these highlights of post-World War I European diplomacy for 10 points each.[10] This alliance of Romania, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia was mostly designed to prevent Hungary from regaining the territory it lost after 1918.ANSWER: Little Entente[10] This proposed eastern frontier for Poland, named after the British foreign secretary, was rejected by the Poles, who expanded eastward through war with the Soviets.ANSWER: Curzon Line[10] Similarly, the Turks were unhappy with the postwar treaty of Sèvres, and after fighting under Kemal Ataturk, gained expanded borders under this 1921 agreement.ANSWER: Treaty of Lausanne17.  Identify these poems by Allan Ginsberg from lines for ten points each:[10] "I saw you, Walt Whitman, childless, lonely old / grubber, poking among the meats in the refrigerator."ANSWER: A Supermarket in California[10] "My son! My son! The endless ages have remembered me! My son! My son! / Time howled in anguish in my ear!ANSWER: Kaddish[10] Moloch! Moloch! Nightmare of Moloch! Moloch the / loveless! Mental Moloch! Moloch the heavy / judger of men!ANSWER: Howl18.  Identify these things about a kooky branch of chemistry for 10 points each.[10] This is defined as any material that can greatly reduce the surface tension of water when used in very low concentration.ANSWER: surfactant or detergent[10] A surfactant will form an internal group of molecules near the surface that is known by this name. ANSWER: micelle[10] Often, a surfactant will create one of these, which is defined as an oil-in-water mixture or a water-in-oil mixture. It is distinct from other classifications like sols or gels.ANSWER: emulsion19.  Show off your Latin by naming these historic Papal documents for 10 points each.[10] This 1891 encyclical on labor conditions stressed the moral duties of employers and earned Leo XIII the nickname "the workingmen's pope."ANSWER: Rerum novarum[10] Boniface VIII's massive claims for papal supremacy were set out in two bulls, one in 1296 and another in 1302. Both provoked revolt from the Kings of France and England. Name either.ANSWER: Clericis laicos or Unam sanctam[10] Use of contraceptives among American Catholics actually increased sharply immediately after this 1968 encyclical reasserting the Church's ban on the practice.ANSWER: Humanae vitae20.  Answer the following about a literary character and author for 10 points each:[10] Also known as "Dod Grile," he is portrayed as an ineffectual escapee from America who cannot understand the culture of the Mexican revolution in Fuentes' The Old Gringo. ANSWER: Ambrose Bierce[10] Bierce's best-known work might be this compendium of definitions which was also published as The Cynic's Wordbook.ANSWER: The Devil's Dictionary[10] Many of Bierce's most famous stories, including "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," can be found in this collection that takes its title from the Anglican Book of Common Prayer.ANSWER: In the Midst of Life [also accept Tales of Soldiers and Civilians]21.  Answer some questions about radiative transfer, 5-10-15.[5] This Nobel laureate wrote the seminal text in the field of radiative transfer where he introduces his eponymous H function.  He is better known for the theory of the collapse of stars into white dwarfs featuring his namesake limit.ANSWER: Subramanyan Chandrasekhar[10] This law gives the rate of thermal emission by a radiating system in local thermodynamic equilibrium as the opacity times the Planck blackbody function.  It is important in describing the process of transfer of radiation energy into thermal energy.ANSWER: Kirchoff's Law[15] This model, named for a British scientist, is important in analyzing the amount of photons escaping the surface of an astronomical body.  It features two half-spaces, a vacuum and a scattering medium, with a boundary condition of no crossing over of particles from one side to the other.ANSWER: Milne-Eddington Problem22.  Answer the following about a mythical creature for ten points each:[10] Marco Polo discussed its enormous feathers in his Travels, while Sinbad allowed one of them to carry him from a snake pit filled with diamonds by strapping meat to his back.ANSWER: roc or rukh[10] The enmity between snakes and the Roc finds an analogue in Hindu myths about the battle between the Nagas and this King of the Birds, the mount of Vishnu.ANSWER: Garuda[10] In Book of Kings Firdausi notes that this hero's father, Zal, was raised by a giant bird.ANSWER: Rustem or Rustam		MI	Page 1 of 3