2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by Virginia (Leo Wolpert)1.  A Jodeci song plays in the background of this album's interlude, in which a woman calls the artist a "biscuit-suckin' motherfucker."  Its depressing songs includes one in which he finds his woman shot in the heart, "Me & My Bitch;" another in which he claims to "hear death knockin' at my front door," "Everyday Struggles;" the title track where he claims his life is played out like the jheri curl;" and the final track in which the artist depicts shooting himself, "Suicidal Thoughts."  For 10 points, name this album containing the more upbeat "Unbelieveable," "Juicy" and "Big Poppa," a Notorious B.I.G. work whose title implies Biggie's acceptance of his own demise.ANSWER: Ready to Die2.  Dalziel Hammick showed that this process in alpha-trioxymethylene results in polyoxymethylene, which was later used as a commercial polymer.  Phenarsazine chloride undergoes it readily, making it useful as a chemical warfare agent, and uranium hexafluoride undergoes it to separate uranium isotopes.  The Hortvet device can determine the temperature at which this occurs, and so-called "flowers of sulfur" are created by it.  An apophorometer uses it to identify minerals, and hoar crystals always grow by this process.  Occurring at temperatures and pressures below the triple point, for 10 points, name this phase exemplified by dry ice, in which a solid changes directly into a gas.ANSWER: sublimation3.  Future IOC president Avery Brundage's Nazi sympathies caused him to be booted from this organization, which was based on four principles, including building an "impregnable defense," and four objectives, one of which was to "provide sane leadership."  Founded by Quaker Oats heir Robert Douglas Stuart Jr. and first chaired by General Robert E. Wood, its most famous member vilified "the British, the Jewish, and the Roosevelt administration" in a Des Moines speech.  For 10 points, name this organization whose members included Gerald Ford and Charles Lindbergh, which opposed United States intervention in Europe and the Pacific until Pearl Harbor was attacked.ANSWER: America First Committee4.  He is the author of the radio play Cascando and the short stories "All Strange Away" and "Imagination Dead Imagine," which depict survivors of a nuclear holocaust. The title character's journey from naturalism to the bizarre world of Mr. Knott's house is told in his novel Watt.  Other strange characters include the one-eyed Worm and Mahood in The Unnamable, which is often grouped with Molloy and Malone Dies.  However, he is better known for his plays, such as one in which Winnie is stuck in a mound of dirt, Happy Days, and another in which Hamm and Clov live another day in the soon-to-end world.  For 10 points, name this Irish absurdist playwright of Krapp's Last Tape, Endgame and Waiting for Godot.ANSWER: Samuel Beckett5.  On his deathbed, he competed sketches for unrealized works like Opening of the Doors of the Spanish Inquisition and African Slave Trade, while his early works include the grim pen-and-ink Executioner Strangling a Prisoner and the neoclassicist Centaur Carrying Off a Woman.  His later work includes portraits of the patients of his friend Dr. Etienne-Jean Georget such as Kleptomania, Gambling Mania, Delusion of Military Command, and Manic Envy.  His best-known work has a man waving a flag toward a barely-visible ship in the distance while several others struggle to remain afloat on a makeshift vessel.  For 10 points, name this French realist painter of The Raft of the Medusa.ANSWER: Theodore Gericault6.  Its title in English was co-opted by Mary Daly to discuss the titular concept's relationship to Christianity.  In its first chapter, "Biology," the author echoes Merleau-Ponty's idea that "man is a historical idea" rather than a species.  Later in its first book, "Facts and Myths," the author comes close to accepting Stendhal's admiration of women while excoriating D.H. Lawrence for trumpeting man's superiority in his works.  Rejecting the idea that biological determinism controls how women act, or the "eternal feminine," it famously posits, "one is not born, but rather becomes a woman."  For 10 points, name this seminal work of feminism written by Simone de Beauvoir.ANSWER: The Second Sex or Le Deuxième Sexe 7.  Allgrove's syndrome causes achalasia [a-kuh-LAY-zhuh] and dilation of it, and Zenker's diverticulum and Schatzki's ring are often signs of trauma to it.  Boerhaave [BOHR-hahv] syndrome is a transmural perforation of it that, like the similar Mallory-Weiss syndrome, can be fatal and usually occurs after forceful emesis.  Paterson-Kelly syndrome causes webs to form in it, and ulceration of it named after Barrett causes difficulty swallowing.  For 10 points, name this part of the digestive tube affected by acid reflux disorder, which uses peristalsis to convey boluses of food from the mouth to the stomach.ANSWER: esophagus8.  One of his generals became the first exarch of Italy, and his wife had previously been the consort of Hecebolus, the governor of Libya.  His reign saw the Lazic War, in which he conquered Armenia and Colchis, and he sponsored the fifth ecumenical council, coercing Pope Vigilius into supporting his policy of condemning heretics.  Succeeding his namesake uncle in 527, his most lasting contribution consisted of the Digestae seu Pondecta, Institutiones, Codex, and Authenticum seu Novellae.  For 10 points, name this Byzantine emperor whose general Belisarius suppressed the Nika revolt, best known for commissioning the Hagia Sophia and codifying the law. ANSWER: Justinian I [or Flavius Petrus Sabbatius or Flavius Anicius Justinianus Magnus]9.  In Amy Tan's The Bonesetter's Daughter, Great-Granny Liu believes that one of these creatures is "feasting on her brain," and Ferdinand Bardamu finds himself sorting them for the Port of New York in Céline's Journey to the End of the Night.  A steel one is the titular entity of a Yevgeny Zamyatin play, and the discomfort caused by Italian ones forces the eponymous canine of Virginia Woolf's Flush to return to his owners.  Their most famous literary appearance is in the title of a poem in which the speaker uses the analogy of the mingled blood within it to try to seduce a woman.  For 10 points, name this insect that "suck'd me first, and now sucks thee" in a John Donne poem.ANSWER: fleas10.  His later works include The Myth of the Framework and In Search of a Better World and he earned the nickname "the Official Opposition" for his objections to logical positivism. He collaborated with J.C. Eccles on The Self and its Brain, and dismissed psychoanalysis as unscientific.  He respectfully disagreed with Plato in the first volume of one work, "The Spell of Plato," but tore Hegel up in the second volume "The High Tide of Prophecy" for Hegel's use of historicist ideas to defend Prussia's actions.  For 10 points, name this man who promoted a theory of falsifiability and wrote the works The Poverty of Historicism, The Logic of Scientific Discovery, and The Open Society and Its Enemies.ANSWER: Karl Raimund Popper11.  Material from a glacier forms the Bhagirathi, which joins with the Alakanda near Devprayag to form it.  One of its tributaries, the Mahakali, is set to be dammed at Pancheswar, and it is sometimes called Jahnavi, from a myth in which it was ejected from a wise man's ears.  Dammed at Haridwar and at Farakka, its largest tributary, the Yamuna, converges with it at the city of Allahbad, and after running its over 1500 mile course, it empties into the Bay of Bengal.   For 10 points name this river of Bangladesh and India, the river on which Calcutta lies, that is considered holy by Hindus.ANSWER: Ganges River or Ganga12.  To questions in lecture that he could not answer, he wished to reply "I think I'll leave that to the next generation" and drop dead.  A constant named after him and Borwein is the sum of the reciprocals of the Mersenne primes, and a conjecture named for him and Strauss states that any number of the form 4 divided by n can be expressed as the sum of three unit fractions.  He elegantly proved Chebyshev's theorem as a 17 year old, and with Rado and Ko his name graces a theorem involving subsets and their relation to binomial coefficients.  For 10 points, name this Hungarian mathematician renowned for his many collaborations and a namesake number reminiscent of one for Kevin Bacon.ANSWER: Paul Erdös [air-dish]13.  Reinforcements relieved Edmund Allenby's troops on the second day and the 1st Cavalry Division held the Wulverghem line at this battle.  General Fitz-Clarence usurped the 2nd Worcesters from another division to halt an attack west of Gheluvelt, preventing the opposing side from advancing past St. Eloi [el-WAH].  Ploegsteert Wood, Le Gheer, and Passchendaele Ridge became targets of violent attacks, prompting Sir John French to incorrectly remark "the war surely cannot last much longer."  For 10 points, name this battle fought October 31 to November 17, 1914 that halted the German "race to the sea," the earliest of three battles fought near the same Belgian city.ANSWER: First Battle of Ypres or Battle of Flanders14.  The protagonist, who occasionally finds freedom in Pigeon house, identifies with Mademoiselle Reisz's [REES] independence, if not her look or demeanor; feels an acute sense of dread while helping Dr. Mandelet deliver a child; and is inspired to wade into the ocean after seeing a wounded bird drown. A friend of Mme. Ratignolle, the main character meets secretly with Alcée Arobin, while her husband, Léonce, treats her as an object. Ultimately, however, Robert Lebrun's belief in societal morals prevents him from satisfying her newly unrepressed sexuality.  For 10 points, name this work that focuses on Edna Pontellier, the most famous work of Kate Chopin.ANSWER: The Awakening15.  His belief that politics is based on emotion rather than rationality was expressed in his works The Transformation of Democracy and Facts and Theories.  He simultaneously debunked Marxism and the bourgeois elite in a famous 1916 work that divided human beings into "lions" and "foxes," and he later formulated the theory of "circulation of elites."  His "law of income distribution" appeared in his first major work, though his most lasting work is A Manual of Political Economy, in which he put forth revolutionary ideas such as indifference curves.  For 10 points, name this Italian economist who wrote The Mind and Society and whose namesake optimality is reached when no one can be made better off without making someone else worse off.ANSWER: Vilfredo Frederico Damaso Pareto16.  Donald Knuth [k-nooth] makes one variety of them "dance" in an algorithm for solving pentomino puzzles and the n-queens problem.  Their "unrolled" variety contains arrays of elements and their "skip" type allows large numbers of elements to be ignored, improving their linear indexing time.  Often containing data-less "sentinels" at their beginning and end, they were created by Simon, Newell, and Shaw for the Information Processing Language, and their representation as blocks and arrows won the latter two a Turing Award.  For 10 points, name this data structure in which each data node contains a pointer to the subsequent data node.ANSWER: linked list [accept chained list]17.  During his final season, he was traded to the Red Sox for "Psycho" Steve Lyons, though a knee injury prevented him from pitching against his old team in that year's World Series.  He pitched his only no-hitter in 1978, a year after "Black Wednesday," the day on which he was sent to the Cincinnati Reds after allegations that he was jealous of former teammate Nolan Ryan's salary.  For 10 points, name this Hall of Fame pitcher who racked up 311 wins and won the 1975, 1973 and 1969 National League Cy Young Awards, best known for his days as a New York Met and his alliterative moniker, "Tom Terrific."ANSWER: (George) T(h)om(as) Seaver18.  Langdon Cheves, the ninth Speaker of the House, joined with others such as William Lowndes and Richard Mentor Johnson to form this group, which was strongly opposed by Samuel Taggart.  The desire to add "the Floridas to the South" and "the Canadas to the North" was expressed by one member, Felix Grundy, though this group was given its derisive name by Virginia's more pacifist John Randolph.  For 10 points, name this group of Democratic-Republican congressmen whose ranks included John C. Calhoun and Henry Clay that, in 1812, advocated engaging the British in armed conflict.ANSWER: War Hawks19.  In the second part of this novel, "The Prayers of the Saints," Elizabeth recalls how the protagonist's biological father, Richard, killed himself after being falsely arrested and beaten by police.  In the first part, "The Seventh Day," the reader learns of the family patriarch's idealization of his biological son, Royal, who dies at a bar in Chicago. The protagonist is further conflicted by his feelings towards the pastor's nephew, Brother Elisha, but he eventually reconciles with Gabriel and undergoes conversion on the "threshing floor" at the altar of his Harlem church.  For 10 points, name this bildungsroman about John Grimes, the first novel of James Baldwin.ANSWER: Go Tell It on the Mountain20.  His early works are peppered with scherzos such as the last of his Three Fantastic Dances.  The polka from his ballet The Golden Age proved popular, as did the "Bureaucrat's Polka" from his ballet The Bolt.  While he composed scores for films like "Five Days - Five Nights" and "A Year is Like a Lifetime," he was often coerced into writing patriotic works like Poem of the Motherland and The Sun Shines on Our Motherland.  For 10 points, name this composer of the Babi Yar symphony and the ballet Lady Macbeth of Mtensk, whose "Oath to the People's Commissar" shows the heroism of his countrymen in the face of Nazi invasion within his Leningrad symphony.ANSWER: Dmitri Shostakovich21.  The "imiut" fetish, consisting of a stuffed skin tied to a pole in a pot, is associated with him, and his daughter Kebechet was either a snake or an ostrich that provided him with cool refreshment.  At his cult centers, such as Zawty and Hardai, a vast number of dog mummies can be found, and he was referred to by the name "Foremost of the Westerners," as his domain was thought to lie well west of the Nile.  With his companion Wepwawet, he is known as "He Who Counts the Hearts," weighing the hearts of the dead against a feather of Maat.  For 10 points, name this deity, the jackal-headed conductor of souls and god of mummification in the Egyptian underworld.ANSWER: Anubis or Inpew or Yinepu or Anpu 22.  The speaker of this poet's "The Goblet" is surrounded by nature's beauty, but eventually finds life is fundamentally empty.  The suicide of Stefan Zweig influenced the collection Lagar, and this poet combined allusions to the suffering of children dislocated in the wake of the Spanish Civil war in Tala.  The suicide of her lover Romelio Ureta inspired her most famous works, which include "Pain" and "The Prayer," in which she asks Jesus to forgive Romelio for his suicide in a 14-line poem.  For 10 points, name this Chilean author of the collections Tenderness and Desolation, the latter of which includes her famous "Sonnets of Death."ANSWER: Gabriela Mistral or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga23.  Its final chapter notes that Herbert Spencer objects to being labeled an opponent of the titular concept, and that its title was gleaned from an expression in Galt's Annals of the Parish.  The fifth chapter meshes justice with the titular concept, stating that justice can be "moralised by the social feeling."  Its second chapter famously claims it is "better to be Socrates dissatisfied than a fool satisfied," and it bases its titular doctrine on the idea "that pleasure and freedom from pain are the only things desirable as ends."  For 10 points, name this work that espouses "the greatest happiness for the greatest number of people," a philosophical tract by John Stuart Mill.ANSWER: Utilitarianism
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Virginia (Leo Wolpert)1.  Name some things related to the Helmholtz equation, you know, the one from physics, for 10 points each.[10] The Helmholtz equation contains this differential operator, the divergence of a scalar function's gradient, represented by del-squared.ANSWER: Laplacian operator[10] The Helmholtz equation can be related to solutions of the inhomogeneous wave equation through this transformation that decomposes functions into sinusoids.ANSWER: Fourier transform[10] When k equals 0 in the Helmholtz equation, it is equivalent to this Frenchman's namesake equation, which states that the Laplacian of an unknown function is equal to a given function.ANSWER: Poisson's equation2.  Its tenth and final article allocated 3 million pounds for the purpose of restoring people's homes, and its eighth article deferred the question of enfranchisement for natives.  For 10 points each:[10]Name this 1902 treaty signed by men such as C.R. de Wet, Louis Botha, and Lord Kitchener.ANSWER: Treaty of Vereeniging[10] The treaty of Vereeniging ended the Boer war, which became inevitable after this event, whose namesake got a ragtag band of Matabeleland cops together to attack Johannesburg.  They were smacked down by Boer forces and surrendered at Doornkop.ANSWER: Jameson Raid[10] This message, sent to the president of the Transvaal by Kaiser Wilhelm II a day after the Jameson Raid was put down, irked the British, as they felt it implied encroachment into their sphere of influence.ANSWER: Kruger Telegram3.  At one point, the protagonist takes sick pleasure in stepping on a pregnant prostitute's stomach at the insistence of an American soldier.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this Japanese novel, in which the junior priest Mizoguchi burns down the titular Kyoto structure.ANSWER: The Temple of the Golden Pavilion or Kinkakuji[10] This man wrote plays like My Friend Hitler and Madame de Sade, but is better known for novels like After the Banquet and the aforementioned The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.ANSWER: Yukio Mishima or Kimitake Hiraoka[10] In this Mishima novel, which is loosely based on the Daphnis and Chloë myth, the fisherman Shinji competes with Yasuo for the hand of Hatsue.ANSWER: The Sound of Waves or Shiosai4.  Name some mythological beings with lots of eyes, for 10 points each.[10] During Ragnarok, Tyr will kill, and be killed by, this big 4-eyed dog that guards the entrance to Helheim.ANSWER: Garm[10] This hundred-eyed freak served Hera, who ordered him to watch over Io after Zeus turned her into a cow.  Hermes smoked him at Zeus's behest.ANSWER: Argus[10] This omniscient Vedic deity, the brother of Mitra, has a lasso made from a snake and uses his thousand eyes to watch over humanity, punishing evildoers.ANSWER: Varuna5.  It is defined as psychological discomfort caused by the inconsistency of one's beliefs, attitudes, or actions.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this psychological concept.ANSWER: cognitive dissonance[10] Surprisingly enough, this author of Theory of Cognitive Dissonance developed the theory of cognitive dissonance.ANSWER: Leon Festinger[10] Leon Festinger wrote this work with Henry Riecken and Stanley Schachter.  In it, they detailed a cult centered on the housewife Marian Keech, who claimed that aliens would soon destroy the world, and put forth the hypothesis that a cult leader's incorrect predictions make the cult stronger.ANSWER: When Prophecy Fails6.  Name some major players in the total clusterfuck left in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, for 10 points each (current events suck; this question will be ungettable in two years, and I don't care).[10] This much-maligned former leader of the International Arabian Horse Association became director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in 2003.ANSWER: Michael Brown[10] This Homeland Security secretary claimed that seeing a headline stating that New Orleans "dodged the bullet" caused the delay in finding several thousand people stranded in the New Orleans Convention Center.ANSWER: Michael Chertoff[10] Like some journalists, he blew up during an interview, saying that he "don't want to see anybody do any more goddamned press conferences."  Unlike most journalists, he is the mayor of New Orleans.ANSWER: C(larence) Ray Nagin7.  His Homecoming was painted after a move to a Zurich studio, and Look, the Meadow is Smiling provides a stark contrast to his darker works.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this Swiss symbolist who painted a whole lot of skeletons.ANSWER: Arnold Bocklin[10] In this Bocklin work, two figures approach the titular place in a small rowboat.  What looks kind of like a face can be seen in the black crags in the middle of the painting.ANSWER: The Isle of the Dead[10] The artist holds a paintbrush in his right hand and a palate in his left as a skeleton plays music behind him in this Bocklin work.ANSWER: Self Portrait with Death Playing A Violin [accept clear equivalents, like "fiddle" for violin or "portrait of myself" for "self portrait" etc.]8.  Name some kings of Spain, for 10 points each.[10] After teaming up with his Castillian soon-to-be wife in fighting against Juana la Beltraneja, he unified Castille with his own kingdom, Aragon.  With that wife, he also conquered the last Moorish stronghold in Spain, Granada.ANSWER: Ferdinand II of Aragon [accept Ferdinand V of Castille or Ferdinando de Aragon or Ferran d'Arago][10] This last king of Spain before the rule of Francisco Franco, he was technically reigning when his country lost the Spanish-American war; however, his mother, Maria Christina of Austria, was regent at the time.ANSWER: Alfonso XIII[10] Possibly on the advice of hilariously named advisers such as Enrique Cock, this son of Charles V married Mary Tudor, took care of the treaty of Cateau-Cambresis, and was in power when his navy won the battle of Lepanto.ANSWER: Phillip II [accept Phillip I of Portugal or Felipe II]9.  Its "fuming" variety is also known as "oleum," and it is used in the Wallach transformation to change an azoxybenzene.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this chemical, also known as oil of vitriol, which can be produced in Glover towers and lead chambers.ANSWER: sulfuric acid or H2SO4[10] This reaction oxidizes sulfur dioxide to sulfur trioxide, then treats it with sulfuric acid to form disulfuric acid.  Then, when water is added, two new molecules of sulfuric acid are formed.ANSWER: contact process[10] A mixture of sulfuric acid and nitrogen oxides found in some chamber process towers is named for this French chemist, whose discoveries paralleled those of Humphrey Davy.ANSWER: Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac10.  Name some authors who mention football at some point in their oeuvre, 5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four.[a] His most famous character, Studs Lonigan, gets kicked off the football team for never attending practice and sassing the coach.ANSWER: James T(homas) Farrell[b] The halfback Gary Harkness is obsessed with nuclear war in this author's End Zone.  There's considerably less football in this man's other works, such as Ratner's Star and Underworld.ANSWER: Don DeLillo[c] Orin, a pro punter, is the son of James Incandenza in this man's most famous work, in which James made a film so great it causes people to overdose and die on pleasure.ANSWER: David Foster Wallace [the work, of course, is Infinite Jest][d] Yogi Johnson talks about how he was a center in football, and how he killed several men during World War I, in this man's early novel Torrents of Spring.ANSWER: Ernest Hemingway11.  It contains a fresco by Andrea del Castagno on its north, and a relief of the Assumption of the Virgin by Nanni di Banco on its outside.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this Florentine cathedral, most notable for its octagonal cupola.ANSWER: Il Duomo or Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore[10] This man was originally co-architect of Il Duomo with Ghiberti, but took over and relegated Ghiberti to making some stained glass windows.ANSWER: Filippo Brunelleschi[10] This coiner of the term "renaissance" and remodeler of the Palazzo Vecchio painted a fresco of The Last Judgment inside Il Duomo.ANSWER: Giorgio Vasari12.  Do you love American mountain ranges as much as I?  Of course you do.  For 10 points each:[10] Memorably named peaks in it include Whiteface and Haystack, though this New York range's highest peak is Mount Marcy.ANSWER: Adirondacks[10] The highest point in this middle America range is Hare Mountain, though the views off White Rock Mountain are supposedly pretty.ANSWER: Ozarks[10]Going from the Feather River basin to the Mojave Desert, this Western range contains Mount Lyell and the Half Dome.ANSWER: Sierra Nevada13.  It is simply a region where one tectonic plate goes under another, and dives towards the center of the Earth.  For 10 points each:[10] Name these zones, the cause of South America's "ring of fire."ANSWER: subduction zones[10] This brittle region of the Earth, which includes the upper mantle and the crust, floats atop the asthenosphere.  It is the primary player in the formation of subduction zones.ANSWER: lithosphere[10] This zone, a subdivision of the upper mantle, is where earthquakes originate when one tectonic plate is subducted.  Its inclination coincides with that of the subducting plate.ANSWER: Wadati-Benioff zone14.  Some scandals of the 19th century had nothing to do with Ulysses S. Grant.  For 10 points each:[10] A major scandal of Andrew Jackson's administration revolved around this young lass, whom John Calhoun's scandal-mongering wife accused of adultery.ANSWER: Margaret "Peggy" Eaton (nee O'Neill)[10] Word that this abolitionist preacher committed adultery with his parishioner Elizabeth Tilton was spread by Victoria Woodhull in 1872.  Nothing came of it, as this man continued to lead the Plymouth Church until he died in 1887.ANSWER: Henry Ward Beecher[10] In this scandal, McKinley's secretary of war, Russell Alger, caught heat for sending tainted meat to troops fighting in the Spanish-American war.  It brought attention to the horrid conditions of meatpacking plants almost a decade before Upton Sinclair did.ANSWER: Embalmed Beef Scandal15.  Name some tragedies not written by Shakespeare, for 10 points each.[10] Octavius never appears on stage in this play, Jon Dryden's take on the Antony and Cleopatra story.ANSWER: All for Love[10] Don Andrea and the Spirit of Revenge return to Earth, where the former learns that he was killed by Balthazar, in this most famous work of Thomas Kyd.ANSWER: The Spanish Tragedy[10] This Beaumont and Fletcher collaboration features Amintor killing Aspatia in self-defense, then killing himself.  Also, Evadne kills the king of Rhodes, and kills herself soon after.ANSWER: The Maid's Tragedy16.  He collaborated with his wife Alya to write Nation and Family, though he wrote The Challenge of World Poverty by himself.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this Swedish sociologist who outlined a bunch of reforms in the aforementioned work.ANSWER: (Karl) Gunnar Myrdal[10] This, Gunnar Myrdal's best known work, was cited as a footnote in Brown v. Board.  According to Myrdal, its title refers to the co-existence of liberal ideals and the impoverished condition of African-Americans.ANSWER: An American Dilemma: The Negro and Modern Democracy[10] This American diplomat collaborated with Myrdal in writing An American Dilemma a few decades before becoming undersecretary of the United Nations in 1967.ANSWER: Ralph J(ohnson) Bunche17.  Name some two-word phrases from the universe of Seinfeld, for 10 points each.[10] In an example of synecdoche, Jerry uses this term to designate Gillian.  She uses her most noticeable, and appalling, feature to open beer bottles, break open a lobster, and assault Jerry.ANSWER: Man-Hands[10] In one episode, Frank Costanza shouts this phrase gleaned from a relaxation cassette, though the former mental patient Lloyd Braun claims that it causes "insanity later."ANSWER: Serenity Now[10] At one point this phrase does not describe Jerry, as he lied about his pants size.  It does, however, apply to some guy named Billy, as he is good enough for Elaine to use a hard-to-find form of birth control with him.ANSWER: sponge-worthy18.  Things found in DNA, for 10 points each.[10] In humans, these sequences, which exist at the end of each chromosome to protect them from enzymes, consist of the sequence TTAGGG repeated a couple million times.ANSWER: telomeres[10] Removed before transcription by SNRPs [snurps], they are the sections of DNA that do not code proteins.ANSWER: introns[10] This is the difference in DNA between different specimens, used as a DNA marker, which is recognized by using a restriction enzyme.ANSWER: Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms [sometimes pronounced "riff-lip(s)"]19.  Name some generals from the armed conflict in Vietnam, for 10 points each.[10] This leader of the Viet Minh army defeated the French army at Dien Bien Phu, and also led the Tet Offensive.ANSWER: Vo Nguyen Giap[10] The man behind the 4400th Combat Crew Training Squadron, he's best known for his suggestion that Vietnam be bombed "back into the stone age."ANSWER: Curtis Emerson LeMay[10] This man, who failed to win the governorship of South Carolina in 1974 and died in 2005, oversaw the introduction of American ground troops into Vietnam.ANSWER: William Childs Westmoreland20.  Like Chris Frankel, he attempts to woo a greyhound named Minonas.  Also like Frankel, he is chastised by a female, Miesmie, for his desire to commit incest with Mina.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this literate feline owned by Master Abraham, the hero of an 1821 German novel.ANSWER: Kater(s) Murr [prompt on The Educated Cat][10] Name the author of The Life and Opinions of Kater Murr, who is better known for works like The Devil's Elixir and supernatural short stories such as "The Sandman."ANSWER: E(rnst) T(heodor) A(madeus) Hoffmann[10] E.T.A. Hoffmann wrote The Life and Opinions of Kater Murr to put a Romantic spin on this Frenchman's Confessions.  He's more famous for works like The New Heloise and Émile.ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau21.  It began after Liu Bang's army defeated that of his rival Xiang [SHIANG] Yu at the battle of Huaixi [hooah-EE-shee].  For 10 points each:[10] Name this dynasty that followed the anarchy left in the wake of the fallen Chin dynasty.ANSWER: Han[10] This government official forced Emperor Ping to drink a cup of poison, eventually usurping the throne from Ping's successor in 8 AD.ANSWER: Wang Mang[10] After Wang Mang was executed in 22 AD, the new emperor Liu Xiu [SHOO] moved the Han dynasty capital to Luoyang, which was a couple hundred miles east of this former capital.ANSWER: Changan22.  In his "The Woman at the Washington Zoo," an old lady envies the animals because they, unlike her, are objects of attention.  For 10 points each:[10] Name this American poet, who also wrote The Lost World and various anti-war poems such as "Burning the Letters," "A Pilot From the Carrier" and "Eighth Air Force."ANSWER: Randall Jarrell[10] This poem, published in his collection Little Friend, Little Friend, is Randall Jarrell's most famous.  At the end, they wash the title character out of his plane with a hose.ANSWER: The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner[10] While at Vanderbilt, Jarrell met with members of this poetic movement, which included Robert Penn Warren, Allen Tate, and John Crowe Ransom.ANSWER: The Fugitives		VA	Page 1 of 3