2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandTossups by Delaware (Mark Pellegrini, Geoff Oxberry, Dan Silverio)1.  Bertrand Russell, in his article "16 Questions," questioned the efficacy of this group.  One member was appointed assistant secretary of war under Stimson in 1941, and another was serving in a position he filled due to the death of Alben Barkley.  Yet another member, the father of Cokie Roberts, died on a campaign flight in Alaska in 1973.  Those three men - John McCloy, John Cooper, and Hale Boggs - were joined by Allen Dulles, then Representative Gerald Ford, and this group's namesake.  For 10 points, identify this group unofficially named for its head, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and charged with evaluating the assassination of President Kennedy.  ANSWER: the Warren Commission [prompt on President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy]2.  A reference to a bassinette, or "kneading basin," in this play is properly translated as an accusation of masturbation.  Shortly afterwards, more humor is provided by confusion as to whether the names Melesias and Amynias are masculine or feminine.  A subplot concerns twelve minai owed to Pasias due to the horse racing addiction of one the play's central characters.  The main plot ends with Xanthias beginning the destruction of the phrontisterion, or Thinkery.  For 10 points, name this play that uses the relationship of Strepsiades and Pheidippides to ridicule Socrates and the Sophists, a work by Aristophanes.  ANSWER: The Clouds3.  First performed in 1808, along with its immediate predecessor, it is divided into five movements, though all of the exposition takes place in three key areas rather than two, a fact that broadens the harmonic reaction of the piece. While it ends with a sly depiction of amateur musicians before the long, progressively tranquil coda that culminates in two fortissimo chords, the second named part begins an andante in B flat major with a limpid main theme for violins and a bassoon sub-theme that is punctured by an oboe and a clarinet representing bird calls, a scenario that establishes a "Scene by the Brook." The first movement, probably the most familiar to listeners, is written in allegro-ma-non-troppo and is subtitled 'Awakening of joyous feelings upon arrival in the country'. Identify, FTP, identify this work that attempts to emote the mood of being in the woods, the 6th Symphony by Ludwig Van Beethoven. ANSWER: Beethoven's Pastoral Symphony  (Accept Beethoven's 6th Symphony before mentioned in question)4.  First described by Robert Torrens in 1815, it was completely explained in 1817's Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, where wine and cloth trade between England and Portugal was analyzed. Often used as a bedrock principle in explaining free trade, it assumes limited resources and the mobility of goods. It occurs when one entity, which can more profitably produce a particular good, specializes in it. Identify, FTP, this quality described by David Ricardo where two nations trade even though one has an absolute advantage over the other. ANSWER: Comparative advantage5.  On his 95th birthday, he promised that while he was still alive, he'd do everything he could to support President Kennedy - ironically, later that day, Kennedy was shot and killed. After much frustration with it, he once famously quipped that the office of the vice presidency is "not worth a bucket of warm piss." His long political career came to an end when he retired following his sound beating in the 1940 democratic primary. FTP, identify this two term vice-president of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. ANSWER: John Nance Garner6.  Peng and Robinson's is more commonly used than the Dieterici and Bertholet ones, which are examples of the two-parameter type.  The Wohl type is useful for its statement in terms of critical values, and one of the most complex is the Beattie-Bridgeman type.  "Thermal" types are less common than "Volumetric" types, which include the virial one and which relate the pressure, temperature and volume of a substance.  For 10 points, the Ideal Gas Law is perhaps the best-known example of what three-word phrase for a constitutive equation describing a phase of matter under given physical conditions?ANSWER: equations of state7.  It was finally made possible after a conference at Bussetto two years earlier and the Peacy of Crespy the previous year.  It was only moved once but interrupted for the longest time following the brief military success of Maurice of Saxony.  Recalled for the last time by Pius IV, it was initially convened under the auspices of Paul III.  Among its key decisions were creating the standard of the Tridentine Mass and establishing Church doctrine on salvation and the sacraments.  For 10 points, name this Catholic Church council held between 1545 and 1563 and called in response to the Protestant Reformation.ANSWER: Council of Trent  8.  The central secret in this novel takes shape after the death of the horse Wildfire. The title character's backstory is related early on, including his loss of his fiancée Sarah and his betrayal at the hands of his friend William Dane.  He once again falls under suspicion after using a foxglove remedy to cure the dropsy of his neighbor Sally Oates.  He does grow close with another neighbor, Dolly Winthrop, whose son Aaron marries his daughter at the novel's end.  This happens after a visit from Nancy Lammeter and Godfrey Cass who fail to gain custody of the title character's daughter, Eppie.  For 10 points, name this novel about the titular weaver of Raveloe, a work by George Eliot.ANSWER: Silas Marner9.  According to a divergent account this mythological figure was the son of Pylas, King of Megara, and disputed the succession with Nisus, the son of Pandion. Eventually he was made commander of the armies and his daughter, Endei, married Aeacus. The more well known stories identify him as the son of Poseidon or Pelops and depict him prowling on the road between Megara and Eleusis where he would stop travelers to make them wash his feet. Eventually killed by Theseus, for ten points, identify this brigand who haunted the overland route to Athens, a man who would stop travelers and kick them over the nearest cliff where his turtle would devour their remains.ANSWER: Sciron10.  Because its volume is rapidly shrinking, the Two Seas canal project is an attempt to divert water to it from the Red Sea. Known to the Greeks as Lake Asphaltites, it is bordered on the west by Ein Bohek, Ein Gedi, and Masada, site of the 72 AD rebellion of the Jews against the Romans. A popular tourist activity here is to read a newspaper while floating, which is very easy from the high buoyancy due to the water's high salt content. The Jordan River flows into it from the north, near Qumran. Containing the lowest point on the earth's surface, identify, FTP, this sea that separates Israel and Jordan. ANSWER: Dead Sea11.  In June 2005, publicist Max Clifford turned down an offer to help him rebuild his image, saying it would be the second hardest job in PR after Saddam Hussein. Following a false paternity suit by one of his fans, he penned a song about it that netted him two Grammy awards, and became the first song by a black artist to air on MTV. The album that featured that song rocketed to #1 and has since become one of the best selling albums of all time. Sometimes known as the King of Pop, FTP, identify this musician who wrote Billie Jean and the album Thriller.ANSWER: Michael Jackson12.  In some cases it can arise from pressure applied to the Pacinian corpuscles *, though in the auditory region it is due to cochlear microphonic functioning  Its curve reaches the highest point at the overshoot level and shows a very short latent period.  Among its characteristics are an absolute or relative refractory period, biphasic occurrence, and obeyance of the all or none law.  Its two portions are caused the by influx of sodium ions and efflux of potassium ions and are termed depolarization and repolarization.  Electrical signaling occurs as a result of, for 10 points, what excitation phenomenon found in nerve cells?ANSWER: action potential [accept receptor potential before *]13.  It was shortly after his defeat at the river Muthul that he captured Capsa by bribing the city's defenders.  His father entrusted his military education to his uncle Gulussa, whose son he later had murdered.  He eventually overthrew both his half-brothers, Adherbal and Hiemspal, and ruled for 14 years before being betrayed by his father-in-law Bocchus.  The war he had conducted for the previous seven years was chronicled by Sallust and brought fame to both Sulla and Marius.  For 10 points, name this famous Numidian king.ANSWER: Jugurtha  14.  In the last section the poet suggests the birth of a child who will serve as a closer link between the poet's generation and the "crowning race."  A climactic moment occurs when the poet communes with a dead spirit on the lawn of his home at Somersby, and the work ends with an epithalamion celebrating the marriage of Edward Lushington and the poet's sister.  Published as a single piece in 1850, it consists of 131 poems of isometric stanzas.  For 10 points, name this poetic work, a tribute to Arthur Henry Hallam by his friend Alfred Tennyson.ANSWER: In Memoriam, A.H.H.15.  Inlaid marble skeletons are placed on the left and right in front of the altar, while the vault of the ceiling is dissolved in a glory of cloud-borne heavenly hosts that seems to help the figures bulge out. Perhaps the most inventive additions to this work are the so called "boxes" that depict marble reliefs of the patrons and are situated at the sides of the central scene. Flanked by simulated light rays of bronze, the hanging foot and hand of the pale white title figure emerge under her ebbing drapery and are shown in stark contrast to the other figure's melting smile and the iron tipped spear that he is holding . Housed in the Cornaro chapel, for ten points, identify this sculptural work about the utter surrender of a certain saint to the glory of God, a masterwork by Gianlorenzo Bernini.ANSWER: the Ecstasy of St. Theresa16.  Fidel Castro used it in 1960 as retaliation against U.S. citizens, and particularly the mafia. Deriving from common law, it is often used in public projects to build schools and highways. It gained much public attention following the Supreme Court's decision in Kelo v. New London, where the state had planned to turn over seized property to a private developer. Known in Australia as compulsory acquisition, and in England as compulsory purchase, FTP, identify this legal power that allows Government to appropriate private property without the owner's consent. ANSWER: Eminent Domain17.  He made his debut in October 1974, in issue 180 of the Incredible Hulk. Long held questions about his early life were answered in 2002 with the Origin series, where it was revealed that his real name is James Howlett, and that he was born to a plantation family in 19th century British Colombia. His longevity stems from his mutant powers. Those powers made him an ideal candidate for the Weapon X project, in which adamantium was bonded to his skeleton. Possessing rapid healing powers, FTP, identify this surly member of the X-men ANSWER: Wolverine or Logan18.  One of the latest techniques used to accumulate this particle is slowing it within a tungsten crystal in a cryogenic vacuum.  Its astronomical importance explains the use of the INTEGRAL observatory space project in finding signatures of its production.  It was detected by passing cosmic rays through a gas chamber, and then using a magnet to deflect particles of different charges, but its existence was predicted four years earlier as a consequence of the Dirac equation.  For 10 points, name this particle with a charge of +1 and which annihilates with the electron, for which it is an antiparticleANSWER: positron [accept anti-electron before electron is mentioned]19.  Most of those involved were captured in a bloody raid on their hideout of Holbeche House.  Three days earlier it fell apart after the investigation of Thomas Knyvett, though that investigation was ordered on the basis of a letter sent most likely by Francis Tresham to his brother-in-law Lord Monteagle.  Thomas Bates was forced into involvement by his employer, this conspiracy's mastermind Robert Catesby.  Hatched due to dissatisfaction with the anti-Catholic policies of James I, for 10 points, name this scheme linked with Guy Fawkes, a 1605 plan to blow up the House of Lords.ANSWER: Gunpowder Plot20.  In the first scene one character mentions the recent bombing of Guernica, and in the next scene another character relates the origin of the nickname "Blue Roses.  Another story in this play is the oft-repeated one about how one character entertained seventeen men at Blue Mountain.  Jim O'Connor is the only figure who is not a member of the central family, which was abandoned by the father, though they continue to display his picture in the living room. It is told as the memories of Tom, primarily of his mother Amanda and his sister Laura.  For 10 points, name this play which takes its name from the Laura Wingfield's collection of figurines, a work by Tennessee Williams.ANSWER: The Glass Menagerie   21.  The deep fibers of its lower part can create a variation known as the subanconeus.  One of its portions arises from a linear roughening above the spiral groove, while its longest portion takes origin from the infraglenoid tubercle.  All of its portions form a flat tendon that inserts onto the posterior surface of the olecranon.  It is innervated by the radial nerve and it is the chief extensor of the forearm at the elbow joint.  For 10 points, name this muscle in the posterior compartment of the upper arm that derives its name from its three heads.  ANSWER: triceps brachii22.  His second son, Shuja, was ill for most of his life as was his youngest son, Murad Baksh.  Most of his military expeditions were disastrous, though he did force the subjugation of Adil to his south. Shortly afterwards he moved his capital, settling down in the Red Fort. Within the next ten years he saw the overthrow of his designated successor Dara Shikoh and his own imprisonment at the hands of his third son, who assumed the title of Alamgir.  For 10 points, name this son of Jahangir, the Mughal emperor who was succeeded by Aurangzeb but best-known for the mausoleum he constructed for his wife, the Taj Mahal.ANSWER: Shah Jahan or Khurram23.  The few things he enjoys are good coffee, pleasant weather, and being able to dry his hands with a dry towel.  He is also deeply affected by reading an article about a Czechoslovakian man who is accidentally murdered by his family.  Among his neighbors were a man who beat his dog and another who beat his girlfriend, Salamano and Raymond Sintes respectively.  It is for killing the brother of the latter's girlfriend, the incident with the Arab on the beach, that he is imprisoned.  For 10 points, name this completely apathetic title character of Albert Camus' The Stranger.ANSWER: Merseault [mare-SO] [accept The Stranger before it is mentioned]
2005 Terrapin Invitational TournamentOctober 22, 2005 - University of MarylandBonuses by Delaware (Mark Pellegrini, Geoff Oxberry, Dan Silverio)1.  Identify the type of magnetism given a description, FTPE[10] This type of magnetism is caused by ions aligning themselves with an applied magnetic field. ANSWER: Paramagnetism[10] Information is stored on hard drives by utilizing this type of magnetism. It is inherent in materials with a hysteresis curve - especially iron. ANSWER: Ferromagnetism[10] This very weak type of magnetism occurs only in the presence of an external magnetic field. It is caused by changes in the electron orbital motion.  ANSWER: Diamagnetism2.  Answer the following about the election of 1824, FTSNOP:[5] The election of 1824 was given this pejorative name by Andrew Jackson, who thought he had been cheated of victory through a backroom deal. ANSWER: The Corrupt Bargain[5] Adams' supposed conspirator was this Kentuckian, who placed last in the first round of balloting in the House of RepresentativesANSWER: Henry Clay[10] This former Secretary of War under Madison, a former Virginia lawyer, finished third in the election.ANSWER: William Crawford[10] It was this New York politician's unexpected vote for Quincy-Adams instead of Crawford that secured the election. He was well known as president of the Erie Canal commission. ANSWER: Stephen van Rensselaer3.  Answer the following about a short story and its author for ten points each:[10] It ends with a trial by the "Jury of the Damned" and features the put upon hero Jabez StoneANSWER: The Devil and Daniel Webster[10] In addition to writing "The Devil and Daniel Webster" Stephen Vincent Benet, might be best known for this 1928 work that won a Pulitzer for its sympathetic and realistic depiction of the Civil War.ANSWER: John Brown's Body[10] His best remembered story, though, might be "Sobbin Women" which became the basis for this musical comedy about the Pontipee family that was later made into a 1954 film starring Howard Keel.ANSWER: Seven Brides for Seven Brothers4.  Answer the following about a work of music and its composer for ten points each:[10] This 1935 work set J.A. Schmeller's collection of 13th century lyrics, such as the roasted swan's lament Once I Swam Upon the Lake and the rousing drinking song When we are in the tavern, to music.ANSWER: Carmina Burana[10] The Carmina Burana is the best known work of this German composer who founded the Gunther School of composition.ANSWER: Carl Orff[10] Based on texts from Sappho and other contemporaries, this trilogy celebrates conjugal love in its depiction of a ceremony before the titular goddess who, in this case, extols marriage rather than lust.ANSWER: the Triumph of Aphrodite5.  Answer the following about a work of philosophy that was first published by Robortello in 1554, for ten points each:[10] It argues against a passion for novelty which often tends towards "ridiculousness" rather than the title condition, which attempts to encapsulate the quality of transcendent greatness and universal appeal.ANSWER: On the Sublime[10] The treatise On the Sublime is usually attributed to this Greek rhetorician and philosopher.ANSWER: Cassius Longinus[10] In 1764 this man wrote his take on the idea in Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and the Sublime.ANSWER: Immanuel Kant6.  Evolution's leftovers, FTPE[10] Robert Wiedersheim's 1893 list of 86 of these is often cited as supporting evidence for evolution.  ANSWER: Vestigial organs [10] It is thought that this vestigial organ found in humans was once used to digest celluloseANSWER: Appendix[10] In March, 2005, scientists were amazed to discover soft tissue after breaking open the thighbone of one of these now extinct animals.  ANSWER: Tyrannosaurus-rex7.  Pharaoh of Egypt, FTPE[10] This early pharaoh is credited with uniting upper and lower Egypt into one kingdom ANSWER: Menes[10] This 12th century BC pharaoh, buried in the Valley of the Kings, campaigned into Nubia and drew up the earliest known peace treaty. ANSWER: Ramses II (Accept Ramesses the Great)[10] This fifth dynasty pharaoh was the first known woman to hold the position. She ruled Egypt longer than any other woman except Cleopatra. ANSWER: Hatshepsut8.  Answer the following about an author, FTPE[10] Considered the father of the African novel in English. In 1990, this writer of The Flute, The Drum, the Trouble with Nigeria was paralyzed in a car accident. ANSWER: Chinua Achebe[10] Achebe's best known work, Things Fall Apart, tells the tragic story of this leader of the Umuofia clanANSWER: Okonkwo[10] This Achebe novel focuses on the conflicts that the priest Ezeulu encounters after his tribe refuses to listen to him and the British seek to install him as Chieftain.ANSWER: Arrow of God9.  Identify the following about some related artistic depictions for ten points each:[10] Depicting a scene described in Genesis 32:25, Rembrandt's depiction of the story features the title characters locked in hand to hand combat.ANSWER: Jacob wrestling with the angel (accept equivalents like fighting, struggling, etc.)[10] This Frenchman's version of Jacob wrestling the angel features a staff lying between them. He may be better known for his numerous illustrations including an illustrated English bible and the works of Dante.ANSWER: Gustave Dore[10] While this man's depiction of the biblical struggle was certainly impressive, it was much less memorable than his Liberty Leading the People.ANSWER: Eugene Delacroix10.  Oh, those bowl games.  For 10 points each:[10] This Granddaddy of Them All starts in the warm afternoon sunshine and ends after the sun sets behind the San Gabriel Mountains.  Ordinarily, it hosts the champions of the Big Ten and Pac-10, but this year it is the BCS Championship Game.ANSWER: Rose Bowl[10] Among the oddities of this New Year's Day bowl is the stipulation that Notre Dame can be considered for this bowl every three seasons, instead of the usual SEC-Big 12 matchup, and its decline in importance.  Once a fixture in the national championship picture, it is now merely a Classic.ANSWER: SBC Cotton Bowl Classic[10] Most years this odd bowl has been held, the home team has played and held serve.  This is the only bowl game that takes place in a definitively wintry climate and on blue turf.ANSWER: MPC Computers Bowl [prompt on Humanitarian Bowl]11.  Scripting languages from description, FTPE [10] This hard-to-understand scripting language, the granddaddy of them all, has a camel for a mascot ANSWER: Perl [10] Named for a type of gemstone, this language combines Perl and Ada with object-orientationANSWER: Ruby [10] Designed to replace Perl, this scripting language was created by Guido Von Rossom. ANSWER: Python12.  Answer the following about a military commander who was nicknamed "electric brain," for ten points each:[10] After Bull Halsey was hospitalized with a skin condition, this admiral was tapped to lead the American fleet at MidwayANSWER: Raymond Spruance [10] Though Congress eventually responded with an unprecedented act which specified that he would remain on full Admiral's pay until death, this Georgia congressman, a staunch partisan of William Halsey, blocked Spruance's promotion to Fleet Admiral multiple times.ANSWER: Carl Vinson[10] Perhaps Spruance's greatest victory came at this June 19 and 20, 1944 battle that saw Japanese forces lose almost half of their carrier-air borne aircraft. It was so one sided that it earned the nickname, The Great Marianas Turkey Shoot. ANSWER: battle of the Phillipine Sea13.  Identify these works by Byron from lines for ten points each:[10] And on that cheek, and o'er that brow/ So soft, so calm, yet eloquentANSWER: She Walks in Beauty[10] Still must I hear? Shall horse Fitzgerald bawl/ His creaking couplets in a Tavern HallANSWER: English Bards and Scotch Reviewers[10] The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold/ And his cohorts were gleaming in purple and goldANSWER: The Destruction of Sennacherib14.  Answer the following about a deity who is often represented as red, two faced, and covered with butter, for ten points each: [10] Over 200 hymns of the Rig Veda are dedicated to this god of fire and sacrifice. ANSWER: Agni[10] Agni's consort is this one time nymph who, according to some myths, bore him the son Karttikeya.ANSWER: Svaha[10] Much like his sometime twin, Indra, Agni likes to consume copious amounts of this magical drink of the gods.ANSWER: soma15.  Given a description, identify these robots from Futurama. [10] According to DVD commentary, this character was writers' favorite. He's yellow, has a built in bed, and always sports a bowl of grapes on his paunch. ANSWER: Hedonismbot[10] Voiced by Dan Castellaneta, this abrasive character is very good at playing the fiddle, though he once had to trade away his hands.  ANSWER: Robot Devil[10] Except for his goatee, this character is Bender's identical twin. ANSWER: Flexo16.  Identify the mathematician from work, FTPE[10] This prolific mathematician, who wrote Disquisitiones Arithmeticae, has a nameake law that gives the relation between electric flux and charge enclosed. ANSWER: Carl Fredrich Gauss[10] Today, he is probably best known for his 1903 list of 23 unsolved problems in mathematics.  ANSWER: David Hilbert[10] By proving the Taniyama-Shimura theorem, this professor at Princeton proved Fermat's Last Theorem. ANSWER: Andrew Wiles17.  Answer the following about a British dynasty, for ten points each:[10] Taking power after the Stuart dynasty, this Germanic dynasty ruled from 1741 until 1901, and ended with the death of Queen Victoria ANSWER: Hanover[10] The House of Hanover claimed descent from this European house that saw its inception in the 9th century with a namesake Swabian count, whose daughter Judith married emperor Louis I. ANSWER: the Guelphs[10] The first Hanoverian king of England was George I who ascended to the throne thanks to this 1701 piece of legislation that guaranteed Sophia would inherit the throne if William III or Queen Anne should die without heirs.ANSWER: Act of Settlement18.  Works by Jonathan Swift, on a 5-10-15 basis [5] In this 1729 work, Swift suggested that for the Irish to cure poverty they should sell their children to the rich as food ANSWER: A Modest Proposal: For Preventing the Children of Poor People in Ireland from Being a Burden to Their Parents or Country, and for Making Them Beneficial to the Public[10] This 1704 satire follows three brothers - Peter, Martin, and Jack - as they attempt to make their way in the world. Each of the brothers represents a major branch of Western Christianity ANSWER: A Tale of a Tub[15] This 1713 poem in mock classical form tells of the author's relations with Esther Vanhomrigh. Swift's titular pseudonym is an obvious anagram of "Decanus," or Dean, the position he held while the two wer involved.ANSWER: Cadenus and Vanessa19.  Important concepts in economics, FTPE [10] This is a system where goods and services are exchanged directly for other goods or services. ANSWER: Barter [10] This is an economic system where centralized planners dictate prices and production quantitiesANSWER: Command economy[10] This is a kind of tax such as a sales tax, which affects the poor more than it affects the rich. ANSWER: Regressive tax20.  Answer the following about a German author and his work for ten points each:[10] This author of prose works like Pictures of Travel and plays like Almansor and William Ratcliff remains best known for his Book of Songs which features such works as "The Homecoming."ANSWER: Heinrich Heine[10] This 1844 work was written during his months of friendship with the young Karl Marx and represents Heine at his satiric best.ANSWER: Germany: A Winter's Tale[10] Perhaps the best known work in Heine's Book of Songs is his ballad about this legendary maiden who lures ships to their destruction with her seductive singing.ANSWER: Lorelei21.  Major international treaties and agreements, FTPE[10] Proposed by Ireland in 1968 and extended indefinitely in 1997, almost every nation except India, Pakistan, and Israel have signed. Iran and North Korea have been accused of violating the treatyANSWER: Nuclear nonproliferation treaty[10] An amendment to the UNFCCC, the United States has refused to sign while China is exempted from it. ANSWER: Kyoto protocol[10] These two treaties between the United States and the Soviet Union reduced the number of Nuclear Weapons each side could posses. ANSWER: Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties22.  FTPE, given a chemical and a description of how it is made, name the industrial process used in its production.[10] At temperatures between 700 and 1100 degrees Celsius, methane and water react over a metal catalyst to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen gas, "splitting" water. It is the chief method used in industrial hydrogen production.ANSWER: Steam reforming[10] The resulting hydrogen gas and nitrogen gas from the air are reacted over an iron catalyst at pressures of over 200 atmospheres and 450 degrees Celsius to produce ammonia.ANSWER: Haber-Bosch process[10] The ammonia is then converted to nitric acid in two stages at high temperature and pressure. First, the ammonia is oxidized over a platinum/rhodium catalyst, then the resulting nitrous oxide is absorbed by water.ANSWER: Ostwald process		DE	Page 1 of 3