1.  In Greek mythology, a woman named Side was transformed into this type of tree after committing suicide on her mother's tomb to escape the advances of her father, who was transformed into a kite.  It is associated with a Syrian idol mentioned in Second Kings, and the Benjamites flee after the battle of Gibeah to the rock of Rimmon, whose name means this in Hebrew.  The Japanese goddess Kishimo-jin originally abducted and ate small children until she was taught by the Buddha to eat this instead, so she is often depicted holding it in her hand while suckling a baby.  More famously associated with an object that Ascalaphus saw being eaten, for which he was transformed into a screech owl, FTP identify this fruit once known as the Carthage apple, whose ingestion forced Persephone to spend part of every year with Hades.
	Answer:  pomegranate

2.  In its final published form, a woman reads this poem to the narrator at the day before she dies, and exclaims at the end, "O God!  O Divine Father!  shall these things be undeviatingly so?"  Also the title of a 1968 horror film starring Vincent Price as Matthew Hopkins, it is set in the "lonesome latter years."  The victims are "mere puppets" with "Condor wings" in this "play of hopes and fears."  It was included in Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque before it was finally incorporated into what the poet considered his best work, Ligeia, in 1845.  Featuring an audience of angels watching "mimes, in the form of God on high" become the food of the title "blood-red thing," FTP identify this Edgar Allan Poe poem describing the horror of "the tragedy, 'Man,'" and its titular writhing "hero."
	Answer:  The Conqueror Worm

3.  The best nutritional source is the Brazil nut, which may contain more than twice of this element's tolerable upper intake level of 400 micrograms per day.  Deficiency is prevalent in parts of China and manifests itself as Keshan disease, which in combination with the Coxsackie virus results in cardiomyopathy.   Loco weed is toxic to livestock because it concentrates this element, which is critical for the maturation of thyroid hormone and functions in the active site of glutathione peroxidase.  A heavy element useful in phasing of X-ray crystal diffraction patterns when incorporated into methionine, FTP, identify this element also found in a cysteine derivative identified as the 21st amino acid, an antioxidant found below sulfur on the periodic table.
	Answer:  selenium

4.  Oliver Wendell Holmes' dissenting opinion accused the majority decision of being an exercise in laissez-faire economics, and declared "the 14th Amendment does not enact Mr. Herbert Spencer's social statics."  Justice Harlan's dissenting opinion suggested that the statute in question was indeed designed to protect the health of employees subject to "the erratic demands of the public" and "conditions that interfere with nutrition."  However, the majority opinion claimed that these workers did not work under conditions any more unhealthy than "a clerk in almost any kind of business," and ruled that the plaintiff need not pay his $50 fine for his second misdemeanor offense.  Stating that the law in question interfered with liberty of contract, FTP identify this 1905 Supreme Court decision that declared the unconstitutionality of a state law limiting work hours in confectionaries and bakeries.
	Answer:  Lochner v. New York

5.  The purchase of two packages of this product would earn the buyer The Funny Jungleland Moving Pictures Booklet, a promotion available for 23 years in the early 1900's.  In its first advertising campaign in 1907, homemakers were advised that they would obtain a free box of this product if they winked at their grocers, but only on Wednesdays.  Another advertising jingle would inspire the Beatles song "Good Morning Good Morning."  First made by the man who coined the phrase "biologic living" and his brother William, FTP identify this product whose final processing occurs near the former Seventh Day Adventist sanitarium in Battle Creek, whose current advertising campaign features the rooster Cornelius.
	Answer:  Kellogg's corn flakes

6.  Myasthenia gravis is responsible for most cases of hyperplasias and tumors in this organ, while DiGeorge syndrome results in failure of it to develop because of a defect in the third and fourth pharyngeal pouches in the embryo.  The medulla contains keratinized cells in Hassall's corpuscles as well as cells expressing CD4 and CD8.  A pyramidal-shaped organ found in the superior mediastinum, FTP, identify this organ which, like the pancreas, is called sweetbread when eaten, an organ that grows in size until puberty when it begins to atrophy, and the primary site of T-lymphocyte maturation.  
       Answer:  thymus

7.  His final collection of pieces, subtitled "A little bit of everything," includes the pieces "Un Saute" and "Etude Asthmatique."  A noted gourmand, dishes named for him feature a demi-glace sauce, foie gras, and truffles, and it was said that he only cried three times in his life-when someone accidentally dropped a truffle-stuffed turkey into the water, when he heard Paganini's music, and at the failed premiere of his first opera.   Because he composed "Di tanti palpiti" while waiting for a dish of risotto in a restaurant, this aria from his first serious opera Tancredi is nicknamed the Rice Aria.  Also known for the composition of the Petite Messe Solennelle and the thirteen-volume collection entitled "Sins of Old Age," FTP identify this operatic composer of Semiramide, Cinderella, and The Barber of Seville.
	Answer:  Gioacchino Rossini

8.  He proposed an opposition between crisp foods, defined as "everything that crunches, crackles, grates, sparkles," and other foods, in his essay "Toward a Psychosociology of Contemporary Food Consumption," in which he also declared that "an entire 'world'...is present in and signified by food."  He described chopsticks as "maternal," making food "a substance harmoniously transferred," in his treatise on Japan, The Empire of Signs.  Also known for writing Camera Lucida and The Pleasure of the Text, he is perhaps better known for a work containing essays on steak and chips, ornamental Cookery, the brain of Einstein, and the Citröen.  FTP identify this twentieth-century French critic and author of Mythologies and S/Z.
	Answer:  Roland Barthes

9.  He painted the story of Alcyone from Ovid's Metamorphoses in his "Departure of Ceyx," but this student of Bastiani was probably better known for cycles found in the church of San Giorgio de Schiavoni and one painted concurrently by Hans Memling.  Of this artist's painting "Presentation in the Temple," the author of Modern Painters  raved, "If you don't delight in it, the essential faculty of enjoying good art is wanting in you."  "Healing of the Possessed Man" features the title action being performed by the Patriarch Grado on a palazzo near the Rialto, while "The Death of Saint Jerome" features the use of Oriental costumes.  Famed for painting the "Lion of Saint Mark" on the Doges' Palace as well as the nine-painting cycle "The Legend of Saint Ursula, FTP identify this Venetian painter much admired by Ruskin, and who gave his surname to the name of a dish of sliced raw beef.
	Answer:  Vittore Carpaccio

10.  He was quoted as saying, "A cucumber should be well sliced, and dressed with pepper and vinegar, and then thrown out, as good for nothing," in his friend's Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides.  Despite this misguided notion, he did manage to publish An Account of the Life of Mr. Richard Savage and wrote as both "The Idler" and "The Rambler."  His final work in four volumes ends with George Lyttelton and begins with Abraham Cowley, while his first published work was 1749's "The Vanity of Human Wishes."  Also famed for writing a novel subtitled "The Prince of Abyssinia," FTP identify this author of The Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets and A Dictionary of the Human Language, whose memory lives on in biographies by Hester Thrale and James Boswell.
Answer:  Dr. Samuel Johnson

11.  Gaillard and Lee predicted that it would have a mass of 1.5 to 2 giga electron-volts before it was discovered, but its existence had first been proposed four years earlier to explain a discrepancy in neutral kaon decay by Glashow, Iliopoulos, and Maiani in 1970.  The lightest meson to contain it is the D meson, which can only decay when this particle is transformed into its partner by the weak interaction.  First discovered through electron-positron annihilation in combination with its antiparticle by Richter and Ting, FTP identify this subatomic particle not named for a variety of soft cheese that is found in the J/psi particle.
	Answer:  charm quark

12.  A battle during this war was declared by Lord Wellington to be the only instance when a naval force alone was able to take a fortified citadel, since Charles Baudin was successful in taking the fortress of San Juan de Ulua overlooking Veracruz.  As a result of a naval blockade, Mexico began relying on smuggling through Corpus Christi, which resulted in the naming of Flour Bluff. As a result of this engagement, General Santa Anna's leg was buried with full military honors after it had to be amputated.   FTP, identify this 1838 war that resulted in President Bustamante agreeing to pay 600,000 pesos to the French and was sparked by the demand of damages for the looting of Remontel's French restaurant and bakery in Mexico City.
	Answer:  Pastry War or Guerra de los Pasteles

13.  It ends with a tale of the judgment of souls after death, and begins with an admonition for being late to a feast where the title character has been "exhibiting many fine things," for which delay Socrates blames his companion Chaerephon for keeping them loitering in the agora.  In the second part, Socrates condemns cooking as flattery "of an ignoble sort" that "takes the form of medicine," and declares it to be not an art but an "experience in producing a sort of delight and gratification," like the self-proclaimed art of the title character.  Socrates' belief that it is better to suffer evil than to commit it is revealed in his discussions with thetitle character's disciples Polus and Callicles.  Beginning with a debate with the titular rhetorician, FTP identify this Platonic dialogue that pits Socrates against the author of On Nature or the Non-existent.
	Answer:  Gorgias

14.  The source of Madame Imbert's impressive asparagus is one of the subjects of interest for the narrator's aunt while the servant Francoise administers her pepsin; later the narrator marvels at the vegetable's "rainbow-loveliness that was not of this world."  After the family is presented with a case of Asti, the narrator's grandmother exclaims that the title character Charles has taste despite associating with nobility.  Charles' daughter with the prostitute Odette, first seen as a red-haired little girl with a trowel in her hand, is loved from first sight by the young narrator, who imagines that Gilberte's black eyes are blue because she is so beautiful.  FTP, identify this novel perhaps most famous for the narrator's pleasure upon drinking a cup of tea infused with madeleine crumbs, the first volume in Proust's Remembrance of Things Past.   
	Answer:  Swann's Way or Du côté de chez Swann (prompt on "Remembrance of Things Past" or "A la recherché du temps perdu" before mentioned) 

15.  It is chemically synthesized by the base-catalyzed addition of hydrogen cyanide to acetaldehyde followed by acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of the nitrile.  Biodegradable polymers formed from its L-isomer have been used in medical applications such as sutures and filling gaps in bones.  The Cori cycle recycles glucose and this molecule in the liver, while the Bohr effect results in the uptake of more oxygen upon its synthesis in myocytes.  First discovered by Scheele in 1780 and believed to prolong life by the scientist who first proposed the concept of phagocytosis, FTP identify this hydroxyacid most commonly produced by anaerobic fermentation and found in immunologist Elias Metchnikoff's magic elixir of sour milk.
       Answer:  lactic acid  or lactate or 2-hydroxypropionic acid

16.  A recipe including pike livers, pheasant and peacock brains, flamingo tongues, and lamprey-milt was dedicated and named "Shield of Minerva the Protectress of the City" by this man.  He served as proconsul in Africa and, despite his military inexperience, was appointed to lead the German legions, supposedly because Galba believed that this man would be harmless because of his gluttony yet willing to plunder provinces to satisfy his appetite. At the first battle of Bedriacum his generals Valens and Caecina defeated the forces of Otho, after which he cut a swath of debauchery and triumph from Gaul to Rome.  Finally tortured and killed on the Gemonian Stairs by the Forum, FTP identify this emperor from April to December in 69 AD, who ruled the Roman Empire before Vespacian.
	Answer:  Aulus Vitellius Germanicus

17.  Known as the "Governorate of the Capital" in the 1960's, it stretches from Bandar Najih to Sifa, and was built after the 6th century destruction of the Marib Dam.  The Seeb treaty nominally resolved the conflict between the sultanate of this name and the imamate supported by the Ibadhi sect; the sultanate and the imamate would share rule until a 1970 coup d'etat staged by Qaboos bin Said.  Featuring the forts of Al Mirani and Al Jalali forts on the western and northeastern sides of the city, FTP, identify this city that gives its name to the first domesticated variety of grape, the capital of Oman.
	Answer:  Muscat

18.  She starred as Fenella in the movie version of "The Dumb Girl of Portici," based on an Auber opera with a libretto written by Delavigne and Scribé.  First inspired by a performance of Sleeping Beauty, when the eight-year-old girl declared that she wanted to be Aurora, she toured in the 1909 first season of Diaghilev's Ballet Russe with Nijinsky, but by this time she had achieved fame in her signature role.  Also known for her extensive worldwide tours with her own company, she traveled to Japan, India, and notably to Australia and New Zealand, who debate the origin of the whipped cream and fruit-topped meringue dessert that was dedicated to her on one of her tours.  Supposedly calling for her ballet costume while dying of pleurisy on tour in the Hague in 1931, FTP, identify this Russian ballerina for whom Fokine choreographed "The Dying Swan."
	Answer:  Anna Pavlovna Pavlova

19.  It was returned from Arbroath Abbey in 1951 after being taken by Matheson, Stuart, Hamilton, and Vernon.  According to legend, Gathelus brought it from Egypt to Spain, and the 36th king of the Dalriada, Kenneth I, moved it to the location for which it is named.  Traditionally believed to be Jacob's pillow, a metal ring is found at each end of the over three hundred pound block of sandstone.  FTP, identify this well-traveled relic that was last used at its namesake site by John Balliol before it was taken in 1296 by Edward I to Westminster Abbey, where it was placed into the Coronation Chair until being returned to Scotland in 1996.
	Answer:  Stone of Scone or Stone of Destiny or Coronation Stone

20.  The title character is forced to learn to read when he makes an uncomfortable acquaintance with insulated cable, and and learns that a corner shop with tiles represents "cheese."  Shvonder and the housing committee demand that one of the main characters give up his dining room and dine in the bedroom instead, to which Preobrazhensky explodes that he is not Isadora Duncan.  Initially enticed by a Special Cracower sausage, the title character's first word after a procedure assisted by Ivan Bormenthal is "delicatessen" in reverse, and he later obtains a job in the City Cleansing Department.  The tale of one who finds eating mushrooms "about as tasty as licking a pair of galoshes," FTP, identify this work in which Sharik is implanted with Chuchunkin's testicles and pituitary gland and becomes human, written by Mikhail Bulgakov.    
	Answer:  Heart of a Dog or Sobache Serdtse

