2005 Chicago Theme Tournament
Tossups by Doug O'Neal

1. She once claimed  "I think vegetarians - for a lot of them - it's about a lack of commitment to life and relationships. There are some who just like the fact that they're controlling something in their life."  In 2002 she was Ranked #25 in Stuff magazine's "102 Sexiest Women in the World" but did even better that year in Australia's Empire which ranked her the 2nd Sexiest Female Movie Star alive.  She currently has her own production company, Wooden Spoon Productions, built on a career that began with roles in such films as Greedy, Wag the Dog, and Jumanji.  Since then, she went on to star in Get Over It, Dick, and The Virgin Suicides.  FTP, name this actress best known for her roles in Crazy/Beautiful, Bring it On, and the Spider-Man series.
	Answer: Kirsten Dunst

2. His first starring role was in the made for TV special, Too Soon for Jeff, about a young teen trying to lose his virginity.  His big break came on an episode of Family Matters, in which he played a punk kid who brought a gun to school.  Roles in To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday and The House of Yes soon followed and his career took off, surpassing that of his father, who starred in the television series Chico and the Man.  It was while playing Ray Bronson on a slasher flick that he met his future wife.  FTP, name this man whose role in I Know What You Did Last Summer introduced him to his wife Sarah Michelle Gellar.
	Answer: Freddie Prinze Jr.

3. The star of this movie shares a birthday with Freddie Prinze Jr.  That star plays a character who plans on attending Brown.  In one of this movie's most touching scenes, he prevents his friend Billy Bob from committing suicide.  His life is turned upside down when is forced to replace Lance Harbour, who was played by Paul Walker.  The hero starts to grow distant from his girlfriend Amy Smart, and is almost seduced by Ali Larter, who tries to employ a whipped cream bikini as part of her plan.  By the end, he leads his team to overcome the tyranny of Coach Bud Kilmer, played by Jon Voight.  FTP, name this movie in which Jonathan "Mox" Moxon tells his dad, "I don't want your life," a high school football flick starring James Van Der Beek.
	Answer: Varsity Blues

4. This is James Van Der Beek's favorite band.  Their latest album features such diverse tracks as the piano-and-drums driven "Out of My Hands," the string-enhanced "Everybody Wake Up," and the Otis-Redding sampling of "Smooth Rider."  The album's title is the same as the second Jethro Tull album, Stand Up, and is a departure from the lead singer's solo effort 2003's Some Devil.  Their last studio album included "Digging a Ditch" and the title track "Busted Stuff."  But they have yet to regain the critical success of Under the Table and Dreaming and its follow up.  FTP, name this band formed in the early 90s in Charlottesville, Virginia, best-known for such hits as "Ants Marching" and "Crash Into Me."
	Answer: Dave Matthews Band

5. Track 6 on the Dave Matthews Band album Under the Table and Dreaming, "Dancing Nancies," is an ode to a character from this film.  That film character lives above a female sculptor who has a hearing aid.  The hero is aided daily by Stella, who tells him to marry his girlfriend the fashion designer Lisa Carol Fremont.  However, he is more immediately interested in the lives of Miss Torso, Miss Lonelyhearts, and most importantly Lars Thorwald.  The hero, L.B. Jeffries, suspects Thorwald of having murdered his wife, a suspicion formed while he observes his various neighbors.  FTP, name this movie starring Grace Kelly and James Stewart, a Hitchcock film whose title refers to Stewart's voyeur spot.
	Answer: Rear Window

6. This actor played the character analogous to the original Detective Doyle in a 1998 remake of Rear Window and also starred in an another Hitchcock remake, as Dr. Fred Simon in 1998's awful Psycho.  He mentors a brash Donnie Wahlberg in the gem salesman business and ends up scamming a bunch of money in the underrated Diamond Men, and other recent roles include Detective Harry McKnight in Mullholland Drive.  However, his comeback came with a role as a bail bondsman who falls in love with the title character, a stewardess and money mule in the employ of Ordell Robie.  FTP, name this actor who romances and aids Pam Grier in Quentin Tarantino's Jackie Brown.
	Answer: Robert Forster


7. In two animated series about this character Robert Forster voiced the role of Major Forsberg, a friend of this character.  After his 16th issue, his creator turned the penciling over to Greg Capullo, who was associated with him longer than any other.  His enemies include the dark god Urizen and another figure who can turn into the Violator.  He was originally guided by Count Nicholas Cogliostro after falling victim to Malebolgia's promise that he could see his wife one last time.  FTP, name this figure once known as Al Simmons and who was created by Todd McFarlane, a comic character who received his powers by agreeing to lead the forces of Hell. 
	Answer: Spawn (accept Hellspawn; accept early buzz of Al Simmons)

8. In 1999 Michael Jai White, who played Spawn in the movie, played a character from a novel by this man, another novel of whose is being read on the sidelines by James Van Der Beek in Varsity Blues.  Like David's girlfriend, he went to school at the University of Chicago as an anthropology student.  Unlike David's girlfriend, he is a writer, including such collections as the "autobiographical collage" Palm Sunday and Welcome to the Monkey House.  He created such characters as Rabo Karabekian and Rudy Waltz, who appear in the novels Bluebeard and Deadeye Dick.  FTP, name this man whose better known novels include Galapagos, The Sirens of Titan, Cat's Cradle, and Slaughterhouse Five.
	Answer: Kurt Vonnegut [Michael Jai white appears in Breakfast of Champions, and Van Der Beek is reading Slaughterhouse Five]

9. Kurt Vonnegut has a cameo in this film in which he is insulted for failing to write a believable paper on himself.  The protagonist hires the band Oingo Boingo to play at one of his parties and fully recites Dylan Thomas' "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night" in one of the movie's central scenes.  A subplot concerns the protagonist's son's involvement with the college diving team, for which the protagonist, the owner of a series of Tall and Fat stores, competes at the end.  FTP, name this movie about tycoon Thornton Mellon, Rodney Dangerfield's character who returns to attend college to help his son.
	Answer: Back to School

10. Ned Beatty, the university dean in Back to School, played the character of Wyatt in this film.  Other roles include Dakota Burns, a prostitute briefly living next to the central character, and Lala, the sleazy girlfriend of the central character's son. Those roles were played Milla Jovovich and Rosario Dawson respectively.  The central character is on a mission from the various alums of Big State, and is hoping to gain forgiveness from his son for the murder of his wife.  He's just one of the parties interested in the college plans of Jesus Shuttlesworth.  FTP, name this Spike Lee joint with Ray Allen as a high school basketball player and Denzel Washington as his conflicted criminal father.
	Answer: He Got Game

11. Both Ray Allen and Kirsten Dunst list this as their favorite movie and Kirsten even wrote a kabuki version for an L.A. pet theater production.  Claire Danes turned down a role because the producers wouldn't provide tutoring, and Tim Roth turned down the role of the central villain because of some reshoots for Reservoir Dogs.  That villain, the character of Amon Goethe, falls in love with the character of Embeth Davidtz.  The title character is the owner of a crockery factory, whose closest confidant is his accountant, played by Ben Kingsley.  Newman was famously incensed when Jerry Seinfeld made out in the theater during this movie, the 1994 Best Picture winner.  FTP, name this movie with Liam Neeson in the title role, a Steven Spielberg film about the Holocaust. 
	Answer: Schindler's List

12. The first name's the same.  Steven Spielberg's oldest child with Kate Capshaw and the former lead singer of the all-girl punk band the Lunachicks.  It's also the artist who used the pen name of I.K. Bonset to publish a Dada poetry magazine, and who developed a style known as elementarism.  Another is the man who was voted the starting center for the East in the 2001 All-Star Game, who led the league in blocks that year, and was second all-time on the NCAA's all-time blocks list after his time at Wyoming.  Yet another is a TV character whose sisters included Denise, Vanessa, and Rudy and who was played by Malcolm Jamal Warner.  FTP, give this common first name shared by a Spielberg, a Kogan, a Doesburg [doyz-burg], a Ratliff, a Huxtable, and the brother of Vincent Van Gogh.
	Answer: Theo or Theodore



13. Theo was the name of the tech expert and criminal played by Clarence Gilyard Jr. in this film.  This movie's Hungarian title translated to "Give Your Life Expensive," while the Russian was "A Hard Nut to Crack."  Robert Davi has a brief role in which compares the experience to Vietnam, William Atherton makes his first appearance as Richard Thornburg, a sleazy reporter who gets cold-cocked at the end, and Bonnie Bedelia first plays the hero's wife.  The cop who buys a large amount of Twinkies at the beginning is none other than Reginald VelJohnson, who takes a position outside of the Nakatomi building, the movie's setting.  At the center is an organization led by Hans Gruber, the head villain and the role of Alan Rickman.  FTP, name this action film, the first in a trilogy about John McClane, the New York cop played by Bruce Willis.
	Answer: Die Hard

14. This group's song about Christmas in their childhood neighborhood appeared on the Die Hard soundtrack.  They released four singles, two of which were "30 Days" and "Hard Times," before their eponymous debut.  Their second album included a song for the soundtrack of Krush Groove, a movie in which they appeared in 1985.  That album, King of Rock, proved more innovative than another album they wrote for a movie, the one to accompany their flick Tougher than Leather.  But it was their third album that was the biggest seller, with such tracks as "Peter Piper," "It's Tricky," and the anthem "My Adidas."  FTP, name this rap trio from Queens, whose Raising Hell also contained their cover of Aerosmith's "Walk This Way."
	Answer: Run-D.M.C. 

15. In Beethoven, the movie about everyone's favorite St. Bernard, this actor played the character of Brad.  He never completed his doctoral thesis on "Magic and Technology in Contemporary Poetry and Prose" while at Yale, but he did play a man in Christina Applegate's office in Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead; starred as a flawed former physician opposite Timothy Hutton in Playing God; and as the primary character Jake Winters on the soft core porn series Red Shoe Diaries.  More recently, he played the former world's greatest hand model in Zoolander and a widower who falls in love with Minnie Driver, the recipient of his dead wife's heart, in Return to Me.  FTP, name this actor best-known for his time as time as Special Agent Fox Mulder on X-Files.
	Answer: David Duchovny

16. David Duchovny was initially cast to play the title hero opposite this actress in the sequel The Crow: The Salvation.  She voiced the young Anastasia in that 1997 animated film, and played another Russian character, the noblewoman Zinaida in a movie drawn from a Turgenev and a Chekov story, 2000's All Forgotten.  Her uncredited roles include her first, in New York Stories, and one in The Day After Tomorrow, filmed while visiting her boyfriend Jake Gyllenhaal.  Better known are her roles in Drop Dead Gorgeous, Mona Lisa Smile, her breakthrough as a child in Interview With a Vampire, and her starring turn in Wimbledon.  FTP, if it's gotten this far, smack yourself in the face, unless the other team negged and you're waiting till the end. 
	Answer: Kirsten Dunst

17. Klaus Badelt was supposed to do the music for Wimbledon but couldn't get away from audio work for reshoots for this film.  The main monologue delivered by the heroine was taken from The Crow, with only one word changed.  That heroine works as a graphic designer for a cosmetics firm, Hedare Beauty, and it is with the company's boss that this movie's climactic scene takes place.  Benjamin Bratt plays a romantically involved cop and Sharon Stone is the aforementioned boss and chief villain.  Several years back the title role was offered to Michelle Pfeiffer but a different actress ended up playing Patience Phillips.  FTP, name this bomb about the title superheroine, who was played by Halle Berry.
	Answer: Catwoman

18.  The name's the same.  The first is the character played by Halle Berry in the film version of The Flinstones.  The second is an actress who played one of several lesbians in If These Walls Could Talk 2, and who is reprising her most famous role, as occasional lesbian Catherine Trammell, in a sequel subtitled Risk Addiction.  She played Steven Seagal's wife in Above the Law, Richard Gere's wife in Intersection, Craig T. Nelson's wife in Action Jackson, Dennis Quaid's wife in Cold Creek Manor, Arnold Schwarnegger's wife in Total Recall, and Robert DeNiro's wife in Casino.  FTP, name this actress perhaps best-known for her starring role in Basic Instinct, not her role as the chief villain in Catwoman.
	Answer: Sharon Stone


19. Sharon Stone once said of this former boyfriend, "Kissing him is like eating a dirt sandwich."  His movie roles include accessory parts in Hollywood Homicide and Sling Blade, but he's best-known as an actor for playing the violent killer and thief Raoul in Panic Room.  His second compilation, Last Chance For a Thousand Years, was released in 1999, and its cover of Queen's "Crazy Little Thing Called Love" was his biggest hit in six years.  He made his debut with a cover of "Honky Tonk Man" on Guitars, Cadillacs, Etc., Etc., which was quickly surpassed by such albums as Hillbilly Deluxe and Buenos Noches From a Lonely Room.  FTP, name this country-music singer who always sports a Stetson and had number one hits with "I Sang Dixie" and "Streets of Bakersfield."
	Answer: Dwight Yoakam 

20. This figure is such a big Dwight Yoakam fan that he has a tattoo of the singer on his right butt cheek.  He recently signed on to play the title role in a film adaptation of the graphic novel Hawaiian Dick.  He played a low-rent thug partnered with Tom Sizemore in Big Trouble and more recently portrayed a snake-tongued sexual healer in John Waters' A Dirty Shame.  On the horizon is a role in which he fakes being retarded to fix bets on the Special Olympics in the Farrelly brothers produced The Ringer and his turn as Luke in the Dukes of Hazard movie.  His big movie break came as Lara Flynn Boyle's bumbling henchman in Men in Black II, but he's best known for a show that includes such figures as Chris Pontius and Steve-O.  FTP, name this man best-known for his MTV show Jackass.
	Answer: Johnny Knoxville (or Phillip John Clapp)






































2005 Chicago Theme Tournament
Bonuses by Tom Michael

1. Name these actors who starred in the made for TV movie Detention: The Siege at Johnson High, FTP each:
A. This fellow played the romantic leads in both Down to You and Boys and Girls in which he starred opposite Julia Stiles and Claire Forlani respectively.
	Answer: Freddie Prinze Jr.
B. He played the school principal in the first Scream movie and Adam Sandler's coach in The Waterboy.
	Answer: Henry Winkler
C. He starred as Newt, who we learn is the soon of Woodrow Call, in the miniseries of Lonesome Dove but is best known for a TV series on he has a stepmother named Kate and a father Edward, who has a black friend named Dexter Stuffins.
	Answer: Rick Schroeder [the TV series is of course Silver Spoons]

2. Answer these questions about an early screen actress, FTP each:
A. What actress reached her peak in a four year stretch between 1919 and 1922 starring in such films as Cecilia of the Pink Roses, The Cinema Murder, and When Knighthood was in Flower.?
	Answer: Marion Davies (or Marion Cecelia Douras)
B. Marion Davies was the longtime lover of what newspaper magnate and owner of San Simeon?
	Answer: William Randolph Hearst
C. Davies who was played by Kirsten Dunst, Hearst, and Charlie Chaplin all appear as characters in what 2001 film by Peter Bogdanovich about a murder that occurred aboard Hearst's yacht in 1924?
	Answer: The Cat's Meow

3. Name the novel given Kirsten Dunst's role in the film adaptation, FTP each:
A. Dunst played Campbell McCoy whose father Sherman's life is turned upside down when his mistress, Maria Ruskin hits a black boy while driving Sherman's car.
	Answer: The Bonfire of the Vanities [by Tom Wolfe]
B. Dunst played a young Resi Noth in an adaptation of this novel in which Howard W. Campbell Jr., an American, is recruited by his country to spy during World War II but actually becomes a leading Nazi radio propagandist.
	Answer: Mother Night [by Kurt Vonnegut]
C. Dunst played a young central character in this novel, who as an adult marries Theodore Laurence, who was once in love with her older sister.
	Answer: Little Women [by "you shouldn't be here if you don't know who"]

4. Freddie Prinze Jr. has co-starred in more movies with this actor than any other.
A. FTP, name this actor, who played Shaggy in both Scooby Doo movies alongside Prinze's Fred.
	Answer: Matthew Lillard
B. FTP for two and 15 for three, name the other movies in which Lillard has starred with Prinze.  One was an adaptation of a popular PC video game, another was a baseball flick with Jessica Biel, and the third was a high school comedy in which Freddie somehow manages to make Rachel Leigh Cook's Laney Boggs the prom queen.
	Answer: Wing Commander, Summer Catch, and She's All That
C. Lillard was also in this film, the sophomore effort of talented actor and basketball player Darius Miles.  Erika Christensen and Scarlet Johannson also star as other students who try to break into the SAT test center and steal the answer sheet.
	Answer: The Perfect Score









5. Poor William Zabka.  He was a villain in pretty much every early movie he was in.  Name some of them, FTP each:
A. Zabka was school bully Greg Tolan in this 1985 teen comedy in which Joyce Hyser dresses up as a boy at a nearby school in order to write an article for her school newspaper.  Kirsten Dunst is in talks to do a remake.
	Answer: Just One of the Guys
B. Zabka played Johnny Lawrence, the best student of the Cobra Kai dojo, and school bully.  Among his victims is new kid at school Daniel Larusso, to whom he loses in the finals of the All-Valley karate championships.
	Answer: The Karate Kid
C. Zabka fakes a cramp at a pivotal moment in this film, making him unable to perform for M. Emmet Walsh's team.  Burt Ward and Sam Kinnison have prominent roles in the film.
	Answer: Back to School

6. Name these shows on which Freddie Prinze Jr. guest-starred, FTP each:
A. Prinze played Donny Crane on two episodes of this courtroom drama, a spinoff of The Practice.  Its headliners include James Spader and William Shatner.
	Answer: Boston Legal
B. Prinze played Sandy, the amazing male nanny, on an episode in this show's 9th season.
	Answer: Friends
C. Prinze appeared as himself on this prank show, in which the title comedian participates in all the pranks.  You might know that comedian for his work in the Scream trilogy or the more recent Son of the Mask.
	Answer: The Jamie Kennedy Experiment
	
7. Answer these questions about Kirsten Dunst's favorite band, well maybe her favorite band, FTP each:
A. Dunst appeared in the video of this pop duo's 2000 tour in their native Australia.  Their self-titled debut sold 11 million copies worldwide and included such hits as "To the Moon & Back" and "I Want You."
	Answer: Savage Garden
B. The biggest hit off Savage Garden's first album was this track, which included such beautiful lines as "I want to stand with you on a mountain / I want to bathe with you in the sea / I want to lay like this forever / until the sky falls down on me."
	Answer: Truly Madly Deeply
C. Savage Garden worked with producer Charles Fisher, whose earlier work with this group resulted in their 1981 album The One That You Love and its top ten hits "Here I Am" and the title track.
	Answer: Air Supply

8. Perhaps the best movie in which Freddie Prinze Jr. appeared is The House of Yes.  Name these other actors from that film, FTP each:
A. She played the central character.  Jared is more appreciative of her turn as a head vampire in Blade Trinity and as Tom Hanks' first girlfriend in You've Got Mail.
	Answer: Parker Posey
B. She played Lesly in the film.  However, to Jared, she'll always be the dyslexic prude, Donna Martin.  No wait, that's Donna Martin Silver, as she married her long time boo David Silver.
	Answer: Tori Spelling [boo is the right word]
C. This French actress played Mrs. Pascal.  Jared recommends her major American role, that of Dr. Susan Wheeler in the 1978 adaptation of Robin Cook's novel Coma.
	Answer: Genevieve Bujold










9. The best thing about Kirst Dunst's Get Over It was the production of A Midsummer Night's Dream and the work of this "actor."  FTP each-
A.  Name this man, whose heterosexuality has long been questioned, despite his looking to get with Mila Kunis at the end of the movie and actually getting with and having a child with singer Samantha Mumba in real life.
	Answer: Sisqo (or Mark Durrell Andrews)
B. Sisqo is probably best-known as one of the founding members of this R&B quartet, whose hits of the late 90s included the singles "How Deep is Your Love" and "These Are The Times."
	Answer: Dru Hill
C. Actually, Sisqo is probably best known for this track off his solo album Unleash the Dragon.  It's his ode to how Pericles chooses to show his booty.  
	Answer: the Thong Song

10. We've already learned that Freddie Prinze Jr. shares a birthday with Ed and Seth's dream date, James Van Der Beek.  He also shares a birthday with this actress.  FTP each-
A.  Name this actress, who took a break from her role as Ellenor Frutt on The Practice to have a baby.  Some cruelly joked that no could tell she was pregnant.
	Answer: Camryn Mannheim
B. Camryn Mannheim is one of many present at the title event of this film.  It's at that title event where one of the title characters claims to have become rich after inventing post-it notes.
	Answer: Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion
C. Mannheim's first credited movie role was as Poe Picketer in this 1990 film that also starred Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis; the latter playing an enterprising reporter.
	Answer: The Bonfire of the Vanities

11. Freddie plays an FBI agent living across from some models in Head Over Heels.  Name these models, FTP each:
A. This Brazilian native became a Guess? girl in their 2000 Costanoa campaign.  She's better known as one of the Victoria Secret angels, opening the company's 2003 fashion show.  She's also known for her role in The Follow, one of the popular online BMW shorts.
	Answer: Adriana Lima
B. Like Adriana Lima, this model is Brazilian and a Victoria Secret angel.  Unlike Lima, she's known for her romance with Leo.  That's Leo DiCaprio, not Leo Wolpert.
	Answer: Gisele Bundchen
C. She appeared in Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Issue for 11 straight years.  She now sells her own line of clothing at Kmart and has built an acting career that includes her part as a field goal kicker in Necessary Roughness.
	Answer: Kathy Ireland

12. Fill in the blank or blanks given some dialogue from Bring it On, FTP each:
A. "You put the lewd in BLANK"
	Answer: deluded
B. "She puts the BLANK in massive"
	Answer: ass
C. "Um, this isn't a democracy, it's a BLANK, and I'm BLANK"
	Answer: cheerocracy and cheertator (need both parts for the points)

13. Now that you've completed some lines from Bring it On, name some actors and actresses from the film, FTP each:
A. He's Dunst's love interest, and the subject of Erika Christensen's obsession in Swimfan and Seth Samelson's obsession in general.
	Answer: Jesse Bradford
B. She plays the head of the East Compton Clovers squad.  She's since appeared in Breakin' All The Rules, Bad Boys II, and Deliver Us From Eva.  Like Freddie Prinze. Jr., she's guest-starred on one episode of Friends.
	Answer: Gabrielle Union
C. Big Red, the bitchy former Toros cheer captain, was played by this actress, who played Albert Brooks' daughter in The In-Laws.  She appeared on a several episodes as Patty on That '70s Show and as Alice Pedermeir on Wonder Years.
	Answer: Lindsay Sloane
14. There's one thing that Freddie and Kirsten don't have yet, but it's only a matter of time.  Name these celebrities or their clothing lines, FTP each:
A. To her currently existing line of sportswear and juniors clothes she has added Star, a cruelty-free shoe line; not surprising considering this vocal advocate of animal rights.
	Answer: Pamela Anderson
B. Fans of MTV's Meet the Barkers might be familiar with this clothing line owned by Travis Barker, former Blink 182 drummer.  Travis' wife, former Playmate and Miss USA Shanna Moakler, designs the women's line.
	Answer: Famous Stars and Straps
C. In 1998 P. Diddy launched this clothing line of urban sportswear.  Macy's and Bloomingdale's picked it up within a year.
	Answer: Sean John

15. Freddie Prinze Jr. and Matt Reece have something in common.  Not only are they the object of crushes of millions of American women and closet Jane Austen fans, but they're both world famous spelunkers and major Star Wars fans.  Name these things one might have learned from watching the special edition DVDs of Episodes 4,5, and 6, FTP each:
A. George Lucas says he almost added in a shot of Boba Fett surviving this creature at the beginning of Return of the Jedi.
	Answer: Sarlacc Pit Monster
B. Carrie Fisher claimed that this actor, everyone's favorite promoter of Colt 45 malt liquor and the man who played Lando Calrissian, had a hard time remembering his lines.
	Answer: Billy Dee Williams
C. The role of Wicket, the main Ewok, was filled by this actor after Kenny Baker, who was R2-D2, got food poisoning and had to bow out.  You might know him for his role as Willow, the titular killer in the Leperchaun movies, or Professor Flitwick in the Harry Potter films.
	Answer: Warwick Davis
