The Simpsons and other Things that I think are Funny.
By Jeremy Newtson and various internet sites.

Toss-ups

1.	He sped by on a motorcycle, stole a woman's purse, and ended up before a judge when he crashed at one's feet.  He was given the choices of prison, apologizing, or joining the army, and, according to him, "If I'd known there was a war going on, I probably would've apologized."  During his flashback to Nam, it is revealed that all of his dreams involve combing his hair, unlike his commanding officer, who has a corny dream about becoming principal of an elementary school.  For ten points, name this character, who stole the identity of Seymour Skinner.
Answer:  Armen Tamzarian (prompt on Seymour, Principal, or Mr. Skinner)


2.	Un Bel di Vedremo from Madama Butterfly plays in the background.  "My name is Barney, and I'm an alcoholic."  "Mr. Gumble, this is a Girl Scouts meeting."  "Is it...or is it just that you girls can't admit you have a problem?"  In black and white, a rose is placed in an empty beer bottle, where we see it wither and die.  "Don't cry for me; I'm already dead."  For ten points, name Barney Gumble's unfortunately titled film that narrowly beat out A Burns for All Seasons and Football in the Groin to win the Springfield Film Festival.
Answer:  Puke-ahontas


3.	"A bottle?!"  "Drink beer at a party?!"  "Carry six beers at the same time?!"  "Drink beer straight from the bottle?!"  "Don't drink six beers at the same time?!"  "You know the bread we use for our sandwiches?  I've concocted a machine that slices it for ya!"  For ten points, give the exclamation that follows these phrases, the centerpiece of a $14 million ad campaign that features two old-timey, poorly animated Irish brewers, which was rated favorably in a nationwide survey and by Ezequiel Berdichevsky in an Ohio hotel room.
Answer:  "Brilliant!"


4.	An ex-employee was Mimi.  Current employees include Garth Tralawney, who had issues with Platypus Man, and Jamie Killday, who recently was in Paris for a gopher poison convention.  While students went to visit it, Skinner and Willie claimed that they were going to remove asbestos and evolution from Springfield Elementary.  It has had headlines such as "Big fat man has big fat heart" and "Parade to distract joyless citizenry."  For ten points, name this paper that has merged with the Times, Post, Globe, Herald, Jewish News, and Hot Sex Weekly.
Answer:  Springfield Shopper
5.	"To help our Allies ... who fought so poorly ... and surrendered so readily ..." begins the "drunken boast" by this man to authorize the printing of a 1 trillion dollar bill.  The bill features his picture, smiling, giving the two-handed thumbs up, but was to be delivered to Europe by America's wealthiest and therefore most trustworthy citizen, C. Montgomery Burns.  The President's payment never arrived, prompting Charles de Gaulle to promise that Europeans will act snooty to Americans forever.  For ten points, name this President, whose desk plaque should have read, "The trillion bucks stop here."
Answer:  Harry S Truman


6.	Some say Gene Roddenberry got the idea for Star Trek from listening to this man talk in his sleep.  He uses the Shroud of Turin as a golf towel and orchestrated the merger between UNICEF and Smith & Wesson.  He still believes in Santa Claus...and he wants to put him in porno films.  His family crest is a picture of a barracuda eating Neil Armstrong.  I once saw him scissor-kick Angela Lansbury.  He had a four day heart attack-a day for each chamber-and doctors said his heart looked like a basketball filled with ricotta cheese.  For ten points, name this ten-foot-tall beastman who showers in vodka and whose foreskin is used as a tarp when it rains at Yankee Stadium.
Answer:  accept either William Robert "Bill" Brasky or Andrew David Yaphe


7.	He has worked as an unsuccessful computer salesman, car salesman, real estate salesman, shoe salesman, doorbell salesman, Amway salesman, and farmer, but he is best remembered as Swish, the sexy mascot for the Springfield WNBA team, with whom Moe falls in love and tries to marry.  When the crowd sees Swish's true identity, this hard-luck man laments that she "was everything I'm not," but Moe just tells him to put the costume back on.  For ten points, name this character, whose wife was cheating on him when he called home from work and then put her lover on the phone to talk to him.
Answer:  Gil


8.	It has a total lack of schools and hospitals, but it does have the Hotel Pillowmint.  Scientists say the people of this town are less attractive physically, and while others speak in a well-educated manner, they tend to use low-brow expressions like "Oh yeah?" and "C'mere a minute!"  A study shows their crumbling economy is due to their lazy attitude and shoddy work.  This town's citizens cut off the flow of the Springfield River to get back at their enemies, but the rivals find so much gold in the riverbed that they fly in the Evian Water factory from France.  For ten points, name this city, which contains a 939 area code, Homer as Mayor, and nightly Who concerts.
Answer:  New Springfield (do not prompt on "Springfield")


9.	He works in a condom factory and once gave a main character a bag of defectives.  He sells Russian hats down at Battery Park, forty bucks.  They aren't Sable, but the difference is unnoticeable.  A friend's two-week stay is not excessive because this man once stayed with a main character for a year and a half.  He has been in a mental institution, but the electroshock therapy had no effect on him because his synapses were too large.  He once had rabies.  Name, for ten points, this man, whose father lives in Florida and gave a main character a bunch of cheap, knockoff pocket organizers, a friend of Kramer's who never appeared on camera.
Answer:  Bob Sacamano


10.	Milhouse and Bart need to find a 90 year-old projector to see it.  Its scenes include, "Itchy runs afoul of an Irishman," when Itchy runs the Irishman through a crank-operated washing machine, and "A chance for more mischief," in which that "fat oaf" Teddy Roosevelt says, "Ah, Manhattan-town, an agreeable sight for an Old Knickerbocker such as myself" before Itchy breaks a lightbulb over his head.  One of its original drawings sells for $750 and wins its creator 800 million dollars.  For ten points, name this film, the first Itchy cartoon ever, which preceded Roger Myers Sr.'s Steamboat Itchy by nine years.
Answer:  Itchy the Lucky Mouse in Manhattan Madness


11.	A $40 steak, super-unleaded gas, silver bullets, and expensive coffee are just some of the $1,000 in expenses incurred by this man during his $50-a-day investigation into Lisa Simpson.  This investigation included speaking to Ralph Wiggum in an ice cream shop, shuffling and stapling the papers on Principal Skinner's desk, and looking at Lisa's book report on The Secret Garden.  From the moment Homer walked into his office, this man had a feeling he'd kill him in a hall of mirrors.  For ten points, name this man, who was not a drunk cop fired from the force; he had simply won a bake-off.
Answer:  Dexter Colt


12.	Bob Hope celebrated his 79th birthday here, and its official theme was "Energy turns the World."  In the minds of some, it is better than Macon, Georgia; the bridges of Madison County; and Disneyworld.  A key sight here was the giant motorized Rubik's cube, built by Hungary, but now even the fabulous, 266 foot-tall centerpiece of this place is so rickety that Nelson can knock it over with a rock.  For ten points, name this place, recommended by the AAA guidebook from the early 1980s, which today features only wigs and talking Al Gore dolls.
Answer:  Knoxville World's Fair of 1982


13.	Those party to this include Etch Westgrin, Griff McDonald, Iggy Wiggum, and Arnie Gumble, among others.  They formulate it in order to become "rich, rich as Nazis" without getting caught.  Milton "Ox" Haas was the only person who could explain it and also the first one eliminated.  Mr. Burns was especially upset because Abe Simpson "had to be little Johnny Live-A-Lot."  Name, for ten points, what Ox describes as, "a contract whereby the last surviving participant becomes the sole possessor of all them purty pictures," an agreement entered into by the members of the Fighting Hellfish.
Answer:  tontine (tahn TEEN)


14.	You've got to bring your own chair if you want to hear him speak, but it's worth it.  Thanks to him, the Flanderses live a Burt Reynolds lifestyle on a Mac Davis income and the Simpsons go on a Mega Savings trip to Japan.  He will teach you how to get a tux cheap (if Roy Cohn died in it) and beautiful women (if they used to be men).  You like his yacht?  It smells like cat pee.  He'll dig through the trash of fat cats like the Simpsons and take their expired plankton.  For ten points, name this man whose mantra is "squeeze every penny."
Answer:  Chuck Garabedian


15.	Tasteful attire was prohibited, and part of Krusty's hair was sheared off by a giant fan, forcing him to comb it over.  Ranier Wolfcastle, Kent Brockman, and Fat Tony were present.  The Champ's impending release from prison led Lucius Sweet to arrange this for "his glorious return to the shores of Fistiana."  The headline in the paper read, "Champ to Whale on Local Man."  The family watches from row ZZ as Homer walks in to "Why Can't We Be Friends?" and Drederick Tatum talks to Charlie Sheen about cooking.  For ten points, name this fight, Homer's shot at boxing's heavyweight title, where his head explodes from Tatum's punch in the TV ad.
Answer:  Payback (Prompt on boxing match and crap like that, but don't accept anything else.)


16.	First appearing in The Strike, it was first conceived during a dispute over a doll, and it scratches Kramer right where he itches.  When it is revived after a long dormant period, its "prolific" creator has to get one of its important symbols out of the crawl space.  It gets George out of a dispute over the Human Fund and leads Kramer to call a walkout at H&H when they infringe on his right to celebrate new holidays.  Frank finds tinsel distracting, so the pole remains unadorned, and the Airing of Grievances is very spirited because he's "got a lot of problems with you people!"  For ten points, name the holiday, celebrated December 23rd, that Frank invented to combat the commercialization of Christmas. 
Answer:  Festivus

17.	He does it with a smile and never judges you, even when you're Krusty putting out a box of used porn.  He can clean up Chief Wiggum before the big policeman's ball.  He also doesn't mind taking a soiled diaper.  He is a jolly, friendly bloke; courteous and easy-going.  He will mop up when you're over-flowing ... and tell you when your ass is showing!  He will also take your trash out, stomp it down for you, and do the twisty thingy too.  But when Homer blows his entire budget because he can sign checks with a stamp, he can also threaten you with a baseball bat until he gets paid.  For ten points, name this man, the subject of a song by Homer the Sanitation Commissioner. 
Answer:  The Garbage Man


18.	Trophy, beer, donuts, candy, chocolate, barbecue, sprinkles, Gummi bears, purple, apple, hamburger, fish, Marge, convenient, snouts, Soylent Green, slanty, pointy, urinal fresh, farfetched, pie pants, invisible cola, steamed gentile, incapacitating, organized crime, forbidden donut, unexplained bacon, re-circulated air, free goo, 64 slices of American cheese.  For ten points, Homer has said all of these words and phrases, preceded by this trademark craving sound.
Answer:  Mmmm... (Do not accept anything about his drooling sound ("Algghhh") because he didn't drool after "trophy," which is the first clue.  Anyone who said his drooling sound is a bitch.)


19.	He is not really an old man, and he has apparently seen the movie, "The Sting, part 2."  He is not an FBI agent, but he is a member of the Colgate Cavity Patrol.  After allowing Bart and Homer to turn themselves in, he steals their car and a bag of cash, which eventually leads to Homer testifying against Willie in a carjacking case.  Luckily, it is just an elaborate lesson that everyone was in on, except Willie-this man is actually a character actor, dancer, and singer doing "Dreamcoat" at the dinner theater.  For ten points, name this self-described triple-threat who helps teach Homer and Bart the dangers of grifting, voiced by Edward Norton.
Answer:  Devon Bradley


20.	This 1986 film is based on the novel Fair Game by Paula Gosling.  Brigitte Nielsen is a model whose life is in danger.  Brian Thompson appears as a serial killer and leader of a murderous deathcult with lots of battle axes and motorcycles.  A two-faced policewoman feeds information about the model's location to the Nightstalker, but the tight-jeaned, matchstick-chewing star always comes to the rescue in his supercharged '50 Mercury.  For ten points, the best parts of this movie come in Nielsen's inexplicable robot montage photo-shoot and Sylvester Stallone's brilliant one-liners, like, "You're the disease - and I'm the cure," as maverick Lieutenant Marion Cobretti.
Answer:  Cobra

Boni

1.	Answer the following about Superintendent Chalmers for ten points each, five if you need a better clue.
10: What make of car does he drive?  
5: His hood decal was stolen, prompting him to say, "What's the point of having" this type of car "if you can't show it off?"
Answer:  Honda
10: By what name does Ralph Wiggum refer to him?
5: Ralph replaces the word "Superintendent" with something stupid.
Answer:  Super Nintendo Chalmers
10: What city is he originally from?  
5: Skinner tells him the Krustyburgers he substituted for his ruined steamed clams are actually called "steamed hams," an upstate New York expression with which Chalmers reveals he is unfamiliar.
Answer:  Utica


2.	In one episode, Ned Flanders has a room in his house devoted to the Beatles.  The episode is really about the Pre-Teen Braves.  Anyway, answer these questions for the stated number of points each.
5 points per answer:  Heavyweight champ Drederick Tatum issues the candybar fundraising challenge to keep people like him off the streets because all he was taught were these two actions.
Answers:  Punch and grope
5 points each:  In the riot that erupts in the stadium, these two characters battle using a leg and a bone as swords.
Answers:  Sea Captain McAllister and Sideshow Mel
10:  This third youth group loses the candybar fundraiser, causing them to fan their foreheads and exclaim, "Oh, the indignity!" before fainting.
Answer:  Junior Dandies











3.	Name the following Presidents from descriptions of their appearances on the Simpsons for five points each.
5:  He moves in across the street, asks Homer if he likes nachos and football, and trips over the curb.
Answer:  Gerald Ford
5:  He tells Marge he's "done it with pigs-real, no-foolin', pigs," and tells Lisa, "If things don't go your way, just keep complaining until your dreams come true."
Answer:  William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton
5:  Krusty's duties as a first-term Congressman include peeing in a bucket and cleaning the graffiti calling this man "a wiener."  
Answer:  Martin van Buren
5:  This man spanked Grandpa Simpson on two nonconsecutive occasions.
Answer:  Grover Cleveland
5:  Superman challenged him to a race around the world, but the president won by a furlong...or so the comic books would have you believe.  The truth lies somewhere in between.
Answer:  Franklin Delano Roosevelt (prompt on "Roosevelt," accept "FDR") 
5:  Springfield couldn't afford a statue of Abe Lincoln, so they got one of this President.  At its unveiling, the squeaky-voiced teen calls him "history's greatest monster," a riot breaks out, and his plaque reads "Malaise forever."
Answer:  Jimmy Carter


4.	When the Simpsons go on vacation on Dr. Hibbert's Island of Lost Souls, we see that many Springfieldians have been changed into animals.  For five points per answer, given a character, name the animal he was changed into.
5:  Hans Moleman 
Answer:  turtle (accept "tortoise")
5:  Apu
Answer:  opossum
5:  Kent Brockman 
Answer:  rhinoceros
5:  Sea Captain McAllister:
Answer:  alligator (accept "crocodile")
5:  Disco Stu 
Answer:  shrew
5:  Homer, according to Captain McAllister, even though he actually was still fully human
Answer:  "Yarrr, the half-man, half-gorilla speaks the truth!"




5.	Fill in the missing words to this nonsensical ramble from Abe Simpson for ten points per answer:
10:  (same word for both blanks) "Then, in nineteen-[blank]-two-we had to say [blank], cause the Kaiser had stolen our word for twenty..."
Answer:  Dickety (DICK-eh-tee)
20:  (two words each) "Three wars back, we called sauerkraut liberty cabbage, and we called liberty cabbage [blank], and back then, a suitcase was known as a [blank] ... of course, no body knew that but me..."
Answer for first blank:  Super slaw
Answer for second blank:  Swedish lunchbox


6.	Give these Jebediah Springfield words, 5-10-15.
5:  "A noble spirit [blank] the smallest man."
Answer:  embiggens
10:  He invites all to Springfield who want to live a life of chastity, abstinence, and a flavorless mush he calls what?
Answer:  rootmarm
15:  When Edna said she had never heard of "embiggens" before she moved to Springfield, Ms.Hoover said, "I don't know why. It's a perfectly [blank] word."
Answer:  cromulent


7.	Answer these questions about Kirk van Houten, 5-10-15. 
5: Give the exact quote that finishes this line from Can I Borrow a Feeling?: "Hurtin' hearts need some healin'.../Take my hand with ..." [blank].
Answer:  your glove of love!
10:  This is the name of Kirk's bachelor pad building.
Answer:  Casa Nova: A Transitional Place For Singles
15:  Kirk drove this cracker company into the ground, dropping it from the number one cracker company to a tie with Table Time and Allied Biscuit for number six.
Answer:  Southern Cracker Company











8.	Name these things with some relationship to the Beer Baron for ten points each.
10:  This law was discovered on the town charter alongside Prohibition as having been on the books for 200 years.
Answer:  requiring ducks to wear long pants
10:  Rex Banner asks Ned Flanders if he is the beer baron.  Ned responds that if he means this, then he's "guil-diddly-ilty as char-diddly-arged."
Answer:  the root beer baron
10:  At the end of the episode, Homer toasts, "To alcohol ...."  Finish his toast.
Answer:  "... the cause of-and solution to-all of life's problems."  (accept no equivalents)


9.	For five points each, five point bonus if all correct, name the college alma maters of these Simpsons characters:
5:  Apu Nahasapeemapetilan
Answer:  Calcutta Technical Institute (prompt on "Cal Tech")
5:  Cecil Terwilliger
Answer:  Princeton (prompt on "Clown College")
5:  Homer Simpson
Answer:  Springfield University
5:  Lenny Leonard
Answer:  Springfield A&M
5:  Moe
Answer:  Swigmore University


10.	Name the following about Itchy and Scratchy history, 5-5-10-10.
5:  What did Chester J. Lampwick receive from Abe Simpson in exchange for painting his chicken coop (which he never did anyway)?
Answer:  plate of corn muffins
5:  What did Lampwick receive from Krusty the Clown in exchange for painting his fence (which he also never did)?
Answer:  a couple of blintzes
10 points per answer:  On Steamboat Itchy, who is named alongside Roger Myers in the credits for:
the episode's music?
Answer:  George Gershwin
producing the episode?
Answer:  Joseph P. "Joe" Kennedy (prompt on Kennedy; accept either Joe or Joseph)



11.	Answer the following about changing names for five points per answer:
After refusing to pay Dexter Colt's expenses, Homer and Lisa go on the run and take these aliases (Homer gave two).
Answers:  Homer:  Rock Strongo and Lance Uppercut; Lisa:  Lady Penelope Ariel Ponyweather
When Homer wants to change his name, he is issued Max Power because it is the only one he spelled correctly, but his list also includes these possibilities.
Answers:  Hercules Rockefeller, Rembrandt Q. Einstein, and Handsome B. Wonderful


12.	Given the person, name the appropriation request he made that was approved by Springfield Elementary, to be paid for by their oil discovery in the "Who Shot Mr. Burns?" episodes, 5-10-15.  For example, if the person was Lunchlady Doris, you would say, "A new kitchen staff."
5: Groundskeeper Willie (can give one of two possible answers)
Answer: "A crystal bucket for my slopwater and a brand new filthy blanket" (prompt on bucket and/or blanket)
10:  Otto
Answer:  "You know those guitars, that are like, double guitars, you know?" (accept singular or plural; prompt on guitar(s))
15: Ralph Wiggum
Answer:  "Chocolate microscopes" (prompt on microscopes)


13.	Sixties radical Mona Simpson led an exemplary life after destroying the C. Montgomery Burns Germ Warfare Lab.  For five points per answer, five point bonus if all correct, name the five jobs she held after this event.
Answer:  crossing guard, oral historian, reader for the blind, listener for the deaf, and reacher for the short













14.	Answer these questions on great literature from the Simpsons, 5-5-10-10.
5: Homer discovers that this writer is actually buried in the huge tomb that Grandpa Simpson had always said held Homer's mother.  Homer reacts angrily.
Answer:  Walt Whitman (NOTE:  If anyone happens to say, "Leaves of Grass MY ASS!" during this bonus, give 5 extra points to his/her team.)
5: In this play, Krusty is a King, and when his daughters enter, he decides to "punch it up on the fly" by making jokes with punchlines like, "What is this, merry old England or petty-coat junction?" and "...Put the Queen in a bikini!"  Then he says, "Whoa, tough crowd-they're booing Shakespeare!"
Answer:  King Lear
10: This man actually wrote Krusty's ultra-short autobiography, Your Shoes Are Too Big to Kick Box with God.  He also laughed when Krusty, upon hearing he had an illegitimate child, said, "Ugh, I think I just seltzered myself."
Answer:  John Updike
10: Lisa says the point of Moby Dick is that man can't take revenge on an animal.  Homer disagrees, saying the point of Moby Dick is this.
Answer:  "Be yourself."


15.	At Ranier Wolfcastle's bankruptcy sale, Bart picks up a cane whose handle pulls out to reveal a sword.  As Ranier says, "Everything here is sword!"  For five points each, five point bonus if all correct, name the other five sword-items Wolfcastle mentions, besides the sword-cane.
Answers:  Sword-baseball bat, sword-rifle, sword-pineapple, sword-sword sharpener, sword-pie.


16.	She was forced out in 1974 because her way of thinking wasn't cost-effective, and because she was funneling profits to the Viet Cong.  For five points, name her, the creator of Malibu Stacy, and for five points each, name her five husbands.
Answers:  Her:  Stacy Lavelle
Her husbands:  Ken, Johnny, G.I. Joe, Dr. Colossus, Steve Austin (prompt on "six million dollar man")









17.	Get ten points per answer for naming these life lessons from Homer.  (NOTE:  Accept close equivalents.)
10:  "If there's one thing I've learned, it's that life is one crushing defeat after another until you just wish ..." what?
Answer:  Flanders was dead.
10:  If adults don't like their jobs, they don't go on strike. They just "go in every day and ..." what?
Answer:  do it really half-assed. (That's the American Way.)
10:  When Homer was fighting Tom at the aquarium, what did he scream to get Tom to release him from a headlock, after which Homer kicked him in the back?
Answer:  "I'm a hemophiliac!"


18.	Given a phrase, name the Seven Sisters college to which it belongs, based on Lisa's George Plimpton-induced dream, 5-5-10-10.
5:  "Come to [this school], and meet Harvard men."
Answer:  Radcliffe
5:  "Come to [this school], and marry them."
Answer:  Wellesley
10:  "Come explore with us" (while making out with another of the Seven Sisters).
Answer:  Bryn Mawr
10:  Slurring, before falling face-first: "No, party with me!"
Answer:  Mt. Holyoke


19.	Answer these questions about grifting, or the episode in which it takes a central role, for the stated number of points each.
5:  He wrote the book on flim-flammin', entitled "A Child's Garden of Cons."
Answer:  Abe "Grandpa" Simpson (prompt on Simpson, need either Abe or Grandpa)  NOTE:  alternative answer also acceptable:  "Grifty McGrift"
10:  He is the Simpson's waiter and mentalist at the magic show, and Marge drinks her long island iced tea to avoid offending him.
Answer:  Questo
5 points per answer:  Give the three activities Ned counts as "black arts" when he refuses to pay to see Bart's magic tricks.
Answer:  magic, fortune telling, and oriental cooking







20.	Name these classic Simpsons movies, 5-5-20 (the last part is pretty hard)
5:  Homer got distracted watching this movie while he was supposed to be wrecking Moe's car.
Answer:  Hail to the Chimp
5:  This is the full name of the Planet of the Apes play that Troy McClure starred in.
Answer:  Stop the Planet of the Apes:  I Want To Get Off!
20:  After the success of Stop the Planet of the Apes: I Want To Get Off!, McClure turned down the role of McBain's sidekick in "McBain IV: Fatal Discharge" to do what film?
Answer:  The Contrabulous Fabtraption of Professor Horatio Hufnagel



1


