For all characters, unless it is explicitly stated otherwise, either first or last name is acceptable.

1.  This character's first line on the show was "I don't care if he's a bully, it's not admissible," in the episode "Sweeps."  A former track star and current squash player, she attended Harvard Law School and upon graduation served as a clerk for Judge Joel Thayer, with whom she had an affair.  After arriving in the Manhattan DA's office, she once saved her first boss from being given a contempt citation in a case involving a black defense attorney defending a white supremacist serial killer and had yet another affair with her second boss, Executive ADA Jack McCoy.  She was written out of the show in the episode "Aftershock," in which she is killed in a drunk driving accident while acting as a designated driver for Lenny Briscoe.  FTP, name this assistant ADA played by Jill Hennessey?

A: Claire Kincaid

2.  In the episode "Tabloid," Margaret Abbott, the victim, teaches law at this school.  In the episode "Admissions," the investigation focuses on a math professor who murders a graduate student who attends this school.  Although fictional in name, it combines the campuses of Fordham, CCNY, Columbia, and Pratt.  FTP, name this Law and Order university analogous to NYU, perhaps named for the river on which it is located?

A: Hudson University

3.  He's the neighbor of Steve Zirnkilton, the man who is the voice of the opening lines of each Law and Order episode.  He's worked with a number of other crime-fighting shows, including one entitled "Mann and Machine," a futuristic cop drama pairing human officer Bobby Mann with a voluptuous robot partner.  Before he worked on Law and Order, he got into the crime-fighting television business with Miami Vice and The Nasty Boys, which was his first contact with Benjamin Bratt, who went on to play Detective Reynaldo Curtis.  Granted, he hasn't been as successful as his rival Jerry Bruckheimer, whom he claims ripped the idea for CSI off of his show.  FTP, name this executive producer and creator of Law and Order as well as its spinoffs?

A: Dick Wolf

4.  His departure from the show was not explained until the fifth season episode "Bad Faith," in which we learn that he heads the Anti-Corruption Task Force, which is ironic since he himself came under suspicion in a money laundering scheme.  The actor who played him returned to the original series to direct several episodes, including "Bad Faith" as well as "Big Bang" and "The Pursuit of Happiness."  He starred as Fred Flintstone's boss in the Flintstones movie and was a regular cast member on the Fox show "Hardball."  However, he returned to the Law and Order franchise in his original role in 1999, albeit with a transfer across town to SVU headquarters.  FTP, name this captain of the twenty-seventh precinct from 1990-93, played by Dann Florek.  

A: Capt. Donald Cragen (accept Dann Florek before Anti-Corruption)

5.  He is the official spokesperson for T.D. Waterhouse, the online investment company.  He's had a lot of classical acting experience, including playing Benedick in a 1973 TV version of Much Ado About Nothing, Tom Wingfield in a '73 version of The Glass Menagerie, and Nick Carraway in the 1974 film version of The Great Gatsby.  However, his recent acting has pretty much been limited to the Law and Order series, as the last movie he appeared in was 2003's The Commission.  FTP, name this actor from the original series who obtained some experience in his current job playing ADA Forrest Bedford in the TV Series "I'll Fly Away" and who currently plays ADA Jack McCoy.

A: Sam Waterston

6.  The only person ever tried for this crime through the first five seasons of the show was Daniel Madigan, Jr. for the act that took place in the first scene of the episode that formed the second season premiere.  It forms the basis for the episodes "DWB," "Agony," "True North," and the beginning of the episode "Aftershock."  All those episodes took place after 1995, when the real life New York criminal statute was amended to allow indictments for this offence for crimes other than the killing of a police officer, corrections officer, sheriff, or DA.  Carrying a minimum sentence of 50 years in jail and allowing for the possibility of the death penalty, FTP, name this crime, the most heinous form of homicide?

A: Murder One or First-Degree Murder

7.  In the Steve Martin comedy Father of the Bride, he played wedding consultant Howard Weinstein, a role one would think he would have a hard time pulling off for ethnic reasons.  Like a cast member from the original series of Law and Order, he has voiced a Disney character.  Like a cast member from Criminal Intent, he had a primary role in 2002's "The Salton Sea."  FTP, name this supporting character from Law and Order: SVU, who voiced Captain Li Shang in Mulan and Mulan II as well as playing nerdy forensic psychologist George Huang?

A: B.D. Wong  

8.  According to the definitive Law and Order guide, he has a significant other named Shirley and looks absolutely smashing in a sweater vest.  He's Briscoe and Logan's primary donut source and once did a walkathon for needy kids.  Though not related to Joseph, the longtime head of the Brooklyn-based Columbo mafia family, he is written out of the show in the made-for-TV Law and Order movie "Exiled," where it is revealed that he is working for the mob.  FTP, name this gofer in the two-seven, who was played by the same man who now plays Gigi Cestone on The Sopranos, John Fiore?

A: Tony Profaci

9.  BOTH FIRST AND LAST NAMES ARE NEEDED.  He played Fireman #2 in the 1998 made for TV movie "The Invisible Man" and narrated the short lived series "Meet the Royals."  This bit player had parts in three Law and Order episodes from 1993 to 1999, "Ambitious", "Securitate," and "Matrimony," but is better known for a role he played in the 1999-2000 season of SVU.  He was also featured with another Law and Order relative, Joseph D'Onofrio, in the 2000 movie Blue Moon.  The son of his famous father and Marta Curro, FTP, name this small-time actor who played Lennie's nephew, Detective Ken Briscoe, on SVU?

A: Chris Orbach

10.  Michael Moriarty did not act in this Law and Order spinoff that was set in San Diego.  Neither did Vincent D'Onofrio, Stephanie March, Christopher Meloni, Jerry Orbach, Bebe Neuwirth, or Ice-T.  In fact, saying that anyone "acted" in this short lived spinoff might be an overstatement, as all the cases were "ripped from the headlines" and the directors, Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman, filmed real cases in real courtrooms.  FTP, name this relatively unpopular Law and Order series that ran from 2002-2004?

A: Law and Order: Crime and Punishment

11.  In the recent episode "Pure," he played Sebastian Ballantine, a psychic who claims to be able to reconstruct a murder and whose casual dropping of clues leads Stabler to suspect him.  He co-starred with B.D. Wong and one of his closest actor-friends in the movie Father of the Bride.  He hasn't had many serious roles before, and is best known for his comedy appearances, which started when he worked on SNL from 1984-85.  That was the year before one of his best known roles as one of the Three Amigos alongside his Father of the Bride costar, Steve Martin.  FTP, name this actor, perhaps best known now as Jiminy Glick of Prime Time Glick on Comedy Central.

A: Martin Short

12 (read before tossup):

Oh yes, you knew it was coming.  It's time for some Law and Order mathematics.  Get out your calculator and latex gloves for this next tossup:

12.  This number can be seen as the last two digits on Det. Curtis' badge.  Alternatively, it's the second and third digit on Det. Cerreta's badge.  Including the current season, it's also the combined number of seasons that Law and Order and Law and Order: SVU have run for.  It's also the precinct number where Ed Green works minus one and a half times the number of people seen walking down the hallway of One Hogan Place in the opening credits of the original series.  FTP, give this number, also at least the age we hope Lenny Briscoe was when he had his first drink?

A: 21

13.  His most recent film role came in 2004's Scrambled Eggs, in which he plays a medical professional.  However, neither acting nor medicine comprised the field in which he has spent most of his life.  Appropriately, that field was law enforcement.  In an interview, he claimed that in his 27 years as a Chicago police officer he was such a bad shot that he was known as "The Great Wounder."  FTP, name this newcomer to the Law and Order fold who appeared as John Travolta's nemesis in Get Shorty as well as Lieutenant Colonel Anderson in Saving Private Ryan and who has taken Lenny Briscoe's position as Detective Joe Fontana in the current season of Law and Order?

A: Dennis Farina

14.  It aired as the third episode in the original series, although in it the cops appear to be meeting Robinette for the first time instead of having seen him before and Max Greevey appears to have dropped a lot of weight.  Also, Roy Thinnes plays the District Attorney role usually occupied by Steven Hill.  This is because this episode was shot nearly two years beforehand, in 1988, as a pilot for the CBS network.  CBS passed on the show and NBC decided to air their own premiere, "Prescription for Death," instead.  FTP, name this strange episode whose title is reminiscent of a lovable thief?

A: "Everyone's Favorite Bagman"


15.  He sang the role of Alfred in Die Fledermaus with the Seattle Opera Company, and it was his passion for opera and desire to preserve his voice that led him to leave the Law and Order franchise and the cold New York winters to protect his perfect tenor.  Also starring as Capulet in the Baz Luhrmann version of Romeo and Juliet and Lucchese mob captain Paul Cicero in Goodfellas, name, FTP, this actor, singer, and sculptor who starred as Sgt. Phil Cerreta on the original series of Law and Order and is father of actress Mira?

A: Paul Sorvino

16.  Amazingly, Patrick McEnroe plays himself in it, although he was never featured on any of the Law and Order television shows.  This is because the investigation centers on an aspiring young tennis pro who is murdered during a competition.  In it, you work at first with Detectives Green and Briscoe to collect clues and then with ADA Serena Southerlyn to put the killer behind bars.  FTP, name this 2004 Law and Order video game, a follow up to 2002's "Dead on the Money" and 2003's "Double or Nothing," a pun on a tennis hit?

A: Law and Order: Justice is Served 

17.  His acting experience has been extremely limited, especially compared to that of his spouse, whom he often faces on the opposite side of the courtroom.  His only regular non-Law and Order acting experience came playing the title character in Duane Incarnate as well as an ER Doctor on Swimfan and a doctor on Guiding Light from 1997-1998.  FTP, name this small-time actor who plays Defense Attorney Trevor Langan on SVU but is much better known and envied for being married to Mariska Hargitay?

A: Peter Hermann

18.  He's played many famous black men in history from Huckleberry Finn's slave friend Jim to Martin Luther King, Jr., to Bobby Seale.  He got his first taste of the criminal justice system as a jury foreman, however, playing that role in the 1997 adaptation of 12 Angry Men.  Also playing a cop in the two Naked City made-for-TV movies, name this actor who plays ADA Ron Carver on Criminal Intent?

A: Courtney Vance

19.  FIRST NAME NEEDED.  In the episode "Paranoia," we learn that she is two years into a nursing degree.  Either she or her sister, Julia, is a mother, since we learn in the episode "Angel," that her father has at least one grandchild.  She appears in three episodes, "Bad Girl," "Aftershock," and "Damaged."  The events in the last lead to her burial in a Jewish graveside service in the episode "Monster."  Those events consisted of her brutal murder by a drug-dealer ex-boyfriend against whom she had testified.  FTP, name this druggie daughter of Detective Briscoe?

A: Cathy Briscoe

20.  He had a small supporting role as Seymour Stockton in Exiled, the Law and Order movie, before coming to the role for which he is best known.  After Michelle Hurd was fired at the end of season one, this actor's character was partnered with Det. John Munch, a relationship that has lasted since the second season.  This actor also did a lead performance in the movie Surviving the Game.  However, he is probably best known for his work in another entertainment medium.  FTP, name this singer-turned-actor, whose 1992 gangster-rap album Body Count adequately describes his role on the show as Det. Odafin Tutuola?

A: Ice-T


Bonus:

1.  Given the Law and Order variation and the years for which they were on the show, name the ADA FTPE.  Five points if you need the actor who played them.

1. 

10: Original Series, 1990-93
5: Richard Brooks

A: Paul Robinette

2.  

10:  Law and Order: SVU, 2003-Present
5: Diane Neal

A: Casey Novak

3.  

10: Law and Order: Trial By Jury, 2005
5:  Bebe Neuwirth

A: Tracey Kibre

2.

The original Law and Order series often had crossover episodes with Homicide: Life on the Street.  Answer the following questions about these crossover episodes on a 5-10-15 basis.

1.  Homicide: Life on the Street was set in what East Coast city?

A: Baltimore

2.  What Law and Order detective got his start in the Baltimore homicide squad before moving up I-95 to join the Manhattan special victims unit?

A: John Munch

3.  This actor played know-it-all Detective Beau Felton on Homicide, but he is not as well known as his even more famous brother Alec, who co-wrote the episode "Tabloid."

A: Daniel Baldwin

3.  Answer the following about the best Law and Order spinoff, Criminal Intent, FTPE:

1.  Criminal Intent focuses on this group of detectives in the NYPD:

A: Major Case Squad

2.  One of the two principal detectives on the show, she clearly gets second billing, as her only real noticeable line is "You're Under Arrest" while her partner, Det. Robert Goren, does most of the heavy lifting.

A: Det. Alexandra Eames

3.  Although his contract was not renewed by Dick Wolf in 1995, this actor returned to the Law and Order franchise ten years later as a member of the Major Case Squad.  In the meantime, he was off getting jiggy with Sarah Jessica Parker on Sex and the City.

A: Chris Noth

4.  Answer the following about the early life of Mariska Hargitay, who plays Det. Olivia Benson on SVU FTPE:

1.  Her father, Mickey, not only was proclaimed 1956's Mr. Universe but also competed for Hungary in this Olympic sport, popularized in America by Dan Jansen.

A: Speed Skating

2.  This mother of Hargitay was the second-biggest blonde bombshell of the 1950s next to Marilyn Monroe, and appeared in such films as 1957's "Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?" and 1963's "Promises! Promises!"

A: Jayne Mansfield

3.  Mansfield was killed and a three-year old Mariska Hargitay was injured in an automobile accident that occurred between Slidell and what southern U.S. city?

A: New Orleans

5.  You know you love Jerry Orbach, may he rest in peace.  Answer the following about some of his non-Law and Order roles FTPE:

1.  Orbach is perhaps best known outside of Law and Order for originating the role of El Gallo in what Broadway musical?

A: The Fantasticks

2.  Orbach combined law and theater when he first played this barrister from the Midwest, a role that was later reprised by Richard Gere in a 2003 Oscar-winning movie?

A: Billy Flynn

3.  Believe it or not, Orbach also was the voice behind "Be Our Guest" as this light fixture from Disney's "Beauty and the Beast"?

A: Lumiere

6.  Vincent D'Onofrio isn't so smart when an alien eats him and decides to wear his skin.  FTPE, name:

1.  The 1997 Will Smith vehicle in which this happens.

A: Men in Black

2.  Smith's co-star who plays his mentor, K.  

A: Tommy Lee Jones

3.  The type of weapon given to Smith on his first assignment.  Though it is obvious it raises issues of sexual inadequacy, Smith nearly obliterates a group of passerby with it.

A: Cricket gun


7.  Given a description of how rapists have affected their lives, give the characters from the Law and Order franchise FTPE.

1.  She was conceived in an act of rape, but her mother decided not to have an abortion.  Her sex with Detective Cassidy was consensual.

A: Olivia Benson

2.  As a freshman in college, she was raped by a third year law student.  The actress who played her's sex with Jason Sehorn was consensual.

A: Abby Carmichael

3.  While investigating the questionable practices of a gynecologist, she herself is raped.  Ben Stone points this fact out when she is on the witness stand evaluating a rape victim for the defense in the episode "Point of View."  She had no consensual sex on the show, but the actress who played her said if there was to be a liaison, it would have been with Stone.

A: Elizabeth Olivet

8. Given three of the four figures walking down the hall in the opening credits of the original Law and Order series, name the fourth FTPE:

1.  Jack McCoy, Serena Southerlyn, Lenny Briscoe

A: Ed Green

2.  Max Greevey, Mike Logan, Paul Robinette

A: Ben Stone

3.  Alexandra Borgia, Jack McCoy, Ed Green

A: Joe Fontana 

9.  Given the way they were written out of the show, name the character FTPE:

1.  Inexplicably punched a prominent politician, and was demoted to the Staten Island department, purgatory for NYPD cops.

A: Mike Logan

2.  When her boss, Arthur Branch, claims she isn't a good fit for the DA's office, she responds with "Is it because I'm a lesbian?"  Male watchers didn't even have time to lick their lips before she disappeared from the series.

A: Serena Southerlyn

3.  She goes into the federal witness protection program in Wisconsin after testifying against a Columbian drug cartel.  She has a weepy-eyed scene when she reappears in the episode "Ghost" about how even her new lover calls her by her assumed name, Emily.

A: Alexandra Cabot

10.  Let's play a game of odd man (or woman) out.  FTPE:

1.  Of Rey Curtis, Lenny Briscoe, Bobby Goren, Ben Stone, Max Greevey, Claire Kincaid, Phil Cerreta, or Paul Robinette, the one not raised Catholic.

A: Claire Kincaid.  She is Irish, but she was raised agnostic. 

2.  Of James Deakins, Donald Cragen, Lenny Briscoe, or Bobby Goren, the one who never served in the military.

A: James Deakins

3.  Of Ben Stone, Max Greevey, or Phil Cerreta - the one who is not alive.

A: Max Greevey

11.  For five points each, given a lesser-known character from the show, tell whether he or she is from the original series, SVU, Criminal Intent, or Trial By Jury.  Each character will have appeared on only one series.

1.  Detective Monique Jeffries  

A: Special Victims Unit

2.  Detective Chris Ravell

A: Trial By Jury

3.  Lieutenant Anita Van Buren

A: Original Series (accept equivalents)

4.  Captain James Deakins

A: Criminal Intent

5.  ADA Ron Carver

A: Criminal Intent

6.  ADA Kelly Gaffney

A: Trial By Jury

12.  Identify the Law and Order characters from their marital difficulties FTPE:

1.  His wife took off with their daughters after a victim accused him of touching her inappropriately.  Also, he's not the most subtle parent, trying to convince his younger daughter that she needed to guard her virginity like a soccer goal.

A: Elliott Stabler

2.  His wife left him after one night and had an affair with Detective Briscoe.  Talk about testy working relations.

A: John Munch

3.  She is constantly fighting a battle with ex-husband Neil Gordon over custody of their children.

A: Jamie Ross

13.  Given the character, say where they worked immediately before coming to the 27th Precinct in the original series.

1.  Lenny Briscoe

A: Worked vice at the 13th Precinct

2.  Rey Curtis

A: Organized Crime Control Bureau

3.  Lieutenant Anita Van Buren

A: Narcotics

14.  Do you know your Law and Order nicknames?  Let's hope so.  Answer the following FTPE:

1.  A shopkeeper once calls him "Stretch," but his best sobriquet derives from a type of men's deodorant.

A: Lenny Briscoe 

2.  Lenny calls him "Junior" or "the kid."  That's fitting, since this character calls Lenny "Old Spice."

A: Det. Rey Curtis

3.  LT is one of the many nicknames Curtis has for this character.

A: Anita Van Buren  

15.  30-20-10.  Name the actor:

30:  He recently played Ralph Earnhardt, Dale Earnhardt, Sr.'s father in the 2004 made-for-TV movie 3: The Dale Earnhardt Story.

20:  He starred alongside Joan Allen and Sam Elliott in the recent movie about rustic New Mexicans, Off The Map.  He also had his first interaction with Tobey Maguire when he played Ray Kendall in The Cider House Rules.

10:  Further co-starrings with Maguire came as he played the role of newspaper editor Jonah Jameson in both Spiderman films.  He plays the role of forensic psychologist Emil Skoda on Law and Order.

A: J.K. Simmons

16.  Answer the following about Jill Hennessey's current project, Crossing Jordan on a 5-10-10-5 basis:

1.  Hennessey plays Dr. Jordan Cavanaugh in what city's Medical Examiner's office?

A: Boston

2.  Starring as Jordan's boss, Chief ME Garrett Macy is what actor, who also starred in Traffic and The Manchurian Candidate.  Like B.D. Wong, he voiced a character in the Disney movie Mulan.  

A: Miguel Ferrer

3.  She played courageous and inspiring public defender Shambala Green on Law and Order before taking on the role of Dr. Elaine Duchamps for the 2002-2003 season of Crossing Jordan.

A: Lorraine Toussaint

4.  Mahershalalhashbaz Ali played Dr. Trey Sanders from 2001-2002.  For five points, spell Mahershalalhashbaz.

A: M-a-h-e-r-s-h-a-l-a-l-h-a-s-h-b-a-z

17.  30-20-10: name the District Attorney.  Not the Assistant District Attorney.

30: This DA, primarily featured in the original series, was never shown in the same scene as a cop.

20: This DA had roles on both Law and Order and Law and Order: SVU.

10: Until this year, she was the only female DA ever in the franchise.

A: Nora Lewin

18.  Where would the Law and Order detectives be without people to do their dirty work for them?  Nowhere, that's right.  On a 20-10 basis, answer the following about these forensic specialists.

1.  This constantly overworked Medical Examiner is always rearranging her schedule of corpses to help out Detectives Benson and Stabler as well as Eames and Goren.  The actress who played her found another job in the criminal justice system playing a judge in three episodes of All My Children.

A: M.E. Elizabeth Rodgers

2.  Speaking of judges, she's played one in three episodes of Trial by Jury.  That's quite a change from her Murphy Brown days.

A: Candice Bergen

19.  Sorry to say, you've gotten stuck with a crappy bonus.  Given the character, tell us their spouse's name for 10 and the number of kids they have for an additional 5.

1. Max Greevey

A: Marie, 3 kids

2.  Phil Cerreta

A: Elaine, 5 kids

20.  If you are hearing this bonus, I'm very impressed.  Answer the following about body doubles in Law and Order for fifteen points each:

1.  This character's death at the hands of the mob in the episode "Confession" was shot as a shadowy scene that didn't feature the actor who had played this character - he had quit the show after the producers threatened to sue him if he missed a shooting to attend the birth of his child.

A: Max Greevey

2.  She was in Baltimore shooting the second half of "Charm City" on the Homicide set, so her twin, Jacqueline, shot some of the courtroom scenes in the episode "Corpus Delicti."

A: Jill Hennessey
