Seth's Music Packet-Tossups1. The critic Eduard Hanslick compared listening to a two-piano arrangement of this piece to "getting a beating from two incredibly intelligent people." Schoenberg admired the economy of the E minor first movement, pointing out that the first theme is constructed almost entirely from descending thirds. The second movement begins in the Phrygian mode, while the adagio final movement is a passacaglia with 30 variations that takes its bass line from the finale of a cantata of J.S. Bach. For 10 points, name this last symphony of Johannes Brahms.Answer: Brahms's Fourth Symphony in E minor ("fourth symphony" acceptable after Brahms is mentioned)2. Although a popular interpretation holds that this song is a commentary on nuclear proliferation, guitarist Stefan Doroschuk explains that it is actually about "non-conforming." The singer spells the name of the song before the first verse, and later expresses the desire to "surprise 'em with a victory cry" and "act like an imbecile." In the chorus, he sings "everything is out of control" before the command, "everybody look at your hands." For 10 points, name this synth-pop classic by Men without Hats.Answer: "The Safety Dance"3. The 1960 album by this name was a single piece split between sides one and two, and it featured a double quartet that included the musicians Charlie Haden, Eric Dolphy, and Don Cherry. The style by this name had already been explored in the previous album Tomorrow is the Question, as well as in the work of pianist Cecil Taylor. Later practitioners included Archie Shepp, Albert Ayler, and Pharoah Sanders. Atonality and collective improvisation were hallmarks of-for 10 points-this avant-garde style of jazz pioneered by Ornette Coleman.Answer: free jazz4. Although Zita is dead set against the title character, Rinuccio defends him in the aria "Avete Torto," in which he compares the city to a tree. This title character, however, ends up willing all of Buoso's belongings to himself. Opinion is divided as to whether the composer or the librettist, Giovacchino Forzano, first had the idea basing an opera on the title rogue, who is mentioned in Canto 30 of Dante's Inferno. Most famous for Lauretta's aria "O Mio Babbino Caro," name-for 10 points-this Puccini opera.Answer: Gianni Schicchi5. Well-hung, and with a snow white tan, he sings with screwed-up eyes and a screwed-down hairdo, like some cat from Japan. He's an alligator who urges you to put your ray gun to his head, and he'd like to come and meet us, but he thinks he'd blow our minds. He ends up a rock and roll suicide. For ten points, name this space invader who jams good with Wierd and Gilly and the Spiders from Mars, the central character of a David Bowie album.Answer: Ziggy Stardust (prompt on "David Bowie," "Starman")6. A recently published "manual" about this group includes a slang dictionary with entries for "flavor wallabees" and "Maccabees," as well as annotated lyrics for such songs as "C.R.E.A.M" and "Triumph." Solo albums of its members have included Only Built 4 Cuban Linx by Raekwon and Inspectah Deck's Uncontrolled Substance. Numerology, kung fu movies, and ODB's antics are some of the more notable things about-for 10 points-this Staten Island rap collective, whose first album was subtitled 36 Chambers.Answer: Wu-Tang Clan7. Joseph Campbell discussed the use of ritual in this musical, which also pays homage to A Midsummer Night's Dream by having the character of the Mute play a wall. Its song "It Depends on What You Pay" contains the word "rape" some 45 times, and is often replaced in productions with the song "Abduction." The New Yorker magazine began serializing Ulysses one sentence at a time rather than writing new reviews for it every week about 15 years into its 40-year run. Famous for the song "Try to Remember," name -for 10 points-this musical that premiered in 1960 with Jerry Orbach as the star.Answer: The Fantasticks8. The lead vocals for this song were recorded using a Neumann solid-state 87 microphone with a Quad Eight limiter, but producer John Boylan assures us that singer Brad Delp hit all of the high notes without any electronic help. The final version was based on demos that were recorded in the basement of MIT-graduate Tom Scholz.  The lyrics speak of a song that they used to play, which gets the speaker dreaming until Mary Ann walks away. For 10 points, name this song, the biggest single off the self-titled debut album of Boston.Answer: "More than a Feeling"9. This work's opening melody begins by describing a D minor chord. Originally published with a chorale entitled "Here Before Thy Throne I Stand," it was largely unknown to concert audiences until a 1927 orchestral arrangement was played at Thomaskirche in Leipzig. The sixth part of the work is "in the French style," while last of the 14 "Contrapuncti" is unfinished, breaking off where a fourth subject would enter. For 10 points, name this Johann Sebastian Bach work, in which the composer explores the possibilities of a namesake form.Answer: Die Kunst der Fuge or the Art of the Fugue10. Maxine Powell was an owner of a finishing school who was hired to clean up the image of the artists. Earl van Dyke, Benny Benjamin, and James Jamerson were in the house band. Its most successful songwriting team was comprised of Lamont Dozier and the brothers Brian and Edward Holland. The founder was an ex-boxer who had worked on the assembly line of a Lincoln-Mercury plant, Berry Gordy. Mary Wells, Barrett Strong, Tammi Terrell, Smokey Robinson, and the Four Tops were all artists who recorded for-for 10 points-this record label, which put out some of the biggest R&B hits of the 1960s.Answer: Motown11. The first one taught to students is typically the yaman. They are classified into the categories of oudav, shadav and sampoorn depending on the number of notes used, but one may fall into different categories in descent and ascent, like Sheeranjani. Often assigned to different times of day, marva is properly played in the late afternoon, while sohini is played at the end of the night. For 10 points, give the word for a mode in Indian music theory, a term popularized in the U.S. by sitarist Ravi Shankar.Answer: raga12. Tori Amos's "Cornflake Girl." Beck's "Sissyneck." The Bangles' "Walk like an Egyptian." Steve Reich's "Different Trains." Peter Gabriel's "Games without Frontiers." Paul Simon's "Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard." Otis Redding's "Sittin' on the Dock of the Bay." Ennio Morricone's theme from The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. For 10 points, all of these songs feature this kind vocal sound produced by forcing air through an aperture in the lips.Answer: whistling13. The composer described the second movement as a "game of pairs," whereas the fourth movement parodies a melody from Shostakovich's then-popular Seventh Symphony and quotes a popular song about the composer's native land. The composer intended a progression from the "sternness of the first movement...to the life-assertion of the last one." The piece was commissioned in memory of Nathalia Koussevitsky, the wife of the conductor who premiered it. Given its name because it displays the virtuoso talents in various sections of the orchestra, name-for 10 points each-this 1943 piece, one of the last orchestral works of Bela Bartok.Answer: Concerto for Orchestra14. It may have been influenced by an interlude in pianist Ahmad Jamal's recording of Morton Gould's "Pavanne." John Coltrane's piece "Impressions," borrows its harmonic structure of oscillations between D dorian and E flat dorian. The piece's introduction was written-out in advance, and is a duet between bassist Paul Chambers and pianist Bill Evans. Cannonball Adderly and John Coltrane have solos. For 10 points, name this piece, the first track on Miles Davis's album Kind of Blue.Answer: "So What"15. Former Led Zeppelin bass player John Paul Jones wrote string arrangements for several songs on this album. In Track 3, the singer requests a dinner of Nescafe on ice, a candy bar, and black-eyed peas. Track 7 is addressed to Montgomery Clift, who "was strung up in a tree" and "got a raw deal." Track 10 mentions Fred Blassie, Mott the Hoople, and Charles Darwin as well as a late comedian. "Nightswimming," and "Everybody Hurts" are songs on-for 10 points-this R.E.M. album, which also features a song about Andy Kauffman, "Man on the Moon."Answer: Automatic for the People16. Oesten wrote three about the ancient Olympic games in 1857, but Puliti, Brunetti, and Monteverdi were the first composers to write pieces with this designation. J.S. Bach wrote two for the musical clock. The final section of the Faust Symphony is one, as is Berlioz's Queen Mab from Roméo et Juliette. In Holst's The Planets, the section about Uranus the Magician is one. First decisively replacing the minuet movement in Haydn's Opus 33 quartets, this is-for 10 points-what kind of movement, which takes its name from the Italian for "joke."Answer: scherzo17. Madame Armfeldt remembers being a mistress to the King of Belgium, she rhymes "raisins" with "liaisons." A quintet begins the musical by waltzing in front of the curtain and all of the music is in 3/4 or compound time. Loosely on the Ingmar Bergman film Smiles of a Summer Night, this is-for 10 points-what Stephen Sondheim musical which features the song "Send in the Clowns," and which shares its name with a piece by Mozart.  Answer: A Little Night Music18. Its bridge section uses harpsichord, sleigh bells and jew's harp. The chorus features a cello playing repeated triplets on a single note, and the most famous use of the theremin in musical history. An early version of the song had lyrics by Tony Asher, but the final version's text was by Mike Love. Over 90 hours of studio time went into the making of-for 10 points-this Beach Boys song, in which Carl Wilson sings about a girl with "colorful clothes" who is "giving him excitations."Answer: "Good Vibrations"19. It was written in Dagworth Station, borrowing its melody from an Irish tune called "Craigeelee." Some of the lyrics appear to about an 1894 sheep-shearers strike and the death of Samuel Hoffmesister. The song's title means "taking to the road with one's bedroll," an action that many "swagmen," or hobos, would have been accustomed to. A billabong is the setting of-for 10 points-this song by Sydney solicitor Banjo Paterson, the unofficial national song of Australia.Answer: "Waltzing Matilda"20. In early 2004, he was briefly a contestant on the British reality show "I'm a Celebrity...Get me out of here," but quit the show after calling the viewers "fucking cunts." He released the songs "Time Zone," with Afrika Bambaataa and "Open Up" with Leftfied. His autobiography is subtitled "No Irish, No Blacks, No Dogs," and it describes the circumstances of his famous line "Ever get the feeling you've been cheated?" For 10 points, name this singer, the leader of Public Image Limited as well as the Sex Pistols.Answer: Johnny Rotten or John LydonBonuses1. Name these bands, all of which are profiled in Michael Azerrad's 2001 book "Our Band Could be Your Life," for 10 points each.A: Ian McKaye formed this band with friends from DC's Wilson High School. The reluctant progenitors of the "straight edge" movement, their songs include "Guilty of Being White" and "Salad Days."Answer: Minor ThreatB: Most of this California band's songs are less than a minute long, and their most famous album is 1984's Double Nickels on the Dime. Founding member Mike Watt later formed fIREHOSE.Answer: the MinutemenC: This band, led by indie rock's great producer and gadfly Steve Albini, broke up shortly after their 1987 album Songs about Fucking.Answer: Big Black2. Common classifications of them include the half, the deceptive and the authentic. For ten points each,A: Give the name for a recognizable harmonic progression that concludes a musical phrase.Answer: cadenceB: Sometimes called the "amen cadence" because it commonly ends hymns, this cadence consists of a subdominant 4 chord followed by the tonic chord.Answer: plagal cadenceC: In the baroque era, pieces in a minor mode often ended with an authentic cadence to the major tonic chord. The raised third degree of the chord is given this name.Answer: Picardy third3. Early works like the cantata  Der Neue Orpheus and the opera Royal Palace hint at the vernacular elements that would characterize his later work. For 10 points eachA: Name this composer, whose first success came with 1927's Mahogany.Answer: Kurt WeillB: In America, Kurt Weill wrote this musical with lyrics by Ira Gershwin. Its subject matter, psychoanalysis, was new to musical theater, but its song "My Ship" quickly became a standard.Answer: Lady in the DarkC: Weill collaborated with Langston Hughes for this so-called "American opera," which examines tenement life using American musical idioms.Answer: Street Scene4. Answer these questions about the preservation and collection of folk music for 10 points each.A: Between 1876 and 1898, this Harvard professor compiled the folk songs of England and Scotland, as well as their American variants. The 305 ballads he collected are often referred to by his name.Answer: Francis James ChildB: Along with his son Alan, this folklorist made over ten thousand field recordings of American folk songs for the Library of Congress. He made the first recordings of Leadbelly, in a Louisiana State Penitentiary.Answer: John LomaxC: Harry Smith compiled this 1952 collection of country and blues music that would prove very influential to the folk revival of the 1960s. It brought the works of Blind Lemon Jefferson to the general public for the first time.Answer: Anthology of American Folk Music5. R.E.M. guitarist Peter Buck admired the modal playing of their guitarist Zal Yanovsky, and their leader went on to write the theme song for "Welcome Back, Kotter." For 10 points each,A: Name this folk-rock band, which hit it big with hits like "Do You Believe in Magic."Answer: Lovin' SpoonfulB: Nearly inescapable in June of 1966 was this Lovin' Spoonful song, in which John Sebastian lets us know that the back of his neck is getting dirty and gritty.Answer: Summer in the CityC: Zal Yanovsky came to the Spoonful from this band. Two other members of it, Cass Elliot and Danny Doherty, went on to be half of the Mamas and the Papas.Answer: The Mugwumps6. Short tunes from the Medieval era have a way of showing up again and again down the road. For 10 points eachA: This French chanson lent its melody to over 40 masses in the High Renaissance, including versions by Du Fay, Josquin, and Palestrina. Frederic Rzewski incorporated it into his 1991 Piano Sonata. Its original lyrics describe a titular character with "a coat of iron mail."Answer: L'homme armé or The Armed ManB: Composed around 1250 in Reading, England, this canon's lyrics describe a singing cuckou, a bleating lamb, and a lowing calf. Benjamin Britten used it in his "Spring Symphony."Answer: Sumer is Icumen InC: With a text by Thomas of Celano, this melody from the Latin mass is found in Berlioz's Symphonie fantastique, Rachmaninoff's Rhapsody on a Theme by Paganini, and elsewhere.Answer: Dies Irae7. Identify the rock artist from the decadent 1970s from a description of his, her, or their legendary exploits for 10 points each.A: Members of this band reportedly made sweet love to a groupie using shark meat that they had recently procured by fishing out the window at Seattle's Edgewater Hotel.Answer: Led ZeppelinB: This bass player was said to have had a cow's tongue grafted onto his own.Answer: Gene SimmonsC: After this singer destroyed her nasal tissue through years of heavy cocaine use, she reportedly got her fix by having her assistant blow the drug up her rear end.Answer: Stevie Nicks8. She acknowledged her debts to Louis Armstrong and Bessie Smith in her autobiography, Lady Sings the Blues. For 10 points,A: Name this singer, whose recruitment by Columbia talent scout John Hammond led to her first commercial recording, 1933's "You're Mother's Son-in-Law."Answer: Billie HollidayB: Much of Billie Holliday's finest work was made with this tenor saxophonist who she nicknamed "Prez." He had replaced another tenor in Fletcher Henderson's band in 1934.Answer: Lester YoungC: Actually written by Abel Meeropol, the school teacher from the Bronx who adopted the children of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, the anti-lynching song was made famous by Holliday's 1939 rendition.Answer: Strange Fruit9. Answer the following questions about the album Hot Rats for 10 points each.A: The album was by this artist, whose earlier Freak Out! influenced the Beatles Sergeant Pepper and who gained notoriety in the 80s for his novelty hit "Valley Girl."Answer: Frank ZappaB: The song "Willie the Pimp" features guest vocals from this singer, who later went into painting under his given name of Don Van Vliet. His album Trout Mask Replica is a favorite among snobby rock critics.Answer: Captain BeefheartC: Hot Rats was one of the first albums Zappa recorded without this backing group, which had included Ray Collins and Jimmy Black.Answer: Mothers of Invention (prompt on "Mothers")10. Name the Cole Porter song from lyrics for 10 points each.A: "We're all alone, no chaperone can get our number. The world's in slumber."Answer: "Let's Misbehave"B: "The girls today in society go for classical poetry. So to win their hearts one must quote with ease, Aeschylus and Euripides."Answer: "Brush up your Shakespeare."C: "Why is it so that this longing for you follows wherever I go? In the roaring traffic's boom, in the silence of my lonely room, I think of you."Answer: "Night and Day"11. His association with the choreographer and dancer Angiolini led to the writing of such ballets as Les Amours de Flore et Zephire and Achille in Sciro. For 10 points each,A: Name this originally Bohemian composer, who introduced greater realism to opera in the second half of the 18th century with his "reform" operas Alceste and Armide.Answer: Christoph Willibald GluckB: One of Gluck's best-known works is this 1762 opera, famous for the "Dance of the Happy Spirits." It adapts a story from the sixth book of the Aeneid but adds a happy ending.Answer: Orfeo and EurydiceC: This ballet, Gluck's most famous, was based on a Spanish play by Tirso de Molina. The cemetery scene in Act III was a principal source of the Sturm und Drang style in music.Answer: Don Juan (do not accept "Don Giovanni")12. For 10 points each, supply the missing line or phrase from a selection of Sir Mix-a-Lot's "Baby Got Back."A: "Oh, my, god. Becky, look at her butt. / It is so big. *scoff* She looks like, / BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK"Answer: One of those rap guys' girlfriendsB: "But with that butt you got makes me feel so horny, / Oh BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK / You say you wanna get in my Benz?"Answer: Rump o' smooth skinC: "If you wanna role in my Mercedes (Yeah!)/ Then turn around! Stick it out! BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK BLANK Baby got back!"Answer: Even white boys got to shout13. Name the artists with something in common for 10 points each.A: A track on their 2000 album And then nothing turned itself inside out was entitled "The Crying of Lot G." They are more famous for portraying the Velvet Underground in the film I Shot Any Warhol, and for the songs "Autumn Sweater" and "Sugarcube."Answer: Yo La TengoB: She released an album in 1993 called Gravity's Rainbow, more than a decade after her hits "Heartbreaker" and "Hit me with your best shot."Answer: Pat Benetar C: This band's official merchandise is sold by an organization called W.A.S.T.E. The subject of the 1999 documentary Meeting People is Easy, their most recent single was "2 + 2 = 5".Answer: Radiohead14. Answer these questions about the comedy and Frank Sinatra for 10 points each.A: Two actors have done impressions of Frank Sinatra on Saturday Night Live, one in 1980s, and one in the 1990s. Name them for five points each.Answer: Joe Piscopo and Phil HartmanB: The line "Make yourself at home, Frank! Hit someone!" is attributed to this man, a pioneering insult comic and the voice of Mr. Potato Head in Toy Story.Answer: Don RicklesC: An elaborate send-up of Sinatra and the Rat Pack was featured in one episode of the animated show. One of the title characters becomes a lounge singer to raise money for his plan to broadcast the sound a dripping faucet across the globe.Answer: Pinky and the Brain15. Maynard Solomon said that they offer "a vision of life," but contemporary audiences found them incomprehensible and dismissed them as products of the composer's deafness. For 10 points each:A: What is the name that history gives to these last pieces of Beethoven, all written for a single kind of ensemble between 1822 and 1827?Answer: Late String Quartets or Last String Quartets (prompt on "quartets," "string quartets")B: String quartet Opus 130 originally had this long piece as its finale, which Stravinsky claimed "was this absolutely contemporary piece of music that would be contemporary forever." Answer: Grosse Fuge or Grand FugueC: The finale of quartet Opus 135 is based on two motifs that Beethoven associated with particular texts. Give, in German or English, these two phrases.Answer: Muss es sein? and Es muss sein, or Must it be? and It must be16. Located in the French Quarter near Congo Square, its name came from the council member who introduced legislation to legalize prostitution there in the 1890s. For 10 points each,A: Name this district of New Orleans, the bordellos of which were early incubators for jazz.Answer: StoryvilleB: Committed to a state sanitarium in 1907, this Storyville cornet-player is a legendary originator of jazz. No recordings were ever made of him, but his theme song "Funky Butt" survives.Answer: Buddy BoldenC: This pianist and leader of the Red Hot Peppers band got his start in Storyville. His compositions include "King Porter Stomp" and "Wolverine Blues."Answer: Jelly Roll Morton17. People liked ska once. Name the ska bands, for 10 points each.A: These alumni of Alpha Cottage School for Boys formed their band in 1964, and are often considered the first people to play ska. Tenor saxophonist Tommy McCook came up with their name when he was thinking about Sputnik.Answer: The SkatalitesB: They were from England, and they had a song called "Our House" in 1982.Answer: MadnessC: Their lead singer Dicky Barrett grimaces a lot when he sings. They sang "Someday I Suppose" in Clueless.Answer: Mighty Mighty Bosstones18. Russian composers, 10 points each.A: After he died on the same day as Stalin, his Cello Concertino was completed by Rostropovich and Kabalevsky. His opera The Love for Three Oranges is more famous.Answer: Sergei ProkofievB: He claimed to avoid Russian themes in his operas because he was half-French and half-Lithuanian, but his most famous work is the opera A Prisoner in the Caucasus, which is based on Pushkin.Answer: Cesar Cui C: As well writing over 50 scores for the Soviet Mosfilm company, he composed several pieces in the form of the Concerto Grosso. His characteristic "polystylism" is apparent in the oratorio Nagasaki and in the operas Life with an Idiot and Gesualdo.Answer: Alfred Schnittke19. Growing out of the group the Mar-Keys, they played on Rufus Thomas's "Walking the Dog" and Wilson Pickett's "In the Midnight Hour." For 10 points each,A: Name this band that played back-up for Otis Redding and Sam and Dave as the house band for Stax records. Answer: Booker T and the MGsB: Booker T and the MGs are most famous for this instrumental track, which they wrote while for singer Billy Lee Riley to show up for a session.Answer: Green OnionsB: Name their guitarist, who later appeared in the band in Blues Brothers.Answer: Steve Cropper20. The German version is called a Dudelsack, the Spanish a zampoña, and the Polish is the dudy. The most famous Irish type is the uilleann. For 10 points each,A: Name this wind instrument.Answer: bagpipeB: Bagpipes typically have one or more drone pipes and one of these pipes, on which the melody is played.Answer: chantersC: Bagpipers give this name to an unintended shrill sound made by the chanter when the pipe is overblown.Answer: skirl