Chicago Theme TournamentQuestions by Seth Teitler1. This god's younger sister suckled the Nemean Lion, and he loaned his huge, golden cup to Hercules during the quest for the oxen of Geryon.  His grandsons included Apsyrtus, Telegonus, and the Minotaur.  One of his two sisters became the mother of the four winds, while the other fell in love with a man who was given the power of sleeping with his eyes open by Hypnos.  He witnessed Hades' abduction of Persephone from above while riding in his chariot.  FTP, name this brother of Selene and Eos, and father of Phaeton, the sun god of the Greeks.	Ans: Helios2. The first section, "Hair," tells of a cheating husband.  "Flood" tells the story of a 70 year old Jewish woman.  Violence is discussed in "The Memory of Her Face," and "I was 12, My Mother Slapped Me." Christina Hoff Sommers and Wendy McElroy attacked this work, particularly a section featuring a young girl who is plied with alcohol and then seduced by an older woman.  In the original, the girl is 13, and claims, "if it was rape, it was a good rape," near the end of her vignette, titled "The Little Coochie Snorcher That Could." FTP, name this play which includes a section on "Reclaiming Cunt," written by Eve Ensler.	Ans: The Vagina Monologues3. Zirconocene dichloride is a highly active single-site catalyst for the creation of this molecule.  Earlier catalysts discovered for production of this molecule include one based on chromium trioxide discovered by Banks and Hogan at Phillips Petroleum, and a mixture of titanium tetrachloride and triethylaluminum.  These catalysts work to produce the linear form, while peroxide initiators are used in production of the more flexible branched form of this polymer.  The original Ziegler catalyst was used to produce this polymer, whose monomer is CH2 double bonded to CH2.  FTP, name this plastic with high- and low-density forms.	Ans: polyethylene or PE (accept high-density polyethylene or HDPE until "branched form" is read)4. The phrases, "3:30 in the afternoon," "64 degrees and cloudy," and "an affluent suburb" flash onscreen at the start of a film adaptation of this work which earned a best director award for Mark Pellington.  Through his artistic genius, the title character creates a private world characterized by bold color choices, including a Sun that is "lemon-yellow."  He likes to depict himself holding his arms aloft in a V shape, standing on mountaintops, providing relief from a reality in which "Daddy didn't give attention / to the fact that Mommy didn't care."  FTP, name this disturbed youth who "spoke in class today" in a Pearl Jam song.       Ans: Jeremy5. According to legend, people who lived during the time of this dynasty include the first of the Four Beauties, whose extraordinary good looks shamed fish when she washed her clothes by the river.  The reign of this dynasty also saw the publication of the classic text, "A white horse is not a horse," written by a member of the Logicians, themselves an offshoot of the Mohists.  The Mohists, legalists, and Taoists were among the Hundred Schools of Thought active during the Eastern period of this dynasty's reign.  The Eastern period is subdivided into the Spring and Autumn Period, and the Warring States Period.  FTP, name this longest-lasting dyansty in Chinese history, ruling between the Shang and Qin dynasties.       Ans: Zhou or Chou dynasty6. Her full name means "fireworks child" in Japanese.  Tragedy rocked her world in 1984 with the death of her Manx kitten All Ball, and again in 2004, when she had a toothache which she rated 9 out of 10 on a pain scale.  In 2005, two women filed suit, claiming they'd been told to show her their nipples.  Her alleged nipple fetish may explain her frequent use of the word in a 1998 AOL chat that attracted 8000 people.  During that chat, she used the word "foot" for male, and "lips" for female, signing her responses, which were typed for her.  With an IQ between 75 and 95, FTP name this subject of research by Ronald Cohn and Francine Patterson, a gorilla with some ability in sign language.       Ans: Koko or Hanabi-Ko7. They have a characteristic spectrum with features known as the "knee" and the "ankle."  Below the "knee," they are thought to be accelerated in supernova remnants; above the "ankle," they are hypothesized to show a sharp drop-off in flux, a phenomenon known as the GZK cutoff, due to pion photoproduction through scattering off the CMB at energies above 1020 electron volts.  They are not observed with energies below a gigaelectron volt, due to shielding by the solar wind.  FTP name these highly energetic particles whose observation led to the first detections of the positron and the muon.       Ans: cosmic rays8. This city is home to the hospital where the author of the pastoral drama Aminta was confined for 7 years.  Pietro Bembo dedicated his Gli Asolani to the most notorious resident; that wife of Duke Alphonse was the daughter of Vanozza Cattanei.  This city is home to the Palazzo dei Diamanti, which hosts art by local artists such as Cosimo Tura and Dosso Dossi, the house of Ariosto, and the Palazzo Schifanoia, with its frescoes of Duke Borso.  FTP, name this Italian city ruled for centuries by the Este family.	Ans: Ferrara9. He encourages the title character of one poem to gather buds, but warns her to avoid angering Flora.  In another poem, the second title entity complains that the first title entity, "wanting where its spight to try, / Has made me live to let me dye."  Juliana is the object of the unrequited affection of Damon, the central character of four of this man's poems, including one in which Damon is paired in the title with luminous insects. FTP, name this author of "The Picture of Little T. C. in a Prospect of Flowers," "A Dialogue Between the Soul and Body," "The Mower to the Glow-Worms," and the line, "But at my back I always hear, / Time's winged chariot drawing near" in "To His Coy Mistress."       Ans: Andrew Marvell10. His subordinate officers were put on trial at Red Fort in November 1945, but a countrywide protest convinced the British to issue a general amnesty.  Those officers served in his army, which fought in battles at Kohima and Imphal alongside Japanese troops.  He served as head of the Provisional Government of Azad Hind, established in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands; earlier, he had founded the Forward Bloc in 1939 after resigning his second presidency of the Indian National Congress due to a lack of support from Gandhi.  FTP, name this leader of the Indian National Army, known as Netaji.	Ans: Subhash Chandra Bose (prompt on Netaji before the end of the question)11. One section of this work, "Rules of Reasoning in Philosophy," includes a paraphrase of Occam's Razor, and promotes the use of induction.  The final section, the "General Scholium," addresses some problems with the hypothesis of vortices, noting that "the periodic times of the parts of the vortex ought to be in the sesquiplicate proportion of their distance."  Expanded from the tract De Motu Corporum, which became its first section, the second edition of this work featured corrections from Firmin Abauzit, David Gregory, John Flamsteed, and Roger Cotes.  Containing derivations of Kepler's laws of planetary motion from the author's universal law of gravitation and 3 laws of motion, FTP name this treatise by Newton.	Ans: Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica12. This novel inspired the form of another novel whose characters include the iguana Schwarzenegger and a drummer in the rock band the Liquid Sheep.  That novel is The Golden Gate by Vikram Seth.  Nabokov published a poem defending his prose translation of this work, written in the same 14-line stanzas of iambic tetrameter used in the original.  The Tchaikovsky opera based on this work calls for a bass for the part of Prince Gremin, and a tenor for the part of a poet, who is killed in a duel by the title character.  FTP, name this verse novel by Pushkin centering on a man who rejects Tatyana and kills Lensky.       Ans: Eugene Onegin or Yevgeny Onegin13. In this work, we learn that the first inhabitants of Italy were the Cyclopes.  This work also sets the record straight on the story of Harmodius and Aristogiton, celebrated in drinking songs as the tyrranoktonoi.  A more famous section ends with the conquest of the southwesternmost of the Cyclades, followed by the slaughter of the grown men and the enslavement of the women and children.  Cratippus and Theopompus both wrote extensions that covered events up to the Battle of Cnidus, while the most famous continuation was written by Xenophon.  Containing the Melian dialogue and the funeral oration of Pericles, FTP name this work by Thucydides.       Ans: History of the Peloponnesian War14. This man paid double the requested bride-price for his first wife, bringing two hundred foreskins taken in battle.  Prior to an earlier battle, this man explained that he used to catch lions and bears by the beard, then smite and kill them.  Then he went to a brook and took five smooth stones and put them in his wallet, but all he needed was one stone to fell his opponent.  FTP, name this father of Tamar and Amnon, the youngest son of Jesse, who became king of Israel after Saul.	Ans: David15. In a 1995 film, he played the father of Reuben and the oversexed farmboy Seth.  That character, a preacher who warns there is no butter in hell for soothing burns, is Amos Starkadder, and the film is Cold Comfort Farm.  More recently, he has played a character who dies at the top of Zirakzigil, a character who engineers the death of Senator Robert Kelly, and director James Whale in the film Gods and Monsters.  The character who dies on Zirakzigil is also known as Ol—rin, while the character responsible for Senator Kelly's death uses the alias Erik Lehnsherr, and is placed in a plastic prison to keep him from using his powers to escape.  FTP, name this actor who has portrayed Magneto and Gandalf in the X-Men and Lord of the Rings series.       Ans: Sir Ian McKellen16. This character stands his ground against a monster "clothed with scales, like a fish," with "wings like a dragon, [and] feet like a bear... out of his belly came fire and smoke, and his mouth was as the mouth of a lion."  This monster claims to be the Prince of this man's homeland, which he leaves, headed for a wicket-gate, after reading that his city will be destroyed by fire.  After fending off that monster, the foul fiend Apollyon, this character passes from the Valley of Humiliation to the Valley of the Shadow of Death. Undertaking a trip from the City of Destruction to the Celestial City, FTP name this hero of John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.       Ans: Christian17. In a book written 7 years after this work, the author discusses such topics as forestry in the Tokugawa period, the genocide in Rwanda, and the Anasazi. The ninth chapter of this work introduces a principle named for the sister of Stiva Oblonsky, and mentions the prehistoric Holocene extinctions, which led to a lack of tameable megafauna in some regions.  Regions with tameable megafauna could support denser populations, which then developed a larger set of pathogens, tying in with the second title factor.  Subtitled "The Fates of Human Societies," FTP name this 1998 Pulitzer prize winner by Jared Diamond.       Ans: Guns, Germs & Steel18. In one of her stories, an English teacher goes to a concert in the park, then hears a young couple making fun of her.  In another of her stories, old Mr. Woodifield reminds the boss of his son's death six years earlier in World War I, but the boss quickly forgets his grief, becoming enthralled with dropping ink on the title insect until it dies.  Those stories are "Miss Brill" and "The Fly."  In the title story of a 1922 collection, Laura takes leftover food from the extravagant titular celebration to the home of a poor, recently-widowed woman, and is fascinated by the sight of the corpse of the dead husband.  FTP, name this New Zealand-born author of "The Garden Party."	Ans: Katherine Mansfield or Beauchamp19. Late in life, this man argued that the fine structure constant is precisely 1/136, then switched to arguing that it is precisely 1/137.  The relation named for this man and Barbier implies that the flux received from a star's surface is determined by the source function at an optical depth of 2/3.  This relation is derived from his namesake approximation for the radiation field in situations with spherical symmetry.  The largest luminosity a given star can have without blowing itself apart is known as his limit.  FTP, name this astrophysicist whose observations of bent starlight during a solar eclipse confirmed Einstein's theory of general relativity.       Ans: Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington20. In the prequel to this book, we learn that the second title character spoke the Deplorable Word, destroying all life on her homeworld of Charn.  She has authority to execute traitors, resulting in the death of the first title character, and the breaking of the Stone Table due to Deeper Magic from before the Dawn of Time.  While hunting for a magical white stag, the four siblings pass the lamppost marking the border of the land, and come back through the title object into the house of Professor Digory Kirke, the title character of this book's prequel, The Magician's Nephew.   FTP, name this story of Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy Pevensie, the first of the Chronicles of Narnia.	Ans: The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe