TOSSUPS

1) Signed in Washington on April 30th, 2007, this agreement gives European Union 
airlines the right to fly between American cities and non-EU cities. In return, American 
airlines are given cabotage rights within the European Union. Landing slots at Heathrow 
will be opened to full competition. FTP, name this agreement between the United States and the European Union which liberalises air transport across the Atlantic.

Open Skies Agreement

2) Parts of it may be of questionable taste, including a sex scene in Act I replete with farting, post-coital trombones. Stravinsky dismissed it as "lamentably provincial." In the libretto taken from a Nikolai Leskov story, Katerina has a steamy affair with a worker named Sergei. She then kills her moralistic father-in-law with poisoned mushrooms while he, with nothing better to do, strangles her husband. The corpse is found, they trek to Siberia, and she finishes it off with a self-drowning. FTP, name this Shostakovich opera whose title alludes to a Shakespearean character.
Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk District 

3) Pioneered by John Holland in the 1960's, these are a class of global heuristic search methods modeled on the principle of Survival of the Fittest as laid down by Charles Darwin. They are implemented as computer simulations in which a population of abstract representations of candidate solutions (called individuals or phenotypes) to an optimization problem evolves towards better final solutions. FTP, name this class of search algorithm whose name derives from biological processes such as inheritance, mutation, and gene recombination.
   
Genetic Algorithm

4) This American company, known as 'Mommy United' in Central America, was started by Minor Cooper Keith after he built Costa Rica's first railroad in 1890. After gaining a monopoly in Central American fruit production, it expanded its operations until it also had virtual monopolies over transport and communications there. Then, in 1954, it went on to orchestrate a coup in Guatemala with generous aid from the CIA. FTP, name this historic company that has been known as Chiquita Brands International since 1984, and which gave rise to the term 'banana republic'. 

United Fruit Company (prompt on Chiquita before mention)

5) Its sacred texts include the Yasna, the Visparad, the Yashts, and the Vendidad, 
which are all parts of the Avesta.  Now practised mainly in India, this was once the 
official religion of the Persian empire.  The supreme deity is the creator, Ahuramazdah.  
FTP, name this religion whose prophet inspired Nietzsche to write Also Sprach 
Zarathusthra.

Zoroastrianism

6) Throughout his thirties he seemed to be stalked by death: in 1563 his best friend La Boétie died of dysentery and his father followed in 1568 -- and while his first two children died in infancy, his brother was killed by a tennis ball. Only after this did he fully dedicate himself to writing, though his education, including immersion Latin, started as early as age five. Developer of an incarnation of skepticism stemming from the motto Que sais-je?, name, FTP, this renaissance thinker famous for his views On Friendship and On the Education of Children, author the Essais.
Michel de Montaigne
7) On this day in 1913 Benjamin Britten is born; on this day in 1928 Ravel's Bolero is first performed to a Parisian audience. On this day in 1943 Roosevelt, Churchill, and Chiang Kai-Shek convene in Cairo and on this day in 1972 Nixon lifts the 22-year ban on American travel to China. On this day in 1986 Mike Tyson beats Trevor Berbick to become the youngest ever world heavyweight champion. These events all take place on - FTP - this date, which in 1963 saw JFK's assassination in Dallas.
November 22

8) Born of a Kenyan father and an American mother, he graduated from Harvard Law school where he was the Harvard Law Review's first Black president. After short stints as a civil rights lawyer and a community organizer, he served in his state's Senate from 1997-2004 before entering the US Senate. FTP, name the current junior senator from Illinois who is also one of the Democratic candidates for nomination in the 2008 U.S. presidential election.

Barack Obama

9) Intended to represent the distribution of two resources between two consumers, its 
width represents one resource, and its height represents the other.  Every possible 
division of resources can be represented within the diagram.  When the indifference 
curves for each consumer touch (but not cross), both consumers receive maximum utility. FTP, name this economic diagram devised by Francis Edgeworth and Arthur Bowley.

Edgeworth-Bowley Box (accept Edgeworth Box before Bowley is mentioned)

10) His many occupations have included being a milkman, an artist's model, a truck driver, and a coffin polisher. After discharge from the Navy on grounds of a stomach ulcer, he went on to win the 1953 Mr. Universe contest and got his film break in South Pacific. Though his first major acting award didn't come until a BAFTA for The Name of the Rose, he followed it up with his only Academy Award as 1987's Best Supporting Actor. His most famous role began 25 years earlier though, under the tutelage of Terence Young. FTP, name this actor whose last Bond film was 1983's Never Say Never Again.
Sean Connery

11) The inspiration for this controlversial documentary was the discovery of the Talpiot tomb in 1980 during a house construction project. Of the ten stone ossuaries found, including the titular location, six have names and inscriptions. Featured in this 2007 made-for-TV work, directed by Canadian Simcha Jacobovichi the discovery is claimed to be backed by statisticians, DNA experts, historians and archaeologists. FTP, name the James Cameron-produced documentary which claims to have found the family burial site of a very famous New Testament character.
   
The Lost Tomb of Christ   

12) The name of this river means stagnant pool or swamp in Sanskrit. One of the seven holy rivers mentioned in the Rig Veda, it is described as lying between the Yamuna in the east and the Sutlej in the west. The river does not exist today in its ancient course but has been identified with either the Helmand river in Afghanistan or the Ghaggar-Hakra river in India. FTP, identify this paleogeographic river, which is personified by the Hindu goddess of knowledge. 

Saraswati


13) When asked why he decided to write this 900-page novel about Nazis, the author cited Lanzmann's Shoah. More obvious influences are the Greek Orestes myth and The Eumenides by Aeschylus which provide its title and draw attention to the central character's hate for his mother. That seems to be the least of Maxilimien Aue's problems, though, an effete, polyglot SS officer who struggles with, among other things, his repressed homosexuality and incestuous fantasies for his sister. He is the protagonist in -- FTP -- this massively controversial Holocaust novel by Jonathan Littel, winner of the Prix Goncourt in 2006.
Les Bienveillantes (no Eng. trans. yet but the title ironically means "the kindly ones")

14) Under this new system, 90 MPPs will be elected as they always have been, but an 
additional 39 MPPs will be topped up based on a party's share of the popular vote.  FTP, name this voting system which was recommended by the Ontario Citizen's 
Assembly.

Mixed-member Proportional

15) The video of his break-out song features him alternately working out and relaxing in a hot tub, while an octogenarian with oversized yellow glasses blows bubbles in his face. Following him into a sauna, she hangs a DO NOT DISTURB sign on the door which hardly mitigates the video's effect on the viewer. At a 1993 performance of The Star-Spangled Banner, his voice cracked midway and he promised fans he would "make up for it"; alas, he never did. FTP, name this disasterously-bad singer of "Break it Up," who in his spare time managed to win a combined 20 Olympic and World Championship Medals.
Carl Lewis

16) The case served as an indirect precedent to R v. Oakes, and its own precedent was Robertson and Rosetanni v R, involving the co-proprietors of a bowling alley. While the case's success was made possible by section 52 of the Constitution Act, its real breakthrough was a reassessment of section 2 of the Charter, proving that religious freedom also implied prohibiting laws based on religion. Name, FTP, this landmark 1985 case in Canadian Law which overthrew the Lord's Day Act.
R. v Big M Drug Mart Ltd.

17) Born in Calgary in 1981, he would go on to become the first player in history to make England's international team despite never having lived or played at the club level in the UK. He moved at the age of 16 from the Calgary Foothills to Bayern Munich where he would go on to be part of teams that won 4 German Bundesliga titles and one European Champions League Cup. FTP, name this soccer midfielder who is all set to join Manchester United tomorrow (July 1st 2007) for a fee of 17 million pounds.
   
 Owen Hargreaves

18) Its people were once mocked as the "weak link in the chain of socialism".  The 
world's second largest producer of cotton, it is the most populous of the former Soviet 
'stans.  FTP, name this Central Asian republic whose president, Islom Karimov, 
is up for reelection at the end of 2007.

Uzbekistan

19) It boasts being the only Dickens novel to feature a female narrator and the only one to have a character die of spontaneous combustion. While the dective Mr. Bucket was based on C.F. Field, Dickens denied that the immoral Harold Skimpole was created as an attack on Leigh Hunt. Less restrained is the novel's criticism of the English Court system and the way in which Richard Carstone and Ada Clare are forever changed by the case Jarndyce v. Jarndyce. FTP, name this Dicken's novel which explores Esther Summerson's shadowly past and opens in a thick fog covering Chancery.

Bleak House

20) This hot desert, the 14th largest in the world, is home to the Khutse Game Reserve and the Gemsbok National Park. It is inhabited by the San, Tswana and the Kgalgadi people. Its only permanent river, Okavango, empties into a delta. FTP, Identify this desert, which featured prominently in the movie The Gods Must be Crazy. 

The Kalahari Desert


21) This religious sect, also known as Albigensians, was essentially Gnostic with Manichaean influences. The sect became particularly powerful in southern France, where it was patronized by the Duke of Aquitaine in the early twelfth century. An inquisition was ordered by the Vatican to root out this 'heresy' in 1229 and peaked with the siege of Montsegur where 200 of its followers were burnt alive. FTP, identify this medieval religious sect whose name originates from a Greek word meaning 'pure ones'. 

Catharism

22) This military commander sported a scar on his cheek, which was a result of a fencing duel in high school. Leaving his civilian work as an engineer, he joined the Waffen-SS during World War II. After the war, he escaped to Spain where he became a citizen. FTP, identify this man, labeled by Eisenhower as the 'most dangerous man in Europe' who was responsible for the dramatic rescue of Benito Mussolini. 

Otto Skorzeny

  














BONI

1. Give these related books titles FTP each:
a) The life of a young man from his education at Cambridge to his travels in Greece is sketched in this early novel by Virginia Woolf: the empty titular location is a metaphor for his wartime death. 
Jacob's Room

b) The owner of the tiny titular location is an enigmatic Italian bartender. When David falls in love with him and moves in, his inability to accept his desires leads to tragedy for both of them in this novel by James Baldwin.
Giovanni's Room

c) The author's wrongful imprisonment in a French military concentration camp feature heavily in this caustic autobiographical novel by E.E. Cummings: the titular location encompasses everything from the sleeping quarters to the lavatory.
The Enormous Room

2. Although rumours of an imminent federal election have receded for the time being, 
there are a number of prominent MPs who have announced that they will not be returning. FTP each, identify these retiring members of parliament:

a) Currently the longest-serving member of the house, this ordained minister is the NDP 
house leader and the member for Elmwood-Transcona.

Bill Blaikie

b) Serving as party leader until the election of Stéphane Dion, this former Liberal 
cabinet minister announced his retirement on June 19th.

Bill Graham

c) Leader of the Bloc Quebecois from 1996-97, this member for Roberval-Lac St. Jean says that he is resigning for health reasons.

Michel Gauthier

3. Given the description, supply these works by Michaelangelo FTP each:
a) The first and most famous in a series on the same theme, this marble sculpture commissioned by French cardinal Jean de Billheres shows Mary holding Jesus after the crucifiction.
Pietà

b) While its original setting was the Palazzo della Signorina in Florence, the titular Biblical figure now stands at 5.17 m at the city's Accademia di Belli Arti.
Davide (da-VEE-day) or David

c) Begun three decades after the completion of the ceiling, this work above the Sistine Chapel altar depicting Christ's second coming, landed Michaelangelo in hot water for not using enough fig leaves.
Giudizio universale (ju-DEE-tsee-oh oo-nee-ver-SAHL-ay) or The Last Judgment

4. In 2007 a small nation came under what may be the world's first instance of 
cyber-warfare.  FTP each, answer the following questions:

a) Name the country which was attacked by forces believed to be allied to Russia.

Estonia

b) The Soviet-era statue whose relocation provoked the attack was officially a statue of 
the Unknown Soldier.  What did resentful Estonians call it?

The Unknown Rapist (or tundmatu vägistaja)

c) As it turns out, the scale of the attacks may not have been as serious as first 
reported.  In fact, they may have been less severe than attacks launched from this Asian 
nation against the U.S. after American Apollo Ohno won the 1500-metre gold medal in 
speedskating.

South Korea


5. Give, FTP each, these characters from The Iliad and/or Odyssey
a) This Gerenian horseman advises Agamemnon and Achilles in The Iliad and helps Telemachus in The Odyssey. Due to his long-winded diatribes, he also loans his name to the comic second chapter of Joyce's Ulysses.
Nestor

b) Originally named Podarces and the youngest son of Laomedon, he went on to marry Arisbe and Hecube. A sage ruler in The Iliad, he and his sons are nonetheless slain before The Odyssey begins.
Priam

c) He distinguishes himself in The Iliad for recovering the body of Patroclus, but he is less kind to Deiphobus and dissects his body one part at a time, giving special attention to the eyes. On his way home in The Odyssey, he captures the shape-shifting sea God Proteus.
Menelaus

6. Recent linguistic discoveries in Brazil have challenged Chomsky's theory of the 
human language faculty.  FTP each, answer these questions about the work of 
linguist Daniel Everett.

a) Name the Brazilian language which caused all the fuss.

Pirahã

b) According to Everett, Pirahã is lacking which essential element which Chomsky claims should be present in all human languages?

recursion

c) In which non-scientific publication was Everett's work popularised by John Colapinto?

The New Yorker

7. Choose one team member to perform this task. 

You will now be handed one envelope and one paper plate. Inside the envelope you will find (1) One pair of disposable chopsticks (2) One box of Gobstoppers. Separate the chopsticks, and pour the candy onto the plate. Using only the chopsticks, *pick up* the pieces of candy and deposit the back into the envelope. You will receive 5 points for 7> pieces, 15 for 14> pieces, 20 for 19> and 30 for 24+ pieces put back in the envelope. Points will only be scored for candy that has been picked up by two chopsticks (no rolling over the edge of the plate into the envelope). You have 40 seconds to perform this task.

8. FTP each, identify these concepts from the philosophy of Immanuel Kant:

a) This type of principle is intrinsically valid and ought to be obeyed under all 
circumstances if our behaviour is to obey moral law.

categorical imperative

b) Often used interchangeably with ding an sich, this is the object of human 
understanding or cognition, as opposed to phenomenon.

noumenon

c) Including concepts such as time and causality, this type of knowledge is based on the 
form of possible experience, as opposed to knowledge which is based on the content of 
actual experience.

a priori


9. Answer these questions about the wonders of the ancient world FTP each:
   
a) The only one of the seven wonders still standing today, this monument was the tallest building on earth for nearly 4000 years.
   
Great Pyramid of Giza (Accept Pyramid of Cheops or Pyramid of Khufu)
   
 b) This wonder was a tomb built for Mausolus, a satrap in the Persian empire and his wife Artemisia, on the coast of Anatolia.
   
Mausoleum of Halicarnassus 
   
c) The tallest statue in the ancient world, this gigantic monument was built in order to celebrate the victory of its island home over an invading Macedonian army after an epic siege.
   
Colossus of Rhodes  

10. Given these book titles, provide their authors FTP each and we promise you it won't be a fruitless effort.
a) A Raisin in the Sun
Lorraine Hansbury

b) Les fruits d'or (The Golden Fruits)
Nathalie Sarraute

c) The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby
Tom Wolfe (prompt on Wolfe, DO NOT accept Thomas Wolfe)


11. Answer these questions about the fundamental forces of nature FTP each:
   
a) The strongest of the 4 fundamental forces, this force binds together quarks to form protons and neutrons; and protons and neutrons together to form the nucleus. It has very limited range and is negligible beyond the atomic scale.
   
Strong Nuclear Force
   
b) The second strongest of the 4 forces, this force acts on all particles with electrical charge- with opposite charges attracting and similar charges repelling. This force also governs different types of radiation including radio waves, microwaves, infrared, visible and ultraviolet.
   
Electromagnetic Force
   
c) The weakest of the 4 fundamental forces, this force works on all material bodies and is responsible for phenomena such as the tides, planetary revolution and the fall of objects on earth when dropped.
   
Gravity or  Gravitational force


12. Given the African country, name the European nation, whose colony it was FTP each:
   
a) Algeria
   
France
   
b) Nigeria
   
Britain (Accept variants such as the UK)
c) Namibia
   
Germany


13. Canadian scientists had precious cargo aboard the recent flight of the
space shuttle Atlantis. Answer the following questions related to
this experiment.

1) FFPE, what was this cargo, and what is the scientific name for it?

worms (accept nematodes) & C. elegans (accept Caenorhabditis
elegans) 

2) FTP name the Professor and Canadian Research Chair in Genomics
 who is welcoming back these nematode worms.

A: David Leonard Baillie 

3) FTP The study of space radiation on the  of the returning multiple
generations of worms will be helpful in determining the effects of what
future endeavor? 

sending Manned Flights  to the moon in 2020 and Mars in 2035
(accept equivalents)


14. "Family Matters"
Everyone loves a nice, cosy family drama. Based on these partial geneologies, the author the number of volumes in the European literary saga, give each appropriate family name FTP:
a) Adélaïde, Pierre, Ursule, Antoine, Eugène
Emile Zola, 20 vols.
Les Rougon-Macquart

b) Oscar, Jacques, Antoine, Jean Paul:
Roger Martin du Gard, 8 vols.
Les Thibault (TEE-bow)

c) Jean, Tony, Christian, Tom, Erica, Hanno:
Thomas Mann, 1 vol.
Buddenbrooks


15. Answer these questions on consuls of Ancient Rome FTP each:
   
a) The third member of the First triumvirate along with Julius Caesar and Pompey, he was the richest man in Rome. His reckless invasion of the Parthian empire in 53 BC resulted in one of Rome's worst defeats at the battle of Carrhae, during the course of which he was killed.
   
Marcus Crassus 
   
b) Co-consul with Caesar during in the year of Ceasar's murder, this Roman general is famous for his stirring speech delivered over Caesar's body and his eventual defeat alongside Cleopatra at Actium.
   
Mark Anthony (Accept Marcus Antonius)
   
c) Caesar's grand nephew and adopted heir, he defeated Mark Anthony at Actium and went on to become the first imperator or emperor of Rome, reigning under the name Augustus.
   
Octavian 

16. The remains of a powerful Egyptian ruler were thought to be all but lost until their recent identification by Zawi Awass, chief of Egyptian antiquities. 

a) FTP, name this fiesty female whose June 2007 identification has been dubbed the "greatest discovery in the Valley of the Kings since Tutankamen."

Hatshepsut

b) While combatting metastatic bone cancer, diabetes, and liver cancer, Hatshepsut ruled with an iron grip and a firm command of propaganda. A combination of her policies and her cross-dressing would explain why this stepson was less than happy with his domineering stepmother.

Thutmose III (accept Thutmosis III)

c) One piece of evidence that has convincingly identifed Hathshepsut's remains is DNA comparison between them and the remains of this woman, her grandmother.

Ahmose Nefertari


17. Name the Shakespeare play on a 30-20-10 basis:
(30) It is one of three Shakespearian plays to derive its plot from Boccaccio's Decamaron: in that work the titular characters are named Titus and Gisippus.
(20) Settings include the garden of Julia's house, a street in Verona, Antonio's house, the palace of the Duke of Milan, and a forest.
(10) The story follows the romantic mishaps of Valentine and his lover Silvia, and Proteus and his beloved Julia, including cross-dressing and a kidnapping, with a supporting cast of a dog named Crab and two servants Launce and Speed.

Two Gentlemen of Verona


18. Answer these questions about the apostles of Christ FTP each:
   
a) A tax collector by profession, this apostle wrote the first gospel and later travelled to Ethiopia and Persia
   
Matthew 
   
b) The leader of the 12, this apostle along with his brother Andrew were fishermen on the Sea of Galilee and was given the title "The Rock" by Jesus. He is traditionally considered to be the first pope
   
Peter (Accept Simon)
   
c) This man was the treasurer of the apostles and is most famous for his final transaction involving 30 pieces of silver and his death by suicide.
   
Judas Iscariot

19. Identify the city on a 30-20-10 basis:
[30] This Russian city is the birthplace of Dimitri Kalinin of the ice hockey team Buffalo Sabres. 
[20] Located on the banks of the river Miass, it was incorporated in 1781 and grew rapidly during World War II when major industries from Western Russia were transferred there. It was the main centre for production of armored vehicles for the Red Army, which lent it the nickname 'Tankograd'. 
[10] The city is located near the Mayak nuclear facility, which was the objective for Gary Powers' U2 flight in 1960. Identify this city in the Urals, which was closed to foreigners until 1992. 

Chelyabinsk

20. Most library users will have heard of Dewey, but behind the scenes in
cataloguing, there's the MARC standards. Answer the following FTSNOP.

a) [5] As a warm up, FFP, what bibliographic data format is MARC an
 acronym for?

Machine-Readable Cataloguing

b) [10] What does entry heading number 245 signify in a
bibliographic MARC record?

Title statement

c) [5] What does sub-field {b} in entry heading 245 signify, if it is
 used?

Subtitle

d) [10] In what format block heading would one find general notes data
and summary information?

500 Block














