Tossups	1.	This salt, in one of its common names, is named after an Egyptian god, in whose temple some residue was found.  Dissolving this compound in water is endothermic, so a common lab demonstration is to watch water on the outside of a beaker freeze as the salt dissolves.  It's the white, snowy powder that forms when fumes of hydrochloric acid and ammonia mix.  Used in fertilizers, candy flavourings, and for cleaning soldering irons, for ten points, identify this simple salt made up of nitrogen, hydrogen, and chlorine.Answer:  ammonium chloride or NH4Cl or Sal Ammoniac  (prompt on "Amun" or "ammonia")2.	[Moderator note:  pay attention to the description in the answer before beginning the tossup.  Be lenient.]	To answer this tossup, you must buzz in, stand up, and provide a visual demonstration.  One man holds a sword, another a rifle, and a third man is brandishing two pistols.  The central figure you must portray is carrying a bayonet and a significant symbol in her hand.  Created in 1830, this painting shows peasants following the Tricolore in the aftermath of the July Revolution.  For ten points, stand up and provide the central pose of the woman in Eugène Delacroix' Liberty Leading the People.Answer:  stepping forward, right arm up, left arm near side  (no extra points for a wardrobe malfunction)Wrong if:  arms reversed; or standing straight3.	He served as leader of the Opposition in the Canadian House of Commons for the longest single stretch of time:  a period of over 10 years.  He did eventually become prime minister, and some of his lasting legacies were the nationalization of the Canadian Northern Railway, the establishment of the first Canadian Wheat Board, and income tax.  For ten points, name this Nova Scotian prime minister who held office during WWI and was the last to be knighted.Answer:  Sir Robert Laird Borden  (note:  the second and current Wheat Board was under Bennett)4.	His first words to another person were:  "Pardon this intrusion.  I am a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire."  These words were spoken to the blind De Lacey.  He survives at the end of the novel, but knows he will die, just as William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, and Victor did.  Having black hair, watery eyes, and yellow skin, for ten points, identify this being that seeks vengeance on his creator in a Mary Shelley novel.Answer:  Frankenstein's monster (or creation, daemon, or similar equivalents); do not accept "Frankenstein"5.	Inside a tube where this situation is fully developed, the Nusselt number can be considered constant.  The friction factor of pipes is inversely proportional to the Reynolds number, which, in this condition, is usually less than 2000.  Defined as a flow regime with a clear temperature, viscosity, and velocity profile, for ten points, in fluid dynamics, what is the opposite of turbulence?Answer:  laminar flow (prompt on "forced convection" until "friction")6.	In this film, Ned should have been named "Kingsley", the bond company stooge is "also a human being", and Pelé sings old David Bowie songs translated into Portuguese.  A "jaguar shark" is the subject of a documentary expedition, and Steve wants to blow it up with dynamite to avenge the death of one of his friends.  For ten points, name this latest Wes Anderson film, starring Bill Murray and Owen Wilson, that is both a tribute and spoof of Jacques Costeau's underwater documentaries.Answer:  The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou7.	In the Iliad, she is described as a woman "of the lovely hair, the sea's lady."  She cared for Hephaestus after his fall from Olympus.  In a contest, Idomeneus judged her to be fairer than Medea.  She was married to a mortal, Peleus, rather than a god because of a prophecy that her son would be greater than his father.  A leader of the Nereids, for ten points, name this mythological Greek nymph who was the mother of Achilles.Answer:  Thetis  (not "Tethys")8.	For Canada in 2003, it was $770 billion US, and it is still under $1 trillion as of this writing.  Indirect taxes, such as the GST and gasoline taxes, are included in this figure.  Income from foreign investments and expatriate wages are included, but not foreign companies and workers operating in Canada.  It essentially measures the total income of all residents and citizens of Canada.  For ten points, identify this economic figure that shouldn't be confused with the common one that measures the value of final goods and services made within Canada's borders.Answer:  Gross National Product (or G N Income); do not accept Gross Domestic Product or Purchasing Power9.	The current editor-in-chief of this magazine is Kenneth Whyte, but he doesn't write opening messages like previous editors did.  Barbara Amiel, wife of Conrad Black, is a frequent contributor that is generally loathed by letter-writing readers.  Paul Wells writes for the Back Page, which used to be Allan Fotheringham's territory.  Peter C. Newman and Pierre Berton were former editors of this weekly.  For ten points, name this Canadian magazine that is familiar to non-subscribers for its annual ranking of universities.Answer:  Maclean's10.	This school's most successful sports team is likely its rowing crew:  they won all but one event they entered at the state level this year, and the men's varsity 8 has won nine times since 1995.  Founded in 1985, this public school boasts the highest mean SAT score in the United States.  It is probably more familiar to you, as a quizbowl player, for having won three straight NAQT high school championships.  For ten points, identify this science-focused school in Alexandria, Virginia that is named after the third U.S. president.Answer:  Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology (accept "Thomas Jefferson" before "named after the third")11.	It began in January 1933 with plans to end upon the results of 1937.  Coal and oil production ended up finishing far short of the high targets, but steel production managed to triple during the time period and exceed 1937 targets.  This period of reform also saw the beginning of the Great Purge and a major pro-Stalin shift in the arts and culture.  For ten points, name this plan to increase industrial output that built upon the major construction projects held in the previous plan.Answer:  The USSR's (or Soviet Union's) Second Five-Year Plan (prompt on "Five-Year Plan")12.	Sid Fleischman is the only person so far to win this award and have a son win as well:  in 1987 and 1989, respectively.  Despite recognizing "American literature", the authors of the first three winners - The Story of Mankind, The Voyages of Doctor Dolittle, and The Dark Frigate - were not born in the U.S.  Notable two-time winners are Lois Lowry and E.L. Konigsburg.  For ten points, name this award "for the most distinguished contribution to American literature for children."Answer:  The John Newbery Medal  (prompt on "Newbery" or "Newbery Award", since there are other recognitions with that name)
13.	[Moderator note:  quotation marks are for clarifying ambiguous phrasing in this tossup]	In this piece, violins, oboes, and clarinets take over the melody at bar 26 from the bassoons and cellos, thus building intensity.  "Four-four time" changes to "cut time" for the final repetition by the strings section, an effect of the continuous accelerando.  The crescendo represents the change from a quiet escape to a pursuit by trolls.  For ten points, name the fourth movement of the first suite of Grieg's incidental music to Peer Gynt.Answer:  "In the Hall of the Mountain King" (accept "Grieg, opus 46, number 4" before "for ten points")14.	For an exponential distribution, it is represented as 0 for x less than 0, and  ["1 minus E to the quantity negative lambda x end quantity"] for x greater than or equal to 0.  For all types of this function, it is 0 at negative infinity, 1 at positive infinity, and never decreasing.  The one for the standard normal distribution is represented with the capital Greek letter  ["fie"].  The integral of a probability density function, for ten points, what function describes the probability of any value less than the one specified occurring?Answer:  cumulative distribution function (or cdf)15.	Ian Sinclair was the last serving Australian to have this honorific.  The Lords Mayor of Dublin and the Australian state capitals have this title, but it is more common in Britain and Canada.  Paul Martin Sr., Ellen Fairclough, and Herb Gray were bestowed this despite not holding a position traditionally eligible for it.  For ten points, name this prefix given automatically in Canada to former and current Chief Justices of the Supreme Court, Governors General, and Prime Ministers.Answer:  Right Honourable or très honourable16.	She declined an offer to run for a state governorship in 1978.  She has dappled in all three branches of government in Arizona:  assistant attorney general; judge on the Court of Appeals; and Senate majority leader.  The U.S. Senate gave her unanimous support for her most famous position, where she was on the majority of more 5-4 decisions than any other justice during her term.  For ten points, name this recently-resigned U.S. Supreme Court justice, the first woman to hold such an office.Answer:  Sandra Day O'Connor (accept either maiden or married last name)17.	Henderson Island in 1988.  The city of Tyre, Lebanon, in 1984.  Twelve locations in 1978, including the Galapagos Islands, were the first.  Andorra and Iceland had their first named during last year's session.  Tomorrow, the 29th session will complete a list of additions for 2005.  These locations are classed as either "cultural", "natural", or "mixed".  For ten points, Canadian places such as Nahanni National Park and the old town of Lunenburg have received what designation from UNESCO?Answer:  nomination of UNESCO World Heritage Site status18.	It was the first human chromosome to be cloned, and to mark the event, the journal Nature crammed the genetic sequence in tiny font on its cover.  It is able to repair itself without needing sexual recombination to remove defective genes.  Possessing only 231 genes at last count, it is the smallest chromosome in humans.  Found unpaired except in genetic disorders, for ten points, what chromosome is passed exclusively from fathers to sons?Answer:  Y chromosome (accept "male sex chromosome" until "for ten points")19.	In this play, Sister Aloysius is the tough, but respectable, principal of a 1960's Catholic school.  The basketball coach, Father Flynn, is accused of sexually abusing a student, but Aloysius' hidden agenda against him unfolds as the play progresses.  Cherry Jones won a Tony Award this year for her role in this production.  For ten points, name this Broadway drama by John Patrick Shanley that won the 2005 Tony for best play.Answer:  Doubt20.	At the entrance of this building, there will be a large globe of the world in a fountain.  Expected to be fully open by 2007, this museum near Cincinnati features several models of dinosaur fossils as well as a partial replica of Noah's ark.  Exhibits show a Garden of Eden complete with now-extinct animals, including a Tyrannosaurus rex "that Adam's sin unleashed".  For ten points, identify this museum supported by Answers in Genesis that provides a different perspective to evolutionary history.Answer:  Creation Museum (accept "Creationist Museum")21.	This song was the band's first collaboration with Desmond Child, written in the basement of Richie Sambora's mother's house.  Released in September, 1986, it was #1 on Billboard briefly at the end of November.  "You're a loaded gun", so, for ten points, if I'm "shot through the heart, and you're to blame," I should listen to what Bon Jovi song from Slippery When Wet?Answer:  "You Give Love a Bad Name" (prompt on Bon Jovi or Slippery When Wet)22.	It was completed at Konkuita, Thailand on October 17, 1943.  This project was necessary for transporting Japanese troops to India, and greatly cut down on the travel time compared to going around Singapore.  Its famous river crossing is actually over the Mae Khlong - the river mentioned in books and on film only runs parallel to this railroad.  For ten points, identify this notorious WWII railway in Southeast Asia that got its name from the over 90,000 prisoners who died during the construction.Answer:  Death Railway  (accept "Burma Railway", prompt on The Bridge on the River Kwai)23.	For people who know their hexadecimal colour codes, this is "ffa500" ["F-F-A-five-zero-zero"].  When used in flags or coats of arms, it is referred to as tenné ["ten-nay"].  The Golden Gate Bridge is painted in this colour, which is popular for construction and safety workers due to its sharp contrast with greens and blues.  For ten points, identify this colour associated with the Netherlands and the recent revolution in the Ukraine.Answer:  orange24.	Among Canadian cities, this one has the most retail space per capita.  Nicknamed "the Forest City", it is home to Springbank Park and Storybook Gardens.  Carling and Labatt breweries also originated here.  Pick up a copy of the Free Press to find out about this city's 2005 Ontario Hockey League champion Knights.  For ten points, in what city will you find the University of Western Ontario?Answer:  London, Ontario25.	And here's a quick one to resolve any lengthy ties.  The name's the same.  The top-batting former captain of the Worcestershire [woose-ster-shur] cricket team.  The first person to be arrested for stealing a wireless Internet signal.  The man who coached the US women's hockey team to their silver medal at Salt Lake City.  For ten points, who has an ego big enough to write a question about himself in this pack?Answer:  Ben Smith  (prompt on "Smith", duh.  There's a reason why this is tossup #25, not #5.)
Bonuses1.	[VISUAL BONUS:  Display the picture of a cow to the team]  Here's Charlie the Charolais.  Charlie enjoys his life of chewing the cud, but as you can see in the picture, he is destined for your dinner plate.  I'll give the name of a large cut of beef, you tell me what number it corresponds to, for ten points each:A:	[10]  To run the "Charlie the Charolais" theme further, find the chuck.Answer:  11B:	[10]  It's where you get the T-bone and porterhouse steaks:  find the short loin.   Answer:  7C:	[10]  Since Charlie is "what's for dinner", you may as well find the plate.Answer:  102:	[Moderator note:  the upcoming description isn't offering a "lame".  Only the team originally awarded the bonus can get points]Oh no!  A new bonus twist is coming up!  There are 3 questions worth ten points each, except this time, your team can choose to do this bonus as a normal one, or, you can tell the other team to do it.  If you do it, you get ten points for each correct answer.  If you make the other team do it, you get ten points for each question they cannot answer correctly.  The topic is Swedish history.  [team chooses whether to do it or defer it]A:	[10]  Which then-king of Sweden led forces on the battlefield in the first half of the Thirty Years' War?Answer: Gustavus Adolphus (or Gustav Adolph the Great, or Gustav II Adolph)B:	[10]  Gustavus Adolphus died during a Swedish victory at what location in 1632?Answer:  Mützen, GermanyC:	[10]  The only daughter of Gustavus Adolphus, who was Queen of Sweden for the remainder of the Thirty Years' War?  She abdicated in 1654 to convert to Catholicism.Answer:  Christina3.	[5/10/20/30]  Here's a bonus directed to individuals, so there's no conferring.  The player closest to the reader answers the first question, followed by the second player for the second question, and so on.  If there are less than four players, go back to the front and work down again.  On a 5 for one, 10 for two, 20 for three and 30 for all four basis, given an organism, identify the biological kingdom it belongs to:A:	[Player 1]  CoralAnswer:  AnimaliaB:	[Player 2]  YeastAnswer:  Fungi or fungusC:	[Player 3]  Blue-green algaeAnswer:  Bacteria or Monera  (this algae does not have a defined nucleus)D:	[Player 4]  Amoeba ["ah-mee-bah"]Answer:  Protista (prompt on "eukaryote")4.	[VISUAL BONUS:  Display the page of foreign letters]  Look at the symbols on the page.  For each one, name both the alphabet you will find it in, as well as its approximate English-language sound, for five points each:A:	[5, 5]  The one labelled "A".Answer:  Arabic or Fusha;  F or "feh"B:	[5, 5]  The one labelled "B".Answer:  Hiragana or furigana (prompt on "Japanese");  U or "ooh"C:	[5, 5]  The one labelled "C".Answer:	Cyrillic (prompt if a language, such as "Russian", is given);   G or "ge" (for Russia/Balkans), or H or "he" (for Ukraine/Belarus)5.	This bonus may appeal to those who like to take risks.  Answer these questions about music in outer space, for ten points each.  The questions will get progressively harder.  However, there's a twist:  for each question, you may choose to stop the bonus rather than give an answer.  You will keep all the points you have earned up to that point.  If your answer is wrong, the bonus is over and you only keep half the points you have earned up to that point.A:	[10]  What Stanley Kubrick film famously features the Blue Danube waltz and Also Sprach Zarathustra?Answer:  2001: A Space OdysseyB:	[10]  A series of musical recordings, including "Johnny B. Goode" and "The Well-Tempered Clavier", are on a Golden Record found on what program of spacecraft?  You may stop the bonus if you like.Answer:  Voyager (accept if they also add a "1" or "2")C:	[10]  The only ever broadcast of music from beyond the Moon was done by the rover Spirit on the surface of Mars every morning.  What song by Duran Duran - from their first eponymous album - was played daily until the rover's batteries went into hibernation mode last May?  You may stop the bonus if you like.Answer:  "Is There Something I Should Know?"  (Give another chance if they say "Anyone Out There", because that's such a good guess)6.	[VISUAL BONUS:  Display the page of traffic situations]  How well do you know the rules of the road in Canada and the rest of the world?  For ten points each, given a traffic situation, state whether vehicle "A" has the right-of-way, vehicle "B" has the right-of-way, it's irrelevant to the situation, or it's not defined in law.  For all sketches, vehicles can be assumed to be ready to move or already moving.A:	[10]  Situation #1.  We're in BC, Ontario, or Quebec.  "A" is a city public transit bus leaving a stop, "B" is a school bus approaching a stop.Answer:  A (or city bus) has the right-of-way (As of 2004, these provinces have "Yield to the Bus" laws)B:	[10]  Situation #2.  We're in New Zealand.  "A" is a car turning right, "B" is a car turning left.  Both cars have a green light.Answer:  A (or right-turning car) has the right-of-way (New Zealand is the only country in the world where a car turning across traffic has right-of-way over a car making the "smaller" turn)C:	[10]  Situation #3.  We're in downtown Manchester, England.  "A" is entering a one-lane roundabout - not a traffic circle - while "B" is inside the roundabout.Answer:  B has the right-of-way (Paris, France has the "inside yields" law, but Manchester is normal)7.	Identify these Puccini operas given an aria ["ah-ree-ah"] for 15 points, or for 5 points if you also need a plot description.A:	[15]  "E lucevan le stelle"		[5]  Cavaradossi, a painter, is imprisoned for protecting a criminal.  His wife, an opera singer, makes plans to save him, but they fail and both characters die in the final act.Answer:  ToscaB:	[15]  "Mi chiamano Mimi"		[5]  Marcello, Musetta, Rodolfo, and Mimi are poor artists living in Paris' Latin Quarter.  Rodolfo and Mimi fall in love, Rodolfo leaves her as she becomes ill, then they re-unite on Mimi's deathbed.Answer:  La Bohème8.	On May 5, 2005, Great Britain went to the polls to vote Tony Blair out of office, but left with the Labour Party still in power.  The other major parties gained some ground, though.  On a 5 points for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four basis, name the parties that finished second and third in the British election, as well as the leader of those parties at the time.Answers:	Michael Howard of the Conservative and Unionist Party (accept Tories)			Charles Kennedy of the Liberal Democrats (both words needed; accept Lib-Dems)9.	Given a gay community, name the city in which you will find it, for ten points each:A:	[10]  Greenwich ["gren-itch"] Village, location of the Stonewall Inn.Answer:  New York City (accept "Manhattan")B:	[10]  The Castro, where Harvey Milk worked before entering municipal politics.Answer:  San FranciscoC:	[10]  Old Compton Street, home of the Admiral Duncan pub and the Prince Edward Theatre, where Mamma Mia premiered.Answer:  London, England  (or equivalents to "England"- prompt on "London" or "Soho")10.	For 5 points each, list the 5 symbols worn by all Sikhs baptized as a Khalsa.  You can get an extra five points for listing at least two of the items in Punjabi.Answers:  Kesh (or unshorn hair); Kangha (or comb); Kachha (or underwear); Kara (or bracelet); and Kirpan (or small sword - "dagger" is not an acceptable term to describe it)11.	[5/10/20/30]  This question is electrifying!  On a 5 points for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, and 30 for all four basis, identify whether the following compound is usually considered an electrical insulator, semiconductor, normal conductor, or superconductor.A:	Germanium	Answer:  semiconductor   B:	Polyacetylene ["pah-lee-a-set-il-een"]	Answer:  semiconductor    C:	Niobium nitride at low temperatures	Answer:  superconductor   D:	Graphite, near room temperature	Answer:  conductor12.	If there's one thing Ben hates more than writing literature questions, it's putting the effort into reading a book.  For ten points each, identify these books with titles that may suit Ben's intelligence:A:	[10]  This best-selling Michael Moore book, which was originally going to be scrapped after September 11th, criticizes the "stolen" 2000 presidential election, the Bush administration, and U.S. foreign policy.Answer:  Stupid White Men ...and Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation! B:	[10]  In this Dostoyevsky novel, Myshkin is a victim of his own honesty and kindness.Answer:  The IdiotC:  [10]  In this series of books by Dav Pilkey, a family of lagomorphs lives in a "log cabin made of bricks" and drives a Yugo.Answer:  The Dumb Bunnies13.	For this bonus, your team needs to select a model.  The topic is art. Conferring is still allowed.  [Team chooses a member of their team].  Given a sculpture by Michelangelo, the model should demonstrate the figure in question, for ten points each.  Particular attention is given to the arms and a turn of the head:A:	[10]  Michelangelo's David.  No need to take your clothes off.Answer:  standing, left hand near left shoulder, right arm at side, head facing leftWrong if:  sitting; or left/right arms are reversed; or head facing forward or to the rightB:	[10]  The living person in Michelangelo's Pieta.Answer:  sitting, as if holding a body across the lap, head facing the lapWrong if:  standing; or arms are not "holding" a body; or deliberate turn of the headC:	[10]  Michelangelo's Moses.Answer:  sitting, left arm in lap, right arm as if holding a 10 Commandments tablet, head facing leftWrong if:  standing; or left arm is doing the "holding"; or head facing forward or to the right14.	Given a range of years, name the person who was premier of a Canadian province or territory for that exact time, no more, no less, for ten points each.  If you need the province or territory, you'll only get five points:A:	[10]  1996 to the present		[5]  Prince Edward IslandAnswer:  Pat BinnsB:	[10]  1949 to 1972		[5]  NewfoundlandAnswer:  Joey SmallwoodC:	[10]  1991 to 2001		[5]  SaskatchewanAnswer:  Roy Romanow15.	Several of Robertson Davies' novels are grouped into trilogies.  For five points each, given a trilogy, list its 3 related books:A:	[5, 5, 5]  Davies' Cornish Trilogy.Answers:  The Rebel Angels, What's Bred in the Bone, The Lyre of OrpheusB:	[5, 5, 5]  The Deptford Trilogy.Answers:  Fifth Business, The Manticore, World of Wonders16.	Identify these former presidents of Bolivia, for ten points each:A:	[10]  The country itself was named after this man, who liberated Bolivia in 1825 and became its first president.Answer:  Simón BolívarB:	[10]  The judicial capital is named after this second president, who was formerly Bolívar's chief of staff during the wars of independence.Answer:  Antonio José de Sucre ["soo-kray"]C:	[10]  This recent president resigned twice in 2005 amidst street protests over Bolivia's gas industry.  His first resignation was refused by Congress; his second saw him replaced by Eduardo Rodríguez.Answer:  Carlos Mesa Gisbert17.	Answer these questions about Saturday Night Live's "Celebrity Jeopardy", for the stated number of points:A:	[10]  For ten points, who played the role of Alex Trebek?	Answer:  Will FerrellB:	[5]  For five points, what spoofed celebrity has some questions about "The Pen Is Mightier"?	Answer:  Sean ConneryC:	[10]  For ten points, what alcohol-themed category appeared in all the "Double Jeopardy"s?	Answer:  Potent Potables  (exact phrase; note:  "Potpourri" appears in most, but not all)D:	[5]  For five points, name a month that starts with "Feb".	Answer:  February  (accept "Febtober" or "Febterday")18.	[Moderator note:  like bonus #2]  Here's another "do-it-yourself, or give it to the other team" bonus.  If you do it, you get points for each correct answer.  If you make the other team do it, you get points for each question they fail to answer.  The topic is chemical reactions: [team chooses whether to do it or defer it]A:	[10]  In the Haber process, if you have 1 mole of nitrogen gas, an infinite supply of hydrogen, and a complete reaction, how many moles of ammonia will you end up with?Answer:  2  (2 atoms of N in nitrogen gas, only 1 atom in ammonia; no nitrogen is added or removed)B:	[10]  In the Ostwald process, if you have 1 mole of ammonia, an infinite supply of other reactants, and complete reactions throughout, how many moles of nitric acid will you end up with?Answer:  1  (both ammonia and nitric acid have 1 N atom; no nitrogen is added or removed)C:	[10]  You have 1 mole of manganese dioxide and 1 mole of hydrogen peroxide.  If all of the hydrogen peroxide is left to decompose in a complete reaction, how many moles of manganese dioxide will you end up with?Answer:  1  (manganese dioxide is a catalyst- it doesn't change in quantity between the start and finish)19.	Most of Team Canada's roster at the 2005 IIHF men's world championships was rusty from not playing for a year.  However, some players were in other countries playing professional hockey.  Given a Team Canada member, name the country in which they participated in end-of-season playoffs for 2005, for ten points each:A:	[10]  Rick NashAnswer:  Switzerland or Suisse or Schweiz or Svizzera  (HC Davos)B:	[10]  Dany HeatleyAnswer:  Russia  (AK Bars Kazan;  he did play in Switzerland, but not for the playoffs)C:	[10]  Dan BoyleAnswer:  Sweden or Sverige  (Djurgardens IF)20.	Identify these people that didn't become the successor to Pope John Paul II, for ten points each:A:	[10]  This convert to Catholicism and cardinal from Nigeria was a strong contender as a Third World representative in the papacy.	Answer:  Francis Arinze  [ah-reen-zay]B:	[10]  This archbishop of Quebec City was a longshot to be the first Canadian pope.	Answer:  Marc OuelletC:	[10]  Although Pope Benedict XVI is German, what nation had the most papabili, or "pope-ables" of the 2005 conclave?	Answer:  Italy or Italia21.	Identify these Polish authors, for ten points each [moderator:  be lenient on pronunciations]:A:	[10]  Author of The Trilogy and Quo Vadis, he won the 1905 Nobel Prize for Literature.Answer:  Henryk Sienkiewicz ["sen-ki-a-vitch"]B:	[10]  His poetry was not translated into English until 1973, and it was not published in Poland until after 1980.  He also wrote The Captive Mind shortly after the rise of the Iron Curtain.Answer:  Czeslaw Milosz ["ches-wahv mee-wash"]C:	[10]  A failed actor, he found more success writing short stories and novels of country life, such as Chlopi ["khwah-pee"] (or Peasants in English) and his 1794 trilogy.  He won the 1924 Nobel Prize.Answer:  Wladyslaw Reymont ["vahd-ih-swahv ray-mont"]22.	Answer these questions about the Tulip Revolution of 2005, for ten points each:A:	[10]  In March, 2005, violent protests began after elections in what central Asian country?	Answer:  Kyrgyzstan or Kyrgyz RespublikasyB:	[10]  During the first week of the protests, demonstrators occupied police stations and some government buildings in Jalal-Abad and what second-largest city of Kyrgyzstan ["keer-giz-stan"]?	Answer:  Osh  (most large cities, including the capital, were stormed, but these cities were the first)C:	[10]  Kurmanbek Bakiyev recently won a presidential election in Kyrgyzstan.  He was the interim Prime Minister after the ousting of what former president of Kyrgyzstan?	Answer:  Askar Akayev ["ah-kah-yev"]Vancouver Estival Trivial Open VII.  U of O:  There is no "team" in "I"Questions by:  Ben Smith1