VETO 2011 TossupsOregon (Philip Huang, Sean Cole, Amy Fuller, Erin Wilds) 1. After the Civil War, he held diplomatic posts in Paris, Madrid, and Vienna, and later became assistant secretary of state in the Hayes Administration. He spent much of the 1880s collaborating on a 10-volume history of Lincoln, whom he had met in Springfield and served as a private secretary. After campaigning for his friend William McKinley, he was appointed ambassador to Britain and later Secretary of State. Fearing the expanding European spheres of influence in China, he advocated for an Open Door policy that bolstered both U.S. interests and Chinese sovereignty. FTP, name this diplomat who also authored three treaties that made way for the Panama Canal.ANSWER: John Hay2. He achieved living fame and fortune as a watchmaker, diplomat, and revolutionary, and was instrumental in preserving the literary output of a recently-deceased and banned French author named Voltaire. But he is best known for a trilogy of works, the last of which was titled La Mère coupable or The Guilty Mother and contains the immortal characters Count Almaviva and his servant Figaro. FTP, name this playwright who also wrote Le Barbier de Séville and Le Mariage de Figaro.ANSWER: Pierre Beaumarchais3. This law was originally published as a Latin anagram in 1660. The discoverer of this published the solution 18 years later as 'Ut tensio, sic vis,' meaning, "As the extension, so the force." Using a compliance matrix, Cauchy expanded its anisotropic form to three-dimensional bodies. It states that stress is directly proportional to strain. F equals negative K X is, FTP, this law used to describe the action of springs. ANSWER: Hooke's Law4. Northern cities on this river include Bhamo and Myitkina. It is of formed by the confluence of the Mali and the Nwai rivers. Its chief tributary is the Chindwin and it runs through the Arakan and Pegu Mountains. The name for this river is Sanskrit for elephant and it flows through the cities of Mandalay, Rangoon, and Henzada. FTP, name this river, which empties into the Andaman Sea and is the major river of Burma.ANSWER: Irrawaddy River5. One of these creatures attempted to trick a family of crocodiles into forming a bridge for him to cross from an island to the Japanese mainland. In Aztec mythology, 400 of these were known as the Centzon Totochtin. In Chinese mythology, this creature was the mixer of the Elixir of Immortality. In Greece, they were associated with Aphrodite due to their association with fertility. FTP, name this creature whose trickster qualities are celebrated by Beatrix Potter and her character Peter.ANSWER: Rabbits (accept hare until Beatrix is mentioned)6. Developed as early as the 12th century, it was originally contested between of two sides featuring hundreds of men on a field that stretched up to two miles long. Canada has won two gold medals in the sport, at the St. Louis and then the first London Olympics. Its name was apparently derived from the French word for field hockey, as it was a French Jesuit who saw Iroquois tribesmen play it in 1637. FTP, name this sport played with small hard rubber ball and a long racquet with a net.ANSWER: Lacrosse7. The Canadian company Authentic Brands Group bought the rights to her image from Anna Strasberg, the wife of Lee Strasberg, one of this actress's acting coaches. When she was a child, her mom, Gladys, once attempted to kidnap her by stuffing her in an oversize duffel bag. One popular urban legend and unverified Wikipedia entry about her is that she was the first Castroville Artichoke Queen. FTP, name this iconic actress famous for such movies as "Gentleman Prefer Blondes" and "The Seven Year Itch". ANSWER: Marilyn Monroe8. Thorstein Veblen cited this custom as an example of frivolous spending to achieve social status. It was banned in Canada from 1885 to 1951 due to opposition from Christians, who considered this custom to be wasteful and contrary to civilized values. Noteworthy examples of this custom include the smashing of canoes and the giving away of material goods in order to gain prestige. FTP, name this custom practiced among the Northwest Coast peoples and which comes from the Chinook Jargon word meaning "to give away."ANSWER: Potlatch9. The house depicted in the upper-right portion of this painting is known as the Olsen house and the neighbor depicted in the painting was a neighbor of the artist in Cushing, Maine. Unlike the real location, there are no trees in this painting and hitch cart ruts can be seen leading up to the house. Currently located at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, FTP, name this painting by Andrew Wyeth which shows a paralyzed girl in a pink dress looking towards her home.ANSWER: Christina's World10. This word has its roots in Slavic history and originally referred to groups of socially unacceptable people such as murderers, thieves, and heretics. In some Slavic regions, ankles and heels were maimed to prevent the corpses of these people from walking, while at other times a stake of hawthorn and aspen was driven into the corpse. FTP, name these undead creatures who are featured in the Twilight series of books and movies.ANSWER: Vampires11. He became heir apparent upon his grandfather's death in 1912. When he ascended the throne, his subjects revered him as a descendant of Amaterasu, the sun goddess who created an archipelago from the drops of water that fell from her spear. After World War II, he was forced to reject the State Shinto belief in the emperor's divinity. His preservation as post-war head of state and his 62-year reign helped ease Japan into stable constitutional democracy. FTP, name this 124th Emperor of Japan.ANSWER: Hirohito or Showa Emperor12. One version of this story has the titular couple being sentenced to death and fleeing into the forest. Another version has the female protagonist being sent to a leper colony where she is rescued by her lover. They first meet in Ireland when she is nursing him back to health after killing a dragon. They accidentally drink a love potion on the way back to Cornwall, where she was supposed to marry the king that he fights for. FTP, name this couple who incurred the wrath of King Mark of Cornwall.ANSWER: Tristan and Isolde13. It was discovered by Kurosawa while he was attempting to find a cure for "foolish seedling" disease, which causes rice plants to become hypertrophic. Commercial applications of it include the Thompson seedless grape. It differs from auxins in that it never inhibits growth. FTP, name this plant hormone which promotes cell elongation, breaking and budding, leading stem and leaf growth and flowering.ANSWER: gibberellins14. The Altay Mountains, featuring numerous salt lakes, make up the western third of this country. The cultural homeland of this nation is near the source of the Orkhon river and it is from this area that the country began its conquests. Although most of the country is made up of a high barren plateau, there are lands to the south near the Gobi Desert which are agricultural. FTP, name this country sandwiched between Russia and China.ANSWER: Mongolia15. Traces of it might be seen in the stories of Flannery O'Connor, a devout Catholic whose characters sometimes submitted to inexorable grace. This movement arose from the correspondence between its nominal founder and the Abbé of Saint-Cyran, who later introduced it in France. Emphasizing original sin, human depravity, divine grace, and predestination, this movement was opposed by Jesuits and other orthodox Catholics who compared it to the dreaded Calvinism that flourished a century before. FTP, name this theology condemned as heretical by Pope Innocent X in 1655 but which flourished for decades afterward.ANSWER: Jansenism16. Seacouver was one of main settings for this TV series. The assassin Kuyler drank absinthe and since he couldn't die, he went insane instead. One of the cardinal rules for him and other Immortals was to not fight on holy ground. Christopher Lambert starred in the movie version of this TV series as well as the pilot of the TV show. FTP, name this TV program starring Adrian Paul as Duncan Mcleod.ANSWER: Highlander17. The Japanese are "both aggressive and unaggressive, both militaristic and aesthetic, both insolent and polite, rigid and adaptable, submissive and resentful of being pushed around, loyal and treacherous, brave and timid, conservative and hospitable to new ways..." These words are taken from the first serious look by an American anthropologist into the culture of Japan, albeit written at a distance during WWII, during the subject nation's period of militarism. FTP, name this book by Ruth Benedict that was influential during the American occupation of post-war Japan.ANSWER: The Chrysanthemum and the Sword18. Alice Goodman wrote the libretto for this opera. The title character sings "News has a kind of mystery" after touching down in an Asian country whose military chorus greets the title character with "The 3 Main Rules of Discipline" and "8 Points of Attention," complete with a giant plane landing onstage. A foxtrot in the third act is turned into another work called the "Chairman Dances." FTP, name this opera about a president's visit to an Asian country, written by John Adams.ANSWER: Nixon in China19. According to Thyucidides, residents of this state introduced the trireme to Greece and took part in the first naval battle on record. From the early 6th-century BC on, it hosted the biannual Isthmian Games. Rivalling Athens and Thebes in wealth, it was a leader in black-figure pottery and developed the third order of classical architecture, after the Doric and Ionian. FTP, name this classical city-state totally destroyed by the Romans in 146 BC, re-founded as a colony by Caesar a century later, and which housed the apostle Paul for two years a century after that.ANSWER: Corinth20. In this work, a priest tells a story about a doorkeeper and the law. Willem and Franz are beaten up by The Whipper, presumably because of the protagonist's complaints about his treatment by them. The protagonist's uncle introduces him to a lawyer named Huld. The protagonist then has an affair with Huld's assistant Leni. The protagonist is stabbed to death in a quarry by two men on his 31st birthday. FTP, name this work by Kafka about a bank clerk named Josef K who is arrested for an unknown reason.ANSWER: The Trial21. They are not hormones, but rather local acting messenger molecules called autocrines or paracrines. Containing 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring, they are synthesized from essential fatty acids within platelet, endothelium, uterine, and mast cells. The wide variety of its receptors allows these molecules to have a variety of effects, including the regulation of blood vessel constriction and dilation, platelet aggregation, calcium movement, and cell growth. FTP, name this hormone-like substance that was first isolated from semen by Ulf von Euler, who thought they came from the prostate gland.ANSWER: prostaglandin22. Among its most prestigious positions was the title of hi-koi or commander of the canoes. This empire was defeated in 1591 at the battle of Tondibi by a Moroccan army possessing firearms. Among the various peoples that this empire defeated were the Tuaregs, Mossi, and Dogons. FTP, name this empire centered at Gao, whose most famous rulers were Askia Muhammad and Sonni Ali.ANSWER: Songhai Empire23. Before his death, this author had a picture taken of himself resembling St. Sebastian. Among his early works were "Thirst for Love" and "After the Banquet." "Confessions of a Mask" is considered his autobiographical work, especially the main character, Kochan. Among his famous works are "The Sailor who Fell from Grace with the Sea," "Temple of the Golden Pavilion" and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy. FTP, name this Japanese writer who commited seppuku on public television after a failed attempt to overthrow the government.ANSWER: Mishima Yukio24. This country's major river, the Tipitapa, joins the two big lakes in this country. Cities found in this country include Bluefields and Granada. The Coco River marks the northern border of this country, while the San Juan River marks its southern border. León and Granada both served as this country's capitals until 1858, when a new capital was selected as part of a political compromise between the Liberal and Conservative Parties. FTP name this Central American country between Honduras and Costa Rica that is home to the Mosquito Coast and to the largest lake in Central America.ANSWER: NicaraguaVETO 2011 BonusesOregon (Philip Huang, Sean Cole, Amy Fuller, Erin Wilds) 1. This composer was born into a Swedish family in 1865, but is considered a Finnish hero. FTPE,[10]His last work was the tone poem Tapiola in 1926. He created no new works until his death in 1957.ANSWER: Jean Sibelius[10]This nationalistic tone poem was created by Sibelius to protest the Russian occupation of his country.ANSWER: Finlandia[10]His suite named for a now-Russian region features an English horn ballad that describes King Karl Knutsson's thoughts and the 3rd movement Alla Marcia.ANSWER: Karelia Suite2. FTPE, name the author, given these famous works of sociology.[10]A General View of Positivism (1848)ANSWER: Auguste Comte[10]Suicide (1897)ANSWER: Emile Durkheim[10]The Sixties: Years of Hope, Days of Rage (1987)ANSWER: Todd Gitlin3. Still angry about the Canucks' Stanley Cup loss? Take out your frustration on your teammate instead of Downtown Vancouver by performing the following action ten points each.[10] Demonstrate the type of action that Alex Burrows performed on Patrice Bergeron during Game 1 of the Finals.ANSWER: Biting the hand[10] Demonstrate the type of action that "classy" Tim Thomas performed on Henrik Sedin during Game 3 of the Finals.ANSWER: Shoving him down to the ice (No credit unless teammate is down on the ground)[10] Demonstrate the type of action that Brad Marchand repeatedly committed against Daniel Sedin in Game 6 of the Finals.ANSWER: Punching him in the face4. FTPE, Name these bands from the musical hotbed of Canada, Winnipeg.[10] "These Eyes" may have been "Shakin' All Over" when this group's album "American Woman" went multi-platinum in 1970.ANSWER: The Guess Who[10] Their album "Left and Leaving" won the 2001 Juno Award for Best Alternative Music Album. One song from that album, "Aside," was featured on the Wedding Crashers soundtrack.ANSWER: The Weakerthans[10] This band's hits include, "Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm," "The Ghosts that Haunt Me" and "Superman's Song".ANSWER: Crash Test Dummies5. Like Machiavelli, this Frenchman's personal and politcal failures inspired insightful thoughts about human nature. FTPE,[10]Name this French nobleman, aka Prince of Marsillac, who wrote hundreds of epigrams from 1665 until 1678.ANSWER: François de La Rochefoucauld[10]His collection of epigrams form this most famous work which was continuously revised even after his death.ANSWER: Maxims[10]La Rochefoucauld was the main editor of her historical novel, "La Princesse de Cleves."ANSWER: Marie Madeleine de la Vergue, Madame de La Fayette6. FTPE, answer the following questions related to Ethiopia.[10]This city, whose name means "white flower" in Amharic, is home to the Organization of African Unity.ANSWER: Addis Ababa[10]Ethiopia has been engaged in a decades-long dispute with this neighboring country that seceded from it in 1993. ANSWER: Eritrea[10]Ethiopia has also had a long-running dispute with Somalia over this region, culminating in 2006 with an Ethiopian invasion of Somalia.ANSWER: Ogaden7. Answer the following questions about a mathematician FTPE.[10]Although he was born in St Petersburg, he lived most of his life in Germany, where he invented set theoryANSWER: Georg Cantor[10]This mathematician conceived his concept "cuts" based on Cantor's paper on irrational numbers.ANSWER: Richard Dedekind[10]First conceived by Cantor, this theory states, "There is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the integers and that of the real numbers."ANSWER: continuum hypothesis8. Answer the following questions about an Ambrose Bierce work, FTPE.[10]This book was originally titled The Cynic's Word Book before being renamed this. It was based on his numerous columns written over 40 years.ANSWER: The Devil's Dictionary[10]He describes this type of person as, "A blackguard whose faulty vision sees things as they are, not as they ought to be. Hence the custom among the Scythians of plucking out this person's eyes to improve his vision."ANSWER: cynic[10]He describes this type of person as, "One skilled in circumvention of the law."ANSWER: Lawyer9. Name these alcohol-fueled rebellions, FTPE.[10]This 1790s rebellion in Pennsylvania that occurred due to the imposition of a tax on the namesake alcoholic drink was ended when Washington called out the militias to stop it.ANSWER: Whiskey Rebellion[10]This 1808 rebellion against Governor William Bligh in Australia was partially sparked by the prohibition of this beverage as currency.ANSWER: Rum Rebellion[10]Inspired by Mussolini's overthrow of the Italian government, Hitler attempted a similar overthrow in Bavaria in this 1923 rebellion.ANSWER: Beer Hall Putsch10. This artist once said, "If Bobby Fischer came to me for advice, I certainly would not discourage him - as if anyone could - but I would try to make it positively clear that he will never have any money from chess."[10]Name this artist who left the art world for chess after painting classics such as Nude Descending a Staircase No. 2 and Portrait of Chess Players.ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp[10]Duchamp was also noted for his "readymades," including this one that looked eerily similar to a urinal. ANSWER: Fountain[10]Duchamp was among the best known artists of this post-World War I style aimed against cultural conformity.ANSWER: Dada or Dadaism11. Answer the following questions about the Libyan Civil War of 2011, ten points each:[10] The revolt started in this city when the police violently broke up a protest, injuring 38 protesters and police.ANSWER: Benghazi[10] This group was established on February 27, 2011, with the original purpose of organizing the various revolts throughout Libya.ANSWER: National Transitional Council or NTC[10] Qaddafi has been able to survive due to purchases of weapons from Belarus and his use of mercenaries from this Berber group, also known as the "blue men" of the Sahara.ANSWER: Tuaregs12. Canada and baseball, ten points each[10]Born in Maple Ridge, BC, this slugger actually won 7 Gold Gloves for his defense, in addition to the 3 batting titles and 1997 Most Valuable Player Award he earned as a Colorado Rockie.ANSWER: Larry Walker[10]This Ontario native showed unique power and control as a pitcher, striking out over 3000 batters while walking less than 1000. Name this longtime Cub who won 24 games on his way to the 1971 Cy Young Award.ANSWER: Ferguson Jenkins[10]This Yankee, who grew up in Quebec, is the first Canadian-born catcher to start the All-Star game, doing so in 2007 and 2008.ANSWER: Russell Martin13. This bonus will test whether your knowledge of ancient Egyptian beliefs extends beyond the Mummy franchise. FTPE, name these concepts from Egyptian mythology.[10]The spiritual essence that distinguishes a living and a dead person.ANSWER: ka[10]The concept of truth, balance, and order, often personified as a goddess who governed the stars and seasons.ANSWER: Ma'at[10]Originally an aspect of the god Ra, this sun disk became the focus of a new monotheistic religion established by Amenhotep IV, who praised it as the creator and giver of life.ANSWER: aten14. FTPE, name these lesser-known Canadian cities.[10]Home to the AHL's Heat, and University of the Fraser Valley, this city also has the highest murder rate per capita in Canada.ANSWER: Abbotsford, BC[10]Formed as a consolidation of Fort William and Port Arthur, this city is home to Lakehead University, and is home to one of the two Finnish language newspapers in Canada.ANSWER: Thunder Bay, ON[10]Formed by the merger of Chicoutimi, Jonquière, and La Baie, this city also has the same name as a mythical kingdom of blond men and gold that the French attempted to find. ANSWER: Saguenay, QC15. Identify these types of substances that fight malaria FTPE.[10]The Quechua of Peru and Bolivia first discovered its medicinal properties in the cinchona tree, before it was taken to Europe, isolated from the tree bark, and remained the favored antimalarial through the 1940s.ANSWER: Quinine[10]Used in prophylaxis against malaria, or sometimes in combination with quinine, this broad-spectrum antibiotic had a major role in reducing cholera mortality, but is now best known as a common treatment for acne and rosacea.ANSWER: Tetracycline[10]Derived from an extract of coal tar, this drug succeeded quinine as the antimalarial of choice. Its ubiquitous preventive use regardless of illness may have contributed to widespread drug resistance since the 1980s.ANSWER: Chloroquine16. Answer the following questions regarding a series of incidents in 1837, FTPE:[10]This Canadian started the chain reaction by leading the Upper Canada Rebellion.ANSWER: William Lyon Mackenzie[10]After several more incidents, including a burned ship over Niagara Falls and the Battle of the Windmill, this treaty was signed in 1842.ANSWER: Webster-Ashburton Treaty[10]One of the key concepts of the Webster-Ashburton treaty was this statement "That the necessity for preemptive self-defense must be "instant, overwhelming, and leaving no choice of means, and no moment for deliberation."ANSWER: Caroline Test (don't accept Caroline Affair, because this is about the concept in international law, not the affair itself)17. "Robots of the world, we enjoin you to exterminate mankind." Answer the following questions about the play which features this line, FTPE.[10]The quote given comes from this play by Karel Capek.ANSWER: R.U.R or Rossum's Universal Robots[10]He is the only human to survive the robot onslaught in Act 2 of the play.ANSWER: Alquist[5,5]These two robots develop human feelings for each other at the end of the play.ANSWER: Primus and Helena18. Answer the following questions about the recent Canadian elections:[5] This party gained 23 more seats over what they had before the election.ANSWER: Conservative Party[5] This party took the title of Official Opposition away from the Liberal Party who had called for the election in the first place.ANSWER: New Democrat Party[10] She became the first-ever MP from the Green Party. She has already made a name for herself by being the only MP to vote against Canadian involvement in Libya.ANSWER: Elizabeth May[10] This student of applied politics out of Sherbrooke, QC, rode the NDP wave, becoming the youngest MP ever elected.ANSWER: Pierre-Luc Dusseault19. The Philippines is a country made up of over 7,000 islands. FTP each answer the following questions about a few of these islands.[10]This island is the largest of the Philippine archipelago, as well as the home of the capital, Manila.ANSWER: Luzon[10]This island is home to most of the Philippine Muslims and is the site of numerous bombings and kidnappings by Abu Sayyaf.ANSWER: Mindanao[10]This island group in between Luzon and Mindanao contains the cities of Cebu and Tacloban, as well as a namesake sea.ANSWER: Visayas20. FTPE, name these types of volcanoes.[10]Examples of this type, such as Mt. Bailey in Oregon, the Rainbow Range in British Columbia, and most Hawaiian volcanoes, are noted for their shallow-sloping sides, which normally form from repeated fluid lava flows.ANSWER: shield volcano[10]Characterized by a steep profile and periodic, explosive eruptions of magma with higher silica content, famous examples include Pinatubo, St. Helens, and Krakatoa.ANSWER: Stratovolcano or composite volcano[10]California's Lassen Peak and BC's Mount Meager are two prominent North American examples of this circular mound-shaped protrusion resulting from viscous lava, which prevents it from flowing very far.ANSWER: lava dome21. Answer the following about a Chinua Achebe's African Trilogy, FTPE.[10]This novel focuses on the Okonkwo, who rises to be an influential Igbo clan leader in Umuofia, but whose rashness causes him numerous problems and leads to his demise.ANSWER: Things Fall Apart[10]This sequel to Things Fall Apart features the grandson of Okonkwo who ends up on trial for bribery.ANSWER: No Longer at Ease[10]This novel focuses on Ezeulu, the chief priest of several villages, who refuses to participate in the British indirect rule system and the consequences of that decision.ANSWER: Arrow of God22. FTPE, identify these leading cities of the Italian Renaissance:[10]The early naturalistic bent of its painting school can be seen in the early 15th-century works of Masaccio, Donatello, and Brunellschi. Ghiberti won a famous contest to design the baptistry doors of its cathedral, and a youthful Michelangelo came to this city to apprentice with Ghirlandaio.ANSWER: Florence[10]By 1500, the most important school of Renaissance painting was housed here, the home of Bellini, Titian, and Tintoretto. Its painterly renown far outlived that of other cities, with a final flowering in Tiepolo's decorative painting and Canaletto's classical panoramas.ANSWER: Venice[10]This eight-day sack of this city in 1527, by the victorious and mutinous troops of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, in the land of the French-allied Pope, marked the end of its central role in patronizing some of the greatest Italian artists of the day such as Raphael and Leonardo.ANSWER: Rome