VETO 2011 - packet by Will Nediger

Tossups

1. This lake contains the uninhabited Michipicoten Island. It is also home to La Pointe, the birthplace of Chief Buffalo, which lies on Madeline Island. The Pic River and the Pigeon River are among the rivers that feed this lake. Pukaskwa National Park lies on the shore of this lake, whose largest island by far is Michigan's Isle Royale. It is drained by the St. Marys River, which forms part of the Canada-U.S. border. This lake, which is also called Gitche Gumee after the Ojibwe for "big water," is home to the cities of Sault Ste. Marie and Thunder Bay. For 10 points, name this largest of the Great Lakes.
ANSWER: Lake Superior

2. Adding one term to the nonlinear version of this equation results in the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. Loop quantum gravity uses a timeless analogue of this equation, the Wheeler-DeWitt equation. A confirmation of this equation came when it was used to solve the hydrogen atom and predicted energy levels which accorded with Rydberg's law. Systems in a stationary state can be described using the time-independent form of this equation, which can be derived from the classical wave equation and the de Broglie relation. For 10 points, name this equation which describes how a physical system evolves over time, named for an Austrian physicist who also has a namesake cat.
ANSWER: Schrödinger wave equation

3. One character in this novel tells a story about how, after a woman on a train snatched the cigarette from his mouth and threw it out the window, he responded by throwing her lapdog out the window. Another character in this novel is a teenager named Ippolit who suffers from tuberculosis and tries unsuccessfully to shoot himself in the head. Ganya and Rogozhin are among the characters who are in love with the capricious Nastassya Filippovna, though the protagonist only feels "pity-love" for Nastassya and is really in love with Aglaya, one of the daughters of Madame Yepanchin. For 10 points, name this Fyodor Dostoyevsky novel about the innocent and simple-minded Prince Myshkin.
ANSWER: The Idiot

4. The speaker of one of this band's songs says "I catch the scent of ambergris and turn my head, surprised / My gaze is caught and held and I am helpless, mesmerized." That song is divided into six sections, including "Bacchus Plateau" and "Didacts and Narpets." The lengthy instrumental "La Villa Strangiato" and "The Trees" both appear on their album Hemispheres, but a more famous instrumental by this band is "YYZ," which appears on the album Moving Pictures, along with songs like "Vital Signs" and "Limelight." For 10 points, name this band consisting of Alex Lifeson, Neil Peart, and Geddy Lee, known for songs like "Fly By Night" and "Tom Sawyer."
ANSWER: Rush

5. A major centre of worship of this deity was the city of Nekhen. This deity was adapted to Greek mythology, in which he was given the name Harpocrates. One story tells of how he tricks his rival into eating his semen by spreading it on a piece of lettuce. He also loses his left eye in a fight with that rival, explaining why the sun is brighter than the moon. This deity was conceived after his mother fashioned a golden phallus to attach to the reconstructed body of Osiris. This god of war and of the sky is associated with the symbol of the wadjet eye. For 10 points, name this falcon-headed Egyptian deity.
ANSWER: Horus

6. This work's first movement opens with a counterpoint to the main theme played by two basset horns, which were invented not long before this work was composed. Some scholars have noted that one movement of this work contains a lengthy paraphrase from the Sparrow Mass. The Amen Fugue is sometimes thought to belong in this work, after the Lacrimosa. It was completed by Franz Xaver Süssmayr, since it was unfinished at the composer's death. Although it was commissioned by Franz von Walsegg, there is a myth that it was actually commissioned by Antonio Salieri, who planned to claim that he had written it. For 10 points, name this mass for the dead by the composer of The Magic Flute.
ANSWER: Mozart's Requiem Mass in D Minor

7. This ruler's sister was named Mutbenret, who is sometimes identified with the wife of Horemheb, which would mean that this ruler's father was the 18th-dynasty pharaoh Ay. In 2003, Joann Fletcher claimed to have identified this ruler's mummy in the Valley of the Kings. This ruler is sometimes identified with a pharaoh whose first name is Ankhkheperure and who, according to Manetho, ruled for slightly over two years. Ludwig Borchardt discovered an iconic bust of this woman, attributed to Thutmose, which now resides in Berlin. For 10 points, name this famously beautiful wife of the Egyptian pharaoh Akhenaten.
ANSWER: Nefertiti

8. This author wrote a sketch in which a baby named Gustavus Adolphus explodes after eating thirteen Christmas dinners concentrated in a pill. That sketch, "The New Food," appeared in his first collection of comic writings, Literary Lapses. His most famous work spawned a follow-up entitled Arcadian Adventures with the Idle Rich. That work is a series of sketches about the love-struck bank teller Peter Pupkin, the gargantuan hotel owner Josh Smith, and other denizens of the fictional small town of Mariposa, which is modelled on Orillia. For 10 points, name this Canadian humorist who wrote Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town.
ANSWER: Stephen Leacock

9. One proposed solution to this problem involves the theorem that every set possesses at least one subset that is not an element of that set, and includes an axiom of separation. Another proposed solution to this problem involves the requirement that a mathematical object can only be built from objects of a lower type; that solution is known as type theory. This problem, which afflicts the naïve set theory of Gottlob Frege, was discovered by the mathematician who co-wrote the Principia Mathematica with Alfred North Whitehead. For 10 points, name this paradox which arises from asking whether the set of all sets that are not members of themselves is a member of itself.
ANSWER: Russell's paradox

10. In the 1860s, one of these events forced Finland to borrow money from the Rothschild family. The economic policies of the British Raj are often blamed for one of these events which took place in India in the 1870s. Ethiopia has suffered a number of these events, including one which led to the fall of Haile Selassie and a "great" one which took place in the late 19th century and was caused by rinderpest. One of these events took place in the Ukraine in the 1930s and is considered by many to be a genocide committed by the Soviet government. For 10 points, the Holodomor is one example of what type of event, the most famous of which affected the potato crop in Ireland?
ANSWER: famines

11. This man resigned his position as Minister of Finance after a pair of financial scandals involving the MNEF and Elf Aquitaine. In the 1990s, he also served as mayor of Sarcelles and Minister for Industry under Pierre Bérégovoy. In the 2007 election, he ran for the candidacy for the Socialist party, defeating Laurent Fabius but losing to Ségolène Royal. In his most famous position, he had an affair with Piroska Nagy, leading one newspaper to dub him "the great seducer." In the wake of a recent scandal, he was controversially defended by Ben Stein and Bernard-Henri Lévy. For 10 points, name this former director of the IMF who was recently charged with sexually assaulting a hotel maid.
ANSWER: Dominique Strauss-Kahn

12. This theory was defended by Timothy Sprigge in The Rational Foundation of Ethics. Daniel Dennett argues that this theory would be difficult to implement, giving the example of the Three Mile Island accident. According to Derek Parfit, this theory is susceptible to the mere addition paradox, which results in what he calls the repugnant conclusion. Prominent proponents of this ethical theory include R. M. Hare and Peter Singer, but it is most associated with the inventor of the Panopticon, Jeremy Bentham. For 10 points, name this ethical theory which says that the best actions are the ones that results in the greatest total happiness.
ANSWER: utilitarianism

13. In addition to memory, the Papez circuit regulates these phenomena. An 1872 book by Charles Darwin deals with the expression of these phenomena in humans and animals. The Cannon-Bard theory says that they occur simultaneously with physiological phenomena, in contrast to the earlier James-Lange theory, which claims that they result from physiological phenomena. A more current theory of them is the Schachter-Singer theory, also known as the two-factor theory of these phenomena, which are sometimes described as mental states organized in the limbic system of the mammalian brain. For 10 points, name these states of mind that include pride, anger, and happiness.
ANSWER: emotions

14. One character in this series reminds himself to "add Eat, Pray, Love soundtrack to workout mix." Another characters visits the Democratic Republic of the Congo and explains the plot of Inception to one of the natives in English, so as not to spoil it for his friend who hasn't seen it yet. That character is an anthropology professor played by Betty White who is replaced by the tippling psychology professor Ian Duncan. This series takes place at a school where you can get a degree in theoretical phys ed, and whose mascot is the Human Being. For 10 points, name this NBC series starring Alison Brie, Chevy Chase and Joel McHale as students at Greendale.
ANSWER: Community

15. As a response to this event, a group of people blockaded a railway line in Seton Portage, British Columbia. The subject of a documentary by Alanis Obomsawin, this event was sparked off by an announcement by Jean Ouellette. A famous photograph taken during this event shows a standoff between Brad Larocque and Patrick Cloutier. This conflict resulted in the death of Marcel Lemay, and saw the establishment of a blockade on the Mercier Bridge. It arose due to the planned expansion of a golf course to land which included a Kanesatake burial ground. For 10 points, name this 1990 land dispute between the Mohawk people and a certain town in Quebec.
ANSWER: Oka Crisis

16. This disease can be tested for by blood tests called micro-CATT and wb-CATT. Drugs used to treat it include pentamidine and melarsoprol. In addition to being used to treat hirsutism, eflornithine is used to treat this disease, although it is only effective on the gambiense form, not the rhodesiense form. Chagas disease is caused by parasites of the same genus as the ones which cause this disease, whose symptoms include severe swelling of the lymph nodes, which causes Winterbottom's sign, and disruption of the sleep cycle. For 10 points, name this disease of sub-Saharan Africa, transmitted by the tsetse fly, whose common name is derived from the fact that it causes fatigue.
ANSWER: trypanosomiasis [or sleeping sickness]

17. In Euripides' Orestes, Helen commands a character of this name to pour libations on Clytemnestra's grave. In D. H. Lawrence's Women in Love, this is the first name of the wealthy temptress whose former affair with Birkin causes strain in Birkin's relationship with Ursula. When the first three letters of this name are capitalized, it forms the title of an autobiographical novel by the poet H.D. A more famous character of this name is accused of infidelity by her husband Leontes; that character is the Queen of Sicilia in Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale. For 10 points, give this name which is also shared by Miss Granger in the Harry Potter books.
ANSWER: Hermione

18. One artist from this country created a sculpture called The Ninth Hour, which depicts Pope John Paul II being hit by a meteorite. Another artist from this country created a semi-nude reclining sculpture of Pauline Bonaparte as the Venus Victrix as well as a depiction of Psyche being revived by Cupid's kiss. The sculptor of Unique Forms of Continuity in Space was from this country, like many members of the Futurist movement. More famous sculptures from this country include one in which the titular saint's heart is pierced by an angel. For 10 points, name this country which is home to the sculptors of The Ecstasy of St. Teresa and the most famous depiction of David. 
ANSWER: Italy

19. One type of these objects includes a graphite rod and a paste made up of manganese dioxide, zinc chloride, ammonium chloride, and is named for Georges Leclanché. Another type of these objects includes dilute sulfuric acid and makes use of the oxidation of lead, the reduction of lead oxide, and the precipitation of lead sulfate. The former is an example of the primary type, which involves an irreversible reaction; the secondary type involves a reversible reaction, so they can be recharged. Other examples of these objects include the nickel-cadmium type and the lithium-ion type. For 10 points, name these devices which derive energy from chemical reactions and which are used in batteries.
ANSWER: voltaic cells [or galvanic cells; or electrochemical cells; accept batteries before mentioned]

20. One of the heroes of this poem saves a baby from being eaten by a bear by stuffing a rock down the bear's throat, and then gives the baby to a childless couple. Another hero of this poem is accompanied by a Palmer, who advises him that in order to defeat the madman named Furor, he must first restrain the hag named Occasion. Villains in this poem include pagan knights named Sansfoy, Sansjoy, and Sansloy, as well as the deceitful Duessa and the sorcerer Archimago. The hero of the first book is Saint George, although he is known in the poem as the Redcrosse Knight, and he serves Gloriana, who represents Elizabeth I. For 10 points, name this allegorical epic by Edmund Spenser.
ANSWER: The Faerie Queene

21. An important victory in this campaign resulted in one of the combatants adopting a new coat of arms depicting some golden chains on a red background. This campaign is traditionally said to have begun with a battle in which the Virgin Mary of Covadonga supposedly aided the winning side. One side suffered a defeat known as the Disaster of Alarcos, but soon after recouped their losses at the decisive Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. This campaign ended in 1492, when Granada was captured from Mohammad XII by the kingdoms of Aragon and Castile. For 10 points, name this campaign in which Christian states recaptured the territory in the Iberian Peninsula which had been held by the Muslims.
ANSWER: Reconquista

22. This theorist argued that objective knowledge of social reality is impossible in his essay "Objectivity" in Social Science. He wrote books about ancient Judaism and about the religions of China and India, and he identified three ideal types of religion, including world-rejecting asceticism, in his posthumously published work Economy and Society. He defined a state as an entity with a monopoly on the use of force in the essay Politics as a Vocation. His major work argued that Calvinist ideas led large numbers of people to engage in trade, which was a factor in the development of capitalism. For 10 points, name this sociologist who wrote The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
ANSWER: Max Weber

23. The largest lake in this country is Lake Izabal, which lies near Amatique Bay. Its department of San Marcos is home to the highest mountain in Central America, Volcán Tajumulco, which is part of the Sierra Madre range. Cities in this country's southwest include Huehuetenango and Quetzaltenango. Flores is the capital of the largest department in this country, Petén, which takes up around one third of its area. It is bordered to the south by El Salvador and Honduras. For 10 points, name this country, the only country other than Belize on Mexico's southern border.
ANSWER: Guatemala

24. In 2010, this man called for the cancellation of a Smithsonian exhibit which included an image of a crucifix covered with ants. He is the only currently serving member of the Gang of Seven, which vocally criticized the House banking scandal. During the Bush administration, he acted as Chairman of the House Committee on Education and Workforce. He has served as both the House Majority Leader and the House Minority Leader, and was both preceded and succeeded by Nancy Pelosi in the latter position, as well as being preceded by Pelosi in his current position. For 10 points, name this current Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives.
ANSWER: John Boehner









Bonuses

1. Name some ridiculously prolific authors, for 10 points each.
[10] This American has written over 100 books, but some of her most popular novels include Zombie, them, Bellefleur, and We Were the Mulvaneys.
ANSWER: Joyce Carol Oates
[10] This horror author downplays his productivity in his memoir On Writing, but his prolific output includes novels like The Stand, The Green Mile, and Cujo.
ANSWER: Stephen King
[10] Even Joyce Carol Oates' output pales in comparison to that of this Belgian novelist, who wrote about 200 novels, about 75 of which feature the fictional detective Jules Maigret.
ANSWER: Georges Simenon

2. Craig Mello and Andrew Fire won the Nobel Prize for their work on this system in C. elegans. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process of gene silencing which is initiated by the enzyme Dicer, which cleaves double-stranded RNA into smaller fragments.
ANSWER: RNA interference
[10] In RNAi, a strand of small interfering RNA or micro RNA is incorporated into this complex, which silences genes by degrading mRNA molecules.
ANSWER: RISC [orRNA-Induced Silencing Complex]
[10] The degradation of mRNA prevents this process from taking place. In this process, an amino acid chain is produced from mRNA, which is decoded by a ribosome.
ANSWER: translation

3. Answer these questions about ancient Greek history, for 10 points each.
[10] This period began with the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC and ended with the Roman takeover of Greece in 146 BC. It followed the Classical Period.
ANSWER: Hellenistic Period
[10] This historian wrote a noted History of the Peloponnesian War. Unlike Herodotus, he actually bothered to gather evidence, instead of just believing everything he heard.
ANSWER: Thucydides
[10] The History of the Peloponnesian War famously contains a dialogue between the Athenians and the residents of this island, which Athens wanted to invade.
ANSWER: Melos

4. Name some Mexican painters, for 10 points each.
[10] This painter signed his works with a name which comes from the Nahuatl word for "water." He shares his last name with a Spanish Baroque painter known for his depictions of children.$
ANSWER: Dr. Atl [or Gerardo Murillo]
[10] This painter's workers include Henry Ford Hospital, Self-Portrait with a Monkey, The Broken Column, and many other self-portraits featuring her unibrow.
ANSWER: Frida Kahlo
[10] This muralist's most monumental work is the Epic of American Civilization. He's notably not Diego Rivera.
ANSWER: José Clemente Orozco

5. You can choose not to answer these questions about free will, but you won't get any points. For 10 points each:
[10] The belief that is possible for both determinism and free will to be true is known by this name.
ANSWER: compatibilism [accept soft determinism]
[10] This philosopher claimed that the truth or falsity of determinism is irrelevant to whether we have free will. You might know him for writing about the tabula rasa in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: John Locke
[10] This man attempted to solve the problem of evil by arguing that God could not create a world with free creatures who did not choose evil. One of the few Christian analytic philosophers, he developed a modal version of the ontological argument for God's existence.
ANSWER: Alvin Plantinga

6. No Strings Attached and Friends with Benefits have suspiciously similar premises, and both feature Black Swan stars. Answer some questions about them, for 10 points each.
[10] No Strings Attached stars Natalie Portman and this actor, the first person to get over a million followers on Twitter. He's slated to replace Charlie Sheen on Two and a Half Men.
ANSWER: Ashton Kutcher
[10] This actress plays Kayla in Friends with Benefits. She made her debut in Superbad, and also starred in Easy A.
ANSWER: Emma Stone
[10] Emma Stone and Woody Harrelson, who also appears in Friends with Benefits, acted together in this 2009 film about a post-apocalyptic road trip.
ANSWER: Zombieland

7. Identify some physical constants, for 10 points each.
[10] This is the speed at which massless particles travel, and is thought to be the speed at which gravitational waves travel. It is equal to approximately 300 million metres per second.
ANSWER: speed of light in a vacuum [or c]
[10] This dimensionless constant is approximately equal to 1/137. A number of recent experiments have attempted to test the theory that it is not in fact constant.
ANSWER: fine-structure constant [or alpha]
[10] The speed of light is equal to the reciprocal of the square root of the product of the permittivity of free space and this constant, whose value is defined with respect to the ampere.
ANSWER: permeability of free space [or vacuum permeability; or magnetic constant]

8. This poem includes a description of the Battle of Finnburg. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Old English poem whose title character saves Hrothgar from a monster descended from Cain.
ANSWER: Beowulf
[10] Beowulf is often structured according to these events, of which there are three in the poem, or four if the Lay of the Last Survivor is included. The first one involves Scyld Scefing, and occurs at the very beginning.
ANSWER: funerals
[10] Grendel's skin is magically immune to human weapons, so Beowulf is forced to use his brute strength to defeat him, which he does by ripping off this body part.
ANSWER: his arm

9. His debate with Robert Hayne over protectionist tariffs is regarded to be one of the most eloquent speeches of all time. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American statesman who negotiated an 1842 treaty with Baron Ashburton.
ANSWER: Daniel Webster
[10] This proponent of slavery as a "positive good" served as Vice President under both John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson.
ANSWER: John Caldwell Calhoun
[10] Webster, Calhoun, and Henry Clay are collectively known by this title. All of them served as Secretary of State as well as serving in the Senate, and all three were skilled orators.
ANSWER: Great Triumvirate

10. The name of this region means "coast" in Arabic. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this region which spans northern Africa and which is bordered to the north by the Sahara Desert.
ANSWER: Sahel
[10] This region of the Sudan, which has been the site of a major civil war since 2003, is part of the Sahel.
ANSWER: Darfur
[10] Part of the newly independent South Sudan is also in the Sahel. This disputed area of land is claimed by South Sudan and Kenya, and also borders on Ethiopia.
ANSWER: Ilemi Triangle

11. In the aftermath of this battle, the Geneva Accords were signed, ending the First Indochina War. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1954 battle, in which a French garrison was defeated by the Viet Minh after a two-month siege.
ANSWER: Battle of Dien Bien Phu
[10] This battle of the Vietnam War saw the Americans abandon the namesake combat base. You might know it from its mention in the song "Born in the U.S.A."
ANSWER: Battle of Khe Sanh
[10] This amusingly-named 1969 battle saw the Americans capture Hill 937, even though they later abandoned it. Like the Battle of Pork Chop Hill during the Korean War, it got its nickname from a type of food.
ANSWER: Battle of Hamburger Hill

12. This church was formed in 1961 with the merger of two other churches. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this church which lacks an official creed, instead adopting a set of seven Principles and Purposes.
ANSWER: Unitarian Universalism
[10] James Ishmael Ford is a Unitarian Universalist minister, but he also happens to be a priest of this religion, whose practices include sitting meditation and the contemplation of riddles called koans.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhism [prompt on "Buddhism" or "Mahayana Buddhism"]
[10] Zen is a school of this branch of Buddhism, whose name means "Great Vehicle." Its other schools include Pure Land and Nichiren.
ANSWER: Mahayana Buddhism

13. You know that in a packet by Will Nediger, there's going to be a linguistics question. For 10 points each:
[10] This branch of linguistics deals with the properties of the sounds of the world's languages, as opposed to phonology, which deals with the linguistic organization of sounds.
ANSWER: phonetics
[10] The difference between the [p] sound and the [b] sound is this feature, which describes the vibration of the vocal folds.
ANSWER: voice [or voicing]
$[10] This is the name for a sound that is produced when the airstream flows inward through the oral or nasal cavity.
ANSWER: ingressive

14. Answer some questions about Senegal and literature, for 10 points each.
[10] Senegal mostly surrounds the Gambia, which is the home country of Kunta Kinte in this "Saga of an American Family" by Alex Haley.
ANSWER: Roots
[10] The Senegalese poet Léopold Senghor is one of the founders of this movement which included a lot of black writers and which Sartre called "anti-racist racism."
ANSWER: Négritude
[10] In this poem by Senghor, the speaker says to the title figure, "I sing your beauty that passes ... before jealous fate turn you to ashes to feed the roots of life," and calls her "naked woman, dark woman."
ANSWER: "Black Woman" [or "Femme Noire"]

15. Name these geological periods, for 10 points each.
[10] This period, between the Triassic and the Cretaceous, saw Pangaea break up into Gondwana and Laurasia, and also featured a lot of dinosaurs, especially sauropods.
ANSWER: Jurassic
[10] This period, named after an English county, saw lobe-finned fish evolve into tetrapods which could walk on land.
ANSWER: Devonian
[10] The Silurian period is sandwiched between the Devonian and this period, which started and ended with major extinction events.
ANSWER: Ordovician

16. At the end of this opera, one character ponders the question "How much of what we did was good?" For 10 points each:
[10] Name this opera, which includes the scary aria "I am the wife of Chairman Mao," which is sung by Chiang Ch'ing after the staging of her ballet The Red Detachment of Women.
ANSWER: Nixon in China
[10] Nixon in China is by this minimalist composer of Doctor Atomic and The Death of Klinghoffer.
ANSWER: John Coolidge Adams
[10] Another minimalist composer is this man, who wrote the operas Waiting for the Barbarians and Einstein on the Beach.
ANSWER: Philip Glass

17. Answer these questions about a type of unfree labour (spelled with a U), for 10 points each.
[10] The practice of coercing people to work as sailors is named after this populous Chinese port, which was often the destination of ships whose crews were forcefully conscripted.
ANSWER: Shanghai
[10] The British version of shanghaiing as practised by the Royal Navy was known as impressment, and was one of the causes of this conflict, which was ended by the Treaty of Ghent.
ANSWER: War of 1812
[10] The impressment of American citizens precipitated the Chesapeake affair, in which this British warship attacked the USS Chesapeake.
ANSWER: HMS Leopard

18. This player recently earned the world #1 ranking, ending the seven-year period in which that ranking was held by only two players. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tennis player who won the 2011 Wimbledon Championships.
ANSWER: Novak Djokovic
[10] This woman defeated Maria Sharapova to win the 2011 Wimbledon finals, her first Grand Slam title.
ANSWER: Petra Kvitová
[10] Before defeating Nadal, Djokovic beat this French player, who defeated Federer in five sets to make the semifinals.
ANSWER: Jo-Wilfried Tsonga

19. The brilliant Spanish writer Javier Marías is also the King of Redonda, and he likes to bestow wacky titles on authors he likes. Name some of them, for 10 points each.
[10] The Duchess of Morpho Eugenia is this author of scarily intelligent novels like Still Life, Angels & Insects, and Possession, for which she won a Booker Prize.
ANSWER: A. S. Byatt [or Antonia Susan Duffy]
[10] The Duke of Colores is this Nobel-winning Turkish novelist of My Name Is Red and The White Castle.
ANSWER: Orhan Pamuk
[10] The Duke of Corso is this popular Spanish author of historical adventure novels, including six novels about Captain Alatriste.
ANSWER: Arturo Pérez-Reverte

20. The second of these laws describes the change in concentration over time, and the first one describes how the flux moves from areas of high concentration to areas of low concentration. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this pair of laws named for a German scientist.
ANSWER: Fick's laws
[10] Fick's laws describe this phenomenon, in which particles spread in the presence of a concentration gradient.
ANSWER: diffusion
[10] Fick's laws can be derived from the theory of diffusion named for James Clerk Maxwell and this scientist, whose namesake flow can be induced by evaporation or absorption.
ANSWER: Joseph Stefan

21. Name these people associated with the News of the World phone hacking affair, for 10 points each.
[10] This CEO of News International resigned her position in the wake of the scandal.
ANSWER: Rebekah Brooks
[10] At a hearing regarding the scandal, a protestor threw a shaving-cream pie at this man, the CEO of News Corp and one of the wealthiest people in the world.
ANSWER: Rupert Murdoch
[10] This journalist exposed the scandal, and was found dead in his home on July 18.
ANSWER: Sean Hoare

22. Name some concepts from economics, for 10 points each.
[10] This term refers to a model of the ratio between a nation's defense spending and their spending on civilian goods. A famous speech by Goebbels referred to this model, noting that you can only shoot with one of the two items mentioned in its name.
ANSWER: guns versus butter
[10] This model relates the quantity of a good which is traded with the quantity of that good which consumers are willing to buy at a given price.
ANSWER: supply and demand
[10] Similar to a monopoly, this is a situation in which a market is dominated by a small number of sellers. An example is the Canadian wireless market, which is dominated by three companies.
ANSWER: oligopoly

23. The highest mountain in Europe, Mount Elbrus, is part of this range. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this mountain range between the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea.
ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains [accept Greater Caucasus Mountains]
[10] This mountain range, home to Dyatlov Pass, is generally considered to demarcate the border between Europe and Asia.
ANSWER: Ural Mountains
[10] The "Golden Mountains" of this mountain range are a World Heritage Site. The Sayan Mountains are the eastern continuation of this range.
ANSWER: Altai Mountains

24. Name these people whose trials were recently concluded, for 10 points each.
[10] This Dutch politician was found not guilty of inciting hatred and discrimination. His short film Fitna criticizes the Islamization of the Netherlands.
ANSWER: Geert Wilders
[10] This former San Francisco Giant and all-time home run record holder was charged with perjury after testifying that he never knowingly took steroids.
ANSWER: Barry Bonds
[10] This former Governor of Illinois was impeached for corruption in 2009, and in June 2011 was found guilty on 17 of the 20 counts with which he was charged.
ANSWER: Rod Blagojevich


