Toss Ups

1. This man's self-esteem was increased by believing himself descended from Venus, but was also enlarged by his early victories against the pirates of Cilicia (Sil-i-si-ya). He later went on to conquer Gaul, and famously crosses the Rubicon in 49 BC. For ten points, name this well-known Roman who was warned by a soothsayer about a certain day in March.

Answer: Gaius Julius Caesar 

2. This dynasty was founded by Liu Bang after the bloody collapse of its predecessor. Ruling a territory to rival the Roman Empire, this dynasty saw the invention of paper and the first seismometer and its name is now use to describe a major ethnic group. For 10 points name the second dynasty to rule a unified China. 

Answer: Han Dynasty

3. This American actress was born in Ohio in 1924 and went on to star in dozens of major films. Mentioned in Billy Joel's "We Didn't Start the Fire" right after Harry Truman, her striking hair and wholesome image make her an icon of 1950s pop culture, and she is remembered to this day for her song "Que Sera Sera". For 10 points name the woman after whom Rick Mercer wanted to name Stockwell Day. 

Answer: Doris Day

4. This ruler's early wars sought access to the sea and included the Azov campaign and the Great Northern War. Before 1896, he ruled jointly with his sickly half-brother, Ivan V. He later travelled the West in an attempt to modernize his country. For 10 points name this czar for whom the former capital of Russia is named. 

Answer: Pyotr Alexeyevich Romanov / Peter I of Russia / Peter the Great 

5. Founded by the Caliph (Kahl-eef) Abu Ja'far Al-Mansur, this city was seen as the prefect capital for the Islamic World. Built near the ruins of an older civilization, this city's golden age was decicively ended by an invasion from the East in 1258. It is now more famous as the site of a fairly recent invasion. For 10 points name the capital of Iraq 

Answer: Baghdad 
6. This organelle was first observed by Romanian biologist George Palade in the 1950's. Measuring 20nm in diameter, these little bodies "translate" RNA into protein within the cell structure. For 10 points name the non-membranous organelle that is observed through the election microscope as little granules.
Answer: ribosome

7. This city became its nation's capitol in 1865. Neighbourhoods-known as suburbs-within the city include Newtown, Kelburn, and Te Aro. The city is home to the Te Papa museum, the largest wooden building in the southern hemisphere and the Beehive, as the country's architecturally-distinctive parliament buildings are known. For 10 points name this city, home to the Weta animation studios which were made famous through their work on the Lord of the Rings movies.  
Wellington (New Zealand). 


8. This European turned down one leadership role for another in 2004. A Portuguese politician, he has been a Maoist, a foreign minister, and - recently- Prime Minister of his country. Often referred to by a job title that technically does not exist, he now has one of Romano Prodi's former jobs. For 10 points name this President of the European Commission.   

Answer: Jose Manuel Barroso (BARROSO) 

9. Born in Sichuan in 1904, he returned home in 1926. Like many other Asian revolutionary leaders, was educated in France. Though a veteran of the Long March, he was several times purged in 'Anti-Rightest' campaigns. He did, however, eventually succeed Mao, and led China during the 1980s. For 10 points, name this reformist leader of China who declared that "To get rich is glorious".

Answer: Deng Xiaoping ("Dung Shao-peng") 

10. When Homer Simpson works for Hank Scorpio, he purchases this man's fedora in an effort to improve his leadership qualities. This man is credited with inventing the "4-3 Defense" now widely used in the NFL while working as the defensive coordinator for the New York Giants. However, it was as head coach of the Dallas Cowboys that he had his greatest success, winning two Superbowls in 1972 and 1978. For 10 points, name this former NFL coach who was a defensive back from 1949-1955.
Tom Landry 
11. This cognitive process is often used as a means of transferring information on a topic to another topic. For example: answering this question is surely like lifting the blindfold of confusion off the eyes of puzzled bystanders. For 10 points, name this commonplace rhetoric used in speech or text to highlight a common similarity.
Answer: analogy
12. This man grew up in the Notre Dame de Grace in Montreal and applied to MIT on a whim. He received a Bachelor of Science from that school before going on to University of Colorado Medical School where he earned his PhD in Molecular Biology. While on a fellowship at Cambridge, he began his award-winning research working with cells with malfunctioning tRNA. For ten points, Name this man, who, along with Thomas R. Chech, won the 1989 Nobel Prize in chemistry for the discovery of the catalytic properties of RNA.

Sidney Altman

13. One very minor subplot from this novel involves which gambler in a group will die first. It turns out to be The Dauphin; he is fooled by cocaine. "The Dictation of Lydia Mendez" contains the only information that one of the protagonists and her adopted sister have on their mother, who died a few hours after the first girl was born. Other characters in this work include Edward Dorn and his girlfriend Ruth, The Brethren, Raphael, and Cooper. For ten points, name this 2007 winner of the Governor General's Literary Award for fiction, Michael Ondaatje's fifth winning novel.

Divisadero


14. The story begins with the main character drunk in a police station. His enemies catch up with him soon after this he is locked in a prison that resembles a hotel room for fifteen years as punishment for an intimate moment he witnessed between a brother and sister in his schooldays. Set free on a rooftop with tattoos marking each year of his imprisonment, Oh Dae-su then sets out to revenge himself upon his unknown captors. Appropriately, it is the second installment of director Park Chan-Wook's Revenge Trilogy, preceded by Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance and followed by Sympathy for Lady Vengeance. For 10 points, name this 2003 South Korean film that won the Jury Grand Prix and the 57th Cannes film festival.

Oldboy

15. Born to Ahmed and Maha on September 19, 1986 this man travelled throughout Afghanistan and Pakistan with his family from the ages of 10 to 15. He had an older brother, Ibrahim, who had a congenital heart defect and died at the age of three, when this man was only two. Other siblings include Maryam, five years his junior, and Abdulkareem, who became a parapalegic in the same battle that killed their father. For ten points, name this Canadian citizen, the youngest person and only remaining Westerner being held in Guantanamo Bay.

Omar Khadr

16. This order of mammals is exclusively marine and contains two existing sub-orders and one extinct one. Of the two existing sub-orders, odontoceti is the larger and more diverse with at least 70 species, 40 genera and 10 families. Some physical features of this order include elongated bodies, no hind limbs, layers of blubber and nostrils on top of their heads. For ten points, name this scientific order that includes creatures like porpoises, dolphins and whales.

Cetaceans


17. This British metal band was founded by Herman Li and Sam Totman. Li, the current lead guitarist, is quoted as saying 'Nintendo metal,' 'extreme power metal', 'Bon Jovi on Speed,' 'Journey Meets Slayer,' ...people are always coming up with weird labels for us." Their albums include Valley of the Damned, Sonic Firestorm and Inhuman Rampage. For 10 points, name the band that created the song "Through the Fire and the Flames", which is the final level in Guitar Hero Three: Legends of Rock, and is widely accepted as the most difficult song on any of the Guitar Hero games. Dragonforce

18. This genetic disorder is caused by a deletion on the short arm of chromosome 5. Its occurrence in the population is around 1 in every 50 000 infants and it is slightly more common in girls than boys, with a ratio of 4:3. Some features are low birth weight, and severe cranio-facial abnormalities which may include microcephaly and widely spaced eyes. For ten points, name this serious birth defect, most distinctly characterized by the distinct shrill "kitten"-like mewing that gives the disease its name.

Cri-du-chat (Also accept 5p deletion, or 5p minus or Lejeune syndome, or cat cry syndrome)

19. One of the writers of this show joined the cast temporarily when a main character ommits suicide, but his character doesn't quite fit in. Other events in this show's most recent season, its fourth, include the main character's oldest daughter leaving home to move in with her boyfriend, his uncle getting out of jail after being let off on murder charges, and a second Sean joining the crew. Name this FX hit series starring actors such as Daniel Sunjata and Denis Leary which chronicles the life of a house of firefighters in New York City after 9/11.

Rescue Me

20. The last time the family in this novel was together was at a party they threw one night in June in the 1970s. The middle child is the most well-adjusted and successful, despite the fact that she was born with only one hand, the result of her mother's use of thalidomide during her pregnancy. The youngest is eternally depressed and is dating a girl whose assumed name has no vowels. The eldest, Wade, gives his mother AIDS when he is shot through the liver by his father and the bullet lodges in Janet's lung. For ten points, name this Douglas Coupland novel which describes the gathering of the Drummond family in Florida, a reunion arranged so they can see Sarah go into space.

All Families Are Psychotic

21. In The Eyre Affair, by Jasper Fforde, this war has carried on into the 1980s. Also known as the War of the East by Russians, it was master-minded by a ruler of France over a key to a church. Not long before it began, the Austrian Ultimatum  was issued to Russia, which did little to please either the Russians or the other camp in this conflict, England and France. Leaders during this conflict include Tsar Nicholas I of Russia and Napoleon III of France. For ten points, what war went from 1854-1856, the decisive battle of which was fought at Sebastapol.
Crimean War

22. Though he is 100 years old this year, he is ranked only 6th on 2008's list at www.thedeathlist.net, which predicts which famous people will die each year. He is best-known for his field work in Brazil and his work founding the branch of anthropology known as structuralism. His more famous writings include Structural Anthropology and Mythologies. For 10 points, name this French anthropologist and author of Tristes-Tropiques. Claude-Levi Strauss. 


23. The British called it Fort St. George in 1640, but this city has grown to encompass a population of more than 7.5 million. Once home to a 'presidency', this is now the capital of an important Southern state. This city dominates its country's motor industry, and was renamed again in 1996 as part of a country-wide series of name changes. For 10 points name this city in Tamal Nadu whose name is used in English to denote a type of fiery red curry.

Answer: Madras (Or Chennai) 

24. Born in Wismar in 1848, this German is an alumnus of the universities of Jena andGöttingen. He is known for, among other theories, his commitment to the idea that senses and thoughts are objects just like boxes or books, existing in "the third realm". His works include the Grundgesetze der Arithmetik (Grun- guh-set-se der arithmetic), the Grundlagen , the Begriffsschrift (Be-grift-shrift) and Sinn und Bedeutung. He created the first fully axiomatic system for logic. Name this mathematician, logician and philosopher who is one of the founders of the analytic tradition in philosophy. 
Gottlob Frege

Bonuses (Boni)

1. For 10 points each, name the 3 Republican inter-war US presidents who served between Woodrow Wilson and FDR. You have 15 seconds

Answer: Calvin Coolidge, Warren G Harding, Herbert Hoover

2. For 10 points each, given the country, name the second largest city:

A)Japan 
Osaka 

B) India 
Calcutta or Kolkatta


C) Australia
Melbourne 

3. VISUAL BONUS! What's more attractive than a man with a moustache? Nothing, as this visual bonus will demonstrate. Look at these images of mustachioed men and answer the following questions. 

A) Who is this German statesman who often got his way by crying? Otto Von Bismarck
B) This famous moustache, and the man attached to it, were both feared and ridiculed in the USA during the previous century. Who is he? Josef Stalin
C) This author's face must have gotten very hot in southern climates, covered with a moustache like this! Identify him! Mark Twain also accept Samuel Clemens

4. For 10 points each, which of the following pairs of languages has more native speakers? 
A) Mandarin or English? 
Mandarin
 
B) Russian or Portuguese?
Portuguese
 
C) German or Bengali? 
Bengali 

5. For 30 points, order these newly European countries by their (most recent) date of independence (Earliest to latest) You have 15 seconds. 
Croatia, Estonia, Malta 

Answer: Malta, Estonia, Croatia 

6. Visual bonus: Hand out the three pictures of Asian city skylines. For 10 points each, correctly identify these Asian cities by their skylines 
A. Hong Kong 
B. Shanghai 
C. Taipei 

7. Visual bonus: Hand out the three pictures of alphabets. For 10 points each, identify these languages by their script.
A. Greek 
B. Japanese 
C. Hindi or Bengali  (Do not accept Devan?gar?, that's the alphabet).

8. Give the names of these different types of cancerous tumours, for ten points each:

A. Cancer in epithelial cells.
Carcinoma
B. Cancer in connective tissue or muscle cells.
Sarcoma
C. Cancer in blood cells.
Leukemia


9. Visual bonus: Hand out the three pictures of official military-related symbols. For 10 points each, identify these military-related organizations by their official symbol 
A. People's Liberation Army, or PLA, or Chinese Army 
B. Hezbollah 
C. NATO or North Atlantic Treaty Organization

10. Agatha Christie, the Queen of Crime, drew on many different sources to create the titles for her 79 mystery novels and short story collections. These ranged from nursery rhymes to Shakespearean quotes. Given the title of the Christie work, identify the poem, play or novel that she took it from.

1) By The Pricking Of My Thumbs. MacBeth (by William Shakespeare).
2) The Mirror Crack'd From Side to Side. The Lady of Shallot (by Tennyson).
3) A Pocket Full of Rye. Sing a Song of Sixpence (nursery rhyme). 


11. Visual bonus: Hand out the pictures of UN Secretary-Generals at the back of the pack.
Name any three of these Secretary-Generals of the UN for ten points each. You have 15 seconds.
A. Boutros Boutros-Ghali
B.  Dag Hammarskjöld
C. Javier Perez de Cuellar
D. Kofi A. Annan
E. Kurt Waldheim
F. Trygve Lie
G. U Thant


12. For ten points each, name these famous composers from their spouses and years of birth and death.
A. Born 1756, died 1791, married to Constanze Weber
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
B. Born 1810, died 1856, married to Clara Wieck
Robert Schumann
C. Born 1860, died 1911, married to Alma Schindler
Gustav Mahler
13. The Summer Olympics are starting soon! In hounour of this, answer these questions about countries who won medals at the 2004 games in Athens. 

1) Kyle Schewfelt won the first ever medal for gymnastics for this country with his first-place floor routine. Canada
2) Hamish Carter and Bevan Docherty placed first and second in the men's triathlon that year. What country were they from. New Zealand
3) For 5 points each, name the country whose team won gold in men's and women's basketball. Men- Argentina, Women- USA. 

14. Answer the following questions about card games for ten points each:

A. The point of this game is to have the lowest score possible. This is achieved by not taking tricks with hearts, or, even worse, the queen of spades.
Hearts

B. There is bidding over the number of tricks you and your partner think you can take at the beginning of this game which has both contract and duplicate forms.
Bridge

C. This game, which is similar to bridge, also involves bidding, and before playing, all cards under 9 must be removed from the deck.
Euchre (YOU-cur)

15. Expand these abbreviations for common medical tests or procedures for ten points each:
A. An ECG, used to record the electric activity of the heart over time.
Electrocardiogram

B. A CT scan, which constructs three-dimensional images from two-dimensional X-rays.
Computed Tomography

C. MRI, the picture from which is similar to that from a CT scan, but provides greater definition between different soft tissues in the body.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (Accept word forms of imaging, e.g. imagery)

16. Visual Bonus. Identify the 1970's film from a still of it. And yes, this is really just an excuse to stare at a very attractive actor in his prime:

A) All The President's Men
B) The Sting
C) Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid

17. Name these infamous mass murderers, for ten points each:

A. This man committed the deadliest act of domestic terrorism seen in the United States.
Timothy McVeigh

B. This man was known as The Killer Clown because of his fondness for entertaining at neighbourhood block parties in a clown outfit. He is also the name of a song by Sufjan Stevens.
John Wayne Gacy Jr. Prompt on the name without Junior.

C. This man allegedly killed his family over a marriage dispute. He briefly became King before his death, as the person he had killed was the previous regeant, his father.
Dipendra of Nepal or Dipendra Bir Bikram Shah 


18. Identify the modern architect from a list of their more famous creations.

1) The Larkin Building, Taliesin and Taliesin West, Fallingwater. Frank Lloyd Wright.
2) Schlesinger and Meyer Department Store, National Farmers' Bank, Wainwright Building. Louis (H.) Sullivan.
3) IBM Plaza in Chicago, The Seagram Building, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe


19. For 10 points each, identify the Polish river, given a brief description: 

1) During the early part of the Second World War, this river marked the boundary between the German-controlled area of Poland and the part that fell under the control of the Soviet Union. Bug River
2) This is the longest river in Poland, which empties in some places into a lagoon of the same name or directly into the Gdansk Bay of the Baltic Sea. Vistula
3) This river forms the northern 187 km of the border between Poland and Germany. Oder

20. Given a brief description, identify the character in Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials Trilogy, made up of The Golden Compass, The Subtle Knife and The Amber Spyglass.

1) While many of the characters originate in an alternate universe, this boy comes from "our" world. He loses two fingers while fighting for the Subtle Knife. Will Parry
2) She is the head of the ring of kidnappers known as Gobblers who abduct children to perform experiments on them and their deamons. She is also Lyra Belaqua's real mother. Mrs. Marissa Coulter
3) She was once a nun, but left the church to become a research scientist at Oxford. She is an expert on Dark Matter, which the heroine Lyra and the readers both know as Dust. Who is she? Dr. Mary Malone or Dr. Malone

21. Finance Minister is one of the most important positions an MP can be given in the Canadian government. Given the year, name the Canadian Member of Parliament who held the post of Finance Minister.

1) He held the position from July 13, 1926 to September 25, 1926 and again from August 7, 1930 - February 2, 1932, before taking on an even more responsible one. R.B. Bennett (Richard Bedford Bennett). 
2) He was Finance Minister from September 16, 1977 - June 4, 1979. Jean Chrétien
3) He held the post under Prime Minister Paul Martin, from December 12, 2003 - February 6, 2006. Ralph Goodale.

Visual Bonii!

Bonus Question 3:


























Visual Bonus Question 6:



A.
 B.





C.


Visual Bonus 7: 

A.



















B.


























C.


Visual Bonus 9:

A.

B.

C.
















































Visual Bonus 11:
A. 					B. 


C. 					D. 


E.					F. 


G. 




Visual Bonus Question 16:

A)





B)


C)
  
