TOSSUPS1. Current research into one type of this device involves relating its output to the turbidity of a solution it is submerged in. Another type of device makes use of variations of indium gallium arsenide and aluminum arsenide to control its peak-to-valley current ratio. More recent uses have seen this type of device as a form of lighting as an alternative to incandescent light bulbs. In some circuits, this device can be used as a switch or as a rectifier. For 10 points, name this semiconductor device that at a basic level consists of a junction of p-type and n-type material.ANSWER: diode (accept anything that mentions diode)2. Over the past week, this man has been making several personalized video messages similar to his television commercials to those that contacted him through YouTube, Twitter or Facebook. Some blogs also received the love from the man with the booming baritone voice that stands in a bathroom solely wearing a towel. Both Roger Ebert and Teller of Penn and Teller commented on how well the commercials featuring this man are made without using any computer graphics. For 10 points, name this commercial spokesman for a men's hygiene company played by Isaiah Mustafa.ANSWER: The Old Spice Guy (accept anything mentioning Old Spice. Accept Isaiah Mustafa before mentioned)3. The quote that gives this book its title is said midway through the work by Miss Maudie in order to explain that to shun some people that do nice things is a poor choice. Another important part of the book is the trial of a black man-Tom Robinson-that is accused of raping a white woman. The protagonist's father is willing to defend the black man, even against the wishes of many of the town of Macomb. An exciting moment comes when Boo Radley saves two children from the drunk Bob Ewell. For 10 points, what is this novel that focuses on the life of Jem and Scout, the only novel by Harper Lee?ANSWER: To Kill a Mockingbird4. After this polity fell under British rule, the southern half became much more industrialized, an effect that has strained this country ever since. Just three years after forming its First Republic, a military coup sent the country into civil war for thirteen years. A more stable Second Republic lasted six years before a military coup sent the country into chaos. A Third Republic was never able to be formed, and its current Fourth Republic is on the brink of falling apart. For 10 points, name this African nation known for fraud with capital at Lagos.ANSWER: Nigeria5. Amantani is an island in this body of water where the residents live most of their day without electricity due to the cost of petroleum. Another island, Taquile, was a prison when it was part of a Spanish colony, but now is home to about 3,000 people. A large island in this lake is Isla de Sol which is so rocky that no cars are able to traverse it. An Incan nunnery occupies the large Isla de la Luna, another island in this lake. For 10 points, name this largest South American lake that has several thousand people that live on the islands within it.ANSWER: Lake Titicaca6. In his Letters Concerning Toleration, this man discussed the reasoning for tolerance of all religions. He wrote that work in response to the different wars centered on religion that were spreading around Europe at the time. As a stake holder in the Royal African Company, he contradicted himself with regards to indentured servitude on which he wrote was despicable, but he was partially in charge of a business that dealt in the slave trade. In his Some Considerations on the Consequences of the Lowering of Interest and the Raising of the Value of Money, he is one of the first Europeans to argue that there should be a price on land. For 10 points, name this British philosopher, most well known for his Two Treatises of Government.ANSWER: John Locke7. Jamie Sadler is the youngest American to have done this, doing so on the first episode on the now cancelled Power of 10. George Smoot is the only Nobel laureate to have done this when he knew that Acadia National Park is located in Maine. Michelle Lowenstein is the only contestant to have done this by solving the puzzle "Leaky Faucet" on Wheel of Fortune. Jessica Robinson was the first to do this on Deal or no Deal, although it took additional top prize briefcases to occur. For 10 points, name this performance on high stakes game shows that is the ultimate goal of the game show that features host Meredith Vieira. ANSWER: Win one million dollars on a game show (accept logical equivalents that include "one million dollars". DO NOT ACCEPT winning the top prize on a game show)8. In 2009, this man acknowledged an important 20th anniversary in European history by knocking down the first domino that was part of hundreds set up to represent the Berlin Wall. In 2002, he was chosen by the United States Olympic Committee to represent Europe during the procession of the Olympic flag. More importantly, he was the key man in the Gdansk Agreement that ended a strike in his homeland and helped lead the Round Table Agreement which led to his country having free elections in 1990. For 10 points, name this former Polish president that was instrumental in the fall of the Soviet Union.ANSWER: Lech Walesa9. Urologists often recommend that patients take this as a supplement for patients with Peyronie's disease. Older studies have claimed that this substance helped reduce the incidence of prostate cancer in men, but more rigorous studies have disputed this. The alpha tocopherol of this substance is important in that it prevents oxidation of the cell membrane. Found in high quantities in foods like almonds and avocados, for 10 points, what is this vitamin that along with vitamin D has been shown recently to cause Alzheimer's if one is deficient?ANSWER: vitamin E10. On July 16th 2010, this US state was ordered to pay all of their workers the wage that they normally earn, as opposed to minimum wage as the governor had wished. On the same day, the governor dispatched thousands of National Guard troops in order to try and prevent drug trafficking among other issues. In the gubernatorial race, polls released on the 16th show that the Republican candidate is picking up more Latino voters than expected. Those candidates, Meg Whitman and Jerry Brown, are running for governor in, for 10 points, what US state currently led by Arnold Schwarzenegger?ANSWER: California11. Girolamo Frescobaldi was the first to use it as it is known today in Fiori Musicali, and Virgal Thomson is often credited with being the first composer to use this musical element in a film in 1949's Louisiana Story. Beethoven's Quartet in C Minor begins with several of these passages, his first work to do so. Mozart infrequently used the technique, but featured it in his F Minor Fantasia. Bach is usually known as the master of this repetitive style as evidenced in such works as Contrapunctus I and The Well-Tempered Clavier. For 10 points, what is this musical technique similar to that of a round that consists of imitating a main theme that is accompanied by simultaneous melodies? ANSWER: fugues12. In addition to his two man traveling comedy show, this man will be part of a sitcom this fall on Vision TV called "She's the Mayor". On his personal website, he talks about his performance in the movie Space Hunter: Adventures in the Forbidden Zone with Molly Ringwald. In 2009, he wrote an op-ed for the Ottawa Citizen talking about how Canadian content is being lost on the internet in Canada and the difficulties in trying to rectify that issue. For 10 points, name this Canadian comedian, most well known for his appearances along Ryan Stiles, Brad Sherwood and others on Whose Line is it Anyway?ANSWER: Colin Mochrie13. People that practice a certain Christian denomination believe that Acts Book 8, Verses 14-17 explain why this is performed. Usually done when one is in their teens, this marks the initiation into adulthood in the church. While the strictest of interpretations of Vatican law state that this should be performed by a bishop, in many places the parish priest will mark the candidates with oil. For 10 points, what is this Catholic sacrament that represents the acceptance of the Holy Spirit?ANSWER: confirmation (accept chrismation)14. This body of water was designed after the defeat of the Americans in the War of 1812 in order to provide a secure shipping lane between two important cities. Operating continuously since 1832, it is the oldest continuously operating canal in North America. In the summertime, the community of Kemptville located just a few kilometers from this body of water is a popular location for fishermen in search of walleye, muskie and northern pike due to the depth at this point. For 10 points, what is this Canadian body of water that in the winter, is frozen and forms the world's longest skating rink in Ottawa?ANSWER: Rideau Canal (accept Rideau River)15. This prime minister created the External Affairs office just two years before he lost a bid for re-election in 1911. He was a Catholic that was not seen as being a stringent follower of the Church's teachings. Earlier in his political career, he became the leader of the Liberal party in Québec and the Inland Minister of that province. This man was also in charge when Saskatchewan and Alberta became provinces in 1905. For 10 points, name this first French-Canadian prime minister.ANSWER: Wilfrid Laurier16. The existence of this body was first mathematically theorized due to a difference in the expected location of a separate body and where it actually was due to an extra gravitational pull. This body is theorized to be formed out of frozen methane and hydrogen sulphide. When Voyager 2 passed by, it found a large storm on this planet, but the Hubble Space Telescope was unable to find the Great Dark Spot a few year later. For 10 points, what is the planet that after the demotion of Pluto became the furthest planet from the sun.ANSWER: Neptune17. The main character in this work is raised by her rich aunt and uncle due to the inability of her parents to take care of her. At one point in the book, several young people wish to put on the play Lovers' Vows, but some profess that they believe it is inappropriate for their age group. Mr. Henry Crawford attempts to woo the protagonist, but she ends up marrying her cousin Edmund. For 10 points, what is this novel that centers around Fanny Price, written by Jane Austen?ANSWER: Mansfield Park18. This US Supreme Court case was unique in that a decision was reached just one day after oral arguments were heard. At issue was both a clause in the Fourteenth Amendment and Article II of the US Constitution. The petitioner argued that the lack of a statewide standard violated the Fourteenth Amendment while the respondent claimed that such a standard existed. In addition, the petitioner claimed that a state Supreme Court had ruled so incorrectly that it violated Section I Clause 2 of the Constitution as it circumvented the state legislature's responsibility of determining electors. For 10 points, what is this case that Chief Justice William Rehnquist wrote in the majority that Florida could not complete its recount before its own December 12 deadline without violating the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, a decision that effectively decided who would become the forty-third President of the United States?Answer: Bush v. Gore (accept in either order)19. Irondequoit (eye-RON-deh-kwoit) Bay, an inlet of this body of water was created after a rapid warming period 12,000 years ago. This body of water was a natural barrier between the Huron and their southern enemies for hundreds of years prior to colonization. A series of trading posts were set up on this lake in the 1700's including Fort Rouillé to the north. Following the Treaty of Paris, the British controlled the forts on this lake until the Jay Treaty when the United States took over the southern forts. Despised by residents of the Tug Hill Plateau for the amount of lake effect snow it causes-for 10 points-name this Great Lake on which Rochester and Toronto are built.ANSWER: Lake Ontario20. The Laffer curve is used to illustrate the taxable income type of this concept. The intertemporal substitution type of this is used to determine how the economic growth rate relates to the real interest rate. A way to determine if two goods are complements or substitutes is to determine the cross price type of this concept. Giffen goods show a positive price this of demand. That means that as the price increases, the amount of Giffen goods demanded decreases.  For 10 points, what is this economic concept that relates the percent change in one variable to the percent change to another.ANSWER: elasticity21. The Arndt-Eistert reaction requires this rearrangement in order to occur. In the reaction of diazonapthoquinone photoresist with a certain light frequency, this rearrangement allows the resultant compound to be removed with sodium hydroxide.  In the development of electron mediators, this process is facilitated through the catalyst silver oxide. The namesake of this rearrangement is one half of a double eponymous reduction reaction that fully reduces a ketone to an alkane. For 10 points, name this rearrangement that converts a diazoketone into a ketene.ANSWER: Wolff rearrangement22. This novel centers on a dishwasher that is an unsuccessful writer in Edmonton. His roommate works at a video store and based on his vast range of pop culture ability, would probably be a good quiz bowl player. At one point, the main character meets the "woman of his dreams" that is in search of an ancient artefact, that is crucial to the fate of the entire world. Hamza and Yehat are the titular characters in, for 10 points, this futuristic novel that is told from eleven different points of view in the first person, the first novel by Minister Faust.ANSWER: The Coyote Kings of the Space-Age Bachelor Pad23. When this television special aired on July 8th, it was the highest rated show of the night in the US. During the ESPY awards, it was spoofed by the same network that aired it by Paul Rudd and Steve Carell. Bill Simmons made fun of it when he went on Sportsnation to talk about his choice to remain a Clippers season ticket holder. Bars in six cities had cameras poised to catch the reactions as fans found out about the titular action. For 10 points, name this 60 minute abomination that was about 59 minutes longer than it needed to be, wherein LeBron James announced that he was to play with the Miami Heat.ANSWER: The Decision24. Old bits that have been featured in this man's radio show include Wilfred, the 99-year-old man from Sun City, Florida and "Future Calls" where the host talks to a version of himself from 1000 years in the future. More notable bits have included the listener call-in show Jepretardy! (jep-REY-tar-dee) and More-on Trivia. In the past two years, his program has taken a more serious turn as his criticism of the Obama administration has increased. Introduced in that period were his Faith, Hope and Charity initiatives as well as the 9/12 Project. For 10 points, name this conservative commentator that once said that President Obama has a "deep seated hatred of White people," and is the host of an hour long self-titled TV program on Fox News.ANSWER: Glenn Beck.BONUSES1.  Answer some questions about US Vice Presidents, for 10 points each:[10] This man previously served as Secretary of Defence during Operation Desert Storm before becoming the 46th Vice President.ANSWER: Richard Bruce "Dick" Cheney[10] This former VP was the only one to resign due to pending criminal charges that included extortion and tax fraud. He was succeeded by Gerald Ford.ANSWER: Spiro Theodore Agnew[10] This state has been the birthplace of 11 vice presidents, more than double any other. Some of them include George Clinton, Millard Fillmore and Nelson Rockefeller.ANSWER: New York2. This work ends with one character telling another about their dream of owning land, but ends with the larger man being shot in the back of the head. For 10 points each:[10] Name this work that features Curley, George and Lennie.ANSWER: Of Mice and Men[10] Of Mice and Men was written by this American that also wrote The Grapes of Wrath.ANSWER: John Ernst Steinbeck Jr.[10] One of Steinbeck's other works involves Suzy and the Doc, the former trying to be a working girl at The Bear Flag Restaurant. The novel is a sequel to Cannery RowANSWER: Sweet Thursday3. As of July 16, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill seems to be contained. Answer some questions about this disaster for 10 points each:[10] This is the name of the oil rig that exploded in April. It flies under the flag of the Marshall Islands.ANSWER: Deepwater Horizon[10] This two word phrase refers to the failed tactic of filling the leak with mud and other sediment to permanently seal the rig.ANSWER: top kill[10] This retired US Coast Guard admiral is the man in charge of the US government's response to the spill. Previously, he directed the military response to Hurricane Katrina.ANSWER: Thad William Allen4. Answer the following questions about a particular disease, for 10 points each:[10] This disease has two types, the first usually referred to as Juvenile while the second is called Adult On-Set. It relates to the body's inability to control blood sugar.ANSWER: diabetes mellitus[10] Controlling blood sugar is usually performed by this organ that produces insulin. Diabetics are usually resistant to the insulin produced by it.ANSWER: pancreas[10] This blood test can be performed in order to determine what the average blood sugar of a person was over the previous 90 days. A score of 5.0 to 6.0 is normal.ANSWER: haemoglobin A1C5. Answer some questions about companies that do most of their business in Canada, for 10 points each:[10] This eatery was founded in 1968 in Yorkville. On its website, it claims to be the first food service company to offer wraps, which are a bit different than the sandwich style mentioned in its name.ANSWER: Mr. Sub[10] This department store has the Hudson Bay Company as its parent company and is known for their "We've checked the price" stickers comparing prices from other stores such as Walmart.ANSWER: Zellers[10] This company has its name on the building formerly known as SkyDome. The namesake family that used to control the company is one of the richest in Canada.ANSWER: Rogers Communications6. Answer some questions related to electronegativity, for 10 points each:[10] This non-metal has the highest amount of electronegativity with a value of 3.98 on the Pauling scale.ANSWER: Fluorine (or F)[10] In addition to Pauling, this scientist has his own way of determining values of electronegativity involving the first ionization energy and electron affinity. He won a Nobel Prize for his work in molecular orbital theory.ANSWER: Robert Sanderson Mullikan[10] In organic chemistry, this term that is similar to group electronegativity is given to the electronegativity of different functional groups. It is also known as pi electronegativity.ANSWER: substituent electronegativity7. This painting features thirteen men on a sailboat, desperately trying to stay afloat while the waves crash into the sides. For 10 points each:[10] Name this painting that depicts a miracle performed by Jesus calming the titular body of water.ANSWER: The Storm on the Sea of Galilee[10] The Storm on the Sea of Galilee was painted by this Dutch master in 1633. ANSWER: Rembrandt (accept Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn)[10] The painting remains missing after being stolen from the Isabella Stewart Gardner museum in 1990. The museum is located in this US city, also home to the Museum of Bad Art.ANSWER: Boston8. Answer some questions about sporting events that took place in Canada, for the stated number of points:[10] For 10, this Blue Jay hit a walk off homerun in Game 6 of the 1993 World Series to win the series for Toronto. He also played with San Diego earlier in his career.ANSWER: Joe Carter[10] For 10, Lewis Hamilton was the most recent victor of this auto race that did not take place in 2009. It is raced on a course named for Formula 1 great Gilles Villeneuve.ANSWER: Canadian Grand Prix (accept Grand Prix du Canada)[5, 5] For 5 points each, name the two male athletes that helped light the cauldron at the Vancouver Olympics. One was a really good hockey player, the other is the point guard for the Phoenix Suns.ANSWER: Wayne Gretzky and Steve Nash (accept The Great One for Gretzky)9. (Moderator: Please handout the map of Africa)Here is a political map of Africa. Identify the six countries listed by letters for 5 points each. You must answer in the form of letter name followed by country name. You have 15 seconds.ANSWER: 	A: Niger (do not accept Nigeria)		B: Angola		C: Ethiopia		D: Algeria		E: Madagascar		F: Chad10. You usually don't go to Cracked.com to find information about psychological experiments, but this question writer did. For 10 points each:[10] This 1968 experiment tested the hypothesis that people in groups are less likely to help someone in trouble by having someone feign a seizure as they were talking via radio.ANSWER: Bystander Apathy Experiment[10] This 1970 experiment involved having twelve students control the lives of twelve other students for two weeks. The experiment was halted after six days due to the depravity seen from the authority figures.ANSWER: Stanford Prison Experiment (prompt on partial answer)[10] According to Cracked, the number one psychological experiment that proves that humanity is doomed is this one, which involved increasing the intensity of electrical shocks to a participant that continued to answer questions incorrectly.ANSWER: Milgram Experiment11. Answer the following about high energy physics labs, for 10 points each:[10] The world's only polarized proton collider, the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider, is located at this US national lab located on Long Island. ANSWER: Brookhaven National Laboratory[10] This lab that runs underground in both France and Switzerland is currently trying to find evidence of the existence of the Higgs Boson.ANSWER: CERN (accept European Organization for Nuclear Research or Organisation Européenne pour la Recherche Nucléaire)[10] The lab known as KEK in Japan is undergoing the Belle Experiment, a test to see if this theorized dual symmetry can be broken.ANSWER: CP Symmetry12. Answer the following about news aggregating websites, for 10 points each:[10] This website offers a "Total" version of it for $5 a month and features humourous headlines submitted by users about real news and what the site calls "not news".ANSWER: Fark.com[10] Never changing its appearance of links in three columns in Courier New font, this website is also known for ending each link with an ellipsis and broke the Monica Lewinsky scandal.ANSWER: DrudgeReport.com (prompt on Drudge)[10] It was announced by Reddit recently that they are asking for donations, despite being owned by this publishing giant that also owns Vogue and The New Yorker.ANSWER: Condé Nast Publications13. Answer some questions about highest points in Canadian provinces and territories, for 10 points each:[10] This province's highest point is just 142 meters above sea level, making it the smallest highest point in a province in Canada.ANSWER: Prince Edward Island[10] Baldy Mountain is the highest point in this province. It's not in Saskatchewan, but it is located in Duck Mountain Provincial Park, outside of Dauphin. ANSWER: Manitoba[10] The highest point in Canada is this mountain located in the Yukon Territory. It is named after the founder of the Geological Survey of Canada.ANSWER: Mount Logan14. Lesser known Charles Dickens works, for 10 points each:[10] Dickens considered this novel to be his best work, but it is rarely brought up in discussions about the author. The title character shares a name with his grandfather and becomes engaged with Mary, an orphan.ANSWER: The Life and Adventures of Martin Chuzzlewit[10] This novella with a Christmas theme was published a year after A Christmas Carol. It involves Trotty seeing visions of his friends and family turning out poorly and causes him to believe that people can reform themselves.ANSWER: The Chimes: A Goblin Story of Some Bells that Rang an Old Year Out and a New Year In.[10] This work, like A Tale of Two Cities, is historical fiction going through the events of the Gordon Riots in the 1780's. Grip, a raven, was the inspiration for Poe's The Raven.ANSWER: Barnaby Rudge: A Tale of the Riots of Eighty.15. This figure had a club that could kill nine men with one strike. For 10 points each:[10] Name this figure from Celtic myth that acts like a father figure. He is also associated with a cauldron.ANSWER: The Dagda[10] The Dagda is the father of this Irish goddess of love and wealth. County Limerick in Ireland refers to her as the Queen of the faeries.ANSWER: Áine (on-YA)[10] Another one of The Dagda's daughters, Brigid, is considered to be one of these because she has appears in art as three figures at once. ANSWER: triple goddess16. This equation states that the divergence of the current density is equal to the negative rate change of the charge density. For the stated number of points:[10] For 10 points, name this equation that is used a lot in solid state physics.ANSWER: continuity equation.[5,5] For 5 points each, the continuity equation can be derived from these two of Maxwell's Equations.ANSWERS: Ampere's Law and Gauss's Law[10] For 10, in the derivation the fact that the divergence of a curl of a function is equal to this, is used to simplify the result.ANSWER: 0 or zero17. A recent viral video came out this week featuring a famous singer performing karaoke in a Los Angeles bar. For 10 points each:[10] This pop star dressed up as Karen, a frumpy looking frozen foods businesswoman who went on stage and shocked the crowd by singing her own songs.ANSWER: Jewel (accept Jewel Kilcher)[10] This stunt was performed by this comedy website started by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay and has featured original videos such as "The Landlord".ANSWER: funnyordie.com ("Funny or Die")[10] Jewel released a new album titled this in June 2010. It features tracks like Stay Here Forever and Satisfied.ANSWER: Sweet and Wild18. Answer some questions about sporting events that took place in Canada, for the stated number of points:[10] For 10, this Blue Jay hit a walk off homerun in Game 6 of the 1993 World Series to win the series for Toronto. He also played with San Diego earlier in his career.ANSWER: Joe Carter[10] For 10, Lewis Hamilton was the most recent victor of this auto race that did not take place in 2009. It is raced on a course named for Formula 1 great Gilles Villeneuve.ANSWER: Canadian Grand Prix (accept Grand Prix du Canada)[5, 5] For 5 points each, name the two male athletes that helped light the cauldron at the Vancouver Olympics. One was a really good hockey player, the other is the point guard for the Phoenix Suns.ANSWER: Wayne Gretzky and Steve Nash (accept The Great One for Gretzky)19. Questions about colonization of Canada, for 10 points each:[10] This settlement was the first on Newfoundland. It is located on the Avalon Peninsula and was cited by Sir Walter Raleigh as a great location for fishermen.ANSWER: Ferryland[10] This man formed an alliance with the Algonquins and sailed south where he and his men used firearms on the Iroquois, possibly the first European to do so.ANSWER: Samuel de Champlain[10] Champlain founded this city in 1608, the first in North America designed for permanent settlement rather than as an outpost for commercial activity.ANSWER: Quebec City or Ville de Québec20. Although he was born in Sri Lanka and grew up in England, this author wrote his major works as a Canadian. For 10 points each:[10] Name this author of Coming Through Slaughter and In the Skin of a Lion.ANSWER: Michael Ondaatje[10] Ondaatje's most famous work was adapted into a 1996 major motion picture. It centers on a Hungarian man and the Canadian nurse that treats him in Italy during World War II.ANSWER: The English Patient[10] The English Patient won Ondaatje this literary award given to a citizen of the Commonwealth of Nations, Ireland or Zimbabwe.ANSWER: Man Booker Prize for Fiction21. Things that happened in 1918 for 10 points each:[10] Alvin C. York single-handedly killed at least 10 Germans and captured over 100 more in this event of World War I.ANSWER: Battle of the Argonne Forest (accept Meuse-Argonne Offensive)[10] A civil war involving the Reds and the Whites took place between January and April in this European country. They would later join an alliance with Germany.ANSWER: Finland[10] In this WWI battle led by the Canadians and Australians, the Allies started their Hundred Days Offensive. The Germans called it "the black day of the German Army".ANSWER: Battle of Amiens or Third Battle of Picardy or Troisème Battaille de Picardie22. Answer the following about board games that do not feature dice, for 10 points each:[10] This game uses a spinner which is flicked and could lead the player to one of the squares that allows a shortcut up, or a pitfall down the game board. ANSWER: Snakes and Ladders (accept Chutes and Ladders)[10] While newer versions feature an electronic way to determine how many spaces to move, older versions of this game featured a spinning wheel with the numbers 1 through 10. Landing on 10 can lead to a speeding violation.ANSWER: The Game of Life[10] Proper names were just legalized in this game where players attempt to score bingos and land on the elusive triple word score spaces.ANSWER: Scrabble23. A recent viral video came out this week featuring a famous singer performing karaoke in a Los Angeles bar. For 10 points each:[10] This pop star dressed up as Karen, a frumpy looking frozen foods businesswoman who went on stage and shocked the crowd by singing her own songs.ANSWER: Jewel (accept Jewel Kilcher)[10] This stunt was performed by this comedy website started by Will Ferrell and Adam McKay and has featured original videos such as "The Landlord".ANSWER: funnyordie.com ("Funny or Die")[10] Jewel released a new album titled this in June 2010. It features tracks like Stay Here Forever and Satisfied.ANSWER: Sweet and Wild24. Questions about geography of the Western United States, for 10 points each:[10] This location in California is the lowest point in North America at 86 meters below sea level. It is part of a US National Park.ANSWER: Death Valley[10] This Oregon lake was formed after the collapse of Mount Mazama. It is known for the deep blue color of the its water.ANSWER: Crater Lake[10] This area of small volcanoes in Idaho is named after its titular objects because of the uncanny resemblance to the impact sites on Earth's satellite.ANSWER: Craters of the Moon National MonumentUSE WITH BONUS 9VETO XII: RIT Packet