VETO 2003
Packet by: Fresh Meat a.k.a. The O-Crew (Ross, Hai, Mark, and Ciara)
Toss-ups
1. Dostoyevsky called it, "a perfect work of art". Others have acclaimed it to be the world's greatest novel. The story at times mirrors the relationship of its author with his wife Sonya. The plot centres on the protagonist's decision to abandon her husband and her empty existence to pursue a life of passion with Count Vronsky. That life ultimately ends in tragedy as the protagonist, agonised by social ostracism, throws herself before a train. FTP, what is this work by Leo Tolstoy that is not War and Peace?
    Anna Karenin

2. General admission: $11; Seniors and Children aged 7-12: $6; Children 6 and under get in Free, but that's just the gate admission. This year's event attracted the likes of Sloan, Treble Charger, Chantal Kreviazuk, Colin James and Lisa Brokop. One unscheduled event this year was Ralph Klein receiving a banana cream pie in the face. FTP, what is this annual event in Western Canada featuring bull-riding, chuck wagons, concerts, and plenty of livestock, touted as the "Greatest Outdoor Show on Earth"?
   Calgary Stampede

3. The colonial industries of this country included coffee, cocoa, and the slave trade. Today, subsistence agriculture and fishing dominate, though that could change with the discovery of major oil deposits off its coasts. Located off the coast of Africa, its neighbours include Nigeria, Gabon and Guinea. FTP, what is this country that had its democratically elected government overthrown by a military junta on 16 July 2003, and that is named after its two largest islands? 
		São Tomé and Príncipe (prompt on partial answer)

4. This Canadian poet, oddly enough, was born in England, raised in Scotland, and lived the last years of his life in France. He immigrated to Canada in 1894, and found work with the Bank of Commerce. Later he would work as a correspondent for the Toronto Star. In 1904 his bank job led him Whitehorse, where he would write some of his most famous works. FTP, who was the Canadian poet and novelist who wrote such works as Songs of a Sourdough, The Shooting of Dan McGrew and The Cremation of Sam McGee?
   Robert William Service

5. This man once made money by writing pornographic stories for the magazine, Forum. A professional journalist, by the age of 29 he was editor of a newspaper called Sunday Today. Despite the fact that he is only a press secretary, and much to the chagrin of Labour cabinet members, he is widely believed to be the second most powerful man in the United Kingdom because of his close association with Tony Blair. FTP, who is this man who, according to the BBC, "sexed up" intelligence information about Iraq to hype the war?
   Alastair Campbell

6. The absolute value of the largest of these corresponding to a square matrix represents the spectral radius. Let's say you have a square matrix A. These can be calculated by finding the roots of the polynomial formed by the determinant of the combined matrix formed by the matrix A minus the scalar product of lambda and the identity matrix. Each one corresponds with a vector, and fulfills the equation: the matrix A multiplied with a corresponding vector x, equals lambda times the vector x. 
   Eigenvalues (also accept characteristic values or proper values)
   

7. Honours and Titles for this Canadian include Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres from the French Ministry of Culture (1990), membership in the Order of Canada (1994), and the honour of being an officer of the Ordre National du Québec (1999). This man was born in Québec City on 12 December 1957, the same city in which he would join Théâtre Repère 23 years later. FTP, who is this Canadian actor and director who's numerous credits include the film Jésus de Montréal (1989) and the plays Le Polygraphe (1996), Nô (1998), and Le Confessional (1994)? 
		Robert Lepage

8. For Arsenic: 2.0. For Boron: 2.0. For Polonium: 2.0. For Antimony: 1.9. For Bismuth: 1.9. For Lead: 1.9. For Alkali metals, not including hydrogen, this is greater than 0 and less than or equal to 1. For halogens, this is greater than or equal to 2.2, and at its maximum in Fluorine with a value of 4.0. FTP, what is this measure of an element's ability to attract bond electrons to itself and determinant of bond type, developed by Linus Pauling?
		Electronegativity

9. Unlike some other notable Canadian WWI pilots, this man did not go on to be a bush pilot. Born in Carleton Place, Ontario in 1893, he would go on to take flying lessons at the Wright Brothers' school in Dayton, Ohio before joining the Royal Navy Air Service. During the World War I, after earning his Ace distinction, he instructed other pilots, including his childhood friend Wilfrid "Wop" May. FTP, who was this Canadian pilot with 10 confirmed aerial victories, or 11 if you believe, like the writer of this question, that he was responsible for downing the Red Baron?
   Arthur Roy Brown

10. Let us say that a manufacturer uses two inputs: z1 and z2. A simple example of one of these would be the curve formed by the graph of k= (z1)(z2), where k is a constant level of output. For perfect input substitutes, these are straight and parallel. All the points on one of these curves represent input bundles that will produce the same quantity of output. FTP, what are these curves that are a producer's equivalent to a consumer's indifference curves?
       Isoquants

11. The plot of this film could be summarised as follows: Guy and girl meet and fall in love; Guy takes girl to party, in which girl's socio-economic status is not accepted; Guy asks girl to prom anyways; Guy's friend convinces guy to lose girl; Girl's feelings are hurt; Girl's geeky guy friend beats on guy's friend; Girl and guy get back together at prom. FTP, what is this John Hughes film starring Molly Ringwald as Andie Walsh?
		Pretty in Pink

12. According to the team website, their mascot's reputation is the stuff of legends, known from Pembroke to Perth. According to the writer of this pack, this mascot is a buck-toothed mammal sporting a red jersey, cleats, a maple leaf-emblazoned, wide-brimmed hat, and gripping a football under its left arm. FTP, who is this mascot of the Ottawa Renegades, whose name might be familiar, if one can recall the previous name of Ottawa's CFL franchise?
		Ruffy


13. Aired as a Golden Globe-winning 10-hour mini-series in 1983, this book was written in 1977, and soon became a best-seller. In it, love, disaster and death interweave over three generations of the Cleary family. The main characters, Meggie and Ralph are deep in love, but are kept apart by Ralph's ambition and devotion to the Catholic Church. FTP, what is this most famous work by Colleen McCullough?
		The Thorn Birds

14. Colonised by the English and Germans, this country was governed under a League of Nations mandate after World War I by Australia. During World War II, Japanese attempts conquer the island containing this country's largest region failed, and after the war, the country was ruled under a UN mandate until 1975 when it gained its independence. Bounded by the Bismarck Sea and the Solomon Sea, FTP, what is this country that shares half of the second largest island in the world with Indonesia's Irian Jaya region?
		Papua New Guinea

15. This religious sect ministers to over 3 million people in 3677 congregations across Canada. Central to their religious values is The New Creed, which was adopted at the 23rd General Council held in 1968. Founded in 1925, FTP, what is this Christian denomination formed by the merger of the Methodist Church of Canada, the Congregational Union of Canada, the General Council of Union Churches, and most of the Presbyterian Church of Canada?
		United Church of Canada

16. Members of this phylum undergo a process known as ecdysis at specific intervals. Distinguishing characteristics include bilateral symmetry, exoskeletons composed of chitin, segmented appendages, open circulatory systems, compound eyes, and segmented bodies. FTP, what is this phylum of kingdom Animalia that contains the classes Malacostraca, Arachnida, and Insecta, among others. 
       Arthropoda

17. Chapter 16: Generosity and parsimony. Chapter 23: How flatterers must be shunned. Chapter 12: Military organisation and mercenary troops. Chapter 8: Those who come to power by crime. Chapter 17: Cruelty and compassion; and whether it is better to be loved than feared, or the reverse. These are all chapters from, FTP, what most famous work by Niccolò Machiavelli?
    The Prince

18. The cause of this man's death is debatable, though it is suspected that either one of his political enemies, or his adoptive father had him killed. Born in 15 BC, he rose through the political ranks quickly and demonstrated his military prowess on campaign by, defeating the chieftain of the Cherusci, Arminius. Prior to this, he was being groomed for imperial succession by his marriage to Augustus' grand-daughter. FTP, who was this Roman whose children included Agrippina the younger and Caligula?
       Germanicus Julius Caesar


19. The content of this work could be considered an act of self-congratulatory intellectual arrogance. Just listen to chapter titles like, "Why I am So Wise", "Why I am So Clever", and "Why I Write Such Excellent Books". In this work, the author aims to trace his development as a tragic philosopher. FTP, what is this Friedrich Nietzsche work that was written in 1888 just before he went mad?
       Ecce Homo (Also accept How One Becomes what One is)

20. When this man heard that the senate had rejected Martin Van Buren as Minister to England, he exclaimed, "By the Eternal! I'll smash them!" During the War of 1812, this man served as a major general, and was distinguished for defeating the British at the Battle of New Orleans. As president he served two terms. Among his political enemies could be counted Henry Clay, Daniel Webster and the Second Bank of the United States. FTP, who was this prominent early democrat who was often known as "Old Hickory"?
		Andrew Jackson

21. This man was born in Little Rock, Arkansas, and is a Rhodes Scholar; but he's not Bill Clinton. He graduated from West Point in 1966 at the top of his class. Later in his military career, he was Commander-in-Chief of the United States Southern Command based in Panama, before becoming NATO's Supreme Allied Commander in Europe from 1997 to 2000. FTP, who is this retired general who featured heavily on CNN's Iraq War coverage as a military consultant, and is being groomed by some democrats to enter their primaries for the 2004 presidential election?
       Wesley Clark

22. While in prison, this man began writing a history of the world. He was much more famous for his naval career though. Arrested and imprisoned on three separate occasions, the last in 1618 for treason, he was escorted to the gallows by his cousin Sir Lewis Stucley during the reign of James I. FTP, who was this buccaneer who shares his name with a prominent city in North Carolina?
       Sir Walter Raleigh

23. This artist was born in 1801 in Lancashire, England, and initially trained as an engraver of wood blocks. His numerous works include Mount Aetna from Taormina; Schroon Mountain, Adirondacks; a series of paintings entitled The Voyage of Life, and another series entitled The Course of Empire. FTP, who was this landscape artist of the Hudson River School?
       Thomas Cole

24. Take cut blocks, and array them in a closed spiral so that one eventually completes a dome. Fill in any holes with filler. Add an entrance using more cut blocks. May I suggest a barrel vault design? To reduce the draft, fashion animal hides into curtains and use them to block off the entrance once you're inside. FTP, this is a whimsical attempt at explaining how to build what kind of snow shelter common among the Inuit people?
       Igloo


Bonus Questions
1. Identify the Hindu deities or incarnations from clues FTPE.
a. A temple to this god or incarnation to be build at Ayodhya will be built on the site of a demolished 16th century mosque. The decision to go ahead with construction sparked religious riots.
Ram
b. This god does not have many temples in his/its honour because of "mythological" reasons. Nevertheless, this god is at the head of the Hindu pantheon.
Brahma
c. This son of Shiva was probably not displeased at Apu's arranged marriage, despite Homer's attempt to halt the ceremony.
Ganesha

2. A New Hope... It's the title of a Star Wars movie, but it may apply in reality to the situation in Argentina. Identify these terms and people from the recent presidential elections in Argentina FTPE.
a. This former president boasted that he would win the presidency in the first round. He did finish first among the candidates but lacked an absolute majority, so he withdrew his candidacy for the second round to deny the runner-up a popular mandate. 
Carlos Menem
b. This man was governor of Patagonia prior to winning the election by default after Menem's withdrawal.
Néstor Kirchner
c. Both Menem and Kirchner are part of this political movement, which is named after its founder.
Peronists

3. Visual Bonus: Look at these pictures of noteworthy Canadian women. You will receive 10 points if you identify them from their photos without any additional information. You will receive 5 points if you answer correctly after receiving and additional clue.
10: Figure 1
       5: She is presently Governor General of Canada.
		Adrienne Clarkson
       10: Figure 2
       5: She is a left-wing political critic, author, and columnist for the National Post.
       	Linda McQuaig
       10: Figure 3
       5: She is an actor on This Hour Has 22 Minutes.
       	Mary Walsh
4. 
Identify these things relating to Affirmative Action in the United States FTSNOP.
a. (5) Recently, the Supreme Court struck down this university's point-based admissions system for undergraduate applicants.
University of Michigan
b. (10) In 1896, the Supreme Court passed this decision which affirmed the constitutionality of segregation until it was overturned in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka in1954.
Plessy v. Fergusson
c. (15) This 1978 Supreme Court decision forced the educational institution involved to admit the other party, but upheld the use of race as a factor in admissions and hiring decisions.
University of California Regents v. Bakke

5. Mithridates VI was possibly the biggest threat to Rome since Hannibal. Identify the Roman generals who fought against Mithridates of Pontus from clues FTPE.
a. After leaving Rome to march against Mithridates, this man was stripped of his command at the behest of Gaius Marius and his tribune lackey Publius Sulpicius Rufus. This prompted him to march on Rome around 87 BC to have his command reinstated.
Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix
b. This Roman waged a successful campaign against Mithridates in the third war, though mutinies among his troops forced him to abandon his offensive into Armenia and ultimate victory over Mithridates.
Lucius Licinius Lucullus
c. This man who would later be a triumvir acquired a new command against Mithridates after Lucullus' failure and dealt the Kingdom of Pontus its final deathblow. 
Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (also accept Pompey and Pompey the Great)

6. Identify the organelles from clues FTPE.
a. This organelle's main purpose is to process proteins by adding sugar molecules to them and forming glycoproteins.
Golgi Apparatus
b. This organelle is a network of interconnected tubules, vesicles, and sacs. Its most famous function would be protein synthesis that takes place on its rough portion.
Endoplasmic Reticulum
c. This organelle is the cell's power source. It is thought to have evolved by joining symbiotically with early cells. 
Mitochondria

7. Long live Flemish art! Identify the Peter Paul Rubens paintings from descriptions FTPE.
a. 5 men are removing a pale cadaver from a wooden post while 3 women are arrayed near the bottom left, one of which is holding the cadaver's feet and its white shroud. In the bottom right can be a found a bloody bowl containing a crown of thorns.
The Descent from the Cross
b. 8 large felines in various states of ferocity and placidness are arrayed close to the namesake person in his underpants praying for deliverance. 
Daniel in the Lion's Den
c. 9 men work hard to raise up a wooden post on which can be found a hapless man and a piece of paper with a description in three languages, the last reading "Jesus Nazarenus Rex".
The Elevation of the Cross


8. Answer these questions about elementary particles FTPE.
a. Particles such as protons, neutrons and pions that are composed of quarks are called what?
Hadrons
b. What is the common name shared by all force carrying particles such as the photon and gluon?
Bosons
c. With a charge of +2/3, what is this lightest, most common (compared to others of the same charge) quark?
Up

9. Who says that Canadian authors cannot achieve fame? Identify the authors that are not Margaret Atwood from a selection of works FTPE.
a. Vimy, 1967: The Last Good Year, The National Dream
Pierre Burton
b. The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz, St. Urbain's Horsemen, Jacob Two-Two Meets the Hooded Fang
Mordecai Richler
c. A Jest of God, The Stone Angel
       Margaret Laurence

10. Name the rivers from clues FTPE.
a. This river is around 575 Km long, and originates in the Pyrenees. It passes through Toulouse, Bordeaux and terminates at the Gironde Estuary.
Garonne River
b. This river is the third longest in Africa at around 4100 Km. Despite its name, its furthest source is actually in Guinea.
Niger River
c. This river flows from the Great Dividing Range 2739 Km before joining the Murray River. Doubtless the river's discoverer had love on the mind when he or she named it.
Darling River

11. Answer these questions about a recent ongoing legal battle over intellectual property rights in the technology and software sector FTPE.
a. What is the company that is suing IBM, and announced the immediate termination of IBM's right to use and distribute its software known as AIX, which IBM duly ignored.
SCO (also accept Santa Cruz Operation)
b. SCO has been attempting to sow FUD over Linux in the business and technology community, but only seems to be pissing people off. What does this acronym FUD mean?
Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt
c. The controversy surrounding this legal battle centres on programming code that, according to SCO, was misappropriated, added to Linux, and found its way into AIX. From which operating system was the offending code supposedly misappropriated or copied verbatim?
Unix System V (5)


12. 30-20-10 Identify the book that this question-writer found depressing in high school from clues.
30: When I say depressing, I mean that there's so much death! Maybe that was just the reality of the prairies. Prominent deaths in this book include the protagonist's dog and his grandmother. 
       20: The plot centres on the life of Brian O'Connal as he grows up in Crocus,
Saskatchewan. The author states that the book is about the "struggle of a boy to... understand the ultimate meaning of the cycle of life".
       10: The book was written in 1947 by William Ormond Mitchell.
		Who Has Seen the Wind

13. Identify these mathematical concepts from multi-variable and vector calculus F15PE.
a. Given a function f of x, y and z, and the standard basis vectors i, j and k, by definition, this is the partial derivative of f with respect to x times i, plus the partial derivative of f with respect to y times j, plus the partial derivative of f with respect to z times k. 
Gradient Vector
b. Given a vector field defined by the vector F, this is the cross product of the gradient with F. One use of this concept is in Stokes' Theorem. 
Curl of F

14. 30-20-10 Identify the social scientist from works.
       30: General Economic History, Roman Agrarian History
20: Economy and Society, The Objectivity of the Sociological and Social-Political Knowledge
       10: The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism
		Max Weber

15. Name the Greek Philosophers from clues FTPE.
a. A student of the Eleatic school, this philosopher put forward a paradox in which in a race between Achilles and a tortoise given a head start, Achilles could never catch up to the tortoise.
Zeno
b. This philosopher from Abdera was known for his atomic theory, which suggested that, among other things, that matter and space are not infinitely divisible.
Democritus
c. Some of the works this philosopher wrote were On the Motion of Animals, Politics, and Nicomachean Ethics. 
Aristotle


16. Despite the efforts of the RIAA, people are still file-swapping. Not even the spyware seems to deter them (maybe because the average person doesn't know about it). Identify these file-sharing programs and networks FTPE.
a. This software is distributed by StreamCast Networks, who have been trying to clean up their network, and make sure that artists receive profits from the distribution of their work.
Musiccity.com Morpheus
b. Distributed by Sharman Networks, this program is the most popular file-sharing utility on the internet.
KaZaA Media Desktop (prompt on KaZaA)
c. This open protocol for file sharing and network is accessible by many file-sharing clients including Phex, Xolox, Bearshare and Qtella.
Gnutella

17. All things considered, Canada has had some pretty interesting prime ministers. Name the previous inhabitants of 24 Sussex Drive FTSNOP.
a. (5) This man served non-consecutively 21 years, 5 months, and 1 day as Prime Minister, which is perhaps appropriate given his name.
William Lyon Mackenzie King
b. (15) Serving about a year and a half as Prime Minister, this man was the first PM born in Canada, and the first Senator to reach the position.
John Joseph Caldwell Abbott
c. (10) A liberal, this man was Prime Minister from late 1948 to mid-1957. He was born in Compton... Quebec, not California.
Louis Stephen Saint-Laurent

18. Shakespeare's plays had some pretty wacky characters. Identify the play from a sampling of characters FTSNOP.
a. (5) Cinna, Cinna, Decimus Brutus, Marcus Brutus
Julius Caesar
b. (10) Malvolio, Sir Toby Belch, Sir Andrew Aguecheek
Twelfth Night
c. (10) Imogen, Philharmonus, Posthumus Leonatus
Cymbeline
d. (5) Dromio, Dromio, Antipholus, Antipholus, Pinch
The Comedy of Errors

19. Identify these people and places from the American Civil War FTPE.
a. This 1863 battle featured heavily at the end of the movie Glory. In it, the 54th Massachusetts failed to take this fort that was the key to the defences of Charleston.
Fort Wagner
b. This Union general launched an offensive across the river Rappahannock at Fredericksburg, but was beaten back easily by Robert E. Lee
Ambrose Everett Burnside
c. From 1862 onwards this man was secretary of war until removed by Andrew Johnson over a spat regarding the reconstruction. His competent administration of the war department was a contributing factor to the Union's ultimate victory.
Edwin M. Stanton


20. Identify these things relating to hypothesis testing FTSNOP.
a. (5) This is the term associated with the base state-of-nature that hold true unless the evidence proves otherwise. It is denoted by an "H" with a subscript of zero. 
Null Hypothesis
b. (15) This is a term referring to a situation in which the variance of the error term is not constant for all values of the independent variable. 
Heteroscedasticity
c. (10) This value is 1 minus the probability of accepting a null hypothesis that is false. It is also a special early-buzz scoring rule used in NAQT. 
Power (do not accept beta or neg)

21. Name the composers from the baroque and romantic music on my MP3 playlist FTPE.
a. Brandenburg Concerto #3 (all three movements)
Johann Sebastian Bach (prompt on Bach)
b. The Hall of the Mountain King (from Peer Gynt)
Edvard Grieg
c. El Salón México, Emperata Overture, Fanfare for the Common Man
Aaron Copland

22. Bashing neighbouring regions is as old as time for Canada's city dwellers, even though often the jokes are unjustified. Name these sometimes derided parts of major Canadian metropolitan areas FTPE.
a. Located within walking distance of the downtown core of Montreal, this borough was often derided by Francophones after the last sovereignty referendum as a bastion of unpatriotic Anglophones.
Westmount
b. With a population of 367,000, this city is one of the fastest growing cities in Canada. Located to the southeast of Vancouver, this city is often the butt of crude jokes from inhabitants of other cities in the lower mainland of British Colombia.
Surrey
c. Bounded in the North by Steeles Avenue, in the West by highway 427, and the rest of Etobicoke (pronounced eh-toe-bi-co) to the south, this two ward section of Toronto has from time to time been mocked by its southern neighbours as a place one could get shot, or have their car stolen.
Rexdale

