Tossups1. This natural wonder of the world was originally called Uluru (OO-loo-roo) by the native indigenous people. The first European sighting was in 1873 and it was named after the European premier of the region at that time. It is in the homeland of the Pitjanjatara (pit-YON-ya-ta-ra) and Anangu (ah-NAN-goo) peoples, and is the location of many sacred sites made inaccessible to the public. Its makeup is primarily arkosic sandstone. For 10 points, name this site, a large rock in the middle of Australia.(Answer: Ayers Rock)2. As part of a 1942 prisoner exchange program between Japan and the United States, her family was allowed to come to Ottawa, even in lieu of a 1923 law that barred Chinese resettlement in Canada. Her influence in the Canadian arts is deeper than what is commonly known, as she has contributed to major Canadian newspapers and magazines, and is the author of three books. Appointed to the Order of Canada in 1992, FTP, name this current Canadian Governor General, the second female ever appointed.(Answer: Adrienne Clarkson)3. It, chlorine gas and an unsaturated, unsubstituted alkane are needed for chlorinating an alkane to form an alkyl halide. If projected in a correct manner, it can be used to determine whether a purified sample of optically active chemical is in total racemic (ra-SEE-mic) or directionally rotatory. In a Balmer series, ones at specific energy are calculated as the absorption spectra for a hydrogen atom. FTP, name this form of energy that has a constant speed of approximately three hundred thousand kilometers per second.(Answer: light, accept photons)4. He once said, "The excellence of a painting lies in its being like, yet unlike. Too much likeness flatters the vulgar taste; too much unlikeness deceives the world." The son of a peasant, he went to study painting at the age of twenty-six and joined many poetry societies, culminating in Jieshanyinguan Shicao (JEH-shawn-ying-wan SH-cow) and Baishi Shicao (bai-SH SH-cow), his own anthologies. However, it was his painting for which he became best known. FTP, name this Chinese landscape artist, the first to have the title of People's Artist conferred on him by the Chinese Red Army. (Answer: Qi Baishi (chi BYE-sh))5. Situated in the Hastinaputra (hast-in-A-poot-ra) kingdom, it details the occurrence of a civil war in India. Originally written somewhere between 600 and 200 BC, its sheer size is about six to eight times that of Homer's Iliad and Odyssey. Detailing the victory of the peace-loving Pandava (PAN-da-va) family over the their evil cousins, the Kauravas (CO-ra-vas), it also holds the epic Bhagavad-Gita as a sub-story within itself. FTP, name this Hindu epic poem, written at the same time as the Ramayana.(Answer: Mahabharata (MA-ha-BA-ra-ta))6. Beginning her career in drama and dance, she once lived in Africa and was the editor of the only African English weekly newspaper at the time. That experience influenced her writing greatly, as she appreciated being African American in a new light; "I am human, and nothing human can be alien to me" she once wrote. Winner of an Emmy for her scriptwriting for Georgia, she won another for her acting in Roots. FTP, name this African-American writer, perhaps best known for her autobiographical I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.(Answer: Maya Angelou, accept Marguerite Johnson)7. His name is derived from his culture's word that had a threefold meaning for justice, war, and world column, which symbolizes the separation of heaven and earth. His name was invoked for victory during battle, and it may have been that Odin's Gungnir (GUNG-near) originally belonged to him, as the spear was also his weapon. Possessing only one hand, he was also regarded by the Norse as a protector of all sanctuaries and temples. FTP, name this Norse god of justice and war, whose name is exactly the same as a famed Phonecian city, minus the e.(Answer: Tyr) 8. Today, it is predominantly Sunni Muslim, but before, its people, the Noxche (gnaws-CHAY) played home to a safe haven for any persecuted group of religion. Boundaries of its land were not defined until the 19th century, but Noxche clans controlled the plains near the Terek and Sunja (soon-yah) rivers. They were incorporated into a larger nation in 1862 but in the 1990's, new conflict erupted over their separation after the breakup of the Soviet Union. FTP, name this republic in central Asia that is at war with Russia once again, whose capital is Grozny. (grow-SH-knee)(Answer: Chechnya) 9. It is considered one of its author's theatrical masterpieces, but its original title in French was not as catchy as the one ascribed to it nowadays. The only characters being a tyrant, a slave, and the tyrant's parents, it is one act long, some of it being the tyrant trying to tell his father a story with a sugarplum as a reward and finally freeing the slave with the play ending with the tyrant having a handkerchief on his face. Also, it details the plight of his parents, who are forced to live in garbage cans. FTP, identify this Beckett play centering on Hamm and Nagg, the original title Fin de Jeu.(Answer: Endgame)10. Nine Canadian men and nine Canadian women were invited in 1997 to submit proposals for this foundation's project. Inspired after the example shown by Emily Murphy and her acquaintances, the contest asked the competitors to design a monument in memory of the Canadian Persons case. Finally, Barbara Patterson of Edmonton won the right to sculpt the scene, her vision having Nellie McClung display a newspaper declaring women as persons. FTP, name this foundation, honoring a group of Canadian women demanding the right to vote.(Answer: Famous Five Foundation)11. Originally aspiring for an academic career in drama, he entertained young people in his writings and television, writing 150 television shows for a series called Basi (BA-see) and Company. During the Biafran war, he was the administrator of an oil depot. Later dismissed, he turned to political activism and serious writing, his first novel Sozaboy written in Pidgin, a Nigerian dialect based after the English language. FTP, name this Nigerian-born writer of Lemona's Tale, hanged along with eight Ogoni activists by the Nigerian government in 1995.(Answer: Kenule Benson Tsaro-Wiwa, accept Ken Saro-Wiwa (SAIR-o-WE-wa)12. This metal is used in a Sandmeyer reaction that converts an arenediazonium (a-REAN-die-a-ZONE-ium) salt to a nitrile. Possessing a melting point of 1,356 degrees Kelvin, it forms a face-centered cubic crystalline structure and in humans is needed in a daily dosage of about ten milligrams. Among the oldest known metals that man has used, it was used as the base material for one of the Dead Scrolls found in Israel. FTP, name this metal with atomic number 29 and atomic symbol Cu.(Answer: copper, accept cuprum)13. Whilst studying architectural history in college, she moonlighted as a fashion model, marrying in her sophomore year and going on to receive her business degree. Of Polish descent, she developed a catering business once out of school and became known for her originality, from which she started her own company, employing her talents as a stockbroker, which she also was at one time. FTP, name this American idol of home innovation, who is currently being investigated for an insider information scandal involving ImClone, which is 'not a good thing'.(Answer: Martha Stewart)14. It was in the 1960's that Eugene Vigil first did studies on its development during cell maturation and seed germination, and studies have indicated a great similarity in its membrane with that of the endoplasmic reticulum. Existent in plants but not animals, it helps to convert fat molecules into usable energy forms, using beta oxidation to convert them into molecules needed for the citric acid cycle. FTP, name this cell organelle, a microbody whose name is synonymous with a chemical it solely produces in a series of reactions bearing resemblance to the TCA cycle.(Answer: glyoxysome)15. The earth's greatest area of exposed Archean-age rock, much of the metamorphic rock that makes up its composition is primarily from the pre-Cambrian era. An area of low relief, it is believed mountain ranges such as the Torngat were by-products of its erosion during the Cenozoic era, and that continental ice sheets during the Pleistocene epoch carved thousands of lake bodies into the plateau. It is also the first area of North America to be permanently elevated above sea level. FTP, name this U-shaped region of North America, also known as the Laurentian Plateau.(Answer: Canadian Shield, accept Laurentian Plateau up until the end)16. Some of its immediate causes include use of low quality construction as well as minimal training for operatives being lowered from 6 months to 15 days, as well as the safety siren turned off. The compensation paid out in the end cost the perpetrating company only 48 cents a share in total, even though that night, over 500.000 people were exposed to methyl isocyanate, hydrogen cyanide and other toxic chemicals. FTP, name this 1984 chemical disaster in India, named after the city where Union Carbide set up a chemical plant that leaked gases to the community.(Answer: Bhopal chemical disaster)17. His collaborations with other singers span music's many facets, from Tracy Chapman to David Crosby to Buffy St. Marie. Handling most of his own production duties, he has been well-known in his industry for his unpredictable behavior, which many say borders on schizophrenic. Many tragedies have occurred in his life, including a failed first marriage, his son Zeke born with cerebral palsy, and his own childhood battle with polio. FTP, name this Canadian-born singer, most famous for completing the quartet also composed of Crosby, Stills and Nash.(Answer: Neil Young)18. One of the more notable accomplishments of this culture are the colossal heads sculpted from basalt situated near the sea, sixty miles from the mountains that must have been mined for their formation. Name derived from an ancient word meaning "Rubber Country", their culture existed in the tropical areas near the Gulf of Mexico, and jade serpentine figures are among their signature pieces. FTP, name this ancient American civilization whose giant heads at San Lorenzo are the major signal they existed.(Answer: Olmecs)19. Invented in 1958, it attained great popularity in the 1960's, as economists like Paul Samuelson and Robert Solow determined them for various countries. However, at the peak of its popularity, it was challenged by Edmund Phelps via the argument that a rational worker would look only at real wages instead of the inflation rate in many cases, thus real wages would determine the labor demand and supply equilibrium. FTP, name this curve that incorrectly showed that the inflation rate and unemployment were inversely related.(Answer: Phillips curve)20. Some 19th and 20th century critics complained about its structure, including a middle filled with abrupt movement between the two main backdrops and a fourth act having 15 scenes altogether. The author's main information came from a book translated to English by Sir Thomas North in 1579, from which the plot remained quite true to except for characters such as Enobarbus (E-no-barb-US), thought to be the author's creation. FTP, name this tragedy by Shakespeare that takes place after the death of Julius Caesar, charting the romance between a Roman general and Egyptian queen.(Answer: Antony and Cleopatra)Extra Tossups21. An expansion of it can be used to state that the electric flux through a closed surface that surrounds no charge is zero. In many cases, it can be used to calculate the electric flux through any surface, the area integral of an electric field of a closed surface, or the magnitude of charge situated inside a closed surface. FTP, name this scientific law that states that the total of the electric flux out of a closed space is equal to the charge enclosed divided by the permettivity of free space.(Answer: Gauss's Law of Electrostatics)22. In its creator's words, "in its simple but rich spatial composition, its expression of enclosure, and the way light gives character to daily-life spaces, this house encapsulates an image of my architecture." Centered within a dense core of urban houses in Osaka, it is a narrow rectangular residence that has spaces flanking an interior courtyard. Created in 1976, it is an attempt to capture traditional Japanese elegance in a modern setting. FTP, name this house created by Tadao Ando, one of the original pieces of Asian neo-modern architecture.(Answer: Azuma House)23. Elected in 1970 to the College de France, he challenged certain social assumptions about issues such as prisons, the mentally ill, and welfare. Having a philosophy that developed through three stages, the books he wrote at the last stage proposed that Western society held "bio-power", a new system of control that traditional authority is unable to understand. His Madness and Civilization traced how madness became perceived as a mental illness. FTP, name this French social scientist, author of The Order of Things, considered to be a founder of queer literary theory.(Answer: Michel Foucault) 24. It is played on a board with 225 squares, though the total space used up by playing pieces is always less than half that area. Its precursor was called Lexico, and was invented by Alfred Butts, who tried to create a game half-based on luck, half-based on skill. The board gave it the air of a crossword puzzle, and was invented seven years after Lexico's conception. FTP, name this board game based on making words with a set of given letters, played in 121 countries nowadays, this version different from the others because the starting word has to be in the board's center.(Answer: Scrabble)
Bonuses1. F15PE, identify the member of the Seven Against Thebes described.(15) He was the husband of Evadne (uh-VAD-knee), the daughter of the Iphis (IF-is), the third king of Argos. It is said that Zeus kills him with a thunderbolt as he climbs the gate and Evadne burns to death along with him.(Answer: Capaneus (ca-PA-nay-us))(15) The symbol on his shield was a sphinx eating a Theban, and some argue that he was the son of Atalanta whilst others argue Talaus and Lysimache were his parents.(Answer: Parthenopaeus (par-THEN-o-PAY-us))2. Answer the following questions about the poems of Thomas Gray FTPE.(10) The death of which of Gray's friends from tuberculosis inspired a sonnet by Gray which is commonly considered to be among his best works?(Answer: Richard West)(10) Which poetic hymn did he compose in the summer of 1742, one considered to be among the first of his important works?(Answer: Hymn to Adversity)(10) What poem of Gray's, the most well-known of the period where his poetry matched closest to that of society's demands, ends with the lines "Not all that tempts your wand'ring eyes/And heedless hearts is lawful prize/Nor all, that glisters, gold."(Answer: Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes (acceptable paraphrases allowed) )3. Answer the following questions about the Canadian city of Ottawa FTPE.(10) Which Native American people initially populated the lands occupied today by Ottawa, as recorded by European explorers?(Answer: Iroquois)(10) What city lies across the Rideau Canal from Ottawa?(Answer: Hull)(10) What building, completed in 1988, had a design resulting from a partnership between architectural firms Moshe Safdie and Parkin Partnership?(Answer: National Gallery of Canada) (prompt on "National Gallery")4. Answer the following questions about human skeletal and muscle systems FTPE.(10) In bone matrix, hydroxyapatite (hi-DROCKS-e-ah-PA-tight) is a crystalline material made up of FFPE, which two ions?(Answer: calcium and phosphate (accept Ca2+ and PO4 3-)(10) What type of system, as described by the distribution of nutrients through compact bones, is formed from several sets of concentric lamellae rings running parallel to the compact bone's long axis?(Answer: Haversian system)(10) Actin filaments, which compose the thin skeletal muscle fibers, have a long molecule of what protein wrapped them to block access to a calcium binding site on the actin filament?(Answer: tropomyosin (TRO-po-MY-o-sin)5. Answer the following concerning a tennis player for the points listed.(5) Who was this year's recent winner of the Wimbledon women's tournament, as well as the French Open?(Answer: Serena Williams, prompt on Williams)(10) Serena Williams is the latest player to win both Wimbledon and the French Open in the same year; which woman has accomplished the feat the most times?(Answer: Steffi Graf)(15) The Wimbledon final was the fourth Grand Slam final to be played between sisters; in which year did the first occur, when Maud Watson beat her sister Lilian in a three-set showdown at the All-England Court?(Answer: 1884)6. FTPE, given a small description, identify the recently-invented fast food product.(10) This drink, invented by Sonic Drive-In, won Restaurant Business's beverage of the year award, the first time a fast-food chain has ever won.(Answer: Banana Cream Pie Milkshake)(10) This Carl's Jr. product released in the summer of 2001 usually retails for $3.95 US, a surprise given its name.(Answer: Six Dollar Burger)(10) This product of Taco Bell's went public June 18, 2002, and is credited with being the chain's first "meal in a bowl".(Answer: Zesty Chicken Border Bowl)7. Identify the art movement from a brief description FTPE.(10) Characterized by the term "wild beasts", this early 20th century movement was essentially expressionist, as was characterized by bold distortion of forms and exuberant color.(Answer: fauvism)(10) A French style developed during the reign of Louis XV, it mainly consists of asymmetrical arrangements of curves in paneling, porcelain, gold, and silver objects.(Answer: rococo)(10) Exemplified by the mobiles of Alexander Calder, it is a form of sculpture using modern industrial materials to express the technological style of the 20th century.(Answer: constructivism)8. Answer the following questions about a poem and writer for the points listed.(5) Identify this Canadian author, writer of Alias Grace and more recently The Blind Assassin.(Answer: Margaret Atwood)(10) Identify this longer poem by Atwood, modeled after 1852 sketches of immigrant life entitled Roughing it in the Bush, or, Forest Life in Canada.(Answer: The Journals of Susanna Moodie)(15) Identify the first sub-poem in The Journals of Susanna Moodie, containing the poignant passage "... the moving water will not show me my reflection ..."(Answer: Disembarking at Quebec)9. FTPE, identify any three of China's Gang of Four which dominated Chinese politics in the 1970's. Both first and last name must be given to obtain ten points.(Answer: any 3 of Jiang Qing (GEE-ah-ng ching), Zhang Chunqiao (JONG chun-kee-OW), Yao Wenyuan (YOW wen-YOU-ahn, Wang Hongwen (WONG hong-when))10. FTPE, identify the following chemical rules from a description given.(10) The vapor pressure of a given solvent is equal to the mole fraction of the solvent in solution multiplied by the vapor pressure of the pure solvent.(Answer: Raoult's law)(10) For any organic molecule to be considered aromatic, it must be cyclic, possessing a p orbital on each carbon, and have 4n + 2 pi electrons, n being any integer.(Answer: Huckel's rule)(10) The mass of an element liberated at an electrode is proportional to the equivalent weight of the element.(Answer: Faraday's Second Law of Electrolysis, prompt on any answer close to that but lacking any of the three underlined words)11. FFPE, identify six of the seven countries one would cross if they headed southwest from Riga to Rome, Latvia and Italy not included.(Answer: Lithuania, Russia, Poland, Czech Republic, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia)12. Answer the following questions about Canadian environmental activist Grey Owl FTPE.(10) What was the original name of Grey Owl?(Answer: Archie Belaney)(10) Name the first book published by Belaney under the name Grey Owl, a description of the Great North that lives on today as an image for an ideal ecosystem without human interference.(Answer: Men of the Last Frontier)(10) Name the book by Grey Owl that is based on his early days in Temagami, detailing how two native children cared for two pet beavers.(Answer: Sajo and her Beaver People)13. FTPE, given a song clip from a video game, identify the game. If one cannot do it at that point, a small description of the game will then be given but a correct answer will then be worth five points.(10) (5) This game is commonly featured in arcades, and involves people moving their feet in sync with arrows on a screen while music is playing in the background.(Answer: Dance Dance Revolution, Max2 version; accept DDR)(10) (5) In this game, a Blitzball player, Tidus, is sent off to another world to help a girl named Yuna defeat a beast named Sin, who oddly enough turns out to be his father.(Answer: Final Fantasy 10)(10) (5) This smash hit by Maxis follows in the trend of their previous simulators, but in this one you raise families in a neighborhood instead of cities, farms, planets, etc.(Answer: The Sims)14. (30-20-10) Identify the famous Canadian duo from the clues given.(30) Before working together, she partnered Jason Turner and at one point decided to perform solo, and his previous partner was Caroline Roy.(20) Together, in their second year of competition, they placed fourth at their sports' world championships, but were disappointed with the outcome because many agreed they had a chance at the gold medal.(10) At the 2002 Olympics, they skated to the theme of the movie Love Story, initially winning a silver medal which was upgraded to gold after a controversy erupted.(Answer: Jamie Sale and David Pelletier)15. Answer the following questions about psychological theories FTPE.(10) Which psychologist was the first to apply factor analysis to intelligence tests, eventually developing a two-factor theory, the factors being general intelligence and specific abilities unique to certain tests?(Answer: Charles Spearman)(10) Jean Piaget's (pee-AH-jay) social development theory included what state of moral judgment that children develop before the age of 9 and 10, what he described as one "of duty pure and simple"?(Answer: morality of constraint)(10) FFPE, identify two of the three stages of moral development in Kohlberg's theory of social development.(Answer: preconventional, conventional, postconventional)16. (30-20-10) Identify the virus being described.(30) It attaches neuraminidase (NEU-ra-min-ee-dais), a glycoprotein, to cleave sialic (psi-AL-ic) acid residues cells it has already infected, ensuring its viral progeny do not infect that cell again.(20) An orthomyxovirus (OR-tho-mix-O-virus), it has a negative strand RNA genome in each progeny, and is commonly transmitted via the respiratory route.(10) A pandemic of this virus occurred in 1918, killing up to 20 million around the world.(Answer: influenza)17. Answer the following questions about Japan's ancient Yayoi (YEAH-y-OY) culture FTPE.(10) What culture did it supplant beginning in fourth century BC?(Answer: Jomon (JOE-maw-n)(10) Much controversy has erupted over the bronze dotaku (doe-TAW-coo) type of what ritual instrument, which many agree were formed in the late Yayoi period?(Answer: bell)(10) The Yayoi formed into many clan-cultures and were constantly at war with one another until which clan gained dominance in fifth century AD?(Answer: Yamato)18. Identify the following poetic styles F15PE.	(15) Composed of eight lines, it requires that the first line be used three times in the whole poem, the second line being repeated once, and was a popular form in the French Middle Ages for their poetry contests.(Answer: triolet)(15) A 39-line form, it is broken into six sestets and a final three-line envoi to conclude the poem, with the words that end each line in each sestet repeating themselves in different patterns through the passage of the poem. Often unrhymed, it was also used during the French Middle Ages as an intellectual exercise.(Answer: sestina)19. F15PE, identify the card game listed from a brief description.(15) Played with a pack of sixty-four cards, or two decks with no jokers and all numbers below seven removed, it is a game between two-players with the intention to score on declarations and to win tricks containing tens and aces, called brusques.(Answer: Bezique)(15) Played with eight decks, each without eights, nine and tens, it results in the dealer giving each player ten cards in rounds of five at a time, with the remaining cards forming the stock, which is cut into two portions; the head which is used in play, and the foot which is set aside if the head is exhausted.(Answer: Panguingue (PAN-gwain-gue), accept pan)20. Answer the following questions about the Aum Shinrikyo doomsday cult FTPE.(10) What gas, estimated to be about 500 times more toxic than cyanide, was released during their 1995 terrorist attack on Tokyo subways?(Answer: sarin, prompt on nerve gas)(10) 'shinrikyo' translates to what in English?(Answer: supreme truth)(10) Aum Shinrikyo, under the guidance of Fumihiro Joyu, changed their name to what in 2000?(Answer: Aleph cult)Extra Bonuses21. FFPE, put these five works of art in chronological order, starting with the earliest. A five point bonus will be issued if all the items are put in the right order.David with the Head of Goliath, Dying Niobid, Judith Beheading Holofernes, Rakshi's Castle, Tiburtine Sybil(Answer: Dying Niobid (5th C BC), Tiburtine Sybil (circa early 13th C AD), Judith Beheading Holofernes (1598), David with the Head of Goliath (1625), Rakshi's Castle (2001)22. Answer the following questions about David Hume FTPE.(10) In his letters, he described before that as a young student, he often followed what religious set of moral guidelines that were a popular Calvinist doctrine?(Answer: The Whole Duty of Man)(10) Which major philosophical work did he complete in 1740, a three-volume work examining time, causality, external objects, the passions, free will, and morality?(Answer: Treatise on Human Nature)(10) Published posthumously, what short autobiography did he complete, which many call the best short autobiography in English?(Answer: My Own Life)