VETO 2008 Packet
Questions by Lepers of Jihad (Adam Bishop, Jason Dickson, Chris Lionel, and Eric Smith)

TOSSUPS

1. This effect is described by the London equations, and the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory explains its microscopic properties. It was discovered by its namesake and Robert Ochsenfeld in 1933 by cooling tin and lead near a magnetic field. The metals then lost internal flux and became diamagnetic. For ten points, name this effect, by which a magnetic field is negated in a superconductor.
Answer: MEISSNER effect

2. According to this act, applicants had to live on the land and improve it for five years, or they could purchase the land for $1.25 per acre after six months.  The first applicant was Daniel Freeman, who claimed a piece of land in Nebraska.  Eventually replaced by the Federal Land Policy and Management Act in 1976, it amended the Preemption Act of 1841 by requiring an application to a land office, rather than allowing land to be claimed by squatting. For ten points, name this American act passed in 1862 that granted applicants 160 acres of land.
Answer: HOMESTEAD ACT

3. According to Rainer Maria Rilke, Cezanne's favorite poem from this collection is one where the author compares his lover to a rotting carcass and implores her to talk to some worms. Another poem in it contains the refrain "Là, tout n'est qu'ordre et beauté/Luxe, calme, et volupté" though it's not as famous as one where the poet invokes his "Sick Muse." Besides "Une Charogne" and "L'Invitation au voyage" the collection contains two poems with avian subjects, one where the poet is compared to an albatross and another where he thinks of "old Paris" and a swan. For ten points, name this 1857 collection that juxtaposes "Spleen" and "Ideal," by Charles Baudelaire.
Answer: Les FLEURS DU MAL or The FLOWERS OF EVIL

4. The Puuc hills in the west are its only mountainous area.  The Spanish supposedly mistook the natives' reply "we don't understand" to be its name, although it may really mean "place of richness."  The states of Quintana Roo and Campeche are also located within it, as are its namesake state, with its capital at Merida. In its northwest is the Chicxulub crater, which may be related to the Cretacious-Tertiary extinction event, and it is also the location of numerous Mayan archaeological sites, including Chichen Itza and Uxmal. For ten points, name this Mexican peninsula that also contains the tourist resort of Cancun.
Answer: YUCATAN

5. It is treated with metronidazole and vancomycin, although it is resistant to other antibiotics. It is asymptomatic for most people, but it becomes active when antibiotics destroy the rest of the intestinal flora. Commonly found in nursing home and long-term hospital patients, there have been recent outbreaks in Britain, Quebec, and southern Ontario.  For ten points, name this bacterium that causes diarrhea and colitis, whose name refers to the trouble researchers had in isolating it in cultures. 
Answer: Clostridium DIFFICILE

6. It laid out a compromise all the premiers could agree with, except Rene Levesque, who felt Quebec had been "stabbed in the back" by it, leading separatists to refer to the night it was written, November 4, 1981, as the "Night of the Long Knives."  Its name refers to the meeting between Ontario attorney general Roy McMurtry, Saskatchewan attorney general Roy Romanow, and federal justice minister Jean Chretien, which took place in a pantry in the Chateau Laurier.  For ten points, name this agreement, which added the Notwithstanding clause to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Answer: KITCHEN ACCORD

7. In Candide, Pococurante remarks that the union of sin and death in this man's work is enough to cause any sensible reader to vomit. Keats wrote an ode "On Seeing a Lock" of this man's hair and Byron deems him "a little heavy but no less divine," "temperate in love and wine" in Don Juan. Wordsworth writes that his "soul was like a Star" while an epigram by Dryden sees him as "joining" Virgil and Homer. The subject of an epic by Blake and a poem by Marvell that beholds him "blind, yet bold," for ten points, name this English poet of Paradise Lost. 
Answer: John MILTON

8. In 1988 he became Secretary-General of the Congress of Trade Unions. His influence grew so much that in 1997 government agents attempted to throw him out of his tenth-storey office window.  Due to violence during the 2008 run-off election, he withdrew from the race and sought refuge in the Dutch embassy on June 22. For ten points, name this leader of the Movement for Democratic Change in Zimbabwe. 
Answer: Morgan TSVANGIRAI (chang-a-rye)

9. It is used in medicine to trigger apoptosis in cancer cells. It is crystalline, colourless, and odourless, and has an IUPAC designation of 8-methyl-N-vanillyl-trans-6-nonenamide.  In its pure form it measures 16 million on the Scoville scale.  It is used as the active ingredient in pepper spray and tear gas, as it causes a burning sensation when it comes into contact with the mucous membranes. For ten points, name this molecule which gives chili peppers their hot sensation.
Answer: CAPSAICIN

10. The first Shepherds' Crusade against the Jews was an indirect result of his capture at Damietta.  He built the Sainte-Chappelle as a reliquary to house the Crown of Thorns and other items that he had purchased from the Latin Empire of Constantinople.  His biography was written by Jean de Joinville, who, like many of his other vassals, refused to go on crusade with him a second time, this time against Tunis, where he died in 1270.  For ten points, name this man, the only canonized King of France.
Answer: LOUIS IX or ST. LOUIS

11. Edward Said argued that this man's writing occupies a "critical place in history of the duplicity of language." His short story, "The Lagoon" was analyzed in an essay about his and V.S. Naipaul's "darkness" though he is better known for "Youth" and collaborations with Ford Madox Ford. In one of his novels the title character is shot by Old Viola after defrauding Charles Gould, and in another he portrayed a character willing to be shot by Doramin to acknowledge his responsibility for the death of Dain Waris. For ten points, name this author of Nostromo, who depicted a coward who abandons his ship in Lord Jim, and who also wrote Heart of Darkness.
Answer: Joseph CONRAD

12. In 1862, Charles Blanc lamented that this man's work was all but forgotten, given that his "Corseus Sacrificing Himself to Save Callirhoe" was tucked away in a back corner of the Louvre. He entered the 1752 Grand Prix at the bidding of Boucher and took first prize with "Jereboam Sacrificing to the Idols." Though associated with a particular style, he made departures from it with his portrait of Diderot and The Stolen Kiss. In his most famous painting a dog barks up at a woman who is kicking off her shoe and sporting a frilly pink dress for a hidden lover while her husband pushes her on the title object. For ten points, name this Rococo artist of "The Swing."
Answer: Jean-Honoré FRAGONARD

13. It can refer to as few as two loci or to an entire chromosome, depending on the number of recombinations that have occurred between a given set of genetic loci. Statistical association between SNPs ["snips"] on a single chromatid is used to identify the presence of these blocks in the international HapMap project. For ten points, what is this term that denotes a combination of alleles at multiple loci that are inherited together on the same chromosome?
Answer: HAPLOTYPE (also accept HAPLOGROUP)

14. Louis, the son of Napoleon III, was killed during a reconnaissance mission in this conflict.  It began when Henry Bartle Frere demanded, among other things, that Cetshwayo disband his army and allow European missionaries to return.  When the demands were ignored, Baron Chelmsford invaded across the Tugela River in January, but was defeated at Isandlwana and Rorke's Drift. In June, however, Cetshwayo was deposed and exiled after his defeat at Ulundi.  For ten points name this 1879 war between Britain and a kingdom of southern Africa.
Answer: Anglo-ZULU WAR

15. In a passage parodying Addison, this character declares his willingness to offer "dutiful yeoman services for the fecundation of any female of what grade of life soever" and proposes to establish a "fertilizing farm" called Omphalos. He shows up in green motorgoggles to declare that a male character is "bisexually abnormal" "prematurely bald" and pregnant after seeing that character earlier outside the National Library and warning his companion to "get thee a breechpad." Aside from making a pervaginal examination of Leopold Bloom in "Circe" and saving a man from drowning, he conducts a mock mass to the "scrotumtightening sea" in "Telemachus" and teases Kinch about his mother's death. For ten points, name this roommate of Stephen Dedalus in Ulysses.
Answer: BUCK MULLIGAN

16. In 1802 followers of this movement pillaged the Shi'a city of Karbala. The movement is opposed to bid'a, or innovations, such as visiting shrines and praying to saints. It is related to Salafism, which looks to the early generations of Muslims for examples of correct behaviour.  Its founder wrote the Kitab al-Tawhid, the Book of Monotheism, and thus adherents refer to themselves as muwahhidun, or monotheists. For ten points, name this Islamic movement to which the Ibn Saud dynasty converted and which is now the dominant sect in Saudi Arabia. 
Answer: WAHABBIYYA or WAHHABISM

17. Joey Tribbiani's grandmother was the sixth person to spit on his body, and Carla Tortelli was supposed to name her son after her father's first name and her mother's maiden name, which produced this combination. He is also the source of Milhouse Van Houten's middle name, and Homer Simpson acts like him when thinks he is imitating Donald Trump.  For ten points, name this man, satirized as Benzino Napaloni in The Great Dictator.
Answer: Benito MUSSOLINI

18. Minor works by this man include Christian Zeal and Activity and Hallelujah Junction. He commemorated 150 years of Texan Independence with Tromba Lontana which he followed with a "Fanfare for Great Woods," Short Ride in a Fast Machine. He assembled city sounds, New York Times interviews and missing person reports for a 2003 composition that won the Pulitzer Prize, the 9/11 tribute On the Transmigration of Souls. For ten points, name this composer of Doctor Atomic who depicted a terrorist hijacking in The Death of Klinghoffer and a president's visit to Asia in Nixon in China.
Answer: John ADAMS

19. During World War II the Germans called it the Valley of Death, due to the massive number of u-boats that were sunk there. It is relatively shallow because most of it is on top of the continental shelf.  Called the Cantabrian Sea in Spanish, the Loire and Garonne empty into it, and major cities that lie on its coast are Bilbao and Santander in Spain, and Brest and Bordeaux in France. For ten points, name this bay of the Atlantic, whose English name refers to the Basque population that lived on its shores.
Answer: Bay of BISCAY

20. They were considered to be responsible for stormy winter weather, and one of them married Kymopoleia, a daughter of Poseidon. According to Hesiod, they were "the most terrible" of the children of Uranus, who imprisoned them in Tartarus; in retaliation for this, Cronus' castrated Uranus. Zeus later freed them to help defeat the Titans, which they accomplished by throwing three hundred stones at the same time.  Usually named Gyes, Cottus, and Briareus, for ten points, name these Greek giants, who each had fifty heads and one hundred arms.
Answer: HECATONCHEIRES (accept "hundred-handers" or similar before end)

21. This man received his bachelor's in psychology from McGill University before going on to graduate research at MIT.  He has taught in the field of cognitive sciences at Stanford, MIT, and Harvard.  When asked by Stephen Colbert to explain how the brain works in five words, he answered "brain cells fire in patterns".  For 10 points, identify this Montreal-born author of "The Language Instinct" and "The Stuff of Thought".
Answer: Stephen PINKER

22. There were 5213 cases of this recorded among Union soldiers during the first year of the Civil War. The term was coined by Johannes Hofer in 1688, for a condition suffered by Swiss mercenaries in France and Italy, and British military doctor Robert Hamilton noted that it could be cured by simply talking about the patient's family and hometown. For ten points, name this emotion once considered a disease, which comes from the Greek words for "return home" and "pain". 
Answer: NOSTALGIA

23. A graduate of the U.S. Army War College, he was deputy commanding general of ten brigades during Operation Iraqi Freedom. He had earlier been chief of Land Operations for the United Nations in Croatia in 1994, and served six months in Cyprus in 1986.  In 2006 he became Vice-Chief of the Defense Staff of the Canadian Forces.  For ten points, name this general who replaced Rick Hillier as CDS on July 1.
Answer: Walter NATYNCZYK

24. First run in 1860, its namesake prize was originally worth 50 guineas.  Since 1957 it has been a 1 1/4-mile race for 3-year old thoroughbreds, and in 1990 Izvestia set its record time at 2 minutes and 1 and 4/5 seconds.  In 2008 it was won by Not Bourbon.  Followed by the Prince of Wales Stakes and the Breeder's Stakes, for ten points, name this horse race, held every June at Woodbine Racetrack in Toronto. 
Answer: QUEEN'S PLATE




BONUSES

1. For ten points each, answer these questions about recent natural disasters in Asia.
a. This typhoon killed about 100 000 people in May, mostly in Myanmar.
Answer: NARGIS
b. An earthquake in this province of China killed tens of thousands of people, including thousands of children who were crushed by collapsing school buildings, leading to amendments of the One-Child Policy.
Answer: SICHUAN
c. This typhoon caused massive damage in June, this time in the Philippines, where it sank the ferry Princess of the Stars, killing 800 passengers. 
Answer: FENGSHENG

2. His more extended debates include one with Jacques Derrida stemming from his critique in The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity and another with Hans-Georg Gadamer about the possibility of universal pragmatics. For ten points each:
a) Name this former member of the Frankfurt School and author of Knowledge and Human Interests. 
Answer: Jürgen HABERMAS
b) Habermas' most famous early work is this "Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society" whose manifestations have included coffeehouses and salons.
Answer: THE STRUCTURAL TRANSFORMATION OF THE PUBLIC SPHERE (accept equivalents for "transformation," or Struckturwandel der Öffentlichkeit, prompt on partial answer)
c) Published in two volumes, Reason and the Rationalization of Society and Lifeworld and System: A Critique of Functionalist Reason, this 1981 work by Habermas outlines his attempt to ground rationality in pragmatic "speech acts."
Answer: THEORY OF COMMUNICATIVE ACTION (Theorie des kommunikativen Handeln)

3. For ten points each identify these client states of the Napoleonic Empire.
a. This state was formed in 1806 out of the remains of the Holy Roman Empire. It included the Kingdoms of Bavaria and Westphalia. 
Answer: CONFEDERATION OF THE RHINE
b. This state was created in1795 and became the Kingdom of Holland under Louis Bonaparte in 1806.
Answer: BATAVIAN REPUBLIC
c. This state was formed around the territory of Genoa in 1797. It was transferred to Sardinia in 1815.
Answer: LIGURIAN REPUBLIC

4. Name some Walt Whitman poems for ten points each.
a. This panoramic poem sees the poet as a "companion of all people, all just as immortal and fathomless" as he is. "Thirty-seven years old and in perfect health" Whitman seeks to "celebrate" himself, "Hoping to cease not until death."
Answer: SONG OF MYSELF
b. Originally called "Sun-Down Poem" when it appeared in the second edition of Leaves of Grass,  this poem describes "glories strung like beads" on the speaker's "smallest sights and hearings" as he completes the title voyage "from shore to shore." 
Answer: CROSSING BROOKLYN FERRY
c. Groped within the poet's Memories of President Lincoln, this elegy describes the late president as a "great star" that "early droop'd in the western sky of the night," and whose April death is brought to the poet's memory when he sees the title event.
Answer: WHEN LILACS LAST IN THE DOORYARD BLOOM'D

5. Name some things about an architectural landmark and its creator for ten points each:
a. Slated for completion in 2026, the 100th anniversary of the birth of its creator, this Barcelona church is currently under the architectural directorship of Mark Burry.
Answer: La SAGRADA FAMILIA 
b. This Catalan architect designed La Sagrada Família.
Answer: Antoni GAUDI
c. Sagrada Família occupied the last 15 years of Gaudì's life and was his central project after completing Park Güell and this flamboyant residential complex famous for its undulating roof.
Answer: CASA MILA or LA PEDERA (accept The QUARRY or equivalents)

6. For ten points each identify these American politicians who lost the Democratic party's primary elections.
a. In 1972 his campaign suffered when he cried in response to the "Canuck Letter", which claimed he was prejudiced against French-Canadians in New England.  He eventually lost to George McGovern.
Answer: Ed MUSKIE
b. In 1984, in response to his claim of "new ideas", Walter Mondale asked, "where's the beef?"  He withdrew from the 1988 campaign due to his affair with Donna Rice.
Answer: Gary HART
c. Also in 1984, this candidate's campaign suffered when he referred to New York as "Hymietown" in the Washington Post.
Answer: Jesse JACKSON

7. For ten points each, answer these questions about famous scientific thought experiments.
a. Proposed in 1935 to illustrate that some quantum concepts don't work at non-quantum scales, this postulate involves a mammal trapped in a box with radioactive material, a Geiger counter and a poison-releasing mechanism.
Answer: SCHRÖDINGER'S CAT
b. Postulated in 1867, this thought experiment consists of two chambers filled with gas at the same temperature. When the namesake of the theorem opens the door between the chambers, the second law of Thermodynamics is violated.
Answer: MAXWELL'S DEMON
c. In 1913 Emile Borel postulated the modern version of this theorem, in which a group of simians slaving away at typewriters would eventually produce the complete works of Shakespeare.
Answer: INFINITE MONKEY theorem

8. For ten points each identify these mythological cows.
a. This is the primeval cow of Norse mythology, who created Buri by licking him from salty ice.
Answer: AUDHUMLA
b. This Hindu earth goddess took the form of a cow, and was milked by Prithu, an incarnation of Vishnu.
Answer: PRITHVI
c. This Egyptian goddess was often depicted with the head of a cow, holding the sun between her horns.  She is sometimes identified with Bat, who was also depicted as a cow.
Answer: HATHOR

9. Answer these questions about a University of Toronto graduate for ten points each:
a. This alumna of Victoria College won a 1966 Governor General's Award for The Circle Game
before going on to publish Survival in 1972. 
Answer: Margaret ATWOOD
b. While at Victoria College at U of T, Atwood studied under this literary critic who delineated his theory of genres, myths, symbols, and modes in Anatomy of Criticism.
Answer: Northrup FRYE
c. Atwood was the recent recipient of this award named after the Spanish heir apparent, which has no relation to the Guatemalan author of El Señor Presidente. 
Answer: PRINCE OF ASTURIAS award (prompt on partial answer)

10. For ten points each, given the description, identify the power technology involved.
a. This battery technology uses a graphite anode together with a cathode typically composed of lithium cobalt oxide or lithium iron phosphate.  They are popular in laptops and mobile phones. 
Answer: LITHIUM-ION batteries
b. This type of power source derives electrochemical energy from the splitting of hydrogen atoms into protons, which combine with oxygen to produce water vapour. 
Answer: FUEL CELL
c. The latest generation of fuel cells uses this type of alcohol as fuel.  Although the fuel is flammable and toxic, the International Civil Aviation Organization permits cartridges containing up to 200mL to be carried on commercial aircraft.
Answer: METHANOL

11. For ten points each name these ancient historians.
a. This Prefect of the Grand Scribes was castrated for his support of a defeated general. He wrote the Shiji, or the "Records of the Grand Historian" and is considered the founder of Chinese historiography.
Answer: SIMA QIAN or SSU-MA CHI'EN
b. He wrote works on the trial of Socrates and horsemanship, but is best known for his Anabasis, describing the journey home from a military expedition against Persia.
Answer: XENOPHON
c. This Hellenistic historian was the first to divide Egyptian pharaohs into different dynasties, in his now-lost work Aegyptiaca.
Answer: MANETHO

12. Chapter two illustrates "the curable and the incurable" in Arthur Adamov and chapter four describes Jean Genet's work as a "hall of mirrors." For ten points each:
a. Name this 1961 study by Martin Esslin that defined a new genre of 20th century theatre.
Answer: THEATRE OF THE ABSURD
b. According to Esslin, this playwright of The Birthday Party achieved "completely fused tragedy and farce" in his play about two hit men, The Dumb Waiter. 
Answer: Harold PINTER
c. The idea of tragedy combining with farce is a postulate of this Romanian-born French playwright who made notable contributions to the absurd with Les Chaises and La Cantatrice chauve.
Answer: Eugene IONESCO

13. (Multimedia bonus)  In front of you is a numbered version of The School of Athens by Raphael. 
a. For ten points each, these are the two central figures, numbers 14 and 15.
Answer: PLATO and ARISTOTLE
b. For ten points, this figure, number 18, is bending down to give his students a geometry lesson.
Answer: EUCLID

14. Answer the following questions about the 2008 NBA champions, the Boston Celtics:
a. The Celtics' winning season was primarily due to their "Big Three" - the All-Star trio of shooting guard, power forward and small forward. Name these three players for 5 points each.
Answer: Ray ALLEN, Kevin GARNETT, and Paul PIERCE 
b. For 5 points, the Celtics defeated this Western Conference team in the NBA finals.
Answer: Los Angeles LAKERS
c. For 10 points, the Celtics defeat of the Lakers also ensured that Lakers coach Phil Jackson remains tied with this legendary Celtics coach for the most number of NBA championship wins, with 9.
Answer: Red AUERBACH

15. For ten points each identify these explorers of Antarctica.
a. This British explorer may have been the first to cross the Antarctic Circle in 1773, while on a mission to search for the supposed Southern Continent.
Answer: James COOK
b. This man reached even further south than Cook while searching for new land and new seals to hunt. The sea between Coat's Land and the Antarctic Peninsula is named for him.
Answer: James WEDDELL
c. This man's ship, the Endurance, was crushed by ice in the Weddell Sea in 1915, but he led all of his crew across the ice to safety.
Answer: Ernest SHACKLETON

16. Given the industrial process used in its production, name the chemical compound for ten points each. 
a. In the Monsanto process, methanol is combined catalytically with carbon mono-oxide to give this two carbon organic compound.
Answer: ACETIC ACID or ETHANOIC ACID
b. In the Haber-Bosch process, nitrogen and hydrogen are combined at very high pressures over an iron catalyst to produce this compound.
Answer: AMMONIA
c. Ammonia produced by the Haber-Bosch process is oxidised to this compound in the two stage Ostwald process which requires high temperatures and a platinum catalyst.
Answer: NITRIC ACID

17. Name some Nigerian authors who are better than Chinua Achebe for ten points each:
a. This author of The Lion and the Jewel and Death and the King's Horsemen became the first African to win the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1986.
Answer: Wole SOYINKA (WO-yay)
b. This author of Astonishing the Gods and In Arcadia put himself on the map by winning the 1991 Booker Prize with The Famished Road.
Answer: Ben OKRI
c. Achebe came to the defense of this man when he was criticized for his treatment of Yoruba folklore in The Palm-Wine Drinkard. 
Answer: Amos TUTUOLA

18. For ten points each identify these types of administrative subdivisions.
a. This is the term for a province in Russia and former Soviet countries. Russia has 47 of them, including Irkutsk, Novosibirsk, and Kaliningrad.
Answer: OBLAST
b. Japan is also divided into 47 of these divisions that are larger than a city, except the two urban ones, Osaka and Kyoto. Collectively they are referred to as todofuken in Japanese. 
Answer: PREFECTURE
c. France has 342 of these subdivisions of departments. There are also municipal ones in Paris, as well as in the boroughs of the major cities in Quebec.
Answer: ARRONDISSEMENT

19. For ten points each name these types of celestial objects.
a. Ceres and Eris are types of these, which are large enough to have acquired a spherical shape, but not to have "cleared the neighbourhood" of debris.
Answer: DWARF PLANETS
b. Eris and the category's namesake object are defined as trans-Neptunian dwarf planets. The most recent one named is Makemake.
Answer: PLUTOIDS
c. These planetoids orbit the Sun between Jupiter and Neptune, and may be captured comets. Chiron and Nessus are examples.
Answer: CENTAURS

20. For 10 points each, identify these terms from financial economics.
a. This process consists of bundling together a pool of financial assets so that they can be traded as a single entity.  The underlying assets can be anything with an associated cash flow, but the process is often applied to pools of credit card accounts or mortgages.
Answer: SECURITISATION
b. This is the general term for financial instruments whose value changes due to some underlying variable.  Types include futures, forwards, puts, calls, and swaps.  The underlying variable is typically a financial index, such as a stock market index or an interest rate, but can be something more exotic, such as weather conditions.
Answer: DERIVATIVE
c. This specific type of swap was originally intended as insurance against an institution defaulting on its debt.  However, since there is no requirement to actually hold an asset, the derivative became popular as a purely speculative bet.
Answer: CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP or CDS

21. For ten points each identify these ecological zones.
a. This Russian word is used for the temperate grassland of central Asia.  By one definition it is too arid to support forests, but not arid enough to form a desert.
Answer: STEPPE
b. This type of grassland has longer grass than a steppe, with more extensive tree cover. It includes the tropical type found in the Serengeti in Africa.
Answer: SAVANNA
c. This Turkic word describes the largest type of biome, located below the tundra and north of the steppes and prairies.  In Canada it is also known as boreal forest. 
Answer: TAIGA

22. For 10 points each, identify these philanthropic efforts by the founders of Research in Motion.
a. Located in Waterloo, Ontario, this physics institution was created in 2000 with a $100 million dollar grant from RIM founder Mike Lazaridis.
Answer: PERIMETER INSTITUTE for Theoretical Physics or PI
b. Also located in Waterloo, this think tank founded in 2002 by Jim Balsillie is devoted to research into international relations and global economic policy.
Answer: CENTRE FOR INTERNATIONAL GOVERNANCE INNOVATION or CIGI
c. For 10 points, name either one of the financially-struggling NHL franchises which Jim Balsillie has attempted to purchase and bring to Canada.
Answer: Pittsburgh PENGUINS or Nashville PREDATORS




