VETO 2005- Questions by Jon and Adam (Djibouti Call)

Tossups

1. The protagonist was born at exactly 12:00am on August 15, 1947. Fearing his imminent death at age 31, he decides to tell his life story to his companion, Padma. The novel is noted for its use of magical realism to draw parallels between the life of the main character, Saleem Sinai, and the changing fortunes of newly independent India. FTP, name this novel by Salman Rushdie, awarded the Booker of Bookers as the best novel to win the Booker Prize in its first 25 years.
ANSWER: Midnight's Children

2. He was offered the Governor-Generalship in 1994, but turned it down in order to spend more time with his grandchildren.  He won 10 Stanley Cups in his 18 year career and was the first player to win the Conn Smythe Trophy. Nicknamed "Le Gros Bill," he retired in 1971 as the all-time leading playoff scorer in NHL history.  A 10 time All-Star, he won the Hart Trophy in 1953 and 1962 and his number 4 is one of only seven numbers retired by the Montreal Canadiens. FTP, name this longest serving Habs captain.
ANSWER: Jean Beliveau

3. He may be best remembered today for his later political career, but he first attained notoriety when he became the first native of his country to earn an American doctorate in 1910.  He was then elected leader of his country's provisional government in exile during its 35-year occupation by the Japanese, and he was elected the country's first president in 1948, a role he held until being forced out in 1960 by the April 19 Movement.  FTP, name this South Korean president who led the country through the Korean War.
ANSWER: Syngman Rhee (accept either part).  

4. It is the birthplace of both Donald Sutherland and Stompin' Tom Connors. Amelia Earhardt landed at its first airport, located at Millidgeville, during her solo Trans-Atlantic flight. It is the oldest incorporated city in Canada, having been formed when the towns of Parrtown and Carleton amalgamated. Bordered on the north by the Kennebecasis River, it lies along the north shore of the Bay of Fundy. FTP, name this never-abbreviated city, the largest in New Brunswick.
ANSWER: Saint John, New Brunswick

5. A graduate of Princeton and Oxford, he served as Assistant Secretary of Defence in the Clinton administration.  He is seen as a founder of the international relations theory of neoliberalism, which he developed in a 1977 book with Robert Keohane, and today he serves as Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.  He is perhaps best known for his theory of "soft power."  FTP, name this political scientist who shares his last name with a television Science Guy.
ANSWER: Joseph Nye        (Accept: Nye before "shares")  



6. It measures 15 metres in length and 38 centimetres in diameter and weighs 410 kilograms. Though unable to move under standard conditions, it has been used to manipulate masses of up to 29 metric tonnes. Developed by Spar Aerospace, it was first used in 1981 on board the Columbia and was used extensively in the efforts to repair the Hubble Space Telescope. FTP, name this device used by the Space Shuttle for maneuvering payload in orbit.
ANSWER: Shuttle Remote Manipulator System or Canadarm

7. Written by ETA Hoffman, this short story is in parts written in the style of correspondence and in others as a traditional narrative.  It begins with the protagonist, Nathanael, being confronted with a strange barometer salesman who reminds him of the man who killed his father.  The story serves as the basis for Delibes's ballet "Copellia," which is the name of the villain.  FTP, name this story, whose mythical title character is known for putting children to sleep, and might be known in roman culture as Morpheus.
ANSWER: The Sandman      

8. Debuting on May 4, 1987, it was a remake of NBC's longest running game show, which had once been hosted by Hugh Downs. In this venture of NBC and Mark Goodson Productions, the original program's mechanical board was replaced with an electronic one consisting of 25 squares which concealed prizes as well as "Wild" and "Take" cards. By matching two squares hiding the same prize, players could reveal a rebus and attempt to solve it to win the game. FTP, name this game show hosted by Alex Trebek. 
ANSWER: Classic Concentration    (prompt on: Concentration)

9. Isaac Asimov refers to these particles in Foundation's Edge, where they exist in hyperspace. Their first theoretical description is credited to Arnold Sommerfeld. According to special relativity, they have space-like four-momentum and imaginary proper time but if they were to physically exist they would violate the principle of causality. They also possess the curious property that their speed increases as energy decreases. FTP, name these theorized particles which travel faster than the speed of light.
ANSWER: tachyons

10. The name of this country means "shrub-covered land," and its history dates back to the time of Charlemagne.  It remained technically at war with Germany until a declaration of peace in 1958, since it was not party to the Treaty of Versailles.  Today, it its defense is the responsibility of its two much larger and more powerful neighbours.  Until 1993, it retained the feudal system, and even today, its two heads of state are Jacques Chirac and a Spanish Bishop.  FTP, name this microstate nestled in the Pyrenees.
ANSWER: Andorra   






11. An autobiography written in the third person, it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1919.  Its author argues that self-education in preferable to the formal education which he had undergone, which he feels has failed him.  Written by a member of a presidential family, it was named the Number 1 non-fiction book of the 20th century by the modern library, thought the public placed it 51st.  FTP, name this book, published after the death of its author, Henry Adams.
ANSWER: The Education of Henry Adams

12. She was elevated to Companion of the Order of Canada in 2003, served as Toronto's cultural ambassador during its failed 2008 Summer Olympic bid and has been honourary chairperson of UNICEF. Born in Britain, she moved to Canada when she was four years old and began to study under Betty Oliphant.  At age 18 she became the youngest principal dancer in the National Ballet of Canada when she debuted in Romeo and Juliet. FTP, name this Canadian prima ballerina who is not Karen Kain.
ANSWER: Veronica Tennant

13. She has been in the public eye since at least 1985, and was the star of television shows running from 1991-1998, one of which won an Emmy in 1995.  She has done a cameo on Animaniacs and been a spokesperson for AmTrak.  She is best known, though as the red trench coat and fedora-wearing leader of VILE, and the subject of a song by Rockapella.  FTP, tell me who in the world is this subject of computer games by Broderbund and The Learning Company.
ANSWER: Carmen Sandiego

14. His first and middle names are the same as the name of the inventor of logarithms and he led the Canadian delegation that helped monitor the 2004 Ukrainian run-off election. First elected to Parliament in 1962, he was Minister of Justice during the October Crisis. He reentered politics in 1984 after a decade-long absence and defeated Jean Chretien for the Liberal leadership. FTP, name this seventeenth Prime Minister who was succeeded by Brian Mulroney.
ANSWER: John Napier Turner

15. He was the first person to claim to be a citizen of the whole world, rather than a single city or country. When Alexander the Great sacked Corinth, he spared this man, saying "if I were not Alexander, I would be" him. Born in Sinope around 412 BC, he is said to have run around Greece with a lantern in broad daylight looking for an honest man and spent most of his time living in a bathtub. His teacher, Antisthenes, is known as the founder of cynicism. FTP, name this Greek cynic, whom Aristotle called "The Dog".
ANSWER: Diogenes of Sinope

16. This river shares its name with one in South Australia and runs 525 km.  Its name is also shared by the surrounding département, which includes the Champagne region, famous for its grapes.  It starts in the Langres plateau, runs generally north and then bends west between Saint-Dizier and Châlons-en-Champagne.  FTP, name this tributary of the Seine, along which were fought two major battles of the First World War.
ANSWER: River Marne
17. The story begins with the protagonist winning the hand of King Antiochus' daughter by solving a riddle, only to discover her incestuous relationship with her father. The poet Gower serves as narrator and fills in gaps in the action. After a very convoluted story, during which the title character's daughter is captured by pirates and sold to a brothel, the goddess Diana instructs him to travel to Ephesus to reunite with wife Thaisa and daughter Marina. FTP, name this Shakespeare play which shares its name with an Athenian ruler.
ANSWER: Pericles, Prince of Tyre

18. Compounds of this type can undergo Freidel-Crafts acylation reactions and each carbon in the chain exhibits sp2 ("S P 2") hybridization. They are cyclic molecules comprised of a conjugated system of single and double bonds which obey Huckel's rule, meaning they contain 4n +2 (four n plus two) pi electrons, with n being an integer. Consisting of non-aliphatic organic compounds, FTP, name this class of compounds of which benzene is the simplest example, originally named for their pleasing odours.
ANSWER: Aromatic compounds      (prompt on: benzene on early buzz)

19. Today, there is an arena in Paris named in his memory, which was built upon his death in 1937.  His views were shaped by trips to British and American schools and universities, and he became convinced that the key to improving education lay in sport.  He proposed his most famous idea at conference he organized at the Sorbonne in 1894, and today he is buried in Lausanne, near the headquarters of the organization he founded.  FTP, name this father of the modern Olympic Games, who was born Pierre de Frédy.
ANSWER: Baron Pierre de Coubertin  

20. Appointed to the Senate as a Liberal in 2005, he was named the 16th greatest Canadian in the CBC's recent poll. In order to supervise the implementation of the Arusha Accords, he was appointed head of UNAMIR (YOU-na-mir) in late 1993. His experiences over the subsequent months were chronicled in his Governor-General's Award-winning book Shake Hands with the Devil. FTP, name this Canadian general who led the United Nations forces in Rwanda.
ANSWER: Romeo Dallaire

21. Two of his early credits were Kissing Man in Singles and Control Room Director in The Truman Show. He studied English and Drama at Yale and his father was president of that university before being named commissioner of baseball in 1989. Many critics were astonished by the Academy's decision to pass him over for Oscar nominations in both 2004 and 2005. FTP, name this actor, star of American Splendor, who received a 2005 Golden Globe nomination for playing Miles Raymond in Sideways.
ANSWER: Paul Giamatti (accept Giamatti before "father")






22. Born in Portage, Wisconsin in 1861, he is usually associated with American Midwest despite going on to earn his Ph.D in history from John Hopkins University in Baltimore.  His most famous scholarly contribution was introduced in the Midwest, in a paper read in Chicago at the 1893 World's Fair.  In 1933, he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for "The Significance of Sections in American History," and he is often seen today as a father of Environmental History.  FTP, name this inventor of the "Frontier Thesis."
ANSWER: Frederick Jackson Turner 

23. Famously formulated by Hume, this questions whether it is justifiable to make general statements about a group based on any number of observations and to assume from the fact that a sequence of events will happen in the future because it has always happened in the past.  FTP, name this problem which questions the type of logic on which Sir Francis Bacon claimed all science relies.
ANSWER: The Problem of Induction (Do not accept "induction")

24. A former journalist and screenwriter, he has authored several books about design
theory including Delirious New York and S,M,L,XL. Projects of his include the Las Vegas Guggenheim Museum, Prada stores in New York and Los Angeles and the Dutch embassy in Berlin. In 2000, he was awarded the Pritzker Prize. FTP, name this Dutch architect whose name suggests a type of building he might design.
ANSWER: Rem Koolhaas

























Bonuses

1. Visual bonus. (READER: Distribute attached sheets). Identify the artist responsible for the works shown which are located in the National Gallery of Canada.

A) A
ANSWER: Benjamin West  (The Death of General Wolfe)

B) B
ANSWER: Tom Thomson (Jack Pine)

C) C
ANSWER: Paul Cezanne (Forest)


2. Identify these rules from calculus FTPE.

A) To evaluate an indeterminate limit, take the derivative of the numerator and denominator.
ANSWER: L'Hopital's rule

B) When taking the derivative of an integral with fixed limits, the order of integration and differentiation may be switched.
ANSWER: Leibnitz's rule

C) The flux through a closed surface is 0 if the source is located outside of the surface
ANSWER: Gauss' Law (accept variations e.g. Gauss' Theorem)


3. Answer the following about the War of 1812, FTPE.

A) The British captured this American city after General Isaac Brock intentionally let a false correspondence be captured by American General William Hull.
ANSWER: Detroit

B) This future American President was sent to attempt to recapture Detroit following Hull's surrender.
ANSWER: William Henry Harrison

C) This treaty ended the war.
ANSWER: Treaty of Ghent



4. In an effort to promote Canadian fiction, CBC has, since 2002, aired Canada Reads, which features people of note advocating for the selection of a favourite book as one that all of Canada will read together.  Answer these question about it, FTPE:

A) Who is the only former Prime Minister to appear on the show?
ANSWER: Avril Phaedra Douglas "Kim" Campbell 

B) Keeping with the theme of Prime Ministers, Pierre Trudeau's son Justin argued for The Colony of Unrequited Dreams, about this province.
ANSWER: Newfoundland and Labrador

C) The 2004 edition featured this former National Librarian of Canada, better known for his beloved children's stories, representing Volkswagen Blues by Jacques Poulin.
ANSWER: Roch Carrier


5. Last week, a verdict was handed down in a trial involving Saskatchewan First Nations leader David Ahenakew. Answer these questions about the case FTPE.

A) The charges stemmed from comments Ahenakew made to a reporter for this Saskatoon daily newspaper.
ANSWER: StarPhoenix

B) This man served as Ahenakew's lawyer. He has previously defended Ernst Zundel and James Keegstra and shares his name with a former Toronto Raptor.
ANSWER: Doug Christie

C) The Governor General's office has announced plans to revoke Ahenakew's membership in the Order of Canada which would make him only the second person to be stripped of the honour after this lawyer and former head of the NHL Player's Association.
ANSWER: Alan Eagleson


6. Given the quote that made the American Film Institute's recent list of the top 100 movie quotes of all time, name the movie, FTPE.

A) No. 6: "Go ahead, make my day."
ANSWER: Sudden Impact

B) No. 33: "I'll have what she's having."
ANSWER: When Harry Met Sally

C) No. 53: "One morning I shot an elephant in my pajamas. How he got in my pajamas, I don't know."
ANSWER: Animal Crackers
7. Given the name of separatist area, give the country from which they tried to separate:

A) The Jura
ANSWER: Switzerland

B) South Ossetia
ANSWER: Georgia

C) Puntland
ANSWER: Somalia

8. For 5 points per answer, name Canada's six Governors-General prior to Adrienne Clarkson.

ANSWER: Romeo Leblanc, Ramon Hnatyshyn [na-TISH-in], Jeanne Sauvé, Edward Schreyer, Jules Léger, Roland Michener

9. Answer the following about DNA replication FTPE

A) The lagging DNA strand cannot be continuously transcribed, but is instead transcribed piecewise in these short sequences.
ANSWER: Okazaki fragments

B) Eukaryotic chromosomes contain these non-coding sequences at their end which prevents the chromosome from being fatally shortened during replication.
ANSWER: telomere

C) This experiment, named for the scientists who performed it, confirmed that DNA replication is semi-conservative
ANSWER: Meselsohn-Stahl experiment


10. Identify the play from characters on a 30-20-10 basis

30: Baylen, Jerry Graff

20: James Lingk, John Williamson

10: Dave Moss, Shelley Levene

ANSWER: Glengarry Glen Ross





11. FTPE, answer the following questions about the history of the World Bank.

A) Born in Australia, he was President of the World Bank before being replaced in 2005 by Paul Wolfowitz.
ANSWER: James D. Wolfensohn

B) A Nobel-prize winning professor at Columbia, he wrote the best-selling book Globalization and its Discontents and was the Bank's chief economist from 1997-2000.
ANSWER: Joseph E. Stiglitz

C) He was President of the Bank from 1968-1981, but it was the job he held immediately before that that made him the subject of the recent documentary The Fog of War.
A: Robert Strange McNamara


12. FTPE, answer these questions about the Supreme Court of Canada

A) In the United States, the Supreme Court is composed of a Chief Justices and Associate Justices.  In Canada, the Court has a Chief Justice and eight of these:
ANSWER: Puisne Justices  (pron. PYOO-nee, be lenient with pronounciation)

B) Appointed in 1982, the year after Ronald Reagan appointed Sandra Day O'Connor to the US Court, she was the first female justice on the Supreme Court of Canada.
ANSWER: Madame Justice Bertha Wilson

C) Canada is seen as a leader in the representation of women on the Court.  Out of the nine justices, how many today are women?
ANSWER: Four


13. Answer the following about the Book of Exodus FTPE

A) In chapter 1, we learn of the ascension of a new Pharaoh who "did not know" him.
ANSWER: Joseph

B) Saying that since he had "been a stranger in a strange land," Moses gave his first born son this name.
ANSWER: Gershom

C) Jacob's family consisted of this many people when they first went down to Egypt.
ANSWER: seventy




14. Name the following novels released 50 years ago in 1955 FTPE

A) This prelude to The Lion, The Which and the Wardrobe was published that year. In
it, Polly and Digory must fetch an apple to atone for bringing evil queen Jadis
to Narnia.
A: The Magician's Nephew

B) This John Wyndham novel, published in the US under the title Rebirth, takes
place in Labrador following a catastrophic event known as The Tribulation.
A: The Chrysalids

C) This Graham Greene novel, which has been made into films starring Audie Murphy
and Michael Caine, takes place in Saigon and describes American efforts to prop
up a corrupt military leader, General The, to counter the Viet Minh.
A: The Quiet American


15. 2005 is the International Year of Physics in honour of the 100th anniversary of Albert Einstein's annus mirabilis or "miracle year". Answer the following about papers he published that year FTPE.

A) By drawing on Max Planck's idea of energy quanta, Einstein was able to explain this effect in his paper On a Heuristic Viewpoint Concerning the Production and Transformation of Light.
ANSWER: photoelectric effect

B) Einstein's second paper of that year was a detailed study of this phenomenon by which liquid particles immersed in a fluid move about randomly which provided empirical evidence for the existence of atoms.
ANSWER: Brownian motion

C) Einstein's third paper, which introduced special relativity, relied heavily on these transformation equations which replaced the classical Galilean transformations.
ANSWER: Lorentz transformations












16. FTPE, given a music album, track number and author, give the title shared by the
song and a book by that author.

A) Metallica's Ride the Lightning, 3rd track, Ernest Hemingway
ANSWER: For Whom the Bell Tolls

B) Rush's Fly by Night, 1st track, Ayn Rand
ANSWER: Anthem

C) ZZ Top's Violator, 6th track, William Kennedy
 ANSWER: Legs


17. Given a country, name its official representative at the 1815 Congress of Vienna, FTPE.

A) Austria
ANSWER: Prince Klemens von Metternich

B) France
ANSWER: Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord

C) Russia
ANSWER: Count Nesselrode


18. There are 4 Canadian airports named for Prime Ministers. On a 5 for 1, 10 for 2, 20 for 3 and 30 for all four basis, name the PMs.

ANSWER: John A MacDonald (Ottawa), Lester Pearson (Toronto), Pierre Trudeau (Montreal), John Diefenbaker (Saskatoon).


19. Answer the following about acid-base chemistry FTPE
A) His definition of an acid is any substance that can accept a lone pair of electrons
ANSWER: Gilbert Lewis

B) This term refers to any species that can act as either an acid or a base
ANSWER: amphoteric (acc. amphiprotic)

C) When performing a titration, the point at which equal amounts of acid and base are present is given this name.
ANSWER: equivalence point



20. Identify the following World Series of Poker champions FTPE.

A)  He is the youngest winner of the World Series of Poker Main Event, having won the 1989 tournament at age 24.
ANSWER: Phil Hellmuth Jr.

B) Often identifiable by his Toronto Maple Leafs Jersey, he became the youngest winner of a World Series event when he took the limit hold 'em tournament in 1998.
ANSWER: Daniel Negreanu

C) Given his nickname because of his long hair and beard, this 2000 Main Event champion has a PhD in computer science and can slice a banana with a thrown playing card.
Answer: Chris "Jesus" Ferguson (prompt on Jesus)

21. Given the name of the protagonist, identify the Kurt Vonnegut novel FTPE

A) Howard W Campbell, Jr.
ANSWER: Mother Night

B) Rudy Waltz
ANSWER: Deadeye Dick

C) Billy Pilgrim
ANSWER: Slaughterhouse Five 

22. Answer the following about lakes, FTPE..

A) This lake occupies parts of Ontario, Manitoba and Minnesota and drains into the Winnipeg River.
ANSWER: Lake of the Woods

B) This lake, which shares its name with a Venezuelan city, is the largest in South America.
ANSWER: Lake Maracaibo

C) This group of lakes includes Tanganyika, Albert, Kivu, Victoria and Edward.
ANSWER: Great Lakes of Africa (DO NOT ACCEPT: Great Lakes)








A)

B) 

C)
 

