Note to moderator ONLY:  The tossups and bonuses in this packet each have their own theme.  If you figure it out, do not intentionally reveal it to the players.  The order of tossups is not very significant, so if replacements must be made, they can be done either immediately or after the 20th listed tossup. 

Tossups

1.	Because of a special type of eclipse, John Goodricke was able to determine that Algol was one of these.  Some are discovered because of a change in brightness, but most require the observation of a Doppler effect in the spectral lines.  Rarely is one object significantly larger than the other, so together they orbit a common centre of gravity.  For ten points, identify this type of star which actually consists of more than one.

Answer:  binary star (accept "double star"; accept "variable" until Doppler effect)

2.	A minor character in this novel, Roger Cly, faked his death and became a spy for England.  He fled after he testified with Barsad at a trial early in the novel.  At the trial, Mr. Stryver successfully defended the main character, a member of the aristocracy who goes to France and marries Lucie Manette.  Originally published as a serial, for ten points, Sydney Carton and Charles Darnay swap clothes before an execution in what Dickens work?

Answer:  A Tale of Two Cities

3.	The poem intended to accompany this concerto concludes with the lines: "The heavens thunders and roars and majestically/ cuts the heads off the wheat and damages the grain".  Indeed, its Presto movement symbolizes the rains that grow the crops.  Its first, lazy, movement represents the stifling heat from the sun.  For ten points, name this second concerto from Vivaldi's The Four Seasons.

Answer:  Summer  (prompt on The Four Seasons)

4.	It commenced with the bull Quantum predecessors by Pope Eugene III, which was re-issued a few months later to include France, led by Louis VII.  In 1147, Germans led by Conrad III split into two groups in Asia Minor and both were defeated.  The French arrived, but the combined armies failed a siege on Damascus.  An English siege on Moorish Lisbon was the only major Western success of this campaign.  For ten points, identify this religious war in the Holy Land held after the capture of Jerusalem but before the time of Saladin.

Answer:  Second Crusade

5.	Elena Likhovtseva is currently teammates with a Canadian in this form of a sport.  Mahesh Bhupathi ["boo-pah-tee"] has been quite successful in this event, winning six major titles with six different partners.  His most recent partner was former WTA #1 Martina Hingis.  For ten points, identify this form of racquet sports in which a man and woman compete together on the same side.

Answer:  mixed doubles  (prompt on "doubles" or "tennis")

6.	As did Laurier, he appointed four judges to the Supreme Court of Canada who would eventually become a Chief Justice - the most of any prime minister.  He suddenly came to power when his party was in disarray:  both Antoine Dorion and Edward Blake turned down the leadership before he accepted.  However, the Conservatives were in worse shape, thanks to the Pacific scandal.  For ten points, name this politician who was Canada's second prime minister.

Answer:  Alexander Mackenzie (if "Sir" is included, the answer is wrong)
7.	The Laplace transform of this is "s squared f of s, minus s times f at zero, minus f prime at zero".  In the Laplace equation, three of these for one variable, with respect to different variables, sum to 0.  Its test is often used for finding inflection points or determining if a curve is concave up or down.  For ten points, what is acceleration when using displacement with respect to time?

Answer:  second derivative (accept "d squared y [or f] over d x squared" or "f double prime")

8.	Two answers required.  A common symbol for these two entities combined is called a taijitu ["tai-chi-tu"].  The one associated with the creation of earth is also connected to death and destruction, which may seem contradictory, but not when placed in the context of its opposite, which represents the bright skies and new life.  Confucianism tends to favour one, while Taoism prefers slightly more of the other.  For ten points, name these dual opposite forces of Chinese metaphysics.

Answer:  yin and yang

9.	Marc Nelson left this group just after they finished high school together.  Their single "4 Seasons of Loneliness" is currently their last #1 hit on Billboard, but between 1992 and 1995, five of their songs combined for 50 weeks at #1.  13 weeks by "End of the Road" was a record at the time, then they had 14 weeks with "I'll Make Love to You" before a 1995 collaboration stayed for 16 weeks, the current record. For ten points, name this R&B quartet that recorded with Mariah Carey for "One Sweet Day".

Answer:  Boyz II Men ["boys to men"]

10.	Two answers required.  One character is believed to be a girl found on the Hott Totts website, and the other character falls in love with her as an adult.  Together, they are considered as gods after their death in a new society populated by genetically perfect people.  One loved, and the other was a friend of, Jimmy, a man who takes on the name Snowman as the last human.  Named after animals that became extinct, for ten points, name the two titular characters of a recent Atwood novel.

Answer:  Oryx and Crake

11.	Two answers required.  One has its capital at Middelburg; the other has its capital at the south end of one of its islands.  They are in opposite hemispheres, but one is named after the other because of an expedition by Abel Tasman.  The one in the North consists of the delta of the Meuse river, while the place in the South has the Waikato River.  For ten points, name this province of the Netherlands and country in the South Pacific.

Answer:  Zeeland and New Zealand (the Zealand of Denmark is unrelated to New Zealand) 

12.	Examples from this class include roses, most hardwood trees, and magnolias, which lend the Latin name to this class.  A characteristic is the separation of xylem ["zye-lem"] and phloem into distinct rings, as well as the presence of a tap root.  These plants also have a web of veins in their leaves, rather than a parallel structure.  For ten points, identify this class of angiosperms that has two seed leaves in its embryo.

Answer:  dicotyledon  (accept variations of "magnolia" before mentioned)

13.	All ends well in this play when the page of one of the title characters faints, revealing that he is actually a girl.  The page, Julia, accompanies her love interest as he rescues his own new love, Silvia, from a group of bandits in the forests outside Milan.  Proteus is re-united with Julia, while Silvia marries the leader of the bandits, Valentine.  For ten points, name this Shakespearean comedy about two men that visit Milan.

Answer:  The Two Gentlemen of Verona  
14.	It was recently announced that it will be purchased for about 100 million dollars by Isthimar upon its expected retirement in late 2008.  At that time, it will undergo major renovations and become a hotel at the Palm Jumeirah artificial island in Dubai.  Launched in 1967 by its namesake, it served in the Falklands, but saw regular use as a cruise ship and ocean liner.  For ten points, name this flagship transatlantic liner of Cunard Lines that is being replaced by the Queen Mary 2 and future Queen Victoria.

Answer:  RMS Queen Elizabeth II  ("QE2" is sufficient)

15.	Emil Kraepelin is credited for distinguishing this condition separately from premature dementia, although his suggestions that it was linked to genetics were largely dismissed during the time of Freudian psychology.  Type II sees less extreme change from euthymia ["you-thee-mee-ah"] than Type I, and change is typically over the scale of weeks or months rather than hours or days.  Sometimes known as manic depression, for ten points, identify this disorder in which the mood of an affected individual changes between depression and an elevated level of mania.

Answer:  bipolar disorder  (accept "manic depression" before mentioned)

16.	This area was the site of the only execution by guillotine in North America and also has a time zone unique from the rest of the continent.  There used to be a third island, Langlade ["lahn-glad"], until it was joined by a sandbar to the larger of these two islands.  Most people live on the smaller island, whose economy has been disrupted by Canada limiting fishing in the Grand Banks.  For ten points, name these two islands under the possession of France found just south of Newfoundland.

Answer:  Saint Pierre et Miquelon  (answering only "St Pierre" is fine for the first sentence)

17.	Even though his father, Nabopolassar, denied having royal descent, this king claimed royal ancestry and was on the throne by 605 BCE.  He immediately sent a military campaign through Syria and Palestine, but withdrew from Egypt after heavy losses.  Later, he captured Jerusalem and became associated with Old Testament prophets like Jeremiah and Daniel.  For ten points, name this Babylonian king remembered for building the Hanging Gardens.

Answer:  Nebuchadrezzar [or Nebuchadnezzar] II (prompt on name only)

18.	It won a third place prize at its debut, despite being considered an "insulting caricature".  The artist's sister modeled for this painting, and she later claimed to be portraying a daughter after criticism arose about the perceived age difference between a man and his wife.  The depiction of Iowa quickly became an icon during the Depression years, though there was criticism about the satanic symbolism in the pitchfork.  For ten points, name this portrait of two people on a farm by Grant Wood.

Answer:  American Gothic

19.	Together, they founded the Law and Justice party in 2001.  Despite some rumours behind the single status of one of them, they hold a strong anti-homosexual stance as well as negativity toward Germany.  It is likely that they became popular when voters remembered them as child actors in The Two Who Stole the Moon.  A major gaffe occurred when one was accidentally introduced to a crowd with a picture of the Unabomber, who shares their last name.  For ten points, give the surname of these twin brothers who are currently President and Prime Minister of Poland.

Answer:  Lech and Jaroslaw Kaczynski ["Kah-chin-ski"]

20.	Only one of these has been added since 1998, but 22 had been added in the 27 years previous.  There will likely be one on the last day of 2009 - just before 7 PM in Toronto or 4 PM in Vancouver - assuming that the Earth will still slow down slightly due to the Moon pulling away.  Whenever the atomic Universal Time and solar Greenwich time differ by roughly 0.0007% of a day, for ten points, what small unit is incorporated into the year?

Answer:  leap second  (prompt on "second") 

21.	Two answers required.  They left their birthplace after their great-uncle was killed, and allowed their grandfather Numitor to reign as king there.  As they left, they paid respect to their mother, Rhea Silvia, who was forced to be a virgin priestess before Mars raped her.  These twins bickered about birds flying over hills, resulting in one brother being killed and the other making foundations on Palatine Hill.  For ten points, name these twins associated with the founding of Rome.

Answer:  Romulus and Remus

22.	Roughly 100 of these were used by the Black Cat Squadron in the 1960s, but it started in the CIA with civilian pilots.  The first recipient of the Air Force Cross, Rudolf Anderson, was shot down in one in the later days of the Cuban Missile Crisis.  In a great embarrassment to the United States, Gary Powers was convicted in the Soviet Union after flying one.  For ten points, name this Lockheed surveillance plane that was shot down over Russia in 1960.

Answer:  Lockheed U-2

23.	Marcellin Berthelot was able to make benzene from this gas.  Today, it is mostly produced from the reaction of calcium carbide in water, but it can also be prepared by heating simple organic compounds.  Thanks to a high flash point, it generates the hottest flame of all organic fuel gases.  Possessing four atoms in a straight line with a triple bond, for ten points, name the two-carbon alkyne.

Answer:  acetylene or ethyne or C2H2 (do not accept "ethylene" or "ethene")

24.	The Godwin Austin glacier, named after a surveyor, is found on this mountain.  Several early ascents were made by Italian crews:  Compagnoni and Lacedelli reached the summit first, while a 1909 expedition lends its name to the Abruzzi Ridge, found on the most common route.  Known locally as Dapsang, it was the second mountain surveyed in the Karakoram Range.  For ten points, name the second-highest mountain, by altitude, on earth.

Answer:  K2  (accept "Dapsang" before mentioned)

25.	Words for this symbol in other languages relate it to an animal:  Italian compares it to a snail, Swedish to an elephant, Thai to a worm, and German to a monkey.  However, it probably evolved as a way of writing the grave ["grahv"] accent without lifting the pen off the page.  It appeared on early typewriters mostly for accountancy use, but it now has widespread use in e-mail.  For ten points, identify this symbol that can be obtained by pressing "shift" and "2" on a keyboard.

Answer:  @ or at symbol  (possibly evolved from à, French for "at")



Bonuses

1.	It was a relatively short period in the third century AD marred by internal wars.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this time in which China was divided between the Shu, Wei, and Wu.
Answer:  Three Kingdoms period (Chinese pronunciation:  "san-guo")
B.	[10]  The Three Kingdoms period was preceded by what prosperous dynasty?
Answer:  (Later) Han
C.	[10]  The Three Kingdoms period is considered to have ended when who took the throne after Cao Huan of the Wei abdicated?
Answer:  Emperor Wu of Jin or Sima Yan

2.	He wrote several trilogies of novels set in small-town Ontario.  For the stated number of points: 
A.	[5]  For five points, name this author of the Salterton, Deptford, and Cornish trilogies.
Answer:  Robertson Davies
B.	[5, 5, 5]  For five points each, list the three novels of the Deptford trilogy.
Answers:  Fifth Business, The Manticore, World of Wonders 
C.	[10]  Fifth Business opens with a pregnant woman hit by an errant snowball who goes into early labour.  For ten points, name the child born from this, for whom Dunstan Ramsay feels guilt.
Answer:  Paul Dempster  (accept either name)

3.	He proposed three laws of planetary motion.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this astronomer and assistant to Tycho Brahe.
Answer:  Johannes Kepler
B.	[10]  Based on his first law, a planet's orbit is expected to be what shape, and what is the position of the sun with respect to this shape?
Answer:  ellipse with the sun at one focus (or focal point)  (Both underlined parts required)
C.	[10]  According to the third law, the square of the time it takes an object to orbit is proportional to what power of widest length of the orbit?
Answer:  third power (or three or cube)

4.	[Remove the page showing satellite photos.  Note:  the questions are probably still answerable even if the pictures did not print well.]  Several cities in Canada are found at the meeting or divergence of three rivers.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Map A shows this city found on the three forks of the Saint-Maurice River.  Becancour River also has its mouth on the opposite side.
Answer:  Trois-Rivières, Québec
B.	[10]  Map B shows this city, where the Cataraqui ["kat-ah-rah-kway"] and Little Cataraqui flow into the source of the Saint Lawrence River.
Answer:  Kingston, Ontario
C.	[10]  Map C shows this central British Columbia town found on the Fraser near the West Road River and its namesake river.
Answer:  Quesnel, BC

5.	Their slogan is "Innovation".  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Formerly known as Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, name this company that brought Scotch Tape to the world.
Answer:  3M
B.	[10]  Ubiquitous in offices, 3M launched what yellow product designed for temporary messages?
Answer:  Post-It notes
C.	[10]  3M began with the manufacture of what product, which failed because they used softer anorthosite rather than corundum?
Answer:  sandpaper  (accept "grinding wheels")

6.	For 5 points for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, or 30 for all four, would the following statements best apply for King George III of England, King Richard III of England, both, or neither?
A.	Like a few other "Third" kings of England, who reigned for at least 50 years?
Answer:  George III only
B.	Who, of the two kings, inherited the throne directly after their father reigned?
Answer:  neither (Richard from his nephew, George from his grandfather)
C.	Who was engaged in a war with France at some point during their reign?
Answer:  George III only
D.	Both kings married only once, but who outlived his queen?
Answer:  both

7.	Several compounds make use of the three covalent bonds of nitrogen.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Taking a pyramid shape, name the compound in which nitrogen is bonded with three hydrogen atoms.
Answer:  ammonia (prompt on "NH3")
B.	[10]  This functional group has nitrogen in a triple bond with a carbon atom.  It is also found as a negative ion.
Answer:  nitrile or cyano or cyanide group
C.	[10]  There is currently only one discovered form of N3, and only one of those atoms has exactly three covalent bonds.  Name the shape this allotrope takes.
Answer:  linear (accept equivalents of a straight line; cyclic planar has not been prepared)

8.	It divides the Christian God into three representations of the same being.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this concept accepted by most Christian denominations in which God consists of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
Answer:  trinity or Trinitarianism
B.	[10]  The trinity was not originally mentioned in the New Testament.  It arose through a Creed that concluded what early conference of bishops?
Answer:  Council of Nicaea ["nye-see-ah"]  (accept "Nicene")
C.	[10]  In the 1500s, a small section, known as the Comma Johanneum, was added to the New Testament with a reference to the trinity.  In what book could the Comma Johanneum be found?
Answer:  First Epistle of John, or 1 John (prompt on "John"; do not accept "John 1", as that refers to chapter 1 of the Gospel of John)

9.	His three Theban plays follow the descended family of a king.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this ancient Greek dramatist whose tragedies include Oedipus Rex and Oedipus at Colonus.
Answer:  Sophocles
B.	[10]  This third Theban play sees the daughter of Oedipus commit suicide.
Answer:  Antigone
C.	[10]  This man, the assumed ruler of Thebes for most of Antigone, loses his son Haemon and wife Eurydice in the play.  Suicide was big back then.
Answer:  Creon

10.	There is a trio of villainous creatures spawned from 80s sci-fi films that were often later portrayed in comic books as them "versus" something else.  For 5 points for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, or 30 for all four:
A.	First, name the acid-blooded creatures that Ellen Ripley killed throughout a "Quadrilogy".
Answer:  Aliens or xenomorphs
B.	These creatures have met on the big screen against Aliens.  Name these honorable hunters, one of whom fought Dutch Schaefer in the jungle.
Answer:  Predators
C.	It has only fought the other creatures in comic books, not films, but name this android from the future that first tries to kill, then later protect, Sarah Connor.
Answer:  Terminator or T-800 or Model 101
D.	Two actors have the distinction of being killed or destroyed on film by an Alien, a Predator, and a Terminator - in different movies, though.  Name either.
Answer:  Lance Hendriksen or Bill Paxton
	(For the curious nerds:  in the comic book battle of all three, the Aliens won in general, everyone blew up on a ship, and Ripley destroyed the single escaping Terminator)

11.	The King of Clubs wants his son to marry.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this opera in which a prince finds a bride bursting out from citrus fruit.  Its "March" makes fairly regular rotation among high school bands.
Answer:  The Love for Three Oranges  (all underlined parts needed; some may say "of" instead of "for")
B.	[10]  The Love for Three Oranges was composed by this Russian, also known for a ballet adaptation of Romeo and Juliet scored in the 1930s.
Answer:  Sergei Prokofiev
C.	[10]  The three oranges in question each carried a fairy.  The Prince opened two too early, but the third became his princess.  What did the Prince have to be near before opening an orange?
Answer:  a fountain or river or water (accept most things that refer to fresh water)

12.	On March 3, 2005, four officers were killed in the deadliest incident for the RCMP in decades.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this Alberta town near which James Roszko stood off with police.
Answer:  Mayerthorpe (or Whitecourt)
B.	[10]  The large raid that day occurred as a result of discoveries made the previous day.  What did two local bailiffs have a warrant to seize the day before?
Answer:  a stolen vehicle (specifically, a Ford pickup truck)
C.	[10]  Unfortunately, the four officers conducting the drug seizure raid were unprepared for the gunfight.  Name any one of the four officers that lost their life that day.
Answer:  Peter Schiemann, Leo Johnston, Anothony Gordon, or Brock Myrol 

13.	It was formed from a circle of treaties in the years before WWI.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this partnership between England, France, and Russia.
Answer:  the Triple Entente
B.	[10]  A building block of the Triple Entente was this 1904 agreement between England and France that has, so far, marked the end of military hostility between the two countries.
Answer:  the Entente Cordiale  (prompt on English translations like "friendly understanding")
C.	[10]  The agreement that completed the Triple Entente, the Anglo-Russian Entente, partitioned what region into British and Russian spheres of influence?
Answer:  Persia  (accept "Iran", prompt on "Middle East")

14.	Disorders arise when there are three chromosomes instead of the usual two.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Probably the most recognizable trisomy, Down syndrome is the presence of an extra chromosome of what number?
Answer:  21
B.	[10]  This trisomy usually causes heart and esophagus failure, and is often fatal within the first year of life.  Name this disorder associated with chromosome 18.
Answer:  Edwards syndrome
C.	[10]  The sex chromosomes are also frequent trisomies.  One form, named after a doctor, causes boys to have reduced testosterone levels.  Name the syndrome associated with XXY.
Answer:  Klinefelter's syndrome

15.	They generally focus on a few issues, some of which may not be addressed by the major parties.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Give the collective name for these political parties.  In the United States, none have gained a vote in the electoral college since 1972.
Answer:  third parties
B.	[10]  In parliamentary systems, third parties may be able to wield enough strength to limit the party in power unless a coalition or cooperation forms.  Give the name for this limited power, experienced in Canada through parts of the 1920s, 1960s, and 2000s.
Answer:  minority government
C.	[10]  Though they sat with the Liberals, the first "third party" in Canada was this party based in Nova Scotia and led by Joseph Howe.  They ran in the 1867 election as opposition to their province joining Canada.
Answer:  Anti-Confederation Party

16.	It is a style of poem which is usually split into three lines in English.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this Japanese poetry form with 17 syllables.
Answer:  haiku
B.	[10]  This Meiji Period poet coined the term "haiku" to distinguish the modern style from the older hokku.
Answer:  Masaoka Shiki (Tsunenori)
C.	[10]  This Edo Period samurai and poet was a prolific author of hokku, and is known for his collection The Narrow Road to Oku.
Answer:  Matsuo Basho  (accept either name, but "Basho" is more familiar)

17.	Answer these questions about a way of presenting art, for ten points each:
A.	[10]  What is the name given to a set of three paintings or carvings fixed together as panels, usually intended to be opened like cabinet doors?
Answer:  triptych  ["trip-tik"]
B.	[10]  This triptych by Bosch, usually named after the central painting, displays a collection of humans and animals, surrounded to the left by a depiction of the Garden of Eden, and Hell to the right.
Answer:  The Garden of Earthly Delights
C.	[10]  The Modena Triptych has been controversially attributed to this Renaissance artist, best known for The Burial of Count Orgaz.
Answer:  El Greco, or Domenikos Theotokopoulos (accept any underlined name)

18.	The structural work of China's largest engineering project was completed last year, with full hydroelectric capacity expected to be reached in 2009.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name the largest hydroelectric dam in the world.
Answer:  Three Gorges Dam (or Changjiang Sanxia Da Ba)
B.	[10]  The Three Gorges Dam is also expected to control the annual flooding of what major Chinese river?
Answer:  Yangtze River or Changjiang
C.	[10]  When it reaches full capacity, the Three Gorges Dam will overtake the generation of what dam shared between Brazil and Paraguay, currently the largest single producer of hydroelectricity in the world?
Answer:  Itaipu

19.	It ran for eight seasons on ABC, peaking at #1 in the ratings in 1979.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this sitcom starring John Ritter, Suzanne Somers, and Joyce DeWitt as roommates.
Answer:  Three's Company
B.	[10]  Suzanne Somers left the show in 1981 after contract disputes.  Name the character she portrayed, who eventually disappeared to Fresno.
Answer:  Chrissy Snow  (accept either name)
C.	[10]  The series finale concludes with Jack moving out to live with his girlfriend.  As they get ready for their first night together, the woman's father shows up and announces that he is their new landlord.  Name this girlfriend who appears in the final three episodes.
Answer:  Vicky Bradford (accept either name)

20.	It saw the utter destruction of Carthage.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Name this final war between Rome and Carthage, in which a symbolic peace treaty was signed more than 2000 years later.
Answer:  Third Punic War (prompt on "Punic" or "Roman-Carthaginian")
B.	[10]  Name the Roman general that led the razing of Carthage.
Answer:  Scipio Aemilianus or Scipio the Younger  (prompt on "Scipio")
C.	[10]  Rome began the war after they disapproved of a small war between Carthage and what territory?
Answer:  Numidia  (accept "Berbers")

21.	Given some "tri-cities" from across the world, name two of the three cities for five points each:
A.	[5, 5]  The Research Triangle, home to the University of North Carolina and Duke, consists of these cities in central North Carolina.
Answer:  Raleigh, Durham, Chapel Hill (accept any two of three)
B.	[5, 5]  Tripoli, Lebanon, takes its name from these ancient ports used by the Phoenicians.
Answer:  Arados, Sidon, Tyre  (accept any two of three; Acre was not considered one of the three ports)
C.	[5, 5]  In Poland, the metropolitan area of "Tricity" consists of these northern ports on the Baltic.
Answer:  Gdansk (or Danzig), Gdynia (or Gotenhafen), Sopot  (accept any two of three)

22.	They are about twice as prevalent among men rather than women, and in the past, it has been claimed as a sign of a witch.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  Polythelia ["pah-lee-thee-lee-ah"]  refers to presence of three or more of what body part?
Amswer:  nipples  (accept "breasts", because there is underlying tissue in several cases)
B.	[10]  This villain is probably the most famous example of a man with three nipples.  Name the Man with the Golden Gun from the James Bond series.
Answer:  Francisco Scaramanga 
C.	[10]  While most third nipples appear along a "milk line" on the chest, this part of the body distant from the chest sees an unusually high number of third nipples as well, where they are often confused as warts.
Answer:  the foot

23.	There are three common subatomic particles:  the proton, neutron, and electron.  For ten points each:
A.	[10]  What name is given to the atom that has one of each particle?
Answer:  deuterium (prompt on "hydrogen" or "hydrogen-2")
B.	[10]  Two atoms have an atomic weight of 3.  One is helium-3.  What name is given to the other?
Answer:  tritium (prompt on "hydrogen-3")
C.	[10]  It is often used as a basis for making tritium.  What atom has three protons, three neutrons, and three electrons?
Answer:  Lithium-6  (both underlined parts required; no common name is known to the author)







Pictures for bonus 4
A.	
B.	
C.	
VETO 2007:  Ben's packet
Questions by:  Ben Smith 

