VETO 2006 Packet
Humboldt's Woolly Monkey (aka UWO Alumni) packet by Jonathan Altman, Adam Bishop, Bridget Ker, and Matt Trudgen

TOSSUPS

1. He campaigned in Gaul, where he recaptured Cologne and defeated the Alamanni at Strasbourg.  Ammianus Marcellinus says he died in battle with the Persians when he refused to wear armour.  Earlier he had attempted to rebuild the Temple in Jerusalem, but fireballs supposedly interrupted construction.  For ten points, name this last pagan Roman emperor, nicknamed the Apostate.
Answer: JULIAN the Apostate (or Flavius Claudius JULIANUS)

2. This effect was first demonstrated in 1880 by Pierre and Jacques Curie.  Its formula is electrical displacement equals permittivity times electric field strength, combined with Hooke's Law. The effect is used, for example, in sonar, quartz clocks, and crystal microphones. For ten points, name this effect in which crystals acquire a charge in response to applied mechanical stress.
Answer: PIEZOELECTRIC effect or PIEZOELECTRICITY

3. He was caught after disguised himself as a salmon, and was chained to three boulders, under a poisonous venom-dripping snake. The venom was caught in a bowl by his wife Sigyn.  The father of Fenrir, the Midgard Serpent, and Hel, for ten points, name this Norse giant, whose punishment was a result of causing the death of Baldur.
Answer: LOKI

4. Japeth Noyes has blue skin and an 11-year old wife.  Ham Noyes marries Lucy, Lucifer in disguise.  Their mother's blind cat Mottyl narrates part of the story.  They are all on an ark, where all the demons and unicorns die and the other animals lose the power of speech due to the negligence of the obsessively holy Noah.  For ten points, name this retelling of the Biblical Flood, Timothy Findley's fifth novel.
Answer: NOT WANTED ON THE VOYAGE

5. It contains ketone and two methyl branches. It is thermogenic and can reduce muscle spasms, but it usually regulates the effects of estrogen and inhibits lactation.  It can be produced in the brain but is usually found in the corpus luteum and the placenta. For ten points, name this steroid hormone important in the menstrual cycle and embryogenesis.
Answer: PROGESTERONE

6. This country has its origins in the medieval Duchy of Duklja, and the later Principality of Zeta, which was semi-autonomous under the Ottoman Empire.  Its native name is Crna Gora, which, like its English name, translates as "black mountain".  With its capital at Podgorica, for ten points, name this recently independent country, the newest member of the United Nations.
Answer: Republic of MONTENEGRO

7. Its name derives from the Mi'kmaq word meaning "land's end".  It is the northern extension of the Appalachian mountains, and is separated from New Brunswick by the Chaleur Bay and the Restigouche river. Together with the Magdalen Islands it makes up one of the administrative regions of Quebec.  For ten points, name this peninsula extending into the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
Answer: the GASPÉ or LA GASPÉSIE

8. He entered the British House of Commons as an Irish peer in 1807.  Initially a Tory, he served as secretary of war from 1809 to 1828 before breaking with the party over parliamentary reform.  As foreign secretary in 1850 he blockaded Greece to compensate a British citizen whose home had been destroyed in a riot.  For ten points, name this man who served as British prime minister from 1855 to 1858 and again from 1859 until his death in 1865. 
Answer: Lord PALMERSTON (Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount PALMERSTON)

9. They formerly traded in slaves, and built elaborate canoes which may have taken them as far as California and the Bering Sea. Their society is divided into matrilineal clans within two moieties, the Raven and the Eagle. The Tlingit called them Deikeena, "the people who live far out at sea."  For ten points, name this native culture which inhabits the Queen Charlotte Islands.
Answer: HAIDA

10. Lesser known cycles of these concern the First Crusade and Doon de Mayence. Jean Bodel divided them into the Matter of Rome, concerning the Trojan War, Alexander, and other ancient subjects; the Matter of Britain, concerning Arthurian legends; and the Matter of France, concerning Charlemagne and his knights.  For ten points, name this type of medieval literature, the earliest and most famous of which is the Chanson de Roland. 
Answer: CHANSONS DE GESTE

11. Their first album Watoosh! was released in 1998 under the name Pezz.  They then changed their name to that of the guitarist in Hard Core Logo.  Their first self-titled album was released in 2003, and their second, also self-titled, album was released in June.  For ten points, name this band led by Ben Kowalewicz, with songs such as Try Honesty, The River Below, and Devil in a Midnight Mass. 
Answer: BILLY TALENT

12. The Arabic equivalent is the musdar, which can also be used in an infinitive verbal sense. In Latin it has no nominative form, and only appears only in the singular of the other cases. In German it is formed by making a neuter noun out of the infinitive verb.  For ten points, name this type of verbal noun which in English is formed by adding the -ing suffix to a verb.
Answer: GERUND

13. It was performed by Hans Geiger and Ernst Marsden in 1909.  They proved that there was a small, concentrated positive charge within the nucleus of an atom, by bombarding metal foil with alpha particles from radium bromide gas. For ten points, name this experiment directed by Ernest Rutherford, which disproved the "plum pudding" model of the atom.
Answer: GOLD-FOIL experiment

14. In the upper left, only one person with his back turned does not take part in the ceremony. The stormy weather outside blows the window curtains into the hall. The focus of the hundreds of spectators, with their arms raised, is directed to the centre, where Jean Sylvain Bailly orates on a table above them.  For ten points, name this sketch by Jacques-Louis David depicting an event from June 20, 1789.
Answer: THE TENNIS COURT OATH

15. Construction was completed in May 2006, but it is not expected to be fully operational until 2009.  It has submerged artifacts from the ancient Ba states, and will displace a million or more people.  Journalist Dai Qing was imprisoned for protesting against it.  First proposed by Sun-Yat Sen in 1919, for ten points, name this dam on the Yangtze River.
Answer: THREE GORGES Dam

16. She brags of her supposed sophistication and is described as having a voice "full of money".  She wept when she learned she had a daughter, Pammy, who spends most of her time with the nanny. Although she promised to wait for the title character, after the war she married Tom Buchanan, whose mistress she later kills in a hit-and-run accident.  For ten points, name this woman, Nick Carraway's cousin and the object of Jay Gatsby's unrequited love. 
Answer: DAISY Buchanan

17. It was developed by Boeing and the University of Michigan's Aeronautical Research Center, beginning in the 1940s. Only 14 launch sites were constructed, 2 of which were in Canada, at North Bay, Ontario and La Macaza, Quebec, but this was extremely controversial because the missiles would be equipped with nuclear warheads. For ten points, name this surface-to-air missile system, which played a major role in the fall of the Diefenbaker government in 1963.
Answer: BOMARC

18. Its largest islands are Likoma and Chizumulu. It is emptied by the Shire River, which flows into the Zambezi.  Discovered by David Livingstone, it is the most southerly lake in the Great Rift Valley and is also known as Lake Nyasa.  Bordered by Mozambique and Tanzania, for ten points, name this lake bordered to the east by its namesake country. 
Answer: Lake MALAWI (accept Lake NYASA before it is mentioned)

19. It is a Petrarchian sonnet, in which the author compares the title action to the discovery of Uranus, as well as the discovery of the Pacific, which is mistakenly attributed to Cortes.  It was written after the author read the title work with his friend Charles Clarke.  For ten points, name this 1816 poem by John Keats, about an English translation of the Odyssey and the Iliad. 
Answer: ON FIRST LOOKING INTO CHAPMAN'S HOMER

20. In the course of this council, Amadeus VIII of Savoy was elected as Antipope Felix V, and negotiations with envoys from Emperor John VIII Palaeologus to reunite the Catholic and Orthodox churches collapsed.  It was presided by Eugenius IV after the death of Martin V.  Moving successively to Ferrara, Florence, and Lausanne, for ten points, name this church council lasting from 1431 to 1447.
Answer: Council of BASEL (accept Council of FERRARA or Council of FLORENCE before mentioned)

EXTRAS

21. Founded in 1800, alumni include Ari Fleischer, Eve Ensler, and Snake. It is the home of the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference, founded in 1926 by Robert Frost.  Famous for its schools of environmental studies and international studies, and language, for ten points, name this liberal arts college in Vermont.
Answer: MIDDLEBURY College

22. It was directed by Roger DeBris, with Lorenzo St. Dubois, or LSD, playing the title role.  Written by Franz Liebkind, it was intended to close as a flop after the first night, so that the money raised for it could be stolen by Leo Bloom and Max Bialystock.  For ten points, name this fictional musical staged in The Producers. 
Answer: SPRINGTIME FOR HITLER: A Gay Romp With Adolf and Eva at Berchtesgaden

23. It was meant to require few staff, perhaps even none at all, because they would never be seen.  It would have used a circular building with a central tower, and although it was never built it inspired similar buildings. It was used as a metaphor in Discipline and Punish by Michel Foucault.  For ten points name this prison envisioned by Jeremy Bentham.
Answer: PANOPTICON

24. This work begins by asking whether the conclusion that life is meaningless necessarily leads one to commit suicide. However, the author concludes it is possible to accept it and live "with the absurd," in a world devoid of meaning or purpose.  For ten points, name this philosophical work by Albert Camus, whose title refers to the character who was forced to repeatedly push a heavy rock up a hill in Tartarus.
Answer: THE MYTH OF SISYPHUS


BONUSES

1. For ten points each answer these questions about a work of Chinese literature.
a. In this work a Buddhist monk travels to India to obtain sacred texts.
Answer: JOURNEY TO THE WEST or HSI YU CHI
b. The monk, Xuanzang, is accompanied by Sha Wujing and these two kinds of animals, named Sun Wukong and Zhu Bajie.
Answer: a MONKEY and a PIG
c. Xuanzang rides this animal instead of a horse.
Answer: a DRAGON

2. For ten points each identify these types of economic goods. 
a. This kind of good is used to produce other goods, such as a factory or an oven.
Answer: CAPITAL good
b. This kind of good provides service for a long period of time rather than wearing out quickly or after one use, such as a car or computer.
Answer: DURABLE good
c. This kind of hypothetical good for which demand increases as its price rises.
Answer: GIFFEN good

3. For ten points each answer these questions about various recent disasters in Indonesia.
a. It is the most active volcano in Indonesia and has recently started to erupt again.
Answer: Mount MERAPI
b. This city on the northern tip of Sumatra was devastated by the 2004 earthquake and tsunami. 
Answer: BANDA ACEH
c. Suicide attacks at this resort island in 2002 killed over 200 people, including 88 Australians.  There were further bombings in 2005.
Answer: BALI

4. For ten points each answer these questions about rulers and their strange behaviour towards the sea.
a. In 480 BC, this Persian emperor ordered the Bosporus to be whipped with 300 lashes from a chain, when stormy weather prevented him from building a bridge of boats across it.
Answer: XERXES I
b. This 11th century Danish king of England was said to have proved the humanity of kings when the sea disobeyed his order to stop rising.
Answer: CANUTE
c. Ancient and medieval legends surrounding this man claimed that while traveling through Cilicia, the sea receded from him in proskynesis.
Answer: ALEXANDER the Great or ALEXANDER III of Macedon

5. For ten points each identify these canals.
a. This canal connects the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, cutting through the Jutland peninsula.
Answer: KIEL Canal
b. This canal connects the Saronic Gulf to the Aegean Sea through the isthmus connecting the Peloponnese to the rest of Greece.
Answer: CORINTH Canal
c. The oldest canal in North America still in use, it was originally intended as a supply route for the British in case of an American invasion of Canada.
Answer: RIDEAU Canal

6. For ten points each, identify these dimensionless numbers used in physics.
a. This number is the ratio of gravitational force to viscous force.
Answer: ARCHIMEDES' number
b. This number is the ratio of transverse contraction strain to longitudinal extension strain in the direction of stretching force.
Answer: POISSON's ratio
c. This number is the ratio of dynamic pressure to shearing stress. Laminar flow occurs when the number is low, turbulent flow occurs when it is high. 
Answer: REYNOLDS number

7. To fulfill VETO's requirement for FUN!!!!11eleven, here is an action bonus.  Given the song title, perform the title action for fifteen points.  In the unfortunate event that you cannot perform the action, name the artist for five points.
a. Blow Up the Outside World
Answer: SOUNDGARDEN
b. Dig a Pony
Answer: The BEATLES

8. For ten points each identify these Christian relics of Christ.
a. It was first discovered by Helena, mother of Constantine the Great. John Calvin remarked that there were enough pieces of it to build a ship.
Answer: TRUE CROSS
b. Saint Louis bought it from Constantinople and constructed the Sainte-Chapelle for it.  Its branches may have been woven together with reeds.
Answer: CROWN OF THORNS
c. This relic is not attested in the Bible, but is believed to be the cloth with which a faithful woman wiped Christ's face.
Answer: VEIL OF VERONICA or SUDARIUM OF VERONICA

9. For ten points each, given a list of works, name the composer.
a. Armide, Orfeo ed Euridice, Iphigénie en Tauride
Answer: Christoph Willibald GLUCK
b. Brandenburgers in Bohemia, The Two Widows, the Bartered Bride
Answer: Bedrich SMETANA
c. Lucrezia Borgia, Anna Bolena, Lucia di Lammermoor
Answer: Gaetano DONIZETTI

10. For ten points each name these American secretaries of war.
a. This man, who served in the Mexican American War, was Secretary of War under Franklin Pierce from 1853 to 1857, although he was indicted for treason in 1866.
Answer: Jefferson DAVIS
b. This man was Secretary of War for most of the Civil War under Lincoln, and then under Andrew Jackson until 1868.
Answer: Edward M. STANTON
b. This man was Secretary of State from 1905 to 1909, and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1912. He was Secretary of War under McKinley and Roosevelt from 1899 to 1903.
Answer: Elihu ROOT

11. For ten points each identify these SI base units.
a. This is the base unit of electric currency.
Answer: AMPERE
b. This is the base unit for the amount of a particular substance.
Answer: MOL
c. This is the base unit of luminous intensity.
Answer: CANDELA

12. For ten points each identify these southern hemisphere cities.
a. This city, the capital of Western Australia, is one of the most isolated in the world.
Answer: PERTH
b. This city in Chile on the Strait of Magellan is the world's most southerly city.  Its name comes from words meaning "Sandy Point" in Spanish.
Answer: PUNTA ARENAS
c. The most populous city in the southern hemisphere is this capital of Indonesia.
Answer: JAKARTA

13. For ten points each, given the name of a goalkeeper who played at the recent World Cup, name the country for which they played.
a. Shaka Hislop
Answer: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
b. Andreas Isaksson
Answer: SWEDEN
c. Oswaldo Sanchez
Answer: MEXICO

14. For ten points each, given the titles of short story collections, name the author.
a. The Man With Two Left Feet, Meet Mr. Mulliner, Blandings Castle.
Answer: P.G. WODEHOUSE
b. I Sing the Body Electric, The Cat's Pyjamas, R is for Rocket.
Answer: Ray BRADBURY
c. Bagombo Snuff Box, Canary in a Cat House, Welcome to the Monkey House.
Answer: Kurt VONNEGUT

15. For ten points each identify these Jungian archetypes.
a. This is the archetype of the wise father-figure, from the Latin for "old man".
Answer: SENEX
b. This is the feminine side of the masculine unconscious mind, from the Latin for "soul".
Answer: ANIMA (animus is the masculine side of the feminine)
c. This is the creative and instinctual energy, often characterized as sexual energy, from the Latin for "desire".
Answer: LIBIDO

16. For ten points each identify these Turkic tribes in Europe and the Near East in the Middle Ages.
a. Their capital was at Atil on the Volga.  In the 7th century they were converted to Judaism.
Answer: KHAZARS
b. They arrived in the Near East in the 11th century, and eventually set up the independent Sultanate of Rum in Anatolia, with their capital at Iconium.
Answer: SELJUKS
c. The Russians gave this name to the Turkic Mongolian invaders in the 13th century.  They made up the Golden Horde, as well as the Astrakhan and Kazan khanates.
Answer: TATARS

17. For ten points each, given a list of plays from the English Restoration, name the author.
a. The Relapse, The Provoked Wife
Answer: John VANBRUGH
b. The Old Bachelor, Love for Love, The Way of the World
Answer: William CONGREVE
c. The Country Wife, The Plain-Dealer
Answer: William WYCHERLEY

18. For ten points each, given the formula of an inorganic compound, name the compound.
a. CuSO4
Answer: COPPER(II) SULFATE
b. Na2CO3
Answer: SODIUM CARBONATE
c. NH4Cl
Answer: AMMONIUM CHLORIDE

19. For ten points each, identify the following characters from the Iliad.
a. He was the father of Hector and King of Troy.
Answer: PRIAM
b. He was Agamemnon's brother and the husband of Helen.
Answer: MENELAUS
c. Achilles battled this river-god during his attack on Troy.
Answer: SCAMANDER or XANTHUS

20. Identify the following Eastern European monarchs FTPE:
a. Emperor of Austria from 1835 and king of Hungary from 1830, he was controlled by Metternich until he abdicated the throne in 1848.
Answer: FERDINAND I
b. During the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-78, he proclaimed the independence of Romania and was crowned its first king in 1881.
Answer: CAROL I
c. This Bulgarian king from 1918-43 allied with the axis powers during World War II, and was reportedly assassinated by German agents.
Answer: BORIS III

21. 30-20-10, name the author from works.
a. (30) Future of a Ruined Germany, Looking Back on the Spanish War
b. (20) A Clergyman's Daughter, Burmese Days
c. (10) Homage to Catalonia, The Road to Wigan Pier.
Answer: George ORWELL

22. Answer these questions about the recently discovered moons of Pluto.
a. For ten points, the two new moons were discovered using this soon-to-be-retired orbiting telescope.
Answer: HUBBLE Space Telescope
b. For ten points each, name the two moons.
Answer: NIX and HYDRA
