VETO 2010
Packet by Mike Bentley, Chris Grubb, Alejandro Lopez-Lago

Tossups:

1) His final complete composition was done in a competition with men like Jacques Ibert for a George W. Pabst film about Don Quixote.  He tried to emulate "birds lost in the torpor of a dark forest" in the "Sad Birds" section of his 1905 work, Miroirs.  He also wrote the ballet, Daphnis et Chloe.  His best known work was commissioned for Ida Rubinstein and features a notoriously repetitive crescendo.  For 10 points, name this French composer of Bolero.
ANSWER: (Joseph)-Maurice Ravel

2) Its Provisional Decrees 442 was issued in response to the 2008 financial shock, and, last year, its president proposed creating Petrosal to manage its rich deepwater oil wells.  In 2009, its Supreme Court expelled all non-Indians from a reservation in its Roraima state, while in 2005 it faced a "monthly allowance" scandal with ties to former president Jose Genoino.  Currently led by Lula, for 10 points, name this home of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio.
ANSWER: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]

3) In non-avian animals this chemical acts as an agonist for the TRPV1 vanilloid receptor.  It is waxy white organic solid in its pure form, and, surprisingly, may interfere with Helicobacter Pylori to prevent peptic ulcers.  It's also used in small doses in over-the-counter arthritis remedies to interfere with Substance P.  Rated at sixteen million on the Scoville heat scale, for ten points, name this chemical that gives pepper spray and Habaneros their kick.
ANSSWER: capsaicin or 8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide

4) A character nicknamed "The Tank" hates vegetarians in this work, while it also contains a musician named Wee Willie Winkie.  One character becomes the owner of a pickle factory and changes her name to become Mrs. Braganza.  The chief antagonist of this work is known for his powerful knees, while the hero has the ability to read minds.  For 10 points, name this novel centering on people born in 1947 like Shiva and Saleem Sinai, written by Salman Rushide.
ANSWER: Midnight's Children

5) One ritual practiced by the poets of this kingdom was to dress up as thrushes and recite poems to their ruler.  Its constitution was called the Kourourkan-Fouga and the University of Sankore was built during this empire's existence.  It revolted against Sumanguru Kante, the Soso king, and is sometimes called Kangaba.  Its Bure goldfields were the source of the wealth distributed by Mansa Musa.  For 10 points, name this kingdom founded by Sundiata.
ANSWER: Mali Empire [accept Kangaba before mentioned]

6) WikiTravel suggests you check out the Elmwood Heritage Inn and the Gahan House in this city, while Lewis Point Park resides on a peninsula in its West Royalty section.  Inkerman Drive is one of the streets that runs through a neighborhood partially separated from the rest of this city called Brighton.  Its Province House was where a namesake unification conference was held in 1864, and it can be reached by the Confederation Bridge.  For 10 points, name this capital of Prince Edwards Island.
ANSWER: Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island

7) One member of this dynasty was killed by Balthasar Gerard.  Following the death of Philibert de Chalon, this dynasty's possessions were combined with those of the Nassau's.  One member of this dynasty ruled from 1568 until 1584, fought the Duke of Alba and was known as the Silent; another was installed with his wife Mary on the English throne following the Glorious Revolution.  For 10 points, name this dynasty that ruled over the Netherlands. ANSWER: House of Orange [or Orange Dynasty or equivalents]

8) In 2004 and 2005, he won back to back SAP Opens in San Diego, while from 2006 until 2008 he was coached by Jimmy Connors.  He defeated Dmitry Tursunov of Russia in the Finals of the 2007 Davis Cup and is the husband of swimsuit model Brooklyn Decker.  His only Grand Slam title came over Juan Carlos Ferrero, and he lost the fifth set 14-16 in the finals of 2009's Wimbledon to give Roger Federer the victory.  For 10 points, name this hard-serving American athlete.
ANSWER: Andrew Stephen "Andy" Roddick

9) This work mocks Schopenhauer for claiming to be a pessimist while actually being a flautist.  The claim that there are only interpretations of moral phenomena appears in its "Apothegms and Interludes."  It complains about Europe's "hypocrisy of the commanding class" and argues that only the mediocre can reproduce. Followed by Thus Spoke Zarathustra, for 10 points, name this Friedrich Nietzsche work that discusses a morality of the titular type.
ANSWER: Beyond Good and Evil [accept Jenseits von Gut und Boese]

10) A 1966 Biochemistry paper on them led to ones like PIPES and HEPES being described as "Good".  Lawrence Henderson studied the action of carbon dioxide as one of these,  while their namesake "capacity" is equal to the reciprocal slope of the titration curve and maximal at the equivalence point. Described by the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, for 10 points, name these mixtures of an acid and its conjugate base, which causes a solution to resist changes in pH.
ANSWER: Buffer solution [or buffering agent; accept Good's buffers before mentioned)

11) For seventy months, he produced The Hypochondriack essays for the London Journal, while his legal support for the Douglas Cause provided the spark for his only novella: Dorando, A Spanish Tale.  A notable advocate for Corsican independence, his Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides recounts his travels with a certain person of whose Literary Club he was a member. For 10 points, name this Scotch-English journalist, poet and pamphleteer behind the biography, Life of Johnson.
Answer: James Boswell

12) While serving under Thomas Aubert, he probably explored the mouth of the St. Lawrence.  After departing from Dieppe on his final voyage, he and his brother Girolamo were eaten by cannibals on the island of Guadeloupe.  Earlier, he discovered Block Island and New York Harbor while sailing for Francis I on his ship, La Dauphine.  For 10 points, name this explorer who, with Henry Hudson, now lends his name to a bridge in New York City.
ANSWER: Giovanni da Verrazzano

13) Silbo Gomero is a whistling language once used by the Guanches, a people of this Autonomous Community.  Horatio Nelson lost his right arm in a failed assault on its capital. Measured from its base, it contains the world's third highest mountain, Mount Teide [TAY-dee], as well as the islands Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. For 10 points, name this Spanish archipelago 100 kilometers off West Africa, with capitals at Las Palmas and Santa Cruz de Tenerife.
ANSWER: Canary Islands or Islas Canarias

14) Saints Ansanus and Giulitta flank Simone Martini's version of this scene set on a gold background.  The central figure wears red next to a table with perspective problems in the Master of Flemalle's version in the Merode Altarpiece.  In the depiction of it on the outer panels of the Ghent Altarpiece, a dove can be seen above the woman while holy text proceeds from the angel on the left.  For 10 points, name this scene where Mary learns she's bearing Jesus.
ANSWER: Annunciation

15) One episode of this show saw Mayor Popowicz resist banning mixed-gender swimming and Layla pleading to be allowed to go trick-or-treating.  It contains a bigoted radio host named Fred Tupper, while Sarah converted from Anglicanism to marry Yasir.  Its first episode sees Toronto-based lawyer Ammar move to Mercy, Saskatchewan to become an imam.  For 10 points, name this Canadian TV show, whose title is a play on a series of books by Laura Ingalls Wilder.
ANSWER: Little Mosque on the Prairie

16) Bill Blair pushed for enforcement of the Public Works Protection Act during this event, and it failed to pass a measure named for Robin Hood.  It was held near a newly built artificial lake at the Exhibition Place, although it was originally to have taken place in Huntsville.  With a theme of "Recovery and New Beginnings", it failed to impose a global bank tax.  For 10 points, name this meeting of world leaders that recently took place Canada's largest city.
ANSWER: 2010 G20 Summit in Toronto Protests [accept equivalents that mention the two underlined answers, prompt on partial answers]

17) During the early 20th century, George Shull and Edward East studied heterosis in this organism. Nixtamalization helps to release niacin in this plant, while persons whose diet consists primarily of this vegetable may suffer from pellagra.  The basis for chicha, for 10 points, name this cultivar of teosinte which is grown in milpas along with beans and squash and whose transposable elements were studied by Barbara McClintock.
ANSWER: Maize or corn or Zea mays

18) One couplet in this poem goes, "But he does not win who plays with Sin / In the secret House of Shame".  Its penultimate section asserts, "For only blood can wipe out blood" and it earlier describes kind people who "use a knife, because / The dead so soon grow cold".  Elsewhere, it declares, "For each man kills the thing he loves / Yet each man does not die".  For 10 points, name this Oscar Wilde poem, influenced by the poet's time in prison.
ANSWER: "The Ballad of Reading Gaol"

19) In Canada, this decade witnessed the Battle of Ballantyne Pier in Vancouver.  In America, the cases of Norris and Powell v. Alabama were decided in this decade; both concerned the Scottsboro Boys.  The Abraham Lincoln Brigade fought in a conflict in this decade, and Alf Landon was a failed Republican nominee during it.  It witnessed the On-to-Ottawa Trek against Prime Minister R. B. Bennett.  For 10 points, name this decade in which FDR was first elected.
ANSWER: 1930s [prompt on "30s"]

20) One conflict in this book occurs when the Reubenites and the Gadites build a large altar across the Jordan River to remind future generations why they belong with God.  Kedesh and Bazer are made asylums for murderers in its 20th chapter, and chapters 13 to 21 deal with the division of land.  The city of Ai is captured only after Achan is stoned to death in it, and it sees the destruction of Canaan and Jericho.  For 10 points, name the sixth book of the Old Testament.
ANSWER: Book of Joshua

21) In one of his plays, Loomis loses his wife when he gets abducted by the title brother of the Governor of Tennessee.  In another, the ghost of Sutter prevents Boy Willie from selling a musical instrument belonging to his sister Berniece.  This playwright of Fullerton Street and Jitney also told of a jazz singer in Ma Rainey's Black Bottom.  For 10 points, name this African American playwright of the Piano Lesson and Fences, part of his Pittsburgh Cycle.
ANSWER: August Wilson

22) Mikhail Bakhtin criticized this man's theory by stating that "utterances" were also socially derived.  This man suggested avoiding the term "phoneme", although he did argue that Proto Indo-European contained now-gone phonemes called laryngeals.  His most famous work distinguishes the concepts of the signifier and the signified and introduced the terms parole and langue.  For 10 points, name this Swiss linguist known for his Course on General Linguistics.
ANSWER: Ferdinand de Saussure

23) This phenomenon is often compared to carrying a rain gauge while running: in order for raindrops to reach the bottom of the tube without striking the sides, the instrument must be held at an angle. Discovered by John Bradley in 1725, it was taken as evidence for a stationary ether.  It comes in secular, diurnal, and annual varieties, the latter of which causes the apparent position of the stars on the ecliptic to be shifted westward by 20.5 seconds of an arc. For ten points name this astronomical effect whereby the motion of an observer perpendicular to the observed causes the object's apparent position to change.
ANSWER: stellar (or astronomical) aberration

24) His promotion to director of the Paris Conservatory, a position he held until forced to retire by deafness, caused so many of his colleagues to resign that he was nicknamed "Robespierre". Best known for small scale works like his Violin Sonata and his Élégie for cello and orchestra, he did song cycles like La Bonne Chanson--based on the poetry of Paul Verlaine--and his subdued Requiem.  For ten points, name this quintessentially French composer noted for his Opus 50 Pavane.
ANSWER: Gabriel Urbain Fauré

25)  This taxon is unique among vertebrates in that its caudal fin is supported above the spine, resulting in a conspicuous downward turn of the vertebral column in fossil specimens.  One member of this order, ophthalmosaurus, had the largest eyes of any known vertebrate, and thanks to its bulk, was probably capable of holding its breath for more than twenty minutes. For 10 points, name this group of approximately 80 extinct diapsid reptiles, one of which is described in Jules Verne's Journey to the Center of the Earth, as as having "a porpoise's snout, a lizard's head," and "a crocodile's teeth."
ANSWER: Ichthyosauria 
Bonuses:

1) Name these experiments important for determining the structure of DNA, for 10 points each.
[10] These two scientists determined that DNA had a double helix structure by examining Rosalind Franklin's X-ray diffraction photographs.
ANSWER: James Watson and Francis Crick [accept reversed order]
[10] This early experiment found that injecting rats with a heated from of the lethal Streptococcus pneumoniae had no effect on rats; but injecting them with a mixture of the heated lethal bacteria and a nonlethal version killed them.  The transforming principle was used to explain the result.
ANSWER: Griffith Experiment
[10] This experiment found that DNA was responsible for genetic transfer..  The experimenters grew E. coli in environments with radioactive sulfur and phosphorus isotopes, infected them with the T2 bacteriophage, and then blended and separated the mixture.
ANSWER: Hershey-Chase Experiment

2) Its second verse ends, "And every spirit upon earth / Seemed fevourless as I".  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this poem, in which the titular animal "Had chosen thus to fling his soul / Upon the growing gloom."
ANSWER: "The Darkling Thrush" [or "By the Century's Deathbed"]
[10] "The Darkling Thrush" is one of the best known poems of this British author, whose novels include Tess of the d'Urbervilles and Return of the Native.
ANSWER: Thomas Hardy
[10] Although Jude the Obscure marries Arabella because she tells him she's pregnant, his true love is this cousin, who keeps putting off marrying him. ANSWER: Sue Bridehead [accept either underlined answer]

3) Identify the following about Chinese involvement in Africa, for 10 points each.
[10] In 2006, the Chinese offered a two billion dollar loan to the government of this country to dam the Zambezi River Vally.  Last year, Renamo/UE candidate Afonso Dhlakama lost to incumbent Armando Guebuza in the presidential race in this southeast African country.
ANSWER: Republic of Mozambique
[10] That loan to Mozambique came with a condition to allow Chinese citizens to start farms in the country.  Many such Chinese emigrants were displaced by the building of this dam, the largest hydroelectric dam in the world. ANSWER: Three Gorges Dam
[10] China has also signed a massive deal with this country to shore up copper and cobalt reserves.  Like many previous foreign powers, it will be basing its mining operations out of its second largest city of Lubumbashi. ANSWER: Democratic Republic of the Congo [or Republique democratique du Congo or Congo-Kinshasa or Zaire or DRC; prompt on "Congo"]

[Visual Bonus - Give Teams Attachment #1]
4) Visual Bonus.  Given an image from Henrik Lange's 90 Classic Books for People in a Hurry, identify the novel being described, for 10 points each.  You have 30 seconds before you must being your answer.
A: The Trial [or Der Prozess]
B: Der Steppenwolf
C: Our Man in Havana

5) Identify the following about some Canadian battles in the War of 1812, for 10 points each.
[10] American general Winfield Scott was injured in this nighttime battle fought on July 25th, 1814.  It ended up being the bloodiest battle of the war.
ANSWER: Battle of Lundy's Lane
[10] The battle named for this city, sometimes also called the Battle of Black Rock, also took place during the Niagara Campaign.  William McKinley was shot while attending the Pan-American Exposition in this Rainbow City.
ANSWER: Buffalo, New York
[10] This woman is credited with walking through American lines to warn the British of an imminent American attack on Beaver Dams in 1813.
ANSWER: Laura Ingersoll Secord

6) They are commonly represented in Chomsky Normal Form.  For 10 points each:
[10] Name this type of grammar which has a starting rule and rules that transform one non-terminal into a series of terminals and non-terminals.
ANSWER: Context-Free Grammar [or CFG or Type-2 grammar or Phrase Structure Grammar]
[10] This theorem can be used to show that a language cannot be generated by a context-free grammar.  It states that a string accepted by a context-free language must be able to be split up into five substrings that satisfy certain conditions such as having the length of the inner substrings combined be less than the namesake length.
ANSWER: Pumping Lemma for Context-Free Languages
[10] The automatons named for this man can represent languages that cannot be generated by context-free grammars.  This British scientist also names a theorem with Alonzo Church that no automaton could compute more problems than those machines.
ANSWER: Alan Mathison Turing

7) One work in this suite is a slow rendition of the Can-Can.  For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work that contains the movements "Fossils," which reuses parts the composer's Danse Macabre, and "Characters with Long Ears."
ANSWER: The Carnival of the Animals [accept Le Carnaval des Animaux]
[10] This Frenchman composed The Carnival of the Animals as well as the opera Samson and Delilah.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saëns
[10] This symphonic poem by Saint-Saëns describes a punishment endured by Hercules after killing Iphitus.  The horn representing the sound of the titular contraption.
ANSWER: Omphale's Spinning Wheel

8) Identify the following about some Canadian indie bands, for 10 points each.
[10] This group from Montreal recorded the songs "Two Men in New Tuxedos" and "Cave-o-Sapien" for their recently released album, Expo 86.  Most of their songs are written by Dan Boeckner and Spencer Krug.  
ANSWER: Wolf Parade
[10] They dominated the indie music scene in the mid-2000's with albums like Neon Bible and Funeral, and will soon be releasing The Suburbs.
ANSWER: Arcade Fire
[10] In addition to recording "Darkness on the Edge of Gastown" for the EP All Lies, this duo out of Vancouver have released the Juno-nominated album Post-Nothing.
ANSWER: Japandroids

9)  Eris was the daughter of Zeus and this being.  For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Greek goddess, the goddess of marriage, who drove Hercules temporarily insane.
ANSWER: Hera
[10] Hercules married this daughter of Hera and Zeus when he became a god.  She was one of the gods' cupbearers and is the goddess of youth.
ANSWER: Hebe
[10] This person replaced Hebe as the gods' cupbearer.  This Trojan was brought to Olympus by Zeus because of his beauty.  He is represented in the sky as Aquarius.
ANSWER: Ganymede

10) It takes its name from a governor of the Hudson's Bay Company who would later go on to become Lord Strathcona.  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this town near the Wood Buffalo National Park, located between Lake Athabasca and the Great Slave Lake on the Slave River.
ANSWER: Fort Smith
[10] With a population of less than 20,000, this city to the north of the Great Slave Lake is the largest of the Northwest Territories--it also replaced Fort Smith as the capital.
ANSWER: Yellowknife [or Somba K'e]
[10] The Northwest Territories share this island with Nunavet.  One of the Parry Islands, the McClure Strait separates it from Banks Island and it shares its name with the surname of the author of "Benito Cereno" and a short story about a law clerk who would "prefer not to".
ANSWER: Melville Island

11) One possible pathway in this process goes to a Berylium-7 isotope, then a Boron-8 isotope, then a Berylium-8 isotope before finally releasing 2 alpha particles.  For 10 points each:
[10] Name this fusion process which converts the namesake particles into one helium particle 69% of the time.
ANSWER: proton-proton chain
[10] The main branch of the proton-proton chain releases one of these nearly massless particles.  They are uncharged and are released in positron emission.
ANSWER: neutrinos
[10] For stars larger than the Sun this process is usually the main source of energy.  It cycles between its three namesake elements and generates 26.7 MeV per helium nucleus created.
ANSWER: Carbon-Nitrogen-Oxygen cycle [accept Carbon Fusion]

12) The title character at one point abducts Ingrid from her wedding.  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play that also features the Boyg and the Mountain King.
ANSWER: Peer Gynt
[10] Peer Gynt is a play by this author of The Master Builder and A Doll's House.
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen
[10] In this other Ibsen play, Pastor Manders convinces Mrs. Alving to not insure her orphanage since it would indicate she didn't trust Divine Providence.  Surprise!  It burns down and Osvald gets syphilis by the end of this play.
ANSWER: Ghosts

13) Answer some questions about the presidency of Richard Nixon, for 10 points each.
[10] Nixon was famously advised by this successor of William P. Rogers at Secretary of State.  He won the Nobel Peace Prize for ending the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Henry Alfred Kissinger
[10] This special prosecutor was ordered fired by Nixon during the Saturday Night Massacre.  He had earlier been JFK's Solicitor General.
ANSWER: Archibald Cox, Jr.
[10] One of the Nixon campaign's dirty tricks was sabotaging this Democratic candidate's presidential hopes in the 1972 Election with the Canuck Letter.
ANSWER: Edmund Sixtus "Ed" Muskie

[Visual Bonus - Give teams Attachment #2]
14) Visual bonus.  Identify the artist from the landscape they painted, for five points each.  You have 30 seconds before you must begin your answer.
A: Johannes Vermeer [or Jan Vermeer or Johan Vermeer]
B: El Greco [or The Greek or Domenikos Theotokopoulos]
C: Paul Cezanne
D: Pieter Cornelis "Piet" Mondrian
E: Nicolas Poussin
F: Vincent Van Gogh

15) Its origins trace back to a military camp established by Umar I, and some world conferences are held here in a "future history" by H. G. Wells titled The Shape of Things to Come.  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this port city, located on a bank of the Shatt Al-'Arab.
ANSWER: Basra [or Al-Basrah or Basorah]
[10] Basra is a city in this nation, also home to Tikrit.
ANSWER: Republic of Iraq
[10] Basra was the location of this battle in 656 CE.  It saw forces under A'ishah, a wife of Muhammad, clash with those of Ali.
ANSWER: Battle of the Camel

16) The struggle to let women participate in this event was chronicled in the ABC news story, "Restricted Airspace".  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this event, controversially the only Olympic winter sport to not let women compete.
ANSWER: Women's Ski Jumping
[10] The IOC, an organization based in this country, held fast in their stance that women shouldn't be allowed to compete in Vancouver.  This country notably lacks a true President or Prime Minister, although Doris Leuthard presides over the seven-member Federal Council.
ANSWER: Switzerland [or the Swiss Confederation]
[10] Although Justice Lauri Ann Fenlon felt that women were protected by this section of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedom, it didn't apply to the IOC.  The amendment of this number in the US Constitution was opposed by some feminists for not extending the vote to women.
ANSWER: Fifteen [or Fifteenth]

17) One character in this work dies after he falls off a ladder trying to recapture his pet parrot, and it begins with the revelation that Jeremiah has committed suicide.  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this novel in which Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza engage in the titular romance.
ANSWER: Love in the Time of Cholera [or El amor en los tiempos del colera]
[10] Love in the Time of Cholera is a novel by this Latin American author of One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
[10] In this most recent Gabriel Garcia Marquez novella, Professor Gloomy Hills looks forward to spending his 90th birthday sleeping with a 14-year-old virgin.
ANSWER: Memoirs of My Melancholy Whores

18) This man was appointed to his highest office to help relive a Roman army encircled by the Aequi on Mount Algidus.  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Roman dictator, who allegedly twice gave up the post of dictator to go back to his farm.
ANSWER: Lucius Quinctius Cincinnatus
[10] Another dictator of Rome was this rival of Marius, who fought in the Social War and launched his career by capturing Jugurtha.
ANSWER: Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix
[10] Sulla also fought a war against the sixth King of Pontus of this name, known as the Great.  Lucius Licinius Murena fought that same king of this name in 83 BCE.
ANSWER: Mithradates VI

[Visual Bonus - Give teams Attachment #3]
19) Visual Bonus.  Identify the comic strip characters from pictures, for five points each.  You have 20 seconds to begin your answer.
A: The Lockhorns
B: Sherman's Lagoon
C: Beetle Bailey
D: Sally Forth
E: Baby Blues
F: Rex Morgan, M.D.

20) Answer some questions about some Mexican rulers, for 10 points each.
[10] This general was supposed to attack Vicente Guerrero but instead joined him and created the Plan of Iguala.  He was crowned emperor of Mexico in 1821 but was executed a few years later.
ANSWER: Agustín Cosme Damian de Iturbide y Aramburu [or Agustin I]
[10] This man was the governor of Oaxaca before becoming president.  He reduced the power of the Church and the military through La Reforma and was the president during the French invasion of Mexico.
ANSWER: Benito Juárez
[10] Juarez put down a revolt led by this man in 1872.  He ran on a message of "no re-election" but reigned for 8 terms until he was ousted by Francisco Madero.
ANSWER: Porfirio Diaz

21) An early member of a group at this university wrote Risk, Uncertainty and Profit and was named Frank Knight.  For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Midwest university, home to a prominent school of Economics.
ANSWER: University of Chicago
[10] This Nobel laureate and member of the Chicago School is probably best known for his work The Nature of the Firm which investigates transaction costs.
ANSWER: Ronald Harry Coase
[10] This man's namesake paradox addresses the question of why money does not flow from rich to poor countries.  He's also known his application of Rational Expectations and for having a namesake critique.
ANSWER: Robert Emerson Lucas, Jr.

22) For ten points each, name these things that are really tall:
[10] This mountain on the Nepal-India border is the third tallest in the world. Because the people of Sikkim consider it sacred, mountaineers usually stop their ascent a few feet short of the summit.
ANSWER: Kanchenjunga [or Sewalungma]
[10] This green 180-meter tower, completed in 2004, replaced the historic Baltic Exchange building in London after the latter was irreparably damaged by an IRA bombing. It has been described as a "towering innuendo."
ANSWER: The Gherkin [or 30 St. Mary Axe or Swiss Re Building]
[10] This gigantic volcano also happens to be the tallest in the solar system.  It's located on a planet orbited by the moons Phobos and Deimos.
ANSWER: Olympus Mons [or Nix Olympica]

23) She later went on to share the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physics for her work on nuclear shell theory.  For ten points each:
[10] Identify this scientist whose 1931 doctoral dissertation described the quadratic relationship between light intensity and absorption cross-section in two-photon quantum transitions.
ANSWER Maria Göppert-Mayer
[10] An electron making a two-photon transition exists briefly in this kind of intermediate state, which is not a true eigenstate, but a superposition of states whose lifetime is inversely proportional to the energy difference between it and the original eigenstate.
ANSWER: virtual state
[10] In this two-photon process, an incident photon is absorbed and a second photon is scattered inelastically with a frequency shift that may be categorized as Stokes or anti-Stokes.
ANSWER: Raman scattering (accept Raman effect)

24) For ten points each, given a description of how they died, name the Christian martyr:
[10] Tied to a stake and peppered with arrows.  This has made him quite the gay icon.
ANSWER: Saint Sebastian
[10] Skin flayed off and then crucified upside-down.
ANSWER Saint Bartholomew
[10] Teeth violently pulled out--naturally making her the patron saint of dentistry.
ANSWER: Saint Apollonia
