VETO 2011
Packet by Mike Bentley, Chris Grubb and Colin McNamara

Tossups

1. Ulrika Eleonora and her husband Frederick I succeeded one monarch killed during this conflict. The Ottomans won the Battle of Pruth River in this war, while the Polish theatre in this war was resolved with the Treaty of Altranstadt which deposed Augustus the Strong. It also witnessed the naval Battle of Hanko. Concluded with the Treaty of Nystad, battles in this conflict included one fought at Poltava. For 10 points, name this conflict between Charles XII of Sweden and Peter the Great of Russia.
ANSWER: Second Great Northern War

2. Zheng and Pollock demonstrated the existence of a 100 micron-thick exclusion zone near solid interfaces with this susbstance, while a second critical point has been invoked to explain certain unusual properties of this substance in the supercooled state. The Mpemba effect implies it can sometimes freeze faster when hot than cold, and hydrogen bonding results in an unusually large dielectric constant which peaks at about 30¡C. For 10 points, name this molecule often called the universal solvent.
ANSWER: water [or dihydrogen monoxide or DHMO]

3. This contemporary of Thomas Girtin made an early watercolor called Salisbury Cathedral Seen from the Cloister. The influence of Claude Lorrain can be seen in his seascapes like Dido Building Carthage. He also painted Snow Storm -- Hannibal Crossing the Alps. In one of his works, a rabbit darts away from an oncoming train, while another shows hands rising up from shark-infested water. For 10 points, name this artist of Rain, Steam and Speed and The Slave Ship.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallord William Turner

4. It's not a snake, but one of these animals refused to weep when the Buddha died. Jacques Offenbach composed an operetta about one of these animals who is turned into a woman by Venus based on one of Aesop's fables. A goddess with the head of this animal was popular in Bubastis and was an eye of Ra. Besides forming the head of Bastet, winged forms of these animals draw the chariot of Freya. For 10 points, name this type of animal that appears in folk tales like the one about Puss in Boots.
ANSWER: Domestic Cat [or Feline or Felis catus or House Cat]

5. John W. Bengough depicted one man admitting his involvement in this event in a cartoon in the Grit, while Lucius Seth Huntington called for an investigation into it. The central politician in this event wrote a letter to Lord Dufferin explaining himself, placing the blame on George Cartier and failing to mention bribes given to him by Sir Hugh Allan. It brought down the first ministry of John A. Macdonald. For 10 points, name this scandal involving the building of a namesake railroad.
ANSWER: The Pacific Railroad Scandal [or the Pacific Slander if you happen to be on the payroll of the British Colonist and the year is 1872]

6. Alida Slade and Grace Ansley reflect on their pasts while in Italy in this author's short story, "Roman Fever". One of her protagonists is partially disinherited by Mrs. Peniston and gets in trouble after investing her money with Gus Trenor. Another novel by this author of The Custom of the Country sees the protagonist's marriage to May Welland tested by his love for Countess Olenska. For 10 points, name this author of The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence.
ANSWER: Edith Wharton

7. Fresh-water varieties of these creatures tend to produce asexually through clusters of cells called gemmules. Murrayonida are members of a class of these organisms called calcarea. The regular beating of flagellum in their collar cells allows these organisms to transfer nutrients. Classes of this phylum include hexactinellid, better known as the "glass" type of these creatures. They're not corals, but they do come in "reef" types. For 10 points, name these species, members of the phylum porifera.
ANSWER: Sponges [accept Porifera until the end]

8. Manfredi Nicoletti designed a petal-influenced blue concert hall for this city. A blue dome sits on top of a White House-inspired Presidential Palace in this city designed by Kurokawa Kisho. British architect Norman Foster designed a building in the shape of a pyramid called the Palace of Peace and Reconciliation for this city, which became the nation's capital after President Nursultan Nazarbayev ordered a move from Almaty. For 10 points, name this capital of Kazakhstan.
ANSWER: Astana [or Akmolinsk or Tselinograd or Aqmola]

9. One track on this album is set during "the summer that I broke my arm" and sees the singer in "a garden left for ruin by a billionaire inside of a private prison". The title track wonders "when all of the walls that they built in the '70s finally fall" whether it will mean "nothing at all". This album contains tracks like "City With No Children In It", "Rococo" and "Month of May". The follow-up to the band's Neon Bible, for 10 points, name this Grammy-winning album from Arcade Fire.
ANSWER: The Suburbs

10. Paul Farmer and Amy Goodman collaborated on a recent work by this man about "Getting Haiti Right". In a series of lectures on his "Miseducation", he attacked the media as a "bought priesthood". He updated Dwight Macdonald's inquiry of war guilt to the Vietnam era in "The Responsibility of Intellectuals". More recent works by this author include Failed States, Rogue States and Deterring Democracy. For 10 points, name radical political theorist, also an MIT linguistics professor.
ANSWER: (Avram) Noam Chomsky

11. A character named the Dauphin liked to annoy his poker playing buddies by reading chapters from this book aloud to them in Michael Ondaatje's Divisadero. The title character for a time secretly lives with Yugao, while his mother was enemies of Lady Kokiden. The title character's first wife is named Princess Aoi, and his death is symbolized in the blank chapter titled "Vanished into the Clouds". For 10 points, name this classic Japanese novel by Murasaki Shikibu.
ANSWER: The Tale of Genji [or Genji Monogatari]

12. Although he destroyed his Urbs Roma symphony, his youthful second symphony began with an Allegro marcato and re-used a second movement theme on the English horn in his first Cello Concerto in A minor. Music he heard in the village of Beskra influenced his Africa concerto, and his fifth piano concerto in F major is known as the Egyptian. His best known work, originally called Wedding Cake, opens with the "Royal March of the Lions." For 10 points, name this French composer of Carnival of the Animals.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saens

13. Charles Camsell lends his name to a river used to reach this body of water by E. A. Preble in 1903. Sub-regions of this body of water include the McTavish Arm. Gilbert LaBine found silver near this lake, and it later was an important source for uranium during World War II. Fort Franklin lies on the shore of this body of water, as does the community of Deline. The third largest lake in North America, for 10 points, name this lake, the largest lake located entirely within Canada.
ANSWER: Great Bear Lake [or Grand lac de l'Ours]

14. They're not objects, but languages like RPL and Forth exemplify programming languages with this type of orientation. An entity of this name can be "smashed" to exploit a security hole. Infinite recursion can cause overflow in an entity of this name. Programming languages for machines with this name often use Reverse Polish Notation. A data structure of this name supports operations like push and pop. For 10 points, give this name for a last in, first out data structure.
ANSWER: Call Stack

15. Early in this work, images like "barren crags" and "the rainy Hyades" are invoked. Its first section ends with the speaker desiring "to follow knowledge like a sinking star / Beyond the utmost bound of human thought". Later, the speaker tells his companions, "[it] is not too late to seek a newer world ... to sail beyond the sunset, and the baths" after unhappily returning home to Ithaca. For 10 points, name this 1842 Alfred, Lord Tennyson poem about a character chronicled by Homer.
ANSWER: "Ulysses"

16. This man recently joked that Gary Goodyear "probably thinks The Flintstones was a documentary series", and this man holds the seat from Laurier--Saint-Marie. After more support was given to Pauline Marois, this man dropped out of a contest to replace Andre Boisclair after just one day in 2008. This man was recently succeeded by Vivian Barbot in his most notable role, and that party he led declined from 49 to 4 seats in the 2011 federal election. For 10 points, name this former leader of the Bloc Quebecois.
ANSWER: Gilles Duceppe

17. Ilya Repin depicted this saint saving three innocents from death, and in the 11th Century his remains were taken from Myra to Bari. During the Middle Ages, a young boy was elected bishop on each of his feast days. He is often depicted with three gold balls or coins to symbolize the dowry he gave to three young maidens. Netherlandish children put carrots in their shoes for him, and he's the patron saint of sailors. For 10 points, name this saint associated with gift giving in December.
ANSWER: Saint Nicholas [or Nikolas of Myra or Nikolaos the Wonderworker or Nikolaos of Bari]

18. This man argued that there wasn't a large difference between Mayflower descendants and recent US immigrants in "The Race Problem in Modern Society", part of his most famous work. This anthropologist collected "Tales" of a tribe from British Columbia called the Kwakiutl. This author of Race, Language and Culture taught students like Edward Sapir and Margaret Mead. For 10 points, name this so-called "Father of American Anthropology", the author of The Mind of Primitive Man.
ANSWER: Franz Boas

19. In the early '60s, this country experienced a period of land reform called the White Revolution. The Constitutional Revolution helped bring down its Qajar dynasty. Its president, Mohammad Ali Raja'i, was killed by a bomb in 1981. Earlier, the CIA sponsored Operation Ajax in this country, while helped overthrow the government of Mohammad Mosaddeq after its oil industry was nationalized. For 10 points, name this country once ruled by Reza Shah and Ayatollah Khomeini.
ANSWER: Islamic Republic of Iran [or Persia]

20. Talberg, the husband of Yelena, flees to Germany in a play written by this man centering on a Ukrainian colonel named Alexei Turbin. Besides "The Days of the Turbins", one work by this author recounts how Philip Philippovich turns the titular animal into a man who starts calling himself Polygraph Polygraphovich Sharikov. His best known novel sees Woland, who is the Devil, come to Moscow. For 10 points, name this Russian author of The Heart of a Dog and The Master and Margarita.
ANSWER: Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov

21. This man offered a bribe of 6,000 talents to make King Tigranes of Armenia his ally, and Aulus Gabinius pushed a bill through the Senate that tasked this man with stopping Mediterranean piracy. This victor at Dyrrachium once refused to marry Octavia. This man replaced Lucius Licinius Lucullus in carrying out the Third Mithridatic War for Rome. For 10 points, name this loser at the Battle of Pharsalus and member of the First Triumvirate with Crassus and Caesar.
ANSWER: Pompey the Great [or Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus]

22. His law of multiplication of effects was a consequence of an idea that nothing can stay homogeneous in the presence of an external force, his First Principle. Richard Hofstadter labeled this man an "ultra-conservative" in a 1955 work on the movement this man helped inspire. This author of The Synthetic Philosophy also wrote 1864's Principles of Biology and addressed the issue of fitness in Social Statics. For 10 points, name this British sociologist who coined the term "survival of the fittest".
ANSWER: Herbert Spencer

23. Dutch physicist Simon van der Meer invented a device for producing beams of these particles known as a magnetic horn. Although they cannot be observed directly, Cherenkov radiation emitted from an electron is caused when one of these collides with a deuterium nucleus. When one type of these particles exchanges a W boson with a neutron, it is transformed into a different kind of lepton. Only the W and Z bosons interact with them. For 10 points, name this chargeless particle whose detectors-like the one in Sudbury Ontario-are usually found deep underground because they rarely interact with matter.
ANSWER: neutrinos

24. Operation Merlin was launched by President Clinton to slow down this endeavor whose sub-phases include Operation Green Salt. The Stuxnet worm was allegedly released to hinder the progress of this endeavor. Brazil and Turkey opposed UN Security Council Resolution 1929 which condemned this program and put sanctions on the nation undertaking it. For 10 points, name this program that strives to put non-conventional weapons in the hands of a country led by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
ANSWER: Iran's Nuclear Program [accept equivalents]




Bonuses

1. This man left the novel Answered Prayers unfinished at his death, and also wrote Other Voices, Other Rooms. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this author of a 1958 novella centering on a New York woman named Holly Golightly.
ANSWER: Truman Capote
[10] Truman Capote is well known for this "nonficton novel" centering on the murder of the Clutter family.
ANSWER: In Cold Blood
[10] This man teamed up with Dick Hickock to kill the Clutters. In Cold Blood relates how he was abused as a child by a nun in a Catholic orphanage.
ANSWER: Perry Edward Smith [accept either underlined answer]

2. This work centers on the followers of Dorothy Martin, otherwise known as Mrs. Marian Keech. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this work by Henry Riecken, Stanley Schachter and Leon Festinger that addresses what happens when a UFO cult erred in predicting the end of the world.
ANSWER: When Prophecy Fails: A Social and Psychological Study of a Modern Group That Predicted the Destruction of the World
[10] When Prophecy Fails contains a famous discussion of this concept, essentially defined as a person holding two conflicting ideas at the same time. 
ANSWER: Cognitive Dissonance
[10] Another example of a prophecy failing was this event, the name given to William Miller's failed prediction that the second coming would happen on October 22, 1844. As a result, many people left the Adventist movement.
ANSWER: The Great Disappointment of 1844 [or Second Disappointment]

3. This man drew on Marxist themes in his third symphony, nicknamed The First of May. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Russian composer behind works like Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District.
ANSWER: Dmitry Shostakovich
[10] Shostakovich's 7th Symphony in C major is given this name, which derives from its premiere in a besieged Soviet city in 1942.
ANSWER: Leningrad Symphony
[10] Shostakovich subtitled this symphony, "A Soviet Artist's Reply to Just Criticism" and possibly would have been executed had the standing ovation following this work not lasted for 40 minutes. Allen Schrott noted that the "grotesque" dance in its second movement "can't help but mock itself".
ANSWER: Fifth Symphony [or Symphony No. 5 in D minor, Op. 47]

4. The winning party in this election ran on the slogan of "60 Days of Decision". For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this federal election year that saw Lester Pearson come to power over John Diefenbaker.
ANSWER: Canadian Federal Election of 1963
[10] Lester Pearson really upset this US president when he made his famous anti-Vietnam War speech at Temple University in Philadelphia. This man came to power following an incident involving Lee Harvey Oswald.
ANSWER: Lyndon Baines Johnson [or LBJ]
[10] Although this party had won 30 seats in 1962, it lost 6 of those seats the following year under the leadership of Robert N. Thompson. This caused Real Caouette to form a separate splinter group from this party.
ANSWER: The Social Credit Party

5. Identify the following about some of the many authors who have had their works published in The Paris Review, for 10 points each.
[10] Among this woman's stories to be published in the magazine include "Spaceships Have Landed". This Canadian author has also written Runaway and Lives of Girls and Women.
ANSWER: Alice Munro
[10] This man's story, "Last Comes the Raven" appeared in the Review. He's better known for works like The Cloven Viscount and a novel featuring the fictional country of Cimmeria set largely in the second person titled If On a Winter's Night a Traveler.
ANSWER: Italo Calvino
[10] His story "The Saint" appeared in The Paris Review Book of Heartbreak, Madness, Sex, Love, Betrayal and about 20 other subjects. His other short stories include "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings", sometimes included in a collection with Leaf Storm.
ANSWER: Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez

6. People deficient in this molecule sometimes suffer from megaloblastic anemia, which results in not enough red blood cells being produced by the body. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this molecule that helps mediate the transfer of one-carbon units in the body, essential in creating amino and nucleic acids.
ANSWER: Folic Acid [or Vitamin B9 or Vitamin BC or Folate or Folacin or pteroyl-L-glutamic acid or pteroyl-L-glutamate or pteroylmonoglutamic acid]
[10] This other vitamin is the most complex and largest of all of the vitamins. It contains cobalt, and consuming enough of this vitamin is sometimes a challenge for vegans.
ANSWER: Vitamin B12 [or cobalamin]
[10] Like folic acid, the forms of this vitamin called tocopherols are abundant in greens, while the tocotrienols are less common, being found in substances like palm oil and rice bran.
ANSWER: Vitamin E

7. Clans of this nation's namesake people include the Daarood and the Sab. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this African nation containing the Nugaaleed Valley and coastal cities like Marca, Berbera and Kismaayo.
ANSWER: Somalia
[10] This is the capital of Somalia. A Black Hawk helicopter was famously shot down in this city 1993.
ANSWER: Mogadishu
[10] One city where ethnic Somalis have migrated to in significant numbers is this English city, located in South Yorkshire. Thomas Boulsover developed a plating technique named for this city in the 18th century.
ANSWER: Sheffield

8. This man's nephew, Perdix, was turned into a partridge after he threw Perdix off a cliff in a fit of jealousy. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this figure from Greek mythology who was upset that Perdix had invented the saw.
ANSWER: Daedalus [or Daedalos or Daidalos]
[10] Daedalus created this maze to house the Minotaur on Crete.
ANSWER: The Labyrinth
[10] Daedalus was known in this myth system as Taitale. Other gods in this myth system include Ani, the god of the highest heaven, who is similar in many ways to Janus.
ANSWER: The Etruscans

9. Identify the following about Canadian citizen Omar Khadr, for 10 points each.
[10] Khadr is currently the youngest prisoner serving at this facility, which Barack Obama has still not closed despite a campaign promise to do so.
ANSWER: Guantanamo Bay Detention Camp [or Gitmo or GTMO]
[10] One of the people to object to Khadr being tried by military tribunal was Anthony Lake, a head of this international organization. In 2006, this organization started appearing on the jerseys of FC Barcelona.
ANSWER: United Nations Children's Fund [or UNICEF]
[10] Harper's columnist Thomas Frank wrote an article wondering why Khadr and other Gitmo prisoners were being made to read this self-help book by Stephen R. Covey. Among the title practices are "Think Win-Win" and "Sharpen the Saw".
ANSWER: The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People

10. One of this man's plays sees Rosaura, who is dressed as a man, and her servant Fife traveling from Russia to meet Basilio, the King of Poland. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this author of The Mayor of Zalamea and The Surgeon of His Honour.
ANSWER: Pedro Calderon de la Barca y Barreda Gonz‡lez de Henao Ruiz de Blasco y Ria–o
[10] Calderon was a leading figure in this nation's Golden Age of literature. That period also gave us characters like Dulcinea and Sancho Panza.
ANSWER: Spain [or Espana]
[10] Another Golden Age Spanish playwright was this man, sometimes known as "The Phoenix of Spain". His La corona tragica was a verse epic about Mary, Queen of Scots, although he's better known for writing over 1,800 plays in his lifetime.
ANSWER: Lope Felix de Vega Carpio

11. This king was advised by Lanfranc, a man he eventually appointed as Archbishop of Canterbury to replace Stigand. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this English King
ANSWER: William the Conqueror [or William I or William the Bastard]
[10] William I of course won this battle against Harold II of England in 1066.
ANSWER: Battle of Hastings
[10] A few weeks before the Battle of Hastings, Harold II defeated and killed his rival Tostig at this battle fought on September 25, 1066.
ANSWER: Battle of Stamford Bridge

12. Celine Dion recorded a popular version of this song for the A Tribute To Heroes album, and its lyrics describe a certain entity "white with foam". For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this song made popular by Kate Smith.
ANSWER: "God Bless America"
[10] Kate Smith's version of "God Bless America" is often played before big games for this hockey team. Formerly captained by Mike Richards, they were once known as the Broad Street Bullies.
ANSWER: Philadelphia Flyers [accept either underlined answer]
[10] In the mid '90s, the Flyers' first line of Eric Lindros, John LeClair and Mikael Renberg were given this comic-book inspired nickname. Members of the comic version of this group included Gorilla Grodd and Captain Cold.
ANSWER: The Legion of Doom

13. Identify the following about some Millennium Prize Problems, for 10 points each.
[10] One such problem involves proving whether these two complexity classes from computer science are equivalent. If they are equivalent, certain hard problems can be done in n to the k plus k time.
ANSWER: P and NP
[10] Grigoriy Perelman solved this problem, a treatment of whether compact three dimensional manifolds are "simply connected" in four dimensions.
ANSWER: Poincare Conjecture
[10] The namesake of this conjecture hypothesized that any topological cycle on a projective manifold is homologous to a rational combination of algebraic cycles if and only if that topological cycle has rotation number zero.
ANSWER: Hodge Conjecture

14. According to a recent biography, this man may have had a homosexual relationship with Hermann Kallenbach. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this man, subject of a recent biography titled Great Soul by Joseph Lelyveld.
ANSWER: Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi]
[10] India is currently led by this Prime Minister from the Congress party. He's the first Sikh to hold the office.
ANSWER: Manmohan Singh
[10] In his first year in office, Singh established a dialogue with the Maoist People's War Group in this state of Southeastern India. High-tech companies like Google and Facebook have opened campuses in its capital of Hyderabad.
ANSWER: Andhra Pradesh

15. This thinker attacked fellow philosophers like Etienne Bonnet de Condillac and theorized about the origins of language in his Discourse on Inequality, sometimes called his Second Discourse. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this author who started, "man is born free, but everywhere he is in chains" in The Social Contract.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] In this text, Rousseau called for negative education and a lack of a fixed curriculum. Its final section concerns the proper education of Sophie, the future wife of the title character.
ANSWER: Emile: or, On Education
[10] In this autobiography, Rousseau recounts pondering over the answer to a question proposed by the Academy of Dijon about whether human progress has corrupted or purified public morals. It also details meeting women like "Maman" and Therese Levasseur.
ANSWER: The Confessions of Jean-Jacques Rousseau

16. One famous version of this scene shows women in orange and green mourning the central figure with their backs to the viewer as angels fly recklessly through the sky. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this Biblical scene, which, unlike the related pieta scene, shows more than just Mary weeping.
ANSWER: The Lamentation of Christ
[10] The Lamentation is one of the most famous scenes from this artist's series at the Arena Chapel. He built on the work of predecessors like Duccio.
ANSWER: Giotto di Bondone
[10] This other artist of the early Italian Renaissance showed the central figure seated on a golden throne in his Byzantine-inspired Madonna Enthroned with Angels and Prophets.
ANSWER: Cimabue [or Bencivieni di Pepo or Benvenuto di Giuseppe]

17. Its common name is a English corruption of what may have originally referred to the name of a French ship. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this archaeological site which, according to evidence derived from butternuts, may have been a stopping point on a sea route to Nova Scotia.
ANSWER: L'Anse aux Meadows [or Jellyfish Cove]
[10] L'Anse aux Meadows is located on this island, which forms a certain Canadian province with Labrador.
ANSWER: Newfoundland
[10] One variety of the Newfoundland breed of dogs, usually solid black, gray or brown, is named for this English artist fond of painting animals. He's probably best known for the 1851 painting, The Monarch of the Glen.
ANSWER: Sir Edwin Henry Landseer

18. This state's namesake 1851 law, supported by the so-called "Napoleon of Temperance", Neal Dow, banned the consumption of alcohol in this state. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this state, whose boundary was disputed in the Aroostook War.
ANSWER: Maine
[10] James G. Blaine, the so-called Continental Liar from the State of Maine, lost the 1884 presidential election to this Democrat, who served two non-consecutive terms.
ANSWER: (Stephen) Grover Cleveland
[10] The statement, "As Maine goes, so goes the nation" didn't hold true in 1936, when only Maine and Vermont voted for this Kansas Republican over FDR.
ANSWER: Alfred Mossman "Alf" Landon

19. One play by this author sees Zach and Morrie write a letter to Ethel Lange, a woman who has advertised that she desires a pen pal. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this playwright of Boseman and Lena and Blood Knot.
ANSWER: (Harold) Athol (Lanigan) Fugard
[10] Athol Fugard is an author from this country. Other authors from this country include Nadine Gordimer.
ANSWER: South Africa
[10] Miss Helen owns a sculpture garden featuring figures like owls and Wise Men that all point towards the title holy city in this Fugard play.
ANSWER: The Road to Mecca

20. Answer some questions about the scientific work of Heike Kamerlingh Onnes, for 10 points each.
[10] Onnes is best remembered for being the first scientist to liquefy this element, independently discovered in 1868 by Janssen and Lockyer.
ANSWER: Helium
[10] In order to achieve the low temperatures required to liquefy helium, Onnes and his team took advantage of this doubly eponymous effect. In it, a real gas expands adiabatically into a region of low pressure, cooling itself in the process.
ANSWER: Joule-Thomson effect
[10] While, studying helium, Onnes was the first person to observe the phase transition into this state; it was not recognized for what it was for another thirty years with the work of Kapitsa, Allen and Misener.
ANSWER: Superfluidity

21. This man's expeditions lost government funding with the death of the Yongle emperor. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this eunuch who visited places like Hormuz and Ceylon.
ANSWER: Zheng He [or Cheng Ho or Ma Sanbao or Ma He]
[10] Zheng He's voyages were sponsored by this Chinese dynasty that held power from 1368-1644.
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty
[10] The Ming Dynasty came to power following this rebellion against the Yuan Dynasty, which also helped bring down the Koryo Dynasty in Korea. Eventually their leader Zhu Yuanzhang proclaimed himself the first Ming Emperor.
ANSWER: Red Turban Rebellion

22. The muralist David Alfonso Siqueiros was involved in a plot to kill this man. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this communist advocate of Permanent Revolution, who was ultimately assassinated in Mexico in 1940.
ANSWER: Leon Trotsky [or Lev Davidovich Bronshtein]
[10] Trotsky was once a co-editor of the Novy Mir newspaper in New York with this other Old Bolshevik. This author of the ABC of Communism would be executed in the last of Stalin's public show trials.
ANSWER: Nikolai Ivanovich Bukharin
[10] Bukharin formed the Left Communists to oppose the signing of this 1918 treaty. Russia agreed to give up claims to territories like Poland and Finland as part of this treaty.
ANSWER: First Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
