TOSSUPS1. He was an ardent lepidopterist who published several volumes of literary criticism and translated Alice's Adventures in Wonderland from English to Russian and Eugene Onegin from Russian to English, but he is better known for his own fiction. Look at the Harlequins!, Bend Sinister, Pnin and Ada, or Ardor are all novels of, FTP, what author better known for Pale Fire and Lolita? ANSWER: Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov 2. Male adherents of this religion must at all times wear "kachha", a special undergarment resembling boxer shorts. As well, they must always wear a steel bracelet known as a "kara" on their dominant hand, and carry with them a "kangha" or wooden comb, which is used to maintain their "kesh" or uncut hair. FTP, what is this religion whose members also carry a "kirpan", a small ceremonial blade?ANSWER: Sikhism3. Warning: two answers required. The first is the author of the article "The Privy Council and its Critics," and was a member of the Department of Political Science at UBC from 1960 until 1995. The second, writing from Queen's University in 1970, argued that voter alienation was curtailed by the exaggerated political influence of sectionally concentrated minorities, while the first argued that this same process undermined democratic legitimacy. For ten points, name this pair of Canadian political scientists who in 1970 exchanged several pivotal articles debating the merits of electoral reform.ANSWER: Alan C. Cairns and J.A.A. Lovink4. Originally, it was said that the sculptor had composed two different versions of a piece by commission by the people of Kos, one fully draped and the other completely nude. The people of Kos were aghast at the nudity and bought the clothed version,  but the sculptor's alternate vision was bought by the town ascribed to it, and has become well-known for its proud and erotic description of the subject's nudity. Depicting the title subject as she prepares for a ritual bath that restores her virginity, while she covers her genitals at the same time, FTP, identify this now-destroyed statue carved by Praxiteles of the Greek goddess of love. ANSWER: Aphrodite of Knidos5. In 1984, he was seriously wounded in an assassination attempt which involved several Loyalists firing about twenty shots into his car. In 1988, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher imposed a ban on the media broadcast of his voice, claiming she wanted to "deny terrorists the oxygen of publicity." However, he has often rejected any claims that he was ever a member of the Irish Republican Army. FTP, name this Republican politician from Northern Ireland and President of the Sinn Fein party.ANSWER: Gerry Adams6. The story's main theme seems to be grief and its transformation into acceptance, as represented by the sale of a once-dear possession in the opening sentence. The framing narrative of the text is possibly a newspaper classified ad, and the type of footwear mentioned indicates that the implied death is that of a stillborn infant. In creative writing classes, it is an oft-cited example of the power of a reader's imagination to animate a skeletal narrative, since the opening sentence is also the only sentence. For ten points, recite the entirety of this Hemingway very short story, which consists of only six words.ANSWER: "For sale: baby shoes, never worn."(Since this work lacks a formal title, before "recite" also accept generic answers such as "Hemingway's six-word story" or "Hemingway's flash fiction", etc. Note that acceptable generic answers of this type must include Hemingway (since several other authors have subsequently written six-word stories) AND reference the fact that the story is especially short (i.e., much shorter than a "short story"). Hemingway wrote several short stories, so "Hemingway's short story" is ambiguous since it could refer to any one of them.)7. Like bismuth and water, it is denser in the liquid state than as a solid. Like bromine and mercury, it is a liquid close to room temperature, melting at 29.6 degrees Celsius, but unlike mercury it is non-toxic and wets most surfaces. Its discoverer may have named it for himself as well as his country; his name translates as 'the rooster'. FTP, identify this element discovered in 1875 by Lecoq de Boisbaudran, number 31, located directly below aluminum on the periodic table. ANSWER: gallium8. Though it has been seen in the work of Jasper Johns and Jacqui Cornette, documented work using this technique has been seen as early as the Fayum mummy portraits of 100-300 CE. Special recipes involve using dammar resin and linseed oil, but most standard ones involve adding pigment to a molten mixture of lipids. One has to work using special conditions and tools, because once the applied mixes cool down they will begin to solidify, and thus form the image. FTP, what is this style of painting that uses affixation of hot wax to a surface to form textures or collages?ANSWER: Encaustic painting, accept hot wax painting until hot wax is mentioned9. A 2005 article in Nature put forward that according to quantum chemical calculations, this feature exists in di-uranium molecules. It was first observed in 2005 in an organometallic chromium dimer, where the relevant bond length was measured at 1.8 angstroms. Though the compound was found to be air and moisture-sensitive, it was discovered to be stable up to 200 degrees Celsius, indicating the extraordinary strength of the intra-molecular bonding. For ten points, what is this unusually strong covalent bond in which ten electrons are shared?ANSWER: Quintuple bond (or Fivefold bond) 10. In the prologue, the author recounts a conversation with a New Guinean politician named Yali, whose "question" the book attempts to answer. In so doing, the author poses and answers several questions of his own, such as why most big wild mammal species were never domesticated and why the Inca emperor Atahuallpa did not capture King Charles I of Spain. The main argument of the book relies heavily of geographical and climatological settings and food production, and how they allowed civilizations to successfully make use of the three title forces. For ten points, name this book that seeks to explain differences in world civilizations by Jared Diamond.ANSWER: Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies11. A devoted Tibetan independence supporter, he co-formed the Tibet House with Richard Thurman and Richard Gere. However, it is not his politics that he is best known for, but for composition. Piano suites such as Metamorphosis and the Etudes are better reflections of his later work, and his 1987 Violin Concerto indicates the influence postminimalism has had on his music. However, he is best known for either his movie work on such films as Candyman and the Qatsi trilogy, or for his portraits trilogy including Ahkenaten. FTP, who is this composer of Einstein on the Beach and The Truman Show soundtrack?ANSWER: Philip Glass12. It opens with an adaptation of the quotation from I Corinthians xiii on "faith, hope, and love" substituting the word "money" in place of the latter. The title refers to neither a flag, nor an aircraft, but a popular type of houseplant in 1930s Britain, one of which is owned by the protagonist, Gordon Comstock. Its central theme is the rejection of bourgeois materialism and subsequent self-induced poverty, as previously seen in Down and Out in Paris and London by the same author. For ten points, name this 1936 work by George Orwell. ANSWER: Keep the Aspidistra Flying13. To become invisible, all the owner of this object had to do was turn it facing inwards. Mentioned by Glaucon as an example of the impossibility of justice without any external restraint at the beginning of Book 2 of the Republic, for ten points, what is this object, discovered on the corpse of a large man inside a bronze horse, by a shepherd of Lydia?ANSWER: Gyges' Ring14. Possibly originating in Japan or China as a training exercise, the Greeks and Romans also had a version of it. Played between communities in the medieval times, Edward III attempted to curtail it in 1365 because of excessive violence.  Standardized rules appeared in the 19th century, culminating in the hands-off rule. For ten points, in which sport may the ball only be handled by the goalies?ANSWER: Football (Also accept soccer)15. George Lass was killed by one of its toilet seats on the show Dead Like Me. Built in stages over ten years, it was deliberately allowed to disintegrate in 2001. The United States planned to build a counterpart, the Freedom, but it never went beyond the planning stage. With a name meaning "peace," for ten points, name this space station launched by the Soviet Union in 1986.ANSWER: Mir16. In the fictional setting of this book, Lhasa, Tibet is the world's biggest city, Russia is known as the "Holy Russian Empire", and the Cuban Peso has replaced the US dollar as the de facto world currency. These changes have all come about as the result of a global catastrophe precipitated in China by flooding from the completion of the Three Gorges Dam. The novel is told through a series of interviews with characters such as a soldier who was present at the disastrous battle of Yonkers, and a Chinese doctor who was among the first to witness the outbreaks of reanimated corpses. For ten points, name this Max Brooks bestseller subtitled "An Oral History of the Zombie War."ANSWER: World War Z17. In his authoritative book on this conflict, historian Douglas Edward Leach argues that, proportional to the population at the time, it was the bloodiest war in American history, resulting in a casualty rate of about one in twenty for the entire New England population. Lasting from 1675 to 1676, one of the largest battles was the Great Swamp Massacre in which colonial militiamen attacked a Narragansett fort in Rhode Island.  The leader of the native forces, after whom the conflict is named, was a Wampanoag chief also known as Metacom. For ten points, name this conflict which had nothing to do with a Spanish monarch.ANSWER: King Philip's War18. Second only to his Master Melkor in cunning and malice, he captured the first Minas Tirith and ruled from there with his werewolf and vampire servants. He survived Melkor's defeat and the end of the First Age, and in the fair shape of Annatar, tempted Ar-Pharazon, king of the Numenoreans, to lead his nation to their doom. For ten points, name Morgoth's chief servant, the second Dark Lord of Middle Earth.ANSWER: Sauron19. The land component of this battle most prominently featured the Guards Armored Division of the British 30th Corps. The air component employed three of the five divisions of the First Allied Airborne Army, including the US 101st Airborne, and the Polish 1st Independent Parachute Brigade.  Initially the operation was seen as a possible success, but the outlook soon changed as the Allied forces failed to capture the bridge over the Rhine at Arnhem. FTP, name this 1944 operation on the Western Front of the Second World War that gets its distinct name from its two main components.ANSWER: Operation: Market Garden20. Founded in 1988 by Richard Fairbank and Nigel Morris, it was a pioneer in the mass marketing of credit cards. In 2003, the Human Rights Campaign gave this company a perfect score the Corporate Equality Index, one of only nine corporations to do so. It is also a major sponsor of sports teams and events: it became the principal sponsor of the Florida Citrus Bowl in 2001, and in Great Britain, it sponsors Sheffield United and Nottingham Forest. FTP, name this financial company that asks, "What's in YOUR wallet?"ANSWER: Capital One21. An evident inspiration for John Williams' Star Wars music, this suite was completed in 1917. An eighth movement, subtitled 'The Renewer' was appended to it in 2000 by Colin Matthews, while the original movements include 'The Mystic' and 'The Bringer of Jollity.' For ten points, name this work, based on astrological rather than astronomical concepts, written by Gustav Holst.ANSWER: The Planets
BONUSES1. Carolingian history for the stated number of points.[5] For five points, name the 843 treaty that divided the Frankish lands between three of Charlemagne's grandsons.ANSWER: Treaty of Verdun[5,5,5]For five points each, name those three grandsons.ANSWER: Charles the Bald, Lothair, and Louis the German (or Ludwig the German)(Prompt on partial answers)[10] Finally, name the father of those three, and son of Charlemagne.ANSWER: Louis the Pious(Prompt on partial answer)2. For five points each and a bonus five for all correct, list any five of the seven SI base units. ANSWERS: kilogram, second, metre, ampere, candela, mole, kelvin3. Though it is primarily a haven for perverts and miscreants of all stripes, it has proved popular enough to attract permanent liaisons from real-life organizations such as Reuters and Dell Computers, and is home to an official Swedish embassy. Answer the following for ten points each.Name this widely popular online role-playing world with around 7 million registered accounts.ANSWER: Second LifeNext, name the San Francisco-based developer of Second Life.ANSWER: Linden Labs (also accept Linden Research, Inc.)Second Life is home to this woman, the world's first "virtual millionaire," who made her fortune selling online real estate. A recent in-world interview with CNET was marred by "griefers" who bombarded her with hundreds of flying penises.ANSWER: Anshe Chung (accept either name. Also accept her real name, Ailin Graef).4. For ten points each, answer the following questions about Canadian premiers.Name Canada's longest-serving premier, in office since April 1999.ANSWER: Paul Okalik (Nunavut)Name longest-serving provincial premier, in office since October 1999.ANSWER: Gary Doer (Manitoba)Finally, name the shortest-serving premier, who has only been in office since June 2007.ANSWER: Robert Ghiz (PEI)5. Mass Public transport in Japan has been extensively developed and is often the most prominent form of transportation in major cities.  5-10-15, given the name of an urban commuter line and three consecutive stops on it, name the city in which it's found.Yamanote Line. Harajuku, Yoyogi, Shinjuku.ANSWER: TokyoHiroden Line. Tokaichimachi, Honkawa-cho, Genbaku Domu-maeANSWER: HiroshimaHigashiyama Line. Shinsakae-machi, Sakae, FushimiANSWER: Nagoya6. How well do you know the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms? Given a passage from a given section of the Charter, identify that section FTPE."Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of the person..."ANSWER: section 7"Any person charged with an offense has the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty..."ANSWER: section 11(d)"The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms guarantees the rights and freedoms set out in it reasonable only to such reasonable limits prescribed by law..."ANSWER: section 17. Given two musical notes with the tonic note of the scale first, tell me the interval between them FTSNOP.[5] C, the next C upANSWER: Perfect Octave[5] E, BANSWER: Perfect Fifth[10] F, A flatANSWER: Minor Third[10] E flat, AANSWER: Augmented Fourth8. Given a description of a work by Plato, identify it F15PE.It forms a more famous tetralogy with the Apology of Socrates, the Crito, and Phaedo. It takes place just before Socrates is to make an appearance in court, where he encounters the titular character, who is there to accuse his father of murder by ill-treatment of his workers on the island of Naxos.ANSWER: EuthyproThough the title has a very different connotation nowadays, it involves Socrates, two boys and a third man who is in love with one of the boys. It expounds on the nature of love and friendship, and finally concludes that friendship is part of the common pursuit of "the good and the beautiful".ANSWER: LysisNB: Do not accept any other answers than what is given, otherwise you could end up with infinite answers. Also, the form the notes are written in uses the correct notation for classical music theory.9. The FIFA under-20 soccer tournament is kicking off today in cities all over Canada, and it will feature some of the sport's rising stars. FTPE, answer the following questions about the tournament.Sure to be one of the most watched stars of this tournament, this player was born in Ghana, and is the captain of the United States' National U20 team. He plays club ball with Real Salt Lake.ANSWER: Freddy Adu This city, home of the MLS' only Canadian team, will be hosting the final match.ANSWER: TorontoThe only team to qualify out of the Oceania Football Confederation, New Zealand, has this colourful nickname that contrasts the nickname of the national rugby team.ANSWER: The All Whites10. Answer the following economics questions 5-10-15.[5] If a demand curve shows that with an increase in price there is no change in the amount demanded, what kind of relationship is demonstrated between price and demand?ANSWER: Perfect Inelasticity[10] This is a good whose quantity demanded decreases if the price decreases. While this may never exist in reality, the idea is linked to the snob mentality and conspicuous consumption.ANSWER: Veblen good[15] The concept of moral hazard in insurance theory is a subclass of this greater idea that providing the means of acting to someone may actually have an opposite result than the one intended. Examples of this include the welfare trap, where some people choose to stay on welfare because it offers more utility than working, or a famous case in India where money was provided to people for how many dead rats they could furnish; instead of resulting in rat extermination, it resulted in rat farming.ANSWER: Perverse Incentives11. On several occasions, music has seen notable artists from different bands come together to form what's known as a "supergroup." Given the members, name the supergroup for ten points each.Bob Dylan, George Harrison, Jeff Lynne, Roy Orbison, Tom PettyANSWER: The Travelling WilburysScott Weiland, Slash, Duff McKagan, Matt Sorum, Dave KushnerANSWER: Velvet RevolverJohnny Cash, Waylon Jennings, Kris Kristofferson, Willie NelsonANSWER: The Highwaymen12. Given an African city, say whether it is the largest city in its country, the capital, both, or neither. 5 for one correct, 10 for two, 20 for three, 30 for all four.Kano, NigeriaANSWER: Neither (Abuja is the capital, Lagos is the largest city)Yaounde, CameroonANSWER: Capital only (Douala is the largest city)Brazzaville, CongoANSWER: BothMarrakech, MoroccoANSWER: Neither (Rabat is the capital, Casablanca is the largest city)13. For ten points each, name the following US labor organizations.Founded in 1905 in Chicago, "Big Bill" Heywood was among its most prominent leaders.ANSWER: Industrial Workers of the World (prompt on "Wobblies")Uriah Stevens and Terrence V. Powderly led this all-inclusive union that was mostly absorbed by the IWW, the Socialist Party of America and other socialist groups by 1917.ANSWER: Knights of LaborSamuel Gompers was the founder and first president of this organization, founded in Cleveland in 1886.ANSWER: American Federation of Labor (do not accept AFL-CIO)14. Name these imaginary substances from now outdated scientific theories on a 5, 10, 15 point basis.[5] This fluid was believed to be responsible for combustion. It was believed to flow from a rich source to a poor source to cause burning. Priestly believed that a splint in a pure oxygen environment burns well because oxygen was poorer in this than "common air"ANSWER: Phlogiston[10] This fluid was essentially analogous to heat. It flows from warm objects to cool objects. Its existence was partly disproved by Count Rumford who observed that virtually unlimited heat can be generated from friction on any object.ANSWER: Caloric[15] This vapor emanates from decaying organic matter, and is created and perspired by normal human activity. When concentrated and ingested or inhaled, it causes disease. It was largely abandoned when the germ theory of disease became accepted in the late 19th century.ANSWER: Miasma15. "I'm a rollercoaster turnin' 'round /You look me up when I'm upside down / Turn on my jukebox follow me / We go together endlessly". So go the lyrics to a particularly catchy jingle that has sent thousands of Canadians flocking to the 'net to find out more about the song. Answer the following questions for the stated number of points.[10] The song, written by Toronto band Major Maker, is featured in a commercial for what confectionery company?ANSWER: Maynard's[5, 5] The ad concludes by showing the logos of four brands of candy manufactured by Maynard's. Name any two of them for five points each.ANSWERS: Swedish Berries, Fuzzy Peaches, Juicy Squirts Berry, or Mini Fruit Gums. [10] The action in the commercial follows a young lady in a black and white dress who walks down the street and suddenly takes what unusual action, reminiscent of an effect seen a Kylie Minogue music video? Note to players: generic answers are acceptable.ANSWER: She splits into several clones of herself (accept clear-knowledge equivalents)16. (Note to moderator: this is the multimedia bonus. Hand the team playing this question a copy of the attached Image A.)You have just been given a picture of the Reformation Wall, a monument to several famous Christian reformers and theologians. Answer the following for the stated number of points. [10] Identify the European city in which the wall can be found.ANSWER: Geneva, Switzerland[10, 10] For ten each, name any two of the reformers featured on the wall.ANSWERS: Theodore Beza (also accept Theodore de Beze), John Calvin, William Farel, or John Knox. 17. In the late '70s and early '80s, several rock groups attempted to capitalize on the latest craze by incorporating disco sounds into their music. Identify the following for ten points each.Today one of Pink Floyd's best-known songs, this somewhat tongue-in-cheek anti-authoritarian anthem incorporated a heavy bass guitar hook and a thumping even tempo. It is known for its famous refrain, "we don't need no education".ANSWER: Another Brick in the Wall (Part II)This band, fronted by Ann Wilson and known for songs such as "Barracuda" with a hard, classic rock sound, released the distinctly danceable "Straight On (For You)" in 1978.ANSWER: HeartKISS made a foray into the realm of disco in 1979, much to the chagrin of many of their fans, with this bass-heavy track with a funky guitar hook from the album Dynasty.ANSWER: "I Was Made for Loving You"18. For ten points each, given a description of some vessels, name the series of space probes.This series of probes, first launched in 1958, began with lunar missions, eventually moving outwards to study Jupiter and later Venus. Vessels 10 and 11 of this name carried aluminum plaques with a message about their terrestrial origin. ANSWER: Pioneer Following Pioneer was this series of spacecraft, which launched two probes to study Jupiter and Saturn in the late 1970s. Carrying on from the Pioneer plaques, these craft each carried a golden record with a more sophisticated message.ANSWER: VoyagerThough the first in this series was destroyed shortly after launch in 1962, the second was launched later that year and became the first vessel to fly by Venus. Later vessels visited Mars, Venus again, and Mercury, making close-up observations of all three.ANSWER: Mariner19. Given a list of several films they have directed, and their nationality, name the director ten points each.Total Recall, Starship Troopers, Robocop, Showgirls; Dutch.ANSWER: Paul VerhoevenStargate, Independence Day, The Patriot, The Day After Tomorrow; German.ANSWER: Roland EmmerichAlien, Blade Runner, Black Hawk Down; British.ANSWER: Ridley Scott20. Post-Hamlet Danish monarchs for ten points each.The story that he wore a Star of David armband to show solidarity with Danish Jews during the German occupation of Copenhagen is likely false, though he was king during both World Wars.ANSWER: Christian XThe current Queen of Denmark, she is a notorious chain-smoker and an accomplished artist, having provided illustrations for the Danish edition of Lord of the Rings. ANSWER: Margarethe IISince 1863, there have only been five Danish monarchs, including the two mentioned above. Name any of the other three for a final ten points.ANSWER: Christian IX, Frederick VIII, or Frederick IX
IMAGE AVETO 2007UBC PackQuestions by Mike Whitaker, Zarya Cynader, Paul Korczyk, Michael Mendenhall, and James Leong