Tossups

1.	Babies who are exclusively breastfed for a long period of time without this vitamin added to their diet risk developing rickets. Diets deficient in it are often evidence of a milk allergy, lactose intolerance, or strict vegetarianism. Overabsorption can raise calcium levels in the blood and cause calcium and phosphorus to be deposited in the soft tissues of the body. For ten points, name this vitamin, whose recently-discovered cancer-prevention effects have caused a massive run on supplements.

Answer: Vitamin D

2.	The narrator and title character of this novel always wears red as a sign of her status, while the Wife Serena Joy wears blue. The narrator belongs to the Commander, so she can bear children in place of Serena Joy. The novel is inspired by the story in Genesis when Zilpah and Bilhah bear children for Rachel and Leah, and is named after Zilpah and Bilhah's profession. For ten points, name this narrative by Offred, perhaps Margaret Atwood's most famous dystopian novel.

Answer:  The Handmaid's Tale

3.	While studying in 1774 on a scholarship, this man delivered a speech to the reigning king and queen, who remained in their carriage in the pouring rain and departed in the middle of his monologue. He was appointed by the bishop as criminal judge in Arras in 1782, but resigned the position so he would not have to sentence anyone to death. Seven years later he was elected to the Estates-General, and would eventually become involved in the Society of the Friends of the Constitution. For ten points who was this member of the Jacobin Club and leader of the French Revolution nicknamed "the Incorruptible"?

Answer: Maximilien Francois Marie Isidore Robespierre

4.	This oral hygiene brand comes in many varieties, including Luminous, Fresh Confidence, Herbal White, and MaxFresh. While the toothpaste in question may promise "icy fresh breath", it is not referring to diethylene glycol, or antifreeze, replacing glycerin. For ten points, name this brand of toothpaste that comes in a red package, whose poisonous Chinese counterfeits have appeared on dollar-store shelves in the US and Canada.

Answer: Colgate (not Colgate-Palmolive; that is the manufacturer)

5.	A memorable chapter in his autobiography deals with his hobby of picking locks on safes, some of which contained critical secret documents. He is renowned for his work on quantum electrodynamics and superfluidity, and developed a namesake diagram method now widely used in string theory. However, he is also considered the "most brilliant" physics teacher, and held many lectures explaining its concepts in an accessible manner. For ten points, name this former Los Alamos physicist, winner of the Nobel Prize in 1965, and author of an autobiography that begins Surely You're Joking...

Answer:  Richard Feynman (the autobiography is Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman)

6.	This show featured a character named Tommy Fraser played by a young Mike Myers in its debut season in 1979. It was a revival of a 1963 series which lasted for two seasons, which in turn was based upon a 1958 film starring Wendy Stuart and Buddy Hart. The new series ran for six years on CTV and featured a theme song written by John Crossen and Terry Bush which was featured on a 2005 Corner Gas episode. For ten points, what is this Canadian TV program with a theme song entitled "Maybe Tomorrow", whose title refers to a dog named "London" wandering from town to town?

Answer: The Littlest Hobo
7.	This Canadian building is a Victorian manor, northwest of Sussex Drive and visible from the Ottawa River. Notable features include the conservatory, added in 1930, and the River Room, which was added in the 1950s. The back stairs also house a landing where the disabled daughter of the house's most famous subletter could sit and watch all the parties going on in the dining room. For ten points, name this building, the former residence of Sir John A. MacDonald and the current residence of British High Commissioners to Canada.

Answer: Earnscliffe

8.	Despite Thomas Chippendale's implementation of this movement in his furniture design, it remained relatively unpopular in England. A gilt-brass clock case designed by Charles Cressent, showing Cupid at the top of the case and Time collapsed at the bottom, embodied its taste for dissymmetry, as did the Table d'appartement by J.A. Meissonnier which incorporated multitudes of curves associated with the style. Thomas Gainsborough, Jean-Honore Fragonard, and Antoine Watteau are generally classified as visual artists in, for ten points, what early 18th-century art movement that takes its name from the French word for shell work, rocaille?

Answer: Rococo

9.	The colony that would become this country was ceded to Spain by Portugal in the Treaty of El Pardo. The Illuminatus! trilogy claims its main island is the last part of Atlantis. Teodoro Obiang has been president of it ever since he deposed his own uncle in 1979, although he alleges there was a coup attempt against him in 2004, involving the son of Margaret Thatcher. For ten points, name this very small continental African country, formerly called Spanish Guinea, which does not actually contain any part of the Equator.

Answer:  Equatorial Guinea

10.	This ailment first establishes itself by its virus binding to the C155 receptor on cells in the tonsils or intestines. Its bulbar variant can result in respiratory difficulty, requiring treatment with pressure ventilators. Though the virus' three serotypes are all virulent, as many as 1 of 100 cases in its type 1 form result in acute flaccid paralysis, frequently leaving the legs permanently disabled due to the attacks on the central nervous system. For ten points, identify this infectious disease whose vaccines were developed by Albert Sabin and Jonas Salk.

Answer: Poliomyelitis

11.	In this play, Elyot, in a bold feminist statement, opines that "Certain women should be struck regularly, like gongs." The woman to whom he is referring is his ex-wife, Amanda, recently married again to Victor. Elyot, meanwhile, is married to Sibyl. Both couples are honeymooning at the same hotel, and Elyot and Amanda rekindle their romance. For ten points, name this Noel Coward play, whose 1931 movie version starred Norma Shearer and Robert Montgomery.

Answer:  Private Lives

12.	This name is given to clay figurines of fat or pregnant women, which may be the first pieces of representational art. The most famous of them is the one of Willendorf. More traditionally, in Roman mythology, the goddess of this name was sometimes called Genetrix or Obsequens, and was a combination of the Etruscan goddess Turan and the Greek goddess who was the wife of Hephaestus. For ten points, what name is shared by an armless statue found on Milo, the second planet from the sun, and the Roman equivalent of Aphrodite?

Answer:  Venus
13.	Namco developed this series' first arcade game in 2005, featuring crossover characters such as Blinky and Pac-Man. In the original game of the franchise, vehicles that drove off-track were charged two coins to be returned to the course. In all its titles, driving through item boxes on tracks like Rainbow Road yields items such as lightning bolts, fake item boxes, and the homing red shell. For ten points, name this Nintendo racing game series whose titles include Super Circuit and Double Dash!!.

Answer: Mario Kart

14.	Having been in the New World since 1502, he joined the expedition to cross Panama led by Balboa.  Interestingly, he later arrested Balboa while serving the new governor.  Access to the Pacific Ocean allowed for easy trips south to investigate rumours of El Dorado, and his 1532 expedition saw him seize Atahualpa and demand a ransom room of gold.  For ten points, name this Spanish conquistador who trounced through Peru and conquered the Inca.

Answer:  Francisco Pizarro

15.	A contender for the title of "world's first novel", this work is famous for most of its characters lacking actual names. This is because identification by name was too familiar by the rules of etiquette at court where the novel is set. The main character, the son of an Emperor, marries the heroine whose name is given to the author of the work, as the author's real name is also unknown. However, for ten points, we know as Lady Murasaki the writer of what Japanese novel, the "tale" of a shining prince?

Answer:  The Tale of Genji

16.	These species play an active role in the RAFT and ATRP reaction processes, which both mediate their reaction to develop longer polymer chains. The triphenylmethyl one of those was first to be discovered, but diatomic oxygen is a naturally occurring stable one. Their chain reaction steps are classified by whether there is an increase, no change, or decrease in their number, known as initiation, propagation, and termination respectively. For ten points, name these reactive chemical species whose outermost shells contain unpaired electrons, dude.

Answer: Free radicals

17.	This novelist, playwright and translator was honoured at the University of Ottawa's 2007 Spring Convocation. Translations include the works of Shakespeare into French, such as La nuit des rois, an adaptation of Twelfth Night, and Richard III. Her plays include Poire-acre, Les crasseux, Gapi et Sullivan, and her best-known play, which is about a washerwoman. For ten points, name the Bouctouche, New Brunswick native who penned Pélagie-la-charrette and La sagouine [SAG-oo-EEN].

Answer: Antonine Maillet [my-ay]

18.	"Why Hast Thou Forsaken Me" and "He Has Risen" are featured as parts of his Easter Suite, published in 1984.  Selections such as "Laurentide Waltz" and "Land of the Misty Giants" are featured on the more-well known Canadiana Suite. He began performing with Charlie Smith and Ray Brown in the early 1950s, who were the first lineup of what would become a namesake trio. He became the third recipient of the Glenn Gould Prize in 1993, and in the same year his left side was weakened due to a stroke. For ten points, name this famous Canadian jazz pianist.

Answer: Oscar Peterson


19.	A possible meaning for this country's name is "river of colourful chinchillas" in Guaraní. It has had to struggle for independence from first Spain and then Brazil, on whose side it fought in the War of the Triple Alliance. Its capital's name comes from the shout "I see a mountain!" For ten points, name this South American "Oriental" republic with capital Montevideo.

Answer:  Uruguay

20.	Microsoft and Gillette are two companies that have successfully practised this strategy - the former in the pricing of their Xbox units, which allowed for more profit off video-game sales, and the latter in the virtual giving away of their razor handles, but making profit on the blades. Grocery stores are the most proficient at this strategy, selling bulky and perishable items below cost to encourage multiple trips - hopefully including many unnecssary, more expensive purchases. For ten points, give this two-word alliterative term.

Answer: loss leader

21.	The astrological meaning of this planet is associated with unconventionality, individuality, and radical ideas, and is the ruler of Aquarius. It orbits the Sun in a period of about 84 years. Many of its 27 natural satellites are named after Shakespearean characters, including Titania, Miranda, and Oberon. It possesses a ring system, and is known for having a very dramatic axial tilt, of 98 degrees. For ten points, in 1781, William Herschel discovered what gas giant planet, the seventh from the sun?

Answer:  Uranus

22.	Though Titus served in this during his father's rule, Lucius Aelius Sejanus was the most notable of its prefects. Retirees from it received 5,000 denarii, and its members were entitled to sesquiplex stipendum, or one and a half times the pay of their counterparts. Diocletian disempowered them by replacing them with the Jovians and Herculeans, while Constantine I destroyed their barracks and disbanded them completely in the 4th century A.D. Established by Augustus at the beginning of his rule, for ten points, name this personal army responsible for protecting the Roman emperor.

Answer: Praetorian Guard (prompt on "Roman Army" or similar)

23.	In "Doctor Who", this creature is known as a Skarasen and is featured in the 1975 story arc "Terror of the Zygons". It has variously been described as having a "hump like an upturned boat" and "an eel-like head", or simply as "a horrible great beastie." For ten points, name this mythological creature said to inhabit a Scottish body of water.

Answer: the Loch Ness Monster (also accept "Nessie")

24.	In Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett's novel Good Omens, this angel appears along with Beelzebub to get Adam Young to accept Armageddon, and appears as a young man made of golden fire. Philip Pullman's The Amber Spyglass potrays Mrs Coulter seducing this angel, the Regent of Heaven, reminding him that he was once a man named Enoch. Alan Rickman portrayed him in the movie Dogma. For ten points, a folk etymology uses the Greek words for "behind" and "throne" to form the name of this angel who is the Voice of God.

Answer:  Metatron


Bonuses

1.	German geographer Ferdinand von Richthofen gave it the German name "seidenstrasse" when reporting on his travels to China in 1877. For ten points each:
A.	What is the English name of this ancient trade route on the Asian continent, so named because a natural fiber was one of the commodities it was used to transport?
Answer: Silk Road or Silk Route
B.	Though commodities such as silk were transferred along the road, artwork from this Chinese dynasty of the 7th century can now regularly be seen in the West.
Answer: Tang dynasty
C.	Accompanied by his father and uncle, this author of the book Il Milione travelled on the road at the age of seventeen.
Answer: Marco Polo

2.	You may or may not have learned things from the movie Borat; answer these questions about Kazakhstan for ten points each.
A.	This very polluted and shrinking sea lies on the border between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
Answer:  Aral Sea
B.	What city used to be the capital, and is still the largest city?
Answer:  Almaty or Alma-Ata
C.	Also called Tuyratam, this cosmodrome is the world's oldest space launch facility.
Answer:  Baikonur

3.	It won't take you a century to answer these questions about One Hundred Years of Solitude for ten points each.
A:	The Buendía family is not terribly creative at naming their sons. Give either one of the two names most frequently used.
Answer: José Arcadio or Aureliano [also accept "Arcadio José"]
B:	A massive influx of foreigners arrives when the railway comes through Macondo. Most of them work at a plantation of this potassium-rich fruit.
Answer: Bananas
C:	Since the Buendías have been rather prolific in sowing their seed, matriarch Ursula often worries about her descendants inadvertently committing incest. She warns them that any child born of such a liaison will have the curly tail of this animal.
Answer: Pig

4.	(If audio is available, read this lead-in and first bonus part.)
	Listen to this musical selection, and then answer some questions about it for the stated number of points.
A1.	(Play the audio clip. Stop when the music fades out.)  For five points each, what is the name of the piece you just heard, and its composer?
Answer: Canon in D Major, by Johann Pachelbel (prompt on "Canon")

	(If audio is not available, read this lead-in and first bonus part.)
	Answer these questions about a piece of classical music for ten points each.
A2.	For ten points, guitarist Jeong-Hyun Lim became famous on YouTube for his performance of what classical piece by Johann Pachelbel?
Answer: Canon in D Major

B.	For ten points, despite being heard frequently on piano, the Canon was originally scored for this instrumental arrangement which Joseph Haydn wrote 68 selections for.
Answer: String quartet (more specifically, three violins and basso continuo)
C.	For ten points, when published around 1680 Pachelbel paired the Canon in D with this dance which is commonly composed in compound time.
Answer: Gigue

5.	Because the question writer knows nothing about biology, but some things about anatomy, answer the following questions about bones:
A.	The navicular bone in humans and horses is found in this cluster of foot and ankle bones below the tibia and fibula.
Answer:  tarsus or tarsals
B.	The tailbone is properly known as this word beginning with c.
Answer:  coccyx (accept clear-knowledge pronunciations.)
C.	The only bone in the body that is not attached to any other bone is this one supporting the tongue root.
Answer:  hyoid

6.	French leadership debates are comparable to train wrecks - one is horrified and yet strangely compelled by various butcherings of la langue française. For ten points each, given a language gaffe and a hint about the speaker, name the former Liberal leadership candidate.
A:	The elliptical statement "It is not possible to achieve our Kyoto targets unless we target Kyoto" was uttered by this child-care advocate and former netminder.
Answer: Ken(neth) Wayne Dryden
B:	This doctor and MP for St. Paul's caused some confusion when she said of the fiscal imbalance, "It's not possible, little arithmetic lesson".
Answer: Dr. Carolyn A. Bennett
C:	It's not really a language gaffe per se, but the calendar-boy MP for Kings-Hants commented that he speaks French "with a Nova Scotia accent", but that's how he speaks English as well.
Answer: Scott A. Brison

7.	For ten points each, name these No Doubt songs.
A.	Gwen Stefani and her brother Eric wrote this song about her failed relationship with bassist Tony Kanal. It topped the Hot 100 Airplay chart for a then-record sixteen weeks starting in late 1996.
Answer: "Don't Speak"
B.	Gwen has collaborated with The Neptunes several times during her solo career, but this is the only song where she did so as part of No Doubt. The music video for this song from Rock Steady features the band on waterskis.
Answer: "Hella Good"
C.	Tom Dumont, Kanal and Stefani wrote this song from the album Return of Saturn in ten minutes. Initially a flop, it was heard again when a ponyhawk-sporting Sanjaya Malakar performed it on American Idol.
Answer: "Bathwater"

8.	You don't have to have read the book that is the subject of this bonus; indeed, the question writer has not read it either.  For ten points each:
A.	What 1958 novel by Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe may be the most famous African novel?
Answer:  Things Fall Apart
B.	What Irish poet wrote the line that is the source of the novel's title: "Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold"?
Answer:  William Butler Yeats
C.	The line "Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold" comes from what poem by Yeats, dealing with his belief Western civilization was doomed?
Answer:  "The Second Coming"



9.	Answer the following about the "expulsion of the Gael" for ten points each.
A:	The Highland Clearances, considered a serious blow to the clan system in Scotland, occurred subsequent to this 1746 battle in which the Jacobite forces were defeated by the Hanoverians.
Answer: the Battle of Culloden [kuh-LAW-den is the proper pronunciation, but whatever]
B:	Two of the most reviled figures involved in the Clearances were Elizabeth Gordon and Patrick Sellar. Elizabeth was the 19th Countess of this district, which is also the surname of the star of "24".
Answer: Sutherland
C:	Many Gaels were moved off their regular lands and settled into crofting townships, where they were exploited by their landlords as cheap labour. Some crofters were used to harvest and process this large seaweed of the order Laminariales.
Answer: kelp

10.	Assuming that you can hear me, answer these questions on sound and acoustics for ten points each.
A.	This unit's zero point for the intensity of sound is 10-12 (ten to the power of negative twelve) watts per metre squared; the scale increases linearly with logarithmic increases in intensity.
Answer: Decibel
B.	This phenomenon occurs when two slightly-separated pitches are sounded, resulting in periodic variations in volume that get faster as the difference in frequency between the two pitches increases.
Answer: Beat
C.	This type of room suppresses all acoustic echoes and is generally used to measure audio devices that might otherwise be influenced by the characteristics of the room. 
Answer: Anechoic chamber  (prompt on other terms like "silent room")

11.	Greater minds than yours or mine have pondered the nature of consciousness.  For ten points each:
A.	This famous mathematician ponders consciousness for a long time in his Meditations on First Philosophy.
Answer:  Rene Descartes
B.	This bishop was renowned for remarking "Esse est percipi": "To be is to be perceived."
Answer:  George Berkeley
C.	This man wrote The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind.
Answer:  Julian Jaynes

12.	When watching TV, you must take the bad with the good - unless of course you have TiVo and can skip past the commercials. For ten points each, given a description of an irritating advert, name the store or product being advertised.
A:	A garden party where the guests take off their shoes to go outside is a recent pitch by this centuries-old Canadian department store. The ad also contains female singers whose actual pitch is a frequency that hurts the ears.
Answer: the Hudson's Bay Company  (or HBC)
B:	This product, often advertised during "Wheel of Fortune" and "Jeopardy!", has a simple schtick: telling the viewers three times to "apply [it] directly to the forehead" before announcing that it is "available without a prescription at retailers nationwide."
Answer: HeadOn
C:	The series of commercials for this lottery is notable for its endless parade of goofily grinning morons rolling in dough and goods, all summing up their situation with the horridly screeched, "FAN-tastic!!!"
Answer: the Cash for Life lottery

13.	Death makes an artist. For ten points each, answer these questions about works where the subjects weren't exactly the most lively.
A.	From the Italian for "compassion", this word refers to an artwork where the Virgin Mary is seen cradling Jesus Christ's body after his descent from the cross. Michelangelo's version is the most famous.
Answer: Pietà
B.	This subject of a 1793 painting is sometimes compared to the Pietà, since he is seen with his right arm hanging over the edge of a bathtub while holding a feather quill.
Answer: Jean-Paul Marat
C.	This painting by Edvard Munch depicts the passing of his sister Sophie from tuberculosis when he was fourteen years old. His father and aunt are closest to the deceased, while his siblings and Munch himself are scattered through the room.
Answer: Death in the Sickroom

14.	There is much blood and gore in Shakespeare.  Answer these questions about some of the Bard's most famous murder cases for ten points each.
A.	Although Brutus is the man most famous for Caesar's murder in the play Julius Caesar, this man, with a "lean and hungry look," incites Brutus to participate in the plot, and remarks "The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars but in ourselves."
Answer:  Cassius
B.	This famous female villainess says that had King Duncan not looked like her father as he slept, she would have killed him herself.
Answer:  Lady Macbeth
C.	This man kills his ex-girlfriend's father by stabbing through an arras in his mother's room, and sets his college friends up to be executed.
Answer:  Hamlet

15.	That Pope Benedict has a way with words, for better or worse. Answer some questions about his speaking and writing for ten points each.
A:	In the fall of 2006, the Pope quoted a scholar that called Islam a "violent" religion. The backlash nearly led to the cancellation of his visit to this country on the Anatolian Peninsula.
Answer: Turkey
B:	This document, released on June 19th, 2007, advises motorists to pray aloud while on the road, and discourages the use of one's motor vehicle for "an occasion of sin".
Answer: "Guidelines for the Pastoral Care of the Road" or the "Driver's Ten Commandments"
C:	This book, Benedict's first one written as a Pope, is described by its author as his "personal search for the face of the Lord." That Lord and His hometown title the work.
Answer: Jesus of Nazareth

16.	For ten points each, name the year in the 1800s in which these events in North American history occurred. If your answer is within two years on either side, you'll get five points.
A.	The year in which the Louisiana Purchase was made, granting the United States over 2 million square kilometers of land.
Answer: 1803 (five points for 1801, 1802, 1804, or 1805)
B.	The year in which the Battle of Lundy's Lane was fought between Britain and the United States, resulting in almost a thousand casualties on each side.
Answer: 1814 (five points for 1812, 1813, 1815, or 1816)
C.	The first year in which Reconstruction began immediately following the conclusion of the American Civil War.
Answer: 1865 (five points for 1863, 1864, 1866, or 1867)

17.	We all love aliphatic compounds.  For ten points each:
A.	Which is the smallest aliphatic alkane that can form structural isomers?
Answer:  butane (accept methyl-propane or C4H10; do not accept anything that contains "cyclo")
B.	This type of hydrocarbon has one double bond somewhere in its line of carbon atoms
Answer:  alkene 

C.	If there are "n" carbon atoms in an alkene, how many hydrogen atoms are there?
Answer:  2n

18.	Don't tell me what the poets are doing - I'll tell you what they're doing, and you tell me who they are for ten points each.
A:	This poet/musician actually penned the lyrics quoted in this bonus lead-in. His first collection of poems shares its name with his debut solo album. Poems include "Starpainters",  "Canada Geese", and the titular poem, "Coke Machine Glow".
Answer: Gord(on) Downie
B:	This poet is known more for being a musician, but in 2001 he released a collection of lyrics and poetry entitled Blackbird Singing. Poems include "Ivan" and "Little Willow"; lyrics include "Here Today" and "Maybe I'm Amazed".
Answer: Sir (James) Paul McCartney
C:	This poet also has a solid musical career. His most recent collection is 2006's Book of Longing. Some of his notable songs include "So Long, Marianne", and "Everybody Knows." Everybody should also know his book Beautiful Losers.
Answer: Leonard Norman Cohen

19.	It was bound to happen, considering one of our players is from a hole in the ground with lots of nickel in it. For ten points each, here are questions about Canada's geology and mining developments.
A.	This geological feature consisting mostly of metamorphic rocks from billions of years ago stretches from the Great Lakes to the Arctic Ocean and was the first part of North America to be elevated above sea level.
Answer: Canadian Shield or Precambrian Shield
B.	This national park in Atlantic Canada was declared a World Heritage Site by the United Nations in 1987 for its unique geology; notable in its Tablelands, which consist of peridotite rocks that dominate a barren desert-like landscape.
Answer: Gros Morne National Park
C.	Stemming from the discovery of a kimberlite pipe in the early 1990s, BHP Billiton operates this mine 300 km northeast of Yellowknife which became Canada's first diamond mine when opened in 1998.
Answer: Ekati Diamond Mine

20.	Answer these related questions:
A.	The Kander & Ebb musical featuring Roxie Hart as a main character was set in this city.
Answer:  Chicago, Illinois
B.	This community area of Chicago is bounded by the Brown, Orange, Green, Pink and Purple lines of the "El" rapid transit system.
Answer:  The Loop
C.	The official address of this baseball stadium in Chicago is 1060 West Addison Street.
Answer:  Wrigley Field

21.	Stop in the name of the law - but which one? For ten points each, given a country, identify whether it is governed by civil law, common law, both, or neither.
A:	Canada
Answer: both (Quebec has civil law, the rest of Canada has common law)
B:	Australia
Answer: common law
C:	Germany
Answer: civil law


22.	The Laureus World Sports Awards have honoured outstanding athletes since 2000. For ten points each, name these recent winners at award ceremonies.
A.	This tennis player has been ranked No. 1 in the world since February 2004 and has won the award for Sportsman of the Year for the past three years.
Answer: Roger Federer
B.	The first female pole vaulter to clear five meters, she was named Sportswoman of the Year at the 2007 ceremonies.
Answer: Yelena Isinbayeva
C.	In 2005, this racing driver received the award for Comeback of the Year, after coming back from a crash in a 2001 Champ Car race that required the amputation of both of his legs.
Answer: Alessandro Zanardi

23.	Answer the following bonus on Hindu deities:
A.	This goddess of death is famous for wearing a necklace of skulls; her name has been translated as either "black" or "time."
Answer:  Kali
B.	Another goddess, often interacting or even being identified with Kali in myths, is the wife of Shiva, has ten arms, rides a lion, and has a name meaning "incomprehensible".
Answer:  Durga
C.	This hero of a famous epic tale is an avatar of Vishnu, slays Ravana, loves Sita, and is great friends with Hanuman.
Answer:  Rama

24.	You can have these questions for a Song - the Chinese dynasty, that is. For ten points each:
A:	The Song capital was located at this city, which lies near the great bend of the Yellow River.
Answer: Kaifeng
B:	The most famous literary figure of the dynasty was this poet-painter, whose name sounds oddly like a Japanese delicacy.
Answer: Su Shi
C:	These ancestors of the Manchu were allies of the Song during the 1122 defeat of the Qidan, but later turned against the Song, who treated them as inferiors.
Answer: the Jurchen

VETO 2007:  Consolation Prize for Furthest-traveled Team
Questions by:  Shauna McNally, Jordan Stopciati, Tamara Vardomskaya

