1. His play All New People is currently at New York's Second Stage Theater, while he won a 2005 Grammy for Best Compilation Soundtrack Album for a film he also directed and starred in. Diagnosed with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder at age 10, this Northwestern graduate appeared on Arrested Development as Phillip Litt, a "Girls Gone Wild" parody. He is best known for a role where he is given the evil eye by a man sometimes posing as Doctor Jan Itor to Philip Glass's "Koyaanisqatsi" and has relationships with Tara Reid, Elizabeth Banks and Heather Graham. For 10 points name this actor who played John "J.D." Dorian on Scrubs and Andrew Largeman in Garden State:
ANSWER: Zachary Israel "Zach" Braff

2. Discoverer Klaus Schmidt claims "in 10 or 15 years" this site "will be more famous than Stonehenge" in an article titling it "the world's first temple." Colloquially known as "Potbelly Hill," this site 9 miles from Sanliurfa [Shan-LYOOR-fa] and 20 miles from a site it predates by a millennium, Nevali Cori [nuh-vah-LUH CHO-ree], it displays carved totems on pillars representing boars, foxes, and cranes. Its largest pillars, 18 feet high with weight 16 tons, were quarried and positioned without aid of wheels or draft animals, while no residences found at this 22 acre site suggest it was not part of a city but a site of sacrifice and maybe pilgrimage. For 10 points name this Southern Turkish site dating to 9600-8200 B.C., an important Neolithic archaeological site illustrating the birth of religion:
ANSWER: Gobekli Tepe (Accept "Potbelly Hill" before mentioned)

3. This phylum has a maximum number of species of 320 and maximum species length of 720 millimetres, while Wikipedia claims that this phylum's "jelly" is a delicacy in Xiamen, China. First named by Rafinesque and identified by de Blainville in 1827 in a species later renamed Golfingia Vulgaris to celebrate golfing at St. Andrews, this phylum's members contain an unsegmented trunk and a retractable section called an "introvert." Reproducing both sexually and asexually, three genera (Aspidosiphon, Lithacrosiphon, and Cloeosiphon) possess an "anal shield." For 10 points identify this phylum commonly under 10 centimetres long, marine worms with a tasty name:
ANSWER: Sipuncula (or Peanut Worms or clear-knowledge equivalents)

4. It is the first name of the poet who claimed "Seed of snow...is sown tonight with the beauty of light and moving lights, light travelling, light shining from beyond farthestness" in "Christmas Approaches, Highway 401" in addition to the collections No Time and Concrete and Wild Carrot. It is the commonly-known first name of the author of the nonfiction The Prophet's Camel Bell and children's book Jason's Quest, who referenced the fictional Manawaka, Manitoba in more famous works. The first name of the creator of Marian McAlpin and Offred, for 10 points name this first name shared by Canadian authors of The Stone Angel, The Edible Woman, and The Handmaid's Tale:
ANSWER: Margaret (Avison, Laurence, and Atwood respectively, but DO NOT ACCEPT any last names)

5. Ranked 1st in a 1998 Maclean's listing of Most Influential Canadians of All-Time, this Laval graduate and lawyer received the Military Cross in 1916 for efforts in France, before being shot in both legs and chest in 1918, when he lost a leg. The first Post-Vichy Ambassador to France, his appointment by John Diefenbaker to a better known position was announced on August 1, 1959, a tenure which coincided with the Quiet Revolution, the inauguration of the St. Lawrence Seaway, and the FLQ Crisis. For 10 points name this nineteenth overall and first Francophone Governor General of Canada, the namesake of Canadian Collegiate Football's Trophy, who died in office in 1967:
ANSWER: Georges-Philéas Vanier  

6. In 2003, Marcillac et al. found its naturally occurring isotope 209 to have an alpha-emission half life of one point nine times 10 to the 19 years, over one billion times the estimated age of the universe. This trivalent poor metal has no credited discoverer, although Geoffroy distinguished it from lead and tin in 1753. Removed from lead by the Kroll-Betterton or Betts processes, it is the highest verified natural diamagnetic element, and is used in solders [SOD-ders], as a catalyst for making acrylic fibres, and its compound subsalicylate is an anti-diarrheal. For 10 points name this Group 15 element produced mainly in China, element number 83, with symbol beginning with "B": 
ANSWER: Bismuth (or Bi)

7. Its highest point is Mount Lamlam, translated as lightning in the local language. With northernmost and southernmost points at Ritidian and Aga Points, respectively, it lies north of Cocos Island. Home to Chamorro people, who are approximately 57% of its population, ecological threats include the introduced brown tree snake and coconut rhinoceros beetle. Bordered to the East by the Philippine Sea, home to Apra Harbour and largest settlement Dededo, this island's strategic location is shown by Andersen Air Force Base and its colonial status. For 10 points name this Southernmost and largest Mariana island, a Micronesian U.S. territory with capital at Hagatna:  
ANSWER: Guam (or Guahan)

8. On May 21, 2006 he scored the first goal and was named "Man of the Match" in a 3-0 victory over Leeds United that elevated Watford to the English Premier League. Captaining Watford in December 2006 and sometimes in 2007, this centre back defender's contract was not renewed in 2010, leading him to be another team's historic addition on November 18. Having played 25 caps for his native United States, including all games of the 2010 World Cup (including a game against Algeria where he required 5 stitches for a split tongue after the match), for 10 points name this Wisconsin native, the captain and first signing of the MLS franchise Vancouver Whitecaps:
ANSWER: Jay Michael DeMerit

9. After his head was stolen in 1793, it was found in the attic of retired tax collector Jacques Bellanger, who had purchased it in 1955, and authenticated by a group led by forensic expert Phillipe Charlier. The authentication involved a wound inflicted by Jean Chatel in an unsuccessful 1594 assassination attempt, although this King of Navarre and husband of Marie de Medici was less fortunate about 16 years later, when he was killed by Francois Ravaillac. Justifying his conversion to Catholicism with the supposed quotation "Paris is well worth a Mass," he also made 1598's Edict of Nantes, protecting Protestants. For 10 points name this first Bourbon King of France:
ANSWER: Henry IV of France (Grudgingly Prompt on "Henry the Great")

10. His Piano Trio in G Minor was a tribute to his daughter Bedriska, who died of scarlet fever, while three of his symphonic poems, Richard III, Hakon Jarl, and Wallenstein's Camp, were written in Gothenburg, Sweden. This composer of the operas The Devil's Wall, Dalibor, and The Brandenburgers in Bohemia also wrote non-opera works, such as the Triumphal Symphony, Evening Songs, and the String Quartet From My Life. He is famous for an opera featuring Marenka and a series with portraits of a mountain said to contain King Wenceslas, the story of female warrior Sarka, and the river Vltava. For 10 points name this Czech composer of The Bartered Bride and Ma Vlast:
ANSWER: Bedrich Smetana

11. This person gave Royal Assent to the Civil Marriage Act in 2005, filling in for recuperating Adrienne Clarkson. Receiving the gold medal when graduating from University of Alberta law school, this former UBC professor attained her current post in 2000, after having been appointed to a similar position by Brian Mulroney in 1989. In these positions, she authored judgments striking down the offence of spreading false news in R. v. Zundel, the former rape-shield provisions in R. v. Seaboyer, and possession of private-use self-created child pornography in R. v. Sharpe. For 10 points name this first female and current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada:
ANSWER: Beverley McLachlin (or Beverley Gietz or "Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada" before "gold" is read)

12. Born to Manoah of the Tribe of Dan after an angelic announcement, he succeeded Abdon in the leadership of his people. Killing 30 citizens of Ashkelon after his wedding riddle is revealed by his Philistine bride, he later seeks revenge on his prospective father-in-law by attaching fire to the tails of 300 foxes and sending them through the fields. Betrayed by another acquaintance whom he met at the Brook of Sorek, he is eventually blinded but manages to destroy the temple of Dagon with himself and the Philistine leaders in it after his most notable asset regrows in prison. For 10 points, name this Israelite judge, betrayed by Delilah after telling her his strength equalled his hair:
ANSWER: Samson (or Simsun or Shimshon or Shimsoun or even Sampson; DO NOT ACCEPT Pete Sampras)

13. Based on work by Ronald Lockley as told to two girls on the road to Stratford-upon-Avon, Lockley and the author of this work would later publish Voyage Through the Antarctic together. Describing the titular well-ruled polity and the overflowing and militaristic Efrafa, ruled by General Woundwort, as well as Strawberry's home polity, which has made a Faustian bargain with humanity, this work has a supernatural element in the character Hrairoo, or Fiver, a seer who predicts the destruction of the first warren. For 10 points name this work which introduces a language and religion for rabbits, based on Sun-worship, a 1972 work by Richard Adams titled after a Hampshire location:
ANSWER: Watership Down

14. Created in 1453, two "doors" on the pedestal of this work symbolize the entrance to the afterlife and depict putti and the subject's coat of arms and angels with military equipment, respectively. Standing 12 feet 2 inches, the title figure has long rods with spurs at the ends attached to his boots; with his left hand he holds reins of a horse with one hoof off the ground, while his right holds a baton across the horse's head. Located in front of the Basilica of Sant'Antonio in Padua's Piazza del Santo, this lost wax method statue's verism and technical perfection helped resurrect equestrian statuary. For 10 points name this bronze of Donatello, depicting a Venetian warlord known as the "honeyed cat":
ANSWER: Gattamelata (or Erasmo di Narni or Honeyed Cat before mentioned)

15. His mother, usually named as daughter of the Bobd Dearg, was changed into an animal for refusing the love of Fer Doirich, spent three years as a woman, then another 7 as a deer, after which he was found by his father. In addition to Sadhbh, other unusual women in this narrator of the Fenian Cycle's life include Niamh of the Golden Hair, who abducts him to the paradise Tir Nan Og, and their daughter Plor na mBan [Plor-na-man], known as the "flower of women." This father of Oscar and son of Finn Macool later leaves Niamh, finding that his three years in Tir Nan Og were 300 in ours. Four 10 points, name this bard from Irish mythology, whose "wanderings" title a Yeats poem:
ANSWER: Oisin (or Osheen or Ossian)  

16. He is attacked in Act 3 Scene 3 by three men after commenting "it will be rain tonight" to which an assailant replies "let it come down." Earlier, this figure argued that "oftentimes, to win us to our harm, the instruments of darkness tell us truths, win us with honest trifles to betray's in deepest consequence" to his friend, which he is compared to as "less than, and greater" and "not so happy, yet much happier" by three women he claims he neither begs nor fears their favour or their hate. This father of Fleance fears his friend "play'dst most foully for" the crown of Scotland, while his ghost later torments the title character. For 10 points name this prophesied ancestor of kings in Macbeth:
ANSWER: Banquo

17. A 2001 Naomi Fukumori work discusses this text and "the politics of amusement." In some copies, the author describes accidentally leaving it on a cushion out for the guest Minamoto no Tsunefusa, who then publicized it. Translated by Hashimoto with contemporary phrases like "dawn is like just sooo spring!", recurring characters in this zuihitsu work include the protagonist's brother Norimitsu and dog Okinamaro, while no mention is made of the fall of the Imperial Michitaka family, perhaps due to Empress Teishi's association with the author. Containing eclectic lists and with no central plot, for 10 points name this 10th-11th century "Heian blog" by Sei Shonagon: 
ANSWER: Makura no Soshi (or The Pillow Book or The Pillow Sketches)

18. Discovered by Unemo and Ohnishi et al., its finding was presented in July 2011 at Quebec City for the 19th ISSDR conference. This strain is notable for resistance to cephalosporin-class antibiotics such as ceftriaxone, as well as older drugs such as fluoroquinolones and tetracycline used to combat its underlying bacillus, meaning it represents a disease with 700,000 annual reported cases in the United States but has no known cure, a first since the introduction of penicillin. For 10 points name this sexually transmitted infection strain of a disease of genus Neisseria discovered in Japan, a "superbug" which should chill you with fear before giving sufferers a burning sensation when they pee:
ANSWER: H041 Gonorrhea (or anything implying that it is antibiotic resistant; prompt on Gonorrhea but be lenient)

19. During this event one of its participants both won a Dragon boat race on Dalvay Lake and landed an aircraft on it, having simulated an engine failure. Creating an opportunity for Katy Perry to invite its participants to a concert via Twitter, this event, estimated to have cost $1.4 million (not including security) also involved meeting with Karina Pillay-Kinnee and Jamie Coutts in Slave Lake and a trip to Skoki Lodge. Occurring in what one host termed the "honeymoon capital of the Commonwealth," it prominently featured a July 1st appearance on Parliament Hill. For 10 points name this 2011 newsstory featuring Baron Carrickfergus and the Duchess of Cambridge visiting a colony:    
ANSWER: Prince William and Kate's Visit to Canada (Accept Clear-knowledge Equivalents)

20. Named by Léon Rosenfeld in 1948, when these particles are charged, they generate a magnetic field with magnetic dipole moment calculated by its g-factor times Q times e times hbar over four times m, where g-factor is predicted to always be 2 by first order approximation quantum mechanics. Not affected by the strong interaction, half of this 3-generation fermionic elementary particle group is massless, including one discovered by the DONUT collaboration of Fermilab in July 2000, though the first, discovered by Thomson in 1897, has a mass of approximately 9 point 1 times ten to the negative 31. Comprising the electron, muon, tauon and their respective neutrinos, for 10 points name these particles named for the Greek for "fine, small, or thin": 
ANSWER: Leptons

21. One of this polity's rulers was arrested for the 1970s Buenos Aires assassinations of Hector Gutierrez and Zelmar Michelini, and sentenced to 30 years in prison, while another jailed opponents on the Isla de Flores and ruled from 1931 to 1938, accepting money from Hitler. In addition to Juan Manuel Bordaberry and Gabriel Terra, a revolutionary from here, Jose Gervasio Artigas, commanded at 1811's Battle of Las Piedras, celebrated on May 18, sparing the defeated Spaniards. Independent from 1828, for 10 points name the site of the Graf Spee's scuttling, the 1st South American country to legalize gay marriage and gay adoption, run by Jose Mujica from Montevideo:  
ANSWER: Republica Oriental del Uruguay (or Oriental Republic of Uruguay or Eastern Republic of Uruguay I guess)

22. He claims in "Friends and Lovers" that "blood is like my grandfather-it never lies," while he reveals in "Overload" that he was molested by a female babysitter at age 9, and tells Hodges in "4x4" that he first got drunk at age 16. A suspect in the murder of prostitute Kristy Hopkins, he is also stalked by Nigel Crane, who throws him out a window. Nicknamed "Pancho" by his father, a judge, this former Dallas Crime Lab member is kept in a coffin with a loaded gun by Walter Gordon in a season finale directed by Quentin Tarantino. For 10 points name this affable character who did the world a favour by shooting Justin Bieber on CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, played by George Eads:
ANSWER: Nicholas "Nick" Stokes (Accept Either)

23. This work was rejected by 121 publishers, a record for a bestselling book according to the Guinness Book of World Records. Featuring 9 days of John and Sylvia Sutherland travelling to California with the narrator Phaedrus and his son Chris, it features dialogues termed chautauquas, attempting to understand quality, which is argued to be synonymous with Truth, undefinable and mutable based on situation. Identifying two personalities, a gestalt-driven romanticism versus rational explorer, this 1974 work was followed by Lila: An Inquiry Into Morals. For 10 points name this philosophy book of Robert Pirsig, describing a Japanese religion and the upkeep of the titular conveyance:
ANSWER: Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance

24. Its namesake placed first in a 2007 CBC audience poll for the 7 Wonders of Canada, although CBC's judges ultimately ignored it. Containing 23 species of orchids, including two of Ontario's rarest flower species, it was formerly named for a president of the Silver Islet Mining Company, and borders the town of Pass Lake, the Thunder Cape Bird Observatory, and the future Lake Superior National Marine Conservation Area. Located on Sibley Peninsula, its most prominent feature and namesake, visible from Thunder Bay, is a formation of mesas and sills associated by the Ojibwe with Nanabijou, petrified. For 10 points name this Northwestern Ontario park, with a name synonymous with dormant upheaval:
ANSWER: Sleeping Giant Provincial Park

