Trans-Canada Championship Match
Andy Saunders

Tossups

1)	Covered by rule 8.05 of the Official Rules of Baseball, one is not called when a pitcher illegally goes to their mouth. One is called when the pitcher stands on or astride the rubber without the baseball during a hidden ball trick, if the catcher leaves his box too soon on an intentional walk, or if the pitcher fakes a throw to first base. For 10 points, name this baseball violation called against the pitcher which advances all runners one base.
Answer: balk

2)	It is home to the longest runway in Canada, runway 16/34, as its altitude means that more takeoff distance is required. Concourse A is mostly Air Canada's, while B and C can be configured to handle US-bound flights. Concourse D is used by Westjet as its home and hub. For 10 points, name this Canadian airport, the third-busiest in Canada, with IATA airport code YYC.
Answer: Calgary International Airport

3)	"The Family", the fountain in St. George's Square in downtown Guelph, Ontario. Michaelangelo's David. Manneken Pis. Eadweard Muybridge's "Woman Walking Downstairs". Goya's La Maja Desnuda, but not Goya's La Maja Vestida. For 10 points, the subjects of these works of art all have what in common?
Answer: Nudity (accept equivalents)

4)	$1.06 on August 20, 1957. $1.04 on April 25, 1974. 61.92 cents on January 21, 2002. 92.5 cents between 1962 and 1970. 94.64 cents on June 4, 2007. For 10 points, those were historical prices, in US funds, of what unit of currency?
Answer: Canadian dollar

5)	Believed to be the work of Johann Bernoulli as its namesake had Bernoulli on retainer to solve calculus problems, it is most commonly proven by Cauchy's mean value theorem. For the rule to hold, however, the limit as x approaches a of f prime of x over g prime of x must exist. For 10 points, name this calculus rule named for a French nobleman in which the derivative of the numerator and denominator are taken to evaluate an indeterminate limit.
Answer: l'H™pital's Rule

6)	He was the first territorial governor of Florida, the first President to have an assassination attempted against him, and the first Congressman from Tennessee. A national hero from the War of 1812, he was famous as President for introducing the patronage system to the American civil service that lasted until the 1880s and de-funding the Bank of the United States after vetoing its 1832 re-charter.  For 10 points, name this man that served from 1829 to 1837 as the 7th President of the United States.
Answer: Andrew Jackson

7)	"It's A Wise Child" sent this group through college. Franny's reading of "The Way of A Pilgrim" sends her into an emotional breakdown. Waker is a Catholic monk whose twin Walt was killed in Japan. Seymour authored the letter that Hapworth is based on, while Bessie and Les are retired vaudevillians. For 10 points, name this family of fictional characters from J. D. Salinger's short stories.
Answer: Glass family

8)	Its American sections are in the Door Peninsula in its westernmost reaches, as well as in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. In the East, it creates waterfalls on the Genesee River near Rochester. It is most known for its sections in Ontario, though, where the Bruce Trail runs along it from Queenston to Tobermory. Splitting Hamilton in two, name, for 10 points, this UNESCO Biosphere Reserve being most famous as the cliff over which the Niagara River runs, creating Niagara Falls.
Answer: Niagara Escarpment

9)	As one of its advantages is its ability to study complex mixtures, it has recently begun to be used in accurately analyzing food and wine. Pioneers in this field include Arthur Dempster and Francis Astor, with Dempster using this to discover the uranium isotope 235U, used in atomic bombs. For 10 points, name this analytical technique used to determine the composition of a phyisical sample by generating a spectrum representing the masses of components.
Answer: mass spectrometry (accept "mass spec" or "mass spectroscopy")

10)	The number 64 on its bottles is said to represent the notebook page upon which the recipe for the beer was found. Out of business for over 50 years thanks to being caught smuggling beer during Prohibition, it returned in 1988 in clear glass bottles, which can cause light damage and skunkiness. Purchased by Sapporo Breweries in 2006, name, for 10 points, this beer company known for its Cream Ale and Honey Brown Lager.
Answer: Sleeman Breweries Ltd.

11)	An association between "seven demons for seven sins" led to prevailing wisdom about this person; additionally, confusion between the words "peccatrix", a sinful woman, and "meretrix", a prostitute, may have led to this as well. Important to the Gnostics, she is also said to have been a financial supporter of Christ's ministry. For 10 points, name this woman known for being a witness to Christ's crucifiction and for being the first person to see the resurrected Christ.
Answer: Mary Magdalene

12)	In Nova Scotia politics, he took the provincial PC Party from 0 seats to a majority in the span of 8 years. Moving to federal politics, he came within two seats of leading his party to a federal election victory in 1972. His 1974 campaign was ridden with gaffes, including an image of him fumbling a football on a campaign stop that would define his career. For 10 points, name this man, regarded by many as "the best Prime Minister Canada never had", who served as leader of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada from 1967 to 1976.
Answer: Robert Stanfield

13)	The opening line of this work could be interpreted as inquiring for a description of the founder of Guelph, Ontario. However, the character referred to is not a city founder, but the Mystery Worker that organizes a "strike of the mind", leading the world's industrialists to a gulch in the Rocky Mountains. For 10 points, name this 1957 Ayn Rand magnum opus that opens with the line "Who is John Galt?"
Answer: Atlas Shrugged

14)	First elected to Parliament representing Dunfermline East in 1983, he did his PhD on the Labour Party's attempts to become the alternative to the Conservatives in the early 20th century. After going blind in his left eye due during a rugby match at the University of Edinburgh, experimental surgery in Edinburgh saved his right eye from the same fate. In Parliament, he became the longest-serving Chancellor of the Exchequor in nearly 200 years. For 10 points, name this man who became Prime Minister of the United Kingdom on June 27, 2007.
Answer: James Gordon Brown

15)	David Loeb's documentary film about the final New York Times issue set in "hot type" is titled "Farewell" this. The phrase became known through human error, as linotype ("LINE-o-type") operators would drag their fingers down the first two columns of the keyboard to finish a mistaken line; however, the mistaken line would occasionally printed. For 10 points, name this phrase that you might see mistakenly in an old linotype-printed document whose letters are arranged in the general order of their frequency in the English language.
Answer: ETAOIN SHRDLU

16)	The name of this country is literally "depths" in Spanish, as Columbus wrote "Thank God we have come out of these depths" while on its northeast coast. Its entire Pacific coast is on the Gulf of Fonseca, while most of its industry is located at San Pedro Sula in the north, close to Puerto Cortez, its largest port. For 10 points, name this Central American country with its capital at Tegucigalpa.
Answer: Honduras

17)	It was published on January 13, 1898, two days after a courtmartial acquitted Ferdinand Esterhazy of a treason charge for passing military secrets to the German embassy in Paris. The newspaper L'Aurore decided to publish it as an open letter to the Frensh president, accusing the government of anti-semitism and placing an innocent Jewish army officer in jail. For 10 points, name this Emile Zola letter, the turning point in the Dreyfus Affair.
Answer: J'Accuse!

18)	During his 2nd attempt at running for President, an international committee of historians was appointed to examine his life during World War II, which concluded that he was not involved with war crimes. Despite the international controversy, he was elected president of his country in 1985, leading to his being deemed persona non grata by many countries, including the United States. This was despite his being Secretary General of the UN for 10 years. For 10 points, name this former Austrian Secretary-General of the United Nations who passed away in June 2007.
Answer: Kurt Valdheim

19)	Historian Victor Davis Hanson speculated that the Greek victory in this naval battle, celebrated by the Hellenic Navy on September 12, is the reason for Western Civilization as we know it today. The Greeks were greatly outnumbered, but Themistocles convinced the Spartans to fight at this location instead of Corinth, interpreting the Oracle at Delphi to mean that the Greeks would be saved by a "wooden wall" - those of ships. For 10 points, name this 480 BC battle, the Greek victory in which was the turning point in the Persian Wars.
Answer: Battle of Salamis

20)	The name's the same. One is an early 90's hip hop group from Atlanta, Georgia whose debut album specified the exact length of time between their formation and their record deal. The other is a FOX television series detailing the life of a family whose patriarch was arrested by the SEC in the show's debut episode for defrauding customers and spending money on personal expenses. For 10 points, give the name shared by the hip hop group known for the hits "Tennessee" and "Mr. Wendal" and the FOX TV series starring the Bluths.
Answer: Arrested Development

21)	The name's the same. One is a 1920's and 1930's- author whose multi-volume epic manuscript "October Fair" was pared down after his 1937 death from tuberculosis. The other is a contemporary author whose non-fiction works include The Right Stuff, a work about the first American astronauts. For 10 points, give the name shared by the authors of the works "You Can't Go Home Again" and "I Am Charlotte Simmons".
Answer: Thomas (Tom) Wolfe

22)	Standard measurements of this are taken at a frequency of 589 nanometers. Silicon's is 4.01, diamond's is 2.419, and it can be negative in the case of some metamaterials. Defined as the ratio of the phase velocity of a wave phenomenon in a vacuum to the velocity in the medium itself, for 10 points, name this measure for how much the speed of light is reduced inside a medium.
Answer: refractive index (of light)

23)	Many different communities claim to have invented it, including Drummondville, Saint-Jean-sur-Richlieu, Victoriaville, and Warwick. The "Italian" version uses spaghetti sauce, and it's known as "mix" in Maine, and "disco fries" in the New York City area. For 10 points, name this popular Quebec dish which is made with French fries topped with cheese curds and gravy.
Answer: poutine

Bonuses

1)	The Supreme Court decision for Morse v. Frederick came this past Monday. For 10 points each:
(10) Joseph Frederick was suspended from school after he unfurled a banner with "BONG HiTS 4 JESUS" on it during this 2002 event passing by Juneau-Douglas High School on its way to Salt Lake City.
Answer: Winter Olympic Torch Relay
(10) The majority opinion relied on this mid-1980s case when a speech littered with sexual innuendo was given nominating a classmate for student body vice president in a Washington high school.
Answer: Bethel School District v. Fraser
(10) Associate Justice John Paul Stevens' dissenting opinion states that he would "find it hard to believe the Court would support punishing Frederick for flying" this similar message "which could quite reasonably be construed either as a protected religious message or a pro-alcohol message".
Answer: "WINE SiPS 4 JESUS"

2)	Answer the following questions about conservative thinkers for 10 points each:
(10) This 18th-century English-Irish thinker's "Appeal from the New to the Old Whigs" and "Reflections on the Revolution in France" earned him the moniker "The Father of Conservatism".
Answer: Edmund Burke
(10) After welcoming the French Revolution as a young man, this 19th century English poet turned Conservative later in life, becoming a defender of ordered liberty with 1838's "Sonnets Dedicated to Liberty and Order".
Answer: William Wordsworth
(10) This man, whose bid for the Supreme Court was unconfirmed by the Senate under Reagan, wrote that "every new generation constitutes a wave of savages who must be civilized by their families, schools, and churches" in his Slouching Towards Gomorrah.
Answer: Robert H. Bork

3)	Canadian rivers, none of which pass through British Columbia or Ontario, for 10 points each:
(10) This river, known as "The Rhine of North America" runs along the northern Maine/New Brunswick border. Closer to its mouth, it's home to the Reversing Falls thanks to Bay of Fundy tides.
Answer: Saint John River
(10) The watershed of this southern Alberta river, given its name by Meriwether Lewis due to its whitish colour, is one of only two Canadian rivers that drain into the Gulf of Mexico.
Answer: Milk River
(10) This Halifax-area river, named for the Mi'kmaq ("mick-mack") for "beautiful water", flows into a namesake harbour referenced in Joel Plaskett's song "Down At The Khyber".
Answer: Musquodoboit River ("MUSK-uh-DOBB-it") (Note to moderator: Be lenient on pronounciation here, but do admonish a poor one on my behalf.)

4)	Most Canadian Prime Ministers die in Canada after they left office. However, a few have not. For the stated number of points each:
(5, 10) No Canadian Prime Minister has died in office in over 100 years. However, two died in office in the 19th century. 5 for one and 15 for both, name them.
Answer: Sir John A. Macdonald and Sir John Thompson
(5, 10) Thompson was one of three Prime Ministers to die in England. 5 for one, 15 for both, name the other two - both Conservative - to die in England.
Answer: Sir Charles Tupper and Richard Bedford Bennett

5)	Groups of seven that aren't the Group of Seven for 10 points each:
(10) Liesl, Friedrich, Louisa, Brigitta, Kurt, Marta, and Gretl are the seven children of the main character in this 1960s film.
Answer: The Sound of Music
(10) Ebisu, Daikokuten, Bishamonten, Benzaiten, Fukorukuju, Hotei, and Jurojin are the shichi fukujin, or Seven Lucky Gods, in this religion.
Answer: Shinto
(10) Infant, Schoolboy, Lover, Soldier, Justice, Pantaloon, and Second Childhood is this group of seven from Shakespeare's As You Like It.
Answer: The Seven Ages Of Man

6)	Answer the following questions about celestial bodies that may or may not fit the IAU's classification of a dwarf planet, for 10 points per answer.
(10, 10) The IAU has currently identified three celestial bodies that have received dwarf planet classification, Pluto being one. Name the other two for 10 points each.
Answer: Ceres and Eris
(10) Vesta, Pallas and Hygiea, the second- through fourth-largest objects in the asteroid belt, could become dwarf planets if it is proven that they have reached this, which occurs when a balance is reached between gravity and a pressure gradient force in the opposite direction.
Answer: hydrostatic equilibrium

7)	Answer the following about Ralph Ellison's posthumous final work for 10 points each:
(10) The novel shares its name with this holiday, primarily celebrated in Texas, that celebrates the day of Granger's arriving on Galveston Island to enforce the emancipation of its slaves.
Answer: Juneteenth
(10) This editor of Ellison's pared down 2,000 pages of writing to create the 385-page Juneteenth.
Answer: John Callahan
(10) The story is of Reverend Hickman and this New England senator, raised by Hickman's congregation as Bliss; however, he turns into a race-baiting Senator and is assassinated.
Answer: Adam Sunraider (accept either)


8)	Bones of the human body, for the stated number of points each:
(10) This bone which transmits vibrations from the incus to the fenestra ovalis is the smallest in the human body.
Answer: stapes or stirrup
(10) In pronation of the elbow, this bone rotates around the ulna; therefore, a fracture to this bone makes pronation an impossible task.
Answer: radius
(5) Five points per answer, these two bones are located between the patella and tarsals.
Answer: tibia and fibula

9)	Answer the following questions about snack cake manufacturers for 10 points each.
(10) This Quebec-based company, now owned by Saputo, is known for products such as the Passion Flakie, Jos. Louis ("JOE LOO-ee"), and the May West.
Answer:	Vachon
(10) This brand, now part of the Vachon line, has Twinkies and King Dons.
Answer: Hostess
(10) This American brand owned by McKee Foods is famous for Swiss Rolls, Oatmeal Creme Pies, Cosmic Brownies, and Star Crunch.
Answer: Little Debbie

10)	Events of yesterday's Assembly of First Nations protest day, for 10 points each:
(10) The protests which blockaded Highways 2, 401, and the CN line at Deseronto were led by this Mohawk activist.
Answer: Shaun Brant
(10) In Manitoba, the Rolling River First Nation staged a partial blockade of the main highway going through this National Park south of Brandon.
Answer: Riding Mountain National Park
(10) Aboriginal chiefs in this province took out newspaper ads calling for an end to colonization, saying that treaties signed over 100 years are not land surrenders.
Answer: Alberta

11)	Civil War battles, for 10 points each:
(10) This 1862 battle fought in Maryland had 23,000 casualties, making it the bloodiest single-day battle in America's history.
Answer: Antietam
(10) The USS Merrimack and the CSS Virginia became the first two ironclads to combat each other in this naval battle named for a southeastern Virginia city.
Answer: Hampton Roads
(10) Sheridan routed the Confederacy in this last major battle of the war, causing Lee's retreat that ended at Appomattox.
Answer: Battle of Five Forks

12)	(5 x 5 + 5) According to Edward Gibbon's book The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, there were five consecutive emperors, known as the Good Emperors, who ruled from 96 to 180. For 5 points each and a bonus 5 for all correct, name the 5 Good Emperors according to Gibbon.
Answer: Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, and Marcus Aurelius

13)	"To-day, the road all runners come / Shoulder-high we bring you home / And set you at your threshold down / Townsman of a stiller town." For 10 points each:
(10) That was an excerpt from which A. E. Housman poem?
Answer: To An Athlete Dying Young
(10) "To An Athlete Dying Young" was poem XIX (19) in this cycle of poems published in 1896.
Answer: A Shropshire Lad
(10) The poem was read at Denys Finch Hatton's funeral in this 1980s Best Picture Oscar winner.
Answer: Out of Africa

14)	Artists of the abstract expressionist movement, for 10 points each:
(10) This artist's No. 5, 1948, mostly of brown and yellow paint dripped onto the canvas, was allegedly sold in 2006 for 140 million; however, the sale was disputed.
Answer: Jackson Pollock
(10) This Dutch-American painter turned to painting with black and white household enamels during a period in the late 1940s, including Light in August and Mailbox, for financial reasons.
Answer: Willem de Kooning
(10) de Kooning was the subject of this painter's "Portrait of Master Bill", considered to be an influence on de Kooning and the abstract expressionist movement.
Answer: Arshile Gorky

15)	"When in doubt, the answer is Margaret Atwood." The answer isn't Atwood here, but here's a bonus on some of her works, for 10 points each.
(10) The "story within a story of a story within a story" serves as the title of this 2000 work of Atwood's that won the Giller Prize.
Answer: The Blind Assassin
(10) This 2006 children's book from Atwood is the story of the two title characters saving the botanical gardens from a buffalo that was mistakenly labeled as a begonia.
Answer: Bashful Bob and Doleful Dorinda
(10) This 1969 debut work of Atwood's describes the separation of body and self of Marian McAlpin, who eventually finds herself unable to eat.
Answer: The Edible Woman

16)	Questions about Valhalla and Norse mythology, for 10 points each:
(10) This cosmic boar was killed and eaten every night in Valhalla.
Answer: Saehrimnir
(10) The crowing of this rooster that wakes the Einherjar in the morning will signal the beginning of Ragnarok.
Answer: Gullinkambi
(10) At Ragnarok, the only two human survivors do so by sheltering themselves in the branches of this "world tree".
Answer: Yggdrasil

17)	There's a new show coming to the CBC in 2007. Answer questions about it for 10 points each.
(10) In this Discovery Channel show, contestants are given 72 hours and $3,000 to fulfill a lifelong dream or desire.
Answer: No Opportunity Wasted (accept NOW)
(10) This host of The Amazing Race is the host of No Opportunity Wasted.
Answer: Phil Keoghan (rhymes with "Hogan")
(10) Phil Keoghan was motivated to host No Opportunity Wasted after a near-death experience doing what at the age of 19?
Answer: scuba diving

18)	Questions about Robert Pickton and the ongoing trial, for 10 points each:
(10) This was the name of the registered charity operated by Pickton and his brother Davis which featured drunken raves and entertainment by Vancouver-area prostitutes.
Answer: Piggy Palace Good Times Society
(10) This justice rejected one of the 27 counts against Pickton for lack of evidence.
Answer: James Williams
(10) This Fremont, California resident notorious for corresponding with notable prison inmates is the recipient of multiple letters from Picton, released by the Vancouver Sun in September 2006.
Answer: Thomas Loudamy (accept Mya Barnett)


19)	Answer the following questions about the dimensions of man from Vitruvian Man for 10 points each:
(10) This unit is described to be equal to four palms.
Answer: a foot
(10) On the average, the length of this body part is one-tenth of a man's height.
Answer: a hand
(10) Vitruvius' De Architectura 3.1.3 says that this body part is placed in the center of the human body.
Answer: navel (accept "belly button")

20)	Questions about food safety, for 15 points each:
(15) Identifiying critical control points where food safety hazards can be prevented is a main principle of this approach developed by Pillsbury and NASA in the 1950s and 1960s.
Answer: HACCP ("HAH-sip") (accept Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points)
(15) HACCP was an extension of this system that takes a holistic approach to regulating a manufacturing environment for foods and pharmaceuticals, including documenting every aspect of the manufacturing process to ensure traceability.
Answer: GMP (accept Good Manufacturing Practice)

21)	Answer the following questions about the geography surrounding Albany, New York for the stated number of points each:
(10, 10) For 10 points per answer, Albany sits at the confluence of these two rivers, one of which runs south to New York City, while the other shares its name with a Nation of the Iroquois Confederacy.
Answer: Hudson and Mohawk
(10) For a final 10, the tallest building in New York State outside of Albany is named after this man that served as Albany's mayor from 1941 to 1983. His great-grandfather also served as mayor in the 1830s.
Answer: Erastus Corning 2nd

22)	The National League, after 131 years, has finally been around long enough for teams to start nearing and surpassing 10,000 wins. For 10 points each:
(10) The first team to reach 10,000 wins did so on June 14, 2005 when they beat their inter-state rivals the Dodgers 4-3. Amazingly, they haven't won a World Series since 1954.
Answer: San Francisco Giants (accept either)
(10) Second on the all-time wins list is this team with a longer World Series drought; they should surpass 10,000 wins by the middle of 2008.
Answer: Chicago Cubs (prompt on Chicago)
(10) Unless they go on a tear, this Pennsylvania team will become the first Major League team to lose 10,000 games; they should surpass 10,000 before the end of July.
Answer: Philadelphia Phillies (accept either)


