VETO East 2011 PackWritten by: Jay Misuk (McMaster/UofT)Tossups1. This element is found in its pure form in a silvery colour, which can tarnish to black when oxidized. A soft and ductile radioactive metal, it has an extremely wide liquid range of 2946 ¼C, and its dioxide compound has the highest melting point of all oxides, at 3300 ¼C. With a half-life of 14.05 billion years and a high abundance in the Earth's crust, this element's 232 isotope was used as a breeder for nuclear fuel in the molten-salt reactor experiment in the 1960's. FTP, what is this actinide with atomic number 90 that countries such as Russia and India plan on using for cleaner nuclear power in the near future, named after the Norse god of thunder?Answer: Thorium2. 1909's Analyses of Railroad Investments was a seminal work of this company's founder, and its success laid the basis for this company's founding in 1914. Beginning with coverage of US municipal bonds, by the 1970's this company began issuing and covering bonds, and rating different client countries by a system that has been hotly contested for accusations of blackmail and damaging the reputation of corporations and nations alike just by changing the credit ratings. This kind of action has had major economic and political impacts in such nations as Canada in 1995, and more recently in Portugal, whose foreign debt was downgraded to "Ba2", a 'junk' status. FTP, what is this member of the 'Big 3' of credit rating agencies along with Standard and Poor's and Fitch Ratings, based out of the US and accused by the EU of economic terrorism during the current debt crisis?Answer: Moody's Investment Ratings3. The Turkish word 'dšrt' ('dirt'), meaning 'four', is one of the proposed cognates of this language according to a theory championed by such linguists as Sergei Starostin and G.J. Ramstedt, although this view has been hotly contested since the 1950's because of the paucity of evidence supporting it. Other strange theories abound, including a somewhat extreme familial designation for this language based off of early sound correspondences, and apparent word cognates between the Old form of this language and the Tamil found in the Cangkam (tsang-kam) verses. FTP, what is this modern language spoken by over 130 million people across an archipelago that is also home to the Ainu language, known in its own language as Nihongo?   Answer: Japanese or Japonic language/family (accept Nihongo before the very end)4. Due to a circus being in town at the same time, there were not enough hotel rooms in town for all the delegates, thus leading the Canadians to board on their steamship after evening festivities. Most of the townspeople remained oblivious or apathetic to the events transpiring, which was perhaps prophetic of electorate interest of the late 20th and early 21st century, while the delegates split their time between socializing and dancing and debating such issues as the American Civil War and why Newfoundland was not invited, a slight which would not be forgotten on the Rock for over a century. Discussing a British-encouraged Maritime Union, increasing military and political power for the colonies in order to lessen the burden on the Empire, the 6-day long conference prompted a much more important one the next month. FTP, what was this Sept. 1-7 colonial conference and shindig that took place at Government House, perhaps the most prestigious thing to have ever happened on PEI?Answer: Charlottetown Conference5. The Economist describes this concept as the 'fifth domain of warfare'. The Lipman Report, released in 2010, describes how economy and infrastructure worldwide may be at risk from increasing incidents of this action, which was central to the plot of Live Free or Die Hard. Titan Rain and Moonlight Maze were US government designations for operations of this type identified as being launched by China and Russia respectively in the 1990's. Perhaps most famously, Estonia was a victim of this type of action on their independence day in 2007 in retaliation for relocating the Bronze Soldier of Talinn, although numerous observers point fingers at China for being the largest perpetrator in the 21st century. FTP, what is this concept, characterized by such weapons as ping floods, Trojans, botnets, and email bombs?Answer: Cyberwarfare; or similar terms including 'cyber', such as 'cyberwar', 'cyberattacks', etc. (prompt on any specific types of hacking or attacks)6. Penning over 200 works, including operas, ballets, choral hymns and songs, this composer and avowed socialist vegetarian was a trombonist by trade, and began teaching at James Allen's Girls' School and St. Paul's Girls' School, both in London. Influenced by the likes of Walt Whitman and fellow English composers, this man began to explore old folksongs and madrigals, while his hobby of rambling led him to compose his Beni Mora suite after cycling around French-controlled Algeria. However, he is more famous among concert band enthusiasts for his influential wind band compositions and his A Moorside Suite for brass band. FTP, who is this early 20th century British composer of such works as Egdon Heath, The Hymn of Jesus, First Suite in Eb for Military Band, and The Planets?Answer: Gustav Holst7. Little is known for certain about this writer, as his original writings were all destroyed in the various burnings of the Great Library of Alexandria. Given that all traces of his writings have been gleaned from later sources, the time he was writing in has been pegged at sometime in the 3rd century BC. As an academic and priest of Ra at Heliopolis, this man wrote many works in Greek and for a Greek audience, such as The Sacred Book, On Antiquity and Religion, On Festivals, the Digest of Physics, and Against Herodotus. It is in his most important work however that this author coined the term 'dynasty', meaning 'governmental power'. FTP, who was this Egyptian author, whose Aegyptiaca was summarized within an Epitome by Josephus, and today is considered one of the most important sources for the chronology of the pharaohs?Answer: Manetho8. William and John Herschel were the first astronomers to recognize a marked excess of what appeared to be dense nebular fields located near the north galactic pole, evidence of this structure that was little understood until into the 1950's. Gerard Henri de Vaucouleurs was the first person to argue that these dense nebular fields represented a greater structure, but it was not until red-shift studies done in the 1970's and 1980's that sufficient evidence was available to accurately describe and label this structure. It consists of a flattened disk which contains up to 2/3s of the luminous matter, and a spherical halo which contains the remainder; the lack of density of which has led this structure to be described as 'poor' by cosmological standards. This structure has near its centre an eponymous component structure which shares its name with the constellation in which the macrostructure is found. FTP, what is this earliest identified galactic supercluster, home to the Sculptor Group, Fornax Cluster, Eridanus Cluster, and among others, the Local Group to which our Milky Way belongs?Answer: Virgo or Local Supercluster9. Over 2000 lines long and composed in octosyllabic couplets, this was one of its author's earliest known works. Influenced by such Classical authors as Ovid and Virgil, some commentators have argued that this poem represents a parody of The Divine Comedy. Adapted by such authors as John Skelton and Alexander Pope, the poem refers near its abrupt and incomplete end to a "man of great authority" whom has been taken to represent either John I of Portugal or Richard II of England. FTP, what is this poem by Geoffrey Chaucer, in which the terms 'galaxy' and 'Milky Way' first appeared in the English language, and which takes the form of a dream vision in which the poet finds himself in a temple adorned with images of well-known people and their accomplishments?Answer: The House of Fame10. This polity is known in its official language as 'Apsny', although the region it is located in has had many names over the millennia, such as Egrisi, and Lazistan. Strabo wrote about a certain tribe living in this region which is likely the tribe from which the modern ethnic majority derives, and the territory of this polity was incorporated into the Roman Empire in the 1st century AD, which led to Christianity being adopted almost contemporaneously with Armenia. More recently, this polity, which is only officially recognized as an independent state by Nauru, Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Russia, has been at the centre of various regional conflicts over national self-determination. Located in a linguistically diverse area shared by Homshetsi, Mingrelian, and Georgian-speaking peoples, its acting president is Alexander Ankvab. FTP, what is this breakaway republic that officially belongs to Georgia, which borders the Black Sea and has its capital at Sukhumi?Answer: Republic of Abkhazia (also accept: Respublika Abkhaziya, or Apsny Ahwynthkharra) 11. (NOTE: Year and City required) The host for this 2-weeklong event beat out Falun, Sweden, and Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, with its associated Paralympics taking place in Innsbruck. Fifty-seven nations competed, including Fiji, Guam, Guatemala, Jamaica, and the Netherlands Antilles for the first time, and it saw the US only take away six medals, while the USSR took home 29. This event saw the Dutch speedskater Yvonne van Gennip set two world records, a ski-jumper was sent flying into a camera tower by the wind, and the Battle of the Brians took place in figure skating. FTP, what was this sporting event which saw the debut of the Jamaican national bobsled team that inspired the movie Cool Runnings, and events held at Canmore and Kananaskis, as well as within the host city?Answer: 1988 Calgary Winter Olympics12. The elderly Mams of Maya mythology were often associated with this object. The deity Ops was originally a deity of this in Sabine mythology, but became a god of wealth and fertility in the Roman pantheon. Voltumna was the supreme god of Etruscan myth according to Varro, at whose sacred grove the 12 populi of the Etruscans would renew their bonds; his chief association was also with this object. Ninhursag was a Sumerian goddess associated with this and fertility who was sometimes accompanied by a lion cub on a leash. In Slavic myth, Mat Zemlya is the collective term for a number of deities associated with this, and in modern times has been associated with Mary and fertility. FTP, Xochiquetzal and Tu Di Gong were Aztec and Chinese gods respectively of what celestial object, represented as Gaia for the Greeks, to which many cultures refer to as their 'Mother'?Answer: Earth (prompt on Chthonic Deities)13. A coal-miners strike in Britain started in March of this year. In April, Advance Australia Fair was proclaimed the national anthem of Australia, while Sultan Iskandar became the 8th Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia. This was also the year of the maiden voyage of Space Shuttle Discovery, and the assassination of Indira Gandhi by two Sikh members of her bodyguard, leading to her replacement by Rajiv Gandhi. FTP, what was this year which also saw Ronald Reagan defeat Walter Mondale, and Brian Mulroney win the largest majority in Canadian history.Answer: 198414. Born in Spain, this author was raised as a Canadian national in such places as Costa Rica, France, and Mexico. An avid world traveller, his writing has been influenced by his various sojourns and the stories he has heard both abroad and in Canada. He wrote a short story collection called The Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios and Other Stories in 1993 that did not receive much recognition until after 2004, and his novel Beatrice and Virgil is a Holocaust allegory about two stuffed animals in a taxidermy shop. But it was his 13-month trip to India after university that inspired his best-known work about a young Indian boy who spends 227 days on a liferaft with a Bengal tiger named Richard Parker. FTP, who is this Canadian author, the winner of the 2002 Man Booker Prize for Fiction, writer of the novel Life of Pi?Answer: Yann Martel15. This man wrote about the piety and restraint required in one's love life in Discourse on Virginity, and Love and Self-Control, and dabbled in the role of faith in medicine in On Sickness and Health. His Catholic feast day is May 2, but he is also revered by the Eastern and Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran, and Anglican churches for his influence, which led to him being exiled by four different emperors over the span of 31 years. Influenced by Origen, he commented on the divinity of the Holy Spirit in his Letters to Serapion, and wrote extensively in support of asceticism in such works as the Life of St. Anthony. Nicknamed 'Pillar of the Church' by Gregory of Nazianzus, and known for his exploits as 'contra mundum', or 'against the world', it was his role at the 1st Council of Nicaea for which he is most famous. FTP, who is this 20th Bishop of Alexandria, revered as one of the four Great Doctors of the Church from the East, the Father of the Canon in Protestant churches, the chief opponent of Arianism?Answer: Pope St. Athanasius I of Alexandria the Confessor, or the Apostolic16. Established as a distinct federal subject in 1922, this polity has a state assembly known as the 'Il Tumen'. The name of this republic is an endonym of uncertain origin, picked up by Russian soldiers and explorers as they conquered the region in the 17th century. Pyotr Beketov founded a new administrative centre at Lensky Ostrog in 1638 from which Moscow could exercise control over the local Turkic peoples remaining in the area, which later developed into a major port on the Lena River by the 20th century. Bordered to its north by the Laptev and East Siberian Seas, and containing the Verkhoyansk Range, 40% of its area is above the Arctic Circle, which has limited developmental potential. With a population density of only 0.31/km2, and capital at Yakutsk, FTP, what is this largest subnational entity in the world, a republic of the Russian Federation whose name is related to that of a large Russian island north of Japan?Answer: Sakha or Yakutia Republic, or Respublika Sakha (Yakutia)17. A polyglot with experience with at least 22 languages, this man was a polymath who acquired degrees in the arts, medicine, and ophthalmology, as well as studying history, agriculture, painting, teaching, and many other professions. He created a sculpture entitled Triumph of Science Over Death, which was in praise of enlightenment, and while studying in Berlin he wrote an essay in French entitled Dimanche des Rameaux, which was intended as a criticism of the misguided work of missionaries and priests in European colonies. In the West he is perhaps better known for his two most successful novels; one influenced by Uncle Tom's Cabin as an allegory for his nation's growing nationalism against Spain that also critiqued the cultural depravity of his homeland, and the other being its sequel, both of which are mandatory reading for students in the Philippines. FTP, who was this Filipino Renaissance man and staunch nationalist, the author of Noli Me Tangere and its sequel El Filibusterismo?Answer: Jose Protacio Rizal Mercado Alonzo y Realonda18. The effects of this hormone include an increase of DNA replication and protein synthesis via control of amino acid uptake in human metabolism, while in cells it can cause increased esterification of fatty acids, decreased proteolysis, decreased lipolysis, and decreased autophagy. When molecules of this hormone dock onto their corresponding receptors, eventually they may either be rereleased into the extracellular environment, or degraded by the cell through endocytosis of this hormone's receptor complex. Composed of 51 amino acids, this hormone's structure varies between species of animals, but its role is the same. Other than its most well-known function, this hormone affects vascular compliance and plays a role in cognition by enhancing learning, and particularly verbal memory. FTP, what is this peptic hormone secreted by the Islets of Langerhans, which is typically in short supply in people with type 1 diabetes, and discovered by Canadian Nobel laureate Sir Frederick Banting?Answer: Insulin19. This work is located atop Park Grill, between Chase Promenade and McCormick Tribune Plaza and Ice Rink, and is featured as the destination of Jake Gyllenhaal's and Michelle Monaghan's characters at the end of the movie Source Code. Conceived in 1999, considerations had to be made for potentially pernicious physical interactions in the summer and winter caused by extreme heat and extreme cold, as well as graffiti, bird droppings, and fingerprints. This was its creator's first public outdoor work in the US, is 33 by 66 by 42 feet, and it features an omphalos, under which people may pass. Despite early claims from architect Norman Foster that it would be nearly impossible to make this sculpture appear seamless, the artist took inspiration from a droplet of liquid mercury and had an extremely complex infrastructure developed to support the 168 stainless steel plates that make up its outside. Formally dedicated in 2006, FTP what is this public sculpture located in Millennium Park, affectionately known by locals as "The Bean" despite creator Anish Kapoor's protests, which has become a tourist attraction famous for its reflective surface?Answer: Cloud Gate (prompt on "The Bean" before mentioned)20. As a result of this ongoing conflict, the nation in which it is occurring has been ranked 13th in the Economist Intelligence Unit Shoe-Thrower's Index. In the spirit of the revolutionary wave that has struck the Arab world since Mohammed Bouazizi's self-immolation in Tunisia, this nation's Shiite majority has risen in protest against what it perceives to be their second-class status to the minority Sunnis. Despite the King's concession of 1,000 dinars to each family in celebration of the tenth anniversary of the National Action Charter referendum on February 11, youth demonstrations began on February 14. The protests rallied around the famous Pearl Roundabout, enduring fierce raids by the national police force, until the Pearl Monument was torn down in March. FTP, what is this national uprising in support of greater political freedom and equality for Shiites in the Gulf state run by King Hamad?Answer: Bahraini Uprising or anything implying popular dissent in Bahrain; (accept Pearls Revolution before mention of the Pearl Roundabout)21. 750 AD saw a democratic election that saw this Buddhist state rise to power under leaders whose names were each suffixed with the dynastic name, a word meaning 'protector' in early Bengali. The administration of this empire was known as the 'Lords of Gauda' by its enemies, and its capital was at Pataliputra. At its height the empire spread from Assam in the east, to Kamboja in the north-west, to Deccan in the south, and it was noted across the region for its splendid artwork and education, influence of which has been seen in the south-east Asian Sailendra Empire. The universities of Nalanda and Vikramashila were established during this period, which saw a successful resistance against invasion attempts of Rajendra Chola and the Chalukyas. FTP, what is this ruling dynasty and empire, considered to be the golden age of Bengal, founded by Gopala, which reached its furthest extent under Devapala?Answer: Pala Empire or Dynasty22. Towns in this province included Metellinum, Pax Julia, and Ossonoba, which was an important fishing village under the late Republic. The eponymous major tribe of this province was speculated by Pliny the Elder to be connected with Bacchus, though modern scholarship points more to an etymology related to the Celtic god Lugh. This region's peoples fought on the side of the Carthaginians during the 2nd Punic War, and were repeatedly beat back over the next 200 years by such Roman generals as Lucius Postumius Albinus, Lucius Mummius, and Gaius Marius, until they were finally subdued once and for all by Augustus. Today, this province's most well-preserved city is ancient Conimbriga, which was sacked by the Suevi in 468, although its capital was at Augusta Emerita. FTP, what was this furthest western province of the Roman Empire, bordering Baetica to the south and Tarraconensis to the north and east, which has often been used as an alternative name for modern Portugal?Answer:  Hispania Lusitania (Accept Hispania Ulterior before mention of Pliny the Elder)23. Written in four books, this poem in hexameter is modeled in large part on works by Varro, Lucretius and Hesiod, and influenced its author's subsequent epic. Book one summarizes the following poem, which is followed by prayers to such deities as Ops and Robigo, before the author extols the virtues of labour, and offers an interpretation of the weather-signs which foretold the assassination of Caesar. Book two deals with man's struggle against the hostility of nature, and then praises the abundance and beauty of his homeland in the section 'Laudes Italiae'. Book three discusses animal husbandry, and book four famously discusses bees and their relation to human society. Ending with the tale of Orpheus's journey to the underworld as told by Proteus and a comparison between the author and Octavian, FTP, what is this major work by Virgil, a poem on agriculture named for the Greek verb for 'to farm'?Answer: Georgics24. In 1979, Alain Genestier and Joseph Terbiaut of France won the Car division with their Range Rover, while Cyril Neveu of France won the Motorcycle division. Incidents during this event have included Mark Thatcher getting lost and stranded for 6 days in 1982, 6 people getting killed during the 1988 race, and in all, over 50 competitors have died, and many more civilians have perished or been injured as a result of this race. The 2008 competition was cancelled due to threats made by Al Qaeda, and despite its name, the race has taken place in South America, starting and finishing at Buenos Aires. FTP, what is this off-road endurance race noted for crossing dunes, mud, camel grass, rocks, and erg as competitors originally raced from Paris, France to the capital of Senegal?Answer:  Dakar RallyBonuses1. Besides a federal district home to Brasilia, Brazil consists of 26 states descended from earlier hereditary captaincies. FTPE, name these states:A. This state is home to Brazil's highest peak, Pico da Neblina, and is the largest in the country, with capital at Manaus.	AmazonasB. Dubbed the 'locomotive of Brazil', this state accounts for 33.9% of Brazil's GDP, has the largest population, and is home to the largest city in South America.       Sao PauloC. Pedro Cabral first landed in and claimed Brazil for the Portuguese crown at Porto Seguro in this state. Its capital, Salvador, was founded in 1549 on a hill facing the Bay of All Saints.       Bahia 2. FTPE, identify these Roman Emperors of the Third Century Crisis of 235-284AD.A. A son of Julius Marinus of Shahba, this Emperor's brother Gaius Julius Priscus served as a member of the Praetorian Guard under Gordian III. During his reign, Rome celebrated its millennium, but he was deposed by his successor Decius in 249.       Philip the Arab (Philippus I Arabs; Marcus Julius Philippus Augustus)B. Of barbarian background, like Maximinus Thrax, this man succeeded Gallienus in 268, going on to successfully fight the Alamanni and inflict a massive defeat on the Goths at Naissus, before succumbing to the Plague of Cyprian in 270.       Claudius II (Claudius Gothicus; Marcus Aurelius Valerius Claudius Augustus)C. This Emperor notably defeated the Goths, Vandals, Juthungi, Sarmatians and Carpi, conquered the Palmyrene Empire in 273, conquered the Gallic Empire in 274, and abandoned Dacia, while building his namesake walls around Rome; he came to be known as the 'Restorer of the World'.       Aurelian (Lucius Domitius Aurelianus Augustus)(Emperors of the Third Century Crisis)3. The 2008 Global Financial Crisis has been described by many economists as the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, but Canada seemed to come out of it in better shape than many other countries. FTPE, identify these people and things related to Canada's handling of the 2008 financial crisis.A. Five Prime Ministers have held this man's current position, including Sir Charles Tupper, R.B. Bennett, John Turner, Jean Chretien, and most recently Paul Martin. He succeeded Ralph Goodale in 2006.       Jim FlahertyB. Born in Fort Smith, NWT, this youngest governor of the Bank of Canada steered the nation clear of the worst impacts of the economic crisis, and led Canada to become the first country to recover its economy to pre-crisis levels.       Mark CarneyC. Identified as a potential reason for Canada's ability to stay afloat during the crisis, the Bank of Canada decided to provide a substantial additional amount of this quantity to the financial system, defined as an asset's ability to be sold without causing a significant movement in the price and with minimum loss of value.	Market Liquidity 4. Identify these Canadian artists by their paintings, FTPE.A. This artist born in Toronto and currently living on Saltspring Island, BC is famous for his depictions of nature and wildlife, having published six books dedicated to his paintings which are valued across North America.       Robert BatemanB. A noted Canadian Impressionist, this painter and member of the Group of 7 is famous for such works as The Edge of the Maple Wood, Vimy Ridge from Souchez Valley, and Cathedral at Ypres, Belgium.       A Y JacksonC. Renowned for his winter scenes, this popular 19th century artist is famous for such lighthearted works as Following the Moose, The Blacksmith's Shop, The Habitant Farm, and The Toll Gate.       Cornelius Krieghoff 5. How much do you know about the geography of other worlds? Let's find out, FTPE.A. This moon of Saturn's most recognizable feature, the crater Herschel, gives it an appearance strikingly similar to that of the Death Star.	MimasB. This other moon of Saturn is believed to have liquid hydrocarbon lakes, and its surface is home to organosulfur compounds known as thiols which form a slush beneath the thick atmosphere of nitrogen, with methane and ethane clouds.	TitanC. Ishtar Terra and Aphrodite Terra are the two main continents found on this Solar System body, which is home to such strange geographic features as novae, coronae, and arachnoids.	Venus6. Now that many of us have come of age with the viewing of the final instalment in the Harry Potter movie series, let us reflect on some of the books, FTPE.A. This book sees Harry realize that he can speak Parseltongue, and the diary of Tom Riddle makes its first appearance, which we only find out later to be a horcrux.	Harry Potter and The Chamber of SecretsB. The only Harry Potter book to win a Hugo Award, this is the one in which Harry learns that Peter Pettigrew was the one who betrayed his parents, and the concept of the Portkey is introduced.	Harry Potter and The Goblet of FireC. In this book, Harry and Ron tag-team a troll to save Hermione, and Hagrid lets loose a secret about a particular Nicolas Flamel.	Harry Potter and The Philosopher's Stone (also accept The Sorcerer's Stone)7. Given the name or names of an exclave(s) or enclave(s), identify the country to which it belongs, FTPE.A. Barxudarli, Yuxari Eskipara, Karki, and Nakhchivan.	AzerbaijanB. Ormidhia and Xylotymvou.	CyprusC. Ceuta and Melilla.	Spain8. Identify the following Roman Catholic popes of the 1st millennium from clues. Name and number required.A. According to Tertullian, this pope was consecrated by St. Peter, and he was martyred in the by being tied to an anchor and thrown into the Black Sea. 	Clement IB. Succeeding Pope Miltiades, this pope approved of the decisions made at the First Council of Nicaea, and legends of his close relationship with Emperor Constantine I appear in the Donation of Constantine.	Sylvester IC. Originally an Italian aristocrat, this pope was notable for being the first to be called 'Great', due to his persuading Attila the Hun to halt his invasion of Italy in 452. He is also a notable Doctor of the Church.	Leo I9. Can you read Chinese? If not, you can read English translations in order to answer these questions on some Chinese works and authors, FTPE.A. This novel by Cao Xueqin (tsao shway-chin) has a field of study devoted exclusively to itself, and it provides an in-depth observation of the life and social structures of 18th century Chinese aristocracy.	The Dream of the Red Chamber (also accept: A Dream of Red Mansions, 		The Story of the Stone, The Record of the Stone, Hong Luo Meng, Shitou Ji) B. Another of the Four Great Classical Novels, this Ming Dynasty work by We Cheng'en tells the story of the Buddhist monk Xuanzang (shuwan-zang) and his pilgrimage to India.	Journey to the West (also accept: Monkey, Adventures of the Monkey God, 		The Adventures of Monkey, Xi You Ji)C. Lu Xun, considered by many to be one of the founders of modern Chinese 'baihua' literature, wrote this famous novel about the adventures of a rural peasant man who is a bully to the less fortunate but cowers in the presence of those worth more than him.	The True Story of Ah Q (also accept: A Q Zhengzhuan)10. Answer these questions about some Ottoman Sultans, FTPE.A. The son of Ertugrul Ghazi, this sultan declared independence from the Seljuks in 1299, thus establishing the Ottoman Empire in Anatolia.	Osman I Ghazi, Bey, Kara (*he Warrior, The Esquire, The Black)B. This sultan first ruled from 1444-1446 when he was asked to return the throne to his father Murad II, which he did reluctantly. However, after his father's death, he reclaimed the throne and went on to conquer the Byzantine Empire in 1453, and continued to reign until 1481.	Mehmed II Fatih (The Conqueror)C. This son of Abdulaziz I was elected Caliph by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but exiled after the abolition of the caliphate in 1924; he was the last ruling Ottoman sultan.	Abdulmecid II Halife11. Identify these phyla, given some subphyla, FTPE.A. Anthozoa, Scyphozoa, Hydrozoa, Mudusozoa	CnidariaB. Scaphopoda, Polyplacophora, Gastropoda, Cephalopoda	MolluscaC. Cestoda, Monogenea, Trematoda, Turbellaria	Platyhelminthes12. Given the province or territory and their party, identify these Canadian Premiers, FTPE.A. Newfoundland and Labrador, Progressive Conservative	Kathy DunderdaleB. Prince Edward Island, Liberal	Robert GhizC. Quebec, Liberal Party	Jean Charest13. Good ol' symphonic pseudonyms. FTPE give the common name for these symphonies, given the composer and number.A. Symphony No. 2, Gustav Mahler	ResurrectionB. Symphony No. 8, Jean Sibelius	UnfinishedC. Symphony No. 3, Beethoven	Eroica14. Boom! Identify these thunder deities from their descriptions, FTPE.A. This Slavic thunder god had a copper beard, drove a chariot pulled by a goat, and was associated with thunder, lighening, fire, mountains, oak, iris, eagle, horses, carts, weapons, and stone.	Perun (prompt on Perkunas)B. In Maya mythology, this god had four aspects corresponding to the four directions and their respective colours, and he would strike the clouds with his lightning axe to create rain and storms.	ChaacC. Shango is the thunder and lightning 'orisha' of this culture, who was allegedly the third king of this people's ancestral Oyo kingdom.	Yoruba 15. Ever heard of mathematical sociology? Well, it is apparently the expression of sociological theory in formal terms, such as by constructing a mathematical model to derive implications of a theory that would otherwise be impossible to deduce intuitively. Answer some questions about terms related to it, FTPE.A. Analysis of these types of structures are perhaps the best-known contribution of mathematical sociology to social science, which deals with nodes connected by one or more specific types of interdependency, and may be best exemplified by such websites as that developed by Mark Zuckerburg.	Social NetworksB. This term refers to the property of nodes in relation to acquaintanceship, such as in the expression "if A is linked to both B and C, then there is a greater than chance probability that B and C are linked to each other".	ConnectivityC. In order to account for animosity in connectivity, mathematical sociology makes use of this type of mathematical study of abstract representations of networks of points and lines from a certain collection.	Graph Theory16. FTPE, given some video game consoles, identify the generation to which they belong. A. Intellivision, Odyssey 2	2ndB. Atari Jaguar, Game Boy Color, Amiga CD32	5thC. Atari 7800, Epoch Cassette Vision, Sega Master System	3rd17. FTPE, identify these countries whose economies are failing worse than that of the US in 2008.A. Starting during the first weeks of 2010, this European nation's financial crisis has been blamed domestically by over-expenditure and investment bubbles caused by the republican governments since the Carnation Revolution.	PortugalB. In April 2010, Standard and Poor decreased this country's debt rating to a BB+ junk status, and since then, austerity measures imposed by the leading PASOK party have been insufficient, and have sparked mass demonstrations during the summer of 2011.	GreeceC. Following the Lancaster House Agreement in 1979, this nation's GDP saw annual increases of up to 20%, the highest on its continent; however, since the 1980's this figure has plummeted due to policies such as Operation Murambatsvina, GDP growth is at -5.7%, and unemployment is at 94%.	Zimbabwe18. Everyone loves Nunavut! So let's answer some questions about its illustrious history, FTPE.A. Many historians believe that the Norse placename Helluland, or 'land of flat stones', from various Norse sagas may correspond with this island belonging to Nunavut, home to such towns as Pond Inlet and Pangnirtung.	Baffin IslandB. The capital of Nunavut, now known as Iqaluit, was formerly founded in 1942 under this name, which was in honour of an English explorer who thought he had discovered gold ore at this site.	Frobisher BayC. From 1999 to 2008, this Liberal from Pangnirtung served as the first Premier of Nunavut, and is currently the only multi-term Premier to serve in a Canadian territory.	Paul Okalik19. An algorithm that sorts elements of a list into a certain order are known as sorting algorithms...surprise surprise! Identify some, FTPE.A. This comparison sort, also known as 'partition-exchange sort', has a best case performance of big O(n log n), and is often faster in practice than other similarly performing algorithms.	QuicksortB. Also known as a 'sinking sort', this algorithm gets its name from how smaller elements make their way to the top of the list, and is a comparison sort with best case performance of big O(n).	Bubble SortC. This sorting algorithm uses a priority queue to locate the next element in the sort, and is a variation of heapsort; its name is apt for the type of event being run today.	Tournament Sort20. Graham Greene was a prolific British author of the 20th century; identify some of his works, FTPE.A. Alternatively published in the US under the name The Labyrinthine Ways, this Greene novel is about a Roman Catholic priest in Tabasco trying to maintain the faith during the anti-clerical presidency of Plutarco Calles, inspired by the author's trip to southern Mexico in the 1930's.	The Power and the GloryB. This black comedy centres on James Wormold, a vacuum cleaner retailer working for the British Secret Service on an island controlled by Fulgencio Batista, and was adapted into a film of the same name in 1959 which starred Alec Guiness.	Our Man in HavanaC. The main reason why Greene was under constant US security surveillance from the 1950's onwards, this book, influenced by his time as a war correspondent in French Indochina from 1951-4, is about a British journalist and American idealist named Alden Pyle and their adventures in Vietnam.	The Quiet American21. FTPE, given the largest city of an American state, identify its capital. A. Wilmington	DoverB. Sioux Falls	PierreC. Billings	Helena22. Answer these questions about a territory of India, FTPE.A. The territory in question consists of two island groups, with capital at Port Blair, and home to indigenous groups such as the Jarawa, Onge, and Jangil.	Andaman and Nicobar IslandsB. This group of people, notable for their apparent preparedness in the wake of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, number about 250 on their namesake island, and are considered one of the Uncontacted tribes of the world.	Sentinelese (accept: Sentinel Islanders or equivalents)C. The natives of the Andaman islands, as well as the Semang peoples of Malaysia, Mani of Thailand, and over 30 groups in the Philippines, all share this ethnic class qualifier that share common characteristics with African pygmies, hence the diminutive Spanish adjective from which this term is derived.	Negrito