BONUSES-Jeff Stroud, Stephen Lalonde, Jonathan English, Bobby Hsu

1. Computer Companies are well known for their use of acronyms and their mergers and acquisitions.  For 5 points each, identify what the acronymic company names stand for.

a. DEC

Digital Equipment Corporation

(DEC was acquired by Compaq in 1998)

b. Compaq

Compatibility and Quality

(Compaq was acquired by HP in 2002)

c. HP

Hewlett-Packard

d. ATI

Array Technology Incorporated

(ATI was acquired by AMD in 2006)

e. AMD

Advanced Micro Devices

f. Corel

Cowpland Research Laboratory


2. Can YOU tell them apart?  The following six professional soccer players (listed in chronological order by date of birth) all share the name 'Ronaldo':

Ronaldo Rodrigues de Jesus (Defender)
Ronaldo Soares Giovanelli (Goalkeeper)
Ronaldo Guiaro (Defender)
Ronaldo Luis Nazário de Lima (Striker)
Ronaldo de Assís Moreira (attacking Midfielder)
Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro (Winger)

Answer the following three Ronaldo question for 10 points each.

a. Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro is the only one of these six players who is not Brazilian.  Popular with the British Professional Footballers Association, this year he won their Players' Player of the Year, Fans' Player of the Year, and Young Player of the Year awards.  For which Premiership League team does he currently play?

Manchester United

b. Ronaldo de Assís Moreira is a two-time winner of the FIFA World Player of the Year currently playing for Barcelona.  He is (with David Beckham) one of the two most marketable soccer players in the world.  By what name is he better known?

Ronaldinho (ro-nal-DEEN-yo)

c. Ronaldo Luis Nazário de Lima is a three-time winner of the FIFA World Player of the Year currently playing for AC Milan.  Last year he passed German Gerd Muller to become the all-time leading scorer at World Cup competitions.  How many World Cup goals has he scored?

15 


3. For five points each for the first four, then ten for a fifth, name any five of the eight possible trisyllabic feet from classical (and by extension, English) poetic metre:

Dactyl, anapest, amphibrach, molossus, tribrach, bacchic, antibacchic, cretic (or amphimacer)


4. Answer the following about lotteries:

This famous lottery, based on the outcome of several horseraces including the Grand National and the Derby, went out of business in 1986 due mainly to the legalization of lotteries in other countries-especially the U.S. and U.K.-whose illegal business were the main source of its income.

Irish (Hospitals) Sweepstake(s)

b. The richest lottery in the world, this once a year drawing is done by uniformed schoolchildren from the San Idelfonso school.

El Gordo or Sorteo de Navidad or Spanish Christmas Lottery

c. This was Canada's first national lottery, with a prize of $1,000,000 and proceeds going toward a certain debt incurred in the mid-1970s.

Olympic Lottery


5. France recently elected a new president.  Name these predecessors for the stated number of points:

a. (5) His election in 1981 as the first President from the Socialist Party caused a market crash. He was viewed as relatively moderate figure by the time he retired in 1995, though he was responsible for many reforms, nationalisations, and megaprojects.

François Mitterrand

b.  (10) President of the Fifth Republic from 1974 to 1981, he is known  more recently as President of the Convention on the Future of Europe which drafted the failed European Union Constitution.

Valéry Giscard d'Estaing

c. (15) He administered the colony of French Indochina from 1897 to 1902 and was elected President of France in 1931, serving for less than a year before he was assassinated. He is the namesake of a bridge in Hanoi that was a major target for American pilots during the Vietnam War.

Paul Doumer


6. It's fashionable for models, rock stars and athletes to claim to be nerds, but come on, really! Let's test your nerd credentials:

a. Not counting the intial number '3', what's the 14th digit of pi?

9

b. What's the uncommon chess opening that begins 'a3', or pawn to queen's rook three?

Anderssen's 

c. What's Luke Skywalker's fighter group and number in the assault on the Death Star?

Red Five


7. For ten points each, answer these questions about mocktails.

a.  This drink is typically made with tomato juice, spices such as Worcestershire and Tabasco sauce, and a celery stalk.

Virgin Mary

b.  Both Shirley Temples and Roy Rogers contain grenadine, a syrup historically made from this fruit.

Answer: pomegranate

c.  Teetotalers can have fun in the sun with this drink, a mix of cranberry juice, grapefruit juice, peach nectar and no vodka, served in a highball glass topped with a cherry.

Safe Sex on the Beach


8. Answer these questions about prison escapes in literature for ten points each.

a.  He escaped Château d'If by pretending to be the corpse of the Abbé Faria.

Edmond Dantès, or The Count of Monte Cristo

b.  His autobiography Papillon contained details of his escape from Devil's Island.

Henri Charrière

c.  In a novella subtitled 'Hope Springs Eternal,' prisoner  Andy Dufresne spends decades behind a poster tunnelling to freedom with a rock hammer from this prison.

Shawshank


9. For 10 points each, identify these American cities which are in the top twenty for murders per capita in 2005, according to FBI statistics:

a. This Indiana city is named for the former Chairman of the U.S. Steel Corporation, and is home to a steel mill which was once the biggest in the world, not to mention birthplace of the King of Pop.

Gary, Indiana

b. This Los Angeles-area city has the highest murder rate in the country and was made famous by hip hop group NWA's breakout hit.

Compton, California

c. This San Francisco Bay Area city's shipyards produced more Liberty ships during World War II than any other yard.

Richmond, California


10. Identify the following letters of the Hebrew alphabet by what their names mean [note to anyone who really knows Hebrew: these are not all true of modern Hebrew]

a. "house"

beth

b. "door"

dalet

c. "hand"

yod


11. Identify these microeconomics terms for ten points each.

a. This term refers to a good for which demand decreases as income increases.

inferior goods

b. This term refers to an inferior good for which consumption increases as price rises, and it is named after the English economist who believed he observed the effect during the Irish potato famine.

Giffen good

b. This term refers to a luxury good for which demand increases as price rises, and it is named after the American economist who coined the term 'conspicuous consumption.'

Veblen good


12. For 10 points each, name these types of whale from the clues provided.

a. One of the most common types of whale, this species is found in cold, northern waters. For 10 points, name this whale found in Canada which should not be confused with the caviar-bearing Sturgeon.

beluga

b. Once hunted intensively, it is now an endangered species. It is mostly grey, but has a white patch on its underside and the right side of its jaw. For 10 points, this whale is the second-largest living mammal after the Blue whale.

Fin whale or finback

c. It is the largest of all whales with teeth. Normally grey in colour, for 10 points, name this whale type, of which a white version as Captain Ahab's nemesis in Moby Dick.

Sperm whale


13. For ten points each, answer these questions about animals that don't exist.

a.  This is the term for the search for and study of animals that are not known to science, whether because they are extinct, mythical, or merely theoretical.

cryptozoology

b.  Cryptozoologists have suggested that this terrifying mythical creature living in billabongs in the Australian Outback may actually be Aboriginal memories of the Diprotodon, a large, ancient marsupial.

bunyip

c.  This lizard-like creature, which was featured in an episode of 'The X-Files' and whose name translates to 'goat sucker,' is generally thought to be an urban legend in Latin American communities.

el chupacabra


14. Name these famous railway stations for 10 points each:

a. This station is located in Southwest London and is reputed to be the busiest in the United Kingdom.

Clapham Junction

b. Many passengers on the Long Island Rail Road must change at this busy station in Queens, sharing its name with an island country.

Jamaica Station

c. This station in Tokyo's business district is the busiest in the world.

Shinjuku Station


15. Identify these Canadian authors:

a. This children's author was born in the United States but later moved to Guelph, Ontario. His best-known book is "Love You Forever.'

Robert Munsch

b. The author of 1994's How Insensitive, his education at Queen's University is no excuse for his ill-informed statements about language on the CBC radio program "And Sometimes Y"

Russell Smith

c. This Toronto-based author has won the Hugo, Nebula, and Campbell awards, and briefly served as president of the Science Fiction Writers of America.

Robert Sawyer


16. For 5, 10, and 15 points respectively, name the U.S. generals from the clues provided.

a. He was the highest-ranking Hispanic officer in the U.S. military until his retirement in 2006. He served as Commander of coalition forces in Iraq for a year after the fall of Baghdad, and has come under criticism for his role in the Abu Ghraib scandal.

Lieutenant General Ricardo Sanchez

b. This bellicose general was responsible for the bombing of Japanese cities during the
Second World War. After being appointed Air Force Chief of Staff in  1961, he advocated aggressive intervention in both Cuba and Vietnam. He served as George  
Wallace's running mate in the 1968 Presidential Election.

General Curtis E. Lemay

c.  He led several exploratory expeditions to the headwaters of the Mississippi and to the
southwest. During the War of 1812, he led the attack on the town of York, where he was
killed. He is the namesake of many locations, including a well-known mountain in colorado.

Brigadier General Zebulon Pike Jr.


17. For ten points each, name these Canadian Olympic medalists.

a. When curling returned to the Olympics in 1998, this curler from Biggar, Saskatchewan, skipped the women's national team to a gold medal.

Answer: Sandra Schmirler

b. More than two years after the race and following the disqualifications of Olga Danilova and Larissa Lazutina due to doping, she finally received Canada's first ever Olympic gold medal in cross country skiing.

Answer: Beckie Scott

c. This Canadian cyclist and speed skater is the only athlete in history who has won multiple medals in both Summer and Winter Olympic events.

Answer: Clara Hughes


18. For 10 points, name these failed Olympic bid cities:

a. This city was the American bid city for the 2012 Olympics, losing to London amid questions about whether the main Olympic stadium would be built.

New York, United States

b. This North American city is celebrating its 400th anniversary in 2008, and its Old City is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It lost the 2002 Winter Olympics to Salt Lake City amid allegations of bribery.

Quebec City, Canada

c. This often-confused South Korean city was the runner-up to Vancouver for the right to host the 2010 Winter Olympics.

PyeongChang, South Korea (Do not accept Pyeongyang)


19. For 10 points each, name these legendary oilfields.

a. Drilled by Capt. Anthony Lucas in 1901 and located near Beaumont, Texas, this was the first great "gusher" that ushered in the oil age.

Spindletop

b. The most famous of the British North Sea oilfields, it is the namesake of one of the
two main oil blends traded on international markets.

Brent

c. The greatest of all oil fields, this Saudi Arabian super-giant was discovered in 1948 and is claimed by Saudi Aramco to still have more than 70 billion barrels of reserves.

Ghawar


20. For ten points each, answer these questions about everyone's favourite reusable polyethylene containers.

a. Tupperware was invented by this American, an employee of the DuPont Chemicals Company.

Earl Tupper

b.  The first Tupperware Party was held in Kissimmee, Florida.  In what decade did it take place?

The 1950s

c.  This product, a parody of Tupperware, was featured in the movie 'Airplane!' and an episode of 'The Simpsons.'

Supperware


21. Answer the following about dance: 

a. This English-born dancer and teacher co-founded the National Ballet School of Canada and is the namesake of the school's theatre on Jarvis St. in Toronto.

Betty Oliphant

b. In the year 2000, this principle dancer settled out of court in her bitter and public wrongful dismissal lawsuit against James Kudelka and the National Ballet of Canada.

Kimberley Glasco

c. This Guelph-born actress put her ballet background to good use in the Robert Altman film, The Company, which she also co-wrote.

Neve Campbell


22. Answer the following about Evangelical universities in the U.S.:

a. The most notoriously conservative university in the country, it maintains a ban on interracial dating and has taken publicly anti-Catholic stands, neither of which prevented Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole or George W Bush from making a campaign speeches there.

Bob Jones University

b. The most mainstream of the well-known Evangelical colleges, it has a respected medical school and boasts grads such as Kathie Lee Gifford, Ted Haggard, and fictionally, Ned Flanders.

Oral Roberts University

c. Founded by Pat Robertson, this Virginia university's law school was founded after Oral Roberts University law school closed down, and despite its rather low regard in educational circles, managed to place a surprising number of grads in the Bush administration, including Monica Goodling of the Justice department.

Regent University
