VETO 2010
Packet by University of Washington (Brittany Clark, Stephen Diamond, Andre Gillan, Nathan Beutel)

1) In the Early period of this civilization, people were buried communally in circular tholos tombs and from later periods many anaktora such as Zakros have been excavated. While they used a geographically eponymous set of hieroglyphs on seals, the administrative script is of unknown origin and different theories place it among Anatolian or Indo-Iranian languages. Their name for themselves is unknown but they are designated by a term coined by Arthur Evans after a king associated with the labyrinth and their art often depicted the sport of bull-leaping. For ten points, lasting from the 27th to 15th centuries BCE, identify this Bronze Age civilization located on the island of Crete. 
ANSWER: Minoan civilization

2) In 1933 and 1944 this group successfully created independent republics but the latter failed in 1949 due to a change in leadership of the surrounding country. In September 2009 members of this group allegedly stabbed hundreds with syringe and March 2010 Smithsonian Magazine article focused on this group and the building of a railway to Kashgar which has led to the detrimental influx of Han Chinese. The United States considers this group?s East Turkestan Islamic Movement a terrorist organization and in 2009, Barack Obama ordered the release of four members of this ethnicity from Guantanamo Bay.  For 10 points, Xinjiang is home to what Muslim, Turkic people.
ANSWER: Uyghurs

3) This man wrote a comedy with William D'Avenant, an adaptation of The Tempest called The Enchanted Island. He wrote several allegorical works including one in which David represents Charles II and an animal allegory of the religious denominations, written after his conversion to Catholicism. He wrote a drama with parallel comic and romance plots which was made into a series of engravings by William Hogarth, Marriage-A-La-Mode. In addition to dramas he wrote a historical epic about how things could have been worse during the year of the Great Fire of London.  For ten points, identify this English poet laureate, author of "The Hind and the Panther" and Annus Mirabilis
ANSWER: John Dryden

4) This artist painted many landscapes including Abington and Cassiobury Park, Reaping and also painted classical scenes such as Ovid Banished from Rome and one of the Sibyl giving access to the underworld for the son of Anchises. One of his most famous works was inspired by a storm in Yorkshire and depicts the title event which is marred by dark vortices of weather. One of his most famous paintings looks east towards London and the subject on the right is barely visible crossing the Maidenhead Bridge. Known especially for his maritime scenes, for ten points, name this 19th century British "painter of light" who created Hannibal Crossing the Alps and Rain, Steam, and Speed.
ANSWER: Joseph Mallard William Turner

5) Pseudomonas denitrificans and Propionibacterium shermanii are common industrial sources of this. Some forms of this chemical are used in large quantities to treat cyanide poisoning. Deficiency of this can occur in patients after receiving nitrous oxide anesthesia. Methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin are biologically active forms of this vitamin that contains cobalt surrounded by a corrin ring, while cyanocobalamin is most widely produced form industrially. FTP, name this B vitamin.
ANSWER: Vitamin B-12 (prompt on any form of cobalamin)

6) The Nickerie river in this country flows from the Bakhuys Mountains to the Atlantic Ocean. The city of Albina is found in the northern half of this country, while the southern region contains the nation's highest peak of Julianatop. The southern borders along the Maroni and Courantyne rivers are disputed. This country is South America's smallest sovereign nation by area, though it contains a large reservoir named Prof. Dr. Ir. W.J. van Blommesteinmeer. For 10 points, name this country in South America with capital Paramaribo, the only Dutch-speaking country outside Europe and one of the Guyanas.
ANSWER: Republic of Suriname

7) This character originally appeared in comics in 1929 and  in the 1950s and 60s he appeared in unauthorized Israeli brochures which included such adventures as fighting the Mau Mau in Kenya and discovering lost cities. In one novel this character seeks revenge against all Germans because he believes his wife was killed and that wife was originally from Baltimore, Maryland rather than England. After his adoption by the Mangani he is given a name meaning "white skin" and he also known as Viscount Greystroke and John Clayton. For 10 points, name this character created by Edgar Rice Burroughs and a Disney animated film.
ANSWER: Tarzan [accept Greystroke or John Clayton before read]

8) One of the events that occurred before the drafting of this document include letters to King William IV asking for protection from the tribe of Marion as well as a series of conflicts called the Musket Wars. The signing of this document is celebrated on February 6 but was not made an official holiday until 1974 and is commemorated at the residence of James Busby. Both sides have different interpretations of the treaty, mostly revolving around the interpretation of the words kawanatanga, rangatiratanga and taonga. For ten points, identify this 1840 treaty between the British and the Maori which established the British Colony of New Zealand.
ANSWER: Treaty of Waitangi

9) An organic reagent consisting of this element drives the cyclopropanation of olefins in the Simmons-Smith reaction. Although it is not ferromagnetic, its alloy with zirconium exhibits ferromagnetism below 35 Kelvin and it can be extracted from smithsonite, hemimorphite and wurtzite. Combining hydrochloric acid with an amalgam of this element creates a reaction that reduces ketones to alkanes, the Clemmenson reaction and this element forms the anode of a Galvanic cell. With the largest exploitable deposits in Australia, the US and Canada, for ten points, identify this metallic chemical element with atomic number 30 and symbol Zn. 
ANSWER: Zinc

10) Several initiatives to achieve by means of physical force were termed New Departure and the 1911 Parliament Act weakened the House of Lords? resistance to it. The "monster meetings" drew hundreds of thousands who supported this movement and World War I conscription led Parliament to commit to it. The third bill, introduced in 1914, to try and realize this was rejected by certain unionists and the Orange Order as an indicator of economic decline and as synonymous with Rome Rule, domination of the Catholic Church. Desiring a repeal of the Act of Union of 1800, for 10 points, identify this movement for autonomy that ended with the creation of the Irish Free State.
ANSWER: Irish Home Rule (accept logical equivalents)

11) One novel by this author follows a middle class family as they attempt to keep out of poverty after the death of the father, but the oldest son becomes a local goon and the daughter becomes a prostitute. In another novel he uses the residents of a 19th century neighborhood to symbolize the coming of the Abrahamic religions and science. In addition to The Beginning of the End and The Children of the Alley, he wrote about the attempts of three brothers attempt to escape the control of their domineering father Al-Sayyid Ahmad Abd Al-Jawad in his most famous series of novels. For ten points, identify this Egyptian Nobel Prize winner, the author of the Cairo Trilogy. 
ANSWER: Naguib Mahfouz

12) While examining the effects of 1930-33 he identified an effect he called the financial accelerator in which a mild recession is turned into a major depression. In a speech in 2002 he apologized to Milton and Anna saying that they were right and his organization caused The Great Depression and they were sorry but thanks to them they wouldn't do it again. In a 2009 speech subtitled "Making Sure "It" Doesn't Happen Here" he outlined what became his namesake doctrine consisting of seven steps needed to combat deflation. Appointed by George W. Bush and confirmed by Obama, for ten points, identify this current Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve Board. 
ANSWER: Ben Bernanke

13) This region escaped glaciation and ash can still be seen here from the Wrangell Volcanic Field. It contains Ivvavik National Park and the Alsek-Tatshenshini watershed and it is populated by several First Nations linguistic groups including Han and Gwichin. This region?s greatest river is the longest freshwater migration route for any salmon and has its source at Llewellyn glacier. Its southwest is home to the Kluane National Park and Preserve, which includes the second highest peak on the continent, located in the St. Elias Mountains and. This region?s population soared during the Klondike Gold Rush, for 10 points, name this westernmost Canadian Territory with capital at Whitehorse. 
ANSWER: Yukon

14) Stephen, the brother of the narrator of this work teaches her that time has a shape and she spent her childhood traveling with her father, a forest entomologist. Over the course of this novel through landmarks and paintings she is drawn into reflection on an old friend and the feminine betrayal of other women. The narrator?s discovery of the titular object brings back memories of her traumatic, youthful association with Carol, Grace, and Cordelia in her childhood home of Toronto, where she has returned for an exhibition of her paintings. For 10 points, name this Margaret Atwood work featuring Elaine Risley, named for the appearance of a prized marble rather than an organ of the genus Felis.
ANSWER: Cat?s Eye

15) A ballad about this figure enjoins him to "Remember how old Jesse went" and mental_floss ran an article on this person granting him the fourth and fifth factors of what makes a certain type of folk hero. A self-portrait of this figure depicts him lying on the ground surrounded by ferns and he is on t-shirts with the phrase "Mama Tried".  Although 20th Century Fox has bought the rights to a movie about him titled "Taking Flight", due to Washington's Son of Sam law, he cannot profit by selling the story of his crimes. Known for stealing and crashing several planes, for ten points identify this young fugitive recently apprehended in the Bahamas and nicknamed for his alleged shoeless status.
ANSWER: Colton Harris-Moore or Barefoot Bandit

16) This man was a founding member of the National Geographic Society serving as its second President and during that time also became a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. With Gardiner Hubbard he helped to establish the journal Science and was granted 18 unique and 12 shared patents. Thirty-eight years after his initial success, he repeated his action on a transcontinental scale with the same partner. On his death in Nova Scotia in 1922, the Canadian Prime Minister sent a cable to this man's wife Mabel expressing the nation's pride for his invention. Noted for his patent rivalry with Elisha Gray, for ten points identify this Scottish inventor of the telephone.
ANSWER: Alexander Graham Bell

17) The name of this god's hall means Broad-gleaming and according to Snorri Sturlson, there is no fairer dwelling in heaven. Skadi chose Njord on the basis of his feet but was hoping to get this god instead and a riddle about what this god's father whispered to him on a certain occasion stumped Vafthrudnir which was the same occasion that the dwarf Litr died and this god's ship Hringhorni was burned. This god's mother tried to protect him by making everything in the world swear not to harm him but she forgot a certain plant. For ten points, name this Norse god accidentally killed by his brother Hodur using a mistletoe projectile.
ANSWER: Baldur

18) After being heard on a CBC program, this man won a scholarship to the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York, alongside future stars like Leslie Neilson. Although known primarily for his acting, he did serve in the Royal Canadian Artillery during WWII, and due to a bullet wound had his right middle finger amputated, which he usually concealed on screen. Some of his early screen work was on Bonanza and The Man from U.N.C.L.E. where he worked with Majel Barrett for the first time. He picked both the first name and the Aberdeen accent of his most famous role. For ten points, identify this Canadian actor best known for playing Montgomery Scott on the original Star Trek. 
ANSWER: James Doohan

19) In addition to working in his most famous field, this man was also interested in law and education and advocated for the existence of professional groups to provide solidarity for adults. His nephew wrote about reciprocity which was originally published in the journal founded by this man. In another work he distinguished the title concept from magic by arguing that the five categories he listed were communal experiences. He borrowed a concept from the philosopher Jean-Marie Guyau to describe of the four types of the title action in another work. For ten points, identify this French sociologist and author of The Elementary Forms of Religious Life and Suicide.
ANSWER: Emile Durkheim

20) This man introduced the slogan "trust in cadres" to gain the support of those wary of the constant bureaucratic reorganizations of his predecessor. As leader of his nation, he eased military tensions with one major rival, but clashed with another along the Ussuri River. He called on his allies to oust Alexander Dubcek, a course he later justified with his eponymous doctrine. His eighteen years as General Secretary are now associated with economic stagnation and in 1971 with Richard Nixon he signed the SALT I marking the beginning of détente. For 10 points, name this Soviet leader who succeeded Khrushchev.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev

21) The attention this man received for the short story "MS. [em ess] Found in a Bottle" got him a job at the Southern Literary Messenger and Jules Verne wrote a sequel to one of his works about a stowaway on the whaling ship Grampus. His third volume of poems was dedicated to his fellow cadets at West Point and it included unpublished poems such as "Israfel" and "To Helen" and reprints of others like "Al Aaraaf" and "Tamerlane". One of his most famous poems describes his interlocutor with eyes that have "all the seeming of a demon that is dreaming" and "sitting On the pallid bust of Pallas". For ten points, identify this American author of The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket and "The Raven".
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe

22) In geophysics, this quantity is equal to one-half the difference between the square of the p-wave velocity and two times the square of the s-wave velocity divided by the difference between the squares of the p-wave and s-wave velocities. Materials with a negative value of this quantity become thicker perpendicularly to the direction of applied stress when stretched and are known as auxetics. Elastic modulus is equal to 2 times the shear modulus times 1 plus this quantity. For 10 points, name the negative ratio between transverse and longitudinal strain, denoted by the Greek letter nu and named for a French mathematician with a namesake statistics for discrete events.
ANSWER: Poisson's ratio

1) Answer these questions about a certain class of aromatic compounds for 10 points each.
1. The most basic of these compounds is a benzene ring fused to a nitrogen-containing pyrrole ring. It is used in perfumes and as a precursor to many pharmaceuticals.
ANSWER: indole or ketole or 1-benzazole or 2,3-benzopyrrole 
2.This is compound the only substituted indole of the proteinogenic amino acids. It is a precursor to serotonin and is commonly believed to be present at elevated levels in turkey meat.
ANSWER: tryptophan or Tryptan
3. This indolic neurotransmitter is secreted by the pineal gland during darkness. It is available as a dietary supplement with the claim that it helps the user to fall asleep.
ANSWER: melatonin

2) Identify things about an author, for ten points each:
[10] This Trinidadian author has written such works as Half a Life, Magic Seeds and A Bend in the River and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2001. 
ANSWER: V.S. Naipaul or Sir Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul
[10] Possibly his most famous work, this Naipaul novel follows an Indo-Trinidadian who wants to build the titular structure in order to get away from his dominating in-laws, the Tulsis.
ANSWER: A House for Mr. Biswas
[10] Despite garnering critical acclaim, Naipaul was criticized and described as a "third worlder denouncing his own people" by this author of Culture and Imperialism and Covering Islam. 
ANSWER: Edward Said

3) Answer these questions about ruling dynasties of Persia, for ten points each:
[10] This king defeated the Neo-Babylonian Empire led by Nabonidus and repatriated the Jews from the Babylonian captivity. He founded the Achaemenid dynasty which later included such notable kings as Darius and Xerxes.
ANSWER: Cyrus the Great or Cyrus II or Kurosh-e Bozorg
[10] This group ruled as the Arsacid Empire and claimed to be the heirs of the Achaemenid Empire. They fought continuously with Rome and their signature move of shooting over the shoulder is often linguistically confused with a 'parting shot'. 
ANSWER: Parthians 
[10] The founder of this dynasty was Ardashir I and with the Byzantine Empire formed the two great powers in the region. This was the last Persian dynasty before the Arab invasion and the coming of Islam. 
ANSWER: Sasanians or Sasanid

4) Answer these questions about the Father of American Anthropology, for ten points each:
[10] This German-American anthropologist organized the first anthropology Ph.D. program in America at Columbia University, where he taught such students as Alfred Kroeber, Edward Sapir and Margaret Mead.  
ANSWER: Franz Boas
[10] Boas's research on the environmental impact of Inuit migrations, oulined in The Central Eskimo, was completed on this largest Canadian island.
ANSWER: Baffin Island
[10] Boas is known for his work with this First Nations group on the northern coast of British Columbia. He arranged for fourteen members of this group to be part of an exhibit at the Chicago Fair in 1892. 
ANSWER: Kwakiutl or Kwakwaka'wakw or Kwagu'? or Kwagyeulth

5) Identify these mainstream actors who have had a role in an LGBT film, for ten points each: 
 [10] Best known for his roles in Angels in the Outfield, 10 Things I Hate About You and 3rd Rock from the Sun, this actor also played Elder Ryder, a Mormon missionary, in the film Latter Days.
ANSWER: Joseph Gordon-Levitt
[10] This actor played René Gallimard in the film adaptation of the LGBT play M. Butterfly. A theatre and film actor, he also starred in The Man in the Iron Mask, Elizabeth I, Kingdom of Heaven and voiced Scar in The Lion King.
ANSWER: Jeremy Irons
[10] This actor who also starred in The Guru and as Benny in Ella Enchanted, played the protagonist in Touch of Pink, about a young Muslim Indian-Canadian in London and is guided by his imaginary friend, Cary Grant.
ANSWER: Jimi Mistry

6) Answer these questions about an eastern religion, for ten points each:
[10] With a creation myth involving Izanagi and Izanami, identify this indigenous religion of Japan.
ANSWER: Shinto or Shintoism or kami-no-michi
[10] This is the word for the spirits, natural forces or deities honored and worshiped in Shinto. 
ANSWER: Kami
[10] One of the principal deities of Shinto, this sun goddess was born from the left eye of Izanagi. The Emperor of Japan is considered to be descended from her.
ANSWER: Amaterasu Omikami or Ohiru-menomuchi-no-kami

7) Answer these questions about Norse exploration of the Americas, for ten points each:
[10] This Norse explorer, the son of Eric the Red, set out to follow the route of Bjorn Herjolfsson and is considered the first European to land on North America outside of Greenland.  
ANSWER: Leif Ericson
[10] According to the Sagas of the Icelanders, Ericson established this colony in modern Canada, named in Old Norse either for wine or for meadows.
ANSWER: Vinland
[10] This archaeological site of a settlement on the island of Newfoundland is the only known Norse site in North America outside of Greenland. It is often thought to be a possible sight of the Vinland colony. 
ANSWER: L'Anse aux Meadows or L'Anse-aux-Méduses

8) 2009 saw the 15th United Nations Climate Change Conference. For 10 points each:
[10] The conference took place at the Bella Center in this Northern European capital 
ANSWER: Copenhagen
[10] The 3rd UN climate conference produced this widely adopted protocol, never ratified by the United States.
ANSWER: Kyoto Protocol
[10] This Chinese Premier met with Barack Obama during the Copenhagen conference?s tense concluding negotiations.
ANSWER: Wen Jiabao

9) Answer these questions about islands in Canada for 10 points each:
1.  This most populous island in Canada contains landmarks such as St. Joseph's Oratory, Bell Centre and McGill University.
ANSWER: Island of Montreal [or Île de Montréal]
2. This island, the second most populous in Canada, is separated from the mainland by the Strait of Georgia and is home to the capital of British Columbia.
ANSWER: Vancouver Island
3. This island in the Qikiqtaaluk region of Nunavut is the world's largest uninhabited island. It shares its name with a county in England.
ANSWER: Devon Island

10) And boom goes the dynamite, er, volcano. Identify these things about a famous volcanic eruption, for ten points each:
[10] The second eruption of this Cascades volcano in 1980 was heard as far away as British Columbia. 
ANSWER: Mount St. Helens
[10] The melting of snow, ice and even entire glaciers caused this type of volcanic mudslide consisting of water and volcanic material that flows down from a volcano.
ANSWER: lahars or lahar flow
[10] The directional blast created by the eruption produced this phenomenon of fast moving gravity-driven currents of hot gas and rock, known as tephra. This phenomenon usually accounts for much of the non-lava damage.
ANSWER: pyroclastic flow or pyroclastic cloud [prompt on basal flow and ash plume as they are parts of the pyroclastic flow]

11) Canadians feel safe now, but they can only deny Manifest Destiny so long. For 10 points each, identify these figures associated with American aggression towards Canada:
[10] This commander of the Green Mountain Boys led an assault on Montreal during the Revolutionary
War. His lobbying of the Continental Congress helped create the State of Vermont.
ANSWER: Ethan Allen
[10] Ignoring cries of "54 40 or fight!" this President peacefully resolved the Oregon boundary dispute. He preferred war with Mexico over war with Britain.
ANSWER: James K. Polk
[10] During the War of 1812 William Henry Harrison invaded Canada and this man was killed at the Battle of the Thames. This Shawnee leader allied with the British in Canda and helped capture Fort Detroit.
ANSWER: Tecumseh or Tecumtha or Tekamthi

12) Name these works by Dostoyevsky, or we?ll send you to Siberia. For 10 points each:
[10] In this novel Dmitri fights with his father, Fyodor, over money and women. When Fyodor is found dead, Ivan and
Alyosha can?t save Dmitri from taking the blame.
ANSWER: The Brothers Karamazov
 [10] The narrator argues against the "Palace of Crystal" and for "two times two makes five" before recounting his past life as a paranoid clerk.
ANSWER: Notes from Underground or Notes from the Underground or Letters from the Underground
[10] In this novel from 1867 the nihilist leader Verkhovensky attempts start a revolutionary movement including Nikolai Stavrogin who eventually kills himself. 
ANSWER: The Possessed or The Devils or Demons or ???? (Besy)

13) Do you know your way around a church? For 10 points each:
[10] In Gothic churches, this is the central aisle leading to the high altar. It was reserved for the non-clergy.
ANSWER: nave
[10] This area is set crosswise to the nave in cruciform Romanesque and Gothic churches. It separates the nave from the sanctuary.
ANSWER: transept
[10] This space separates the nave from the church entrance.
ANSWER: narthex

14) A man, a bonus, a Canal, Panama. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1903 Theodore Roosevelt helped Panama break away from this country, whose senate had refused to lease the canal site to the United States.
ANSWER: Republic of Colombia
[10] This American statesman and secretary to Abraham Lincoln negotiated three eponymous treaties that prepared the way for the building of the Cnaal with Pauncefote, Herran and Bunau Varilla. 
ANSWER: John Hay
[10] The French attempt to build the Panama canal which failed due to poor planning and diseases was headed by this man who had successfully built the Suez Canal
ANSWER: Ferdinand de Lesseps

15) Identify these things about African authors, for ten points each:
[10] This Nigerian novelist has written such works as Arrow of God and Anthills of the Savanah as well as a lecture criticizing Joseph Conrad's racism in Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Chinua Achebe
[10] This Soyinka play tells the story of the traditional chief Baroka fights the modernist teacher Lakunle over the right to marry the beautiful Sidi, the second of the titular nouns. 
ANSWER: The Lion and the Jewel
[10] This Kenyan author refuses to write in English any longer, writing only in Gikuyu and has penned such works as Weep Not, Child,  Wizard of the Crow and Petals of Blood.
ANSWER: Ng?g? wa Thiong'o 

16) Answer these questions vision in humans for ten points each.
1. Color vision is made possible by this type of photoreceptor cells. Humans typically have three different kinds, allowing for trichromatic vision.
ANSWER: Cone cells
2. One type of cone cell contains the photoreceptor protein cyanolabe, which has an absorption maximum at 420-440 nm. This wavelength corresponds to what color light?
ANSWER: bluish-violet (accept either underlined part)
3. This visual pigment is extremely sensitive to light and is used by rod cells. It is responsible for night vision and most strongly absorbs green-blue light.
ANSWER: rhodopsin or visual purple

17) It took shape in 16th Century Italy before spreading to France and beyond. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this traditional Italian form of theater, noted for its masks, costumes, and stock characters.
ANSWER: Commedia dell?arte
[10] This comic servant character is distinguished by his acrobatic skill and love for Colombine. He starred
in a British genre of slapstick.
ANSWER: Harlequin or Arlechinno
[10] This sad clown competes with Harlequin for Columbine?s affections. Antoine Watteau depicted him in
a white costume.
ANSWER: Pierrot or Gilles

18) Answer these questions about magnetism for 10 points each.
1. This form of magnetism occurs only in the presence of an external magnetic field and causes the material to be attracted to the magnetic field. O2 demonstrates this behavior.
ANSWER: paramagnetism
2. Above this temperature, some materials that have a permanent magnetic moment become paramagnetic. An example is iron at 768º Celsius.
ANSWER: Curie temperature or Curie point
3. Analogous to the Curie temperature, above this temperature named for a French physicist antiferromagnetic material becomes paramagnetic.
ANSWER: Néel temperature or Néel point or magnetic ordering temperature

19) Demonstrate your gnosis by identifying these religions. For 10 points each:
In Gnostic religions this female embodiment of wisdom and syzygy of Jesus is the lowest emanation of God and gave birth to the demiurge Yaldaboath
ANSWER: Sophia
[10] Founded in the 3rd Century by its eponymous prophet, this dualistic religion spread as far as China and once counted St. Augustine as an adherent.
ANSWER: Manichaeism
[10] This medieval Christian sect flourished in the French Languedoc region until suppressed by the Albigensian Crusade.
ANSWER: Catharism [or Cathars]

20) Big brother is watching you, so make sure your answers are double plus good, for ten points each:
[10] The protagonist of 1984 is this civil servant and citizen of Oceania who is lured into joining a secret organization but ultimately betrays his lover Julia and accepts that 2+2=5. 
ANSWER: Winston Smith
[10] Smith works as an editor for rewriting the past to match the present Party version of the past at this propagandist ministry which is responsible for news media, entertainment, fine arts and educational books.  
ANSWER: Ministry of Truth or Minitrue
[10] A Newspeak portmanteau of a country and an ideology, this is the political ideology of the government of Oceania.
ANSWER: IngSoc

21) Identify these Platonic dialogues, for ten points each:
[10] In this dialogue Socrates debates justice and the response to injustice and refuses Crito's offer to escape from prison.
ANSWER: Crito
[10] This dialogue discusses the definition of virtue and whether or not it can be taught and the use of a slave to demonstrate the idea of anamnesis.
ANSWER: Meno
[10] In this dialogue Nicias and the titular man seek Socrates to answer a question but instead they end up discussing and debating the definition of courage.
ANSWER: Laches

22) In May 2010 Israeli commandoes seized a flotilla carrying humanitarian aid, resulting in a deadly clash.
For 10 points each:
[10] The destination of the flotilla was this territory. 
ANSWER: Gaza Strip
[10] The flotilla raid brought global attention to the blockade of the Gaza strip. This Egyptian President responded by partially opening his country?s border with Gaza.
ANSWER: Hosni Mubarak
[10] One reason Israel maintains its blockade of Gaza is Hamas? refusal to free this Israeli soldier who was captured in 2006.
ANSWER: Gilad Shalit

23) At 66.562º north, the sun is above the horizon for 24 continuous hours on the summer solstice. For 10 points each:
1. What is the name of this line of latitude which forms one of the boundaries of the northern temperate zone?   
A: Arctic Circle
2. The largest city north of the Arctic Circle is this city on the Kola Peninsula. It's population has declined rapidly since the fall of the Soviet Union.
A: Murmansk
3. About 350 miles west and slightly north of Murmansk is this largest city in northern Norway. It is home to the Arctic Cathedral and the world's northernmost university.
A: Tromsø

24) For ten points each, identify the following United States Senators up for reelection this fall:
(10) This Arkansas senator is the first woman to serve as chair of the U.S. Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry.
ANSWER: Blanche Lincoln
(10) Famous for being the chief sponsor along with John McCain of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, this senator hails from Wisconsin.
ANSWER: Russell Feingold 
(10) This Iowa Republican is the ranking member of the Senate Finance Committee and has twice held its chairmanship. 
ANSWER: Charles "Chuck" Grassley

