VETO 2005 Tossups by Rico Catibog

1. His first acting role was in a commercial for McDonald's Gift Certificates.  On TV, he played Dwayne Schneider's nephew Keith in the final episode of One Day at a Time.  Ranked #8 in VH1's list of the 100 Greatest Kid Stars, he was one of the two highest paid teen stars and dubbed king of the teen box office in the mid to late 80s along with Corey Haim.  For 10 points, name this actor known for such movies as The Lost Boys, The Goonies and Stand By Me. (Pop Culture, Games, Sports 1)

Answer: Corey Feldman

2. Fictional works which illustrate this concept include Delaney's Babel-17, Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, and Rand's Anthem.  Developed in the 1930s after examining the Hopi Indian language, it states that there is a systematic relationship between the grammatical categories of the language a person speaks and how that person both understands the world and behaves in it.  For 10 points, name this controversial hypothesis named for its two American linguist founders.  (Social Science 1)

Answer: Sapir-Whorf hypothesis

3. His unfinished autobiography The Boy I Left Behind Me was published in 1946 after his death in 1944.  His first book Literary Lapses is comprised of 40 short stories including Self-Made Men, Men Who Have Shaved Me, and Hoodoo McFiggin's Christmas.  For 10 points, who illustrated his art in his works Humour and Humanity: An Introduction to the Study of Humour, and Arcadian Adventures with the Idle Rich?  (Literature 1)

Answer: Stephen Butler Leacock

4. The longest word in the Bible, Maher-shalal-hash-baz, can be found in Chapter 8, Verse 1 of this book.  Written sometime between 740 and 680 BC, it is dubbed a so-called "miniature Bible" as its 66 chapters form a one-to-one correspondence with the 39 books of the Old Testament and the 27 books in the New Testament.  Named after the Prophet called to prophesy to the Kingdom of Judah, this is - for 10 points - which book of the Old Testament revealing God's judgment and salvation usually abbreviated "Isa"?  (Religion, Philosophy, Mythology 1)

Answer: The Book of Isaiah

5. In 1598, French lieutenant-general of Canada Marquis de la Roche made an unsuccessful attempt to establish a penal colony on this island.  A major navigation hazard and the scene of many shipwrecks, it has been called "the graveyard of the Atlantic".  For 10 points, name this island located 180 kilometres southeast of Nova Scotia; derived the French word for "sand".  (Geography 1)

Answer: Sable Island (do not accept: Cape Sable Island)

6. "If something is boring after two minutes, try it for four. If still boring, then eight. Then sixteen. Then thirty-two. Eventually one discovers that it is not boring at all", he said in reference to his most famous composition.  A true musical innovator of his time, he invented the Prepared Piano where the sound is modified by attaching objects to the strings.  For 10 points, name this 20th-century American avant-garde composer best known for his notorious work of complete silence entitled 4'33" [Four-Minutes, Thirty-Three Seconds].  (Fine Arts 1)

Answer: John Cage

7. He was an apprentice to an architect specializing in church restoration before starting his 50-year career in writing.  His first novel written in 1867, The Poor Man and the Lady, was withdrawn on the advice of novelist George Meredith after many publishers rejected the work; and destroyed the manuscript.  He would finally have his first published work in 1871 entitled Desperate Remedies.  For 10 points, name this English poet and novelist who gained fame with his 1874 book Far from the Madding Crowd.  (Literature 2)

Answer: Thomas Hardy

8. Historians believe that Ibn Sahl was the first to discover this physical law in the 10th century and discovered again in the 16th century by Thomas Harriot.  Named for its 17th-century Dutch discoverer, the French call it "le loi de Descartes" since Rene Descartes published the law to solve a range of optical problems.  For 10 points, name this law used to calculate the refraction of light between two media of differing refractive indices.  (Science, Math, Technology 1)

Answer: Snell's Law

9. In 1976 he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada and promoted to Companion in 1999.  In 2005 he was awarded the Order of Manitoba.  On a global scale, he was Secretary-General of the 1992 UN Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro.  For 10 points, name this former senior advisor to UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan who stepped down in April due to his alleged financial involvement with Tongsun Park, a lobbyist in the Iraq Oil-for-Food scandal.  (Current Events 1)

Answer: Maurice Strong

10. If it weren't for American soldier Ron Ridenhour, this historical tragedy would be unknown today.  Journalist Seymour Hersh broke the story in November 1969 with Time, Life and Newsweek magazines all covering the event in their November issue.  As a result, the US Army charged 14 officers but only one would be convicted, Lieutenant William Calley.  For 10 points, name this infamous March 16, 1968 event that killed 350 Vietnamese, including more than 100 civilian men, women, and children.  (History 1)

Answer: My Lai Massacre  (Accept: Son My)

11. This country has the distinction of issuing a banana-shaped postage stamp with a back adhesive that can be peeled.  King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV has been its Chief of State since 1965 and is the only monarchy in the Pacific.  Made up of an archipelago formerly called "The Friendly Islands" - for 10 points - name this South Pacific island nation with its capital at Nuku'alofa. (Geography 2)

Answer: Tonga

12. Upon accepting the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize, Shirin Ebadi said that she was a descendant of him.  His namesake cylinder has been hailed as the first charter of human rights, and in 1971 the United Nations published translations of it in all the UN official languages.  Considered to be the first king of the Achaemenid dynasty - for 10 points -- who succeeded his father Cambyses I the Elder and founded the Persian Empire?  (History 2)

Answer: Cyrus the Great (accept: Cyrus II of Persia)

13. 
This chemical element is cubic in crystalline structure and has a specific gravity of 5.243.  First known in 1890 by scientist Lecoq de Boisbaudran while studying the spark spectral lines of samarium and gadolinium, French scientist Eugene Demarcay is, however, credited in its discovery while separating the rare earth ore monazite in 1901.  For 10 points, identify this rarest of the rare earth metals named after the continent from where it was discovered.  (Science, Math, Technology 2)

Answer: Europium

14. Her known life has been documented in the January 2004 Vanity Fair article Double Exposure.  Describing herself as an energy analyst for the private company Brewster Jennings & Associates, her cover would be blown by journalist Robert Novak based on information allegedly given by Bush's top aide Karl Rove.  For 10 points, name this CIA agent whose recent exposure led to a Justice Department investigation into possible violation of U.S. criminal law regarding exposure of covert government agents.  (Current Events 2)

Answer: Valerie Plame

15. It tells of the bizarre wanderings of a sixteen-year-old European emigrant named Karl Rossman who was forced to go to the United States as a punishment for being seduced by a maid.  Working with is uncle in New York, Karl is later fired and abandoned by his uncle and, without any money in a strange world, finds a job as an elevator operator working at the huge Hotel Occidental.  Published posthumously in 1927 - for 10 points - name this first and incomplete novel by Franz Kafka.  (Literature 3)

Answer: Amerika

16. English actor Robert Newton is the patron saint of this parodic holiday.  Invented in 1995 by Americans John Baur and Mark Summers, it was promoted by Miami Herald columnist Dave Barry in his nationally-syndicated humour column.  On September 19th, John and Mark would don the names "Ol' Chum Bucket" and "Cap'n Slappy", respectively, to celebrate - for 10 points - what holiday where observers would, instead of "Hello!," say "Arrr!  Ahoy, me hearty!" to greet each other?  (Pop Culture, Games, Sports 2)

Answer: International Talk Like a Pirate Day  (accept clear knowledge equivalents)

17. This programme was replaced by the Winnipeg Declaration in 1956 in the face of anti-communist hysteria of the Cold War.  It called for "a planned and socialized economy in which our natural resources and principal means of production and distribution are owned, controlled and operated by the people".  Adopted at the first national convention of the Co-Operative Commonwealth Federation in 1933, for 10 points, what is this document named after the provincial capital where the first CCF convention took place?  (History 3)

Answer: Regina Manifesto

18. 
Since 1951, a total of 46 systems were eventually built and delivered ranging in price from $159,000, originally, to between $1.25 and $1.5 million.  Its first three sales were with the US Census Bureau, the US Air Force, and the Army Map Service.  Its first sale for business use was installed at the General Electric Appliance Division, to do payroll, in January 1954.  For 10 points, name this first commercial computer notably used to predict Eisenhower's landslide victory in the 1952 presidential election.  (Science, Math, Technology 3)

Answer: UNIVAC (accept: UNIVAC I)

19. It was first coined by Edwin Sutherland when he used the phrase in a speech to the American Sociological Society in December 1939.  It comes in two key types: Occupational and Organizational/Corporate.  Examples include pollution, bribery, embezzlement and fraud.  For 10 points, what did Sutherland describe as a wrongful act "committed by a person of respectability and high social status in the course of his occupation" and can describe the inner workings of Enron and WorldCom?  (Social Science 2)

Answer: white-collar crime

20. He first appeared in film dancing in 1953's Give a Girl a Break and Kiss Me, Kate.  At age 13 he toured with his own dance act, The Riff Brothers, and was already choreographing by the time he was 15.  In 1954, he choreographed two Broadway shows: The Pajama Game & Damn Yankees.  For 10 points, name this chain-smoking choreographer and creator of the jazz dance style prominent in his musicals Chicago & Cabaret.  (Fine Arts 2)

Answer: Bob Fosse

21. It was originally published in the second issue of Galaxy Science Fiction in 1953.  Ironically, the author's publisher released a censored edition eliminating the words "damn" and "hell" for distribution in schools despite the book's intention to decry censorship and suppression of thought & ideas during the McCarthy era.  For 10 points, name this novel where firemen actually set fires and describes "the temperature at which book-paper catches fire, and burns" by Ray Bradbury.  (Literature 4)

Answer: Fahrenheit 451

22. One origin of this sports term refers to a Cuban long-time minor leaguer named Minnie whose 16-game stint with the Minnesota Twins resulted in a pro-league batting average of .188 in 1970.  A more popular version centers around a Mexican named Mario whose 9-year career with the Pirates, Mariners and Rangers led to a .215 batting average.  For 10 points, give this informal baseball term to describe the boundary between poor and good batters, usually an average of .215, coming from the shared last name of Minnie and Mario.  (Pop Culture, Games, Sports 3)

Answer: The Mendoza Line

23. 
A numbering machine is at the entrance so every customer has their own unique number. Numbers increase by one as customers enter the store. A global counter displays the number of the customer that is currently being served. All other customers must wait patiently in a queue until the baker finishes serving the current customer and the next number is displayed.  This describes -- for 10 points -- what computer science algorithm illustrating how multiple threads simultaneously access the same resources envisioned by Dr. Leslie Lamport.  (Science, Math, Technology 4)

Answer: Lamport's Bakery Algorithm

24. The lake from which this park gets its name originated from Mi'kmaq meaning "attempting to escape" or "swollen waters", possibly related to fishing weirs placed on the lake.  Covering an area of 381 square kilometres, it includes habitat for the endangered Piping Plover and other coastal birds.  For 10 points, name this park located in the uplands of south-central Nova Scotia, and the seaside adjunct, located nearby on the Atlantic coast.  (Geography 3)

Answer: Kejimkujik National Park



VETO 2005 Bonuses by Rico Catibog

1. Answer the following questions about the country of Estonia for 10 points each. (Geography 1)

A. Name its capital.

	Answer: Tallinn

B. Every summer, Tallinn relinquishes itself as the capital and hands it to this city known for its huge summer celebrations. Hence, it's the summer capital of Estonia.

	Answer: Parnu

C. Which two countries, besides Estonia, make up the Baltic States?

	Answer: Latvia, Lithuania


2. Law & Order is the longest-running drama in American TV history.  Throughout its 15 seasons, the show featured three New York District Attorneys.  For 10 points each, name the three actors, two actors & one actress, who played the D.A. on the series.  (Pop Culture, Sports, Games 1)

Answer: 	Steven Hill (as D.A. Adam Schiff)
		Dianne Weist (as Interim D.A. Nora Lewin)
		Fred Dalton Thompson (as D.A. Arthur Branch)


3. 30-20-10.  Name the historic figure. (History 1)

A. The date of birth recorded on his birth certificate was June 14, 1928. The birth certificate may have been deliberately falsified to help shield the family from a scandal relating to his mother being three months pregnant when she was married.

B. The details surrounding his death are cloudy, but many believe the Bolivian government purposefully executed him in order to avoid a public trial and potential martyrization in 1967.

C. Born to a middle-class Argentine family, he even exhibited as child the radical views which made him an important Marxist revolutionary and Cuban guerrilla leader.

Answer: Che Guevera


4. Given a geological time period, give the geological era from which it comes for 10 points each. (Science, Math, Tech 1)
A. Neogene, the time period we currently reside in.

Answer: Cenozoic

B. Permian, time period the supercontinent Pangaea was formed.

Answer: Paleozoic

C. Ediacaran, when the first multi-celled animals appeared.

Answer: Neo-proterozoic
5. Answer the following questions relating to events which happened on this day, July 16th.  (General Knowledge 1)

A. For 5 points, July 16th marked the beginning of which holy calendar in 622 AD or 1 AH, anno Higirae?

Answer: Islamic calendar

B. For 10 points, on this day in 1990 a devastating earthquake measuring 7.7 on the Richter scale killed over 1,600 people in which island nation?

Answer: The Philippines

C. For 15 points, on this date in 1880 she became the first woman to practice medicine in Canada.

Answer: Dr. Emily Howard Stowe


6. In June 2005, the US Environmental Protection Agency indicated in a draft assessment that a chemical used to make polytetrafluoroethylene may be carcinogenic to humans.  (Current Events 1)

A. For 5 points, by what common trademark name is polytetrafluoroethylene better known?

Answer: Teflon

B. For 10 points, who invented Teflon while working with DuPont in 1938?

Answer: Roy J. Plunkett

C. For 15 points, the EPA states that the chemical perfluorooctanoic acid, or PFOA, is likely to cause cancer based on animal studies.  By what letter & number designation is this chemical also known?

Answer: C-8



7. Answer the following questions about T.S. Eliot's Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats for 10 points each.  (Literature 1)

A. In Gus: The Theatre Cat, Eliot writes, "Gus is the Cat at the Theatre Door. / His name, as I ought to have told you before, / Is really..." what?

Answer: Asparagus

B. Which poem begins, "There's a whisper down the line at 11:39 / When the Night Mail's ready to depart"?

Answer: Skimbleshanks: The Railway Cat

C. In the poem The Naming of Cats, Eliot states that a cat must have how many different names?

Answer: Three
8. 30-20-10.  Name the mythological figure. (Religion, philosophy, mythology 1)

A. His name is given to a form of mathematical analysis performing a shape-preserving Euclidean transformation to a set of shapes; removing variations in translation, rotation and scaling across the dataset, so to move them into a common frame of reference.

B. In computer science, his namesake "string" describes a fixed length string into which can be placed strings of varying lengths. If the string inserted is too short, then it is padded out, usually with spaces or null characters. If the string inserted is too long, it is truncated.

C. Killing this bandit from Attica was the last adventure of Theseus in which he pushed him on his own bed and chopped off his head and feet.

Answer: Procrustes


9. Identify the following Canadian songwriters for the stated number of points. (Fine Arts 1)

A. For 5 points, whose song Forca was chosen as the official song of the European soccer championship held in Portugal in the summer of 2004?

Answer: Nelly Furtado

B. For 10 points, whose song Sometimes When We Touch, written with Barry Mann, was an international hit 1977-8, selling over a million copies; resulting in Junos in 1978 for best composer, best male singer, and best-selling LP for Longer Fuse?

Answer: Dan Hill

C. For 15 points, best known for her album Hymns of Gold, which female singer/songwriter of the 70s and 80s was known as "Canada's Queen of Country Music" and was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1992?

Answer: Carroll Baker


10. 30-20-10.  Name the pass. (Geography 2)

A. Constructed by the CPR and completed in December 1988, the 14.7-kilometre Mount Macdonald Tunnel, North America's longest railway tunnel, was constructed beneath this pass to cut down track grades for westbound trains.

B. It was founded from the west via the south fork of the Illecillewaet River on May 28, 1881.

C. At an elevation of 1,323 metres in British Columbia's Selkirk Mountains, it is named in honour of its discoverer.

Answer: Rogers Pass


11. For 5 points for one, 15 for two, 30 for all three.  Name the three successful Broadway musicals based on plays by William Shakespeare debuting in the years 1938, 1948, and 1957.  (Fine Arts 2)

Answer: 	The Boys from Syracuse (1938, based on The Comedy of Errors)
		Kiss Me, Kate (1948, based on The Taming of the Shrew)
		West Side Story (1957, based on Romeo and Juliet)


12. Identify the theory given a mathematical formula for 15 points each.  For example, A squared + B squared = C squared where A & B are the lengths of the legs of a right triangle and C is the length of the hypotenuse.  Answer: The Pythagorean Theorem.  (Sci, Math, Tech 2)

A. The quantity (cosine x + i sine x) all to the power of n = cosine nx + i sin nx where x is any real number, n is any integer and i is the square root of -1.

Answer: De Moivre's Theorem

B. A to the power of p is equivalent to A modulo p where A is any integer and p is a prime number.

Answer: Fermat's Little Theorem


13. Eight years and three trials later, justice has finally come for the heinous murder of Reena Virk.  Answer the following questions pertaining to this case for 10 points each. (Current Events 2)

A. Name the teenage girl who boasted while holding Reena's head in Victoria's Gorge waterway.  She would be found guilty of second-degree murder in her 3rd trial in July 2005.

Answer: Kelly Ellard

B. Already serving a life sentence for second-degree murder in Virk's drowning death, name the Crown's key witness who described how he and Ellard followed Virk as she staggered away from a group of teens and that they beat Virk and left her for dead.

Answer: Warren Glowatski

C. Name the judge who presided over the 3rd Ellard trial calling her acts senseless & remorseless.

Answer: Justice Robert Bauman


14. It was fought between Chile and the joint forces of Bolivia and Peru from 1879 to 1884.  For 10 points each: (History 2)

A. Name this historic conflict.

Answer: The War of the Pacific

B. The war grew out of a dispute between Chile and Bolivia over control of a part of what area that lies between the 23rd and 26th parallels on the Pacific coast?

Answer: Atacama Desert

C. Name either the Peruvian or Bolivian province gained by Chile after the war that are valuable in mineral resources.

Answer: Tarapacá (Peru) or Litoral (Bolivia)


15. Listen to the following music tracks and name the game show which uses it as its theme for 10 points each. (Pop Culture, Sports, Games 2)

A. Play track 1.

Answer: Jackpot!

B. Play track 2.

Answer: Chain Reaction

C. Play track 3.

Answer: The Gong Show


16. 30-20-10.  Name the fictional character.  (Literature 2)

A. She was first seen in publications of English newspaper columns in The Independent and later The Daily Telegraph from 1997-98.

B. The brainchild of Helen Fielding, these columns would be compiled into a 1996 novel by Fielding and a 2001 movie of the same name directed by Sharon Maguire, Fielding's friend.

C. She would be portrayed on the big screen by Renée Zellweger.

Answer: Bridget Jones


17. A simple high school biology bonus.  For 5 points for one, 10 for two, 20 for three, 30 for all four, name the four phases a cell goes through during a division process known as mitosis.  (Science, Math, Technology 3)

Answer: prophase, metaphase, anaphase, telophase



18. Identify the following philosophical movements from their description for 15 points each.  (Religion, Philosophy, Mythology 2)

A. Originating in the United States in the late 1800s, it is characterized by the insistence on consequences, utility and practicality as vital components of truth. It objects to the view that human concepts and intellect alone accurately represent reality.

Answer: Pragmatism

B. Prominent in Hinduism, this philosophy demonstrates the metaphysical view that all is of one essential essence, substance or energy. It is to be distinguished from dualism, which holds that ultimately there are two kinds of substance, and from pluralism, which holds that ultimately there are many kinds of substance.

Answer: Monism


19. 30-20-10.  Identify the year based on events. (History 3)

A. Pope Leo XI is elected, but dies before the year is out; replaced by Pope Paul V.

B. Miguel de Cervantes' work Don Quixote is published.  King Philip IV of Spain is born.

C. A plot to blow up the English Houses of Parliament is foiled when Sir Thomas Knyvet, a justice of the peace, finds Guy Fawkes in a cellar below the Parliament building and find about 20 barrels of gunpowder.  Hence, the Gunpowder Plot.

Answer: 1605


20. For 15 points each, identify the following theorems in economics.  (Social Science 1)

A. This theory states that the firm's investment decision is independent of the preferences of the owner; and the investment decision is independent of the financing decision.

Answer: The Fisher separation theorem

B. Named after a Polish-born English economist who discovered it, this theorem proposes that when one of two factors of production is increased there is a relative increase in the production of the good using more of that factor; leading to a corresponding decline in that good's relative price.

Answer: Rybczynski theorem



21. Study the following works of art and answer the questions that follow.  Ten points each. (General Knowledge 2)

A. Picture #1 is a self portrait of what famous American surrealist photographer of the Dada movement?

Answer: Man Ray

B. Picture #2 is entitled Fulcrum by American sculptor Richard Serra.  This metallic sculpture is an example of what art movement where the work is stripped down to its most fundamental features?

Answer: Minimalism

C. Picture #3 is a lithograph by artist El Lissitsky entitled Beat the White with the Red Wedge.  Lissitsky is a member of what art movement to define the large, influential wave of modernist art that flourished in Russia from approximately 1890 to 1930?

Answer: Russian avant garde


Picture #1



Picture #2



Picture #3

