VETO 2011TOSSUP QUESTIONS (B2B)1. In June 2005 when he hit his first grand slam against the Cubs, he had more at bats than any active player without a grand slam.  The Major League all-time hits leader at shortstop, he was American League rookie of the year in 1996.  As of July 2011, he has won five World Series, including in 2000 when he was All Star Game and World Series MVP.  For ten points, name this player who in 2011 became the first New York Yankee to 3,000 career hits.Answer: Derek Sanderson Jeter2. Its plot was inspired by Giovanni Fiorentino's Il Pecorone, published about forty years before this play was written.  Edmund Kean's choice to play the villain sympathetically in the early 19th. Century became the norm over the following two hundred years; this change led to the play being viewed less as a romantic comedy and more as one of the "problem plays".  Other topics of scholarly debate include whether or not the title character's depression is caused by his homosexual attraction to Bassanio, and whether or not the main female character helps Bassanio choose the lead casket.  For ten points, identify this Shakespeare play about Antonio, Portia, and Shylock.Answer:  The Merchant of Venice  3. The name of the biannual French fashion, art and culture magazine founded in 1992.  The U.S. codename for the diplomatic crytographic machine used by the Japan Foreign Office just before and during World War II.  The second Stone Temple Pilots album released which includes "Vasoline."  For ten points, name this colour associated with Easter and royalty that can be made by mixing red and blue.Answer: Purple4. Neil Gaiman's story "Shoggoth's Old Peculiar" features a town in England that shares a name with a town in New England from this story.  One of the few remaining normal humans in the town is an old drunk named Zadok Allen who is sacrificed to a cult that worships Great Old Ones such as Dagon and Cthulhu.  For ten points, identify this H. P. Lovecraft novella, in which Robert Olmstead discovers disturbing family connections to the monstrous human-sea monster hybrids of the titular town.  Answer:  The Shadow Over Innsmouth  5. Beginning on Pure or Clean Monday in Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches, its final week is associated with special observances of suffering and death.  Associated with a time of penance and preparation, its observance was set at 40 days in the 600s A.D.  For ten points, name this springtime Christian observance that includes Ash Wednesday, Palm Sunday and Holy Week.Answer: Lent6. It can be interpreted as the ratio of quotient between the maximum angular momentum allowed by relativity for a closed orbit, and the minimum angular momentum allowed for it by quantum mechanics. Quantum electrodynamics provides a way to measure this quantity directly using the quantum Hall effect or the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron. Defined in electrostatic units as the elementary charged squared over h bar times the speed of light, this is, for ten points, what dimensionless quantity, the coupling constant of the electromagnetic interaction?Answer: Fine Structure Constant7. He is said to have exclaimed "My God, It Talks" upon hearing Alexander Graham Bell demonstrate the telephone at the Philadelphia Expo in 1876, and later had the first telephone in his country installed at his palace.  He became the Constitutional Emperor and Perpetual Defender of his country at age five, after the abdication of his father, who was once briefly the King of Portugal.  Fifty eight years later, he was exiled after his country became a republic. For ten points, identify the second and last Emperor of Brazil. Answer: Dom Pedro II8. Its most numerous features are craters, including half a million at least a mile wide.  Those with light gray streaks are known as ray craters.  The largest crater is the Imbrium Basin, which resembles an eye when viewed from hundreds of thousands of miles away.  For ten points, name this craggy satellite of Earth.Answer: The Moon9. Resulting from the closure of road and rail access precipitated by the introduction of the Deutsche Mark earlier in the week, this 11-month operation saw as much as 4,700 tons of daily necessities delivered.  By April 1949 more goods were being delivered than previously had been delivered by rail.  For ten points, name this joint British-American military effort to counteract the Soviet attempt to control of a city they had captured three years earlier.Answer: Berlin Blockade or Berlin Airlift (Operation Vittles until "British")10. Set by mathematical equations provided by Hannskarl Bandel, architects including Bruce Detmers expressed the geometic form in blueprints.  Located on the west bank of the Mississippi, it was the work of the U.S. Territorial Expansion Memorial Commission and was the centrepiece of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial.  For ten points, name this geometric structure designed by Eero Saainen, a St. Louis landmark.Answer: Gateway Arch or Gateway to the West11. During World War I, he served with the Canadian Army Medical Corps in Egypt and Greece before transferring to the Royal Flying Corps.  He was sent home after being hit by a bus during a citywide London blackout.  His association with war would go no further as he refused to join the government of William Lyon Mackenzie King and would nearly become the first Secretary-General of the United Nations before the Soviets vetoed him.  Having dealt with Egypt in war, he acted to prevent another war while serving as Minister of State for External Affairs under Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent.  For ten points, name this Canadian diplomat-turned-politician who won the 1957 Nobel Peace Prize.Answer: Lester Bowles (Mike) Pearson12. Peter Carey's Jack Maggs is a fictionalized version of how this novel came to be written, told from the viewpoint of a convict who has just returned from Australia.  Contrary to popular belief, it wasn't the author's publisher but rather his friend Wilkie Collins who suggested that he change his original bittersweet ending to a happier one in which the protagonist sees "no shadow of parting" from the woman he loves.  For ten points, identify this novel by Charles Dickens in which Pip loves Estella.  Answer:  Great Expectations   13. When completed in 1929, for two years, it was the longest suspended central span bridge in the world.  Debate about a rival crossing has lasted over a decade.  Critics of owners, the Moroun family, say they are using political donations to convince state politicians to oppose a rival toll bridge that would challenge its area monopoly on commercial truck traffic.   For ten points, name this busiest North American border crossing, in terms of trade volume, connecting Windsor to Detroit.Answer: Ambassador Bridge14. This country's protected areas have the second largest wildlife migration in the world.  It is home to Boma National Park and Southern National Park.  It is landlocked and includes the vast swamp region of the Sudd formed by the White Nile, locally called the Bahr al Jabal.  For ten points name this country with its capital at Juba which became an independent nation on July 9, 2011.Republic of South Sudan15. The letter in this work translates as "I am just too unhappy to deserve your kindness" and shows the handiwork of Charlotte Corday, who blamed the titular figure for the September Massacres.  The knife is not in the subject's chest but rather on the floor near his right hand, which is holding a quill pen.  For ten points name this neoclassical painting depicting an event during the French Revolution by Jacques-Louis David.Answer: Death of Marat or La Mort de Marat16. The end result of Operation Neptune Spear, it was carried out by a team from the U.S. Naval Special Warfare Development Group, formerly known as SEAL Team Six, of the Joint Special Operations Command.  Inconsistent explanations from the U.S. government led to various conspiracy theories to emerge in the first weeks of May 2011.  Confirmed four days after it was completed by Al-Qaeda, for ten points, name this event that was the reason for storming a compound in Abbottabad and resulted in a burial at sea within 24 hours.Answer: Death of Osama bin Laden (accept equivalents)17. Its Eastern Shore shares the Delmarva Peninsula with parts of Delaware and Virginia while its Western Shore is across Chesapeake Bay.  Its highest point of Backbone Mountain is near its western border in the Appalachian Plateau.  Its Patuxent River flows from the Piedmont through the Atlantic Coastal Plain.  For ten points, name this U.S. state which surrounds the District of Columbia on three side and has its capital at Annapolis.Answer: Maryland18. He nominated Sarah Palin at the 2008 Republican National Convention more than a decade after serving as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce under George Bush.  He was ambassador to Singapore from 1992 to 1993.  Earlier he had worked as a White House staff assistant in the Reagan administration.  Between political stints he returned to his family's business, which was noted for its Styrofoam production.  Governor of Utah, he resigned a year into his second term to become Ambassador to China.  For ten points, name this Republican who resigned his ambassadorship in February 2011 to seek the nomination for the U.S. presidency.Answer: Jon Meade Huntsman, Jr.19. Associated with the wolf and the woodpecker, Romans dedicated a fertile section near a bend in the Tiber River to him in honour of him, the god of farmland and fertility.  Noted for a love affair with Venus, he adopted many of the traits of Ares after contact with Greece.  For ten points, name this Roman god of war, the father of Romulus and Remus.Answer: Mars20. The suspension of laws within a supposed emergency or crisis can become a prolonged state of being. This titular concept deprives individuals of their citizenship.  It is characterized by an indefinite suspension of law.  For ten points name this 2005 book by Giorgio Agamben which argues that sovereign law makes it possible to create entire areas in which the application of the law itself is suspended.Answer: State of Exception21. Theories about his origins have linked him to aliens, dryads, a cult that tied murderers to fast-growing trees, and to a boogeyman from German folklore known as Der Grossman.  His victims include a blogger named Damsel, a trio of health and fitness enthusiasts known as the Hybrids, and student filmmaker Alex Kralie.  The creation of SomethingAwful goon Victor Surge, For ten points, identify this Internet urban legend, a tall thin faceless man in a suit who mostly just stands around being creepy.Answer:  The Slender Man  22. Held with a year remaining in World War II, it saw the signing of agreements to establish the International bank for Reconstruction and Development, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the International Monetary Fund.  As the result of this gathering, its system of exchange rate management was in place for nearly three decades.  For ten points, name this gathering in New Hampshire of Allied nations to regulate the international financial order for the post-war period.Answer: The United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference or Bretton Woods Conference23. Comprising of a tube, foot and body, the tube can be moved within the body by turning a coarse-adjustment knob.  With one or more lenses that refract, it uses visible light.  Designed around 1600, they were easy to develop and popular because samples can be directly observed by the eye.  For ten points, name this instrument that magnifies extremely small objects so they can be seen easily.Answer: Optical microscope or light microscope (prompt on microscope until "visible")24. Its departments include Recdep, Propdep, Teledep, Resdep, and Ficdep, which contains Pornosec.  Aptly named for what it creates by rewriting historical events, it is located in an enormous pyramid.  Its party's slogans are on the outside wall.  In its thousands of rooms, can be found Winston Smith.  For ten points, name this ministry of Oceania from Nineteen-Eighty-Four.Answer: The Ministry of Truth or Minitrue
BONUS QUESTIONS (B2B)1. For ten points each, name these works of Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa.a) This 1969 novel deals with conversation in a bar near a dog pound between a minister's son Santiago Zavala and his chauffer Ambrosio about the minister's role in the murder of a notorious underworld figure.Answer: Conversation in the Cathedral or Conversación en La Catedral b) Set over several decades of the 20th century in the Peruvian desert and jungle, this 1966 story is told non-chronologically and includes characters named by their titles, such as the lieutenant and the native, in power struggles in the jungle.Answer: The Green House or La casa verdec) Vargas Llosa's first novel, takes place at the Leoncio Prado Military Academy and involves multiple perspectives.  Its descriptions of the academy led to a thousand copies being burned and the book being condemned as "a plan by Ecuador to denigrate Peru."Answer: The Time of the Hero or La ciudad y los perros2. For ten points each answer the following questions about human resources in contemporary business.a) This process usually involves a written assessment issued on a regular basis.  Often the written assessment is only part of a multi-step process.  Name this process designed to show how well workers are doing their jobs.Answer: Performance Appraisals (please accept the plural or singular)b) A sample question is, think of a time you had to cope with a major situation in your job, what did you do?  Name this type of interviewing which assesses how you reacted to difficult or important job situations in the past.Answer: Behaviour-Based Interviewing (also accept Behaviour-Focused Interviewing)c) Typing and lifting can cause painful injuries.  Name these type of injuries that occur when workers perform the same functions over and over again.Answer: Repetitive Strain Injuries OR Repetitive Stress Injuries OR RSIs3. Answer these questions about former parts of the Russian Empire for ten points each.a)This city was created by a decree of Empress Catherine the Great in 1794.  Its most iconic symbol is the Potemkin Steps (Primorsky Stairs).  For ten points name this most populous port city on the Black Sea.Answer: Odessab) UNESCO considers this city's German Art Nouveau architecture to be unparalleled anywhere in the world.  It has the largest airport among the Baltic states.  For ten points name this city located at the mouth of the river Daugava. Answer: Rigac)The first oil well was mechanically drilled in this city in 1846.  Its name is believed to come from Old Persian meaning "wind-pounded city."  For ten points named this city located on the southern shore of the Absheron Peninsula.Answer: Baku (Also accept Baki or Bakou)4. For ten points each, answer the following questions about sexuality.a) Name this term which indicates that two sexual partners are exclusive with one another.Answer: Monogamy (Also accept Monogamous relationship or Monogamous)b) In a 1978 study human males aged 12-19 reported how often they thought about sex.  How often did they think about sex?Answer: Once every five minutesc) He published the "The Role of Urethra in Female Orgasm" (1950). In 1981 sexologists John D. Perry and Beverly Whipple named the G-spot in his honour.Answer: Ernst Gräfenberg5. Answer the following questions about Canadian history for ten points each.a) It began on April 12, 1980 at the Atlantic Ocean in St. John's, Newfoundland.  The event intended to raise money for cancer research and it became one of the most inspirational events in Canadian history.  For ten points name this event in which Terry Fox ran across Canada with an artificial leg.Answer: The Marathon of Hopeb) He began on March 21, 1985 and finished on May 22, 1987.  In his Man in Motion World Tour he circled the world in a wheelchair raising $26 million for spinal cord research and quality of life initiatives.  For ten points name this man who was a torchbearer during the opening ceremonies of the 2010 Winter Olympics.Answer: Rick Hansen     c) Canadian producer/composer David Foster and British musician John Parr originally wrote this song to honour Rick Hansen.  For ten points name this song which was also the theme song for a 1985 movie which earned Rob Lowe a razzie award. Answer: "St. Elmo's Fire (Man in Motion)" (Full title required) 6. For ten points each answer the following questions about feminism.a) In 1872 she illegally voted in the US Presidential election.  Name this woman who argued that the privileges of citizenship contained no gender qualification.    Answer: Susan B. Anthonyb) In 1949 Simone de Beauvoir wrote a treatise examining women's oppression. Name this foundational tract of contemporary feminism. Answer: The Second Sexc) Name this strand of feminism which seeks to challenge the second wave's definitions of femininity, which often assumed a universal female identity and over-emphasized the experiences of upper-middle-class white women.Answer: Third-wave feminism7. Since the last VETO in July 2010, several Canadian provinces have new Premiers.  For ten points each, name:a) This premier of the Yukon Territory, owned a Shoppers Drug Mart and had run federally for the Conservative Party before winning the leadership of the governing Yukon Party.Answer: Darrell Pasloskib) This premier of British Columbia, returned to politics to become Liberal Party leader after a five year absence where she had been an afternoon talk show host on radio station CKNW.Answer: Christina (Christy) Clarkc) This New Brunswick premier saw his Progressive Conservative Party elected government in September 2010.  Previously he was a federal bureaucrat, cattle farmer and cabinet minister.Answer: David Alward8. Answer these questions about Mexican history for ten points each:a) This Creole priest first proclaimed Mexican independence in 1810 and quickly raised an army of more than 100,000.Answer: Miguel Hidalgo y Castillob) This unscrupulous opportunist manipulated Spanish emissaries into granting Mexico its independence and he became head of the first government.  He had been overthrown by 1823.Answer: Augustin de Iturbide or Emperor Augustine Ic) He led Mexican forces against the Spanish when they attempted to regain the colony in 1830 and later defeated the U.S. at the Alamo in 1836 but lost half of Mexican territory by 1848.Answer: Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna9. For ten points each, answer these questions about carbohydrates:a)  Carbohydrates are one of three main classes of nutrients that provide energy to the body.  Ten points, all or nothing, what are the two other types of nutrients.Answer: Fats and proteinsb) These types of carbohydrates are monosaccharides or disaccharides and are all sugars.Answer: Simple carbohydratesc) This type of complex carbohydrate consists of hundreds or thousands of glucose molecules joined end to end and is the chief form of carbohydrates stored in plants.Answer: Starch10. Although VETO mandates Canadian content, answer the following questions about American History for the stated number of points.a) In the Boston Massacre of 1770 British soldiers guarding the Customs House fired into a crowd of protestors, killing five protestors.  The British Officer on duty was Captain Thomas Preston.  For ten points name Preston's defence attorney who became President of the United States.Answer: John Adams (first and last name required)b) This man was a planter and American Revolutionary figure from Charles City County, Virginia.  He was a Virginia delegate to the Continental Congress from 1774 to 1777 and signed the Declaration of Independence during the Second Continental Congress.  For ten points name this man who was Governor of Virginia from 1781-1784.    Answer: Benjamin Harrison Vc) For ten points what distinction do these men share, besides the fact that they both signed the Declaration of Independence.Answer: Their sons became President of the United States OR Fathers of Presidents of the United States (Moderator: please accept equivalents)John Adams' son John Quincy Adams was the 6th President and Benjamin Harrison's son William Henry Harrison was the 9th President.11. For ten points each, answer these questions about cities' subway systems:a) This city's SMRT system, which covers 80 miles, won two Terrapinn Metro Awards.  The system had a complete green initiative overhaul in 2009.Answer: Singaporeb) This city's Metro is noted for its chandeliers hanging in many of its 182 stations, which cover 12 lines.Answer: Moscowc) This city's system cover 660 miles, the largest in the world, and is noted for its dirty stations and graffitti covered cars.Answer: New York City12. For ten points each, answer these questions about a 20th century American novelist and short story writer:a) Known as the Chekhov of the suburbs, many of his works were set in the Westchester suburbs of New York.Answer: John William Cheeverb) His award winning novels about this Massachusetts family explore nostalgia for a disappearing way of life in mid-20th century America and their personal struggles.Answer: Wapshotc) This 1977 novel set in the titular state prison tells of Ezekiel Farragut, a professor, who begins an affair with another inmate.Answer: Falconer13. Answer the following questions about the geography of the Canadian north for ten points each.a)This mountain is believed to have the largest base circumference of any non-volcanic mountain on Earth.  A temperature of ?77.5 °C was recorded in 1991, making it the northern hemisphere's Pole of Cold.  For ten points name this mountain.  Answer: Mount Loganb) It consists of Graham Island in the north, and Moresby Island in the south.  The islands are home to the largest sub-species of black bear.  For ten points name this archipelago on the North Coast of British Columbia. Answer: Haida Gwaii (Also accept the Queen Charlotte Islands)c)This island is 834 KM from the North Pole.  The northernmost settlement in Canada and in the world is located on this island.  For ten points name the island which is home to Canadian Forces Station (CFS) Alert.Answer: Ellesmere Island14. Last month your question writer witnessed Will and Kate lay a wreath at the War Memorial in Ottawa. This question is in honour of this momentous occasion in Canadian history, for five points each, name the six Canadian cities that the Royal Couple toured and held public events in after leaving Ottawa? Answers: Montreal, Quebec City, Charlottetown, Summerside, Yellowknife, Calgary15. For ten points each, answer these questions about the Apostles according to the Gospels of Mark and Matthew:a) This brother of Simon/Peter was a Bethsaida fisherman and was a disciple of John the Baptist.Answer: Andrewb) This son of Talemai is usually identified with Nathanael.Answer: Bartholomewc) This Apostle's name derives from the Aramaic and Greek words for twin and is the origin of a phrase associated with sceptics.Answer: Thomas or Judas Thomas Didymus16. Answer these questions about an opera that inspired the musical Rent for ten points each:a) This Puccini opera itself was based on a novel by Henry Murger.Answer: La Bohèmeb) This seamstress, who is Rodolfo's neighbour, died of consumption.Answer: Mimic) Artists and thinkers Marcello, Rodolfo, Colline and Schaunard live in the student quarter of this city.Answer: Paris17. Answer the following questions about the Discovery Channel documentary series Dual Survival.a) For five points each for a total of ten points names the main actors in Dual Survival.  One is a minimalist and primitive skills expert.  The other is a military-trained professional hunting guide and tracker.Answer: Cody Lundin and Dave Canterbury (Accept: Cody and Dave)b) For the following question the moderator will be lenient and accept equivalents. It is important to know which tools will help you survive any emergency situation.  While trying to survive in the Dominican Republic after a hurricane, Dave Canterbury mentions the five C's of Survival.  Name any four of the five for five points each and a total of twenty points.Answer: Cutting Tool - Also accept: Knife, Machete, Leatherman OR equivalentsCombustion Device - Also accept: Lighter, Matches, Fennel Rod, Char Cloth, Fire, Fire-starter OR equivalentsContainer capable of boiling water - Also accept: Water, Bottle, Jar, Jug, Canteen OR equivalentsCordage - Also accept: Cord, Rope, String OR equivalentsCover for yourself or contributing to a shelter- Also accept: Tarp, Poncho, Jacket, Coat, Blanket, Mylar OR equivalents18. For ten points each, answer these questions about 18th century Scottish history:a) In 1715, the Jacobites are defeated at this battle during the First Jacobite rebellion.Answer: Battle of Sheriffmuirb) In 1745 this prince returns to Scotland as the Second Jacobite rebellion begins.Answer: Prince Charles Edward Stuart or Bonnie Prince Charliec) This 1746 battle saw government troops rout the Jacobites leading to Charles fleeing to France and the kilt being prohibited.Answer: Battle of Culloden19. Answer these questions about the classification of chickens for ten points each:a) This class of chicken is bred for egg production and noted for white eggs.  It includes the Ancona, Andalusian, Minorca and Leghorn breeds.Answer: Mediterranean classb) This class raised mainly for show includes large birds with feathers on their shanks and feet.  The three breeds Brahmas, Cochins, and Langshans have red earlobes and lay brown eggs.Answer: Asiatic classc) This class includes the Buckeye, Chantecler, Jersey Giant, and Rhode Island Red breeds and is noted for medium-sized body, red earlobes, and yellow skin.  The breeds were mainly developed by crossing Mediterranean, English and Asiatic classes.Answer: American class20. Identify these things in Yukon that are not Whitehorse, for ten points eacha) This national park was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1979 for its spectacular glacier and icefield landscapes. Mount Logan falls within its borders. Answer: Kluane National Parkb) This community, the third largest in Yukon, is next to Kluane National Park. It can be found at the intersection of two highways. Answer: Haines Junctionc) This Northernmost community in Yukon, it is only accessible by canoe or airplane.Answer: Old Crow21. For ten points each, answer these questions about a work by Thomas Mann:a) This Hamburg-born future-shipbuilder noted for his failing health is the protagonist of a Mann novel about the bourgeoisie culture of pre-war Europe.Answer: Hans Castorpb) Castorp spends much of his time at a sanatorium in this city high above "the flatlands" in the Swiss Alps.Answer: Davosc) Name this 1924 work, a noted piece of 20th century German literature.Answer: The Magic Mountain or Der Zauberberg22. William Oosterhoff created designs for the 10 provinces that are depicted on the curving walls of the Canadian Parliament.  For ten points each, answer these questions about these carvings:a) This province is represented by a miner with a pickaxe representing the province's natural resources such as nickel.Answer: Ontariob) This form of transportation is the symbol used to represent New Brunswick.Answer: Sailing shipc) This province is represented by the turbine representing the province's hydroelectric power.Answer: Quebec