VETO 2003 Maple Ridge PackTOSSUPS1.  In the field of geology, metamorphic rocks are categorized into three facies: greenschist, amphibolite, and granulite.  Schist is present in both amphibolite and granulite facies.  FTP, the presence of what mineral in the schist indicates that it is from the granulite facies?A. Staurolite2.  Discovered by Ralph A. Bagnold who named it after its distinctive shape, it forms around an obstruction, in an area of even wind flow in one direction.  It has a gentle windward slope and a steep leeward slope and travels a few metres every year.  FTP, name this crescent-shaped geographical feature found in deserts.A. Barchan Dune3.  Made of Manitoba limestone, this famous Canadian museum was designed by Douglas Cardinal and contains no 90¡ angles, as it is believed that they harbour evil spirits.  FTP, name this museum in Eastern Canada.A. Museum of Civilizations in Hull, Quebec4. At an international political summit in Prague in November of 2002, Jean Chretien's communications director was overheard telling a radio reporter that President George W. Bush is a "moron".  She subsequently resigned.  FAQTP, name her.A. Francoise Ducros5.  He invented scissors.  He was also left-handed, but could write with one hand and draw with the other at the same time.  He was such a perfectionist that he completed very few paintings - it even took him 10 years to paint the lips of a woman in one of his paintings.  The same famed painting contains three different paintings when examined under x-ray light.  FTP, name this extraordinary man.A. Leonardo da Vinci6.  Also called Alexander, this son of King Priam and Queen Hecuba was left to die on the mount Ida.  After regaining his father's acceptance by winning his prestigious athletic competitions, he was the unfortunate judge of a dispute between Hera, Aphrodite, and Athena on who was the most beautiful.  He chose Helen of Troy, subsequently starting the Trojan War.  FTP, name this mythical character.A. Paris7.  On February 21, 2003, in Victoria BC at the Commonwealth Games Pool during the 2003 Canadian Intercollegiate Swimming Championships a new short course World Record was set.  Brian Johns swimming for the UBC Thunderbirds beat the world record by nearly 2 seconds.  The previous world record was held by Australia's Matthew Dunn, set in 1998.  What event was swum and at what time did Johns clock in?A. 400m Individual Medley8.  FITT is known as one of the master training principles for fitness, which is also the foundation of program design.  This formula guides the direction of your workout from beginning to advanced levels.  It is often referred to as the prescription for fitness and it is applied to all parts of program design.  FTP, what does FITT stand for?A. Frequency, Intensity, Time, Type9.  In 1999, Martha Stewart's company goes public and is worth $1 billion after the first day on the stock market.  Her daughter's ex-boyfriend, Sam Waksal, also had a powerful company on the stock market.  By selling her stocks in his biotech company in 2001, Martha Stewart was indicted on June 4, 2003.  She was charged with securities fraud, conspiracy, making false statements and obstruction of justice.  FTP, what is the exact date of her trial?A. January 12, 200410. This man made feature was built in response to the $125 millon in damages done by the flood of 1950. It is 46.4 km long with a depth of 10 meters. The Premier of Manitoba who initiated the project in the early 1960's was Duff Roblin. He faced some opposition with this idea but it has saved the city of Winnipeg 18 times. Including the flood in spring 1997 it was estimated that 80% of the city would have been underwater if the this feature didn't exist. FTP Name this Feature.A. Red River Floodway11.  This group of minerals commonly contains twinning.  In fact, on of the distinguishing qualities between the different varieties are the types of twinning that occur.  They typically have a hardness of 6, a white streak, and good to perfect cleavage.  FTP, name this framework silicate group that contains albite, orthoclase, and anorthite.A. the feldspar group (do not accept potassium feldspar or plagioclase feldspar)12.  Written by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins, this series of books currently contains eleven titles, the twelfth and last being released in April 2004.  The first ten books have sold a total of over 35 million copies, making them the fastest-selling adult fiction series ever.  They have also graced the top of the New York Times, USA Today, The Wall Street Journal, and Publishers Weekly bestseller lists.  FTP, name this series of books about the end times.A. The Left Behind Series13.  He was the son of Gera the Benjamite and a biblical judge of Israel.  He was most known for his deliverance of his people from Eglon king of Moab.  When he was with the king in the upper room of his summer palace, he plunged his sword into the king's belly, and the handle sank in after the blade, as the king was said to be very fat.  FTP, name this prophet, who was the only person in the Bible mentioned to be left-handed.A. Ehud14.  This character of the Harry Potter series is in books one to three, as he is a seventh year student in the third book.  He is a member of the Gryffindor house, and was played by Sean Biggerstaff in the movies.  FAQTP, name the captain and keeper of the Gryffindors' Quidditch team.A. Oliver Wood15.  This country boasts several universities and the one located in the capital city has about twenty-five thousand students.  The national vegetable is the leek and the national flower is the daffodil.  It is famous for its rugby, men's choirs, and large population of sheep.  FTP, name this country whose name in its national language is "Cymru".A. Wales16.  His real first name is Christopher, and he's from Iowa.  He will be playing opposite Kirsten Dunst in the upcoming movie, "Elizabethtown".  Her ex-husband was one of the stars of "Breakfast of Champions", and she starred in "Now and Then".  Her co-stars in her most recent movie were angry at her for "stealing their press" at the premiere.  Now, this pair are house-hunting together in Beverly Hills.  FTP, name this couple.A. Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore17.  There are two main types of this language: Quenya and Sindarin.  Quenya is based on Finnish, and Sindarin is based on Welsh.  Both dialects were written by a professor of Anglo-Saxon at Oxford University, who also happened to be a prolific writer and a friend of C.S. Lewis.  FTP, name this language native to the fictional race in Tolkien's trilogy of novels.A. Elvish18.  This novel is the first in a trilogy. The novel takes place during WWII in Britain and Canada. The two main characters in the novel are Norah and Gavin Stoakes. The other two books in the trilogy are Looking at the Moon and The Lights Go On Again. The author of the novel, Kit Pearson, also wrote A Handful of Time. FTP Name this Novel.A. The Sky is Falling19.  This Jamaican played cornerback for the BC Lions football team 1986 - 1988 and 1992 - 1993. He received his BA in Journalism and played for NMU. His career in Pro Football ended when he was poked in the eye during a game. He has recently been nominated for the BC Lions' 50th Season All Time Dream Team. He is currently working as a Sales Co-ordinator at Fitness Unlimited in Maple Ridge. FTP name this former BC Lion.A.  Andre Francis20.  This respiratory illness starts with a high fever, then a headache, and body aches and discomfort.  As it progresses, symptoms may begin to include a dry cough and trouble breathing.  It spreads with close person-to-person contact, therefore is fairly contagious.  Recently, it has been seen in outbreaks in Toronto and parts of Asia.  For ten points, name this disease.A. SARS (Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome)21.  This famous person sailed the seven seas.  He was a privateer who received his commission from the governor of New York.  In the process of his voyage he became a very successful pirate.  His luck ran out after his return to New York, the governor Lord Bellomont had him arrested.  He was then returned to England where he was tried for piracy and found guilty.  He was then hung on the 23rd of May 1701.  FTP, name him.A. Captain William Kidd22. A military fort found in the south-west corner of Washington D.C, it's industrial college is the safeguard site of congress in case of a terrorist attack.  It also served as the gallows for the Lincoln assassination conspirators.  FTP Name this 18th century military fort which shares its name with a Richmond high school.A. Fort McNair23.  Earthquakes' vibrations are measured on seismographs from at least three unique locations on the earth's surface.  From this, one magnitude for the earthquake is determined.  This other measurement varies upon location, distance from the focus and epicentre, and bedrock.  The Mercalli scale is how it is measured.  FTP, name it.A. Intensity24.  This former US "freed slave colony" is the only country other than the States not to use metric.  It has a 70% unemployment rate and a population of 3.1 million people.  It also boasts West Africa's largest tropical rainforest.  FTP, name this country.A. Liberia25.  This country made a bid for the 2010 Olympics.  It has three daily newspapers.  Its national holiday is Mare de Deu de Meritxell on September 8th.  They have three daily newspapers and a population smaller than Moncton.  FTP, name this country run by the president of France and a Spanish bishop.A. AndorraBONUSES1.  For ten points each, answer these questions about Canada in the Olympics.A. In what year did Canada first appear at the Olympics?	A. 1904B. When the summer Olympics were last in Canada, what was the host city?	A. MontrealC. In what year was the winter Olympics held in Canada?	A. 19882.  For ten points each, give these Biblical numbers.A. How many days did Jesus wait before raising Lazarus from the dead?	A. fourB. How many people were in Noah's ark?	A. eightC. How many books are in the Old Testament?	A. thirty-nine3.  For ten points each, answer these questions about Canadian geographical superlatives.A. What is the highest city in Canada?	A. Kimberley, BCB. What is the smallest city in Canada, by area and population?	A. L'Ile Dorval, QCC. What is Canada's highest waterfall?	A. Della Falls, BC4.  When given a novel's title, name the author, for ten points each.	A. East of Eden	A. John SteinbeckB. O Pioneers!	A. Willa CatherC. Rainbow Valley	A. Lucy Maud Montgomery5.  From the description, name the type of volcano, for ten points each.A. It contains alternating layers of lava and ash, steep sides, and subsidiary cones.	A. composite cone volcanoB. It has gentle side, a broad base, and mafic, basic lava.  It is often huge, and found at hot spots.	A. shield volcanoC. It has steep sides, a narrow base, and viscous, acidic lava.	A. cinder cone volcano6.  30-20-10, name the famous historical figure.A. He left Cambridge to join the army under the pseudonym of Silas Tomkyn Comberbacke.B. He planned a small Utopian community called Pantisocracy.C. He wrote the Lyrical Ballads with Wordsworth.	A. Samuel Taylor Coleridge7.  For ten points, answer the following questions about Winnipeg, Manitoba.A.  Which is the windiest intersection in Winnipeg?	A.  Portage and MainB. Where is the Golden Boy located?	A.  The provincial legislative buildingC. How many bridges does Winnipeg have, including walking bridges?	A. 738.  Given the layman's term for the muscle group or bone, name the scientific term.A. Calves	A. GastrocnemiusB. Rotator Cuff	A. SITS (Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus, Teres minor, Subscapularis)C. Shoulder Blade	A. Scapula9.  For ten points each, give the first letter of the postal code for the following provinces/territories.A. Nunavut/Northwest Territories	A. XB. New Brunswick	A. EC. Manitoba	A. R10.  For ten points each, when given the small towns, provide the province in which they are located.A. Medora, Windygate, Lockport	A. ManitobaB. Drinkwater, Yellow Grass, Goodsoil	A. SaskatchewanC. Gameland, White Dog, Harris Hill	A. Ontario11.  For ten points each, when given the beach, provide the body of water on which it is located.A. Grand Beach	A. Lake WinnipegB. White Pine	A. Burrard InletC. Ma-Me-O Beach	A. Pigeon Lake(Multimedia)12. For ten points each, name the, young at the time, Soviet leaders.A. 	Leon TrotskyB.	Vladimiri LeninC.	Joseph Stalin13.  For ten points each, given the description, name the geological relative age dating principle.A.  In an undeformed sequence of sedimentary rock, the oldest beds are on the bottom and the youngest beds are on the top.	A. The Principle of SuperpositionB.  Groups of fossilized animals and plants occur in a definite, apparently chronological, order throughout the geological timescale.	A. The Principle of Faunal SuccessionC. Igneous intrusions and faults are younger than the rocks that they cut.	A. The Principle of Cross-cutting Relations(Multimedia)14.  For ten points each, answer the following questions about this painting.A.  What is the name of this painting?	A. "Christ in the House of Levi"B.  Who painted it?	A. Paolo VeroneseC. What did Christ change Levi's name to when Levi became His disciple?	A. Matthew15.  For ten points each, given the quote from Shakespeare's "Much Ado about Nothing", name the speaker.A. "I took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me.  If it had been painful, I would not have come."	A. BeatriceB. "In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on."	A. ClaudioC. "And when I lived I was your other wife;/And when you loved you were my other husband."	A. Hero16.  The Canadian dollar has recently reached rare highs.  For ten points each, answer the following questions:A. On what day did the dollar reach its most recent high point?	A. June 13, 2003B. What was the dollar worth on that day?	A. 74.91 cents AmericanC. When was the last high of this magnitude (5 points for the year and 5 more points for the month)	A. November 199617.  For ten points each, from the description, name the following Canadian idol judge.A. The only judge that is a current and Juno award-winning recording artist.	A. Sass JordanB. This judge is an artist manager best known for turning the Tragically Hip into a national icon.	A. Jake GoldC. This judge is the president of Venus management and Venus records, and has a law degree from UBC.	A. Zack Werner18.  For ten points each, answer the following questions about U.S. presidents.A. Which President appears on the $100,000 bill?       A. Woodrow Wilson       B.  Who was President for one day on March 4, 1849 since Zach Taylor would not work on a Sunday?       A.  David Atchison       C.  Which President had a pet Turkey?       A.  Abraham Lincoln       19.  For ten points each, when given the U.S. state, provide the current license plate slogan.A.  New HampshireA. Live Free or DieB.  South CarolinaA. Smiling Faces. Beautiful placesC.  New Mexico	A. Land of Enchantment20.  For ten points each, when given the Tudor (the British Monarchy that reined in-between 1485 - 1603), give the name of the palace/castle in which they were born.A.  Henry VIIA. Greenwich PalaceB.  Henry VIIIA. Penbroke CastleC.  Edward VII       A.  Hampton Court Palace21.  For ten points each, when given the Star Trek quote, identify the series or movie in which the line was spoken.A.  "Whoever said the human race was logical?"	A. Star Trek IV: The Voyage HomeB. "You've not experienced Shakespeare until you have read him in the original Klingon."	A. Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered CountryC. "Things are only impossible, until they're not."	A. Star Trek: The Next Generation22.  For 10 points each, when given the line from a James Bond film identify the film in which they are found.A.  'My God, what is Bond doing!?' 'I think he's attempting re-entry, sir!'	       A. MoonrakerB.  "Oh the things I do for England."	A.  You Only Live Twice.C.  'I'm now aiming precisely at your groin. So speak now or forever hold your peace!'	A.  The Man With the Golden Gun	Answers for Bonus question 12.A.B.C.