Vancouver Estival Trivia Open 2003 Packet (UWO A - Luke Perry and the Bojanglo-Tones)Written by Jonathan Altman, Adam Bishop, and Keith PawlukTossups1. This effect was discovered when a beam of light was shone on a sodium plate; unexpectedly, the electron flow was constant with light intensity, but the kinetic strength of the electrons was not affected by increasing the intensity of the beam. In 1905 it was suggested that this meant light was made of particles, not waves.  For ten points, name this effect, the discovery of which won Albert Einstein the Nobel Prize.Answer: PHOTOELECTRIC Effect2. In 1915 he became mayor of Birmingham, like his father had been in 1873.  He was Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1923, and succeeded Stanley Baldwin as Prime Minister in 1937.  In 1940 he resigned, allowing Winston Churchill to lead the war effort.  For ten points, name this man, best known for his declaration of "peace in our time" after the Munich Agreement of 1938.Answer: Neville CHAMBERLAIN3. His tattoos are meant to be a theory of the universe and how to attain truth, but he himself cannot read or solve them. When he becomes sick with a fever, a coffin is constructed in the shape of a canoe, which he uses as a chest when he recovers.  He is lost with the ship, but his coffin serves as a raft for his friend Ishmael.  For ten points, name this South Sea Islander, one of the harpooners in Moby Dick.Answer: QUEEQUEG 4. Islands in it include Gotland, Aland, and Zeeland.  It drains into the Kattegat through the Oresund, which leads to the North Sea, with which it is also connected through the Kiel Canal.  Its arms include the Gulf of Bothnia in the north and the Gulfs of Finland and Riga in the east, and the Neva, Vistula, and Oder rivers drain into it.  For ten points, name this sea, surrounded by Scandinavia and northeastern Europe.Answer: BALTIC Sea 5. In 1993, he was appointed Crown Attorney for central Nova Scotia, and in June 1997 he was elected Progressive Conservative Member of Parliament for riding of Pictou-Antigonish-Guysborough.  House Leader for the Progressive Conservative caucus until November, 2002, for ten points, name this man, elected on May 31 as the new leader of the federal Conservative caucus. Answer: Peter MACKAY6. Nicholas Hawksmoor designed the West Towers in 1745 in a more classical style.  Henry Yevele rebuilt the nave in the late 14th century, adding flying buttresses to raise the roof to 101 feet, the highest roof in Britain.  Originally built on top of a monastery by Edward the Confessor in 1065, Henry III completely rebuilt it in Gothic style in 1245.  Officially known as the Collegiate Church of St. Peter, for ten points, name this building, the site of Poet's Corner, and the site of every British Coronation since 1066.Answer: WESTMINSTER Abbey (accept COLLEGIATE CHURCH OF ST. PETER until mentioned, but not Westminster Cathedral, which is Catholic)7. He was the son of Zebedee and brother of St. James the Greater, and was made guardian of Mary by Christ at the Crucifixion.  According to tradition Domitian had him thrown into a cauldron of hot oil, but he was unharmed, and was exiled to Patmos where he supposedly wrote Revelation.  For ten points, name this "beloved disciple," the author of the fourth Gospel.Answer: St. JOHN The Apostle (or The Divine or The Theologian or The Evangelist)8. It was founded by Michael and Paul Donovan and named after their neighbourhood in Halifax.  The company's first hit was the series Lexx, and they also produced Emily of New Moon and Blackfly before being bought by Alliance-Atlantis.  For ten points, name this production company, most famous for producing This Hour Has 22 Minutes.Answer: SALTER STREET Films9. It was created by Allen Lane in 1935 after he could find nothing to read at a train station.  Different genres were originally indicated by colour - biography in dark blue, crime in green, and fiction in orange.  In 1946 they began one of their most successful lines, with their first publication of a translation of Homer's Odyssey.  For ten points, name this publisher, known for their famous series of "Classics."Answer: PENGUIN Books 10. During this process, four oxidation-reduction reactions take place, forming three molecules of NADH and one molecule of FADH2. Two carbons enter the citric acid cycle as acetyl CoA, and at the end two carbons leave as CO2. For ten points, identify this process, the final catabolic pathway for the oxidization of fuel molecules.Answer: KREBS Cycle or CITRIC ACID Cycle or TRICARBOXYLIC ACID Cycle11. It can be invoked for only five years at a time. Saskatchewan invoked it to prevent back-to-work legislation in 1984; more controversially, after the Chaussures Brown's and Devine cases in 1989, Quebec invoked it in Bills 101 and 178.  Ralph Klein has recently threatened to use it to block legislation allowing same-sex marriages.  For ten points, name this Section of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms that allows for legislation overriding Section 2 and Sections 7-15.Answer: Section 33 (accept the NOTWITHSTANDING CLAUSE)12. He was exiled to the Caucasus because the authorities did not approve of his poem "Ode to Liberty."  Tsar Nicholas I pardoned him in 1826, recognizing his increasing popularity, and Rimsky-Korsakov based an opera on his The Golden Cockerel.  For ten points, name this Russian writer, whose most famous works include Boris Gudonov and Eugene Onegin.Answer: Aleksandr Sergeyevich PUSHKIN13. The "nose" and "tail" portions of it lie beyond Canada's jurisdiction, but the discovery of oil in 1979 has led to oil production there, especially since fish stocks have recently been greatly depleted.  This contrasts with the 15th century, when the Portuguese and Basque fished cod there and John Cabot could hardly move his ship through it because of the amount of fish.  For ten points, name this part of the continental shelf of North America that lies off Newfoundland, also the resting place of the Titanic.Answer: the GRAND BANKS14. A.R. Parsons, Adolph Fischer, George Engel, and August Spies were executed after this incident.  Police had broken up workers striking for an eight-hour work day at the McCormick Reaper Works, killing two men.  The following day a protest was held against the police, where an anarchist threw a bomb into the crowd and killed seven officers.  For ten points, name this Chicago riot of May 4, 1886.Answer: HAYMARKET Square riot15. The knight Gurnemanz accosts the title character for killing a swan, while Kundry attempts to cure King Amfortas.  Kundry is then instructed to seduce the title character by the magician Klingsor.  Later, the title character returns to cure Amfortas with the spear that wounded him, and is proclaimed king himself.  For ten points, name this Richard Wagner opera about the knights protecting the Holy Grail.Answer: PARSIFAL16. Written in an Italian prisoner of war camp during the First World War and later used as a PhD dissertation under Bertrand Russell, the author later rejected its reasoning in Philosophical Investigations.  Containing propositions such as "The world is all that is the case," and "whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent," for ten points, name this 1919 work by Ludwig Wittgenstein.Answer: TRACTATUS LOGICO-PHILOSOPHICUS17. It allows for a definition of temperature based on the triple point, and allows for the construction and testing of thermometers.  It states that if two systems are in thermal equilibrium with a third system, they must also be in equilibrium with each other.  For ten points, name this law of thermodynamics, which comes before the first law.Answer: ZEROTH Law of Thermodynamics18. Its only known relative is the extinct Aquitanian.  It has no gender, and thirteen cases, including ergative case for the subject of a transitive verb.  English words borrowed from it include "bizarre," "chaparral" and "jai alai." For ten points, name this isolate language, spoken in northeastern Spain and southwestern France.Answer: BASQUE or EUSKARA19. It includes 13,418 settlements south of the Ribble and Tee rivers, but does not include cities such as London and Winchester.  "Not even one ox, nor one cow, nor one pig" escaped its notice, and the English are said to have given it its name because, like God's judgment, its could not be disputed.  For ten points, name this survey commissioned by William in the Conqueror in 1085.Answer: DOMESDAY Book20. The title characters are friends of Jimmy: one named himself after a character in a game called Extinctathon, while the other is an eight-year old porn star.   The three grow up in a world separated into corporate city-states, and crime-ridden "plebelands;" as an adult, Jimmy is hired to work at RejoovenEsence, which contributes to an ecological disaster that kills the human race.  For ten points, name this 2003 Margaret Atwood novel.Answer: ORYX AND CRAKEEXTRAS21. It begins at the confluence of the Lualaba and Luvua Rivers at Stanley Falls, and becomes navigable at the city of Kisangani.  Major tributaries include the Ubangi and Uele.  The fifth longest river in the world and the second longest in Africa, for ten points, name this river which flows through Kinshasa to the Atlantic, the namesake of two African countries.Answer: CONGO or ZAIRE River22. Matt Cameron from Soundgarden and Pearl Jam played the drums on this song.  Tyler Connelly from Theory of a Deadman played the solo, while Josey Scott from Saliva played acoustic guitar.  For ten points, name this song written and sung by Chad Kroeger from Nickelback, written for 2002's Spider Man soundtrack.Answer: HERO23. In April, Richard Branson of Virgin Airways offered to buy them for one pound each.  September 11 led to a decrease in its use for transatlantic travel, and its profits were also hurt by the accident in July 2000, which killed 109 people.  Set to be retired by the end of October, 2003, for ten points, name this joint British Airways-Air France project, the first supersonic passenger airplane.Answer: CONCORDE 24. The motto of this group comes from the Coat of Arms of Canada - Desiderantes Meliorem Patriam, meaning "they desire a better country."  First awarded in 1967, it cannot be awarded posthumously, or to people who are currently holding a political office.  Recipients in 2003 include the members of Rush.  For ten points, name this award, the highest civilian honour in Canada.Answer: ORDER OF CANADA
Bonuses1. For ten points each identify these plays of Aristophanes, given a description.a. Dionysus descends into Hades to bring back Euripides, and must choose between him and Aeschylus.Answer: The FROGSb. Philocleon, an overzealous lawyer, puts his dog on trial for stealing some cheese, and then tries to escape his house by pretending to be smoke, in this parody of Athenian jurists.Answer: The WASPSc. Socrates is assumed to be responsible for sophism and the corrupt education system of Athens.  Answer: The CLOUDS2. For ten points identify these related constants of chemistry.a. This constant states that one mole per cubic meter equals 6.022169 x 10^23 atoms.Answer: AVOGADRO Constantb. This constant is represented by R in the equation PV=NRT, where P is pressure in Pascals, V is volume in meters cubed, N is number of moles, and T is absolute temperature in Kelvins. Answer: Universal GAS Constantc. The ratio of the Gas Constant to the Avogadro Constant is this constant, equal to 1.3807 x 10^-23 joules per Kelvin.Answer: BOLTZMANN Constant 3. For ten points each name these early European settlements in North America.a. Founded in Florida in 1565 by Ponce de Leon, it is the oldest continually inhabited settlement in North America.Answer: ST. AUGUSTINEb. The first permanent English settlement in North America, it was founded in 1607 and named after the king of England.Answer: JAMESTOWNc. The oldest European settlement in Canada and oldest French settlement in North America, it is also the only settlement whose walls still exist.  It is currently the capital of a Canadian province.Answer: QUEBEC CITY4. For ten points each identify these smaller lakes that are part of the Great Lakes system.a. Located between Lake Huron and Lake Ontario, this lake is named after the first lieutenant-governor of Upper Canada.Answer: Lake SIMCOEb. This lake, meaning "deep clear water," is located to the north of Lake Superior.Answer: Lake NIPIGONc. This lake in central Ontario drains westward to Georgian Bay and Lake Huron through the French River.Answer: Lake NIPISSING5. For ten points each identify these archaeological sites.a. This site in the Rift Valley of east Africa has provided numerous fossils of various human ancestors, including Australopithecus boisei, and the Laetoli footprints.Answer: OLDUVAI Gorgeb. Located in Bordeaux, these caves contain paintings made by prehistoric humans about 15 000 years ago.Answer: LASCAUXc. Heinrich Schliemann, who also discovered Troy, excavated this site on mainland Greece, the capital of the civilization that conquered the Minoans and Trojans.Answer: MYCENAE6. For ten points each identify these forts from colonial America.a. The French took this fort in 1754 when it was still unfinished, but the British retook it in 1758, renaming it Fort Pitt.Answer: Fort DUQUESNEb. George Washington tried to relieve Fort Duquesne, but when he learned it had been captured, he went to this fort instead.  He surrendered it to the French as well, later in 1754.Answer: Fort NECESSITYc. Originally called Fort Carillion, the British captured it from France during the French and Indian War.  Ethan Allen and Benedict Arnold captured it in one of the first victories of the Revolutionary War.Answer: Fort TICONDEROGA7. Given the French acronym of a Canadian TV station, give its English equivalent for fifteen points.  If you need the French acronym expanded you will get five points.a. (15) SRC(5)   Société du Radio-CanadaAnswer: Canadian Broadcasting Corporationb. (15) RDS(5)   Réseau de SportAnswer: The Sports Network8. Identify the following Low Countries painters from works for ten points each.a. (10) View of Delft, The MilkmaidAnswer: Johannes (Jan) VERMEERb. (10) The Company of Captain Frans Cocq, The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes TulpAnswer: REMBRANDT Harmenszon van Rijnc. (10) Composition with Red, Yellow, and Blue; Broadway Boogie WoogieAnswer: Piet MONDRIAN9. For ten points each, identify these locations from Greek mythology.a. This garden, guarded by three nymphs, is located at the western end of the Mediterranean.  Hercules' 11th labour required him to steal the golden apples from it. Answer: Garden of the HESPERIDESb. The Argonauts travelled to this land on the eastern shore of the Black Sea to find the Golden Fleece.Answer: COLCHISc. This volcano was the prison of the dragon Typhon, and also the location of the forge of Hephaestos.Answer: Mt. ETNA10. For ten points each answer these questions about statistics.a. This is the technical name for the Bell CurveAnswer: The NORMAL distribution (accept GAUSSIAN distribution)b. This is a test for variance between more than two samples.Answer: ANOVAc. This is the type of test you would normally use to test for a relationship between two or more continuous variables.Answer: REGRESSION11. For ten points each identify these Eugene O'Neill plays.a. This play is set in the Mannon household during the Civil War, an adaptation of Aeschylus' Oresteia.Answer: MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRAb. Harry Hickey faces the consequences for having murdered his wife in this play, set in Harry Hope's bar in 1912.Answer: THE ICEMAN COMETHc. Also set in 1912, this play deals with the Tyrone family.  Edmund has tuberculosis while his mother Mary is addicted to morphine.Answer: LONG DAY'S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT12. The vertical axis represents luminosity, while the horizontal axis represents temperature.  For ten points each: a. Name this graph which measures different types of stars.Answer: HERTZSPRUNG-RUSSELL diagramb. Name the curve on which 80-90% of stars in the diagram will fall.Answer: MAIN SEQUENCEc. The upper-right portion of the graph will contain these very bright, cooler stars.Answer: RED GIANTS13. Multimedia bonus: identify these empires based on their shape, for ten points each. (Note: they are not to scale.)a. (in green; year: 814)Answer: CAROLINGIAN Empire (accept reasonable equivalents)b. (in red; year: 1914)Answer: AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN Empire (accept reasonable equivalents)c. (in yellow; year: 1045)Answer: BYZANTINE Empire (accept reasonable equivalents)14. For ten points each, name these works by Gustav Mahler.a. The six movements of this work were based on Chinese poetry.  He avoided calling it his ninth symphony, believing composers always died after their ninth.Answer: DAS LIED VON DER ERDE or The SONG OF THE EARTHb. This song cycle was based on six poems written by Freidrich Rückert.Answer: KINDERTOTENLIEDER or SONGS ON THE DEATH OF CHILDRENc. Mahler's 8th Symphony, it was his greatest success and is named after the number of performers.Answer: SYMPHONY OF A THOUSAND15. For ten points each name these works by Friedrich Nietzsche.a. Published in 1886 and subtitled "Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future," it discusses the slave morality and the self-destructiveness of Christianity.Answer: BEYOND GOOD AND EVIL or JENSEITS VON GUT UND BÖSEb. Published in 1889 and subtitled "How to Philosophize With a Hammer," it contains chapters divided into numbered paragraphs, meant to summarize his philosophy.Answer: TWILIGHT OF THE GODS or GÖTZENDAMMERUNGc. Published in 1895, it is a more specific attack on Christianity and the ethical and moral systems derived from it.Answer: THE ANTICHRIST or DIE ANTICHRIST16. For a few years the Quebec Nordiques were the worst team in the NHL, and we all know what that means.  For ten points each, identify these draft picks selected first overall by les Nordiques.a. This Swede was drafted first overall in 1989.  He is currently the captain for the Toronto Maple Leafs.Answer: Mats SUNDINb. In 1990 the Nordiques selected this right-winger, who was the captain of the San Jose Sharks before being traded to Toronto in 2003.Answer: Owen NOLANc. This center was drafted in 1991, but refused to don the Nordique jersey and was eventually traded to Philadelphia.Answer: Eric LINDROS17. For fifteen points each answer these questions about a psychological phenomenon.a. This occurs when people learn something that is difficult or humiliating because it contradicts what they think they know.Answer: Cognitive DISSONANCEb. Cognitive Dissonance was investigated by this man, who observed a cult that believed the Earth was about to be destroyed by a flood.Answer: Leon FESTINGER18. For ten points each, identify these literary people who were also ambulance drivers in WWI.a. This Scottish-Canadian poet spent many years in the Yukon, where he wrote such works as The Cremation of Sam McGee and The Shooting of Dan McGraw.Answer: Robert W(illiam) SERVICEb. This man also worked for British Intelligence during the Russian Revolution.  As an author he is best known for Of Human Bondage.Answer: W(illiam) Somerset MAUGHAMc. This American's experiences as an ambulance driver in France led to his only novel, The Enormous Room.  With fellow driver John Dos Passos he published Eight Harvard Poets, and is also known for writing without capitalization or punctuation.Answer: E(dward) E(stlin) CUMMINGS19. For ten points each identify these people who recently won World Stupidity Awards in Toronto, organized by the Main Organization Revealing Obvious Numbskulls, or MORON.a. He beat out Gordon Campbell, Elsie Wayne, and Peter MacKay to win the award for Stupidest Person in Canada.Answer: Jean CHRETIENb. This man, known for such hilarious comments as "Britain is not worth an old shoe," and "There are no Americans in Baghdad" won Stupidest Person in the World.Answer: Saeed AL-SAHAFc. This news organization surprisingly defeated FOX News and Al Jazeera for the Award For Media Outlet Which Had Made The Greatest Contribution To Furthering Ignorance Worldwide.Answer: CNN20. For ten points each identify these French Overseas Departments and Territories.a. These two small islands are all that remain of France's North American empire, located just south of Newfoundland.Answer: ST. PIERRE AND MIQUELONb. This widespread group of Pacific islands is centred on Tahiti, with its capital at Papeete.Answer: FRENCH POLYNESIAc. This island is located in the Indian Ocean, between two former Departments, Madagascar and Mauritius.Answer: REUNIONEXTRAS21. For fifteen points each identify these people who have recently been assassinated.a. This strong right-wing Dutch politician was assassinated nine days before the May 2002 elections in the Netherlands.Answer: Pim FORTUYNb. This Serbian Prime Minister was assassinated in March 2003.Answer: Zoran DJINDJIC22. For ten points each, given a Canadian coin from a particular year, give what is on the reverse side, i.e. the side without the King or Queen's head.a. The 1967 Centennial pennyAnswer: Accept "some kind of bird" or equivalent, though it is actually a Rock DOVEb. The 1973 quarterAnswer: MOUNTIE (accept equivalents)c. The 1943 nickelAnswer: A giant V and a torch (it was the Victory coin)
MULTIMEDIA BONUS (#13)A. c. 814B. c. 1914C. c. 1045