Pack 1, B2B(by Brock Stephenson, editing & questions by Victoria Paterson, & editing by Bruce Lin)Tossup Questions:1) Located in the triangular and opercular sections of the inferior frontal gyrus, in most people it is found in the lower left frontal lobe.  People with its aphasia can usually understand words but have trouble with verbal output.  Lesions to it can have symptoms ranging from cortical dysarthria to the complete loss of speaking out loud.  FTP, name this main language area of the cerebral cortex that controls the motor aspects of speech.A. Broca's area2) In 1964, Joe Kapp led them to their first Grey Cup.  Thirty-one years later, shortly after their move from Empire Stadium, they won again.  Playing home games in Canada's first domed stadium, one of their most popular players was a local boy named Louie.  FTP, name this team that 50 years ago entered the Canadian Football League with the slogan that they would roar in '54.A. British Columbia (B.C.) Lions (accept either)3) "On the Nabob of Arcot's Private Debts" is among his most famous speeches.  It discusses the prosecution of Warren Hastings and tries to scapegoat him for the abuses associated with the British East India Company.  Elected to Parliament from Bristol, he believed once elected it was his role to act in the best interest of the voters and not to be bothered with consulting them.  FTP, name this English statesman and intellectual inspiration to the Tory party.A. Edmund Burke4) His 1963 major design project with Geoffrey Massey established him as an emerging figure in his profession.  Fresno City Hall and San Diego Convention Center are two of his major American works.  Much of his work has been done in Canada and has included the Red Deer Arts Centre, the Scotiabank Dance Centre, and Walter Koerner Library.  FTP, name this West Coast architect whose designs include the Museum of Glass, the Museum of Anthropology, Roy Thomson Hall, and the Canadian Embassy in Washington.A. Arthur Charles Erickson5) Taking time off from a letter-writing manual, its author created the first writing about a young person.  Mr. B. transforms from a potential rapist to an ideal husband over the course of this two-part epistolary novel that reads like a journal.  The title character is a maidservant of Mr. B., who inherited her from his wealthy mother.  Its two parts are Aggressive Chastity and Provocative Prudence and it was parodied by Henry Fielding.  FTP, name this first modern English novel by Samuel Richardson.A. Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded6) John W. Armstrong calls it The Water of Life.  It has cured Bright's Disease and consumption among other ailments.  In the 18th century it was praised as a mouthwash by a French dentist.  Dr. Beatrice Barnett recommends to start drinking only two to three ounces of it before increasing the volume to one's own personal comfort level.  FTP, name this bodily liquid, the namesake of the urinal.A. Urine [accept equivalents]7) In this tragic history, the protagonist  prince and his love are separated by a jealous old king, reunited briefly, forcibly separated again, sold as slaves, and against all odds are again reunited in Surninam on the plantation both were sold to. As if that weren't enough, the story ends with the main character, slave named 'Caesar' killing his wife Imoinda and his unborn child with her and was killed by  having pieces of his body cut off while he smoked a pipe. The narrator is the author's voice, and claims to be present for the last half of the story. FTP, name this tragic novella by Aphra Behn.A. Oroonoko, or the Royal Slave8) Intrigued by Pachacuti and his royal court, which has been compared to a fifteenth century Camp David, this Yale archeologist's most famous achievement is a three day walk from Cuzco.  Later he went on to serve as Connecticut's governor and then served in the U.S. Senate.  FTP, name this man, the model for Indiana Jones who discovered the Incan mountain community of Machu Picchu.A. Hiram Bingham9) In 1960 he published a paper showing that a chemical laser was possible.  This son of a celebrated Hungarian scientist and philosopher is a critic of nuclear weapons and promotes arms control and disarmament.  He is noted for exposing the details of chemical reactions during what he calls "the molecular dance."  He did this by measuring the energy given off by molecules, which can be uncovered using infrared light.  FTP, name this Canadian who in 1986 co-won the Chemistry Nobel Prize.A. John Polanyi10) Three years after becoming party leader, he formed a minority government when he was only 39.  In 1976 when chosen as party leader, his main rival said that they picked the wrong 37-year-old.  His agenda of cutbacks on government spending and privatizing Petro-Canada was cut short by losing the 1980 election.  In 1983, his rival from 1976 took the party leadership from him.  FTP, name this Canadian Prime Minister best remembered for being the husband of Maureen McTeer, who has been succeed as Progressive Conservative leader by Brian Mulroney and more recently by Peter McKay.A. Charles Joseph (Joe) Clark11) Displeasure resulting from the fact that Linda, the daughter of a black, Midwestern railroad worker, could not attend nearby Sumner, it was launched in 1951.  Thurgood Marshall presented the argument for the plaintiff.  Three years later its final outcome stated that the 14th Amendment had been violated, in-so-doing it reversed Plessy v. Ferguson.  FTP, name this 1954 Supreme Court case that ruled racial segregation in public schools unconstitutional.A. Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka12) The largest island of the U.S. mainland, two of its counties are Suffolk and Nassau.  On August 27, 1776, it was the site of a Revolutionary War battle.  The sound it is a namesake of separates it from Connecticut.  Home to the Brookhaven National Laboratory, it is protected from the ocean by a series of beaches.  Home to the Hamptons as well as the boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn, FTP, name this insular southeastern part of the state of New York.A. Long Island13) Nephew of the Chief Big Child of the Eagle Hills Creek, he was adopted by the Blackfoot's lead chief Crowfoot.  After serving only six months of a three-year sentence for treason-felony, he was released and died soon thereafter.  Born near present-day Edmonton, he led his men to victory at Cut Knife Hill but did not take part in the Cree raid of Battleford.  FTP, name this Cree chief who fought with Louis Riel during the North-West Rebellion of 1885.A. Poundmaker or Opeteca-hanawaywin14) He wrote such poems as 'The Sun Rising' and 'Elegy 19: To His Mistress Going to Bed.' Famous for the sexual passion and religious ecstasy intertwined in his works, this man studied law, served as Secretary to Sir Thomas Egerton in 1597, was briefly imprisoned for his marriage to Ann More, and eventually became an Anglican priest. Famous images in his poetry include twin compasses and proud death, his most known works are his Holy Sonnets. FTP, name this metaphysical poet who penned the line "No man is an island."A. John Donne15) In response to 2002 allegations that he violated security rules he had CENTCOM raise the security clearance of his wife, Cathy.  A fan of country music and Eddie Murphy movies, in high school at Robert E. Lee, he was a classmate of First Lady Laura Bush.  A Vietnam veteran, he chose to leave most press conferences to Brigadier General Vincent K. Brooks.  FTP, name this American four-star General who commanded CENTCOM during 2003's war in Iraq.A. General Tommy Franks16) His daughters, who feared marriage and childbirth, got him drunk and had sexual relations with him so that they would not have to suffer.  The ancestors of people on the East Bank of the River Jordan, Moab and Ben-ammi, became his children-grandchildren.  Appearing in the Book of Genesis, he is a nephew of Abraham.  FTP, name this Biblical figure who fled with his family from the wicked city of Sodom and whose wife turned into a pillar of salt.A. Lot17) Exposed on Mt. Cithaeron with a spike driven through his ankles, which later gave him his name, meaning "swellfoot."  His birth-father Laius thought he would not live to fulfill the prophesy.  Discovered by a Corinthian shepherd, he was taken to the shepherd's master and King of Corinth, Polybus.  Brought up as the son of Polybus and Merope, he was later jeered by a drunken companion at a feast who said he was not the real son of the King of Corinth.  FTP, name this Greek tragic figure who left Corinth in shame and who would later kill dad, defeat Sphinx, love mom, and die miserable.A. Oedipus18) Her master's thesis was on Susanna Moodie, the Canadian frontierswoman.  Her first novel was about a female biographer of Moodie.  Later she wrote a brief biography of Jane Austen.  After moving from Manitoba to Victoria, to retire, she authored her final novel, _Unless_.  FTP, name this recently deceased Pulitzer Prize winning author of the _The Stone Diaries_.A. Carol Shields19) Le frise, as he is known, mistakenly predicted that he would be the next Prime Minister of Canada.  Unfortunately this was ten years after he became a federal party leader.  Once as the youngest member of parliament it was believed he had much potential, but over the years he had squandered opportunity after opportunity.  FTP, name this Sherbooke resident who in 2003 finally overcame his flip flopping nature to win an election and become Premier of Quebec.A. Jean Charest20) The most famous grandson of Tommy Douglas, he was born in the year of Canada's centennial in London, England, he grew up in California and moved to Canada at age eight.  His father had a small part on-screen in The Dirty Dozen.  In Stand By Me, he played a delinquent, in Young Guns he was a gunslinger, and in Lost Boys he was a vampire.  FTP, name this actor, son of Donald, who stars on the Fox series 24.A. Kiefer Sutherland21) In 1995, he was the sixth pick out of Oklahoma State, where he had led his team to the Final Four in Seattle.  Over six NBA seasons he made scored twice from three-point range.  The most games he played in a single pro season was 77 as a rookie.  FTP, name this centre who during the 2001-2002 season retired having never played a game at centre for Memphis.A. Bryant (Big Country) Reeves22) Derived from the epic poem attributed to Eschenbach, it is dedicated to Franz Liszt.  When performed on opening night it went on for over four hours because its composer had not previously heard it performed by an orchestra.  It is the story of a spell cast by Telrumund's wife Ortrud on the Elsa's brother, who is the rightful heir to the throne.  FTP, name this opera by Wagner that has a pagan wedding scene which features music popularly known as "Here Comes the Bride."A. Lohengrin [Lo-en-grin]23) It is on the southern border of Kaliningrad.  Among its regions are the Baltic Lakes region, the Sudetes Mountains, and the Western Carpathian Mountains.  Its highest point is Rysy peak and its has a natural harbour at Gdansk.  Although the Bug, the Warta, and the Oder are among its rivers, its longest is the Vistula.  FTP, name this central European nation on the Baltic with his capital at Warsaw.A. Republic of Poland or Rzeczypospolita Polska24) The founder of what is now the Victoria Times-Colonist, he was an advocate for the common man who fought monopoly and privilege.  Rejected in 1871 by Joseph Trutch despite being the leading champion of Confederation, he was called on just over a year later.  This Canadian changed his name while in San Francisco because William Alexander Smith was too plain for him.  FTP, name this British Columbia Premier whose name was a mix of Latin, French, and Greek.A. Amor de Cosmos
Bonus Questions:1) [Editor's note: Hand the team "Visual Bonus Question, Pack 1 #1 by B2B."]You have pictures of three works of art.  On a 5-10-20-30 point basis, answer these questions:a.) These works are all by this artist.A. Eugene Delacroixb.) Give the name of the work in Picture #1 that depicts a patriotic scene from the revolution in Paris during 1830.A. _Liberty Leading the People_c.) Name Picture #2, which was inspired by the Greek struggle for independence from Turkey.A. _Incidents from the Massacre at Chios_ or _Massacre de Scio_d.) Now all that remains is Picture #3.  Name this scene that inspired Moreau.A. _The Death of Sardanapalus_2) On a 5-10-20-30 basis, name the Canadian Prime Minister in office when these Americans became Secretary of State:a.) James A. Baker III.A. Martin Brian Mulroneyb. Elihu Root.A.) Wilfred Laurierc. Hamilton Fish.A.) John A. Macdonaldd. Dean Rusk.A.) John George Diefenbaker3) For 10 points each, name the work of Shakespeare from the characters:(10) In the prologue of Act One, Gower is the chorus.  At the end in Scene Three of Act Five, Gower concludes the play after a scene featuring the title character who is joined by Thaisa, Cerimon, Lysimachus, Helicanus, and Marina.A. _Pericles, Prince of Type_(10) In Act Five, Scene One at the end of the play, Lorenzo and Jessica begin the scene before being joined by Stephano then Lancelot then the musicians after Stephano leaves.  Portia and Nerissa enter before being joined by Bassanio, Antonio, Gratiano and their followers.A. _The Merchant of Venice_(10) Aegeon and the Duke of Ephesus who appear in act one, scene one along with officers and a crowd a citizens.A. _The Comedy of Errors_[MODERATOR: All three plays are featured at the 2003 Bard on the Beach festival in Vancouver.]4) 30-20-10.  Name the country:(30) Its major rivers are the Essequibo, the Demerara, the Berbice, and the Courantyne.(20) It is home to King George VI Falls on the Utashi River and its mountainous highland is in the south and southwest.(10) The capital of this South American nation is the coastal city of Georgetown.A. Guyana5) Congratulations are due if you get 30 on this question.  For 10 points each, answer these questions about the 2002 Ig Nobel Prizes:(10) K.P. Sreekumar and G. Nirmalan were honoured in mathematics for their work in estimating the total surface area of these animals.A. Indian Elephants [prompt on elephant(s)](10) In medicine, Chris McManus was honoured for his "balanced report" comparing the scrotal asymmetry of man with this.A. Ancient Sculpture(10) Arnd Leike did the Physics world proud by winning for demonstrating the law of exponential decay applies to this foamy substance.A. Beer Froth6) For 10 points each, answer these questions about, as the classic quiz bowl lead in goes, British composers who are not Britten, Elgar, Holst, Purcell, or Williams:(10) Thomas Arne is best known for composing this well-known patriotic work that was the conclusion to _The Masque of Althred._A. _Rule, Britannia_(10) John Gay wrote this work that is the story of the rivalry between Captain Macheath and Jeremy Peachum, a satire of Robert Walpole and the Whig Cabinet.  Its sequel is Polly.A. _The Beggar's Opera_(10) All or nothing:  except for _Within You Without You_, this 20th century Liverpudlian duo composed all of _Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band._A. John Lennon and Paul McCartney7) For the stated number of points, answer these questions about Canada's vast geographical trivia:(5) This lake, partly in Canada, is the largest freshwater lake in the world.A. Lake Superior(10) This northern river is Canada's longest river.A. Mackenzie River(15) Located in the southwest corner of the Yukon, this is Canada's and the Yukon's second highest mountain.A. Mount St. Elias8) Since we cannot use the slogan "Re-elect Gore in 2004," instead let's answer some questions about the people running for the Democratic nomination on a 5-10-20-30 point basis:a.) This long-shot candidate who relies on the Internet to organize local meetings in people's homes is a doctor and the former longtime Governor of Vermont.A. Howard Deanb.) This author of _In Praise of Public Life_ is a Jewish Senator from Connecticut who was critical of Clinton prior to Al Gore selecting him as a running-mate.A. Joseph I. (Joe) Liebermanc.) A protestor at Vieques, this civil rights activist from Harlem is a Reverend with a high public profile, particularly among the African-American constituency.A. Al Sharptond.) Sponsor in the NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series, this Florida Senator is a former state governor.A. Robert (Bob) Graham9) The author of this question was born in 1981.  Given a critically acclaimed album from that year name the artist behind it on a 5-10-20-30 point basis:a.) _Paradise Theatre_A. Styxb. _Shake It Up_A. The Carsc. _Moving Pictures_A. Rushd. Wild GiftA. X10) Answer these questions about the journey of Voyager 2 for 10 points each:(10) In July 1979, Voyager 2 came closest to this planet, discovering three more moons, while accelerating due to the gravitational pull of this planet.A. Jupiter(10) In January of this year, Voyager 2 discovered 10 new moons as it passed Uranus.A. 1986(10) On August 25, 1989, Voyager 2 passed by Neptune.  How many years was this after Voyager 2 was launched into space?A. 12 years and 5 days11) 30-20-10.  Given the quotes, name the novel:(30) "In the summer I could tell you the date simply by chronicling the number of children who had drowned in the Fraser River or been poisoned by the laburnum pods that dangled from branches and so closely resembled runner beans."(20) "I met Jason in a line-up at Toys R Us.  He was in front of me buying a pile of toys, looking slightly sad, slightly damaged and slightly naughty."(10) "You won't see me in any of the photographs after the massacre - you know the ones I mean: the wire service shots of the funerals, students felt-penning teenage poetry on Cheryl's casket..."A. _Hey Nostramdamus!_ by Douglas Coupland12) For 10 points each, answer these questions about the mathematicians who would fall under the Nobel Gases if there were a Periodic Table of Mathematicians:(10) The symbol is Ar.  The mathematician from the third century B.C. was the inventor of the compound pulley and his principle gives the weight of a body immersed in a liquid.A. Archimedes(10) The symbol is Kr.  The 20th century Polish mathematician was a founder and an editor of _Mathematical Monographs_ and is noted for his 1930 work on non-planar graphs.A. Kazimierz Kuratowski(10) The symbol is Ne.  The mathematician was a Lucasian professor at Cambridge and is noted for his theory of universal gravitation and three laws of motion.A. Sir Isaac Newton13) Sometimes one has to ask, what were they drinking?  On a 5-10-20-30 point basis name these Canadian politicians who have had public encounters with alcohol:a. In November 2002, this Minister of Defense was barred from a flight for his alcohol-induced state.A. John McCallumb. In December 2001, he shared what was on his mind with some Edmontonians at a homeless shelter.A. Ralph Kleinc. In 1989 this Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs was charged with a DUI.A. Bernard Valcourtd. In 1987, after refusing a breath test, he left the Manitoba cabinet but is best remembered for derailing a constitutional accord.A. Elijah Harper[MODERATOR: "What, did you expect Gordon Campbell?"]14) It's hip to be square.  On a 5-5-10-10 basis, name these city squares of Europe:(5) Noted for its 15th century belltower, this Venetian renaissance courtyard frequently floods during high tide.A. St. Mark's Square(5) Home to an Egyptian obelisk imported by Caligula, this 17th century baroque, neo-classical design is home to the Vatican Post Office.A. St. Peter's Square(10) Noted for its wedding-cake buildings, including the mint green Winter Palace and State Hermitage Museum, this St. Petersburg square is home to the Admiralty's statues.A. Palace Square(10) In the headlines in the spring of 1968, this former Eastern bloc city's old town square is called Starometsky Nametski.A. Prague, Czech Republic15) (30) About Anders Fogh Rasmussen, he said "He's so good looking, I'm even thinking of introducing him to my wife." (20) "I have little hair because my brain is go big it pushes out" and "What a brutal job"(10) "The Finns don't even know what prosciotto is," was his comment when Finland was competing with his nation, Italy, for the European Union's Food Commission.A. Silvio Berlusconi16) On a 5-10-15 point basis, name the type of yoga given the description:(5) Named for its creator, it consists of 26 Hatha postures, is conducted in drop-in sessions, and takes 90 minutes to complete in a room at 50 percent humidity and 40 degrees Celsius.A. Bikram or Hot Yoga(10) Similar to Viniyoga, this gentle yoga's name means "spirit forum" and was created for Deepak Chopra's Centre for Well Being.A. Svaroopa or Bliss(15) Created by K. Pattabhi Jois, this fast-paced flowing variety of yoga tends to draw a younger crowd of practitioners.A. Ashtanga17) 30-20-10.  Given the works name the political philosopher:(30) _Liberalism, Community and Culture_; _Contemporary Political Philosophy: An Introduction_.(20) _Finding Our Way_; _The Rights of Minority Cultures_.(10) _Politics in the Vernacular_; _Multicultural Citizenship_.A. Will Kymlicka18) Answer these related questions from chemistry on a 5-10-15 basis:(5) These complex, long-chain molecules are made up of smaller units called monomers.A. Polymer(10) In 1934 Wallace Carothers and associates succeeding in producing this first synthetic fiber.A. Nylon(15) For their work developing procedures for controlling the spatial orientation of substituent groups of a polymer chain by using special catalysts, Karl Ziegler and Giulio Natta won the Nobel in Chemistry in this year for making it possible to have tailor-made large molecules.A. 196319) Name the seafood for 10 points each:(10) Found near the shore in the Atlantic, this small crab has a low meat content that is difficult to extract.A. Common Crab(10) Also known as the Snow Crab, this larger regally-named Atlantic crab is found in deeper water and has more meat that is easier to extract.A. Queen Crab(10) This Pacific crab is much smaller than the snow crab and is found at in-shore shallows and has meat that can be extracted from both the legs and the body.A. Dungeness Crab20) Name the Canadian authors of these books-turned-films for 10 points each:(10) _The English Patient._A. Michael Ondaatje(10) _The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz._A. Mordecai Richler(10) _The Bay of Love and Sorrows._A. David Adams Richards21) On a 5-5-10-10 basis, given a town, name its major employer:(5) This cataloguer employs only a few hundred people less than there are residents in Freeport, Maine.A. L.L. Bean(5) In Bentonville, Arkansas, this chain employs more people than there are residents of the town.A. Wal-Mart(10) This window and door maker employs so many in Iowa that the town is named after the company.A. Pella(10) This pork producer employs over 4500 in its namesake Virginia town.A. Smithfield Foods22) Given a Canadian Governor General and date he was in office, name the country he was born in on a 5-10-20-30 point basis:a. The Right Honourable Charles Vincent Massey, 1952-1959.A. Canadab. The 4th Viscount Monck, Sir Charles Stanley Monck, 1861-1867A. Irelandc. 1st Baron Lisgar, Sir John Young, 1869-1872A. Indiad. 1st Marquess of Dufferin and Ava, Frederick Temple Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood, 1872-1878A. Italy
Visual Bonus Question, Pack 2 #1 by B2BPicture #1Picture #2Picture #3VETO V, 19 July 2003, Vancouver & Toronto, Canada1