TOSSUPS-Stephen Lalonde, Jonathan English, Bobby Hsu

1. Old Mr. Johnson plays the opening strains of the title song on a sousaphone before being interrupted by a knock at the door.  The unwanted visitor, who wears a purple bowtie, begins destroying everything he can get his paws on.  After accidentally blowing himself up with a houseful of dynamite, Old Mr. Johnson is tormented in the afterlife by his adversary's nine ghosts.  For ten points, name this Oscar-nominated NFB animation about the actions of a determined feline.

The Cat Came Back


2. Born in Rexton, New Brunswick in 1858, he moved to Scotland after his mother's death, where he took night classes at the University of Glasgow.  He was Chancellor of the Exchequer for the latter half of World War One and he resigned from political life in 1923 due to throat cancer.  Described as "unknown" in a biography, who is, for ten points, the only Canadian to become Prime Minister of the United Kingdom?

Andrew Bonar Law


3. Being highly flammable and notoriously explosive, they helped feed the deadly Oakland Hills Firestorm of 1991.  Carnivorous drop bears traditionally call them home, and its fragrant oil is a commercial expectorant.  For ten points, name this genus of tree that is ubiquitous in Australia, and the preferred food of koalas.

Eucalyptus

4. He was crowned in 1865 and ruled until 1909. At the Berlin Conference which divided up most of Africa among European powers, he successfully negotiated personal sovereignty over a large territory. Under his rule, extreme atrocities were carried out in the interests of exploitation of the territory's ivory and rubber resources, providing the inspiration for Joseph Conrad's novel "Heart of Darkness." For 10 points, name this Belgian King who is most infamous for his plunder of the Congo.

Leopold II


5. Born in Waltham, Massachusetts in 1886, he trained as an engineer at MIT after which he moved to Canada to teach at Dalhousie. He started a successful business building grain elevators, which he ran until he was elected to Parliament as a Liberal from Port Arthur, Ontario, in 1935. He served as a prominent minister under Prime Ministers Mackenzie King and St. Laurent until his shocking defeat in 1957. For 10 points, name the man who headed Canada's wartime production and, as St. Laurent's "Minister of  Everything," referred to parliamentary debate as  "The Children's Hour."

Clarence Decatur "C.D." Howe

6. A component of cell membranes, it is naturally produced in the liver and also protects the intestine from e coli. Its chemical name is phosphatidylcholine, and it derives its common name from the Greek word for egg yolk. What is this ubiquitous food additive, used as an emulsifier, whose most common industrial source, for 10, is the soy bean?

Lecithin

7. They, like all people, came from the underworld through a great crack in the earth. Some people, however, wandered away and ignored the commandments of Sotuknang, the caretaker of the world. Only these people remained "well-behaved", which is what their ethnonym means. The title of Godfrey Reggio's 1982 film Koyaanisqatsi comes from their language, and for 10, they are most famous in White society for  making Kachinas, dolls representing the spirit world.

Hopi


8. Born in 1860 in the France, he studied art in London before returning to become a prominent jewelry designer before branching out to other media. His work is famous both in the Art Nouveau and Art Deco styles, and feature flowing lines, contrasts between frosted and clear glass, and themes from nature. He also designed interiors for the oceanliner Normandy and the Orient Express, as well as hood ornaments for French cars of the 1920s. For 10, who is this designer, whose company remains synonymous with expensive glassware?

Rene Lalique


9. It has antecedents in classics like The Water Margin Tales, but is best known as a popular genre of the early 20th century, though narratives are usually set in the past. Typical characters are like Robin Hood, fighting for social justice somewhat outside official sanction. On film, the 60s and 70s are considered its golden age, with dozens of films from the Shaw brothers and King Hu. For 10, what is this genre, known to North Americans mainly through recent films such as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Curse of the Golden Flower?

Wu Xia [woo-shah]

10. A devout Catholic, she raised dozens of peacocks and other rare birds until her death at 39. It is not surprising that her writings frequently contain avian imagery and Christian subtexts. Her stories are famous for the use of unreliable narrators and ironic endings, and for dealing with race and class in the Southern U.S. Who, for 10, is this author of Wise Blood and Everything That Rises Must Converge?

Flannery O'Connor

11. He was a Baha'i at the time of his death in 1993, and his grandparents were Gaelic-speaking African-Americans. Although a key figure in the refocusing of jazz away from large bands, he also led a big band which introduced Afro-Cuban rhythms to jazz music. Who is this innovative musician, most popularly known not for the sound of his admittedly challenging music, but-and this is for ten points-for the image of him playing an oddly-shaped trumpet with absurdly puffed-out cheeks?

Dizzy Gillespie


12. Introduced in a 1956 paper, the application of this theoretical entity to the real world has been the subject of intense debate due to the unreliable nature of the relevant data. Based on a derivative of the logistic curve, it estimates an exponential increase followed by exponential decline in the extraction of a rather important resource. What is this mathematical abstraction*, named for an American geophysicist, which-for 10-gave rise to the present discussion of "peak oil"?

Hubbert curve or Hubbert Peak [*accept peak oil until asterisk]


13. A brand of cigarette, it was the favourite of Humphrey Bogart and of James Dean, and because of reduced popularity is still mainly associated with that era. Deriving its name from a town in Derbyshire, England, the seat of an Earldom, the word is also a famous linguistic case study in the erosion of a distinctly Canadian style of English, having been replaced among younger speakers-for 10 points-by the American term "couch".

Chesterfield


14. It celebrated its 25th anniversary one week ago (June 23 2007). A character on King of the Hill refers to this as "Nixon's biggest mistake". Its 37 words were principally authored by Rep. Patsy T. Mink (D-Hawai'i) and the act is now officially named in her honour. Although it is popularly known for its influence on the world of sports, it actually applies to "...any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance." What, for ten points, is this famous anti-discrimination article of the Education Amendments of 1972?

Title IX


15. Though it began in Toronto in 1990, the name is no longer accurate in Toronto since it moved to Queen's Park two years ago from its original Queen St. West location. In fact, of the five Canadian cities it has spread to, only Vancouver continues to stop traffic for it. What, for 10, is this annual late September celebration of books and publishing?

Word on the Street

16. In 1996, eighty years after the publication of his most famous work, a monograph was discovered which cleared up some of his ideas. His only other known writings were in the field of classical philology. The 1916 book attributed to him was actually pieced together from lecture notes by two students. Who, for 10 points, is this Swiss intellectual, who is credited with both inspiring Structuralism in literary studies and laying the groundwork for the scientific study of language through his Cours de Linguistique General?

Ferdinand de Saussure

17. Blossom's best friend; feet in an alexandrine; Return of the Jedi; shortstop on a scorecard; Yi Jianlian in the NBA draft; amusement park flags; Tricia Helfer; a war in the desert; the sheik with a sick sheep, a perfect number. What, for 10 points, are these impressionistic clues leading you to?

Six


18. Her mother is a Manitoban concert pianist and her father is a Syrian Jew who owns a sand and gravel company.  Six of her songs have reached #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 and she appeared with a colourized Cary Grant in a Diet Coke commercial.  Earlier, while attending CSU Northridge, she earned $50 per game as a Laker Girl, honing her urban dance moves.  Straight up, now tell me the name, for ten points, of this judge on a TV singing competition.

Paula Abdul


19. In 1988, it was taken over in an infamous leveraged buyout, which was later the subject of the book and HBO movie "Barbarians at the Gate." For 10 points, name this American company famed for both its cookies and its cookies and its cigarettes.

RJR Nabisco (Prompt on R.J. Reynolds, RJR, or Nabisco)


20. Following the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, this city experienced a spectacular land boom, causing many to believe that it would become Canada's answer to Chicago. While it has experienced much slower growth in recent years, it is the proposed site of the Canadian Human Rights Museum. For 10 points, name this city at the confluence of the Red and Assiniboine Rivers, the site of a major general strike in 1919. .

Winnipeg, Manitoba

21. The essential message of its founder was unity and, as such, this community is both one of the most diverse and one of the fastest growing institutions of its kind in the world.  Its international governing body is located in Haifa, Israel, near to where its leader lived his final years in exile.  Founded in the nineteenth century in Persia, name, for ten points, this religion famous for a house of worship in New Delhi shaped liked a giant lotus flower.

the Bah‡'’ Faith


22. It has a mass of 7 grams, a diameter of 26.5 millimetres, is almost 2 millimetres thick, and is hendecagonal.  The reverse face features a design by Robert-Ralph Carmichael because dies depicting a voyageur canoe, the originally intended design, were lost during shipping.  For ten points, identify this Canadian coin first introduced in 1987.

loonie or the Canadian one dollar coin

23. Built between 1938 and 1945, it was initially state-funded but was later taken over by the Federal Government as a Depression relief project. This dam is the centrepiece of California's Central Valley Project, storing over 4.5 million acre feet of water. For 10  
points, name this dam which shares its name with both its reservoir and a nearby dormant volcano.

Shasta Dam


