1
This astronomer was born in Missouri in 1889 and moved to Chicago in 1898.  In
high school, his athletic achievements were more noteworthy than his academic
achievements; at one time, he broke the Illinois state high jump record.  He
is remembered today for establishing that the Milky Way is merely one of many
galaxies which are all receding from one another.  For ten points, name this
Rhodes Scholar whose name was given to a large telescope orbiting the Earth.

ANSWER:  Edwin Powell _HUBBLE_

2
July 11, 2004, marked the ninth anniversary of this massacre described as Europe's worst civilian massacre since WWII. Approximately 1,000 victims have been identified so far by DNA testing and have been given a proper burial. Another 5,000 body bags are awaiting identification, exhumed from mass graves to cover-up the killings. FTP, name the place where more than 7,000 Muslim men and boys were killed by Bosnian Serbs in 1995.

ANSWER:  Srebrenica Massacre 

3
At roughly 4700 years of age, this is thought to be the world's oldest  living
thing. It can be found in the White Mountains of California, though its  exact
location is kept secret by the U.S. Forest Service, presumably for fear  of
vandalism. For 10 points, name this bristlecone pine specimen, named  after
a fictional 969 year old human counterpart.

ANSWER:  _METHUSELAH_ (prompt for specifics if answer is BRISTLECONE PINE)

4
It's perhaps nothing but baseless conjecture that it happened to Dick Cheney
on September 11, 2001, but it is known that it happened to him on four prior
occasions.  It happened to Peter Sellers sixteen years before the last time
it happened to him, and it happened three times to George Carlin, who blamed
his cocaine use.  For ten points, name this phenomenon that killed John Candy,
Errol Flynn, and Douglas Adams, and is also called a myocardial infarction.

ANSWER:  _HEART ATTACK_ (also accept "myocardial infarction" before it is mentioned)

5
Born approximately 300 BC in India, this monarch ascended the throne in 273 BC. Appalled and disgusted with the cruelties of war, he renounced all forms of aggressive warfare. He adopted Buddhism and declared that all further conquests would be in the name of religion. FTP, name this third ruler of the Mauryan dynasty whose edicts inscribed in stone are found throughout India, Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan.

ANSWER: Asoka or King Devanampiya Piyadasi 

6
The origin of the name of this mountain is uncertain; it is thought to come
from either Quechua or Arauca. The normal ascent is not a technical climb, but
the effects of altitude, at 6959 metres, can be quite severe at the  peak. For ten
points name this Andean mountain, the highest peak outside Asia, and highest
point in South America.

ANSWER:  _ACONCAGUA_

7
Like the neutron, this subatomic particle has no charge; unlike the neutron,
it does not participate in the so-called strong nuclear force.  It hence
belongs to the family known as "leptons", as does the electron.  It was not
until the 1980s and 1990s that physicists reported evidence that it may have
nonzero mass.  For ten points, give this subatomic particle's eight-letter
name that Enrico Fermi coined from the Italian for "little neutral one".

ANSWER:  _NEUTRINO_

8
Construction began in 1954. In the summer of 1955, special invitations were sent out for the opening on July 17, 1955. Unfortunately, the pass was counterfeited and thousands of uninvited people were admitted on opening day. Not ready for the public, the park ran out of food and drink, a women's high-heel shoe got stuck in the wet asphalt of Main Street USA, and the Mark Twain Steamboat nearly capsized. FTP, name this $17 million theme park built on 160 acres of former orange groves in Anaheim, California that hosts more than 14 million visitors a year.

ANSWER: Disneyland 

9
Like Haiku, this two-stanza verse form has strict rules on the syllabic
structure of its lines. Unlike haiku, the subject matter is usually
light or ribald, as suggested in the following sample:

Higgamus Hoggamus
"Anton van Leeuwenhoek
has a small problem," con-
Fided his wife.

"Microbiology
Doesn't disturb me; his
Microanatomy's
Blighting my life!"

For ten points, name this 'two-fingered' verse form.

ANSWER:  _DOUBLE DACTYL_ or _HIGGLEDY PIGGLEDY_

10
This Protestant denomination began ordaining female ministers in 1936,
eleven years after it was created by merging three smaller churches.  One
of those three churches was hesitant about the merger: about 30 percent of
their congregations chose not to merge, and they continue today as the
Presbyterian Church of Canada.  For ten points, name this largest Protestant
denomination in Canada which performs same-sex marriages.

ANSWER:  _UNITED_ Church of Canada

11
Of the five American states mentioned in the Red Hot Chili Peppers song
"Around the World", this one is alphabetically last.  Previous governors
include Gaylord Nelson, Anthony Earl, and Tommy Thompson.  Its state flower
is the wood violet.  For ten points, identify this Great Lakes state which
was the birthplace of Gene Wilder, Chris Farley, and the Onion, and whose
largest city is Milwaukee.

ANSWER:  _WISCONSIN_

12
His first encounter with the law was in 1985 when he was charged with civil disobedience for his part in the blockade to prevent logging in the Queen Charlotte Islands. In 1994, he was briefly imprisoned for his involvement in an anti-logging protest in Clayoquot Sound. FTP, name this former Burnaby-Douglas Member of Parliament who recently resigned after admitting to pocketing a $30,000 ring at a private auction.

ANSWER: Svend Robinson

13
This religious and political position takes its name from the Latin for
"bridge-maker": as the Tiber was considered a sacred river, only designated
officials could oversee projects that might disturb its flow. In 63 BC,
Julius Caesar himself was elected to this position, which entitled him to
a new house, and relief of his debts. Though the empire eventually fell, the
title continued to be bestowed upon the heads of the Christian Church; it is
etymologically unrelated to the word "Pope", despite the similarity.  For ten
points, name this designation.

ANSWER:  _PONTIFEX_ Maximus

14
July 10, 2004, marked an historical by-election win for this party's Tariana Turia. Turia, whose resignation from the Labour party over aboriginal policy disagreements, won 90 per cent of the votes cast in the North Island electorate of Te Tai Hauauru.  Her party formed to fight government plans to nationalise the nation's coastline, and made waves as the first indigenous party to win a seat in parliament. FTP, name this New Zealand party that, despite its name, professes unity among all peoples.

ANSWER:  The Maori Party of New Zealand 

15
This minimal approach to language teaching was devised by American educator Caleb Gattegno.  Its goal is to provide an environment that keeps teaching to a minimum, and encourages learners to develop their own ways of using introduced language elements.  The method uses mime, gesture and Cuisiniere rods of different shapes and colours to help students talk to each other. FTP, name this method that keeps the teacher quiet as students learn to say more.

ANSWER: The Silent Way

16
Four of the 30 provinces that make up this country are Lampung, Bengkulu,
Maluku, and Sulawesi.  The fourth most populous country in the world, its
predominant religion is Islam, the faith of about 87 percent of the people.
It declared its independence from the Netherlands in 1945.  For ten points,
identify this nation that consists of 17,000 islands and whose current
president is Megawati Sukarnoputri.

ANSWER:  _INDONESIA_

17
During the David Kelly affair in the UK, the government attempted to discredit
Kelly by comparing him to this fictional character, who first appeared in a
James Thurber short story in 1941. He is a meek and mild mannered man with a
vivid fantasy life, imagining himself by turns as a fighter pilot, a surgeon, and
a killer. For ten points, name this character.

ANSWER:  Walter _MITTY_

18
It is chiefly characterised by an abnormal articulation of a sibilant consonant in English. Most commonly it is produced when a speaker places his or her tongue tip against or between the teeth making the sound frontal or interdental. In some variants of Spanish, the advanced articulation is often preferred. FTP, what is this speech impediment that would have you pronouncing the capital city of Spain as "Barthalona".

ANSWER: Lisp

19
This American state takes its name from a Native American word for "flat water",
in reference to the Platte River. The state is unique in having a unicameral
system of Government: instead of Senators and Representatives, elected officials
are called 'Legislators', and they meet in a chamber simply called the
'Legislature'. For ten points, name this 'Cornhusker State'.

ANSWER:  _NEBRASKA_

20
Set in the aftermath of WWII in the North African desert, Paul Bowles' first novel tells a story of three Americans: Kit, Port and their friend Tunner. Kit has a one-nighter with Tunner. Port, thinking something is up, decides to abandon Tunner, and he and Kit set out alone. Port quickly falls ill and dies, and when Tunner shows up, Kit runs away and joins a Bedouin tribe.  FTP, name this book adapted to the big screen by Bernardo Bertolucci in the 1990 film starring Debra Winger and John Malkovich.

ANSWER: The Sheltering Sky

21
This journalist and political commentator was born to German-Jewish parents in New
York City in 1889. In view of the success of propaganda techniques in totalitarian
states such as Nazi Germany, his early idealism about democracy gave way to a quite
contrary point of view. He came to believe that the masses were incapable of
participatory democracy, and had to be managed by a specialist intellectual class.
For ten points, name this writer, author of such phrases as "necessary illusions"
and "the manufacture of consent".

ANSWER:  Walter _LIPPMAN_

22
This philosopher attended Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, where he studied under
J.L. Austin.  He published "Speech Acts" in 1969, which further developed
Austin's analysis of performative utterances.  In 1980, he came up with the
famous "Chinese Room" thought experiment in an attempt to debunk the claims
of strong AI.  For ten points, name this Mills Professor of philosophy at
Berkeley who wrote "The Campus War" and "The Construction of Social Reality".

ANSWER:  John Rogers _SEARLE_

23
The name of this ethnic group means 'human' in their language, but they prefer
to call themselves the 'Utari', meaning 'comrade'. The men of this group wear full
beards, never shaving after a certain age, and eat with moustache-lifters and
chopsticks. Numbering 50,000 to 150,000, some live in Sakhalin and the Kurile
Islands, but most are to be found in the northern island of Hokkaido. For ten
points, name this group.

ANSWER:  _AINU_

24
This Canadian municipality with a population of just under 17,000 is home to
the Archie Browning Sports Centre, and is represented in the House of Commons
by a medical doctor who has belonged to three different political parties in
the past twelve months.  It obtains its name from a Coast Salish word meaning
"a shoaling place" and pronounced something like "Es-whoy-malth".  For ten
points, name this township just west of Victoria that houses a naval base.

ANSWER:  _ESQUIMALT_   ["esk-WHY-malt"]



BONI

BONUS 1
Music linked with literature. For 10 points each, name the work of literature inspired by the listed musical work.

A. Bruce Springsteen, "Ghost of Tom Joad"

Answer: The Grapes of Wrath, by John Steinbeck

B. The Police, "Don't Stand So Close to Me"

Answer: Lolita by Vladimir Nabokov

C. Pete Seeger, "Turn! Turn! Turn!"

Answer: The Bible Ecclesiastes 3:1-8


BONUS 2
[[HAND_OUT THREE PAGES OF TEXT.]] You have just been handed three excerpts of novels which have won the Booker prize for literature. The year of the award is written on each page. You have 15 seconds to name the books, for 10 points each.

ANSWER: The God of Small Things (1997) by Arundhati Roy

ANSWER: Disgrace (1999) by J M Coetzee

ANSWER: Life of PI (2002) by Yann Martel


BONUS 3

You know Macdonald is on the ten and Laurier is on the five.  Between the
death of Macdonald in 1891 and the election of Laurier in 1896, no fewer
than four different men served as Prime Minister of Canada, none of whom
you will see on any paper currency.  Name one of these men for five points,
two of them for ten points, three of them for 20 points, or 30 points for
all four.

ANSWERS:

John Joseph Caldwell _ABBOTT_
John Sparrow David _THOMPSON_
Mackenzie _BOWELL_
Charles _TUPPER_


BONUS 4
Answer these questions about impossible objects for fifteen points each.

This 'stair' construction was used to great effect in M.C. Escher's lithograph
"Ascending and Descending". It was devised by a British geneticist and his
and his son, a mathematical physicist better known for his eponymous tilings.

ANSWER:  _PENROSE STAIR_, or _PENROSE TRIANGLE_

In some ways, this illusion may be considered the auditory equivalent of the
Penrose Stair. Consisting of a seemingly endlessly rising scale, it is
constructed by playing multiple notes as parallel octaves, such that the
highest octave gradually fades out, and the lowest octave becomes gradually
louder. It takes its name from the author of a 1964 paper entitled
"Circularity in judgements of relative pitch", which introduced the phenomenon.

ANSWER:  _SHEPARD_ tone, or _SHEPARD_ scale


BONUS 5
Answer these questions about works by W. Somerset Maugham for 10 points each.

A. This novel's titular character is crippled at a young age after being gored by a bull. Then, at the age of sixteen, our heroine meets the Blessed Virgin Mary at the Feast of the Assumption, begging her to perform a miracle and heal her. Set in Spain during the Spanish Inquisition, the church doubts her miraculous claim.  Published in 1948, this was Maugham's final novel.

ANSWER: Catalina

B. A fictionalization of the life of post-impressionist artist Paul Gauguin, this 1919 novel tells the story of wealthy banker Charles Strickland who leaves it all behind to pursue painting in the South Pacific. 

ANSWER: The Moon and Sixpence

C. Set in Paris in 1897, this novel was inspired by the life and times of occultist Aleister Crowley. 

ANSWER: The Magician


BONUS 6
Answer these questions about the classical city of Alexandria for the
stated number of points.

For five points, name the contemporary country in which Alexandria
is located today.

ANSWER:  _EGYPT_

For five points, name the inhabitant of Alexandria who classified all even
perfect numbers and whose axiomatic treatment of plane geometry became one
of the most widely read works in human history.

ANSWER:  _EUCLID_

For ten points, name the navigational device formerly located in
Alexandria that was considered one of the seven wonders of the world
and was destroyed in the 14th and 15th centuries AD.

ANSWER:  The _LIGHTHOUSE_ of Alexandria, or the _PHAROS_ of Alexandria

For ten points, name the mathematician and philosopher who was the daughter
of Theon of Alexandria and who was murdered by a Christian mob in AD 415.

ANSWER:  _HYPATIA_ of Alexandria


BONUS 7
Answer these questions about cinema and alcoholic beverages for 15  
points each.

This director was born in Tokyo in 1903. He had several early successes with
light comedies, then moved more toward social commentary and drama.
His filming technique consisted of long takes with no camera motion, often
with the camera kept at the level of a seated observer. His films include such
masterpieces as "Early Spring", "Late Autumn", and his most famous  
work, "Tokyo Story".

ANSWER:  Yasujiro _OZU_

The origin of this liqueur is uncertain, possibly dating back to ancient times.
Its precursor is called raki, a beverage distilled in the time of the Byzantine
and Ottoman Empires. Traditionally, it is sipped slowly in the evening, and
served with mezethes, appetizers such as octopus, salad, sardines and zucchini.
Many people prefer tsipouro, which is essentially a small-batch homebrew version
of it.

ANSWER:  _OUZO_


BONUS 8
30-20-10. Identify this person from the clues provided.
30. Born in Rome June 4, 1966, she made her professional debut at age nine, and at 19 she appeared opposite Katia Ricciarelli and Leo Nucci in a star-making television performance.
20. She is the daughter of a soprano and tenor - her mother being her first and only vocal instructor.
10. Name this mezzo-soprano whose 2004 release features the music of Antonio Salerie

Answer: Cecila Bartoli


BONUS 9
How well do you the numbers associated with the 2004 Canadian general election?
For ten points, or five points if you're within three, give the number of
seats won by the Liberal Party.

ANSWER:  _135_

For ten points, or five points if you're within three, give the number of
seats won by the Conservative Party.

ANSWER:  _99_

For ten points, or five points if you're within three, give the number of
seats won by the Bloc Quebecois.

ANSWER:  _54_


BONUS 10
For 30, 20, or 10 points, identify this work.

30 points:
In this work, a warrior prince surveys a battlefield with his  
charioteer.

20 points:
The prince, Arjuna is counseled by his charioteer Keshav on a variety of
spiritual matters.

10 points:
In this epic poem, Keshav, actually an incarnation of Lord Vishnu, teaches Arjuna
that the deaths on the battlefield are but the shedding of bodies, since the
soul is immortal. Oh yeah, and the title of the poem is an anagram of
"GAGA BATH DIVA"

ANSWER:  _BHAGAVAD GITA_


BONUS 11
 [[Insert CD]]So you think you know your opera. Listen to the following operatic excerpts and answer the following questions for 10 points each. You will not be provided with the correct answers until the end.

[[Play CD]]
A. These excerpts are from what famous opera.
Answer: La Boheme

B. Who composed this opera?
Answer: Giacomo Puccini

C. Name the featured female singer
Answer: Renata Tebaldi


BONUS 12
Given a list of celebrities who all died in the same year, provide the year,
for ten points each, or five points if you are within one year of the answer.

Jam Master Jay, Yousuf Karsh, Ann Landers, Stephen Jay Gould.

ANSWER:  _2002_

Paula Yates, Pierre Trudeau, Doug Henning, Charles Schulz.

ANSWER:  _2000_

Norman Fell, Florence Griffith Joyner, Frank Sinatra, Phil Hartman.

ANSWER:  _1998_


BONUS 13
This text begins with the "First Book of Nephi: His Reign and Ministry", wherein
Nephi and his wife Sariah, and sons Laman, Lemuel, Sam, and Nephi depart from
Jerusalem, fleeing from persecution. They eventually come to the sea and, building
a boat, they cross 'the large waters' to come a land they call 'Bountiful'. For
ten points, name the text.

ANSWER:  The _BOOK OF MORMON_

According to the title page, he was merely the translator of the Book of
Mormon; the actual author was claimed to be a Native American prophet named
Mormon. For ten points, identify this blandly-named man.

ANSWER:  _JOSEPH SMITH_, Jr.

For ten points, state the full name of the largest Mormon denomination.
Hint: depending on hyphens, it's seven or eight words.

ANSWER:  _CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS_


BONUS 14
Answer these questions about international forms of martial arts for ten points each.

A. This national sport of Thailand which was included in military training was made famous by King Nareusan 1560 A.D.

ANSWER: MUAY THAI also accept THAI BOXING Do NOT accept Tai Bo

B. As it was illegal to carry weapons, this hand-to-hand self-defense fighting system was developed in the early 1940s by Imrich Sde-Or to aid the underground liberation organisations in fighting for the independence of the State of Israel.

ANSWER: KRAV MAGA

C. Next to soccer, this martial art which blends dance, gymnastics and music, is Brazil's most popular sport despite being banned until the 1920s.  

ANSWER: CAPOEIRA


BONUS 15
Answer these questions about the Ipperwash Inquiry for ten points each.

The mandate of this public inquiry is to find out what exactly happened in the hours and days leading up to the shooting death of this native protestor.

ANSWER:  Dudley _GEORGE_

For ten points, give the year that Dudley George was killed, or five points if you're within two years.

ANSWER:  1995

This former provincial premier is scheduled to testify at the Ipperwash Inquiry in September.

ANSWER:  Mike _HARRIS_


BONUS 16
For ten points each, answer these questions about ornitho-etym-ology.

This long-necked web-footed bird takes its name from the Latin for 'sea  
crow'.

ANSWER:  _CORMORANT_

The name of this variety of fish-eating crested duck comes from the Latin
for 'diving goose', or 'submerging goose'.

ANSWER:  _MERGANSER_

The name of this bird of prey, an expert fisher, is probably a corruption
of 'ossifragus', or 'bone-breaker'.

ANSWER:  _OSPREY_



BONUS 17

[[HAND_OUT SHEET ILLUSTRATING CRICKET POSITIONS - attached at end of packet]] You have just been handed a drawing illustrating 28 positions in the game of cricket. Note that this layout of positions assumes that the person in position (1) is right-handed. For 10 points each, pick ANY THREE POSITIONS OF CHOICE, and tell me what they are. You have 15 seconds.
1. Batter or batsman
2. Bowler
a. wicket keeper
b. leg slip
c. leg gully
d. short square leg
e. short leg
f. forward short leg
g. silly mid on
h. short mid wicket
i. mid wicket
j. deep mid wicket
k. square leg
l. deep square leg
m. mid on
n. long on
o. mid off
p. long off
q. extra cover
r. cover
s. point
t. silly point
u. silly mid off
v. gully
w. slips (first-third)
x. third man
y. find leg
z. deep fine leg


BONUS 18
These 4 questions are worth 5, 10, 10 and 5 points respectively.

These devices fall into two categories: positive displacement devices, which
force fluid from one sealed chamber to another with little leakage, and dynamic
devices, which use the momentum of the fluid to move it across an  
unsealed chamber.

ANSWER:  _PUMP_

This tribe probably originated in modern day Poland, though various regions in
Scandinavia have also been suggested as their homeland. During the late Roman
Empire, they passed through Spain, temporarily settling in Andalusia, before
settling in North Africa.

ANSWER:  The _VANDALS_

This expatriate German baroque composer is best known for his oratorios, but he
also composed over 50 operas, including 'Orlando', 'Rinaldo', and 'Giulio Cesare'.

ANSWER:  Georg Friedrich _HANDEL_

Based on the previous answers, what is Johnny doing in the basement?

ANSWER:  _MIXING UP THE MEDICINE_


BONUS 19
30-20-10, identify the country.

(30) It is divided into 16 administrative regions known as voivodships, including the Pomeranian Voivodship and the Subcarpathian Voivodship.

(20) Its current prime minister is Marek Belka.

(10) It is the location of the Baltic seaport Gdansk.

ANSWER:  _POLAND_


BONUS 20
Identify the psychologists for ten points each.

He taught at the University of Geneva for a quarter century, he wrote The Early Growth of Logic in the Child, and his work influenced Seymour Papert, creator of the Logo computer language.

ANSWER:  Jean _PIAGET_

He was the first person to call himself a "psychologist".  He founded the first psychological laboratory in 1879 in Leipzig, and founded the journal Philosophical Studies two years later.

ANSWER:  Wilhelm _WUNDT_

He died in New Hampshire, and was in San Francisco during the 1906 earthquake. His name is associated with pragmatism, and his brother was a novelist.

ANSWER:  William _JAMES_


BONUS 21
Answer these three questions on astronomy worth 10 points each.

This geometrical method of computing distance consists of taking observations
of an object at different places, and observing the shift of the object against
a fixed background. Using the Earth's orbit as a baseline, distances of around
300 to 600 light-years can be computed.

ANSWER:  Stellar _PARALLAX_

These giant yellow stars pulse regularly by expanding and contracting, causing
regular changes in their luminosity. Their usefulness in determining distances
between astronomical objects comes from the tight correlation between their
period of variability and their absolute luminosity. For instance, a star with a
period of three days is 800 times as bright as the sun, and a star with a period
of thirty days is 10,000 times as bright as the sun.

ANSWER:  _CEPHEID VARIABLE_ Stars

This law is based on the observation that the light from other galaxies is
redshifted, so that these galaxies must be receding. More precisely, the rate
at which a galaxy recedes is directly proportional to its distance from us.

ANSWER:  _HUBBLE'S LAW_


BONUS 22
Answer these questions about gay marriage in North America for ten points each.

On Wednesday, Yukon became the first Canadian territory to legalize same-sex marriage.  Identify the three Canadian provinces in which same-sex couples can legally marry, or five points for just two of them.

ANSWER:  _BRITISH COLUMBIA_, _ONTARIO_, _QUEBEC_

Also on Wednesday, the United States Senate voted to continue debate on a proposed constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage.  Name the Massachusetts senator who was not in the Senate for Wednesday's vote.

ANSWER:  John Forbes _KERRY_

This Republican senator from Pennsylvania who supported the constitutional amendment is perhaps better known for lending his name, courtesy of sex advice columnist Dan Savage, to a certain byproduct of a certain sexual act.

ANSWER:  Rick _SANTORUM_


BONUS 23
30-20-10, identify the person from clues.
	
(30) He grew up in Seattle, Seoul, and Singapore. He just now noticed that everywhere he has ever lived starts with the letter "S" and it's starting to creep him out a little bit. 

(20) This Mormon superstar likes travel, Iron Chef, and Preston Sturges movies. 

(10) He currently edits literature and mythology questions for NAQT and was a member of the Brigham Young University's successful College Bowl team in the 1990s.

ANSWER: KEN JENNINGS (also accept KenJen)


BONUS 24
Answer these questions, worth 10 points each, on famous  
Saskatchewanians.

Though her name makes her sound dismissive of the sport, her team brought home
gold in curling at the 1998 Olympics in Nagano.

ANSWER:  Sandra _SCHMIRLER_

She was born in Prud'homme in northern Saskatchewan. Despite this inauspicious
start, she went on to become the first female Speaker of the House, among other
things.

ANSWER:  Jeanne _SAUVE_

Born in Floral, Saskatchewan, he holds the NHL record for most regular-season games
played.

ANSWER:  Gordie _HOWE_


BONUS 25
[[HAND-OUT SHEET OF CLOTHES WASHING CARE SYMBOLS - attached at end of packet.]] You have just been handed a listing of 20 washing care symbols. For 10 points each pick ANY THREE SYMBOLS OF YOUR CHOICE, and tell me what they represent. You have a total of 15 seconds. Note to moderator: Accept equivalents. However, underlined words must be stated.
1.Machine Wash, Normal2.Do not Bleach3.Tumble Dry, Normal, Medium Heat4.Drip Dry Hang dripping wet garment from line or bar, in or out doors, without hand shaping or smoothing. 
5.Dry Clean, petroleum solvent only6. Do not wring7. Dry flat8.Tumble Dry, Normal, No Heat - Air only

BONUS 26
Some like it hot! FTPE, answer these questions related to hot peppers and their heat.

A. In 1912, the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association published this now famous method to chart the comparative heat of different chillies.

ANSWER: SCOVILLE SCALE or SCOVILLE UNIT

B. Dating back to the time of the Aztecs, this pepper rates 2,500 to 5,000 units on the Scoville scale. It is probably the best-known of the chilli peppers and is used extensively in Mexican cooking.

ANSWER: JALAPENO

C. By far one of the hottest non-cultivated peppers on the Scoville scale rating at 150,000 - 300,000 units this Caribbean pepper's flavour has been described as fruity, closely resembling the taste of apricots. 

ANSWER: SCOTCH BONNET


BONUS -Booker Prize

1997
She was Rahel's baby grandaunt, her grandfather's younger sister. Her name was really Navomi, Navomi Ipe, but everybody called her Baby. She became Baby Kochamma when she was old enough to be an aunt. Rahel hadn't come to see her, though. Neither niece nor baby grandaunt labored under any illusions on that account. Rahel had come to see her brother, Estha. They were two-egg twins. "Dizygotic" doctors called them. Born from separate but simultaneously fertilized eggs. Estha--Esthappen--was the older by eighteen minutes. 


BONUS -Booker Prize

1999

Then one Saturday morning everything changes. He is in the city on business; he is walking down St George's Street when his eyes fall on a slim figure ahead of him in the crowd. It is Soraya, unmistakably, flanked by two children, two boys. They are carrying parcels; they have been shopping.

He hesitates, then follows at a distance. They disappear into Captain Dorego's Fish Inn. The boys have Soraya's lustrous hair and dark eyes. They can only be her sons.

He walks on, turns back, passes Captain Dorego's a second time. The three are seated at a table in the window. For an instant, through the glass, Soraya's eyes meet his.

He has always been a man of the city, at home amid a flux of bodies where eros stalks and glances flash like arrows. But this glance between himself and Soraya he regrets at once.

 


BONUS -Booker Prize

2002

Academic study and the steady, mindful practice of religion slowly brought me back to life. I have remained a faithful Hindu, Christian and Muslim. I decided to stay in Toronto. After one year of high school, I attended the University of Toronto and took a double-major Bachelor's degree. My majors were religious studies and zoology. My fourth-year thesis for religious studies concerned certain aspects of the cosmogony theory of Isaac Luria, the great sixteenth-century Kabbalist from Safed. My zoology thesis was a functional analysis of the thyroid gland of the three-toed sloth. I chose the sloth because its demeanour--calm, quiet and introspective--did something to soothe my shattered self.

Clothing Care Bonus

1.2.3.4.5.6. 7. 8.



Cricket Pitch Bonus


