VETO 2010 - b2b pack

Tossups

1) Creator of the industrialist Vanger family, this journalist born in 1954 was an expert on Neo-Nazism and the right wing movement, but is more well known for his novels, including Men Who Hate Women. He passed away from a heart attack in Stockholm in 2004, shortly after dropping off three manuscripts to his publisher. A battle later erupted between partner Eva Gabrielsson and family over the proceeds of the trilogy that made him the world's second best selling author in 2008. FTP name this author, whose first novel had its name changed in English to refer to Lisbeth Salander's tattoo. 

A. Stieg LARSSON 

2) Her talents were recognized early on by Fred Rumsen, but after he was fired she took over his office - and gained his bar.  A native of Brooklyn, this Norwegian-American had her child taken away by the State of New York when she was declared unfit to be a mother.  For ten points, name this career woman, a secretary turned advertising copywriter, played by Elisabeth Moss, who works at Sterling, Cooper, Draper, and Pryce.

A. Margaret "PEGGY" Olson

3) This woman canonized by the Orthodox Church has a holy day of November 14th. She got her start as an actress in the theatre where her beauty was noted, and sources claim her father was the master of the bears of a hippodrome. Her rise to power and the title of Augusta in 527 AD is depicted by Procopius in his various histories. During riots in 532 A.D. between the green and blue factions in Constantinopole she is credited with convincing her husband to not flee the city. For ten points name this Empress of Byzantium and wife of Emperor Justinian the First. 

A. THEODORA

4) At the 2010 G-8 Summit, he was the newest head of government in attendance.  After graduating university, he worked in a patent office.  In his early days he campaigned for women's right advocate Fusae Ichikawa.  He lost several times before winning a seat in the lower house in 1980 with the Socialist Democratic Federation.  In 1996 he announced the government was responsibility for the spread of HIV-tainted blood in 1980s and directly apologized to victims.  He began 2010 as finance minister but succeeded Yukio Hatoyama in early June.  For ten points, name this Democratic Party Prime Minister of Japan.
 
A. Naoto KAN

5) This phenomenon is used in compact disc player lenses, so that an out-of-focus circle will appear as an oval aligned on either the 45 degree or 135 degree axes, indicating whether the lens needs to be moved closer and farther. Its name comes from the Greek for 'without mark', or 'without puncture'. FTP, name this optical aberration that can be corrected by ellipsoidal, that is, "toric" lenses.

A. _ASTIGMATISM_

6) A Canadian example took place in 1819 between William Caldwell, a Montreal doctor, and Michael O'Sullivan, a member of the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada. This activity is specifically prohibited in Canada under section 71 of the Canadian criminal code and is illegal or frowned upon in other countries. An American version took place in 1804 leaving vice-president Aaron Burr the victor and the U.S. Treasury Secretary dead. Often initiated over points of honour or insults, swords and guns are the most common tools used. For ten points what is this activity to which one might challenge another by throwing down the gauntlet? 

A. DUELLING or DUELS

7) SCIENCE TOSSUP. Its official logo includes the overlaid runes "Hagall" and "Bjarkan", representing the initials of Harald Blåtand (BLAH-TEND) Gormsson. Created by Jaap Haartsen and Sven Mattisso in 1994 as part of their work for Ericsson, it uses frequency-hopping spread spectrum to resist interference, and operates on the unlicensed 2.4 gigahertz "Industrial, Scientific, and Medical" radio band. FTP, name this wireless communications technology for exchanging data over short distances, commonly used for headsets, microphones, and mobile phones.

A. _BLUETOOTH_

8) Designed by Oren Lyons of the Onondaga in 1977, it traces its legitimacy to two 1794 treaties, including one brokered by George Washington which guaranteed all descendants five yards of calico a year.  Similar to those of Canada and America, it has been accepted on a case-by-case basis in 40 countries.  In 2006, the Council of Grand Chiefs formed a committee with the mandate to bring it up to current international standards, but the new version will not be available until late 2010.  For ten points, name this document which made headlines in July 2010 due to a lacrosse team being denied visas for Great Britain due to the lack of a machine-readable zone, a radio frequency chip, and banknote paper.
 
A. IROQUOIS Confederacy PASSPORT or HAUDENOSAUNEE Six Nation Confederacy PASSPORT (do not prompt on Iroquois)

9) Named for a ship which wintered off Cape Sheridan in 1875 and 1876, it has five permanent inhabitants according to the 2006 Census.  Located in the Qikiqtaaluk Region, it is 817 kilometers from the North Pole.  For ten points, northernmost permanently inhabited place in the world, located on Ellesmere Island.
 
A. _ALERT_

10) In one of his earliest appearances in English literature, this character from Arthurian myth accepts a magic girdle to help protect his head. Sporting a pentacle as his symbol, this cousin to King Arthur owed a swing with an axe to his head to a large man in exchange for a similar blow delivered by the knight a year before. Narrowly avoiding seduction by another man's wife he kept his head but returned to Camelot shamed to have failed to follow the rules of the game. For ten points name this Knight of the Round Table who faced off against the Green Knight. 

A. Sir _GAWAIN_

11) Of its approximately 77 million members, 36.7 million are in its 11 African "provinces". Recent internal tensions from regional differences in attitudes toward homosexuality and the ordination of women came to a head when the primates of Uganda, Nigeria, Kenya, and Rwanda boycotted the 2008 Lambeth Conference, the latest of the decennial meetings of the church. FTP name this church headed by Rowan Williams, the Archbishop of Canterbury.

A. ANGLICANISM or the _ANGLICAN_ CHURCH.

12) It is known as raqs sharqi in Arabic, but its English name is attributed to Sol Bloom, entertainment director at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair. It is a popular form of exercise and entertainment today, with many different styles of the dance, which often features hip rolls, shimmys and other bodily undulations. FTP identify this style of dance which is the literal translation of the French term danse du ventre.

A. BELLY DANCE

13) This game was designed by Klaus Teuber and originally released in 1995. The first edition of 5,000 quickly sold out and has gone on to be translated from its original German into 30 different languages, with expansion sets including Seafarers, Cities and Knights, and Traders and Barbarians. In the original version players build settlements and cities to gain resources and victory points. FTP, name this popular game in which players strive to stake their claim on a deserted island.

A. SETTLERS OF CATAN

14) One of this organization's early publications was the 1955 book "A Million Random Digits with 100,000 Normal Deviates", important in early statistics and cryptography. 32 Nobel Prize winners have worked for this think tank that originally spun out of the Douglas Aircraft corporation in 1948. FTP, name this organisation known for its studies for the U.S. military, whose name originated from its task of doing Research ANd Development.

A. The _RAND_ Corporation

15) This word is the name of a Native American language group spoken by the Clackamas and Watlata peoples in the lower Columbia River; the code name of the a Boeing CH-47 twin-engine helicopter used for heavy lifting; and a type of blue-green salmon also known as the king, tyee, or chub. FTP, give this word that is also the name of a type of foehn (FUEN) wind that may raise winter temperatures by as much as 40 degrees in a day.

A. CHINOOK

A. Kevin _RUDD_

16) Including On Another's Sorrow in one section and London in the other, this combined poetry collection was released in 1794. Featuring two different collections, the pairing was meant to depict "the two contrary states of the human soul." It contains now famous poems like The Chimney Sweeper and The Tyger, but the collection was unappreciated in its time. The poems were set on engravings by the poet, who himself was trained as an engraver. FTP name this famous collection of poems by William Blake.

A. _SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND EXPERIENCE_ (require both)

17) Skeletal pieces that are potentially this Italian artist's remains recently went on display in Porto Ercole to help celebrate the 400th anniversary of his death. Born in or near Milan in 1571, this artist was notorious during his lifetime for controversial artwork and fighting. In 1606 he killed a man and fled from Rome to Naples, Sicily and Malta, but died in on his way back to Rome. FTP name this artist whose well-known paintings include Bacchus and Judith beheading Holofernes.

A. Michelangelo Merisi da CARAVAGGIO

18) The victors in this conflict were the Eight-Nation Alliance, which claimed an indemnity of over 450 million ounces of silver, approximately one ounce per citizen in the defeated nation. The namesake fighters used the slogan 'Support the Qing, destroy the foreign", as they had been co-opted by Empress Dowager Cixi (TZ SHEE) of China to take action against her foreign rivals. In Beijing and other cities, foreigners of all stripes and some Chrisitian-Chinese were trapped under siege for three months. For ten points what was the name of this rebellion, so called because of its members' public demonstrations of martial arts?

A. The _BOXER_ REBELLION 

19) Its unit cell consists of two dodecahedral shells and six 24-pointed shells. Originally thought to be naturally occur only in the outer Solar System, deposits have been identified on continental shelves, between 300 and 500 meters deep. Canadian and Japanese researchers extracted natural gas from deposits of it in the Mackenzie River delta in 2002, and in 2010 deposits thwarted some of BP's efforts to stem its underwater oil leak. FTP, identify this chemical structure that consists of methane trapped inside 'cages' of water, that could account for 50% to 90% of the world's supply of natural gas.

A. METHANE _CLATHRATES_

20) Its first clause to be repealed was the 26th, struck from the statute books in 1828 by the Offences against the Person Act. Today, only three clauses remain, and these guarantee the freedom of the church, the right to due process, and the special privileges of the City of London. The origins of this document were anger about the king's excommunication, crippling taxes to fund crusades, and a humiliating loss to the French, all of which caused the nobility to force King John to sign. FTP, name this 13th century English document credited with being an early forerunner to constitutional law, that limited the rights of monarchs.

A. The MAGNA CARTA (also accept the GREAT CHARTER)

21) Their tribal habits were described by Horace Miner in his 1956 paper in American Anthropologist, and were said to live between the Canadian Cree, Yaqui, and Tarahumare of Mexico. Miner focused on their body rituals, writing that "Were it not for the rituals of the mouth, they believe that their teeth would fall out, their gums bleed, their jaws shrink, their friends desert them, and their lovers reject them." One of their greatest culture heroes was Notgnihsaw, who chopped down a cherry tree in which the "Spirit of Truth" resided. FTP name this group that Miller wrote about in Body Rituals of the Nacirema.

A. _AMERICANS_ (accept early answer of "NACIREMA" equivalents).

22) Founded by Persians around 700BC, this city was the capital of the Sogdian satrapy under the Achaemenid dynasty. Many different empires controlled it over the centuries: Alexander the Great conquered it in 329BC and called it Maracanda, while in 1370 Tamerlane made it the capital of his empire. Currently, the city is the second largest in Uzbekistan. FTP name this city whose name is a conjoining of the Old Persian word "asmara" (meaning stone or rock), and the Sogdian 'qand" (meaning "fort"). 

A. SAMARKAND.

23) Chief of staff to Queensland opposition leader Wayne Goss, he later became one of the top ranking bureaucrats in Queensland.  After losing office, he worked as Senior China Consultant for KPMG Australia.  In December 2006, he defeated Kim Beazley for his party's leadership.  Less than a year later, he made no mention of the Queen while taking the oath of office.  In June 2010, he withdrew himself from contesting a leadership challenge.  For ten points, name this Labour Prime Minister of Australia who was forced out of office, over his policy actions, by Julia Gillard.
 
24) In the Bible's Book of Revelations, it gives its name to the burning star that falls from heaven and poisons a third of the waters. It is the last name of Calvin's teacher in the comic Calvin and Hobbes, who in turn gets her name from the junior devil in C. S. Lewis' The Screwtape Letters. The original English word names plants of the genus Artemisia, especially Artemisia absinthium. FTP, name this herb whose bitter taste and thujone compound gives the flavour for the liquor absinthe. 

A. _WORMWOOD_ 


Bonuses

1) Answer these questions about long tunnels for ten points each:
 
1. This country is home to the longest railway tunnel, which runs 53-kilometers at the narrowest point in the Tsugaru Strait.
A. _JAPAN_
 
2. Between 1983 and 2002, this city's metro built the longest subway tunnel at 41-kilometers on the system's line 9.
A. _MOSCOW_
 
3. This particle accelerator tunnel constructed at CERN in 1989 is a 26-kilometer circular ring that is now used by the Large Hadron Collider.
A. _LEP_ Tunnel

2) Sure you know Sherlock Holmes and elementary Dear Watson, but have you actually read the stories? Name these other characters from Arthur Conan Doyle's stories about the great detective. 

For five points name the actress who bested Holmes and was always known to him as "the woman."
A. Irene _ADLER_

For five points name Holmes' smarter brother?
A. _MYCROFT_ Holmes

For ten points name Holmes and Watson's landlady at 221 B Baker Street.
A. Mrs. HUDSON

For ten points what is the name given to the group of street urchins who occasionly help Holmes?
A. The BAKER STREET IRREGULARS

3) Answer these related questions about colonial African history for 10 points each:
 
1. From 1890 to 1896, he was Prime Minister of the Cape Colony, during which time he implemented pro-mining policies.
A. Cecil _RHODES_
 
2. Earlier, Rhodes had co-founded this diamond company.
A. _DE BEERS_
 
3. Rhodesia, which was named for Rhodes, split into North and South Rhodesia, which are now these two countries.
A. _ZAMBIA_ and _ZIMBABWE_

4) (VISUAL BONUS) Below are six sentences which contain copyediting symbols used in newswriting. For five points each correctly identify what each symbol, marked in red, means. MODERATOR: Wording does not have to be exact. 

Answers:
1. Change to lower case.
2. Change to upper case.
3. Change letter order. 
4. Insert comma. 
5. Connect letter to rest of word. 
6. Remove (word). 
 
5) Answer these questions on contemporary British visual artists FTPE.

1. This pseudonymous graffiti artist from Bristol works with stencils, and made a film in 2010 titled Exit Through The Gift Shop.

A. BANKSY

2. Allegedly the richest living artist to date, he was infamous for the 1992 work The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living - a 14 foot long shark in a tank of formaldehyde.

A. DAMIEN _HIRST_

3. Another one of the Young British Artists, she was nominated in 1999 for a Turner Prize and showed My Bed, while in 2007 she represented Britain at the Venice Biennale.

A. TRACEY _EMIN_.

6) Answer these questions on bacterial biochemical reactions, FTPE.

1. Purple sulfur bacteria, found around hot springs and stagnant water, can photosynthesize without oxygen by oxidizing this chemical into globules of elemental sulfur.

A. _HYDROGEN SULFIDE_.

2. Bacterium from the phylum Planctomycetes can combine this ion with the nitrite ion, with the waste products being nitrogen gas and water. Unusually, oxygen is not needed and hydrazine is produced as an intermediary.

A. _AMMONIUM_ (not ammonia)

3. This phylum of bacteria is caused a major extinction event 2.4 billion years ago by photosynthesizing and releasing the poisonous waste product oxygen into the atmosphere, killing off many anaerobic species.

A. _CYANOBACTERIA_ or _BLUE GREEN ALGAE_.

7) For the stated number of points each name these 19th century poems about mythical and otherworldly creatures. 
 
1. For five points name this John Keats classic, which features a knight who meets a fairy woman in the meads with wild eyes. 
A. LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCI

2. For ten points name this Christina Rossetti classic where two sisters encounter evil creatures who sell fruit. 
A. GOBLIN MARKET

3. For fifteen points name this poem by William Allingham which features the good folk trooping up the airy mountain and down the rushing glen?
A. THE FAIRIES

8) Answer these questions on mechanical connections FTPE.

1. This is a pivoted support that allows an object to rotate about a single axis. A gyroscope has two of them.
A. _GIMBAL_

2. This mechanism consists of a pair of hinges at ninety degrees to each others, connected by a cross shaft, that allows rotation in any three-dimensional direction.
A. _UNIVERSAL JOINT_.

3. This mechanical linkage allows movement at one point to be amplified at another point, and was used in the 17th century to trace and simultaneously enlarge drawings. The same word is used for the flexible overhead power collector on electric trains.
A. _PANTOGRAPH_

9) Answer these questions on culture-bound disorders FTPE.

1. Algonquian-speaking tribes allegedly had a psychosis involving an intense craving for human flesh and the fear of becoming a cannibal, which was named after these man-eating monsters associated with winter, hunger, and greed.
A. WENDIGO.

2. Identified by the Malaysian term but historically associated with South China, this is an intense anxiety that the sexual organs (especially penis) will recede into the body, possibly resulting in death. 
A. KORO

3. This word refers to a Malaysian phenomenon of sudden uncontrollable frenzy where the victim will attack anyone he encounters. It has entered the English language to describe such a rage, usually after the words 'to run'.
A. AMOK

10) Answer these questions about the United Kingdom's recent general election FTPE.

1. Since the party with a plurality of votes did not have a majority, it formed a coalition with the third-place party. Name these two parties (both answers required).
A. _CONSERVATIVES_ (or _TORIES_) and the _LIBERAL DEMOCRATS_ (or _LIB DEMS_).

2. This leader of the Liberal Democrats was listed as a member of Cambridge's Conservative Association while he was an undergraduate, though he later claimed to have "no recollection of that whatsoever"
A. NICK _CLEGG_

3. This Northern Ireland party's claimed fourth place with eight seats in the election.
A. _DEMOCRATIC UNIONIST_ PARTY

11) Canada certainly didn't lose the War of 1812 to the Americans. Answer these questions about a British and Native incursion into the U.S. 

1. For five points each name the British commander and Shawnee chief who combined forces to trick the American forces into believing the British had many more Native warriors than they actually had. 
A. General Isaac BROCK and TECUMESH

2. For ten points name the fort, now a major American city near Lake Huron, which was surrendered to the pair by an American general.
A. Fort DETROIT

3. For ten points name the American general, a hero of the American War of Independence, who surrendered Detroit without a fight.
A. General William HULL

12) Identify these countries by the names of their national soccer teams, F5PE

1. The Soccerroos
A. AUSTRALIA

2. Chollima (the thousand-mile horse)
A. NORTH KOREA

3. La Albirroja or Guarani
A. PARAGUAY

4. The Super Eagles
A. NIGERIA

5. The Black Stars
A. GHANA

6. The Indomitable Lions (Les Lions Indomptables)
A. CAMEROON

13) The recent financial crisis put financial instruments into the news. Answer these questions about them FTPE.

1. This is an derivative that allows the contract buyer to sell the underlying instrument to the seller of the contract, at a specified 'strike price'. It may be 'naked' if the buyer does not actually own the instrument at the time.
A. _PUT_ OPTION.

2. This type of asset-backed security is a bond issued by a special purpose vehicle created specifically to acquire a portfolio of assets (often other bonds, or mortgage-backed securities). The bonds are backed by the portfolio, and can be used to blend the risks of the underlying assets.
A. _CDO_ or _COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATION_.

3. This contract is an exchange of a steady stream of premium payments by the buyer, for a payout by the seller if a 'reference entity' goes into default. A large premium is a warning sign of low confidence in the reference entity.
A. _CDS_ or _CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP_

14) Answer these questions FTPE:

1. The title has been held by six men in total, from 1806 to the present day. The fourth was Governor General of Canada from 1904 to 1911, and gave his name to the Canadian Football League's championship trophy.

A. _EARL GREY_

2. This 2007 Wes Anderson comedy was paired with a 13-minute prologue titled "Hotel Chevalier", starring Jason Schwartzman and Natalie Portman.

A. THE _DARJEELING LIMITED_

3. Although in 1972 it became a republic and changed its name, this nation had already achieved independence from the UK in 1948 as a Dominion.

A. THE DOMINION OF _CEYLON_

15) Answer these questions about Alec Baldwin for 10 points each:
 
1. Baldwin and this man, who has also hosted Saturday Night Live numerous times, co-hosted the Academy Awards in 2010.
 A. Steve _MARTIN_
 
2. Baldwin plays this self-serving executive on 30 Rock.
A. _JACK_ Donaghy
 
3. Baldwin played CIA Analyst Jack Ryan in this John McTiernan-directed film.
 A. _THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER_

16) Answer these questions about isolated places for ten points each.

1. This city in the Alaskan Panhandle has the highest ZIP code number in the United States, 99950.
A. KETCHIKAN

2. This country is the only one in Europe that is doubly landlocked - it is surrounded by countries that are themselves landlocked.
A. LIECHTENSTEIN

3. This part of the Mariana Trench is the deepest surveyed point in the oceans, almost 11,000 metres below sea level.
A. _CHALLENGER DEEP_

17) FTP answer these questions about artificial sweetneters.

1. While aspartame breaks down at high temperatures, this chemical developed in 1976 by British company Tate and Lyle can withstand baking conditions. Brand names include Splenda and SucraPlus.

A. _SUCRALOSE_ or _1',4,6'-Trichlorogalactosucrose_ or _Trichlorosucrose_ or _1,6-Dichloro-1,6-dideoxy-?-D-fructofuranosyl-4-chloro-4-deoxy-?-D-galactopyranoside_ or _E955_.

2. Discovered in 1937 at the University of Illinois, this chemical is often mixed with saccharin to mask its off-tastes. It was banned in the United States in 1969 but approved in the UK in the same year.

A. SODIUM _CYCLAMATE_ or _sodium N-cyclohexylsulfamate_.

3. This artificial sweetner is the methyl ester of the dipeptide of the amino acids L-phenylalanine and L-aspartic acid.

A. _ASPARTAME_ or _E951_ or _N-(L-?-Aspartyl)-L-phenylalanine,1-methyl ester_

18) For ten points each name these works which won a Governor-General's Literary Award. 

1. This novel by Leon Rooke won the award in 1983 and featured a new perspective on the life of William Shakespeare. 
A. SHAKESPEARE'S DOG
 
2. Margaret Atwood won in the category of drama or poetry in 1966 for this collection of poems, in which the title poem describes children playing by going "round and round." 
A. The CIRCLE GAME 
 
3. This Miriam Toews novel about a young protagonist's experience in a Mennonite community won the award in 2004. 
A. A COMPLICATED KINDNESS

19) Answer these related art questions for 10 points each:
 
1. This sculptor's Psyche Revived by Cupid's Kiss was commissioned in 1787.
A. Antonio _CANOVA_
 
2. This Delacroix painting commemorates the July Revolution of 1830.
A. _LIBERTY LEADING THE PEOPLE_
 
3. Those works and da Vinci's Mona Lisa are located in the Louvre, which was created by this designer under the patronage of Francis I.
A. Pierre _LESCOT_

20) Answer these questions about the commercial alliance of trading cities and guilds known as the Hanseatic League FTPE.

1. What were the Hansa, the namesake of the League?

A. TRADING _GUILDS_

2. The Hanseatic League's effective captial was Lübeck, in north Germany, but in the 16th century, the grain trade made this Polish city the League's largest.

A. _GDANSK_ or _DANZING_

3. Lübeck commissioned the largest ship in the world in 1566, the Adler von Lübeck, to fight this nation in the Northern Seven Year's war.

A. _SWEDEN_

21)  Answer these questions on Canadian neighbourhoods FTPE.

1. This largely-black neighbourhood of Halifax was protected from the Halifax Explosion of 1917 by elevated land to the south, but was destroyed by a disastrous government relocation program in the 1960s

A. AFRICVILLE

2. First known as the village of Don Vale just outside Toronto, its nickname came from the alleged 19th century practice of new Irish immigrants digging up their front lawns to plant vegetables.

A. CABBAGETOWN

3. This word gives its name to both an affluent neighbourhood in Vancouver's West Side, and a "village" neighbourhood in Montreal at the west side of Ville-Marie borough. 

A. SHAUGHNESSY (Shaughnessy Village in Montreal)

22) Answer these questions about the United States Senate for ten points each:
 
1. This Republican defeated Martha Coakley for the Massachusetts seat vacated by the death of Ted Kennedy.
 
A. Scott Philip _BROWN_
 
2. This Asian-American Democrat from Hawaii is the longest serving current Senator.
 
A. Daniel Ken _INOUYE_
 
3. This junior Senator from Minnesota is better known as an Air America radio host, author, and Saturday Night Live actor. 
 
A. Alan Stuart (Al) _FRANKEN_

23) Answer these questions about Pizarro's 1531 conquest of the Incan Empire for ten points each. 

1. This conquistador was a captain in Pizarro's party, but gained greater fame in 1540 for reaching the Mississippi.
A. Hernando DE SOTO

2. Pizarro was able to exploit a recent civil war between this emperor and his half-brother Huascar to capture the emperor and control the Incan empire.
A. ATAHUALPA

3. Pizarro had less than 200 soldiers but had a military advantage over the Incans thanks to their use of what animal? 
A. HORSES

24) Answer these questions for ten points each.

1. Television "bunny ears" antennas are this type of antenna, made by extending two wires in opposing directions with current fed (or measured) at the centre. The reception pattern is toroidal with zero inner diameter and the axis of the toroid centered on the wire axis.

A. _DIPOLE_ ANTENNA

2. It was located and claimed for the British Empire in 1909 by the Nimrod Expedition, at 72 degrees 15 minutes south, 155 degrees 16 minutes east, but is currently at 64 degrees 31 minutes south, 137 degrees 51 minutes east, just off the coast of Wilkes Land, Antarctica.

A. _SOUTH MAGNETIC POLE_ (accept equivalents)

3.  This chemist's 1916 process for pulling pure single crystals from melts is still the standard for producing silicon ingots in the semiconductor industry.

A. JAN _CZOCHRALSKI_



