1. Multimedia Bonus! Identify the following flag carrier airlines based on these pictures of their tail insignia, the year the airline was created and their hub airport, for 10 points each:
NB to Reader: Answers appear on the last page of the Bonuses, so that teams do not see them accidentally

[10] 1949, Soekarno-Hatta International Airport
 

[10] 1936, Dublin Airport
 


[10] 1963, Queen Alia International Airport



2. Answer the following questions about Chinese history, for 10 points each:
[10] Founded in 618 A.D., this dynasty was interrupted by one of its royal family, Wu Zetian, reigning as the only official female Empress in Chinese history. Succeeded by the 5 Dynasties and 10 Kingdoms Period, famous poets Li Bai and Du Fu wrote during it:
ANSWER: Tang [Tahng, or Tung] Dynasty

[10] Born into poverty in Anhui province, this man, who ruled China from 1368 to 1398 has a regnal name meaning "vastly martial." Allied with the Red Turbans and the White Lotus Society, he overthrew the Mongol Yuan Dynasty and established the Ming Dynasty:
ANSWER: Hongwu Emperor (or Zhu Yuanzhang or Taizu of Ming Emperor)

[10] After the abdication of Puyi, the last Qing emperor of China, this General and second President of the Republic of China declared himself "Great Emperor of China." Although he renounced imperial ambition and died in 1916 from uremia, the revolt against him in various regions threw China into disarray:
ANSWER: Yuan Shikai (or Weiting or Rong'an or Yuan Xiangcheng)

3. One character in this film is called "shameless," to which he responds that he has indeed sometimes been described as "shamanesque." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 2010 film, shot and set in Toronto, that features Chilly Gonzales as Hershell, a chessplayer competing for the Canadian championship who is attempting to replace chess with the non-competitive "Jazz Chess," as he competes against his brother Thadeus, played by Tiga:
ANSWER: Ivory Tower

[10] Cameoing as the camerawoman for the Canadian Chess Cyber-Channel, this artist of the single "1234" also had a hand in the soundtrack. This 2008 Juno Album of the Year winner for The Reminder is also a member of the band Broken Social Scene:
ANSWER: Leslie Feist

[10] This Canadian electroclash singer of the albums Impeach My Bush and I Feel Cream plays Hershell's love interest and violin installation artist Marcia Thirteen in Ivory Tower. This 44 year old alternative musician, who had guest vocals on a song on Christina Aguilera's album Bionic, is notorious for profane lyrics and titles:
ANSWER: Peaches (or Merrill Beth Nisker; discuss the album "Fatherfucker" with non-vulnerable participants)

4. Answer the following questions about the short stories of Nathaniel Hawthorne, for 10 points each:
[10] The title character of this short story leaves Puritan Salem at nightfall, after which he encounters a Satanic ritual in the woods, along with his wife Faith, and is nearly initiated into the rites. Although he resists and the scene vanishes, he becomes pessimistic and distrustful, so that the end of the story notes, "his dying hour was gloom":
ANSWER: "Young Goodman Brown"

[10] In this short story, the titular document shows that the title character, writing in New England in 1845, has an alternate self in an alternate 1845, where he visits England and discovers historical events have unfolded differently (although the character of Queen Victoria is unchanged between the timelines). Lord Byron is a fat conservative who is re-writing a censored version of his poetry, while the atheist Percy Shelley is now a devout Christian:
ANSWER: "P.'s Correspondence"

[10] Both "Young Goodman Brown" and "P.'s Correspondence" appear in this 1846 collection, which also contains "The Birth-Mark" and "Rappaccini's Daughter." The titular edifice refers to a house where Hawthorne spent the first 3 years of his married life, and Melville wrote a review titled for Hawthorne and the title vegetation:
ANSWER: Mosses from an Old Manse (Melville's title is "Hawthorne and his Mosses")

5. Answer the following on problems from physics, for 10 points each:
[10] This thought experiment in special relativity, the basic nature of which was first discussed by Einstein, has a space traveler leave Earth at approximately the speed of light, returning home having been exposed to less time than a younger relative, and thus being younger than that relative:
ANSWER: The Twin Paradox

[10] First discussed publically in its namesake's work Theory of Heat, this entity named by Lord Kelvin measures gas molecules, segregating hot and cold molecules mechanically to thwart the Second Law of Thermodynamics:
ANSWER: Maxwell's Demon

[10] Named for a co-winner of the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physics, this thought experiment on the Quantum mind/body problem envisions its creator leaving an acquaintance who is performing the Schrodinger's Cat experiment; the thought experiment questions whether the protagonist splits into two possible selves when hearing the result of the experiment, or when the experiment's result is actually ascertained:
ANSWER: Wigner's Friend (Yeah, I don't really get it either)

6. Mount Chimborazo, quiet and tranquil under snow, looms in the distance of this painting, which since 1909 has been in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. For 10 points each:

[10] Identify this painting, featuring the artist's signature in a tree on the left, a spray of blue flowers on the right, and a magnificent waterfall in the bottom centre of the work. Mark Twain wrote that "you will never get tired of looking at the picture," while the artist's trip to South America was financed by Cyrus West Field:
ANSWER: Heart of the Andes

[10] Heart of the Andes is by this Hudson River School painter of Niagara, Cotopaxi, and the Smithsonian American Art Museum's Aurora Borealis. The pupil of Thomas Cole, he taught William James Stillman as his first pupil:
ANSWER: Frederic Edwin Church

[10] Church's teacher Thomas Cole is depicted with his friend William Cullen Bryant in this work by Asher Durand. Set in the Catskills, it was bought by a Wal-Mart heiress in 2005 for $35 million, a record for an American-painted work, although it is due to be displayed at a Bentonville art museum in November 2011:
ANSWER: Kindred Spirits 

7. Get a reaction from the other team when you answer the following on organic chemistry reactions, for 10 points each:
[10] Winning its eponymous discoverers the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1950, this "Mona Lisa" of organic chemical reactions creates a cyclohexene ring from the cycloaddition between a conjugated diene and a substituted alkene, using little energy but creating a very useful product:
ANSWER: Diels-Alder Reaction

[10] Potentially modified by the Huang Minlon modification, this doubly eponymous reaction fully reduces either a ketone or aldehyde to an alkane. The first studied example heated hydrazine and sodium ethoxide in a sealed container at 180 degrees Celsius, while diethylene glycol is the usual solvent:
ANSWER: Wolff-Kishner Reduction

[10] First published in 1895, this thermodynamically-controlled process refluxes a carboxylic acid and alcohol (usually a primary or secondary alkyl) with an acid catalyst such as sulphuric acid, tosic acid, or a Lewis acid. The yield of the finished product, such as butyl acetate, can be increased by accounting for Le Chatelier's principle:
ANSWER: Fischer-Speier Esterification

8. This packet writer fails to see how Pokémon differs in theory from cock or dog-fighting. For 10 points each, answer the following about this adorable bloodsport:
[10] Number 4 in the Pokedex, this reddish lizard has a flame spouting from its tail, and has the ability to use flamethrower. In the animated series, Ash's pokemon of this type was originally owned by a trainer named Damien:
ANSWER: Charmander (or Hitokage) 

[10] Number 242, it evolves from Chansey and gives an egg to anything which is feeling sad, causing it to become euphoric and easily managed. This female-only often assists Nurse Joy in pokemon centres:
ANSWER: Blissey (or Happinas or Hapinasu)

[10] #150, in Pokemon Red and Blue, research notes in a ruined facility on Cinnabar Island alert the player to the existence of this pokemon. This genetically-engineered pokemon has the ability to fly through telekinesis and can speak through telepathy, but aims to conquer the world:
ANSWER: Mewtwo (or Myutsu)

9. You are now trekking with quizbowl enthusiast and virulent anti-invasive-species-of-the-Carolinian-forest-region-of-Ontario guru Andrew Almas. Survive Andrew's rants on said species, for 10 points each:
[10] Oh no! Your day is ruined as Andrew discovers a dead tree of genus Fraxinus, likely caused by this 8.5 millimetre long green insect of genus Agrilus, which has killed at least 50-100 million trees since its introduction in the 1990s; its larvae uses its title ability to eat the phloem and cambium of the tree:
ANSWER: Emerald Ash Borer (or Agrilus Planipennis)

[10] Andrew is restored by the appearance of a native Pileated Woodpecker and Cucumber Magnolia, but the sight of the "Crimson King" cultivar of these non-native Maple trees, characterized by white sap in the petiole, often planted in urban areas, banned in New Hampshire and Massachusetts and named after a European country, causes his to try to rip it out of the ground with his bare hands (which succeeds):
ANSWER: Norway Maple (or Acer Platanoides)

[10] To try and relax, you and Andrew take a swim in the nearby lake (mind the common snapping turtles!). Unfortunately, this also ends in Andrew pointing out this small euryhaline fish native to the Black and Caspian seas, invasive to the Great Lakes, which predates on native fish eggs, as well as creating bioaccumulation concerns by feeding on zebra and quagga mussels. Now comprising up to 90% of the Lake Erie watersnake's diet, this fish's genus sounds like "neo" and "ius" added to its common name:
ANSWER: Round Goby (or Neogobius melanostomus)
  
10. Answer the following about the Canadian Football League, for 10 points each:
[10] This quarterback, who played for the CFL's Edmonton Eskimos, Ottawa Rough Riders, Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Memphis Mad Dogs, B.C. Lions and who retired as a Toronto Argonaut in 2008, holds the pro football passing yards record (of any league) with 72, 381. He also won the Grey Cup 4 times, and was 3 times Grey Cup MVP:
ANSWER: Damon Allen

[10] This team, playing in Canad Inns Stadium and with mascots Buzz and Boomer, was the first CFL team not located in Ontario or Quebec to win a Grey Cup. With 10 Grey Cups wins, they are 3rd overall for CFL teams in Grey Cups, although they have not won one since 1990:
ANSWER: Winnipeg Blue Bombers (Accept Either)

[10] Appointed in May 2010 to the Canadian Senate, this man currently owns both the Toronto Argonauts and B.C. Lions, raising questions of collusion in the CFL. He is also the namesake of McMaster University's Athletic Centre:
ANSWER: David Braley

11. On October 26th of this year, the Erie Canal opened, providing passage from Albany to Buffalo, and to Lake Erie. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this year in which John Quincy Adams won the American Presidency over Andrew Jackson in an election in the House of Representatives after allegedly making a "corrupt bargain" with Henry Clay, whom Adams then made Secretary of State:
ANSWER: 1825 (the general election was in 1824, but Adams defeated Jackson on the first ballot in 1825)

[10] George Pickett was born January 25, 1825, while A.P. Hill was born November 9. Pickett is famous for his charge at Gettysburg, while Hill, a subordinate of Stonewall Jackson, was killed in the "siege" of this Virginia location, just 7 days before the Confederacy surrendered:
ANSWER: Petersburg, Virginia

[10] Also in 1825, this Russian revolt occurred in favour of Constantine, the elder son of Alexander I. Nicholas I crushed this rebellion and ascended the throne, but no before creating a name for a band to battle Stephen Colbert:
ANSWER: The Decembrist Revolt

12. Identify the following Greek pre-Socratic philosophers, for 10 points each:
[10] This Sicilian Greek philosopher of the works Purifications and On Nature proposed that no matter could be created or destroyed, just mediated through the forces of love and strife. He is alleged to have jumped into Mount Etna:
ANSWER: Empedocles 

[10] This student of Parmenides devised logical paradoxes known as "the stadium" and "Achilles and the tortoise," purporting to show that all movement was impossible.  Aristotle credited him with inventing the dialectic:
ANSWER: Zeno of Elea

[10] This Milesian pupil of Thales argued that apeiron, or the indefinite, was the fundamental essence of all matter. This philosopher, to whom both a work called On Fixed Bodies and the first map of the world are attributed, only directly survives in one fragment quoted by Simplicius:
ANSWER: Anaximander (or Anaximandros)

13. For 10 points each, answer the following about the still-evolving Arab Spring/Summer:
[10] Formed in February 2011 and chaired by Mustafa Abdul Jalil, this Benghazi-based opposition group to Muammar Gaddhafi controls approximately half the country in Libya's ongoing civil war:
ANSWER: National Transitional Council of the Libyan Republic (or Al-majlis al-wa?an? al-'intiq?l? or Interim National Council or Libyan National Council)

[10] This King of Bahrain from Valentine's Day 2002 (previously he had been Emir of Bahrain) seems to have weathered calls for a regime change, although he declined an invitation to Kate and Prince William's wedding based on British planned protests of his violent conduct against Arab Spring demonstrators:
ANSWER: King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa

[10] The fate of this President of Yemen, badly burned in a June 2011 assassination attempt, is less clear. A July 7 speech appeared to accept power-sharing, but he has still refused to step down, amid defections from his government and military, weakening the country, and political clashes in Sana'a leaving at least 5 people dead.  He has ruled Yemen (at the start, divided into North and South, when he ruled the North) since 1978:
ANSWER: Ali Abdullah Saleh

14. Use your calculation skills to determine these notable economists, all of whom should probably be working on the economic meltdown, for the stated number of points:
[5,5] For five points each, name these two authors of Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything. One is a University of Chicago economist and founder of "The Greatest Good" consulting company, while the other is a journalist and frequent contributor to the New York Times Magazine, who has also authored the children's book The Boy With Two Belly-Buttons:
ANSWER: Stephen Levitt and Steven J. Dubner  

[10]Ok, so he can't advise on the current crisis 'cause he died in 1992, but this author of The Road to Serfdom and The Constitution of Liberty shared the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics with Gunnar Myrdal in 1974. Of the prize's existence he said "I would decidedly have advised against it" because "the Nobel Prize confers on an individual an authority which in economics no man ought to possess...the influence of the economist that mainly matters is an influence over laymen":
ANSWER: Friedrich August von Hayek

[10] Still writing and alive past his 100th birthday, this influential Anglo-American law and economics author of the works The Nature of the Firm, The Problem of Social Cost, and The Lighthouse in Economics received the 1991 Nobel Memorial in Economics. Associated with his namesake "China Society" to study Chinese economics, he is the source of the witticism, "if you torture the data long enough, it will confess":
ANSWER: Ronald Harry Coase

15. The protagonist of this work personally kills Ikemefuna, a boy under his protection whom the village elders argue must be killed. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1958 work of Chinua Achebe, focussing on the wrestler Okonkwo and his unsuccessful and ultimately fatal adaptation to foreign colonial rule in West Africa:
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart

[10]This 1966 Achebe novel follows the teacher Odili Samalu as he opposes the titular government minister Chief Nanga, partly because Nanga seduces Odili's girlfriend. Ending with a coup against the government, a real-life coup in Nigeria at the time put Achebe under suspicion, indirectly causing his pregnant wife to miscarry:
ANSWER: A Man of the People

[10] No bonus on African literature would be complete without a mention of this author of The Lion and the Jewel, Kongi's Harvest and Death and the King's Horseman, a Nigerian who won the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature. He holds professorships at UNLV and Loyola Marymount University in the U.S.:
ANSWER: Akinwande Oluwole "Wole" Soyinka

16. Sometimes things just go quite wrong in developed cities. For 10 points each, identify these 2011 riots:
[10] Caused by the Game Seven 4-0 defeat this city's team suffered at the hands of the Boston Bruins, a riot broke out here on June 15, 2011; at least the picture of the kissing couple was cool:
ANSWER: Vancouver

[10]An April 13 riot broke out in this Eastern federal-government-ruled Chinese city's Sonjiang District after 8 urban officers attacked a migrant worker. Four police motorcycles were set on fire and a police car was flipped by a crowd of about 2,000 people, resulting in about 10 arrests: 
ANSWER: Shanghai

[10] For your edification, there were also Catholic-Protestant riots in Northern Ireland in June and July 2011. However, your packet writer prefers to ask about this American evangelical's prediction that the world would end May 21, 2011, which he found to be a "laugh riot." Apparently the joke will now be on us on October 21:
ANSWER: Harold Egbert Camping

17. For 10 points each, answer the following questions on Norse mythology:
[10] This mother of Thrud by her husband Thor was known for her golden hair; when Loki stole it, Thor forced him to get replacement hair; the mission also yielded the ship Skidbladnir. Loki claims in the Lokasenna to have had an affair with her, and is thus possibly the father of Ullr, Thor's step-son: 
ANSWER: Sif

[10] This owner of the necklace Bringsamen and the mother of Hnoss and Gersemi is associated with love and rides in a chariot drawn by two cats; with her brother, whose name etymologically means "Lord," she is a member of the Vanir:
ANSWER: Freyja (Prompt on "Lady")

[10] Bringing the trilogy of bad-ass Norse women to a conclusion is this mother of Fenrir, Jormungandr the Midgard Serpent, and Hel. This giantess and wife of Loki has an Old Norse name meaning "she who brings grief":
ANSWER: Angrboda

18. This time, Andrew Almas, our intrepid guide, is leading us on an adventure across Canada, a la Cross Country Canada. Here we go!
[10] Andrew first takes us to this highest point in Ontario, located in Lady Evelyn-Smoothwater Provincial Park 90 kilometres North of Sudbury. Andrew knows (because this packet writer told him) that its name is based on the same Ojibwe word of a prominent Toronto street which almost became an expressway:
ANSWER: Ishpatina Ridge (the street is Spadina)

[10] Andrew next travels to this second largest municipality of the Northwest Territories, located on Great Slave Lake, looking for qivut, or musk-ox wool. He is disappointed to learn that this community, named after a water-way, is known as the "Hub of the North" but only has about 3,600 people:
ANSWER: Hay River (or Xátå'odehchee)

[10] Exhausted by all the non-covered-bridges he's seen across Canada, Andrew instinctively heads for this Canadian province, home to the World's Longest Covered Bridge over the Saint John River. Other sites in this province include Hopewell Rocks, Reversing Falls and Magnetic Hill:
ANSWER: New Brunswick (or Nouveau Brunswick) 

19. The aria "Ah! Mes amis, quel jour de fete!" from this 2-act opera is considered the "Mount Everest of Tenors" for its 9 high Cs in a row. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work in which the title character ends up marrying her lover Tonio, and is the daughter of the Marquise of Berkenfeld. Sulpice is the sergeant of the titular entity:
ANSWER: La fille du régiment (or The Daughter of the Regiment)

[10] The Daughter of the Regiment is an opera by this 19th century Italian composer, who among his 75 operas also wrote Lucia di Lammermoor and The Elixir of Love; he also conducted the premiere of Rossini's Stabat Mater:
ANSWER: Domenico Gaetano Maria Donizetti (Normally known as "Gaetano")

[10] This Italian contemporary of Donizetti's, also a bel canto opera composer, is notable for Norma and The Puritans. A child prodigy who only lived to 34, he was known as "the Swan of Catania":
ANSWER: Vincenzo Salvatore Carmelo Francesco Bellini

20. One section of this work is normally titled "The Millionaire's Dinner Party," and features the freedman Trimalchio. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this work of Roman literature, featuring the adventures of Encolpius and his lover Giton, as Encolpius searches for a way to mollify the god Priapus, whom he has offended:
ANSWER: The Satyricon (Wikipedia tells me to also accept "Satyrica")

[10] The Satyricon was written by this Roman nobleman, Nero's "arbiter of taste," who when ordered to commit suicide by Nero, did so, sending Nero a catalogue of his debaucheries as a post-mortem gift:
ANSWER: Gaius Petronius Arbiter 

[10] Petronius was not the only literary victim of crazy old Nero. Nero had already had Seneca the Younger forced to commit suicide, despite this brilliant satire of Nero's predecessor, mocking the apotheosis of Claudius by imagining him transforming into something quite less than a god:
ANSWER: Apocolocyntosis (divi) Claudii (or The Pumpkinification of (the divine) Claudius)

21. Answer the following about African battles, for 10 points each:
[10] This 1591 battle saw a massively-outnumbered Moroccan force under Judar Pasha defeat Askia Ishaq II, in part due to Moroccan firearms and their effect of stampeding cattle to the rear of Ishaq's army. This battle led to the overthrow of the Songhai Empire:
ANSWER: Battle of Tondibi

[10] Fought in October 1917, this battle in German East Africa was a victory for Paul Erich von Lettow-Vorbeck over British commander Jacob van Deventer, but although the Germans 500-600 men compared to 2,700 British casualties, it was a pyrrhic victory and forced the German forces to invade Portuguese territories in search of supplies:
ANSWER: Battle of Mahiwa

[10] Two battles were fought in this Egyptian location during 1942; the first, a victory for Claude Auchinleck, stopped the Nazi advance into Egypt and specifically to Alexandria, while the second, a decisive victory for Bernard Montgomery over Erwin Rommel, forced the Nazi line back to Tunisia. Of the second battle, Churchill stated that it was "not the end," "not even the beginning of the end, but it is perhaps, the end of the beginning":
ANSWER: El Alamein

22. Answer the following about politically precarious geographic zones, for 10 points each:
[10] Featuring prominently in the "Toyota War," so-called because of the vehicles used to supply the victorious side, name this potentially uranium-rich strip of land between Libya and Chad, in dispute based on French and Italian colonial treaties and ambitions passed on to native states. It also began a conflict starting in 1973:
ANSWER: Aozou Strip  

[10] This narrow strip of Namibian territory, named for a former German chancellor, borders Botswana to the South and Angola and Zambia to the North. Politically volatile, including harbouring a namesake "Liberation Army," a boundary dispute regarding its south was finally adjudicated by the International Court of Justice in favour of Botswana:
ANSWER: Caprivi Strip (or Caprivizipfel or Okavango Strip or Clear Knowledge Equivalents)

[10] While most of this area just North of Iran and contested between Armenia and Azerbaijan is a de facto independent but unrecognized republic with capital at Stepanakert, both nations maintain troops here and tensions remain high; at least 12 soldiers were killed in the region in 2010:
ANSWER: Nagorno-Karabakh


BONUS ANSWERS FOR BONUS #1

ANSWER: PT Garuda Indonesia (Persero) Tbk

ANSWER: Aer Lingus Group Plc

ANSWER: Royal Jordanian Airlines (or  al-Malakiyah al-Orduniyah)


