VETO 2005 packet

Questions by UWO Alumni (Jonathan Altman, Adam Bishop, Matt Trudgen)

Tossups

1. Discovered in 1869, a process for transplanting their cells is known as the "Edmonton Protocol." They are made up of alpha cells, producing glucagons, delta cells producing somatostatin, and PP cells and D-1 cells. The majority of the cells in them are beta cells, producing insulin. For ten points, name these endocrine tissues of the pancreas.
Answer: Islets of Langerhans

2. The Battle of Artemisium took place simultaneously with this battle. Ephialtes deserted the Greeks and told the enemy of an alternate route around the pass. Most of the army retreated when Xerxes advanced, but a few hundred men remained behind until they were all killed.  For ten points, name this 480 BC battle where Leonidas attempted to delay the Persians at a small pass in the north of Greece. 
Answer: Thermopylae 

3. It is written as a series of letters from the title character to her parents.  In the second part of the novel the heroine has married her master and she adapts to upper-class life, while in the first part she works as a maid and continually rejects her master, Mr. B, until he offers a proper marriage. For ten points, name this 1740 work by Samuel Richardson. 
Answer: Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded

4. Home to hawberries and the Mounted Animal Nature Trail, the Jesuits called it Ile de Sainte-Marie and its native Ojibwa name means "spirit island."  Geologically, it is a continuation of the Bruce Peninsula and Niagara Peninsula, and separates Lake Huron from the North Channel and Georgian Bay. For ten points, name this largest freshwater island in the world.
Answer: Manitoulin Island

5. Marina Bai has sued for $300 million, claiming it has affected her astrological readings. One of its goals was to determine the composition of material that has existed untouched since the formation of the solar system. For ten points, name this probe whose "Smart Impactor" section crashed into Comet Tempel 1 on July 4. 
Answer: Deep Impact

6. They were first directly detected in 1956 by Frederick Reines and Clyde L. Cowan. They are emitted when a pion decays into a muon, as well as in the decays of a number of other elementary particles.  Their three "flavours" are electron, muon, and tau. For ten points, name this elementary particle with no electric charge and a zero mass, Italian for "little neutral."
Answer: neutrino

7. The protagonist, Tom, inherits his father's wealth, and then wastes it all on gambling and prostitutes. He abandons Sarah Young and their child to marry a wealthy old heiress, but loses that fortune as well, and is taken to Fleet prison and then finally Bedlam asylum.  For ten points, name this series of eight engravings by William Hogarth.
Answer: A Rake's Progress (accept simply Rake's Progress, but do not accept The Rake's Progress, the operatic version)

8. He was killed by a crossbow bolt at Chalus castle. A few years previously he had been ransomed from the emperor for 100 000 pounds, after being taken captive by Leopold of Austria. A few years prior to that, after the death of his elder brother Henry the Young King, he succeeded their father Henry II in 1189. For ten points, name this English king, who led the Third Crusade and was succeeded by his brother John. 
Answer: Richard I or Richard Lionheart or Richard Coeur de Lion

9. According to Hesiod she was transformed into the goddess Hecate. Her father boasted that he was a better hunter than Artemis; Artemis then prevented the Greek fleet from sailing to Troy from Aulis. Calchas prophesized that she would have to be sacrificed to appease the goddess, but Artemis saves her and brings her to Tauris. For ten points, name this woman, a daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra and sister of Electra and Orestes.
Answer: Iphigenia or Iphigeneia or Iphimedeia or Iphianassa

10. There has been support for it in Belgium and Canada, as they border on countries with stronger currencies. The man who suggested it won the 1981 Nobel Prize in economics. The tax rate would be low, as little as 1% or lower, and would attempt to dissuade speculation. For ten points, name this type of tax on cross-border currency trading.
Answer: Tobin tax

11. The title character moves to Chicago to live with relatives, and becomes the mistress of Charlie Drouet, a salesman. She then has an affair with the wealthy George Hurstwood, a saloon manager who divorces his wife to marry her. The couple flee to New York, but she leaves him and he loses his fortune and kills himself.  She ends up as a famous actress.  For ten points, name this Theodore Dreiser novel about Caroline Meeber.
Answer: Sister Carrie

12. He realized rock strata could be divided by the types of shells found in them, and divided the Tertiary period into three parts. He also championed James Hutton's theory of uniformitarianism in his three-volume Principles of Geology.  For ten points, name this British geologist who facilitated widespread acceptance of Darwin's theory of evolution.
Answer: Charles Lyell

13. Other settlements here include La Condamine and Fontvielle.  Its name derives from the name of an ancient Greek colony on the site meaning "one house."  It became independent of Genoa in 1297 and is currently ruled by Albert II. Located 18 km east of Nice, France, for ten points, name this Mediterranean principality centred on Monte Carlo.
Answer: Monaco

14. In 2005 CNNSI.com labeled him the great draft bust of all time in his league. After a great college career at Kentucky, he had a 10-year, injury plagued career where he averaged 10.9 points and 7.5 rebounds per game in 511 games for Portland, New Jersey and the LA Lakers. For ten points, name this player who was drafted second overall, one spot ahead of Michael Jordan in 1984 NBA draft. 
Answer: Sam Bowie

15. During his long political career he signed the Declaration of Independence, and served as Governor of Massachusetts from 1810 to 1812, and then vice president under James Madison from 1812 to 1814. For ten points, name this man who gave his name to the practice of changing a political district to benefit the interests of one political party or candidate.
Answer: Elbridge Gerry

16. He was born in Aradan in 1956, the son of a blacksmith, and has a PhD in traffic engineering. His platform for the presidential election included giving oil profits to the poor and breaking off relations with the west.  He was a member of the Revolutionary Guard Corps and may have been involved in the 1979 hostage crisis.  For ten points, name this former mayor of Tehran, elected president of Iran in June, 2005. 
Answer: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad or Ahmadinezhad

17. His Funeral March of a Marionette was used as the theme for Alfred Hitchcock Presents.  In 1839 his cantata Ferdinand won the Prix de Rome.  His Ave Maria was derived from Bach's 1st Prelude from the Well-Tempered Clavier. His first opera was 1851's Sapho, and in 1867 he produced Romeo et Juliette.  For ten points, name this composer, who produced Faust in 1859.
Answer: Charles Gounod

18. Discovered by Michael Faraday, its pi molecular orbitals lead to resonance structures with alternating carbon-carbon double bonds. It can be produced from incomplete combustion, formerly of coal and currently mostly from petrochemicals. It is used mostly to make other chemicals, and is also an additive in gasoline. For ten points, name this aromatic hydrocarbon, of the structure C6H6. 
Answer: Benzene

19. During his first term he established numerous forts, including a namesake fort in what is now Kingston, Ontario. In 1682 he was recalled after a dispute with Bishop Laval over relations with Native Americans, but he returned in 1689 and defended Quebec against the English in 1696. That year he also led an invasion of Iroquois territory.  For ten points, name this Governor of New France, for whom a Chateau in Quebec City is named. 
Answer: Louis de Buade, comte de Palluau et de Frontenac

20. She committed suicide in 1987 while suffering from lung cancer.  She lived in Somalia and Ghana in the 1950s, and her works often depict African life, such as her first novel This Side Jordan. In 1967 she won the Governor General's Award for A Jest of God. For ten points, name this Manitoba-born author of The Stone Angel and the Diviners.
Answer: Margaret Laurence

21. The first in 1123 addressed the investiture controversy, and condemned simony. The second in 1139 excommunicated Roger II of Sicily and banished Arnold of Brescia. The third in 1179 discussed the Cathar and Waldensian heresies. The largest, the fourth in the 1215, discussed a new crusade and proclaimed special clothing for Jews. The fifth took place from 1512 to 1517 prior to the Reformation. For ten points, name these ecumenical councils, named after the papal palace in Rome where they were held. 
Answer: Lateran councils

22. They most likely developed in southeastern China before spreading to Taiwan, where nine of the ten subgroups are located. The tenth, the Malayo-Polynesian group, has the widest distribution of any language family, spreading from Madagascar to Easter Island. For ten points, name this group of languages, named after the Latin and Greek words for "southern islands."
Answer: Austronesian languages

23. Other users of this symbol include the Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the city of Augsburg, the Spanish Bourbons, and the Boy Scouts. This heraldric symbol was adopted by King Philip I of France in the 11th century and became the main symbol of the French monarchy. For ten points, name this symbol, which is part of the Quebec Provincial Flag that was adopted in 1948.
Answer: fleur-de-lis or fleur-de-lys

24. He wrote biographies of Dante Gabriel Rossetti and St. Edmund Campion, and is know for his satire and travel litertature.  Other works include Scoop, Put out More Flags, the Sword of Honour trilogy, and his first book, 1927's Decline and Fall.  For ten points, name this author, whose most famous work was 1945's Brideshead Revisited.
Answer: Evelyn Waugh 


Bonuses

1. For the stated number of points, given the title of a composer's 6th Symphony, give the composer.
a. (5) Composed in 1808, in F major, titled the Pastoral.
Answer: Ludwig van Beethoven
b. (10) Composed between 1903 and 1905, in A minor, titled the Tragic.
Answer: Gustav Mahler
c. (15) The composer's final symphony, composed in 1893, in B minor, titled Pathetique.
Answer: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky

2. For ten points each identify these terms relating to agriculture.
a. Ditch, trickle, wheel line, and center point are all forms of this, which provides water from distant sources to grow crops.
Answer: irrigation
b. This type of agriculture provides enough food only for the people growing it. 
Answer: subsistence agriculture or subsistence farming
c. This term refers to growing plants entirely in water, without the use of soil.
Answer: hydroponics

3. For ten points each answer these questions about a play.
a. The title character of this play is married to Tesman, and must deal with a visit from her former lover, an alcoholic writer.
Answer: Hedda Gabler
b. This is the name of Hedda's former lover, whose manuscript Hedda burns and encourages him to kill himself.
Answer: Eilert Lovborg
c. Hedda Gabler was written by this Norwegian author.
Answer: Henrik Ibsen

4. For ten points each identify these rivers in Africa.
a. This river forms the border between South Africa and Zimbabwe, and flows into the Indian Ocean in Mozambique.
Answer: Limpopo
b. About 1600 km long, it flows through Burkina Faso and Ghana into the Gulf of Guinea.
Answer: Volta
c. This river forms the border between Zaire and the Central African Republic, and flows into the Congo river.
Answer: Ubangi or Oubangui

5. For ten points each answer these questions about the history of Ethiopia.
a. Ethiopia was supposedly founded by this king, son of Solomon and the Queen of Sheba.
Answer: Menelik I
b. This kingdom was one of the first to convert to Christianity. The Ark of the Covenant was supposedly moved to its namesake capital.
Answer: Axum or Aksum
c. Ethiopia defeated Italy in this 1896 battle, ending the First Italo-Abyssinian War.
Answer: Battle of Adowa or Adwa or Adua

6. For ten points each identify these independent members of the House of Commons.
a. This MP from Surrey North was the deciding vote to pass the budget in May. He died on July 9.
Answer: Chuck Cadman
b. Representing Mississauga Erindale, she famously called Americans "bastards" and stomped on a doll of George W. Bush, leading to her expulsion from the Liberal caucus.
Answer: Carolyn Parrish
c. This man, who represents London Fanshawe, has long been seen as a right-leaning Liberal, and left the Liberal caucus in June over his opposition to the same-sex marriage bill. 
Answer: Pat O'Brien

7. For ten points each name these Chinese deities. 
a. He is said to have invented medicine, and is considered the ancestor of all Chinese people. His name means "yellow emperor." 
Answer: Huang Di
b. She is the wife of Hou Yi, and is the Chinese goddess of the moon.
Answer: Chang-E or Chang'e or Ch'ang-O or Heng-E or Heng-O
c. He is the monkey king and the protagonist of Journey to the West.
Answer: Sun Wukong or Sun Wu-kung

8. For ten points each identify these biological families. 
a. This family includes ducks, and other waterfowl such as swans and geese.
Answer: Anatidae
b. This family includes the "great apes" - humans, chimpanzees, gorillas, and orangutans.
Answer: Homonidae
c. This family consists of southeast Asian and African snakes, and is sometimes considered a subfamily of Boidae. 
Answer: Pythonidae

9. Gerald Bull is probably the most infamous Canadian scientist of the 20th Century. His murder in 1990 is still unsolved. For ten points each, answer these questions about Bull's life and work?
a. In 1979, Bull was sent to prison for violating the Arms Embargo of what country?
 Answer: South Africa
 b. Bull is most notorious for building a "Supergun" for this ruler.
Answer: Saddam Hussein
c. While no one is certain, it is widely suspected that this Israeli intelligence service carried out the assignation.
Answer: Mossad

10. For ten points each identify these indie bands from Montreal. 
a. They have recently found success with the album Funeral, including radio play for "Neighbourhood #3" and "Rebellion (Lies)". 
Answer: The Arcade Fire
b. This group is somewhat of an indie "supergroup", as it includes members of Stars, Metric, and Feist. They won the Alternative Album of the Year Juno in 2003.
Answer: Broken Social Scene
c. Centred around Murray Lightburn, they have released End of a Hollywood Bedtime Story, and No Cities Left, as well as a number of EPs.
Answer: The Dears

11. Name these forms of Japanese poetry for the stated number of points. 
a. (5) It consists of three lines of 5, 7, and 5 syllables.
Answer: Haiku
b. (10) Literally meaning "short poem", it consists of five lines, the first three of 5, 7, and 5 syllables like a haiku, and the last two of 7 syllables each.
Answer: Tanka
c. (15) This is a form of collaborative poetry, with alternate stanzas of 5-7-5 syllables and 7-7 syllables, and can go on for dozens of stanzas.
Answer: Renga

12. Name the political theorist from a quote, for the stated number of points. 
a. (5 points) "Man was born free and everywhere is in chains."
Answer: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
b. (10 points) "In this country [England] it is thought well to kill an admiral from time to time to encourage the others."
 Answer: Voltaire or François-Marie Arouet
c. (15 points) "Property is theft."
Answer: Pierre-Joseph Proudhon

13. For ten points each, name these Canadian political crises.
a. This 1873 scandal caused John A. Macdonald to resign when it was discovered that his government had been taking bribes for the construction of the transcontinental railway.
Answer: Pacific Scandal
b. This crisis of the 1890s developed over opposition to Catholic and French education in Canada's fifth province. 
Answer: Manitoba Schools Question
c. This crisis developed after mostly French-Canadian opposition to the Military Service Act of 1917. Riots broke out in Quebec when the Act was implemented in 1918.
Answer: Conscription Crisis

14. Recently the announcement was made on which city was awarded the 2012 Summer Games 
a. 5 points for 2, 10 points for 3, 15 points for 4, and 20 points for all 5, what were the five cities that were finalists for the 2012 Olympic Summer Games 
Answer: London, Paris, Madrid, New York, and Moscow
b. For five points, when was the last time the Olympics were held in Britain? 
Answer: 1948
c. For five points, the announcement was made by this President of the IOC.
Answer: Jacques Rogge

15. For fifteen points each identify the political pundit given a title of one of their books, or for five points given a second book. 
a. (15 points) How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must) 
(5 points) Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism 
Answer: Ann Coulter
b. (15 points) Oh, the Things I Know! A Guide to Success, or Failing That, Happiness
(5 points) Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them: A Fair and Balanced Look at the Right
Answer: Al Franken

16. For ten points each identify these disputed territories.
a. Along with Melilla and Perejil, this Spanish enclave is claimed by Morocco, and is an entry point for illegal immigrants into Spain.
Answer: Ceuta
b. Like Sakhalin, these islands, formerly home to the Ainu, are disputed between Russia and Japan.
Answer: Kurile Islands or Chishima Islands
c. This small uninhabited Arctic island is disputed between Canada and Denmark, and has recently become a popular criticism of Canadian military spending.
Answer: Hans Island

17. For ten points each answer these questions about the history of atomic theory. 
a. This scientist thought the atom was a positive mass with negative electrons spread throughout it. His model is often known as the Plum Pudding Model or the Raisin Bun Model.
Answer: J.J. Thomson, 
b. Ernest Rutherfold tested Thomson's model in this experiment, firing alpha particles at a certain material and observing the scattering effects. 
Answer: Gold-foil experiment
c. This scientist proposed a model in which a positively charged nucleus is orbited by electrons, similar to the solar system. 
Answer: Niels Bohr

18. For ten points each identify these treaties pertaining to Japan.
a. This 1854 treaty between Matthew Perry and the Shogun opened up Japan to American trade.
Answer: Treaty (or Convention) of Kanagawa
b. This 1895 treaty ended the First Sino-Japanese War, and opened up China to Russian, French, and German interests. 
Answer: Treaty of Shimonoseki
c. This 1905 treaty signed in New Hampshire ended the Russo-Japanese War.
Answer: Treaty of Portsmouth

19. For ten points each identify these sculptures dealing with death from images.
a. Answer: The Dying Gaul
b. Answer: Perseus with the Head of Medusa or Perseus and Medusa or equivalents as long as the two names are mentioned
c. Answer: Pieta

20. For ten points answer these questions about similarly-themed works of fiction.
a. This Willa Cather work is about Father Vallient and Bishop Latour's attempt to establish a Catholic diocese in New Mexico.
Answer: Death Comes for the Archbishop
b. One of the Canterbury Tales, it interrupts the Monk's Tale and is the story of the rooster Chanticleer and the hen Pertelote.
Answer: Nun's Priest's Tale
c. This monk is the protagonist of a series of medieval detective novels by Edith Pargeter, and a number of TV movies based on them, starring Derek Jacobi.
Answer: Cadfael

21. For ten points each identify these synthetic elements of the periodic table. 
a. This was the first element produced artificially, atomic number 43.
Answer: Technetium
b. Atomic number 61, it was first produced as a byproduct of uranium during World War II. 
Answer: Promethium
c. Atomic number 87, it was discovered at the Curie Institute in Paris in 1939.
Answer: Francium

22. For ten points each identify these Christian martyrs. 
a. He was a Roman soldier under Diocletian, but due to his kindness to Christians he was executed with arrows.
Answer: Sebastian 
b. A large monastery on Mt. Sinai is named for her.  She was sentenced to be tortured on a wheel, which broke when she approached it.
Answer: Catherine
c. He was the first martyr, stoned to death for his support for the early Christians.
Answer: Stephen
a. 

b. 





b.      c.
