Commodore Classic I - Ode to the Confederate Memorial Hall
March 25, 2006
Tiebreakers

(Chicago) One of his works features a character named Fitzdottrel, who gives up his estate in hopes of becoming the Duke of Drowndland.  Another of his works was subtitled "The Fountain of Self-Love" and features a portrayal of the author as Crites.  Winwife and Quarlus take Grace Wellborn from her future husband in another of his plays, which features Adam Overdo and was set on August 24, the date of an annual event at Smithfield.  His late works include The Staple of News and The Devil Is an Ass, while his classical works include a 1603 play about the fall of Sejanus.  FTP, name this British dramatist who also wrote The Alchemist and Volpone. 
ANSWER: Ben Jonson

(Frankel) Months after ordering the execution of the proto-communist dissenter Francois Babeuf, it was the target of a purge by Pierre Augereau that saw the overturning of local elections and the removal of Lazare Carnot and Francois de Barthelemy from it on the 18th of Fructidor. With members selected by the Council of 500 and the Council of Ancients, it would fall four years after its creation when Abbe Sieyes gained a seat and initiated the coup of 18 Brumaire. FTP, name this five man governing body that was replaced in 1799 by Napoleon's Consulate and ruled France briefly after the end of the Revolution. 
ANSWER: The Directory or Directoire

(Vanderbilt) During development, they diffuse to the aleurone layer, where they begin a series of events that produce enzymes to digest proteins and starch. There are over 80 known examples, but only A1 is known to exert their most well-known effect. They can be used in brewing to enhance the "malting" of barley, and they are used to grow seedless grapes to the same size as seeded ones. In biennials, they cause bolting of the shoot, and they can also promote seed germination. FTP name this class of plant hormones known for its role in stem elongation, originally discovered in a fungus causing "foolish seedling" disease.
ANSWER: gibberellins

(Michigan) An engagement of this name included the Battles of Thiepval Ridge, Morval, Flers-Courcelette, and finally Ancre Heights, where the fortress of Beaumont Hamel was captured. The famously photographed Hawthorn Crater represents the first mine to explode at this site, which saw the Australian capture of Pozieres and an initial assault by General Rawlinson's Fourth Army in an attempt to reach Cambrai and Douai. Nearly two years later, a German offensive of the same name, also known as the Battle of San Quentin, aimed to capture Amiens. Initially fought as a response to the Battle of Verdun in July of 1916, FTP, name this site of an Allied offensive of Joffre and Haig, a river in northern France. 
ANSWER:  (First or Second) Battles of the Somme

(Romero) "God's friends and the whole world's enemies" was the shibboleth used by this confederation's principal opponent, the Vitalians. It often took sides in foreign conflicts--during the War of the Cities it supported the Teutonic Knights and supported the Yorkists during the Wars of the Roses. It reached the zenith of its power following the move of its capital to the mouth of the Vistula and the concessions received through the Treaty of Stralsund following its defeat of King Valdemar IV of Denmark. Founded by Henry the Lion and organized under the Law of Lubeck --for 10 points-- name this trading alliance which during the middle ages monopolized Baltic commerce. 
ANSWER: Hansa or Hanseatic League

