Sports----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In 1949, he penned an article for Baseball Digest that laid out the "Ten Commandments of Umpiring."  A former (*) journalist, he had made his name in baseball circles by serving as Babe Ruth's ghostwriter.  It was that connection to the Bambino that perhaps led to his infamous decision in 1961 regarding the single season home run record.  For 10 points-name this third baseball commissioner, namesake of a Hall of Fame broadcasting award.

Answer:	Ford C. Frick

Currently managed by Tony Greer, it was developed in 1968 by IMG.  Tweaked over time and now focusing on just two (*) years, points are counted in a rolling, 52-week cycle, with double points for the current year.  While the four majors are worth fifty points to the winner, values for other tour events are based on how many top 100 players are in the field.  For 10 points-name this sports ranking system currently topped by Tiger Woods.

Answer:	World Golf Rankings

Using a standard 4-3-4 alignment, it is particularly vulnerable between the linebackers and the safeties, especially on play-action passing, and on deep routes (*) beyond the corners.  However, it is primarily used because of its effectiveness against the run and West Coast passing attacks, limiting gains on underneath routes.  For 10 points--name this zone defense scheme, popularized by Monte Kiffin and the Tampa Bay defense.

Answer:	"Cover-2" Zone Defensive Scheme

The last player to throw a touchdown pass in the World Football League, he did so while playing for that league's Hawaiians.  Quarterbacks coach at Stanford from 1979-1983, he is (*) credited with developing John Elway as a passer, working with him again as a Broncos assistant in the mid-1990s.  The 15th head coach in his ex-franchise's history--for 10 points--name this recently canned coach of the New York Giants.

Answer:	Jim Fassel

Name's nearly the same: Both Pennsylvania-based products, one celebrated its 81st anniversary in 2003, in honor of its pure 81 mg weight, with (*) a Casey Kasem-hosted record-setting dance party in Cleveland.  The other began the 2003-04 men's basketball season with a school record 11 straight wins, including a win over Big Five rival Penn.  For 10 points-name these things, both named in honor of the patron saint of craftsmen.

Answer:	Saint Joseph's

For 10 points each-given teams played for and years played, name these NHL legends recently passed for a scoring milestone by Carolina's Ron Francis.

(10)	Points: Detroit, Los Angeles, New York Rangers: 1971-1989
Answer:	Marcel Dionne

(10)	Goals: Chicago: 1958-1980
Answer:	Stan Mikita

(10)	Assists: Edmonton, New York Rangers, Vancouver, New York Rangers: 1979-present
Answer:	Mark Messier

For 10 points each-name these basketball figures from information gleaned from their blog on NBA.com

(10)	This former Duke standout wrote about his extensive, yet progressing, rehab from a catastrophic Chicago-area motorcycle accident.
Answer:	Jayson Williams

(10)	This CBS women's basketball analyst spoke about giving up her first class ticket to Connecticut in order to be able to sit next to her SI writer husband Steve Rushin.
Answer:	Rebecca Lobo

(10)	This former Turner analyst noted his pre-game trepidation on Christmas Day in his return to the broadcast booth for ABC, having plied his trade for past four years as an NBA bench boss.
Answer:	Glenn "Doc" Rivers

Name these personalities associated with SportsNight.  No, not the Aaron Sorkin drama, the original ESPN2 flagship show from 1993.
 
(10)	The opening night intro of SportsNight showed this anchor escaping from Dan Patrick and the Big Show anchor desk and greeting viewers with "Welcome to the end of our careers."
Answer:    Keith Olbermann
 
(10)	She was Olbermann's chief co-anchor, and after a stint at Fox to cover NFL games, she returned to ESPN as an NFL sideline reporter in 2001.
Answer:    Suzy Kolber
 
(10)	Joining Olbermann and Kolber was this long-time Philadelphia radio host who helped launch Fox Sports Radio in 2000 with his "Morning Extravaganza."
Answer:    Tony Bruno

For 10 points each--given clues about a major soccer Cup competitions from 2002-03, name the club that won it.

(10)	The 2003 UEFA Champions League featured the all-Italian final of Juventus against this legendary Italian side, which prevailed.
Answer:	AC Milan or Milan Associazione Calcio s.p.a

(10)	This national side returned to top form in 2003's Confederation Cup, winning as the host nation in a 1-0 result over Cameroon.
Answer:	France

(10)	This London side, with a 1-0 triumph over Southampton United on a Robert Pries goal, retained the FA Cup in 2003, the first repeat winner in over two decades.
Answer:	Arsenal FC

Given "credentials" on a player who keeps getting shut out on Hall of Fame induction, name him, for 10 points each.

(10)	During the 1980s, he led all National Leaguers in runs and hits, tied Mike Schmidt for the most RBI and finished second to Schmidt in home runs. He also was a back-to-back MVP and a five-time Gold Glove winner.
Answer:	Dale Murphy

(10)	Winningest pitcher of the 1980s, a no-hitter, 3 All-Star Game starts, 3 World Series championships, 7 post-season wins, including a 10-inning complete game shutout in Game 7 of the 1991 Series.
Answer:	Jack Morris

(10)	Only two-time MVP not in the Hall, lead the league in RBIs twice, four-time All-Star, three World Series Championships, led the American League in home runs once.
Answer:	Roger Maris

Television------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
While his son was the voice of Frank Grimes on The Simpsons, his voiceover work can be heard as Barnacle Boy (*) on SpongeBob SquarePants.  In live-action series, he can be seen now as Anthony Clark's father on Yes, Dear, but it is for his work as Ensign Charles Parker on McHale's Navy and on The Carol Burnett Show that he earned his comedy stripes.  For 10 points-name this actor, best known as direct-to-video series Dorf.

Answer:	Tim Conway

The final episode of this show featured Dwayne leaving the area to take care his nieces and nephews who were circus orphans, since Ann (*) had left for London in the penultimate episode.  Julie was briefly written out while the actress portraying her was drying out.  Supporting players included Nanette Fabray playing Katharine and Glenn Scarpelli playing Alex, the usual late-in-the-series orphan.  For 10 points--name this CBS series starring Valerie Bertinelli and Bonnie Franklin.

Answer:	One Day at a Time

Lewis is a shy man who likes to collect bugs.  Patriarch Bill was an only child as well, so (*) at least he can sort of relate.  Created by Tom Hertz, he used his family for all of the character names.  Buffy fans will recognize the faces of Richard Riehle as Uncle Dave, Nancy Lenehan as Sandy, Josh Braaten as Chris and Sam Anderson as Bill.  For 10 points--name this TGIF series with Kiele Sanchez and Breckin Meyer as newlyweds who decide to live in Kansas to be near her family.

Answer:	Married to the Kellys

He has a penchant for political guest shots, like Senator Garland on Mister Sterling, Agent Ted Simmons on Season 2 of 24, or as Speaker of the House Haffley (*) on the current season of The West Wing.  Haffley is triple duty for him this year, as he is also doing a recurrent role as Major Hayes on Enterprise as well as his long-time role as Clayton Webb on JAG.  For 10 points--name this "That Guy" actor, whose biggest film role was as Attorney General Robert Kennedy in 2001's Thirteen Days.
 
Answer:	Steven Culp

She started out behind the camera as a producer with ABC News One before becoming a reporter for a Dayton station in 1995.  She quickly moved to the New York CBS station, and became the early morning anchor for the network in 1999.  (*) She can't help but go up, since she is currently dating CBS President Les Moonves and is currently one of the four anchors for The CBS Early Show.  For 10 points--name this news personality and host of Big Brother.

Answer:	Julie Chen

For 10 points each-bam, name these Food Network personalities, none of whom are, bam, Emeril.

(10)	His love of cooking and quirky pop culture led to the development of his show Good Eats, and his first book, I'm Just Here for the Food.
Answer:	Alton Brown

(10)	Despite her burgeoning status as one of the network's sex symbols, this host of 30 Minute Meals still lives in a cabin in the Adirondacks with her pet pit bull Boo.
Answer:	Rachael Ray

(10)	His new series, Happy Days Live, filmed at London's Hammersmith Apollo, gives a peek at this "Naked Chef's" own personal kitchen.
Answer:	Jamie Oliver

Given the November 2003 sweeps stunt, name the game show for 10 each. 

(10)	NASCAR drivers
Answer:	Pyramid

(10)	Blondes Have More Fun Week
Answer:	Hollywood Squares

(10)	Classic TV Week including Todd Bridges, Randolph Mantooth, Sally Struthers, Richard Moll, Lee Meriwhether, Mary McDonough and Gary Coleman.
Answer:	Street Smarts

Given the TV character, give their first word for 10 each.

(10)      Maggie Simpson
Answer:	"Daddy"

(10)      Frederick Crane
Answer:	"Norm"

(10)      Fox Mulder, according to his father
Answer:	"JFK"

Given a brief description, name the fictional lounge singer--for 10 points each.
(10)      Andy Kaufmann's fictional lounge singer.
Answer:	Tony Clifton (accept either)

(10)     Played by James Darrin, he was created from a hologram, programmed to speak in 1962 lounge 
       lingo, and entertained the denizens on Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.
Answer:	Vic Fontaine (accept either)

(10)      Bill Kirchenbauer in a pre-Just the Ten of Us role played this lounge singer on Fernwood 
       Tonight.
Answer:	Tony Roletti (accept either)

Given a middle or high school from a TV series, name the series on a 5-5-10-10 basis.

(5)        Bayside High
Answer:	Saved by the Bell

(5)        Winslow High School
Answer:	Boston Public

(X)      Flat Point High School
Answer:	Strangers With Candy

(X)      Harding High
Answer:	Family Ties
Music----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The song's protagonist starts out clearly describing a state of brokenheartedness that stems from his beloved's departure to become "another alien on Broadway," (*) leaving only his name behind.  At the same time, he is clearly willing to welcome her home, should she fail in her big city adventure.  So much so, that he begins rooting for her to fail, so he can put the pieces back together.  For 10 points-name this 2003 matchbox twenty hit about a love lost to New York.

Answer:	"Bright Lights"

Now when we first met, you promised we'd get, a house on the hill with a pool.  But this trailer stays wet, (*) and we're swimming in debt, now you want me to go back to school.  I bought these new heels, did my nails, had my hair done just right.  I thought this new dress, was a sure bet, for romance tonight.  Well it's perfectly clear, between the TV and beer, I won't get so much as a kiss.  And so what grooming action is questioned--for 10 points--by a 1995 song by Deana Carter.

Answer:	"Did I Shave My Legs for This?"

The chill-out electronica song from Telepopmusik that scored modern rock airplay after being included a Mitsubishi Outlander ad and a CSI episode.  The action Liz Phair (*) was having difficulty with when she asked "Why Can't I?" "whenever I think about you" in her 2003 hit.  With "In", the title of the Paloalto song that became a hit thanks to inclusion on The OC.  All of these songs share--for 10 points--what verb, which also names the second single off Michelle Branch's 2003 Hotel Paper album.

Answer:            "Breathe"

Backed by knowledgeable staff in the late 1940s that included engineer Tom Dowd, arranger Jesse Stone, and producer Jerry Wexler, (*) they became one of the leaders of a new generation independent labels.  Founded in New York in 1947 by Turkish immigrant Ahmet Ertegun, they began as a primarily jazz label known for their namesake sound, they would later branch out to include acts like Led Zeppelin and Dire Straits.  For 10 points--name this record label, the home of Aretha Franklin and Wilson Pickett.

Answer:	Atlantic Records

His first break came as lead guitarist of the Teen Kings.  It was in this group where he caught the attention of Sam Philips, whom invited him to record at Sun, (*) scoring the minor 1956 hit "Ooby Dooby."  After 15 Top 40 hits in the early 1960s, he faded into obscurity until David Lynch revived his "In Dreams" for Blue Velvet, which helped turn 1989's "You Got It" into a Top 10 hit.  For 10 points--name this sunglasses wearing Travelling Wilbury, best known for "O Pretty Woman."

Answer:	Roy Orbison

For 10 points each--name these bass players from descriptions.

(10)	Known for his work with both James Brown's JB's and George Clinton's P-Funk, this bassist may be best known for his appearances in Nike commercials and Deee-lite's "Groove is in the Heart."
Answer:	William "Bootsy" Collins (accept either)

(10)	Nicknamed "Duck," he was a part of the in-house group at Stax Records, but became better known to a wider audience for his work in The Blues Brothers.
Answer:	Donald "Duck" Dunn

(10)	Paul McCartney considered this man his bass hero.  A member of "The Funk Brothers", he created the index finger method of playing known as "The Hook" and is a 2000 inductee into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
Answer:	James Jamerson

Given a cover released as a single in 2003, name the original artist for 5 and the covering artist for 5.

(5/5)	"Feel Like Makin' Love"
Answer:	Original: 	Bad Company
		Cover:		Kid Rock

(5/5)	"The First Cut is the Deepest"
Answer:	Original:	P.P. Arnold or Cat Stevens or Rod Stewart
		Cover:		Sheryl Crow

(5/5)	"Bringin' On the Heartbreak"
Answer:	Original:	Def Leppard
		Cover:		Mariah Carey

Visual Bonus	(see end of packet)
For 10 points each--name the album/movie chain from their combined cover/poster.

(10)	Part A
Answer:	OK Computerms of Endearment

(10)	Part B
Answer:	Rubber Soul Man

(10)	Part C
Answer:	Goodbye Yellow Brick Road House

For 10 points each--show that you're on the side of legal music purchase by naming these pay for music download sites, all of whom use inferior data products.

(10)	Seen by many as the current industry standard, they are teaming with Pepsi to give away 1,000,000 songs in their AAC format during early 2004.
Answer:	Apple's iTunes

(10)	Owned by Real subsidiary Listen.com, at 400,000 songs, this digital music service claims to have the largest library of legal downloadable music.
Answer:	Rhapsody

(10)	Teaming with Dell, who already promoted their jukebox and digital music organizer software, this brand launched in September to mixed review on its interface.
Answer:	MusicMatch

For 10 points each--given two songs which made the Billboard Hot 100 year-end chart for 2003, name the album that both appeared on.

(10)	"Work It" and "Gossip Folks"
Answer:	Under Construction by Missy Elliott

(10)	"Ignition (Remix)" and "Step in the Name of Love"
Answer:	Chocolate Factory by R. Kelly

(10)	"Magic Stick" and "The Jump Off"
Answer:	La Bella Mafia by Lil' Kim

Movies---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The original was based on the autobiographical novel by Frank Gilbreth Jr. and Ernestine Gilbreth Carey and was followed by a 1952 sequel Belles on their Toes, which (*) also starred Clifton Webb as the university lecturer and family patriarch.  The recent remake changes the father's profession to Division football coach, but the chaos created by the gaggle of offspring.  For 10 points--name this 2003 film starring Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt as parents of 12 children.

Answer:	Cheaper by the Dozen

Its stars were the subject of one of the first "stunt" magazine covers, with the stars heads inverted on People (*) based upon where in the U.S. the reader lived.  Its soundtrack was assembled by Robbie Robertson and includes three Robert Palmer tracks and Robertson's hit collaboration with Eric Clapton "It's In the Way That You Use It."  Opening with an explanation of nine-ball by director Martin Scorsese, this is--for 10 points--what 1986 sequel starring Tom Cruise and Paul Newman in his only Academy Award-winning role.

Answer:	The Color of Money

The name's the same.  One made his directing debut with 1995's Heavyweights while the other graduated from Yale Law and founded American Lawyer (*) magazine.  The former was the executive producer of D3: The Mighty Ducks while the other recently published How America Confronted the September 12 Era.  For 10 points - give the common name, one who directed Little Nicky and Mr. Deeds and the other who lent his name to a now-defunct media criticism magazine.

Answer:	Steven Brill

Its first appearance comes on the sandwich board of a fund-raising student trying to raise awareness of the subject's plight.  The final time we see it, it is drawn on a binder cover of a bus-riding student (*) sitting in front of Ed Rooney.  Jeanie notes its largest appearance, on a water tower.  It also makes the marquee at Wrigley as its subject attends a Cubs game with pals Cameron and Sloan.  For 10 points--what is this two-word slogan from a 1986 John Hughes film, rallying Chicago's support for a supposedly dying teenager?

Answer:	Save Ferris

His next slated project is called War Magician, about how British stage magician Jasper Maskelyne outsmarted Rommel through use of prestidigitation.  A noted part of the so-called "Australian (*) New Wave", his work with Robin Williams in Dead Poets' Society and Jim Carrey in The Truman Show earned him a reputation for getting great dramatic performances out of comedic actors.  For 10 points--name this director whose most recent film was 2003's Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World.

Answer:	Peter Weir

For 10 points each--given clues, name these films in which Betty White has a notable supporting role.

(10)	In this 1962 Otto Preminger film about the confirmation process, White cameos as shrewd Kansas Senator Bessie Adams who trounces despicable Senator Van Ackerman in open debate on the Senate floor.
Answer:	Advise and Consent

(10)	In this 1998 Morgan Freeman/Christian Slater bomb, White plays Doreen, the small town Indiana resident who refuses to evacuate her family home in spite of the mounting probability of a flood.
Answer:	Hard Rain

(10)	In this 1999 film, White plays the crazy widow with a penchant for profanity who lives on the shores of the title object and is openly rooting for the eating of the law enforcement agents.
Answer:	Lake Placid

In honor of Mandy Moore's screen turn as First Daughter Anna Foster, for 10 points each--name these actresses who have turned in or will turn in screen turns as the President's daughter.

(10)	In the 1980 Buck Henry First Family, this Saturday Night Live veteran plays Gloria Link, the daughter to Bob Newhart's President Manfred Link.
Answer:	Gilda Radner

(10)	This then 15-year-old actress played Taffy Dale, daughter of Jack Nicholson and Glenn Close in Tim Burton's Mars Attacks.
Answer:	Natalie Portman

(10)	In the oft-delayed Forest Whittaker film First Daughter, this former WB ingénue will play Samantha Mackenzie, the college-bound daughter of Michael Keaton's President.
Answer:	Katie Holmes

"Have you thought about Dave Chappelle?"  If you have, these can be worth 10 each:
 
(10)	Chappelle's first credited work was as Ahchoo in this 1993 Mel Brooks farce.
Answer:	Robin Hood: Men in Tights
 
(10)	He voiced one of the critters in this 1996 movie starring Jerry O'Connell.
Answer:	Joe's Apartment
 
(10)	In 2002's Undercover Brother, Chappelle was what brother?
Answer:	Conspiracy Brother

The style may be Barker-like, but not necessarily the content.  For 10 points each--given a five-word plot summary of a David Lean film, name the film.

(10)    British lieutenant loves the sand
Answer:	Lawrence of Arabia

(10)	Married strangers fall in love
Answer:	Brief Encounter

(10)	Hepburn finds love in Venice.
Answer:	Summertime

Five for one, 10 for two, twenty for three, 30 for all four, given the major award handed out at a major European film festival, name it.

(5)	The Golden Lion
Answer:	Venice Film Festival or Mostra Internazionale d'Arte Cinematografica

(5)	The Golden Bear
Answer:	Internationale Filmfestspiele Berlin

(X)	The Bronze Horse
Answer:	Stockholm Internationella Film Festival

(X)	The Grand Prix
Answer:	Festival du Film de Paris

Other----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In 1962, Joel Myers, a graduate student, began providing weather forecasts to a gas company in Pennsylvania.  By 1971, Myers' company began providing branded (*) forecasts to local radio stations.    Today, this company provides employs over 100 meteorologists and is the official provider of weather info to the Associated Press.  For 10 points--name this company of Elliot Abrams and Dr. Joe Sobell that provides forecasts to many radio stations throughout the U.S.

Answer:	AccuWeather

Written by Robert Lopez, Jeff Marx, and Jeff Whitty, the humans in this production include Christmas Eve, Brian, and Gary Coleman as played by a woman.(*)   Including the ditties "My Girlfriend, Who Lives in Canada" and "Everybody's a Little Bit Racist," other characters include Rod, Princeton, Kate and Trekkie Monster, and Lucy T. Slut.  For 10 points--name this 2003 show from Broadway's Golden Theatre about humans and puppets living together on a block in New York City.

Answer:	Avenue Q

In an 2001 article published in the Journal of Food Science, the USDA noted that adding rice flour to the usual wheat-flour-base mix of this product (*) reduced fat absorption by 64%.  Other experiments, which included injecting them with polyvinylpyrroidone or replacing sugar with polydextrose also reduces the fat.  In 2004, Robert Ligon was sent to prison for labeling normal ones as low fat.  For 10 points--identify this food item that apparently has one thing it cannot do. 

Answer:	donuts

It was devised by Dr. David J. Bradley, who never intended it for public use.  The day was so low-profile for the inventor that he cannot even remember if it was in 1980 or 1981 when he devised the combination (*) for IBM as a means for programmers to not damage sensitive hardware, he knew it would need to access two shift keys to start it and then a third on the other side of the keyboard as so not to hit it accidentally.  Today used when Windows users need to access the Task Manager, this is--for 10 points--what combination, dubbed the "three-finger salute" which early PC users used to reboot the system?

Answer:	Ctrl-Alt-Del

Today, the only range set aside is 0100-0199 due to higher demand on the Bellcore assignment system.  Originally devised because it was the only combination that didn't begin an English word (*) which could name an exchange, fake advertisements for years had used the phony Klondike-5 leader as so to discourage people from randomly dialing real people.  For 10 points--name this prefix, now no longer the exclusive domain of fake phone numbers in the entertainment world.
Answer:	555

Name these books of recent vintage--for 10 points each

(10)	James Frey's harrowing tale of addiction and recovery, written in part, he claims, because he couldn't stand that A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius was being hailed as "the best book of his generation."
Answer:	A Million Little Pieces

(10)	In 2000, Harper's asked James McManus to cover the annual World Series of Poker at Binion's Horseshoe.  What happened next is recounted in this 2003 book.
Answer:	Positively Fifth Street: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker

(10)	Bill Bryson proves a scientific jack-of-all-trades when he takes a look around and tried to answer seemingly every single possible question worth asking and knowing in this brief 2003 tome.
Answer:	A Short History of Nearly Everything

A new year brings with it new laws.  Name some of the wackier ones from clues for 10 each.

(10)      In Illinois, it will now be illegal to do this on an interstate highway for more than one half mile.

Answer:	drive in the left lane (accept equivalents)

(10)      Due to a scandal of selling used ones as "factory rejects", makers of this item must place a tag stating the item is either "new" or "used".  The consumer may remove the tag.

Answer:	mattresses

(10)      Since there's no way for a machine to check an ID, New Mexico no longer allows these to be sold through vending machines.

Answer:	cigarettes

Rate with us and get some points by answering these questions about content rating systems.

(5x4)	Beyond the normal age designators, TV ratings can also feature any of four letters.  For 5 points each, give the full word for each of the possible four codes.

Answer:	violence, suggestive dialogue, sexual situations, coarse language

(10)      The ESRB ratings for video games have one beyond the 'M' for mature.  What is this rating that allows sales only to players 18 years or older.

Answer:	adults only

For 10 points each--name these pop culture figures who were recently honoured as a part of the 2004 New Year's Honours list for the British monarchy.

(10)	Once hailed by Steven Spielberg as "possibly the greatest actor in the world" after performances in The Usual Suspects and In The Name of the Father, this actor received an OBE.

Answer:	Pete Postlethwaite

(10)	Raised in Surrey by his grandparents, this former Yardbird and founding member of two British rock groups was granted a CBE.

Answer:	Eric Clapton

(10)	The widow of Sir Laurence Olivier, this veteran actress, recently seen stoned in Bringing Down the House, was honored with a DBE.

Answer:	Joan Plowright
(Editor's Note: And How Right!)

Given members and the U.S. city in which it is located, name the non-sports Hall of Fame--for 10 points each:

(10)	Gary Owens, Jack Benny, Charles Osgood, Kay Kyser--Chicago, Illinois
Answer:	Radio Hall of Fame

(10)	Pathfinder Sojourner, Unimate, R2-D2, HAL--Carnegie Mellon University
Answer:	Robot Hall of Fame

(10) Emmett Kelly Sr., Red Skelton, Bob Bell -- Milwaukee, WI
Answer:	International Clown Hall of Fame

Stunt Bonus:
90 second alphabet
Starting with B
Scoring will be complicated but will make sense.
Starting with your 13th letter, N, you get a point, up to 15, five point bonus for finishing.  Last 10 points are judged.
Your premise: You are lost and out of gas on the way to ACF Nationals.


1).	

2).	

3).	
